

Hwil
-2 - iiWW
"W\
ml
When you smell a cake of Protex
you’ll have some Idea of the subtle
fragrance it leaves on your skin.
Protex contains an ANTISEPTIC
MUCH MORE EFFECTIVE THAN
CARBOLIC. At the same time,
Protex is so pure and mild, it can, be
used safely on sensitive skin.
Protex is recommended by the
Medical Profession as a SAFE
antiseptic soap. v : :
Hi
mm
Sir
. m
m
a
m
m
H
A
m
m
V
m
•ir
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3177.
Wednesday, January 1, 1941.
1940 and 1941
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Learn
Storu Writing
v 3 lUi y Ot HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, u;ithout obligation, your New Free
booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Addrer"
STB. 341
The Red Page
RUSSIAN EPIC.
How very, very Russian the Russian
novelists are! Daria, wanton Daria,
whose troubles make her only the more
feverishly gay, pretends to her solemn
sister-in-law that she is to be made a
commander in the Cossack army: “But
Dunia was completely bewildered, and
asked, folding her hands imploringly,
Daria! Daria dear! Don’t tell stories,
tor Christ’s sake ! For now I really don’t
know when you are telling stories and
when you are telling the truth!”
But Daria dear became madder and
madder, and actually pretended to be
an officer, shouting orders to her imagi-
nary troop. The women in the hut burst
into laughter, and then, quickly remem-
bering that they were characters in a
Russian novel, cried fearfully, “Oh, that’s
enough! No good will come of it!”
So, ‘Daria’s outburst of gaiety ended as
suddenly as it began,” and a few pages
further on, because she has a loathsome
disease, she drowns herself in the Don.
And a few pages further on, the
woman who laughed the loudest in the
hut also dies sadly and horribly. Further
on still, Dunia marries a man who turns
out to be a bully, sadist and murderer.
Then Dunia’s old mother, whose life has
been one long cataract of misfortunes,
and who is living on solely in the hope
of seeing her son come back from the
wars, dies without seeing him. Even when
Gregor does come home, and stands at
his gate holding his little son by the
hand, the future is ominous, and the
nearest the novelist can get to a happy
ending is: “This was all life had left
to him, all that for a little longer gave
him kinship with the earth and with the
spacious world which lay glittering under
the chilly sun.”
Ibis is Mikhail Sholokhov’s new novel,
The Don Flows Home to the Sea,
continuing the stories of the Cossacks
ol: And Quiet Flows the Don through
me terrible years of revolution and
ntejprevqJ.u tibn. The story centres
itvl ihe - Don side village of Tatarsk,
over which the tide of war washes to
and fro in never-ceasing turmoil. Fun-
damentally, the Cossacks want nothing
but to be left in peace to tend their horses
on the steppe, to plough and sow and
harvest their acres of wheat. But the
German war, which has sickened them of
fighting, merges into the revolution, and
the men, in only a few cases by choice—
and even then mostly because of some
haphazard decision, not out of profound
conviction-find themselves fighting for
one side or the other.
Most, at the beginning, are in the
White armies. They steal away home to
their farms, let the Reds into the Cossack
lands and then, resenting these Russian
peasant armies as aliens, and hit where
it hurts by the requisitioning of their
grain, rise against them, killing off such
Cossacks as support the oppressors. It
is fratricidal war, and as first one side
and then the other occupies the village
murderous revenges are taken, houses
are burnt to the ground, unforgivable
injuries are inflicted. When the rising
fails and one of the villagers is put in
authority by the Reds, he uses his posi-
tion to wreak vengeance on his personal
enemies and to gratify his lust for power
and blood. There is another half-hearted
rising which quickly degenerates into
banditry and sporadic murder. At the
end the Cossacks are settling down under
Red rule, not because they approve of
it, but because they are sick of fighting.
Sholokhov’s novel hasn’t the titanic
gloominess of a Dostoevski. Though it is
sufficiently “Russian” in its turbid stream
of battle and murder, rape and pillage,
despair and disease for Dunia to cry out
with very good reason, “What do you
call this accursed life? There’s never
any peace for anyone, though you scream
your lungs out for it!” it is
relieved by Sholokhov’s
stoic philosophy (his accept-
ance of tragedy and misery
as something essential in
the Cossack scene, even a matter
for pride), by the tender, paterna
irony with which he writes of his soldiers
and their women, and by the beauty oJ
his natural descriptions.
Like And Quiet Flows the Don, it is
a novel worth reading for its landscapes
alone. The steppes and the river are
described through all the changes of the
seasons with a vividness that seems mys-
terious until examination shows that it
is Sholokhov’s skill in evoking the odors
of the countryside that makes it so much
alive. Almost all his landscapes are built
up of a mingling of color-words and
odor-words. In summer:
From early morning the sun baked merci-
lessly. The steppe seethed in a brown haze.
Behind them loomed the blue, lines of hills,
and sand stretched in a saffron flood. The
sweating horses swung along at a walking
pace. Ihe Cossacks’ faces browned and
flushed beneath the sun. There was no
cool even in the forest: there also hung
a steaming vapor and the strong scent of
ram.
In winter ;
In all directions stretched the bare, white,
windswept plain. The steppe was dead.
Occasionally a crow, as ancient as the
steppe itself, flew high over the snow,
calling as it flew. The wind carried its
cry far across the steppe, and long and
mournfully it sounded, like a bass string
accidentally plucked in the nocturnal
silence.
In spring:
He arrived at Vieshenska early in the
morning. The Don flood water was be-
ginning to abate, the air was filled with
the cloyingly sweet, glutinous scent of the
poplars. Along the river the sappy dark-
gieen leaves of the oaks were rustling
dreamily. The bared earthy rises were
steaming, and a slender, prickly green was
showing on them. The hollows still gleamed
with stagnant water, and, above it gnats
were swarming.
Snolokhov is as good in characterisa-
tion as he is in landscape. If the reader
of The Don Flows Down to the Sea
hasn t read And Quiet Flows the Don, or
has lost track of the characters, it will
take a while for the mass of people into
which one is plunged to crystallise as in-
dividuals, but when they do take shape
each one will be found worth knowing.
As well as fitting them into the main pat-
tern of the novel, the vast canvas of the
revolution, Sholokhov works out a sepa-
rate drama, a novel in itself, for all the
principals.
Ihe most important human story
threading its way through the political
disasters is the love story of Gregor and
Aksinia, a powerful, complex passion,
embittered by the jealousy of Gregor’s
wife and made desperate by the constant
danger in which Gregor stands as leader
of the Cossacks. The big scenes come
when Gregor meets Aksinia’s husband
and the two, on the verge of murder, get
dangerously drunk together on vodka;
when Gregor’s wife, by the malice of
Daria, is told of Gregor’s visits to
Aksinia ; and when Gregor and Aksinia
fly together to the coast among hordes
of starving, typhus-ravaged refugees, re-
treating before the victorious Reds. The
drama of the wife culminates in her
death, in effect a death of grief and
despair. The gay Daria has her disease
and her suicide. Gregor’s mother, the
shrill, lovable virago, dies as hard as she
has lived. Gregor’s blustering, grumbling,
entirely human old father, who is always
being mobilised against his will, is rich
in comedy when he repeatedly deserts
from the army, rich in the dignity of rage
as well as in the ridiculous when, driven
to frenzy by the hopelessness of farming
amidst a revolution, he takes to smashing
up any article of his property that gets
in his road or behaves obstructively.
Prokhor, Gregor’s aide-de-camp, who is
as frankly afraid of danger as a man
can be, figures in an uproarious excur-
sion in the Rabelaisian in his attempt
to escape his military duties.
In the vastness of the theme of these
two Cossack novels, Sholokhov makes an
obvious bid for the reputation of a
modern Tolstoy. His scope, limited to
the Cossacks, lacks the breadth of War
and Peace, which took in the whole of
Russia, and he is in no way to be com-
pared with Tolstoy as a military writer.
Tolstoy can shift the whole of the French
and Russian armies about with far greater
ease than Sholokhov can move his hand-
ful of Reds and Whites; he can make a
battle clear while Sholokhov makes a
skirmish confused. Sholokhov’s love for
the Don earth seems a smaller thing than
Tolstoy’s passion for the Russian nation ;
he has avoided all dealings with intellec-
tuals, so that he has no character as pro-
found as Tolstoy’s weird Freemason
Pierre or his fatalistic General Kutuzov.
Nevertheless he is enough of a novelist
to invite comparison, and as a historian
he is probably better: for he is neither a
partisan nor the slave of an idea, and
Tolstoy, emphatically, was both.
"National Portraits."
Vance Palmer’s National Portraits
(Angus and Robertson; “recommended by
the Advisory Board of the Common-
wealth Literary Fund”) is—from Vance
Palmer a disappointing book. Every
one of his essays on notable Australians
would have suited the style of the Satur-
day supplement of the Sydney “Morn-
ing Herald.”
It is not without interest or importance,
for everybody should know something
about the men he writes about: Mac-
arthur, the landtaker; Macquarie, the
military dictator; John Batman, the
currency lad; Wentworth, the eman-
cipist ; Sturt, the explorer ; John Dun-
more Lang, the Nonconformist; Parkes,
the politician; Buvelot, the painter
Higinbotham, the Judge ; Ferdinand von
Mueller, Robert Christison, J. F. Archi-
bald, W. G. Spence, Cardinal Moran,
Edgeworth David, William Farrer, Law-
son, Deakin, H. V. McKay, Denison
Miller and Monash: and there won’t be
many readers familiar with all his heroes.
The portraits and the histories are pre-
sented competently in most cases, and
are well enough done for general know-
ledge.
But the emphasis is on worthiness of
character rather than color of personality,
and that, besides making for unexciting
reading, somewhat falsifies his pictures.
There are a few specific inaccuracies
and misleading statements. Palmer says
Macquarie’s “sympathies as a Governor
were with Bligh”: Macquarie certainly
thought that Bligh had been over-harshly
treated, but he wrote of him: “Bligh was
a most unsatisfactory man to transact
business with ; his want of candor and
decision was so much that it was im-
possible to place the smallest reliance on
the fulfilment of any engagement he
entered into.” Palmer says that Mac-
quarie had “the natural authority of a
Highland chief”; he may mean only that
Macquarie, by his position, acquired that
authority, but it’s a misleading obser-
vation on a man who was, in fact, the
son of a very small farmer. He repeats
a long-exploded error when he says that
Green way, the architect, was sent out
for concealing assets in bankruptcy:
Greenway was sent out for forging an
endorsement to a contract. Some similar
lapses and near-lapses could be listed.
Palmer admits that the book makes no
claim to special research.
To sum up: readable, valuable, but
in no way remarkable.
Culbertson's Grand Slam.
Everybody knows Ely Culbertson ; and
nobody, unless bridge has reduced him to
mania, wants very much to read Culbert-
son’s autobiography.
Wrong. Nobody, until he has read
Strange Lives of One Man (Faber), knows
a thing about this extraordinary person-
ality, and everybody who opens the book
will read on, amazed, to the last page.
It is the sort of autobiography you see
once in a blue moon, when a man who
has led an astounding life, both outwardly
and inwardly, has sufficient ability to
paint his own portrait in vivid prose.
Lacking something of the strange, simple
grace, the genuine literary quality of
Coco the Clown (a Dent book ; outstand-
ing among autobiographies reviewed here
in recent months), it is nevertheless a
book to compare with that minor master-
piece, an unforgettable human document.
In the opening scenes it resembles
Coco the Clown quite closely, for, like
Coco’s story, it is set in Russia and
plunges straight into the fantastic adven-
tures which the Russian atmosphere seems
to breed as naturally as Ireland breeds
pigs and fairies. Culbertson’s father, an
American, went to Russia in search of
oil, and found both oil and a Cossack
bride whom he wooed by twice drinking
the great horn of vodka which was offered
all strangers as a test of their manhood,
by learning to spear a bear, and, finally,
by carrying her off on his horse in the
strict form of a Cossack elopement.
The mother, a character as “Russian”
as they make them, is portrayed with
great tenderness, a strange and charming
personality throughout the book. She is
intensely religious, and when three of her
children die from diphtheria she makes
pilgrimage to appease the wrath of
God; yet when young Ely is forced to
leave his genteel boarding-school because
of a brawl inla brothel she engages a
pretty maidservant with the deliberate
purpose of encouraging the boy to sow
his wild oats decently. She is as brave
as she is broadminded, and when a dis-
charged servant attempts to murder her
she quells him with an indignant
“Achmet, how dare you!” When, years
later in America, she dies, so great is her
influence upon the family that Ely’s
brother Eugene .tries to commit suicide.
Through the father’s noticing oil amidst
the mud on a Cpssack’s boot, the family
becomes wealthy, and the young Culbert-
son can do pretty well what he likes.
What he likes, after a period of drinking,
gambling and ah affair with a French
actress, is to become a revolutionary.
(These are the 1907 risings ; Culbertson,
with good reason, for the family money
was lost to the Bolsheviks, is a bitter
enemy of the present regime.) There is
a girl in the case: .Nayda, young, beauti-
ful, fanatical, who believes “Blood is
necessary. It’s the lubricating oil of
revolutions.” She and Culbertson are
mixed up in all sorts of revolutionary
work, and in abortive insurrections where
many heads are broken and a few
workers killed. Nayda, whom Culbertson
loves dearly, is murdered by a counter-
revolutionary band; Culbertson is
arrested and thrown into prison, where he
plays cards with the condemned leaders
and sees them go one by one to execu-
tion with cheerful fatalism. Reading his
weird account of the condemned cell,
you don’t wonder at the stoic confessions
that are such a feature of Soviet State
trials.
Persuaded by his father to leave
Russia, Culbertson goes to America and
sets about learning how the people live.
He lives with a dope fiend, who is more
than willing to sell him his wife for
opium; he becomes a hobo, washes
dishes, “rides the rattler,” is at one time
the guest of the Government in gaol,
another time the guest of a lonely widow.
He learned that there was a revolution
in Mexico, and writes characteristically,
“I decided to leave immediately for
Mexico, to study the revolution in the
flesh, so to speak, and to help wherever
I could.”
In Mexico there were revolution and
Juanifa ; in Vera Cruz there were street
fighting and a hasty getjaway to Spain ;
in Spain there were anarchism and his
wise refusal to join in a plot to assassi-
nate Alfonso —the plotters were arrested,
Culbertson was merely deported.
Twenty-five years later Culbertson was
to play bridge with the same Alfonso.
In 1914 he was in Berlin and reports,
“I had another of my convictions shat-
tered—the idea that the masses, as a rule,
do not want war. The Germans ardently
desired war.” Culbertson went to Italy
and there did one of the most astonish-
ing things in his whole astonishing life:
he had decided, quite seriously, on scien-
tific psychological grounds, that the only
way in which he could ever find the “ideal
woman” was to catch one young and
train her mind himself; so, posing as
an artist, he advertised:
An American painter is searching for an
exceptional model. Must be between 18
and 21 years old. Between sft. 4in. and
sft. 6in. tall;, between 24in. and 26in.
waist; between 34in. and 36in. bust; be-
tween 36in. and 38in. hips, legs perfectly
shaped; eyes very large, preferably black
with blonde hair, or blue with black hair;
features either very symmetrical, or, if not
classical, of exotic attractiveness; only truly
beautiful types need apply. Undress un-
necessary. Write, enclosing photograph.
Among the crowd of self-flatterers who
applied, one Faustina was selected ; but
the police gave Culbertson a hint that it
would be a good idea to leave the coun-
try at once, without Faustina. Culbert-
son left for Paris, without Faustina.
There, while the Great War was raging,
Culbertson, sleeping all day and appear-
ing only at night, lived the sort of life
one would have thought had gone out
with Baudelaire:
Towards eight in the evening I would
saunter into one of my favorite cafes or
bars for an aperitif, a game of cards, or a
chat with my favorite friends. We ex-
changed impressions of books lately read,
each trying to contribute some bizarre or
subtle thought. We spoke of the theatre,
women, the latest news in the literary
world, and discussed the anticipated triumph
of this or that particular poet. The vic-
tories and defeats of the outside world,
with millions in the bloody mud struggling
for life or death, came to us like faint,
slightly unpleasant noises from somewhere
underground. A subtle atmosphere of
elation pervaded us. We were snug and
smug in our little well-tailored world. We
felt ourselves different, superior and ex-
clusive, like the Daughters of the American
Revolution. We were the chosen few, the
assthetes, the supermen.
After that Strange Lives of One Man
is mostly a story of regeneration, bridge
and success; and this, too, is no ordinary
story.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’' —beating strictest scrutiny
‘THE SENIOR STORE”
For your office, or your desk at home
ORDER NOW!
f/% IS \\ '3
m m
\W
i \\
% \\
tmmm
v>
m\
CRIB&iWS
23
¥OR
.
ai
W
SC# 1
14
|:;^S
yjN&W 2J»
<: \-, v
m
amthoot
-*>•£*** ■«-
\ V
S ' : 8 ■ i
- v-u
im:
-1 *% w < d
• > \
1
■I
.:\\\
m*
ts ;
.
u*.
■±mm.
DESK CALENDARS
Use a Universal Desk Calendar for
1941. Big black figures, space for
memos, or appointments and a
quotation for every day. Black
lacquered stand. Made of metal
and brass arches. At Anthony
Horderns'. PRICE 4/-.
Refills for 1941, 1/9 each.
A Desk Diary is essential
Commence the New Year well by keeping
"Universal" Diaries on your desk. You'll lind it
jotting down all sorts of notes and incidents,
sizes, each three days to a page with adequate
bound in at front.
No. 44, size Bxs". No. 43, 10x8 .
At Anthony Horderns'.
PRICES
2/6
3/6
one of these
invaluable for
Made in three
blotting paper
No. 42, 13x8"
4/3
IL
. \<&*\ '
Sr
■;,v
iiili
>**
Wm i' ni®
■f t) qM |H
fc^lj
aigl
r\? :•
.
WIRE DESK TRAYS. Handy for papers wanted at
short reach. A useful article for the busy man s
desk. Quarto size. Anthony Horderns’, each,
Foolscap size
2/3
OFFICE CABINETS. Made in Oak with four
drawers The overall measurements are '5
1H/ 2 inches. The drawers are 2 inches deep.
Finished Dark Oak. At Anthony Horderns , 32/6
WIRE WASTE PAPER BASKETS. These are heavily
tinned and measure 12 inches in diameter at top
and they are 12 inches high. An office necessity.
At Anthony Horderns’, Price
KOLOK CARBON PAPER. For the typewriter.
Made in England. Foolscap .size in Blue Purple
or Black. In boxes containing 100 sheets Im-
perial” Medium. At Anthony Horderns .. 15/6
Silk Gauge, light weight ly/ °
CASH BOX. Suitable for office. Made in England
with Olive Green finish 8-inch size containing
inside tray and spring cheque holder. Strong 10-k
with two keys. At Anthony Horderns , Price, 6, 9
“TELEDEX” TELEPHONE INDEX. May be operated
with one hand. Flips open at the touch of the
button. Contains space for 1,000 names. BlacK,
Brown or Walnut. At Anthony Horderns, 12,6
Also in Primrose, Aqua, Green, Blue, Ivory, 16/6
• Stationery Second Floor.
Delivered free only within our delivery area.
'Phone: M 2401, Doy or Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address: Box 2712C# G.P.0., Sydney


DALEY'S ORDER
“Would you mind letting me through P”
By GAVIN S. CASEY.
CHROMIUM of the new cars glittered through
the plate-glass in the morning sun, and the air
inside was full of flecks of dust raised by the
cleaners. The mechanics were busy at the back,
their hammers thudding and drills whining, but the
showroom crowd were still arriving. They came
scuttling along the pavement from the tram- and bus-
stops and the ferry, and the heads and the salesmen
drove in in their cars. The new salesman arrived
on foot, like the girls and the storeman and the clerks,
and sneaked through the wide doors, dodging the
boss. His idea was to check in, get himself a motor
and be out again before anyone in particular noticed
him. He had nothing to show for two months of
trying, and he was getting so that it was a relief to
be out of sight of the heads. They still encouraged
him, but there was a different look in their eyes, less
friendly, more speculative. So he slithered behind
one of the showroom palms, trying to look as if
squeezing through there was a perfectly natural
course to take, and made a dart for the used-car
department.
He arrived safely, but his luck only held that far.
Lawson was watching a mechanic at work under one
of the bonnets, and Lawson spotted him.
“Just the man 1 want to see,” said Lawson in a
friendly-enough way. “Wait for me in the office, will
you, Richards, and take your cards along. 1 won’t
be a minute.”
His heart drummed, and he felt sick and weak.
Well, that was the end of it, he thought. He got his
prospect cards with their record of failures, and went
to Lawson’s office. “If I can’t sell the junk, I’m better
out of it,” he told himself. “The retainer’s not keeping
us level, let alone pulling up any leeway.” But he felt
sick all the same.
When Lawson came they went through the cards.
He stammered and started to get savage, wishing the
manager would come to the point. He reddened
with an unhappy, nervous, reasonless anger while
Lawson stared at the little pile of cards, tapping his
desk with a pencil and sucking his lips in and out.
“You've been unlucky,” Lawson said suddenly.
“You don’t want to let it get you down. The best
men in this organisation have bad spells. You want
a break and you’ll be all right. Let’s see what we can
find here.”
The new salesman felt a rush of relief, and then
was angry with himself for that. What was the good?
Lawson was sympathetic, in a way, but it all rested
on his refusing to let the bad run get him down. Well,
it had got him down, and he’d better quit before he
was sacked at the end of the week. But the words
wouldn’t come, so he said nothing, while the manager
shuffled the cards again.
“What’s this?” asked Lawson. “You seem to
have got a hearing with these people. What about
trying to get them on the dotted line today? Give
them a tenner more for the trade-in, if you think it
will clinch the deal, and bring me the order at lunch-
time.”
“It’s not that,” said the salesman desperately.
They want to pay cash, and they can’t until they’ve
sold two blocks of land. They won’t buy on terms.”
“Won’t buy on terms, poof!” said Lawson. “Tell
em everyone buys on terms nowadays. Tell ’em we’ll
rebate the interest if they find cash for the balance
within three months.”
Lawson put the card on one side and picked out
another. “What about Daley?” he said. “We can’t
afford to miss three trucks in the one order, and the
valuer’s certainly treated you well there if he’s willing
to give that figure for the old fleet. Get on to him
this morning, too, and don’t take no for an answer.”
The salesman started hating Lawson, because he
knew, and Lawson knew, that the valuation was really
pretty low. What he knew and the manager didn’t was
just how tough Daley was, too, but what was the use
of making speeches about that? And when he had
received a further injunction not to take no for an
answer, he found himself out among the used cars
again and still employed.
l_| E juggled the year-before-last’s sedan through the
1 city traffic, and made for the suburb where his
first call lay, feeling like nothing on earth. The people
he was going to visit were all right; they’d buy from
him when they were ready, but they were old-
fashioned Yorkshire, a family who had what they had
through putting something in the bank each week,
and they wouldn't listen to terms. When they said
they’d buy they meant it, and when they said they
wouldn’t they meant that, too. If he was still selling
Swifts when the time was ripe, he’d be right for the
order, but it was just a waste of time making the
visit today. He drove out, miserably.
But when he arrived it was more hopeless than
he had thought. The old man was backing a new
Heron Ten out of his garage, and the salesman’s
blood began to race with wrath. This’d be the end of
the section, anyway, when he had to tell Lawson what
had happened to the man who wouldn’t be ready
until he’d sold two blocks of land.
“Hullo, Mr. Bentwistle,” he said as he pulled up.
“You’ve sold your blocks by the look of it.”
The old man jumped as if some-
thing had stung him, and began to look
pretty uncomfortable. “No, it’s not that,”
he said. “You see, these people said that
if we bought one of their cars we’d have
three months to sell the land. If we paid
up cash in three months they’d charge no
interest, see? But 1 had to do the deal
there and then or they’d withdraw the
offer. I’m sorry, Mr. Richards.”
“I’d have thought you’d have given
me a ring,” said the salesman. But it was
no use talking now.
“It was take it or leave it,” the old
man said, looking ashamed, and at the
same time furtively pleased with himself.
“The man was here, and I had to sign up to get the
rebate.”
“Well,” said the salesman, “it’d be polite to wish
you luck, but I hope the blasted thing hits a train
and breaks your miserable neck.”
He let in the clutch of the old sedan, and
accelerated down the street, light-headed with rage.
The old man watched him, goggle-eyed, and then
began to fill up with indignation, and feel glad that
he’d had no dealings with the young hooligan. But
the young man’s temper wore out in a quarter of a
mile, and left him feeling sick and done for. He
pulled up against the kerb and lit a cigarette.
What was the good of going to see Daley after
that? He’d save himself more grief if he drove the
car in and went home straightway. But you couldn’t
go home —not to a home with three months’ rent
owing on it, and Maisie and the kids patiently miser-
able in it —with nothing, when there was even a
week’s lousy retainer to be got. Half a loaf was
better than no bread! He sat in the car cursing his
job and himself and the world.
After a while he grew calmer and started think-
ing about the past, the good days when he’d had a
job that permitted of having some self-respect. When
he was single and during the first years of his mar-
riage. Times had been good. You did your work with
your mates, and if anyone came snooping around and
criticising you you told him to go to hell. But there
was nothing like that about the last few years, selling
things, full of uncertainty and resentment, just
struggling along, sometimes slipping back. He remem-
bered a few moments ago telling the old man that he
hoped the car would break his neck, and laughed.
That had been more like it. It suddenly occurred to
him that that was the way to talk to blustering sods
like Daley, too, if they asked for it, and that it would
be a fine way to finish up at the end of the week, tell-
ing Lawson a home-truth or two. Well, he thought,
perhaps it wouldn’t do to abuse Lawson, and have
his weight put up wherever else he tried for a job, but
he could give as good as he got from Daley, anyway,
and he’d enjoy it, too.
A T Daley’s timberyard he got out of the sedan and
ploughed through chips and sawdust toward the
rickety office. Daley was outside, leaning over a
silent sawbench talking to another man. He was chew-
ing a sliver of pine with his big, broken teeth, and his
hairy, dusty hands were thrust between his leather
belt and his dirty dungarees. His big stomach stretched
his flannel singlet, and he looked powerful and arro-
gant and brutal, and not in the least concerned about
appearances or politeness. He turned to look at the
salesman, and then slouched back over the bench,
ignoring him. “Damn him,” thought Richards, “I’ve
had enough of waiting for his convenience.”
“Hallo, Mr. Daley,” he interrupted the talk. “Have
you decided about those trucks yet?”
Daley looked around again slowly. “Oh, it’s
you,” he said. “Yes, I’ve made up me mind. I’ll sign
yer order, only fer heaven’s sake wait till I finish with
this bloke.”
The timberman fell back on his elbows and the
salesman staggered. His hands started to tremble, and
the consequences of his luck began to shoot through
his brain like arrows. The job was secure now all right.
The commission was a whopper, enough to do a hell
of a lot of things that wanted doing urgently. He
only wanted average luck now and he’d be on the
permanent staff in a couple of months with a new
model of his own to help business, as well as to give
Maisie and the kids a few outings.
Just before lunchtime, when the sun was high in
the sky and the typewriters were all rattling in the
office, the new salesman arrived back at the show-
room triumphantly. He swung his second-hand sedan
against the kerb and made for the door. When he
dived through it he ignored the cover of the potted
palms. One of the salesmen, Johnson, was sucking
a cigarette and stopped him.
“Saw your car outside Daley’s, this morning,” said
Johnson. “I tried that old swine when he bought his
present trucks. Someone’ll crown him with a lump of
his own jarrah one of these days.”
“He’s all right,” said Richards. “He knows his
own mind. Says yes or no, and doesn’t waste your
time and kid you up a gum-tree.”
“Always says no, yon mean,” offered Johnson.
“Not on your life,” said the new salesman, rushing
on his way to find Lawson.
THE UNION.
The flam of sMsw lonighf
And melancholy kills with grey
The moonlight and the candlelight
That burn these lonely hours away.
Hearing the talking of the clock
Jn some dark room with open door,
I fear the silence of a lock
Whose final key will turn no more.
What shadow of the wing of death
Has fallen on my heart and head,
So that > in s P ite °f eas y breath,
myself already dead ?
, ,
) t , ~S °° ps °Y ° peer
Jt . ' it ’“T
Sure mtness t 0 ltS master >’
Death at the dreaming candle sips
And death sits down upon my chair
And tastes the breath between my lips —
The ebb and swell of midnight air.
-And death is in my very thought:
Here in this room we two are one,
Into one timeless being wrought,
As though my earthly life were done.
The mo and the candlelight
Burn in death’s shadow, sink and die
Across the loneliness of night :
But we are etema f death and I.
N.S.W.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.


OUT OF THE
PAST
MADAME LA COMTESSE.
J-H-M-ABBOTT-
A SHIP’S boat, containing two men and a woman,
and without oars or mast, was observed by the
lookout at the South Head of Port Jackson
to be drifting southward, past the entrance to
the harbor, in the windless dawn of a December day
in the year 1816. It was a tiny cockleshell on the vast
expense of mother-o’-pearl waters, and lay little more
than a mile to the eastward of the high sandstone cliffs
where the flagstaff stood, somewhere about the posi-
tion of the signal station today.
“Runaway pris’ners!” murmured Mr. Bale, who,
having been a convict himself as a result of the mutiny
at the Nore, was .not disinclined to let them go about
their business, whatever it might be. But a prudent
consideration of the possibility that he might be called
to account for not having observed them resolved
him upon quite a different course of action. He ran up
the signal which intimated to Sydney that absconders
were escaping to sea, and presently saw it acknowledged
from Fort Phillip on the other side of Sydney Cove.
In something more than an hour’s time the Naval
Officer’s whaler was rounding South Reef, and put-
ting seaward in pursuit of the drifting boat.
It was opposite to Coogee beach where the Naval
Officer’s boat, with the coxswain, Benjamin Ford, and
its crew of six armed oarsmen, came up with the other
craft. And a queer and extraordinary sight and situa-
tion the drifting boat contained. Big Ben swore softly
as his crew rested on their oars, and, standing up in
the sternsheets, gripping the handle of the long steer-
oar, stared with amazement at his extraordinary cap-
ture.
“By Gawd! ” he murmured. “Did ever a man see
the like of it! I never did —not nowhere!”
It was a ship’s longboat, and in the bows sat a
handsome lady, clad in soaked finery that had once
been a resplendent silk gown of the fashion known as
“of the Empire,” with its waist high up under bosom
and armpits. In the bottom of the boat amidship
slumped a man face downward in a deep pool of
blood who had a great wound in his side and was
quite unmistakably dead, and in the stern gibbered
and mouthed another, who pointed constantly
at the woman, screamed an insane and incomprehen-
sible invective against her, and from time to time cried
loudly, with rage and passionate fear, as he pointed
his forefinger at her — “J’accuse !”
The lady regarded him calmly, with bright eyes,
as she rested across her long thighs a brass-barrelled
blunderbuss. In her lap below it was a large horse-
pistol, and she sat upon a small water-keg, whilst
behind her was a sack of something the coxswain
correctly divined to be provisions.
“An’ who may you be, ma’am?” civilly inquired
Benjamin Ford, his open mouth and goggling eyes
indicating the wonder that possessed him.
She answered him coolly, and in such a sweet
tone that it reminded him of the Governor’s lady,
Mistress Macquarie. “Moi —I am ze Comtesse de
Mauny, an’ I pray of you, m’sieu’, your asseestance. I
am —’ow you spik? —thrown out, castaway from ze
sheep in vich I mak’ ze voyage. Ces canailles— zey
are ver’ bad men, ’oo are cast out viz me.”
She pointed with the gaping barrel of the blunder-
buss, first at the dead man before her, and then at
the figure in the stern. He screamed and cowered,
hiding his face in his hands, as she turned the weapon
towards him, and then broke out into a voluble and
hysterical outpouring of rapid French. She smiled
contemptuously.
“Taisez-vous, Jean. Imbecile!” she murmured
sweetly.
Big Ben considered for a little while. Then,
as one happily inspired, he cried out to his bow oars-
man: “Albert! You’re from Guernsey, ain’t’ee? I’m
a-thinkin’ ’tis a French ship’s boat. They’m all Frogs.
Parley-voo wi’ the madam, will ’ee, an’ find out arl
about it. Talk ’er genteel now, me covey, an’ don’t
frighten ’er. Tell ’er we’m a-goin’ for to take ’er in
tow. And hurry. We’ll ’ave a stiff pull back as it is
wi’ the nor’-easter a-gettin’ fresh.”
There followed an animated conversation in
French between Albert and the lady, the bowman
keeping the two craft together with his boathook.
“Well?” asked the coxswain when at length a
pause came in the interchange of question, answer
and rapid statement on the lady’s part. “What’s she
make of herself, Albert?”
“ ’Tis a queer story, Ben,” replied the young man
slowly, regarding the lady with obvious awe, not un-
mixed with admiration. “Seems that Madame and her
husband was a-makin’ a v’yage to the Sou’ Seas —him
bein’ one o’ Bonyparty’s gen’rals, an’ not likin’ the noo
King o’ France —for to find an island where they
might settle down an’ be let alone. The gen’ral, she
says, was an oldish man, an’ he’d bought an’ fitted
out this ’ere ship they was chucked out of last night—
the Sainte Therese, of Havre. They took his two
cousins, the dead fellie an’ this gibberin’ one, along
with ’em. These two both fancies Madame, an’ the
dead one there up an’ kills the Comte de Mauny a
week ago, and appoints himself leader of the expedi-
tion. His name was Jules. Then this one that’s alive
got nasty, an’ there was a
hell of a row in the Sainte
Therese. Finally the cap’n
an’ the crew, it seems, got
sick of ’em, an’ put Madame
an’ these two into the boat,
not far off the coast o’ Noo
Sou’ Wales, an’ tells ’em to
go to Sydney, or else to
blazes. She says that Jules, the dead ’un, went off his
head, an’ threw the mast an’ oars into the sea. She
seems to ’ave done ’im in for that, on’y last night, an’
she’s kep’ this ’ere Jean in a state of terror ever since.
She wants for to be taken to the Gov’nor, so’s she can
borrow a man-o’-war for to go after the Sainte Therese.
She says she’s got a letter of introduction to Gov’nor
Macquarie—they was a-goin’ for to call into Port
Jackson.”
“Oui, oui,” put in the lady, catching at Albert’s
words. “Lettre addresse au M’sieu’ le Gouverneur
Marquar-r-rie, from Milor Vellintone!”
“The Dook o’ Wellin’ton! Blime!” remarked
Benjamin Ford. “Well, get y’self into their boat, Albert,
an’ make ’er fast astarn of us. Keep a heye on that
crazy covey. Knock ’im on the ’ead if ’e makes trouble
for ’ee. On’y don’t let the dame do ’im any ’arm.
There may be two sides to this ’ere yarn.”
AT Government House next day his Excellency the
Governor told Mrs. Macquarie all about the affair,
so far as he was able himself to make it out.
“A most singular business, my dear Elizabeth —
a very extraordinary occurrence. The Duke’s letter
is quite explicit. He speaks of General the Comte de
Mauny as an intimate friend.”
“Indeed! ” said his wife as she poured him a cup
of tea. “And what of the lady? She seems, at least,
to be fully capable of facing any situation.”
“Possibly, my dear —very possibly. French ladies
are somewhat forthright. The Duke says that she is
the young and charming wife of —she is certainly
charming, the poor girl. The young wife of
one of Napoleon Bonaparte’s older generals—an
officer of the Old Guard —who was wounded and
taken prisoner at Waterloo. He was released on
parole, and the Duke saw a good deal of him during
the occupation of Paris by the Allied troops. Enjoyed
her hospitality. Speaks of her as a superior young
person. Has every confidence in recommending her
husband and herself to my attention, should they call
here on their way to find the island they were in
search of. Honors him for his fidelity to the late
Emperor. Most eulogistic. And as for Madame la
Comtesse”
“Indeed, the lady seems extremely capable of
impressing you men, Macquarie. To be sure, she has
some good looks —and some artifices to go with them,
I doubt not. I am surprised at the Duke. ’Twas
common report he was a woman-hater.”
“No doubt his feelings towards the young lady
are, like my own, my love, entirely paternal. Paternal.
Indeed, yes —a fatherly interest. That is the correct
point of view, I think.”
“I suppose so, my dear Lachlan. But the poor
unhappy creature! I feel for her most deeply.” Mrs.
Macquarie sighed. She was nothing if not kind and
charitable. “The poor thing—to be bereft so cruelly of
her protector by that odious Jules Whatshisname, and
to have been cast adrift with those two villains, whose
designs upon her were equally debased and bad. ’Tis
dreadful to consider it. You’ll try to recover her ship
for her?”
“Impossible just now, my dear. There is not a
single armed vessel at present in Port Jackson that I
might send in pursuit. Even the Lady Nelson is away
at Port Dalrymple. We may find the Sainte Therese
later on at New Zealand, or in the islands. But I
doubt even that, for I suppose that the captain and
crew will navigate the ship to some South American
port, where they can sell her, and that they will return
home to France by first of all crossing the Isthmus of
Panama.”
“And what have you done for the poor woman?”
“She has been given the house that was lately
occupied by Captain Carey, over on the Rocks. She
is well supplied with money —French bonds sewn in
the bosom of her dress. I have been able to negotiate
them for her. She will do very well until we can
procure her a passage to Europe. I will make it my
personal business to see to her comfort and entertain-
ment. I will”
“Yes, my dear Lachlan — we will make it our
business to see to the comfort of Madame la Com-
tesse. We will look after her.”
“Why, yes, my love. Of course. You and I.”
MADAME LA COMTESSE speedily attained to a
high degree of popularity in the social life of Mac-
quarie’s Sydney —with the men. But if the consorts of
the civil and military officers —who at that time were
the only “nice” people in the community—did not find
her quite so fascinating as did their husbands, they
also found it impossible to lose interest in her. She
became the Topic, and it almost goes without saying
that she also became the Scandal, of Sydney. And
Madame de Mauny fully understood and was de-
lightedly amused by the solicitude of the good
creatures on her behalf when she observed how the
married ladies of the 46th Regiment insisted upon
assisting their husbands in showing hospitality and
attention to her somewhat cynical self.
Madame established a salon —and the ladies of
Sydney came to it, and hated her. She gave delightful
little picnics down the harbor —and they came to them,
and hated her more. She showed no particular favor
to any man, civil or military, in the colony. They
hated her most of all for that.
In short, by being altogether charming, by being
the heroine of a tragic adventure, and by being wholly
decorous and irreproachable, she incurred an odium
that did not attach itself to the very worst of the con-
vict women in the Factory at Parramatta. And
Madame, realising this, took a terrible revenge. Mrs.
Macquarie, because she was Mrs. Macquarie, and for
her own goodness, she spared, but to the five ladies of
Sydney who deemed themselves the very cream of the
high socity of that delightfully situated metropolis she
was quite merciless.
MR. COMMISSARY BROOKS received one after-
noon at his office, somewhat mysteriously, by the
hand of the now docile and repentant Jean, a daintily
scented note in Madame’s elegant caligraphy.
“Very dear friend, one who loves you to dis-
traction would be ravished at meeting you to-
morrow evening, alone, at this house. Be in the
garden at eight o’clock, and a servant will con-
duct you to her. — Celeste.”
Captain-and-Adjutant Blake received an identical
billet-doux. Mr. Principal Superintendent Crawley,
head of the Convict Department, had another, Major
Smyth, second-in-command of the 46th, another. Stout
Phil Martin, the Provost-Marshal, had the fifth. They
were to be in the garden of the big cottage on the
Rocks, in the order named, at quarter-hour intervals
from eight o’clock to 9.15 p.m.
On the day following the receipt of the dainty
note of assignation by their respective husbands,
Cousin Jean called individually upon Mesdames
Brook, Blake, Crawley, Smyth and Martin.
“A sense of duty the most profound,” said Cousin
Jean to each of them.
“Very proper!” said every lady, with fury in her
heart and immense satisfaction.
And, on the evening named in the invitations to
the five gentlemen and their wives, by special request
his Excellency and Mrs. Macquarie supped privately
with Madame la Comtesse de Mauny. A little informal
leave-taking it was, said Madame, to enable her to do
honor to her noble, her never-to-be-forgotten, her so
highly-esteemed benefactors, who had been a father
and a mother to her in her sadly desolate and friend-
less situation. As they knew, she was to depart for
Europe in the following week, and this would be her
last opportunity of entertaining her very dear and
unforgettable friends.
It was a dainty little feast, and Madame’s wit
sparkled like her fine eyes. Both her guests enjoyed
themselves immensely. Madame was full of prettily-
expressed gratitude for their many kindnesses to her.
As they sat in the verandah over their coffee, enjoying
the beautiful moonlit prospect of the far-stretching
harbor, lying out beyond the twinkling lights of the
little town that clustered about Sydney Cove below,
she thanked them for all they had done for her.
“ Twas nothing, my dear Madame,” said the
Governor, “nothing at all. Your visit to Sydney,
unhappy though its occasion, has been a delight to us.
Has it not, my love?”
“A delight, indeed!” murmured Mrs. Macquarie.
“Come,” said Madame, “come, my best of friends
—I vill show you ’ow I ’ave taken ze great care of zis
’andsome villa your kindness has entrusted to me.
Mooch too beeg, it was, for me —but I ’ave not
neglected it. Come —I vill show you. Follow me, s’il
vous plait.”
She took a lighted candle, and led the way in-
doors. There was a strange murmur of voices through-
out the house, as of people who conversed anxiously in
low tones. They came into the main passage —a long
one leading to the back of the house.
“Ze doors are all locked,” said Madame. “So
many t’ieves in Sydney, as you ’ave warned me, M’sieu’
le Gouverneur.”
She turned a key, held the light high up as though
to show the room, and pushed the door open.
“Dear me! ” exclaimed Macquarie in amazement.
“Lachlan !” whispered his wife.
In the bedroom were Mr. Commissary-General
Brooks and the lean Mrs. Smyth. He was speechless,
and she wept.
“Oh, la, la, Id!” cried Madame. “Fie! Come,”
she said. “Pardon, dear Madame Smyth—l forgot.”
Each door in turn was dramatically opened by
her, and in each of the four other apartments a simi-
larly ill-assorted and middle-aged couple was dis-
covered in different degrees of embarrassment. Madame
was demonstratively astounded. Presently, gasping in
his astonishment, Macquarie found his voice. “Come,
Elizabeth,” he said unsteadily. “Let us be going.
We —ah —we have seen too much. Madame, pray
permit me to thank you for your hospitality, but it
grows late, and we must return to Government House.
We are walking—pray have my orderly summoned, I
beg you. Good night, Madame de Mauny.”
“Oh, M’sieu’ le Gouverneur,” cried the lady im-
ploringly. “I pray you to pardon zem. Zey ’ave
deceive me —but pray pardon zem. Zey are young,
zey are ardent. It is ze climate, I sink. Bonsoir, mes
amis. Perhaps we ’ear no more of zese indiscreets —
yes, no? My ’eart bleeds for zem.”
The Governor and Mrs. Macquarie almost fled
from the house. As they went down Church Hill, the
orderly walking discreetly some twenty yards behind
them, Macquarie almost exploded with laughter.
“Oh, my dear —my dear!” he chuckled. “Oh,
gorgeous —oh, very neat!”
“What a cat!” said Mrs. Macquarie, but she
laughed, too.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
dgdfgfdg
fdgfdgd
WALTHAM ABBEY.
But thirteen miles north from Liverpool Street Station is one of the most venerable and historic religious edifices in England
W altham Abbey. At the same time it is regarded as a structure of “singular and compelling beauty.” On the left bank
of the River Lea, in the western section of the County of Essex, this irreplaceable vane in 1940 was regarded as liable at
any moment to destruction or damage from Nazi aerial offensive, for close by were manufactories for articles the enemy
won esire to see destroyed. The Abbey is associated with a great invasion of England” in the long, long past. To glance
at its istory. On Holy Cross Day, May 3, 1060, the sacred edifice, built by King Harold, was consecrated, and of this
original structure the nave, aisles and Lady Chapel survive. The Abbey originated in a church founded by the standard-
bearer of Canute, made collegiate in 1062 by Harold, and converted into a Mitred Augustinian Abbey in 1177 by Henry 11.
To this old church came Harold to pray before the fateful battle of Hastings. To this old church-his body was brought back
a ter is defeat by William the Conqueror and buried close to the High Altar. The tower was not added until the sixteenth
century, w en it was employed as a prop to the building, weakened by the work of a “restorer” three centuries before. The
Lady Chapel dates back to 1316, and within the spiral pillar, part of the original work, is greatly admired. The Abbey
now serves as the parish church.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62—No. 3177.
Wednesday, January 1, 1941.
BIRD’S TURN NEXT.
“Mussolini’s controlled press has addressed a savage warning to the U.S.A.”
“When I’ve finished dealing with your friends I won’t leave you a feather to fly with!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. £, Webb
r. H. Prior David Adams
— ,
HEAD OFFICE : 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
.. 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins Street,
.. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp . G.P.0. ),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia.
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months. 12s. 6d.;
s months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and mter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 16s. •
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad-
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months. £1 25.:
3 months. 11s. *
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth. New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
1940 and 1941.
Nineteen-forty began with the quietness that pro-
verbially presages storm.
The/storm broke. It was worse in its results than
the most pessimistic defeatist could have feared or the
gloomiest prophet foretold, but was lit by flashes
of heroism and glory as splendid and spectacular as
any in British history. There was a brief lull, and
the storm broke again, changing its course and char-
acter, falling with terrible destruction on England,
the weathering of it adding something not merely
comparable with grand highlights of the past but
entirely new; an enhancing of the already richest
tradition in the world ; to the English, even without
the crucial testing of the threatened invasion, justi-
fication enough of their leader’s prophetic phrase, that
this would be their “bravest hour.” The storm
changed again, from day to night, with even more
frightful results, but the same staunch spirit meeting
it still. Then, on a distant desert front, unheralded
and wholly unexpected triumph.
How this new year will develop no man living
can say—not even the evil genius whose blight is on
the world. In one view it may presage better things
again at the end, in another view it may serve as a
curb on undue optimism, that 1939 also closed in
something of a blaze of glory. In the historical per-
spective, the naval battle which destroyed the Graf
Spec in December of that year is insignificant com-
pared with the destruction of Italian armies in the
Battle of Egypt, but it was deservedly outstanding
news at the time, and, because of it, 1939, as 1940
has done, closed with feelings running high in British
countries, and in other countries equally interested in
the defeat of Nazi Germany.
It was to be a long and desperate time before
there was any further cause for rejoicings, and these
not of triumph but of almost unbelieving relief and
thankfulness. The first quarter of 1940 was so devoid
of event that it looked as if the war had already
evolved into stalemate or checkmate. So theorists
believed, a grand time being had especially by those
who hawked —so plausibly and successfully ; even, it
would seem, in the highest British and French poli-
tical and military quarters—the delusive theory of
defensive warfare. It was useless then to point out
that all the recent wars, like past wars, had been won
by the side taking the initiative and the offensive:
the theorists had the ear of the public—and not only
of the public—and for the time being it was a grand
war for theorists, one of the wildest of whom, from
the distant view of the U.S.A., declared it to be
“phony,” Another bright mind saw it as the “first
bore war” ; a whole locust plague of others saw it as
an improved opportunity for carrying on the theo-
retical discussions on the theme of fancy international-
ism which had been the godsend of limelighters
throughout the shaky peace.
In that first quarter also Mr. Churchill delivered
his remembered “crocodile” warning to Europe’s
neutrals, inviting them to join the Allies as the alterna-
tive to being gobbled up ; President Roosevelt sent Mr.
Sumner Welles to Britain, France, Germany and Italy
to report on the prospects of peace (nil) ; the first
of the new crop of Australian and N.Z. Diggers were
safely conveyed to Suez; the British Navy added the
Altmark rescue to the highlights of its traditions; the
Soviet-Finnish war, adding the most glorious of all
chapters to Finnish history and making a laughing-
stock of “the greatest fighting machine the world has
ever known, the Russian Red Army,” ended in a
negotiated peace, the Finns having given a new value
to heroism and a new inspiration to small nations.
For the rest, Nazi bombers raided Scapa Flow, and
the R.A.F. retaliated on Sylt; British troops and
materials poured into France ; with the Maginot Line
supposedly impregnable, nearly everybody talked with
assurance and complacency, and everybody waited.
The second quarter saw good-bye to all that, with
a rush and a bang. On April 8, four days after Mr.
Churchill had been given general supervision over
Britain’s fighting strength, mines were laid off Nor-
way, ostensibly, if not actually, to close a loophole
in the blockade of Germany. Next day Germany
marched into Denmark (a walkover ; Denmark had
been held up as a shining example in support of the
beautiful theory that all a country had to do to remain
unharmed was to remain unarmed). The same day the
Germans were in Norway (to repeat now what leading
statesmen said then of this move would only make
bitter reading; “a strategical blunder of the first
magnitude” was typical).
A few days later —April 16 —the British expedi-
tion arrived, to find that the Quislings had got in only
too well ahead of it. With the British forced to quit
southern Norway, but fighting a forlorn hope at
Narvik, Germany next —May 10 —invaded the Nether-
lands, Belgium, Luxembourg. Next day Mr. Churchill
succeeded Mr. Chamberlain as Prime Minister, taking
over, as it was to turn out, in one of the most
desperately difficult periods of British history ; per-
haps the most desperate of all. By May 14 the Dutch
armies had ceased resisting ; by the 17th the Germans
had penetrated 35 miles into France and were forcing
back the British in Belgium. By the 21st the Germans
were on the French Channel coast; the British-
Belgian forces were cut off. Before the month was
out, the Belgians had surrendered on their King’s
order, leaving the British with the seemingly impossible
job of evacuating their army, and the Germans boast-
ing that they would never do it. Within a few days
they had done it, and the glory of Dunkirk made the
world seem a bright place to be in, and to be British or
of British stock.
June was the blackest month of all. It saw the
British evacuate Narvik and Norway surrender ; Italy
came into the war as the Germans crossed the Seine
and the collapse of France, and possibly of the Allies,
appeared imminent; the French Premier, Reynaud,
made a despairing call to America for active assist-
ance ; the Germans crossed the Marne ; the French
decided not to defend Paris, and the war, as far as
France was actively concerned, was over. Before the
month was out, France, in the theatrical setting child-
ishly insisted on by the Fiihrer, signed its armistice
with Germany (June 22). Two days later, France
signed the Italian armistice, possibly the more bitter
signing of the two.
In July the British Navy had the grievous, though
necessary, job of taking over part of the French Fleet,
sinking ships that resisted. Two days later the French
Government at Vichy broke off relations with Britain
(July 5). The war slowed down, but the month ended
with the beginning of mass air raids on Britain. From
here on —most intensively in September—the war con-
tinued on the lines of the British bombing German
factories and other war objectives, and the Germans
bombing London and other British cities, aiming at
morale more than at war objectives, at the same time
threatening invasion ; by all accounts lavishly pre-
paring to invade ; by some accounts actually launch-
ing an invasion expedition, but being frustrated, both
in this and in daylight bombing raids over Britain, by
the magnificent performance of the R.A.F.
Apart from Dakar and Somaliland, in neither of
which was there any cause for rejoicing, the war con-
tinued for most of the rest of the year on the general
lines of its third quarter after the collapse of France.
The rest is the recent history of the Greek and then
the British victories at the expense of the Italians. Thus
the year closes, if not as favorably as could be wished,
at least more favorably than could possibly have been
expected at the dark mid-year. The new year opens
with British spirits staunch and feelings again running
high; with American aid steadily improving; and
with the recent victories having incalculable effects in
the Near East, Middle East and elsewhere in the world.
The struggle ahead cannot be other than grim and ter-
rible ; but Lawson may have had the word for it:
“We have breasted bigger rivers when the floods were
at their height.” And as for the old year, it might have
been worse. It might have been a whole lot worse.
Monument to a Pioneer.
“The death is announced of Mr. William Wattlebark,
of Eucalyptusville, Back Bobbra Wobbra, at the age
of 75. Mr. Wattlebark first took up land in the
district 50 years ago and was one of its foremost
pioneers of the sheep and wheat industries.”
It was almost a square block of 1000 acres when he
took it up. There was a timbered rise running along
the back ; a similar rise ran from his east boundary
across the middle of the block and then turned south
through the fence and across the road. The timber
was a mixture of box, pine and lesser trees, fairly
thick but with fair natural grazing. The south-west
corner was flat, with odd apple-box and some gilgais
on the boundary corner at the road.
In those early years Wattlebark worked like a
nigger. He knew there was money in the land, and he
was determined to make it come out. Within 12 years
he had turned the gilgai paddock into a 300-acre cul-
tivation, and he had another 100-acre cultivation in the
south-east corner and 300 sheep in the back paddock
on the rise. There were a homestead and outbuildings,
implements, horses, money in the bank, a wife and
two sons.
Taking ten years off his age for good measure,
he tried to enlist in 1915, but was rejected for a
strained heart, the examining doctor telling him to be
careful. Though scornful of the doctor, he ac-
cepted the rejection and went back to the farm. That
year they metalled the main road past his place, put-
ting in culverts near the east and west boundaries to
carry off the drainage from the gilgais and the western
rise.
By 1920 the place was subdivided into eight pad-
docks, three of them being cultivation and a fourth
half and half. There were three good tanks, another
son and 200 more sheep. The oldest wheat paddock—
the 300 acres with the gilgais in the corner —had
changed a little. There were several tiny runnels from
the crest of the cultivation down to the gilgais, and
some heavy rain in January that year, when the pad-
dock was fallow, caused a washaway for about four
panels of the boundary fence and damaged the road
culvert. Wattlebark patched up the fence and ran the
disc over as much of the washaway as he could in an
effort to level it off.
After 1926 wheat prices began to fall away, and
Wattlebark decided that the place would have to carry
more sheep. So he used the tractor to pull down most
of the trees on the slopes in the eastern paddock, with
the result that more grass grew and he could carry
more sheep there. There was good money to be made
on his farm, and he spared no effort to make it—as
any right-thinking farmer should. He took practically
all the timber off the slope that ran back to the
north-east cultivation, pulled the wires from the sub-
division fence and thus had 300 acres of well-grassed
slope and valley, with a good tank. Sheep and wool
prices stayed good, and he increased his sheep as much
as possible, reducing his wheat acreage somewhat.
He cut a lot of hay and put it away, together with
a couple of pits of silage. He planted about 60 acres of
lucerne around the gilgai corner. Wattlebark hated
those gilgais, but reckoned he’d got even with them
by planting lucerne.
A fairly severe drought struck the district in the
late 1920’5, but the conserved fodder stuck to the
Wattlebarks and two of the three tanks held out.
Wattlebark worked the fodder shrewdly, making the
sheep flog out the grass on the cleared slopes and using
the stored stuff to keep ’em going. Mrs. Wattlebark
used to say the dust seemed heavier that year, but
Wattlebark asked what she expected, with everything
so dry. Around the house there were hard, bare
patches of ground, and he didn’t like the look of them,
but made up his mind to force the farm to produce
more by sowing some pasture and conserving more
fodder when the weather broke.
It broke in midsummer with strong, driving rains
that poured down for nearly three days. When the
weather cleared and they went to see how the sheep
got on there was a big gully washed out between the
cleared slopes, down which small runnels had been
cut, mostly along the sheep-pads. The south-east tank
had had a corner washed out, and the neighbor on
that side invited Wattlebark to do something about
the water rushing from Wattlebark’s paddock into his.
That week the council had to enlarge the road culvert
to take the water coming from along Wattlebark’s
boundary.
They patched up the boundary, bought the neigh-
bor out and settled the eldest son on the place. The
youngest son sprained an ankle in a little gutter on one
of the slopes. In the gilgai corner most of the
lucerne had been eaten down and the gilgais were full
of silt from the fallow above them. They Renovated
the lucerne, worked up the cleared slopes and sowed
rye and other pastures under a cover crop of wheat.
It was hard to work because of the gutters and the
numerous bare patches of gravel and slaty stone ex-
posed by the rain.
“That’s what y’ get,” said Wattlebark, “when a
blasted drought dries everything off.” He looked at
the timber on the back slope and decided it would
have to be thinned. There was good soil there, and
it was wasted while it was growing trees. It was no
good growing trees, reflected Wattlebark, if you wanted
to make your land produce. A few for shade and
shelter were all right, but a man was a fool to have
an idle acre. So he got a couple of chaps in on con-
tract and opened up about 200 acres along the back.
His eldest son thought it was a mistake. “Look what
happened to them other slopes when y’ took the timber
off ’em,” he said. “Get out!” answered Wattlebark,
“it was the drought caused that. Anyhow, we can put
more sheep up there.”
Where they sowed the rye odd patches struck
and made little, isolated islands of pasture, but the
washout in the gully was now a creek, and they had
to put a bridge across it near the son’s 800-acre block.
For the first couple of years the sheep on the newly-
cleared back slopes did well; then they seemed to be
short of feed in winter and patches of gravel and the
slaty stone started showing up. By this time the big
wheat paddock was going off, a number of claypans
came into it somehow and Wattlebark had to be care-
ful not to work the fallow too fine or a north-easter
would fill the house with dust.
The younger son had long since left school and
gone through an agricultural college. Offered a Gov-
ernment farm job in Westralia, he took it gladly. The
old place kept on growing wheat and wool and mutton,
but Wattlebark wasn’t getting as much out of it these
days. Ewes died in numbers at lambing time and the
crops began to be patchy round the edges and on the
tops of the rises, where the gravelly bits showed.
Almost every summer they had to clean out the silt-
traps in the tanks ; the pastures held fairly well in the
bottoms, but thinned out every winter on the slopes.
Old Wattlebark used to look at those slopes hard at
times, wrinkling his brows as he recalled the growth
on them in the early days.
“Y’ got t’ get what y’ can out of this sort of
country while the goin’s good,” he would say. “It
won’t stand up to intensive farming.”
Then he died and the agricultural student came
from Westralia, and after the funeral read about his
father in the local paper. After which he took a walk
over the farm. He saw the standing wheat and the
sheep, the creek in the gully and the patches of gravel
and slaty stone, the homestead and the sturdy fences,
the claypans and the fan-shaped wash across the south-
east fallow. He looked along the slopes, at the few
trees left of what had been there. And, a little sadly,
a little grimly, he realised that his father had taken all
the farm could give, and that those who followed him
would have a long, hard task to restore it to anything
like its old capacity.
He had a strange, passionate love of country, and
he went back to the West saddened for the old pioneer,
his father, who had ruined in 50 years what Nature
had taken thousands to prepare. He could find no
excuse for the old man in the fact that thousands of
others were doing the same thing.
Old-timer.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Momentous Week.
Christmas week was crowded with events —all strik-
ing, some significant and one very mysterious.
Lord Halifax was named Ambassador at Wash-
ington. Mr. Eden returned to the Foreign Office, and
Captain Margesson went to the War Office. Mr,
Churchill made a speech to the Italians in which he
charged Mussolini with being the sole author of the
war which has sundered an ancient friendship, and
urged them to get rid of him. Our own John Greig
Latham arrived in Tokyo and had an audience with
the Emperor. The Paris delegate to the Vichy Gov-
ernment, rebutting a hundred newspaper reports, an-
nounced that his Government had received “no Ger-
man ultimatum and no demand for the passage of
troops across France.” In a radio talk from Syria the
French General Bergeret said: “Marshal Petain is
determined to preserve the rights France has acquired
in the past, and is determined not to take any military
initiative against anyone.” A large body of represen-
tative Americans urged the President in a memorial
to speed up and increase the scope of the plans for
helping Britain. Isolationist Senators invited him to
take the initiative in securing a negotiated peace.
And the Pope delivered a Christmas message to
the peoples of the world which produced a profound
impression in Britain. Without mentioning Hitler or
Mussolini, his Holiness condemned their “new order,”
saying that “the first of the unconditional bases of any
‘new order’ would be the overcoming of the hatred
which today is dividing peoples, and the refraining
from any system and action out of which hatred
receives ever new nourishment.”
He who really wants collaboration among the
nations and who wants to preserve them from unspeak-
able damage must not leave aside the ideals of truth
and justice, of co-operation and the high ideal of
brotherly love.
The sister of Justice is Truthfulness. Without a
return to fidelity to all treaties concluded, the life of
the small nations beside the mighty ones would be
impossible. The sanctity of the given word must be
restored. The theory will have to be repelled that
advantage for a nation is the basis of right and that
force creates right.
There would also have to be overcome “all conflict
in the field of world economy” and “the spirit of cold
egoism, the spirit which allows the sovereignty of the
State to violate the justice and liberty which are the
due of every single citizen.” Meanwhile the war was
“proceeding on its bloody way, piling heaps of ruins
and not even sparing the monuments of the Church.”
One day the chronicle of mutilated bodies, of the
suppressed, the starving and the expelled, will be made
known in its full content. Today it is not even partly
known, but what we know is sufficient to tear our
hearts.
No reply to this moving utterance came from the
rulers of Germany. What effect it had on the mys-
terious event which accompanied and succeeded it can
only be surmised. The fact remains that Christmas
ushered in a suspension of the air war. For upwards of
three days not a single bomb fell on Britain or on Ger-
many. Early in the month, Mr. Churchill, apparently
replying to soundings from Berlin, announced that
there would be no Christmas truce ; but Christmas truce
there was, though London says it was “unofficial.” The
only recorded objectors were Mr. F. Ehrenfried
Baume, J.P., who is always trailing his coat and chal-
lenging the world to step on it, and “some Americans
in London.” Hit high, hit low or hit nothing, there is
no satisfying Mr. F. Ehrenfried Baume, J.P., and
“some Americans.”
It Might Have Been Rabaul.
Australians, from whose pockets greatly increased
taxes are now being taken, are still contributing sub-
stantially to the upkeep of the League. The bombard-
ment of Nauru should result in the ending of their
connection with that body, which has deserted its
million-pound cackle-house at Geneva and found
refuge in the one great country, which repudiated it.
Nauru has since July, 1919, been under the joint
administration of the British, Australian and Maori-
land Governments ; but the Commonwealth has the
responsibility of providing an Administrator. A com-
mission attends to the digging and sale of its phos-
phates.
Before the last war, Nauru was a German colony
managed entirely in the interests of Germany and the
Germans. As a mandated territory it has been operated
primarily in the interests of the natives, who are the
happiest and richest in the Pacific. They receive
regular royalties on phosphates. They have schools
and every comfort in life. Almost every native has a
savings-bank account. Every medical facility that
civilisation can provide is theirs. They are a happy,
harmless people offering offence to nobody.
But under the idiotic League system they are un-
defended. They have been denied a single gun to
ward off a raider. This the enemy knows too well.
At dawn on December 8 a raider appeared off
Nauru and sank five ships. At dawn on December
27 the same raider or another shelled the phosphate
plant from which the islanders get their living, and
did so much damage as to cripple Nauru production
of phosphates “for the rest of the war,” though Ocean
Island supplies will still be available. There was no
loss of life.
The raid was a doubly cynical affair, inasmuch as
a false name was used and false colors were hoisted.
In making this announcement, Mr. Hughes “assumed,”
with blazing indiscretion, that “the enemy’s supply
ship has refuelled in neutral territory,” and that “the
watchful eye of the neutral is turned the other way.”
He stated subsequently that before the actual shelling
took place the raider hauled down the Japanese flag
and ran up the flag of Germany. A Japanese naval
spokesman stated that the Navy Office had no infor-
mation as to whether a Japanese name and the
Japanese flag were used. “Other sources” declared that
if these facts were established the matter would be
regarded as serious.
In the same week a distinguished Australian arrived
at Tokyo to represent the Commonwealth, and was
received by the Emperor.
The attacks on Nauru are, of course, part of a
plan to damage Australia’s war effort and its agricul-
ture, and the second had as another object the em-
broiling of Australia with Japan. Attacks on other
parts of the Mandated Territories are possible. The
Commonwealth has had all the expense and trouble of
developing these territories under the supervision of
polyglot committees at Geneva, but they have been
allowed to remain wide open to enemy attack because
they are not Australian possessions.
A raid on Rabaul or some other New Guinea
town or port might, for more reasons than one, be a
more serious affair than the shelling of Nauru. And
if an enemy captured one of the many magnificent
harbors around the islands and mounted guns, it would
be Australian lives that would be lost getting him
out, not those of Liberians or Guatemalans.
Irrespective of what defensive measures have
already been taken it is time the Commonwealth threw
the League definitely overboard and incorporated
New Guinea, Nauru and the mandated Solomons into
the Commonwealth itself and its defence system. And,
very obviously, there must be no more employment of
Australian warships in adventures like the Dakar flop
when the enemy is striking so near home.
One Income Tax !
In many articles and paragraphs published in the
course of many years, The Bulletin urged that taxa-
tion of incomes should be exclusively a Common-
wealth matter. It suggested that the States, while they
lasted, might by way of compensation be permitted to
hand over their Education Departments, there being
little difference on the whole between their revenue
from income taxes and their education expenditure.
On July 24, 1929, when the depression and the
last and worst Lang Government were approaching,
this was here published:
The income-tax business in Australia is a vast
muddle. Over a large part of the continent Govern-
ments take half the uncertain profits of pastoralists in
no very large way of business; on the other hand, rich
investors are rushed with Government securities,
interest on which is free of State income tax, and
others, by juggling with exemptions and domiciles, can
dodge both Commonwealth and State taxes on consider-
able incomes. There should, of course, be one income
tax, and one only; and, instead of being all rigma-
role and German formulas, it should be as simple and
understandable as the British and Maoriland measures.
Had the income taxes been unified that year, the
country would have been spared much of the worry
and trouble which arrived with the depression. Instead,
income taxes were multiplied under various fancy
names ; Mr. Lang brought in an impost so savage that
the Commonwealth Government itself had to resist it
—among other things, it shielded its employees by
special Act —and State Governments began taxing
income from other States, income already taxed in
those States and by the Commonwealth Government.
And while each State Government was intent on
squeezing as much as was expedient from taxpayers
whose votes were not important, rates of tax differed
in every State. And so it went on for years, with
immense loss in time, legislative and administrative
costs, waste of paper, litigation, employment of taxa-
tion experts and dodgery in various forms.
Now, with the necessity for devoting a large part
of the national income to war expenditure, confusion
has become worse confounded.
Forbidden to tax small incomes for political
reasons, the war Treasurer is taxing middle incomes
excessively and soft-pedalling his tax on big incomes.
A married man with one child pays ss. in the £ on a
taxable income of £l5OO. On anything above that
there is a flat rate of 10s. in the £. Mr. Fadden says
he had to stop at 10s. in the £, for if he increased the
rate on big incomes in the proportion in which the
rates on incomes in the £BOO-£l6OO group have been
increased, he and one or two of the State Govern-
ments would take the lot.
Some of the results have been mentioned by Mr.
Scullin. On an income of £lO,OOO, a married man
with one dependant will pay £5254 in Victoria and
£6547 in Queensland. On £20,000, a Victorian will
pay £10,909 and a Queenslander £13,647. From tax-
payers in receipt of £40,000, Commonwealth and
State will take £22,218 in Victoria and £27,847 in
Queensland. Yet, as the former P.M. points out, they
are all Australians and all are being defended by the
Government carrying on the war.
There will be stacks of these “discrepancies,” as
Mr. Scullin calls them, and there can be no relief for
the victims this year. For the seven Parliaments are in
recess, and three of them will not assemble again until
after they have had elections ; and it is the pleasant
habit of others to begin what they please to call
“work” in the latter half of the year. Eric Spooner,
M.H.R., a late convert to what he calls “a single tax-
ing authority in Australia,” points out that “there are
war-time powers in the hands of the Commonwealth
Government that may enable some of the difficulties
to be swept away.” These war-time powers will have
to be exercised if the Six Excrescences will not agree
to income tax being unified after the financial year
which closes on June 30.
"Too Busy."
Petrol “rationing” had been in force three calendar
months when Christmas came. As usual, time has
proved that any restriction which discomforts the
Huge Wens soon ceases to be a restriction, even when
it aims at conservation of fuel needed for defence,
plus conservation of tankage and dollars.
It was proposed at first that the kind of pleasure
cars in which youngsters skitter round Blue Mountain
roads and beaches at week-ends should be limited to
about 160 miles’ running per month. For business
cars the allowance was to be about 600 miles per
month ; for various other commercial vehicles, up to
15,000 miles per year. But this plan produced a violent
outcry from interested parties, and after various fits
and starts a new one conceding about double those
quotas began to operate on October 1. In the last
week of September garages worked all night supply-
ing millions of gallons which purchasers stored away
to ensure their own selfish pleasure and defeat the
object of rationing.
They need not have worried. Rationing has been
a farce. The flimsiest excuse serves for the breaking
of regulations, and motorists are allowed quan-
tities equal to or greater than their peace-time needs.
And the sinking of 19 ships in the seas about Australia
hasn’t made the slightest difference.
Christmas in Sydney was marked by all the usual
festive motoring features. On Christmas Eve the
great clearing point at Taylor-square was so crammed
with pleasure cars making for the South Coast that
traffic was held up at times altogether. For days
before that the congestion in Oxford-street had been so
great that it was quicker to walk the H mile from
Circular Quay to Taylor-square than to take one of
the motor-jostled trams—a newspaperman did it twice
to prove it. ~ . , f
In N. S. Wales there was the usual batch ot
road accidents —“10 hurt in head-on collision, three
killed at railway crossing” and so on ; and Victoria
had an appalling number. “S. M. Herald” recorded
that rationing had “proved no bar to campers’ wander-
lust.” Indeed, you would scarcely have known there
was a war on or a rationing scheme in force if motor-
ing organisations which sell petrol used for pleasure
and protect the pleasure-bent motorist hadn’t been
heard from in shrill accents.
The national Government —which has a com-
mittee inquiring how additional vital petrol may be
produced in the Commonwealth announced that
from January 7 each consumer must endorse his petrol
ration ticket in ink with his name and the number
of his license. The idea was to squelch forgery and
malpractice, forged ration tickets having become as
thick as autumn leaves in Vallombrosa.
The president of the N.R.M.A. was the first to
squeal:
One does not mind being asked to help in an
emergency, but resellers cannot waste five or ten
minutes investigating each set of tickets.
Then came the secretary of the N. S. Wales Service
Station Association:
No reseller could spare time to do it. The larger
service stations in the city are kept busy now serving
motorists. They would have no time to check licenses.
In Britain not only petrol but almost every other
commodity is rationed. To protect the imperilled
nation against dishonesty on the part of holders and
receivers of ration cards, there are very severe checks.
Any prosecuted petrol trader whose “defence” was that
he had been “too busy” to apply the checks would have
a swift passage to Pentonville, or the local equivalent.
A Plethora of Censors.
The film censorship came under fire the other day,
and incidentally Australia got another illustration of
how its amazing “system” of government “works.”
The film in question was “Forty Thousand Horse-
men,” an Australian effort which cost £30,000, half of
which was guaranteed by the N.S.W. Government,
notorious for its deficits. Mr. Cresswell O’Reilly, the
Commonwealth Film Censor, saw the thing and
ordered that three sequences should be cut. The pro-
ducer appealed and was verbally informed that the
Appeals Censor supported Mr. O’Reilly. Next day the
Appeals Censor reversed his decision and passed all
except a “romantic” scene. Meanwhile the N.S.W.
Chief Secretary’s Department passed the film in its
entirety for exhibition in N. S. Wales. Then the Com-
monwealth Customs Minister passed all the film for
export except the “romantic” scene. Presently he was
heard naively confessing that he had not seen the whole
film, only those parts of it which had agitated Mr.
O’Reilly. Upon viewing the complete product, he
passed it for export in its original form.
So the Commonwealth Film Censor can be over-
ruled by the Appeals Censor, and both can be over-
ruled by the Minister of Customs. Moreover, the
Commonwealth Censor’s decision can be annulled in
N. S. Wales by the Chief Secretary’s Department, and,
as Mr. O’Reilly is also censor for Victoria, portions of
a film which may be shown to N.S.W. people may not
be shown to Victorians. Or scenes passed for exhibi-
tion in N. S. Wales or any other part of Australia can
be banned for exhibition in other countries before
the film leaves Australia. And when this was written
a confused producer was wondering if the Customs
Minister could overrule the Victorian film censor.
One of the scenes which fell under Mr. O’Reilly’s
displeasure was a spirited representation of the charge
of the Light Horse at Beersheba. An S.P.C.A. in-
spector was present when it was “shot,” and he saw
nothing wrong in it, but Mr. O’Reilly voted it “too
gruesome” because three or four horses fell. Horses
do fall in cavalry or mounted-infantry charges, and
if they didn’t fall in “Westerns” people would feel that
they had been cheated. It would be interesting to
know how many “Westerns” Mr. O’Reilly has cen-
sored as “too gruesome” or whether his sentiments
are outraged only when Australian horses come down.


Sociey
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“I cant remember crossing this bridge on the Way out."
“Spokeshave”: A Melbourne ecclesias-
tic of very high degree presided over
the annual breakup of a posh school for
young ladies in the suburban outskirts.
Part of the proceedings was a production
of a scene from “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream, in which the actors were all
young women. In his subsequent re-
marks the eminent ecclesiastic felt bound
to pass some graceful compliments on
the performance. “This is the first time
m my life,” he said, “that I have seen
a female Bottom, and I must say I have
more nTefs an l thlnB that fllled me with
more pleasure
* * * *
A • •
S.T.S. : An old controversy is raging
again m suburban Adelaide. As soon
as the province was founded, the Angas
family brought from South Germany a
century back a big band of settlers who
wanted religious freedom and escape
from the growing Prussian domination.
Hard-woiking and law-abiding, they have
been a great strength to S.A. ever since,
and their descendants died by scores for
Australia in the 1914-18 war. A colony
of them took up land just outside the
city, and called it Klemzig. In the bitter-
ness of 1916 this was wiped off the map
and Gaza substituted. Twenty years
later this was felt to have been unneces-
sary, and Klemzig was put back. Now
a generation that grew up under “Gaza’’
wants that name restored.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Noel Coward says our
Australian theatre is dreary. Well, isn’t
it? Periodical Gilsullivan revivals, plus,
once in a blue moon, a fluffy comedy hit
from Broadway, could hardly be de-
scribed as exciting, Australian drama, if
any, is confined to dark lanes in the
suburbs. In order to give it a helping
hand Australian critics treat the flesh-
and-blood theatre with indulgence, re-
serving all their abuse for American
movies. But in the last few weeks in
Melbourne there have been more out-
standing films than there have been out-
standing plays on the legitimate stage for
the last 10 years. Except in a few ama-
teur productions, where would you see on
the stage anything at the present moment
as good as “My Son, My Son,” “A Bill
of Divorcement,” “The Man Edison” and
the “Dodsworth” revival, to mention only
a few of them?
“G.M.S.”: From the correspondence
columns of the staid Melbourne
“Argus”:
Mr. Noel Coward’s recent remark that
theatres here are dull is decidedly right.
Musical revues are of such prudish stodgi-
ness here that the same show overseas
would not last a week. We have had only
two revues here—the “Marcus” and
“Hollywood Hotel” shows—in which the
women were smartly undressed and an ele-
ment ol risque was present. And many
school lines and equally boring.
This heartcry is signed “Joan S. William-
son,” a name with a familiar ring to old
playgoers, incidentally. But what is the
younger generation coming to?
*** ' *
“C. 8.”: A bright touch enlivened the
dreary waste of school breakup
speeches in Melbourne. Frank Shann,
headmaster of Trinity Grammar, offered
lh ' “"f" 1 °P ini ™. b ° yS
pubhc schools (by which is meant schools
so expensive that they can be kept select)
nr? nrptWrnri in the Hmr u
are P re mrred in the commercial world
because they possess a greater share of
broadmindedness, personality, independ-
ence of thought and good manners than
boys who haven t had the privilege of
attending such seminaries. Democrats of
ad sorts gnashed their teeth in fury and
mshed to the defence of the State schools,
But the neatest icport came fiom head-
master Bateman, of Geelong High. He
pointed out that Mr. Shann had
apparently forgotten that he and his dis-
tmguished brother, Prof. Edward Shann,
both attended the Prahran West State
school.
“X.S.”: Room D 24, Russell-street,
Melbourne, doesn’t usually get excited,
but when a ’phone call came from a
northern suburb in the small hours and
an agitated voice told it that murder was
being committed in the backyard next
door it thought it was on to something.
When the patrol arrived it found two
battered individuals, but they were
shaking hands with each other and ex-
changing Christmas greetings. The cir-
cumstances took some unravelling, but it
was at last discovered that a man had
been given a lift home from a party
by his friends, who had dropped him
before what he took to be his front gate.
Making his way round to the back door
he banged on it with complete confidence
that his wife would greet him. Instead,
a female he had never set eyes on be-
fore opened the door with a rush and
gave him a stiff straight drive from the
shoulder which knocked him into the
asparagus bed. Not to be deterred by
such a trifle he pulled himself up and
knocked again. This time a man’s face
with an indignant expression appeared
in the doorway. The outraged reveller
promptly knocked him down. The
friends who had given him a lift had
conceived the bright notion of dropping
him opposite a house so like his own
that, in his fuddled state, he would seek
to enter it.
* * * *
“Joypet”; Somebody with a sense of
humor had a hand in designing 1940
Christmas cards. One I spotted in a Pitt-
street window was adorned with a print of
an ocean scene —a large sailing ship and
a whaleboat sailing away from it, with a
gent, standing in the stern of the whale-
boat waving to those on the larger tub.
Beneath it was inscribed “Greetings and
Best Wishes.” Very pretty if you didn’t
reC ognise the print as a reproduction of
a painting of P Bligh leaving the Bounty.
The fist he is waving is savagely clenched
and the “greeting” he is giving the
mutineers would blister any card it was
printed on.
* * *
« FI V ”- Wonder hn-v ™m- of the
millions who rea dcCchifl’s reference
™ Ss Christoa? to Mussofinrs
i.V‘f v mre able to riS the
auotation” Memdfth of course hut
George is forgotten in an era which, had
he lived in it wou|d have cal , e d him
nr)Pt ieallv hM outranking Milton
poetically messed, outranking Milton
an£ j Qryden because of the tangled
obscurity which marked most o£ the
emanations of his muse He would un-
doubtedly have been acclaimed by the
mo dernists. At the same time, he wrote,
j n fl as h eS} ma ny lines and verses which
deserved to live. The “dusty answer”
quotation comes from the last stanza
q£ “Modern Love,” which refers aptlv
t th n artne rs in a more sentimental
ax j s an fji a t of 1939-40 •
The union of thjs e#er d : v< , rse k
These two were rapid falcons in a snare,
Condemned to do the flitting of the bat,
It seems a pretty good description of
the vampirish raiding of civilian cities
by the pair now so much in the public
eye, whose “hearts hold cravings for the
buried day” of Roman and Hunnish
imperial glory and who—in 1939 at any
rate —were “lovers beneath the sinking
sky of May.”
Ah, what a dusty answer gets the soul
When hot for certainties in this our life!
It is a sentiment which both Hit. and
Muss, must often whisper to themselves
in these trying times.
* * * *
“Uramao”: The court orderly in a
North Island (M.L.) town had a mellow
brogue. A case was being prosecuted
by a Jewish counsel; defending counsel
was Irish. When the orderly was in-
structed to call the next witness his rich
tones echoed along the corridors and
reverberated in the eaves: “Abraham
Murphy! ”he cried. “Abraham Murphy!
Are ye there, Abraham Murphy?” The
Court scented a rich joke. All eyes were
turned towards the door opening on to
the passageway where a shuffling could
be heard. And then entered a huge fat
Maori radiating good nature from every
pore.
* * * •
“Mooyabil”: At Evans Head (N.S.W.)
an airman was roped in as Santa Claus
for a school-kids’ party. He arrived by
’plane ’mid cheers, and left by the same
means. The stunt was well put over, but
the seven-year-old who was at my elbow
watching the departure wasn’t to be
fooled. “Santa lives at the North Pole,
doesn’t he?” asked the boy thoughtfully.
“He does, son,” I replied. “Then I don’t
believe it,” he said emphatically, “That
old ’plane couldn’t do the distance;
he’d want a Short-Sunderland at least.”
* * * *
“Uramao”: London grins through the
Blitzkrieg. Side by side in a bombed
street were a teashop and a pub. The
teashop bore the slogan “Open as usual.”
The pub announced “More open than
usual.”
* * * *
“D.E.”: Queer that the foreign cor-
respondents couldn’t spare a few lines for
the reburial of the bones of Napoleon’s son
(“the Eaglet”) beside those of his father
at the Invalides, Paris. If not of his-
toric importance, the ceremony was of
some romantic interest, and it may have
had some political significance, since
“high Nazis”—possibly Hitler himself —
were there; but the correspondents men-
tioned it only as an incident of the Laval
affair, having learned “on reliable
authority” that Laval meant to interrupt
it by kidnapping Retain or something
like that. The thing took place on De-
cember 15, exactly a hundred years after
the final act in the removal of Napoleon’s
remains from St. Helena and the transfer
of the third Napoleon to the fortress of
Ham. That gentleman, previously an
exile in England, had decided that De-
cember 15 would be a favorable day
for the completion of a coup d’etat and
had made an abortive descent on
Boulogne with a few soldiers and a tame
eagle secured to a helmet and bribed
to remain in position with a hunk of
bacon. Poor Napoleon Francis Joseph
Charles was King of Rome for three
years, titular Emperor after each of his
father’s abdications, Prince of Parma —
also in name —and Duke of Reichstadt.
He spent most of his 21 years in Aus-
tria, where he died on July 22, 1832,
of laryngeal phthisis. He shortened his
life by going in for physical exer-
cises which overtaxed his strength and
by another form of excess. Like Kip-
ling’s Mrs. Barrett, his mother, Marie
Louise, mourned for him two lively
months at least.
* * * #
“Addy”: The striking tramwaymen
in Adelaide showed subtle strategy. To
get a grievance as to working hours
redressed they did not alienate the public
by stopping the service as a strike, but
just stopped it each day for a meeting
which it was found important for every
man to attend, resuming after two or
three hours, just as the public was getting
anxious. After several days of this quiet
display of power, Judge Drake-Brock-
man hurried to Adelaide and the men
went back to work. “You are not giving
anything up,” a strategist assured the
trammies. “You can take whatever action
you like if the decision is not to your
liking.” "And that’s how arbitration
works!
* * * *
“K.P.”; A bit of self-experiment has
convinced Bill that his recent hay fever
is an allergic reaction to the face powder,
borrowed from his wife, with which he
first began to finish off his newly-shaven
dial a few months ago. It’s easily ex-
plained. The marital cosmetic obviously
contains orris root, the usual fixative in-
gredient of such powders and a proven
allergy-producer in a small proportion of
the many people who inhale it, Bill being
one of them.
THE LAND OF GOLD.
“Over 21,000,000,000 dollars’ worth of gold now
reposes in the vaults of Uncle Sam.” —“B.” 25/12/’4O.
“We are but 6 p.o. of the world’s population,
and yet we have three-quarters of all the money
gold there is. Much of it is buried in a bombproof
cave at Fort Knox, Kentucky. There is not a dollar
of gold money in circulation.” —“Saturday Evening
Post.”
Four thousand million pounds—and more—of
boodle
In cave and vault securely stowed away!
Could ever anyone but Yankee Doodle
Stack up so much against a rainy day?
How little they foresaw, the men of old.
Which was to be the real Land of Gold.
Not metal in the raw, not aureate riches
That miners with the pick and drill compel
From shafts and levels, stopes and drives and
ditches;
This is the genuine finished article,
That rounded currency which bears in print
The sacred imprimatur of a Mint.
Was ever wealth like this dumped holus-bolus
By gods aforetime into human hands
Since Midas took a header in Pactolus
And set the river running golden sands,
After discovering, deluded man,
The utter uselessness of gold as scran?
What countless millions would be rated lucky
To touch the barest millionth of the hoard
In safe deposit at Fort Knox, Kentucky,
Destined perhaps some day to be restored
To service in the busy haunts of men!
But where’s the prophet who can tell us when?
Four thousand million pounds! A tidy packet
To cache, a mort of money to conceal,
Where never racketeers can stage a racket
Or enterprising thieves break in and steal.
So, the more ships and ’planes you sell or
lease us,
The more we shall esteem you, Uncle Croesus!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


BAD COMPANY.
When I use a beautiful word —
“Rose,” “lily,” “silver,” “rain” —
Lovely in herself and in the company she keeps,
Ah, with how fierce a pain
My very soul is stabbed and hurt
And plunged in bitter shame to think
How many million futile tongues and pens
Have pawed and caused to shrink
Her proud and delicate skin,
And dulled her spirit even to death,
Just as the everyday air, sweet and pure in
itself,
Is fouled by the common breath.
If we can find no virgin air,
Not beneath the rocks nor above the cloud,
No more can 1 hope to enrich by any new way
The old tongue of the crowd.
The lovely word must go her journey.
With working folk of homely mind,
Then, freeing herself, take wing to the windy
heights
And join her kind.
m.l. Arnold Wall.
* He * *
“Mac Hoots”; “Truth” always moves
me to hoarse noises resembling laughter
when it takes a high moral tone about
this or that “public scandal,” and I failed
to see that it was justified in linking-up
a hardware firm’s deceptive tumblers and
Australia’s war effort. But the paper’s
attack on the glassware warmed the
cockles of my heart, for anything draw-
ing attention to the wicked price of beer
is worth while ; and the paper stirred
a U.L.V.A. man and a hardware knight
to prize asininities. Said the pair in
chorus: “ ‘Deceptive glass’ is a term
well known to the trade. It does
not mean that the customer loses
anything in the measure supplied;
but many like to take their drinks
from what appear to be larger glasses.”
Many, let me assure the gentlemen,
like to take their drinks from large,
fat glasses that hold all the beer a glass
can hold without bursting, and there’s
not one of us but resents bitterly all this
jiggery-pokery with thick bases and
ladies’ waists.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Grandfather’s favorite
in the light-up line was flint and steel, and
some very ingenious gadgets were in-
vented for its convenient use. One which
an ancestor brought to Australia 96 years
ago operates like the ancient wheel-lock
for firearms, shooting sparks into a scrap
of tinder which is blown into flame after
it glows. Contained in a case a little
larger than a modern wooden matchbox,
it weighs 3oz. and is as effective as ever.
It may yet be worth some manufacturer's
while to put something of the kind on
the Australian market—we have illimit-
able flint and make some of the world’s
best steels.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Reported that thieves got into
the Rising Sun Hotel at Burnley (Vic.)
and stole 4800 threepences, 1400 six-
pences and 24,000 pennies, the pennies
weighing 4icwt. In the good old days
when bars in the less pretentious pubs
were labelled “3d.” and “6d.” the swag
wouldn’t have been a tenth of the bulk.
* * # *
“Ente Marid”: The war already is
building up a new language. “Blitz” has,
of course, become part of the English
tongue, and air-raid warning stages now
have their names. “There’s a purple on”
means that there has been a first warning
of the approach of bombers. To be “in
the red” is to have reached the stage when
the sirens are already blowing. To
“dequizzle” is to put a motor out of
order so that it cannot be misused by
fifth-columnists in one’s absence —every-
body knows what a “fifth-columnist” is
these days. “Molotov cocktail,” “bum-
bling bill,” and “wandering willie” now
scarcely call for capital letters in the Eng-
lish language. “Shelter” will always have
a specialised mean-
ing demanding no
explanatory prefix.
But these terms are
all straightforward
compared with some
which have been
born of the cosmo-
politan experience of
the Imperial British.
A good one is “abn
wallah”—French, a
Vabri, under shelter,
“wallah,” a word
known to every re-
tired Anglo-Indian
colonel in the Air
Raid Warden s’
Corps. Combined
they describe the fel-
low who dives for
shelter at the first
squeak of a siren.
* *
“Bumpkin”: A
Yan Yean (Vic.) bull
got a taste of what
mechanised warfare
is like recently when
it chased a party
of men who were dumping hay in a
paddock, treeing the lot. A local bumble
got the bright idea of disconnecting the
tractor which was working the dumping
machine. Mounting the tractor, armed
with a pitchfork, he slipped the vehicle
into gear and charged down on the sur-
prised creature. The bull made one
attempt at a charge, then turned and
bolted, hotly pursued by the toreador
until it was chased out of the paddock.
♦ * * *
“Nakhoda”: The mass drownings of
chained natives alleged by the Thai offi-
cial propagandists as having been carried
out by the French in Indo-China to sup-
press the independence movement sound
fishy. It is a centuries-old method of
dealing with subversive individuals in
those parts, and propagandists are alike
in all countries. When they want their
enemies to father atrocities they find
it much more easy to trot out some old-
established custom than to think up a
new one. I once took a rickshaw out
of the confines of Penang late in the
evening. Half a mile out the coolie laid
down his trammels and refused to go a
step further. A passing Malay came to
my rescue, and, after a bit of conver-
sation with the trembling runner, extorted
the confession that he thought I was
luring him out to some lonely spot to
chop his head off and sell it to the British
Government for a ten-dollar bonus, 100
heads being required to be buried under
a new bridge that was being constructed.
The legend is hoarier in Asia than that
of Father Christmas in Europe.
* * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Huntin’s most
spectacular hold in Australia was secured
in the Launceston district in Tassie, to
which, ribald tradition has it, the Tamar
Hunt Club imported one stag. All the
blue-bloodedest people about Launceston
belonged to the club. Rude fellows of
the baser sort still aver that a groom
used to dip the feet of the stag in
valerian before it was released, creating
a scent-trail that couldn’t be missed. The
quarry made its way by a roundabout
route very safely back to its stable. But
one day the stag was missing at the end
of the hunt, and shortly afterwards
one Ghostie Downs was found in his
camp roasting a steak of venison. There
was talk of getting another stag, but there
had been such a lot of unsavory publicity
about the first one that the idea petered
out.
“Cad, it's amazing, Prendergast—just Watch how their ammunition
returns to them!"
“Bohemian”: Dr. C. Edgar Ford,
examiner in Music for Trinity College,
London, has been smiting the musical
lowbrows of Maoriland hip and thigh.
In an oration before the Auckland Rotary
Club he gave it as his opinion that a
crooner represents the lowest type of
intellect at large. “The originators of ‘Yes,
We Have No Bananas,’ ” he snorted,
“received £20,000 in four months, but
Edward Elgar never received more than
£25 a year for the ‘Dream of Gerontius,’
one of the greatest works of all time. He
was paid £1 for his ‘Salut d’Amour.’”
Tough luck on Elgar, but it must be re-
membered that he had a very comfortable
income for the last thirty years of his
life, that honors fell upon him thick and
fast, and that his name is known all
round the world. Nobody cares to re-
member who put together the stolen
scraps that comprise the “Bananas” ditty.
* * * *
“Colbun”; One of the new features of
this war is a reversal of the former system
of casualty information. The primary
c.-i. job in the U.K. now is not to inform
a soldier’s relatives about his fate or wel-
fare, but to keep the soldier informed
concerning that of his relatives at home
after air raids. The problem was fore-
seen as psychologically important by
Lord Nathan, now Welfare Officer in
London, and when air-raids began over
England he was ready with a scheme
which has proved of great value. It has
since been extended to all chief centres
of population, and all casualties on the
civilian home front are notified without
delay to relatives in any of the fighting
forces through their C.Os ; , sea, land or
air. The essentially British concept of
no news being good news does a lot
towards mitigating fear and apprehension
for those at home.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A suburban bumble’s charge
that Melbourne’s colleges are reeking
with snobbery and that teachers and
children at some of them look on
scholarship winners as being there on
charity has roused Victorian public
"I'We got to go straight to a wedding.”
school headmasters to indignant denials.
Maybe things have changed, but when I
was runner-up to a boy who won a
scholarship to one of Adelaide’s leading
schools for young gentlemen I thought
I was unfortunate until I started attend-
ing the school as a paying pupil. Then I
found that the boy who had beaten me in
learning was looked down on by his
fellows. The boys took it out of him in
various crude traditional forms, and the
masters took it out of him more subtly
by demanding a higher standard of
achievement from him than they did from
the boys whose fathers paid their fees.
When he fell below it, they subjected him
to public bullyings, reminding him that
he was getting his instruction for nothing.
I ended by congratulating myself on
being a charge on my not-well-to-do
parents. Public schools in Melbourne
may not put such a high valuation on
money as they did in my youth in Adel-
aide, but I doubt it.
* * * *
“El V.”: These English! Whatever
else Goring does to London he cannot
alter its set habits and institutions. The
front page of the “Times,” for instance,
with its closely-printed personal and
other advertisements, looks as if the Blitz
is all a dream. True, a modest notice
informs me that the club at which I
lived has accepted the hospitality of
another club in Piccadilly, though it
doesn’t say why; and there is a new
column, “A.R.P. Equipment” “stirrup
pumps, standard pattern,” and “win-
dows splinter-proofed.” And a hopeful
country kennel owner —at 2s. a line —
beseeches Londoners to “send your dogs
to safety now in the depth of the country
away from all noise and other buildings.”
On Guy Fawkes day, when 1500 bombs
were dropped on the capital, somebody
advertised: “Students taken for herbwork
and general gardening on our lavender
and herb farm.”
♦ * * ♦
“R. Volt”: Australian libraries will
possibly have a very different aspect in
some distant future from what they have
now, and the process is likely to be accel-
erated by the paper shortage. A micro-
film apparatus has been perfected which
enables books and newspapers to be
photographed in condensed film form and
the original reproduced in full size or
larger on a slide in large enough type to
be read at an easy distance. The operator
has a lever for turning the pages, and in
a thirtieth of the space required for the
housing of the original can run through
a whole year’s issue of a daily or a folio
of Shakspeare. A reel of 200 ft. can con-
tain 1600 newspaper pages, and, whereas
a year’s issue of the average daily occu-
pies about 30 cub. ft. of space, the potted
version takes up less than a third of a
cubic foot. Advantages are obvious. Rare
documents or books can be filmed and
copies sent to any library in the world
which has installed the apparatus at a
cost that is almost infinitesimal. There
is no apparent reason why the system
should not be extended and all books be
circulated by micro-photography. Perhaps
the latest best-seller will be photographed
by the publisher in New York or Lon-
don and distributed to libraries and homes,
which will have a reader apparatus that
can be plugged into an electric-light
socket just like the vacuum-cleaner. As
an indication, Melbourne Public Library j
has just installed the apparatus for special
purposes.


CEAVENA
are kinder . .
to the throat
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
mmmmm
.
to
50
4
10
for
or
100
0
4
30
or
or
m
m
m
m
m*
m
2819
POLITICAL POINTS
Only two persons seem to have really
believed that Labor would win the Swan
by-election—Dinan, the candidate, and
Dr. Evatt. The result shook the doctor’s
reputation as a prophet without impair-
ing his temper; but Dinan turned
savagely on the “comrades” from whom
he got little or no help during the cam-
paign. And he mentioned an amazingly
large number.
One of Dinan’s many grievances
against the leader he now disowns:
Five or six Federal members offered to
take part in the Swan by-election, but
Mr. Curtin failed to arrange pairs for
them.
Of course the Budget and the swarm of
measures associated with it didn’t matter
a dump.
There are still three Labor “parties” in
Sydney, as was shown at an anti-Budget
rally at which Lang and Martin, M.L.A.,
got “the bird.” The Swan by-election
hullabaloo suggests that there are at least
three Federal Labor parties, if not four,
though officially there are only two.
“Australian cavalry, sword in hand,
made a charge at Jarabub in the Siwa
oasis, capturing materials and guns.” So
said Churchill, and “S. M. Herald” was
so thrilled that it made the thing a
“feature-story,” running up rapturous
headlines (“Australian Cavalry Success —
Sword Charge in Desert”). But Australian
military men couldn’t swallow it. One,
Major-General Northcott, wouldn’t have
it that “sabres” had been used, and “de-
scribed the idea of Australian horsemen
galloping into action as ‘laughable.’ ” Days
later the “Herald” had to admit that the
Churchill “reference” was “apparently
rhetoric”:
With memories of his own experiences
at Omdurman, Mr. Churchill, referring to
the mechanised cavalry, used a phrase that
he did not expect would be taken literally.
But surely ever-y Prime Minister who
makes a statement of fact about a war
should expect to be taken literally. There
is a time for “rhetoric” and a time for
facts. Australians want facts, not fustian.
Lord Halifax is going to Washington
as Ambassador, and Eden is back at the
Foreign Office. His friends claim that
he was a success there in 1937-38 (mil-
lions disagree with them), and their in-
extinguishable hopes of a Russian alli-
ance have revived again, the yarn being
that Stalin and Molotov were only dis-
sembling their love for Anthony when
they fastened on to his leg. His successor
at the War Office is Captain Margesson,
the Conservative Whip.
Anthony Eden has always had “a good
press.” Lord Halifax has had “a bad
press,” and Margesson, the new Secre-
tary for War, seems to have no news-
paper friends. A journalist who has pub-
lished a book of invective on political
characters of the period, carefully exclud-
ing the Ginger group and also Liberals
and Laborites who wanted collective
security without rearmament, gives Mar-
gesson particular beans. People who
know the journalist with a talent for
invective will infer that Margesson is a
man of parts.
The offensive in Western Egypt began
on December 9 and “eight days of sus-
pense and uncertainty elapsed before the
P.M. was in a position to announce
positively that the A.I.F. was engaged
in it.” And all he said was that “Austra-
lian troops are fighting against the
Italians in the Western Desert.” Then
there was another long silence, broken
only by Churchill’s statement that “the
Australian cavalry” had “charged sword
in hand” ; and that was only romantic
rubbish. If Australia were represented
on the War Council or in an Imperial
War Cabinet it wouldn’t be treated like
this.
While Australians were without infor-
mation about the work of their men in
the Western Desert, the world was told all
about the part played by the Free French,
who had a battalion of marines at Sidi
Barrani. The “Age,” which admires Mr.
Menzies immensely, pointed this out,
adding what was obvious.
Evidently prompt information between
the battle areas and London was available
to the Free French leaders.
So also was H.M.A.S. Australia “avail-
able” to them at Dakar, though it must
have been known that they did not
mean to fight if resisted ; but no
official statement was made in the
“During the Commonwealth elections and the Swan (W.A.) by-election, Dr. Evatt, M.H.R.,
predicted that Mr. Curtin would be P.M. in 10 days.”
“There’s something ‘phoney ’ about this ball.”
Australian Parliament, nor was the em-
ployment of H.M.A.S. Australia in the
adventure debated, though a debate
was explicitly promised. Evidently the
Free French leaders have far more influ-
ence in Downing-street than the Austra-
lian Government has.
By all accounts, the U.S.A. had a won-
derful Christmas —“the gayest since
1929.” In one way and another the war
is solving the unemployment problem
that baffled the New Dealers, and com-
pared with 1939 national income is up
$10,000,000,000, while “industrial profits
show a 23 p.c. gain.” The story was
rounded off by a few lines from The City
That Can Take It.
Some Americans in London are critical
of the fact that the R.A.F. did not strike
Germany heavily on Christmas Day and
Boxing Day. They maintain that the
British Government apparently sanctioned
something that it could ill afford to do
for any reason whatsoever.
Only the pen of a Swift could do justice
to those Americans.
Queensland’s Country party and
U.A.P. are going to fight the State elec-
tion separately. It doesn’t follow that
they will be beaten separately, but united
or divided they have lost every Queens-
land State election but one since 1915.
In Toorak (Vic.) there are about 27,000
Assembly electors, and the U.A.P. bosses
could have endorsed a dozen candidates
without risking the loss of the seat. To
the chagrin of Oldham, M.L.A., and a
multitude of others, about 60 of them
restricted the party nomination to one
man —Thonemann, the sharebroker. One
of Thonemann’s opponents is Francis
Raymond Connelly, a city councillor with
ideas. One of the ideas is that it is mon-
strous that a country of 7,000,000 people
should have to carry so many politicians
and taxgatherers, and abolition of State
Parliaments is Connelly’s main by-elec-
tion issue.
Instead of telling the taxpayers that he
will rid them of the Department of Infor-
mation, which is to cost £198,000 this
year, as soon as he can, Foil talks of
carrying it on after the war —perhaps
with a paper of its own like A.B.C.’s. If
the thing can be arranged, the Australian
National Publicity Association, recently
the Australian National Travel Associa-
tion, will give Foil’s concern a run for the
taxpayers’ money. Still getting a thump-
ing subsidy from Canberra the A.N.P.A.
(late A.N.T.A.) is “preparing a compre-
hensive hundred-page publication featur-
ing the Commonwealth.” Newsprint sup-
plies are rationed to newspapers which
have to stand on their own feet, but in
this respect, as in others, A.B.C. and
A.N.P.A. are privileged.
Another Premiers’ conference is pro-
posed, this time to see if States and
Commonwealth can’t decide on uniform
taxation of incomes. The new Federal
tax has awakened a lot of people to the
effects of the different taxes in the dif-
ferent States, and from that it isn’t far
to an awakening about the whole costly
chaos of State Parliaments.
Bookmakers seem to be Personages in
Perth. One, charged with illicit betting in
McNeil’s Chambers (McNeil was a
philanthropist who hated betting), didn’t
appear in court on the due date, De-
cember 18. Instead, his solicitor notified
the prosecuting sergeant by ’phone that
his client “couldn’t possibly be present
until after the holidays.” The sergeant
obligingly agreed to “an adjournment
sine die,” and mentioned this to the
magistrate, who granted it. And, now,
perhaps the Government will withdraw
the proceedings and apologise for bother-
ing the lordly absentee when he had a
Cup meeting to attend to.
On the very day John Greig Latham
arrived at Tokyo one of the 8.8. C.
knowalls had a go at Japan. The Aus-
tralian Government sent its Chief Justice
to that country to do a difficult and
delicate job for Australia as part of the
British Commonwealth. It should
strongly object to his work being
jeopardised by ill-conditioned interrup-
tions from 8.8. C.
The Sydney Government has fallen
out with its Police Commissioner, the
almighty Mac Kay. That gentleman
recommended the reinstatement of
Mcßae, the detective-sergeant who was
concerned in an unsavory divorce case,
and, after a tedious inquiry, the recom-
mendation was endorsed by the Police
Appeals Board. The Sydney Govern-
ment has rejected it, and has called upon
Mac Kay to enforce the letter of the six-
o’clock-closing law, instead of giving
hotelkeepers 20 minutes’ grace, as has
been done for several years. In its stern
and unbending mood it recalled that
six o’clock closing was established by
referendum —in 1916. But the electors
will have something to say about that.
Mr. Max Falstein, M.H.R., has been
delivered of a Great Thought —the Gov-
ernment should “take over big companies
producing war materials.” “Greater effi-
ciency and lower costs could be achieved
by Government control,” Max asserts. If
he believes that he must be blind to what
is going on in the Government-controlled
enterprises which surround him.
Henry Newman Barwell, sometime
Premier, Opposition - leader, Agent-
General and Senator, has found, as they
all do, that it’s hard to come back. He
sought Liberal and C.P. endorsement for
the S.A. Assembly seat which A. J. Mel-
rose is turning in, but was defeated by a
storekeeper.
From the “Journal” of the S.A. manu-
facturers, who have become all too
familiar with mysterious war-time work
stoppages:
Though Communist organisations and
publications have been banned, disruptive
elements are still in our midst. It is high
time the Government inquired into the
credentials of certain union officials and
of organisations which are involved with
monotonous regularity in strikes.
Apropos, two N.S.W. Corns, were caught
with “anti-imperialist war” pamphlets
(one referred to “a competition for re-
cruiting new members from war indus-
tries”) and a typewriter and a dupli-
cator in “a secluded cottage” at Como.
Tried in the Central Police Court, they
brazened it out; and, saying he was
“convinced” they were “in earnest,” the
magistrate gave them six months. On
their refusing to enter into a bond for
the duration, he imposed another three
months in each case, but made it con-
current. Yes, concurrent.
“Jamwood”: The evils depressions do
live after them. A Wellington (M.L.)
doctor with Great War experience pro-
nounces most of the volunteers for ser-
vice overseas “fine physical specimens” ;
but of 1210 second-ballot men, 335 were
rejected as permanently unfit and 192
passed into the temporarily-unfit class.
“In the last war,” the doctor said, “the
chief cause of rejection was the state of
mouth and teeth,” and here, because of
dental clinics, “there has been a definite
improvement” ; but these days “the chief
cause of rejection is general physical
debility.” This he suggests may be attri-
buted to “malnutrition during the
slump” ; the lads “may never have been
hungry, but probably they didn’t get the
proper food for building bone and
blood.”


HE CAN TAKE IT!


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £30,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,500,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
Invest in Established Companies
Even if you wish to invest only about £2O of your Capital
you can obtain an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies
by investing in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
which provide security by “spread” of investment. Union
Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd., act as Custodian Trustees
of the securities backing the Trust Certificates.
Booklet No. 1 explains it all; your copy will be mailed free
on application to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers'
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
PERSONAL ITEM S
Surprisingly few native-born Westra-
hans have been Ms.HR. After Forrest’s
death in 1918 the Westralian members of
the House were nearly all Victorian-born
{e.g., Gregory, Mann, Nairn, Green
and Curtin), and Prowse came from
Adelong (N.S.W.). For the Swan by-
election the Country party put up two
members of old Westralian families,
Mai wick and Ferguson, and Marwick
looks almost certain to go in. He will
be no stranger to Canberra, having been
a nominee Senator in 1936-37.
Councillor R. Tobias, of Queenscliff,
the town which guards Victoria’s princi-
pal Seagate, has organised a novel way
of collecting waste for war purposes. He
drives a horse-drawn lorry round the
town marked with the Red Cross and
with a crew of children singing “Roll
Out the Barrel.” The musical procession
is preceded by outriders tolling bells and
shouting “Bring out your waste.” House-
holders promptly respond to the call, and
the youngsters load the loot on to the
lorry. Then they return to the depot
and there are ice-creams all round. The
system has been so successful that it has
got official compliments from Premier
Dunstan.
Big jobs come naturally to A. D. J.
Forster, the new business head of the
Army in succession to A. C. Lewis. Born
in Sydney in 1890 and educated at Fort-
street and Sydney Uni., he graduated in
engineering, and was apprenticed to the
N.S.W. Railways. At 25 he was assistant
chief mechanical engineer with a staff of
18,000. At 34 he was sitting on the board
of three commissioners under James
Fraser. At 35 he had the installing of
the electric system, which cost 21 mil-
lions. After the Ottawa Agreement
A. D. J. FORSTER.
Joe Lyons asked Forster to go on the
Tariff Board, on which he sat until he
joined the Clyde Engineering Co., Gran-
ville (N.S.W.), first as general manager
and then as managing director. The Mc-
Kay Harvester concern got him 3i years
ago, and has freed him for the honorary
job of obtaining everything necessary for
Australia’s military effort. He is married,
has two daughters, once played cricket
and football, and now renews himself on
the golf course.
William Fisk, close on 70, just missed
seeing another “twenty-eighth” celebration
in Glenelg (S.A.), where he was Mayor
for seven years and Assembly member
for one term. With the State’s general
election so near, the vacancy is likely to
remain unfilled. Other States may recall
Fisk as member or manager of lacrosse
teams early this century.
The artists’ colony at Warrandyte
(Vic.), which was burnt out in the 1939
bushfires and has
since risen from its
ashes, has now lost
its founder, Clara
Southern. Thirty
years ago she settled
there as a married
woman, and started
to paint the sur-
rounding scenes. Her
pictures proselytised
its charms so effec-
tually that other
painters went there,
and it now includes
on its rate roll more
artists belonging to
more schools of art
than any other dis-
trict in Australia.
Brigadier E. J.
Milford, who suc-
ceeds Major-General
T. R. Williams as
Master - General of
Ordnance at Army
H.Q. in Melbourne,
has been given the
highest appointment
any Duntroon man
has attained to, and
if he gets his major-
generalship will be
the first Duntroon
graduate to reach
the rank. He is Mel-
bourne-born, and went from Wesley
College to Duntroon just after the college
had been established. He left it for the
A.I.F. and active service in 1915. He was
mentioned in dispatches, and finished as
brigade major of the 2nd Divisional
Artillery. After three years at Camber-
ley he returned to the job of Assistant
Director of Artillery. He is 46.
Eric Edgley and Clem Dawe, the two
Australian comedians at present enter-
taining the kids at His Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne, can claim an Australian record.
Five years ago they took a company of
15 mummers to England. It was the first
and only occasion on which an all-Aus-
tralian co. has toured the Old Dart. They
opened in London with a revue “Seeing
the World, ’ and then toured the pro-
vinces for 11 months. After that they
made a long-term contract with George
Black, of Moss’s Empire, and that saw
them through until the Firm called them
home for its Christmas panto.
Appointed to command a general hos-
pital overseas with Maoriland’s army is
an old campaigner, Dr. George William
Gower, who will assume temporary rank
as colonel. He served in the 1914-18
war as second-in-command of the
R.A.M.C. Field Ambulance in France,
and was later medical officer at the M.L.
General Hospital at Brockenhurst. Lat-
terly he has been in private practice at
Hamilton.
Charles Hawker, killed in the Kyeema
crash, is to be commemorated by a bridge
and a road in the Clare district of his
State. It abounds with uncles and cousins
of his, all pastoral ists. His grandfather
gave the name to a town much further
north.
Brigadier Henry Arthur Goddard was
one of the most popular commanders
in the A.1.F., with which he served
for four years. He went to Galli-
poli as O.C. of the 17th Battalion,
commanding at Quinn’s Post during
the last months, took over the
35th in France and then the 9th Infantry
Brigade. Always cool, always good-
humored and courteous, he was never-
theless a firm disciplinarian. He organ-
ised the defence of Villers-Bretonneux
in April, 1918. He it was who was found
on April 5 amid the “shocking sight”
which had been the village, his own roof-
tree spread about his dining-room, his
staff officer—Morshead, now leading a
brigade in the sands of Egypt—with a
BRIGADIER GODDARD.
(Modelled by Frith.)
bump on his head from a flying kitchen
door. Goddard himself, “though a shell
had passed beneath his bed, was unhurt
and unshaken after 90 hours of great
anxiety and arduous responsibility.” It
had been a magnificent performance for
a man who was not physically robust,
but who had shown himself “brave, de-
voted and experienced” in the past. The
story of the defence is one of the epics
of the war. The general returned covered
with decorations to become business rep-
resentative of the “Times” in Australia.
He for years has kept up his connections
with his war comrades through his presi-
dency of the Sydney Imperial Service
Club.
A Welshman by birth, legal knight
John Sinclair, dead at Dunedin (M.L.),
spent 70 of his 80 years in Otago. He was
partner at various times with two lawyers
who became Judges—Chapman and Mac-
Gregor—and represented M.L. on the
Dominions’ Royal Commission set up
after the Imperial Conference in 1911.
He had two terms in the Leg. Council.
“Bohemian”: Forty years ago the two
best-known men in M.L. were Dick
Seddon and Dan Macleod the bookie.
Dan did more business than the rest of
the Auckland ringmen combined, and
thought nothing of putting £lOOO on a
horse. He had a one-track mind;
his philosophy of life was that
everything was a swindle and everything
a gamble. Only fools, hfc reckoned,
wanted to see round the corner and know
what was coming. After the de-legalising
of the bookmakers, Macleod went down-
hill financially. He used to look at his
reflection in the mirror of his favorite
pub and, calling over any stranger about.
would remark: “See that old fool in the
glass? Well, that’s the old muddler that
made me lose all my money.” The other
day he died penniless at 82 in the Auck-
land Infirmary. A few sports saw that
he was not buried as a pauper, and the
kind-hearted nurses made a couple of
wreaths.
James Iliffe, veteran of Prince Alfred
School, Adelaide, has done the Mr. Chips
act and come back “for the duration” as
teacher of chemistry. He had over half
a century of it before retiring in 1936,
and among his long-ago pupils were
Ward, the present head; Jeffries and
Holden, politicians; Wilton, Madigan,
Brose, Davies and Jauncey, profes-
sors ; as well as Darling and Hill, the
cricketers.
P. E. Marmion, a Westralian, and son
of the late W. E. Marmion (a member of
John Forrest’s first Ministry), has suc-
ceeded the late Lord Horne as chairman
of Burma Corporation (Eng.). Marmion
has been associated with the cor-
poration since 1920 as general manager,
managing director and vice-chairman. He
is an acknowledged expert on lead and
zinc, is chairman of Gold Mines of
Kalgoorlie and a director of Gold Ex-
ploration and Finance of Australia,
Imperial Smelting and National Smelting.
Captain Oliver Lyttelton resigned from
the Burma board, as well as those
of Zinc Corp. and New Broken Hill
Consolidated, to become President of the
Board of Trade.
Probably no South Australian lawyer
has had a more varied career than
Duncan Menzies, whose son, Duncan
Campbell Menzies, was a 1939 Rhodes
scholar and is now in the Black Watch
(Scottish Regiment). Duncan, sen., was
a schoolteacher for seven years, house-
master at an agricultural college for two
years and auctioneer for 18 years, and
he has been a solicitor for 10 years. With
the 48th Battalion in the last war he was
twice wounded. He is active in the S.A.
Caledonian Society, and at present is its
chief. His daughter is with a Queen
Alexandra nursing division in the Middle
East.
Daniel Victor Fleming is one of the
few highly-placed civil servants in S.A.
who wasn’t born in the State. He hails
from Avoca (Vic.), and is a graduate of
D. V. FLEMING.
Ballarat School of Mines. He had a lot
of experience as an assistant shire engi-
neer in Victoria before he crossed the
border to become a draughtsman in the
S.A. Roads and Bridges Department. A
stage in a steady climb was the assistant-
engineership in this department, which
came to him in 1918. Since 1927 he has
been Commissioner of Highways, and is
now also Director of Local Government.
He’s 56, and plays tennis and golf.


SMOKE-OH!
“To make a good bellringer, you have to be
bell-minded.” —“ S.M.H.”
With plenty of tongue and no objec-
tion to strings being pulled.
q* q* q* q*
“About 50,000 tons of pepper is annual con-
sumption for the whole world.” — “Sun.”
This should be taken with a grain of
salt.
•I* *l*
“She thought there was no one in the world
so handsome, or clever, or brave as Peter.”
— Woman’s mag.
Her husband’s name was probably
John.
q* q* q* q*
“My knitting improves by leaps and bounds.”
— Advt. in “World’s News.”
The disadvantage in this method of
improving is that the knitter is liable to
get stitches in the ribs.
q< q< q< q*
“For successful parachuting the first essen-
tials are calmness and courage.”— Magazine.
More cautious people would plump for
the parachute.
“Freedom worth more than gold.”
— Woman’s paper.
But giving gold away’s a thing
That traps the wisest men.
You give a girl a golden ring,
And where’s your freedom then?
E.
“Miss and Mr. sang a duel.”
—Sydney suburban paper.
Perhaps it only sounded like that.
4 1 •i 1
“He admitted that he had a quarrel with
his wife that night, but declared that it hadn’t
gone beyond words.” —Divorce report.
Just a scrap of conversation, as it were.
4* 4* 4* 4*
End of the Trail.
“Trace your footprints in sands of time.”
— Woman’s paper.
You trace your footprints carefully
along the little beach. Your toes have
done embroidery that experts couldn’t
teach. You marvel at your footprints’
grace, and follow them with pride until
at last you stop and face the Truth;
you’re stupefied. For though your foot-
prints showed the way, you curse these
beach resorts, and, staring vainly, realise
some cow has pinched your shorts.
Elm.
“ 'And us up the 'ammer and nails, Eric!"
Felicitation.
I wish you a happy New Year,
Most deeply deserving of men !
May you love without sighing and revel
in beer.
You poor old
T. W. N.
q* q* q* q*
Old Bore’s Diary for 1941.
Jan. —Gandhi will announce that he
will forgo cracking any more walnuts
with his tooth until all arrested Congress
leaders are released. Hitler and Musso-
lini, with strong bodyguards, will travel
in their bullet-proof trains for a meeting
on the Brenner. An American reporter
will subsequently disclose that Hitler, in
a black rage at the Duce’s military,
failures, kicked him savagely in the
stomach, whereupon Musso. spat fair in
the Fiihrer’s eye. Gayda will ask in
“Giornale d’ltalia” what democratic
rulers could travel in their countries in
such trust and safety. A Sydney society
war-worker will cause a sensation by
refusing to pose for a press photo.
Feb, —Rome Radio will explain that
the surrendering of seven divisions to the
Greeks was due to bad luck, the troops
having run out of creme de menthe, bath
salts, curling tongs and insect powder at
a vital stage of the battle. Japan and
Russia will reach a “basis” for an agree-
ment on border demarcation, and at a
banquet to the Japanese Ambassador
Marshal Suckupsoupski will condemn
“the clumsy plutocracies for their hope-
less attempts to, sow discord between the
two great Asiatic nations.”
March.— Fierce fighting will break out
on Soviet-Manchukuo border, and the
“Red Star” will warn Japs to keep their
“filthy snouts out of our Soviet garden.”
Super-super Marshal Goring, in a speech
to arms workers, will promise that
Strength Through Joy cruises to seaside
resorts of the Reich colony of England
will commence in April after the enemy
, , , TU . D r
J? 6 ® , n con ? uered - A.B.C.
Weekly will get an advertisement.
April. A board which shows a
steady annual deficit of £lBO,OOO
will decide to build itself a £750,000
palace, and will order the N. S.
Wales Government to find the money,
Rome Radio will explain that the latest
naval defeat in the Adriatic was due to
vile luck, the gunners being in the middle
of an important snakes-and-ladders tour-
ney when the British opened fire. A
centenarian, in interview with “5.M.H.,”
will attribute his longevity to lifelong
abstinence from tobacco and alcohol.
May. —Dr. Goebbels, in a “pep” talk
to arms workers, will tell them that Lon-
don. now a mass of rubble, has been
evacuated, which will facilitate the sue-
cessful invasion of England in June. A
. ■ . . , ...
centenanan, in an interview wi h
rw ? U e h , IS lon i evit y tc >
the fact that he has drunk and smoked
heavily since he was 13. Pravda will
announce that the Soviet navy can now
challenge comparison with any.
June. —Seven more theatres will open
in London. The Soviet’s most powerful
and modern warship, the paddle-wheel
Krzspyplt (built 1908, eight 4.5 single-
turret guns), will sink on manoeuvres
when, following disablement, no member
of the crew knew how to rig a jury
rudder. The Greeks will capture an
Albanian village with a pronounceable
name.
July. —A witness in a Melbourne case
will admit he “hit the sherbet” and the
presiding Judge will ask what the ex-
pression means. A businessman return-
ing from the Far East will tell a Sydney
daily that Japan is on the verge of
financial collapse. The Retail Traders’
Association will inaugurate Nieces’ Day.
Aug. The Japanese Diet will vote
credits of 2600 million yen “to bring the
China incident to a quick conclusion.”
An American correspondent, cabling from
Ankara, will reveal that Goebbels is
under “house arrest” for sticking chew-
ing gum in Hitler’s moustache after he
caught him kissing Frau Goebbels. The
president of the U.S.A. Committee for
Aiding the Allies will demand “even
greater help to Britain, who is fighting
America’s battle.” Unemployment
figures in N.S.W. will drop a further
25 p.c., and the Premier will announce
that if this trend continues a reduction
of id. in the £ on the unemployment
tax may be made “when the financial
position warrants it.”
Sept. —A German professor will per-
fect synthetic sauerkraut made from dis-
tilled horsehair, dock roots, pine shavings
and carbide sludge, and the German
people will be ordered to like it. In
commenting on a new British success in
North Africa a Sydney daily will
unaccountably fail to attribute it to
Churchill’s “supreme military genius.”
Dr. Goebbels will attend arm in arm
with Hitler at a biergarten festival to com-
memorate the Blood Purge of 1934. The
president of the U.S.A. Committee for
Aiding the Allies will strongly oppose
granting credits to Britain as being likely
to involve U.S.A. in hostilities.
Oct. —Mussolini, in a fiery speech to
Blackshirts, will declare that “our river”
(the Tiber) is “inviolable and shall never
hear the boom of enemy guns.” A man
will get a refund from the Taxation
Department. American supplies of mili-
tary ’planes to Australia will be up 100
p.c. compared with corresponding month
last year, and an Australian Minister will
express appreciation at receipt of the
two bombers.
Nov. —A British light naval squadron,
in an unopposed sweep up the Tiber,
will destroy forts and ships. A war
correspondent’s dispatch will contain
only 138 “I’s” in his recital of his hair-
breadth escapes, A Hollywood star will
mistakenly remarry her ex-fourth hus-
band after divorcing her ninth, after
which the craze for keeping diaries will
catch on in the film colony.
Dec. —Rome Radio, in explaining the
complete evacuation of North Africa,
will attribute the series of military de-
feats to shocking luck, in that Graziani’s
armies had the strong morning sun in
their eyes as they faced the British
coming from the east. Hitler, in a
Christmas broadcast to Rhineland arms
workers, will threaten a terrible ven-
geance on England if rejection of his
magnanimous peace terms forces him to
occupy the island.
80.
Judicial Arithmetic.
The sky was blue
And full of sun ;
Rang wedding bells
And two were one.
A stress of storm
Kept all things blue.
Divorce Courts yawned
And one was two.
CLEM LACK.
Fertiliser.
It all came about through Maria’s
being given a slip of daphne while at a
card party. She put it in the window-box
of our flat, and —wonder of wonders!
it struck. When the first leaves showed
out the telephone ran hot as she rang up
her friends on various excuses, but really
to boast of her horticultural feat.
Of course, I became a sort of wet nurse
to that plant. Doubts would develop in
Maria’s mind round about 2 a.m. as to
whether she had forgotten to water it,
and for the sake of peace I’d have to get
up. There was never such a pampered
plant. Screens had to be adjusted to
shield it against hard winds or keep off
the sun; and it was not long before
Maria got her ambitious idea.
“That daphne would look splendid in
a nice garden,” she said. “If we got
that big place on the corner with the
front facing north-east it would be ideal
for it. Don’t be silly, Aitchem. We could
start a boarding-house—it’s a perfect
position for one.”
Well, the upshot was that we got it —
Maria saw to that —and ever since we’ve
had barrels of trouble with welshing
boarders, tqo-pretty boarders, critical
boarders and fussy boarders, to say no-
thing of cheeky maids and boozy cooks.
Still, I confidently expect to be back
in the flat shortly. The daphne certainly
has thrived in the bed facing n.-e., but
it is doubtful if even that hardy shrub
will survive the four pounds of salt I
dug around the roots yesterday.
H. M.
Vindication.
“The uniform is the main attraction for
most women in war organisations.”
—Newspaper correspondent.
“It’s a dirty lie!” exclaimed Susie
Shallow, flourishing her jungle-red finger-
nails in temper. “People are always say-
ing nasty things about us girls without
the slightest foundation. Why, since I
joined the W.U.N.K.S. a fortnight ago
I’ve been that busy, what with cocktail
parties and afternoon teas and getting
measured for my uniform, that really I
don’t know which way to turn. But it’s
silly to say the uniform’s the main attrac-
tion, though it’s smart and will be quite
chic when we get those new epaulets
and matching buttons. You should see
our perfectly thrilling first-aid instruc-
tor!”
T. W. N.
Altered.
A typist once, she’s now the type
That makes a social stir;
Where once she used to work for him
He now must slave for her.
Now bossed, her boss was thrilled with
glee
When, far from being prim,
She lightly sat upon his knee;
But now she sits on him.
H. M.
One Night in Darlinghurst.
“A woman who unexpectedly returned home
found a party of boys and girls holding a revel
in her flat, and had to call in the police to
remove them.” — “Daily Telegraph.”
She must have felt as I did that night
I woke up in my flat at the Glorioso.
Peering through my bedroom door, I
was amazed to see couples dancing
savagely around my radio and furniture
being hurled in all directions.
Surprise turned to anger. I felt a
sudden urge to rush in and order the
hoodlums out. They were a bad-looking
gang, however, and, as I was feeling a
little unwell at the time, I decided it
might be wiser to ring the police.
I was so excited over this outrage that
I had great difficulty in manipulating the
’phone. 1 was still struggling with it
when the landlord poked his head in
the door.
“Hey! Don’t you think it’s aboiit
time you broke up your birthday party?”
he exclaimed.
Birthday party! I stared at him in
confusion. Then gradually my memory
began to gurgle back. By jove, yes! It
was my birthday. Then full realisation
came with a rush—l had become a
casualty at my own party!
T. W. NATHAN.


ABORIGINALITIES
“B. A. Ker”: The boss’s daughter had
been “young Pat” to us ever since she
could toddle ; but, returning from a city
holiday with an acquired flashness, the
flapper decreed that henceforth the
hands should address her as “Miss
Patricia.” Some weeks later, doing a
bit of showing-off befoite her uppish
guests, her ladyship climbed into the bull
paddock and posed for a snapshot,
fondling old Barney. The moody animal
appeared to take no interest in the pro-
ceedings—until Miss Patricia was swag-
gering back to the fence. Then he sud-
denly woke up and charged. Joe the
rouseabout was the first to take in the
situation. “Quick, Pat! Roll under the
rail! ” he yelled. The girl took one horri-
fied glance over her shoulder —and rolled.
Five minutes later, when she had re-
covered her composure, she strode up
to Joe and snapped: “I’ve got a handle
to my name.” “Yairs,” drawled the
rousie, “and if I’d stopped to use it you’d
’ave ’ad ’andles to yer flamin’ coffin!”
* * * *
“Skag”: Do sea-birds welcome heavy
rain after a dry spell? Drenching rain
at a N.S.W. coast spot created a minia-
ture fresh-water lake near the beach. The
water was red with mud, and in it, duck-
ing and wallowing like an Indian-runner
in a Mallee flood, was a group of
common gulls. By their antics you’d
have thought it was the first water they’d
ever seen.
* * * *
“Kingsman”: “That there pointer o’
mine, Sandy,” said Mac, “saves me frum
a lot o’ trouble one time. I’m out with
’im after duck an’ I’m ’eadin’ towards a
little corner o’ the swamp where I knows
there’ll be a few. We’re jist gittin’ there
when all uv a sudden Sandy stiffens up.
I looks round, but I can’t sight no duck
an’ I tells Sandy ’e’s got dingbats. But
’e still keeps pointin’ an’ looking back
appealin’-like frum the corner uv ’is eye.
Well, all I c’n see is a clump uv bushes,
but, Sandy bein’ so determined about it, I
goes over. Strike me, there’s the John
’idin’ be’ind ’em. ’Adn’t bin f’r ol’ Sandy
’e’d ’a’ got me f’r shootin’ out o’ season
all right.”
* * * *
“Edjudina”: The camel seems made
for Central Australia, or vice versa. For
there food exists for him in abundance.
Few are the shrubs and herbs of the
Centre that he will pass by. His long
neck, too, enables him to browse on the
tender twig tips of even quite tall shrubs.
But the horse, his onetime rival, is by
no means as lucky. For the horse de-
mands grass ; and as the stretch since the
last rain becomes longer and longer his
dietary is apt to become restricted. Yet
there is one item of fodder that Nature
seems to have designed for him —the
mulga grass, growing right from the Mus-
grave Ranges (S.A.) to Laverton in the
West; good grazing when green, and
still pretty good when the rest of the
country is just about bone dry. Nature
long ago taught this grass how to weave a
little tent to protect itself from the sun.
Growing in separate tussocks, the indi-
vidual blades, as summer wears on, twist
each into a spiral, at the same time draw-
ing into a kind of peak at the centre.
Result, when spirals become inter-
locked, a sort of tent which protects the
still-green centre, also helping to conserve
such moisture as remains in the main
roots. Thus in what looks like so much
withered grass there is still green feed
for the hungry equine.
* * * *
“Brig”: Can any Aboliar say how the
ordinary red-beaked water-hen common
to most inland fresh-water lagoons and
rivers manages to swim? The feet have
no suggestion of a web, being very like
an ordinary fowl’s, but more delicate ;
yet these birds are not only waders, but
can swim and dive as expertly as any
wild duck. I know of no other bird,
native or otherwise, that swims and does
not have web feet.
* * * *
“Cou”; A mason wasp is building on
the back wall of my bookcase. She lobs
on the top edge of a book, crawls along
to the back and up the wall to her
cement cell. While she was away getting
a daub I took out the book. On her
return she took ten minutes to reorien-
tate herself, although the cell was within
six inches of her nose. Next trip I put
back the first book and took away its
neighbors ; result, a five-minutes’ puzzle.
Caught wasp and released her a hundred
yards to nor’-west of house. Wasp was
“Seconds out of the ring!"
singing contentedly at her masonry when
I got back. Took her two hundred yards
to the nor’-east. She returned, with daub,
in five minutes. It suggests that she has
compass sense of direction, but when off
the wing has to run more or less on
rails. Fabre tells of his destroying
Eumene’s nest as she built. She kept to
her regular routine, eventually stocking
cell with spiders, laying eggs and closing
the cell which wasn’t there. I made a
hole in side of my wasp’s cell. Next few
trips were devoted to plugging hole.
Possibly the Aussie wasp has more initia-
tive than the European type,
* * * *
“T.C.”: The occurrence of our big
droughts may coincide with wars which
are always more or less with us, but not
so closely as they follow severe European
winters and conform to cyclical weather
theories. The Jovian cycle, 11.983 years,
upon which —with compoundings to and
beyond the 71-year cycle—lnigo Jones
is working, fits snugly into the last four
big droughts (1902, 1915, 1926, 1940),
while the Dr. Abbot 23-year cycle is
not out of place ; nor is the Brunckner
cycle of 35 years, which links the 1902-05
with the present/recent drought. Last
winter in Europe was the severest for
70-75 years—a link perhaps with the
hypothetical 71-year weather cycle.
* * * «
“Dickie Beech”: “Nature never gives
any of her creatures a feature or an
organ without some definite purpose in
view,” says “Nor’-west” (B. 11/12/’4O)
concerning the stingray’s tail-lance. One
might quote the human appendix, unless
Nature had surgeons’ bank accounts in
mind, but she has made a very poor job
of it for the stingray as a defence against
sharks. Those essential scavengers don’t
specialise in rays, though in springtime
whaler sharks develop a strong liking
for numb-fish in spite of their really
powerful electric-shock apparatus and
swallow them whole. Up to 30 have
been found in one big whaler. Fish,
porpoises, turtles, lobsters, other sharks
and any kind of flesh from dogs to surf-
ing stockbrokers form the usual diet of
the big predatory species of Australian
sharks. If a stingray is unlucky enough
to come in the way of hungry Tiburon
it goes down too, whole or in bits and
pieces, irrespective of its lance equip-
ment. It is quite common to find lances
jabbed deep into the head of a big shark
without causing the least apparent in-
convenience to that submarine sepulchre.
It is not a nervy beast —nothing that will
eagerly devour its own insides after being
gutted and hove overboard with them is
likely to worry about a mere six-inch
spike or two.
* * * »
“Mick the Miler”: It was 40 miles to
Eulo (Q.) and the inhabitants of the eight
dry sections under the big bridge
earnestly assured us that we would have
to start at sparrow-chirp and keep the
“Irish tandem” flat out all day to reach
there in daylight. So after a short con-
sultation before turning in we decided to
stay over the next day and get a bit of
rest before tackling it. At dawn next
morning I saw a solitary knight of the
road come over the big bridge and turn
up the Eulo road. As he approached
opposite where we were dossing, his step
became gradually slower and slower ;
then he suddenly shed his swag, ran
across the road, picked up a waddy and
proceeded to lambast his swag for about
half a minute. Then he threw down the
stick, picked his swag up, shook it and
inquired truculently, “Now are yer
comin’ ter Eulo, yer so and so son of
a such and such, or do yer still want to
go back ter Cunnamulla?”
* * *
“Murlonga”: To me one of the minor
miracles of outback life is how a wire
fence apparently controls rain. On both
sides of it may be identically similar
classes of country. Yet every year in
every pastoral district in S.Q. that I’ve
ever been in, on one side of the fence
will be green grass waving in the wind,
while on the other side of those sagging
wires the earth is brown and stubble dry
and rotten. If there’s an explanation I’m
waiting to hear what it is.
#
«t> « y-v + t i rn a x
Rutaben : Out Lake Carey (W.A.)
way Bill took to horse-tailing while
his mates prospected round about.
Wise to the ways of the bush, Bill
and his party didn’t camp right on
the water which meant a walk of
half a mile perhaps just to fill the billy,
Returning home one evening Bill found
a mob of niggers looting the unguarded
camp. He was a bit nonplussed, for they
were a strange lot, well armed with spears
—and this was one time that Bill hadn’t
bothered to carry his gun. So he just had
to crouch back in the scrub and watch,
not without wondering what his mates
might say. Presently a big buck came
across the concertina case. Opening it he
pulled out the contents. The ’tina
stretched slowly and groaned. As though
he had been stung the buck dropped it.
But he was a courageous bloke ; bringing
down his dowark he assaulted the jinn.
The ’tina jumped and shrieked. Another
smack —and it shrieked again. Another,
and yet another shriek. By this time the
buck was alone. And Bill felt that with
the assistance of a handy sapling he
could manage him. He did. Then with
the dinted, but still shriekable, ’tina
he chased the mob till they dropped their
loot.
* * * r
“The 0.D.”: Thirty years ago at
Yamba (N.S.W.) old Mac derided the
holiday fishers coming in with their huge
catches of whiting, bream, flatties, etc.
“The time’ll come,” he said, “when most
of these handy places’ll be fished out an’
you’ll hear blokes saying they can’t
understand where the fish have got to.
Whatinell does a man want with 50
whiting, anyhow?” As most people who
try for fish along the N.S.W. coast at
popular spots know, his prophecy is being
fulfilled. Tuggerah Lakes is a case in
point. Now distant places like Narooma
are suffering the blight of the bloke who
won’t stop while they’ll bite. Holiday
“sports” come in with huge bags of
blackfish and whiting, of which they
manage to eat about a tenth, the rest
being thrown away—sometimes left in
heaps to rot on the beach. Why on earth
they can’t be satisfied with enough to eat
is a mystery. If these places are to hold
their popularity for holiday-makers
there’ll have to be a law something like
that limiting wild-duck bags, else fish will
become as scarce as hen’s teeth,
* * * *
“Flight”: Perha P s the smallest bird in
coun try, the sunbird not only makes
th .® prettiest nest but rivals Willie Wag-
*ai , ln t^ie tt shows in defence of
Fs .P 16- During the summer months
the visitor from the North comes only
as tar south as Capricorn. Its nest, an
elaborat ? ', hing hang '" s fr 9 m a T wan
rope afoo ‘ ol: mor ® long - » completely
c °vered wtth a porch over the doorway,
an^ tt J fi it off it has a string of fibre,
web . 'eaves and ° the r ornamentations a
£.° u P |e , ° £ £ee ' ' ong hsmgmg from it
Tb ? ugh th ?. b ' rd h , as a lon B, and tine bill
c ,°9 d , be c av ls i ' ,° n Y as a L r0 ‘
boscls ’ Jt " nds n .° difficulty ,n removing
the eggs from its nest should anyone
disturb it. Ive seen the hen tackle a
cl,rus . mo * w ; lh . tw,ce ‘! s , ° wn
spread and put it to flight too. One
tackled me, putting up as good a fight
as ever j’ Ve k nown a bird show,
* * * *
“Splodger”; As half a dozen of us
yarned outside a Queensland back-coun-
try pub a stranger rode up and tied his
horse to the rail. When he’d gone inside
the rest of us criticised his horse—all
agreed on its excellence. One fellow sit-
ting on the form hadn’t said a word, and
his silence made him noticeable. Then
we knew it was “Boko” Bill, who was
blind. Then “Boko” had his say. “I ll
bet he’s a fat ’un,” was his comment,
“Condition covers all faults.” It dawned
on us then that he was the best horse
judge of ail of us.
LOADING CANE.
It’s out we go in the dawn’s first glow,
Where a man needs more than dash,
And the cane in bundles, row on row,
Is stacked on the dewy thrash.
While the salt sweat blinds and bad luck dogs,
We stumble, and curse again,
Over lawyer-vine and hidden logs,
In the morning, loading cane.
There’s some of us came from seaways blue
And some from the inlands brown,
From a love too fickle or hate too true
Or the sins we don’t live down;
For destiny delves to the ends of earth,
Through season and slack again,
But courage alone shall prove our worth
In the morning, loading cane,
For these load steady and those load fast,
And many a one’s near through,
But all must live as the years roll past,
So what has a man to do
Save bend and grumble and heave and race
To hold his own in the main,
With a gang that sets a telling pace
In the morning, loading cane?
The cook brings over a headland break
Strong tea and his damper brown,
As the sprags are freed from the finished rake
And the chains are tightened down.
Then laughter follows an easy joke,
And life spreads a level plane,
While down on the thrash we sit and smoke
And grin at the loaded cane.
N.S.W.
FRANK MCCALL.


“ That's near enough— We can fill in the rest with putty!”
“Bloghton B.”: Having heard of the
bunyip ever since I was about two years
old, and having had the mythical beast
recalled by “James W.’s” Shirrawarra (B.
4/12/’4O), I put forward the theory that
the bunyip did exist, still exists —that the
supposedly mythical beast is really the
North Australian crocodile. Without
question the aboriginal entered Australia
on the north. There he made contact
with the saurian, a reptile with which he
was already familiar if he travelled, as
is supposed, via the Asian-Australian
land bridge of which New Guinea is a
remnant. Pressing slowly southwards, the
tribes lost touch with the amphibian
crocodile, but still retained the memory
in legend form of the terrible man-eater,
the night prowler, the denizen of swamps
which uprose with a vast upheaval of mud
and water. Both south-eastern and south-
western tribes had the legend. In south-
west W.A. it was the “Kine Pratie.” But
I was never able to gather any vestiges of
the myth up in north-west W.A., where
the crocodile is a too-evident item of the
aboriginal’s environment.
“Uramao”: Maori legends about huge
monsters roaming Maoriland in the dim
past have been receiving corroboration.
A Gisborne surveyor lately traced in a
seam of mudstone in the Poverty Bay
province gigantic footprints 28in. long.
The Dominion Museum authorities say
they may be those of a megatherium or
Jabyrinthodon, which tipped the scale at
30 tons. Similar footprints are said to
exist in several parts of Fernland, which
undoubtedly was solid land millions of
years ago,
* * * *
“Varanus”; Tell “B. A. Ker” (B.
4/12/’4O) that if his itchy grubs are the
same as those here in S.Q. —when they’re
on the ground, and before they make
the leaf nest which turns them into itchy
grubs, they are called processional cater-
pillars—the one bloke in the bush to
clean them up is the carney lizard. He
mops them up in their thousands.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: How’s this for a queer
sea incident? The steamer William Mc-
Arthur towed the empty and crewless
1600-ton Canopus across the Tasman
from Port Chalmers (M.L.) —an epic per-
formance in that line. In heavy weather
the mate and bos’n were inspecting the
towing gear, on which the waltzing, sheer-
ing, unsteered hulk astern was throwing
terrific strains. As the tow raced down
the steep slope of a tremendous sea the
bight of the heavy wire sank deep below
the surface. While it yawed and floun-
dered in the trough the
towing ship suddenly
took the strain again.
At that moment an
albatross soared grace-
fully across the wake,
almost tipping the
waves with its long
wings. The suddenly
tautened wire sprang
above the surface like
a released bowstring,
killed the bird instantly,
and hurled its shattered
body high into the air,
a limp mass of blood
and feathers. It couldn't
happen again in a sea-
lifetime as long as Sin-
bad’s.
* *
“Linton Locke”:
Zoology of 200 years
ago held the odd belief
that eels developed
from fragments of
horsehair that somehow
got astray in the water.
Queer! But the W.A.
bush can show reality
just as strange: a grub
which to all appear-
ances grows into a
plant. Jum Wallace,
one of the few sur-
vivors of the Bibbul-
mun, to whom every
plant and creature of
the forest was known,
located a specimen. It had a 9in.
stem, about the thickness of a
stout knitting-needle, topped with a
head resembling a miniature bulrush.
Definitely a plant springing from
the moist soil. Yet three inches
beneath the soil was a grub, a fat grub
not smaller than a man’s little finger.
The grub was dead, though not withered ;
and the stem sprang from it much as a
dahlia springs from its tuber. Without
question grub and plant were one. Jum
declared they were ; and that the com-
bination had at one time been a delicacy
of his forefathers. But the botanist had
an explanation. The grub had been a
large caterpillar, which at the conclusion
of its feeding period had burrowed into
the soil to pupate. But there it had been
attacked by a fungus which, entering its
body, had completely absorbed all tissue,
filling every cavity with its roots, finally
sending up the 9in. stem laden with ger-
mination spores. Ripe, these fell and
scattered, ready to be picked up by the
next season’s grubs and so perpetuate the
seeming miracle.
* * * *
“Porcine”: A word in favor of the
wild pigs which are spreading at an un-
believable rate over pastoral Queensland.
These fellows are topnotch scavengers.
The slaying they do —it’s good night to
any weak cow or ewe when down with
her young in pig country —is more than
offset by the fly-breeding areas they clean
up. At a waterhole less than a mile
from one homestead 23 grown cattle had
bogged and died over a period of about
three weeks. There weren’t many pigs
about; but it wasn’t long before only the
big thighbones, the horns and the hooves
remained. Still, I wouldn’t care to be
stranded alone in the bush with a broken
leg in that country.
“Edjudina”: That Nature stores water
underground over much of the big
Western State is true (B. 20 /11 / ’4O). But
even where she fails to do that the dame
shows much ingenuity in storing such
meagre rainfall as she provides. Far
out, south-east of Coolgardie, we were
doing a mild perish all day without a drink
when the mate suggested climbing a big
pudding-stone hill in the hope of sight-
ing indications of dampness. Right on the
peak stood a single boulder of about ten
tons weight. On the south side of this
the weather had carved an inward-slop-
ing shelf. This made a small water
catchment that fed a 6in. hole deep into
the heart of the rock. Water was still
in there, and with a pannikin tied to a
stick we bailed it out. Geology informed
us that that boulder had originally car-
ried a soft core, which the centuries had
weathered away. But there it was, the
perfect reservoir, containing the only
water within 20 miles —and right on top
of a hill!
* * * *
“C.G.T.M.”: That Australia’s original
owners never wilted under even excruciat-
ing pain has long been recognised
anthropologists; that the softer life ep-J
joyed by their descendants has ij|3P
robbed them of this attribute I can vouch
for. Once, visiting Thursday Island pro-
fessionally, I was asked by the Protector
of Aborigines to call at adjacent Murray
Island and extract a few molars for Mr.
Binghi; my efforts for two days totalled
nearly 600 teeth. Male and female alike,
all without exception proved stoical
patients. Homeward bound via the Gulf
country to Cairns, A. L. Johnston, then
manager of Forest Home station, Croy-
don, produced one abo. with two upper
canines to be dealt with. They proved
the hardest ever tackled by me, and not
until after a good half-hour with only
muscle and cold steel were they removed.
Throughout what must have been con-
tinual agony the abo. never so much as
flicked an eyelash. Since then my experi-
ence with Dark Brother in the chair has
never varied.
* * * *
“Bulong K. Kanowna”: Waiting for
the cocky to come in from a paddock on
the W.A. wheatbelt farm, Gas (the com-
mercial) and I were idly kicking our heels
against a couple of oil-drums near a hay-
stack, when that high-pressure salesman
yelled “Snakes! ” Sure enough, there was
a big black sliding out of the stack. I
grabbed a near-by stick, but Joe was
back in the stack before I could use it.
Gas took a sapling and we mounted
guard. Suddenly a mouse darted out,
and in an instant a bit of oiled black
lightning snapped on to it. As with stick
upraised I charged on Joe, who had
leisurely turned, a mighty roar from the
rear pulled me up. “Hey! Leave Bill
alone, you ruddy cow!” As the reptile
idled into the stack unscathed I
turned to see an old man with a grey
beard and fire in his eyes. Between puffs
he roared: “What the hell do y’ mean
’avin’ a go at Bill, me best mouser? Get
off the flamin’ joint before I let the dogs
on to y’.” That night, when Gas, after
glooming over a beer and a lost “pros-
pect,” had gone up to the room we
shared in the pub, I noticed him surrep-
titiously feeling the cover of his bed.
After all, snakes do play up with the
imagination.
“Seeing it's your final leave you'd better do the lot."
BUNYIP SONG.
Far away from any sea.
Where the Wollondilly, swinging,
Woos the Wingecarribee,
Once I heard a siren singing:
From the inn Three Legs of Man,
Where the drinkers stood and sweltered,
Mounting tipsily, Red Dan
Left the bar where he was sheltered;
Riding home past swamplands wide,
Thinking not of matters eerie,
Suddenly a bunyip cried
And Dan listened, bold and beery.
“Lo! I have a daughter rare,”
Said the bunyip. “Mermaids fishy
Never had such clouds of hair,
And her voice is soft and swishy.
Marry her, and all these lands
Shall be thine, O rider human!
She has cool and gentle hands
Never known by any woman.”
“It’s a go!” Red Dan replied
As his startled horse he steadied,
“Bring along your bunyip bride
And we’ll straight away be wedded.”
In his arms his bride they laid —
“ ’Struth!” said Dan, “ain’t she a daisy?”
She had hair of midnight shade,
And her eyes were black and lazy.
As they rode she sang to Dan
Of the meres and flowing waters
Where the bold and bad Old Man
Bunyips fathered siren daughters—
Songs not heard on any sea,
Not from Malabar to Flanders,
Of the Wingecarribee
Which to Wollondilly wanders.
Daughters fair were born to Dan
In the lands the bunyips gave him
When from the Three Legs of Man
He rode forth where none could save him;
Mothered by his black-eyed bride,
She he’d carried home before him
On that dark and fateful ride —
Fourteen girls his missus bore him.
When you hear the bunyips wail
By wild Wollondilly’s waters,
It is you these maidens hail,
Daniel’s fourteen red-haired daughters.
Dan was lucky; he just got
One dark bride. That didn’t scare ’im . . .
Ride, son, ride! For if this lot
Grabs you, you will have a harem.
As the redheads sport in glee
Where the Wollondilly wanders
By the Wingecarribee,
Many a bunyip looks and ponders
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
mm
LUDOWICI CHROMOL
IUDOWICI
§0
m
CHROMOL
SUPER HEAT RESISTANT
RE BEATERS
Two types are supplied from this leather
the standard flat sheet and the new strip
type. Both have been built to fulfil the
main requirements of a good firebeater
resistance against heat and toughness to
withstand hard wear and tear. The new
strip type was very successful last season
and was found to possess many advantages
over the older flat type.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST AND ALL PARTICULARS.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL STOCKIST.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
Makers of Quality Leather Products since 1858.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands ?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors'.
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE A. E. BOND F. W. HIXSON
E, V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
The T. and G.
These are the initials by which the
Temperance and General Mutual Life
Assurance Society, Ltd., is knov/n
throughout Australia and Maoriland,
where it has been writing Ordinary,
Industrial and Accident business for
the last 64 years. It is a sound,
healthy and progressive institution,
paying regular and satisfactory bonuses.
Over the last decade the business has
stepped along in this way:
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Total
. ivpi,., Income. Expenses. Claims. ' Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
29 1,480,462 240,043 530,073' 710,346 6,817,430
Written off premises, £4900 .. .. 6,812,530
To contingency fund, £7300 .. .. 6,805,230
31 1,701,929 281,880 759,152 660,897 8,133,911
Written off premises, £49,327. . .8,084.584
To contingency fund, £29,597.. .. 8,054 987
’33 1,716,881 304,768 759,425 652,688 9,219,913
Written off premises, £25,000.. .. 9,194,913
To contingency fund, £5OOO .. .. 9,189,913
To contingency fund, £12,500.. .. 9,951,633
35 2,048,039 304,532 791,521 951,986 10,903,619
36 2,252,513 341,548 760,221 1,150,744 12,054,363
’37 2,455,024 380,343 817,855 1,256,826 13,311,189
’3B 2,672,551 381,388 867.986 1,423,177 14,734,366
Written off premises, £10,000.. ..14,724,366
’39 2,870,889 390,033 972,094 1,508,762 16,233,128
Written off premises, £10,600.. .. 16,222,528
’4O 3,056,735 408,060 1,102.177 1.546.498 17,769.020
Written off premises, £12,530.. .. 17,756,496
To contingency fund, £52,500.. .. 17,703,996
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’29 2.143,427 062,369 799,008 ■ 682,050 7,292,507
Written off premises, £5lOO .. .. 7,287,467
To contingency fund, £7700 .. .. 7,279,767
’3l 2,188,137 601,797 929,514 • 596,820 8,355,748
Written off premises, £50,673.. .. 8,305,075
To contingency fund, £70,403.. .. 8,234,672
’33 2,135,912 679,276 743,168 713,468 9,435,305
Written off premises, £25,000.. .. 9,410,305
I To contingency fund, £45,000.. .. 9,365,305
To contingency fund, £12,500.. ‘ .. 10,292,414
’35 2,436,215 709,995 555,123 1,171,097 11,463,511
’36 2,627,311 755,398 857,907 1,014,006 12,477,517
’37 2,824,455 798,805 1,070,236 955,414 13,432,931
’3B 3,010,170 836,831 1,224,800 948,539 14,381,470
Written off premises, £10.000.. .. 14,371,470
’39 3,116,960 859,460 1,428.731 828,769 15,200,230
Written off premises, £10,600.. .. 15,189,639
’4O 3,255,367 914,594 1,679,556 661,217 15.850.856
Written off premises, £11,220., ..15,839,636
To contingency fund, £47,000.. .. 15,792,636
It is too early yet for the figures to
reflect the effects of war upon the busi-
! ness. Certainly there was a contraction
of £498,829 in the amount of new Ordi-
nary business (£8,017,442) put on the
books last term, due partly to war con-
ditions. But there was a growth of
£407,756 in the amount of new Industrial
contracts written (£5,946,842). In com-
mon with other Australian offices, the
IT. and G. has cancelled all war condi-
tions in contracts in existence prior to
Sept. 25, 1939. Thus far, however, few
claims have arisen out of war casualties.
The fact that the business is confined to
Australia and Maoriland ought to mean
much so far as the death-strain in respect
of air casualties is concerned. Still, as
the war extends and more Commonwealth
and Dominion troops enter the conflict
death claims can be expected to increase.
Speaking generally, the effect of this
would be to concentrate deaths at the
earlier ages. At these ages the reserves
accumulated against normal death claims
are comparatively small. The real
measure of the war death-strain is there-
fore the difference between the sum
assured and the reserve accumulated in
respect thereof. All life offices are faced
with this situation, and for the most part
they have made substantial provision for
such contingencies, which have now
partly arisen.
Though the society’s progress was less
marked than for the previous term, it
continues to make satisfactory headway.
At the end of Sept, last assurances in
force amounted to £94,796,778, or
£4,770,180 more than a year earlier. Net
premium income for the three depart-
ments combined (£4,989,693) increased
by £247,899, and the gross return from
interest, rents, etc. (£1,485,142), was
£77,005 better. Total receipts from all
sources was thus £324,904 greater at
£6,474,835.
After paying all legitimate claims and
exes., plus £lO,BOO in gratuities to agents
on war service, striking £23,870 off the
book value of premises and sending
£lOO,OOO to the contingencies fund (now
£664,710), £2,114,569 (£226,173 less than
for the previous year) was added to funds,
raising them to £33,708,023, which are
well in excess of actuarial requirements.
In each of the two life departments
funds have exceeded actuarial liabilities
under contracts by the following amounts
over the last four years;
Net surplus:— 1937. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Ordinary . . £469,895 £533,511 £567,886 £586,776
Industrial . . 378,174 410,551 366,957 352,951
Total . . £848,069 £944,062 £934,843 £939.727
This excess, or surplus, which is avail-
able for distribution among policy-
holders, increased by £18,890 in the Ordi-
nary and decreased by £14,006 in the In-
dustrial department last term. Of last
year’s surplus £75,000 in the Ordinary
and £25,000 in the Industrial section were
reserved against unforeseen contingen-
cies, and £464,861 in the Ordinary and
£326,145 in the Industrial department are
to be distributed in reversionary bonuses
at the same rate as for the previous term.
The undistributed balance in each sec-
tion is to be carried forward as an extra
measure of protection against possible
war contingencies.
After deducting taxes (£120,091, up
£16,992, in all sections of the business
combined), the cost of collecting last
year’s net premiums and of managing the
co.’s investment portfolio was 15.2 p.c.
of net premiums in the Ordinary branch
as against 15.8, 16.5 and 18.2 p.c. for the
three preceding years. In the Industrial
section the figure was 33.8 p.c. as
against 33.5, 33.6 and 34.3 p.c. respec-
tively.
It was the drop in interest rates and
the growth in taxes which hit the co.
hardest. The office values its liabilities
under policies on a stringent 3 p.c. net
premium basis. Last term the gross
return on mean funds, including the con-
tingency reserve (which belongs to policy-
holders, though not available for imme-
diate distribution among them), was
£4 11s. p.c. as against £4 12s. 6d. p.c. in
1939. After deducting taxes, the net effec-
tive rate of interest realised was £4 3s. 9d.
p.c., or 2s. 3d. p.c. less than for the pre-
ceding year. There is, however, a satis-
factory margin between the rate of in-
terest earned and that which it is assumed
the funds will turn in.
Assets, which total £34,687,400, are in
the following form:
Public 1939. p.c. 1940. p.c.
securities ..£18,004,831 55.5 £18,880,863 54.4
Loans . . . . 10.932,507 33.7 11.854,248 34.1
Freeholds . . 2,835,300 8.8 2,990,871 8.7
Cash, book debts,
etc 643,494 2.0 955,418 2.8
All but 114 p.c. of the co.’s funds are
now invested in Government securities
(up £882,032) and mortgages, etc. (up
£921,741). Since the close of accounts
the board has put another £500,000 into
the recent Commonwealth war loan. The
mortgages, etc., are largely advances
against home purchases protected by life
assurance.
In the Accident department total in-
come was £162,732, of which claims took
£69,910, exes, made off with £62,218 and
£5OO was sent to the contingency reserve,
leaving a surplus of £30,104, which lifted
funds in this section to £211,390.
The actuary certifies that the results
arrived at are safe, correct and equitable
for all members interested therein.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
„ To Re—
Oct., Profit, Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£• £ £ £,
1930.. 118,347 7i p.c. = 107,263 11,084 394,148
1931.. 91,554 6i „ „ 89,386 2,168 396,316
1932.. 171,066 8J „ ~125,140 45,926 442,242
1933.. 111,414 6i „ „ 89,385 22,029 464,271
1934.. 134,483 „ „ 107,263 27,220 491,491
1935.. 149,622 8| „ „ 125,140 24,482 515,973
1986.. 195,449 10 „ „ 143,017 52,432 568,405
1937.. 200,114 10 „ „ 143,017 57,097 625,502
1938.. 192,597 10 „ „ 143,017 49,580 675,082
1939.. 214,197 11-J ~ ~ 160,894 53,303 728,385
1940.. 192,210 10 „ „ 143,017 49,193 777,578
The profit in that table is what the
parent co. claims in its own accounts.
It is purely a holding co., doing no trad-
ing itself. Here are further details:
Net income—■ 1931. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Australian. , £55,674 £J145,264 £157,546 £136,060
Other sources! 35,880 54,850 5,6,651 56,150
Total .. £91,554 £200,114 £214,197 £192,210
The drop of £21,486 in handed-on Aus-
tralian net income and £5Ol from over-
seas produced a total reduction of £21,987
in the parent’s claimed earnings
(£192,210), and the div. was reduced to
10 p.c., though profit was still equal to
13.4 p.c. on capital, compared with 14.9
p.c. and 13.4 p.c. in the two preceding
years. Income all round, but especially the
Australian subsidiaries’ export income, was
affected by shipping difficulties and the
general disturbance to trade caused by
war. Heavy duties imposed by Britain
last year also added to the cos.’ difficul-
ties. Taxes and other costs have increased
on the home front, so trouble has been
encountered all round. During last year,
the parent says, the average increase in
the price of jams worked out at a farthing
a pound.
Consolidated p. and 1. figures of the
co. and its subsidiaries have been pub-
lished for two years now. This table
of the parent’s own figures, combined
with its share of the pups’ earnings, gives
a better idea of what is going on in the
business:
Net income— 1939. 1940.
Australian .. .. £192,667 £186,298
Other sources .. 75,622 76,710
Total .. .. £268,289 £263,008
The reduction in Henry Jones earnings
and equities in earnings was thus actually
£5281, which isn’t so bad as the parent’s
figures alone disclose. That is because,
although Australian subsidiaries earned
about £6OOO less, they handed the parent
£21,000 less. Earnings from pups operat-
ing outside Australia were slightly higher,
as 'the foregoing figures show.
Consolidated balance-sheet figures re-
veal that the H. Jones enterprises got
stuck with a lot of manufactured stock
last term:
CONSOLIDATED FIGURES.
1939. 19'40.
Paid capital .. .. £1,430,173 £1,430,173
Outside interests* .. 79,477 88,368
Tax provision! .. .. 159,478 244’,408
Creditors, etc 419,858 469,737
Freeholds, etc. .. .. 697,928 701,498
Plant, etc. . . . . 279.590 300,327
Stocks 872,099 1,168.953
Debtors 785,068 736,176
Shares . . . . . . 101,245 , 99,324
Cash, etc 745,328 718,628
Goodwill . . . . . . 62,542 62,542
* Including proportion reserves,
t Including other contingencies.
The jump of £296,854 in stocks was un-
fortunate so far as they represent canned
goods ready for sale. The parent says
“consumers’ stocks would have been less
than last year if we had been able to
obtain shipping space.” Included in the
swollen item, however, are enlarged
stores of tinplate—a valuable com-
modity in present circumstances. They
are big enough to can a year’s output.
The net tangible backing for each of
Henry Jones’s 1,430,173 £1 ords., in
which the public is interested, is 30s. lid.,
according to the parent’s own bare ac-
counts. But, peering behind the scenes
and making some calculations from the
consolidated figures, the backing works
out at 395. 2d. a share, after deducting
goodwill and the parent’s final div. That
leaves out of the reckoning £244,408 of
“provision for taxation and contingen-
cies,” which would probably assay a high
percentage of genuine reserve.
The co. isn’t too optimistic about im-
mediate trading prospects, however. “The
trading year just begun is fraught with
danger,” said chairman A. W. Palfreyman
at the annual meeting. The co.’s depen-
dence on overseas trade for much of its
profit has made it very dependent on the
shipping position, which, according to
the chairman, is becoming “increasingly
worse.” If it doesn’t improve in 1941
growers of fruit and berries will be
warned early that it would pay them to
prune their trees heavily and lighten their
crop.
The market is more inclined to take a
long view of the co.’s results, and isn’t
unduly upset by the chairman’s forecasts.
For the 20 years to the close of accounts
in 1929 divs. averaged just under 11 p.c.,
with £455,492 of bonus scrip thrown in
in 1927. Share premiums take only a
little gloss off the picture. Since 1930
distributions have averaged 8.7 p.c. p.a.,
whilst last year’s consolidated earnings
were 18.3 p.c. on the parent’s capital.
At 525. 6d. the ords. return 3.8 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The buyer at that price
is looking to the release of withheld
benefits at some future date.
Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
Written
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £,£,£,
1930.. 183,543 18| p.c.= 241,724 58,354 1,424,935
1931.. 101,130 74 „ ~103,210 29,810 1,393,045
1932.. 88,511 21 „ „ 38,750 43,913 1,398,893
1933.. 96,687 2| „,, 38,750 47,400 1,409,430
1934.. 38,972 2* „ „ 38,750 32,480 1,377,172
1935.. 127,751 Nil 61,672 1,443,251
1936.. 263,958 5 p.c. = 77,500 76,759 1,553,130
1937.. 420,404 15 „ ~ 232,500 76,472 1,664,562
1938.. 224,149 124 „ ~ 193,750 73,556 1,621,405
1939.. 252,393 74 „ „ 116,250 91,186 1,666,362
1940. . 275,860 8J ~ ~ 135,625 92,935 1,713,662
The board’s Christmas-cwm-New Year
gift to shareholders was a further lift in
the half-yearly distribution—ls. 3d. per
share, which is at the rate of \2\ px.
p.a., being paid on Dec. 18 last. Main-
tenance of that rate would call for
£10,825 more than the £182,925 of profit
claimed last term —in the table expen-
diture on prospecting and development
(£28,489, up £2312) and the allowance for
depreciation (£64,446, down £563) are in-
cluded with profits and then shown as
written off. Though net earnings for the
current term might more than cover a
p.c. distribution, appearances are that
there would be little margin, if any.
So, mindful of rising costs and of the
possible effects of taxation on the share-
market generally, investors price the co.’s
f.-p. pound shares at 28s. 6d., at which
figure the return would be 7 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis. A 10 p.c. div. would
call for £27,925 less than the £182,925
netted last year. During 1940 the scrip
fluctuated between 345. 6d. and 21s. 6d.
on the market.
The co. turns out about 13,000 tons
of fine copper per annum, all processes


cl**
*s* «o v
iPS
Only
a scrap of paper
. . . . but in the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared—Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
and general insurance CO.ltd.
I Head Office : 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
E. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith. H asset and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists,
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
•ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND • • 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman).
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman).
Robert J. A. Massie. Owen E. Friend. Geoffrey F. Hughes.
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE;
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
LONDON OFFICE;
18 BircKin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS.
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay s Bank, Ltd.,
National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout;
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED..
ARE YOU GETTING CLEAR
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES
dsfdsfs
FHher
<=fp
Cylinder
If you are having trouble with
your water supply, either for
household or industrial purposes,
we can help you. We manufac-
ture water filters of all descrip-
tions. Our ABBOT pressure and
drip type filters used throughout
the Commonwealth and the East.
Our pressure filters used for Butter
Factories, Ice Works, Cordial
Factories, Hospitals and wherever
pure water is required.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
from mining the crude ore to produc-
tion of the refined article being carried
out on the spot. Since copper is an
essential factor in production of
munitions and other defence equipment,
the co. is an important contributor to
Australia’s war effort. For some years
all but a fraction of the output has been
used locally for industrial purposes. De-
fence requirements have bumped up de-
mand to a point which Australian mines
are now unable to satisfy wholly. So
none of the co.’s outturn was available
for delivery to the British Government,
which had agreed to take up to 7000
tons p.a. of Australian copper at
£S4B 10s. (=£A6O 125.) per ton f.o.b. Syd-
ney, subject to variations in costs. Soon
after the outbreak of war the Australian
price of the metal was fixed at £63 17s. 6d.
per ton. On February 16 the figure was
raised to £76 per ton, of which £4 was
to be used by the co. for further exten-
sion of the copper-producing section of
the business.
Thanks largely to this bonus, the ton-
nage of material handled last term
exceeded the previous year’s figure
(1,085,933 tons, assaying 1.34 p.c. copper),
though the grade was slightly lower. To
deal with the bigger tonnage, most of
which came from the West Lyell open-
cut, where the assay is about 1.1 p.c.
copper, the 10-ton trucks were converted
into 16-ton semi-trailers and the capacity
of the concentrating plant was increased
by addition of a new primary crusher
and extra classifying unit. Another help
was completion of the new ore-pass for
transferring West Lyell opencut ore
from the surface to the North Lyell
tunnel, and thence by tram to the mill.
Other developments still in hand in-
clude the further opening-up of the Lyell
Comstock and Royal Tharsis leases,
where the ore is above mine average,
the ordering of more transport equipment
and enlargement of the fine-grinding
section. Also, a complete geological
survey of the entire central portion of
the Mt. Lyell field is being carried out
by H. J, C. Conolly, on whose recom-
mendation a diamond-drilling campaign
is now in progress. Shareholders will
anxiously await the results.
Owing to the profitable treatment of
lower-grade stuff, following improvements
to mining and metallurgical methods, ore
reserves have continued to expand,
despite the growing volume of crudes
gouged out each year;
Reserve ( Average Assay \
Ore, Copper, Silver, Gold,
Tons. P.c. Oz. Oz.
1935 . . 7,593,000 2.05 0.17 0.020
1936 . . 8,825,000 1.90 0.14 0.016
1937 . . 9,894,000 1.69 0.13 0.016
1938 . . 11,146,000 1.52 0.11 0.015
1939 . . 10,458,000 1.52 0.11 0.015
1940 . . 10,620,000 1.47 0.11 0.013
At the 1939 rate of throughput there is
thus over 10 years’ work for the mill
measured up, with prospects of more
pay-ore being developed.
The net cost of producing and realising
a ton of copper (£53 6s. 6d. in 1939)
was substantially higher last term owing
to the lower grade of ore treated and
to the higher price of materials and wage
increase during the second half of the term.
The year’s gross return from mining
was £1,007,260 (up £80,144) and from
investments £91,164 (up £7472). After
allowing for taxation (£50,018, up
£12,417) and the prospecting and de-
velopment and depreciation charges
already referred to, and for minor re-
serves adjustments, the £182,925 of
profit was equal to 11.8 p.c. on the
£1,550,000 of share capital (5.8 p.c. from
investments and the balance from
mining), compared with 10.4, 9.7, 22.1,
12, 4.2, 0.4 and 3.1 p.c. back to 1933.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances. When the books closed there
were stocks, debtors’ balances, etc., total-
ling £583,744 to meet outside liabilities
of £194,794. Shareholdings, which
account for nearly half the co.’s total
funds, were made up as follows:
Shares Fully
Company— paid to £ 1.
Com’wealth Fertilisers and Chemicals:
3X1,174 7 p.c. prefs. 1 907
596,257 ords. ~ J ** •• 8U7 ’ 431
Cuming Smith and Mt. Lyell Farmers’
Fertilisers .. .. .. .. 450,000
Australian Fertilizers .. .. .. 93,750
Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell Fertilisers .. .. 27,150
Metal Manufactures:
49,204 7 p.c. cum. par. prefs. 1 „o n9a
278,824 ords ) ” 328,028
Electricity Meter and Allied Industries.. 30,000
The lot figure in the books at £1,627,422,
or £208,937 less than their face value.
The mine, plant, etc., appear at £825,409,
railways (the co, owns the line from
Strahan to Queenstown) £216,494, hydro-
electric equipment £185,101, and free-
hold, etc., £20,287.
“O.B.”: Wiluna Gold Corporation an-
nounces a loss for year ended March 31,
1940, of £6238, compared with a deficit of
£12,142 for the previous 12 months. It
also reports that “results have not been
encouraging.” That is the pessimistic
side of the picture. Here is the opti-
mistic. In December, 1939, the West-
tralian operating co. (Wxluna Gold
Mines), the whole of the shares in
which are owned by Wiluna Gold
Corp., had £A250,000 laid by. Its net
earnings since are £A363,000, making a
total of £A613,000. At least £500,000 of
this amount is on fixed deposit, Wiluna
Gold Corp. has a couple of thousand in
hand and 220,000 fully-paid ss. shares in
Gold Fields Australian Development,
which has paid two p.c. divs. and has
ore reserves sufficient to last, at the
present rate of extraction, for a year or
two. Even if not another ton of payable
ore is exposed in the mine (119,400 tons
was opened up last year) the break-up
value of Wiluna Gold Corp, shares, with
gold not extractable, costs of production,
bullion realisation, taxation and other
charges taken off, and interest on invest-
ments and auction value of its Gold
Fields Australian holding put on, is, con-
servatively, more than double the present
market value.
* * * *
Coolgardie Brilliant (W.A.) claims that
its Wiluna venture has responded par-
ticularly well to development, both in
length and depth, and that values have
been well maintained. Battery has been
increased from five to ten stamps, and
is now treating about 1000 tons a month.
Four hundred tons of tailings is being
cyanided in the same period. Gold
returns were worth £21,553 last year, and
net profit was £4834, Of this the vendors
of the show got £l2lB. Ore reserves are
reckoned to be in excess of two years’
supply.
* * * *
Mining engineer A. J. Bensusan, report-
ing to the London board, says: “In Tin-
dais mine, Coolgardie, you have a
remarkable deposit at least 1000 ft. long,
fully 20ft. in average width and carrying
a gold content of 4.sdwt. to sdwt. a ton
—a deposit, too, that almost certainly
will carry values to a considerable depth,”
Bensusan recommends that development
be pushed ahead. The directors propose
to increase the mill capacity, and
say “the virtual doubling of the
present mill throughput to 12,000 tons
of ore per month is bound to reduce
working costs per ton. Profits will, there-
fore, increase both on account of the
larger tonnage to be treated and of greater
profit per ton. These two factors on a
throughput of only 10,500 tons a month
represent an estimated additional profit
of £A2737 a month.” Herman Mandel-
stam, vendor of the mine and a director,
has been appointed local director in place
of J. MacCallum Smith, deceased,
# * * *
Swan Bitter (W.A.) is issuing, paid to
2s. apiece, 75,000 of its reserve contri-
buting shares to finance the dewatering
and equipment of its second Mt. Magnet
string—the Morning Star mine. Co.’s
brokers have agreed to underwrite the
whole of the new issue for Id. a share
and an option over 20,000 of the co.’s
remaining reserve shares at 2s. each.
Until recently the Morning Star was held
by another co., but as it failed to carry
out the working conditions Swan Bitter
applied for the forfeiture of the property
and got it.
* * * ♦
Annual Perth meeting of Lady Shenton
had to be adjourned for want of a
quorum, but chairman Morris, infor-
mally addressing a few filled and empty
seats, said that in order to bulk-test the
values recently obtained from sampling
on the 200 ft. level of the Menzies
Maranoa option a crushing would shortly
be sent to a Kalgoorlie mill. By the time
the adjourned meeting was held the result
of this test should be known.
* * * *
Having thrown up its option on a
Boogardie venture about which “a high
opinion had been expressed,” New Gol-
conda (W.A.) has taken on approval a
block adjoining Tindals at Coolgardie.
Ore so far extracted from its workings is
said to have given consistent returns of
around an ounce per ton. As the Wild
Cat” has often remarked, it is not what
has come out of the cupboard but what
remains that counts.
* * ♦ *
Universal Gold Development, N.L.
(Vic.), owns 18,713 shares in Gordon
Gold, 750 in Wattle Gully, 1700 in South
Kalgurli Consolidated and 2500 contnbs.
and 4000 paids in Ajax South. During
the year to Aug. 31 shareholders were
given preferential rights of allotment in
the flotation of the Ajax South. The
flotation went off all right, and the mine
is at present being unwatered. The scrip
has gone to a premium. Universal’s
principal holding is Gordon Gold. The
Gordon co., through its subsidiary,
Gordon’s Misima, is now equipping a
property on Misima Island (Papua).
Gordon is also operating a working
option over the Mt. Firebrace Mine,
Granya (Vic.), favorably reported on
by the Mines Department. Pending
the return of Gordon Gold to the
dividend list, Universal Gold’s other
investments should produce an income
more than sufficient to meet all expenses
and show a small profit, the directors say.
There was a surplus of £lO2 last year.
Paid capital is £5OOO in 200 f.-p. shares
of £5 each and 2000 called to £2. Out-
siders are owed £2385. Apart from
shares, the co.’s other assets total £419.
Blue Mountains Gold, N.L., 35 miles
n.-e. of Coen, Cape York Peninsula
(N.Q.), reports that on the Golden
Ladder mine the new shaft has been sunk
on the reef to 50ft. from the surface ;
values are “very good” and the size of
the reef varies, opening out from 6in. to
a foot at times. The ore in the bottom
is fairly solid, averaging about 6in. The
country is becoming harder, and will re-
quire boring from now on, the manager
says, adding that “the mine looks very
promising at present.” Ore at grass is
four tons. Driving preparatory to sloping
is to start shortly.
* * * *
Oriomo Explorations, Ltd., which had
its ups and downs in the market a year
or two ago as a result of its interest in
the Hill End field (N.S.W.), has been
going quietly of late. The only opera-
tions during the year to Aug. 31 were
the investigation by G. M. Reid of areas
on the old Ukalunda goldfield in Queens-
land. This area was favorably reported
on by Dr. Jack many years ago, and
“subject to the verification of claims
made in regard to the area, may contli-
tute an asset of some importance.’ Hill
End Alluvials has gone on with the
realisation of its plant, most of which
has now been sold. As a result, £266,
representing part repayment of loans, and
£855, for services, etc., were received by
Oriomo Explorations during the term.
Since August 31 a further £450 in repay-
ment of loans has been received. It is not
yet possible to estimate what the final
return will be ; this is dependent upon
the sale of the remaining items of plant.
Oriomo had £1096 in hand on Dec. 6
and very little else. Its paid capital is
£74,851. The co.’s future will depend
to some extent on the result of the in-
vestigations being conducted on the
Ukalunda area. It has been suggested
by some shareholders that, failing satis-
factory results, the remaining funds of
the co. should be invested in Oil Search,
Ltd. Shareholders generally are to be
asked to give the board power to do this.


Business, Rollery, Etc.
A Full Year of War
After 16 months of war the Australian
economy is still standing up well,
although the real pressure of the conflict
is only now starting to be felt. From
the beginning of 1941 really heavy taxes
will fall on nearly all of us, the Federal
income-tax exemption rate having been
lowered to £2OO, rates lifted and sales
tax increased, with the cutting-out of
many exemptions. A single man on £8
a week will pay 20s. a week Federal in-
come tax for 25 weeks up to June 30 —
really at the rate of about 10s. per week
pc year. This is considerably heavier
than any State wages tax. In N. S.
ales, where wages tax is particularly
Igeys 2re, a man without dependants on
£l2 a week will pay 425. Federal tax
for 25 weeks, or 21s. a week a year.
This is more than twice the rate of
N.S.W. wages tax. On 1938-39 rates
£l2-a-week incomes paid less than ss. a
week Federal tax. The increase in this
range is therefore more than 300 p.c.
But we should be able to stand it pro-
vided the money so liberally given is
not wasted.
During 1940 export prices were 18 p.c.
higher than in 1939. Contracts with
Britain covered most of our surplus pro-
duction, and there was scarcely any vari-
ation in prices throughout 1940, the new
levels having been established during the
four 1939 months of war. In spite of
these better prices, we bought more than
we could really afford overseas. That
is from the peace-time financial view-
point. But certain essential commodities,
such as petrol, machine tools, munitions
machinery, etc., are of more value than
money in times like these, and perhaps
the present unsatisfactory appearance of
our trade figures may to some extent
be excusable. But if exchange quotas
for non-essential goods were allowed to
be transferred to quotas for essential
goods, it is certain that we would be
getting more value for our money than
at present. As it is, importers are en-
couraged by red-tape regulations to spend
money, reduced though their quota may
be, on non-essential goods.
For the 1939-40 year our merchandise
trade with the world was as follows:
1938- 1939-40.
£stg. £stg.
Exports .. 97,033,000 116,239,000
Imports .. 99,313,000 115,705,000
-2,280,000 +534,000
Bad as it was, the position was £2,814,000
sterling better than in 1938-39. Gold
production is excluded from the figures,
but, even including it, the credit estab-
lished in London fell short of our ordi-
nary interest commitments, quite apart
from any outlay on the A.I.F. overseas
—this is being financed by Britain for
the time being.
During the first five months of 1940-41
our trade figures, though enlarged, were
worse than for the same months of pre-
ceding year on balance:
Five Months
1939- 1940-41.
£stg. £stg.
Exports .. 40,853,000 44,411,000
Imports .. 39,599,000 48,921,000
+ 1,254,000 -4,510,000
Again gold figures are excluded. Exports
rose £3,558,000 sterling, but imports
leapt £9,322,000, creating an adverse
merchandise balance of £4,510,000 for
the five months, compared with a credit
of £1,254,000 in the same period of the
previous year.
Though our external trade figures do
not encourage expansion of bank credit,
and indicate a definite drain on London
funds, the internal banking position has
been enduring the strain well. The fol-
lowing figures compare the September
averages with those of September 12
months ago and intervening periods;-
Average of Weekly Figures.
Sept., May, Aug., Sept.,
1939. 1940. 1940. 1940.
LIABILITIES— £ mil. £ mil. £ mil. £ mil.
Fixed deposits .. 198.0 213.9 205.2 204.9
Current accounts.. 116.6 138.8 139.3 144.5
Total deposits .. 314.6 352.7 344.5 349.4
A QCFTS
Cash 32.6 41.6 42.1 41.5
Treasury bills .. 17.5 43.1 34.1 37.5
3ovt. securities .. 22.0 41.4 43.6 44.2
\dvances .. .. 295.8 287.1 284.8 283.6
Deposits rose £34.8 millions, but advances
were reduced by £12.2 millions. More
money was lent to the Government, the
holding of Consols and Treasury bills
rising £42.2 millions, more than doubling.
The Commonwealth Government is be-
coming a larger employer of money and
industry every day through the Defence
Department. It is estimated that 20 p.c.
of the national income will be absorbed
by war expenditure in 1940-41.
The reason for the growth in the
deposits of the trading banks is partly
due to greater incomes of primary pro-
ducers and partly to the high industrial
activity throughout the Commonwealth
that has followed the partial economic
isolation of Australia and the putting to
work of many factories, etc., on defence
jobs. In 1939-40 there was 1.6 p.c.
greater employment in factories than in
1938-39, and 27.9 p.c. greater than in
1928-29. In August, 1940, there was an
increase of nearly 1 p.c. over August,
1939.
Total trade-union unemployment for
the September quarter was 7.4 p.c., com-
pared with 10.2 p.c. in 1939. The im-
provement here has been helped by en-
listments, etc., but there is no doubt of
the great demand for labor at the present
time, especially skilled labor. This
demand is growing rather than slacken-
ing.
The general level of prices has kept
very stable, all things considered. In
November the price of groceries showed
a rise of less than 2.6 p.c. over the same
month of the preceding year; meat
moved up more noticeably. In that time
chemicals rose 13 p.c. and building
materials 32 p.c. Metals and coal were
only 6 p.c. dearer. The higher price for
building materials, chemicals, etc., is
partly due to heavier importing costs and
to the shortage of some products.
On August 1, 1940, the average Com-
monwealth basic wage was 82s. a week,
compared with 795. on Sept. 1, 1939.
About 2,000,000 bales of wool had
been appraised up to Christmas, value
about £32,500,000. The prompt disposal
of the staple under the realisation scheme
is a help to the internal credit position.
The Budget for 1940-41 provided for
an outlay of £276.6 millions, £lB6 millions
of which is for defence. This table
shows how the money is to be raised and
how spent:
In hand, Taxa- Borrow-
-1/7/’4O. tion. ing. Total.
War Expenses— (£mil.). (£mil.). (£mil.).(£mil.).
In Australia .. 28.0 65.0 50.0 143.0
Overseas .. 43.0 43.0
Civil expenditure 85.0 5.6 90.6
28.0 150.0 98.6 276.6
.State borrowings and taxes are, of course,
additional to those figures. The outlay
on defence this year works out at £26
10s. a head—£2o a head to be spent in
the Commonwealth. Actual Federal
taxation raised last year was £9O million.
The additional £6O million being raised
this year represents an increase of two-
thirds.
The form of war company taxation
has at last been decided on. Private
companies, so defined by the Common-
wealth Income Tax Acts (most pro-
prietary cos. are included), have been
removed from the scope of the tax;
they will instead pay tax on 100 p.c. of
undistributed profits each year to the
extent of the additional tax shareholders
would be liable to pay if all profits were
distributed. Shareholders in a private
co. will pay on their individual incomes
from the co. the property rate applicable
to them. Public cos., which include all
cos. other than private, will pay 2s. in
the £ on their taxable income and a
further 2s. on undistributed profits. By
the provisions of the new super-tax, a
company earning more than £5OOO will
be taxed additionally at the rate of Is.
in the £ or at an increasing rate on
profits “in excess of 8 p.c. on capital
employed,” whichever is the greater. In
certain circumstances the 8 p.c, exemp-
tion may be increased. The rate of
tax applicable under the graduated scale
starts at 4 p.c. on the first 1 p.c. in
excess of 8 p.c., and rises in steps of
4 p.c. until it reaches 60 p.c. on profits
in excess of 22 p.c. This is the scale
introduced in the original measure, to
which so much exception was taken.
The year now closing opened with a
very strong sharemarket —about that
stage there was general talk of its being
a “phony war,” The Sydney index of
industrial share prices on January 16
was 136.54. After the May-June Blitz-
krieg it collapsed to 107.52. Then bear-
ing was banned on ’Change, and a long
and almost unbroken period of recovery
occurred ; on Nov. 8 the index had
touched 134.02. About Budget time there
was a weakening, and the index closed
for 1940 at 130.33, near which figure it
had been steady for some time.
There was wide manufacturing ex-
pansion in 1940, stimulated by defence
activity. Several Australian-made war-
ships were launched, the production of
Wirraway and Moth aircraft has been
accelerated, insulated cable is now being
made in the Commonwealth, the cotton
textile industry has gone ahead rapidly,
optical glass is to be made here, and a
great and varied quantity of munitions
is already being produced. There are to
be new armament factories in at least
three States. In a Commonwealth-wide
expansion and reorganisation of the
munitions industry the output of 25-
pounder guns and other war equipment
is now in sight, and production of
Bristol Beaufort bombers is expected in
1941.
King Island Scheelite
King Island Scheelite, formed toward
the end of 1937 to take over a property
on King Island, Bass Strait, has to date
returned to shareholders divs. totalling
Is. 9d. per share. There are 250,000
ss. shares issued, of which 50,000, fully
paid, plus £15,310 in cash, went to the
vendors. The 200,000 shares taken by
the public have been called to 4s.
At the beginning there was 50,000 tons
of proved ore on the property going
0.85 p.c. tungstic acid. Scheelite metal
quotations, incidentally, are identical
with those for wolfram. On the ad-
vice of Hartwell Conder the King Island
deposit was worked by opencut, and
last year was one of full production.
The mill handled 35,600 tons of ore
(against 27,670 tons in 1939) for the
output of 228 tons concentrates (168
tons). A tailings-treatment plant dealt
with 22,390 tons of sands for 35 tons
concentrates since it began work in
January, 1940. Last term the sands were
worth 7s. Id. a ton and costs were 2s.
Proved ore reserves were 50,000 tons
at the end of the year, with 25,000
tons more probable and 100,000 tons
possible.
Sales during the year to Oct. 31 were
at the rate of £3 6s. Id. Aust. per unit
(£241 12s. Id. per ton of concentrate),
against £3 3s. sd. and £228 15s. 3d. re-
spectively in the previous year. Income
from mine products, plus net increase
in stock values, was £61,427; mining
costs were £25,334, development £1986,
other mining exes. £1953, administration
£1577, depreciation £2263, and income
tax £6843. Net profit, including £653 of
sundry income, was £22,124. Out of
this divs. Nos. 2 to 5 inclusive called
for £18,750; £4391 was put by and
£3OOO was set aside for additional
taxation. Income was equal to 30s. per
ton milled and costs were 16s. per ton.
Of the total profit, £5724 came from the
treatment of tailings.
Ore reserves, proved, probable and
possible, suggest something like a five-
years’ life reasonably well in sight.
Under conditions similar to last year
this would indicate that 7s. 6d. or Bs.
a share is more or less visible. That,
of course, is subject to prices and costs
remaining stable, and recoveries keeping
up.
The co. has done very well, all told.
It had liquid and semi-liquid assets of
£20,037 on Oct. 31 and owed £4711.
The provision of £9066 for taxation
seemed liberal. Mine and plant figured
at £51,980 and general reserves at £6891.
Deferred charges totalled £ll5l.
The 45.-paids have been active around
par in Melbourne.
A choice morsel of apparently studied
English from the War-time (Company)
Tax Act:
Section 5 (2): The rate of tax in respect
of every pound by which the taxable
profit of a company which is a primary
producer exceeds the percentage standard
shall be that percentage which the amount
of tax which would be payable in accord-
ance with the last preceding sub-section
if the average taxable profit of the com-
pany, ascertained in accordance with section
15 of the War-time (Company) Tax
Assessment Act, 1940, were the taxable
profit of a company which is not a primary
producer bears to the amount by which
that average taxable profit exceeds the
percentage standard.
Some people might say that the section
has been made deliberately confusing.
Few will deny that if the law cannot be
expressed in simpler terms the law should
be scrapped. “Ignorance of the law is
no excuse” ; yet the jargon of Section 5
(2) would at least temporarily baffle a
Supreme Court Judge. It is a disgrace
to the Federal Taxation Department,
from which it must have emanated. No
Parliamentary draftsman could be held
responsible for it.
South Australian Perpetual Forests,
which established pine forests at Mt.
Gambier and Penola from 1927 onwards,
says that returns to what used to be
bondholders should be coming along in
the near future. Sapfor Milling Co.,
which represents the forestry end of the
enterprise (S.A. Perpetual was the pro-
motion and sales section), is “now on a
payable basis.” S.A. Perpetual share-
holders have been in receipt of an income
for the past 12 years, the profits being
derived from surplus on land sales, esti-
mated profit on maintenance and other
income. Though the ord. div. for the
year to Oct. 31 has fallen from 8 p.c.
to 4 p.c. (profit dropped from £7891 to
£3280), over the dozen years distributions
have aggregated p.c.
* * * *
The Emperor mine (Fiji) missed out
with its usual November div.; expansion
of operations on the Tavua field and
accumulation of stores and parts have
temporarily reduced available funds, the
chairman says.
* * * *
Masonite Corporation, a 1937 float that
set up as a fibre-board manufacturer at
Raymond Terrace (N.S.W.), has an-
nounced its first ord. interim div. —for
the half-year ended Dec. 31. It is at
the rate of 7 p.c. p.a., payable on Jan.
17. The C.S.R. became interested in the
Corp. on the marketing side—it makes
Cane-ite itself—and Australian Glass
acquired “a very substantial holding”
in 1938, The building of soldiers’
quarters, etc., has helped Masonite
lately; the outlook was dubious for
some time after flotation. A little over
a year ago “handsome profits” were
tipped officially when the plant reached
full capacity. The ords. (250,007 of them,
£1 each) were priced at 235. 6d. recently.
The 100,000 deferreds (2s. 6d. each)
aren’t listed.
* * * *
“Enoch”: Readers of the article
“Value for Money Wanted” (B. 4/12/’4O)
must have been struck by its timeliness.
Consider the scheme for an air-base at
Southern Cross, W.A. After spending
£14,000 (the price of more than two Spit-
fires) the idea was abandoned be-
cause of the interference with the work
of the Air Force caused by the amount
of dust on the site. Anybody with the
smallest notion of Westralian geography
knows that the nature of the soil and
the strong prevailing east winds during
the summer months must lead to such
conditions. But to spend £14,000 before
discovering that the choice of site had
been a mistake! Of course, employing
the usual method of passing the buck, the
Government has put the blame on the
Air Force authorities.
* * * *
The Forest Reefs (N.S.W.) property
being jointly investigated by Mineral
Developments (Fiji), Ltd., Tavua Gold
Developments, Ltd., and New Lucknow
G.M. Co. will have to wait before much
further attention can be given to it. It
has been impossible to interest Australian
or overseas capital, the various share-
holders have been told. Upwards of
£12,000 has been spent on boring, shaft-
sinking, etc., at Forest Reefs, which lies
between the old Cadia diggings and
Millthorpe, not far from Orange. There
was talk of 400,000 tons of stuff in an
800 ft. section of the lode above the
300 ft. level, averaging 6dwt., and costs
were put at 20s. Although there was
evidence of copper in some of the ore
dug out in the district years ago, the
present investigators spoke of a 90 p.c.
extraction.
* * * *
The quantity of wool appraised before
Christmas approximated two million
bales. Appraisements for the second part
of the season start on January 13, and it
is expected that by the end of March or
early April about 88 p.c. of the clip will
have been dealt with. The value of wool
appraised for the first part of the season
is in the vicinity of £32,500,000. Reten-
tion money of 5 p.c. of the appraised
value, which is to be held by the Central
Wool Committee until after June 30, has
been invested. Since Aug. 19 payments to
growers have averaged £ 1,716,200 per week.
Average appraised prices of wool per
pound greasy for the various States and
for the Commonwealth are:
Per. Lb.
New South Wales .. .. 11.64 d.
Victoria .. .. .. .. 12.81 d.
Queensland .. .. .. .. 12.19 d.
South Australia .. .. .. 11.07 d.
Western Australia .. .. .. 12.01 d.
Tasmania .. .. .. .. 12.58 d
Commonwealth average .. .. 11.92 d.
The Commonwealth average of 11.92 d. a
pound is less than the corresponding
average for the 1939-40 season ; if this
position continues it will mean that the
flat-rate adjustment payment for 1940-41
will be greater than for 1939-4 Q.


ALL THROUGH THE YEARS!
*% I
s*:
f /
i-/.
rf IIL nj&ZLi
»»
£
H
r_
til
yi
p,
“fill
*c
■
...
v-
IM
rm
/•--
I I
h
m
«E
■i
mi
HEAD OFFICE, ELIZABETH STREET,
MELBOURNE.
THE PAST
COR NEARLY ONE HUNDRED YEARS
the State Savings Bank of Victoria has been
the Chief Custodian of the People’s Savings.
Through good report and ill report; in lean
times and in plentiful times; when peaceful pro-
gress prevailed or when grim war cast its dark
shadow over the land; in times of depression or
in times of prosperity, this Bank has been the
Bulwark of the Thrifty. Its doors have always
remained open to serve the needs of the people.
In drought, or flood, or war, it has faced up to
every new trial; and, like a well-built ship, it has
weathered every storm and come through with
flying colours.
THE PRESENT
The present is the product of the
past. The sturdy oak of to-day has drawn
strength and beauty from the summer suns and
winter tempests of a hundred years or more.
Every tempest has driven its roots deeper into
the soil; every sunny day has quickened its
growth. From our use of the past we emerge
into a present either weaker or stronger.
The accumulated experience of a century
has made for the strength of the State Savings
Bank. From the most humble of beginnings
this Bank has grown to be the third largest
Savings Bank in the Empire; and it offers to-day
facilities unexcelled by any Savings Bank in the
world.
Reserve Fund .. .. .. £4,045,000
221 Branches . . . . 396 Agencies
COMMISSIONERS:
W. WARREN KERR, C.M.G., C.B.E. (Chairman)
J. C. GATES, Esq. (Deputy Chairman)
PROFESSOR D. B. COPLAND, C.M.G.
JNO. KEAN, Esq.; HECTOR T. McKENZIE, Esq.
General Manager: NORMAN R. WILLIAMS, 8.C0m., 0.8. E.
Assistant General Manager: N. S. WHITE.
THE STATE SAVINGS BANK
OF VICTORIA
GUARANTEED BY THE GOVERNMENT


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
DESTROYERS OF CIVILISATION.
(Condensed from a “Harper’s Magazine” article by
William Henry Chamberlin.)
Within the short span of a single generation,
between the beginning of the first World War and the
present time, Europe has experienced the most for-
midable breakdown of civilisation since the collapse
of the Roman Empire.
The Roman Empire fell into dissolution partly
because of internal weaknesses, partly because
of the increasing pressure from the barbarians
beyond its frontiers. What has happened in Europe
is something still more formidable and still more
sinister. It is a revolt against civilisation from within,
a systematic destruction of cultural and humanist
values first through revolution, then through war and
conquest.
From the Atlantic to the Urals Europe has
changed beyond recognition. It would be almost im-
possible physically to make the trip from Madrid to
Moscow at the present time, and this in itself is an
indication of the breakdown which has overtaken
Europe. But if one were able to complete the jour-
ney, with the standards of 1913 Europe in mind, the
picture of decline, intellectual and material, would be
nothing short of appalling. One would scarcely find a
single country where there was not an acute shortage
of food and of other necessities of life and where the
people were not cold as well as hungry. One would
not find a newspaper where the editor was free to
write as he pleased.
The entire Continent is now under the domina-
tion of three regimes which emerged after the first
World War, each of which is a challenge to and a
negation of the traditional European civilisation. The
Russian Revolution, led in the beginning by fanatical
intellectuals, assumed the form of a vast rebellion of
the largely Asiatic Russian masses against the thin
layer of Russians whose cultural contacts were with
the West. The German upheaval deliberately re-
nounced the rationalism and cosmopolitanism of Ger-
many’s cultural golden age, and harked back to primi-
tive tribal gods of blood and race. Italian Fascism
was also a throwback from the generous radicalism
of Garibaldi and Mazzini to the gangster despots of
the Italian Middle Ages. All these revolutions were
significantly directed more against the intelligentsia
than against any other class. All were completely
and avowedly amoral, all were implacably hostile to
any categorical moral imperatives, to any conception
of the unity of European civilisation.
Before 1914 there would have been fairly wide
agreement among educated Europeans of all nationali-
ties that freedom of speech and press and conscience
and research, legal security of persons and property
against arbitrary State action, some form of popular
participation in government, freedom of travel, limi-
tation of the death penalty to extremely grave offences,
if not its total abolition, would have been the distinc-
tive characteristics of a civilised as against a bar-
barous State. Measured by any of these standards, the
record of the Communists in Russia, of the Nazis in
Germany, of the Fascists in Italy is one of profound
retrogression. Consider first Russia, because there
have been far more favorable illusions about Com-
munism than about Nazism and Fascism.
As recently as August, 1939, some 400 American
intellectuals signed their names to an uncritical en-
dorsement of almost every aspect of Soviet foreign
and domestic policy, especially stressing the role of
the Soviet Union as “a bulwark against war and
aggression.” Ironically and appropriately enough the
publication of this manifesto was almost immediately
followed by the signature of a considerably more im-
portant document, the German-Soviet Pact of August
23, 1939.
Here are a few historically indisputable compara-
tive facts about the Soviet regime and about the
Czarist autocracy which it succeeded and which was
certainly never suspected of undue liberalism. When
the Decabristi, a group of army officers who had
been affected by the ideas of the French Revolution,
rebelled in 1825 five of the leaders of the movement
were put to death. When a Soviet official in Petro-
grad, Moses Uritzky, was killed by a Socialist Revolu-
tionary in 1918 over 500 persons, none of whom had
any connection with the death of Uritzky, were shot.
When Czar Alexander II was killed by revolutionary
terrorists in 1881 five persons, all unquestionably par-
ticipants in the assassination, were executed. When
the Communist party leader in Leningrad, Sergei
Kirov, was killed by another Communist in 1934 134
persons, according to Soviet official statements, were
shot. Of these only 13 were even accused (there was
no public trial) of having taken part in the killing of
Kirov. The number of recorded executions (and
many are unrecorded), the number of persons in
prison and in exile for political reasons is far greater
today than was the case in pre-war Russia.
The pale flicker of independent political thought
that existed under the Czars has been entirely extin-
guished. The press in pre-war Russia was censored,
but it was not, like the Soviet press, a mere agency
for communicating Government propaganda. And a
writer possesses far more chance of self-expression
when he is merely told what he may not say than
when he is told what he must say. The former was the
position of the author under the Czars, the latter the
position under the Soviets.
Stalin is an Asiatic by race and, what is more
important, by background and temperament. By its
absolute personal autocracy, by its individual and mass
executions, by the secrecy which envelops every step
Of f ts policy, by the suspicion and espionage which are
visited on the few foreigners who are permitted to live
within its frontiers, the Soviet Union may be recog-
nised as a typical Asiatic State. Russia has been lost
to European civilisation. And this observation holds
good also for the extensive area which it has swal-
lowed up by agreement with Germany—Latvia,
Lithuania, Estonia, Bessarabia, Bukovina, Eastern
Poland.
Russia offers the most vivid illustration of
Europe’s revolt against civilisation. But there has been
an equally significant revolt in Germany, although the
outer shell of the old culture and traditions has been
better preserved there. Quite typical is the contrasted
altitude of the two regimes toward religion. The
Soviet Government, pursuing a policy of militant
atheism, backed up by all the State resources of
propaganda and repression, has almost obliterated the
public practice of all forms of religion, Orthodoxy, the
sectarian cults, Mohammedanism and Judaism alike.
The great majority of places of worship have been
destroyed or converted to secular uses.
In Germany, although there have been arrests
both of Protestant clergymen and of Catholic priests,
the outward observance of religion goes on with little
change. But neither ministers of religion nor their
parishioners are permitted without swift and severe
—From Robert Ziller’s “We Make History."
“I AM PROVIDENCE.”
punishment to profess and practise Christian ethical
ideals in such matters as aggressive war, anti-Semitism,
maltreatment of prisoners in concentration camps.
In Germany the universities, so eminent in every
field of research and scholarship, have felt the blight-
ing hand of totalitarian control. The German courts
have lost their pre-war independence and integrity.
While there were harsh military aspects of life in
Imperial Germany, there was never any suggestion of
the obscene brutalities that have taken place in so
many Nazi concentration camps.
Creative literature in the Third Reich is dead,
killed by too much State attention. The establishment
of regimented Chambers of Culture, to which all
writers and artists must belong, the figurative putting of
authors into uniform, the insistence on the maintenance
of a propagandist character in literature and art have
had precisely the same effects as the very similar
measures which have been adopted in the Soviet
Union.
Also significant of the present stage of revolt
against civilisation is the blackout of essential infor-
mation about many parts of the world. This is by
no means merely a matter of war censorship. The
Soviet Union is not at war. But it would be impos-
sible, I believe, for the best-informed student of Rus-
sian affairs to describe with any confidence the present
state of collective farming in the Soviet Union or to
estimate with any accuracy the real wages of the
workers or to calculate the profit-and-loss account of
the State industries. On all such subjects there is a
complete absence of independent reliable information.
Russia has become darker for the outside world than
it has been since the time of Ivan the Terrible.
The World War is the parent of Russian Bol-
shevism, of German National Socialism, of Italian
Fascism, These regimes in turn bear overwhelmingly
the greater share of responsibility for the second
World War, And the results of this conflict up to the
present time have been the subjugation of the Euro-
pean continent to the three revolutionary dictatorships
and the sowing of the seeds of new social upheaval
through the widespread misery, destitution, unemploy-
ment and hunger which the war has brought. One
does not see when or how this truly infernal cycle of
war-generated revolution and revolution-fathered war
will end. That civilisation, as that word was under-
stood before the first World War, can survive this
ordeal in any recognisable form seems highly doubtful.
Nazi Reign of Violence.
[Apropos of the foregoing article and also of the
item headed “Women’s Plea from Poland,” New York
“Times” made the leader comment here condensed.]
We are witnessing in Europe a plot to murder
civilisation as systematically carried out as the bomb-
ing of Britain. The tragedy is too vast, too grotesque,
too overshadowed by the battles in the foreground, to
be fully taken in. It is proceeding nevertheless with
relentless cruelty.
Just enough filters through the veil of silence and
censorship to make us aware that conditions in every
occupied country are infinitely worse than we know
or can imagine. “We are living in hell,” says a letter
smuggled out of Warsaw and published in New York,
and this statement of a group of tormented but defiant
women applies not only to Poland. It is a literal
description of the existence of millions of people im-
mured in the Continent which has cradled the culture,
the law and the humane tradition of mankind.
Hitler has imposed a “new order,” from the Vis-
tula to the Bay of Biscay. He has taken over a ready-
made complex of great cities, well developed industry
and agriculture, highly civilised populations. By
superior force he is presumably able to do what he
likes with his captives. What has he done? So far
he has produced only an immense pool of misery and
want. Furthermore, he has brutalised every society
he has touched.
As it flares up in savagery in one place after an-
other, in political murder in Bucharest, in student riots
in Zagreb, in fresh round-ups in Prague, the new order
reveals itself for what it is—a reign of disorder leading
to anarchy. Whether the landslides reported from
Norway are sabotage or not, a plot to move mountains
to impede the German masters fits into the general
picture of violence begetting violence.
This is the preamble to the Constitution of the
Nazi Europe—-murder in the name of law, terror in
the name of Government, famine in the name of
redistribution of wealth.
*****
Women’s Plea from Poland
[In printing this moving document, the New York
“Post” said of it: “Women of Poland who say they
are ‘living in hell’ under Nazi domination have
smuggled into the United States an appeal for help.
The letter was brought into the U.S.A. by a Polish
woman and the Committee of Polish-American Women
vouches for its authenticity.” Cables gave some of
the letter.]
The world, in the course of its existence, has wit-
nessed many atrocities and crimes ; the history of man-
kind is saturated with blood and tears. But history
fails to record a Calvary equal to that which we, the
women of Poland, are living through now. We are
suffering as Catholics, as Poles, as mothers, as wives,
as sisters and as daughters.
Our husbands, our brothers and fathers perished
in mass murders which wiped out tens of thousands.
They die slowly in dungeons or perish from starvation
and cold in war prisoners’ camps.
Our sons either perished like their fathers (as boys
of 12 and 14 years of age were by no means lacking
among those who were shot) or are registered and
taken away to alleged labor camps in Germany,
whence there is no return.
Our daughters are being apprehended on the
streets or abducted from their homes under cover of
night, imprisoned in company with prostitutes and
deported to German brothels. And there are among
us mothers who, no longer able to shed tears, ask God
for one thing only—that our daughters might die.
Crime, ruin and misery have ploughed through the
nation and breadth of the land. Poland has forgotten
laughter.
Locked within a vicious circle of misfortune and
unable to communicate with the rest of the world, we
listen with stupefaction to the official pronouncements
of the German masters. For instance, the infamous
executioner, Greiser, pays tribute to German justice ;
Hitler pledges his word of honor that not a single Pole
has been deprived of his opportunity to work ; Dr.
Frank, “the only lawful representative of the Polish
nation,” informs neutral newspapermen that Poland
under German administration prospers freely, that the
majority of the Polish people cheerfully co-operate
with the German administration, satisfied with having
been delivered by the German Government from play-
ing the part of England’s flunky, and that the rumors
of terror were but a figment of Allied propaganda.
Listening to the cynical lies brazenly uttered, we
tremble lest the world might believe them —while thou-
sands of human beings all over Poland were perishing
amidst tortures, and all over Poland there was but one
voice of execration of the Germans.
Before God Almighty we swear that our words
are true and that our accusations are not exaggerated.
We are living in hell. There is no Pole who would
abide by this hell or would co-operate with the Ger-
mans unless it be under threat of a gun aimed at his
children’s heads. This hell is all around us —it is
smothering us and we are its helpless victims.
We endeavor, however, not to abandon ourselves
to despair. We believe in Divine Justice. We have


faith in the victory of the Allies and we wait for the
day of their triumph. Should this day be slow in
arriving, Poland may be free, but there will be no
Poles. The objective and the endeavor of the Ger-
mans is to exterminate and destroy our entire nation.
Three millions of us have perished already. This
figure increases from day to day because famine grows
apace.
We do not beg for pity, but ask for help—as
people who fought in the front lines. Do not refuse us
your help. Let your womanly voices fill the world
that it may acknowledge the deliverance of Poland as
its most urgent concern ; let it be moved by our mis-
fortune ; let it understand our plight.
♦ • * * * *
In Once-gay Vienna
(From an article in London “Times” by a neutral
correspondent.)
To one who has known the cheerful capital of
Austria in better times, a visit to Vienna imparts a
shock. The city is grey and listless. The people all
seem weary and threadbare. Shop assistants stand idly
at their counters. Even in the Karntnerstrasse the
elegant shops have cards marked “Sold” attached to
the articles on show. In confectionery windows, which
formerly abounded in the most delicate specialities,
customers see little beyond symbolical cakes made of
papier mache and dummy packets of chocolate. The
cafes, which were usually crammed with people drink-
ing coffee from morn till eve, reading newspapers or
engaged in lively discussion, are now for the most part
occupied only by empty tables.
Not all the gorgeous flags which adorned the town
in accordance with orders could remove the impres-
sion that Vienna was a city of dearth and her people
politically tired. The flags were out to give official
emphasis to the presence at the Belvedere of Ministers
whose mission was the carving up of Rumania. I saw
the crowds of people who, according to German
newspapers, assembled to greet Ribbentrop, Ciano
and the other foreign guests; they consisted of a pro-
tective guard of S.A. men, some press photographers
and a group of indifferent onlookers, not many times
more numerous than might assemble round a street
vendor exhibiting a mechanical toy.
The fear of informers had left its mark on the
people just as in Germany. Seldom did one express
one s thoughts in the open. Men looked to right and
left before giving a personal opinion over a cafe table.
But it soon became clear to a stranger that the
Viennese had not reached the extreme of fear which
reigns in Germany. They had not allowed their reason-
ing faculties to be numbed even if their sense of self-
preservation prevented them from crying out their
thoughts to the four winds.
The worst plight of all is that of the Jews. Some
have been given manual labor, but they work under
supervision like slaves and for starvation wages. Every
business house, cafe and hotel is adorned with anti-
Jew notices. Jews may not go to the cinema or theatre,
cross the park, sit on the public seats of the town ; their
children may not play in the public places allotted to
the young. Jews may not swim in public baths, be in
the streets after 8 p.m. in summer and 7 p.m. in
winter; they have a “J” on their ration cards, so that
they may be served only between the hours of two and
three in the afternoon, when most products are sold
out for the day. They can buy no milk or chocolate
for their children, whereas non-Jewish children are en-
titled to a certain quantity regularly ; they may be sold
vegetables only when there is a surplus ; they have
been turned out of their homes and live herded to-
gether in small hovels in the poorest part of the town.
When approached suddenly they invariably adopt an
attitude of defence, a witness to the blows and kicks
to which they are subjected.
Decent Austrians are ashamed of the Jew-baiting
which goes on ; but what troubles them most is the
barbarisation of their own children. The older genera-
tion may have sufficient spiritual resistance. What they
read, heard and experienced in former times is stand-
ing them in good stead and cannot be taken from them.
They once learnt to think individually; the faculty
has not yet been destroyed. They listen, more than is
generally realised, to the broadcasting from London,
though they know the risks involved. What Mr.
Churchill says by radio is known the same evening in
the broad circles of Vienna, though usually a day or
more passes before it is mentioned in the Nazi press.
The possibilities of an English victory is a constant
theme of discussion in closed circles. It is a curious
experience to sit in a belligerent country and observe
the citizens of that country siding with the enemy.
A serious problem is the future of the young Aus-
trians who attend Nazi schools and are taken in hand
by Nazi youth organisations. They are exposed to
the worst influences: taught race hatred and the wor-
ship of war, and to look upon themselves as mem-
bers of a master nation in contrast with whom the
people of other nations are natural slaves. At school
they learn to spy on their parents, being questioned
there, for instance, whether anybody listens to foreign
radio stations at home. A father may not express his
opinions to his child and thus counteract the Nazi
influence, lest the child should be subjected to difficul-
ties at school and he himself sent to a concentration
camp.
I was assured in many quarters of the existence
of an active illegal opposition in Austria. It works
m the greatest difficulties, for the Nazis themselves are
well versed in all the methods of subterranean work
I was told of a disturbance in the munitions industry
at Linz last spring. It is said the regular military re-
u S c c° fire on the crowd °f workers there. Men of
the S.S. were then called in, and put down the “revolt”
without mercy, providing an example calculated to
prevent strikes or risings for a long time to come. But
it is firmly believed that, when the day dawns on which
the tide of fortune turns against Nazi Germany, Aus-
tria will become a centre of active unrest difficult to
master. After a week of observation in the capital and
intercourse with many sections of the community, I
could not help sharing this widespread belief.
U.S. Surpluses and Blockade.
(From an article in “Harper’s Magazine” by Milo
Perkins.)
Normally, the U.S.A. exports 45 per cent, of its
prunes and 30 per cent, of its raisins. The Scandi-
navians like dried fruits. They still need them, but
not a pound can get through to these Hitler-dominated
countries now. Twelve per cent, of the U.S.A.’s fresh
apples and 45 per cent, of its winter pears used to go
into export, largely to Great Britain and the Continent.
They won’t be eating them this year. Maybe when
you’re ducking bombs you forget about fresh fruits,
oranges and walnuts and pecans and canned peaches ;
but U.S. farmers can’t forget about their surpluses.
Maybe you use whale oil instead of lard ; but the
farmers of the Corn Belt can’t forget about that 300
million pound surplus in storage.
The U.S.A. had some 300 million bushels of
wheat as a carryover on July 1, 1940, then came a
crop that ran 100 million bushels above domestic re-
quirements. The U.S.A. would like to export at least
150 million bushels. Canada alone, however, has 500
million bushels to sell. Even if there were no war
going on, that would be enough to take care of the
full needs of all the importing nations of the world.
British bread this winter will be made largely from
Canadian wheat.
Last cotton year the U.S.A. sold 6\ million bales
for export, nearly a third of which was to continental
Europe. Total foreign sales for this year probably
will run a little under two million bales. Some 14 mil-
lion persons in the United States are dependent directly
or indirectly on the production of cotton.
The job of finding bigger and better customers
for all the food and cotton now in storage might
—New York ”Herald Tribune.”
ON THE ROAD TO SUEZ.
be done, in a measure, by feeding and clothing the
destitute peoples of continental Europe. Before we
Americans make up our minds that these goods should
be sent through the British blockade, however, we
need to do some straight and some rather uncomfort-
able thinking. We need to remember some of the
ugly things that happened after the last World War.
For instance, thousands of underfed and half-starved
German boys were brought back to health in Dutch
and Scandinavian homes after the Armistice. Under a
Nazi leadership that gave them no alternative, they
returned in less than 20 years to conquer the very
countries that had given them life itself when they were
helpless children. We mustn’t forget that.
This is a new and an utterly different kind of
world, and parts of it are unbelievably brutal. Hor-
rible as it is, some starvation in Europe now, under the
British blockade, may be necessary to break the Hitler
stranglehold on free men. It may be the alternative
to slavery for a thousand years under the Nazis. It’s
something to think about.
• * * * *
(From a New York “World-Telegram” article by
William Philip Simms.)
Never in modern history have France, Finland,
Norway, Poland, Holland, Belgium and most other
European nations faced so terrible a winter. From
15 to 20 million people, mostly women and children,
are already on inadequate rations, and these are con-
stantly being shortened. Millions of children and old
people face death from hunger and disease.
Unless a way can be found to relieve some of this
suffering the issue will almost certainly be raised in the
next U.S. Congress. Organisations for the relief of
Norway, Finland, Poland, Holland and Belgium are
ready to send shiploads of food if and when permis-
sion is given. The Governments in question have
funds to pay all expenses. It would not cost the
American people a penny.
The case of France is more obscure. Nearly
2,000,000 French prisoners of war are known to be
bordering on starvation in concentration camps. The
civilians are hardly any better off. But relief for
these, heartbreaking though their plight is, is ad-
mittedly difficult to provide without helping the
Germans.
As for the others—Finns, Poles, Norwegians,
Dutch and Belgians—former President Hoover, head
of the United Relief Agencies, has a plan which he
believes would work without aiding the invaders. It
calls for the return of all the food the Germans have
taken from these people to date and a guarantee to
refrain from taking any more and to permit proper
supervision so that American relief would be sure to
go to those for whom it was intended.
There is considerable doubt that the Nazis would
agree to these terms. If they refused, however, the
blame for most of the misery in “the five little democ-
racies” would fall on the Germans instead of on the
British blockade, where the Germans are now telling
the people it rests.
“Last winter,” Finnish Minister Hjalmar Procope
told me, “Finland was fighting for her life against an
invader. This winter she is fighting for her life against
starvation, disease and cold.
“Finland especially needs fats, milk, pork, cattle
fodder, soap, cereals, cotton, gasoline and transporta-
tion materials. Finland requires lots of fats because
she is a country of extreme cold, and there is now a
great shortage.” Finland is just an example. The
needs of the other countries vary in detail, but essen-
tially all are the same. Unless relief reaches them
before long millions of deaths may result before spring.
*****
[The case for and against the U.S.A. sending supplies
to blockaded Europe—a project dear to the heart of
many more besides Mr. Hoover —could hardly be more
succinctly stated than it is by the speakers in this
New York “Herald Tribune” report.]
Whatever food the United States sends to Europe
will be transformed into man-hours for killing her
friends in England, Herbert Agar, editor
of the Louisville “Courier-Journal,” said
before 125 Protestant church leaders at a
luncheon sponsored by the World Alliance
for International Friendship Through the
Churches. The discussion was on the re-
sponsibility for feeding civilian populations
in Nazi-dominated territories.
“Food for Europe means soldiers for
Germany, and men, women and adoles-
cents working in the munitions plants in-
stead of the fields,” Mr. Agar said. He
listed the two chief objectives of the British
naval blockade as the prevention of mili-
tary supplies from reaching the enemy and
the diversion of the enemy’s man-power
from the killing of people to production of
food.
“Today all forms of food are, in fact,
munitions of war in the direct and imme-
diate sense,” Mr. Agar continued. “A
shipment of 50,000 tons, or 10 shiploads,
of wheat has the nutritive equivalent of
187,000 tons of potatoes, which could be
transmuted into 17,000 tons of alcohol,
the basis for 11,000 tons of high octane
gasoline; a shipment of 50,000 tons of
milk made into butter would release
enough margarine and other fats to pro-
duce a sufficient quantity of lubricating oil
to supply 50 submarines for 12 round-trip
crossings of the Atlantic.”
Clarence E, Pickett, executive secre-
tary of the American Friends’ Service
Committee, who spoke for the opposite
point of view, said that his organisation
was feeding 35,000 children in unoccupied
France with supplies purchased in Mediter-
ranean areas. He added that the 6,000,000
people in that area could not be carried
through the winter without famine unless
food was imported.
“If the peoples of Europe are made to feel that
they have lost all support from the democracies, and
are driven to Germany, it will have a definite effect
on the future peace,” Mr. Pickett said. In outlining his
plan for the feeding of civilian populations in both
occupied and unoccupied areas, Mr. Pickett said that
the Germans had co-operated in Poland to the extent
of returning 150,000 tons of food. “Some time there
will be a peace,” Mr. Pickett said, “and it will be a
very difficult problem if the peace has to be built on
the foundation of starved populations.”
Dr. Henry Sloane Coffin, president of Union
Theological Seminary, called attention to the fact that
the British Government was allowing certain medical
supplies to pass the blockade. “I think it would be
possible for an extension of this to include milk for
children.”
“Gibraltar Safe.”
(From a report by the London correspondent of New
York “Herald Tribune.”)
British military circles, considering persistent
reports that the Axis Powers planned an assault
through Spain on Gibraltar, state that the Rock had
been strengthened considerably since the war began.
They add that they could not see how the Axis could
take this fortress, which has been British since 1704.
They admit that Britain might not be able to use
the naval base at Gibraltar if the peninsula were
attacked, but assert that the fortress itself could hold
out for a year without outside supplies.
Axis forces would have to make a frontal assault
to have a chance of capturing Gibraltar, against
machine-gunners protected by 200 feet of solid rock.
Any idea of an attack from the sea was ruled out “as
long as the British Fleet is not on the bottom of the
ocean.” It could not be taken from the air, for bombs
would explode far above the defending forces in the


honeycombed rocks ; nor could it be battered into sub-
mission by far-off guns, for the Rock is too solid for
such attrition.
If the Axis wants Gibraltar, it will have to storm
it by sending massed troops along a narrow strip of
land covered by heavy machine-gun fire. It was
“most unlikely” that attacking troops could get through
in formidable numbers.
These observers said that at present the Axis
neither had permission to use troops and guns from
positions in Spain, nor had Spain been brought into
the war, adding it was “by no means certain” that
Spain wanted to fight Britain.
The size and number of guns in Gibraltar and
the strength of the garrison are among Britain’s most
closely-guarded secrets, but it is known that great
quantities of weapons, particularly anti-aircraft guns,
have been poured into the fortress since 1938.
Chief sources of information on accelerated de-
fence activities on Gibraltar have been neutral
observers in Spain. In July, these circles estimated the
garrison strength at 10,000 men. Since then, transports
brought reinforcements of 1600 men in July, 2000 in
October, and it was reported that they were additions
to the force, rather than replacements.
The peninsula on which the Rock stands is two
and a half miles long and a mile wide. Engineers have
cut a canal across the peninsula between the fortress
and the mainland, calculated to halt motorised equip-
ment should a frontal assault be attempted. The
British also have been razing buildings which im-
peded the gunners’ view of the foreshore and land
approaches.
Gibraltar withstood a three-year siege by the
Spaniards in 1779-82, during which the defenders were
thrice relieved by the British Fleet.
Air Superiority.
(Condensed from an article by the Manchester
“Guardian” air correspondent.)
It has frequently been suggested that the spirit of
the German airmen is poor, and certainly few of the
enemy fighter pilots show much doggedness in com-
bat. The explanation is probably that they have been
hastily trained and are inexperienced. Several of those
who have been shot down and taken prisoner are men
with as little as 20 hours’ solo time, a period which is
wholly insufficient to build up even the initial confi-
dence required in ordinary elementary flying.
Coupled to this is the fact that all German airmen
must know now of the superior qualities of the R.A.F.
fighter aircraft. Having suffered tremendous losses
in this first phase of the air war and with the short
winter days approaching, so that training of new
pilots will be seriously curtailed, the Luftwaffe is now
faced with problems in replacing personnel.
In regard to night raiding the factor of personnel
must again be considered, for it is known that the
Germans have not a large number of pilots trained in
night flying.
Moreover, the night bombers of the R.A.F. will
continue to visit Germany, and as their attacks will
increase in intensity it seems certain that Goring will
have to amplify his home defence squadrons, §o that
still more pilots with night-flying experience will be
required.
Meanwhile our air-fighting strength, which has
been conserved throughout the first phase of the air
war by brilliantly conceived and well-ordered tactics,
is being steadily built up as the Empire air-training
scheme rapidly gains momentum.
In equipment the Nazis are definitely inferior to
the R.A.F. Since the war began they have introduced
several new types of aeroplane, but none has proved
to be equal to British machines. In technical develop-
ment we have a pronounced lead which has been
acquired over a period of many years, and now, after
more than a year of war, that lead, which is vital,
particularly in regard to fighter aircraft, is being
further extended. [One extension was reported the
other day—the new fighter ’plane, the Whirlwind.]
Criticism of American ’Planes.
(Condensed from a New York “Times” article by
W. L. White, London.)
This is a note on what the experts think of the
kind of help the United States is sending to Britain in
her air war, and my authority is not British but Ameri-
can fliers who have been for some time in the uniform
of the Royal Air Force. These Americans say the
United States is going to turn out some very good
’planes presently, but they do not think too highly of
the ones so far received.
American commercial ’planes are the best in the
world, but when we start building bombers and fighters
our commercial experience becomes a handicap. For
instance, almost all the first American ’planes to arrive
in Britain had inadequate landing gear. The gear was
designed for the long, broad, smooth concrete run-
ways with which American landing fields are provided
and was inadequate for the muddy cow pastures,
pocked with an occasional bomb crater, with which
military pilots have to cope.
In addition, American designers of military
’planes apparently did not realise what an unpleasant,
hard-hitting business this air war would turn out to be.
Early American models are under-armored and weak
on fire power.
Also, the American rating of ’planes is a little
confusing to Europeans. When an American manu-
facturer claims his ’plane will do 400 miles an hour.
he means it will attain this speed when stripped for a
test. The British ’plane, to obtain a 400-miles-an-hour
rating, must be able to do it with a full military load,
complete with crew, bombs, machine-gun belts and all
the gasoline it will hold. Such a load cuts about 70
miles an hour off any ’plane’s speed and the two types
of ratings have caused considerable confusion.
Return of the War Horse.
(Condensed from an American "Mercury” article by
Major Robert Ginsburg .)
The call for horses has come out of the very
campaign which demonstrated the machine at its
deadliest. The German conquest of Poland appeared
as a smashing victory for the mechanised engines of
.war, the ’plane, the tank and the combat car, but
without the horse the brilliant strategy of the Blitz-
krieg would not have sufficed to conquer the Polish
army.
Germany moved into Poland with more than
200,000 horses. Every infantry regiment had more
than 500 of them. Of the 240 divisions available to
the Third Reich when the Blitzkrieg hit France and
the Low Countries, more than 200 used animals for
draught and transportation. Nazi propaganda photos.,
including pictures of the Paris occupation, showed the
presence of horses in large numbers.
In invading Poland on the ground, the army first
sent infantry divisions ; a German infantry division
calls for more than 3800 animals. Behind the combat
cars rode the horse cavalry to consolidate and hold
the captured terrain. Then came more infantry,
afoot or on truck, supported by horse-drawn artil-
lery and animal transportation to consolidate the
gains. Germany had used the horse in its well-estab-
—London “Daily Herald.”
“The glory that is Greece —the grandeur that was Rome.”
lished military role. It had remembered the dictum
of Ludendorff, who attributed his failure on the
Western front to the lack of cavalry; “Without
cavalry it is impossible to reap the fruits of victory.”
Within the frame of changed conditions, that dictum
has not been forgotten in other Blitzkrieg drives.
In building up its present army, Hitler’s Third
Reich considered fully the usefulness of the horse,
not only in the campaigns of 1914-18 but in the wars
of the last few years that presaged the coming of the
present European struggle. Experience in Ethiopia
and in Spain had proved conclusively to the Germans
that the advent of the machine did not do away with
the need for animals. In northern Africa, Italy had
introduced the most highly mechanised and motorised
army that had ever taken the field, but before it was
able to win it had to call upon horses, camels, asses
and mules for supply and evacuation. In the capture
of Neghelli the Genoa dragoons and the Aosta lancers
performed in characteristic horse. cavalry style. They
had been transported three hundred kilometres by
motor, unloaded, saddled, mounted and posted on
the flanks of light, fast tanks. The machines made
the frontal attack, horses charged on the flanks, and
victory followed. ...
In Spain, Franco began his campaign with six
squadrons of cavalry and ended with sixty. In moun-
tain fighting and in mopping up isolated positions
Monasterio’s cavalry veterans proved invaluable. Per-
haps the most spectacular attack by mounted horse-
men in this campaign took place when Franco’s
Moors, hurled against Teruel, stampeded the loyalist
army in one minute and a half.
Horses, therefore, are again being mobilised by
the millions by all nations. Exact figures may not
be obtainable, but there is sufficient evidence that
Germany has at least a half-million horses in the
army, and Russia even more. On a visit with the
French armies before their defeat, a newspaper
observer reported the presence of 4000 animals in
a typical infantry division, or one horse to four men.
The American embargo had hardly been lifted when
a French commission appeared in the United States
on a quest for animals.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
Marshal Petain stands out more and more as a
symbol. Gradually he is becoming The Patriarch—
a form of government new to Europe among its
many conflicting ideologies. People are reading the
Marshal’s phrase, “France whom we have sworn to
serve and to save,” with emphasis on the word “save.”
—New York “Times” correspondent in France.
*****
Since July 7, 1937, when a night skirmish on the
outskirts of Peiping, capital of dead dynasties and
ancient glories, set the spark to one of history’s most
brutal dramas, the Japanese have been fighting the
Chinese. Probably from one-seventh to one-fifth of
Japan’s total trained man-power has been lost (killed
or captured or missing, wounded or incapacitated)
in the struggle. Hanson W. Baldwin; New York
“Times.”
#
Finnish children may soon be going to school
to learn air-raid-precaution methods and national
defence. A committee of experts is now studying a
plan to put these subjects on the curriculum of
Finnish schools. —New York “Post.”
He Sfc SH Sfc
“We are not now in the position where we can
adopt that ‘big brother’ attitude toward anybody,
and until and unless we are we should not meddle
in the affairs of any people,” —Henry Ford, of the
U.S.A.
*****
A young father, part-time janitor in the Labor
Temple, New York, stood his ground while Federal
Judge Vincent L. Leibell tried for half an hour to
persuade him to register under the draft
[national service] law. Like Judge Samuel
Mandelbaum, who sentenced eight
divinity students under the same law,
Judge Leibell was trying to avoid the
necessity for meting out punishment. But
the 23-year-old defendant, Angelo Mon-
giore, stood firm. “My God had told me
in prayer that I cannot register,” he de-
clared. Giving up his efforts to get the
young man to register, Judge Leibell
finally sentenced him to eighteen months
in prison. The term was six months
longer than that imposed on the divinity
students. —New York “Times.”
* * * *
The little peoples of Europe, who
do love their assorted countries and who
do not keep their fingers crossed when
singing national anthems, are now dis-
covering that the account they have to
render to their German and Italian
despoilers is precisely the same account
they have to render to their own
“leaders,” from Laval in France to Sima
in Rumania, who, for their own interests,
followed policies that opened the doors
for the enemy soldiers of other coun-
tries. The true French nationalist must
have as many French as German names
in his private book of scores to settle
soon. Samuel Grafton; New York
“Post.”
The attitude of the British toward destruction
of their property in this war is one of the wonders
of the world. Here is a nation of people who had
saved for generations, a country that had been called
a nation of shopkeepers, a country of innate con-
servatism. The common people of Britain have said
good-bye to all that. The spirit with which the
people of England have accomplished this personal
revolution is one of the most brilliant examples in
their history of the genius of the English. It is abso-
lutely true now that the people are giving up every-
thing for their country. They are saying this war is
not as bad as the last one—they lost thousands of
men in the last war, but in this one they are losing
thousands of houses. There is hope for all the world
in England today. Its people have faith that to-
morrow is going to be a freer day than any the world
has yet seen. — New York “PM” London correspondent.
* * * * *
Qn November 3, 1640, the Long Parliament met
at Westminster, and the floodgates of the English
Revolution were opened. The Parliament was not
to be h na n y dissolved for 20 years, nor the revo-
lution consummated for nearly fifty. In that struggle
there was no final victory for either party. Not till
both had suffered disappointment and ruin, till King
and p ar ii amen t alike had been submerged under
m iji tary ru i e and that too had failed, till the two
factions had learnt in adversity to understand one
anot h er better, was the conflict transcended. But
that w hi c h emerged was worthy of the greatness of
t h e sacrifices that had been made, worthy to survive,
as j t has survived, as the way of life of the English
and the faith for which they are still ready to fight
and d i e# It j s a doctrine that the interest of the
commonwealth is greater than that of any part or
c j asSj and yet t h a t no part may be neglected in the
computation of the whole ; that no man is too great
to be subject to the law, and none too small to enjoy
jt s protection ; that all opinions are entitled to a
hearing, but none may be imposed on the unwilling;
that authority is the only safeguard of ffeedom and
the liberties of the subject the only abiding foundation
on which authority can rest. — London “Times.”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIBES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The profit from Tattersall’s Club’s
meeting at Randwick on Saturday went
to the Lord Mayor’s Patriotic and War
Fund, and meant at least £5OOO. An
attendance of 25,000 was 4000 ahead of
the corresponding day last year, and
backers were in such happy speculative
mood that the tote turnover advanced to
£42,513, against £27,528. Presumably the
books fared equally well.
In a measure the withdrawal of Ensign
and Trimmer spoilt the Carrington
Stakes. They were the outstanding can-
didates, and their defection reduced the
field to nine against last year’s 15. Ensign
was hit in the eye by a clod of earth
when running in the Chisholm Handicap,
and Trimmer injured a leg on Friday
afternoon. It was touch-and-go whether
Panchio was not also scratched. He jarred
a foot in the Chisholm Handicap, and it
was only after veterinary examination
on the course that it was decided to start
him. He was the closing favorite, though
very little in advance of Red Thespian
and Waireka,
When the field settled down Waireka
was leading from Panchio and Gallant,
while Miss Pentheus and Happy Bay
were also well placed. Waireka was first
into the straight from Panchio, Happy
Bay, Miss Pentheus and Red Thespian,
and was seemingly doing so well that her
backers had reason to be on good terms
with themselves. However, Red Thes-
pian and then Cassar closed on her at the
leger, and she could not respond.
A hundred yards from home Caesar’s
success was certain, and he comfortably
beat Red Thespian, with Penthides, who
shifted about a lot, in third place.
Waireka was fourth, and then Gallant,
while the last two were Panchio and Miss
Pentheus, both of whom struck tro’uble in
the straight, Penthides cutting across
Panchio. No excuse was possible for
Waireka this time, and the honors of the
race were entirely with Oesar, who, as
usual, commenced slowly but, aided by a
clear run from the turn, went right away
from his opponents at the finish.
Caesar’s previous win in Sydney was at
Randwick nearly 15 months ago, so it
was time he gave his joint owners, A.
Stephen and Miss P. Stephen, another
profitable race. Miss Pentheus found the
opposition too strong, while, though Gal-
lant was never actually dangerous, his
effort could be classed as promising. He
met with interference.
B. Payten’s stable also had a winning
turn in the Denman Handicap. Feminist
was backed for the Villiers Stakes, and,
though the distance of that race was
short for her, she ran sufficiently well to
assure strong support over a longer jour-
ney. Although Yours Truly was slow
off the mark he led at the mile post,
and again attempted an “all-the-way”
win. He was followed round the turn
by Feminist, Early Bird and Peerless
(second for a long way) in that order.
Feminist had the race won a furlong
from home, and experienced no diffi-
culty in stalling off Early Bird and
Marengo. In running Marengo’s chance
never looked a winning one, nor did that
of St. Constant, whose price of 4 to 1
was false considering he had the steadier
of 9.9.
Kingsdale, an odds-on favorite for the
Juvenile Stakes, quickly got to the head
of affairs, and always had the measure of
Milanja, his nearest follower most of
the way. My Janet, a good-looking
Limarch filly, was a moderate third, suc-
ceeded by Owl’s Rest, who ran all over
the place after entering the straight. Of
the remainder the best that can be said
is that Pallas and Belle Comedienne
showed pace, and Constant Silver and
Lady Bertha ran on fairly. As this was
Kingsdale’s third win—two at Randwick
—he has already proved profitable at his
yearling price of 325gn5., and is a good
advertisement for Andrea.
In finishing fourth Alluring, favorite
for the first division of the Maiden Han-
dicap, ran respectably, and is sure to
make amends for her failure. Canvasser
was the early leader, but The Miller was
with him at the top of the straight, and
was much too good over the final fur-
long, third place going to Ginger Hugh,
who was prominent throughout. The
Miller is a sturdy three-year-old by
Harinero from Turilawa, and looks a
weight-carrier. He is owned and trained
by E. F. Smith, who, over a number of
years, has achieved satisfactory results
with small teams. Real Gem, Decelea
and Nicolo ran well enough to be worth
remembering.
The second division of the Maiden
Handicap resolved itself into a match
between Half Way and Innisfail over the
last furlong. The former won, but by
only a half-head, with Red Pete, who
finished faster than either, three-quarters
of a length away. At the start Red Pete
met with a little bad luck, or the result
might have been different. Crowon,
Eager Fox and All Praise were nearest
the place-getters, and, though Eager Fox
has not been a success up to the present,
it might be safe to bet that he will win
for F. Christey, who purchased him re-
cently. Reports concerning the track
deeds of Addition (a three-year-old by
The Buzzard) caused her to be in strong
demand, but, though favorite, she gave
her backers a poor run. Second favorite
Triton did very little better,
L’Amond was such a close fourth in
the race won by Fire Jax on the opening
day of the A.J.C. meeting that his form
in the Encourage Handicap was not a
surprise. Electra did most of the pace-
making, but Patrician was alongside her
halfway down the straight, L’Amond,
with a strong finishing run, was in charge
nearly a hundred yards from home, and
Knox rode him out to win by a length
from My Dear, who : ‘ran out the distance
better than her owner expected. Enderby,
who came home well after being some-
what unlucky, was a close third, suc-
ceeded by Pennywise, who made up a
lot of leeway over the last three furlongs.
Patrician weakened towards the end, and
Captain Gore’s weight proved too much
for him in a soundly-run mile. Plantage
was a complete failure, as was Kestrel,
who, after jumping away well, could not
hold his place.
Tuckerbox, who started at a surpris-
ingly liberal price for the Pace Welter,
was sixth, and rather wide out, rounding
the turn, but eventually won comfortably
from Knight Folly, who looked dan-
gerous when he made a run inside the
final furlong. However, he did not do as
well at the end as Tuckerbox. Merton,
the early leader, and Lady Dunottar were
at the head of affairs opposite the leger,
and half a furlong from home it seemed
almost certain that one or the other
would get a place. Both tired, and Sigh
ran third, followed by Sapphire Blue,
who did well from the turn. He was
lengths behind the main body at an early
stage. Mabson, who was backed, got
away so badly that his chance was hope-
less from the first furlong. Climax was
well beaten before the straight was
reached, and finished a long way back.
Although fourth in the race won by
Überous the previous Saturday that run
scarcely warranted her strong favoritism,
even with Bartle as her rider.
Malagigi’s Summer Cup win was de-
cisive. After he disposed of Yours Truly
in the straight he fairly ran away from
the latter and Sedunum. The fact of
Sedunum hanging over the final furlong
did not make the slightest difference. He
could not have beaten Malagigi if he
had gone as straight as a bullet. The
surprise of the race was the poor show-
ing made by Tusculum, who had beaten
Yours Truly and Malagigi less than a
fortnight earlier, and had worked well
subsequently. He never even looked a
place-getter. Kurrawid was prominent
near the turn, and then stopped, while
Dollar and Peerless did much better than
in the Holiday Handicap, and there is still
hope for Dollar at middle distances.
Bourbon did not give his supporters a
look-in, and, as on this occasion com-
plaint was impossible on the score of the
track being unfavorable, it would seem
that he has passed his best day as a
stayer.
Some backers of Yours Truly were per-
turbed when they saw him sent to the
front early in the Summer Cup, but it is
improbable that he could have been
handled in a manner that would have
given him a greater chance of success.
He escaped all trouble, was bowling
along comfortably at the head of affairs
when seven furlongs were covered, and,
without being bustled, had a useful lead
turning into the straight. He struggled
gamely when tackled by Malagigi oppo-
site the leger, but was not good enough.
Though winner of the New Zealand Cup,
two miles, under a light weight, and also
successful at a mile and a half at Rand-
wick, it cannot be claimed for Yours
Truly that he has shown himself a true
stayer since he came to Australia,
The first two furlongs of the Summer
Cup were run in 26sec., and the first five
in 1.5*, which, as the time for the full
distance was 2.43*, made the final mile
1.38. Malagigi, however, was at least
half a dozen lengths behind Yours Truly
at the mile post, so his actual time must
have been no worse than 1.37, probably
better.
Breeze was not in the same galloping
humor in the A.J.C. Handicap as in the
Villiers. She was a long way back after
going two furlongs, and was running un-
kindly when Cook attempted to move
her up between the four and five fur-
longs. Halfway down the straight she
appeared a possibility for third, but was
beaten for that position by Sigh, who
was always one of the leading division.
* * * He
If anyone had suggested to G. Price
that Waireka would be outpaced all the
way in the Chisholm Handicap he would
probably have smiled disbelievingly.
However, such was the case. After being
slow off the mark Waireka did not get
within coo-ee of the leaders. The field
quickly spread out, and from the end of
the first furlong it was certain the issue
would be confined to Trimmer, Panchio,
Ensign and Petruchio. It was something
of a surprise to see Trimmer and Panchio
well out from Ensign after going three
furlongs, but it is probable the blow the
latter received in the eye had something
to do with it.
* * * *
Feminist’s win with 8.2 in the Denman
Handicap puts her a long way in Tatter-
sail’s Cup with the same weight. She has
51b. more than she successfully carried in
the Metropolitan last year, but in order
to win she will not need to do any better
than repeat that form. As compared with
last Saturday she will meet Marengo
131 b. and St. Constant 71b. worse, but it
is probable she will be better suited than
either by the mile and a half. She will
also be 41b. worse off by comparison with
Yours Truly, but in the Denman Handi-
cap he ran like a tired horse.
If certainty attached to Marengo get-
ting the distance, his chance with his
comparatively light weight would be
excellent, but he has to be taken on trust
as a stayer. Sedunum should be all the
better for his Summer Cup run, and as
he has 51b. less than when third last year
must enter calculations. Malagigi beat
him very easily in the Summer Cup, but
will meet him 101 b. worse, and that is
sufficient to make a difference.
Figures do not give Peerless any
chance against Feminist. If Gladynev
runs he will give a good account of him-
self, but perhaps he may be reserved for
the Wellington Cup. Fountain does not
appear to have returned to his best form,
and, though Australasia may be one of
the leaders for a long way, this company
is likely to be a little too good for him.
Feminist and Sedunum read best, and
third should come from Malagigi,
Marengo or St. Constant. Last year
Binnia Hero, 7.7 (6 to 1), won by a neck
from Malagigi, 8.8, with Sedunum, 9.2, a
similar distance further away. Malagigi
was favorite to 3 to 1.
* * * *
Charlie Kellow won the 1938 A.J.C.
and Victoria Derbies with Nuffield, and
the probabilities are that he has another
young potential stayer in Intrepid, who
recorded his second win from his last
three starts when he beat Florette and
Danae in a “camera” finish for the first
Beaumaris division at Mentone on Satur-
day.
Intrepid may have a long way to go
before he can be classed alongside the
best of his age, but, if he does progress as
anticipated, his connections will have one
regret. He is by Portofino from Misadven-
ture. His dam is not a Studbook mare,
and Intrepid therefore is ineligible for the
Derbies and St. Legers. In all his races
he has given the impression that staying
will be his forte, and breeding favors
him in this respect also. His half-brother
Madstar won an Australian Cup.
Backers who took a short price about
Intrepid would have sold out cheap
when he was seven or eight lengths
behind the leader entering the straight,
but, responding gamely when Preston sat
down to ride him, he snatched a head win.
Law Student weakened into fourth posi-
tion after leading clearly for home, and
evidently is not as good as his Debutant
Stakes third suggested. Danae, however,
should repay following. Having only
her second race, she battled on strongly
to finish less than two heads behind the
winner.
Intrepid’s success made out a strong
case for Leo James in the second Beau-
maris division. Latter appeared unlucky
not to have beaten Intrepid at the Valley
at his previous start, and, although only
a small colt, a 71b. allowance reduced his
weight to 8.6 on Saturday. Backed to
odds-on, Leo James soon cleared out
with a good lead, but after running rather
wide at the turn failed to withstand a
strong challenge by Wheatear. Latter was
a smart track galloper early in the season,
but his race form had been moderate,
and there was very little money for him
at 12 to 1. A Manitoba-Bandarole colt,
trained by Harry Gabell for Mrs. H. D.
Wood, his time for the five furlongs was
three-quarters of a second slower than
that recorded by Intrepid. Binker shaped
fairly in third place, and probably will
be all the better for the race.
Melbourne’s most versatile horse is
Our Boy, who unwound a remarkable run
to beat Con Devon and Bankshaw in a
head and half-head finish for the Summer
Handicap. In a field weakened by the
scratchings of Saul and Grandson, Our
Boy was always a short-priced favorite,
and from the home turn, where he was
about eight lengths behind the leader, it
was a question of whether his apprentice
rider, F. Morris, would be strong enough
to do him justice. Morris was. equal to
the occasion. Taking his mount to the
centre of the track to escape the mud being
thrown up by horses in front, he put
everything he had into his finishing effort,
and landed Our Boy a winner in the last
stride. It was an amazing performance,
and Morris deserved the ovation he re-
ceived. Apprenticed to Our Boy’s trainer,
Lou Robertson, he is a nephew of Ernie
Morris, who for years rode with out-
standing success in India.
With two wins and a close second from
his last three races. Our Boy is better
than ever, and if he shows corresponding
FOR RANDWICK TODAY.
(By “PILOT.”)
New Year’s Gift: Rylstone, 1 ;
Gallant, 2 ; Dawn Mary, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Skerries, 1 ,
America, 2 ; Papillon, 3.
Flying Welter: Petruchio, 1 ;
Waireka, 2 ; Table Talk, 3.
Tattersall’s Club Cup: Feminist,
1 ; Sedunum, 2; Malagigi or
Marengo, 3.
Trial Stakes: Cryon, 1 ; The Elk,
2 ; Merrimba, 3.
Alfred Hill Handicap: Bonny
Loch, 1 ; Tuckerbox, 2; Knight
Folly, 3.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap: Novice or Wee Woo.
Juvenile Handicap (colts and
geldings): Kimbell or Fort Morgan.
Juvenile Handicap (fillies) ;
Medieval Rose or Arenessa.
Peter Moore Cup: Triggerman
or Überous.
Moorefield Handicap: Sioneel or
Early Hope.
Flying Welter Handicap: Electra
or Grey Derby.
FOR FLEMINGTON TODAY.
(Before acceptances .)
(By “SENTRY.”)
New Year Hurdle: Winterset, 1 ;
Jack Mac, 2 ; Exmoor, 3.
Stradbroke Stakes: High Title, 1 ;
Tea Cake, 2 ; Sangallo, 3.
Standish Handicap: All Veil, 1;
Pamelus, 2 ; Riviera, 3.
January Steeplechase: Whernside,
1 ; Highland March, 2 ; Seymour, 3.
Bagot Handicap: Marauder, 1 ;
Saul, 2 ; Fearless, 3.
Welter Handicap; Scarlet Toi, 1 ;
Grandson, 2 ; Carpentier, 3 .


improvement in his hurdling when next
he is tried over jumps he will be a defi-
nite danger in the National. He is to be
kept in work, and probably will win more
flat races before entries close for the
G.N. and Australian Hurdles. Our Boy
has not raced over hurdles since his suc-
cess at Moonee Valley in June, a per-
formance which sent him to temporary
favoritism for the G.N. Hurdle won by
Cheery Jack, but an injury prevented his
running. Now six years old, Our Boy
will be more seasoned for the correspond-
ing race this season. Con Devon and
Bankshaw had every chance on Saturday,
and no excuse was possible for Fear-
nought’s failure to finish closer than
fourth. Royal Jubilee was not suited by
the soft going, and dropped out at the
business end.
Sent to the outside after he had dashed
through the tapes, put the starting
mechanism out of action temporarily,
and delayed the start nine minutes, Ajon
was “thrown” out of the barrier, clear
of the rest of thff field, in the Sorrento
Handicap. Backers of other horses pro-
tested loudly, but the starter was saved
further criticism when Ajon, after pilot-
ing the field to the turn, weakened to
finish fourth. Beaufiler looked all over
a winner when she ran to a clear lead
inside the last furlong, but Bev Rose
unwound a remarkable run to defeat her
half a head.
Bev Rose has run most of her best
races at Mentone, but even her most
enthusiastic followers considered success
out of the question when she was last at
the half-mile, and still a long way out of
her ground at the turn. She is nothing
if not game, however, and is a much
better galloper than generally credited.
Her win was her third from her last
four starts, and a nice price has been
obtained about her on each occasion.
Perhaps bookmakers and punters will
take her more seriously in future. A
four-year-old by Beau Fils from Love
Lane, she is raced and trained by G.
Kennedy. Old Vienna, backed from 6
to 1 to favoritism at 5 to 2, did not begin
as smartly as usual, but ran on fairly in
third place.
Described by Norman Shing as one of
the most consistent gallopers and best
travellers he has trained, Graeme demon-
strated her hardiness by beating Manstar
and Turncoat in the first division of the
Rosebud Trial Handicap. She left her
training quarters at Wahgunyah, approxi-
mately 200 miles from Melbourne, by
trailer-float at 6.30 on Friday night, and
was expected to arrive in the city about
11 p.m., but, because of a puncture, her
arrival was delayed until two o’clock on
Saturday morning. A more “toey” mare
would have been upset by the experience,
but Graeme was not affected in the least,
and moved as well as ever in her final
sprint at 6 a.m. Backed from 12 to 1
down to sevens, she shot through to take
the lead when Chapani swung wide at
the turn, and the result was not in doubt
subsequently. Although consistent,
Graeme had raced unluckily in previous
starts, but, judged by Saturday’s perform-
ance, further success should come her
way shortly. Shing generally has the
“goods” when he comes to the city. Last
time he was in Melbourne he did particu-
larly well with Tidylus and Fidylus.
Chapani, although unplaced in the first
Rosebud Trial division, will not be a 50-
to-1 chance at her next appearance in
moderate company. This “unknown"
from Adelaide, where she is owned by
former Sydneyite F. P. Cruttenden, part-
owner of the King’s Cup winner Kuvera,
revealed a fine turn of speed, and, after
running rather wide at the turn, battled
on to finish fourth. The race should do a
lot for her, and maybe she will soon
recompense Cruttenden for his mis-
fortune with Valmiki. Latter was lame
after working on Saturday, and is to be
spelled.
Formerly a tearaway customer who
generally ran wide at the turn, Miss
Marchalong completed the hat-trick in
winning the second Rosebud Trial divi-
sion. The secret of her improved form
lies in altered riding tactics. She has
been ridden from behind in each of her
last three races, and has finished strongly
in each. Favorite at 9 to 4 on Saturday,
Miss Marchalong won under difficulties.
She seemed to trip and almost fall at the
turn. The mishap cost her a fair amount
of ground, and seemed likely to settle her
chance, but a fine finishing run enabled
her to beat the pacemaker, Palencia, in
the last stride. More will be heard’ of
Miss Marchalong, whose trainer, J.
Besanko, has had a good innings lately.
Stewards inquired into the running of Son
o’ Val, who finished third. They took no
action against the owner or trainer, but
reprimanded W. Cox for not riding out
his mount.
Alibi followed his Moonee Valley win
of a week earlier by justifying his favorit-
ism for the Woodleigh Handicap. He
gave Bevera a long start into the straight,
but the pacemaker veered out, and Alibi,
left with a clear inside run, beat her a
neck. Alibi’s two latest wins have been at
a mile, and on each occasion he has fin-
ished well enough to indicate that he will
develop into a useful middle-distance
handicapper. Edmonton was a moderate
third after being fifth for home, and he
can be placed to advantage.
Kingswear’s form in the Ascot Cup, in
which he finished last without ever being
dangerous, said little for his chance in
the Talgarno Welter, but he came from
sixth at the turn to win decisively from
Tourist and Gold Token. He is partial
to the welter scale and the Mentone
track, and the soft going suited
him. There was sufficient money to
bring his price from 20 to 1 down to 14’s,
but owner C. H. Rennie’s “investment”
was only £2 each way on the tote. Tote
paid odds of almost 33 to 1 for a win
and 6 to 1 for the place. Contact’s win-
ning sequences ended when he weakened
after following Spearwings and Rambler
into the straight, while the last-named
pair did not improve their prospects by
cutting at each other in front. Spear-
wings hung on to finish a good fourth,
and is close to another win.
* * * *
Even when the minimum is 7.0 a three-
year-old has to be above the useful class
to win a mile Trial Handicap at Rand-
wick With 8.11, and the task was too stiff
for Veiled Threat. Backed as if he could
not lose, he was always in a bad position,
and finished a little further back than
the middle of the field. Sioneel won in
remarkable fashion, losing his followers
after turning into the straight, and his
mile in 1.36 - worked out much the same
as Marengo’s 1.50 for nine furlongs
later in the day. Sioneel should have no
difficulty in winning a mile welter at a
suburban meeting, nor should Lady
Dunottar, notwithstanding she failed in
Tuckerbox’s race on Saturday. The Elk’s
third also puts him in line for a win,
and among the unplaced lot Edifice made
a promising showing.
* * * *
Melvale’s third in the December Stakes
was impressive, considering he had not
previously raced. Second-last into the
straight, he finished strongly, confirming
the good reports concerning his galloping
ability. He is a stoutly-built colt by
Melfort from Leila Vale, and it is prob -
able that in the autumn he will do a
great deal in advertising his sire. His
withdrawal from the Juvenile Stakes was
a surprise, but it appears he was troubled
by soreness after his December Stakes
run. If Melvale had started, Kingsdale
would not have been at 9 to 4 on. His
dam, Leila Vale, won the Gimcrack
Stakes and Adrian Knox Stakes.
* * * *
The stipendiary stewards gave the
jockeys quite a lively time at Randwick
on Saturday. Six of the nine riders in
the Carrington Stakes were questioned as
to happenings in that race. There were
other inquiries during the afternoon, and,
though no jockey struck serious trouble,
intimations as to what might happen in
the future if they brought about trouble
should have a good effect. As a rule
apprentices are blamed for nearly every-
thing that is undesirable during the
course of a race, but all of those called
up by the stewards last week were experi-
enced riders.
* * * *
What a lot of money is wasted by tote
backers on horses that it is almost impos-
sible to credit with any chance of success!
This is specially the case at Randwick,
where so many women patronise the
machine. It can be pointed out that
Half Way paid 24 to 1 for a win in the
first division of the Maiden Handicap,
and My Dear a little over 27 to 1 for a
place in the Encourage Handicap on
Saturday last, but winners or place-
getters from the rank outside division are
rare by comparison with the support they
receive. It is a grievance with some of
the books that so little money for the
“rough stuff” comes their way. That,
however, is not altogether surprising, as
so many reach their limit when they offer
25 to 1 about horses that, on form, look
100-to-l chances even for minor races.
That is one reason why the tote is favored
in the case of outsiders.
* * * *
The manner in which Papillon won
the Summer Nursery at Randwick sug-
gested staying possibilities. She cleared
away from her followers over the last
furlong, and her time, 1.5| for five and
a half furlongs, practically equalled
Yaralla’s 59i for five furlongs in the
December Stakes. Final Victory behaved
himself fairly at the start of Papillon’s
race, but he was further behind that filly
at the finish than at the straight entrance.
Lawgiver was the particular disappoint-
ment of the race. He was sweating freely
just before going on the track, and
finished last. If later on Papillon should
stay fairly she will not be the first of
her sex by El Cacique to do so. El
Senorita won a mile and a half race at
Randwick in 2.29?.
* * * *
Prize-money for Tattersall’s meeting at
Randwick on Saturday was contributed
by various bodies, and distributed as fol-
lows: Carrington Stakes, £lOOO, “Sydney
Morning Herald,” the “Sun” and “Daily
Telegraph” ; Pace Welter, £450, Austra-
lian Jockey Club; Denman Handicap,
£5OO, Liquor Trade of New South Wales ;
Encourage Handicap, £3OO, bookmaking
members of Tattersall’s Club ; Juvenile
Stakes, £450, Retail Traders’ Association
of N.S.W.; Maiden Handicap, £4OO,
Tattersall’s Club.
* * * *
Prince Ariel did not run up to expec-
tations under a light weight in the Eclipse
Stakes at Flemington, but F. Godby s
judgment in taking him to Adelaide
proved correct. Prince Ariel won the
Cheltenham Handicap, and, though the
even money at which he started did not
permit of a big win, it is probable the
black’s trainer was satisfied. So far
Prince Ariel has shown himself better
under heavy weights than at the ordinary
scale.
* * * *
L’Aiglon had run so well in Melbourne
on more than one recent occasion that
he was well in the betting for the Hope-
toun Handicap, which he won. As he
had 9st. his form approached his best
of the past. He was a long time out of
the winning list, his previous success being
in the Waverley Handicap in the spring
of last season. Fearless was a close
third in the Hopetoun Handicap, in which
with 8.7 he was weighted up to his best.
Marauder was one of the field, but,
though he had only 7.12, did not give any
trouble. Perhaps another winning turn
may not be long in coming, as he is re-
ported to be working well. He is getting
ancient, but is being so favorably
weighted that he may not be too old to
add to his credit account.
* * * *
“What is the average trainer’s concep-
tion of a ‘good sportsman’?” was a ques-
tion I heard asked the other day. It is
not so with all, but long experience
forces me to the conclusion that many
reckon the term can be applied only to
the man who lays them a substantial
“bit to nothing,” or, if they are putting
on some of their own money, gives them
well over the odds he really secured,
and a little present into the bargain.
* * * *
Writing from Efcping, Archie Mc-
Intyre says: “Dear ‘Pilot,’ —Your refer-
ence to winners at their first start recalls
the series of records held by Martini-
Henry. He won the Victoria Derby at
his first start, and was the first animal
of Musket blood to arrive from Maori-
land or to be seen on a racecourse in
this country.”
* * * *
W. Kelso has since been associated
with many important winners, but prob-
ably the proudest day of his life was
when, at the age of a few months over
11; he won Tattersall’s Cup, 2 miles,
and the New Year’s Gift, \\ mile, on
Lord Orville on the same afternoon at
Tattersall’s New Year’s meeting. Lord
Orville had 6.2 in the Cup, which he
won by two lengths, and, inclusive of
a penalty, 6.11 in the New Year’s Gift,
which was the last race of the day.
The “ ‘Australasian’ Turf Register” does
not give Lord Orville’s exact Cup price,
including him in the “10 to 20 others,”
but he started at 5 to 1 for the New
Year’s Gift. Two races intervened be-
tween the Cup and the Gift.
* * * *
Ten colts and nine fillies by Double
Remove are catalogued for the Randwick
yearling sales, and 12 colts and 19 fillies
by Midstream, Kia-Ora’s newest sire.
As usual, H. S. Thompson contributes
freely to W. Inglis and Son’s yearling
catalogue. His total is 64, apart from
those he is selling in partnership with
P. C. Basche. There are 26 youngsters
from St. Aubins, A. E. Haley is sending
up 24 and A. W. Thompson 23.
* * * ♦
Illegal betting has got such a strong
hold in Tasmania that clubs are attempt-
ing to combat it. At a recent conference
of galloping and trotting clubs in Laun-
ceston the following motion was agreed
to;
The representatives of galloping and
trotting clubs in Northern Tasmania view
with alarm the spread of betting in places
other than on the racecourses and in regis-
tered betting premises; they agree to
recommend to our clubs that no facilities
be provided or allowed on the courses for
the receipt of betting by telephone or tele-
gram. They ask that the Commissioner of
Police should use his best endeavors to
suppress illegal betting.
A Taranaki writer is enthusiastic con-
cerning High Caste’s yearling brother. He
says he is a typical Bulandshar, showing
lots of quality and being so well grown
that it would be possible to take him for
a two-year-old. Breeder McGovern is
going to race the colt himself. Among
the mares that have foaled to Buland-
shar this season is the speedy Stretto. A
well-known Maorilander, Te Hero, is now
at the stud, but his services are being con-
fined to mares owned by A. Kay and
M. M. Tims.
* * * *
Catalogue, winner of the 1938 Mel-
bourne Cup, and now 10 years old, is
still battling along in Maoriland. As was
to be expected he has gone downhill. A
little over a fortnight ago he ran at the
Otaki meeting, and, with the minimum
7st., carried 9.2 in the Wairongomai Han-
dicap, seven furlongs. In a field of seven
only two received less support than Cata-
logue, who was unplaced. The winner,
Sir Crusoe, was giving Catalogue 31b. It
looks as if nine-year-old Pamelus is going
to last longer than Catalogue. At Flem-
ington on Boxing Day Pamelus’s win
with 9.2 in the Christmas Handicap was
form within reasonable distance of that
shown by him at his best.
* * * *
Bronwen, winner of the principal
sprint, the Railway Handicap, at the
Auckland R.C. meeting, was successful in
the corresponding race last year. She car-
ried 7.5 last week against 7.13 on the pre-
vious occasion, when she cut out the six
furlongs in 1.1 If. The track must have
been on the slow side last week, the time
being 1.12 f. If that was so, Beau Vite’s
2.24 f for two miles in the Auckland Cup
was smart going.
» * * *
Trainer A. Higgins is having a great
time in Calcutta this season. In addi-
tion to the King-Emperor’s Cup, Baqlava,
from his stable, won the Viceroy’s Cup,
Finalist running second. The latter won
the Viceroy’s Cup in 1938 and 1939.
* * * *
The result of the Auckland Cup further
demonstrated that high-class stayers are
not overnumerous in Maoriland. Despite
his steadier of 9.6 Beau Vite won by
three-quarters of a length from Old Bill,
who, with 9.0, was third topweight. In
the cabled result of the race it was not
mentioned whether Royal Chief (9.11)
started. Beau Leon, who was third, is a
three-year-old by Beau Pere, but, as he
carried only 7.1 he is evidently not out of
the ordinary.
It was recently stated by Maoriland
writers that Beau Vite might not visit
Sydney for autumn racing, but the fact
of his competing at Auckland tends to
the idea he will come over. When he re-
turned to Maoriland from Australia it
was reported that the Wellington Cup,
on Jan. 16, was to be his mission, but he
is now bound to get so much weight in
that race that it seems safe to account
him an improbable runner. If so, there
will be time to give him a let-up before
returning to Sydney, and that may assure
his presence at the AJ.C. autumn meet-
ing. It is to be hoped so,
* * * *
Maoriland has many people who breed
thoroughbreds in a small way. Yearlings
catalogued for the National Sale at
Trentham (Wellington) this month total
220, and 101 breeders are represented.
Fifty-eight have one yearling each, and
the principal subscriber, G. M. Currie,
has 16. Next to him comes F. B. Don-
nelly with 12, and no one else reaches
double figures. The sires with most
yearlings are Theio (Tetratema-Thyene)
with 13, and Mr. Standfast (Buchan-
Cinna) 12. Defoe (sire of Defaulter) has
five representatives, and High Caste’s sire,
Bulandshar, seven.
♦ * * *
Only for the trouble attaching to get-
ting them here, Australian breeders could
now get many bargains in mares,
fillies and colts. At the Newmarket
sales on Oct. 14 many well-bred yearlings
did not realise 30gns. each, and few
reached the three-figure mark. A colt by
Hyperion from Quashed made 1400gns.,
but the total for the 109 lots sold was
only 6359gn5. Fifty-two were sold for
less than 20gns. each. It was much the
same with the Ballsbridge (Dublin) sales
held about the same time.
* # * *
Seven Fifty, who at his only run at
Randwick during the summer meetings
finished a long last in the AJ.C. Holiday
Handicap, being eased up before reach-
ing the judge’s box, has been sent to
Riverstone for a spell. His place in
B. Payten’s team has been taken by
Katanga, who was given a spell on his
return from Melbourne.
* * * *
In a recent issue I mentioned that the
treble tote was popular in India and big
dividends were not unusual. There was
one at Calcutta on King-Emperor’s Cup
day, and a woman benefited, she being


GOOD
SMOOTH SHAVE
a
b
6
BEST
BRITISH
BLADE
Sole Agents: JOUBERT & JOUBERT PTY. LTD.
BE YOUNG
and VIGOROUS AGAIN
Doctors soy your virility and vig-
our depend greatly on your Hor-
mone Glands. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
eetroct. Will definitely rejuve-
nate you and banish weakness.
Price 10/6. Write TO-DAY.
MEN!
I.JONES £ CO
821
GLAND
TONIC
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
the sole selector of the treble. She pur-
chased her ticket in the Rs 3 (4s. 6d.) tote,
and her return for selecting Reflection,
Baqlava and San Remo was R 527,541
(approximately £A2065). In the ring the
respective straight-out prices of those
horses were 6 to 1, 8 to 1 and 12 to 1.
Although the books offered only 12 to 1
about San Remo, his price on the straight-
out tote was 60 to 1. The stable money
was on its other runner, Most Charming,
second favorite at 7 to 2.
Yaralla is an exceptionally good colt,
but it is rather early yet to prophesy
whr.t he will do in next season’s three-
year-old races and the Melbourne Cup.
He has won his races in very easy
fashion, but, though opinions naturally
differ on that score, it is questionable
whether any of the colts he has beaten
have claims to be considered really high-
class. So many two-year-olds that
shone at spring and summer meetings
subsequently failed to realise expectations
that it makes one chary of proclaiming
anything certain to be a champion.
Some of Yaralla’s admirers evidently
believe he is going to be a Phar Lap and
Peter Pan rolled into one, and few will
begrudge his owner such a slice of luck
if it proves correct, but it might be as
well to see what the autumn tells before
making an early attempt to back him
for the Victoria Derby and Melbourne
Cup double. As a two-year-old Mollison
was truly great, but he did not win a
Derby, though he won mile w.f.a. races
at three years. It can, of course, be
pointed out that his breeding did not
favor him to the same extent as Yaralla,
who is by The Buzzard, whose progeny
stay, and also improve with age.
* * * *
There were 16 runners for the King-
Emperor’s Cup won by Baqlava on Dec.
14, Finalist was favorite at 2 to 1, but,
as in the previous year, ran second to
Baqlava, who started at 8 to 1. Baqlava,
who won by two lengths, made the record
time for the race of 1.38|. He was
ridden by E. Treffone, of Perth, who was
only secured after the Melbourne jockey
E. Preston had declined an offer to go
by air to India. Preston was wanted for
Baqlava, who is trained by A. Higgins.
Respirator was the only Australian run-
ner, and, quoted at 50 to 1, he finished
last. The field was reckoned the most
costly that had ever run in a race in
India. The horses left the paddock in the
order of their number on the card, and
were led by syces in white uniforms sup-
plied by the Calcutta Turf Club.
* ♦ * ♦
The oldest race confined to mares and
fillies in America is the Ladies’ Handi-
cap. It was first run at Jerome Park in
1868, but since 1905 has been decided
at Belmont Park (New York). This year
it was run in October, and was won by
Salaminia (8.3), who beat the five-year-
old mare Pretty Pet (8.2) half a length
in 2.30 for the mile and a half. As usual
in all American races, the pace was on
from the start, the first quarter-mile being
run in 23sec. It was a stake worth win-
ning, first money being $12,250.
* * * •
The racing season closed in the State
of New York on November 6, and the
totalisator turnover for 174 days came
quite up to expectations, entirely dis-
posing of any ideas the books may have
had of reinstatement. The amount put
through was $103,159,529, of which
$5,157,971 went to the State. The aver-
age attendance per day for the 174 days
was computed at 11,690. At the present
time the rate of exchange with Australia
is only a little over $3 to £l, so there is
no doubt as to Americans being free
bettors.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Morgan Retains His Title
Some 10,000 head or more settled
down in and around North Sydney Oval
for the open-air evening of stoush on
Boxing Night, with the Australian light-
weight title at stake between Tod Morgan
(9.8|, holder) and Joe Hall (9.7 i); pro-
ceeds to the Mayor’s Patriotic and Com-
forts Fund ; pews, ring and other neces-
sities provided free of charge by various
good-hearted citizens; and contestants
coming from as far afield as Westralia
(Tod Morgan) and Tasmania (the two
Apple Isle amateur champions, Harold
Jones and Joe Dinon).
With three prelims, covering their
allotted six rounds, another going three
of the six, two others their full eight and
then the main scrap lasting into the
eleventh, there was enough fight to satisfy
an annual meeting of cat-lovers. There
must have been a tidy rake-off for the
good causes, and in view of the general
free-of-charge atmosphere it seems fair
enough to mention here on the same
terms that the show’s honorary promoter
was J. L. Geraghty, licensed to sell fer-
mented and spirituous at Crow’s Nest
(Bottle Dept., XF2007).
These prelims, dispensed with, we come
to the main scrap, an extraordinary show
in its way. Tod is now round about 38,
but well-preserved in appearance. He has,
of course, slowed up considerably, but he
is still a dangerous puncher, and that a
scrapper of his age should be willing to
take anything coming to him while making
the fight for the first half-dozen rounds
tells its own story of the fighting courage
that was always one of Tod’s qualities.
The general rule is that scrappers who are
getting on a bit are more eager to get
away from punishment than to go in
looking for it. They also usually strive
to save on their stamina, lest they find it
missing over the later rounds.
Not so Tod. He strove to get in close
to Joe from the start, and took plenty
in doing so. Beside Tod’s raky frame
and light-tan tinted pelt Joe looked
young, a health advertisement, literally in
the pink. Moreover, he looked as strong
as a young ox, was hitting faster and
straighter than Tod, getting home solid
straight lefts and right crosses as Tod
came in, and, when Tod got in, covering
up in a well-nigh impregnable smother.
Age and the rest considered, Tod’s bat-
tering attack against that smother looked
like a suicidal waste of energy, but about
one of his punches in every dozen got
through to Joe’s tummy, and, as Kui
Kong Young twice demonstrated, Joe
simply can’t take it down there.
By faster, straighter and cleaner punch-
ing Joe won the first three rounds, at
least cut even in the fourth, and then won
the fifth. Most of this time Tod was
attacking, but Joe was picking him off
well with his straight left and with right
counters, as well as making most of his
close assault futile. Tod was feeling his
way in close with both hands extended
about a foot apart straight in front, an
approach that looked both slow and
clumsy. It seemed that it was only a
matter of Joe’s having the heart to cut
loose, turn aggressor and box him, and
Joe couldn’t possibly have lost. Instead,
after perhaps landing a fine straight left
or a good right, he’d begin to go into his
smother, like a snail into its shell, back-
ing away from Tod’s feeling approach till
the ropes pulled him up, and, crouching
there, smothered up, with his seat and a
good deal more of him poking out
through the ropes, while Tod crowded
over him, walloping away.
Joe’s one real burst of attack occurred
in the sikth, when he cut loose for a
second or two, landing a heavy left hook,
a right, two more left hooks and another
right in succession to Tod’s jaw and head.
Maybe it was the way Tod took that lot
that took the fight out of Joe, or it may
have been the odd ones that kept getting
through to his tummy. At all events,
from here on Tod had his measure. In
the seventh Joe was twice halfway out
through the ropes, just letting himself go
as Tod crowded into him. On these two
occasions Tod kindly assisted him back.
Then, as Joe retreated to another side of
the ring and started to fall through again,
Tod helped him on his apparently pre-
ferred journey with a hearty right
dropped down on his jaw.
Joe crumpled through, and fell off the
ring apron on to the press board, out to
the world. Others besides pressmen occu-
pied the ringside, including vociferous
barrackers, and several hands helped to
roll Joe back on to the apron, with an
extra push that rolled him over into the
ring. As his head and shoulders rolled
through, ref. Harald Baker began the
count, Joe having already been uncon-
scious outside for some 20-odd seconds.
At “nine” he rose, smothered up, and,
nobody hearing the bell, took a tidy
amount of walloping before the time-
keeper bawled out that the bell had gone.
Bottleholders rushed in, grabbed Joe
and heaved him forcefully to his corner.
There he broke down, as if he’d been
overtrained or something, but was got
into some sort of shape. He saw the
round out, mostly in a smother. In the
next he got a fair sort of right on to
Tod’s iaw. but Tod crowded him to the
ropes again, and now was getting through
the smother most of the time, ripping
solid punches below and his first really
clean-cut punches aloft. In his corner
Joe was more distressed than ever, but
came out to clip a couple of punches
again to Tod’s jaw. There was no
sting in them, nor in Joe. Soon he was
backed against the ropes again, and so
intent on staying there, all wrapped up
in himself, so to speak, that Mr. Baker
told him loudly “If you don’t fight away
from the ropes I’ll have to disqualify
you.” Joe proceeding to go through the
eleventh apparently more convinced than
ever that smother was the better part of
valor, Mr. Baker sharply grabbed Tod’s
hand and roared out “The winner.”
The amateur lads who journeyed from
Tassie showed game, but were both
beaten, chiefly because they are round-
arm boxers who need to be taught to
hit straight. These lilywhite scraps re-
sulted: Joe Crisafi (8.5i) outpointed Dan
Casey (8.0); Les Feighan (8.0) outpointed
Harold Jones (8.4y); Bill de Belin (9.8)
outpointed Joe Dinon In the
pro. prelims. Tommy Johns (9.3y) beat
Hughie Morgan (9.2£) on a technical
k.o.; Billy Cook (9.5) outpointed Archie
Rash (9.6^); Geo. Smedley (8.7) out-
pointed Jackie Deakin (8.0).
If the scrapping all through was only
fair to middling, it was very pleasant to
be there in the open air watching it, even
when it came to having a Christmas
beetle in one ear and Joe Hall’s big toe
in the other.
* * * *
Maurice Strickland, who has fought
representative heavyweights in Britain
and the U.S.A., gave the Alabama Kid
a trouncing at Palmerston North on
Boxing Night. The Kid went 12 rounds,
but was a very weary and distressed coon
at the close. Before he would fight he
demanded more money. This ought to
be his finish in these Dominions.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM PERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States .)
A study of the methods used by the
first 20 players in the world would show
one thing common to all their various
styles: The clubhead is kept on
the line to the hole going back
and coming through as long as possible.
This means that the chance of error in
the swing is greatly reduced compared
with a swing where the clubhead is taken
away sharply from the ball and brought
back to it from inside or outside the line
of flight.
To keep the clubhead on the line as
long as desired the arc of the swing
must be widened. The wider the arc the
better the swing, and the more upright
the player must stand. Photographs of
the good players of yesterday show that
they “reached” for the ball, which was
further away than nowadays, and they
possessed fairly flat swings, which were
on the inside-out theory of golf. That
is, the club was taken back well inside on
the backswing, and, on coming down to
the ball, approached it in a similar track.
This meant that the clubhead was not
nearly so long on the line of flight as it
is today with our best players.
By standing well into the ball it is pos-
sible to widen one’s swing automatically
without making any effort to do so, as the
club will be taken back more in a straight
line than if the player stood further from
the ball. The general tendency in golf
is to swing around the body too much or
hit with a strong and overanxious right
side. The right side gets around too
quickly coming down to the ball, thus
pushing the right shoulder out of its posi-
tion. When the shoulders are both out
of position the clubhead cannot meet the
ball in a correct manner, which results in
the ball going off in almost any direction
but the right one.
In a perfect swing the shoulders are
practically parallel to the line of flight,
with the right shoulder slightly below the
left. There are more players in the
United States with wide arcs than in
England, where they still favor the flatter
type of swinging. I would say that 75
per cent, of the Americans have a wide
arc in their swing. Old-timers, such as
Walter Hagen and Sarazen, had this type
of stroke, which has been copied by the
present generation and improved upon.
While there are no two swings exactly
alike, the United States players have done
much to standardise their methods.
It is most difficult to stop oneself from
hitting around the body instead of fol-
lowing on out after the ball. This fault
causes both slicing and hooking. It means
that the clubhead is beginning to leave
the line just prior to hitting the ball and
cannot in any circumstances produce
a straight shot. A good way to counter
this is to get a mental picture of the club-
head continuing out along the line with
the hands and body following as far as
possible before commencing to come up
and complete the swing. With most
handicap players the club does not
stay on the line nearly long enough.
In contrast with the better players, the
shoulders are kept in a much more level
position. There is a lot of added power
in the shot that has the right shoulder
below the level of the left.
Widening the arc of the swing, of
course, is a much easier proposition for
the younger player than for the middle-
aged golfer. With greater suppleness in
his swing, the former has the advantage
of letting himself go a good deal more
and is able to make radical alterations in
his swing where the older player’s muscles
are more set, requiring additional time
and added concentration. Hitting too
much with the right hand from the top
of the swing immediately starts a player
on the wrong track, as it causes the club-
head to be pulled across the line to the
hole and around the body, considerably
narrowing the swing.
A player must acquire the sense of
feeling of what is happening to the club-
head at various stages during the swing.
This is not easy, as most golfers are
anxious to hit the ball and give little
thought as to where the clubhead is
during the swing. Concentration upon
hitting a trifle under when coming down
to the ball will help to eradicate the
swinging around the body.
It will not help to dip the right shoulder
down nearing the ball and let the right
hand and arm lead the downswing.
There must always be a feeling that both
hands are doing their share in commenc-
ing to bring the club down to the ball.
Only when the hands are about waist-
high should the right begin to put the
“punch” into the shot. The feeling that
the player is hitting the ball away from
him will be of assistance. Sheers as a
whole are afraid to swing well out after
the ball as they fear a greater slice than
usual. Don’t forget to keep the clubhead
on the line as long as possible.
Ins and Outs
Bradman turned out for S.A. against
Victoria at Adelaide, but proved sadly
in need of practice. Dudley, a new-
comer, had the champion caught first
ball, and in S.A.’s second innings Sievers
bowled him for six. All the same, S.A.
won easily ; 191 and 421 to 172 and 265.
Hamence made 85 and 62, Badcock 25
and 172, Phil Ridings got 90 and Grim-
mett took 7 for 129. For Victoria Ring
scored 72 and Hassett (in his second
shot) 113, and Sievers bagged six for 149.
* * * *
There was some big scoring in the
N.S.W.-Queensland game at Sydney, and
some of the batting was very good
indeed. Particularly that of Morris, a
19-year-old St. George left-hander, who
opens for his side, and now for his State.
Having his first knock in first-class
cricket, he ran to 148, after a rather
shaky beginning, and, his recent effort
yielded 111 in 142 minutes. The double
is acclaimed a world’s record for a be-
ginner in the big stuff. Barnes made
133 in the first innings and McCabe got
75; Cohen, beginning with Morris,
reached 118 in his second knock. N. S.
Wales amassed 516 and nine for 369
(closed). For Queensland Rogers con-
tributed a most vigorous 114, and Tallon
(34) was going well when a shooter from
O’Reilly found his legs in front. The
total was 334. At the second try Queens-
land got to 64 without loss; then Cook
was run out and Pepper struck a patch (six
for 57) and rattled ’em all out for 147.
Brown 57 ; N.S.W. by 404 runs.
* * * *
Gogler (aged 17) and Millard (15)
made history in the annual college
cricket at Adelaide, “Saints” against
“Princes.” Their partnership of 339 is
a record for either school. Gogler’s in-
dividual 205 is the highest score for St.
Peters, though not approaching Clem
Hill’s 360 or Dolling’s 311 for Prince
Alfred in the long ago.


DON’T NEGLECT
A Common Case of Piles. It may
Lead to Serious Results.
When people, generally, under-
stand that all such fatal diseases as
Fistula, Ulcer of the Rectum, Fis-
sure, etc., almost invariably begin
in a simple case of Piles, they will
learn the wisdom of taking prompt
treatment for the first appearance
of this trouble. DOAN’S OINT-
MENT is unequalled for every form
of Piles —Bleeding, Itching, Pro-
truding, and Blind Piles, and hun-
dreds of lives have been saved by
using this cheap but effective
remedy right from the start, be-
cause at such times a single tin
has often effected a cure, while in
the old deep-seated, chronic cases,
several tins are sometimes neces-
sary.
DOAN’S OINTMENT is healing,
antiseptic and soothing. That is
why it is equally successful in over-
coming Eczema and other skin
complaints. But be sure you get
DOAN’S.
A WOMEN'S
LETTER
Nineteen Forty-one, like a ship in
full sail, is outward bound on her voyage
across the ocean of the 12 months. What
message shall she be sped with —this New
Year launched in such perilous times?
Let a poet speak it, the Poet-Laureate: —■
“Nothing,” said the seaman, “sets a ship
off like a skysail. It finishes her off.”
“Do sailors ever set anything even above
a skysail?” I asked. “Some set a Trust-
to-God,” he said. “Not many have one;
but it’s a very fine thing, a Trust-to-God.
It finishes a ship off even better.”
Tattersall’s Club is plunking at least
£5OOO into the Mayor’s Patriotic Fund.
Thousands more went out to enjoy the day
than last Tattersall’s-before-New-Year
meeting saw. There was no ghost about
Caesar in the Carrington Stakes. He was
very much alive and first on the post,
much to the joy of owners Philippa
Stephen and brother Alastair.
Everybody wanted to cheer like mad,
and some present did, when two Greeks
in famed and warlike Evzone dress
stepped into the picture at the Greek
Ball. This filled the Trocadero with ani-
mation on the night of December 27, and
the profits go to the Crown Princess’s fund
for flannel for the Greek soldier. The
Evzone uniform is a white pleated kilt
(or skirt) and shirt, a red tasselled cap
and long white stockings. It gives the
wearer a dashing, swashbuckling air. An-
other expression of the colorful national
dress of our brave ally was given by
Penelope Raftopoulos, who wore the long
red frock and tasselled cap designed by
that first Queen of Greece who designed
the Evzone uniforms.
The flag of Greece was everywhere.
Miniature flags of the country flew blue
and white on every table, and on the
official table it flowed in company with
Australia’s flag and the Union Jack. The
Consul-General and Mrs. Vrisakis enter-
tained a large party, and Belgium’s
Consul-General and the Consul-General
for China and Mrs. Pao were among the
guests. America’s Consul, A. M. Doyle,
and his wife were there ; so were Chief
Justice Jordan and his wife. Dame Mary
Hughes brought white chiffons to the
party, and Mrs. Brenac, whose husband
represents Free France in this State, wore
blue crepes. Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s chiffons
were tea-rose pink.
Thousands of shillings have gone to
the Mayor’s Patriotic Fund from the
National Security Exhibition. Every day
a constant stream of men and women
gazed on a display of weapons, publica-
tions, uniforms and what all with which
enemy aliens used to amuse themselves
after the day’s toil was o’er. There were
sword sticks that couldn’t possibly be
concealed like a dagger in the garter —
unless the garter was on a giant’s big
sister. There were snappy lines in guns
that can be held in the palm of the hand.
Here were pictures of Von Luckner on
which is written “Carry On.” There
were uniforms, schoolboy size, of the
Hitler Youth movement. Who played
about with such things? Kindly-seeming
neighbors of residents in most respectable
suburbs.
Reggie Stafford, a friend of The
Bulletin since boyhood, died recently,
and the world is all the poorer for the
passing of a true Australian. He was
a son of the A. R. Staffords, of Narrabri,
and, like his two doctor brothers, a
pupil of Sydney Grammar, where he
won his blues for rowing, cricket and
football. After his marriage to Tom
Dalton’s young widow the two lived
on Reggie’s station, Llangollen, at
Cassilis. Then they bought Merton at
Muswellbrook, originally an Ogilvie
property. It was after this station
he named his horse Merton, which
gallantly won the Corinthian Cup
at Rosehill for the owner who loved
racing for the sake of the sport, a
day or so before that owner died. Since
Mr. Stafford’s illness he and Mrs. Stafford
had made their home in Sydney in view
of the Harbor which he loved.
Somebody remarked, coming out of the
Noel Coward matinee for London’s
bomb victims, that the afternoon’s takings
would mount to £2OOO. At half-time the
box office reported something like £l4OO,
and after that there was a stream of
cheques. On a table in the vestibule as
the crowd surged out mounted piles of
silver as the shallow of purse but deep
of heart put down their shilling and five-
shilling offerings. The matinee ended
with an appeal by Mr. Coward, very
simple, direct and moving. His suit
burgeoned with his usual red carnation.
This one was sent to him by the Alex-
ander Gordon lady.
Eveiy seat in the Theatre Royal was
sold out, and most of these brought a
guinea each. Boxes had been sold for
ten guineas, and for 7s. 6d. you could
stand. The programme was one of those
mixed grills with bits from the current
panto., “Aladdin,” and a large helping
of Mr. Coward himself—in his sketch
“Red Peppers” Marjorie Gordon and
Edwin Styles were the Peppers. Marie
Burke, Marie Bremner, Evelyn Gardiner
and Strella Wilson tossed their best notes
into the boiling. Strella had sung in
the London production of “Cavalcade,”
and Mr, Coward himself led her
forward, and later kissed her hand.
She was graceful and fair in a Parma-
violet frock, and divided the honors be-
tween Puccini and N.C. The acrobats
and George Hurd, the juggler, made a
great hit.
Last on the bill was Mr. Coward, who
started with “We Were Dancing,” and
went on to “Mad Dogs and Englishmen,”
“Mrs. Worthington’s Daughter,” “The
Marvellous Party,” and “The Last Time
I Saw Paris,” the words of which on a
second hearing sound leven more in-
adequate than on the first.
The audience was graced with two
sets of vice-regals. With the Governor-
General and Lady Gowrie came Ivie
Price. Noel was booked to spend Christ-
mas Day at Yarralumla, the G.-G.’s
Canberra home. Lord and Lady Wake-
hurst came from Sutton Forest for the
occasion.
The sparkling theatrical cartoons of
Harry Julius are still remembered.
Only daughter Ruth, who has just
finished her art course at the Tech-
nical College, seems to have inherited
much of her father’s talent. Her studies
took in the whole field of commercial
art, with a special bias for illustration
and display work. Brother Rex, also
an artist, dropped his palette when war
cracked open, and now the only brush
he’s using is one that sweeps mines away
from English waters. He’s doing anti-
submarine duty, and he loves England—
says “the blackout is so easy on the
eyes.” Norton Trevaire made this pic-
ture of pretty Ruth.
When Mars pulls out his big guns
Cupid sharpens his arrows. In the year
that’s come and gone Sydney has had a
perfectly dizzying round of marriages.
Most of the bridegrooms have been
young soldiers ; many of the beginning
wives just girl brides. One day just be-
fore Christmas the city had 500 weddings.
Brisbane, from reports, has been circled
by the sign of the wedding ring. A social
editor of one of the northern capital’s
dailies told with amusement that when
she left to come south on her annual
holiday she said to herself “Good-bye,
confetti and tulle, for a while, anyway.”
She came down by road, and at every
hotel she stopped at on the journey she
walked straight into a wedding. Mel-
bourne and Perth too have kept their
ministers busy tying knots. At this rate
Hatton Garden, between Goring’s visits,
will have to plant a lot more pear-
diamond trees to keep up with the
demand.
The Castlecrag players (if they have
a more conventional title it isn’t very
well known) presented in their airy,
fairy glade above Middle Harbor Ethel
Buckton’s “Eager Heart.” This play is
produced each year at Westminster, and
tells the story of Bethlehem with sym-
bolic charm and simplicity. It is starry
with carols and hope and the thoughts
that keep men and women sweet and
sane in a mad age. Lute Drummond
and Jessica Page were responsible for
the presentation. A second performance
at Phillip Park was for the benefit of
the Children’s Library movement.
Interlude in a Laundry supplies audi-
ences at the Royal with one of the best
laughs in “Aladdin.” To see Mrs. Aladdin
Senior varying the monotony of her suds-
and-duds life by making a pie would be
an eye-opener to most housekeepers. After
levelling out an immense lump of dough
with something that looks first cousin to
a lawn roller, she barbers it, and crimps
the edges nicely. Then, in a fit of petu-
lance, she takes the whole up, folds it
across, and puts it across her shoulders
like a shawl. Still later the paste be-
comes a cricket ball. This mightn’t be
good housekeeping, but it can be recom-
mended to brides of yesterday and today
for bringing fun into the bungalow. Un-
expected is the gag about Mae West:
“If Mae West had 13 children, what
would they call her?” “Mamma, of
course.”
t his is Thea Rowe, whose little theatre
at 147 George-street, near the Quay, is
drawing lovers of the drama. The plays
at this address are done with meticulous
regard for detail. Comedy addicts still
speak of this theatre’s presentation of
“The Importance of Being Earnest.”
Thea is well known for her stage activi-
ties in Perth and in Brisbane. She has
done a great deal of radio entertaining.
Next production will be a burlesque
melodrama, “The Heart of a Tenor.”
French-Australians gathered in great
numbers in the rooms of the Friends of
France on Christmas Eve for the un-
furling of the flag of Free France by
General de Gaulle’s representative in
Australia, Andre Brenac. The flag, which
carries the cross of Lorraine in red on
a blue ground, brought a stirring wave
of color and sentiment into the crowded
room, Beth Matheson, a club member,
had made the flag, of which the double
red cross is worked with gold on blue
satin. Mrs. Ivy Moore, who is president
of the club, introduced Mr. Brenac, and
every speech, and there were several,
breathed the spirit of liberty and faith
that France would rise again.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly spoke, as did Aubrey
Halloran and E. C. Wilcox. Mrs. Alice
Brenac and Mrs. J. Playoust, of the
French-Australian League of Help, were
at the ceremony. Tamworth, too, was
represented in the person of one of its
well-known French teachers.
Tenor Kenneth Neate sang “The Mar-
seillaise,” and the company took up the
refrain with spirit. Another singer with
a deep baritone sang well-known French
songs. Then the corridors of Endeavor
House echoed to “God Save the King.”
In spite of that after-Christmas
heaviness, the call of the surf and the
mountaintops, Randwick drew such a
crowd on Boxing Day that the suppiy
of racebooks dried up early in the pro-
ceedings. Under the speckless spy there
was a little fugitive cool breeze, and in
this the blue and white of the flag of
Greece flew bravely over the official
stand. This flag had been presented to
the A.J.C. by the Greek Government and
was being flown for the first time. The
scene on the lawns and around the stands
was a glorification of the summer girl.
In sheers, in printed silk, in linen she
walked, a jewel or near-jewel glittering
here and there obvious loot of the
season.
There was a great deal of white worn
—white frocks, hats, shoes. Red, white
and blue was the favorite color mixture.
One linen dress had one half of its
bolero red, the other half blue. Syd-
ney’s Mayoress was one of the white-
clad, and her hat was wide and shady.
Jocelyn Poynter’s white Breton hat with
its drape of white looked capable of
dealing with any heat-wave. Patterned
in blue and cinnamon were Philippa
Stephen’s silks. Cool china blues and
whites were mingled in the ensemble
worn by Mrs. S. E. Parsons. Mrs. H. D.
Cary, who hugged the shade of the
official stand, had worked out a nice
scheme in grey and white. Grey was
worn by Mrs. Herbert Field also. With
her silk suit she toned in a blue hat.
Mrs. Joe Coen, Mrs. M. F, Bruxner,
pretty Mrs. Walter Burfitt, junior, and
Mrs. Leslie Utz, smart in navy and white,
were among the multitude.
Those who have gardens may find it
not a bad idea for their next Christmas
party to follow the lead set by Mrs.
Bertie Kelly. At her Darling Point
home she held a family gathering. There
were McPhillamys, Volterras and niece
Mary Kelly. There was a stocking for
everybody, also presents. But the
presents were hung on trees in the
garden. When the dinner was over
each guest was given a torch and told to
go into the open spaces and find the tree
with his or her gifts fruiting on it.
Tenor Kenneth Neate is off on another
A.B.C. tour of Australia. It is Ken’s
desire soon to make his way to Canada.
There Australian singers, judging by the
success that greeted Alice Prowse and
Clem Williams, are popular. He thinks
the experience would be all to the good
of his career.
Soprano Strella Wilson, who looked
like something strayed out of the heavenly
choir (only without the wings), must have
been pleased when playwright Noel
Coward related to the crowded audience
at the Theatre Royal the story of their
first meeting. He was on the stage at
Covent Garden discussing some technical
points with one of the staff when he
heard a rich and beautiful voice raised
in song. He realised that somebody was
being given an audition, and, anxious to
have a look at the singer, he rushed over
to that part of the theatre. He looked
through a crack in the curtain, saw the
singer was as pleasing to look at as to
listen to, and hissed “Don’t sign any-
thing!” She didn’t with that particular
management, but later she signed on with
Mr. Coward to sing the waltz song in
“Cavalcade.”
One sunny day last week Leading-Air-
craftman Howe’s betrothed flew out of
the West to become his bride. Patricia
Royce had left Perth on Christmas Day
to keep this appointment, and duly made
her vows in St, Philip’s on Church Hill
at the appoir' i time. The bride, who
is brunette good-looking, was radiant
in lagoon-blues, Bunty Buchanan, who
’maided, wore blithely-flowered chiffons.
The ’groom, too, comes from Perth. A
reception at the Australia was hostessed
by Mrs. E. M. Ogilvie. Tam worth,
where her husband is in camp, will be
Mrs. Howe’s first address.
Marie Ormiston, a bright-faced girl
from Lismore, well known as a pianist,
has been nominated to represent music,
radio and theatre in the “Queen of the
Fighting Forces” competition. She is a
great favorite with the soldiers, having
organised over 60 camp concerts, and has
entertained hundreds with her “request”
numbers at Station 2SM and “Boys
Town” concerts at the Tivoli, She is
always ready to take part in any charity
concert. Votes to place her on the throne
cost only one penny each. All the pen-
nies go to the Mayor’s Patriotic Fund.
And now another war horror looms
upon the horizon. It is the stockingless
woman. With the soaring price of silk
stockings there is a stirring of revolt, and
woman is talking of going without leg
covering for business as well as for
pleasure. This is all very well for the
bronzed and shapely of leg, but after ten
minutes’ contemplation of the passing
throng in any busy city street it seems
that quite a lot of money will have to be
spent on barbering, massaging and knee-
to-toe make-up before Eveiywoman will
be able to step forth into this brave nude
world. Stockings might come cheaper,
even in the long run.


Personal and Missing Friends.
Would JOHN BORAN, one time of Adelaide,
a brother of James Boran, deceased, or any-
one knowing his whereabouts, please communi-
cate with Public Trustee, Pirie Street, Adelaide?
To ALFRED WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH,
formerly of 28 Cooper Street, Preston, in the
State of Victoria, Clerk. TAKE NOTICE
that your wife, THELMA EDITH BUTTER-
WORTH, of 38 Cliff Street, South Yarra, in
the said State, Married Woman, has instituted
proceedings against you for divorce on the
ground of desertion. UNLESS you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office, Law
Courts, William Street, Melbourne, in the said
State, on or before the 15th day of January,
1941, the said suit will proceed in your absence
and a decree for dissolution of marriage may
be granted and you may be ordered to pay
costs. If you intend to defend this suit you
must also file an answer in the said office on
or before the 22nd day of January, 1941.
Maxwell Harry Joseph (Strongman & Crouch),
379 Collins Street, Melbourne, in the said
State, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
JAMES HENRY CHAPMAN.
WILL JAMES HENRY CHAPMAN, formerly
of Colac, Victoria, please communicate with
the undersigned?
SEWELL & SEWELL,
Solicitors, Colac, Victoria.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
TO BERYL BRIGID GRAHAM formerly of
Kent Street New Farm Brisbane in the
State of Queensland but whose present
whereabouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane by Writ of Summons
numbered 577 of 1940 by Angus Norman John
Graham your husband in which he claims a
dissolution of his marriage with you and by
his Petition filed herein he alleges that in or
about the month of March 1934 you deserted
him without cause and have continuously so
deserted him for five years and upwards to the
present time AND IT HAS BEEN ORDERED
that service on you of the said Petition and
Writ be effected by filing and sticking up on
the Notice Board in the Registry of the said
Court at Brisbane a copy of the said Petition
and Writ and by the publication of this notice
twice at intervals of not less than one week
in the “Courier-Mail” a newspaper published
in Brisbane aforesaid the “Sydney Bulletin”
a newspaper published in Sydney in the State
of New South Wales and the “Northern Star”
a newspaper published in Lismore in the said
State of New South Wales. If you desire to
defend this action you must within sixty days
from the date of the performance of the last
act done in pursuance of the said order enter
an appearance at the said Registry and in
default of your so doing the plaintiff may
proceed therein and Judgment may be given in
your absence.
DATED at Brisbane this thirteenth day of
December, 1940.
(1.5.) J. S. GIBSON,
Second Deputy Registrar.
N. D. WELLDON, Solicitor for Plaintiff,
210 Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
To ARTHUR WATSON formerly of Camber-
well in the State of Victoria. Take notice
that HAROLD ERNEST YATES has joined
you as a party in divorce proceedings instituted
by him against his wife THELMA DOROTHY
YATES on the ground of adultery. Unless
you enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s
Office of the Supreme Court Melbourne on or
before the 29th day of January 1941 and file
an Answer at the said office on or before the
7th day of February 1941 judgment may be
given against you with costs. Aleck Sacks,
LL.B., 348 Drummond Street, Carlton, Soli-
citor for the Respondent.
The “WILD CAT” MONTHLY is
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
21- per copy, or £l/2/6 per annum posted
Melbourne
Chatter
Owing to the brotherly spirit of the
Apex Club more than 150 necessitous
families had a fine and dandy Christmas
dinner. The Apex men, who are all
young, energetic and pretty quick on
the uptake, banded themselves together
five years ago with the idea that charity
begins in their own home town. They
have given a lift upward to many a
poor family, and they are (although
most of them are still bachelors) specially
keen about practical help for kids. The
Soapbox Derby, which faded out last
year owing to pressure from an elder
generation of city councillors, was their
invention.
Their first Christmas job of five years
ago was a modest little effort that pro-
vided 25 families with hearty dinners.
The size of last week’s scheme was aug-
mented through the shouldered respon-
sibilities of the Smith Family. So
many of the Smiths are in khaki
that outside help had to be asked
for. The Apex boys have ways and
means of discovering deserving cases
and a methodical system of listing fami-
lies to receive help. Usually the Col-
lingwood Town Hall is the stage of
operations for tying up the chaff bags,
but in 1940 the all-day shirtsleeves
session was in the basement of Cairns
Memorial Church. The 33 sheep arrived
chopped and dressed by professional
butchers. Vegetables and fruit came
in large lorries; so did groceries. The
size of the chaff bags depends upon
the size of the families, but each con-
tains a goodly supply of everything.
Len McKean was on deck as usual; so
was Maurice Nathan in one of his
favorite green jumpers and with his
firm’s lorry outside, for each member
has his schedule for delivering the goods
by his car or pushbike. Lindsay Cust,
Ron Emmerson and Bill Goldman were
also jovial Poppa Christmases.
Mrs. Gust’s recent bridge party at the
Lyceum Club provided £l2 for the
dinner fund. Donations from friends
were accepted with alacrity and raffle
books have been carried around
in each Apex member’s pocket for some
weeks, the receipt slips always being
available for anyone willing to contri-
bute any sum, no matter how small, to
the general fund.
Most noticeable point about the Caul-
field meeting held at Flemington on
Boxing Day was the A.1.F., out in its
shorts and looking very healthy and com-
fortable. Bill Prytz was among the lads
who produced a well-tanned and -shaped
pair of knees. But the R.A.A.F. wasn’t
outdone, although it was almost to a
man confined to long ’uns. One excep-
tion was Harvey Mills (known as Pills),
who recently achieved his wings. He
also owns an admirable pair of legs and
hit his home town on Christmas leave
from Wagga in the coat-with-shorts that
is a hotter-weather consideration for
those attached to air stations in more
northern latitudes. It was a quiet race
meeting, many steadies being absent on
holidays, or, maybe, getting over
Christmas.
For the first time the all-masculine
atmosphere of Blarney House was sub-
jected to a draught of femininity. It lasted
for a few hours only, so it won’t inter-
fere with the fundamental principles of
the institution, which is a men’s hostel
run by men with no frills and flutters.
Members of the women’s auxiliaries use
the same lifts as the troops, but their
round table for meetings is segregated
upstairs on roof level.
The necessary female help arrived
for a couple of Christmas parties.
A dozen-odd amateur waitresses helped
a lot, for the dinners were of
several courses oyster patties, cream
soup, fish, a variety of choice in
poultry and pork, fruit tarts and fruit
salads, with hot coffee to wash down
the lot. Blarney House regulation meals
are from the usual cafeteria. The troops
had nothing but praise for their pals
the chefs, who managed to keep every-
thing piping hot in spite of the fact that
the last sitting was still clamoring for
roast turkey in the middle of the after-
noon. At every institution open to
troops excellent Christmas dinners were
on tap. No man in uniform went hungry
last week.
The Mechanisation School’s radio set
was a, one-woman effort. Maisie Yelland,
hearing that the school, which is so small
that it’s almost an orphan child, got
plenty of fun out of its radio from the
Comforts Fund, started off to get
the set paid for, her weapons being a
notebook and pencil and polite black-
mailing of friends for a bob or two
apiece, Maisie carries the baby till the
last sixpence is collected.
A young committee working for a
large regiment is the Welfare Associa-
tion connected with the 2nd Anti-Air-
craft, which has been lent a room in
Collins House for its regular meetings.
Some time in January there will be a
regimental dance. In the meantime any-
one interested is invited to join the
association for a modest annual two bob.
Objects are twofold —welfare of the
men during service at home or abroad
and the welfare of the families left
behind.
The president is Mrs. Wallace Meares
(Wallace is a gunner). Mrs. H. Le
M. Latreille and Mrs. Hubert Black
are vice-presidents. Sydney Jones is
hon. treas. and his assistants are Joan
Allerton and Helen Lane, who’s as effi-
cient as she’s fair to look upon. Mrs.
C. E. Long, who is the wife of Major
Long, and Mrs. J. H. Nankivell are hon.
secs. Names on the committee up t
date are the Stewart lady, Mrs. G. R.
Winser, Mrs. H. P. Willis, Mrs. H. B.
Penson, Mrs. F. Shore, Mrs. R. Ander-
son, Mrs. P. M. Hudson, Mrs. P. Forster
and Mrs. V. Horsfall. But interest is
not only local. For instance, Mrs. J. L.
Mort, of Balmain (N.S.W.), is a warm
supporter of the association. Trustees
of the fund are Alexander Stewart, K.
M. Niall and H. Le M. Latreille.
The brunette with the smile is Peggy
Finkelstein (Athol Shmith photo.), who
has chosen January 21 as her wedding
day. Only a few weeks ago she received
engagement felicitations, but the an-
nouncement was no surprise, for Brian
Hughes was only waiting for final results
in medicine to produce a ruby and dia-
mond engagement ring. Brian, who is
the elder son of Percy Hughes, of Laun-
ceston, and the late Mrs. Hughes, did
very well in his final year, with honors
in three subjects, and has been appointed
to the Royal Melbourne Hospital. The
bride and ’groom are building a flat
adjoining the home of Peggy’s parents,
the Phil Finkelsteins, in Merriwee-avenue,
Toorak.
Among couples who chose to spring
their engagements about the time of
Christmas seasonal greetings were Pam
Faulkner and Frederick P. Boler (Pam
being the only daughter of the Frank
Faulkners and her fiance the only son
of parents who are living in London);
Elizabeth Darling, who’s the younger
daughter of the Harold Darlings, and
Robert Richard Law Smith, R.A.A.F.,
Laverton, who is the only son of the
Walter Law Smiths, of Adelaide. Also
the Harold Luxtons’ only daughter Mary
and Squadron-Leader C. F. King.
The nicest family of magicians to
visit Melbourne is to be found at the
King’s and at the New Treasury, when
it get its well-earned time off —not much
at the moment, for it’s a two-shows-a-
day schedule. The family’s just a three-
some attachment of the Great Levante
and an Australian whom this country is
going to like enormously. Mrs. Levante,
who is a Queenslander, is as friendly
and pleasant as her husband. She wears
slacks successfully and looks young to
be the mother of the beauteous Esme,
who was born in M.L. and educated in
England and Belgium. “How’s Tricks,”
which opened on Boxing Day, contains
numbers of supers, a ballet and numerous
efficient stagehands, but it’s Levante and
his daughter who are the nucleus of
the show.
J.C.W. Theatres, Ltd., made a Christ-
mas season gesture one morning in the
foyer of the King’s, doing honor to
Levante and Esme with sandwiches and
liquid refreshments both hot and cold,
Mrs. Levante was hard at work super-
vising things backstage. There m the
foyer, without any magical trappings or
trapdoors, Levante did his famous trunk
trick. Esme is tied up inside bag
inside the locked trunk and cha g
over with Papa in a space of a few
seconds.
Levante, who was in England barely
three months ago, has photographs of
his “How’s Tricks” at the Strand
Theatre, with Diggers in the foreground.
Among other Australians in the snap is
Brisbane’s Harry Sunderland. Owing to
his enthusiasm and help a season free to
Diggers, which was also a social meet-
ing ground for Australians, was made
possible.
Inset portrait by Athol Shmith is of
Sue George, who recently became en-
gaged to Philip, second son of the late
S. O, Wood and of Mrs. Wood of
Hediiigham, Caulfield. Sue is the elder
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. D. J. George,
of Wandeen-road, Glen Iris.
A Christmas panto, packet as good as
its wrappings is “The Sleeping Beauty”
at His Majesty’s. Half a dozen
comedians keep the humor at an even
tempo, the dancing is excellent, the sing-
ing is above the average, the dressing is
O.K. and numbers of the costumes are
new and untarnished by previous wear-
ing and renovating. In addition there’s
a principal boy with a beautiful voice
and a perfect pair of legs, Elsa Stenning,
who finds panto, the next best thing to
grand opera.
Don Nicol, as the Dame, wears
terrific clothes, including garments with
boa constrictor trains and a scarlet pad-
dling outfit of the ’nineties. Eric Edgley
and Clem Dawe go through ordeals of
real soapsuds, paperhanging a room and
so on. The latter gets the audience to
sing “Sarah” and issued invitations for
his first-night chorus to “You on the top
shelf” (to the people in the gods) and
“You cave-dwellers” (addressed to some
of the Geoffrey Syme family in the
boxes). Others in the same audience
included Mrs. Chas. Wenman and Sun-
day, Mrs. W. reminiscing over the first
“Sleeping Beauty,” produced by her
better-half some 20 years ago. She says
it hasn’t changed much and the theme
song is the same. Grace Angelau,
otherwise Mrs. Guy Hutchinson, was
there and showed a lot of interest in
several of the young Australian voices.
Dr. and Mrs. Mick Healy came with
two young daughters, Helen and
Elizabeth.
The Garden Lovers’ Log, sponsored
by Mrs. Joseph Levi and edited by Mrs.
Olive Mellor, has run into two editions
within a couple of months. Proceeds are
for the Red Cross, so that all concerned
with the publication of the little book
by Robertson and Mullens are pleased
with its progress. It was an excellent
Christmas present for those people who
own gardens, who like to keep a record
of what and how they plant, when they
last used a pruning knife on their roses
and so on ; and there’s a lot of useful
advice from experts and a homely tip
or two from successful amateurs. Mrs.
Levi’s garden in Trawalla-avenue is
charming. It possesses not only flowers
and shrubs but numbers of trees, in-
cluding a weeping elm trained like a
canopy over an umbrella frame (wide
enough for tea-in-the-garden to take place
beneath it), maples, flowering cherries, a
liquidambar, poplars, a willow and a
tulip-tree, some cumquats grown just to
look at, and several other fruit trees
whose use is twofold.
Mrs. Levi is quite sure that flowers
won’t grow for everybody; that, like
people, they know when they’re beloved.
But “don’t give up hope” is her advice
to those gardeners whose flowers are but
a stunted wistful crop. Flowers vary
in their tastes, and if the unsuccessful
gardener perseveres long enough he will
find some plants that will meet his efforts
halfway. Regarding the failures, Mrs.
Levi says that three tries is a fair test.
If she can’t get any type of plant to
grow after three attempts she abandons
that species for all time. Compared with
those people who sadly admit that
“Flowers always die when I wear them,”
Mrs. Levi is fortunate. She can wear
some posies for days provided the flowers
are not too full-blown when picked.
She says those people (alleged to be
fickle) who can’t wear flowers should
keep on experimenting with different
varieties until at last they find something
that’s a kindred spirit.
Rose Winter, general secretary of the
Y.W.C.A. in Adelaide and executive
member of many organisations, leaves
for India to take a similar position with
the association in Lahore. She will attend
the summer conference at Ootacamund,
in South India, and will act as general
secretary of the Madras Y.W.C.A. for
three months before taking up her duties
at Lahore. Maonland-born Estelle Bern
nell succeeds her.


THE SERVICE MAN
Italy in the Yard.
“Ek Dum”: The British military his-
tory of the Battle of Western Egypt has
been couched in typical British terms.
Mainly so far it has been statistical, but
in a limited way.
A fortnight after the offensive began
G.H.Q. Cairo reported that British
mechanised units were still mopping up
fortified areas along the border, while
large numbers of men and equipment
were being brought forward to form new
base armies on Italian soil. Artillery
continued to harass Bardia, whose de-
fenders remained well tucked into their
cement warrens, as far as possible out
of the way of 15in. shells and 10001 b.
bombs:
Prisoners evacuated from the main Sidi
Barrani battle area total 38,000-odd, includ-
ing 24,000 Italians. Several thousand other
prisoners are still awaiting transfer from
forward camps three weeks after the
attack began.
Bardia could probably have been
taken in a day or two, but there was no
hurry, and hence no need for expensive
assaults.
In effect, the first section of the cam-
paign has been completed according to
plan. The Italians have been driven out
of Egypt, and British Empire forces have
done the whole job. Egyptians were not
asked to take part. Their Premier de-
clared at Christmas time that the Gov-
ernment was “continuing its defence
preparations, although the danger was
rlow remote.”
Although Ansaldo and other Italian
publicists are convinced that Britain now
has 420,000 men in Egypt, all the evi-
dence suggests that not more than three
or four divisions, including mechanised
divisions, have so far been used. The
next job is to form a sea base on Libyan
soil, accumulate supplies at a fresh start-
ing point and make fresh plans for the
series of drives which eventually will
finish in Tripoli several hundred miles
away. The season is not far advanced.
There are at least a couple of months of
cool weather ahead. Italy’s chance of
getting reinforcements to Graziani’s
armies is Buckley’s.
On December 23 Marshal Graziani
apparently felt the battle so far over that
he could report in detail on it, and this
he did with astonishing frankness. He
made it clear that he himself contem-
plated an attack on Mersa Matruh and
was only awaiting more lorries before he
began it. He was faced with water
shortage, his supplies being brought from
the Libyan border to his eastern out-
posts —B5 miles —by a single pipeline
which delivered a mere 67,000 gallons
per day to Sidi Barrani. He had loaded
forward positions with food, ammunition
and supplies for his offensive —they have
become welcome additions to British
accumulations.
On December 7 a prisoner declared that
a British attack was to be launched in
10 days. Next day the Marshal felt that
an attack was imminent and sent out a
fresh warning to the commands:
There was, therefore, no surprise. Every-
one knew of the probability of a British
attack. At dawn on December 9, over the
flat desert, v/here an advance was easy and
tactical points of resistance were non-
existent, poured masses of tanks, artillery
and armored cars.
There had been a “terrific aerial bom-
bardment.” And, “despite the fiercest
resistance, our positions went down one
after another in a few hours.”
Artillery proved useless because it was
faced with dispersed and rapidly-moving
targets by the hundred spread over the
plain. In armored units the British were
“crushingly superior.” After eliminating
General Maletti’s division and the 2nd
Libyan division—the screening troops —
the British flung themselves on Sidi
Barrani and its picked Blackshirt divi-
sions. A Libyan division which tried
to reinforce the latter was cut off. In
three days Sidi Barrani fell.
The second Italian line had to be
hurriedly withdrawn under cover of
forlorn-hope detachments, playing for
time at the cost of their lives, while the
main bodies of troops escaped towards
Solium and Fort Capuzzo.
By December 13 the fighting had
transferred itself to the border country
over 70 miles from where it started, while
General Berganzoli’s troops tried to mop
up infiltrations. But on December 15
fresh waves of British were being wafted
into Libya through the blinding sand
all along a line whose southern point
had swung out of Siwa A.I.F. men
were there —and crossed the border to
Jarabub. General Berganzoli withdrew
into Bardia. The invaders cut his com-
munications with western Libya.
The Italian Air Force,
owing to adverse weather, was not in a
position to make its full weight felt, but
it put up a bold fight, sowing death and
destruction to the British columns. Fighters
flew 1300 hours, bombers 900 hours, and
dropped 13,000 bombs totalling 2000 tons.
Machine-guns fired 17,000 rounds. Wc
brought down 42 British ’planes and prob-
ably 20 more.
These statistics are more expressive than
all the rest of the report.
The R.A.F. reports its own losses at
13, most of the pilots being saved. In-
side 12 days it shot down 144 Italians,
of which a single R.A.A.F. squadron de-
stroyed 13 in four days. The weather
didn’t bother the R.A.F.
The number of British dead in the
first nine days was only 78 —more in
keeping with a night raid into no-man’s-
land in the last war than with a battle
which ended an invasion. A battle in
which an army corps was driven helter-
skelter for 70 to 80 miles out of care-
fully-prepared positions in which it
was supported by adequate tanks, artil-
lery and aerial forces, and in which over
three divisions were captured.
West of Bardia there has obviously
been no real resistance on the scale of
a battle. The R.A.F. completely domi-
nates the skies. Suggestions to the con-
trary notwithstanding, the bulk of the
British troops, including the bulk of the
A.1.F., had not tasted large-scale action
to the end of last week. The situation
was so little pressing that after the attack
had been in progress a few days it was
possible to detach a main battle squad-
rons of the Fleet to cruise to the Adriatic
and paste Valona, as a preliminary to
spending the Christmas holidays in the
Grand Harbor of Malta under the very
noses of the Regia Aeronautica, whose
command boasted a little while ago that
life on the island was “impossible” for
the British.
The expulsion of the invaders of Egypt
was only the beginning of the war of
Africa. Hundreds of miles behind the
lines British, Rhodesians and Sudanese
and East African askaris, aided and
guided by the R.A.F. and its Dominion
partners, are chasing Italians into the
scrubby bush of the Sudan-Abyssinian
border or across the hot stones of the
Kenya escarpment above Lake Rudolph,
while wild tribesmen lurk behind trees in
the distance eager for their share of
Chianti.
Not only Bardia but Italy herself is
virtually besieged. The Dodecanese at
least, if not Sardinia and Pantellaria,
could be had almost for the taking if it
were worth while.
It is not true that Britain concentrated
“her best troops from four continents in
Egypt.” They are actually f.a.q. samples
of troops from the four continents,
splendidly equipped, supplied to the limit
and in the pink of training. There are
two or three million others from the same
sources of supply who are distributed
round Britain and in other parts of the
fighting world.
Italy may not be about to crack. She
has not yet felt the full impact either of
the Albanian or the African and naval
positions.
But the results of the few days of swift
fighting west of Sidi Barrani are well
summed up in the fact that twice last
month there was a cut in marine insur-
ance rates for trans-Mediterranean ships
and cargoes.
Italy, if not broken, has been separated
from her fellow-European brumby and is
in the yard with a flank rope on.
A.I.F. and R.A.A.F. in Egypt.
“Ek D.”: Whatever the A.I.F. has
been doing in Egypt, it seems to be re-
garded officially as a dead secret, not
to be given up without a struggle.
Early in the piece it was announced
that a French battalion of marines had
been at Sidi Barrani, and that an Indian
division, brigaded with Highlanders, had
taken part in the main fighting. Even the
names of the units and of their com-
mander —Major-General Noel Beresford-
Peirse, whose first wife was a girl from
Riverina were mentioned. And the
deeds of the R.A.A.F. have been
chronicled. But to the beginning of this
week all that had come to hand officially
about the A.I.F. could have been written
on a mulberry leaf and covered with a
wineglass.
The stories of some of the R.A.A.F.
pilots have been given. In four days
they shot down nine enemy ’planes and
are believed to have destroyed four more.
On December 10 they bagged an Italian
R 037 two-seater reconnaissance ’plane
and brought it down in flames. Then
five of them, flying Gladiators, caught
12 CR42 single-seat Fiat fighters which
were machine-gunning British troops.
The R.A.A.F. rushed straight into the
unequal dogfight, wrecked three Italians
outright and saw two more falling out
of control.
Next day 13 Gladiators manned by
R.A.A.F. men waded into an enemy con-
centration with dive-bombing and
machine-guns near Sofafi and inflicted
heavy casualties.
On Dec. 12 five Gauntlets —a single-
seater biplane sister to the Gladiator —
ran into 17 CR42’s, shot down two in
flames and apparently wrecked a third.
There were no Australian casualties.
Another patrol of five Australian Gaunt-
lets heavily machine-gunned enemy
columns.
On December 13 there was an even
hotter battle. Six Gladiators caught up
with five S79’s —three-engined bombers
heavily defended—-guarded by 14 CR42’s.
The fighting was “prolonged and severe.”
Three Australian machines were lost, but
the pilots in each case came down safe
by parachute. The six bagged one of
the S79’s and two CR42’s and probably
another 579.
It is obvious from the official reports
that at least two squadrons of the
R.A.A.F. were involved, and they showed
a parity of performance which must have
been as disheartening to the Italians as
it was encouraging to the whole of Aus-
tralia.
Save, however, for Mr. Churchill’s
oracular reference to Australian cavalry
charging with drawn swords, and for
casual information that some technical
units were engaged in the original
advance and that other units were con-
cerned in the capture of Fort Capuzzo
and in the operations round Bardia, there
has not been a single word.
It is unlikely that any large section was
engaged. The low casualties of the British
forces in general during the first week
seem to point to the idea that the attack-
ing ground forces mainly consisted of
well-protected tanks and mobile artillery,
and that the infantry saw little of the
advance fighting.
There doesn’t seem to be any excuse
for concealing information about the
A.I.F. when information was given freely
about the Indians, the Free French and
the R.A.A.F.
Australian Airmen in England.
“Aileron”: The first squadrons of
R.A.A.F. men trained in Canada under
the Empire Air scheme arrived in Eng-
land to find snowflakes falling but no
bombs. For 80 hours—B9 according to
one account —not a bomb was dropped
on Britain or Germany. Some of the
London papers ran “Christmas truce”
articles, but the Air Ministry denied that
there was “any official or unofficial”
understanding with the enemy.
The Australians were met by the
Duke of Hamilton, a noted flying
man and athlete, who welcomed them on
behalf of the British Government. They
then went to London, where they were
welcomed by Air Commodore Mc-
Namara, who won his V.C. in Palestine
with the early Australian squadrons in
the last war, and by the High Com-
missioner.
It was cold, but they were used to
extremes of temperatures. They had been
training on the Canadian plains in tem-
peratures down to 25 below, and they
will have little time to worry about cold.
By December 28 the Blitzkrieg was in
full swing again. Friday saw a heavy
but short raid on London, and on the
following day raiders were over a south-
west English town in force, but not in
such force as the R.A.F. over France.
From Friday throughout the week-end
French ports were pounded, especially
Calais, Boulogne, Lorient, Le Havre and
Cherbourg. The Fleet Air Arm Black-
burn Skuas went as far afield as Nor-
way for prey, damaged harbor works at
Stavanger and Haugesund and set fire
to a 4000-ton supply ship at the jetty.
The Germans announced that the
R.A.F. had made two unsuccessful
attacks on German North Sea patrols
and that two British ’planes had been
shot down. But the British report was
“all squadrons returned safely; one
enemy machine destroyed.”
On Sunday night London had another
raid, and a severe one ; so had a s.-w.
English town, which suffered its 240th
attack.
Sea Losses Are Lower.
“Nobby II”: There was a drop in
shipping losses in the week to Dec. 16.
The Germans claimed to have sunk
82,450 tons; the Admiralty report was
that the loss was five British ships aggre-
gating 30,830 tons and two allied vessels
of 10,646 tons. A total of 41,476 tons,
against 101,000 tons the week before and
81,000 tons the week before that.
The improvement in the Mediterranean
situation has released a large number of
British naval ships for the patrol of
other waters, including the Pacific and
Indian Oceans, to which the bulk of the
R.A.N. has returned.
On Christmas Day the Germans
claimed to have sunk a 10,000-ton tanker
and another 6000-ton vessel off the
British coast. On the same day British
warships guarding a convoy engaged a
powerful German surface ship, hit her
amidship before she took to her heels
at high speed and sank her supply ship
after it had burst into flames. The fight
was at long range, but was broken off
when visibility dwindled to half a mile.
H.M.S. Berwick, an Bin.-gun ship, sister
to Australia and Canberra, was slightly
damaged and had five casualties. The
Germans declare they sank a 6000-ton
vessel by gunfire and torpedoes, and that
their warship withdrew scatheless.
H.M.S. Acheron, a 1350-ton destroyer,
is on the missing list, and the Germans
claim that H.M.S. Seal, a submarine
minelayer damaged off the Swedish coast
several months ago, had been captured
and recommissioned. The Italians admit
that one of their submarines operating
in the Atlantic has not returned.
Raid on Nauru.
“Ek D.”: On Sunday afternoon, Dec.
8, a 6000-ton vessel was seen off Nauru
heavily shelling another ship. After-
wards she made off at high speed, and
later it was discovered that five steamers
out of seven in the vicinity had gone
missing. So had the raider.
On the morning of December 27 the
same raider or another, flying Japanese
colors and sporting a Japanese name,
hove to off the island and, after sending
a warning by Morse lamp, plastered it
with shells. Before she opened fire she
ran up the German flag. It was the first
time that Australian-controlled territory
had been shelled by an enemy.
The island, a mandated territory (B.
30/10/’4O), being undefended, was com-
pelled to sit down and take the battering.
There were no casualties, but great
damage was done to plant, buildings and
tanks; indeed, Nauru as a producer of
phosphate will be cancelled out for an
indefinite period.
When the original raider was seen off
Nauru she was accompanied by what
seemed to be 4 3000-ton supply ship.
According to Mr. Hughes, the second
outrage was presumed to be the work
of the visitor of December 8, and it was
evident that she was not far from her
supply ship or her base, “which might
be in any of the 10,000 islands under
British or Japanese mandates.” He con-
tinued :
It can be assumed that the enemy’s
supply ship was refuelled in neutral terri-
tory into which, no doubt, she slips in
the guise of an innocent merchantman.
Where is this base? Where is this
rendezvous? We don’t know. It is prob-
able that these raiders have powerful
friends in neutral countries who turn a
blind eye when raiders slip in under the
guise of honest merchantmen, or who say
nothing when a raider’s supply ship fills
up with fuel and goes out to meet the
raider.
An utterance which shows that this
Minister is in urgent need of censorship.
He is still living in 1918.
Modern motor vessels can make
voyages up to 10,000 miles without
refuelling. And, served with a tanker,
there is not the slightest reason why a
raider or more than one raider should
not be supplied from Mexico. There are
no normal commercial facilities for refuel-
ling foreign ships in the Carolines, Mar-
shalls or Mariannes, and movements ot
commercial shipping are severely
restricted in those islands—-almos
entirely excluded, in fact. Mr. Hughes
has produced no evidence whatever
prove or even suggest that there is any
real ground for his suspicions. It sucn


Shoving Comfort Is Yours
Make your morning shave the joy it _ should be by
using ECLIPSE RAZOR BLADES—British mad ®: J e
ECLIPSE BLADE fits almost any type ot Kami.
Observe how it whirrs its way through the stinest
beard, smoothly and crisply. No skin soreness to
the use of an ECLIPSE BLADE—no cuts oir ugly
nicks ECLIPSE BLADES reach the zenith of shaving
efflcieney. Per packet of 5 blades 1/6. They are
made in England.
“Point that the other Way , fathead!”
evidence does exist, it is doubly im-
portant that it should not become a
matter of public controversy.
It is announced that 90 per cent, of
the R.A.N. is now in Australian waters —
a sign of the completeness with which
Italian naval power has been blotted out.
But the seas are very wide and enemy
auxiliary cruisers in these days very fast.
The captain of the Haxby, which fell
a victim to the raider operating off
Maoriland, said that the latter had for-
merly been a well-known liner, and that
the world would be surprised if her name
were known. The Nauru raider from
her described tonnage does not sound
like a liner, but there were a couple of
bie German liners in Japanese ports not
long ago—the 18,500-ton Scharnhorst and
the" 15,000-ton Patria. And there was
nothing in international law to prevent
their leaving if their dues were paid.
Mussolini's Luftwaffe .
“Aileron”: Officially it is the Regia
Aeronautica. Its commandant is General
Priccolo, and when war broke out it was
supposed to consist of about 2500 opera-
tional machines, 1500 transports, trainers
and reserves, 6500 pilots and 54,000
ground staff.
It was divided into several sections—
the independent air corps, three armies
each of 400 machines, two each of 150
machines; 30 squadrons of air co-opera-
tion machines, many of them obsoles-
cent ; the naval air service—an army of
400 machines ; and 60 squadrons —two
armies—forming the Colonial Air Force.
The Regia Aeronautica was nothing if
not experimental. It has always been
ready to try anything once, with the
result that in 1939 it had 93 different
types of machines. The Colonial Force
which is being fast wiped out in Libya
was about the most various. Its fighters
mainly are Fiats and Macchis.
The Fiats are the CR32 and 42, whose
names constantly appear in the news. The
former has a 550-h.p. unsupercharged
liquid-cooled motor. It is a biplane, and
its speed is 242 m.p.h. at round 10,000
feet. Compare it with the Hurricane,
Spitfire and Boulton Paul, with their
1000-h.p. and single wing, wonderful
streamlining and speed ranging on
towards 400 m.p.h. And compare its
two iin. machine-guns with their eight
Brownings.
The CR42, of which many have been
captured or destroyed during the Battle
of Libya, is merely a development of the
other machine, with 300 h.p. more and a
speed at 12,000-odd feet of 272 m.p.h.
The two Macchis are more modern —
G5O has an 840-h.p. engine, is a mono-
plane, about the same size as the Hurri-
cane, and has a top speed at 14,760 ft. of
299 m.p.h.; C2OO has a top speed of 314
m.p.h. at 15,750 ft. It is very manoeu-
vrable, but the armament isn’t worth
powder against the crack British fighters
or against the average British bomber-
fighter. It is what a Hurricane might have
been if somebody had designed it in 1930.
The bombers are better. The Breda
88 is the most dangerous of all the R.As.
It has set up a record for its type of 344
m.p.h., but as a military machine with
two 1000-h.p. Piaggio XI RC4O engines
its top speed is about 320 m.p.h. Its
armament, apart from bombs, is two iin.
machine-guns and two .Bin. cannon, one
in the nose and one movable aft.
The Caproni Cal3s bis is another two-
motored job, engined like the Breda 88,
but it is larger, has retractable turrets.
above and below the fuselage, and is
built to carry 26501 b. bomb load. Its
range is 1240 miles.
The Fiat BR2O is slightly larger and
the Savoia-Marchetti still larger. But
Mussolini has nothing within 25 feet in
wing span of the Short Sunderlands, and,
taking it all round, his air force is a poor
show from a machine viewpoint, con-
sidering the nurpber of highly-capable
flying-men whom Italy has produced.
In September, 190 bombers and 120
fighters were estimated to be operating
in Libya, with 200 other ’planes. Four
squadrons of fighters and 12 of bombers
were operating in East Africa and 70
machines in the Dodecanese. Fuel must
be a problem everywhere, and in East
Africa primitive home-made bombs have
been used.
German types were added to the
standard Italian machines after war broke
out. On September 5 British Gladiators
shot down five JuB7Bs —dive-bombers —
over the Dodecanese.
The Gladiators were unable to find an
enemy pilot to determine whether Ger-
man personnel as well as German
machines were being used.
Furphies from the Balkans.
“Ek Dum”: Gatherers of the kind of
“news” served up from Europe and
swallowed, hook, line and sinker, by
Great Dailies excelled themselves when
they discovered a Great German Army
on the Move in Hungary. It was in 1160
trains spread over 100 miles —a train
to every 152 yards—and presumably the
reporters had counted them all and the
200,000 men divided among them at the
rate of one to the yard or more. And
that was not all:
It is planned to transport 1500 German
tanks to Hungary by December 31.
Brauschitsch and Keitel are, of course,
letting out their plans in a sporting spirit
for the benefit of the British, the Greeks
and the Turks, whose air forces could
ask nothing better in a New Year prayer
than 200,000 German troops with full
equipment snaking across Hungary at a
foot-pace in a 100-mile caterpillar, and
1500 tanks dotted round the open Hun-
garian steppes —they are full of bunkers
such as hydro-electric channels and man-
size rivers—in a temperature down
around zero.
In the first week of October, accord-
ing to various press authorities, there
were 250,000 Germans already in
Rumania, and they were still pouring in.
Other correspondents then had discovered
that Keitel had gone or was going to
Rumania and/or Libya, and it seemed
that there would be only a momentary
pause before Germans would pour across
Thrace and the Dardanelles and Bos-
phorus, rush over the Taurus and be
driving at Suez —about 3000 miles from
their starting point.
That is, if the Russians did not throw
their weight on the side of Britain, a
consummation which some soft heads
were encouraged to hope for.
Hitler may be moving troops to
Rumania, but if he is he is choosing a
bad time for it. At this time of the
year the Danube, the main transport
artery of eastern Europe, is closed with
ice, and will not be fit for effective
navigation for nearly two months —there
is sometimes as much as five feet of
ice on it at the end of February. And
the passes over the Transylvanian moun-
tains may at any minute become clogged.
True, in the last war the final fighting
which subdued Rumania took place in
December, 1916 Von
Mackensen occupied Buchar-
est on Dec. 6 and, with the
lumbering Russian armies in
the background turned into
a mob, the fighting was vir-
tually all over by the New
Year. But it was a mild win-
ter with little snow which
the present one is not and
the German troops had com-
pleted their passage of the
Transylvanian Alps and were
on the western Rumanian
plains on November 18, be-
fore winter began in earnest.
Also, they then were bent
only on campaigning in
Rumania and were not a
heavily mechanised modern
army loaded down with the
ponderous equipment and
vast ammunition supplies so
necessary in the present war.
If the Germans are mov-
ing into Rumania it may be
because of Rumanian con-
ditions ; but it is as likely as
not that they are going there
as workmen to improve the
facilities for hurrying
preparations for the delivery of
Rumanian and Russian oil and
Ukrainian crops—it has been a bumper
season in Russia —against the approach
of spring. Any fresh German belligerency
in Eastern Europe, while it may momen-
tarily divert attention from some other
move, can only bring the Reich more
powerful enemies and new responsibilities.
The job of shepherding and controlling
over 100,000,000 conquered or subser-
vient Europeans of varying races, spread
over country 2000 miles square, while
keeping Italy on her feet and Japan
friendly to the Axis, plus the task of
dealing with British shipping and warding
off the R.A.F. Blitzkrieg, is already more
than mansized.
If Hitler is bent on helping Italy in
Albania he could have done it by a
much shorter route than via Hungary
without the risk of starting a fresh war
with Turkey.
The worst months of northern Europe
have arrived. November and early De-
cember storms have given way to the
calm weather which usually follows
English snowfalls —the first came down
round London on Christmas Eve. Janu-
ary is usually bitterly cold and not always
stormy; February may be even colder
with the first of the continental thaw.
Invasion talk has started again, and the
thing might be attempted before long,
if attempted at all. Time is becoming the
essence of the contract for the Germans.
* * * *
The Greek campaign has been delayed
by snow and slush, but the Greeks are
slowly closing in on Valona and the
coastal plain of Albania. They have con-
solidated their hold on Himara, only 30
miles from Valona, which has been sorely
battered by the R.A.F., the Navy and the
Fleet Air Arm. Further north-east the
Greeks burst the Italian lines during the
week, and in the northern sector they
are pushing down from the mountains
round Pogradek into the Devoli valley.
There has been bombing on both sides.
An R.A.F. spokesman at Athens says
that 50 Italian ’planes have been de-
stroyed during the Albanian campaign
and probably 16 others. The R.A.F.
lost eight bombers and four fighters in
70 raids under the worst flying con-
ditions in Europe.
* * * *
Though the first of our flying men
have landed in England from Canada,
Air Minister Mr. McEwen declares that
four-fifths of the total contingents will
graduate on Australian soil. If the Aus-
tralian graduates turn out as well as
those trained here who have been fighting
in Libya, the Commonwealth will have
reason to be proud of them.
* * * >:•
Frank Hurley’s experiences on his dash
to Sidi Barrani must have reminded him
of the Menin Road. There, on Septem-
ber 25, 1917, “geysers of earth were
springing from the country on either
hand, raising a dust cloud through which
succeeding explosions were faintly visible.
Aeroplanes were bombing. The advanced
divisional dump of ammunition had been
blown up, and cartridges and bombs were
littered on all sides. Several motor-lorries
had been wrecked, and one was blazing
fiercely.” Charles Bean is the witness.
He added that “many observed with
admiration the famous pair of official
photographers, Hurley and Wilkins, reck-
lessly exposing themselves to secure a
record of this battle.”
* * * *
“Aileron”: Canada is building 11 dif-
ferent types of ’plane. Progress includes
18 Bolingbroke long-distance bombers,
completed; 80 Hampdens, to be com-
pleted next May; Hurricanes, being
produced at the rate of six a week ,
Westland Lysanders, Stranraer flying
boats, Harvard trainers the opposite
number of the Wirraway —Tiger Moths
at the rate of three a day, Fleet Finch
trainers two a day —■ Anson bomber
trainers and some others. The Govern-
ment’s objective is 4320 machines in
1941, and already 32,000 persons are
employed in making the machines or
their parts.
* * * *
“Aileron”: Captured ’planes examined
in England to the end of October all had
more rubber than British of the same
type, and their holeproof tanks were
especially well wrapped round. High
octane petrol is still found in all enemy
tanks. The only essential of which there
might be any scarcity is oil.
The Air War Day by Day.
December 23-24: Reported that
R.A.A.F. has in four days definitely shot
down nine, and probably 13, Italian air-
craft in Libya, against losses of three
single-seater fighters and one pilot. British
attacks on Libyan ports and aerodromes,
including Tripoli and Castel Benito, con-
tinue. Devastating raid on Valona.
Rhodesian ’plane shoots down fighter
over Kassala (Sudan). German recon-
naissances off Scottish coast. One raider
shot down.
Dec. 24-25: No raids on Britain or
Germany. In Libya, enemy advance base
heavily bombed and a warship hit.
Italian raid on Corfu.
Dec. 25-26: “No British or German
raids for more than 80 hours.” R.A.F.
announces that 10 Italian ’planes had
been destroyed over Greece and 21 over
African fronts during week to Dec. 25 ;
seven British ’planes lost. German-held
Channel ports and aerodromes bombed
by small forces of R.A.F.
Dec. 27; Germans make severe four-
hour raid over London; single ’plane
raids Southampton; otherwise “little
enemy activity” over Britain.
R. pounds Channel port bases.
Air Arm Skuas attack enemy shipping
and bases at Haugesund and Stavanger
(Norway), firing supply ship and dam-
aging warehouses. Germans declare two
attacks on German sea patrols beaten
off in North Sea and two British machines
destroyed. R.A.F. reports all machines
returned safely.
Italians drop 200 bombs on Prevesa
(Greece); they announce that ’planes
attacking advance posts in Libya shot
down three fighters; and that another
fighter sank British 5000-ton merchant-
man in Mediterranean with torpedo.
S. Africans shoot down enemy ’plane
near Gadaref. R.A.A.F. shoots down two
CR42’s and severely damages four others.
Dec. 28-29: Short German raid on
south-west England. In bad weather
R.A.F. pounds German invasion ports
and aerodromes and U-boat bases. Ger-
man waters mined by British planes —
two machines and a fighter lost. Rotter-
dam and Amsterdam oil plants also
attacked.
Italians claim that two Italian torpedo
’planes hit British destroyer and monitor
off Libyan coast; also that they destroyed
some British armored cars. They admit
loss of one ’plane.
Dec. 29-30: R.A.F. raids on French
coast continue.
Huge waves of German bombers
attack London on Sunday night, thou-
sands of incendiaries being followed by
h.e. ; scores of fires started. All-clear
sounded after eight hours. Several
churches hit. South-western English
town suffers 240th raid, bombs destroy-
ing homes of hundreds. Strange ’planes
driven away from Eire.
Announced that Australians in Egypt
have been bombed several times, and thai
on Boxing Day the R.A.A.F. fought over
Australian troops for the first time.
Casualties, two Italian ’planes destroyed
for certain, one probably, four damaged.
No Australian losses.


Position Vacant.
The Farleigh Co-operative Sugar Milling
Association, Limited.
Applications are invited until noon on
Wednesday, 29th January, 1941, for the posi-
tion of MANAGER at Farleigh Mill.
Residence, firewood, light and water supplied.
Applications to be addressed to the under-
signed and endorsed “Manager” and must
state age, qualifications, salary required and
when prepared to commence duties.
A. P. BOWERMAN,
Secretary.
Form a Group!
Join a Group!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Longreach Reaches Out
“C.Q.R.”: It has remained for Long-
reach (C.Q.), the home town of Qantas,
to try an experiment which may alter
the whole life of the Australian tropics.
Longreach State school has for six
months begun its day at 7.45 a.m., which
means that school is over before the
hottest part of the afternoon is reached.
The scheme has been such a success that
even the breaking-up sports and picnic
began at the new hour.
In my opinion the Education Depart-
ment should make an early beginning
of the day universal North of Twenty-
Eight. The result would be to revo-
lutionise the life of every household in
which there were children, and to bring
about sensible hours for the whole
community.
In Bagdad in the heat of summer the
working day starts at 6 a.m. and is over
before lunchtime. The whole white
community enjoys its siesta after lunch.
In Delhi and other Indian cities summer
hours begin and end before the time of
greatest heat. Also, throughout the hot
Orient it is the summer custom even
for managing directors to go to work
in sensible shorts carrying a thermos of
cold liquid to slake their thirsts.
And if some of the Australian cities
could be transplanted into the southern
and mid-west States of U.S.A., the whole
local communities, garbed in straw hats
and loose, cool shirt and trousers, would
turn out to jeer at our Glaswegian sum-
mer wrappings.
“Dip”; The meningitis-outbreak re-
strictions left Darwin with a very sub-
dued Christmas. All festivities were
called off; shops closed early on Christ-
mas Eve and church services were held
in the open. Even the pubs were prac-
tically empty, customers preferring to
play safe with bottled beer by drinking
it in the streets or in their own homes.
* * *
“Lid”: You can’t keep these Camerons
down! The latest is 62-year-old G. A.
Cameron, Brisbane’s new Chief Police
Magistrate, appointed to that position
after 44 years’ service. He kicked off
as a clerk in the Marine Department at
Brisbane, and then was Land Agent or
Clerk of Petty Sessions, or both, at
Barcaldine, Ipswich, Nanango, Glad-
stone and Brisbane ; police magistrate at
Thursday Island, Bowen, Townsville and
Ipswich. He came to Brisbane in 1938.
# * * *
“Philp”: lan Webster Morley, Queens-
land’s new State Mining Engineer and
Chief Inspector, takes over that position
just 14 months after he joined the Mines
Department as Assistant State Mining
Engineer and Assistant Chief Engineer.
The titles are a bit long-winded, but he
has a longer one, being a Bachelor of
Metallurgical Engineering and of Mining
Engineering. He’s been a mines inspector
in Westralia and New Guinea, as well as
having had a say in the management of
several Queensland mines.
* * * *
“Lefty”: You blokes down south can
talk of the time someone sold your
Harbor Bridge or Archibald Fountain,
but up here in the Territory we have fel-
lows who don’t talk about such things—
they do ’em. For example, the chaps
who lifted a thousand pounds’ worth of
artesian-boring gear off a stock route and
sold it in parts. It was brought out from
Alice Springs, but the site wasn’t satis-
factory. Two years later, when the
"'Appy Noo Year!”
Administration decided to move the
plant, they found the bower-birds had
been there first.
* * * *
“Nuttem”: Rev. I. Menear, of the
Methodist Inland Mission, is to forsake
the ways of peace, having received leave
of absence to take up a commission in
the R.A.A.F. He had trained in Morse
signalling and wireless at Adelaide post
office before passing from Adelaide Uni-
versity to the Inland Mission 14 years
ago. He pioneered M.I.M. work in the
Gulf country, where his Morse and wire-
less knowledge was put to practical use.
He was on circuit duty in Rockhampton
when he received his commission.
* sfc * *
“Dungeness”: The death in Adelaide
of Norman Milton, formerly of Staple-
ton (N.T.), recalls the spacious days of
money-flinging in Andy Fisher’s time and
the decision to prove to a doubting
world what a Garden of Eden the Terri-
tory was. Milton offered his well
developed and profitable farm at a very
reasonable price, but the mostly-Mel-
bourne experts decided that it wasn't
sufficiently productive and took the
Batchelor farm instead. That property
achieved a world record with one
pumpkin which cost £30,000 to grow and
was stolen when it was just ready for
picking. Meanwhile Milton’s farm had
become the unofficial showplace for
visitors seeking proof of the Territory’s
agricultural possibilities. It still is.
* * * *
“Colonel B’s’tT”: A lad who seems to
be having the time of his bright young
life is 19-year-old John Pain, Brisbane-
born stepson of Justice Mansfield, now a
pilot-officer in the R.A.F. He got his
first air training at the Queensland Aero
Club by winning an essay competition on
aeronautics when he was 15. Joining the
R.A.F. a year ago, he completed his
fighter-pilot course in August, and
a few days later had shot down
his first four enemy ’planes. While
he was tackling a bomber after
sending down another, a cannon shell
blew a hole in the petrol tank of
his Hurricane filter and almost blinded
him. As he pulled the machine out ot
a dive at 12,000 ft. it caught fire and he
bailed out, badly wounded in a leg and
an arm. From 500 ft. aloft he noticed a
party of Home Guards stalking him,
but managed to make it clear that he
was British and landed in a flower garden,
After a month in hospital and another
month of convalescence he is aloft again,
* * * *
The first crop of entirely home-grown
Queensland doctors was harvested this
year and vested with degrees of Bachelor
of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery in
the City Hall on December 14. Two
women were amongst the total of 20.
After registration by the State Medical
u oa rd two days later all but one took
U p positions at the Brisbane General
Hospital and other public hospitals. The
exception was Rev. G. R. Hemming, who
goes to Fiji to act as missionary priest
a nd doctor. Five Bachelors of Veterinary
Science, one of them a woman, were also
Unfitted to degrees, like the docs, being
the first to receive their full training in
Queensland. Three ditto of Laws, a
previously-matured product, rounded off
t h e y ear ’ s a cademic output,
* * * *
“Balander”: Pointing out that Queens-
land taXTrevenue , £8 13s. 3d. a head, is
tfae highest in Australia—N.S.W. is next
4s.—the Taxpayers’ Association
” - Q -tu c iw maintaining
slates the Fo g
their imposts in war-time and spending
more than ever on non-essential wot s.
It wants to know why the Taxation n-
quiry Commission’s reports has been
delayed. Other people want to know
why S.A. is getting so many war con-
tracts and Queensland so few, and there
is a deep suspicion that taxation has
something to do with it.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will.be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
R.S.:
Our Union Jack which flies so high
I hope to God to make it mightier yet.
Be it land, sea or air, we haven’t a care;
Our boys are at it and we shall be spared.
S J.W.: —
If you think a woman’s honor
Worth the risk you’re going to face,
Why in Heaven’s name insult her
By your words so vile and base,
Far more than fears of warfare
Could instil into her mind?
Listen, boys. I’m coldly sober—
Be a credit to mankind.
W.B. (Canada);
Nature has subjected you to the tasks
And her fierce discipline of drought has made—■
Has made you sterling men who know the real
Meaning of self-help and independence.
So today you stand in the front rank with
All the British Commonwealth of Nations,
Waging a mighty war against such as
Would resurrect aggression and despotism.
H.P.:
We shall go on avenging through night and through
day
This wanton aggression, this tyrant’s foul sway.
G.P.T.; “A Wonderful Achievement” is
nothing to be proud 0f.... 8.R.D.: Why the
dismal finish?... .R.S.L.: You were doing
much better in lightly humorous vain
P.R.S.: “Two-timing palookas” belong to
America... .B.L.W. \ It would be better for
all if you wrote that sort of thing in invisible
ink and then threw it in the fire 8.F.L.:
If you must use words of several syllables, for
Heaven’s sake find out the meaning of them
first P.R.S.: “Impressions Gathered During
a Long Sojourn in Prison” made us resolve
never to break the law... .F.E.P.: No, we
haven’t read that before, but we’ve read so
many others like it that it doesn’t matter....
N.R.S.: A flapper mag. might be interested in
“Vaierie, who was divinely pretty with big
violet eyes,” and her “Robert, who was tall
and bronzed and spoke rarely and quietly with
a twinkle in his eye” D.L.R.: Sent “Adven-
tures of a Red Indian Among a Tribe ot
Aboriginals” to King Billy D.T.A.: Your
“small drop in the great heaving tide of
literature” was heaved out of the d00r....
A.N.G.: Not up L. 8.: If you cut out
tags such as “glorious golden scene” you’d
score more often... .C.S.: Don’t know where
you could place them... .K.MacL.: “Mud”
nearly stuck; worth revising... .H.E.; It might
amuse an easily-amused child J.E.: Try a
daily J.R.: The drought poem has a touch
of the real thing... . A.V.W.; Jingly... .N.E.:
“Sing hey! for palm-fringed isles a-roar.” All
right, then: Hey! V.H.P.: Extremely turgid.
E.J.B.; Try it in prose J.S.: Maybe a
woman’s paper could bear it....8.H.: Appro-
priate sentiments in ordinary verse W.S.;
Not up A.A.H.: It would probably make a
good song... .M.H.: Its only claim to origi-
nality is its incoherence F.8.N.: Album
verse.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.L.: Hopelessly confused, and the like-
nesses aren’t striking N.C.T.: The stranded-
couple-on-small-island joke has to be a world-
beater to get through... .A.N.: Linework is
still too scratchy... .H.L.: Slight variation or
an old Low jest H.F.F.: What we admired
most was the banana-like bend in the guns
on your alleged cruiser... .K.C.: Looks like
a frieze executed by some crazed municipal tar-
worker. .. .G.H.R.: A comic paper seems your
one hope of unloading it P.M.: Ancient
bloke, ancient dog—telling an ancient joke....
J. 8.: Away with your wax models and send
us something that looks like a human being.
Peter C.: Is that a swag or a gigantic
bon-bon your sundowner is staggering under.
L A : Gent, floating in mid-air talking to
misshapen dwarf suspended miraculously out-
side second floor of leaning building is on
his way back... .W.L.C.: Be a good fellow
and take up philately or bee-keeping as a hobby.
F L : A little more polish and you 11 stand
a chance of tickling the cashbox... .P.T.; The
last time we saw that chap looking through
the bathroom window he was a fireman.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
Music in 1940
A summing-up of a year’s music in
Australia must in these days be largely
a chronicle of the activities of the A.B.C.,
which has devoted a great deal of energy
and money to the fashioning of its pro-
grammes and to the organisation of
public concerts of a sort that could rank
as first-rate social occasions. In its capa-
city as an entrepreneur of celebrities and
near-celebrities the Commission’s 1940
record is redeemed from commonplace-
ness by the fact that its principal importa-
tion was the English orchestral con-
ductor Sir Thomas Beecham, a gifted, if
wayward, musician who has an inspiring
effect on the instrumentalists over whom
he waves a baton. Some of the finest
orchestral music ever heard in Australia
was the outcome of that engagement, but
it was heard only by the box-office
patrons in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane
and other centres. Radio listeners would
have been much better served by gramo-
phone recordings, for the broadcasts,
made from public halls not suitable to
such a purpose, were ill-balanced carica-
tures of what they purported to convey.
The same remark applies, of course, to
the orchestral efforts of the Finnish con-
ductor Georg Schneevoigt, who is by way
of being a Sibelius specialist, though he is
a sound practitioner in any sort of sym-
phonic music. Some of Schneevoigt’s
concert performances were delectable —a
heroic assault on Beethoven’s Ninth in
Sydney will be long remembered —but
Schneevoigt, too, suffered from poor
transmission of his efforts over the ether.
The A.B.C. orchestras in the various
centres had, as usual, a year of constant
changes in conductorship. When Beecham
or Schneevoigt left them alone for a
minute or two, Bernard Heinze or Percy
Code or Sydney’s Dr. Bainton or such
visiting maestros as Antal Dorati were
called in to give them exercise. These
orchestras don’t seem to improve very
steadily under such mixed tutelage. The
fact that their composition is to some
extent fluid, personnel changing from
time to time, is one reason ; frequent
changes in conductorship are another.
What these orchestras need is stabili-
sation.
The year’s record of virtuosi has at
least one first-class name in it—that of
violinist Yehudi Menuhin —not by grace
of the A.B.C., but by virtue of circum-
stances that constrained this talented
young man and his family to reside in
Australia for several months. Menuhin
recitals are scattered all through the
year’s record, and they were all very de-
lightful. Pianist Ignaz Friedman, who is
getting almost into the veteran class, was
here to give his crisp and well-polished
interpretations of various composers. An
advance-agent theory that Mr. Friedman
wears the late De Pachmann’s mantle in
the Chopin line was not corroborated.
Outside these two the year’s outstanding
solo instrumentalists were Beatrice Tange,
of Sydney, who gave a fine series of
pianoforte recitals for war funds; Osric
Fyfe, ’cellist, who earned praise for a
concerto performance at a Sydney Con.
concert; and two singers with robust
masculine voices, Kenneth Neate, of Syd-
ney, and Oscar Natzke, of M.L. A
soprano brought from Iceland by the
A.B.C. achieved the eclat to which such
a long journey undoubtedly entitled her.
Chorally there has not been much
doing. A good “Messiah” reading in
Melbourne under Prof. Heinze at the be-
ginning of the year and a good-to-fair
run-through of Elgar’s “Dream of
Gerontius” under the same baton were
the highlights.
Hector Crawford’s open-air concerts in
Melbourne Botanical Gardens deserve a
special mention. They have proved most
unexpectedly successful.
Opera (outside some suburban frolics
with Straus and Lehar) has been having
more or less of a holiday. Sydney Con.
Opera School put on “The Merry Wives
of Windsor” for a successful season.
Australian composers have been given
some attention by the A.B.C., which takes
its responsibilities in this direction seri-
ously. A performance ajranged by the
Vic. Musical Society of works by 32 Aus-
tralians was, if nothing else, evidence
that original work is still being done here.
♦ * * *
“Messiah”
What a vast omnibus of music is
“Messiah”! Everything seems to be in
it. It got its second hearing of the
season at the hands of the Melbourne
Philharmonics and the Melbourne Sym-
phony Orchestra before a full house at
the Town Hall on Christmas evening.
Time was when Bernard Heinze got a
patronising pat on the back or acid re-
marks about youthful inexperience from
the critics for his conducting of Handel’s
stupendous opus, but the applause that
followed almost every section suggested
that, right or wrong, the criticism hasn’t
done the Ormond professor any harm,
and general opinion was that the per-
formance was outstanding. Thea Philips
made a thrilling experience of the parts
for soprano, and Joan Jones displayed
a rich contralto. Stanley Clarkson re-
peated previous successes in the bass
role, and tenor William Herbert made an
excellent first appearance. It was the
Philharmonics’ 122nd performance; the
first was in 1853. The increasing popu-
larity of the oratorio says something for
Melbourne’s premier musical society,
also for Handel.
* * * *
The Tiv.
Sydney Tiv. offers a Christmas panto.,
“Cinderella,” at afternoon sessions. It's
a first-rate entertainer, combining panto-
mime with the best of the vaudeville stuff
from the new “All Laughter Show,”
staged at evening sessions. Actually the
panto., having some continuity in addi-
tion to the vaudeville acts, is the better
show. Leading light of both pieces is
Jenny Howard, making her second
appearance at the Tiv. with her partner
Percy King. She has a rare touch with
popular songs, particularly patrio-senti-
mental numbers like “The Lights of Lon-
don” and “There’s a Boy Coming Home
on Leave.” A lass who can bring tears
to a Tiv. audience as easily as she can
make them laugh knows her onions. So,
by the same token, does a gent, who can
look thoroughly bored whilst carrying out
a superior juggling act. The chap in
question is one Rebla, and he seems able
to keep his hands betwixt gravity and an
indefinite number of almost anything.
There are also the Tai-Sings, an engag-
ing Chinese couple, in a novelty dance
turn; a sleight-of-hand merchant, acro-
bats, roller skaters, the Tiv. girls and a
bunch of juvenile understudies ; and Syd
Beck, Morrie Barling and Ronnie Shand
supplying comedy, expurgated at the
panto, session,
♦ * * *
Levante
The ingenious Levante celebrated his
arrival at the King’s Theatre, Melbourne,
by entertaining pressmen and fellow-
magicians in the foyer of the theatre,
and, to show there was no deception,
obligingly put his daughter in a sack,
deposited her in a steel trunk and
changed places with her in three seconds,
with sleuth-eyed spectators, accustomed
to weigh the evidence, standing all
around him, so it was obviously magic
and there was no mere trickery about it.
Most people think that magicians must
have the conditions before they can per-
form their supernatural feats, but not so.
Once the senses of an average alert news-
boy on the corner of Swanston-street and
Collins-street deceived him in an equally
impressive manner in broad daylight. He
was handed a coin in exchange for a
“Herald” by a tall gent, in a black cloak
who had just emerged from the Ambas-
sadors’ Cafe. “Gripes!” he said to a
fellow-newsvendor, staring in amazement
at his clenched fist, “did you see what
that barmy bloke did? He gave me two
bob for an ‘ ’Erald.’ ” “Oh, did ’e?” said
the other. “Look at your hand.” His
cobber slowly opened it and found the
requisite penny in it. “Do you know
who that was?” added his professional
colleague, “That was Dante!”
Ht * * *
In Adelaide
The amateur Play-Box theatre of
Adelaide ended the year by hiring the
big Tivoli from the Repertory, and re-
viving the very American “O’Brien
Girl” for four nights, one each allotted
to England, Ireland, Scotland and Aus-
tralia. It was finely staged by Lloyd
Prider, and well acted, with serio-comic
lovers too numerous to mention. Chier
honors in fun-making went to Jimmy
Mundy and Lilian Prichard.
The Majestic alternates its talent of
the moment with some youngsters it
nominates as likely to be stars of 1950,
and, by contrast, Maud Fanning and
others who don’t mind admitting that
they were on deck in 1900.
* ♦ * •
Two more examples of the genus
panto, were observed at large In Mel-
bourne last week, one at the Tivoli and.
the other at the Princess. The specimen
at the Tiv. includes a Palace of Gold,
also one of stars, a Magic Pool and a
Haunted Castle, Jim Gerald and a huge
array of what are confidently described
bv the management as Melbourne’s most
talented children. Mr. Gerald makes
a double appearance, functioning in the
evening as Private Jitters in an inoffen-
sive skit on the army. “Babes in the
Wood” is the selection at the Princess,
with the immortal Bert Ray as Dame.
There is a seasonable revival of “The
Wizard of Oz” at the Savoy.
* * * *
At Sydney Royal Aladdin and his prin-
cess and sundry genii scamper about for
the edification of holidaying school-
children. They begin famously—Cath
Esler makes Aladdin a shapely “boy.
Dot Rankin provides him with a tunetul
and appealing princess, Rex Dawe is an
uproarious Dame, Ron Beck a right
royal emperor, and Sydney Wheeler a
truly villainous Abanazar—but long
before the finish they’ve somehow lost
track of the story, and changed the whole
thing from pantomime to vaudeville.
AT THE TALKIES.
“The Great Dictator”
There were Chaplin addicts at Sydney
Plaza who roared all the way through
this film, but that only proved one thing
—that they had either worked themselves
into that state of mind where they would
laugh at anything or that, through past
associations, anything at all that the little
man does is screamingly funny to them.
Support is lent to that notion by the fact
that half of the time Chaplin doesn’t
mean to be funny, and is in deadly
earnest in his castigation of the dictators.
Present commentator would also add that
at times it was hard to laugh at some
moments of the film which were really
meant to be funny —at the moment it is
difficult to laugh at Hitlerism and the
persecution of the Jews, even in satire.
Still, and notwithstanding such obser-
vations, the film has more moments of
rare comedy than anything else. Chaplin
as the persecuted Jewish barber is the
Chaplin of earlier years—the pathetic
little comic who is as appealing as he is
amusing. Chaplin as Adenoid Hynkel,
Dictator of Ptomania, is another figure,
a savage satirist one moment and a keen
topical humorist the next. His hysteri-
cal speeches in some kind of mock Ger-
man are unique and as funny as anything
this filmtaster has come across.
Other rib-testing moments include the
meeting of Adenoid and Jack Oakie as
Napoleoni, Dictator of Bacteria ; sundry
heated arguments between Adenoid and
Billy Gilbert as Field-Marshal Herring,
and Adenoid’s fanciful dreams of world
domination. The climax of the film,
which, perhaps, wipes out any memory
of it as a humorous piece, is an impas-
sioned address to the world at large by
Chaplin himself, in which he works him-
self into a frenzy almost as great as
Hitler’s.
* * * *
“The Thief of Bagdad”
If anything can be said against this
lovely fantasy at Sydney Regent it is that
the makers of it have dwelt a little unduly
on the lurv interest, and that they have
occasionally allowed themselves to pause
in admiration of some of their fanciful
creations. It should be added, however,
that the latter slip is more than justified
—seldom has any film so thoroughly
exploited the beautiful and sometimes
awesome effects obtainable with techni-
cal ingenuity and technicolor.
From the first scene —that of a splen-
did trading vessel making for port over
choppy seas —to the fadeout with the
Thief riding away over the clouds on
his magic carpet in search of adventure,
the film is an arresting piece of work.
Scenes of Bagdad, of its palaces and
princes, slums and beggars, its traders
and its markets, are colorful extrava-
gances right down to the last detail. And
even if they are only pasteboard or
dressed-up actors they are still as excel-
lent of their kind as the films, and only
the films, can make them.
The Thief, the urchin who befriends
the cast-out king and eventually restores
him to his palace, is played by Sabu, and
a thoroughly commendable job he makes
of the role. His adventures with the
towering genie whom he releases from the
bottle, his fight with the spider ten times
his own size in the temple suspended
somewhere between the earth and sky,
his assault on Bagdad on his magic
carpet and his shooting down of the flying
horse are a few of the fantastic highlights
studded into the film.
Film is an English job which had to
be finished in America, and it proves,
along with other recent English produc-
tions, that the English filmsmiths have
caught up with and passed Hollywood m
its own game.
* * * *
“Dr. Cyclops”
This opus, now on the rounds,
concerns Dr. Cyclops, the world’s great-
est biologist and a trifle cranky, who is
engaged in the Amazonian jungle in re-
search into ways and means of diminish-
ing human beings. He succeeds in re-
ducing a full-sized horse to the dimen-
sions of a mouse deer, and then manages
to pop into his de-incubator his assistant,
a couple of natives, the inconspicuous
hero and the inevitable goil, and they
come out the size of Gulliver’s Lilli-
putians.
Unfortunately for the biologist, they
start growing again immediately, and to
forestall their vengeance he decides to
kill them. He succeeds in chloroforming
his assistant, but the rest escape into the
backyard, where they have a series of
credible adventures with cats, fowls and
other dangers to midgets. These are
decidedly funny, but when they bolt into
the jungle things become fantastically
improbable. They finally succeed in
bundling the doctor down a shaft, regain
their normal stature and return to civili-
sation with wedding bells in prospect.
Film is in technicolor, trick photo-
graphy is ingenious, and a bit more
imagination on the part of the authors
would have made it a magnificent panto,
for Christmas, instead of causing the
censor to declare it unsuitable for general
exhibition. Albert Dekker makes a good
job of the crazy biologist.
* * * *
Christmas show at Sydney Lyceum is
a Disney festival —four short features and
“Snow White.” It is all revival stuff, and
film shows signs of the wear and tear of
long usage, but it would take more than
that to spoil the delicacy and charm of
any of Disney’s little masterpieces. The
shorts in this bunch are “Ferdinand the
Bull,” “The Ugly Duckling,” “The Prac-
tical Pig” and “Donald’s Lucky Day.”
“Snow White” has previously received its
due praise in these columns, also “Ferdi-
nand.” The least that can be said of the
others is that they are of the accepted
Disney quality.
* * * *
“P.D.” on the censor:
In these days of censorship I always look
forward to seeing or reading anything that has
passed the censor after a struggle, so it was
with high hopes that I went to inspect
the Australian movie “Forty Thousand Horse-
men.” I was sadly disappointed. The “cafe
sequence” which the censor objected to was
a very commonplace affair. Admittedly the
young dancing ladies were scantily clad, but
that doesn’t make them “offensive” —I’ve seen
pictures of young misses in the altogether to
which nobody could object, while in some
Hollywood films I’ve seen fully-clad women
whose very clothes, demeanor, carriage and
gestures made them more than offensive.
What dismisses any charge of offensiveness
against the scene in the Australian film is that
it is quite impersonal, as far as the audience
is concerned, and the dancers make no effort
to project their sex or anything else at the
people sitting in the theatre. In a similar
scene in a Hollywood film, for instance, 1 ve
seen dancers throwing everything they have at
the camera, at the audience, and it didn t
matter a scrap how scantily they were clad or
otherwise.
As for the “romantic scene” in a desert hut,
to which the censor also objected,^ it is,
admittedly, what some people call a seduc-
tion scene” —the man is wearing only a pair
of slacks and the girl has only a cloth wrapped
round her; they embrace warmly enough a
the camera leaves them to spend the night i
the hut—but it is excellently, m fact, aln
artistically, managed, and as such i i
all “offensive ” If it is, then a good deal of
literature and drama that has been recognised
for centuries is offensive. (1
As tor the teersheta
There’s nothing gruesome about any part o
the charge scene, and, anyway, 1 .
more bloodthirsty sequences in other American
films which, 1 presume, the censor also sees.
Fo™ instanU, in “North-West Passage ’’ show
ing in Sydney at the moment, there s °? e J
wherein a crazed white man is depicted as eat
ing, raw, the head of an Indian which he had
secured several days earlier and carried with
him ever since. If that’s not gruesome, no-
thing is.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence .
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors—James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.,
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FOR® l ’;®- , , „
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 147 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Males, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general_banking^bu^
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE
Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee.. Perth
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulleth
readers.
Tire service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Nurse (dental), exp. surgery and bookkeep-
ing, seeks permanent position in Brisbane. Refs.
—9051.
Accountant with executive ability seeks posi-
tion of trust in Brisbane. —9127.
To buy, new or second-hand, Old Days, Old
Ways, by Mary Gilmore. —9098.
Information Sought.
(1) What is the gross tonnage of the battle-
cruiser Hood? (2) Is it correct that warships
have only one tonnage, while cargo and pas-
senger boats have two ? (3) Where is the
highest tide in the world? —9o63.
(1) H.M.S. Hood’s displacement unloaded is
42,100; loaded, 46,000 tons. (2) Cargo ships
are quoted gross and net. (3) Probably the
Bay of Fundy (Nova Scotia).
» * ♦ ♦
Has the Commonwealth Government powers
similar to those of the U.S.A. for punishing
income-tax defaulters ? What is the maximum
penalty it can impose on persons who deliber-
ately falsify returns to avoid taxation ? —9056.
Taxation provisions differ in many of the
American States. In Australia the Common-
wealth Act provides penalty for making false
return, £2 to £lOO plus double tax avoided;
and for understating income or fraudulent
avoidance of tax, £25 to £5OO plus double tax
avoided. In default of payment of penalty,
offender may be committed to gaol for periods
varying in accordance with amount of penalty
from seven days to 12 months.
* * * *
In an article on the feeding of army trans-
port horses it is stated that the daily ration
is 16 lb. of chaff, Alb. bran and lib. pollard.
How is the pollard fed —wet or dry, hot or
cold?— 8198*
The daily ration for December is: Oaten
chaff, 121 b.; wheaten chaff, 41b.; oats, 41b.;
bran 21b. Pollard is not included. The
bran is fed dry, mixed with the balance (chaff
and oats) of the ration.
* * * *
(1) Number of growers of fruit for the dried
fruit market in Australia ? (2) In Victoria ?
—9117.
(1) Approximately 5500 growers, and 40,000
directly dependent on the industry for the
whole or portion of their livelihood. (2)
Approximately 2300.
* * * »
Information concerning the Fahrenheit ther-
mometer ? —9144.
The Fahrenheit thermometer is in general
use throughout the British Empire and U.S.A.,
and is an adaptation of the thermometer in-
vented by Sir Isaac Newton and described by
him in the Philosophical Transactions for 1701.
Newton’s lowest point was that of freezing,
his highest that of boiling water. His starting
point, however, was the heat of the human
body, which he called by the round number
12, the duodecimal system being then in use;
that is, he divided the space between the
freezing point and the temperature of the body
into 12 parts. When Fahrenheit took the
thermometer in hand he divided each of New-
ton’s degrees into two parts, so getting a
more minute record while he got lower tempera-
tures than freezing by using a mixture of ice
and salt for his zero. Newton used linseed
oil as the fluid for the thermometer tube, but
mercury came into general use as more con-
venient. The boiling point of a Fahrenheit
thermometer is 212 degrees, the freezing point
32 degrees.
H= * * ♦
Brief account of the development of the
Union Jack? Description of the present flag?
—9143.
The original Union flag combined the St.
George and St. Andrew crosses and was adopted
on the accession of James VI of Scotland to
the throne of England under the title of James I
in 1603. No further alteration was made in
the flag until January 1, 1801, when the Irish
Parliament was dissolved and the Act of Union
came into force. The present Union flag is
composed of three heraldic crosses. The
cross of St. Andrew forms the blue and
white basis. Upon this lies the red and white
cross of St. Patrick, and upon the whole rests
the red and white cross of St. George, dividing
the flag vertically and horizontally. The term
“jack” has a restricted use in naval parlance,
referring only to flags containing only the
union crosses and not the other quarters, as
in the white, blue and red ensigns.
* * * *
Any information concerning the history of
the barber’s trade? —9l4l.
There was a guild of barbers in England
long before 1308, when there is a record of
Richard Le Barbour being appointed Master, to
have “supervision over the trade.” In the
time of Edward IV they were the only persons
who practised surgery; hence the old title
barber-surgeons. The London Barbers were
incorporated in 1462, and a rival Company of
Surgeons of London was afterwards set up.
In time the latter only were permitted to act as
surgeons, although even then the barbers might
follow “blood-letting and drawing teeth.” The
barber’s pole is a relic of the barber-surgeons’
days, the filet representing bandaging.
* * * *
Details of the constituents of the earth’s
atmosphere ? To what height above the earth
does it extend? —9142.
The normal constituents of air are nitrogen
78.1 p.c., oxygen 21 p.c. and argon 0.9 p.c.,
together with varying amounts of water vapor
and carbon dioxide, and traces of neon, helium,
hydrogen, krypton and xenon. Beyond these
are found varying traces of nitric acid,
ammonia and particles of solid matter. The
height of the atmosphere is supposed to be
about 40 miles.
What is the correct form of address in
writing letters to the King or Queen? —9136.
In writing to the King, begin “Sir” and con-
clude “I remain with the profoundest venera-
tion Your Majesty’s most faithful subject and
dutiful Servant.” To the Queen, begin with
“Madam” and conclude “I remain with the
profoundest veneration Your Majesty’s most
faithful and devoted Servant.”
* * * *
Names, location and length of the ten longest
railway tunnels in the world ?— 9135.
Simplon, Swiss-ltalian frontier, llj miles;
St. Gothard, Swiss-ltalian frontier, 9| miles;
Lotschberg, Switzerland, 9 \ miles; Mont Cenis,
France, 8 miles; Arlberg, Tyrol, 6 \ miles;
Tauran, 5* miles; Otira, M.L., 5| miles;
Severn, England, 4y miles; Totley, England,
3y miles; Stanhedge, England, 3 miles 64yds.
* * * *
What is meant by “the eye of a needle” in
the scriptural passage anent the difficulty of
passing a camel through it ? —8969.
The “Needle’s Eye” is a common type of
exit in walled cities and khans of the East.
Many travellers mention them. Lady Duff
Gordon, in her travels, wrote from Cairo:
“Yesterday, I saw a camel go through the eye
of a needle — i.e., a low arched door of an
enclosure. He must kneel and bow his head
to go through, and thus the rich man must
humble himself” —to enter heaven.
* * * *
Method of curing bacon ( whole pig)? —9ooB.
For, say, 371 b. bacon, take 51b. salt, 31b.
brown sugar, 2oz. saltpetre and loz. bicarb,
soda. Crush saltpetre very fine and sprinkle
it evenly over meat, flesh side up, rubbing well
in. Do soda in same way, then a layer of
sugar, then a thick layer of salt. Allow brine
to carry away blood till it runs clear (three
days), then save clean brine in a basin. At
end of week turn bacon and rub in more salt
and sugar mixed with the clean brine. Turn
and rub weekly for three weeks, then hang
up to drain. Wipe off salt and dry. Smoke
if preferred.
* * * *
Any method of destroying or discouraging
beef ants? —BBo7.
Fumigation is the only effective method and
carbon bisulphide the best material to use.
First the nest entrance must be located. If
practicable the liquid is poured direct down
the nest, the outlet closed and the vicinity
covered with wet bags. When an accessible
mouth to the nest is lacking, a half-inch thick
iron bar should be sunk 12in. to 18in. into the
ground and the carbon bisulphide poured into
the cavity—the procedure then being the same
as before. For a medium-sized meat ant nest
use half-pint of carbon bisulphide; for other
species the amount should be increased or
decreased according to the probable size of
the nest.
♦ * * «
(1) How long after the removal of roosters
do eggs become infertile? (2) What is the
correct number of roosters to run with two
dozen hens? —8797.
(1) There is a possibility of eggs remaining
fertile for two to three weeks after the removal
of the male bird from the pen, but generally
most eggs would be infertile after a week to
ten days. (2) Depends upon the breed of
birds. In the case of light breeds, two male
birds would be sufficient, but for heavy breeds
such as Australorps, Rhode Island Reds, Lang-
shans, etc., three male birds would be required.
It is not advisable, however, to have a breeding
pen with two male birds only, as in such cases
fertility is frequently unsatisfactory owing to
the disagreement of the male birds. It would
therefore be better either to make two single
pens or have sufficient hens for three male
■u’ a^°y,n g in the case of heavy breeds
eight females to one male, and in the light
breeds 10 to 12 females to one male.
* * * *
My furniture is scratched. How can I put
a new surface on it and what materials will
I need?—' 9os2.
If the furniture is polished (not varnished),
remove scratches with fine glass-paper, resurface
with raw linseed oil and apply wax polish. If
varnished, the only method short of scraping,
re-staining and re-varnishing is to touch up the
scratched parts with a matching varnish stain,
using a fine sable brush.
* * * *
Method of gilding white metal ?— 8906.
Dissolve 20 grains of gold chloride in one
pint distilled water and add gradually l^cz.
acid carbonate of potassium. Mix the first
solution with another containing Hoz. of acid
carbonate of potassium in 1 quart water and
boil the mixture till it turns green; it is then
ready for use. To gild silver or white metal
articles, attach them to thin strips of zinc
and suspend in the liquid.
♦ * * *
My fowls (noticeably young ones) develop a
limp which steadily becomes worse; it is almost
a hop in one foot, and in the end the foot be-
comes paralysed and the hen is unable to
move. They have plenty of green and grain,
also access to skim milk. Cause and cure?
—8790.
Symptoms are suggestive of tuberculosis. See
that the fowls have at least 1 p.c. cod liver oil
in the mash daily. It is highly advisable to
send one of the affected birds to the Director
of the Veterinary Research Institute, Storey-
street, Parkville, Melb., so that the cause of
the trouble may be investigated.
* * * *
Any information concerning St. Alban ?
9137.
St. Alban, who lived in the latter part of
the third century, was born at Verulamium
(where St. Albans now stands), and served as
a soldier under Diocletian at Rome. Later he
was converted to Christianity and was for a
time a renowned teacher of that religion, finally
suffering martyrdom. Qffa, King of the Mer-
cians, built a monastery to his memory near
Verulamium 400 or 500 years later. St. Alban’s
Day in the calendar of the Roman church is
June 22, and in that of the Anglican church
June 17.
* * * *
Simple method of determining the polarity
of a 32-volt d.c. generator ? —9138.
Connect lengths of wire to the two generator
terminals and bare the free ends for a distance
of 2in. Place these in a glass of water in
which a teaspoonful of salt has been dissolved,
keeping the wires at least lin. apart. When
the machine is started, gas bubbles will be
liberated in greater quantities from the negative
wire than from the positive.
* * * *
Method to make poppy blooms last as table
decorations ? —9140.
Immediately the flowers are cut, place the
stems in a large bowl of boiling water for a
couple of minutes, keeping the blooms away
from the steam, then transfer to a vase of cold
water. The scalded portion of the stem is
not to be cut off. Another method is to burn
the ends of the stems, but the boiling method
will be found more satisfactory.
♦ * * *
A few details about John Charles Thomas,
the singer? —9l39.
John Charles Thomas is a baritone, born at
Meyersdale (U.S.A.) in 1891. He began his
studies at the Peabody Conservatory, Baltimore,
and in 1914 sang in Gilsullivan shows in New
York. He first appeared in opera in Washing-
ton in 1924, and in 1934 appeared at the
Metropolitan Opera, New York. He has also
sung at Covent Garden, London, Berlin and
Vienna.
* * * *
Some particulars about Harry Laing, the
boxer ? —9038.
Laing came to Sydney, after winning a
number of M.L. contests, in 1885, and was
beaten by Frank (“Paddy”) Slavin that year,
and again in 1888. He fought the best heavy-
weights in Melbourne and Sydney from 45 to
55 years ago. Among the men he defeated
were Owen Sullivan and Joe Goddard.
* * * ♦
Did Max Schmeling win the world’s heavy-
weight championship from Joe Louis when he
knocked him out? —9oBs.
No. Schmeling knocked out Louis in 12
rounds at New York City on June 19, 1936.
Louis did not become heavyweight champion
of the world until he knocked but James J.
Braddock in eight rounds at Chicago on June
22, 1937.
* * * *
What boxing contests have been decided at
the Sydney Stadium on Boxing Days, and how
did they result? —8840.
The first big contest decided at the Sydney
Stadium on a Boxing Day was Tommy Burns
v. Jack Johnson for the world’s heavyweight
championship on December 26, 1908, when
Johnson won on a technical knockout in 14
rounds. Bob Fitzsimmons and Bill Lang fought
there on Boxing Day, 1909, Lang winning on
a knockout in 12 rounds. The next Boxing
Day bout at the Sydney Stadium was in 1911,
when Sam McVea outpointed Sam Langford
over 20 rounds. The two Sams again fought
in the same arena on Boxing Day, 1912, when
Langford knocked out McVea in 13 rounds.
Herb McCoy and Harry Stone fought the last
big Boxing Day bout at the Sydney Stadium
in 1913, when McCoy outpointed Stone over
20 rounds.
♦ * ' * #
(1) From whom did Lew Jenkins win the
world’s lightweight championship ? (2) Did
Jenkins ever defeat Henry Armstrong ? (3)
What world title does Armstrong hold now? —
9079.
(1) Lou Ambers. (2) No. (3) None. He re-
linquished the featherweight championship on
outgrowing that division; lost the lightweight
crown to Lou Ambers on August 22 last year;
and was beaten by Fritzie Zivic for the welter-
weight title on October 4 last.
* * * *
(1) What was Griffo’s real name? (2) Where
and when was he born, and where and when
did he die ? (3) Did Griffo ever win the world’s
featherweight championship ? —9070.
(1) Albert Griffiths. (2) Born Sofala (near
Bathurst), N.S.W., on March 21, 1871, and
died in New York on December 6, 1927. (3)
Griffo really won the world’s featherweight
championship at the Sydney Amateur Athletic
Club on July 22, 1891, when he beat Billy
Murphy in 22 rounds, as Murphy had won that
title, but Griffo’s claim was not recognised by
overseas authorities.
Brief Answers.
S.T.: Exhibit is a caterpillar of the cup
moth (Doratifera vulnerans) which feeds on
the foliage of eucalyptus trees and sometimes
is found on apricot trees in late summer. The
fleshy tubercles cause much inflammation to
some skins, and the creatures are known as
“stinging caterpillars.” To get rid of the pest,
spray with arsenate of lead mixture (lib.
arsenate of lead powder in 40 gallons of water).
. ...J.8.: You have no legal claim, but an
application for a compassionate allowance may
have results H.J.8.: (1) and (3) Mo notice
of alterations in law is required. Every person
is presumed to know the law. (2) No defence
at all. They could urge the facts in mitigation
of the penalty G.J.: While they keep taking
the instalments you are entitled to keep the
machine, but they are also entitled to say that
they will not accept any more instalments and
to demand the return of the machine, in which
case you must return it H.S.: There is no-
thing you can do except to apply to have the
rent determined by the Fair Rents Court or
dispose of the balance of the lease to some-
one else. There is nothing in the technical
point... .M.K.: All you have sacrificed is your
right to dispose of the copyright to anyone
else. During your lifetime you may exercise
it as if the agreement had not been entered
into. There is no joint ownership of the copy-
right M.S.: (1) Strictly not, but think
deduction would probably be allowed. (2) Yes.
(3) and (4) N 0... .A.0.N.: Owing to Govern-
ment control of raw materials it is impossible
for firms to export materials suitable for air-
craft construction D.N.: (1) No. (2) Yes.
The rates become due on the day specified in
the notice for payment, not on the expiration
of the period in respect of which they are
levied... .A.S.: (1) No. (2) A person may sell
or offer for sale any printed newspapers, books,
pamphlets, periodicals or printed publications,
fish, fruit, water, fuel, milk, vegetables or
victuals of any description or any agricultural
produce without a hawker’s license. (3) and
(4) A license can be obtained for the sale on
Sundays of milk, tea, coffee, non-alcoholic
drinks, ice-cream, confectionery, bread, pastry,
cakes, biscuits, etc., between the hours of 8.30-
10 a.m., 12.30-6.30 p.m. and 8.30-10 p.m. (5)
and (6) Cannot say without knowing ordinances
and by-laws of local council. Inquire from
Town or Shire Clerk. (7) You would be liable
for any damage caused by the straying horse.
... .R.E.G.: Sulphate of ammonia is quoted at
£l6 12s. 6d., less 7s. 6d. cash 30 days, in ton
lots f.o.r. Brisbane, or £l6 12s. 6d., less 7s. 6d.
cash 30 days, in truck lots freight paid in
Queensland; superphosphate, £6 12s. 6d. net
ton lots f.o.r. Brisbane or £6 Is. 3d. f.o.r.
truck lots Wallangarra, less ss. ton cash 30
days. Supplies of sulphate of ammonia and
superphosphate in any quantity can be obtained
from the Brisbane fertilising merchants. Sul-
phate and muriate of potash cannot be sold in
Queensland unless same are contained in mix-
tures ; full details as to this can be obtained
from the Department of Agriculture and Stock,
William-street, Brisbane A.J.M.: Process of
dipping and drying apricots too long to
describe here. Write to Victorian Dept, of
Agriculture, Melbourne, for leaflet L.J.S.:
Applications for employment in munitions
undertakings should be made to the Depart-
ment of Tabor and Industry, Box 21 A, G.P.0.,
Sydney... .A.F.G.: The D.Sc. degree is con-
ferred by all Australian universities; the Mus.D.
degree by Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth only.
. ...R.D.: “Mass,” in dynamics, means the
quantity of matter, distinguished from its
weight... .8.R.C.: The tying-up of money for
an indefinite period to accumulate at compound
interest is not possible; all the leading financial
countries have laws limiting such dispositions.
....J.8.: The two famous waltz-writing
Strausses were both born in Vienna and died
there; Richard Strauss was born in Munich,
Germany; Oscar Straus was born in Vienna.
.. ..8.8.W.: Sullivan did write a grand opera,
“Ivanhoe,” which was not very successful and
is now never performed F.J.C.: It would
not be correct to say that Seddon finally
quarrelled with Grey. Seddon, on occasion,
reproached Grey publicly for flirting with the
Conservatives, but years after, when Ballance
died, it was to Grey Seddon turned for advice
—and was advised to form a Ministry JH •
Quite correct. Both the circle and the ellipse
can be regarded as conic sections J.T.0.:
Napoleon was Emperor of the French from
May 18, 1804, to April 11, 1814. The “hundred
days” of his return from Elba were from
March 20 to June 22, 1815. Waterloo was
fought on June 18, 1815. Napoleon’s captivity
on St. Helena lasted from October 16, 1815
till his death. May 5, 1821 R.8.G.: The
Anti-Comintern Pact was first entered into
on November 25, 1936, between Germany and
Japan. It was a pact for mutual aid and co-
operation in the “extermination of Communism
and its agents at home and abroad.” Italy
entered the Pact the same year; Manchukuo
Hungary and Spain came in in 1939. Hitler
made his bargain with Communist Russia on
August 22, 1939 8.J.F.: Phonetic spelling
was countenanced in Noah Webster’s 1828
dictionary, in which are to be found “plow”
(for plough), “draft” (for draught), “theater”
(for theatre), and so forth S.K.T.: Popu-
lations (recent estimates): Germany, 80,000 000 •
British Empire, 500,000,000; United States’
135,000,000 G.R.N.: There’s a good account
of the wreck of the Batavia on Houtman’s
Abrolhos in Sailormen’s Ghosts, by Malcolm
Uren, obtainable from any leading bookseller
F.L.R.: There are several courses in short-
story writing on offer, but if you have already
had some stories published your best plan is
to go on writing and learn from experience


RESISTANCE TO DISEASE.
FEED oftuL- Ca£-Od-
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
to correct the mineral deficiency of the pasture. Essential minerals are
la.cking in dry season and stock should be given a regular supply of
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour to enable the animals to use the poor, coarse
fodders to the best advantage. Tri-cal-os, containing a guaranteed
minimum of 35% phosphoric acid, and 40% lime, is undoubtedly the
best source of calcium and phosphorus for all stock.
Obtain particulars about Tri-cal-os from—
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne;
G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
$
o
*
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
RECOMMENDED FOR LAMB-MARKING
A preparation compounded exclusively from
eucalyptus oils and their by-products.
PRICES; 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
37 Bowen St- BRISBANE. Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH. WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRU. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Lamb Export and Grading.
“Mookau”; Ross Grant, the Common-
wealth Standardising Grader, who has
had a long experience of Australian meat-
marketing and Smithfield conditions,
stresses the need to maintain strict com-
pliance with grading regulations, since
the buying of all surplus meat by the
British Food Ministry is based on
specific prices for various regulation
quality grades. Unfortunately, he points
out, war-time pressure makes it diffi-
cult to devote as much time as is needed
to the work.
Reviewing 1939-40, he says that there
was a marked increase in the general
average percentage of first-quality lambs
and in average weights in N.S.W. and
Victoria; but average weight increase
was partly due to the fact that British
official prices in war favor medium and
heavy carcasses. He points out that
peace-time conditions and the return of
quotas will bring about a very definite
British reaction towards lightweight car-
casses, on which the British trade
normally insists.
No preference is now given to better-
class lambs under the overseas scheme.
This is likely to do considerable harm
to lamb type and quality if the war goes
on for any length of time and growers
and graders do not watch the position.
The numbers of lambs submitted for
export during the 1939-40 season, with
comparative figures for the previous
season, were:
1939-40. 1938-39.
Victoria .. .. 3,040,331 2,888,758
N. S. Wales .. .. 2,604,819 1,980,984
Queensland .. .. 113,039 76,377
S. Australia .. .. 769,025 696,054
W. Australia .. .. 330,757 378,510
Tasmania .. .. 110,527 57,124-
In Victoria 76.73 p.c. were first-grade,
and third-quality lambs offered were only
2.18 p.c., as compared with nearly 12.5
p.c. the previous year. N. S. Wales did
not approach these proportions, largely
owing to the greater ratio of merinos
among the general stock of sheep. First-
grades were 55.7 p.c., but this was a great
improvement on last year’s 38.66 p.c.
S. Australia had 48.8 p.c. firsts and
14.58 p.c. thirds, again improvement over
last year’s position.
Westralia’s 28.41 p.c. of firsts and
33.42 p.c. of thirds represents a drop of
14 p.c. in firsts against last year, but the
season was against first-grades, and actu-
ally the growth in the lamb trade and the
improvement in quality in the West should
be a source of pride to those who have
brought it about. Nowhere in the world
are fat lambs of such fine average quality
produced under such conditions as those
which exist in W.A. For that, sub. clover
is largely to be thanked.
Tailless Sheep v. Blowfly.
“Ovis”; The United States sheep areas
share the curse of the blowfly with Aus-
tralia, and some of them have been
experimenting with conformation to
breed out fly attraction.
One series of experiments in S. Dakota
has been in progress for 25 years, and
has now resulted, it is said, in the pro-
duction of tailless animals of both wool
and mutton types. The new sheep are
bred from a male and a female raised
in 1924 at S. Dakota Agricultural College.
Nearly 100 ewes mated to four rams have
now produced 35 tailless and 24 almost
tailless lambs.
The basic animals used were of a
Siberian strain crossed with the locals.
The Siberians were hair, not wool, sheep,
but the wool was packed on to the
crosses from crossbred Rambouillets.
There are no tail wrinkles in the final
stabilised crosses because there are no
tails, and fly-strike incidence is said to
be small.
Of course the experiments would need
a lot more looking into, but it’s worth
remembering that the breeding of tailless
sheep is just as feasible as the production
of hornless cattle.
“Strawb ain't gain to let any drought beat ’er.”
Bluestone and Nicotine.
“J.R.D.”: I, too, am a barracker for
bluestone and nicotine, but “Lion” (B.
18/12/’4O) has been dead lucky in clear-
ing up worms with such a low concen-
tration of nicotine.
I’ve always used twice that strength.
Instructions are to mix the contents of a
16 fl. oz. tin of nic. sulphate and 11b. of
powdered bluestone with 2\ gallons
water. The dose for grown sheep at this
strength is 1 fl. oz., the mixture thus
giving 400 doses. According to “Lion’s”
instructions, the same amount of nico-
tine and bluestone would be made up to
800 doses, and the only loss experienced
with the stronger mixture has been where
the drench was carelessly administered.
The drenching procedure laid down by
“Lion” imposes a lot of extra work on
the operator, as with a gun set at 5 c.c.
each adult animal has to get six doses of
that size to make up one fluid ounce. I
find it more satisfactory to set the gun
at loz. and to drench all the grown sheep
at this rate; two-tooths get ioz. of this
mixture, but instead of cutting down the
dose still further for younger sheep I use
twice as much water, thus keeping the
dose around the same volume but making
it only half strength. Anything less than
ioz. is liable to get lost before it reaches
the seat of the trouble, while a dose
exceeding 1 fl. oz. is too much for a
sheep to swallow comfortably, and there
is no good reason for using it.
“Lion” mentions drenching 14-day-old
lambs, but there is not much point in
drenching lambs of that age. Only
mature worms are affected by the drench,
and as a sheep has to pick up the eggs
in the first place drenching would be of
little use until about three weeks after it
started feeding on grass to allow them to
come to maturity.
The success of drenching depends on
the nicotine reaching the sheep’s fourth
stomach in strong concentration. If the
animal does not respond to the action of
the bluestone, the drench finds its way
to the paunch, where it is mixed up with
the contents and does practically no good
at all. On the other hand, if the action
of the bluestone closes the oesophageal
groove, the nicotine goes straight to the
fourth stomach and acts on the mature
worms there and in the first few feet of
the small intestines at full strength.
It has been proved that the dislike for
nicotine as a drench is almost entirely
due to the fact that certain sheep do
not respond to the bluestone. Better
results have been obtained by giving the
bluestone separately a few seconds before
the nicotine, but a small percentage of
sheep still fail to respond to this. Per-
haps the most important time to drench
is when the lambs are weaned. If the
weather is showery, the weaners should
be drenched every three weeks, and
should also be shifted on to fresh pad-
docks as often as possible.
Dual-purpose Sheep.
“Ghanam”: The development of the
fat-lamb industry has brought into sharp
contrast the two types of sheep which
the British Empire raises and the differ-
ence of methods in raising them.
In Australia wool is the first considera-
tion, and all staple flocks are bred for
carrying capacity, constitution and wool
quality. In Maoriland conformation and
meat production are the first essentials ;
wool is secondary. Many of the car-
casses exported are pure British breeds
instead of the Commonwealth’s British-
merino crosses. Sheep cutting 46-50’s
are common, and Maoriland wool last
year averaged Id. or more less than Aus-
tralian.
There should be a lesson in the fact
for those who are trying to push lamb-
raising into interior marginal wheat dis-
tricts. Season in and season out, except
in coastal or sub-coastal areas specially
suitable for lamb-raising, wool is the
commodity which permanently pays the
rent, and for which there will always be
a market.
Native Pastures and Feed Values.
“Dangi”: The N. S. Wales Agricul-
tural Department has made an analysis
of the dominant pastures of the State's
north-west Mitchell (Astrelaba lap-
paced). Flinders, burr clover and woolly
burr clover. The result proved the value
of the clovers in mixed pastures.
Mitchell worked out (moisture-free) at
1.7 p.c. crude fat, 34.9 p.c. crude fibre,
12.7 p.c. crude protein, 8.6 p.c. crude
ash and 42.1 p.c. carbohydrates. Flin-
ders showed nearly 1 p.c. less crude pro-
tein, 5 p.c. more ash and 1.8 p.c. more
carbohydrate. But burr clover had nearly
double the protein value of the grasses,
was higher in carbohydrate and lower in
crude fibre than Mitchell grass by 12.2
p.c. and than Flinders grass by 10 p.c. —
its figure was 18.7 p.c. Nutritive value
of Mitchell was calculated to be 58.6 p.c.
and of burr clover 74.5 p.c.
Examination of mixed pastures be-
tween April, 1939, and July, 1940,
showed sharp changes in composition.
Carbohydrate content varied from 32.6
p.c. to 50.3 p.c., fat from 1 p.c. to
3.1 p.c. and protein from 11.9 p.c. to
20.3 p.c.
The pastures were at their best in the
autumn in which the tests began and in


&
m
M.
i
STOP Him
SAVE
80 %
On Fence Costs!
WITH A BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCER
Temporary or permanent pad-
docks, subdivisions, shade en-
closures, laneways, breeding or
exercise pens, fodder storage
enclosures, market gardens,
orchards, &c., can be fenced off
and made stockproof wherever
and whenever you want them—
at trifling cost—and with little
trouble.
One charger controls 25 miles
of stockproof fencing, and one
man can fence up to 20 acres
o day!
£9/9/.
GUARANTEED FOR 5 YEARS
Complete with 50 Insulators
and Battery. NO EXTRAS.
No farm can be considered com-
plete to-day unless it is equipped
with an electric fence. It isn’t
only that it saves 80 p.c. on the
cost of ordinary fencing, but it
actually teaches animals to respect
all wire fences, and soon cures the
most persistent fence-breaker of
the habit. Think what this
means in fewer injuries from barb-
wire cuts to valuable stock and the
saving in cost of repairs to
fences.
The New and Improved
BIG SIX
See it at
DANKS'
Bourke-st.
Showrooms
C(ill or Write for Descriptive Folder,
Victorian Distributors:
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: M 2381.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: M 6505.
«S!
r]
j mr-
s as
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0.,
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room —All Meals a la Carte,
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
the following spring, when their nutritive
value was 68.8 p.c. Their lowest point
by a long chalk was in January, when
n.v. was only 46.2 p.c.
Creep Feeding.
“Pappamosca”; Can’t understand why
creep feeding for young pigs is not uni-
versal. The equipment is far cheaper
than the losses from overlaying or other
methods.
All that is needed is a nursery con-
nected with the sow-sty by openings
through which the youngsters can pass
and the sow cannot. In the “nursery”
are shallow troughs of clean water and
food, always accessible. This last is im-
portant. Meals at long intervals make
for goiging. When the food is always
there the piglets soon fall into the habit
of taking little often.
Food needs to be carefully varied
according to locality, availability and
general climatic conditions. Generally
speaking, staples of rations should in-
clude skim-milk, pollard and maize or
wheat and sorghum or crushed barley.
Meatmeal, too, is useful. It should
be fed alone. Grain meals fed in a thin
swill with skim are good, but young pigs
will eat ail grains whole except barley.
When turning whole grain into meal
don’t make it fine.
Great care should be taken that milk
does not sour before feeding.
The stage between three and ten weeks
is the most vital in a pig’s existence—
then he forms along the lines he’ll always
follow. Hard work, clean water, close
attention pay better at that time than at
any other.
Bushfire Precautions.
“Narine”: With the holidays on a few
points placarded by the Queensland Agri-
cultural Department would look well on
trees round timber country:
Be sure your match is out. Break it
in two before you throw it away.
Don’t throw pipe refuse or cigarette
butts into leaves or grass. Stamp them
into the ground.
Put fire out before you break camp.
Don’t burn brush or scrub in windy
weather.
Don’t leave broken glass lying in the
sun.
If these simple rules were observed
there would be next to no fire loss in
rural Australia. Bushfires are almost
always the result of carelessness.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mullengah”: Make sure that pigs
have shade in hot weather. If there are
no trees in the yards or paddocks, put in
four posts, join them up with poles or
sawn timber, and thatch with bushes,
straw or bags.
“Snort”: Don’t give pigs too much
maize. It is high in low-melting-point
fat, and too much of it produces soft
pork and bacon. Wheat and barley have
not the same faults. A little maize is
good, however —up to one-third of the
grain ration.
“Pappamosca”: In firebranding pigs,
the main mistake is to use too large a
brand, and to keep it on the skin too
long, causing a sore. The iron should be
clean and dry and applied lightly and
quickly on shoulder or jieck.
“Splodger”: Now is the time to spread
white clover. It’s gone to seed now, and
seed is dry, brown and ripe. Put the
cows in on it during the day. They’ll lap
up the seeds where when it was greener
they’d turn from them in disgust. Take
them up and let them run at night on a
patch which is to be sown, and droppings
will do the job. I got a glorious crop
of clover over 50 acres which didn’t have
a stool previously—got the seed with
20 cows from about six acres for a fort-
night. In a month’s time, when the
manure has set, break it up so as to
give the seeds a chance when the winter
rains come. Turn the harrows upside
down, put a light log on to give added
weight, run the harrows over the flat first
thing in the morning after a couple of
inches of rain the night before. That
breaks all the clods while they’re wet,
liberates the seed —and is its own top-
dressing.
“Tracechain”: As a standby against
the next drought, cut out the pepperinas
and plant mulberry-trees in their stead.
As an emergency fodder both for quan-
tity and quality, mulberry leaves stand
alone. The leaves flailed off a well-
grown tree will carry several cows and
sprout a fresh crop of leaves within three
weeks.
“Yeno Ham”: Sunflowers make good
silage, either alone or with maize. Best
stage to cut the plants is when flower
heads are well developed and petals are
beginning to wilt. Sunflowers have a
high crude protein content. They are
almost equal to maize in protein, ash, fat
and fibre.
“Mungo”; Watch suckering in banana
plants after rains. They are parasites
which rely on the mother plant until they
form their own root system. It’s good
practice to destroy all suckers as they
appear, save those which are needed —
rarely more than two, never more than
three. The younger they are removed
the less damage to the main plant and
the less wasted fertiliser.,
“X.T.”: Maize, which used to be the
only agricultural industry on the rich
Atherton (N.Q.) Tableland in the days
of the big scrub, still brings in a tidy
income which in these days goes into
white pockets instead of those of Chinese,
as it used to. Like Javan maize, the
grain has a fairly high moisture content
which has to be dealt with. Last year’s
return was £149,000, including grain sold
for farm mashes. Growers received
£5 10s. per ton during the season in three
advances, and the price of £6 os. 4d. for
supplies with 3 p.c. dead grain when
premiums or dockages on quality had
been completed. The board annually in-
creases its manufacture of farm mashes,
for which it buys the other ingredients.
Maize used in these feeds realises about
£7 ss. per ton.
Outback Occupations.
No. L.
MOUTHFUL OF TROUBLE (2).
A couple of days ago, not having felt
too good for some weeks, and having a
little trouble with your eyes, you saw
the doctor. He blamed your teeth, and
told you to see the dentist. You man-
aged to put off doing so. But you reck-
oned without your wife.
“Jack,” says she to the elder boy, “get
out the car. Your father is going to
town this morning.”
“What!” say you.
“Yes,” says she. “I rang up Mr.
O’Drag and made an appointment for
you to see him at 10 o’clock this morn-
ing.”
It’s a dirty stab in the back. You
jump to your feet, spilling half the break-
fast porridge on the floor. “But I can’t.
I’ve got t’ shift them sheep. They—they
—er”
“The boys can shift the sheep.”
You stare at her. Suddenly she sits
down and says “I’ve cared for you for
twenty years. I’m frightened. People die
of bad teeth.”
An hour later you’re in the town, half
an hour too early. You park the car
and move aimlessly along by the
shops. There’s hardly anybody about.
You begin to feel weak; there is
a small feeling of panic at the back of
your throat. You’ve fought bushfires
and bucking horses, floods, drought and
disease ; once you took an armed maniac
singlehanded as he tried to fire a neigh-
bor’s haystacks; you’ve done a lot of
other things.
“Hell,” you mutter, “it’s the blasted
waitin’.”
Bob Toler, the agent, spots you.
“Could y’ do a whisky. Jack?”
Gripes, that’s a relief! Just the thing.
You have two whiskies. Old James from
Bald Hill comes in, so you have another.
Your heart warms and you get talkative.
“Gointer have a few o’ me tombstones
out,” you tell them cheerfully.
James looks at you. “Gosh,” he says,
“I’ll never f’get havin’ mine out, never.”
This damps your spirits. You call for
more whisky. There seem to be more
people about. Lots of people buying
whisky. You and old James stick to-
gether. The conversation turns on teeth.
“They give y’ hell,” says old James.
He seems to have three whiskies in each
of his four hands.
“Yair,” you say, “but y’ don’t wanna
be frightened of ’em. Tha’sh main thing.”
“Rot,” says somebody else, passing you
another whisky ; “there’s nothin’ t’ be
frightened of. It’s soon over.”
“I’m frightened,” says old James, shak-
ing his head.
“Foolish,” says the other, “ ’stremeiy
foolish.’
“They gotter come out, tha’sh all,” you
assert.
“Of course,” says old James, hanging
on to you with both hands while he uses
the other to drink with. You ponder
this phenomenon gravely. The bar
counter spins. That reminds you of some-
thing you had to do. You put up old
James’s hand and feel his mouth with it.
“They gotter come out,” you assert.
James eyes you with elation, then turns
to the others. “Tha’sh the shtuff,” he
says ; “alwaysh knew he had it in him.”
“Wha’s gotter come out?” somebody
asks.
You ponder this, downing another
meantime.
“Teeth!” you declare, suddenly seeing
the light.
There is a moment of silence. Then
the man who had said there was nothing
to be frightened of says “Only way is to
go straight an’ have ’em done without
thinkin’ about it, see?”
This idea appeals to you. You pull
yourself erect, grab the bar and declare
“Right! We’ll have one more —hie —an’
then we’ll tear roun’ an’ have ’em done.”
Everybody downs his drink and you
lead the way from the bar. The street' is
rolling a bit, but by stepping high and
carefully you manage to get across, the
rest following. At this stage your mind
becomes slightly confused. There seem
to be a lot of talk and some pushing and
shoving and buildings going past and
somebody opening a door and people
walking over you, but you hang grimly
on to old James.
You wake, cold sober and with a
mouth full of sawdust.
Without wondering how you got into
the car, you get out of it, take a reviver,
get back in it and drive home. It is
late afternoon as you reach the home-
stead, and you wonder what you’ve been
doing.
The missus greets you sympathetically.
She leads you inside and sits you
down. You lower your head into your
hands. “Did it hurt much?” she asks.
Before you can answer the telephone
rings. The missus answers it. You hear
her talking but cannot understand what
she is saying. Presently she comes back,
forcibly takes your face and opens your
mouth. Then she sits down.
“That,” she says, “was Mrs. James.
She’s in a terrible state. Her husband has
just arrived home with four of his best
teeth missing, and he says you know all
about it!” ,
You plunge out the back door and
walk rapidly out into the incurious bush.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at tbe rate of 4Jd. per line; all others at
2ld. per line.
A former office boy’s blast of the trumpet against the monstrous regiment of
women in business gets double rates this week. There will be answering blasts, no
doubt.
Working with Women
I have worked in a crowd of mixed
employees (B. 27 /11/’4O), and I have seen
women powdering their noses, doing their
hair, painting their cheeks and their
fingernails, reading and writing love
letters, reddening their lips, gazing into
pocket mirrors and, above all, gossiping
and giggling over every male within
sight, all during their working hours. I
have heard a boss threaten —a dozen
times without putting his threat into
execution, unfortunately—to sack every
woman in the place if they didn’t stop
taking 20 minutes instead of the allotted
10 over the morning and afternoon tea
that we males rather envied them.
As for private ’phone calls in working
hours —well, I think the ones to women
numbered three to every one to a man.
Worst of all were those evenings when
all the staff were expected to work over-
time for nix. The way the attractive girls
(especially those who realised and
exploited the fact that the boss was as
human as any other man) dodged into
the boss’s office to put up lame excuses
to get out of working! But we males
didn’t protest —we knew that there were
a dozen women waiting to take our jobs
at poor wages as soon as we gave them
the chance.
Worse than working with women, I
have worked under them. I have been
an extreme junior with a lot of women,
as well as men, between me and the boss.
I was constantly having to run unofficial
messages for those women —go long dis-
tances to buy a packet of favorite cigar-
ettes, book theatre seats, take a woman
neighbor’s dress to the dry-cleaners,
deliver love letters and buy a packet or
dog biscuits.
Yes, “Competitor,” I’ve seen women
employees. And I’ve seen enough of
them to know that as soon as Australia
wakes up to the psychological, physical
and mental damage that cheap female
labor does to a nation (as well as destroy-
ing its birthrate) and institutes a decent
minimum wage for all —male and female
on equal terms —the majority of women
in business and industry (except for such
jobs as those for which they are peculiarly
fitted) will fade like flowers in a drought.
—I. M. (S.A.).
Learning from the Enemy
A controlled press may have obvious
shortcomings and inevitably biased news,
but sometimes among the propaganda
one comes across really interesting com-
ment. Consider this item from the Italian
journal “Vie della Aria,” inveighing
against Italian war correspondents who;
(1) Date their messages from the front
but write them sitting in editorial chairs.
(2) Phrase them as if the war were a
football match or a championship skittles
game. .
(3) Depict the enemy as congenital topers
who were unprepared when the war broke
out.
Except perhaps in The Bulletin 1
have not read similar sensible criticism
of the literary war efforts of journalists.
All three points could have been scored
against our own stunt press at any period
in the struggle. Much of the alleged
eyewitness stories of actual hostilities
reads suspiciously like an “inside job. ’
How often, too, these views stories,
served up as first-class news, read like a
football match. Is the reading public so
emotionally starved that it must be given
a kick out of this thrilling war? On the
home front the flapper press is already
doing its best to sicken readers with the
exploits of loitering young things in flash
uniforms with form-fitting foundation
garments, without adding insult to injury
by playing up real war as a grand game.
Throwing too many stupid jokes at the
enemy is poor propaganda that occasion-
ally has a boomerang effect. If readers
kept a scrapbook of even recent press
cuttings dealing with the “lives and efforts
of great leaders” they would be surprised
at the many journalistic gutsers this war
has made possible. Even Hitler noted in
Mein Kampf the propaganda blunders of
underrating the British in the last war
and the dire results that await those who
give credence to facile judgments.
Great Dailies, although apparently
sobering up after a journalistic spree,
have much to answer for to a doubting
public. Certainly many readers would
agree with Silas Bent’s definition of a
journalist in his criticism of the Ameri-
can press in Ballyhoo —“a cheery, affable
young man, who is disabled for ordinary
business pursuits by a congenital errone-
ousness which renders him incapable of
accurately describing anything he hears.
As the only employment in which these
defects do not matter is journalism—he
he has perforce become a journalist.”—
T. K. F. (Vic.).
Newspapers?
Some months ago the daily press
moguls sought and obtained permission
to increase prices to twopence on the
score of greater newsprint import costs.
Subsequently they were asked to reduce
the amount of paper used. This was car-
ried out at a considerable saving on
newsprint cost, but no corresponding re-
adjustment in price was made. _The ob-
vious defence would be'that reduced area
meant reduced advertising revenue, but
this is untenable. In most cases adver-
tising rates have been increased and space
“All England to fall on, and you pick my rhododendrons !”
previously devoted to news is now used
to display rag-shop bargains and the like.
Any reader who, with the Sunday coun-
terpart of a Sydney daily, takes the
trouble to count the column inches de-
voted to advertisements and compare that
figure with that of total reading matter is
in for a severe shock. Furthermore, if
he excludes from the reading matter the
streamer headlines (often contradicted
or modified on Monday morning), Ameri-
can syndicated features, society cavort-
ings and astrological blurb, he will cease
to wonder why 10 minutes at the outside
suffices to absorb the worth-while con-
tents of the rag. —B. Ec. (N.S.W.).
Where the Money Goes
■ There is no reference herein to any
person or Government. Any seeming
parallels are quite coincidental.
The Government of the dependency of
Rupabon was greatly divided. It was
one country girt by one sea and was
divided by the pens of draughtsmen only.
The country had 11 subsidiary and
unnecessary Houses of Parliament. It
had duplicated labor bureaus and employ-
ment efforts. There were surplus railway
departments, which, however, never had
a financial surplus. The country had
a multiplicity of taxation offices.
For every £1,000,000 of taxes wrung
from a staggering and stunned public
about £lOO,OOO went to each of the fol-
lowing: (1) Taxgatherers and politicians,
(2) railways, 13) defV c. (which was
necessary), (4) education (part of which
was well spent), (5) customs officeis,
(6) Government officials in 28 depart-
ments, (7) welfare and pensions, (8j
politicians’ waste, (9) and (10) interest
payments on loans. To meet sustenance
charges another £lOO,OOO was spent.
It was borrowed and the interest
made payable annually, while the capital
debt was passed on to posterity.
For this expenditure of £1,000,000 the
people of Rupabon received some indif-
ferent and some good defence works, plus
about £20,000 worth of education. Then
the politicians wondered why, with com-
pulsory voting, people took no interest in
public affairs.— Democrat (W.A.).
Grant to S.A.
Can’t allow remarks concerning the
annual grant made to South Australia
(B. 27/11 / ’4O) to pass unchallenged. The
smaller States suffer disabilities not
known to the more thickly-populated
States and their needs are greater.
' The burden of opening country and
financing the producers has fallen upon
the shoulders of S.A., and, as recoids
show, it certainly has been and still is a
burden. Industrial States have their ven-
tures, in most cases privately financed
and protected by a tariff which is paid
by people throughout Australia, and no
load is placed upon the local Govern-
ment. „ , .
S.A. bears a lot of tariffs from which
no direct benefits are received —it is the
larger industrial States which derive the
benefit.
Further, the distribution of economic
resources places us under a comparative
disability. For instance, the lack of a
coalfield has seriously hampered our
industrial progress, and has at the same
time stimulated that of N. S. Wales. Also
the smallness of our population adds
to our difficulties.
During the 30 years in which the
grants have been made no definite for-
mula for arriving at the equitable amount
to be distributed has been evolved, either
by the Commonwealth in the first in-
stance or the Grants Commission in
later years. But it is unfair to state with-
out any explanation that “this grant
[to S.A.] could be cut by £500,000.”
Admittedly all of the claimant States
have borrowed excessively and misman-
aged their affairs, and thereby worsened
their positions, but the fact remains that
the solvency and standards of all States
are as essential to the Commonwealth as
is, say, Eyre Peninsula to S.A. Perhaps
this position will be one of th» factors
which will eventually bring about the
abolition of State Governments whose
sole claim to fame is their ability to
amass huge deficits. —M. M. P. (S.A.).
A New Party
One of the troubles with our society is
that it is divided into mutually antago-
nistic classes, such as employers and em-
ployees. Each class and section believes
that only in the full satisfaction of its
own demands does the good of the nation
lie. Australia’s greatest problem after
the war will not be the redrawing of the
map of Europe, nor the outlawing of
war, but to save the nation continuing
as a huge half-rotting lump of stone in
which cleavage between strata is con-
stantly occurring.
Instead, the nation must be made as
whole and complete and unbroken and
unstratified as a solid lump of sound
granite. If Australia is to achieve great-
ness as a nation then all the lines of
cleavage between State and State, be-
tween class and class, between section
and section must go. And this will not
occur under our present political parties,
which flourish only by setting class
against class, labor against non-labor,
“proletariat” against capitalists, country
against city, primary industries against
secondary industries, State against State.
Only the formation of a new party,
classless and sectionless, can give hope
of a genuinely united Australia. It must
neither openly (like the “Labor” and
“Country” parties) nor covertly (like the
so-called “United Australia” party) repre-
sent any class or section of the com-
munity. Above all, it must put the in-
terests of Australia before all others, and
must have a vision of Australia as a
united, self-defending, self-aware Aus-
tralia. — Australl (S.A.).
Conscription of Labor
The Bulletin (4/12/’4O) says that
both Britain and Australia are reluctant
to apply compulsion as to where and for
what pay a man shall work in war-time.
I’ve “worked at every kind of job for
every kind of man,” and I can’t see any
chance of work for all without some
measure of “compulsory service,” even in
peace-time.
In times of national danger everyone
should be put where he or she can do
his or her best for the country, whether
as a worker or a fighter. — Gus Goanna
(N.S.W.).
Strikes and Matches
There is an old yarn about a police-
man bravely arresting a small boy on the
outside edge of a riotous mob. Amusing,
but not very edifying.
I’ve just been listening-in to a revised
version of the old gag. The announcer-
told of big strikes which are holding up
the production of war materials abso-
lutely necessary to the safety of us all.
The authorities, it appears, are carefully
“investigating every avenue,” but are
holding their hand in the hope that the
parties concerned will come to an amic-
able agreement in the near future. In the
same measured tones the Voice told of
the intention of the powers that be to
apply the full rigors of the law to grocers
who dare to upset our economic system
by charging a farthing more than the
stipulated price on contracts for half-
dozen-box lots of matches. See the joke?
There are men in Australia whose job
it is to prevent, settle or quell strikes.
They are highly paid, and are vested
with all the necessary
powers. Unfortunately
both parties to the
strikes are organised
and can wield a vast
influence at e 1 e c t i o n
times. Therefore the
“policeman” leave them
to fight it out, mean-
while saving their own
precious political skins.
But they must look
busy, so they grab the
poor little grocer who
has only one vote any-
way and has no mates
to help him. Still see
the joke?
In recent history a certain politician,
during a time of crisis, risked his whole
career and lost a great many old friends
to save his soul and his country’s weal.
Thousands of honest men, some of them
his aforetime enemies, admired the
unique action and he became Prime
Minister.
Again there is a crisis a thousand times
more serious, and another opportunity
for a hero to put his fate to the touch by
actually doing his duty and tackling
something his own size instead of count-
ing farthings and matches in the shops of
small, defenceless, uninfluential grocers.
— R. Berry (N.S.W.).
Smokes and Booze
At a cinema in Melbourne the other
night I saw one of those ads. in which a
dinner-suited young gentleman opens the
door of a refrigerator and exposes the
contents. Out came the frozen meat, the
frozen milk, the frozen jelly and the frozen
pudding. Then, with an expressive
wink at the audience, out came the frozen
bottle of beer. There followed a cigarette
ad. The same slightly naughty gesture
accompanied the ceremony of lighting up
the extra-special blend of high-class and
carefully-selected tobaccos with the de-
licious aroma.
It suddenly struck me that the enor-
mous amount of smoking and drinking
that goes on in this country is very
largely an attempt to defeat authority.
How many of us have been told as chil-
dren that we mustn’t smoke till we are
18 or it will stunt our growth, and that
we mustn’t take a hard drink until we
are 20 or we will end up in the gutter?
And how many of us observed the in-
junction by sneaking behind the wood-
shed and taking a whiff we didn’t like at


a cheap fag or a bit of the old cane chair
on the back verandah? When the old
man’s authority ostensibly ceases at 21
or sooner we may have a go at both
forms of pleasure and think we have a
perfectly good conscience about it. But if
the cigarette or the pot of beer is a
memory of the taboo put upon it in our
childhood, won’t the robust smack of
the beer and the delicate aroma of the
tobacco carry a faint touch of the
naughty about them?
If this is the case, it casts some light
on the furious conflict which broke out
over the simple question of wet canteens
for the soldier. The moment he ceased
to be a civilian and put on a uniform,
the Cold Tea party, which I hereby cast
in the role of the repressive father,
wanted to have him treated as if he were
a baby. They forgot that the baby was
being trained for as grim a task as any
human being could be called to. One per-
son forgot he was a pacifist and advanced
as a reason why the soldiers shouldn’t
have a drink that it would destroy their
efficiency as marksmen! —Pawang (Vic.).
“£1 Lent for 6d ”
It seems to me that “Uncle’s Niece”
(B. 4/12/ ’4O) is putting in some propa-
ganda for her favorite uncle, or the asser-
tion that she has had dealings with pawn-
brokers is a flight of fancy. For years
I’ve been looking for the hocketeer will-
ing to advance me one pound for the
consideration of sixpence a month of
interest.
In the years of my worship at the
shrine of the three brass spheres I’ve
never yet realised the souFsatisfying
delight of receiving a loan under those
terms. Two weeks ago I hocked my
sleeve links, a pair, by the way, that had
cost 30 bob. I was allowed five bob at
the rate of interest of fivepence a month.
Fivepence on five bob!
“Uncle’s Niece” can say what she likes
about the fivepence being a minimum, but
she won’t be able to answer the fact that
my watch has just followed, and, although
the amount lent was only 15 bob, the
rate of monthly interest was ninepence.
Where’s your 6d. in the £? If the watch
stays in for a year I’ll have paid nine bob
for the loan of 15, Eddie Torial
(N.S.W.).
Australian Culture
Maybe we do lack culture, even
though we have sufficient refinement to
believe that a guest should not offer criti-
cism of his host while under his host’s
roof. Or maybe our visitors —the critics
and the ones with manners —fail to meet
the people who have appreciation of those
things that make for culture.
When a visiting notability arrives in
Australia he or she is rushed by the
people with money. The same little
crowd receive invitations to every func-
tion, and rush to offer their own hospi-
tality to the guest from overseas.
What chance has the visitor to meet
the people who matter in art, music and
literature? For all the invitations they
get, they might as well not exist. Any-
how, being mostly poor, they might have
neither the raiment nor the inclination
for sassiety shivoos. — Arev (Vic.).
Trojan Horse Tactics
A leaflet deposited on the desk at
which I toil is an f.a.q. sample. It is
designed for public servants, and 1 pre-
sume there are similar effusions for other
groups of workers.
It starts off by pointing out that the
appointment of prominent businessmen
to key positions in the administration of
the war effort is an injustice to public
servants. Well, maybe, though none of
my acquaintances in the public service
are complaining, but, at any rate, that
is merely the first coating of sugar on
the Red pill. There are others —an inde-
pendent Public Service Appeals Board
(of which 1 approve), the provision of
deep shelters against air-raids (of which
many approve—l’m prepared to leave it
to the experts) and the correction of an
anomaly re application of basic-wage
fluctuations to public servants.
The core of the pill, however, is the
urgent necessity for a Soviet alliance,
with China as additional support, against
any contingency in the Pacific ; an attack
on the politicians who repudiated the
“Hands-off-Russia” crowd ; and' a defence
of the “right to strike.” The whole is given
point by reference to what happened in
France, and this is where the cunning of
the scheme is revealed. Press and radio
gibes at the men of Vichy have filled the
public mind with the idea that the col-
lapse of France was due to the traitorous
policy of the men who asked for the
armistice. There is little or no reference
to the Communist sabotage and white-
anting that preceded it. Hence it is an
easy inference that a “Popular Front”
Government would have “barricaded the
cities in Spanish fashion” and saved
France by “reaching out for a renewal
of her Soviet alliance.”
The unwary' may be taken in, as they
were over the “democratic” Government
of Red Spain.— lvor Nastikoff (N.S.W.).
Distressful Thinking
A high and mighty gentleman in
Maoriland is reported in the Australian
press as having uttered some very dys-
peptic words about the post-war world,
in which he sees Britain with all her
American securities spent, the Bank of
England on the rocks (more or less) and
a thoroughly bad time being had by all.
There is a school of public spruikers
in Australia also which seems to think
that, if you paint a black-enough picture
about the future, the result will be that
all the folks will be goaded into a more
furious war effort.
We might learn at least this lesson from
the collapse of France —that one of the
first moral props which vanished early
from the French scene was, not merely
hope of victory, but belief in victory
itself. In other words, the ordinary
Frenchman found it difficult to believe
that victory would have made much dif-
ference to him. In 1914-18 France held
out in the belief that victory would repay
both the physical and spiritual costs of
attaining it. But the 1940 Frenchman
remembered what it was that victory had
brought in 1918.
Unless some special effort is made to
show, and to prove, to the ordinary Aus-
tralian that victory will not bring just
“Two bob it ’its us." “A dollar it don't.”
another economic depression after it,
linked with disillusion and despair, then
the ordinary Australian may make up his
mind that victory is not really worth
bothering about.
I suggest that we start now to build
that better world order which politicians
talk so glibly about. Then Australians
can have a foretaste of what the fruits of
victory will be like. It is the most obvious
way of attaining a united war effort.—
Gerald Dillon (N.S.W.).
Erosion
If the average man on the land with
only a few acres at his disposal paid more
attention to the proper rotation of crops,
it might not be so often maintained
that the small farmer is the most
pathetic spectacle on earth. But, in spite
of all the years of agricultural research,
predatory man still continues his exploita-
tion of the earth. He cuts down trees and
burns out the roots. He leaves the surface
without any protection against the
elements and removes anything that
might help to bind the subsoil. Then
one crop after another is put in regard-
less of the fact that with the first
drought the exhausted soil will turn to
dust, to be swept away by the wind.
Australia is not the only offender.
America’s “dust-bowl” is another
terrible example, and our lands will also
be lost if we do not make some altera-
tion in our farming methods. As has been
done on the small holdings of China for
40 centuries, we must guard against loss
of fertility by mixed farming and varied
crops. Humus will thus be formed and
the water-absorption content of the soil
increased.
If we want our children’s children to
earn their living from the land we must
stop sacrificing it. — Gemini (N.S.W.).
Buy Australian
I hope “How” (B. 20/11/’4O) does not
spend his double rates foolishly on more
of his American fancies. My early-
morning annoyance was made in Canada.
“How’s” patent American mattress is
depriving Aussie workmen of their jobs.
In each of the eastern States there is at
least one company manufacturing gas
stoves on which “How” could effectively
cook breakfast.
As for cars, good service has been
known by users of British makes, from
Morris-Cowleys to Rolls-Royces.
Westralia is either right ahead or right
behind the other States with its sporting
fixtures if your correspondent can see
two negroes fight at the present time.
There are no Yankee boxers of repute
in Australia. Two Aussies have just met
for the middleweight championship.
“How” should trade in his Yankee radio
and buy a dinkum Australian set. There
are plenty to choose from. How To
(N.S.W.).
Chance for the W.A.N.S.
The wholesale migration of women
from domestic duties to munition fac-
tories, although necessary, calls for some
comment.
My wife is a medical practitioner, and
was formerly an honorary anaesthetist at
a general hospital. This work was
necessarily given up some years ago in
order to attend to the needs of her three
young children. She is now needed at
the hospital again as an anaesthetist, and
in addition has been asked to help
organise a blood-transfusion service. She
is willing to do both these jobs in an
honorary capacity, but has had to refuse
owing to the impossibility of securing
any competent person to look after her
household.
It seems wrong that, in a national
emergency, a skilled person, willing to
serve, should be prevented from doing
so by a shortage of less skilled labor.—
Booleroo (S.A.).
Pensions
Agree with “Bly” (B. 20/11/ ’4O) that
pensions are not always the just due of
an honest servant. Some there are, drifters
always, to whom the pension is the inevit-
able end. But there are many today who
have no right to be living on the country.
They have had plenty of opportunity, in
50 years of working days, to acquire in-
dependence.
At 65 I have just retired, not on the
0.A.P., but on the proceeds of two
properties which I have bought with the
savings of a lifetime of toil and self-
denial. I never earned big wages, and' I
brought up and educated a family of five
—without a basic wage, a short week,
child endowment, Fair Rents Act, unem-
ployment allowance or any other of the
spoon-feeding methods by which the
worker of today has his lot made easy.—
Grafter (N.S.W.).
Accent on Sex
For some reason any sign of sex in-
terest by the young (B. 20/11 / ’4O) is
dreaded, A girl gets “in trouble” and a
youth “goes up for maintenance,” and
the little drama is too often the cause
of unnecessary hysteria and anger among
older people. Instead of blaming the leg-
show press or the erotic outpourings of
spinster novelist Cor youth’s misfortunes.
it would be saner and certainly more
helpful to seek the youngsters’ sympathy,
get their slant on emotional difficulties
and an appreciation of their early back-
ground.
What most critics forget is that novels
and legshows have no power in them-
selves to stimulate ; it is the reader and
observer who must project their own
fantasies on to them. Shakspeare
long ago postulated the psychological
axiom that there is nothing good or ill
but thinking makes it so. If we got
down to Matilda’s and Harry’s repres-
sions, which, in any event, would have
been touched off by symbols other than
erotic novels and toothpaste ads., we
would do them a real service. Unfortu-
nately, parents and others in the back-
ground prefer to give them deep guilt
feelings and strong inhibitions which in
too many cases are forced to seek release
in direct action and mutual suffering.
Poor old youth is the shock-absorber
for most adult conflicts. We project our
own doubt and guilt on to the young
people, who in most instances are doing
their best to solve emotional difficulties —
difficulties made more difficult by the
failure of their mentors to present sex
as something more than a dirty little
secret and to provide outlets for normal
curiosity. Repress sex, and it will surely
seek substitute outlets. The known popu-
larity of legshows, erotic literature and
smutty yarns are merely youth’s experi-
ments in a precarious appeasement policy.
These can be attractive only where there
is strong repression.
Youth, whatever its
emotional failings, can
find compensation in the
fact that many adults are
not able to live out their
repressions. The off-
color joke is the main-
stay of most smoke-
night gatherings. Vaude-
ville caters for all man-
ner of psychological
character traits; in fact,
the jokes, situations and
innuendoes cover almost
all known perversions.
Youth needs sympathy
in its difficulties. Even
adults must deal with
emotional conflict and
sublimate sex guilt as
best they can. Beer,
thinking and writing
fantasy, running round
ovals and rowing with
the crew for the prestige
of the old school tie are
only a few of the well-
tried sublimative meas-
ures. Anyway, in the
end they usually come to
earth and grapple with
realities and a perambu-
-1 a t o r. — Charles Hal-
bert (S.A.).
They Are Seven
1 have just been reading how one of the
biggest businesses in S.A. is conducted.
During the past fortnight the directors
have been in conference almost day and
night—sometimes till 4 a.m. The agenda
contained items of varying importance.
Some of them, involving large sums of
money, were rushed through without any
argument worth mentioning. Others, of
more abstract interest, kept the directors
more or less awake till almost dawn. One
enthusiast made a four-hour speech in the
wee sma’ hours on a purely religious and
sentimental issue.
Now, having exhausted the list as well
as themselves, they have gone into well-
earned recess until a date to be fixed
about March or April of 1941.
Such expedition in the conduct of mer-
cenary affairs, such solicitude for the
moral welfare of the shareholders, such
freedom from jitters in the face of
national dangers, is surely an example to
business magnates the world over.
Consider the time-wasting, nerve-rack-
ing methods of men who work steadily
all the year round and who allow them-
selves only a brief respite at Christmas,
who worry about such trifles as profit and
loss, war taxation, restricted markets, the
incidence of strikes and the possible effect
of the world crisis on their salaries. They
even worry about the rendering of ser-
vices for money received!
I have heard that in America two of
the States have boards to direct their
public business on idealistic lines. The
members enjoy the usual salaries and
privileges on condition that they pass no
new legislation during their term of office,
their only duty being to preserve the
status quo. The plan seems to work well
and might be worth adopting in Aus-
tralia. It would certainly effect a large
saving in •tenography, paper and petrol.
—Polly Titian (S.A.).


London to Melbourne
The following is extracted from
an Air Mail letter from the Pelman
Institute in London to the Pelman
Institute in Melbourne:
“ Seeing damage done to
old, familiar landmarks is sad,
but, on reflection, when we see
what is still standing and how
business and the general life of
the community are still going we
realise that bad as things are they
could be very much worse. The
general feeling now is that the
Boche has done his damndest and
has come off second best. In
spite of it all everybody is un-
daunted and presenting a brave
front. We are going to wipe the
swine off the face of the earth.
as to food, there is enough of
everything, and I can assure you
no one is going short. Business
is keeping up extraordinarily well.
We are on the up-grade and con-
solidating— most satisfactory.”
There is a postscript. ‘‘The only
damage we have suffered is that of
having our front plate-glass win-
dow blown in," This was hand-
written. Evidently an afterthought,
so soon do wise people accom-
modate themselves to what cannot
be helped.
A Doctor writes: “Pelmanism has shown
me how to observe instead of merely seeing.
That alone is worth the price of the course.
A Clerk writes: “I have been able to get
a definite aim, and have abolished drifting.
I feel happier and better in myself. I can
concentrate much better. _ I am losing my
horrible self-consciousness.”
A Salesman reports; “Results gained—a
healthier state of mind and body, more self-
confidence, a better memory, a feeling of
ability and keenness in business, a desire
always to employ my spare time to some use
and a systematic style of working.”
A Secretary writes: “I am forming good
habits and choking bad habits. I have more
self-control and self-reliance. I enjoy life more.
I feel better physically and mentally. 1 am
easier to live with. I do not brood.”
A Shorthand-Typist writes: “1 have
energy enough for two, and the will to carry
out to the finish that which I pursue.”
A Draughtsman writes: “When I
started the course I was suffering from
severe worries. I have completely got over
these.”
A Motor Mechanic writes; “I now
gratefully realise that without a sound know-
ledge of the principles as set out by the
Pelman Institute we cannot hope to make the
best of ourselves. I myself have overcome
Shyness, Lack of Confidence, Mind-wander-
ing.”
A Teacher writes: “Increase in my
powers of Concentration and Memory. In-
crease in Self-confidence. Great interest in
people and in my surroundings.”
A Bank Officer writes: “Self-conscious-
ness has given place to Self-confidence. I
am able to work harder and concentrate
more.”
A Builder writes: “I have developed
confidence in myself and a broader outlook
on fife. My life has changed from a listless,
drifting one to one of purpose. I now have
a mental and bodily health I did not have
before.”
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind ,
Memory and Personality
You are worth something if
people in trouble come to you
The spirit of its people in the face of disasters
apparently irretrievable has once more dis-
covered to the world the truth of Emerson s
appraisement of Great Britain that she sees a
little better in a cloudy day, and that in storm
of battle and calamity, she has a secret vigour
and a pulse like a cannon.
During that period of turmoil and suspense,
alternating with elation, the people have sought
comfort and relief each according to his or her
nature and opportunities. One of the finest
tributes ever paid to Pelmanism in its 40 years
of service to the public is the increasing number
of people in Great Britain who sought help in
the Pelman Course of Training. They believed
that it would help them, they found that it did
so, and they told others.
The same tribute of increasing interest month
by month in the Pelman Course has been paid
to the Melbourne Branch by the people of
Australia and New Zealand with a correspond-
ing increase in the number of men and women
who have enrolled for the Course.
This is not merely the reward of excellence.
It is a recognition that the Pelman Course
contains within itself the constituents of the rare
and resolute thinking processes of the peoples ot
the British Empire, that no better method than
Pelmanism for generating composure, self-
confidence and courage has ever been evolved.
Pelmanists find themselves better able to take
the strain, to get satisfaction from their leisure
and their recreations, and to be fully effective
units in the prosecution of the work they do.
Pelmanism is scientific train-
ing of Mind, Memory and
Personality. It substitutes good
and faithful habits of mind
and memory for slovenly and
fearful ones. Thus it promotes
steadfastness, definiteness, and
continuity of effort.
Among the qualities and
attributes it specifically
develops are Observation,
Will-Power, Decision, Self-
Confidence, Judgment, Organi-
sation, Concentration, Initiative,
Social Ease and a thoroughly
dependable Memory for faces,
figures, names, appointments,
prices, and useful data of every
kind.
The Headquarters of the
Pelman Institute are in London.
The Melbourne Branch has
been established for 33 years.
Over half a million men and
women have gone through the
Pelman Course, of whom more
than 44,000 are in Australia
and New Zealand.
The Pel man Course is
described fully in The Effi-
cient Mind,” 76 pages, a copy
of which will be sent post free
to readers of The Bulletin.
If you do not wish to cut the
form below, just send in your
name and address with the
words “Efficient Mind, please.”
You may add anything else
you wish as we regard all com-
munications as confidential and
have no outside representa-
tives.
New Zealand Inquirers:
The Pelman Institute, with the approval
of the Reserve Bank, has made arrange-
ments to enable residents of New Zealand
to enrol for the Pelman Course of Train-
ing without delay. Write m the first
instance to the Pelman Institute, Melb.
The Pelman Institute
For the Scientific Development of Mind, Memory and
Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market Street),
Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
CUT OUT OR COPY
AND POST TODAY
To the Pelman Institute,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post free, a copy of The Ffhoe
Mind.”
NAME
ADDRESS
132
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
zxczxcxzc
JO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that 1 do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
t Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
SEND “THE BULLETIN”
THE LADS OVERSEAS—
Special Concession Rates;
12 months . . 15/-
6 months . 8/-
3 months, 4/-
post free.
(j°
r c .
lt°.
cP K^ e< l^
#>*
/
*3\
ii <
> t\ e
*’ ..** ..*•■
s - . ..’’ o^vO^S^V 6 '


GOOD FOR.
MAKE
SR
EAST
u
R
v'
U 5
R
S'
.VI
ll
TOOHEYS
FLAG
