

* A TOAST-to them
Today we remember them—on land, at sea, in the air.
Ever cheerful, but fully determined, we know the
well-being of the country lies secure in their keeping.
Let us determine that our support will not be one
whit less than their courage.
A tribute to the Fighting Forces by the
Iron and Steel Industry.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3228.
Wednesday, December 24, 1941.
Press Jitters
B*4€e—6ci.-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 241
The Red Page
LETTERS OF THE GREAT .
“Here, then, are love letters, taunting
letters, shocking letters, letters dipped in
honeyed phrases, letters written with
words of gall, bombastic letters, letters
breathing fire, letters with good news,
letters spelling disaster, passionate letters,
secret letters, casual letters, gushing let-
ters, impulsive letters, crafty letters,
open letters, grandiloquent letters, short
letters, voluminous letters, letters of
hatred, letters of courage, letters of
adoration, letters of fury, letters people
forgot to burn, letters people did not
dare to mail, letters that glorified litera-
ture, thundering letters, tender letters,
inspired letters, diabolical letters, letters
that made history.”
There, then, in fact, are all sorts of
adjectival letters. Where, now, are all
these big letters, little letters, hot letters,
cold letters, sweet letters, sour letters,
letters that still glow with the fire of
creative genius and letters of precisely the
significance of William the Conqueror’s
suspenders to be found?
In M. Lincoln Schuster’s The World’s
Great Letters (Heinemann ; Angus and
Robertson).
Who, then, describes the contents with
such a ringing absence of false modesty?
None other than Mr. M. Lincoln
Schuster.
What, now, is this Mr. Schuster that
he should produce a book for which
such noble claims can be made; and
where, then, or now, or whenever you
like, did Mr. Schuster learn to write
with such fire and light—neon light—of
his own work?
There is an American publishing house
known as Simon and Schuster; and it is
to be suspected that Mr. Schuster, as a
man of letters, has been inspired less by the
moan of doves in immemorial elms than
by the murmuring of innumerable blurbs.
How, then, does Mr. Schuster stand as
a man of other people’s letters?
This collection is, he says, the cream
of the cream of an enormous collection
of the cream of the world’s letters. The
sub-title (why should a reviewer try to
compete with an author who can describe
his book with an accuracy, as well as
an enthusiasm, he could hardly hope to
exceed?) describes the vol. as “a treasury
of the world’s great letters from ancient
days to our own time, containing the
characteristic and crucial communications
and intimate exchanges and cycles of
correspondence, of many of the out-
standing figures of world history, and
some notable contemporaries, selected,
edited and integrated with biographical
backgrounds and historical settings and
consequences by M. Lincoln Schuster.”
How, now, does The World’s Great
Letters stand up to all that has been
claimed for it? Is there, first of all, a
love letter?
Is there what! Turn to page 70 and
see what Henry the Eighth wrote to
Anne Boleyn:
Myne awne Sweetheart me thinketh
the Tyme longer since your departing now
last longer than I was wont to do a
whole Fortnight; I think your Kindness
and my Fervence of Love causeth it, for
otherwise I wolde not thought it possible,
that for so little a while it should have
grieved me....
And, then, for the cynical comment Mr.
Schuster invariably provides, either by
another letter or by a biographical foot-
note, turn over the page for Anne
Boleyn’s pitiful plea for her life “from
my doleful prison in the Tower”:
But if you have already determined of
me, and that not only my Death but an
Infamous Slander must bring you the
enjoying of your desired Happiness; then
I desire of God that he will pardon your
' great Sin therein, and likewise mine
Enemies, the Instruments thereof; and that
he will not call you to a strict Account
for your unprincely and cruel usage of
me....
There is young Voltaire writing to the
girl with whom he intended to elope;
Keats to Fanny Brawne; Browning to
Elizabeth Barrett; Byron to a countess;
some of the very doubtfully-authentic
Abelard-Heloise correspondence; Ber-
nard Shaw’s absurd affair with Ellen
Terry, great lovers whose names were
written on blotting-paper only ; Shelley to
Mary Godwin; and more and more.
Three of the most illuminating are
Napoleon’s short notes to Countess Marie
Walewska. First, the serene arrogance of
the conqueror:
I have seen only you, I have admired
only you, I desire only you.
There was no answer. Napoleon
deigns to double the length of the next
note: —■
Have I displeased you? I hoped the
opposite. Or has y6ur first feeling
vanished? My passion grows. You rob me
of my rest. Vouchsafe a little joy, a little
happiness, to the poor heart that would
fain worship you! Is it so hard to give
me an answer? You now owe me two.
Still no answer. Napoleon tries pathos
and blackmail:
There* are moments in life when high
position is a heavy burden. That is borne
in on me at this moment... .Oh, come,
come! All your wishes shall be fulfilled!
Your country will even be dearer to me, if
you have compassion on my heart.
Yes, there are love letters. So that, to
group a handful of Mr. Schuster’s starry
adjectives into the appropriate constella-
tion, whereby a number of them are
perceived to be redundancies, there are
also letters dipped in honeyed phrases,
passionate letters, secret letters, gushing
letters, impulsive letters, letters of adora-
tion, tender letters; even shocking let-
ters, and letters breathing fire.
One that could fairly be classed as a
love letter, Dr. Johnson’s courtesy to
Mrs. Thrale upon her marriage to Piozzi,
could with equal justice be classed as
one written in words of gall, a bombastic
letter, a letter of fury, a thundering
letter, a diabolical letter:
Madam —if I interpret your letter right,
you are ignominiously married; if it is -
yet undone, let us once more talk together.
If you have abandoned your children and
your religion, God forgive your wicked-
ness; if you have forfeited your fame and
your country, may your folly do no further
mischief
Mr. Schuster, who at times far out-
Bozzies Boswell in uncritical admiration
of the Great, describes this nasty piece
of invective —probably the worst thing
Johnson ever put his name to ; a com-
pound of jealousy, prurience and rage
at the loss of a meal-ticket—as “a triumph
of Johnsonian irony in the grand
manner.”
There, then (alas!), is one of the faults
of The World’s Great Letters : the com-
piler’s uncritical enthusiasm. In the case
of the Johnson letter, it doesn’t matter,
for the letter, even if the comment seems
absurd, was worth reprinting. But quite
a few of the letters, without any literary
merit and without any real human in-
terest as revealing the unknown about
important people, are included merely be-
cause they happen to have been written
by notabilities. Is it really one of the
great letters of the world when Michael
Faraday writes to Sarah Barnard:
My dear Sarah, —It is astonishing how
much the state of the body influences the
powers of the mind. I have been think-
ing all the morning of the very delightful
and interesting letter I would send you this
evening, and now I am so tired
One of Faraday’s letters when he
hadn’t been so tired would surely have
been better company for the master-
pieces of Keats and Boswell.
Another weakness is that too many of
Mr. Schuster’s great men are great men
only in America. Yet another is the in-
clusion of letters of doubtful authenti-
city—not so much those of Heloise and
Abelard, which are of literary value, but
others which seem to have been included
only to give the book its historical
expanse: doubtful letters by Alexander
and Darius ; by Agrippina to Nero.
As for the omissions—anybody here
has an open go at Mr. Schuster. No-
thing of Lamb’s correspondence, nothing
of Swift’s, nothing of T. E. Law-
rence’s ...
Where, now, stands M. Lincoln
Schuster’s The World’s Great Letters' ?
It has rocked a little on the pedestal on
which, in all due reverence, he placed
it. It has come down a step or two. But,
all criticisms accepted, it remains splen-
did reading. Magnificent is the only
word for some of the letters standing out
like crags among the general foothills
or rubble.
Raleigh, writing farewell to his wife
from the Tower when he expected execu-
tion the next morning:
I speake not this (God knowes) to
dissuade you from marriage, for it will be
best for you, both in respect of the world
and of God. As for me, I am no more
yours, nor you mine, death hath cut us
asunder: and God hath divided me from
the world, and you from me. Remember
your poor child for his father’s sake, who
chose you, and loved you in his happiest
times. Get those letters (if it be possible)
which I writ to the Lords, wherein I sued
for my life: God is my witness it was for
you and yours that I desired life, but it is
true that I disdained my self for begging
of it: for know it (my deare wife) that
your son is the son of a true man, and one
who in his owne respect despiseth death
and all his misshapen and ugly formes.
Beethoven, discovering in his 28th year
that he was to be deaf all his life, writ-
ing down his agony in a letter to his
brothers, to be read by them after his
death: a great cry of the grief and de-
fiance of the artist like the cry of blind
Milton in Samson Agonistes, “Oh dark,
dark, dark amidst the blaze of noon!”:
I must live like an exile, if I approach
near to people a hot terror seizes upon me,
a fear that I may be subjected to the
danger of letting my condition be
observed... .What humiliation when one
stood beside me and heard a flute in the
distance and I heard nothing, or someone
heard the shepherd singing and again I
heard nothing, such incidents brought me
to the verge of despair, but little more
and I would have put an end to my life-
only art it was that withheld me, ah it
seemed impossible to leave the world until
I had produced all that I felt called upon
to produce, and so I endured this wretched
existence....
Thomas Mann, saying farewell to
Hitler’s Germany, in a letter addressed
to the occupier of his confiscated house:
But I had forgotten, Herr Dean, that I
was still addressing you. Certainly I may
console myself with the reflection that you
long since ceased to read this letter, aghast
at language which in Germany has long
been unspoken, terrified because somebody
dares to use the German tongue with the
ancient freedom. I have not spoken out
of arrogant presumption, but out of a
concern and a distress from which your
usurpers did not release me when they de-
creed that I was no longer a German —
a mental and spiritual distress from which
for four years not an hour of my life has
been free, and struggling with which I
have had to accomplish my creative work
day by day. The pressure was great. As
a man who out of diffidence in religious
matters will seldom or never either by
tongue or pen let the name of the Deity
escape him, yet in moments of deep
emotion cannot refrain, let me—since after
all one cannot say everything—close this
letter with the brief and fervent prayer:
God help our darkened and desecrated
country and teach it to make its peace with
the world and with itself.
New De la Mare Verses .
It couldn’t be said of Walter de la
Mare, as it was of Yeats, that he never
falls into poetic repetition, each new
volume bringing a new development in
thought and technique. Indeed, Faber
and Faber announce his latest Bells and
Grass as “the successor and complement,
awaited for some twenty-seven years, to
Peacock Pie”
At any time during the last thirty years
De la Mare might have put out, unaltered
in thought or phrasing:
Ever, ever
Stir and shiver
The reeds and rushes
By the river:
Ever, ever,
As if in dream,
The moon’s lone silver
Sleeks the stream.
What old sorrow,
What lost love,
Moon, reeds, rushes,
Dream you of?
Or again, even more characteristically,
the new piece on the theme every poet
tries once in his life —rain in the night:
I woke in the swimming dark
And heard, now sweet, now shrill,
The voice of the rain-water,
Cold and still,
Endlessly sing; now faint,
In the distance borne away;
Now in the air float near,
But nowhere stay;
Singing I know not what,
Echoing on and on;
Following me in sleep,
Till night was gone.
This repetition of his old themes of
vanishing loveliness, or of the scenes and
beings just beyond the reach of sight,
limits De la Mare to a minor statement in
poetry ; but it is not without its charm.
A De la Mare book is always what one
expects it to be ; always, even, so fine
and beautiful are his lyrics, what one
hopes it will be. And he can still illumi-
nate with new magic the thoughts he has
thought before:
I sat so still in the garden
That wasp and leaf and bird
Seemed as I dreamed the only things
That had ever stirred;
or can think a new thought on one of his
familiar subjects:
In the sedge a tiny song
Wells and trills the whole day long;
In my heart another bird
Has its music heard.
As I watch and listen here,
Each to each pipes low and clear;
But when one has ceased to sing,
Mine will still be echoing.
In one respect, the verses of Bells and
Grass do suffer from repetition; in
the “look thy last” on loveliness theme,
especially in the way he uses the echoing
monosyllable “gone” to make a poem
thin out into space: a trick that, in an
odd way, recalls the celebrated “fading
out into whiteness” of Mallarme’s poems.
The rain poem of Bells and Grass ends
with “gone”: so do seven other poems.
The sweetness of the may gone; convol-
vulus flowers gone ; an old woman gone
into death ; a bird gone ; a ship gone ; a
child gone from a window; Solomon and
Sheba gone. Even if this volume is in-
tended as pleasant entertainment rather
than serious poetry, that is a weakness.
Like Peacock Pie, this book is for chil-
dren as much as (or more than) for
adults. With the light lyrics, go many of
the verses De la Mare writes so skilfully
in the nursery-rhyme tradition of homely
magic:
Monkeys in a forest,
Beggarmen in rags,
Marrow in a knucklebone.
Gold in leather bags;
Feathers in a pillow,
Cattle in a shed,
Honey in a beehive,
And me in bed.
A nicely made book, illustrated by
F. R. Emett.
S. H. PRIOR PRIZE.
The Trustees of the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize regret that, owing
to unforeseen circumstances, it has
been impossible to have completed
any earlier the preliminary reading
of MSS. entered for the competition
which closed in June. The reading
has now been done, and the MSS.
have been forwarded to the follow-
ing judges:—
MISS BEATRICE DAVIS, head
reader of MS. for Angus and
Robertson.
H. M. GREEN, Fisher Librarian,
University of Sydney.
Immediately their findings are re-
turned the results will be announced.
Life of a Leper .
The lepers on the island of Culion —-
Philippines and an occasional American
—gave three thousand dollars of their
meagre earnings to help the U.S. in the
last war, says Perry Burgess, president of
the American Leprosy Foundation.
What’s happened to the colony in this
war? For Culion lies 200 miles south
of Manila.
Dr. Burgess tells of the life of the
lepers in Who Walk Alone (Dent). He
has chosen an unfortunate way of con-
veying his information, for, instead of
offering direct narrative and fact, where
literary skill wouldn’t have been neces-
sary, he submits the “autobiography” of
one of the lepers, using the first person
as if the leper himself had written it ;
with the result that what should be tragic
sounds sentimental, what should be heroic
is marred by unnecessary moralising,
what should ring terribly true is not quite
real.
The story, certainly, is powerful; Dr.
Burgess says it is true in every particular.
Ned Langford, an American soldier who
fought in the Philippines in the Spanish-
American war, came home apparently in
perfect health. Nine years later he burned
his arms and hands rescuing horses from
a stable that had caught fire ; his hands
gave him pain but his forearm, he dis-
covered, was numb. A white spot
appeared. Months afterwards, under the
shower, he noticed another white spot
near his shoulder. It was a long time
before a specialist diagnosed leprosy.
In case the fear that he might have in-
fected them should make their lives hor-
rible, he let his family and the girl he
was going to marry think that he had
committed suicide, and went into exile on
Culion. From then on, the book is the
story of how he endured his existence
and learned to fight despair by useful
activities on the island. A story worth
telling, but not in the form Dr. Burgess
has chosen.
Dr. Burgess’s weakness in reconstructing
dialogue becomes particularly noticeable
in a scene in which Carita, a Philippine
leper girl with whom Langford had fallen
in love, refuses to marry him because her
religion won’t allow her to have a child-
less marriage. Strange and dramatic
material for direct reporting when the
lepers rioted is again poorly handled ;
not only because of lack of literary
ability, but also because Dr. Burgess’s
official position seems to prevent him
commenting freely.
In an appendix, Dr. Burgess discusses
and condemns the general fear and
horror of the disease:
Its point of infection is so low that a
premeditated attempt on the part of
the average individual to inoculate him-
self or to infect himself by association with
the leprous would, in all probability, not
meet with success. A heavy case of leprosy
is not pleasant to look upon, but the same
may be said for many other diseases which
do not share in this almost universal
repugnance. A very large proportion of
patients bear little or no outer signs of
their affliction. The disease and its victims
are cursed by being labelled with a name
which has come to mean that which the
nature of the illness does not in any sense
justify.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —business sincerity
“THE SENIOR STORE’
m
.<2
AT
N
N
D
mm
K&a&sSSi
i 0 ~ v< -'
W^? :y
m
.-:• .-■ *■ ■
•V"--'
■’
m
SJft
IN CONSTANT READINESS
DAY AND NIGHT . . .
Be independent of emergency measures
with an Esse Heat Storage Cooker!
Continuous burning, ready for INSTANT
action, day and night, Esse Cookers
make you completely independent of
public power supply services. So long
as you have supplies of the necessary
fuel charcoal or coke you are
immune from trouble should public
services break down. Fuel economy is
outstanding, too fuel consumption
never rises—and stoking is necessary
only once every twelve hours.
Ovens evenly heated, yet providing three different
cooking temperatures (automatically controlled) together
with grilling, toasting, and boiling at the one time —for
less than Two Shillings per Week!
The whole body of the cooker is beautifully porcelain
enamelled in cream with black and chrome relief, and
is always in sparkling condition!
The heat is conserved within the cooker, which enables
the kitchen to be kept at a beautifully cool temperature
on the hottest days—yet can be reversed for winter
needs!
PREMIER ESSE
With Auxiliary Oven
The Premier ESSE can be supplied with Auxiliary Oven,
which gives extra cooking space as well as ample ''hot-
cupboard'' room.
A PRACTICAL COOKER, EVERY FACILITY
The three roomy extra high ovens are evenly heated and
give three different cooking temperatures, maintained
automatically by a thermostat. They provide healthy,
fume-free cooking, and conserve the essential juices and
flavour of the food.
BETTER, EASIER, SAFER COOKING
The Premier ESSE is simple and safe in use. It is always
ready lor service at correct cocking temperature, and is
so flexible under thermostatic control that it will respond
quickly to exceptional demands. Chefs and cooks all
over the country express delight with the ample accom-
modation and improved flavour of food.
DEMONSTRATIONS Given on
Tower Ground Floor, Pitt Street,
or Fullest Particulars will be sent on
Application.
SOLE N.S.W. AGENTS
1
mmi
mtmmm
%
1 '
—""ls*
» . * *
m
- m
11
Hi
111
3 ■•• ••
«
■
x: ' .
;
■I no
*
V
: &
Wmm
■
VICTORIAN AGENCY
T. S. NETTLEFOLD & SONS Pty. Ltd.
GOLIATH HOUSE, 189 KING STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
QUEENSLAND AGENCY
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES Ltd.
BOWEN STREET, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
'PHONE: M 2401
(Day and Night)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Post to BOX 2712 C,
G.P.0., SYDNEY


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
Jf ffhi lime cftate mellcwneumullsmqtuei;
LONDON PEA-SHELLERS.
What will London present to the observer ten or twenty years hence ? That is a question even the constructive and speculative
genius of a Wells, or the “deductive genius” of a “Sherlock Holmes” would confess was “a poser.” Architecturally, it is a
reasonable assumption, vast changes will have occurred, or were in progress. Public utilities will have advanced enormously,
may be safely hazarded. Socially ? That is the impasse, when conditions, economic, governing the lives of the “vast, surging
masses” form the theme for contemplation. Old “styles” of earning a living, many picturesque in a sense perhaps, but with
little else to recommend them, will probably have disappeared. Whether the army of pea-shellers will survive is a moot
question. It is, at best, a precarious and ill-paid employment today, a sort of dead-end occupation for mostly aged, respectable
but exceedingly poor women. They are found during the months when “peas are in season” at all the vegetable markets in
London and the suburbs. Their chief patronage, or rather the sources which create a demand for this class of work, are
hotels, restaurants and eating-houses of the humbler class. But London is so vast, “a country in itself” that the overseas
visitor is presented with sights the existence of which he or she was previously ignorant. These old ladies who “eke out
a crust” by pea-shelling are typical of much that makes the Londoner such a pleasing personality. That spirit of cheerfulness,
characteristic of the real Cockney, is theirs in good measure. They can smile in face of “cruel adversity,” a virtue the
citizens never displayed more pronouncedly until the days the Huns let loose on the world their ideas of “total warfare in
a mechanical age.”


AN EAGLE’S FEATHER—BUT WHAT’S A FEATHER?


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0. ),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly : 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign ) ;
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
1\ per copy. United Kingdom, 2\ per copy. To
all other places, 4\.
PRESS JITTERS.
Just now Australia is being treated to yet another
inglorious exhibition by daily and other newspapers.
These extraordinary organs of enlightenment have
suddenly discovered that the country is in a war and
is in danger. They have marked the discovery by an
outburst of hysterics, an orgy of jitters and a hags’
chorus of squeals. The selfsame ones that a week or
two back were howling for the profitless slaughter of
tens of thousands of British soldiers, sailors and air-
men —for a British invasion of the Continent, at the
behest of Mr. Stalin, seconded and supported by Lord
Strabolgi and seemingly every newspaper oracle with
a typewriter and half a column at his irresponsible
disposal-—now give every evidence of themselves hav-
ing a bad attack of blue funk.
Australia has witnessed some pitiful performances
by these same excitable journals, but nothing quite
so miserable as their showing in these last couple of
weeks. While the war was remote they were marvel-
lously brave and as bold as lions. What superb
courage they showed in urging John Bull for years to
take on the whole contemptible world single-handed!
One Australian daily, particularly noted for its distant
courage, had the hide to demand of J. 8., during the
Spanish brawl: “Is it only above-water attack that
the British Navy will resent?” They never could
understand, any of them, that getting tangled up in
modern war could mean nothing else but getting in-
volved in a struggle for survival. Even with this war
two years old, and such events occurring in it as
Dunkirk, with Lord Gort’s report thereon, they never
approached within cooee of a sense of realism until
the war broke through to somewhere near their own
doorstep.
Not one of them had the courage to make a
business of telling Australia that this was total war,
and that the only answer to it was total national effort.
Not one of them dared to mention that all-round
conscription was an urgent essential measure in the
natioruii which should have been introduced
with Lie s&t declaration of war. Some of them, right
up to fja. VTutbreak in the Pacific, flatly opposed con-
scription. Now these are silent; but so, on this issue,
are the others also. Those that have not opposed it
have resolutely sat on the fence. Yet it must be
evident even to the half-witted that the principle of
conscription applied generally—to A.R.P. work, man-
ning of ships and everything else—not only is urgent
now but should have been in operation all along.
This present miserable showing on the part of
the hysterical press is nothing new. Search Australian
press files over the past 20 years, and it will be found
that there has been one paper only that has consis-
tently spoken for Australian defence throughout. That
paper is The Bulletin. This, unhappily for Aus-
tralia, is not boasting ; it is there on the record. It
does not speak of any special wisdom, either. Many
Australians, returned soldiers especially, thought the
same all along. They witnessed the tragic political and
press misleading of this country with bitter regret;
but it is just one of the faults of democracy, that have
to be taken along with the manifest benefits and vir-
tues, that the popular will rules, right or wrong, wise
or blind. When compulsory national service for home
defence was suspended 10 years back not one paper
in Australia except The Bulletin raised a voice of
protest. In the years just before that plumbing of the
very depths of imbecile legislation, and in the years
after it, not one of these organs of enlightenment told
Australia that it was open and defenceless, that the
luck that had stood to it in the past could not hold
for ever.
They were too busy, the whole lot of them, sing-
ing chorus eulogies of the League of Nations and
“collective security.” Is there today anywhere among
them a sign of contrition? Are they humbled that
the country they served so poorly has been in a fair
measure made strong in spite of them? They are as
cocksure and as arrogant as ever. They even have
the impudence to turn round and lay all the blame
for Australia’s having been “lulled into a state of
false security” on those in charge of the country’s outer
defences. In this they affect to be angry ; they suc-
ceed in being only mean and petulant. They forget
their own recent part in concocting and flavoring the
soothing syrup they passed on by the bucketful.
Now they are on the warpath, looking for scalps,
for scapegoats. They want someone sacrificed for
every ship that is sunk, for every airport that is lost.
In their pitiful fright they demand the heads of
generals whose only crime is that they are at Aus-
tralia’s defence outposts, to lay down their lives there
if necessary. Mr. Churchill says tragically: “I cannot
say that our air force anywhere in this part of the
world is as strong as I would have it.” Does it make
them ashamed of their own recent cocky belligerence
or their fatuous blindness in the past to an unarmed
country’s peril? It does nothing of the kind. They
want somebody else impaled and beheaded.
All this, in view of their own past bellicosity, is a
nasty enough performance. Turning to the actual
home front, their performance has been worse. If it
had been possible to cause panic over the past couple
of weeks many of them could have had the credit of
contributing notably towards it. For what, if not for
tuppenny profit? If there are people about with a
bad dose of the jitters it is not to be wondered at. Mr.
Hughes has dealt caustically with these panicky people:
While the great bulk of the people are facing the
present position calmly there are some who seem on the
way to hysteria. These individuals have folded up their
tents and are making for the hinterland. Probably they
assess their worth in the “front-line” at the proper
valuation. Although'no one knows what is in store for
us, I would say that the proper line of conduct for the
people is to remain where they are until the Govern-
ment tells them to move.
But, after all, these misled people have only been
reversing the usually accepted order —that is, reflecting
the press which libels the bulk of Australians by its
pretence that it reflects them. By this hysterical press
these people have been screamed at in a fashion to
put the breeze up anybody. In the manner of what
nowadays passes for smart journalism, everything has
been presented to them on an excited, a keyed-up
note. Not one of the organs of enlightenment has
itself achieved the calmness which, in the thick of
hysterical overstatements and demands for the instant
sacking of brave men, they counsel everyone to adopt.
In presenting the position to the public not one of
them has taken its stand calmly on what has been
experienced elsewhere. Suddenly forgotten is yester-
day’s saw about London having been able to take it!
Not only London ; all the other places that have been
Blitz bombed, and are still functioning. Splendid when
it was all happening somewhere else ; and how easily
forgotten under the influence of the jitters!
To take one example that might have been held
up—the dot of an island called Malta. It is still there,
still holding out as a strong fortress, after seventeen
months of systematic raiding. A correspondent on
the spot has reported on it:
Both Italy and Germany have raided the small British
bulwark in the Mediterranean nearly 800 times, but the
scars they have inflicted have not detracted one whit
from the strength of the fortress nor affected the morale,
toughness and fighting spirit of its garrison and inhabi-
tants and their determination to make the defence of
the island glorious not only in British military history
but in the history of Malta itself.
In one period of five months on end German bombers
hammered day and night at Malta, “causing wide-
spread civilian damage. But in vain.”
Anybody even distantly acquainted with the Aus-
tralian character knows that it will be no different
here, if the test comes. What bombing means is
unknown here as yet; it should not be forgotten that
it was unknown in all those other places, too. All
that is needed at the moment is a full realisation that
what has happened elsewhere can happen here, both
as to the bombing and as to seeing it through. It is
time daily newspapers —and civilian leaders with them
—acquired that very calmness they counsel for others,
what time they themselves fuss and jitter about as
scared as if Judgment Day was on them and their
conscience loaded down with sins. Which, speaking
retrospectively and in regard to the past neglect of
this country’s defence, would seem understandable
enough.
The Hollywood Spirit.
It was here suggested last week that the failure in
Pearl Harbor was a failure not of the American spirit
but of the Hollywood spirit, with which Honolulu
had become notoriously identified. It was not sug-
gested that the Hollywood spirit was peculiar to
Honolulu or to the United States, and it should be
added that in the fine utterances of Mr. Roosevelt,
the swift measures taken to restore the situation in
the mid-Pacific, the splendid defence of Wake and
Midway islands and the vigor with which the invasion
of the Philippines has been met there is agreeable
evidence of a resurgence of the noble and formidable
American spirit, which has never stooped to a con-
queror, and which, we may be sure, will never rest
until the Pacific once more justifies its name and the
world itself has had “a new birth of freedom.”
We of the British Empire have also been infected
with the Hollywood spirit—the spirit of make-believe,
of furious and foolish fancies, of false ideas of his-
tory and the contemporary scene, of boastful words
and complacent inertia, which prevailed even when
stern and rigorous preparations, exacting sacrifices
from everyone, were obviously demanded. It was
carried into the domain of foreign policy. The
League of Nations had a distinct Hollywood charac-
ter. Its methods and measures were such as Holly-
wood would have employed had Hollywood run the
show, and they made a tremendous appeal to people
in every country who look to the cinema theatre for
entertainment and instruction, and to a press saturated
with the Hollywood spirit to round off their education.
More especially as the League had as its principal
character a gentleman who, though his adventures in
foreign policy have failed expansively, still has a great
public, for no discoverable reason other than that he
looks like a “star” in his own right. <
At Geneva, Britain and the Dominions, with the
full support of a press which combined —and still com-
bines —a shrieking belligerency with a vulgar exploita-
tion of the nearly-naked female in “illustrations,
abandoned the traditional foreign policy of the Empire
for “collective security,” that broken shadow of a
dream. The traditional foreign policy of the Empire
was non-interference in the affairs of other countries,
and it was this foreign policy which—action being
placed at its service by great warriors and builders—
made the Empire. When it was departed from, as
it was in the idiotic Crimean War, the only results
were a useless sacrifice of blood and treasure and a
decline of British influence everywhere.
A renowned champion of the old foreign policy
was Disraeli. Speaking for his party when leader of
the Opposition, and describing the foreign policy of
his opponents as a policy of “meddle and muddle,”
he said: “We will not exhaust the energies and waste
the treasure of the country by interfering in Con-
tinental struggles to uphold an imaginary or fallacious
balance of power.” And in 1858, when it seemed likely
that Britain would be dragged into another European
struggle as stupid as the Crimean War, he said:
The interference of England in other countries in
order to change their domestic institutions or to influence
their internal policy, whatever may be the motive, is
invariably, I think, a mistake. But though the interest
of England is eminently that of peace, it is of the utmost
importance that England should be prepared for war.
Eighty years after these wise words were uttered,
the mantle of Disraeli fell on Mr. Chamberlain. He
was an elderly gentleman of homely appearance who
went about with an umbrella, so he was anathema
from the first to the Hollywoodised press. In a situa-
tion of mounting difficulty he tried to return to the old
foreign policy. Knowing that the Empire was not
ready for war in any quarter, and having his own con-
victions as to where its interests and welfare lay, he
refused to accede to the demands of the Hollywood-
ised press for forcible intervention in Central Europe,
Spain and China, and he tried to come to terms with
the Nazis —who had been represented by the Holly-
woodised press, not as able and merciless fanatics,
Cromwell and his major-generals returned to earth
in a German setting, but as a set of villains of the
Hollywood order: amorous and thick-headed, half-
crank, half-playboy, and wholly ridiculous. Because
Hitler proved false, Mr. Chamberlain failed to avert
the war which he dreaded, and the war killed him.
But he gained a year, and that year enabled J. Bull to
take the war and keep the enemy away from the
Dominions, while the Hollywoodised press in Aus-
tralia was devoting itself to racing, football and nudity
competitions and suppressing all mention of conscrip-
tion. Had the war come in 1938, with the additions
in Europe and Asia for which the Hollywoodised press
clamored, it would certainly have been lost.
Alive and dead, Mr. Chamberlain has been pur-
sued by the Hollywoodised press with unrelenting
ferocity. It is now turning on his successor. Not
openly and honestly, for it is not in its nature to be
open and honest, but with a disingenuousness obvi-
ously born of the fear that its readers will remember
that Mr. Churchill was the man of its choice, extolled
not only as a statesman but as a master-strategist.
No, its attacks are concentrated on “the men of
Munich” who are still members of his Government.
They, it is insinuated, are his evil geniuses, responsible
for his Government’s alleged sins of commission and
omission, such as the neglect to “open a second
European front” (how crazy it would have been!), the
failure to overcome the strong Axis forces in Libya in
ten minutes, and the lack of provision of overwhelming
numbers of fighter ’planes and crews in Malaya.
Only a few weeks ago the Hollywoodised press
was insisting on the dispatch of many squadrons of
British fighters to Russia —where, it transpires, they
were not needed. With a generosity which may be
mildly described as quixotic, Mr. Churchill complied.
Now the Hollywoodised press expects his Government
to have clouds of fighters over Malaya even if it has
to conjure them out of the ground. It may have to
be indicted on this score (it is appalling to read that
for three days the Japanese bombers had no opposi-
tion in Penang and were then tackled by three R.A.F.
fighters), but fair-minded people will suspend judgment
until the issue in Malaya has been decided, meanwhile
accepting the statement of the “Times” that “the present
situation is due not only to the loss of Prince of Wales
and Repulse, but to the attacks on Pearl Harbor and
on American bases and fuelling stations further west”
—which suggests a contract to which the Americans,
because of their losses in air-power—still unstated —
have so far been unable to adhere. In any case this
Hollywoodised press outcry, which in one notorious
case has taken the form of demands for the dismissal
of Australian army officers, is the rankest impudence
and humbug. For many months before the Japanese
launched their treacherous attacks, the Hollywoodised
press spread the story that their air force was a joke
(“a pushover,” as one of its “roving reporters” has
since expressed it), that their army had been fought
to a standstill by the Chinese (styled “masters of
mobile warfare over a shifting front”) and that the
A.B.C.D. Powers had only to issue warnings, like Mr.
Eden’s, to keep them quiet.
Mr. Cameron, who never minces his words,
described the newspaper campaign against “Australia’s
military leadership” as “criminal publicity,” and put
it to the Government that it should be treated as such.
Australian Governments being what they are, it is no
use suggesting such things ; but, judged on its record,
it would be a decided gain if for the rest of the mighty
struggle the Hollywoodised press were restricted to the
discussion of films, flappers and sport. In war it is
a nuisance and a danger, an ignorant and insolent
interruption—so insolent that it can print with com-
placency the dictum of the “famous” John Gordon,
tacked on to a furious denunciation of “the many
mistakes made in the Far East,” that it was wise “to
send ’planes and tanks to Russia.”


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Essay in Diplomacy.
An Australian correspondent at Washington reported
last week that the Russian attitude to the war in the
Pacific, as expressed by Litvinov, had been “unfavor-
ably received by the public.” It has nevertheless been
defended by Australians at home and abroad, and not
only by those who glory in being Communists. Some
of them are writing boys who have become so very
pro-Russian, in a fawningly provincial way, that they
have taken to spitting insults at Britons. For example,
Mr. Brian Penton (“British military pundits should
now be learning their job from the Russians” —perhaps
he means that Wavell and Auchinleck should humbly
seek instruction from his “brilliant” Budenny) and
Mr. F. Ehrenfried Baume.
Ehrenfried deserves a par. to himself. After a
characteristic statement of his “case” for war on
Petain’s France and a characteristic sneer at British
fighting men (“one does not become popular for re-
marking to some of the Air Force staff that for years
we have been trying to do to the Scharnhorst and the
Gneisenau what the Japanese did to the Prince of
Wales and the Repulse in the matter of minutes”),
Ehrenfried plunged into his defence of Moscow policy.
Russia has a definite pact with Japan, and Japan
during Russia’s war against Germany kept that pact
in principle, leaving Russia today watching for Japanese
aggression but otherwise remaining neutral.
This from a person who, long before the war —
in the course of which he has made a bold bid for
the sooler championship—became notorious for de-
manding that Britain should stamp Japan flat. And
there was more of his impertinence:
The attempt by some Conservative papers whose
noble owners were Russia’s enemies to bring her into
the war against Japan within 24 hours failed to excite
the British public.... The authorities here quite frankly,
if a little wryly, remind themselves and the public that
Britain took three months to declare war on Finland,
etc., despite the Russians’ request.
The alleged “authorities” are, of course, unnamed, and
if they exist it could be pointed out to them with
perfect logic that Britain, having made Russia’s
enemies its own, without any possibility of military
or political gain, has every right to ask Russia to
make Britain’s Pacific enemy its own. This argument
was, of course, dodged by Ehrenfried, and on the score
of “the Russians’ request” he has been contradicted by
a named authority—Dr. Evatt, the Minister of
External Affairs.
Dr. Evatt in the House on December 16, reported
by “S. M. Herald”:
Referring to the declaration of war on Finland,
Rumania and Hungary, Dr. Evatt said that the Govern-
ment’s view, which was supported by all the members
of the Advisory War Council, was that the question of a
declaration of war should be submitted to M. Stalin,
always a realist, and that the decision of all the British
nations should be determined by his attitude. Australia’s
suggestion was adopted by the Government of the
United Kingdom. M. Stalin’s attitude never wavered.
Neither did the attitude of Australia. Finally ulti-
matums were addressed by the United Kingdom Gov-
ernment to the three Governments concerned.
In effect, the Australian Government made the first
advances because “it took the view that our alliance
with Russia compelled us to consult Russia as to
whether those three countries should be our enemies
also.” But Russia has not taken the view that the
alliance compels it to consult the British Common-
wealth Governments as to whether Japan should be
its enemy also. Dr. Evatt, always an optimist, looks
forward to its aiding the British Commonwealth
against Japan “if and when the military situation
becomes stabilised to Russia’s advantage.”
Anything approaching a victory for Japan will
threaten Russia’s position as a Pacific Power. In the
long run, it would be to Russia’s advantage to dispose,
once and for all, of the threat to Vladivostok and
Eastern Siberia.
Precisely. But the fact remains that Russia is de-
ciding its own policy, regardless of our ideas of its
obligations to us and of the course it should take in
its own interest, whereas we let it decide our policy
with regard to Finland, Rumania and Hungary. To
such a humiliating position has this grand old Empire
been reduced by a very legalistic conception of a Con-
tinental alliance. And for that Continental alliance
there was never any necessity ; association —the status
of the United States in relation to the Empire in 1917-
18 and again in 1941 —would have been sufficient for
all reasonable purposes.
Chaos Made Worse.
After arguing till it was black in the face that
bachelors and spinsters on £2OO a year couldn’t afford
to pay a shilling in war income tax, Federal Labor
has been forced to admit that it was mistaken. The
same with its oft-repeated contention that a million
or so was all that could be fairly extracted from over
five hundred millions of income in the under-£4OO
group —more than five-sevenths of the whole. Last week
it discovered that it would have to raise an additional
£24,000,000 from income tax in the current financial
year. It has therefore clapped 6d. in the £ on incomes
of £156, rising to Is. in the £ on £3OO and upwards,
and increased the company tax by Is. in the £ ; and
small allowances for wives and children are to be
the only deductions.
The need for more revenue is unquestionable. But
it could have been got without making confusion
worse confounded and heaping extortion on extor-
tion —effects which will be suffered by taxpayers nomi-
nally in receipt of £lOOO and upwards. Some of these
people will have very little left; in other cases Com-
monwealth and State taxes may exceed income. There
is no certainty about it—there never is any certainty
about Australian income taxes until assessments are
in the hands of the victims. But before the Is. in the
£ was added the Income-tax Assessment Bill was
amended to provide, as the Acting-Treasurer put it, for
“an abatement in any case where the effective com-
bined rates of Commonwealth and State taxes exceed
18s. in the £.”
For example, if the combined weight of the tax on
each pound of income is 215., 14s. Commonwealth
and 7s. State, the relief given by the Commonwealth
will be 2s. in the £. It remains for the States to con-
tribute their portion of the abatement so that the
combined taxes shall not exceed 18s. in the £.
No State has done so, and all the State Par-
liaments are now in recess for long periods. It would
have been better for the country if they had gone into
recess on Sept. 3, 1939, and never come out of recess.
As it is, their Governments are dragging increased
revenue from the people, regardless of the necessities
of the nation, and have made income tax —tradi-
tionally and essentially a war tax —a nightmare, not
only to the people but to the Commonwealth
Treasurer.
This Mr. Chifley acknowledged in a burst of candor.
Replying to a protest against the disallowance of State
taxes in the assessment of his latest impost—inciden-
tally it means that his department’s work on assess-
ments, in probably 50,000 cases completed, has to be
done all over again—he pleaded that “there are wide
differences between the amounts of State taxation,”
and that these differences have “caused difficulties for
the Government which has the responsibility of carry-
ing on the defence of the country.”
The people of Australia as a result of this war will
realise that in such a crisis State Governments are a
hindrance rather than a help. I do not say it in a
critical way, but there is an attitude by the States that
somebody is stealing their rights and privileges.
Well, why didn’t he bring in one fair and intel-
ligible income tax when he had the chance? Why
didn’t he tell the State Governments that they would
no longer be permitted to meddle, and that out of the.
proceeds of the one income tax they would receive
grants-in-aid sufficient to carry on their services, tak-
ing the 1938-39 year as a criterion, and not a shilling
more? Mr. Curtin suggested this course to Mr. Fadden
when criticising the latter’s last Budget. “The right
remedy for having seven taxing authorities,” said Mr.
Curtin, “is to substitute one taxing authority,” and
“the right remedy” could be applied straightway by
the Fadden Government “if it had the courage to do
so.” The opportunity came to Mr. Curtin and Mr.
Chifley, and it found them without courage.
Proposed Purge.
In spite of evidence which has accumulated in its own
cables, Sydney “Telegraph” has had the gall to repeat
its damaging assertion that the splendid campaign in
Libya is being fought with inferior equipment. It alleged
last week that the “reluctance of the men direct-
ing our campaigns to dispose fighter ’planes so as to
protect the men on the ground” had “shocked us again
in Libya.” Because “the imaginations of our Army
and Air Force commanders” are defective, our men
“have had to fight superior German ’planes with
obsolescent Tomahawks.”
That and a lot more appeared on the front page.
On the next page there was a message from “Reuters’
correspondent at a forward R.A.F. base in Libya” ;
it was to the effect that “Tomahawks, Beaufighters
and Hurricanes” had “meted out the heaviest ground
strafing attack against mass German and Italian con-
voys moving westward.” Six days previously the same
“Telegraph” had reported that “R.A.F. bombers are
doing enormous damage daily to enemy transport: 66
enemy tanks have been destroyed in the last six days ;
27 more have received direct hits from our armored
forces, tanks and artillery, and the enemy abandoned
another 18 tanks.” The paper in which the editor is
contradicted by his cables had previously sworn by all
its gods that British tanks were inferior to German
tanks, that Coningham’s squadrons were without
“tank-busters,” as well as having to fight in “obso-
lescent” machines, and that there was a scandalous
dearth of “co-operation between aircraft and ground
troops.”
The N.Z.E.F. Official News Service is conducted
by men who are attending the Libyan campaign, not
snarling at it from Castlereagh-street, Sydney, or from
a King’s Cross food joint in which the “Telegraph”
editor was “reliably reported” to have kept £35 worth
of wine. This is their testimony, set down on
December 3:
The greatest possible protection and support continue
to be afforded by the Royal Air Force. Throughout
the campaign the New Zealanders have offered prayers
of thankfulness for the work of the R.A.F.
And over the air the other night came a Maori-
land voice from Libya saying “Send us as many
Tomahawks as you can.” And congratulating Ritchie
on “the great success” his forces had gained, Auchin-
leck said:
Such success could never have been achieved with-
out the whole-hearted co-operation of the air force,
whose work was magnificent throughout.
In the “obsolescent Tomahawks” and “shocked us
again in Libya” article, the editor of the “Telegraph”
demanded a “purge of the higher commands of our
fighting forces.” What is really needed is a purge of
the higher commands of our skiting forces. Names
will occur to anyone who has studied the performances
of these persons, from the time they extolled the mili-
tary might and perfect unity of the French to the time
they pronounced the Japanese Air Force “a pushover,”
and assigned the “pushover” task to the Russians at
Vladivostok, who were to enter upon it the moment
they heard a Japanese gun go off.
"Anti-Comintern."
In Berlin recently Ribbentrop took the anti-Comintern
pact out of cold storage, and it was renewed for five
years, not only by the original parties to the instru-
ment, but by representatives or alleged representatives
of Bulgaria, Denmark, Finland, Croatia, Rumania,
Slovakia and Spain. Persons now suffering from the
jitters were pleased to be facetious ; but it was no
laughing matter. It raised very awkward questions,
particularly in respect of Finland, Rumania and Bul-
garia—which country has since issued a declaration
of war. And the inclusion of Denmark was a pro-
found disappointment, even though the “representa-
tive” of Denmark is most probably a Nazi who is
hated and despised by most of his countrymen.
It would have been much more sensible to regard
the Berlin ceremony as a challenge to British foreign
policy. Whether under Lord Halifax or Mr. Anthony
Eden, the Foreign Office has a wretched record in
this war. Little is heard nowadays of the V-for-
Victory campaign to which it gave its sanction, but
the indications are that, in Europe, V for Victory, with
revolution, has done a great deal more harm than
good. The revolution which has such attractions for
8.8. C. speakers can make no appeal to steadygoing
people in the occupied countries who know.what Com-
munists are, especially as they have no arms in their
hands. If Britain can help it, they should not be
placed in the position of having to make a ghastly
choice between Nazi “order” and Red revolution.
There was one notable absentee from the Berlin
proceedings. Vichy France was not represented. Yet
some of the writing boys were positive that it would
be, and they cited as evidence the removal of General
Weygand from his post in North Africa. This was
also said to be a step towards German military con-
trol of North Africa and acquisition of the Vichy
French fleet, Hitler having demanded Weygand’s head.
It is not very long since Weygand was declared
to be anti-British. Some of the very people who gave
him that character discovered that he had been
“dismissed at Hitler’s orders because he refused
to disclose his plans for the defence of North Africa
in a three-day conference with Petain,” and it was
added that on his return from Africa he was placed
“under house arrest.” If so, Petain must be disgrace-
fully disloyal to an old brother-in-arms, particularly
as Weygand, broadcasting a farewell to his staff in
Africa, said “Your unity behind the head of the State
grows stronger daily, thus consolidating and safe-
guarding the future,” and “you must remain faithful
and loyal.” It is just possible that he was retired
because he is a worn-out old man —he is nearly 75 —
and for no other reason in the world.
At the week-end it was announced that the Vichy
Cabinet, adhering to “strict military neutrality without
prejudice to collaborating with Germany in other
domains,” had again “refused to hand over the French
fleet,” and that the French authorities in Martinique
had arrived at an amicable arrangement with the
Americans. In boo-boo boy quarters there has been
no comment on these developments.
Evacuation Has Its Points.
Since the Pacific lost its name the headlong rush to
Australian coastal cities from the hinterland has been
reversed. In Sydney there was an early movement
to remove hospital patients, and a fairly large number
of retired and independent persons with means got
out voluntarily.
The State should seize its chance to make this
shift of population permanent: country districts should
have hospitals for long-term patients as well as
institutions for the indigent aged, the infirm and the
mentally deficient. And there is no reason why the
greater boarding schools shouldn’t pull themselves
down and put themselves up again somewhere west.
Around such institutions would spring up settle-
ments of dairymen, market gardeners, butchers, bakers
and the like, supplying the institutions with necessary
commodities. The small settlement soon attracts other
things, schools, churches and theatres, and thus a
number of people are removed from the city for keeps.
It took a war in the Pacific to make us realise
the foolishness of establishing cities with excessive
populations at vulnerable spots on the coast. What-
ever may happen, there can be no going back to that
insensate situation.
How Sydney Took It.
“0.T.” is the reporter:
The Japanese outburst of stoush caused more excitement
than a shower of rain would have done, which is saying
something. There was a rush to enlist so great that it couldn’t
be handled for a time. But there was another rush, not of men
who want to fight—a rush to the Blue Mountains and points
west that amounted to a small stampede.
In the van and grabbing up all the best accommodation,
according to “S. M. Herald,” were “European refugees” —
people for whom the paper a year or so ago was urging Aus-
tralian “sympathy and understanding” in their plight and their
poverty. Granny declared that these unfortunates were paying
£lO a week and more for houses and rooms in places like
Bowral, Mittagong, Katoomba and JLeura, that a lot of them
arrived there by car and that few of them had children.
“It can’t be so,” replied the secretary of the “Migrants’
Consultative Council,” a Mr. Prerauer. “National Security
Regulations make it impossible for refugees to evacuate Sydney.
In any case only a negligible number are wealthy enough
to leave.”
Meantime all sorts of official and unofficial statements
were issued about evacuating people from “target areas,”
timber and paper for blacking out were at a premium, the
suburbs forgot their yellowing lawns and the color of their
drinking water and patriots who had deregistered their cars
contemplated the useless vehicles and cursed.
Late shopping nights, neon signs and night sports were
banned, and so was special transport to any form of sporting
fixture. The Zoo said it was ready to chloroform its snakes.
“To let” signs bloomed in neighborhoods where none had been
seen for years, scares came from faulty air-raid sirens, a wise
fellow at Vaucluse was discovered forwarding an 18gal. keg
of beer to a country address and another was reported order-
ing a solicitor to book him a house at up to £lO a week in
Wellington (N.S.W.), where normally a £2 house is a mansion.
Along with a lot of other things came a press heresy
hunt over the fight in Malaya, and Maxie Falstein, M.H.R.,
the pride of Randwick, was said to be enlisting—as an
organiser or something—in the R.A.A.F.
Councils dumped heaps of sand in streets. A.R.P. wardens
patrolled all night, and then somehow did their work each
day—heavy-eyed monuments to the futility of the voluntary
system. Flocks of orders and advices poured on the public
from all quarters. The Egg Board clapped another penny on
the price of eggs, just as the Federal Government raised
income tax again, and the No-Water Board announced the
water position as never worse.
Through it all the crowds thronged the neon-less streets,
buying up for Christmas, ringing in their ears the ban on
holiday excursions, while punters clung like flies to anything
on wheels going towards the racecourse. And, in some
mysterious place, as happy as an Indian runner duck in
a Mallee thunderstorm, stood “Blackout” Heffron, justified at
last.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Metax”: The bottle-oh was a wicked-
looking fellow with bleary eyes and blue
nose. He was getting cheekier, too. It
was decided to dispense with his visits
diplomatically by using white lies. When
for the third time he was told “None
today” he gave a penetrating look: “I
unnerstand, missus ; I’ve been through it
meself. He’ll break out again soon.”
* * * *
“Si Anu”: One of the major difficul-
ties of defending countries like Malaya
and the Philippines is the almost com-
plete absence of morale—as the Westerner
knows it—in the native populations, which
outnumber the whites by a hundred to
one and in their daily lives and
avocations are scarcely aware of the
white man’s existence. When the
first air raid came to Singapore the whites
became excited, but the natives remained
calm and unperturbed, and this was sup-
posed to be a tribute to the morale of
the native. As a matter of fact, it was
due to indifference. I have seen some
tough brawls between white soldiers and
sailors of various nationalities in Singa-
pore and Manila, but I have never seen
the native crowd take more than a lan-
guid interest in them, and most showed a
desire to get out of the vicinity of the
spectacle of their white masters in con-
flict. But the worst example I have seen
was in Java and far more trenchant. A
colleague of mine, an Australian, had
been gored almost in half by a domestic
water buffalo while out snipe-shooting.
He crawled on hands and knees down
the main street of the nearest village, and
the village instantly became as if de-
populated. Every inhabitant retired into
his dwelling and shut his door on this
disturbing sight, which might get him
into trouble with the authorities. The
injured man was found some hours later
by his friends lying in the shadow of a
house that was full of people. To get
people like this to identify themselves
with a general state of war emergency
when they aren’t even interested in the
quarrel, even if they know of its exist-
ence, is a tough proposition for air
wardens and soldiers.
“The R.E.”: 8.8. C. is reported to
be preparing to broadcast 40-minute plays
based on the life of Christ. One Dorothy
Sayers is writing them, and she is put-
ting modern slang in the mouths of the
players. Thus Christ is made to say
“You’ve been playing ducks and drakes
with your dough,” and Matthew tells
Philip “You’ve been had for a sucker.”
Miss Sayers, anticipating criticism, says
that she thinks she has “treated the New
Testament history honestly and rever-
ently, and I hope I have made it live by
using current English idiom.” The New
Testament, authorised version, contains
some of the finest English in literature,
and nobody should be encouraged to
murder it.
jp sp * *
“Pitt-street”: Sydney’s first air-raid
panic occurred in Martin-place. Three girls
were crossing the road when a car klaxon
blared beside them. The middle one let
out a shrill scream and rushed forward,
but was grabbed by her companions and
hauled back. Then she got a fit of the
giggles, hung her head and confessed
that she’d thought it was one of Mr.
Heffron’s sirens. I understand it took
two strawberry-malteds to restore her to
normal.
* * * *
“F.S.”: A few hours after the Pacific
warcloud broke Melbourne Nat. Gallery
authorities were busy packing away
selected art treasures for safe keeping.
The Kent collection of Chinese ceramics,
bequeathed by the owner, was amongst
the first to go into sawdust. These and
similar objects don’t present grave prob-
lems for the selector ; their importance is
largely based on current world market
prices. It is a much more difficult matter
to select pictures. Nobody doubts that
the Rembrandt self-portrait, the Rae-
burns, the Tintoretto, the Van Eyck
Madonna that went to New York
and other works by accepted Old Masters
ought to be looked after. Even the high
priests of “new” art, such as Cezanne
and Van Gogh, of whom the Gallery has
“Are you interested in the Tripehounds ’ Handicap?”
“Certainly not!”
“Well, you ought to be—the rent’s on it”
lately acquired some examples, have
been more or less placed on the pedestal
of popular good opinion. But what about
the Australian masters? Ask any man-
in-the-street or any person at an art show
the respective merits of a Streeton, a
Herbert, a Hans Heysen, a Power or a
Meldrum and you will get as many dif-
ferent opinions as there are individuals.
The trustees have taken the middle course
between the warring factions and have
chosen the pictures of eight Australian
artists as being worthy of the most privi-
leged treatment.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: One comes across some
queer headlines on the dailies’ contents
bills nowadays —“The Pacific War” is
one that recently caught my eye for its
sheer incongruity. It also reminds me
that when Canberra was finally selected
as the site of the Federal capital there
were scores of suggestions put forward
and canvassed about an appropriate
name for the place. One entry was
“Pacifica,” the nominator being George
Reid. In the end, perhaps because of
the multiplicity of substitutes, the native
name held its own.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Authorities concerned with
the security of the Australian civilian
population should guard against making
the mistake made initially in London.
There is talk of cutting out evening
entertainment altogether in the congested
cities. So the citizen who has worked all
day in a munitions factory will go home
to the depressing atmosphere of a
blacked-out domestic hearth and no
prospect of escaping from it to the pic-
tures. The security of the population
depends on its morale, and, although these
measures may provide physical security
of a sort, they will tend to destroy the
spiritual element, which is just as impor-
tant. On the first night of the partial
blackout in Melbourne tens of thou-
sands of people roamed the streets in
search of some sort of relaxation, and
some of them expended a lot of petrol
in doing it.
* * * *
“C.R.T.”: The wildest story of Japa-
nese perfidy yet told had to come from the
Hollywood (U.S.A.) area. It stated that
ground glass had been found in “scores
of tins of shrimp imported from Japan,”
and that grocers throughout America had
been instructed to withhold the brand
from sale until a detailed investigation
was made. I told the missus about it,
expecting a laugh. sxhe looked a bit
thoughtful, then said, “So that’s why
you’ve had a stomach-ache. Remember,
we had a tin of Japanese salmon last
Saturday.” The worst of it is, I’ve still
got the stomach-ache.
* * * *
“McN.”: Stunting has its drawbacks.
A man who pushed his brother in a
barrow from Adelaide to Sydney sued an
Adelaide firm for breach of contract,
alleging the firm had agreed to pay him
and his brother for distributing advertis-
ing on the way. Both claims failed, but
the jury suggested the firm might pay the
men, one of whom is now in the A.1.F.,
basic-wage rates for the time taken on
the journey. Should amusement tax be
deducted?
* * * *
“Taniwha”: The hard-headed realists
who run military affairs in Maoriland
have been giving some thought to the
“conchy” who gets exemption from any
sort of military or equivalent service. It
struck them that in a lot of cases the
objector would be better off financially
because he was an objector than if he
had accepted the call for his services.
So there’s a law about it. When exemp-
tion is granted the exemptee gets a
summons to appear before a “Special
Tribunal.” This (it usually consists of
one magistrate or K.C.) investigates the
exemptee’s income, and may order him
to pay any excess over soldier’s pay into
the Social Security Fund. A recent batch
of 23 exemptees before a Wellington
Tribunal produced 23 orders, payments
ranging from 4s. to £2 a week.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: Probably the office at the
King’s Theatre, Melbourne, where Jules
Grant was host for 25 years, was the
best-liked greenroom in Australia; it
gave the visitor, until he had got used to
the run of the showhouse, an impression
of being in a secret hiding place. The
room has been condemned, and Jules
will have to find himself an office else-
where in the theatre. It will never seem
the same. Grant, looking after the busi-
ness, and Bert Bailey, looking after the
stage, broke away from Bill Anderson to
produce Australian plays, and made a for-
tune out of it, “On Our Selection” being
mainly responsible. King’s Theatre, Mel-
bourne, was acquired as their head-
quarters, and Grant almost lived in that
greenroom office of his. On its walls
hung a big series of engravings of scenes
from Shakspeare, footnoted with the
exact words being spoken in the hand of
Oscar Asche. Grant had the engravings
and asked Asche to “locate” the scenes
for him. Asche did the lot offhand
without having to refer to his Shakspeare
for as much as the number of a scene.
* * * *
“P.A.”: “Bo” (B. 10/12/’4l) reminds
me of Bill and his “Eggometer.” “I see
in the ‘Hegg-om-eter,’ ” Bill would begin:
and I in duty bound would interrupt.
“What’s the ‘Eggometer,’ Bill?” “Well, my
boy,” William would proceed, “the ‘Hegg-
ometer’ is the ‘Dingbat Standard,’ with
which is incorporated the ‘Woop-Woop
Independent,’ and the point is this. You
put on your hegg to boil and you pick
up your ‘Dingbat Standard,’ with which
is incorporated the ‘Woop-Woop Inde-
pendent,’ and when you have finished
readin’ your ‘Dingbat Standard,’ with
which is incorporated the ‘Woop-Woop
Independent,’ your hegg is boiled.”
* * * *
“Bo”: I, too, had a rather lurid intro-
duction to alcohol (B. 17/12/’4l). Up
to the time I lobbed into France in
March, 1916, I had never tasted the hard
stuff. Then we went down to the Somme
for the Pozieres stunt. Working like
niggers in that July heat, especially com-
ing after the bitterly cold autumn around
Fromelles we developed beautiful
thirsts. One afternoon in Albert we were
scrounging round among the ruins of
some houses when one of the mob got
into a cellar and discovered a variety
of full bottles. One beautifully labelled
thing caught my eye. It was cherry
brandy. I had never heard of it before,
and one of the hard heads enlightened
me. “It’s a snifter cordial,” he said,
“made from cherries. Somethin’ like a
raspberry syrup. A bonzer thirst-
quencher.” He poured me a pannikin
full and invited me to swamp it. I did.
The last I remembered was of fire engulf-
ing my lungs, a fight for breath and my
head doing more revolutions to the minute
than a South American republic. I under-
stand that I had to be forcibly restrained
from scaling the cathedral to the top of
the hanging statue, from which vantage
point I wished to hurl defiance at the
Jerry gunners who were then pouring
cascades of 5.9’s into the town. After
that I turned to bock, of which a gallon
wouldn’t fuddle a mouse.
sp * * *
“Steamship”: The opium-smuggling
dodge recalled by “Morimoto” (B.
10/12/’4l) awakens sad memories.
Arriving at Fremantle from overseas we
ships’ officers had to declare the amount
of booze in our possession—potable
spirits, in the words of the law —the
nominal allowance being one opened
bottle. The Customs officers were usually
pretty reasonable and overlooked a lot.
But after a while we became too am-
bitious and used to put two cases in an
empty mailbag, affix a dud seal and
stow it in a corner of the mailroom—
the Customs never examined sealed mail-
bags. It came off several times, but one
voyage whilst landing the parcel mail at
Adelaide Outer Harbor an overzealous
Lascar threw that bag down the chute
with the other bags! Needless to say, we
couldn’t request its return! I’ve often
wondered what became of its contents
perhaps history was made in the Adelaide
Post Office.
* * * *
“Pawang”: There’s nothing unnatural
about daylight-saving. Regular hours the
year through divorced from solar con-
siderations are a modern invention. In
the Middle Ages people worked four or
five hours a day in the winter and any-
thing up to a dozen in the summer, and
one has only to look at their architec-
tural achievements to perceive that it
didn’t make them lazy or unproductive.
They went to bed when it got dark and
didn’t use up artificial illumination. Our
habit of lying in bed from sun-up waiting
for breakfast is purely irrational. The
three or four hours in the early morning
are the best part of the Australian
summer and, if used, the most likely to
be productive. Wasting them between
the sheets forces people to find occupa-
tion for their evenings. Hence the im-
mense modern vogue of night entertain-
ment. Shakspeare’s plays were mostly
performed in his time in the daylight.
A rational use of Nature’s free illuminant
would save more coal, petrol, kerosene,
nerves and vital energy than all the
rationing measures of the Government
put together.
MISLEADING.
“When you read or listen to statements presented
as coining from “an authoritative source,” you can
be reasonably sure from now on that they come from
no one in authority. ” —President lioosevelt.
Pay due attention to those snips and snatches
Of patriotic counsel that you get
On every little box of safety matches
Wherefrom you light your pipe or cigarette,
Terse warnings of the danger that attaches
To loose-tongued talk and foolish credence
set
On statements that derive their only force
From some (unnamed) “authoritative source.”
When all the information’s been extorted
That’s guaranteed officially, beware
Of happenings “reliably reported”
(Clearly by somebody who wasn’t there),
For fact with rumor’s frequently assorted
Both in the printed word and on the air!
And who the blazes, think you, can endorse
What’s gleaned from “an authoritative source”?
Accounts are all too apt to clash and vary
When ships are sunk or fortresses are stormed.
Wisest is he who’s sceptically wary
Of being dashed or heartened, chilled or
warmed,
By comment or reputed commentary ■
From “quarters usually well informed” —
A figure that you’ll recognise, of course,
As vague as “an authoritative source.”
So, brother, guard your tongue, whate’er the
tale is;
When walls have ears, give idle yap a halt.
And whether it’s the radio or the dailies
That circulates the news, you’ll be at fault
Not to accept the same cum grano salis,
Or, rather, with a cellarful of salt,
When (like some urger’s tip about a horse)
It comes from “an authoritative source.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Keep movin', Lofty—we got 'im blinded with science!”
“Express”: The lady visitor was very
interested in the asylum and its inmates,
and asked all sorts of questions. They
came to a quiet-looking chap sitting by
himself at a small table. “What’s the
matter with him?” she inquired. “Still
thinks it’s 1928,” replied the attendant.
“Poor fellow” —she thought for a
minute —“he still has the Depression and
the Second Great War to go through.”
* * * *
“Colbun”: The ingenious individuals
who design Australia’s stamps sometimes
put a touch of sardonic humor into their
wares. For example, observe the half-
penny effort depicting a kangaroo wear-
ing an exasperated expression and feel-
ing frantically in its pouch with both
paws. Obviously that annoyed marsu-
pial has hopped for miles to leave a letter
in the nearest roadbox, and just remem-
bered that it had forgotten to attach the
new halfpenny impost. Pouch search
has revealed that it hasn’t got a pencil
for writing a note to the mailman to
oblige, and the letter is to a Scotch credi-
tor who will go crook when he has to
pay the short-postage fine. It’s happen-
ing all over Australia just now ; but why
rub the thing in like that?
* <■ * *
“Natter”: I’d like to introduce these
left-turning symposiasts to a motor-
driver who has carted me, at the firm’s
expense, over thousands of miles of in-
land N. S. Wales. That man can no more
ignore a right-hand turn in the open
country than I can ignore a pub. Fre-
quently, making for some place about
which we had doubtful directions, he has
landed me 50 or 100 miles away from it
simply because of his inability to pass a
right-hand turn in the road. And he isn’t
molly-dooked.
* * * *
“Latin Bull” : “Piper’s L.” (B. 10/12/’4l)
unconsciously advances a theory of
mine that architectural environment
has its effect on character. Melbourne
Uni. is a classic example. When the
Union Was a glorified dog-kennel the
university was alive. Debates sizzled with
fervor, and battles raged on the minutest
points. Everybody did something. With
the erection of an £BO,OOO Union
House the student body sat back in its
collective plush armchair. Debates are
dead, conservatism has laid its hand on
everything, and the place is a model of
suburban respectability. While demon-
strating a trick with an ink-bottle in a
room reserved for select senior students,
I showered some of the contents on to
the carpet. Bearing in mind that future
generations would point to the stain and
say with bated breath who caused it, I
wasn’t worried. But the authorities were.
They took the twenty-by-ten wall-to-wall
carpet up, sent it away for a week, paid
a guinea to the carriers and the cleaners,
and now it is back in its place with my
inkstain gone for ever. The place has
lost its soul.
* * * *
“The Chump”: I used to like the ad-
ventures of Tarzan, pictorially depicted
in my evening paper, and studied his pro-
gress with some interest from day to day.
Then came the part where a small boy
got into a fight with a lion, the boy hav-
ing only a bow and arrow to defend him-
self. Eagerly I read :
On came the wound-maddened lion.
Tommy had no chance to fire again. A
moment later the king of beasts rose on
his hind legs to lock the boy in deadly
embrace.
It is too much. An African lion has
stolen the prerogative of the grizzly bear.
The sooner some savage cuts the throat
of Tarzan and all his pals the sooner
I’ll be pleased.
* * * *
“Palette”: The New York newspapers
reviewed the Australian art exhibition at
considerably greater length than is nowa-
days devoted to such matters in Austra-
lian newspapers, but the American critics
did not, as was confidently expected by
our “modernists,” crushingly condemn
those Australian painters whose
work can be appreciated and
understood by the average man.
The New York “Times,” it is
true, did, on a page devoted to
Dali and other “surrealists,”
concentrate on the abo. bark
drawings, but found them
“crude and rudimentary.” The
“Herald Tribune,” having dis-
covered that Lambert boasted an
American dad and had George
Washington as given names,
acclaimed him as “one of Aus-
tralia’s most famous painters”
(as, indeed, he is), and repro-
duced his very “representational”
“Weighing the Fleece.” In a
second article in the same
journal critic Cortissoz says his
nicest things about Tom Roberts,
Julian Ashton, Streeton, Hans
Heysen and Elioth Gruner, and
recalls what most Australians
have forgotten, that Charles
Conder, after he left Australia
for Chelsea, achieved a world-
wide reputation as a painter of
silken fans.
* * •■¥
“Yoiker”: Suburbia has been
interested for a long time in
the ladies from Hong Kong, their
reactions to their strange sur-
roundings and their factional dis-
pute. The attitude of some
wives suggested that they didn’t
trust their husbands among
the temptations of the outpost; others
asserted that they had no such fears.
Some snorted with disgust at the absence
of coolie servants to do the housework
and seemed inclined to condemn the
backward Australians for it; others ex-
pressed pleasure with the country and
its attributes. Others again reported
trouble with their landladies. There were
demands to be restored to Hong Kong,
and some sort of an evacuees’ associa-
tion was formed to press their claims.
Now tragedy has come for the unfortu-
nate women, who must be terribly
anxious as to the safety of their menfolk,
and people who used to
be captious now have no
feeling in their hearts
but pity.
* *
“Tauru s”: If “A
Major” (B. 10/12/’4l)
thinks that all the avenues
of music-making have
been explored and hence
composing has become a
stale art, he can’t know
much about modern
music. The whole his-
tory of music shows that
it is continually develop-
ing new intricacies.
Bach’s polyphony was
outlandish modernism to
the homophonists and
plainsong addicts of the
Middle Ages. Wagner’s
discords were sheer
horror to those raised
on the consonance of Bach. The
reason why some people think there
is no worth-while music being composed
today is the same as has been advanced
by conventionalists in every age. What
they mean is that there is no worth-while
music being composed in the conven-
tional idiom. Sibelius and Rachmaninoff
are two great contemporary masters who
employ a new idiom. Music is develop-
ing along various lines just as prolifically
as ever, and only future generations will
properly be able to judge polytonality,
atonality, scoring in quarter-tones and
suchlike. Stravinsky is fast becoming
conventional. The music of Walton,
Holst, Hindemith and Carillo is hard on
the ear now because we are not accus-
tomed to it, but in 50 or 100 years
time it will be the accepted thing. And
Lord only knows what the music of the
future would sound like to us!
* * ♦ *
“Wodgil”: Don’t be so hard on
Farmer’s, of Sydney (B. 10/12/’4l).
Farmer’s has discovered that “this nation
is at the straining point of Total War,”
and how “men who have arrived” can
ease the strain. For example, they can
take their pick of “a convoyed shipment
of hats, craftsmen-styled, from the richest
felts in the smartest colors” ; of sandals
“for (1) loafing about a garden at home,
and (2) for beach-combing on week-ends
spent up North” (at Darwin, perhaps).
And there are “health-o-meter scales, to
keep check on the surplus, in the colors
that go best with the bathroom” ; and —
as alternatives or additions to blue silk
underpants —“tailored silk gowns, satin-
striped pyjamas (tailored in a broadcloth
that rates top, for men 40 and over),”
and “cool, short-legged pyjamas, the
smartest in any bed, carrying the plain
colors that are up and coming.” lam
off to the slopshop to lay in a natty line
of dungarees, craftsmen-styled, in cerise
or puce.
* Sc * *
“C.H.S.”: Comparatively well - off
dwellers on Sydney’s waterfront hurried
off to mountain fastnesses in the mild
panic that hit the place with the bomb-
ing of U.S. Pacific bases. In streets where
a week before you couldn’t rent a house
for love or money, “to let” signs blos-
somed like Darling pea after rain. News-
papers reported that North Shore resi-
dents fled west, while Eastern Suburbs
“refugees” went to the North Shore. The
city itself is short of water for drinking
purposes, and those who can afford to
get out shouldn’t be discouraged, both
from the water point of view and the fact
that if the long chance of compulsory
evacuation comes off the strain on trans-
port will be less.
» * =t *
“0.T.”: The legal Windeyers are an
old-established Sydney family usually
worth listening to when they speak pub-
licly. Quoth Richard of the ilk:
Every girl who loves a soldier or sailor
or airman and intends to marry him should
marry him before he goes with the inten-
tion to bear him a child which, if the
worst happens, will be the nation’s charge.
This, Richard Windeyer considers, is the
greatest service such girls can render, and
only idiots would deny it.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The N.S.W. mountain town
of Leura is the scene of frenzied street-
renaming activity. During the 1914-18
affair a burst of enthusiasm for an ally
led to the bestowal of Japanese names
on a group of streets in the township.
Now the flavor of Nippon is being wiped
out, to be replaced by such bulldoggish
names as Winston and Churchill. There
is nothing stable about street-naming,
anyway. When Barney Kieran made
records as a swimming champion a street
in a Sydney suburb was called Kieran-
avenue. There was occasion to honor an
alderman for long service 20 years later,
and as nobody remembered who Kieran
was the monicker of the aldermanic light
now graces that thoroughfare.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: “Yankophile” (B.
10/12/’4l) is late at the starting-line with
Richard Harding Davis as first in the
American - writer multiple - moniker
stakes. Oliver Wendell Holmes was run-
ning strong before Davis was even foaled.
Although only a two-spot, the most lus-
cious of them all, reminiscent of a hearty
sailor’s waterside greeting to the girl from
whom he has been so long parted, is
What Ho Delicious —I beg pardon, Otto
Tolischus. Then there’s William Kronk
—what more appropriate label for a
“famous” correspondent could be devised
by human brain? It is even better than
the Thassall-Bunk partnership of Daddy’s
War.
* * * *
“P.S.”: I hate to destroy “K.P.’s” fond
illusion that Mother Nature makes death
easy (B. 17/12/’4l), but after haying
watched the last struggles of a sister
dying from endocarditis, I refuse to view
Mrs. N. as anything but the cruelly in-
different hag she is. My sister’s pain was
obviously terrible and could only be
deadened by injections which, towards
the end, had little effect since the agony
was where it was. And another time I
was unfortunate enough to hear the
screams of a man being burnt to death
in a flaming hay-loft. Has “K.P.” ever
heard a ewe dying in parturition?
“Strong wind blowin' tonight, sir!”
VENUS.
“If any other planet is inhabited by beings with
any resemblance to ourselves, Venus seems the most
likely.”—' “A trax,” 1!. 17/12/’4l.
It makes one turn a more reflective eye
Upon our neighbor in the western sky,
And speculate on whether either place
Will ever find a way to span the space
That yawns between us;
And if a reasonable chance there be
That animals exist, like you and me,
At least in some appreciable degree,
Away in Venus.
Red Mars was held by scientists for years
To be the likeliest of peopled spheres,
But if that planet’s denizens are made
Like those revolting monsters Wells portrayed
May Heaven screen us
From any intercourse with such as they!
A more congenial breed perhaps we may,
And less intimidating, anyway,
Expect in Venus.
In all the universe beyond our kens
Is there no home for Homo sapiens
Save, among myriads, one globe alone,
One fragmentary scrap, to wit, our own
Orbis terrenus ?
No messages from Mars have reached us yet,
’Tis true, but who can say we’ll never get,
In some intelligible alphabet,
A call from Venus?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. . . 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
LABOR’S FINANCIAL POLICY
FAR-REACHING EFFECTS
December Issue Now on Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
TRINITY
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
SUMMER HILL
A Church of England Boarding
and Day School for Boys.
(One of the Associated Schools of
N.S.W. )
Separate Preparatory School at
Strathfield.
New Term Commences on
Tuesday, February 10, 1942.
Illustrated Prospectus will be for-
warded on application.
Headmaster—
V. S. Murphy, M.A., Oxon.
POLTICAL Points
Roosevelt’s terse indictment of the
Japanese war lords: —•
The air and submarine attack on Hawaii
began on December 7 at 1.20 p.m., Wash-
ington time. At 2.20 p.m., Washington
time, the Japanese Ambassador at Washing-
ton delivered a message which said that
the establishment of peace in the Pacific
and the world was the cherished desire of
the Emperor. At 5 p.m., Washington time,
the Japanese Minister for Foreign
Affairs told our Ambassador at Tokyo
that the Emperor so greatly desired the
establishment of peace in the Pacific and
the world that he had instructed the
Japanese Government to continue its
earnest endeavors.
A State paper of incomparable force, and
it should have an immortality denied to
most State papers. Every word should
be written in stone, preferably on some
mountain outcrop where it can never be
effaced.
At the Commonwealth election in Sep-
tember, 1940, the two Labor members
for Denison and Wilmot (Tas.) lost their
seats. On December 13 State counter-
parts of both electorates polled resound-
ing majorities for Labor—more than 2 to
1 in Denison, where Premier Cosgrove
alone beat the Nat. group of seven and an
Independent. It is just as well the Federal
U.A.P. didn’t go to the country. Labor’s
time has come again all over Australia,
though State Labor in Victoria is thwart-
ing its own destiny by continuing to
accept a grossly undemocratic distribu-
tion of seats.
Dr. Evatt has had a very bad quarter-
hour in the House —his first. He was
listened to in silence when he revealed
that “the question of a declaration of
war on Finland, Rumania and Hungary
was submitted to Stalin, always a real-
ist,” and that Stalin said “go ahead!”
(without promising to reciprocate with
a declaration of war on Japan), but when
he said this:
The Government inherited a situation in
which, for one reason or another, the de-
fence of our country has been treated as a
subordinate and subsidiary part of a distant
war.
“Outrageous!” retorted Menzies. “Your
Government inherited many things—an
army in Australia of numbers previously
unknown ; an army in Malaya for which
Australians will be thankful before they
are much older ; an air force vastly mul-
tiplied and a munitions effort of which
every Australian is proud.” Menzies said
more, though not enough, and the Minis-
ter was understood to admit that the
Minister had said too much.
Dr. Evatt on August 21 ; subject, the
proposal that Menzies should go to
London as P.M.:
I have said publicly, and I now repeat,
that during the period between August 8
and August 12 the possibility of war with
Japan on account of Thailand was exag-
gerated. My colleague [Forde] has re-
ferred to the make-believe and the build-
up. The situation was supposed to be
deteriorating hour by hour and day by
day.... That was an untrue build-up. It
was an exaggeration that did damage to
Australia.
Strange that he wasn’t reminded of those
words after his assertion that “the defence
of our country has figured as a subordi-
nate and subsidiary part of a distant
war.”
Set it to Dr. Evatt’s credit that he has
the courage of his convictions and is
outstandingly loyal to his chief. Desiring
to keep war factories and coalmines
working and ships moving, Curtin an-
nounced that annual holidays would be
vetoed until further notice. He was not
as precise about it as he might have been,
and perplexed voices were heard, also
others from trade-union quarters threat-
ening defiance. Whereupon Dr. Evatt,
after making the thing clear:
Apparently some holiday-makers would
be prepared to bask on the beach while the
fighting forces were resisting Japanese in-
vaders on another.
Ward’s idea seems to be that wage-
payers are apes and wage-earners angels,
and he is on the side of the angels what-
ever they choose to do. His learned col-
league struck a different and very re-
freshing note.
Curtin’s reputation as a Parliamentary
leader grows, but he still has to learn that
a country struggling for its existence
can stand only one Government, and that
the one Government should assume all
the responsibility and make all the de-
cisions. For many hours last week he
was closeted with the State Premiers and
had to listen to the usual sordid wrangle
about loan spending. And at the end,
instead of intimating that Premiers’ con-
ferences were “off” for the duration of
“Large numbers of refugees from Germany and other European countries have left
Sydney for towns such as Bowral, Katoomba, Mittagong and Bathurst. They are paying
high rents, and houses have been sold at boom prices in these centres.”
— “S. M. Herald,” whose post-scriptural authority has been questioned.
POSTSCRIPT TO EXODUS.
the war and 50 years afterwards, he “an-
nounced his intention of holding more
frequent meetings of Premiers to review
the war position.” As if “the war posi-
tion” were any concern of theirs and
their alleged Parliaments, all of .which
have gone loafing for long periods!
Modest Maxie Falstein, M.H.R., has
“applied for enlistment in the R.A.A.F.
administrative and special-duties branch
for service overseas.” Maxie is 27, and
the R.A.A.F. administrative branch has a
minimum-age limit of 32, but Maxie
thinks it ought to be waived because the
branch needs him: “I doubt if there is a
man in the air force with my knowledge
of organising or of administration.”
Superb ; and the country ought to be pre-
pared to pay two salaries to secure such
a genius.
Presumably anticipating the supplemen-
tary Budget, Chifley has brought in an-
other war tax of 6d. in the £ on incomes
of £156 and a flat rate of Is. on £3OO and
upwards. It is to be assessed on income
for the year to June 30, “after current
Federal tax has been deducted” ; and,'
though there is to be a rebate of Is. a
week for a wife and each dependent
child, there is to be no deduction for
medical expenses, life-assurance premiums
or State income tax. It will mean, among
other things, reassessments on a vast
scale. What a world of trouble and extor-
tion would have been saved had the
Commonwealth introduced one income
tax, which Curtin challenged Fadden to
do and then weakened!
As “S.M. Herald’s” Canberra man sees
it:
The Advisory War Council’s new role
is to agree, when possible, on the vital
principles of war policy. Where complete
agreement can be obtained, what the
council says goes. Where there is division
between Government and Opposition coun-
cillors, the Government’s view must prevail.
A definition that should charm Cameron,
whose idea from the first has been that
the War Council is a washout.
Queensland Civil Defence Minister
Hanlon blamed newspapers for making
city people nervous, saying “We have
an hysterical press.” He had a go at the
“Courier-Mail” concerning protection of
its building, plant, and staff, and the
paper replied. If Mr. Hanlon thinks the
Brisbane press hysterical, heaven knows
what word he would find for contem-
poraries published about 500 miles south.
From Sydney “Sun,” whose tail flops
on the slightest provocation:
There should be immediate dispatch of
an Australian Cabinet representative to
Malaya. He should be a man with a
blitzkrieg mind, a brutal realist, the sort
of man in whom the statement “it can’t be
done” should arouse all that anger and de-
termination which insists that it must be
done.
But surely the “Sun” itself should pro-
vide the Man. Preferably the little edi-
tor who went to Malaya at the nation’s
expense (the nation’s purse is supposed
to be bottomless) and came back report-
ing that the Diggers were suffering from
“bloody-mindedness,” through gazing too
long at rubber trees, and should be sent
to the Cameron Highlands to get over it.
According to “S. M. Herald,” refugees
from Germany and other European
countries have flocked to the Blue Moun-
tains and parts adjacent and are paying
fancy prices for guest-house accommo-
dation and cottages. Only the other day
the same paper was railing at Australians
for their treatment of European refugees,
whom it pictured as harrowingly poor
and forsaken.
From “a Communist Call to Action,”
printed in Sydney:
The Japanese military Fascists, following
their Nazi master and mentor, have struck
against the Democracies... .These monsters
seek to black out civilisation, to destroy
every vestige of liberty, decency and
humanity. Down with the Fascist plun-
derers and murderers! Build the second
European front! Full aid to China, which
has been fighting our fight for years!
Build the second European front! And
not a word about building a front at
Vladivostok.
From Sydney “Telegraph” of Nov. 7:
Today’s war reports are most hearten-
ing, after weeks of dismay. At last
British ’planes and crews are on the Cau-
casian front; many more are on the way.
For a month or more British fighter ’planes
have been helping splendidly on the
northern front. But there are only 100 of
them —not nearly enough. If British
’planes are in action and our armies are
on the move, we can face the flags we are
flying today for the Soviet’s 24th anni-
versary with a bit more honesty.
From the same paper, December 16:
Last week we lost a battleship and a
battle-cruiser in Malayan waters. Our forces
there were compelled to withdraw from for-
ward positions and to abandon some aero-
dromes. Why? Because Britain had sent
insufficient first-class fighters to keep off
the hordes of enemy bombing ’planes.
The revelation that we are short of fighters
in Malaya is bitter news to the Australian
people.
But why should it taste bitter to the
“Telegraph”? Didn’t Russia come first?
It is good to read that Sir lan Hamil-
ton is serenely confident that the Japan-
ese will be defeated. He has been the
outstanding prophet of his time^ —in his
Friends of England, published in 1922,
he predicted nearly everything that has
happened in Europe these last few years
—and he studied the Japanese at first
hand in their war with Russia. That war
lasted eight months, and shrewd judges
have always held that the Japanese,
though victorious on land and sea, made
peace because they had reached exhaus-
tion point. The army in particular had
lost its best fighting elements, the samurai,
and it had to fill the gaps with coolies of
poor quality.
Melbourne “Argus” in a spasm of fire-
side belligerence:
The line-up of the nations is nearly com-
plete, except for a few rail-sitters. Those
not definitely on our side in our fight for
survival must be regarded as against us
and treated appropriately.
But why not restrict enlistments for the
wars on Petain’s France, Sweden, Swit-
zerland, Spain and Portugal to writing
boys and radio uncles? The men of the
fighting and auxiliary services shouldn’t
be expected to make all the sacrifices ;
and, in any case, they are otherwise
engaged.
According to the vice-president of the
Queensland Taxpayers the “fight of
Federal Parliamentary parties for elec-
toral support, apparent in the Federal
Budget, has divided .the people into two
classes.” Too right it has—those who
pay taxes and those who pay more taxes.
Ten years ago at Werribee the Vic-
torian Government put a ban on beef
from the Board of Works farm on the
ground that beef measles made it unfit
for consumption. The political mean-
derings since look like the progress of
a drunken beetle. Bacteriological Professor
Woodruff, Dr. Kellaway, of the Walter
and Eliza Hall Institute, and Dr. John
Dale, the City Health Officer, have all
reported that there is no more measles
at Werribee than there is in beef in the
rest of Australia or in England. Dr.
Kellaway is considered sufficiently reli-
able to be put in charge of the prepara-
tion of blood banks for the A.1.F., but
his opinion on a piece of beef carries no
weight when the subject gets into the poli-
tical arena.


THE CAROL-SINGERS.
“Announcing the dismissal of Von Brauschitsch as C.-in-C., Berlin explained that the Fuhrer had taken over leadership of the whole armed forces,
with supreme command of the army, and would follow his intuitions.”
Hark, the Axis angels sing,
“Brauschitsch doesn’t mean a thing;
Adolf and his intuitions
Make a cert, of our ambitions.”


DON’T NEGLECT
A Common Case of Piles. It may
Lead to Serious Results.
When people, generally, under-
stand that all such fatal diseases as
Fistula, Ulcer of the Rectum, Fis-
sure, etc., almost invariably begin
in a simple case of Piles, they will
learn the wisdom of taking prompt
treatment for the first appearance
of this trouble. DOAN’S OINT-
MENT is unequalled for every form
of Piles—Bleeding, Itching, Pro-
truding, and Blind Piles, and hun-
dreds of lives have been saved by
using this cheap but effective
remedy right from the start, be-
cause at such times a single tin
has often effected a cure, while in
the old deep-seated, chronic cases,
several tins are sometimes neces-
sary.
DOAN’S OINTMENT is healing,
antiseptic and soothing. That is
why it is equally successful in over-
coming Eczema and other skin
complaints. But be sure you get
DOAN’S*
BEECROFT GRAMMAR SCHOOL
A Preparatory for day boys and boarders —in a safe district —away from all military
objectives. Effective AIR-RAID SHELTER. Next term commences February 4, 1942,
but if desired care of pupils accepted, earlier.
For Prospectus and particulars, apply the Principal—
REV. A. BOOTH, 8.A.,
Tel.: Epp. 151. Copeland Road East, Beecroft, N.S.W.
THE
lIMITE n insurance
U ll I I EU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. V. REYNOLDS,
Oen. Manager. Xeet. Qe n. Manager,
PERSONAL ITEMS
Frederick Waldegrave Head, Arch-
bishop of Melbourne, is dead at 67, as
the result of a motor accident. A long
and heated controversy surrounded his
selection in 1929, after Harrington Lee’s
death. He was then canon and sub-dean
at Liverpool Cathedral, with a reputation
as a church historian and scholar, but
his belonging to the liberal evangelical
section of the church inspired misgivings.
However, the Archbishop revealed diplo-
matic talents and successfully weathered
the few small storms that occurred during
his years of office. One of his most
unconventional achievements was the
inauguration of regular open-air services
on Melbourne beaches in the months of
summer, his audiences largely young men
and women in bathing costumes. During
the depression he voluntarily gave up
20 p.c. of his stipend. In the 1914-18 war
he was a British army chaplain, and in
1922 was Chaplain to the King.
A newspaper report of the Tas. Assem-
bly election had Dave O’Keefe at the
bottom of the Wilmot poll; but it
dropped a nought, and the veteran will
continue his political career, which is
rather uncommon. He is the only 1901
Senator remaining in public life, and one
of the few still living. He had two terms
in the Senate (1901-06 and 1910-19), and
after his second defeat he abandoned
politics, as was thought, going to Perth
(W.A.) to represent the T. M. Burke
concern —he had previously been a farm
laborer and a newspaperman. But 1934
saw him back in Tasmania and a candi-
date for Wilmot, and at his first appear-
ance in the Assembly he was named
Speaker, which he still is. O’Keefe has
turned 77, but Tasmanians like their poli-
ticians a thought elderly.
As one of A. G. Ogilvie’s Ministers,
Thomas George de Largie D’Alton saw
his chief establish a State election record
by polling 9008 votes in Franklin. He
himself has beaten it by 800 or so in
Darwin, the Federal district of which
hasn’t elected a Labor man since the
mercurial King O’Malley was returned
for the last time in 1914. De Largie was
his father’s Christian name ; the son was
bom at Warracknabeal (Vic.), and made
his last election speech on his 46th birth-
day. He is Cosgrove’s Minister for Agri-
culture and Industry, and in his hours
of ease is a clubbable person who plays
golf.
Vice-Admiral Sir Geoffrey Layton, on
whom command of the Far Eastern Fleet
devolved after the death of Admiral
Phillips, is 57, son of a Liverpool solici-
tor, and got his first commission in 1903.
His captaincy came in 1922 after good
service in the 1914-18 war. At the out-
break of the present war he commanded
the First Battle Squadron and was
Second-in-Command of the Home Fleet.
He was transferred to command of the
China station last year.
Albert Hamilton Tocker, who, now that
Condliffe has settled down in Honolulu
and Copland is price-fixing in Australia,
is Maoriland’s chief authority on econi-
mics, mildly shocked the Dominion’s
Arbitration Court recently when he said
that war might imply working 25 per
cent, harder and getting nothing for it.
Tocker was lecturer in economics at Can-
terbury College when Condliffe was pro-
fessor, and succeeded to the chair when
Condliffe became research secretary of
the Institute of Pacific Relations. He’s
57, was born in Greytown, a graduate
of Victoria College, Wellington, and
served with the Wellington Regiment in
the 1914-18 war. He spends his vaca-
tions in a motor caravan and loves a
day’s fishing.
Leslie Blackwell, who hopped over
from South Africa to see how the Com-
monwealth’s war effort is coming along,
is willing to talk about anything but
LESLIE BLACKWELL.
Leslie Blackwell. Frith, while making
the attached diagram, managed to dig
out of him that he was born in Balmain
(Sydney suburb), is a King’s Counsel,
follows Smuts as a member of the S.
African Parliament, and came out of the
1914-18 war with a captain’s commission.
Capt. Blackwell told a Melbourne in-
quisitor that he spent his boyhood in the
southern city. He is impressed by his
native land’s resources, but thinks it
should make more use of women in
industry.
This is the war record of William
Walker, engineer, late of Mildura. He’s
on highly-skilled munitions work. Of his
six sons four are with the A.I.F. abroad,
an 18-year-old lad is waiting for his call
from the R.A.A.F., and the youngest boy,
16, is in the Air Cadet Training Corps.
Two of the elder boys, Keith and lan,
hold commissions and have seen service
in Libya, Greece and Crete. Finally, all
William Walker’s savings are invested in
war bonds.
John Dudley Lavarack, whose promo-
tion in rank from major-general to lieut.-
general has been gazetted, is 56, a native
of North Queensland. He got his first
LIEUT.-GENERAL J. D. LAVARACK.
commission (in the R.A.A.) the year after
he left school, and served throughout the
1914-18 war with the artillery (British and
Australian), winning a D. 5.0., C.M.G.
and C.B. At the outbreak of the present
war he was Australia’s Chief of General
Staff. His promotion comes as a reward
for good service in the Middle East.
The 1941 Peter Nicol-Russell me-
morial medal, awarded to the member
of the Institute of Engineers, Australia,
who has made the year’s most notable
contribution to the science or practice
of engineering, goes to one of the Insti-
tute’s past presidents, Robert James Boyd.
He’s 65, was born in N. S. Wales and
graduated at Sydney Uni. From 1920
to 1934 he was principal designing engi-
neer of N. S. Wales Railways, and from
1934 to 1937 was inspecting engineer.
For the last four years he has been chief
designing engineer of the Queensland
Irrigation, Water Supply and Sewage
Department.
Dr. Robin, the new Anglican Bishop of
Adelaide, has brought with him a wife
skilled in war work, also two big sons
and two small daughters; another son
remains in England to study for the
Church. The bishop accented the family
aspect by letting the Adelaide papers
photograph, the day before his “enthrone-
ment,” the whole six Robins hard at
work settling-in their furniture and be-
longings at Bishop’s Court.
Chief executive officer of the Com-
mander of the Order of the Hospital of
St. John of Jerusalem, newly established
in Australia, is a knight of the order,
Macquarie-street surgeon Hugh Ray-
mond Guy Poate, son of a one-time Sur-
veyor-General of N. S. Wales. He gradu-
ated at Sydney Uni. and holds three Eng-
lish degrees. He has been R.M.0., and
is still an hon. surgeon of Royal Prince
Alfred, is a foundation Fellow of the
R.A.C.S., and a few years ago was lec-
turer in post-graduate surgery at Sydney
Uni. Dr. Poate has been connected with
St. John Ambulance activities for many
years, and has held a commissionership.
He served in the 1914-18 war with the
A.A.M.C., and holds rank as wing-com-
mander in the R.A.A.F.
Oliver Duff, whose New Zealand Now ,
one of the volumes of the Centennial
Survey series, has just been published, was
born in Otago and is a graduate of Otago
Uni. A Boer War veteran, he has been
farmer, schoolteacher and journalist. He
was editor of Christchurch “Press” for a
couple of years. The M.L. Government
appointed him as editor of Centennial
publications three years ago. He’s 58.
Patrick Charles Webb, Maoriland’s
P.M.G. and Minister of Mines, who has
recently been hinting that conscription of
labor is the logical corollary of conscrip-
tion for military service, has altered his
views considerably since 1914. He was
then a coalminer, the first president of
the N.Z. Federation of Labor, and had
been elected member for Grey (Westland
mining electorate). An anti-conscription
speech he made at Lyttelton was con-
sidered seditious, and he went to gaol
for three months. When called up for
military service in 1918 he refused to go
into camp. He was sentenced to two
years’ imprisonment, his seat in Parliament
was declared vacant, and he was deprived
of civil rights for ten years. On being
released he devoted his activities to co-
operative mining and other enterprises,
and was manager of a coal depot in
Christchurch from 1925 till he re-entered
Parliament in 1933. In recent years Webb
has been a figure on the turf, and his
horses have won big races. His coal-
mining constituency (now renamed
Buller) remains very true to Paddy.
A fine all-round athlete was Capt. A.
W. Wesney of the N.Z.E.F., reported
killed in Libya. He represented his
province, Southland, in cricket, stood high
among the Dominion’s swimmers, and
was a member of the All Black team that
visited Australia in 1938. His last foot-
ball match was played for Maoriland
against South Africa. Result: Maori-
land 8 ; South Africa, nil. Wesney scored
five of his side’s points.
An Adelaide man who hides his light
under a bushel is William Harold Lang-
ham, a former president of the Adelaide
Public Library Board. Born at Glen
Osmond in 1881, Langham has taken an
active interest in library and bookish
matters for close on 40 years. In 1937
he wrote Libraries in S.A., a reply to a
report by Dr. Grenfell Price. Langham’s
contributions to periodicals on men, books
and pictures would, if collected, make a
sizeable (and readable) volume.
John T. Mair, Government Architect
of M.L., who has retired on reaching the
age of 65, had to leave his native land
to make a reputation. He was an officer
in the Railway Department, engaged on
housing schemes for the staff, in 1906,
when he was sent to do a couple of years’
study at the University of Pennsylvania.
He won honors in that course, and was
snapped up by the State of Virginia as
a designer of school buildings. Then he
had experience with a big New York firm.
He qualified as A.R.1.8.A. before he
returned to M.L. After eight years’
private practice he again became a civil
servant. He has been chief designer of
public buildings since 1923.
Into the silence:
At Sydney, Dr. Alexander Murray-Will, Mac-
quarie-street consultant, for many years on the
staff of Sydney Hospital. Born in England,
he arrived in Australia half a century ago.
He was chairman of directors of Australian
Metropolitan Life Assurance and medical
officer of the Union Bank. A medico son is
an officer in the A.A.M.C.
In Sydney, at 33, F. B. S. Falkiner, of
Bungendore and the famous merino-breeding
family whose name is linked with Wanganelia,
Boonoke, Haddon Rig and their offshoots. He
was the son of the late F. 8.5., of Haddon
Rig and Foxlow, and himself leaves a widow
and one son. He was knocked down by a
car at Potts Point.
In Sydney, at 62, Freddie Pile, one of the
best-known of the city’s older school of
journalists. Queensland-born, he began on
newspapers there, later joined “S.M.H.” and
handled war cables during 1914-18. After a
spell as leader of the Parliamentary reporting
staff he became J. T. Lang’s publicity officer
and chief-of-staff of the old “Labor Daily.”
Foundation member and former general presi-
dent of the AJ.A.
At Sydney, Gerald Patrick Livingstone Flynn,
veteran pressman and proprietor of the Orange
“Leader” until recently. He was a signwriter
at Gulgong in the ’nineties, hairdresser and
Mayor of Gilgandra (then in its infancy) during
the decade which followed. His newspaper
career began with his excellent reporting for
the Sydney press of the affair of the Breelong
At 60, Dr. Kenneth Edward, Professor of
Theology at St. Andrew’s College, Sydney. He
was born in Dundee, and the winning of an im-
portant scholarship took him into Edinburgh
Uni. With honors in Philosophy he graduated
in Arts, and later won the D.Phil. With further
distinctions he passed through New College,
and was ordained. Tn 1928 he came to Sydney
to be Hunter-Baillie Professor of Systematic
Theology, which position he filled for 13 years.
At Sydney, aged 73, Alfred Herbert North,
who acquired a seat on Sydney Stock Exchange
in April, 1895, and became its oldest member.
His former partner, W. H. Hall, retired a few
years ago. North was one of the pioneer resi-
dents of the Sydney suburb of Killara, and did
much to develop that locality. He was chair-
man of the Exchange 1917-19.
Archibald Thomas Dewar, who suc-
ceeds E. A. Badcock (retired) as g.m. of
the S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, was
A. T. DEWAR.
born in S.A. 55 years ago and brought
up on his dad’s sheep station. He has
been on the Union’s staff since 1907, was
first secretary and accountant of the
Voluntary Wheat Pool, was appointed
secretary of the Union in 1931 and assis-
tant g.m. in 1936. Tennis is his pet sport.
Australian musicians and composers
are no strangers to George Sutherland.
He has done a lot for them through the
Performing Rights Association. He
started with Allan’s, Melbourne, in 1891
as an usher, and quickly learnt the back-
stage part of the concert business and
the problems of performers. He helped
to organise the old Melbourne Exhibi-
tion orchestral concerts, joined with
J.C.W. in organising the Italian Opera
tour which brought in Federation with
music, and became managing director of
Allan’s in 1934. He celebrates his half-
century with the Collins-street concern
this month.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
I *'*4
!!!!!
Iff
nif)
ill
iiii
m
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METRO POLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“The average wife is usually ready to take
a leaf out of her husband’s book.”
— Woman's paper.
Especially his cheque book.
•J#
“His dream was a cottage in the country,
but she refused to think of even a house apart
from other people.”— “Sunday Sun.”
And that was flat.
Hitler went to Russia to annihilate the
Red Army. Now he seems satisfied
merely to beat it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“When Wilson entered the room Horace
Carslake put down the astrological chart he
had been rending.”— Short story.
An unbeliever evidently.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The assembled guests gave a concerted gasp
of admiration as the girl entered with the air
of a queen, her perfect figure clothed in all rust.
‘Where have you been, Deirdre?’ asked her
father with a twinkle.” — Short story.
We’ll be the mugs—out in the rain!
“Many girl surfers are now experts at arti-
ficial respiration.”— Suburban paper.
And some excel at artificial drowning.
“Lady , whose beauty is famous, attri-
butes her perfect skin to the constant use of
milk and lemon as a to let astringent.”
— Woman’s paper.
Perhaps that explains her vacant look.
*l*
“Another famous Scottish air the pro-
gramme was ‘Ye Banks and Brass.’ ”
—Suburban paper.
The two usually go together.
4* 4° 4* 4*
“New methods are now being employed to
prepare dried eggs for exportation.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
The old method of taking off the shell
and rubbing the egg down briskly with a
rough towel has been found unsuitable.
“For the last time, young man, We're NOT interested in your explosive bullet !”
Consolation.
O moon, pale moan ! Why mock me so ?
Why shine so brightly when you know
That Elinore, my jewel bright,
Has failed to meet me here to-night ?
And yet, pale moon, this may not be
So very great a tragedy ;
For now, instead of wasting pelf
On her, I’ll spend it on myself !
T. W. NATHAN.
Heart Cry.
To underground places I’ll run helter-
skelter
If war ’planes shall threaten my life,
But where, I beseech, can l find me a
shelter
From being blown up by the wife?
T. W. N.
Sacrifice.
“Men,” sighed Maria sentimentally,
“never appreciate the sacrifices their wives
make for them.”
“What has that to do with your not
eating these potatoes?” I demanded.
“You know very well,” said Maria
sharply, “that with the diet I am on there
are lots of things I can’t eat; in fact, I’m
always hungry. Perhaps that is why I
get irritable sometimes. So you should
realise I am making this sacrifice for your
sake.”
“For my sake! I like that!”
“Well, how would you like a wife so
fat that people laughed at her? I want
you to feel proud of me when we go out.
Look at that Mrs. Manypounds! Now
tell me frankly, wouldn’t you rather me
be a little irritable now and then, but
keeping my figure, than be a perfect
fright like Mary Manypounds?”
“What’s wrong with her?” I asked.
“She’s good-looking even if she is a bit
fat. And a jolly good sort. Manypounds
is lucky to have a wife like that.”
“Aitchem!” shrieked Maria. “I’m not
going to allow myself to grow old and
ugly before my time, for you or any other
man.”
“You said you were making a sacri-
fice for my sake in not eating.”
“Of course I am making a sacrifice!”
said Maria. “And if you don’t realise
that it is for your sake it’s only be-
cause” —
An hour or so later I realised that she
is making a sacrifice. Of my peace.
H. M.
Brevity.
“Husbands often say the same thing as sweet-
hearts, only in briefer fashion.”
— Woman’s paper.
“You’ve got a really lovely skin,”
He murmurs to his blushing bride.
But later, brevities begin ...
He’ll simply hand his pay-cheque in
And growl, “You’ve got a hide!”
EVE.
How Things Start.
“Much of our so-called politeness is mere
hypocrisy and will eventually lead to trouble.”
—Psychology article.
“Well, good night, Mr. Guph, and
thanks for having me to dinner.”
“It was a pleasure, Mr. Tomkins, a
pleasure! ”
“And I would like to say that your
wife serves a most delicious dinner.”
“Really, Mr. Tomkins, you’re very
flattering.”
“Not at all. A wonderful dinner!”
“It was a pleasure to have you!”
“Well, I’ll see you over at my place
soon, I hope. I doubt that my wife cooks
as well as your wife, though. You served
me a truly excellent dinner”
“Why not, for such excellent com-
pany?”
“Thank you so much. Ido hope you
mean that.”
“You’re not insinuating that I don’t,
are you?”
“I beg your pardon?”
“I said, you’re not trying to be funny,
are you?”
“No, but you are rather lavish with
your compliments, aren’t you?”
“Only being polite. It’s you who’s
lavish.”
“Not in the least. It was a good
dinner”
“Yes, yes, you said all that. Now mind
the step as you go out”
“Oh, trying to bustle me, are you?
Don’t worry, I know when to leave! I’m
going, don’t you make any mistake.”
“I’m not bustling you. If you weren’t
such a blasted gasbag”
“I was only being polite. If you think
your dinner was that marvellous you can
keep the next. It’d choke me to eat it.”
“Why, you ungrateful swine, hop out-
side and I’ll”
ELM.
Consistency.
“First decisive battle of the Pacific war is
now being fought in south Kedah....lt would
be wrong to attach too much importance to
this battle.” — “Sun.”
The unimportance of decisive battles
has long been a favored thesis among the
non-military critics. It was summed up
brilliantly by Wellington Knowall, the
Sunday “Puff’s” commissioner for mili-
tary strategy, in his famous work How
to Win a War.
“When a land battle is being fought
over difficult terrain,” says this eminent
critic, “the attacker will either gain his
objective or he will not. If he doesn’t
it is not necessarily a failure. It might
merely be a lack of success. On the
other hand, if he does succeed, the de-
fender may have to fall back. This,
however, should not involve him in a
retirement unless he feels that the posi-
tion isn’t tenable. Even then it might
be held, especially if the attacker is un-
certain whether he can hold it. It all
depends on whether the determination of
the attacker equals or does not equal the
ability of the defender to hold it, or
vice versa. In any case, if subsequent
battles ensue, this action will not of itself
finally determine the outcome of the war,
or will it?”
In another chapter, Knowall, who has
a really remarkable grasp of every phase
of military strategy —no man in Australia
has made a deeper study of the wars of
Pyrrhus, while he has even attended a
military tattoo —writes authoritatively on
the need for mobility of supply columns.
“Unless supplies can follow an army
on the move,” says this authority, “there
can be no guarantee that it will not go
short of materials vital to its very safety.
That cardinal point is one to which too
many of our base wallahs turn the blind
eye of military conservatism. Important
though this is, however, the impossibility
of getting supplies up to the front through
various causes does not necessarily imply
that the advancing army must be gravely
imperilled. There may be supplies on
hand which it could use. The infantry
could possibly break off the engagement
temporarily while it went back and
brought up the supplies itself, or some
other means may be devised by the local
commanders. But that an army com-
pletely bereft of its essential supplies must
either retire or surrender is a ridiculous
contention. That is where we must have
men with daring imagination and the
ability to improvise swiftly.
“Too much reliance on basic prin-
ciples which are principles just because
Napoleon, Cromwell or Foch found them
workable does not mean that we should
slavishly follow them. That will never
win us wars.”
To the question of the co-ordination
of army and air commands, Wellington
Knowall brings a crystal-clear brain.
“The idea is not new,” he says. “It
was adduced by me after the Germans
had demonstrated its efficiency. Would
that others could see it! And a unified
command would ensure that prior aerial
blasting of enemy strongpoints without
which no modern infantry can succeed.
“There are many who will question
whether this is so vital, after all. And
their arguments must carry some weight.
In fact, too much importance need not
be read into the contention. Unquestion-
ably, good troops could hold positions
without adequate aerial support. It was
done in the Spanish civil war, and what
the Spaniards could do we should be able
to do if our troops had the same un-
quenchable inspiration. That is the
answer to the stupid critics who assert
that such co-ordination is imperative!”
The need for unorthodox and rational
thinking and the jettisoning of established
ideas is also emphasised by Pemberton
Peagreen, the famous naval writer of the
“Daily Spoof.” In his Naval Tactics he
writes:
“Too much stress is laid by some of our
barnacle-encrusted armchair admirals on
the necessity of conserving their ships.
That was the fatal mistake made by
Jellicoe when he deployed his battle line
at Jutland to avoid the torpedo attack.
He certainly saved his ships, but he failed
to administer the coup de grace to Von
Tirpitz’s High Seas Fleet. Wouldn’t it
have been far better had he risked seven
or eight dreadnoughts in the certainty
that those remaining afloat would have
crushed the opposition?
“Too long have our men-o’-war been
used as expensively-clad peripatetic super
cocktail bars with the gold-embroidered
darlings of the quarter-deck meandering
around trying to look intelligent. They
should be told that there is a naval war
to win and that if they can’t clinch it
then others who know something of
naval strategy should be given the chance.
“The countless miles of enemy coast-
line and his hundreds of ships should
be attacked ceaselessly, relentlessly.
Risks must be taken —great risks.
We mustn’t dither around as if
we had a century to do it in. We
must crush the enemy’s naval forces
quickly or he may crush us. Not that the
time factor is everything. Far from it.
In point of fact, time is on our side, for
we have the staying power. Indeed, too
much notice need not be taken of con-
tentions put forward by so-called experts
to the effect that we must rush into
idiotic adventures for the sake of send-
ing enemy ships to the bottom quickly. It
is of little moment, after all, whether we
beat him today or tomorrow so long as
we do. But let our naval leaders be
rational and consistent.
If some of our elderly admirals had
had that analytical training that is so
requisite to the successful newspaper
critic the service would be more efficient
than it is.”
BO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: “The laziest cove I ever
struck,” said Murmurin’ Mick, “was on
the Narromine-road. Struth, y’ never
saw such a coot. We’d get t’ a camp an’
he’d calmly lay down while I lit the fire,
got the water an’ put the billy on. He
even had me openin’ his nosebag t’ get
the tucker out, an’ if he wanted a light
f’r his fag he’d wait till I struck a match
an’ lean forward so I’d have t’ hold it
f’r him. How he ever got the energy t’
hump a bluey beat me, and the dust he
made draggin’ one blucher after the other
along the road nilly suffocated me. I
always like a bit o’ company on the track
an’ I’ll put up with'all sorts o’ coves for
it, but this bloke beat ’em all, fair din-
kum. We lasted three days t’gether, but
when we come in sight o’ Walgett he
settled me. Yair, it was stinkin’ hot an’
we dropped our swags under a tree an’
was havin’ a blow when I got a sort o’
vision of a whackin’ great bucket o’ beer
an’ says out loud, “Blime, I wish I had a
hundred-gallon tank o’ beer.” His nibs
looks at me an’ says, ‘Too right. Reckon
y’d gimme a go at it, too, mate.’ That
settled it; I grabs me knot an’ hits the
track, leavin’ him sittin’ there. I never
said anythin’ t’ him, but a bloke who’s
too flamin’ lazy t’ wish f’r his own beer’s
no flamin’ good to me.”
* * * *
“Wester”: So “Oont” (B. 17/12/’4l)
wants to know where to find kurrajongs
and quandongs in “Australia’s dry places.”
It depends on what he calls “dry places,”
but there are plenty of kurrajongs out in
the Condobolin country (N.S.W.), which
couldn’t be called wet, though there are
drier places. As for quandongs, they’re
never plentiful anywhere; the wonder is
that they ever cross-pollinate to make the
seeds. And the kurrajong can hardly be
called “essentially a coastal-fall tree,”
since it is thickest on the western plains
of N.S.W., which slope away from the
coast.
* * * *
“Dickie Beach”: A crudely-lettered
sign outside a S.Q. coastal shack is an
excellent example of successful adver-
tising psychology. It runs: “I Have Got
Worms Today.” Its proprietor, who
subsists on the sale of large sandworms
extracted from adjacent beaches, reckons
that it is as good as an extra quid a
week when the city visitors come along.
“D’reckly they spots it they starts gig-
glin’, an’ then some smartie reckons
they’ll drop in an’ arsk the old bloke ’ow
’is worms is gettin’ on. A man’d be
cuckoo if ’e couldn’t get orf a coupla-
bobsworth amongst the mob. Then out
comes the cameras, me crackin’ a lay
’bout ’atin’ ’avin’ me photergraph took
’cos it’s unlucky, an’ like as not another
bobsworth t’ get me standin’ under the
sign with a ’andful o’ worms. One ’arf-
shot bloke give me a bottla rum t’
cure me worms just t’ make the mob
larf. Cripes, Dick, there’s a lotta inner-
cent goats runnin’ round loose in them
cities, ain’t there?”
* * * *
“Flight”: Have known zebra finches
and wagtails to erect their homes on
windmill platforms, but it staggered me
to see a pair of crows lay their sticks on
the boards, using one angle of the tower
of the mill for a back support. It was
so darned barefaced in its effrontery that
they got away with it; the stockmen
passed the word around and Kelly was
given a flag of truce under which to attend
to his domestic jobs. He did it, too. Also,
the cow seemed to have enough sense to
know that, with the flight of the fledg-
lings, the truce had come to an end—
he or she never went back to that spot
to offer any easy target.
* * * *
B. A. Ker”: What’s so remarkable
in an iron-fisted tough gent, being scared
of the dark (B. 12/11/’41)? Every man
has his secret fear, but only the bravest
own up to it. The most reckless shark-
baiting surfer I know wouldn’t get on
the quietest moke for a hundred quid.
And an Irishman I worked with at one
time informed me in all seriousness that
‘ the little people” come out and play
when the moon shines on the river bank.
Although he’d fight men twice his weight
a detour of three miles was his route
home at night—rather than pass by river
and cemetery. The strangest fear I’ve
seen was the affliction of a tough 14-
stone bricky. He was bricking up the
sides of a well when an alleged humorist,
who evidently knew his phobia, pulled
up the ladder and dropped a couple of
frogs down. Absolute terror contorted
the poor devil’s face as he literally clawed
the banks and screamed for the ladder.
I honestly believe that he would have
gone insane if he’d been left with the
harmless creatures for ten minutes. And
he had won a military decoration!
“The 0.D.”: Night calls! Me and Kelly
were camped out in western Riverina on
a clearing job and had a newchum Eng-
lishman with us. The screech-owls and
“Go easy on the lipstick, sweetie-pie!”
curlews stirred him, but after a bit we
explained and he settled down. Mostly,
however, that part of the country knew
only insect noises, and not many of them,
at night, and the silence got on the new-
chum’s nerves. One night, warm and
still with that waiting tenseness just be-
fore a storm, we were in our bunks and
the light out when somewhere away in
the south cattle began lowing. The sound
was almost muted by distance, but it
seeped into the tent with sufficient in it
to make the newchum sit up nervously
to listen. “Cripes,” yelled Kelly, sud-
denly, “ruddy lions!” And he shot out
of the tent. The newchum passed him
in 10 strides and practically flew up the
big old box-tree in front of the tent.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: To a generation which
has come to regard the stepped-on
accelerator as the natural medium of
travel, incredulity at the walking feats of
the old-timers (B. 26/11/’4l) is not sur-
prising. And not only dwellers along
N.S.W.’s Darling went in for the long
padding of the hoof. Uncle William,
born at Mandurah (W.A.), was still toil-
ing on a farm just beyond Northam in
his seventies ; and every Christmas he
would be seized with a nostalgia for the
salt water. So, with a blanket and
the old billy, he would start on the 120-
mile hike, and inside a few days he’d be
back in the old home town. The festive
season over, he’d start back for his job.
Trains and buses were running, and he
wasn’t short of cash, but it was the old
Groper way to walk, so he let the train
pass by. Sturdier still was the mother of
eight who lived 20 miles up a lonely W.A.
river. Twenty miles down to the little
village where the river joined the sea,
then 14 inland to the bigger village where
one could see a doctor. Then, that visit
over, the 14-p/«,y-20 miles back. But
really she did a double journey, since she
carried a sick child in her arms all the
way. She could have come most of the
way by small rowing boat, but an early
drowning accident gave her a dread of
the river. Of such stuff were the Tobruk
Diggers bred.
* * * *
“McNark”: That girl who unwittingly
put a double-charge in the old muzzle-
loader (B. 17/12/’4l) and then took the
tremendous kick told a good yarn, but
she says she “loaded it with powder and
shot” and later, when they killed the cow,
“we found the bullet in her udder.” Put
the witness back in the box.
# * * *
“Tom Bywater”: If Bass Strait mutton-
birds are being massacred at the rate of
two million a year (B. 26 /11 / ’4l), it’s
time something was done to regulate the
slaughter. W.A. had its flocks of mutton-
birds back in the early decades of last
century; but they long have vanished,
pigs and blue-nosed Yankee whalers
being the primal cause. In those days
the King’s and later the Queen’s writ
had little authority in the gap between
Kangaroo Is. and King George’s Sound.
Frugal Yankee skippers thus found it
more profitable to turn a few sows and
a boar loose on a south coast island than
go to the expense of bringing salt pork
all the way from Martha’s Vineyard and
other home ports. For provender the
porkers had samphire, seaweed, roots and
mutton-bird eggs and squabs. Being
always on the job it was not long before
they had cleaned up every island, par-
ticularly those of the Recherche. The
same enterprising voyagers used often to
bring along a couple of gardeners, land
these and a few packets of seeds on some
fertile river flat and so secure a supply
of fresh vegetables—an important matter
in days when scurvy was a potent killer.
Often a whaler stayed around the W.A.
coast for two or more years, so there
was plenty of time for both the gardens
and the pigs to yield their abundance.
* * * •
“Si Anu”: These press cable johnnies
have quaint notions of the relative im-
portance of the news they gather. A
recent dispatch from the storm centre in
Malaya announced that the Sultan of
Kedah had issued a “Government Gazette
Extraordinary” giving his august person
the sole and exclusive right to take turtles’
eggs wherever found on the riverbanks
of Kedah and forbidding the killing of
their parents. Malayan sultans have
always kept the wolf from the harem
door by establishing monopolies in this
thing and that, just like European Gov-
ernments, and the result has been to
make the particular object of the royal
taboo extraordinarily attractive to the
native population, like having a pot of
beer after six o’clock in Melbourne or
Sydney. A taboo was placed on umbut,
whether on public or private property,
by the rajah of a small Bornean island
on which I was stationed. Umbut is the
heart of the coconut, and makes a de-
licious salad, but it involves the death of
the tree from which it is abstracted.
After the taboo was declared every
Malayan young blood found it obligatory
on himself to steal out at night, shin up
his neighbor’s coconuts and present his
beloved with the savory vegetable. As a
result of the decree the copra industry suf-
fered a setback which ruined it for a
generation and bankrupted the rajah.
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow hit Mil-
dura (Vic.) for the grape-snatching and
got put on by the biggest and wealthiest
grower in the district. The boss took to
Mat, and the pair of them often had a
yarn while working together, though most
of the pickers and rack-hands frequently
said that if they had the boss’s cash they
wouldn’t worry about working. Mat, too,
couldn’t quite see why a man with so
much wasn’t putting in the time in what
Mat reckoned was a more pleasurable
way, and one day he mentioned it. “Aw,
well,” said the boss, “you see, I don’t
take much interest in money now; I
don’t work because I want more, y\
know.” Mat thought it over, then said:
“Yair, I see what y’ mean. That’s the
way I feel about beer when I’ve had a
gutful of it. Still, I wouldn’t go on
liftin’ up pots an’ puttin’ ’em down again
just out of pure habit.” The boss seemed
a bit puzzled, but he let it go at that.
* * * *
“Abeeram”: “I’m camped,” says old
Sam, “near a patch o’ mangrove on the
coast north o’ Cairns when I hears some
one blazin’ away with a shotgun close
at hand. I saunters down to see wot
he’s up to. ‘Could you tell me the name
of these birds —a kinda wadin’ birds, I
imagine, by their long bills?’ the shootist
says. ‘Wadin’ birds, me purple grand-
mother,’ I says. ‘Them’s old-man
’skeeters, that’s wot they are!’ Yair, the
north’s the place for moskeeters.”
* * * *
“Gryllus”: The booming voice of what
bushmen term a swamp pheasant recalls
that it is the only honest species amongst
Australia’s 14 kinds of cuckoo, building
its own nest and rearing its family as
decent birds should.
What queer turn of
evolution has caused
its 13 sets of cousins
to become the only
parasites amongst all
Australian birds?
Why, too, are their
deluded victims such
born idiots as to
hatch out a strange
egg which usually
differs conspicuously
in size and marking
from their own?
And, having done
the foolish job, why
don’t they interfere
when the outsized
result proceeds deli-
berately to heave
their legitimate off-
spri n g overboard
from the nursery
one after another?
All other birds hate
a grown-up cuckoo
and pursue it with
fury maybe be-
cause it has a dis-
tinctly hawklike look
—but its wea k-
minded foster-
parents will work
themselves to exhaus-
tion feeding the changeling long after it
is recognisable for what it really is. Senti-
mentalists have alleged that mother
cuckoo weighs in on the tuckering job
when the deluded pair are away, but that
yarn is 13 to 1 against all cuckoo nature.
* * * *
“Aratta”: Dad, who enjoyed a family
reputation as a bit of a leg-puller, was
showing the newly-arrived hand his sleep-
ing quarters, “Hope y’ sleep well an’
are not disturbed be ghosts,” he observed
seriously; “the bloke what useter be
here before you hanged himself to that
there rafter.” Then he hurried off before
his inward chuckles gave the show away.
Early next morning he went to call the
hand, to be greeted with awful groans.
A bit alarmed, Dad swung the lantern
over the hand’s head and inquired
anxiously, “What’s wrong?” The hand
uncovered his face and replied in quaver-
ing tones, “Oh, it’s you, sir? I thought
it was the ghost; I’ve had a dreadful
night! ” and he started to shake violently.
Properly scared, Dad told him to stay
where he was. Around dinner-time Dad
paid another visit, but the patient seemed
no better, so Dad advised him to stay
in bed all day, and sent Mum up with
strengthening food for him. But next
day the hand seemed to be getting worse,
so Dad, now in a proper funk, sent for
a doctor. The doc. diagnosed shock and
prescribed continued rest and atten-
tion. At the end of a week the
hand showed great improvement, and
Dad gave him a week’s wages. Next
morning he had vanished, leaving a
note on his bunk thanking Dad for the
easiest time he’d had for many a day.
A postscript said, “I happen to be an
actor, temporarily out of a job. Would
you like me to send you a ticket for the
next show I get a part in?”
CHRISTMAS CARD.
Women of ours, and men we knew,
Between us are the countless miles
Where, blue beneath the boundless blue,
“The Indian Ocean sits and smiles.”
We are your only, lonely men,
Deeming you dear all else above,
And so, as Yuletide comes again,
You who have loved us, take our love —
Not casual service of the lip,
But faith of heart and fellowship.
We shall not lounge along the sand
And watch the surf-line break in foam,
Or tread the bush of one green land,
This Christmastide, as once at home.
Ah, we shall meet, but we shall miss
The ancient cheer of board and bed,
The handclasp and the Christmas kiss,
The sweet face at the table-head;
For these, the gods of war decree,
Are not, as yet, for such as we!
‘So little done: so much to do!”
The moments go, the moons shall pass;
The sands of doom are dropping through,
The hand of Fate has turned the glass:
And hope, not fear, must be your friend,
For every day of spent alarms
But brings us closer to the end
And nearer to your waiting arms.
As Justice lives, and Truth abides,
There shall be other Christmastides.
A.I.F. Abroad.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.


“Jabiru”: Bill Stubbs had lived from
a kid in Mooney’s Flat and had made
money. He liked to be looked to as an
authority on everything, from the past
history of the place to the methods that
every other inhabitant should employ to
become successful. Then his missus
decided to go down to the city to live.
That was where Bill was not an authority,
and perforce he went, only to find that
he had no friends and that acquaint-
ances were not interested in either him or
his eternal chatter about Mooney’s Flat.
Then one day he ran into Jim Thompson,
a quiet old cove, down from the Flat
for treatment for his sandy blight. Here
indeed was manna in the desert of Bill’s
memories. For an hour he plied his
fellow-townsman with questions of every-
body and everything. Then naively he
put his main question: “Well, what did
the people think of my running
and leaving them, Jim?” Slowly Jim
replied: “Aw, I don’t know, Bill. Y’
see, there’s some say the place’ll go
ahead now you’ve gone, and others say
it won’t make a blasted bit o’ difference.
Damned if I know meself who’s right! ”
* * * *
“Propalong”: An Australian who had
been a major in an Indian cavalry regi-
ment opened a riding school near Adel-
aide, and did well. The surprising thing to
a bushman was that everyone of his horses
—kiddies’ ponies, ladies’ hacks and all —
would have been a top-class stockhorse.
They belonged to a grade which is occu-
pied only by the boss’s pet camp-horse on
the average cattle station. A stockman
generally regards a Weymouth bit with
something of the holy horror some
cockies reserve for spurs, but those top-
enders who tried the products of the
major’s schooling went away entirely
converted. Army horsemanship has
always been excellent the world over.
* * * »
“Dungeness”: If “N. Sylvester” (B.
3/12/’4l) wants to see cast-nets he should
visit coastal N.Q., where every fish-
minded boy either owns or aspires to
one. “Hundreds of miles of roving”
doesn’t count much in judging fishing
methods for our 12,210 miles of coast-
line. His southern European exponent
was no expert or he would not have
needed to lay his net out on the beach to
avoid tangles or to twirl it round lariat-
fashion before making the cast. The ex-
pert folds it along his left arm and, after
a preliminary swing or two of his body
with the end folds held in the right hand,
throws the net up and out over the mark,
using the trunk muscles principally, with
the extended left arm to aid leverage. As
the leads settle he picks up the hauling
line and twitches the sinking net into the
position required. The world’s best at
the game are coastal Malays, particularly
Dyaks; some of their nets are over 30ft.
in diameter. The method goes back to
mankind’s earliest recorded days. Egyp-
tian bas-reliefs show that cast-nets were
used 5000 years and more ago, and just
the same kind is used there now.
* * * *
“Prof. Shingleshort”: I can support
the assertions of sundry Aboliars regard-
ing the absorbent skin of that queer rep-
tile Moloch horridus. Many years ago
I used to knock about Westralia’s hinter-
land, and on more than one occasion
have assuaged a raging thirst by snaring
a few of the little cows after a night of
heavy dew and wringing them out. A
pint of water from three horriduses is a
fair yield if you wring hard enough. One
opportunist I knew trained a team of
300 to follow him like dogs and come
to heel when whistled. He used to soak
them in beer when he passed through a
township, then trek through the dry parts
and retail the stuff at a bob a wring. He
made a fortune.
“Get into step , Beaton !”
“D.R.H.”: The night was black, cold
and blustery, and Dad McGillicuddy,
having 30 traps to visit in the sandhills
near the hut, was glad of the lantern
light, although he knew the terrain as
men know their own backyards. After
doing about half of the line the old chap
suddenly found himself back among bur-
rows he’d already visited. He swore, and
began to search for lost bearings. Half
an hour later, cold and woeful, he was
caught in a snarl of tangled tracks and
vanished landmarks, a prisoner in a little
yellow circle of lantern light. Then he
started back to the hut. And the further
he walked the more bushed he became.
At last Dad gave it up. With a volley
of curses that roused the galahs ift the
creek gums half a mile away he swung
the lantern against a stump. Then, hot
and cold with anger and despair, he sat
down to have a smoke. By the time he
had filled his pipe and had found that
his matches were in the hut his eyes were
accustomed to the darkness. Looking up
he saw, close handy, the outline of the
native pine near the horseyards. And
it dawned on him that he was only one
sandhill from the hut. Lots of blokes
since then have noticed that Dad never
carries a lantern round the traps.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Neither Bluey Dodd nor
his mate Daddy Horan liked work of
any description, but the beer-money had
to be got somehow. After much cogi-
tation they borrowed a horse and dray
and wangled a firewood contract from
the butter factory. A week or so after
they had begun operations Paddy
mooched in with a load and found the
manager waiting for him at the wood-
stack. “You’ll have to do better than
this,” that individual said irritably. “Look
at all those crooked logs; can’t get ’em
into the firebox. Cut ’em straight, not
like blasted boomerangs!” “Don’t blame
me,” retorted Paddy. “It’s me mate
Bluey yer want t’ go crook on. ’E’s that
flamin’ strong an’ ’ardworkin’ on the job
that when ’e tightens up the chains round
the load ’e puts a bend into every stick
on the dray.”
* * * *
“A. Perist”: The prettiest sight of the
apiary is that of recently-hatched-out
worker bees learning to fly. The bee’s
natural ability to fly isn’t sufficient for
the economy of the hive. On emerging
from the chrysalis a bee is first groomed
by the nursery attendants and almost im-
mediately takes up duty in that depart-
ment. A few days and she may be pro-
moted to the feeding of the grubs ; then
on as maid of honor to the queen. Spells
at doorkeeping may mingle with that job,
but the final task before taking to flying
is to help maintain an equable tempera-
ture in the hive. This is done by wing
manipulation, scores of bees hanging on
the combs and fanning with their wings
so rapidly as to render the wing almost
invisible. This development of the flying
muscles concludes the course, and the
candidate is ready for her flight trials.
It is easy to pick the young bee, since,
although black, she is comely. The light
fur that covers her body has the deep
tinge of youth. The gauze of her wings
shines. Emerging from the hive in scores,
the novices stretch their wings. Then,
climbing up the front of the hive so as
to get altitude, they take off. A few
feet into the air, then back again.
Another climb, another take-off, and
a flight of a few feet further. So
they keep it up, sometimes for hours.
Finally, a full certificate is granted, and
they are away, to fly from dawn to dark
until they are worn out: wings frayed,
sheen all gone —and the hive turns them
out to die.
* * # #
“Narrin”: When “Art-gallery” Mc-
Guiness, so called because of the pictorial
display on his chest, set out frdm Port
“I lost me cocky, sir!”
Adelaide to see the world, he travelled
up the Murray in a neat, carvel-built
14ft. dinghy. He had got as far as Blue’s
reach when he heard Hitler’s challenge.
Wanting to sell his boat, he found a
customer in Blue, who was taken with
its appearance and who had had an offer
for his own pram. For a while the cod-
catcher was delighted with his new
craft; but his joy was tempered when
he came to repaint the thing and found
that extensive caulking with putty was
needed. After a month or so on the
beach the dinghy took the water again,
and Blue’s satisfaction in it crept gradu-
ally back to its former level. Then the
hot weather came. Passing the other day
we found a shipwrecked fisherman, his
craft aground on a shoal with the few
planks still above water showing daylight
between them where the sun had got in
its good work. If anyone has a good
clench-built pram for sale there’s a cus-
tomer in these parts.
“Prop.”: The test of a rooter s ability
is the strength he can put into the down-
ward lunge from the top of the jump.
A billygoat pig-jumper, no matter how
high he may seem to go or how hard
he hits the ground, only jumps a succes-
sion of imaginary fences. A pig-rooter
concentrates on trying to break his rider
in halves at the waist. The jerks a big
horse slams in at the summit of each
jump can knock a rider about fearfully
or they can throw him in the real —as
distinguished from the riding-school—
meaning of the word.
* * * *
“Yagan”: Has any modern black-
tracker equalled the recorded perform-
ances of the best of his ancestors?
In 1834 the mill at South Perth,
W.A. (still standing), was robbed by a
party from the Murray tribe, headquarters
40 miles away. The culprits were iden-
tified individually by members of the
Perth tribe from footprints left in the
flour spilt on the mill floor. Every iden-
tification was proved correct. Five years
later Lieut. George Grey, hastening back
overland to Perth after a disastrous ex-
ploration around Shark Bay, was forced
to leave six men behind in the wilderness.
These, after a month of wandering, were
ultimately rescued by Lieut. Roe, the
colony’s Surveyor-General. While Roe
was out in the vicinity of the Moore
River, 60 miles north from Perth, a small
party of Swan River blacks was sent to
find him with an important message. They
missed him, but left their tracks beside
the river. These were found and identi-
fied a week later by Warrup, Roe’s
special tracker. On return to Perth
Lieut. Roe took pains to verify these
identifications and found each one cor-
rect. On this search Warrup, after track-
ing the lost party all over the country
through hundreds of miles of wandering,
finally found the place where young
Frederick Smith lay, as he had died, under
a bush off from the beach.
* * * *
“Fancar”: Dad got a bit sick of a
female neighbor who took pains to be very
sweet, but constantly reminded every-
body of her aristocratic descent. “Her!”
said Dad. “Reckons she’s got blue blood
in her veins. Aw, it’s only golden
syrup! ”
* * * *
“Herbie”: “I’m sittin’ in the big wash-
tub on the back verandah scrubbin’ the
sweat and subsoil off me hide after a
tough day’s ploughin’ in old Job Hay-
stack’s 40-acre cultivation when I hears
a lot o’ commotion out in front o’ the
house. I pulls down the comsack wot’s
screenin’ me, wraps it round me an’ does
a duck f’r me room. I’m strugglin’ t’
get me wet legs inter me strides when
I hears a visitor call out ‘Happy days!
Surprise, Mrs. Haystack!’ an’ I swear a
bit about the sleep I’m goin’t’ lose. Old
Job was fixin’ his corns up in the bed-
room when the racket starts. He douses
the light an’ pokes his head out o’ the
winder. ‘Well,’ he says, ‘I dunno about
anythin’ surprisin’ me any more. Y’ see,
friends, I’m the only one in the house.
The missus and the girls are away, me
son Joe wot works on the line writes
an’ says he’s got married t’ some shunter’s
daughter we don’t know an’ says we’ll
love her, an’ last night one o’ me flamin’
neighbors poisons me best cattle pup.
The Shire Council’s goin’ t’ stiff me f’r
not chippin’ me burr, an’ that blasted
bald-headed agent wot sold me the sunder-
cut threatens t’ take it back. Just now
I’m rubbin’ me legs with goanna fat t’ ease
me rheumatism, so y’re cornin’ here like
this don’t surprise me much, considerin’
all the shake-ups I’ve had.’ I hops back
into the tub an’ finishes me wash-up t
the tune o’ ‘Till we meet as the
neighbors heads f’r someone else’s place
t’ get a free feed. The accordions they
was playin’ drowned the clatter o’ the
plates Mrs. Job was dumpin’ on the
kitchen table f’r our bedtime snack.”
CHRISTMAS VISITORS.
On this day far journeys making,
North or south or east or west,
Who are these that, all forsaking,
World forgetting, homeward quest?
Faring fast from the Past,
Pausing not upon their way—
Memories rare, memories fair,
Memories fond and sweet are they.
Speeding height and lowland over,
Wastes of sand and wastes of foam,
From the ranger and the rover,
Old and young, they hasten home.
Visitors! —through our doors,
Seeking us, they troop afar,
And they say on this day
That we unforgotten are.
Roaming o ! er his mystic region
Stoops the mind and fitly frees
At this time a shining legion
Of home-trooping memories.
Visitors! Mine and yours,
Open doors for them we set;
For we know, hearts aglow,
That we are remembered yet.
Thus, through this and that way roaming,
Ranging year-through far and wide,
Free of rein and fondly homing,
Memories speed at Christmastide.
N.S.W.
RODRERIC QUINN.


DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should he expected to become youc
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence.
The Symbol ol
Security l
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
or AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
{lncorporated in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman);
(Vice Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L C.; James Kidd; A.
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J.
Colin A. Sinclair
E. Heath, C.M.G.;
G. H. Shipway.
LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
offers all facilities for the transaction of every class
of Banking business. Since 1854 i-> over a century
ago the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
has maintained the confidence of its depositors and
the community alike.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
(Preliminary Notice.)
AUSTRAL OIL DRILLING SYNDICATE NO LIABILITY
422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
ANNOUNCES
ITS INTENTION TO REGISTER AND FLOAT A COMPANY TO BE
KNOWN AS
LAKES OIL LIMITED
The present intention is, subject to the formal consent of the Commonwealth
Government, to issue a prospectus early in the New Year.
The object of the company will be to undertake the commercial production of
oil at Takes Entrance.
It is proposed that the Nominal Capital of the Company will be £500,000 in
2,000,000 shares of 5/- each. Of these, it is contemplated, 600,000 shares of 5/- each
will be offered for public subscription.
This notice is of a general character to inform the public of the intention to
proceed with the development of the Takes Entrance oil field, as advocated in the
report furnished to the Commonwealth Government by Messrs. Banney and Tairbanlt.
The Commonwealth and State Governments have agreed jointly to lend the sum
of £50,000, on a £1 for £1 basis, to the company, which money is to be used towards
the cost of carrying out the scheme referred to in that report.
No applications for shares are asked for, or will be received till after the issue
of the prospectus in accordance with the Companies Act 1938.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Bank of New South Wales
. To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 565,236 8 p.c. = 619,209 6,262,963
1932.. 462,967 5J „ „ 460,950 2,017 6,264,980
1933.. 439,616 5 „ „ 439,000 616 6,265,596
1934.. 439,739 5 „ „ 439,000 739 6,266,335
1935.. 442,660 5 „ „ 439,000 3,660 6,269,995
1936.. 470,454 5J „ „ 460,950 9,504 6,279,499
1937.. 543,242 6,, „ 526,800 16,442 6,295,941
1938.. 547,835 6 „ ~ 526,800 21,035 6,316,976
1939.. 550,876 6 „ ~ 526,800 24,076 6,341,052
1940.. 544,770 6 „ „ 526,800 17,970 6,359,022
1941.. 547,123 6 „ „ 526,800 20,323 6,379,345
The period concluded corresponds closely
with the second year of war, and, in
view of the inflationary tendencies that
have developed from the rapidly growing
Government expenditures, the expansion
in the net profit looks hardly like any
expansion at all. The 6 p.c. div. remains
unchanged, and not much more than 6
p.c. was disclosed. On capital and re-
serves combined earnings were only a
shade over 3.6 p.c.
Credit expansion was abnormal, with
£Bl million of Government borrowing,
though not up to what the disciples of
Major Douglas think it should have been.
Certain sections of the community, illogi-
cally enough including the most ardent
of the costless-credit advocates, have cease-
lessly criticised the trading banks as war
profiteers because they receive the addi-
tional deposits created by credit expan-
sion. This, of course, is a very good
political cry which doesn’t depend on
truth for its effectiveness. For the fact
is that bank profits have been, and are
becoming, lower in comparison with
those of most other Australian businesses
supposed to be gaining some benefit or
other from the war. Against the rises in
bank deposits (“which ought to go else-
where,” think the objectors) must be
placed the falling opportunities for
profitable investment of these deposits.
Treasury bills yield only i\ p.c. a year,
and Government securities about 3 p.c.
Control of inflation is nominally be-
hind the recent regulations governing
trading bank balances and the handing
over to the Commonwealth Bank of
their “surplus” investible funds. This
would wear a much more convincing
appearance of sincerity, and look much
less like another political step on the road
to nationalisation, if the Administration
responsible for this change had framed
the rest of its Budget accordingly. The
real danger of inflation today lies in the
spending proclivities of the masses, under
the urge of ready money and the growing
scarcity of civilian goods. And yet it is
the masses who until last week were re-
lieved of taxation obligations by the
Labor Budget. Widespread taxation is
the surest antidote for inflation.
Total of the ’Wales balance sheet this
year is £150,939,354, an increase of
£7,036,324 compared with a year ago:
1939. 1940. 1941.
Notes .. £81,159 £81,132 £81,125
Bills, de-
posits, etc. 111,769,712 124,290,976 131,671,894
Liquids . . 30,193,019 49,388,428 58,668,405
Deposit* . . 452,211 528,666 551,688
Advances . . 93,077,235 86,225,738 84,223,972
Premises . . 3,300,000 3,500,000 3,600,000
‘’Statutory deposit with Reserve Bank of N.Z.
Deposits, bills payable, etc., show an in-
crease of £7,381,000. On the other side
of the sheet are bank premises (up
£100,000), sundry liquids (up £9,300,000)
and loans and advances to customers
(down £2,002,000).
Here is a more detailed comparison of
the liquid position:
1940. 1941.
Cash, bullion, etc £14,204,787 £14,814,607
Money at short call, London 812,500'
Short-dated Treasury bills 15,755,000 10',950,000
Govt, securities, etc. . . 8,932,217 19,906,095
Due by other banks . . .. 2,087,190 3,806,866
Bills receivable, etc. .. 7,596,734 9,190,837
Total liquids .. .. £49,388,428 £58,668,405
Money at short call in London has
disappeared from the books, evidence
of the very close co-operation, to
call it nothing else, existing with the
central bank. Treasury bills and Govern-
ment securities are up £6,000,000 net,
which is no mean contribution in itself
to the national war effort. Each £lOO of
the bank’s liabilities to the public is re-
presented by £44y of liquid assets, and
advances have further receded to 63.9
p.c. (last year 69.3 p.c.) of deposits. For
each pound of its own funds the bank is
holding £8 9s. Bd. of the public’s money.
During the two war years the bank’s
loans and advances have shown a sub-
stantial decline —about £8,800,000. When
contrasted with the growth in deposits,
testimony is afforded to the restriction on
lending. Loss of revenue therefrom has
been offset by income from the heavily
increased investments in war loans, etc.
An encouraging feature is that the decline
in advances was at a much less steep rate
than in the year before.
Net assets per £2O share amount to
£34 10s. Bd., which is considerably above
the figure at which the market has been
valuing the shares for the last four years.
In the boom year of 1937, banking shares
as a class did show signs of making some
headway out of the market bog into
which they had descended during the de-
pression years. Bank of N.S.W. shares
brought up to £3B 7s. 6d., but in each
subsequent year the maximum prices have
shown a progressive, almost determined,
decline. In that respect they are not unique
in their class. Lowest price in 1940 was
down to £24, after the fall of France.
This year the lowest sale price has been
nearly down to the 1940 figure, following
Japan’s attack on Britain and U.S.A. The
market is living from hour to hour, and
what is a correct figure today will probably
not be so tomorrow. However, at, say,
£24, each £1 of purchase money would
buy 28s. 9d. of tangible assets and yield
5 p.c. Were it not for the local political
factors involved in bank shares generally,
these asset and revenue yields would look
attractive. But bank shares as a class
are not popular.
Buckley and Nunn, Ltd. (Melb.)
f Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1930.. 46,400 10,500 10 p.c. = 32,404 3,496 104,875
Loss.
1931.. 24,622 7,471 2$ „ „ 8,101 64,681
Profit.
1932.. 18,505 10,500 Nil 8,005 72,686
1933.. 30,532 10,500 6 p.c. =19,442 590 73,276
Loss.
1934.. 17,894 10,500 2J „ „ 8,101 36,781
Unexplained reductions, £lO,OOO .. 26,781
Deficit.
1935.. 19,909 10,500 Nil 3,628
Unexplained additions, £2225 .. .. 1,403
Profit. Reserves.
1936.. 17,013 10,500 Nil 6,513 5,110
1937.. 34,825 10,500 2J p.c.= 8,101 16,224 21,334
1938.. 31,668 10,500 4 ~ ~12,962 8,206 29,540
Reserves disappear, £7498 .. .. 22,042
1939. . 27,421 10,500 4 p.c.=12,962 3,959 26,001
1940.. 27,860 10,500 4 „ ~ 12,962 4,398 30,399
To staff pension fund, £3OOO .. .. 27,399
1941.. 31,174 10,500 54 p.c.=17,822 2,852 30,251
Buckley’s, in busy retail-and-chain-store
Bourke-street, Melbourne, competitor and
neighbor of Myer’s, discloses sales better
than 1940, when it reported the highest
figures since 1929. Despite this expanded
turnover, due largely to increased public
purchasing power, profits moved up by
only £3314 to £31,174, or 6.4 p.c. on ordi-
nary capital after preference dividend,
against 5.3, 5.2, 6.5, 7.5 and 2 p.c. for
the preceding five years.
Shareholders and others interested
since the palmy days of 1929 and before
can look back and compare this year’s
5} p.c. and the three previous 4 p.c. divs.
on ordinaries. In pre-depression trading
dividends of 10 p.c. or more were paid,
and for the decade to 1930 ordinaries
averaged a shade over 13 p.c., with
£133,221 of bonus scrip thrown in.
Present-day retail trading is on much
finer profit margins, and taxation is a far
bigger burden.
Over the past few years Buck-
ley’s has been fighting vigorous com-
petitors on each side of it in the same
street. Stocks, buying and trading policy
have had to change with the times. In
the old days the store had a sedate busi-
ness, and had built around itself a very
profitable trade in imported high-class
fashion goods. Its competitors and
neighboring chain stores brought the
elbowing and pushing crowds ; it took
time for the old firm to reach out and get
them tumbling through its doors.
Shareholders of vintage 1929 and
earlier could tell the younger members
just how in those days smaller turnovers
gave bigger net profits. Today, managing-
director Rye says expenses are higher,
mainly in respect of wages, up 8 p.c. last
year. Taxation has rocketed —land tax
in the 1941 period was £10,277, up from
£5450 in 1940. The previous year’s pro-
vision of £lO,OOO for income tax was
£3094 too light. When this year’s ac-
counts were drawn up Federal Treasurer
Chifley’s new taxation rates had not been
brought down, and extra provision might
need to be made on the £13,000 set aside
(£13,094 in 1939-40, £4457 in 1938-39).
As for the current term, it is pointed
out that undistributed profit should meet
the position, but shareholders are warned
that they must realise that the outlook
for a maintained or increased dividend is
problematical. With increasing overhead
and higher income and land taxes, to-
gether with Government intervention,
future earnings of Buckley’s, as of all
retail companies, may be seriously
affected. Now the Pacific war has started,
and rationing, acquisition of security
stocks, early closing and curtailment of
luxury industry and spending have been
mooted.
New stocks have been contracted for
six months ahead both in England and
Australia; but getting them now may be
another matter. In the luxury and fashion
sections the turnover rate in the last
term increased, and while in recent
years medium-priced competitive lines
have been added, Buckley’s still count,
too, on their selective clientele. Whether
they will now have the money to spend,
and whether the goods can be pro-
duced off the shelves, is doubtful, like
so many other things. In the competitive
lines departmental buyers of the firm will
need to take their place in the queue
with those of the other stores. On the
selling side, retailers don’t know yet
whether their customers will be pushing
over a few ration coupons with their
cash.
Balance-sheet movements compare as
follows:
1930. 1935. 1940. 1941.
Ord. capital. . £324,041 £324,041 £324,041 £324,041
Pref. capital. . 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Liabilities .. 268,673 376,820 386,868 387,381
Premises, etc. 411,044 468,089 501,309 497,573
Plant, etc. . . 83,465 96,320 113,328 108,847
Book debts .. 77,368 59,741 63,471 80,244
Stock.. .. 304,582 199,678 237,346 230,105
Cash, etc. .. 5,323 39,814 8,335 13,103
The amount due to outsiders exceeds
more or less liquids by £63,929, an im-
provement of £13,787. Stocks at £230,105
are down £7241, and debtors (£80,244)
are up £16,573, owing to increased sales,
heavier trading on lay-by and London
prepayment of goods. Another £5OOO was
added to Consols (£10,000).
The market prices the ordinary shares
at 18s. 6d., against 18s. a year ago. Return
is 6 p.c. on a 5| p.c. basis or 4.3 on the
old 4 p.c. div. Net tangible backing
for the ords. is 21s. lid., and for the
prefs. £3 7s. 3d.
Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
Added to Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£> & & &
1931.. 75,467 10 p.c. = 50,000 25,467 654,190
1932.. 89,353 10 „ ~50,000 39,353 603,543
1933.. 103,358 10 „ „ 50,000 63,358 746,901
1934.. 105,067 10 „ „ 50,000 55,067 801,968
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 .. 651,968
From hidden reserves, £50,000 .. 601,968
1935.. 102,837 8 p.c. = 60,000 42,837 644,805
1936.. 130,648 10 „ „ 75,000 1 . ou ,,
Staff bonus, £5OOO { 50,648 695,453
1937.. 126,284 8$ p.c. = 63,750 62,534 757,987
1938.. 150,506 9| „ „ 71,250 79,256 837,243
1939.. 143,764 10 „ „ 75,000 68,764 906,007
1940.. 137,289 10 „ „ 75,000 62,289 968,296
1941.. 185,928 10 „ ~75,000 110,928 1,079,224
The sharp spring of £48,639 shown there
in last year’s net earnings is due to the
fact that £60,000 was added to the reserve
for unexpired risks (now £510,000) during
the period. It is therefore subject,
like profits and reserves themselves, to
the further claims insurers may make in
respect of the record liabilities under-
taken last year and claims from previous
years. The business, most of which
is gathered throughout the Common-
wealth and Maoriland, spreads out
over the Pacific and north to the
Indies and Southern Asia and to S.
Africa and Britain as well. The fortunes
of war eliminated the agencies at Paris,
Rotterdam and Antwerp from the list.
How many more of the co.’s outposts
will suffer a similar fate before the close
of next accounts remains to be seen.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, war did anything but
hamper earnings. In Australia building
activity was maintained at a high level,
merchants carried heavier stocks, pay-
rolls lengthened and higher rates were
charged for added marine risks. It is
all reflected in the marked increase of
£110,267 in the year’s net premium in-
come : —•
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Claims. Expensgs.f Rate. Rate.
1895. . £40,681 £28,703 £13,058 70.7 p.c. 32.1 p.c.
1915.. 240,849 118,126 81,098 49.0 „ 33.6 „
1930.. 774,560 485,040 306,804 62.6 „ 39.8 „
1935.. 497,893 245,325 203,809* 49.2 „ 40.9 „
1936. . 541,736 268,948 200,908* 49.6 „ 37.1 „
1937.. 610,979 324,500 221,573* 53.1 „*36.2 „
1938.. 691,771 364,631 239,487* 52.7 „ 34.6 „
1939.. 728,792 381,557 271,976* 52.3 „ 37.3 „
1940.. 743,309 382,520 296,822* 51.4 „ 39.9 „
1941.. 853,576 406,595 334,316* 47.6 „ 39.1 „
* Excludes taxes, etc., on returns from investments
£10,577, 1935; £BO9B, 1936 ; £8593, 1937;
£10,938, 1938 ; £16,755, 1939 ; £20,895, 1940;
£26,639, 1941.
f Including contributions to staff fund.
Of each £lOO of net premiums, claims
took £3 16s. less than for the previous
term, the loss rate being among the best
experienced by the co. since the eighties
of last century. Moreover, the bigger
business was written at 16s. less cost,
despite an increase of £29,746 in the tax


INVENTORS. —Have vou an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * =r *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated bv
A W DYE & COMPANY 7 , T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt. ,
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. Advt.
Tenders.
TENDERS are invited for the purchase on a
cash basis, or alternatively a half-cash basis,
balance within six calendar months, on a walk-
in-walk-out basis, of the property known as
“The Victory Mine,” comprising various
Mineral Leases and situated at Wolfram Camp.
This is -a well-known property, having produced
many tons of Wolfram, Molybdenite and Bis-
muth and is now in working order. 111-health
and old age is reason for owner's selling.
Tenders close at the office of the undersigned
on the 10th January, 1942, at 12 o’clock noon.
Highest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
Tenders must be accompanied by a deposit of
5 PA " R. J. GALLAGHER,
Solicitor, Box 81, Cairns.
f
1
Y^V.
t
"P«K
A Small folder that
suggests a defence
programme for yourself
SENDING for a copy of this folder will cost you only a twopenny
stamp, yet the reading of it should enable you greatly to
strengthen your financial position and make your future secure.
Life assurance is buying money on time-payment for future
delivery, with the advantage that should you die earlier than you
now expect, the money will be paid over to your heirs in full.
The extraordinary benefits of the A.M.P. plan for buying
money” are set out in this folder. Use this coupon to secure a
free copy of it.
To the AM.?. Society.
Please send me a free copy of "Buying Money.” I should like to
study it. *
Name
Address
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.B.E. Chairman of the Principal Board
A. W. Sneddon, F.I.A. .. General Manager and Actuary
C. M. Martin Chief Inspector and Secretary
A. E. Webb Manager for New South Wales
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart and Canberra, A.C.T.
District Offices throughout all States.
Correct belt tension, the all important factor
in power transmission with belting, can now
be automatically controlled by Ludowici
Pivot and Torque Drives a great step up
in belt drive efficiency.
The 23 different stock sizes and types of
Ludowici Pivot and Torque Drives cover
every possible application. Increase pro-
duction, eliminate belt slip, lengthen belt
and bearing life by installing an A.T.C.
drive in your plant.
Victorian Office : 20 Queen's Bridge Street,
SOUTH MELBOURNE. Agents All States
1
ISP^
i.
:
u
m
LU9fiWtei A.Y.C. 0«IV»
mmm
tm
Z
U
: *uO&
1
YORK si-
Mi
bill (£76,763). The underwriting surplus
was £48,697 better at £112,664, equal to
15 p.c. on capital. The net return from
investments (£73,264, down £5B) was 9.7
p.c. on capital, making the net return
from all sources a juicy 24.7 p.c. as
against 18.3, 19.1, 20, 16.8, 17.3 and 13.7
p.c. back to 1935. The cautious manage-
ment kept the div at 10 p.c., leaving
nearly 60 p.c. of the year’s net earnings
in the business, thus lifting reserves
£329,224 higher than the £750,000 of
share capital. Though subject to uh-
expired risks, it is a very strong position
from the shareholders’ point of view.
Nor have policy-holders any need to
feel anxious either. Consider these
figures:—
, 1940 v- 1941 ■n
p.c. p.c.
Gov. secui'ities . . £1,115,890 44.2 £1,341,659 46.8
Municipal see’ties 62,929 2.5 62,929 2.2
Deposits, cash,
sundry debtors,
etc .. 1,045,283 41.4 1,142,121 39.8
Premises.. .. 302,636 11.9 321,399 11.2
Total assets ..£2,526,738 100.0 2,868,008 100.0
Liabilities* . . 770,942 1,01)1,386
Net assets . . £1,755,796 1,866,622
* Including’ provision for contingencies.
Most of the money that became available
during the year went into Government
securities, up £225,769. After allowing
for payment of the final div., net tangibles
were equal to 216 p.c. of the year’s net
premiums, whereas 150 p.c. is usually
considered adequate. Also, owing to the
strong cash position, the co. is well
equipped to promptly meet much heavier
claims than it has yet experienced.
Exactly how war with Japan will affect
the business it is impossible to say at the
moment. Premium income, especially
from Southern Asia and the Indies, will
be affected, and how marine risks will
turn out nobody knows. Costs and taxa-
tion will continue to mount.
At 50s. (545. a year ago) the pound
shares, covered by 48s. Bd. in net tan-
gibles, give an immediate return of 4
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Mount Morgan has put in the best
monthly return for something approach-
ing two years. The “Wild Cat” several
moons ago advised the steady increase in
values, mostly from the gold section.
Plans for a refinery at the mine appear
to be much in the air, but as a self-
contained unit handling crude ore to
electrolytic, with possibly sulphuric acid
as a sideshow, and superphosphates
thrown in, it is much in the mind of the
Central Queensland Development League,
which sent representatives to Canberra
lately to push its claims with the Federal
Cabinet. Essington Lewis flew there
lately, no doubt to be in a position to
give Cabinet the low-down on the propo-
sition.
* * * *
Butler Block, on Charters Towers
(N.Q.), attempting a comeback on the
Black Jack plan, has not yet gladdened
supporters. There is much report around
the town of the striking of promising
leaders with good walls in dark diorite
formation. Mineralisation by galena is
in evidence, and apparently much local
faith is pinned thereon as a favorable
indication.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) is still without
payable values in its deepest (No. 31)
level. So far, about 300 ft. of driving has
been done from the bottom of a winze
in ore showing little more than traces of
gold. A big blank was encountered in
one of the higher levels, but enrichments
in the workings below made up for it.
Sinking of the internal shaft, which is
now down 200 ft. below No. 30 level, is
slowed down owing to the want of skilled
miners.
* * * *
An every-care - but -no - responsibility
opinion of Hill 50, expressed by a Perth
broking firm after “consideration of in-
formation gained from reliable resources,”
suggests that the shares represent a sound
and attractive investment. But investors
in Mt. Magnet goldmining ventures
shouldn’t forget that that field has never
won a prize for deep-seated payable
auriferous deposits.
Jjc * * *
Westralia has another fair-sized gold-
mining plant and equipment for sale.
Lancefield’s was disposed of a few
months ago, and now Mt. Magnet’s is
on offer. It is only a few years since
the latter was given a trial run to the
accompaniment of popping gold-top corks
and the cheers of feasting politicians,
newspapermen and other inviteds. Im-
poverishment of values at a comparative
shallow depth was, as the “Wild Cat”
said recently, the reason for closing down.
* * * ¥
Shortage of labor is decreasing out-
puts —and increasing costs —of Westra-
lian goldmines. Some outback, notably
the Youanmi, are in danger of closing
down on account of this. The Minister
for Mines says that scarcity of key men
is desperate. He has gone to Canberra
to see what can be done to keep the
industry going in top gear.
* * * *
London: Youanmi directors cir-
cularise shareholders that the Westralian
goldmining situation has become so dif-
ficult owing to conditions arising out of
the war that the moment has come to
refer the whole position to shareholders.
Co. was formed in 1934. It has an issued
capital of £599,300 —£250,000 7 p.c. cumu-
lative participating pref. and £349,300
ord. No dividend has yet been paid.
* * * *
Retreatment of Gt. Boulder No. 3
dump of old tailings having continued to
show a loss—the deficit from May to
August being £4212 sterlings—Golden
Horseshoe commenced on Gt. Boulder’s
No. 2 dump at the beginning of Novem-
ber. Approximately 51,000 tons was
cyanided that month for a yield of bul-
lion worth £A11,280. Working profit on
joint account was £A4564.
* * *
Yellowdine Gold Areas (W.A.) is
taking out some remaining isolated
patches of visible payable ore from its
Newfield Central mine and is looking for
other wealth in deeper ground. So far
its finds have been nothing to blow about.
At its new mine, at Evanston, the lode
appears, according to recent official
report, to have been cut where it is big
and poor. Development is proceeding,
and the management hopes for the best.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold production is on the
down-grade, that for the expired 11
months of 1941 at 1,015,2900 z. being
90,0000 z. short of the total for the Jan.-
Nov. period of 1940. Determination on
the part of producers, hardest hit by the
English excess-profits tax, not to exceed
certain ouput figures is said to be one of
the main reasons for the fall. Lower re-
turns from some and stoppage of pro-
duction from other mines is another.
Value of production of Tindals Gold
Mines (W.A.) for September quarter was
£A25,677, compared with £A34,250 for
the previous three months. Working
profit was £A1628, against £A10,314.
Difficulties were experienced in the Sep-
tember quarter in connection with treat-
ment and were not overcome until to-
wards the end of August. This accounted
fer the lower return and a tumble in
profit. With a view to improving ton-
tage and earnings, additional milling
plant and other helps are being installed.
Development of the mine is stated to be
proceeding satisfactorily,
* * * *
Tanami Gold Mining Syndicate, for-
merly of Tanami, Centralia, and now in-
terested in East and South African mines,
reports a loss of £8721 last year, corn-
pared with a debit of £5299 for the pre-
vious 12 months. Co.’s best asset is a
wad of shares in the Rosterman Gold-
mine, Kenya.


PROVIDES THE SAME COMFORT AND SAFETY AS CITY SEWERAGE
WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY.
Besides TYPHOID, DYSENTERY and serious diseases, many minor affections
such as SEPTIC CUTS, SORE EYES, CHILLS and COLDS can be traced to
unhygienic closets.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN.
All matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine and runs off into the soil.
It eliminates closet pans and saves sanitary rates.
IT PREVENTS THE SPREAD OF THE BLOWFLY PEST.
There is no emptying or unpleasant jobs. Any handyman can instal it.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Approved by the Board of Health and is fully guaranteed. Over 1700 in use.
Write or telephone for illustrated pamphlet
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Pty. Ltd. SYUNEV '
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.b. SYDNEY, including 10% Sales Tax.
Plus 20/- war surcharge; crating, if necessary, 10/6 extra.
Obtainable direct from us or all leading stores , pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
Legal Notices.
PATRICK JOSEPH RYAN deceased (who died about
Ist October, 1935) Pursuant to a DECRETAL
ORDER of the Supreme Court of the State of New
South Wales in its Equitable Jurisdiction dated the
24th May 1940 (as amended by an Order of the 21st
November 1941) and made in a Suit (No. 25 of
1940) intituled “In the matter of the Estate of
PATRICK JOSEPH RYAN formerly of TAHMOOR
in the said State now deceased, Between THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Plaintiff, and JOHN RYAN,
Defendant” whereby the following enquiry was
directed, viz.: —Who were the persons entitled
according to the Statutes for the distribution of
intestate estates to the estate of the abovenamed
PATRICK JOSEPH RYAN deceased living at his
death and whether any of them are since dead and
if so who are their legal representatives—Notice is
hereby given that all persons claiming to be entitled
under the said enquiry are to send by post prepaid
to the undersigned so as to reach him on or before
30th June 1942 their full Christian and Surnames
addresses and descriptions and full particulars of
their claims or in default thereof they will be ex-
cluded from the benefit of the said Decretal Order
unless the Court or a Judge thereof or the Master
in Equity on application otherwise orders. Claimants
are to attend personally or by their Solicitor before
the Master in Equity at the Supreme Court Elizabeth
Street Sydney Australia on Tuesday 28th July 1942
at 11 o’clock in the forenoon being the time appointed
for adjudicating upon the claims. A claimant not
residing in New South Wales must send with particu-
lars of his claim the name and address of a person
in New South Wales to whom notices to the claimant
can be sent.
Dated 26th day of November, 1941.
(Sgd.) A. W. HYMAN, Solicitor for the Public
Trustee, 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
John George Parker Deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court of
New South Wales in Equity made in suit No.
99 of 1941 In the Estate of John George Parker
formerly of Tottenham in the State of New South
Wales Selector deceased WHEREBY it was directed
viz.: —Who were the persons entitled according to
the Statutes for the Distribution of Intestate Estates
to the estate of the abovenamed John George Parker
deceased living at his death and whether any of
them have since died and if so who are their legal
personal representatives NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN
that all persons claiming to be entitled under the
said enquiry are to send by post prepaid to Messieurs
G. C. Driffield and Hodby Solicitors Condobolin or
their Town Agent Mr. Frederick H. Greaves Solicitor
92 Pitt Street Sydney so as to reach them or him
before the twenty-eighth day of February 1942 their
full Christian and surnames addresses and descrip-
tions and full particulars of their claims or in
default thereof they will be excluded from the benefit
of the said Order. The Claimants are to attend per-
sonally or by their Solicitor before the Master in
Equity at his Chambers Supreme Court Elizabeth
Street Sydney on the first day of April 1942 at
10 o’clock in the forenoon. A Claimant not residing
in New South Wales must send with particulars of
his or her claim the name and address of a person
in New South Wales to whom notice to the Claimant
may be sent.
DATED this eighth day of December 1941.
G. O. DRIFFIELD & HODBY, Solicitors, Con—
dobolin; by their Sydney Agent, FREDERICK H
GREAVES, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.; F. E. Loxton, Esa.:
Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., 0.M.G.; E. E. D. White, Esq.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
♦f The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
Wanted to Sell or ‘To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Returned soldier wants work in the country,
N.S.W. coast district preferred. Carpenter
(heavy construction), good motor driver, handy
all-round man.—3olB.
N.c.o.’s wife, aged 50, coming to Melbourne
early in 1942, would like accommodation for
self, in return for caretaking or light service.—
3109.
To buy No. 1, Vol. 1, of the “Australian
Museum Magazine.”—3ll2.
To buy books on goldfish, goldfish culture
and fresh-water aquariums.—3ll3.
Information Sought.
What was the exact wording of the Instru-
ment of Abdication of Edward VIII? —3149.
“I, Edward VIII, of Great Britain, Ireland
and the British Dominions beyond the Seas,
King, Emperor of India, do hereby declare my
irrevocable determination to renounce the
Throne for myself and for my descendants,
and my desire that effect should be given to this
Instrument of Abdication immediately. In
token whereof I have hereunto set my hand
this tenth day of December, nineteen hundred
and thirty-six, in the presence of the witnesses
whose signatures are subscribed. (Signed)
Edward R.I. My execution of this Instru-
ment has been witnessed by my three brothers,
their Royal Highnesses the Duke of York,
the Duke of Gloucester and the Duke of Kent.
* * » w
Symptoms and treatment of hookworms in
dogs ? —3lll.
Hookworms are rarely seen by the layman.
They are exceedingly fine and shaped like a
fishing hook, hence the name. If allowed to
increase they are most dangerous. They attack
the liver and heart. Symptoms: The dog
becomes thin, lacks the joy of life, and coat
harsh and staring. He may become partially
paralysed. The treatment consists of starving
for 24 hours, then give one grain of freshly-
ground areca nut per pound weight of dog,
but not more than two drachms. This should
be given in a cachet. Follow in half an hour
with a little warm milk or clear soup. In
a further two hours give from a dessertspoon-
ful to a tablespoonful, according to size of
dog, of castor oil.
* * * *
(1) What is ordinary washing blue made
from ? (2) Has it been used successfully as a
drench for worms in horses or sheep? —2BB7.
(1) Washing blue is thought to be manufac-
tured from carbon sulphur, sodium carbonate
and aluminium silicate, but the process is a
trade secret. (2) No record of its use as a
worm drench for sheep or horses, but it is un-
likely to be of any value for this purpose.
* * * *
Best means of disposing of the effluent from
a septic tank in impervious soil over a shale
bottom ? —2948.
Where soil is heavy and of a clay nature dis-
posal is difficult, and can be done satisfactorily
only where there is a sufficient area of land
available to deal with the quantity to be dis-
posed of. A lot depends on the site and the
septic-tank installation, but generally the fol-
lowing methods may be used: If the disposal
area is well away from habitation or public
place, rotational irrigation over broken-up
ground may be carried out. See that the top
layer of the soil is well worked by ploughing,
and have the effluent discharged over parts of
the area at different periods by means of open
channels. When one part of the area becomes
saturated rest it and allow evaporation and
other natural agencies to operate before using
the same area again. Take steps to prevent
flooding of the area by storm water from higher
ground; this is essential. If this is carried
out on a fairly large scale, lucerne or other
moisture-absorbing crops may profitably be
grown between the irrigation channels on the
area. With a small household installation,
where there is a smaller quantity of effluent to
be disposed of, the same method may be
adopted by working the area by spade and
growing garden crops on the area. However,
do not use a disposal area to grow salad
vegetables or any plants that are to be eaten
raw, such as tomatoes or lettuce. Another
method of disposal in impervious soil is by
absorption trenches. Trenches in such soil
should be no deeper than 2ft. 6in. by 2ft. wide
and filled to the ground surface with broken,
hard stone. Both ground surface and the
bottom of the trench should be level so that
the effluent does not tend to empty at one
point. As the effluent rises in the trench liquid
evaporates, and as this may take place very
slowly adequate aeration of the trench is neces-
sary in addition to a sufficient holding capacity.
Aeration may be assisted by laying an agri-
cultural drain line with open joints in the
broken stone about 6in. from the ground sur-
face, with the effluent discharging into this drain
hne from the outlet pipe line of the septic
tank. If more than one trench is necessary
the effluent should empty by pipe line near the
top of the first trench into the second trench
and in a similar way for any number of
trenches. Whatever methods are adopted take
care that there is no likelihood of contaminat-
ing any water supply or source of water supply.
Septic-tank installations in N. S. Wales must be
approved by the local authority and by the
Board of Health.
* * * *
At Concord ( Sydney ) there is a plague of
small red spiders in gardens and lawns which,
when they get on the body, cause intense irrita-
tion. What are they, and how can they be
destroyed ? — 3137.
They are red spider, a pest which thrives in
dry weather such as prevails at present. This
mite is non-poisonous, and varies in color from
light to dark red. It thrives and breeds on the
underside of the leaves of vegetables and
flowers, rotting woodwork and refuse. Spray-
ing with diluted quassia chips or weak kero-
sene emulsion will destroy it. Besides treating
plants and lawn it is essential to gather and
burn all refuse. Stakes and wooden supports
should be dipped in kerosene. Three days
after treatment the plants can be washed down
either by hose or watering-can. Two or three
treatments will get rid of the pest.
* * * *
(1) Where can I obtain plans for building
the Vee-Jay type of sailing boat? (1) Is ply-
wood a suitable material for constructing these
craft? — 3043.
(1) Plans obtainable from Sil Rohu, 143
Elizabeth-street, Sydney. (2) Ordinary ply-
wood is not suitable for building the Vee-Jay,
but proofwood, whch is plywood stuck together
with bakelite, is ideal. Obtainable from F.
Rose, Ltd., Mentmore-avenue, Rosebery, Syd-
ney.
* * * *
(1) Where and when was Miss L. M. Mont-
gomery, the authoress, born and educated?
(2) Complete list of her works in order of
sequence? (3) Where does she live? — 3036.
(1) Mrs. L. M. Montgomery MacDonald,
0.8. E., F.R.S.A., was born at Clifton, Prince
Edward Island, 1874. Educated at Prince of
Wales College and Dalhousie College. Married,
1911, Rev. Ewan MacDonald, Presbyterian
clergyman. Lived till her marriage on a P.E.
Island farm, taught in school for three years and
wrote for periodicals. Moved to Ontario in 1911.
(2) Anne of Green Gables (1909), Anne of Avon-
lea, Anne of the Islands, Anne’s House of
Dreams, Chronicles of Avonlea, Kilmeny of the
Orchard, The Story Girl, The Golden Road,
Rainbow Valley, The Watchman (poems), Rill a
of Ingleside, Emily of New Moon, Emily
Climbs, The Blue Castle, Emily’s Quest, Magic
for Marigold, Aunt Becky Began It, Pat of
Silver Bush, Mistress Pat, Anne of Windy
Willows, Jane of Lantern Hill, Anne of Ingle-
side (1940). (3) Address, 210 a, Riverside Drive,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
* * * *
(1) Has Maurice McCarten ever ridden a
winner of the Melbourne or Caulfield Cup ? (2)
What are the principal events he has ridden
winners of? (3) Has he ever ridden for F.
McGrath? (4) Principal stables he rides for?
(5) Age and where born ? (6) How long in
Australia? (7) Address? —3o4o.
M. McCarten supplies the answers as fol-
lows: (1) No. Scored a couple of places, and
that’s about all. (2) Practically every important
M.L. event, including a couple of N.Z. Cups,
an Auckland Cup, a Wellington Cup and three
Derbies. In Australia, three Brisbane Cups, two
Australian Cups, two Sydney Cups, two
Epsoms, a Metropolitan and seven Derbies.
(3) Yes, won on Denis Boy in the Metropoli-
tan in 1932. (4) No first call, but does a
lot of riding for the G. Price stable. (5)
Age 39. Born at Hawera, M.L. (6) First
visited Australia in 1923, and been here per-
manently since 1926. (7) Randwick is sufficient.
* * * *
(1) Match record of the first "All Blacks”
(M.L.) Rugby Union team in Great Britain in
1905-06 ? (2) Scores in Test matches ? (3)
Facts about the defeat by Wales; also the
referee in that match? —2114.
(1) Played 33; won 32, lost one; points
for 868, against 47. (2) Defeated Scotland
12-7, Ireland 15-0, England 15-0, lost to Wales
3-0. (3) The referee disallowed a try scored
by R. G. Deans on the ground that the player
was “held up” on the line. The incident was
the theme of bitter newspaper correspondence.
Deans’s version of the try was given in a
telegram to London “Daily Mail”: “Grounded
ball six inches over line. Some of Welsh
players admit try. Hunter and Glasgow [M.L.
players] can confirm was pulled back by
Welshman before referee arrived.” The referee
in that match was J. D. Dallas (Scotland).
(1) When did Australasia first win the Davis
Cup challenge rounds, and whom did the side
defeat ? (2) Who were the Australasian singles
and doubles tennis champions in 1905-6-7-8 ?
—3131.
(1) Australasia’s first success was at Wimbledon
(England) in 1907, when British Isles was de-
feated by 3-2. This was followed by wins over
America at Melbourne by 3-2 in 1908, America
at Sydney by 5.0 in 1909 and America at
Christchurch (M.L.) by 5.0 in 1911. (2)
Singles: 1905, R. W. Heath (Vic.); 1906, A. F.
Wilding (M.L.); 1907, H. M. Rice (N.S.W.);
1908, F. B. Alexander (U.S.A.). Doubles:
1905, T. Tatchell and R. Lycett (Vic.); 1906,
A. F. Wilding (M.L.) and R. W. Heath (Vic.);
1907, H. A. Parker and W. A. Greig (N.S.W.);
1908, F. B. Alexander (U.S.A.) and A. W.
Dunlop (Vic.).
* * * *
(1) When the ball hits the referee during a
football match, what is the ruling? (2) What
happens when the ball hits the umpire in a
cricket match? —3114.
(1) Law 30 says: “If the ball or a player
carrying it touch the referee in the [football]
field of play a scrummage shall be ordered at
that place If a player cross his opponents’
goal-line with the ball in his possession and,
before grounding it, touch the referee, a try
shall be awarded at that place.” (2) It is the
cricket umpire’s duty to avoid being hit by the
ball, but if he should be struck (“the umpire
is not a boundary” under M.C.C. rules) the
runs scored by the batsman are credited to
him on the scoreboard.
* * * *
(1) Where did Lillywhite’s cricket team play
its matches in the Australasian tour of 1876-77 ?
(2) What were the odds they played against ?
(3) Result of the tour ? —2003.
(1) Nine matches were played in Australia,
then eight in Maoriland, and the tour ended
with six matches in Australia. (2) Two matches
(v. Australia) and one (v. N.S.W. —the first time
an Australian team played England on level
conditions) were 11-aside; N. S. Wales (two
matches) and Victoria (one) had 15 players;
Canterbury and Otago had 18 players; the
other matches were against odds of 22. (3)
Played 23; won 11, lost four, drawn eight.
Brief Answers.
C.A.1.: On the facts stated you have a
good claim. See a solicitor B.McL.D.:
“Aid.” is the abbreviation of both the singular
and plural forms of the word alderman; there-
fore the use of “aids.” as a plural abbrevia-
tion is incorrect C.F.W.L.: Federal Trea-
surer Chifley is 56, has been in Parliament
years, and was at one time an enginedriver
and industrial advocate for the A.F.U.L.E.
During his first term in Parliament he was a
member of the Public Accounts Committee of
the Parliament. In 1935 and 1936 he was a
member of the Royal Commission on Banking.
Since the outbreak of war he has been a
member of the Capital Issues Advisory Board,
Board of Inquiry Into Cash Orders and Hire
Purchase and the War Workers’ Housing Trust.
.... F.T.W.: Know of no important matches
played along those lines. It is a makeshift to
meet the situation of one player short for a
doubles match, and it is generally more satis-
factory to play a series of singles matches.
The usual practice is to have each player in
turn take the service against the other two
teamed together at the receiving end. Play
the singles court at the service end and the
doubles court at the receiving end. Two points
awarded for each game—two points to the server
if he wins his game and one point each to the
receiving pair should they win, with the first
player with five points to his credit winning the
match G.R.A.: From your description of
the characters the decorations on the vase prob-
ably represent scenes from Dickens. Friends
who have read Dickens should be able to
identify them for you J.S.N.: You have
been misled about the municipal baths at
Kempsey; actually they are in the centre of
the town and a clear quarter of a mile at least
from the river M.P.R.: Scarcely worth
the expense of anything more elaborate.
The gear you have should be adequate
A.W.H.: Payment would be made for such
items if accepted. Address in the usual way
to the editor A.G.F.: Not unusual to have
trouble with cartridge cases jamming in the
breech of that type of small-calibre semi-auto-
matic rifle. Keep the breech and bolt thoroughly
clean and oiled with a suitably thin oil. Best
means of removing the jammed case is a large
screw or nail filed to a chisel shape to fit the
small gap provided at the top of the rim of the
breech. Inserted into the gap this gives a pur-
chase on the rim of the case, allowing it to be
drawn back into the open breech. Cases can,
of course, be knocked out with a wire ramrod.
S.K.L.: Absolute humidity is the mass of
water vapor contained per unit volume. Relative
humidity is the ratio of the quantity of water
vapor present to that which would be necessary
to bring about the condition of saturation
T.C.H.: Mound-building birds are not
confined to Australia. They range to Samoa
in the east, the Philippines in the north and
the Nicobar Islands in the west, but they are
not found in the large islands west of the
Celebes in the East Indies. Australia has three
varieties —the scrub fowl, the brush turkey and
the mallee hen... .S.C.U.: Blinky Bill is by
The Verderer from Lady Clara. No record of
his performances as a two-year-old or a three-
year-old, but as a four-year-old he had three wins,
two dead-heats for first, a second, a third and
was unplaced in four races. As a five-year-old he
scored three wins, four seconds and a third
and was unplaced in 12 races R.J.G.: The
largest Indian diamond is the Great Mogul.
Its original weight was 787| carats, but it was
badly flawed, and the present cut stone is only
240 carats. Brazilian stones on the whole are
small, seldom more than one carat, but of ex-
cellent quality. Their largest stone, the Star
of the South, weighed carats. The Borneo
stones, too, are usually small and of good
quality, and they have produced a 77-carat
stone. In South Africa there is one mine alone
which has produced at least seven stones of
more than 300 carats. Their largest was the
Cullinan, originally 3025 f carats. Its shape
indicated that it was portion of an immense
stone more than twice this weight.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused :
K.L.:
What’s this I hear? The Japanese
Are moving out across the seas,
And aim to lay pernicious paws
Upon our fair Pacific shores ?
A. 8.:
Have confidence, my people,
For I will have you realise
That all your fighting forces
Are fully mobilised.
. ...A.V.N..: Indistinguishable from any other
lament for the good old days... .PJ.I.:
stumped M.R.G.: Why do you say “O
heigh!”? J.S.C.: Bright, but it’s an ancient
wheeze J.A.M.: Cryptic and decrepit
R.W.: Not far off W.L.8.: As an academic
pastoral it might have some merit if it weren’t
for that dreadful line about “vermin and
noxious weeds” Austral: Maybe they’d go
down (elsewhere) as popular rhymes, if you cut
the last-war note throughout D.T.: Not a
hope E.C.McK.: One among scores
P.K.: Keep that bee in your bonnet
E.M.8.: Much too slight N.C.: And “The
Valley” is empty F.M.: Neither of those.
A.J.H.MacD.: There’s no reward
R.F.T.: Still too far away J.S.: Flapper
fodder F. 8.8.: Feeble... .P.M.L.: You’ve
been reading too many Yankee magazines
R.D.F.: No room for “Peace on Earth”....
B.K.H. (England) and S.E.D. (Scotland): All
well off our beat... .R.W.: Try it elsewhere....
W.N.W.: Wordy.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.S.: That sprawling style and crazy line-
work will lead you into the artistic wilderness.
D.L.S.: Decision given against your
boxing-ring drawing on a technical k.o
E. 8.: Get more depth into your work to elimi-
nate the maddeningly flattish appearance
W.G.: Doris appears to have been constructed
of wax and then left out in the sun E.H.S.:
Women with hips like a carpet-snake’s and
knock-kneed dogs don’t interest us M.SJ.:
Can’t tell whether your lofty spud-digger has
an outsized Adam’s apple or a goitre
N.W.T.: Heads fair, but you will not be judged
until you’ve added bodies to them P.C.:
Smudges, blots, scratches, blurred lines and
lifted gags don’t make a cheque-pulling com-
bination J.G.: Blithered gent, who offers
his overcoat to park statue must be getting
weary of his constant journeyings to this
address G.N.: Stolid H.C.: Fewer and
more emphatic lines, please, and puncture all
the balloons you hang over their heads....
H.L.T.: Artistically you are still at the rattle-
and-diaper stage.


•mwm
:a
mma
OJI
**
1
mm
mt
S 3
\H A CO
h
Wf&
rr^Aoe.
r
as
*
fH
§s
m
£tr
i
k >n£ pm£ s ’ r-
Va >_ *•'•0 ftoi-rtxo e
S & CO.
§g^r y ° NEV AU
i
Sfis
s
i
£
m
fa
;TL
I
FOR A HAPPY CHRISTMAS
I
SB
ftft&fi
204
FP


An Australian-built Bristol Beaufort in. flight
:
in
111
desert
the
I*l
i
euvres
in
mano
Vi'dst
on
WM
:cd
sv> e
Carrier
at
x : :: :
V"\,
v ♦ .
: s vi? IS 1 ilil
■
ii
~ * * V •■
:.V
• *, '
® A .^BB9
corners of tf)e
jjjfcijrlx’: r?• -/fly . I
5%? :
K *
!§§l«
<*
m
* v-
i i
ill
:4k
■RS?" u ?“V ■ ■ j
_ / v k ._ ■'■ -•
ll’’:' ■ ' x
' ™ y>: #£> $ *' vo k & ',A . sfep VA ,X 2$ ■* Xy,<- N
v r-v - " -\- ,
>N ~ ,
HI
:X:';/-„ :
lllllilll^^Bpjl!
44kk?Sklk:
m
!l!ljj§
T % W&& %
>. .<£. ifr.fr f-'
IP!
pi
. m
m
E. 2.1.55.4.
■
Pi*
v 'X
Wm,
111 fiigititii?
ii, flappi
•MMmxmk
Hill!
ed to
:
in the de sert ’
»nd «g*s
r^ G “ n pVovide^f;
-SSppXi
ns
i
1
m
m
m
:•
wm
mmm
'km
ZyAAAyfAM-:-
WSwSw:::
mmm
■ ’
'
m \
1 1
m
oi a l arge
a corner
in
trcar co
machitvcf^
:
bree
3.7-tn
S:
i'SSSiiSiSSiiJiii
The story of Australia’s Second World War
will be one of valour of fighting men and
of technicians.
After all, perhaps it is not incongruous to e
that the brothers of the world’s finest fighting
Inserted
The BROKEN HIU ASSOCIATED
The ELECTROLYTIC REFINING and SME
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC COMP


tipi*
ilifiliitiiffS
More hard-hitting Bristol Beaufort Bombers now being built in Australia
to give the R.A.A.F. new power in the Pacific
mmm- fmmmmmmwmxmmimx
I li
3
mmmm
880$
?: ss
111
i mm
3 m
s .* ■
r *' i
I **
ff 88888^
:i
m
m
m
m
mSS,
Th
mmm
: mZ, r .. n ti m, „
Jg: ,; /
5®«W
D
estr
2 Ver xx,:
h
er
£ ll ns
Mat**JL r 2inerl
and
ms
read
y for
actio
■
s mm
* V
ip
K
m
m
m
*
m
w P
kl
ail nch
in,,
an
l/s fr a /
nin
VV
ars/,
P.
I*
p
m
• ■ ■
s::
mmm.
mm
» U ::£•!* •
SSSSSSIHS
PP
tm
mm
■■MU
.
timms
■ll
im
j
a
im
Ins
' fact
Final check on Australian-made A. A. Gun
ory
&s®&«siB®sm&Zß£i%wi&BBZ3ssisss&&ssssmssss&MsxaBss
should prove themselves second to none in the
world in the production of war material.
It now behoves every individual Australian to see
that his or her effort —no matter how small —in this
war is the utmost, that the magnificient work of the
fighting forces and our arsenals is worthily supported.
te to the Fighting Services
lELTERS PROPRIETARY LIMITED: PfSCTP
t Pirie, S.A.
>:ng company of Australia limited.- 02EEQD
mbla, N.S.W.
If of AUSTRALASIA LIMITED: FTKT3
>m, Tasmania


LYSAGHTS
m
PROOFS
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
*m
mm
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty,, Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Y "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
SPECIF
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
A Decade of Service.
“Dosem”: Sydney’s McMaster Animal
Health Laboratory has served its first
decade. It was built from funds donated
by the Dalkeith McMasters —breeders of
the famous merino sire David of Dal-
keith —when in 1929 the then Prime Minis-
ister, S. M. Bruce, said the Common-
wealth would staff and maintain such an
institution if sheepmen would provide
the building. Since its inception it has
been controlled by the C.S.I.R. First
officer in charge was I. Clunies Ross, and
since his resignation it has been under
D. A. Gill.
Ross did good work in the pioneering
stages, and it was largely due to him
that sheepmen throughout Australia were
persuaded to co-operate with the labora-
tory by granting flocks and herds upon
which field tests could be made.
The work was divided into two main
sections —parasitological research and
bacteriology. One of the first successes
was the discovery in 1935 that nicotine
sulphate and copper sulphate would settle
the small trichostrongyles (worms) which
caused persistent scouring and deaths in
young sheep. This marked a big step
forward in the fight against internal para-
sites, the biggest since the discovery of
carb. tet. for liver fluke.
Early the officers began to realise the
importance of nutrition on resistance to
parasites, and one discovery was that a
sheep that had suffered a heavy doing
from some particular stomach worm
while young would, if it survived, de-
velop a high resistance to that worm
when old —it could be drenched with as
many as 20,000 young worms a day with-
out suffering ill-effect —provided it was
on the right pasture. Taken off that
pasture its resistance collapsed at once.
Another discovery was the effect of
good pastures on productivity. There
was opposition by some who thought
that, since the merino lived on the western
plains, giving it improved pastures would
lower wool quality. The laboratory
knocked that belief on the head with
practical trials, wool yields on improved
areas jumping by 21b. a head and up to
331 b. an acre.
It was found that a drawback to the
treatment of parasites with drugs was
that if the drug went into the first
stomach it had lost its punch by the time
it reached the fourth stomach. But use
of copper sulphate put the drug straight
into the fourth stomach. Thus, by fol-
lowing a small dose of cop. sulph. with
(say) tetrachlorethylene small intestinal
worms could be dealt with.
Another service was to prove the value
of the new drug, phenothiazine, for in-
ternal parasites. It is the only drug for
nodule worms, and though its cost is
still high it is economical when used on
stock that fail to respond to other treat-
ments.
The M.A.H.L. has played a big part
in the war on the blowfly and has
obtained valuable information and re-
sults. It considers the Mules operation
the most outstanding performance in the
ceaseless war.
On the technical side there have been
advances, and recently the organism re-
sponsible for footrot and a way to beat
it were found. There were also the un-
shrinkable process for wool —10,000 pairs
of Air Force socks have been treated with
profit—and several other findings in con-
nection with wool and a progeny-testing
experiment, designed to give a better idea
of a ram’s progeny than could be judged
on the sire’s appearance. All this, and
more, testifies to a decade’s good work.
A Dipping Sermon.
“R. Ney”: A year’s tests by the Mc-
Master Laboratory (N.S.W.) have demon-
strated the reason why sheep, though
dipped religiously, frequently are tick-
infested within a few weeks. It seems
that the tick pupae can withstand the dip,
though it is fatal to adult ticks. Tests
were made with a variety of dipping
fluids at a variety of strengths.
Length of fleece has a lot to do with
it. Pupae on short-woolled sheep were
loosened by the dip, and had a tendency
to fall off, but those on long-woolled
“ Couldn't imagine Christmas dinner without a bit o poultry, Ma."
sheep—sheep dipped some time after
shearing—were held by the wool, so that
they could develop and reinfest the host.
Another test seemed to prove that in-
festation is likely to be heavier in young
sheep, also in adult sheep in poor nick.
A heavily-infested lot, in poor condition
and with 10-months’ wool, experienced
reduced infestation after two months on
good feed and fattened quickly. After
the two months, a lot of dead ticks were
found on the belly wool.
It was found, too, that merinos were
less infested than other breeds in the
same condition. In luly the test flocks
were lightly infested, but the ticks had
increased by shearing-time. In one flock,
which was not shorn, the ticks decreased
again by January, during the period of
good feed.
Shearing, of course, removed most of
the ticks from infested sheep, and it was
found that the remainder, with the pupae,
fell off when the sheep were dipped im-
mediately after shearing; in the flock
dipped six weeks after shearing infesta-
tion of pupae had increased but the dip-
ping got rid of them, which suggests that
a good dipping period is not later than
six weeks after shearing.
Vegetable Concentrates for Pigs.
“Huxave”: Victorian tests of linseed
meal and rape-seed meal added to grain
rations for pigs proved that linseed meal
could be safely substituted for two-fifths
of the meatmeal ration. Rape-seed meal
is not economical, but it can replace
about 50 p.c. of the meatmeal in the
ration. Both linseed and rape-seed con-
tain a high percentage of proteins, and
are classed as vegetable protein foods.
D. L. McEwin, Lameroo (S.A.), fed
one lot of pigs on a mixture of 40 p.c.
linseed meal and 60 p.c. meatmeal, and
another lot on meatmeal alone. Both
lots developed evenly. Going by weight,
food consumption was practically the
same. Cost of production was Is. per
pig less for those fed on the mixture.
At Gawler River (S.A.) I. H. and W.
D. Dawkins fed rape-seed meal alone
as a protein supplement; the pigs did
not thrive well, ate more grain in pro-
portion to increase and cost more to
develop. Other pigs fed on rape seed
and meatmeal on a 50-50 basis did better
but not so well as pigs fed on meatmeal.
Still More Bencubbin.
“B. Cubbin”: Deniliquin (N.S.W.) has
won a R.A.S. field wheat championship
at last, the grower being C. M. Moore
and the variety Bencubbin. It outpointed
crops in the more favored districts east
on the score of health, and was only a
bushel below the best in yield estimate.
The Riverina division, for R.A.S. pur-
poses, runs from Lockhart up to Barellan
and Ardlethan, thence back via Denili-
quin to somewhere west of Corowa. It
had a bad crop year, the 11 competing
crops averaging a little over 281 bushels
—they usually go somewhere about 33 —
and the best was a 36-bushel estimate for
a Waratah stand on W. H. Pietsch’s Wal-
bundrie farm. The winner’s estimate was
35 bushels.
Once again Bencubbin and Bordan
showed what they could do in a bad year,
though there were only two Bencubbins
against six Bordans among the winners.
Waratah, Ford and Ranee had a win
each. Rainfall during the growing period
ranged from 520 to 665 points, pretty
low, and though the southern portion got
only 50 points more than the northern
(in September) the effect was evident not
only in the crops but in pastures and
condition of stock.
Moore missed no chance of keeping
his fallow in good order, and hung off
seeding until he was satisfied with the
moisture under the mulch.
The Bordan effort was surprising in
such a season. It usually needs g°°
spring rains to finish well, but most
the winning crops were in the area tna
got that extra 50 points. Flag smu
showed up badly on Waratah, Baldmm
and Ranee, but there was hardly a sign
of it on Bordan, Bencubbin and Ford.
The paddock where was grown the
winning Bordan crop at Berrigan hac
failed the previous year and was not
touched until last autumn, except by
sheep. There was a fair growth of paddy-
melons. In mid-April, finding it in fair
condition, Thornton and Son began sow-
ing with a combine, using 581 b. of seed
and 501 b. of super, an acre. The Thorn-
ton theory is that the soil mellows m
the sun while it is resting from growing
things, and is therefore in a good state
to receive seed. He’s tried the method
before with fair success, and this year,
though germination was patchy, looks
like averaging at least eight bags.
“Fin Ley”: Bencubbin and Bordan
have done so well in N.S.W. that they’re
both worth remembering for next seed-
ing time. Bencubbin is popular for its
ability to yield well in dry times, its
refusal to take flag smut and its moderate
resistance to stem rust. Keep it off rich
country or paddocks liable to high rain-
fall, as it grows tall then and lodges
heavily. Moreover, the grain bleaches
easily. Though classed as a weak-flour
variety it serves up a bright grain of mod-
erately good flour strength when grown
in drier parts, where it can replace
Nabawa.
One development is that, because of
its popularity, there is so much of it that
millers are finding it hard to arrange
flour blends. More wheats of medium-
strong flour strength are required to
balance it.
Bordan is good for early sowing in
good rainfall districts, and needs a fair
rain in late spring to finish it off. It
grows tall, resists rust and smut fairly
well, and the grain is in the class needed
to balance Bencubbin. It is much like
Ford to look at, and in some parts will
outyield Ford, all things being equal,
though Ford finishes better if the spring
is a bit dry. Ford beats it as a hay
wheat on the quality score.
r
Composts,
“Brecko”: The organic matter of
compost contains all the elements of
potash, phosphate, nitrogen, copper and
manganese. Plant hormones are also
present. Since compost increases the
water-holding capacity, renders sandy


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN ISC3)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
SYDNEY OFFICE MANAGER : A. M. MURDOCH.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES', LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
jg|WK
H
■
For
immediate
Delivery
Consider the
Unusual Features
of the
“FREDLUNE”
Vertical Turret
Lathe
The “Fredline” Vertical
Turret Lathe is a
production lathe specially
suitable for non-ferrous
metals up to J" diameter
and steel up to f" dia-
meter. It can be used for
turning Nuts, Short Set
Screws, Special Parts re-
quiring Knurling, Counter
Boring and Recessing,
Special Washers up to f"
diameter, Clevis Pins, and
a thousand and one other
jobs in Brass, Bronze,
Aluminium, etc. Handles
Die Screwing and Tap-
ping work expeditiously.
Maximum speed, 2,250
r.p.m.
© The revolving turret has an eight-tool set up. © 6 speeds ahead—3 reverse.
• Speed, feed, and work-icontrol levers operated at high speed without fatigue.
• The vertical feed saves space.
Ask us to send full details, specifications, etc.
Sole Selling Agents All States—
WILLIAM ADAMS & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
RAP SON & DUTTON PTY. LTD
30L MANUFACTURERS
Motor and Diesel Engi
MACHINE
■al. Marin
General
eei
ne
VALLEY
BRISBANE
BRIDGE
STREET
TELEGRAMS: RAND" BRISBANt
'TELEPHONE B 2277,(3 LINES)
M -
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA -
fIetj' Ht **^** i f'
10 for lid.—2o for 1/10
ALSO IN FIFTIES
E 1866
MADE
SPECIALLY TO PREVENT !
soil more compact and clayey soil more
friable, it is worth trying.
Composts of highest nitrogen value are
made of young green grass, soft green
weeds, green legumes, legume crop
residues and animal manure. The green-
stuff can be replaced by market garden
waste, straw, stable bedding, prunings
and sawdust —sawdust is best “sweet-
ened” by mixing with ground limestone
at the rate of 701 b. per ton of dry saw-
dust. Acids formed during the rotting
process are neutralised by lime, burnt
ashes or soil ; 281 b. per ton of green
material is the right proportion.
The compost heap must be kept moist.
Rotting is speeded up by moderate pack-
ing to allow air penetration. Compac-
tion and loose packing should be avoided.
First put down a 6in. layer of straw,
lawn clippings, etc. On this sprinkle
251 b. of superphosphate or other phos-
phatic fertiliser, at the rate of 251 b. per
ton of dry material. When dry material
is used instead of green, add enough
water to moisten well, but not saturate ;
a thin slurry of animal manure is better
still. Next sprinkle the layer with lime
or ground limestone at 701 b. per ton of
dry matter.
Where green wastes are being com-
posted, use only 201 b. of lime per ton. If
animal manure is available spread a coat-
ing an inch thick over the first layer.
In this case, a good solid sprinkling of
soil must cover the lime before manure
is applied to avoid loss of ammonia. On
top of this again an inch layer of soil to
conserve moisture. Clayey soil is best.
Continue to build the heap by repeating
the layers till it is 3ft. to sft. high. Then
cover completely with an inch of soil or
old bags.
A warm heap should be turned over
after three to six weeks; a cool heap six
to twelve weeks. When all material is
completely, rotted, the compost is ready
for use.
The heap is best for areas of good
rainfall ; in dry areas the pit method is
best.
Two cubic yards of moist, ripe com-
post weighs about a ton.
The Sugar Banana.
“Mackay”: Sugar bananas are profit-
able for the “bunch” trade in Queens-
land. The plants need warm, alluvial
flats with good rainfall or irrigation and
good drainage.
The slender stems have to be guarded
against heavy winds. Where there are no
windbreaks growers can use double
borders of lady’s fingers planted 7ft.
apart in rows 7ft. apart. These rows
make an effective windbreak, but trees
of common windbreak character are best.
Before planting work the soil to a
depth of at least 12in., and reduce to as
fine a tilth as possible. Plant in holes
14ft. apart, 15in. deep and 18in. square.
Have the rows straight for easy culti-
vation. When choosing suckers, select
those about 4ft. high from well-matured
stools. Lop the top, leaving a plant about
3ft. high for the hole. When placed in
position, soil should be filled in around
the plant to about two-thirds of the
cavity; the remainder fills up as the
ground is cultivated.
First bunches should be ready for har-
vesting about 18 months after planting.
Moderate applications of farmyard
manure and turned-in Poona and cow-
peas are excellent soil stimulants. Thin
skin of sugar bananas makes careful
handling necessary.
Outback Occasions.
No. 15.
Treasure Trove.
The occasion of our discovery of the
cave and what it contained very nearly
changed the whole course of our life.
Our brother found it first. He was
out after rabbits among the rocks on
the low, shaly ridges at the back of
our place and one rabbit he shot at dived
in between a couple of boulders. Our
brother went to look for it and found a
hole about 2ft. wide going down into the
earth. At first he thought it was a fox’s
den, but he couldn’t smell any fox
smell. He got a big stick and waggled
it about in the hole, but nothing came
out, so he stuck his head and shoulders
in and struck a match.
Then he came down home and got me
and our father to come and have a look
with a hurricane lamp. Father got down
through the hole and we went in after
him and found ourselves in a cave about
as big as an 8-by-10 tent.
Father squatted with his back against
the wall and said, “By cripes, y’ know,
there might be a few bob in this. There
ain’t any caves within hundreds of miles
of here and people’d be willin’ t’ pay a
deener a time t’ have a look. If we could
get some old bones an’ blackfellers’
spears an’ things we might make a good
thing out of it.”
Father always had his eyes open for
good things, but our brother thought it
was a silly idea and said so. We were just
going to leave the cave when Father
said “What’s that?” We looked about
but couldn’t see anything. Father bent
down and shone the lantern on the floor.
It was covered with fine dust, but where
our footprints had shifted the dust the
floor was black and shiny. Father opened
his pocket-knife and poked at the floor,
but couldn’t get the blade in.
“Cripes,” he said, and we could tell
by his voice that something big was on.
He toid our brother to hurry down to
the house and get a pick. While we waited
Father talked about black marble and
its value and we had visions of a big
marble foundry on our place. Our
brother came back and Father drove the
pick into the floor and broke a bit of it
out. We hurried out into the daylight.
The stuff was still black and shiny and
hard in the sunlight, and Father smelled
it and held it up and turned it over in
his hand. Then he let our brother and
me smell it and turn it over. We’d never
smelled anything like it before.
“Well, it ain’t marble,” said Father,
“but I’ll bet it’s either oil shale or bitu-
men. Hogan’s ghost,” he whispered,
looking round carefully to see nobody
was about, “we’ve got a fortune on the
place.”
We broke down a lot of bushes and
covered up the hole and we got pegs and
staked out a square chain all round it as
a mining claim. Then Father swore both
us boys to secrecy, carefully wrapped the
sample in his handkerchief and led us
back home. There he wrapped it in a
stout parcel, addressed it to the Govern-
ment Analyst and drove into town to send
it by registered post.
After he came back he gathered us
around him, told Mother and our sister
what we had found and clapped Mother
on the back and said we’d have a new
house and all sorts of modern gadgets
and live like lords. We boys could have
a motor-car each and a radio set and
we’d be able to have plenty of money
and travel. “Do me,” said our brother ;
“I’ve always wanted to take a trip up
into the wheat country round Tam-
worth.”
“Haw, haw, haw,” roared Father, “the
wheat country round Tamworth! Round
Winnipeg, in Canada, y’ mean.”
Well, the time went by and we dodged
about the place doing odd jobs. Father
said it would be best to keep going as
though nothing had happened or the
neighbors might get suspicious and come
poking about. Mother said she hoped
Father was right about its being bitumen
or oil shale, and our brother worked out
a lot of sums about the price of bitumen
and the area of the cave and the probable
content and so forth and reckoned the
deposit was worth at least £16,456 11s.
Father wouldn’t let anybody go to town
on the following Saturday, because he
said some of us might let the secret out
without knowing it. Early on the Sun-
day morning he got the car and sneaked
in and got some groceries and hurried
straight back again. “By cripes,” he
said, “that storekeeper won’t be so shirty
about opening up when our bitumen
mine’s in full swing.”
That afternoon we saw the Davis kids
and their dogs hunting up along the hill
where the cave was and Father and our
brother got on their horses and went up
and hunted the Davis kids off. The Davis
kids went home crying and their father
rang our Father and wanted to know
what the devil he thought he was doing.
Our Father said he was sick of kids
tramping round the place, and when Mr.
Davis went crook Father said he was
sick of him, too, and warned him to keep
his kids off our property.
A week went by with no word from
the Government Analyst, so Father sent
them a telegram. “Y’ gotter watch these
cows,” he said ; “they’d clout on the mine
quick and lively if y’ let ’em.” Mother
said he ought to go into town and regis-
ter the claim or something, but Father
said that would only give the show away,
because nobody registered mining claims
in our district.
Then a long envelope came with
O.H.M.S. on’ it, and we all gathered
round while Father opened it. He read
the missive, then dropped it on the table
and walked outside. Mother picked the
thing up and we looked over her shoul-
der. It said:
The sample submitted is obviously from
a mass of compacted animal droppings,
probably those of rodents and bats, accumu-
lated over very many years and hardened
by small floodings of water that had no
run-off. Its commercial value is practically
nil, though it has some value as garden
manure.
Without looking at Mother we boys got
up and went outside and looked at the
farm and thought about a lot of things.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4gd. per line; all others at
2£d. per line.
Double rates for a Digger’s tribute to his country.
Worth Fighting For
During the dark days of depression I
used to think at times that Australia was
not worth the risk of a man’s life.
Now, after 12 months abroad, I think
differently. I have seen India, where
poverty unrelieved is rampant, where
people live in unimaginable squalor,
their mud huts, about five feet high, with-
out ventilation and without sanitation of
even the most primitive kind. Animals
rest in the doorway for the night. A
shilling a day is a princely wage, women
work as hard as the men, and children go
out to earn a living by working, thieving
or begging. Men and women walk about
in rags that would go to the incinerator
in Australia.
I have seen Egypt, with its streets teem-
ing with hawkers, beggars and thieves.
I have seen kiddies in Cairo as young as
seven years old touting for the brothels;
I’ve seen men working for a whole six
piastres (Is. 6d.) a day ; I’ve seen men
dipping into the refuse buckets outside
the kitchens of our camps—what is
thrown out by us is luxury to them.
Bribery, corruption, extortion and
venereal disease are taken as a matter of
course.
I have seen Palestine, where semi-star-
vation confronts the Arab population, or
did before the war —the British war
machine has absorbed many thousands
of the unemployed at 60 mils per day.
Even today the Arab’s great ambition is
to get a job in an Australian military
camp because the pay is so good—loo
mils (25.) a day. Racial prejudice is ram-
pant —an Arab’s greatest insult to a Jew
is to fling “Yahoudi” in his face. Re-
ligious intolerance is rife everywhere and
in every class.
I have seen Syria, a land that has been
unhappy for much longer than any liv-
ing man can remember, a land which
suffered the exploitation of the Turks
for centuries, to be liberated after the
1914-18 war, as the Allies put it, but to
exchange one yoke for another, as the
natives say. Now during this year
have seen their country made a battle-"
ground by two foreign armies. True, the
victors in this small war wasted no time
in granting Syria its independence, but
what is independence worth without
bread?
For here again hunger and malnutri-
tion are the lot of many. Wages are
even lower for the native Moslem than in
Egypt and food many times dearer. You
see them in many parts of every city
jostling and crowding and yelling for the
meagre ration of flour, sugar and other
foodstuffs. What little food is available
is very poor in quality ; the flour in par-
ticular is horrible. What the outcome of
all this hunger and discontent is going to
be nobody knows, but I do know that
Australia, even in the worst days of the
depression, did not let its citizens get as
near the hunger line. Nor does Australia
ask its people to labor from dawn till
dark for the miserable pittance the poor
devils receive in this country, and neither
does the working man have to send his
wife and children out to work because
his own wages won’t keep them.
And there are such things as child-
endowment, widows’ pensions, old-age
pensions, workmen’s compensation, Arbi-
tration Courts and a thousand and one
other helps to the working man. So it
seems to me that Australia is very much
worth fighting for. —G. O’G. (Abroad).
The Will to Win
Isn’t it about time that we put the soft
pedal down on that clumsy American
synonym for fatuous optimism “wishful
thinking”? It was necessary at first to
awaken people to the realities of the situa-
tion, but we have reached a stage whereat
the “wishful thinking” sneer is a dan-
gerous morale-sapper.
It was Napoleon, I think, who said that
the English were incalculable because
“they never know when they are beaten.”
He was contrasting the British “last
ditch” optimism with the “stark realism”
of the Latins, who do know when they
are beaten and accept defeat with a
shrug. Of the two, I prefer the British
brand of realism —the realism capable of
transcending the bleak reality of the
moment because it recognises the possi-
bility of a triumphant reality beyond.
We descend to the puerility of chalking
“V for Victory” on our footpaths, as if
we could bring it nearer by some crude
magic. Victory is within the soul of
man, and will not be achieved while we
sin against hope by describing as “wish-
ful thinking” every comment that fails
to see the enemy victorious. — Straight
Thinking (Q.).
To Bomb or Not to Bomb?
Although Russian propaganda up
to date hasn’t been any more dis-
tinguished than that of other coun-
tries, it has at least justified one of the
Soviet’s actions by a logical argument.
According to a Washington cable, the
Soviet Government has refrained from
butting into the Pacific business because
the best it could do would be to lay low
Japanese cities, and it believes the bomb-
ing of London and Moscow has demon-
strated conclusively that air action only
strengthens civilian resistance. So it does.
Before the present conflict it was a con-
fident German belief that a smashing raid
on London would produce national panic:
the population would bolt like rabbits, the
“ Soft-pedal a bit, brother; the Loord edden deaf
Government would go to Scotland and
there would be a demand for capitula-
tion. Instead, the common danger
brought the people together as no Gov-
ernment could have done, and it pro-
duced Churchill, a leader whose most sig-
nificant gesture is defiance. In Moscow,
if the Soviet is to be believed —and there
is evidence to show it should be —the
same thing happened, and the best thing
that could have been done for Hitler
would have been if Rome had been laid
in ruins.
“Famous” correspondents are always
pointing out the languid interest of the
Italians in the Hitlerian dream of world
conquest, but they never give the right
reasons. If Rome had been bombed to
pieces the Italians would have become
a good audience for Hitler’s notion that
the British Empire is the cause of the
world’s troubles. That they haven’t been
given that excuse has a lot to do with
the fact that they are a comparatively un-
sympathetic audience for Hitler.
The Japanese bombing of China pro-
duced something centuries of Chinese
Governments had failed to produce—
namely, a united China. The Chinese
could easily have bombed Japanese cities.
They refrained from dropping anything
but pamphlets. Consequently the Japa-
nese invasion of China has been surpris-
ingly lethargic, as has been pointed out
by several “famous” correspondents. The
inference is that if the Japanese want a
completely united U.S.A. against them
the best way to achieve it would be to
bomb American cities. The mere threat
to Australia has enabled Mr. Curtin to
make demands on the Australian people
that Mr. Menzies would not have even
dreamt of making.
The last thing the Japanese High Com-
mand wants is unity amongst its oppo-
nents, but such is the military mind that
the most likely thing it will do is that
which is most certain to produce unity.
If it doesn’t, it won’t be logic but distance
that will prevent it. —F. S. (Vic.).
A “Declaration” of War
The U.S.A. is shocked that a civilised
nation could strike so ruthlessly and pre-
meditatively without a formal declaration
of war. Time was when war was re-
garded as a kind of tournament in which
certain formal rules should be observed.
But the human mind today is putting war
in its true category. War is not a game.
War of aggression is simply murder and
gangsterism on a grand scale. Can we
imagine the city thug sending a polite
note to his intended victim: “I have
learned that you carry with you money
and valuables. I am urgently in need
of them. Therefore I declare that when
you are walking through the park on
your way home from business tomorrow
evening I will be lying in wait for you
and will crack your skull and take what
I want from your pockets”?
That, in reality, is what some people
seem to think aggressor nations should
do today; but actually the only logical
declaration of war on the part of an
aggressor nation is by the voice of the
bomb. Any nation banking on the warn-
ing and respite given by any other sort
of declaration is only asking for trouble
and is sure to get it. —G. A. B. (A.C.T.).
Value of Human Life
While dictators and war lords are
reducing the value of human life in so
many countries to nothing, Queensland
has recently given her Courts the difficult
task of assessing in terms of money what
a man’s life is worth to him. This is the
result of a recent amendment to the
Queensland law to provide that the
family of a deceased person, killed by
the negligence of another, shall have the
right to recover damages for the de-
ceased’s loss of expectation of life, quite
apart from the right a wife and child
always had to damages for the loss of the
support of a husband and father.
No decisions have yet been given in
Queensland, but the pronouncements of
the Empire’s highest tribunals in Eng-
land, which is the only other Empire
country with a similar enactment, make
interesting reading:
“The thing to be valued,” said the House
of Lords, “is not the prospect of length
of days, but the prospect of a pre-
dominantly happy life ; the task is to assess
damages for the loss of prospective happi-
ness. The character and temperament of
the deceased is therefore an important
factor, but not position or wealth, since
lawyers must join hands with moralists
and affirm that the degree of happiness
does not depend on wealth or status.”
And again:
“A bilious or melancholic rich man would
be entitled to less than the happy man of
the fable who had no shirt.”
Acting on these principles, the Courts
have valued the life of a married woman
aged 34 (four children and husband in fair
position) at £lOOO, and the life of a single
girl of 23 at the same figure. The life
of a young man, 24, unmarried and not
engaged and an intending publican, was
held to be worth £2OOO (whether his occu-
pation or his single blessedness influenced
their Honors is not stated). On the otha
hand, the life of a child 2\ years of age wa.
assessed at only £2OO, the Court beinj
of the opinion that the child was too
young to allow of any estimate of wha
amount of happiness he would be likely
to enjoy.
The learned author who reported on
these cases for a recent legal journal drew
this happy but warning conclusion:
It is no longer cheap, as in the past,
to kill a poor man. The thing to be
avoided at all costs is to kill a person, ot
contented and philosophic disposition.
All of which the cynic will find interest-
ing reading in this year of grace in which
the killing of one another’s citizens has
become the principal occupation of great
nations. — Solicitor (Q.).
Refugees
“King’s X” (B. 5/11 /’4l) should come
to Melbourne and stay a while in Little
Jerusalem (North Carlton). He could
take a few strolls around the streets at
night, observing the many backyard fac-
tories (small shops) working all hours,
turning out shoddy articles of clothing
for which we Aussies have to pay high
prices.
The persons running these places are
refugees. Certainly they don’t get well
paid for their efforts by retail stores, but
they are the cause of much discontent,
not only to the trade but to people living
close by trying to have some sleep at
a reasonable hour —the noise of machines
is unbearable at night.
I admit that many Aussies haven’t the
initiative to enter business on their own
account. Can they be blamed? What
hope have they of competing against
rivals who consider a day’s work is from
dawn to midnight, who work their
families and relatives and flout all regu-
lations governing awards and conditions?
—Jeff (Vic.).
Freedom of Choice
The actions and promises of the present
Federal Government must be extremely
gratifying to those members of the com-
munity whose motto is “the State will
provide.” There are few normal wants
which these politicians have not under-
taken to supply, either now or in the
post-war era, out of the public purse. To
thoughtful students of modern political
paternalism, this various benevolence has
its drawbacks. Not the least is the inevit-
able restriction upon individual freedom
of choice.
It is clear from the history of the
Totalitarian States that most social prob-
lems can be settled without much diffi-
culty by a strong and resolute Govern-
ment. And there is no reason why a
democratic Government should not solve
the problems of unemployment, housing,
health, etc., as long as the people accept
the solution that is thrust upon them.
Therein lies the catch. If the State
accepts the responsibility for a social prob-
lem, it necessarily becomes the final arbiter
as to what is a fair and practicable solu-
tion ; and the individual citizen has to ac-
cept whatever the State decides to give or
else go without his share. Since the State
must consider the needs of the many in
general, it cannot and will not vary its
plans for the sake of individual prefer-
ence, except within a very narrow range,
so freedom of choice becomes restricted.
A striking instance of this restriction
of choice by a democratic Government
(or, in this case, complete abolition of
private choice) is revealed in the Maori-
land Government’s extensive housing
policy. In spite of the fact that gas is
used for cooking and other domestic
purposes in practically every home in the
areas in which it is available, the Housing
Authority recently decided that no gas
equipment could be installed in homes
erected by it; electricity (supplied by
municipal authorities) is the approved
fuel.
Whatever the technical merits of the
two fuels, the individual householder is
entitled to exercise his own judgment;
but the State is paying the piper, so it
calls its own tune. Australians who are
asking the State to provide everything
might well ask themselves the pertinent
question: Am I likely to get what I
really want, or shall I have to put up
with something I don’t like or am not
accustomed to, when the Government
feeds, clothes, houses, employs and buries
me? — Wusslean (Vic.).
Housing Problems
I’d like to correct the impression
“Taurus” (B. 15/10/’4l) may have given:
that the agitation against the erection of
houses on the Northcote (Vic.) race-
course was supported by its working-class
population or the Labor members pre-
sumably elected by them. On the con-
trary one hears that the “open hostility”


arose out of an unfounded fear that
property values in the vicinity might
fall and in falling drag down municipal
rates.
“T.’s” statement as to Mr. Barnett’s
conclusions are correct, but why imply
that the Housing Commission, of which
he is deputy chairman, is wasting its
time because it is not abolishing poverty?
That task requires something more than
the erection of a few thousand houses.
Poverty, besides crime, breeds ignor-
ance, which explains why the commission
helps its tenants and their children to
cultivate cleanliness and community
spirit. Experience shows that such help is
seldom wasted, because the differential
rent scheme, which provides for the
payment of rent on a scale graduated
according to income, permits families
living on low wages to buy such ameni-
ties as soap, toothbrushes and tablecloths.
Incidentally, the brick-veneer residences
to which “T.” refers do not exist —the
commission has erected no brick-veneer
houses in Melbourne or its suburbs. —
G. L. Jones (Vic.).
Pensions
A proposal by Health and Social Ser-
vices Minister Holloway that single blind
pensioners should be allowed to earn at
least the basic wage without losing any
portion of their pension is to be com-
mended. Already blind married couples
have had their allowable income increased
from £3 7s. 6d. to £4 11s. But the
Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act should
be amended to enable every person within
scope of the Act to participate in extra
allowable incomes. These people need
all the nourishment they can get, but the
miserable sum they are allowed to earn
denies them proper subsistence in these
high-priced days.— Jika (Vic.).
Country Doctors
I don’t know much about the medical
profession, but a scheme I see mentioned
in Nicaragua may offer a solution to our
country-doc. problem. Here it is, quoted
from the New York “Times”:
President Anastasio Somoza issued a de-
cree today obligating medical students on
completion of their studies to spend a
period in sections where there are no
doctors before taking up practice in cities.
The President said he was signing the de-
cree because all students were educated
more or less at the expense of the State
and graduates should be willing to assist in
betterment of the civilian population. Be-
sides, he added, young doctors get invalu-
able experience practising as country
doctors.
It sounds all right to me. Elm
(N.S.W.).
Vegetables Before Flowers
Vegetable prices in Adelaide reflect not
only the grower’s inability to provide
sufficient labor for his garden, but reveal
that his market is far more extensive than
it has right to be. In the past two years
England has seen lawns two centuries
old ploughed up, of necessity, to give
place to vegetables. This is a tragedy;
but it would harm nobody if our flam-
boyant suburban dahlias were thrown on
the rubbish heap and in their place were
grown ordinary food that is now a luxury
to those who must consider each six-
pence.
The universal home-production of
green food could not affect the profes-
sional gardener, who proves by the prices
his inability to meet the demand of the
market. Now, as after the war, there is
room for his goods in hospitals, institu-
tions, hotels and cafes, as well as in the
factory. The army wants a vast amount
of this essential food, and post-war re-
construction should include a standing
army. If a surplus should arise perhaps
a process of drying vegetables could be
investigated—a matter of importance to
outback people of Australia. — Mrs. P.
(S.A.).
“Our Daily Bread”
For a generation health advisers, from
the King’s Physician downwards, have
been waging war on refined, denatured
foods, emphasising, for instance, the
necessity for retaining the whole of the
wheat and not discarding some of its
most valuable elements. But to get a
good, wholesome whole-wheat loaf my
wife must either buy early or order in
advance —the nearest baker does not even
supply it —and the loaf itself is both
smaller and dearer than its undesired
white brother. We are content to pay
the higher price, and to accept the in-
convenience re shopping, in appreciation
of the superior quality and nutty flavor
of the product. But white flour stands
at about £l2 a ton on the market, and
the valuable “offal” at £6. Why should
a loaf compounded of both elements,
representing a lesser intrinsic value in
materials, be both smaller and 15 p.c.
or more dearer?
I dislike Government control as much
as anyone, but I would be the first to
welcome an edict that those who convey
the nation’s food from the wheatfield. to
the table should send it in its whole,
natural form. As it is, the majority of
people scarcely even have a free choice.
If anything other than the common
starchy white bread is ordered they have
to take a chance on getting it, and may
furthermore be fobbed off with “brown
bread.”
If they say that the high cost of whole-
meal bread is due to the extra trouble
of baking the smaller batches, the obvi-
ous answer is that the market could be
created quickly by reversing the respec-
tive quantities of wholemeal and white,
leaving the white bread to be the
“specially ordered luxury.” I have never
yet heard of a wholemeal addict wanting
to go back to white-bread-and-cascara. —
Washington (Vic.).
Tobacco, Tea, etc.
For the second time within 25 years
we are involved in war and, though
wheat is piling mountains high, we are
short of tobacco. As an infinite favor
the grocer sells us a few hops at ss. a
pound, assuring us that not long ago these
ingredients of a summer drink were un-
procurable. Nor can we with any ease
find a trifle of sage and thyme, and we’re
trying our hands, doubtfully, at growing
flax. Tea, too, goes up and up.
The foregoing are only a few of the
obvious shortages. Yet way back in the
thirties and forties of last century our
pioneers experimented successfully in the
production of all the things named. In
the intervening 100 years we have failed
to develop them sufficiently for our total
needs. Will the lesson be learned and
remembered?—W- C. C. (W.A.).
Hire Purchase
Hostility to hire-purchase and cash-
order systems is usually inspired by
interests with which these systems are
competing. Easy-payment systems may
induce some people to load themselves
with financial obligations beyond their
income, but on the credit side stands
the fact that they have enabled thousands
of persons to acquire useful goods which
would have been denied them for years,
perhaps for life, without such aid.
If all people were entirely wise, com-
pletely self-controlled and consistently
firm of purpose, we might profitably dis-
pense with the “dollar-down-and-dollar-
a-week” idea ; but, human nature being
what it is, wages will be spent as they
come in, either in instalments on pur-
chases or on less profitable things. Every-
body knows how difficult it is to hold
money. It will go, and leave nothing to
show for it. If t.-p. and c.os. are merely
restricted or prohibited in the present
crisis, money that might mave bought
a radio, refrigerator or even a baby’s
pram will simply run away in the form
of liquid refreshment or gallop away on
horses.
A case might be made against adver-
tising on much the same grounds, in that
it lures the unstable to buy things they
wouldn’t have thought of but for the
tempting suggestion of the subtle adver-
tiser.—E. M. B. (A.C.T.).
Mortgage Banks
My par., attacked by A. W. Turner
(B. 10/12/’4l), was not an attack on a
highly-respected public servant. I believe,
as do many other Australians, that the
proposed mortgage bank will be a sink
for public money, and I quoted a con-
versation which actually took place as
bearing on the matter. I have been con-
tributing to The Bulletin too long to
indulge in flights of fancy where facts
are concerned. With regard to A. W.
Turner’s final remarks, the opinion as
to the old G.S. Bank advances which I
expressed is, I think, shared by every
trading bank manager in this State who
knows anything at all about the old Rural
Bank. Personally, I prefer the opinion of
a good many hundred trained bankers
to that of a royal commission.—Sand-
patch (N.S.W.).
N.S.W. Egg Board
It consists of three men elected by pro-
ducers and two Government nominees.
A few months ago control was extended
from a limited area adjacent to Sydney
and Newcastle to the whole of N. S.
Wales.
Questions about representation of pro-
ducers in the area to be brought under
control elicited the reply that a scheme
would be evolved when the poll was
carried. However, the board has done
nothing about giving newly-controlled
producers any representation, and has
decided to carry on as at present con-
stituted for the two remaining years of
the elected term. Thus hundreds of egg-
producers are paying board charges and
submitting to a variety of regulations
without having any say at all in board
management and development of policy.
They have no representation, although
they have to contribute their share of
board charges. The Minister for Agricul-
ture has said that it is a matter for the
board, and the board declines to do any-
thing about it. —Two Strand (N.S.W.).
Noel Monks
“Who is Mr. Noel Monks” (B.
10/12/’41)? I am pleased to answer
your query.
Noel Monks is an Australian jour-
nalist and author who has managed to
succeed in Fleet-street. He is 36 years
of age, is an accredited war correspon-
dent of three wars, has written a book
on the Air Force {Fighter Squadrons),
acclaimed a best-seller in London and
published also in America and Australia.
His article in the London “Daily
Express” on the bombing of Guernica
caused such a stir when General Franco
denied the flight of German ’planes that
day that he was recalled to London.
There he addressed members of the
House of Commons on the German out-
rages—he was an eyewitness.
At the outbreak of war Noel Monks
went to France as “Daily Mail” air cor-
respondent, and was elected president of
the Anglo-American Journalists’ Asso-
ciation. He remained in France until
the capitulation. Recently he was sent
to America to report on aircraft produc-
tion ; he flew throughout the States, visit-
ing all the principal aircraft factories,
and had the privilege of a personal inter-
view with the President at the White
House.
On his return to London he had the
honor of being a feflow-guest of his
Majesty King George at an informal
West End house party, when he had a
long talk with the King on the work of
the Air Force.
No doubt, some of your readers would
be interested to learn of the success of
this young Australian journalist.—B. M.
(Vic.).
Commentators
I have never tried my hand as a legis-
lator, but it seems to me that the
National Security Regulations should
contain something like this:
No person shall be the author of any
article discussing the war situation nor shall
any person deliver a radio address on
matters relating to the war unless he or
she shall comply with at least one of the
conditions hereunder.
(a) The person shall have fought during
the currency of this present war in actual
battle on any of the several fronts, or
(b) Shall have lived in the country or
countries which he discusses for at least
three of the last five years.
That’s my idea of a bit of necessary
legislation.— Gor’ Blimey (Tas.).
Gresham’s Law in Politics
“Old-timer” (B. 15/10/’4l) wrote:
We fail to produce statesmen. Here,
surely, is a matter for examination by a
committee on social problems Yet for
men with courage and vision no greater
opportunity ever existed.
If the wisdom of those really great
thinkers of the past century was rescued
from the oblivion into which this so-
called “modernity”-craving age has
dumped it, the answers to a lot of prob-
lems would stand out like signposts.
Wrote Herbert Spencer:
A good and wise autocrat cannot
be chosen or otherwise obtained by a people
not good and wise Nor will any system
of representation, limited or universal,
direct or indirect, do more than represent
the average nature of citizens The
minority of the wise in a constituency is
liable to be wholly submerged by the
majority of the foolish: often foolishness
alone gets represented. In representative
assemblies, again, the many mediocrities
practically rule the few superiorities: the
superior are obliged to express those views
only which the rest can understand, and
must keep to themselves their best and
farthest-reaching thoughts as thoughts that
would have no weight The belief that
truly good legislation and administration
can go along with a humanity not truly
good is a chronic delusion.
The world has had bitter cause to real-
ise the wisdom of those observations.
Political parties with little groups of
"self-constituted juntas are the antithesis
of real democracy ; and yet there appears
to be no scope for the class of men (or
women) whom “Old-timer,” in common
with all sane people, wants in Parliament
without pre-selection by a junta whose
price is the domination of body and soul
of the elected candidate.
No perfect alternative suggests itself,
but a less obnoxious system would be
the creation of a responsible judicial
tribunal, empowered to make selections
of candidates from those whose names
are submitted, with a nominal fee for
registration, the present schemes of
plebiscites and other dictatorial methods
to be made illegal. The suggestion does
not aim at preventing any person from
standing for Parliamentary office, but
those approved by a tribunal of Judges
would carry a recommendation that a
large number of electors would probably
follow and respect. — F. O. Nixon (Q.).
“Take Mr. Nugget into the parlor and leave Mr. Lofty to me.”


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Bombing Germany by Daylight.
[This first-hand account, written by an R.A.F. pilot
who led one of the formations in a spectacular daylight
bombing raid on the great Knapsack power station,
which provides power for some of the Ruhr’s largest
cities and industries, is from a “Reader’s Digest” con-
densation from “Life.”]
We knew something big was up because we’d laid
off operations for several days and the tops were talk-
ing a lot. We rather guessed it would be a daylight
job on some interior German target. It was, but even
worse than we’d thought.
We assembled on Tuesday morning for briefing.
Our job, the group captain explained, was to smash
the power station at Knapsack, 150 miles inside enemy
territory. We were to fly at low level and our bomb
fuses were timed. Low level means 10 to 20 feet
above the ground and a delayed fuse gives you just
time to get away before the bomb explodes. Flying
in tight formation, you’re likely as not to get the full
blast from the ’plane in front. We were warned not
to plot our course on our maps, because if one of us
was shot down in Holland it would give the whole
show away before we even got there.
We took off at 9.15, flying in vies of three joined
into boxes of six. I was leading the second forma-
tion of 24 ’planes. It was a sunny morning, practi-
cally no haze or clouds. As we crossed the coast we
picked up the escort of Whirlwinds which was to
accompany us into Holland.
We flew along just missing the whitecaps. A lot
of wisecracking went on through the intercom, ’phones.
“Getting your ruddy wing in the water,” my observer
kept shouting, and one of the pilots swore he’d caught
a fish in his propeller. I might add that one of the
chaps did have two seagulls in his engines when we
got back.
North of Antwerp we crossed the Dutch coast
and went hedgehopping across Holland, dodging trees
and telegraph poles. One chap hit a high-tension wire
and crashed. But aside from the danger of hitting
things, low-level flying isn’t so bad. You are safe
from anti-aircraft and also from fighters, which can’t
dive on you without hitting the ground. They can
only come up behind or on the side, and there you
are more than a match for them with your turret
guns. Of course, there is machine-gunning from the
ground, but at 250 miles an hour it’s pretty hard for
a gunner to get you in his sights.
People in the fields waved farm implements and
hats as we went over. In one village square we saw
four policemen standing together who solemnly saluted
us. A group of children standing on a pillbox jumped
up and down and waved. We weren’t sure exactly
when we crossed the German frontier, but soon we
saw people running for cover. The air was full of
Blenheims. Once a squadron flew right over us on
its way to another power station near Aachen. It
only cleared us by a few feet. We were bunched so
close together that some of the chaps were having
trouble with the slipstream from ’planes in front. So
I told them to loosen up the formation.
We had no trouble finding our way. We passed
the spires of Cologne Cathedral, a sort of landmark
because we knew the power station was eight miles
above the city. Then we saw the target sticking out
a mile. It looked exactly as in our photographs, with
two sets of chimneys about 150 yards apart. Our job
was to go in between them and unload our bombs
on the main plant.
Up to then we had not encountered a single hos-
tile ’plane. We’d evidently taken the Jerries by sur-
prise, because our Wellingtons had been over the same
territory all night, and I don’t suppose they were
counting on another raid so soon.
I was banking to go in when my rear-gunner
shouted “Fighters to port!” Two Melo9’s were com-
ing down at us from the side.
I told the flight to take evasive action, which
means sawing up and down and taking skidding turns.
I could see cannon shells ripping chunks from the
wing fabric of the next ’plane. The flak was also
bursting all around. I could see flashes from a gun
emplacement and was wondering what to do about it
when one of the chaps went straight for it with all
three front guns going. He silenced it.
I saw the leader of the first flight going in over
the target so low that he was right between the
chimneys. I realised we would have to get altitude
or run smack into his explosions, and I signalled my
group up to 800 feet. As we went over the target I
saw red flashes inside the buildings from bombs
dropped by the ’planes in front of us. We planted
ours just where we wanted them. Clouds of black
smoke were rolling up and fires starting.
By now the air was full of flak. We could feel
jolts as splinters hit the ’plane. As I dived to get
out of the flak area, I saw Number 2 of my vie go
down in flames. Number 3 was also missing.
My observer, who had been trying to get some
photos., shouted that two more Me’s were coming at
us. We were over a huge sand pit or stone quarry and
I took the whole formation —what was left of it —
right down into it. We must have gone 30 feet
below ground level —probably the lowest an aircraft
has ever flown. But it did fool the Huns, and when
we came back up we had shaken them off.
I tried to get closer formation in order to con-
centrate our fire-power, and finally got six ’planes
together just as another Me attacked from behind.
My rear-gunner could not train his guns on it with-
out shooting off our own tail. I sideslipped to get a
better angle and my gunner opened fire. Other ’planes
were also firing. We saw the Hun crash and his
’plane bounce on the ground.
The manoeuvre brought us low. Suddenly my
observer shouted, and I turned just in time to avoid a
church steeple. As I banked, my port wing caught the
top of a tree, and I thought we were going to pile
up right in a village square. But the ’plane righted
itself just in time.
As we approached the coast the Me’s left us and
we tacked on to a larger formation of Blenheims.
Above us we saw a larger German transport ’plane.
Its pilot was obviously unaware that we were under
him. We all nosed up and everyone had a crack at
it. We last saw it going down behind a group of
trees. I’ll bet that Jerry never knew what hit him.
Off the Dutch coast we ran into a big mix-up
between a group of Me’s and the Whirlwind escort
that had come to meet us. Our fighters seemed to be
doing a good job on the Huns because only one
peeled off to attack us. His first burst sent one of
our chaps down, but those following shot him down,
and both ’planes crashed in the water within a few
yards of each other.
Over the North Sea we ran into heavy rain,
which acted as a screen and enabled us to bring
together our stragglers. When we got home a great
crowd was waiting for us. They had probably seen
us take off and guessed what was up. We gave them
a pretty good show, too, because several of the chaps
had their landing gear shot up and had to do a belly
landing. Our last ’plane came in at 13.13 o’clock.
Japs in America.
[Condensed from a December American “Mercury”
article by Ernest O. Hauser, written very shortly before
Japan’s attack.]
Of the 150,000 Japanese in the U.S.A., some
100,000 are Nisei, second-generation (it is pronounced
nee-say). They are the sons and daughters of the
“old folks” who came across the Pacific in the early
years of this century, to work in railroad construction
gangs and on farms.
The Nisei are the unknown quantity which makes
the present problem so hard to solve. They are young,
New York “Herald Tribune.”
JAPAN SAYS IT WITH FLOWERS.
the oldest in their early thirties, the great majority
just growing into adulthood, the average age 21. While
the “old folks” remain aliens on American soil, ex-
cluded by law from American citizenship, the boys
and girls of the second generation are full-fledged
Americans by right of birth. They can vote, own
property, be elected to office ; there is no legal bar-
rier to keep a Nisei from becoming President of the
United States. Nisei Japanese are serving in the
American Army.
Japanese-Americans have suffered less from sus-
picion and persecution on the part of white Americans
than from the stupid and persistent meddling with
their lives by the Japanese Government. They have
received a growing amount of attention from across
the seas. Every night they sit up in their homes and
listen to Tokyo short-wave radio. Tokyo Radio,
throwing a special beam out to the U.S. west coast, is
very subtle, please —only rarely, amidst classic music
and gay entertainment, does it praise the sterling quali-
ties of the Japanese soldier, with an American-born
Lord Haw-Haw as announcer. His lordship’s subtleties
have been supported by speakers from Japan who came
to address Japanese audiences in America. Eulogies
of “valiant” Colonel Hashimoto, under whose orders
the American gunboat Panay was bombed and sunk
in China, show up in the feature sections of Cali-
fornia’s Japanese press. Neatly printed leaflets impress
Japanese-Americans with the muzzles of mighty naval
guns under the flag with the Rising Sun.
Every year around Christmastime the boys of
military age file into the office of the Japanese Consul
and fill in a form blank, asking to be excused, for
another year, from serving with the Mikado’s army.
If they neglect to do so, the Imperial War Office in
Tokyo will check up on them and hale them before
the Consul! Some of the Nisei boys, who went to
Japan to study or to look for jobs, actually were
drafted into the Japanese Army. Although such enlist-
ment now automatically cancels their American citi-
zenship, this was not so in 1937, when Japan invaded
And the reverse of the medal: full-fledged subjects
of the Mikado are serving in American training camps.
Such enlistment does not interfere with their status
as Japanese citizens according to the laws of J a
When selective service was instituted in the Unitea
States many Nisei volunteered. There are American
rookies of Japanese blood serving under the Stars
and Stripes, many of whom are Japanese citizens
as welL , . ,
There are welL over 15,000 American-born
Japanese in Japan. (Accurate statistics are not avail-
able ; some estimate the figure to be as high as 50,000.)
Most of them were sent over there when they were
babies. A good many suddenly discovered their Ameri-
can citizenship when they were summoned for physical
examination at the barracks ; they returned post-haste.
The thousands who have found their way back to the
U.S.A., the Kibei (“returned to America”), are the
crux of the whole problem.
These Kibei, returning to America with American
passports, are, to all intents and purposes, Japanese.
They have spent their childhood and their adolescence
in Japan. They think in Japanese and they speak
Japanese. They are imbued with the spirit of Nippon,
with its strong elements of loyalty to the Emperor and
to the Rising Sun. What would be easier for Japan s
military and naval authorities than to send some of
them over with appropriate instructions?
Most of the tomatoes and the asparagus, the
celery and the carrots, the strawberries and all the
cauliflower Americans eat are produced by Japanese
farmers who could “monopolise” those crops because
they were willing to work hard for little profit. They
are satisfied if they clear a profit once in every five
years and they work with their entire families from
sunrise to sundown. Their crops are worth some 50
million dollars every year. Add to this the 16 mil-
lion dollars made annually in the flower industry. Add
the investments of individuals, from George Hasuike,
who owns a chain of 45 “super-markets throughout
Southern California, to farmer Minami, who culti-
vates some 3000 acres—“the world’s largest vegetable
farm” —near Guadalupe, and to Joe Shinoda, whose
Oakland greenhouse is California’s second largest.
Add the investment in Japanese hotels and restaurants,
the stores and the shops in “Li’l Tokyo, and the
stake of the Nisei lawyers and doctors and dentists
who do business with their owners. America s Japanese
are not rich, but they have proved their ability to
make good in strange and foreign surroundings and in
most unfavorable circumstances.
The actively disloyal elements among U.S. West
Coast Japanese are men sent across the Pacific for the
express purpose of serving the Japanese Governmen .
Their presence explains a good many strange pheno-
mena : it explains the fact that Japanese fishing boa s
appear out of nowhere whenever the fleet is engaged
in manoeuvres; it explains the fact that American oil
and other essential war materials find their way to
Japan despite the embargo ; it explains the fact that, at
one of the recent send-off parties for Nisei draftees,
two of these American soldiers boasted that they would
point their guns at their American officers rather than
the enemy, if the enemy were Japan. M
To spot these men, who are carefully planted
among the 150,000 American-Japanese, is the job of
America’s anti-sabotage and counter-espionage organi-
sations. Their pictures (some of them in their Japanese
uniforms) are kept on file by the F. 8.1., whose policy
has been to watch them closely, since premature
arrest might, save some of their accomplices.
U S Japanese communities happen to be strategi-
cally placed. Centre of the Japanese fishing business
is the port of San Pedro, where an entire Japanese
village sprawls next door to the new eighteen-million
dollar naval base on Terminal Island. Some 40,000
American-Japanese live within the metropolitan area
of the prize city of Los Angeles, with its oil refineries
and aircraft factories.
World Navies.
(From an article by William Harlan Hale in the
“New Republic,” U.S.A.)
The following table attempts to show the numbers
of Allied versus Axis ships actually in com-
mission as on November 1, 1941. It is based upon
Jane’s manual, upon reliable reports of new con-
struction, upon admissions of losses, and in a lew
cases upon claims of sinkings that were first denied
but which seem confirmed by later evidence. Figures
on destroyers and submarines must be taken as
approximate.
Capital Aircraft L .
Ships. Carriers. Cruisers. Destroyers, marines.
United States .. 17 7 37 175 115
British Empire ..17 7 77 235 45
Netherlands Indies 0 0 4 10 l^
U.S.S.R. (Far East) 0 0 0 ? 60.
Free France ..
Poland, Norway.. 0 0 1
34 14 U 9 430 245?
£i y many •: :: V o & m if
Japan ..12 _7 _32§ 12611 _BS
20 9 58 281 365?
* Including the Gneisenau, reported virtually wrecked
after repeated bombing, but excluding the pocket-battleships
Admiral Scheer and Lutzow, which are listed under the more
nroper category of cruisers, t Including the Gonzia, claimed
sunk but denied, and excluding 12 3300-ton light cruisers
which are reported to be near completion, t Excluding old
torpedo boats. § Excluding minelayers, gunboats and obsolete
coastal ships carried on Japanese lists as ‘cruisers. 11 Ex-
cluding torpedo boats.
If these totals are correct, the Allies today are
66 p.c. stronger in the big ship-carrier class than the
Axis, 100 p.c. in cruisers and 50 p.c. in destroyers.


smss ' //• affigasma as * ;
■
-
#lllllB Jig
®8 -
■
, ■..»<
51
THE FLEETS of the DEMOCRACIES use
Hxibe
BATTERIES
Still keep going when the rest have stopped
AT LEFT: American battleships in
formation with gun turrets raised.
AT BIGHT: One of Britain’s most for-
midable battleships patrolling the seas.
L
spills
m m
an
n
li
Besides, the Allies can muster more than 1200 escort
vessels, corvettes, minesweepers, aircraft tenders,
patrol ships, sub.-chasers and converted merchantmen
—a margin of probably 400 p.c.
But the contrast of numbers is made even greater
by the contrast in fighting worth and range. The
34 Anglo-American battleships, for instance, could
operate interchangeably or together on any ocean:
they are built to a common plan of high fuel capacity,
slow speed, heavy armor and great sea-keeping
strength, and their commanders are linked by language
and professional doctrine. The 20 Axis ships, on the
other hand, form nothing approaching a coherent
whole. The Italian battleships—the new as well as
the old—are designed only for short-distance work
in the Mediterranean ; the German ships, of assorted
sizes, are intended either for North Sea defence or as
lone raiders, and really do not constitute a blue-water
fleet at all; and both the German and Italian com-
mands (at least so far as their surface vessels are con-
cerned) labor under a knowledge of inferiority and
past defeat.
The Japanese Fleet is of another order: it con-
sists of uniform divisions of powerful battleships
supported by fine cruisers and commanded by an
aggressive admiralty. But here again mere figures are
deceptive: while Japan’s aircraft-carriers, for instance,
match ours in number, they are far inferior to ours
in capacity, speed and efficiency. Like the German
and Italian surface fleets, the Japanese Fleet was de-
signed chiefly for service in home waters ; the ships
have much smaller steaming ranges than ours, and
the four old battleships of the Kongo class are so
lightly armored that an admiral might hesitate to
put them into the thick of a fleet fight.
Thus, instead of being compelled to look upon
the Axis as a united host threatening a loose-knit
team of scattered Allies, in naval terms we can look
upon the Axis as the very opposite: a scattered group
incapable of uniting its sea power or of operating in
force on the surface at any great distance from home,
and subject to attack by overwhelming concentrations
of Anglo-American strength.
The final, reassuring fact is that Allied shipyards
together are producing a warship replacement ton-
nage which is several times the highest the Axis can
attain. Germany, Italy and Japan among them are
building probably eight battleships ; the U.S.A. and
Britain have twice that many now on the ways, with
seven more in the designers’ lofts. The Allies expect
to put half a dozen aircraft-carriers into service in the
next year or two ; the Axis, one. Japan may be work-
ing on 20 destroyers ; the United States is building or
planning 200. In these figures you can read the future.
Japan’s “Terms.”
C From New York “Times.”)
As stated by the Japanese Premier Japan’s terms
were:
First, “Third Powers will refrain from obstruct-
ing a successful conclusion of the China affair, which
Japan has in view.”
In other words, the United States would cease
to render assistance to the Republic of China, moti-
vated by a friendship of long standing and authorised
under the Lease-Lend Act.
Second, “The countries surrounding our Empire
will not only refrain from presenting a direct military
menace to our Empire, but will also nullify such
measures of hostility as the economic blockade and
restore normal economic relations with Japan.”
In other words, the United States would take
its instructions on what it could or could not fortify
in the Pacific from Tokyo, and, in addition, would
agree to become the arsenal of aggression instead of
the arsenal of democracy.
Third, “Utmost effort will be exerted to prevent
the extension of the European war and the spread of
the disturbance into East Asia.”
In other words, Japan could define her adherence
to the Axis pact, but no other nation could seek allies.
These terms were nonsense. No Japanese Premier
could possibly expect the United States to reverse its
traditional policy of the past and make its policy for
the future at the behest of Nippon.
Importance of Burma.
( Condensed, from an article in New York “Times.”)
Hitherto Burma had been an asset to Britain
mainly in that she had valuable economic resources,
such as petroleum, tungsten, wolfram, copper, lead,
rubber and silver, together with an annual output of
3,000,000 tons of surplus rice. Now she may prove
to be of strategic importance also.
In 1938, after the Japanese had closed China’s
coast to him, Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek decided
to convert the caravan track between Yunnan and
Burma into a highway suitable for heavy truck traffic.
This he achieved in 10 months with the aid of 200,000
conscripted laborers and 200 Chinese engineers. Since
then, except when the road was closed for a few
months because of Japanese diplomatic pressure, a
steady stream of trucks has been entering China,
transporting war goods from the Burmese railhead
at Lashio, 116 miles from Wanting Bridge, which
separates Burma and China. Meanwhile the con-
struction of a railway to link Rangoon with Chung-
king is well under way.
Burma has a common frontier with Japanese-
protected” French Indo-China, and the Burmese oil-
fields —the richest in the Empire, producing over
1,000,000 tons of oil yearly, which can easily be in-
creased threefold —are only 600 miles bombing dis-
tance from Japanese bases in Indo-China.
The British military command in the Far East
has constructed a chain of aerodromes stretching from
the China border, in the region of the Burma Road,
down to Singapore at the very tip of the Malaya
Peninsula. Large quantities of war material continue
to arrive at Rangoon from factories in British India.
In Rangoon’s ultra-modern airport of Mingaladone an
air centre was established at the outbreak of war for
the purpose of training young Burmese as military
pilots.
Burma will become a vital link in American,
British and Chinese military co-operation in the Far
East.
What the War Is For.
o Condensed from an “Atlantic Monthly” article by
Harry Scherman.)
It is impossible to acquire an unshakable philo-
sophy about the war until one great simple truth
about modern human society is understood: that all
STEEL AND ICE.
the diverse peoples on this planet are now bound
together, inseparably, in an economic world union.
The evolution to this state received an enormous
impetus with the beginning of the Steam Age. Within
the past 50 years inventions, means of production and
quick transportation of goods have speeded its tempo.
It is now almost what we mean by the words “human
civilisation.”
There can be no end to periodic world-wide war
until the peoples of the world use their intelligence
to make as much progress toward political unification
as, quite plainly, they have made in their economic
and cultural relationships. Is this more advanced poli-
tical unification of human society to be imposed by
armed force, or achieved by a meeting of minds? Is
it to be maintained “for a thousand years” as a mili-
tary world State, in a new global Pax Romana run
from Berlin as a centre, or is it to be maintained by
some means of peaceable and equitable collaboration
among the diverse peoples of the earth?
That is what the war is about, and herein lies
the service that the British, as the centre of resistance
to the Nazis, are rendering to the human race. For
this bedrock issue is what their suffering, and that of
all their allies, will settle.
Most of us are only dimly aware of the actuality
of this earth-wide economic unification of mankind —
of how all the human inhabitants of the earth lean
upon one another. There is a pertinent historic fact
here which should be in all primers—and is probably
in none. Since 1750, about the beginning of the Age
of Steam, the human population of the earth has
more than tripled. It was then about 660,000,000 ; it
is now well over 2,100,000,000. The true import of
this great fact is plain: 1,500,000,000 more human
beings can now remain alive on the earth s surface,
can support themselves by working for others who in
turn work for them.
Most of us are now kept alive by this vast co-
operative world society that has evolved. If it were
conceived that tomorrow the infinite variety of goods
that men produce had to be confined within the
national boundaries where they were produced, tens
of millions of men, women and children would swiftly
die of starvation ; hundreds of millions more would
be in the last extremes of destitution and misery.
Goods are the great travellers over the earth’s
surface, far more than human beings. Little men can
be conceived of, fancifully, as merely convoying the
goods in their now well-settled streams. Endlessly
these streams of goods crisscross, as on Martian canals,
with hardly an inhabited spot on the globe unvisited.
There is one immense fact here so simple that
even some “experts” tend to become unconscious
of it: this almost inconceivable variety and mass of
goods are ceaselessly being produced within each
nation for others outside its borders. Multitudes of
men are so employed, and it is the needs of foreigners
that keep them employed.
This, however, is less than half the story of inter-
dependence. The livelihood of hundreds of millions
of other people is maintained, very often created, by
the incoming products from other lands. It would be
hard to find a common article
of use in any advanced nation
the price, quality or constitution
of which does not in some
measure, and often critically, rest
upon products emanating from
foreign sources. An immediate
example is the automobile. It
has transformed modern civilisa-
tion. What would have hap-
pened in America in this
momentous economic develop-
ment without rubber from the
East Indies? Or, in other lands,
without oil from the United
States and a few more countries?
The incontestable truth is
that there is a clear planetary in-
divisibility of production and
employment. But the bonds
among men go far deeper than
goods. Culture, too, knows no
frontiers. Ido not refer to the
arts —to music, painting, great
literature. These graces of civili-
sation bind men of all lands to-
gether in spirit. But men are
bound together more practically,
one might say, by the ever-
advancing knowledge of human-
kind, as represented particularly
in its science. Scientists have
always been and still are the
most natural and confirmed of
internationalists.
Neither can the faith of
men in one another be confined
within national boundaries. Re-
liance upon economic promises
—what economists dismally call
the “debt-and-credit system”—
is at the root of world civilisa-
tion, the explanation of both its
growth and its present intricate organisation. Debt
and credit have never, from the remotest past, recog-
nised any frontier. They have flowed over all, tying
men of one land to men of another. The ceaseless
streams of goods now moving between all nations are
matched by something invisible —the confidence, per-
petually justified by performance, of all the partici-
pants in one another.
Mankind is still moving, and moving fast, on this
road of world economic unification. Think how the
airplane carrying freight will alone intensify it within
the next 25 years! Is it any wonder that those rhyth-
mic business cycles, which still have great elements of
mystery to the most careful economists, are now earth-
wide phenomena? That all the world prospers together,
suffers together —and complains together—as they
occur? Modern human society is an economic whole.
When this actuality is once recognised many
blurred notions about the war fall into a more mean-
ingful order. A first step is to make clear the very
nature of the war. The Germans started it. To
what end? Their political literature for several
decades, and the speeches of their present leaders for
eight years, reiterate the purpose openly. The Germans
propose to be, as a single people, in final control
for their prime benefit —of this economic world union
which human civilisation has achieved.
One of their basic notions is that the “technical
means” for such planetary control by a single people
now, exist. By “technical means” they imply the mili-
tary subjugation of the entire globe.
The Nazi leaders have made no secret of their
conception of the shape of the future. For the near


future the Nazis’ blueprint visualises three great
geopolitical” empires, as they call them. The first
would be their own, covering most of the great land
mass of Europe, Asia and Africa. Great Britain —as
a degenerate people that would never fight again—-
was to be a sort of willing subordinate partner to Ger-
many, such as Vichy France at this moment has
become ; the Italians, too, when it was thought that
they could be troublesome, were to be permitted by
the Nazis to have a sort of sub-empire within their
own, covering Southern Europe, North Africa and
part of the Near East. The second great empire
would be ruled by the Japanese. It would cover East
Asia, all the Mongolian and Malayan peoples. The
third great empire would take in the entire Western
Hemisphere, and would be ruled by the United States.
This war, then, is best understood as a war to
defeat the insane effort of a single people numbering
80 millions to be supreme, for their own special bene-
fit, in an already unified world society numbering over
two billions. On the part of all the opponents of the
Germans this war is plainly an effort to preserve a free
economic union—well established, even if it is not con-
tractual and even though it is at present a union with
plain imperfections.
The final issue, therefore, becomes plain, both
as to method and as to ultimate purpose: Are men
going to perfect an already unified world society under
the whip of armed force, or by a free meeting of
minds? And is this union to be perfected for the
prime benefit of one people, or for the benefit of all?
Looking at the war from this key conception, we
see one heartening fact: the Germans cannot win sdch
a war. The two basic notions which animate them—
that two billion human beings can be held in subjuga-
tion by a single “master people” for its prime benefit,
and that “the technical means exist” to make this
possible now —could only originate among minds as
politically inexperienced as the Germans have always
shown themselves to be. The “thousand years” of
the Nazi State which the mad Hitler promises his
young people could be nothing but a thousand years
of rebellion.
One must laugh, if one is not aghast, at the infan-
tilism that could seriously formulate such political
purposes in the twentieth century. Imagine, if one
can, all the proud peoples of the earth—-prouder, if
less arrogant, than the Germans —passively submit-
ting to it for a single year of the thousand. In a thou-
sand days or less, with the United States actively in
the war, the mad theory of a German world State
will topple into as deep oblivion as Alexander’s empire.
This can be predicted so categorically because
that insane 'ambition is plainly opposing a long,
glacier-like evolution still moving inexorably on its
way. Human society indeed has unified itself, but
that evolution has taken place to an accompanying
development of political freedom of peoples from the
subjugation of others. There have been exceptions,
but the historic rule is plain. The only way this evolu-
tionary development of human society can be con-
tinued is still by adjustment and agreement among
peoples, but now consciously instead of unconsciously.
The Germans cannot win this war, no matter how
great their transitory military successes, because the
organised will of all the rest of mankind will never
allow them to achieve the control they seek, much
less to maintain it.
This impervious will has had its voice. “We will
not permit,” said President Roosevelt, “and will not
accept this Nazi shape of things to come.” Nor did
Winston Churchill speak alone for the British in say-
ing “We shall go on to the end ; we shall fight in
France, we shall fight on the seas and oceans... .we
shall fight on the beaches, we shall fight on the land-
ing grounds, we shall fight in the fields and in the
streets, we shall fight in the hills; we shall never sur-
render.” That is the will, over the world, which the
purblind Nazis must meet. The bitter hate they have
raised in every conquered people of Europe is a mere
reflection of it, momentarily suppressed and biding its
time.
The logic-mad Nazi idea that “the technical means
exist” to achieve a world empire held in subjection
by force ignores only one thing: two billion human
beings.
This conception of the nature of the war has a
final great value: it clarifies the burning question of
the peace that must be set up.
The historic joint Churchill-Roosevelt proclama-
tion maps out a blueprint of broad principle upon
which reconstruction must proceed. The heart of that
statement remains the simple war aim, and peace aim,
proclaimed by both these leaders and all their
followers many times: “Hitlerism must be destroyed.”
But what is “Hitlerism”? It is an avowed attempt
by the Germans to control the existing economic
world union for their prime benefit. Necessarily, then,
the basic aim of the opposing side must be to defeat
that effort so utterly that it will never be tried again.
When Mr. Churchill keeps on stating that the first
aim of the war is to win it, that is no meaningless aim ;
it is a great aim.
Moreover, Hitlerism, when its essence is so under-
stood, must be destroyed inside Germany. To say
that this is impossible is mere defeatism. Perhaps it
is true that the peculiar quality of the German mind
cannot be changed, but the ideas in that mind regard-
ing what all other peoples will stand for can certainly
be changed.
Neither Mr. Churchill nor Mr. Roosevelt, in their
joint statement or elsewhere, has been so unwise as
to try at this time to make an exact blueprint of the
peace. For it must be a practicable peace; and the
sine qua non of practicability is agreement and adjust-
ment among peoples. The minds of most men must
meet in this next peace, and long be satisfied. That
is an infinitely more difficult task than war, and
cannot be improvised. The hardest governmental job
that ever faced the world will be the next peace.
But, while its hard details cannot now exactly be fore-
seen, the solid basic principle upon which it has to be
set up is made plain by this conception of the war.
An economic and cultural world union is in exist-
ence. That great fact must determine the nature of
the peace effort. This unification is growing closer
and more intricate with every year, and it must be
matched by a world political organisation which, by
some general limitation of sovereignty, will allow that
union to function and progress without the deep con-
flicts of interest that end in war.
Until such an open-eyed general limitation of
sovereignty is achieved there can be no peace-enforce-
ment union. Until this is done the economic world
union that now exists can never proceed to those bene-
fits which human achievement in other fields now so
bountifully promises. Until this is done the univer-
sally guaranteed “freedoms” of Mr. Roosevelt are
pure delusion. And until this is done there can be
no end to periodic world-wide wars.
Is it not clear that a peace based soundly upon
this necessity is, as Lincoln put it, “the last best hope
of earth”? The men and women of this generation
will “nobly save or meanly lose” it. To think that it
will be meanly lost by no effort to achieve it is, it
seems to me, to grade the modern human being lower
than all his forbears.
Who but the cheapest cynic will subscribe to that
appraisal?
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
When the war broke out in Europe the United
States Army, plus the National Guard, amounted to
365,000 men. In the spring of 1940, when Germany
moved into Scandinavia and the Low Countries, U.S.
Army and National Guard strength was a little more
than 500,000. In the autumn of 1940 the Selective
Service Act was passed, authorising an increase of not
more than 900,000 men at one time. The military
supply problem was then worked out for a protective
ONCE A FREE HOLDING.
mobilisation of 1,200,000 men, plus 800,000 reserves,
or a total force of 2,000,000 men. The productive
capacity for powder and ammunition was stepped up
accordingly. In the spring of 1941 the Lease-Lend
Act was passed and the army was authorised to acquire
military supplies to equip an additional 4,000,000 men.
That meant the supply problem had to be worked
out for a total of 6,000,000 men. In Washington today
the adding machines are clicking like machine-guns.
Centre of the activity is the office of Under-Secretary
of War Robert Patterson. He is trying to find out
what it takes for, say, 8,000,000 men. — Peter Edson,
in New York “World-Telegram.”
# * * * *
Contrary to a great many Americans, who are
wont to remark that “Europe is finished” and that
“everything worth while in Europe has passed to the
United States,” I have an instinct that we are going
to see, through a birth of blood and sweat and tears,
the emergence of a great European renaissance. And,
unless I misread the signs of the times, the spirit of
that renaissance will be conservative. — Dorothy
Thompson, in New York “Post.”
% Hi Sfc
Dr. Alfred B. Longacre, a member of the surgical
staff of the American Hospital in Great Britain for
the last four months, said on his return that he be-
lieved the blackout of the United Kingdom will cause
“more mental trouble than any other feature of the
war.”— New York “Herald Tribune.”
* * * * *
Thirty thousand children have been born in the
Ministry of Health maternity hostels in the reception
areas since the war began. It is not only a remarkable
figure in itself, but it may foreshadow a revolution in
the treatment of maternity cases among the working
classes when the war is over. Working-class mothers
have had little experience of the value of institutional
care in childbirth, but most of these 30,000 mothers
have nothing but praise for it. Manchester
“Guardian” London correspondent.
*****
Up to October 10 Polish fighter squadrons flying
with the R.A.F. had definitely destroyed 375 enemy
aircraft, probably destroyed a further 102 and dam-
aged 48. Polish bomber squadrons had taken part
in 252 raids, 1101 aircraft being engaged in the opera-
tions. These facts are given in the Polish Air Force
magazine “Skrzydla-Wiadomosci Ze Swiata.”
The “red-letter day” for the bomber crews was
March 23 of this year, when they were instructed to
bomb Berlin for the first time.
“News of the proposed raid spread like wildfire
among the crews and ground staffs,” says the maga-
zine. “The mechanics, always solicitous of their Wel-
lingtons, made a scrupulous and painstaking final in-
spection of their machines. And when everything
was ready and the aircraft took off, those left behind
on the airfield bade farewell to the crews in exceeding
earnestness. Can it be wondered at? For the first
time Polish bombs were to fall on the capital of a
nation which had changed Warsaw and many other
Polish towns and villages into chaotic destruction and
charred ruins.” — London “Times” aeronautical corre-
spondent.
* * * * *
Letters from senior officers who are prisoners of
war show that <if the lot is cast in Italy they are re-
ceiving kindly treatment. Some are accommodated in
a villa lying in a broad valley with beautiful scenery.
They are allowed the services of rank and file prisoners
to act as batmen. They were permitted to make full
use of a swimming pond in the extreme heat of the
Italian summer, and no objection appears to be made
to their taking long walks in the neighborhood and
even indulging in some mountaineering. — Manchester
“Guardian.”
*****
When 6,000,000 British children went back to
school this autumn they found in their curriculum a
subject brand-new to most of them: the history of the
United States. Though English history has long been
taught in American schools, it was not until this year
that the British Board of Education decided to recipro-
cate. Summer schools at various universities offered
instruction in American history to more than 1000
teachers, and illustrated pamphlets have been pre-
pared to give the children a graphic presentation of
American life and culture. — U.S. “Journal of Educa-
tion.”
*****
The Italian people are coming more and more to
realise that Italy can get nothing out of the war.
Italians are arguing that even if she is on the winning
side Italy has become a dependency of Germany,
which has no other use for her. But many people in
Italy doubt whether she will emerge
on the winning side. The campaign
against Russia is not popular among
the Italian people, who do not wish to
take part in it. Germany is dissatis-
fied with Italy’s contribution. There
are, it is understood, some 100,000
Italian soldiers who have been sent
to the Russian front, but there is no
news of their having taken any dis-
tinguished part in the fighting, though
the Germans are making the fullest
propaganda about what they are
doing. The Germans have had great
difficulty, in view of the state of
Italian opinion, in getting Italy to
play the full part assigned to her. —
Manchester “Guardian” diplomatic
correspondent.
* * * *
While British corporations are
subject to a 100 p.c. excess profits tax,
they will be entitled to a rebate of
20 p.c. of this levy after the war to
finance reconstruction. — New York
“Journal of Commerce.”
* * * *
Britain now claims nearly 60 p.c.
self-sufficiency in food. Four mil-
lion additional acres of food-bearing
land, tilled in the “Grow for Victory” drive, have con-
tributed to this ; 2,000,000 acres will be ploughed for
greater crops next spring. Fifteen million “backyard
hens,” raised and fed by private citizens, as well as
3300 extra tons of “backyard hogs,” have been added
to the stock of foods. Three million gardeners have
converted flower beds into vegetable plots; over
500,000 war-time allotments to private citizens have
further turned the English countryside to vegetable
growing.— New York “Times.”
* * * * *
Apparently the old concepts of bosh, humbug,
flimflam and perjury must be overhauled. Apparently
there are depths of misrepresentation yet to be
plumbed, there are unknowns of prevarication still to
be explored, and the Book of Liars will have to have
a new edition to cover the startling new super-liars. —
Prophetic comment from a New York “Times” article
on “Liars,” 17 jll f 41.
* * * * *
[Of all American quarters that got the surprise
of their lives when the Japanese started war on the
U.S.A. none could have been more shocked than the
New York “Daily News,” which up to then had been
isolationist to the point of often sounding anti-British.
The following few sentences are typical of what the
“Daily News” was telling its readers up to the time
of Japan’s attack]:
Of all the Oriental peoples, the Japanese are the
most nearly like us [Americans], They are fond of
machinery, and are good at making and operating air-
planes, automobiles, steamships. They like gadgets of
all kinds, as do we. They are trade-minded and ac-
quisitive. They even, alone among Oriental peoples,
think baseball is a fine game, and like both to play
it and to watch it. It is against these people that our
war hawks are proposing that we fight a war. Again,
why? The Japs don’t want to fight use—New York
“Daily News.”
The severe contraction of British exports will have
lasting results. Countries which have imported heavily
from Britain in the past must now make connections
with exporters elsewhere or learn to produce such pro-
ducts themselves. In any event, old trade ties are
being weakened, and many of these will be very diffi-
cult to renew when the war is over. The British
Government will thus face a very difficult task after
the war is over. With normal export outlets in Latin
America and elsewhere impaired and with investment,
shipping and other “invisible” sources of revenue cur-
tailed, strenuous efforts will have to be made then to
tap new sources of foreign exchange to pay for neces-
sary imports. A large measure of international co-
operation may be necessary to work out a solution
of this problem. — New York “Journal of Commerce.”


4Cfcu/£.
* CAIVANI2EP IRON
for water catchment purposes ...
jR USTRALIA needs all the zinc that is
available for the making of munitions.
In order to meet this national emergency,
therefore. John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
has found it necessary to restrict supplies
of Corrugated Galvanized Roofing Iron
to those who require this quality for the
catchment and storage of drinking water.
In all other cases, Terne-Coated Iron is
now being supplied. Plain iron sheets
are also restricted, but to a lesser degr**" >
A LTHOUGH introduced to the public and
" "the building trade lor the first lime. Terne-
Coated Iron is not new but has been widely
used throughout America and the Continent ior
many years past. It has also been used ior many
years by the metal trades of Australia in the
manufacture oi petrol tanks, oil and paint drums,
etc. Its hard wearing tin and lead surface
possesses particularly good anti-corrosive
properties and can be painted without "weather-
ing." There is, oi course, no loss of strength
or rigidity and all sizes and gauges are available.
FOR AIL
OTHER USES
LYSAGHTS
OFFER
A / N
PL
AN"
r t
con*
Lysaght (AUSTRALIA) Pty., Ltd.
T 76 SYDNEY— MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE FREMANTLE
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Forced to Tax the Voters
Canberra Labor has been shaken in
its complacent political flabbiness and
administrative cocksureness. In its first
month or two of war-time office it was
conspicuous for a half-awake, out-of-
place beneficence directed towards im-
proving “social conditions” of one class
while other classes were up to their
necks in the toil and struggle of the
war effort. It brought down an
unworkable Budget a few weeks ago
by which it favored the voting mul-
titude, socked anything that resembled
savings, thrift or administrative and
organising ability, and enthusiastically
prepared to journey along the slippery
track of bank credit. In a knowing and
peremptory way it ditched the Fadden
compulsory-loan plan—a scheme which
aimed at collecting about £25 million
from all grades of income, and which,
if anything, erred in its moderation
in lower-income exactions. At the other
end of the income scale the Chifley
Budget voraciously bit at what was left
of the higher incomes and at all com-
pany earnings, irrespective of whether
the companies constituted a collection
of big or small folk. People were
specially taxed—and heavily—for no
other reason than that they had incor-
porated as a company and were not
trading as individuals. After they had
been taxed as a company they were taxed
again as individuals regardless of what
had already been paid.
There was no pretence of fairness
about the tax. It was simply a show
of clumsy inability to handle the
gigantic but delicate task before the
Government. When it found that
the total incomes of the so-called
“wealthy” were not enough to pay for
the war, the Chifley Budget relied on
voluntary contributions from the great
untaxed, not on a well-managed taxation
scale. The Government and its members
spent much time on “social legislation,”
such as lifting old-age pensions on the
one hand and cutting down rents on the
other. The view taken of what war sac-
rifices were to be made was a patently
lopsided one. Its only virtue was that
its very lopsidedness should have been
apparent to those it purported to “let
off.” They should have fully expected
what has now come about.
Last week the Government abandoned
its policy of not imposing additional
income taxes on those earning less than
£3o—yes, £30 —a week. It obviously had
to abandon it. Now Federal taxation
will reach down into the £3-a-week
class, which will pay 6d. in the £, rising
to Is. in the £ at £5 15s. 4d. a week
and upwards. A shilling a week will be
allowed for a wife and each child. Federal
tax (but not State) payable already will
be permitted as a deduction before assess-
ment of the new tax is made, and this
will give some slight concession to those
who have already made great sacrifices
in income, although the fact remains that
the higher incomes are taxed on an in-
equitable basis still. State taxation rates
introduce further inequities.
The new war-time tax is expected to
yield £24 million in a full year. It will
be added (Is. inthe£) to the heavy taxes
already paid by companies, raising the
minimum to 4s. in the £, plus undistri-
buted-profits tax and war-time (com-
pany) tax. Though introduction of the
new tax is said by Mr. Chifley to be a
result of war expenditure exceeding esti-
mates, added to which has been the
sudden danger in the Pacific, the fact is
that heavier taxation, though better
spread, has been necessary all along. War
expenditure is a tax on our productive
capacity. We get little or nothing in return
for this outlay on which we can honestly
put a money value, however necessary
and vital the outlay may be. The new
Government only showed its incapacity
by thinking it could successfully finance
this sort of outlay out of voluntary loans
and bank credit. Those methods are in-
flationary in proportion to the extent they
are used.
The Chifley Budget put Australia’s war
outlay for 1940-41 at £221.5 million.
The Fadden estimate had been £4.5 mil-
lion less, though pre-Budget estimates
had run to £250 million and more. Mr.
Chifley, in introducing his new taxation
measures last week, said that “there will
be between £4O million and £5O million
more finance required than was estimated
in the Budget,” because of “increase in
expenditure and allowances for nossihle
loss of revenue.” It is likely that there
will be a fall in Customs revenue, and
the increasing isolation of Australia has
thrown upon the Government and citi-
zens of the Commonwealth a far greater
responsibility in the matter of self-
defence than existed previously. This
responsibility, if properly accepted, must
mean a . greater expenditure of our
annual income than hitherto on defence,
and more production than ever must be
diverted to the defence forces, with con-
sequently less for civil consumption. To
achieve this diversion to the vital war
fronts we must bear heavy taxation, and
the great consuming masses must bear
their share. It is not too much to say
that before many months are over they
will be paying even more taxation than
they are now asked to pay. While the
higher incomes in Australia are the most
heavily taxed in the world, up to the
present incomes under £lOOO a year have
been let off lightly.
Though it has not been reassuring to
those who understand the Australian
economy and the hard facts of the prob-
lem confronting us to realise that cir-
cumstances rather than foresight have
forced Canberra Labor to do what it
said it wouldn’t do, and that, coming as
an afterthought to the Budget, the new
taxes must at best be a makeshift
arrangement some astonishing anom-
alies are already reported there is
no doubt the action of the Gov-
ernment last week indicates a turn
towards realities and commonsense.
Taxation, where it can be raised as such,
for present purposes is better than any
other form of national contribution.
Many will be justified in saying that what
has happened is not enough—that a Gov-
ernment which had only vague ideas
about how money should be raised will
have only vague ideas about how money
should be spent. It is up to Mr. Chifley
now to endeavor to offset the loss he
anticipates from certain revenues by
slashing unnecessary expenditures. It _ is
quite within the bounds of possibilities
that he could make up another £lO or
£2O million in this way, and in so doing
he might save many more millions by
preventing estimates from being exceeded.
The people have a feeling that a number
of war-time departments have been in-
flated unnecessarily; that the usual civil-
service methods are hopeless when a big
and vital job has to be done. And in
many respects they are perfectly right.
Orders from London to sell at 30s.
and lower crashed the market for
B.H.P. shares last week. Other conditions
had already sent prices tottering, but at
a stage where there seemed to be promise
of stabilisation at 335. or better the new
taxation levies announced by Canberra
were followed by reckless selling orders
from London. Melbourne seemed to take
its cue from Britain and further precipi-
tated falls by offering scrip in Sydney
and Melbourne at figures down to 295.
3d. on Thursday. At this sensationally
low price B.H.P. fully-paids were down
nearly 10s. compared with the quotations
of two months ago, and the return offer-
ing was over 5 p.c. on a 1\ p.c. div. basis.
One reason for the sell-at-best attitude
taken by London seemed to be the lack
of any definite undertaking (up to that
stage) by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment to introduce war-damage insurance.
* * * *
Though costs of production are rising
and the prices of goods and wage rates
are going up also, no similar inflation is
occurring in prices of shares on the Stock
Exchanges. Because of the extraordi-
narily heavy taxation imposed on these
industrial and financial units and income
from them, and because of some fear
that shares are more vulnerable to enemy
attack than money itself, ordinary shares
are down heavily on pre-war levels.
Property investments have mostly appre-
ciated rather than depreciated. Though
it did not originate the idea of doubly
taxing company income without rebate
(the Menzies Government first introduced
the “principle” in Australia), the present
Canberra Government has carried double
company taxation to the wildest of
extremes. While individuals, partnerships
and property-owners are free of this
double tax there is no justice in it what-
ever.
* * * *
How much of our overseas trade is
vital to our existence? Probably not as
much as we have in the past believed.
Anyway, here are figures showing what we
have been accustomed to get from abroad.
In 1940-41 the value of goods imported
by the Commonwealth was £lOB million
sterling, compared with £ll5 million in
the preceding year. In the later period,
the biggest disclosed items were textiles
(largely cotton, linen, silk and floor cov-
erings) £17.6 million, tea £2.9 million,
machinery £13.3 million, metal manufac-
tures £17.8 million, rubber £2.6 million,
paper £4.4 million, and chemicals and
fertilisers £5.6 million. Petrol figures
aren’t available. Imports generally over
the last two years are reputed to have been
heavy by reason of the building-up of
stocks of all kinds while the opportunity
existed. It will be more difficult than
ever now to obtain these things, and no
doubt further import restrictions will be
imposed. It boils down to a matter of
what we can get and what we can do
without.
* * * *
Australia is guaranteed a fixed price
for wool for the duration and one season
thereafter, and this arrangement should
help to stabilise the shock to the national
economy that may follow Japan’s naval


p
# e «***s>&f**
.qe °' ,et^
** f**
-<>***'
s* * C
*>*'
aA°®
A *°
** d
5 c*A d
*>£>*
c*?*
O*
Ac*’
c^ c ' .
,-rV^ C ,c^° c J e** K
*?<A d cc x< >
te e °\» '*'"
,t<vc
te<¥ *' t - .-^o' e% ilV*
«s>» ' e
*YiA*
gVv*
G e
* ; r t s>«
r -*eO «- ,
,
SsgjtfC
* V*: n
* c\°P
A ' fcVve : d< \
r <*A V
*Yi®
>H^ d ' C^®ue^ C
.4 «&>%
<&+&&***
A US S sA' dt
n oV v2. ~ * tx Z
T r»4
fo t •». f»* s
c
\\\®
P® s -
fte*
*o*
«**'*^Z<d£*** 0
o 9 r !te4-
s * e *
I*“* «o< ? t0
A® C
J
ecmco
E. T. C. INDUSTRIES LIMITED
CARRINGTON RD. AND REN WICK ST., MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
C N R.
1-33-41
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
Mw
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
operations in the Pacific. The stricter
supervision of the consumption of im-
ported goods suggests that exports as
well as imports may be a matter of diffi-
culty, though it is hard to forecast
whether Australian shipping facilities will
be drastically interfered with in all
oceans. Wool can be stored, provided
we have the accommodation, and it will
keep for a long time. The loss of Japan
as an indirect customer for wool will
probably be more than offset by the in-
creased demand likely to come from the
U.S.A. now that so many of its citizens
will be in uniform. In the meantime,
the price fixed for wool at the outbreak
of war is not so good, relatively, as it
used to be. This is something of the
greatest importance. The cost of living
is rising somewhat in spite of the efforts
made to keep it down, and since the in-
troduction of the Chifley Budget there are
indications that inflation will become a
greater danger than ever. Up to the
advent of Chifley the rise in living costs
had been about 10 p.c. Though it com-
pared favorably with rises in other parts
of the Empire, it was nevertheless an
added problem to the producer who was
in receipt of a fixed price for his output
but who had to pay wages and other ex-
penses based on rising living costs. Can-
berra Labor has so far shown little sign
of its awareness of the factors on which
the well-being of Australia depends,
* * * *
From the time Japan entered the war
until Friday last there was an unbroken
decline in the price of shares throughout
Australia generally. Some falls were
wholly unjustifiable in their severity. One
of the biggest crashes was in Broken Hill
Prop., which slumped to 295. 3d. at one
stage ; but all leaders were down heavily,
Tooth fell from 495. 3d. at the end of
November to 455. 9d. on Friday ; these
shares had been up to 565. prior to the
introduction of the N.S.W. Budget Elec-
trolytic Zinc dropped from 495. to 445.
9d. in under three weeks ; this year’s
highest quote was 565, 6d., compared
with last year’s lowest of 40s. Australian
Consolidated Industries scrip was sold
at 375. 3d. on Friday, a drop of 6s. on
pre-Jap. quotes, and down 13s. 3d. on
the year’s highest price. Burns Philp
shares, after rising to 525. or thereabouts
following rumors of the proposed open-
ing of a branch of Penney’s in Sydney,
slumped to 445. 6d. when fears arose
that trade with the Islands and exports
to Europe might be interfered with,
North Broken Hill fell from 40s. at the
end of November to 335. South shares
at 20s. 3d. were down 3s. 9d. Mt. Lyell
was 3s. lower at 235. 3d.
Colonial Sugar sold at £43 55., down
£3 10s. since November and £8 lower
than the year’s highest price. British
Tobacco ords. dropped to 395. 6d., which
is within a few pence of the lowest price
touched in 1940. G. J. Coles ords. sold
at the lowest figure in years—sls. 9d. was
accepted, which was 3d. below the most
depressed price recorded on Sydney
’Change during the French collapse.
Woolworth ss. ords. were also singled
out for special marking down —there
were sales at 13s. 9d., compared with a
lowest of 13s. 3d. in 1940. The heavy
taxation on the higher profit ratios has
done much of the damage to chain-store
scrip. The market does not believe that
present div. rates can be maintained with
taxation as it is. Cement shares have
not stood up to the strain as well as
usual. Kandos shares have come down
to 28s. 6d., compared with 325. 6d. at
the end of November, and Australian
Cement in Melbourne has been offered at
substantially reduced prices. Cotton cos.
suffered, especially Bradford. There
were sales at 355. for the ords., which is
down ss. on recent averages. Apart
from general considerations, there are
apparently fears that raw cotton may be
difficult to obtain in present circum-
stances. It isn’t likely, however, that the
Commonwealth has been caught entirely
unprepared in the matter of emergency
stocks. Davies Coop ords. have been
selling at 305., compared with 355. a
month ago.
• ••••*
Among goldmines, Emperor and
Loloma have been conspicuous for
further falls. Emperor has been sold
at 6s. 6d. and Loloma at 14s. 9d. People
on the lower taxation scale may find
Loloma a particularly good gamble, in
the circumstances. Malayan and Thai-
land tin cos., of course, have suffered
with particular severity. Nawng Pet has
announced that its mines in Thailand are
in enemy hands, and that the office in
Penang has been “bombed out.” A buyer
who did not choose to be reckless offered
2d. for these shares. Most of the Thai-
land stocks were offered last week, with
no sellers appearing. But so far as
Malayan issues were concerned, though
prices were down heavily, some opera-
tors took the view that the integrity of
Malaya is wrapped up with the safety
of Australia, and they shaped their
market policy accordingly.
• •••**
On Friday and Saturday the markets
rallied. B.H.P. came up again to 31s. 9d.,
and Tooth was quoted at 465. 6d. buyer,
48s. seller. Though there were still more
“delayed-action” falls than rises, the
Sydney index of 34 ord. shares stood at
110.85 last Saturday, against 110.82 on
Thursday and 102.13 in June, 1940.
Highest point reached this year was
131.26. Welcome news on Monday
morning was the announcement that war-
damage insurance was to be introduced
at the rate of 4s. per cent, on real
property, with the rate on plant yet to be
determined. Insurance is compulsory on
all real property; on plant when the
value is more than £lOOO. The share-
market did not show an immediate
response.
* * * *
Cool and Gas Storage, Ltd., is being
formed in Sydney to carry on the busi-
ness its name implies, plus treatment of
grubs in fruit and fumigation of food-
stuffs. The prospectus makes a case for
the necessity of further cool-storage
space in Sydney by quoting comments by
the royal commission into the fruit in-
dustry in 1939, and gives the relative
storage capacity and fruit acreage in
Victoria and N. S. Wales. A site for
the store has been picked in an island
block on Ultimo-road, the rear abutting
on to a Darling Harbor railway siding,
on the other side of which is the Muni-
cipal Fruit Market. It is estimated that a
storage space of 206,066 cubic feet can
be obtained in a two-storey building,
enough to store 91,116 cases of fruit and
80,000 boxes of butter. The cooling
method will be the brine air circulating
system, which is new to Australia but
common in Britain and the U.S.A. The
land is estimated to cost £14,795, the
building £28,500, the plant £25,000, cool-
ing rooms £13,000 and other items £3705.
Of the total projected outlay of £85,000,
an “amount to be secured on loan by the
Commonwealth Bank of Australia and
guaranteed by the Federal Government ’
will provide for £40,000. The public is
to be offered 45,000 £1 ords., and 15,000
deferreds of £1 may be issued for patent
rights. The ords. get 5 p.c. before the
deferreds participate, but all rank equally
for capital. Net profits of £12,000 a
year are estimated, allowing for company
income tax of 6s. Bd. in the £. That
would be equal to 27 p.c. on the ord.
capital, or to 21 p.c. on the ords. and
16 p.c. on the deferreds if all are issued.
Profit estimates under present con-
ditions are largely conjecture. The
directors may go to allotment on the
subscription of 25,000 shares. In a new
proposition of this kind the layman has
little to guide him, but the float seems
straightforward enough. P. S. MacDer-
mott is a director. Sydney Cold Stores,
which runs the Glaciarium in conjunc-
tion with its ordinary business, last year
earned the increased profit of £10,037
and paid most of it out in an 8.9 p.c.
div.


BEATS THE HEAT
LOOKS A TREAT
sin
m
m
COOL and smart, free
and easy, a sports suit of
Soltine Cloth is just what
you want this Summer.
Soltine is woven so that the
fabric "breathes” and
keeps you cool whatever
the weather. Soltine doesn’t
sag or crease either—that’s
why you can be thoroughly
at ease and yet look smart
in Soltine. Your tailor or
store will show you all the
new patterns. The Glen
Urquhart Check coat and
plain grey trousers illus-
trated above, make a fine
outfit for the well-dressed
man.
TIME
Born, Shorn, Woven and Worn in Australia
If unable to obtain, write to P.O. Box
J/SOG, Melb., or SOl/2NN, Syd., and we’ll
advise you where you can get Soltine Cloths.
PATON 8
ms
mWWM?i < ■
i>
Sv ■-. &>:>
§§&&
41* /4
m
>,%; /
D
COLUMBINE
CARAMELS
sr
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
AT THE TALKIES
“The Reluctant Dragon’’
This queer Disney beastie, at present
inhabiting Sydney Mayfair, seems to be
distantly related to Ferdinand the Bull,
inasmuch as both are confirmed
pacifists. Ferdinand was of the opinion
that if he just sat and whiffed flowers
and antagonised nobody, no harm could
befall him. A delightful theory, of course,
but, for practicality, depending rather too
much on the inclinations of the other
fellow. The Dragon, also, is a non-
belligerent—“all that he wanted was to
be left alone in his cave to nuzzle around
among the mushrooms,” write poetry,
and so forth. But, unlike Ferdinand, the
Dragon was fortunate enough to meet
an antagonist who was willing to co-
operate with him —Sir Giles, the dragon-
killer, “was really willing to let bygones
be bygones and play ball with any decent
dragon who would behave himself” —and
so you have “two hereditary mortal
enemies who take a long view of things
and say: ‘Why should we get ourselves
all scorched and bloody just to please a
bunch of promoters in the village? Let’s
not, and say we did! ’ ”
Once more a delightful theory, but to
find some arena where it could be applied
would seem to be a most difficult task —
unless, of course, some cynical cove
chooses to link it up with what passes
for wrestling these days.
Theories and so forth apart, however,
it would be difficult to find anything
wrong with Mr. Disney’s Dragon. As
indicated by the following brief inter-
view, the only persons likely to be a
little disappointed T>y him are small boys
who have pursued and slain the scaly,
fire-breathing monsters in their dreams:
Boy: Have you had any nice battles
lately?
Dragon: Battles? No —no battles.
Boy: Oh! Too busy scourging the
countryside and devouring fair damsels,
eh?
Dragon: Scourging? Devouring? Good
heavens, no!
Boy: But—but don’t you ever do any-
thing desperate?
Dragon: Well — yes! I do make up
poetry.
Similarly, small boys would probably
be the only ones to find fault with Sir
Giles, the dragon-killer:
Boy: But that’s just it —he won’t fight.
Knight: Ya-as, he—what! He won’t
fight? Preposterous! Fellow must be an
infernal cad! Bit of a rotter, what?
Boy : He is not. He’s a nice old dragon
who likes to write poetry.
Knight: Poetry?
Boy: Yes —verses, you know.
Knight: Bah Jove —how jolly! I’m a bit
of a bard myself, you know.
From which it can easily be deduced
that Sir Giles and the Dragon meet on
the best of terms, swdp a few verses over
morning tea and arrange to stage a fight
which will delight the villagers, satisfy
the punters and hurt nobody. It’s all
told in the most engaging Disney manner
and should disappoint no one, including,
in the long run, even the disillusioned
small boy.
The story of the Dragon and Sir Giles
is only a part of the complete film, which,
by taking Robert Benchley on an explana-
tory tour of the Disney studios, gives
a rough outline of the way Disney’s
cartoons are made; gives Mr. Benchley
a good opportunity to add to his repu-
tation as a humorist; and gives the
audience two or three other cartoons,
including one of the hound Goofy taking
out a horse in the best riding-school
manner, and another, “Baby Weems,” a
bright satire on the American infant-
prodigy complex.
* * * *
“It Started with Eve”
“What-ho!” we remarked on strolling
into the Sydney Lyceum to inspect its
current bill —a Deanna Durbin frothery.
The expression of rapturous delight was
forced from us, not by Deanna, but by
the Lyceum itself. Formerly rather a
sombre house with seats apparently de-
signed to straighten backs and square off
any rounded portions of the human
anatomy, the Lyceum has been subjected
to a severe face-lifting. Inside it has
been streamlined and done over in light
cream in the best traditions of modern
interior decoration, the pews are in the
feather-bed class and the carpet is of the
kind that’s likely to get tangled up with
your ankles ; the lounge outside has the
same kind of carpet, with spacious
mirrors, luxurious settees and trim little
usherettes to set it off.
The Deanna Durbin piece isn’t in the
same class as the new fittings, but it’s
of the lightly entertaining kind that seems
to line ’em up in queues outside. Deanna,
hat-check girl in a posh pubbery, is sud-
denly grabbed up by a young fellow and
carted off to where his millionaire father
is about to depart this world—the old
chap wants to inspect his son’s fiancee
before he snuffs, and the son, unable to
find his future missus, grabs the first thing
in skirts he can find and presents her to
the old man.
It goes without saying that the old
fellow gets another lease of life, and
Deanna has to keep up the impersona-
tion, despite the objections of the young
man and his snooty fiancee. It also goes
without saying that Deanna eventually
displaces the s.f. in the young fellow’s
affections and all ends where it usually
does in such fillums. The only thing re-
markable about this one is the casting
of Charles Laughton as the young fellow’s
father. Laughton’s acting is, as always,
practically perfect, but it’s still not good
enough to disguise the fact that his role
could have been adequately handled by
any of the dozens of benign old fathers
who seem to hang about Hollywood.
* * „ *
“Blossoms in the Dust”
, T ~ , , , .
Veiy well made and done out in par-
ticularly effective technicolor, this
M.-G.-M. offering at Sydney Liberty is
apparently based on the history of a
woman who started child-welfare work
in Texas and who, after many struggles
against prejudice and poverty, succeeded
beyond her own expectations, and even
managed to have the Texas’ legislation
on illegitimate children corrected as she
saw necessary. The story is much the same
as any part-history-part-fiction concoction,
but it’s supported by the very fine acting’
of Greer Garson, Walter Pidgeon and
others, and by good directing which gets
the most out of its dramatic content
and steers clearer of bathos than might
be expected in a Hollywood film full of
pore little orfans. Supported by a string
of shorts, including one of those three-
dimensional oddities in which spiders
skeletons, hatchets, knives, etc., seem to
leap out at the audience and frighten
the wits out of all old ladies over 16
* * * *
“Birth of the Blues,” at Sydney Prince
Edward, purports to be the history of the
introduction of that particular form of
music-mangling. Bing Crosby (shades of
Miss Hua at 10 to 9 on) is chief culprit
as leader of a band trying to foster
“blues” in a community which regards it
as, at least, indecent With Bing are
Mary Martin, one of the best at putting
over this style of thing, and Brian Don-
levy, dubiously cast as a cornet player.
Altogether a lightly pleasant show, if
rather noisy—a few yards of the sound
track behind Bing’s horse over the final
half-furlong of its last start might have
worked wonders.
Supporting the “blues” merchants is
“Flying Blind,” another adventure episode
with the secret of a new bomber running
the gauntlet of sinister foreign agents and
home traitors to a final haven with the
right authorities. Nils Asther is the sin-
ister foreign gent., Richard Arlen the
ordinary John Cit. who foils his plans
and Jean Parker is John Cit.’s affection-
ate support.
STAGE AND CONCERT
A bit of old Russia unexpectedly
cropped up at Melbourne Princess
when the Gong Theatre put on the
classical drama “The Storm” of A.
Ostrovsky. There were the traditional
dirty village full of cringing, lackadaisi-
cal peasants; the rustic genius who has
heard about lightning guards and is de-
nounced by the grasping merchant as
an atheist who wants to put up steel rods
to keep off God’s punishment for the sins
of the people; the rich landowning
family ruled by a tyrannical mother-in-
law ; the daughter of the house who is
permitted to flit from flower to flower
because she is unmarried, and the
daughter with an equal urge to change
her allegiance but who happens to be
wedded; the spineless husband; the
equally spineless lover ; the village Cas-
sandra who prophesies an eternity of
brimstone for the guilty couple ; the in-
evitable confession of the wife and her
equally inevitable suicide by drowning in
the Volga ; much vague political ideal-
ism, blaming of conditions, throwing
everything on to God’s shoulders, and
a general atmosphere of dampness, decay
and hopeless boredom.
ARTBURSTS
Roy Dalgarno’s second Brisbane exhi-
bition puts him well into Noel Wood’s
class as a painter of Queensland tropical
scenery. They exhibited together a year
ago and Dalgarno has advanced notably
in mastery of light and color. His view
of the Barron River Valley from Kuranda
is an arresting piece of work, perhaps
the best rendering of Australian tropic
scenery on the grand scale that has
yet been attempted. His outstanding
draughtsmanship is finely displayed in
some figure studies “The Publican”
will bring many a memory back to ex-
Northerners.
* * * *
June Bednall, whose show is at the
Dudley Buildings, Melbourne, is a trier.
She has had a go at portraits, nudes
and landscapes in oil, wash and pencil.
She has all the technical facility she
needs, but lacks power of observation.
Her drawings in lipstick are no more and
no less adequate than her painted por-
traits.


THE SERVICE MAN
Early Stages in the Pacific.
“Ek Dum”: Though the new enemy
has gained spectacular successes, the war
in the Pacific is only in its preliminary
stages.
In the ultimate, the test of Japan will
lie in its ability to carry by sea large
bodies of troops, with suitable equipment,
and land them with supplies, transport
and adequate protection in territories that
still have to be conquered. This cannot
be done in aeroplanes on a sufficient
scale. It cannot be done in merchant
ships without adequate protection. Hitler
and Mussolini, with superior air numbers
in the Mediterranean, have learnt that
to their bitter cost.
For the moment the Japanese are
using main forces against outpost forces.
As they move further afield their
superiority will decrease unless they can
conquer their enemies stage by stage.
Land advance on a large scale must pre-
cede air advance organisation, which is
complicated fuel supply, oils, repair
shops, spares in everything from paint
to engines, ammunition, guns, bombs.
Only after Japan is organised step by
step on land and sea toward the south
can it advance step by step to finality.
The preliminary report on the Pearl
Harbor affair helps to dispel some of the
terrors with which hysterical public men
and peahen papers were seized. The
first two onslaughts were complete sur-
prises. The third came within an hour,
after battleships had gone to the bottom,
barracks been smashed, thousands of
men killed, and the surface of Pearl
Harbor turned into a lake of burning oil.
That third onslaught accomplished no-
thing except enemy loss of a large number
of machines.
The experience was not sufficiently
heartening to encourage further essays.
Other islands in the 1500-mile-long
Hawaiian group have suffered desultory
bombing, but fortified places have been
left severely alone save Midway.
The enemy has not succeeded by air
in taking Midway Island, which is at
the northern end of the Hawaiian Group.
He has not taken Wake, cheek by jowl
with Japanese Pacific islands, which
would give him a base within 1300 miles
of the Hawaiian Is.—a prize infinitely
worth while. Wake was twice strafed
during the week.
Hong Kong “Takes It”
At Hong Kong the Japanese possess
overwhelming air and sea superiority.
Having the advantage of already well-pre-
pared land bases and assembled troops
and artillery just outside the mainland
border, they succeeded in a few days in
penetrating Kowloon and overrunning
everything but the island itself. The island
is 32 square miles of peaks and saw-back
range, without sufficient catchment for
a water supply for its million people,
and with its great capital city accessible
at point-blank range to Japanese guns
on the Kowloon peninsula ranges less
than five miles away.
The island was accessible, too, to
Japanese aircraft from the civil aero-
drome at Kai Tak, just across the water,
while itself it had no effective aerodrome
but only a converted sportsground.
It was invadable across the Lyee-
moon Pass at the eastern end over only
a quarter of a mile of water, and at the
western side across three-quarters of a
mile.
Three demands to surrender were sent.
An appeal was made to the “humanity 1 '
of Sir Mark Young, the Governor, to
spare “the 1,000,000 innocent Chinese
the horrors of bombardment.” No offer
was made to allow the innocent million
to leave the island to spare themselves the
horror. Governor Young’s absolute refusal
of the first offer on Dec. 14 was character-
ised by the Japanese as “the stubborn
refusal of an act of mercy.” After nearly
a week under an inferno of fire, a second
call to surrender was sent. Again it was
refused, and the Governor told the at-
tacker bluntly that he would ignore future
overtures.
A little later communication ceased ;
but it presently turned out that, though
the Japanese had added invasions at
several points both on the harbor and sea
sides of the island to a week of incessant
air and artillery attack, the strongpoints
in the hills were still hanging out.
At intervals through the week it was said
that Chiang Kai-shek’s troops were press-
ing to the rescue of Hong Kong. They
were reported to be only a few miles
from the Sham Chun boundary river
on December 19. But if they had been
strong enough to get there it is unlikely
that there would have been any land
siege of Hong Kong. They long ago
would have reopened the closed com-
munication with the port in their own
interests.
On Saturday and Sunday messages
began to reach the outside world again
from the Governor. Victoria was heavily
shelled from the mainland on Saturday
evening. The landing of some enemy
troops at North Point and near Tai Ku
and at other points was being “the sub-
ject of counter action.” Governor Young
had issued a message to his troops:
The eyes of the Empire are on you. Be
strong and resolute and do your duty.
When this was written Hong Kong was
still holding out, though hard pressed.
Burma and Malaya
Whatever has happened in Burma and
Malaya, the decisive phase is a long way
off—unless Singapore and the forces guard-
ing it are weaker than appears, and the
capacity of Britain, India, the Dutch East
Indies and Australia to reinforce far less
than believed.
The first landings of the Japanese were
near Kota Bahru, close to the Thai
border, 360 miles from Singapore crow-
fly, and the second at Kuantan, 180 miles
from Singapore on the east coast. The
bulk of the enemy troops and materials
are, however, being dumped for a start
in Thailand, which has signed a treaty
of military alliance, tenable for 10 years.
The invasion of Thailand made it im-
possible to defend the narrow strip of
southern Burma, only 40 miles wide, and
of Kedah, which joins it on the west
peninsula coast. Victoria Point aero-
drome was given up, thus handing the
Japanese air access to the Indian Ocean
and to the sea traffic from Ran-
goon and Calcutta to Singapore. There
is, however, no road thence to Rangoon.
The country is a shocking tangle of gully
and huge rain forest, impenetrable toward
the north for vehicles. The tinfields will
not add much to Jap resources for the
present, if taken.
The worst feature of the northern in-
vasion was that it made it necessary to
give up the port of Penang and its island
city of Georgetown, which is dominated
by the Kedah hills from across a narrow
strait. Penang has been British for 155
years.
The enemy poured down the strip
of western Kedah and infiltrated over the
border from Thailand. The line of his
main advance on Dec. 21 stretched across
the peninsula, roughly from Krai, 50 miles
s.-w. of Kota Bahru and the Thai border
on the east, to the Perak River above
Taiping on the west.
This point is about 40 miles south of
Grik. The British withdrew across the
Perak River before Dec. 21, and the
Japanese attacked Lenggong, evidently
attempting to make a stroke at the British
flank. Whether the bridgeheads of the
Perak were under control by the enemy
was not clear from a late communique,
but he was still 320-odd miles from Singa-
pore and there were unconfirmed reports
that he had lost his hold on Kuantan
aerodrome nearer the fortress.
Air raids were frequent in northern and
mid-Malaya. Kuala Lumpur, Singapore,
Penang and other places had visits,
though, save for Penang, none was heavy.
The A.1.F., save for odd units, has
not been involved and the Japanese have
a long and harassing distance to go
before they reach main defence lines,
which are in depth and conceived on the
principle that the further the enemy has
to cart his stores and fly his ’planes the
better for the defenders. Singapore’s
main job for the present is to hold on.
The weather is helping and the on-
slaughts, even in the thinly held north,
are punctuated by pauses which are prob-
ably due to the heavy price which the in-
vaders are paying for the progress
through the terrible jungles and rivers.
A significant fact is the lack of serious
activity over the nearer-in Malayan seas.
H.M.S. Banka, 623 tons, was sunk, and
the destruction of four fresh troopships
was reported early in the week. But the
Japanese Navy, which might have been
expected to be prominent in the same
way that the British Navy is prominent
off Libya, has been remarkably quiet.
Progress became slower at the week-
end, and British counter-attacks in the
north threw back not very heavy Japanese
attacks.
Borneo and the Philippines
In the Philippines raids continue on
Cavite, Nichols airfield and at other
defence points round Manila, but they
have done little to advance the subjuga-
tion of the Philippine Commonwealth. At
the beginning of the week the Japs had
footholds at Apari and Vigan in the north
and Legaspi in the far south of Luzon.
To this they added a tenuous foothold in
the far south at Davau, in Mindanao,
where they claimed to have landed troops
in considerable force. On Dec. 20 Davau
was still being held, but late in the day
U.S. Army H.Q. reported itself out of
communication.
The northern enemy efforts have been
localised and well confined at Apari
and Legaspi. Attacks at Vigan on the
west coast of Luzon increased, but still
had a long way to go to be serious. There
are no signs that the situation is not well
in hand, as General MacArthur says it
is. Japanese headquarters admitted that
Dutch submarines had sunk another two
transports and that a destroyer had been
lost off Borneo.
The main extension in the grasp of the
huge Japanese hand which is coiling
fingers round the Philippines-Malay
arc of defence was in British Sarawak, in
north-western Borneo, where, at Miri, the
British set off the measures already pre-
pared to destroy the oilfields which run
out under the sea. The Japanese secured
their landings fairly easily, but afterwards
were heavily raided by the Dutch air
force. Apart from the loss of the oil-
fields, the enemy now has a new foot-
hold from which to attack Singapore,
Manila and Java from fairly close quar-
ters.
The inter-island steamer Corregidor
(1800 tons) was sunk in a minefield off
the Philippines with a loss of 500 lives.
Timor Occupied
On Dec. 15 Japanese submarines were
seen off the Timor coast, only 400-odd
miles from Darwin. Australian and
Dutch troops —the Dutch own part of
the island —took over Dilli, where the
Japanese recently established an air base.
A British announcement said that this
has been done for the defence of vital
interests and the troops would not inter-
fere with Portuguese sovereignty, and
would be withdrawn as soon as the emer-
gency had passed. Rome Radio declared
that Portugal was so incensed that its
Government intended to join the Axis.
This can be believed when it happens.
The Dutch Indies have been bombed
in a perfunctory way—the Anambas
Islands between Malaya and Borneo saw
a few pills dropped on the little town
of Terempa, and Japanese ’planes were
driven off while attempting to bomb
Sorong at the extreme western end of
Dutch New Guinea.
Rome alleged on Dec. 21 that Japanese
troops had been landed in “New Guinea.”
Up till December 22 nothing had been
heard of the major navies. To the U.S.
command in all seas Admiral King, a
lean and active and highly experienced
flag officer, had been appointed. He was
with Mr. Roosevelt during his meeting
with Mr. Churchill.
It looks like a long war. It was not
to be expected that the Americans would
get up full steam in a fortnight or so.
But when they do
At Pearl Harbor.
“Nobby II”: On Dec. 15 Colonel
Knox gave the losses in the treacherous
surprise assault by 150 to 300 Japanese
’planes on Pearl Harbor. He said the
U.S. forces were not on the alert, but,
after the surprise, conducted the defence
skilfully and bravely.
The losses were:
The battleship Arizona (completed 1916),
32,000 tons, 21 knots, 14in. guns. She was
modernised in 1931. A bomb which
passed down her funnel into her fore
magazine destroyed her.
The Utah, 28,000 tons, which was turned
into a target ship in accordance with the
London Naval Treaty in 1931, three years
before she was due for scrapping.
Three destroyers, Cassin, Downes and
Shaw: powerful modern (1936-38 vintage)
1500-ton units, knots, sin. guns.
The minelayer Oglala.
This list excluded the battleship Okla-
homa, 29,000 tons, built during the last
war, which capsized but can be righted,
though at heavy cost, and several other
vessels, which can be repaired in periods
of from a few weeks to a few months.
Pearl Harbor has everything needed for
re-equipping and repairing ships of every
class. Colonel Knox added:
The entire balance of the Pacific Fleet,
with its aircraft-carriers, cruisers (light
and heavy), destroyers and submarines, is
uninjured and is at sea seeking the enemy.
Navy personnel losses in ships and on
shore were 91 officers and 2638 men
killed and 636 wounded. Army losses
were severe in aircraft and hangars, but
replacements had arrived or were on
their way. There were 168 soldiers killed
and 423 wounded.
The Japanese admit that one of their
battleships was damaged and five Ü-
boats were lost. Colonel Knox says one
was normal size, but one was so small
that it had a crew of only two men.
Tokyo also admits the loss of 29 ’planes.
Colonel Knox says he knows of the loss
of 41.
With the harbor a carpet of burning
oil and bombs dropping all round them,
the Americans (said Colonel Knox) gave
“continued demonstrations of courage,
bravery and fearlessness of which the
American nation may well be proud.”
The day after Colonel Knox’s return
the President ordered the setting-up of a
board of inquiry under the chairmanship
of Justice Owen Roberts, of the Supreme
Court. Next day Admiral H. E. Kimmel,
Naval C.-in-C. in the Pacific, was re-
placed by Rear-Admiral Chester Nimitz ;
and Lieut.-General Short and Major-
General Martin, commanding the air
force in Hawaii, have been relieved of
their commands until the inquiry is
finished.
Japan’s story of the damage done
varied enough to qualify the information
man for a job as a “famous” reporter. It
began as “70 per cent, of United States
naval power in the Pacific.” Next, it
was “three battleships, one aircraft-
carrier, four cruisers, two submarines and
some small vessels, totalling 270,000
tons.” And when it became evident that
tonnage and ships could not tally, “aerial
photography” found two more battleships
and another cruiser or two on the floor
of Pearl Harbor.
Washington handled the thing firmly
and promptly and without fuss, and what
Uncle Sam lost in ships he certainly
gained in morale.
“Can we send you anything?” radioed
the U.S. Navy to the leathernecks of
Wake Island after the first onslaughts on
that lonely spot, three-parts surrounded
by enemy islands. “Send us some more
Japs,” said the United States marines.
The Japs for some reason did not want
to go.
Rommel on the Run.
“Ek Dum”: This Libyan campaign,
though shabbily treated by some news-
papers, has developed into one of the
finest feats of the war on any front.
The forward movement, begun on
November 20, was made against long-
prepared positions on a wide, difficult,
poorly-watered front, divided by a well-
held escarpment which mitigated against
unity of effort across the whole line of
advance. There were powerful fortresses
which it would be necessary to reduce.
There was a perimeter bristling with
artillery and served with a triangle of
formidable aerodromes. And the at-
tackers knew they would be fighting an
enemy with fertile and well-watered
country to retire to only a few miles
onward, and with effective, though much-
blasted, ports at least a couple of hun-
dred miles closer than the main supply
depots of the Eighth Army.
Maorilanders, British, S. Africans —for
whose gallantry General Auchinleck said
a special word of praise during the week
in a message to Field-Marshal Smuts
Indians and an Australian battalion from
Tobruk all fought desperately. They en-
countered the fiercest kind of resistance.
In the first week of actual fighting the
British Imperial forces broke into Tobruk.
In the second week they consolidated
their gains. In the third they
swirled on, made themselves masters of
the siege perimeter and of the three
crucial aerodromes of El Gubbi, El Adem
and Gazala and turned what, in the first
days, had been a whirling series of desert
tank and armored melees into an orderly
advance across the escarpment 40 miles
deep, with a port at its back door. The
Imperial air forces and the Royal Navy
on one side prepared the way along the
coast, while a roving column hammered
the enemy supply lines on the south, well
forward of the main advance.
By December 18, a month after the
first crossing of the Libyan border, Cairo
G.H.Q. was able to report:
The Axis forces in Eastern Libya are
now in full retreat. The enemy’s front has
been broken everywhere after five days oi
intense fighting, in which all the remaining
German and Italian resources have been
thrown into the battle to delay our advance.
Our troops, on Wednesday, unrelentingly
pursued the enemy for nearly 30 miles,
and by evening the main body ot our
infantry had reached the general line ot tne
Tmimi-Mekili road.
Thus, the vital junction for the re-
occupation of Benghazi was under occu-
pation. And it was added that, up to


Dec. 15, there had arrived at Alexandria
76 German officers and 2926 other ranks,
237 Italian officers and 4869 other ranks.
Next day, Indians turned in another 1000
prisoners.
On Dec. 13, 14 and 15 the remnant of
the German Panzer forces, with strong
artillery backing, counter-attacked again,
opposed to them being the sth Indian
Infantry Brigade and small sections of the
Ist Punjabis—whose ancestors were in
one of the greatest feats of all time, the
taking of the Kashmir Gate at Delhi in
the Mutiny and the 4th Sikhs they
helped to carry the Water Bastion at
Delhi that day in ’57.
This great fighting combination, so rich
in tradition, made .ground against superior
numbers. Their old comrades the Buffs
and batteries of the 21st R.A., backed
by aircraft, cleaned up the mess, after
putting a finishing touch to a grand show.
This fight, after a Punjabi’s own heart,
began when about 60 tanks were encoun-
tered by British tanks south of Gazala.
The enemy retired behind a vicious A.T.
and artillery screen.
The enemy tanks moved northward
towards the coastal road and, on the
north flank, ran into the Indians, covered
by 10 American tanks and 25-pounders.
The German tanks were coming up
swiftly—4o of them. As quickly as they
dived into sight of Skinner’s Church in
’57, over the brave Salkeld and Home,
the Indians sallied gaily into the fray
with the mastodons, which at that
moment were crashing into their flank.
The gallant spirits manning the Ameri-
can tanks flung themselves bang into the
middle of the attackers, and, to brighten
things up, the German rearguard of
lorry-mounted 3.4-inch field guns and
A.Ts. arrived headlong. The Indian sup-
port tanks sailed up alongside the Ger-
man tanks so that the Hun A.T. guns
were immobilised. A few German tanks
charged the 25-pounders, many of which
were going point-blank. Five Panzers
were sent reeling and blazing out of the
charge with direct hits. Two more came on
floundering and rocking, and collapsed as
flaming wrecks under the noses of the guns.
A British major whose own vehicle
was burst open by two Germans, and who
had as complete a worm’s-eye view of
the proceedings as is available to a man
feigning death, said he was impressed
with the perfect co-ordination between
the German tanks and their artillery,
which moved in in exactly the nick of
time to cover the Panzers’ retreat. In the
German raids there were 12 gaps, though
the Hun managed to get eight of his
tanks away before the tired Indian
sappers could blow them up that night.
By the week-end British forces were
in the outskirts of Derna and had cap-
tured the Derna aerodrome. On Tues-
day night, Dec. 16, Von Rommel’s fate
seemed- to be sealed, British tanks being
athwart his line of retreat. But a dense
ground fog, thickened by the fog of
battle, killed the light from the last
paring of a dying crescent moon. It
gave him a chance to slip out of the
net and break back 40 miles over rough
country to set up a line from Bomba
to Mekili. It was nip and tuck whether
he could get into his position. The British
advance was clawing at the seats of his
Italian rearguard’s unmentionables, a
stream of abandoned equipment trailing
out behind as from a leaky sugarbag,
and the view-hallo of Maorilanders, In-
dians, Poles, Africans and a Guards
brigade in hot pursuit ringing down the
gorges of Cyrenaica. They had heard
the call of “Gone Away” at dawn on
Dec. 17, and set out at once on their
40-mile run across the trackless desert,
hoping that the tank-hounds which had
made a wide sweep down to Tmimi and
up towards the coast would have turned
the quarry.
But he had found his way through the
gap —a bold move indeed, though it only
put off the evil day when he must give
battle. This he did on some scale when
the Indians caught up with his Italians
on Dec. 17 and he flung 30 of his Panzers
at them again. These smashed the front
of one Indian battalion and caused
heavy losses. The Indians, being only a
vanguard, withdrew, taking a number of
Italian prisoners.
By Saturday British troops were only
50 miles from Benghazi after further
fighting in which 12 German tanks were
destroyed and eight Italian mediums
taken intact.
By the morning of Dec. 22 most of
the German forces had been driven 40
miles south-east of Benghazi round Soluk,
a railway terminus directly south of El
Regima, where the A.I.F. held lines when
the Panzers first appeared at the begin-
ning of April. Italian infantry is further
east, and in a precarious position. Derna
had been totally abandoned to the
British. The roads over which the last
retreat was made were strewn with dead.
South of where the German concentra-
tion was, British and Indian formations
which broke across the desert in the first
week of the campaign are somewhere
waiting, and at Jedebaya the Imperial
air squadrons are constantly blasting the
enemy’s fuel and supply carriers along
the Tripoli road.
In the Dec. 14-21 week the Axis lost
211 machines, including 142 found on
the ground, destroyed or abandoned,
against a British Imperial loss of 31.
Hitler says that “difficulties of organis-
ing communications extending over the
whole Continent and extending to North
Africa will be overcome, and prepara-
tions must be made for the new offensive
in the spring.”
He will have to move quickly in North
Africa, or there will be no Axis there,
to communicate with.
Events in Russia.
“Ek Dum”: No corps of correspon-
dents is allowed on the Russian
front, so the authors of war bulletins,
written and spoken, have the field to
themselves. The only check on their an-
nouncements is the map. Newspapers
are satisfied that the Germans are in the
throes of a debacle worse than that suf-
fered by Napoleon after the snow had
killed off his horses and left his armies
without food and necessaries.
Horses are mentioned as contributing
to Hitler’s discomfiture. In a bulletin
dated December 19, for example:
In their retreat on the Moscow front the
Germans are abandoning many towns and
villages which they earmarked for winter
quarters, the speed of the Russian advance,
combined with the superb use of cavalry
and skis, giving the Germans no chance
of making an orderly withdrawal.
Horses are a very vulnerable form of
transport in extreme cold, and it is diffi-
cult to believe that they could pursue a
mechanised enemy armed with machine-
guns through “terrible snows” at any
pace or for any distance. Feeding and
watering them alone would present in-
superable difficulties. Skis are little or
no use in forest country. And if Ger-
man mechanised forces have been frozen
in it can only be because their lubricat-
ing oil and their less volatile fuels froze
or because they have struck impassable
snow. Yet frozen-in divisions have been
discovered travelling west at a great rate
—over 40 miles in two days: extremely
swift going for large bodies of troops
under winter conditions.
The course of events has been as fol-
lows. Till the beginning of the last week
of November the German movement had
all been eastward. The invaders took
from the U.S.S.R. an area 1| times the
size of Victoria, populated by \\ times
the Australian population, and that virtu-
ally every month for six months. Their
deepest point of penetration was over
700 miles from their starting point. South
of Moscow, in the Orel area —as was
shown by the recapture of Yeletz after
the enemy had been driven back several
miles —they had reached points 100 miles
east of the line of the capital.
Then in the Donetz-Don region Italians
and Hungarians began to fall back be-
fore Marshal Timoshenko’s drive. Mean-
while with a sudden blow General Kleist
and his attack army, which had been
settled down round Taganrog, 36 to 42
miles from Rostov, drove into that city.
He remained only a few days and then re-
tired, hustled by Timoshenko’s men, who
have proved themselves good soldiers.
The invaders nevertheless still appear
to hold lines in the Taganrog region.
They have not been driven from Stalino
further north, nor have they relinquished
their grip on any of the Ukraine, save for
a few hundred square miles held by
Italians and Hungarians north of their
Taganrog line. Their Rostov retreat
seems to have stopped when it reached
the Ukraine border. They still, appar-
ently, hold the terminus of the Caucasian
oil-pipe line.
Kleist’s retreat was in progress when
the enemy began to loosen his grip at the
point where his Orel-Kursk spearheads
had been flung east far beyond the main
body towards Voronezh. Further north
his grip on successive spearheads has
been loosened in what seems an orderly
sequence. But no Russian break-through
has yet been made in depth on his wings.
Nor has any specific bag of prisoners
been announced, though the capture of
100,000 Germans would have effects
which would be felt throughout the
world. “S. M. Herald’s” London corre-
spondent discussed this mystifying feature
on Monday:
Few German prisoners have been taKen.
This is largely because the Germans, in
desperate attempts to hold up the Soviet
thrusts, are throwing in suicide detach-
ments to cover the withdrawal.
And “Pravda” was quoted:
We are now engaged on a further prob-
lem of the great task set us by M. Stalin —
the complete extermination of the German
beasts who dared lay their hands on our
beloved land.
In the same “S.M.H.” communication
it was pointed out that “the Germans
have not yet slackened their grip on
Leningrad, despite powerful Russian
hammerings from within the city”—and
despite attacks on the Finns.
As in the wars against Napoleon and
Charles the Swede, the Russians have
shown splendid spirit and toughness in
defence of their country, and it is grand
to see the invaders going back. But it
is too early to form judgments, and there
are circumstances which advise caution.
The Germans have made no move to
evacuate the Crimea. They continue to
hold Yalta and Kerch, extreme points
from which, if there is a rout along the
Azov coast, they would have no chance
of escape.
And it is strange that Hitler should
have chosen the middle of a debacle to
declare war on the United States. Strange
also that while Stalin is accepting aid
from the U.S.A. and Britain he should
remain at peace with their enemy and
Hitler’s ally Japan. The New York
“Times” reported a German peace offer
to Russia, which was admitted —though
scornfully—at Kuibyshev. The latest on
this subject is that Hitler has repeated his
offer to Timoshenko —this is “strongly
rumored at Washington,” according to
the Mutual Broadcasting System.
The Germans, as the broadcasting con-
cern notes, “have significantly and re-
peatedly praised the skill and valor of the
Russians” —which may be an artless con-
fession or an indication that they have
had something “phony” and face-saving
in mind. Apart from this outbreak of
laudation their spokesmen have given
little attention to movements on the Rus-
sian front and much to developments in
Libya and in the Pacific. But one declara-
tion ran as follows:
We will not advance further on the
Moscow front this winter. Major cam-
paigning must be suspended until the
spring, when Moscow wiil be taken. There
is a standstill before Leningrad, but we
will resume operations in 1942, when
Japan’s intervention may have created
advantageous conditions. There is no
reason to expose our troops to the terrible
rigors of the Russian winter. Actions are
impossible at Moscow and Leningrad, but
they may be carried out in the Black Sea.
Since then, save to record heavy fight-
ing or air activity or “the repulse of Rus-
sian attacks,” all that has been said
officially at Berlin is that retirement to
winter quarters is “proceeding according
to plan.”
Japan's Air Power.
“Aileron”: Contrary to an impres-
sion fostered by newspapers which have
misled the English-speaking world on so
many subjects, Japan has been very busy
in aircraft manufacture for the past
decade.
About the oldest factory is Nakajima,
founded in December, 1917. It is ironi-
cal that Nakajima machines, which
helped in the wrecking of Prince of Wales
and Repulse, are the offspring of United
States air brains. The company building
them held licenses to construct Douglas
and Fokker aircraft in Japan. At first
it built D.C.2’s, but turned out a com-
mercial two-engined machine of its own
so close to Douglas lines that Douglas
might mistake it for one of his own.
It has also built a number of military
and naval machines —94, a single-engined
two-seater with a speed of about 200
m.p.h., and 97, a fighter, single-engined
and fitted with floatplanes for naval
purposes. In general lines this machine
owes a good deal to the Blackburn Skua
and some of the Curtiss pre-Tomahawk
vintages, though its proportions are dif-
ferent —more length to span. It is about
the same size as the Spitfire.
Kawasakis began building under Ger-
man Dornier licenses, and started to pro-
duce Bramo engines in 1925. They turn
out a fine unit of the Fafnir type. The
Kawasaki heavy bomber (95) has a strong
resemblance to the Dornier two-engined
models. Kawasakis also make a two-
seater bomber.
The contribution of Kawanisi, one of
Nippon’s greatest shipbuilders, is one of
the world’s largest four-engined recon-
naissance bombers for long-range work.
It has a 130 ft. wing span against the
Short Sunderland’s 1121 ft. It is another
child of the Dornier family, with a few
lessons from the American Consolidated
(Catalina) family incorporated.
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries came into
the field in 1933, and has been most pro-
lific in the production of new types—
more so than any other firm in Japan.
Its type 96 was first built as a civilian
freight-carrier. It is slightly smaller than
the Wellington bomber and, like its con-
gener, No. 97, is a German type. It is
capable of staying ten or twelve hours
in the air.
Others include the Otori (Phoenix)
single-engined type, which in 1936 flew
2000 miles to Bangkok non-stop ; the high-
performance Karigane (“Wild Goose”)
two-seater, and the Kamikaze (“Divine
Wind”), which early in 1937 flew 9900
miles from Tokyo to Britain in hours.
Finally there are the types developed
from the A-14, which must be Japan's
fastest fighters.
The A-14 itself, brought forward in
1938, is comparable to the Hurricane.
It has a metal monocoque flush-riveted
fuselage, is 38ft. 4in. span by 27ft. long
(cf. Hawker, 40ft. by 3lift.), is powered
with a 14-cylinder air-cooled radial and
weighs 56001 b. fully loaded. Its range
is 1490 miles (Hurricane’s is 850 miles),
and its maximum speed is 310 m.p.h. (the
Mark I Hurricane’s is 325 m.p.h.). Mitsu-
bishi makes also a low-wing torpedo
bomber, a transport strongly resembling
a Douglas DC2 and a heavy bomber
along Heinkel lines.
A dozen other companies operate —
Aichi, which makes naval flying-boats
and air-cooled engines; Fukada (estab-
lished 1937), whose work has been secret;
Hitachi (1939), builders of trainers;
Masado (1933), another secret plant;
Tatikawa (formed 1924, reorganised
1936), trainers and ambulances; TKD,
which builds at least one two-engined
type; and Nippon, which owns works
covering several acres and a private 210-
acre landing field, and which made its
first ’plane late in 1939.
Most of these concerns are in a large
way; Mitsubishi is said to have plant
covering 70 acres.
They will have their work cut out to
catch up with British and U.S. produc-
tion, though they probably have been
piling up machines for three years. T. P.
Wright, formerly production manager of
Curtiss-Wright, whose detailed analyses
carry conviction, estimates that at the
beginning of November Britain was pro-
ducing 1800 machines a month ; that this
would be stepped up to 1900 by the end
of the year ; that Germany’s figure was
2250 and would be 2300 by the end of
the year, and that Uncle Sam by that
time would be reeling off 2400 a month.
To these must be added 300 a month
from Canada and some from Australia.
On Dec. 21 Hitler announced, via
Goebbels, that, though he was “in no way
dissatisfied with Field-Marshal von
Brauschitsch,” he had decided to take
over the Supreme Central Command. He
did this before —in the Balkans and the
eastern front —so it may presage another
major offensive. There has. been much
German movement along the Spanish
border, and Franco last week took the
trouble to redeclare “non-belligerency.”
* * * *
Japanese submarines are operating off
the Californian coast, and a 6912-ton
freighter, the Emidio, has been sunk ;
five of the crew are missing. One
very big boat came to the surface
near Santa Cruz, Cal., and fired eight
shots —all missed —at a 7000-ton tanker,
the Agwiworld, on her way from Los
Angeles to San Francisco. Defence
zones are being hurriedly declared round
the American coasts.
* * * *
Three of our seamen escaped from
H.M.A.S. Parramatta when she was sunk
while escorting a convoy off Libya last
month. Signaller Miller and A.Bs.
Latham and Tysoe landed between
Tobruk and Bardia after several hours
in the water and some more in a drifting
boat which they found. Senussi gave
them tattered Italian uniforms, and they
were eventually “captured” by S. Africans,
who were astonished to hear one of their
captives yell: “Thank God for hearing
that language again.”
* * * *
Eastern Command, C.M.F., is handed
on by Lieut.-General C. G. N. Miles, who
goes on accrued leave at 57, to Lieut.-
General Douglas Wynter, a fellow-
Queenslander, who received his baptismal
military training with the same grand
crowd of Wide Bay troops that initiated
Brudenell White and Glasgow. Wynter
had a splendid record in the last war,
was marked out in September, 1939, for
high command,went to England as G.0.C.,
A.1.F., brought his men in a 15,000-mile
voyage before the Greek affair to Africa,
where their Libyan retreat and dauntless
conduct around Tobruk advertised his
discipline. He himself was invalided
home, but is now in good health. He is a
“soldiers’ soldier.”
* * * *
H.M.S. Dunedin, 4850 tons, Captain
Lovatt, has been sunk by a U-boat in
the Atlantic. She had been almost con-
tinuously on convoy service since the war
began. Of her complement of 460, only
four officers and 68 ratings were saved,
and five of the ratings died after rescue.
Dunedin was one of the seven ships of
the Atlantic Fleet which made a round-
the-world voyage in 1924; the battle-
cruisers Hood and Repulse, as well as
Dunedin, have gone.


TATTERSALL’S CLUB, SYDNEY • ANNUAL RACE MEETING
FIRST DAY:
Saturday, December 27, 1941.
Principal Event: The Carrington Stakes,
of £lOOO. Six Furlongs.
RANDWICK
RACECOURSE
SECOND DAY:
Thursday, January 1, 1942.
Principal Event: Tattersall’s Club Cup,
of £l3OO. One Mile and a Half.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES.
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Transport restrictions played havoc
with the attendance at Randwick on
Saturday, the 15,200 who passed through
the turnstiles being a few thousands less
than if the customary special trams had
run to the course. Many regular patrons
of the flat had evidently decided that the
greyhound meeting at Wentworth Park
would satisfy their betting needs for the
afternoon. The sporting side did not
matter.
Recent form pointed to Yaralla as the
probable winner of the Villiers Stakes,
and on the course he was never at better
than 6 to 4. He duly won, the rain,
wind and dust that prevailed at the start
of the race not affecting him. He led
throughout, The Miller being his only
opponent that ever looked as if he might
make a race of it. The Miller was second
round the turn, but though he kept
Yaralla on the move right to the winning-
post the result was not in doubt over
the last furlong.
Without being dangerous at any stage,
Rimveil was third, and his backers were
optimistic in expecting him to beat
Yaralla —this State’s best three-year-old
miler —on 101 b. worse than weight-for-
age terms. Veiled Threat’s slowness in
finding his legs disposed of him. Last
at the turn he ran on well to finish
fourth and may fare better in some-
thing else during the summer meetings.
Amiable looked as bright as her backers
could wish, but her showing further
emphasised the fact that she has de-
teriorated considerably since she made
the Australian record of 1.34 f. The time,
1.37£, was a trifle slow, but that was not
surprising considering the conditions
that prevailed.
It was Yaralla’s eighth win, and with
the addition of minor-place money —
three seconds and three thirds—his earn-
ings total £7634, against the 1200gns.
he cost as a yearling.
Since the close of last season no Rand-
wick-trained horse has made greater im-
provement than Dewar, and 9.5 did not
prevent him running a great race to dead-
heat Chatoona for the Holiday Handi-
cap. Last for nearly half the journey
he got up just in time to catch Chatoona,
who followed Serenata into the straight,
and led less than a furlong from home.
Queenslander Spear Vale also put in good
work down the straight to run third, but
was meeting Dewar 141 b. and Chatoona
lib. better than Summer Cup terms. Buza-
long and Katanga ran fairly, without
ever looking winning possibilities.
Red Pete, Yours Truly, Thrax and
Santa were among those well beaten, and
Malagigi’s eight years are evidently tell-
ing upon him. Applying Summer Cup
figures he was the most favorably
weighted horse in the race, but despite
that and his excellent track form of
the previous fortnight he scarcely did as
well as his stable companion Serenata.
Jymjon is improving, and, as Angus led
for a mile, a win for him in a race of
that distance is on the cards. Mabson
needs more racing to bring him to his
best, but Two’s Company’s showing put
her in line for a win in a slightly weaker
field.
• «••••
The early fall of the odds-on favorite,
Anpapejo, in the Hurdle Race gave
backers a bad start, and Tartanus, who
took the lead in the straight, narrowly
defeated Kenil Gem and Fiery Cross,
the result being in doubt right to the
winning post. Mainray and Punarua were
the pacemakers to the turn, but both
tired badly in the straight.
Modulation ran away with the De-
cember Nursery in the excellent time of
I.OL He quickly got to the front and
did not after give his opponents a look-in.
It would be difficult to prophesy an
early win for any of those he beat.
Modulation, who was a 300gns. yearling,
is another good advertisement for Mani-
toba.
• • • • V •
In the Highweight Handicap Rylstone
and Rathlin again proved themselves
good welter horses. Rylstone was the
early leader, and, after being headed by
Rathlin inside the last 50 yards, came
again to record a dead-heat. Rathlin
was never further back than third. The
Squire and Sir Amyas shared favoritism,
but the former, who was badly placed
shortly after barrier-rise owing to
stumbling, could not get near the front,
and though Sir Amyas ran up second
at the turn he stopped badly in the run
home. In Maoriland he won at a mile
and a quarter. Rhythmic was fourth, but
of the unplaced division Nightbeam may
be best worth keeping in mind.
Montfort . (Melfort --Vaillament) Sid
Denis (Denis Boy-Luita) and Wishing
(Grand Joy-Joyce M.) were the respec-
tive winners of the Novice Handicap
divisions. Montfort, who is a three-year-
old, had not previously raced, but he
had worked sufficiently well to attract
the attention of frequenters of the Rand-
wick training tracks, and he was never
at a longer price than 6 to 1. He was
quickly in charge, and scored comfort-
ably from the other place-getters, Appro-
bation and Happy Bay.
-*** . * *
Although Montfort s time was the
fastest of the three divisions, his win was
not more impressive than that of Sid
Denis, who ran away from his tol-
lowers after entering the straight. As
he has done very little racing he is likely
to continue improving. Great Spec was
a disappointing favorite, never getting
closer than fifth at any part,
.* • • . * * *
Wishing’s form did not say much for
her chance of winning the third division,
but she outstayed the favorite, Meneen,
whom she caught at the turn. Quoted in
the ring at 33 to 1, Wishing s tote odds
were 96 to 1. Unplaced runners in one
or other of the three divisions 1?
do better are Valoroi, Gundare, Muti-
neer, Sponsor, Beachcomber and College
Boy.
* * * *
Pannade and Koorenbeen, two former
Sydney horses, fought out a “camera”
finish for the Fund Handicap at Moonee
Valley on Saturday. Pannade won by
half a head in the last stride, with
Prairiedale half a neck away third, and
Swettenham and Heart’s Desire almost
. in line with him.
' * . * tj- -j„ r
. Koorenbeen was unlucky Hi- rider
A. Dewhurst, was struck in the eye by
a flying clod about five furlongs from
home, and must have been at a disadvan-
tage in the fighting finish. Pannade, how-
ever, could not be begrudged a change
of luck. His four previous races had
yielded three seconds and a third, and
the win did not come out of its turn. He
was vigorously ridden by E. Preston, who
recently won the Ballarat and Ascot Cups
on Sir Richard for Pannade’s trainer, S.
Murphy. Strategy, a firm favorite, was
never going like a winner. John Wilkes
showed a glimpse of returning form by
running sixth, and, provided he stands,
a win may come his way shortly.
Melbourne bookmakers received their
third 50-to-l result in a week when
Koonomoon defeated Busybody and Gay
‘Roi in the Two-year-old Handicap. Gay
Roi, who missed the start and lost ground
on the turn, may have been unlucky, but
the winner won decisively and impresses
as likely to improve. Koonomoon, who
had raced only once previously, was bred
by her owner, W. Brown, and is a chest-
nut filly by Autogyro from Amiath. Auto-
gyro, a son of Heroic, showed great
promise in track trials as an early two-
year-old, but broke down and never
raced. Whereas Brown allowed Koono-
moon to run unbacked, a collective for-
tune was invested on the favorite, Sim-
mana, who shortened from fours to 5
to 2. Simmana distinguished himself by
breaking through the barrier, dislodging
his rider, and cantering for several fur-
longs before being recaptured. He was
never dangerous in the race.
• ••••*
Sold recently for 625 guineas, Ver-
mont repaid £2lO in stakes by winning
the Three-year-old Handicap from Sun-
rocks and Wit. At the same time, he
gave his trainer, N. D. Hoysted, a son of
Fred Hoysted, his first success in the
metropolitan area. Easing from 7 to 4
to threes, Vermont looked to be hopelessly
out of his ground half a mile from home,
but he moved up rapidly on the bend
and won in the last stride. H. Badger
was lucky to escape serious injury when
Pyramus stumbled and dislodged him
early in the race, but, acting on medical
advice, he did not fulfil other engage-
ments during the day. P. Simonds, rider
of Portfolio, was suspended for one
month for crossing Pyramus too sharply.
George Scobie, a nephew of the late
James Scobie, trained Phildoll for her
success in the first division of the Welter
Handicap. Phildoll hung up a series of
wins earlier this year, but latest form
indicated a decline, and her defeat of
Somerset and Pauline was a good result
for bookmakers. She started at 15 to 1
after twenties had been bet. Phildoll hit
the front at the top of the straight, and
battled on gamely enough to indicate that
she has returned to her best. Pauline,
although solidly backed, might be a
better proposition at her next appear-
ance. Sun Belle, 2-to-l favorite, looked
dangerous when she made a fast move
coming to the turn, but she was forced
wide and only plodded on at the finish.
Radama, sixth, should, repay following.
David Innis, a Moonee Valley special-
ist, recorded his third successive win by
defeating Pretoria and Bluebeard in the
second division of the Welter Handicap.
Starting favorite at threes after easing to
fives, he hit the front coming to the turn,
and won decisively. David Innis is
owned by his trainer, W. Burke, who
specialises with jumpers, and it is prob-
able that he will be entered for the next
G.N. Hurdle. He has not raced over
hurdles, but has shown ability in school-
ing lessons. H. Mornement, who has
been associated with David Innis in his
last two wins, is undergoing military
service, and attended Saturday’s races in
uniform. Bluebeard’s third showed that
a course of hurdling has not affected his
speed.
Gusher? a mare by windbag, followed
her easy win Qn the same track fiye
d earber by outs t ay ing her opponents
oyer tbe j, mde 0 £ tbe fi rs t division
tbe Tr ial Handicap. She drew away
Qn tbe tunij and was too strong for
Dream Girl and Lady Collingwood in the
mn home In both ber wins last week
Gusber was ridden by apprentice K.
Smith, who at one time gave up riding
temporarily because of lack of oppor-
tunities and was employed in the
butchering trade. He has made the most
of his chances since his return to the
game, and is one of the most promising
lads in Melbourne. Hectare was a dis-
appointing favorite, but he is capable of
better form, and interference settled
Mercury Bay’s chance.
• •••*•
Triton, who had finished second to
Gusher earlier in the week, looked the
form horse for the second division of
the Trial Handicap. He was backed
accordingly, but no excuse appeared pos-
sible for his half-length defeat by Similar.
Latter was capably ridden by E. Merrick,
apprenticed to Similar’s lessee-trainer, M.
Crossey. Merrick showed fair promise
earlier in his career, but very few oppor-
tunities have come his way for some
time.
The Barber recorded his first win over
jumps when, starting at 16 to 1, he out-
stayed Haura in the Trial Hurdle. Haura
was worried in the lead by Glen Eden
most of the way, and hung out under
pressure in the straight. As Jack Farr,
backed from 9 to 2 to favoritism at 5 to
2, suffered interference when Aurated fell
at the last jump, there was excuse for his
failure to do better than third.
• # . . • *
Moonee Valley’s meeting on Saturday
was Melbourne’s first without special
trains and trams, and, all things con-
sidered, the attendance was satisfactory.
Tote turnover for eight races was £476
ss. less than for the corresponding meet-
ing last year, when there were only seven
races, but there were fewer men of the
fighting forces present. Petrol restric-
tions meant that ordinary suburban trains
and trams had to handle most of the race
traffic, but the infrequent service late in
the day resulted in considerable conges-
tion on the homeward trip.
* * * *
Fortunately for bookmakers, figures
and form do not always work out cor-
rectly, but on both Dewar appears to
have a mortgage on the Summer Cup.
Handicapper Wilson must share that
opinion, as in the Denman Handicap at
Tatt.’s meeting next Saturday he put
Dewar within 21b. of Katanga, and made
him concede Spear Vale 111 b., Yours
Truly 191 b,, Malagigi 211 b., Serenata 191 b.
and Chatoona 101 b. That would have
made him meet Katanga 171 b., Chatoona
131 b., Yours Truly 231 b., Malagigi 241 b.,
Jymjon 231 b. and Serenata 151 b. worse
than in the Cup. It is much the same
with most of the others engaged in both
races, and though Dewar may be de-
feated in the Cup it is difficult to select
anything that has a reasonable chance
of downing him. If Dewar should win
the Summer Cup he will still be left with
an excellent chance of success in Tatter-
sail’s Cup. A 101 b. penalty will send him
up to only 8.9, so he will be meeting
everything he beat in the Holiday Handi-
cap on better terms than in that race.
Last year Malagigi, with 8.4, ran away
with the Summer Cup, but he is not
suggestive of danger this time. The last
horse to shine in both Cups the same
season was Miss Nottava. She dead-
heated Pretzel for the Summer Cup and
won Tattersall’s Cup, with Pentheus and
Inducement in the minor places.
* * * *
Young Crusader’s 2.42* is the record
for the Summer Cup. For a few years
it was also Australia’s best for a mile
FOR RANDWICK.
Friday, December 26.
By “PILOT."
Summer Nursery Handicap:
Takarangi, 1; Peach Pie, 2;
Current, 3.
Christmas Trial Handicap: Irak,
1; Mombasa, 2 ; Platero, 3.
December Stakes: Riverton, 1;
Hall Stand, 2 ; Baroda, 3.
Wilton Park Handicap: Arahura,
1 ; All Love, 2; Marcoperi, 3.
Chisholm Handicap: Creditor,
1; Merrimba, 2 ; Skerries, 3.
Summer Cup: Dewar, 1 ; Spear
Vale, 2 ; Santa, 3.
A J.C. Handicap: Breeze, 1 ;
Haridelle, 2 ; The Squire, 3.
FOR MENTONE.
(Before acceptances .)
(By Our Melbourne Representative .)
Beaumaris Handicap: Nai, 1 ;
Simmana, 2 ; Gallant Gentleman, 3.
Woodleigh Handicap: Silver
Light, 1 ; Law Student, 2 ; Portable,
3.
Sorrento Handicap: Vale, 1 ;
Contact, 2; Beaufiler, 3.
Summer Handicap: Koorenbeen,
1 ; Marcius, 2 ; Alibi, 3.
Talgarno Welter: Sunshine Boy,
1 ; Pennywise, 2 ; Phildoll, 3.
Rosebud Trial Handicap: Mer-
cury Bay, 1; Shanghai, 2; Rippling
Avon, 3.
FOR V.A.T.C. MEETING.
(At Flemington.)
(Before acceptances.)
(By Our Melbourne Representative.)
Shoobra Hurdle: Harley, 1;
Giant Killer, 2 ; Naverino, 3.
Juvenile Stakes: Chatfield, 1;
Abound, 2; Blue Valley, 3.
Hopetoun Handicap: Elanage, 1 ;
Chamberlain, 2 ; Sir Richard, 3.
Oberon Steeplechase: Highland
March, 1 ; Trent Bridge, 2 ; Sachem,
3.
Malvern Handicap: Neutron or
Crojick, 1 ; Pauline, 2; Astounding,
3.
Christmas Handicap: Chatsbury,
1 ; Phoines, 2 ; High Title, 3.


tHH-M »301 S
MM3IU - „
HANDLES PLAITED
ON ZAIR STEEL CORES
No. 14—16-plait handle, 6ft. x 12-
plait thong
No. 15—16-plait handle, 7ft. x 12-
plait thong
No. 16 —16-plait handle., Bft. x 12-
plait thong
37/6
39/6
42/6
Etc.
StflttM xjOIS
NOIIVIS
3 KANGAROO RIGHT THROO
7 AND
\ STEEL LINED HANDLES.
No. B—lo-plait handle, 7ft. x 10-
plait thong 21/6
No. Ba—lo-plait handle, Bft. x 10-
plait thong 237-
Postage 1/3 each.
WALTHER* STEVENSON ltd!
595 CEPRCE ST. SYDNEY
Missing Friend.
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of
COLIN RONALD THOMAS please ask him to
communicate with his people in S.A.?
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 202 of 1941.
BETWEEN DOROTHY EMILY BLELLOCH
Petitioner and
PATRICK STEWART BLELLOCH Respon-
dent.
TO PATRICK STEWART BLELLOCH late
of O’Sullivan Street Surry Hills in the
State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DOROTHY
EMILY BLELLOCH has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Twenty-seventh day of February
One thousand nine hundred and forty-two and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Third day of December, a.d.
1941.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
JACK THOM, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
350 George Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2160 of 1941.
BETWEEN CECILIA TENGLIEN Petitioner
and
HAROLD TENGLIEN Respondent.
TO HAROLD TENGLIEN.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CECILIA
TENGLIEN has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the ground that
you have without just cause or excuse wilfully
deserted her and without any such cause or
excuse left her continuously so deserted during
three years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Eleventh
day of February One thousand nine hundred
and forty-two and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of December, a.d.
1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
HERALD, BRUCE, BRIERLEY & ENG-
LAND, Solicitors for the Petitioner, 109 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 595 of 1941.
BETWEEN LUDWIG KRAUS Petitioner
DOROTHY ELEANOR MAY KRAUS Re-
spondent and
WILLIAM DUNN Co-respondent.
TO WILLIAM DUNN late of Sydney in the
State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said LUDWIG
KRAUS has commenced a suit against the
said DOROTHY ELEANOR MAY KRAUS
in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the ground
of your adultery with the said Dorothy Eleanor
May Kraus AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honor-
able Court on or before the Twenty-seventh day
of February One thousand nine hundred and
forty-two and in the event of your not doing so
within the limited time or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of November,
1941.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
G. M. STAFFORD, Solicitor for Petitioner,
79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
(Divorce.)
TO GEORGE WALTER LIGHTEN formerly
of Hobart in Tasmania Timber Worker.
TAKE NOTICE that a petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a notice to
you to appear and answer the charges in the
petition of CONSTANCE MAY ANN
LIGHTEN of 82 Melville Street Hobart afore-
said praying for a dissolution of marriage In
default of your so appearing you will not be
allowed to address the Court and the Court
will proceed to hear the said petition proved
and pronounce judgment in respect thereto
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for
the purpose aforesaid within Thirty days after
the date of this publication an appearance must
be entered at the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart.
R. G. BINGHAM,
Principal Registrar.
FINLAY, WATCHORN, BAKER AND
TURNER, of No. 32 Murray Street, Hobart,
in the State of Tasmania, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
and five furlongs. Now Dashing Cava-
lier is in first place with 2.41|. Young
Crusader is, however, still a Randwick
and Australian record-holder with 2.55
for a mile and three-quarters. He did
that time in October, 1938. Palfresco’s
2.27| for a mile and a half in the Caul-
field Cup is one of Australia’s longest-
standing record of recent years.
« * * *
D. Munro’s riding of Rimveil in the
Villiers Stakes was criticised by some of
that horse’s backers. They reckoned he
should have been kept further back and
then put in the run that served him so
well on previous occasions. One thing of
which they lost sight was that Rimveil
was carrying 9.11 against lighter weights
in his other races. Munro can console
himself with the reflection that few riders
of well-backed beaten horses are ever
credited with riding a faultless race, while
any jockey who has been fairly “carried
home” by a good horse is sure of praise
for his horsemanship. The pocket talks
all the time in racing.
* * * •
Buzalong’s chance was not a winning
one in the Holiday Handicap, and, while
the task of winning the Summer Cup
may be beyond him, he looked as if he
would be improved by racing. There-
fore, no matter how he fares on Friday,
he may still have to be taken into ac-
count for Tattersall’s Cup with 9.0. The
furlong shorter distance than the Summer
Cup will be something in his favor.
The Miller, with the same weight as
in the Villiers Stakes, is bound to run
well in the Carrington. He will be meet-
ing Yaralla 111 b. better, and, though
seven furlongs or a mile would suit him
better than the shorter distance, that dif-
ference should give him a good chance
of turning the tables on the latter. The
Miller has twice won at seven furlongs
at Randwick, and is likely to be a little
better than when, at the commencement
of this month, he gave Rylstone 101 b. and
ran him to a head at six furlongs. Apart
from Yaralla, The Miller will find some
three-year-olds hard to beat. These in-
clude Astrid and All Love.
* * H: *
Horses listed for sale at auction in
Sydney next week suggest that some
owners think there is a better chance of
selling advantageously now than later on.
Perhaps they are wise. Some breeders
are decidedly pessimistic as to the out-
come of this season’s yearling sales. How-
ever, if the war favors us as much as
we wish during the next couple of months
all should be well. Prize-money has a
big influence on yearling sales, and up to
the present the A.J.C. and V.R.C. have
not indicated that they are likely to in-
dulge in reduction.
* * * »
In Victoria the V.R.C.’s ban on book-
makers’ ownership of racehorses becomes
operative on January 1. Despite the
V.R.C.’s rule, bookmakers will continue
to own horses, and it seems to me it
would be better to permit them to race
in their own names than put them in the
position of firing from behind a hedge.
* * * *
Melbourne jockeys have now not only
to sign attendance books at the various
tracks, but must give the names of the
horses ridden by them.
* X * *
In Maoriland as well as Australian
States racing is receiving a drastic cut.
Mid-week racing is banned in M.L. and
only Saturdays and holidays will be avail-
able. W.A. is naturally affected, and the
final day of the W.A.T.C. (Perth) meet-
ing has been cut out. Brisbane, too,
will have to do with less racing than
hitherto, and the same applies to Adel-
aide. Some country meetings in Tas-
mania are sure to be removed to metro-
politan areas. Many Victorian meetings
for the coming year have been called off,
and racing seems likely to suffer more
than most Australian industries. It may
once have been a sport, but it is now a
business which gives employment directly
and indirectly to a tremendous number
of people. War effort comes a long first,
of course, but, unless forced on us by
circumstances, anything approaching a
knockout blow to racing is something
to be avoided.
* * * *
Lucrative is well on his way to India,
and it is to be hoped he arrives there
safely. Some of the best English horses
that raced in India last season are get-
ting on in years, and Lucrative is only
rising five. There are many other meet-
ings before then, but big racing in India
does not commence in Calcutta until
November, and ends in Bombay in
February.
* * * *
The cancellation of special trains for
race meetings has dealt a knock-out
blow to race meetings held outside the
40-mile radius of Sydney. Metropoli-
tan clubs have also to get along without
special buses, trams and trains, and in
view of Randwick’s contribution to war
funds and State revenue it is possible to
dispute the wisdom of the step in con-
nection with meetings held at that course.
Still, there would be an outcry by non-
proprietary and debenture clubs if Rand-
wick were given preferential treatment,
notwithstanding that the minor clubs race
principally for the benefit of their share-
holders. The next trouble may be the
reduction in the number of metropolitan
fixtures. Many people hold that during
war-time one day a week is sufficient,
but if a cut is deemed absolutely neces-
sary it is to be hoped, for the sake of
those who derive a living from racing,
it will at least permit of two meetings
a week being held in alternate weeks,
with a reservation favoring those clubs
doing most for war funds.
* He * *
The fact of there being 5000 at the
greyhound meeting at Wentworth Park
last Saturday will give shareholders in
suburban racing clubs cause for thought.
Without special trains to get people to
their race meetings, the easier-reached
greyhound tracks will mean serious oppo-
sition, and some of those club spokesmen
who object to Randwick allegedly having
greater privileges than proprietary and
debenture clubs will now have to turn
their attention to the menace of “the
dogs,” with the idea of having their Satur-
day meetings barred. As Randwick was
affected to some extent by such opposi-
tion minor clubs are sure to be greater
sufferers. Dogracing is a useless sport
by comparison with galloping or trotting,
but it is impossible to gainsay the fact
that, as “something to bet on,” it appeals
to a large section of the public.
X H* *
Success of an outsider in the Decem-
ber Stakes would be something unusual.
It is a race in which form generally works
out correctly, and the last 10-to-l winner
was Wexford in 1932. The last two
winners, Yaralla and Dark Elegance,
trained by F. T. Cush, respectively started
at 4 to 1 on and 2 to 1 on. It looks
as if Riverton will be favorite this year,
though, according to stable calculations,
there is not a great deal between him
and Baroda. However, though the latter
carried 9.0 and Riverton only 8.5 when
they won at Randwick the same day early
this month, time put Riverton in the light
of being the speedier colt. He comfort-
ably did his five furlongs in 59|, while
Baroda took 1.1.
Riverton reads like again beating Bang-
ster and Hall Stand, though the former
is credited with having improved during
the past fortnight. Riverton will be
receiving only 21b. from him against 71b.
at their last meeting, but it is improb-
able that the difference will be sufficient
to enable Bangster to reverse positions.
Modulation and Battle Dress are speedy,
but they may find the others mentioned
a little too tough for them, and Tahmoor
and Takarangi may be below December
Stakes standard. It is on the cards that
Riverton and Baroda will give E. J. Watt
two place-getters.
* * * *
Though not new the following is
good: A Scot, having backed a winner
at 10 to 1, on collecting his winnings be-
gan to count the £1 notes very carefully
under the bookmaker’s nose. He went
over them two or three times very closely,
which caused the bookmaker to snarl at
him: “What’s the matter? Do you think
I’ve given you a wrong ’un?” “No,” said
the Scot. “I was looking to see that you
had not given me back the bad ’un I
gave you!”
* * * *
The number of horses held on lease in
N.S.W. is surprising. In the recent issue
of the “AJ.C. Racing Calendar” the
total was 1344. Many of these are raced
by “battling” owners and trainers, who
must have horses, though they cannot
afford to buy them outright. It is to be
hoped it will be otherwise, but the present
outlook suggests that for the next couple
of years the demand for yearlings at the
sales in Sydney and Melbourne will not
be as great as in the past, and, if they
are unable to sell or lease, some breeders
may, as owners, be forced to give much
greater direct support to racing. That is
only as it should be, too.
* * * *
What a lot of luck there is in racing!
Some owners have bought yearlings over
a long period without ever getting any-
thing that furnished into a high-class
horse, while others at their first or second
venture have secured something that has
proved outstanding. It is the same with
trainers. Some have got hold of one or
two good horses that could almost train
themselves, and that has given them
opportunities—they have not always been
equal to making the most of them—
which have never come the way of better
men at the business. Nor is it unusual
for an apprentice to be more fortunate
than another in the same stable. A lucky
mount or two may cause owners and
trainers to be anxious for the services of
one while a more capable lad may never
get a real chance of showing his ability.
He H«
Even in England it is recognised that
women can be as good racecourse secre-
taries as men. The Manchester Race-
course Co. recently appointed Miss F. M.
Gregory as its secretary.
* He He *
Despite the success of Yaralla in the
Villiers Stakes Saturday’s results at Rand-
wick —a 33-to-l chance to wind up with
—enabled “books” to make Christmas en-
joyable for their clerks, who are upset by
the suggestion that they make £l5 a week.
They wish it were so, but, though they
are certain of fair payment for a day’s
work, a “bit extra” is always dependent
on how their employers fare.
* * * *
The New York “Post” gives some in-
teresting figures relative to this year's
racing in the State of New York. The
tote turnover for 175 days at that State’s
five tracks was $133,236,000 (about
£A40,818,000), the daily average attend-
ance being 14,307, while the greatest for
one day was 51,800 at Belmont
Park, when $1,881,000 (approximately
£A580,000) was wagered. The biggest
crowd for one day at any other track
was 29,000 at Jamaica. For the whole
season the State’s tote betting was nearly
$30,000,000 more than in 1940. Bel-
mont’s turnover was $36,666,000 (about
£A 10,305,000), and racecourse revenue
gave the State $7,700,000 (approximately
£A2,374,000).
The best horses that raced were Whirl-
away and Market Wise (three-year-olds),
Alsab (two-.year-old) and Fenelon. Hirsch
Jacob led the trainers in number of wins,
and Don Meade was the most successful
jockey. Warren Wright did best of the
owners, his earnings at New York meet-
ings aggregating $250,000, while his total
for the whole of the States where he
raced was $450,000 (something over
£A 135,000) —an all-time American record
for a year.
* * * *
The English Jockey Club is not mak-
ing definite fixtures for the coming year.
At a meeting of the stewards in October
it was decided to abandon all fixtures
and races for 1942, but as entries for
some races that are to take the place of
those abandoned —Derby, Oaks and St.
Leger of the number —are to close early
next year it will be gathered the Jockey
Club has not the slightest intention of
entirely dropping racing.
English jockeys last longer than those
of Australia. At Pontefract in October
last W. Bullock, who is now 56 years old,
and a grandfather, won the Castleford
Maiden Plate on a 20-to-l chance. On
the tote its price was 136 to 1. It was a
two-year-old race, and there were 20
runners. Bullock won the 1908 Derby and
Oaks on Signorignetta. Sydney veter-
ans in Bartle, Knox and McCarten have
a long way to go to reach Bullock’s age.
Wragg, this year’s English champion, is
in his fortieth year.
FOR TATTERSALL’S MEETING.
AT RANDWICK.
By “PILOT.
FIRST DAY—DECEMBER 28.
Maiden Handicap—First Divi-
sion: Beachcomber, 1 ; Dundalk,
2 ; Ceres, 3. Second Division: Fox
Track, 1 ; Valoroi, 2 ; Condignity
or Soho, 3.
Highweight Handicap: Southerly,
1 ; Sobersides, 2 ; Levraut, 3.
Carrington Stakes: The Miller,
1 ; Astrid, 2 ; All Love or Happy
Bay, 3.
Encourage Handicap: Jasper, 1 ;
Sir Tennyson, 2 ; Ron Rico or Plim-
sol, 3.
Pace Welter: Nightbeam, 1 ; Gun-
dagai, 2 ; Breeze, or The Squire, 3.
Denman Handicap: Tel Asur, 1 ;
Veiled Threat, 2; Mischief, 3.
SECOND DAY—JANUARY 1.
Tattersall’s Cup: Dewar, 1 ; Spear
Vale, 2 ; Veiled Threat or Chatoona,
3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
After being a woman’s pasturage for
many years, the secretaryship of the
Women’s Hospital, Crown-street, has now
been invaded by man. Chartered accoun-
tant R. M. Jamieson succeeds May
Mitchell, who resigned recently in favor
of matrimony. Before May Mrs. A. C.
Godhard (then Mona Daley) acted as this
great hospital’s secretary. Mr. Jamieson
has held a similar position at the Prince
Henry for four years. During the 1914-
18 war he served with a Scottish regiment.
Sydney, which may, any night now,
join the great blackout family of the
world, is beginning to hymn its thanks
for its lifetime of sunny days, of starlit
and electric-lit nights. If any people have
treasure of the heart it is they of Aus-
tralia. Let this be remembered, and, as
the artificial lights in city and township
grow dim, let there be fanned to greater
brightness the torch of freedom and kind-
liness. Let that flame be guarded as
jealously as ever vestal virgin tended
her sacred altars. If the lights of the
world are ever to shine unafraid again,
that torch must be kept burning.
It is said that there were more people
at the A.J.C. summer opening last Satur-
day than there were at the corresponding
meeting last year, but Randwick didn’t
look like it. The stands were very much
minus the loved faces and forms of yore.
The members’ stand, when smacked in
the teeth by the tornado, cyclone or what-
ever it was, harbored very few —and those
few had soon popped up to the back
rows for shelter from the rain that drifted
in on a cold wind. It’s doubtful if a
Molotov cocktail could have caused such
a scatter for shelter as the breaking of
that dun-grey, violet-rimmed cloud did
among the flock of thinly-clad women
punters all over the course.
But even the white-hatted, floral-
frocked woman looked up at the weep-
ing sky with grateful eyes. Who cared
about a hat if the drought had really
broken? Some, unaccustomed to tram-
travelling, may have mourned the petrol
restrictions, and wondered how they
would squeeze into trams if home-going
humans clustered on them like bees
swarming. However, taxi-passengers were
not exclusive. The ones who grabbed
the cab first were not at all averse to the
cab being filled up with other passengers
for the homeward run.
Styles, on the whole, were summer-
weight, becoming and serviceable.
Turbans, when the wind threw its weight
about, received their meed of admira-
tion. One in green and white seersucker
had already caught the eye. Claudia
Beasley, in blue and white silks, was with
Eve Playfair, all red-and-white-flower-
patterned. Betty Furlong’s pink frock
and hat were heartening despite buckets
of sand and other bomb reminders. Dr.
Weston Maher was with sisters Mrs.
Forrest Hughes and Miss Maher. Mrs.
M. Harten’s ensemble was in two tones
of orchid. Mrs. Stephen Buckley, of
Rimveil renown, was all in white. Mrs.
Dick Allen was one of those who
appeared in print—a summer silky one.
Two important parties on Saturday
were the Y.W.C.A. open-house gaiety and
the Legacy Club party in the Town Hall.
Best fun at the Y.W. was the hat-making
competition. Winner of this was R. Gil-
more, who cleverly turned a colander
into a “tin hat.” There were 600 small
guests at Legacy’s party. A hit was
made among the youngsters by the toys
made by the 21st Garrison Battalion.
Brilliant red, white and blue flowers
decorated the hall of Christ Church St.
Laurence when Mrs. Ben Edye, organist
Lilian Frost and their group of war-time
entertainers gave an end-of-the-year
party. Over 100 lads of the services and
mercantile marine came along and made
merry. Hazel Wedlock, of the Town Hall
staff, who had come laden with the stately
white gladioli and blue spires of del-
phinium which were sent by Town Clerk
Hendy, was pleased to be met with the
armful of red orchids carried by Benoni
Edye. Together they made a fine patriotic
note for the stage.
Mrs. Philson was the night’s pianist.
Bort Fahy, who is the regular accom-
panist, couldn’t be present, so the boys
sent him three cheers. Businessman Jack
McSwiney sang songs and told stories.
Stephanie Edye, a ruffle of red and yellow
flounces, danced a Spanish tango to the
clash of castanets. Later, dressed as a
middy, she danced a Russian ballet ver-
sion of the sailor’s hornpipe. There
were games and dancing ; there were lots
of partners for the boys and supper ended
on the ice-cream note. There was among
the older men one who had served in
the 1914-18 war. He told that 22 of his
family had served then, and only one
had fallen to the Germans.
Miss Kate Egan, 8.M., made a smart
entry to the C.U.S.A. cafe in Carring-
ton-street late last Friday afternoon.
There she was received by the committee of
the Catholic Women’s Association, which
had arranged a party in her honor. The
president of the Country Women’s Asso-
ciation, Mrs. Jack Garry, Mrs. McKillop,
of Orange, members of different C.U.S.A.
activities, including Mrs. M. J. O’Neill,
president of them all, were among the
admirers who greeted the guest. Miss
Egan is probably one of the best-known
women in Sydney. All through the last
war she worked for the Red Cross ; in
the years between that one and the
present world upheaval she has never
laid down her voluntary task. She has
until recently been president of the
Catholic Women’s Association ; and the
cafe was crowded with innumerable
friends who surrounded her with flowers
and compliments, and whose “For She’s
a Jolly Good Fellow” echoed down Car-
rington-street and made the electric trains
in near-by Wynyard raise the eyebrow
of astonishment.
Probably no girl in Sydney had more
friends than Anne Gordon. She not only
kept her old ones, but wherever she went
she made a new one. She has a talent
for acting, and was constantly being cast
for lead in amateur productions. She
has a figure that made her one of the
most attractive mannequins who ever
decked themselves in the cause of this
city’s charities. Just before peace in our
times exploded Anne went to England.
When war came Anne remained doing her
bit in helping to evacuate children, doing
V.A. work wherever called to it. Now
she is working with a Red Cross mobile
unit in South Kensington. Last week she
cabled to her parents, the knightly Alex-
ander Gordon couple, that she is about
to wed Sub-Lieutenant Roger Kynaston
Lloyd, R.N.V.R., of Warwickshire, Eng-
land. Anne’s father, before his retire-
ment, was a Supreme Court Justice.
Photograph by Lenare.
The Bodega wine cellars have been the
scene of many war fund parties during
this year. The management gave not
only the premises but the cocktails and
savories, so that all moneys should benefit
the patriotic causes. Last Thursday and
Friday saw the ornamental though
strongly-built cellars dizzy with holly and
berry, with great bowls of scarlet gladioli,
and with a pale amber lagoon of old
English punch surrounded by hillocks of
mince pies and golden cheeses. All this
was for the entertainment of more than
300 guests. All of these had been
hosts and hostesses at the war fund get-
togethers. Manager Tom Sawyer had
unearthed the recipe for the original
Oxford punch still going strong after
200 years. Everybody drank it. Its
flavor was so genial it would have caused
no distress (if not labelled) to the palate
of the staunchest t.t.
For his Christmas card poet Rod
Quinn sent out a black-and-white repro-
duction of the Louisa Lawson Memorial
seat which is to be placed in the Sydney
Domain close by the statue of her poet
son Henry. Inside the folder is a set of
verse by Rod. The last stanza herewith:
He sang of Freedom, and for Right she fought,
And though in silence now they dwell,
Mother and son —how well they wrought
This seat and yonder statue tell.
Mrs. Ted Leahy, who was till a month
ago Mary Baulman, of Waverley, came
down from her Blackheath home to see
brother George get his degree of B.D.S.
at Sydney University. Until war broke
out Mary had a commercial-college job.
She was for several years secretary of the
Dominican Convents’ ex-students ball.
Mother is a pianist, known professionally
as Alicia Nolan. Ted Leahy is one ot
the old-established Neutral Bay family.
From Melbourne
A great compliment was paid to Mrs.
Harris regarding her Christmas party in
that the Silver Door turned up to a
woman and to a man for there are
steadies of the male sex who come along
to sort scrap at evening sessions or dur-
ing the lunch hour. For the Christmas
gathering, which really marked the end
of a very successful year’s work (raising
money from rubbish), 300 helpers found
their way up the railways stairs after try-
ing to break into the Railways Creche
and force entrances through Luggage
Onlies. They found the Railways In-
stitute filling to capacity and all set for
an entertainment with movie screen and
camera impedimenta. Among members
of the voluntary staff who assisted Mrs.
Harris were her sister Mrs. D. Dare,
Mrs. Eric Connor (her husband owns
the metallurgical eye of final inspections),
Mrs. G. C. Wyatt, Mrs. G. Cox and
Mildred Vaughan. Milly will soon leave
to help Mrs. John Dutton with the sheep
at Mt. Gambler. Mrs. Dutton, who used
to be Peggy Horn, is one of the many
wives managing a country property in
the absence of a husband on service.
To return to the Silver Door, through
its offices in the realms of scrap sorting
the Free Kindergartens have received
£lOOO during the last year. There are
still plenty of bags to be sorted in spite
of lack of transport and growing short-
age of aluminium. Overnight there’ll be
a change, but up till last week women,
at least the fox-furred variety, thought
twice about carrying into town old
aluminium pots and pans and a few-
years-old radiators. Very ,soon there
may be organised collections from house
to house on behalf of the Government.
The country should be grateful to the
Silver Door, which over three years ago
started to make people scrap-minded,
soliciting aluminium (from chocolates,
cigarettes, etc.) which would otherwise
have beer thrown away.
Two weddings in two days were last
week’s allotment for the Dudley Austins,
of Mooralla-road, Kooyong. Only
daughter Margery (Dickinson-Monteath
portrait) became Mrs. Sam Spry in Mel-
bourne Grammar chapel just 24 hours
after brother Bruce Austin and Joan
Deakin plighted their troth at St. Mark’s,
Camberwell. Both girls were in formal
apparel of white gowns, wispy veils and
fragile flowers. The hopes of youth are
high, as always. Sam and Margery be-
lieve that some day they will build a
house on their block of land at Kew.
Closed through a fire some months ago
at the Green Mill, the Country Leave
Club reopened in time for Christmas. Its
new address is The Oaks, Fawkner Park,
which domicile is smaller than the great
open spaces of the Mill but has other
advantages—tennis courts, for instance.
Members of the Country Leave com-
mittee are now collecting tennis shoes
and racquets (given or lent) so that the
lads of the three Services will find added
attractions for their Sunday visits. The
housewarming Christmas party was much
smaller than last year’s festive spread,
when close on a thousand men partook
of a decorative meal and only the last
six missed out on poultry. The falling-
off was natural owing to cancellation of
leave and absence on active service.
An innovation of the rejuvenated club
is that dancing is no longer frowned at
but smiled upon. President Mrs. Norman
Martin is transferring responsibilities
during the school holidays to the shoul-
ders of her experienced helpers (hostesses
and girls who come to assist on Sundays)
for a sojourn with husband and daughter
Della at the family seat, Cohuna, a
pastoral property on the Murray. Hon.
sec. and treasurer G. B. Cooper is again
on tap and still believes that it’s quite
easy to get money out of people if you
go about it the right way. Last year the
club fed thousands of men thousands of
meals, and so generous were donations
that the cost was only £54. And there
was no waste. All left-overs were sent
at crack of dawn on Monday mornings
to various benevolent institutions.
An amazing success, even more re-
markable for happening in a week such
as the last, was the Borovansky Ballet
season for the Prisoners of War. The
audiences on both nights were wildly
enthusiastic, and those present were not
by any means all fanatics. Soloists and
corps de ballet have improved out of
recognition in the last couple of years,
but just as interesting is the standard of
home-brewed choreography, decor and
costumes. For the last two sections the
Martin girls were responsible, with assist-
ance from Bill Constable. For the
first night (there was a programme
change for the second night) the offering
was “Pas Classique,” to Tschaikowsky
music ; “Beethoven Variations,” in prac-
tice dress; a ballet with a story,
“L’Amour Ridicule,” to the music of
Albeniz ; and, finest of all, “Fantasy on
Grieg’s Concerto in A Minor.” Adequate
in their responsible roles were Dorothy
Stevenson, Edna Busse, Laurel Martyn,
Corrie Lodders and Anne Mackintosh, to
say nothing of Borovansky himself and
of two-piano performers, Misses W. Mc-
Donnell and E. Bennet.
Mrs. Stevenson was in the audience to
share in the triumph of young Dorothy,
whom she will take home for Christmas.
Papa is the Bishop of Grafton, and
grandfather was an archbishop. The
family doesn’t know how dancing got
into Dorothy. No known ancestors are
suspect, though there is music here and
there among odd uncles and aunts. Seen
in the audience also were decorative
brunette sisters in cotton evening gowns
(a hot night called for them) Mrs. R.
P. Davis and Mrs. John Faviell. Mrs.
Rod Barrett, of Adelaide, was there ; also
the Pam Heaths, she beauteous in all
white. Of dewy youth there were Nan
Gardiner, Paddy Finn and April Mackin-
tosh. Lady Dugan occupied a box.
The ex-car (now tram-travelling) sec-
tion of the community is taking to its
new mode of transport according to
character. Those with sand make the
best of things ; those without, grizzle and
moan. It’s regrettable but true that there
are some females who twitter “I simply
can’t stand these crowded trams —I don’t
care if we do get gaoled for using petrol.”
The men don’t say a thing. A few weeks
ago their only remark was “I don’t much
like strap-hanging.” An immeasurably
bright relief is provided by Kingsley
Henderson, who has driven a car night
and morn for 30 years until three months
ago, when he locked it up for the dura-
tion ; since which moment he says he]s
never seen so many pretty girls in his
life. They dig their elbows into his
stomach as he clings for his life to a
swaying strap, they tread on his toes and
their golden curls are blown into his
eyes as he endeavors to read his paper.
And he loves it all. As a contrast he’s
been studying his own sex and says
they’re a grubby lot, with polished toe-
caps and dirty heels.
The University is reverberating not
only with new honors and the confer-
ring of degrees but also with romance,
for the end of year seems to be the time
for engagements among students. Wed-
dings, too, are in the wind. Among last
week’s was that of Joan Giddy and
Flight-Lieut. John Kessy. From the
Wilson Hall, where Joan was declared a
B.Sc., she hurried home to slide into a
gown of white lace for her marriage at
St. John’s, Toorak.
Not the war, but old enemy appendi-
citis upset the wedding plans of Brenda
Tacon, daughter of Rev. Tacon, of Dee
Why (N.S.W.), and F. A. Walton, Direc-
tor of Religious Education in Victoria,
who was also until recently chaplain of
Trinity. (The chaplain resigns when he
marries.) The wedding, which was to
have been quiet on Saturday morning,
was even quieter a day or so earlier,
almost en route for hospital and emer-
gency operating theatre, Brenda’s appen-
dix being the cause of the disturbance.
In an emergency when no doctors were
available Medical School tutor Douglas
Reid was called upon to diagnose the
trouble. The patient is convalescing
satisfactorily.


A MAN AMONG HIS NEIGHBORS
By FRANK SARGESON.
WHEN I was a boy our family lived some way
along the road from a tomato-grower who
was supposed to be eccentric. He was a
sketch of a man to look at, he walked pigeon-
toed, and he was so thin his clothes seemed to hang
on a framework of sticks. When you talked to him
he laughed a lot, pushing his face in yours, and catch-
ing hold of your arm. Over one of his eyes he had a
drooping eyelid, and it didn’t fit in too well with the
rest of him because it rather suggested wickedness.
He had his sister living with him, attending to the
house and helping with the outside work, and to look
at she was very much the same kind as her brother,
though, if anything, there was even less of her.
On their place there was a tremendous lot to do.
They had a big glass-house for winter growing, and
as soon as the warmer weather came there’d be the
outdoor work as well. One winter I earned a few
shillings by helping a milkman during my school
holidays, and driving along the road in the small
hours of a frosty morning we would see a light mov-
ing inside the glass-house. Some mornings there
would be two lights, and that meant Miss Williams
was working with her brother. But no matter how
early they started you’d see them working until well
into the evening, when they must have been too tired
to do another stroke.
They were grafters, everybody agreed about that.
Occasionally it would be said they were a pair of
money-grubbers, living only to rake in the cash, but
I think that would usually be said by somebody who
wouldn’t have minded being able to do the same thing.
That is, if they were doing it: Nobody knew for
certain.
After they had been on the place for a number
of years Miss Williams became ill. She was taken to
hospital and died after a few days. The funeral was
a private one and her brother had her cremated, and a
story got about that he afterwards took the ashes
and threw them into the air to be scattered by the
wind. People said it was a horrible thing to do ; they
said it didn’t show much respect for the dead. I
remember my mother said that the thought of it was
enough to give her the creeps.
Miss Williams’s illness had happened round about
Christmas-time, when the outdoor tomatoes would
soon be coming into bearing. Her brother was away
for about a week after the funeral, the house was
locked up and everything was neglected. Then it was
noticed he was back again, and he seemed to be just
the same as ever, but he had about double the work
to do. It was too much for him, and one evening he
came along the road to see my father. He wanted
“Cant kiss you today, darling — l've got a stiff neck."
to know if I would like a job, and I think my father
was a bit doubtful. He wasn’t the sort of man to
approve of queer fish, but I’d just left school and
hadn’t found anything to do, so finally it was all
fixed up.
f WENT over the next morning and began by follow-
ing Mr. Williams about, watching until I got the
hang of things, and after a week or so I began to
develop into quite a capable lad. I couldn’t keep up
with the speed that my boss worked at, but we got on
all right together, and besides teaching me the work
he told me his theories. He was against the use of
quick manures he said; tomatoes grown that way
didn’t feed you properly, though what was a commer-
cial grower to do? If he didn’t do as the next man
did he’d go broke. And he was against all the expen-
sive and complicated business of spraying. He said
it wouldn’t be necessary if you had healthy plants
that weren’t forced. He didn’t even approve of the
poisonous spray for caterpillars, and as we worked
along the rows he taught me to watch out for the
moths’ eggs, which you found underneath the leaves
and on the flowers. It was quite a good method
perhaps, but it took up a lot of time.
After a while, mainly during our lunchtimes to-
gether, he began to tell me about how he had come
to be a tomato-grower.
He’d begun life in a draper’s shop, he said, and
worked up to the position of window-dresser. He
stayed there for years, but he wasn’t happy, and he
wasn’t satisfied. Deep down he wasn’t, he said. He’d
begun to feel it was wrong of people to shut them-
selves away from the sun and fresh air by working in
such places. As for people who worked inside cages
behind the counters of banks, or sat all day going
up and down in lifts —well, you might just as well
live in a cage out at the Zoo. And such ideas had
kept coming into his head until he decided he’d cut
out all his pleasures and save hard so that he could
set himself up in a new way of living.
Later on when he’d got started he found out the
life meant much harder work than he’d ever imagined.
Yet he’d liked it all right, he said. He’d feel prouder
over the sight of a good bunch of tomatoes, with the
top ones just beginning to color, than he’d ever felt
over any window he’d dressed. And another thing,
it was an education, because it had taught him things
he never knew before.
If you grew something for sale, he found out, par-
ticularly if it was something that wouldn’t keep, you
mainly had to take just what people would pay for it,
even though you might get a lot less than would pay
for the work it had cost you. In the big stores he
had worked in you usually managed to buy at one
price and sell at another that would always keep you
on the right side. The world was a funny place, he
said ; you’d strike people who’d grumble over the price
of tomatoes when it hardly paid you for the work of
picking them, yet if you’d asked these people to work
for such little return they’d have properly hit the roof.
You could count yourself one of the lucky ones if you
got plenty to eat and a good share of sunshine and
fresh air and didn’t have to dress up to go to work.
All this and a lot more I mainly listened to dur-
ing the half-hours when we knocked off for lunch. A
few things would sink in, and from time to time I’d
be liable to fetch them up at home. “Mr. Williams
says,” I would begin, and sometimes I’d annoy my
father by contradicting him with something my boss
had said. I’m afraid my father was the sort of man
who gets upset if people say things that aren’t like
what the newspapers say.
'T' HE season was turning out a good one. Every day
* was a real scorcher. I lived with the strong
tomato-smell always in my nose, and the hot smell of
the earth that we were for ever sprinkling with manure
and drenching with water until it was soaked right
through. I’d start early, stay late and get paid extra,
but we never seemed to be able to catch up with
what had to be done. On top of the other work was
the marketing, and tomatoes that were still warm from
the sun hours after they’d been picked seemed
always to be layers deep on the floor of the packing
shed.
Like all good seasons it had benefited everybody’s
crops alike. It was one right out of the box, and
Mr. Williams told me he’d never known so many
tomatoes about at so cheap a price. Sauce factories
that had contracted for whole crops had landed them-
selves in the cart, he said; deliveries were more than
they knew what to do with, and they were buying
dearer than they could have bought on the market.
So the growers who had contracts were all right, but
as for the rest of them, well, he reckoned, a bad
season of blight couldn’t have been a worse blow than
such plenty was.
One morning I turned up to work and got a sur-
prise to find my boss hadn’t even finished his break-
fast. And instead of telling me what to get busy on
he asked me inside. He sat there with his arms folded,
and I’d never seen him taking it so easy. ' “It’s a silly
game, this, working so hard,” he said, “look what it
did to my poor sister.” Then he began to tell me
about a growers’ meeting that had been held the
night before. He’d been along, he said, and they had
a scheme for each man to dig a pit and throw away
half his crop. “But I’ll guarantee they won’t be able
to trust each other enough to make that idea work.
I got up to speak,” he said, “and the words wouldn’t
come. I just stood there like a fool with my mouth
open and the chairman told me to sit down.” He told
me this several times over, and he laughed as though
it were a great joke.
He got me to wait while he washed the dishes
up and swept the floor, and when we were finally out
in the garden he just walked about saying that no
man could help being happy in a garden on a day
of such weather. “A man in the garden, a woman in
the house and a child in the cradle,” he said, “that’s
what God put us on the earth to make come true.”
And then, just as if he hadn’t said anything at all out
of the ordinary, he told me what he wanted me to
do. “But don’t work too hard,” he said, and laughed.
And if it had been anyone else but him I’d have
thought he was slinging off.
He left me to go ahead and never came near me
all morning, and I had no idea what he was doing.
He should have been nailing up cases in the packing
shed, but I didn’t hear him, though when he called
me to lunch I noticed as I went past that the tomatoes
we’d picked the afternoon before had all disappeared.
He was drying his hands out on the verandah, and
straight-off he said “Come and tell me if I’ve made a
good job.”
We went down the length of the glass-house to the
front of the section, and there, just inside the gate, he’d
put all the tomatoes in a heap. Not just an ordinary
heap though, he’d built them up into a sort of pyramid,
the way you see them in a shop window, only this
one was a monster. He asked me if they looked
nice, and I thought they certainly did. And it wasn’t
just because they made a pretty picture, it was some-
thing more than that.
I’d helped him do the work, and just to stand
and look at the result gave me a wonderful feeling of
being satisfied. It was perhaps the first time in my
life I understood what deep feelings you could have
over things you’d made happen under your own hands.
Perhaps I understood even more than that. Perhaps
I understood that the feeling had nothing to do with
the money you could sell such things for. I’m not
quite sure, but I know I had the feeling, and I knew
Mr. Williams had it, too. I think he knew about me
as well, because instead of saying anything he put his
arm round my shoulders, and though I wasn’t at all
keen I let him leave it there.
we were back up at the house he talked and
acted just the same as usual, yet it turned out that
day was the first of some very queer days for me.
Mr. Williams would leave me to work on my own,
while he’d spend most of his time sitting down at the
gate in an old easy chair he took off the verandah.
And, besides leaving the heap of tomatoes there, he
was all the time making it bigger with every fresh
lot that we picked.
One morning I turned up to work and struck him
having an argument with our carrier. It was our main
market day, and the carrier had made his call to
pick up the cases we’d normally have been sending
into town. Mr. Williams was saying he wasn’t send-
ing anything in, and the carrier was pointing to the
heap and asking what the big idea was. I stood
(Continued on next page.)


listening, and my boss just laughed and said No,
my friend,” until the carrier got annoyed and drove
off.
Then stories about what was happening began to
get around. More and more people began to stop
to look over the gate, and later on there’d sometimes
be quite a crowd. I noticed people began to look
at me in the street, and, although I hadn’t said a word
at home, my father wanted to know what Mr. Wil-
liams thought he was up to. I didn’t know what to
say so I didn’t say anything —for the life of me 1
could never have explained, even if I’d wanted to try.
Then for a couple of days everybody had some-
thing else to talk about. The weather broke. All of
a sudden there came a terrific gale that blew one way
one day and the other the next, and in between there
was a downpour that measured several inches in just
a few hours. The wind lifted the roof off a house in
our road, so it was no wonder my boss’s tomatoes
were all flattened out.
Dry and brittle from so much sun, and support-
ing the wobbling weight of the great top bunches, the
ti-tree sticks snapped off, and the flax ties that held
only meant a worse tangle. If it hadn’t been for the
rain the damage wouldn’t have been so serious, but
the sun came out hot again, and that sea of green
tangle, lying thick on the wet ground, meant we had
to go for our lives if we wanted to stop the blight
from setting in.
My boss never had time to sit in his chair for
days. We’d both of us begin at daylight and work
ourselves to a standstill, and after about a week we
managed to get things pretty straight again. All over
the country it was the same and I read about it in the
newspaper. Tomato crops were specially mentioned,
and it was said that prices would go up.
Yet once things had been got straight Mr. Wil-
liams left me to work on my own again, while he
went back to his chair, taking time off only to put
more and more on the heap, though by this time it
had gone properly rotten inside, and was getting
smaller if anything. Also it was smelling bad and
bringing the flies around, and the sanitary inspector
came and said it would have to be shifted into a hole
and buried. He didn’t like it when my boss laughed
and said it was a good smell, it meant that the earth
you’d stolen from was getting her own back again.
Nor was he our only visitor. They started driv-
ing up in their cars every day, looking as smart as if
they’d just stepped out of bandboxes, and my boss
would look a cut talking to them in his denims and
sandshoes, and his shirt full of the holes that he d
left off mending. There was a man from my boss’s
bank came, and a man from the markets and a con-
stable along with one of our local doctors. But I
never heard what they talked about, and I never said
a thing to anybody, not even the Sunday morning
when my mother came in from next door and said
they were taking Mr. Williams to the hospital in an
ambulance. They’d found him lying just inside the
gate, she said, and he’d had a stroke.
I ran along the road, and I was just in time to
see my boss lying all tucked up on the stretcher. He
couldn’t move and he couldn’t speak, and he didn’t
seem to be able to hear. The drooping lid was right
down over that eye, but the other one was wide open.
I got right in front of it, but he didn’t seem as if he
could see me.
ABLE SEAMAN RICHARDS
By OLAF RUHEN.
“Thirteen members of the crew of the Durabit
landed from an open boat on the coast near Sierra
Leone. Eight of a complement of twenty-one were
lost. The survivors were ten days reaching the
coast....”
THE Durabit, that was Jimmy’s ship. He was a
fine lad, Jimmy—no, he is still, and always will
be. You didn’t have to see him in singlet and
blue denims, sitting at his bunkside with a grin
on his face to know it, though that’s how I remember
him best, with the bronze of his arms and shoulders
marked with a blue tattoo.
There’s an older memory of a white-painted hold
on a hulk aground. The floor is canted the way she’s
sitting on the hard, and over
to one side there’s a great
smoky fireplace with a fire of
five-foot ironwood logs, and
a gang of fishermen filling in
time the way fishermen do —
snoozing hooks, splicing
lines, one reading a book
and one working on Jimmy’s
arm with a blunt needle and
a black paste, cutting a shaky,
pencilled anchor into ever-
lasting tattoo. And Jimmy
Richards, seventeen, holding
his jaw in a tight grin, mak-
ing believe that agony was
fun. You can identify Jimmy
by that tattoo. There aren’t
many made that way nowa-
days. He’s got half a dozen
others, and mighty fancy, but
he’s proud of that one.
But I can’t remember
Jimmy in the little mite we
found in the cabin ten years
ago now. That wasn’t like
Jimmy. That was born in a
dirty slum in a country where
no slums ought to be. That
had been kicked and cuffed
into malice to all the world.
Jimmy belongs to the sea that
moulded him and cleansed
him and taught him the free-
dom that doesn’t know
malice; and now, perhaps,
has taken him back again.
WE never went fishing on
a Friday in the old
Mahine. Friday was coaling
day, and we took her up the
river to the Oversea docks,
and got our stores aboard.
Saturday was our Sunday,
and we had it free. Midnight Saturday found us get-
ting down river again and out to sea.
The Mahine was seventy foot, and drew eight.
That let us out-tow anything that ever came up
against us, but she took a lot of pushing. Her engines
were sound —a triple-expansion steam job, locally
made, fed by a big Scotch marine boiler. This Sun-
day morning we were twenty sea-miles past the
harbor mouth when the skipper went down and found
little Jinimy Richards in his bunk, and we all trooped
down to have a look at him.
He was a dirty little rat. He said he was fourteen
and had left school, and he was looking for a job, and
his father knew where he was. He didn’t have any
mother. That last was true enough; but he was
twelve, and he’d run away from home. Anyway,
there he was, stuck with us for a week.
In spite of everything we liked him somehow. The
only good point about him really was that he was
determined not to be seasick, and he wasn’t, though
it must have cost him something. We had to sleep in
our clothes once the trawl was down, and he slipped
into that habit as though he’d been at it all his life,
but we made him wash and tried to make him useful
about the cabin and the galley.
When it was cold, and that’s most of the time in
the ’Forties, Jimmy crept down into the engine-room
and watched old Sandy swab down and tend fires. He
learned that a slice wasn’t a poker, and he learned
to give cheek when Sandy was trying to keep the
steam-gauge up while the skipper had her out at the
last notch in the teeth of a southerly. Sandy was the
only one who had no time at all for him and showed
it, and the kid had more respect for him than for
anyone else on board.
At the end of the week the skipper, against all
reason, went round and saw Jimmy’s old man, and
explained about the kid. He offered to keep him on
without pay, and Richards was quite happy about it.
Coming home the next week we ran into a spot
of trouble. Croaker Daniells and I got everything
. lashed down and went into the engine-room to stand
and dry our clothes. The kid was down there, jammed
into the corner of the seat against the ladder with the
cat on his knees. They were two of a kind, those two.
Sandy -was fixing the fire. The kid was asking
what the link gear did, and the astern eccentrics, and
Sandy was just grunting. I tried to tell Jimmy some-
thing about them, but he thought I was kidding him,
and kept asking Sandy.
Pretty soon the old Mahine lifted her screw right
out of the water and gave a nasty lurch to starboard.
Water from the condenser ran back to the manifold.
Some came out of the escape pipe on top, and the
vacuum needle dropped to nothing. The engine labored
till the condenser caught up with the vacuum. Jimmy
was watching the escape pipe and the run of water.
“What was that, Sandy?” he asked.
Sandy condescended. “She lost her vacuum,” he
said.
The kid looked wise, and Croaker laughed.
Friday morning when the coalmen were there the
Croaker came out with a bottle. He held it out to
Jimmy. “Sandy wants y’ to get him some vacuum,
he said.
The kid looked blank.
“Hop round to Smithson’s and get him some
vacuum,” said the Croaker. “Y’ saw her lose it yes-
terday.”
The kid took the bottle and went away.
Croaker was laughing and telling the coalies as
he put the rake into the bunkers. “Smithson’s will
send him to Lake’s and Lake’s will send him round.
By the time he gets round every engineer in town
he’ll be ropeable, and it’ll be dinner-time.”
But the kid was shrewd enough not to chase the
town, or someone didn’t have their wits about them.
He was back in an hour, still carrying the bottle. We
didn’t see him come to the edge of the wharf above
us. Old Sandy was climbing out of the engine-room
hatch and he ducked his head just in time. The bottle
splintered on the iron casing behind him.
“You bastard,”' screamed the kid. “You dirty
bastard.” He jumped from the wharf to the net and
bolted for the cabin, slamming the companionway
hatch as he went.
Croaker and I were sitting in the wheelhouse
staring. Old Sandy sat quite still for a minute, feet
on the ladder and back against the hatch, and then he
started to grin. He swept up the broken glass with
his hand and threw it overside. Then he grabbed the
Scandinavian pump, and sloshed water around to
sluice away the splinters. He filled his pipe slow and
lighted it and went down to the cabin.
‘Croaker came up to me an hour later. “Come
listen to this,” he said.
We went over and sat by the engine-room hatch.
“These here are pumps,” Sandy was explaining
to the kid, “an’ they bring in the sea water to cool
the steam. That makes it into water, and leaves a big
space with nothing in it, an’ that’s”
Croaker put his head down the hatch. “When
you’re finished, you might hop up town for some
glass-headed tacks,” he said.
The kid swung round wild and grabbed a spanner,
but old Sandy got him by the arm. He doubled up
and began to weep.
THAT kid was only a wee boy after all, a dirty wee
rat without a mother. That wasn’t you, Jimmy
Riphards. For if the sea claimed you, Jimmy, from
the Durabit, she claimed her own, and you went to
her with a grin.
For risks accepted with a grin
And death confronted with a jest;
For sluggish hulls and plating thin
And vigils that have outlawed rest;
For all the humble men who wear
No special sort of uniform,
But, with a dogged courage, dare
Dangers more deadly than the
storm —
Let’s not forget a tribute to
The men who get the cargoes
through.
A.C.T.
A. B. SHERLOCK.


Mainly Mail-Order
CYPRUS
DE LUXE
The ideal watch for
the Service Man.
Waterproof, Shock-
proof, Dustproof,
Anti - magnetic,
Stainless steel case,
£7.
Fully Guaranteed.
Regimental Colour
Patch Brooches,
2/6 each.
DIAMOND
S' WATCH
SPECIALISTS
112 MARKETS!
> SYDNEY.
OOP. DAVIDJONES
for theYmasParfa
Tonette —The Musical
Sensation
If you can hum a tune you can
play a Tonette in no time. Swing,
Jazz, popular Songs, Classical
Pieces are all easily played on this
instrument of the moment Price,
7/6; Posted, 7/10.
T > osr Free if </oo mat/
+h/$ Sc/.' tvs//) cr&erf
NICHOLSON’S PTY., LTD.
“The Musical Centre.”
416 George Street, Sydney.
Pelmanism
Scientific training of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
Pelmanism trains the observation to
speed and accuracy, increases the
power of concentration and streng-
thens the will. It is a complete
mental training and it develops
personality.
The Pelman Institute
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Fane,
Melbourne (Cnr. Market St.).
STOPS
Worries
0
Try the new Roussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and security. Definitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEIi APPLIANCE CO..
DEPT. 27, 84 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
LATEST RADIO SETS
£2O Below Retail Price.
You can buy direct from factory if
no Century Agent in your District,
and thus save up to £2O on retail
prices. Marvellous tone, sensitivitv
and economy; world-wide reception
brings overseas news direct to your
borne. Absolute satisfaction is
guaranteed by FREE TEN DAY
TRIAD TO INTENDING PUR-
CHASERS. Illustrated catalogue of
Battery and All-electric sets post
free on request.
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
FLEX-1-T RACK
Flex-I-Track for “0” gauge Mechanical and
Electrical Trains. Will fit any make of track
—switches—crossovers. Make any curve,
gradient—a new layout every time.
• No track sections to
connect —just roll it
out—roll it up.
• Strongly bu i 11 —
won’t bend or buckle.
• 10ft. (one 6ft. and
one 4ft. section) for
12/6, Plus Postage.
Nett weight when
packed, 51b.
AMPLION (A/sia;
rty., Ltd.,
[382 Kent St., Sydney.
NATURAL
WOOD TIES
FLEXIBLE IN \
ANY DIRECTION
FITS OTHER TRACK/
EQUIPMENT
TYPEWRITERS
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
AT ATTRACTIVE PRICES
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd
All States—See ’Phone Book.
Are you
watching
his health?
If your dog's
coat is dull,
loose or ragged
—if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts —.
start him now on 1
a course of
BARKO Condition Powders. He will soon he
lively and eating with his old healthy appetite.
BARKO tones up a dog’s whole system.
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists
Amazing New Imported
CLIMBING TOMATO!
BEARS FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001 b. per plant. Large,
red, smooth tomatoes. Climbs
12-30 feet. 2/6 packet posted.
PURE WHITE HEALTH
TOMATO!
For Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
etc. (100 per cent.
NON-ACID!) Sup-
□
erb flavor! Disease free! Drought proof!
MAKES DELICIOUS JAM. 2/6 Packet, posted.
15-DAY TIMBER KILLER!
Kills all trees, roots to top, large
or small, in 15 DATS! New method.
NO RINGBARKING NECESSART!
Prevents Suckering. Will not in-
jure the soil. 5/6 Tin, Post Fret
N.S.W. SEED CO., 663 George St., Sydney.
"Winchester
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
FOR THE BLACKOUT.
mm
2- 750 ft. range, each .... 17/6
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 19/-
Complete with Batteries.
Postage Extra Outside N.S.W.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
You may be a
future
TEX
MORTON!
Learn the
HILLBILLY
GUITAR,
Hawaiian Guitar,
Spanish Guitar or Ukulele in 30 MINUTES 1
Get Norm. Scott, the singing stockman,
teach s r ou!
His simple but complete Postal Instruc-
tion course costs only 2/6 a week.
Write today for complete details.
NORM. SCOTT, Hawaiian Club,
Dept. B, 206 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Tune in to 2GB every Sunday: 9.15 a.in.
J
SURE-CATCH
FLY
TRAPS
Kill every fly in the place. Clean and
tidy—THE EEIES DIE IN THE TRAP.
Good for health and comfort. Made of
metal, indestructible. Dead flies can be
emptied out in a moment; no mess, no
trouble. Prices: 7in. Trap, 1/-; 13in.,
1/6; 20in., 2/-; we pay carriage.
THE UNION CO.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Send Sixpence more for a supply of the
best Ely-Killing Powder to use in Trap.
m
LAMBS SAVED
1
By Using: the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord—
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient —
Humane—Safe —and as quick as the fastest
knife. Lambs suffer no setback —fatten
weeks earlier. No risk of Infection —No
losses. Don’t judge this instrument by othei
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/
Also LAMB DE-TAILER, £3/5/-. From
all agents or the distributors: lIAIN &
SEARIGHT, 19b O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TILLEYLAMPS
For the Farm, Camping
or Fishing.
Save your eyesight with Britain’s
best Lamp. 300 c.p. of steady
brilliant light at a cost of Jd.
per hour using only kerosene.
Stormproof, inseetproof and
easy to operate. Used bv
Navy and Army. Model EXIOO
illustrated may be used as a
storm lantern or as a hanging
lamp or’ table lamp. May be
carried around, set down or
hung up. Price, 77/-.
Write for Tilley Lamp catalogue.
W. Kopsen & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
380 Kent St., Sydney. MA6336.
Country Agents everywhere.
ii
N
LEARN VENTRILOQUISM
quickly —my new method
teaches it thoroughly in very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the VENTRILO you can imitate many kinds cf
birds, animals, etc. Everything for ONE
SHILLING, including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw your voice.
FRFF Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
1 lU<« Tricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
173 Pitt St., Sydney. 52 Swanston St., Melb.
NATURTON
for the DEAF and Hard
of Hearing.
“Naturton” is a new British invention which
has a particular appeal to those afflicted with
deafness owing to its comfort and unobtrusive-
ness. No batteries, wires or headbands are used.
“Naturton” is unique in that it is the only
hearing aid of its type with double sound
chambers and vibrators. Call or write for
particulars and 30 days’ trial offer.
R. A. NOEDL, 1.i.b.5.t.,
sth Floor, The Block,
438 George Street, SYDNEY.
iAN I - LI I
.AVATORY.
•No caustic 4
used.
• No water
supply needed.
• Costs nothing to
instal.
• Self-closing lid.
• Positively destroys
flies, mosquitoes,
etc., and banishes
all odours.
PRICE £5/5/-
Complete with six
months’ supply of
chemicals.
QUIRK’S VICTORY LIGHT CO.,
229 CASTLEBEAGH ST., SYDNEY
CERTAIN DEATH
THE SAFEST. SUREST AND MOST
ECONOMICAL SOLUTION OF THE
RABBIT MENACE.
The only way to carry the maximom
number of sheep is to clear out ALL
the rabbits, and that's where Cyanogas
comes in, because Cyanogas WILL
clear out alt the rabbits— quickly,
safely and certainly,
guzacott^olseley
• 7TO 11, MARKET STREET SYDNEY. (R)
Obtainable from all Storekeepers in Australia.
HALF PRICE FOR NEW
BATTERIES.
Buy your battery direct from the
manufacturer at half the usual retail
price. All Marshall Batteries are
fully guaranteed. All types of
batteries for cars, trucks, cycles,
radio, home and theatre lighting
direct to the public at factory
prices. Write at once for 16-page
catalogue on how to choose and look
after batteries.
The Marshall Battery Mfg. Co.,
38-42 Harbour Street, Sydney.
FAT, FLABBY
STOMACH
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The GOVERNA BEET supports
correctly the delicate organs,
and, by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes waistline
fat and bulge with every move
you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAD OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will
be 3in. smaller . . . 3in. of
bulge and strain gone . . .
OR NO COST! Write for full
illustrated details of 7 DAYS’
TRIAL OFFER.
GO VERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
’ ''v;-. Sydney,.-
7
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
“GOLF SHOTS" by JIM FERRIER
Over 100 photographs of the champion in action reproduced
from a slow-motion film.
Every shot fully explained.
f« 'iitK 'f i-' :
• •
• •
(Postage 3d. extra.)
From the Publishers
The Bulletin
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
,
BOX 252188.
tZjEWV'
m.
\ m
A
\ Get rid of
Horns BEFORE
they start!
One application of
HAYES CHEMICAL.
DEHOBNER
Dehorns without bleeding
any calf up to two months.
Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from
its mother for 30 minutes. An easy, cheap, humane
method. Price per pot sufficient for 35 to 50 calves.
6/6. Large size for 210 to 300 calves, 30/-.
HAYES VETERINARY Post Free.
COMPANY, 351 Queen St., Brisbane.
POST THIS SL
NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
*252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy cf The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
*For local office
address, see Page 6.
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
24/12/’4l (See Page 18)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Wants” to The Bulletin Service Department.
For local office address, see Page 6.


Today's Eng ine
IN TOMORROW’S CAR
The life of your engine cannot be judged by its year or
model, but on its capacity to do its job . . . and to keep on
doing it.
Cars of the oldest vintage can still be good cars and per-
form faithfully, providing the engine has been able to with-
stand the wear and tear of constant use.
The secret of engme efficiency is to reduce friction to the
absolute minimum and the answer to that is lubrication.
Not just oil, but Purr-Oil the finest and most perfect
lubricant known to science.
These are not times for chancy experiments or slaphappy
methods.
If you’re going to keep the new car new or keep the old car
on the road, then don’t gamble with oil insist on Purr-
Oil the perfect lubricating oil, selected and refined to the
highest standard by the Independent Oil Industries Pty.
Limited.
Independent Oil
Industries Pty.,
PURR
OIL
Federal
Road,
Glebe
Marketers of the famous SPECIAL PURR-PULL and PURR-KOLL Motor Spirit.
P.O. 8-27.
