

THE
NATION
For Your
LIFE ASSURANCE
The Mutual Life & Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
Founded
Assets Exceed £32,000,000
Payments to policyholders exceed £41,000,000
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3198.
Casualty in Greece
Wednesday, May 28, 1941.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


L sioru Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
fe'.B. 341
The Red Page
OUTSIZE FRENCH NOVEL.
Any Rip Van Winkle who had been
snoring in the mountains for the past
quarter of a century would be as good
as certain to find Summer, 1914, by
Roger Martin du Gard (Bodley Head),
absorbingly interesting, edifying and
entertaining.
Even Rip might blink a bit at having
to read on to p. 969 in an epilogue after
the novel had reached its natural climax
and to all appearances ended on p. 808,
and he might blink harder at having then
to read to p. 1079 in order to acquaint
himself with the contents of some faintly
relevant and slightly explanatory private
letters exchanged between this character
and that, as well as the very personal and
highly clinical day-to-day and sometimes
hour-to-hour diary record of a dying
doctor.
Apart from those rather generous
addenda, there seems no good reason
why Rip should not find Summer, 1914,
a notable, a noble and an impressive
work of fiction, from a literary point of
view, and most informative taken as a
historical document. In the latter respect
Rip’s considerable advantage over most
readers would be that all this meticu-
lously set forth detail of events and causes
leading immediately to the outbreak of
the 1914 war, as well as the general, the
sectional and the individual hopes and
fears, awareness of or blindness to the
impending catastrophe and reactions to
it —particularly, almost wholly, in France
—would all be news to Rip.
From a literary point of view, Rip
would have the inestimable advantage of
not having read the forerunning flood of
anti-war books similar to M. du Gard’s
vast novel in general purpose and theme,
or again the novels of Remains and
other Frenchmen who have, like M. du
Gard, in the extreme carefulness with
which they have gone about depicting the
contemporary and near - contemporary
French scene, seemingly set themselves
up as professional writers for posterity.
If that view of M. du Gard and co.
can be accepted, the meticulously re-
corded detail of overfamiliar historical
events and happenings cannot fairly be
criticised as padding. But posterity,
looking into M. du Gard from a literary
point of view, might conclude that there
is a fair bulk of padding quite apart from
that. His passion for detail is not con-
fined to setting forth the train of histori-
cal events ; it is everywhere. A cluttered
table in an impecunious artist’s studio is
not nearly enough for M. du Gard; he
must list and describe every item on it.
What is on the table is wholly irrelevant;
it is minor detail of scarcely any use or
purpose, and certainly of no importance.
Multiply this instance by many hundreds,
applying to character depiction, dialogue
and all other aspects of the novel, and
the monumental bulk of the work is very
largely explained.
Such padding—defensible and other-
wise—apart, Summer, 1914, is without
any question, a notable work of fiction,
so far above the kind of current works
that can fairly be called good novels that
it might be said to belong to a different
literary genre. Whatever may be thought
of its historical statement, it is a serious,
high-minded work of literature.
In general it depicts Europe—especially
France —in the grip of the forces that
presently brought about the war in 1914 ;
in particular, it deals with the socialists
and other revolutionary elements of the
time, at first in their meeting-places in
Switzerland planning, working and talk-
ing—particularly talking—towards their
vague goals of social justice for the
world; then, under the imminent threat
of war, striving to ward off that catas-
trophe by endeavoring to organise
workers to oppose it; the planners them-
selves as individuals not all proving im-
mune to the ties of nationalism which
they fancied they had thrown off; their
organisation quickly breaking, partly be-
cause of police activities, largely through
the bulk of the members allowing them-
selves to be called up for service. Finally,
there are practically only two left, and
the novel proper ends with these two
making a heroic but tragic and futile
attempt to end the war soon after its start
by scattering leaflet-incitement to revolt
along the German and French lines.
The novel is a sequel to the equally
monumental novel The Thibaults, with
Jacques Thibault turned messiah-like
socialist, loyal to the ideals and con-
spiracies of his fellow-revolutionaries in
Switzerland but doubting the practica-
bility of their plans and methods; turn-
ing over his share of the bourgeoisie
family fortune to the “party” ; renewing,
after a four-years’ break, his love affair
with Jenny de Fontanin ; holding true to
bis pacifist beliefs even when war has
made them not only obnoxious to others
but ffighly dangerous to himself, when
the “party” organisation has been broken
up by arrests and defections, and when
his brother, Jenny’s brother and the rest
of the France he fled from are in arms.
The novel’s considerable strength is the
strength of Jacques’s character and the
noble quality of his and Jenny’s love.
These stand out magnificently from the
mass of detail. They hold good, making
it an outstanding work of creative imagi-
nation, even though the soapbox oratory
of the bulk of the dialogue may be
boring, the tongue-tied character of all
the women, including Jenny, a striking
constructional weakness in contrast with
the voluble talkativeness of the men, and
the leaflet flight, in which Jacques meets
his death, a preposterous and incredible
stretch of melodrama.
The flight is the culmination of
Jacques’s personal efforts to stave off the
war. The “party” having failed to pre-
vent it, despite underground intrigue
which takes Jacques on a perilous mis-
sion to Berlin, and other members of the
organisation, along with him, to Brussels
and elsewhere, Jacques hits on the leaflet
plan and induces the former leader of
the “party” to act as pilot. In one small
’plane—l9l4 vintage—they take off from
a plateau in Alsace with millions of the
leaflets abroad, aiming by this means to
get a leaflet into the hands of every
French and German soldier along the
entire front! The leaflet message, as
should be expected in a novel by M. du
Gard, is of inordinate length ; a mani-
festo setting forth the general pacifist
argument against war, as well as exhort-
ing its prospective readers to revolt, in-
sisting that the revolt should be “sudden,
general and simultaneous.”
Apparently, the troops on both sides
were expected to all get the message at
once, all read it at once, and then all act
at once. This would be preposterous
enough if it had been planned by im-
beciles ; M. du Gard asks his readers to
believe that it was planned and attempted
by the two most careful and exacting
brains of the “party”! It„says enough
for the general portrayal of Jacques’s
character and the quality of his own per-
sonal story that these survive even that
absurd climax.
As a statement on war the book goes
over the ground exhaustively covered by
the war-debunking writers of ten or more
years back. Like most of these, M. du
Gard attacks war mainly on the ground
of its futility. What none of the war-
debunking novelists, including M. du
Gard, have attempted to explain is what
happens when only one side accepts the
doctrine of war’s utter futility, and the
other side insists on holding the opposite
view and acting on it. Jacques’s pamphlet
plan for stopping the war was both
absurd in conception and fantastically
optimistic; but M. du Gard’s novel, en-
nobling Jacques and Jacques’s ideals, is
itself, begging the word, an anti-war
“pamphlet,” and one that must have had
considerable effect in the “trenches” of
French public opinion just before this
present war led to France’s inglorious
defeat, ignominious capitulation and exist-
ing subservient state. What, it might be
wondered, does M. du Gard think of all
this? Does he perhaps feel —and other
French writers on the same theme with
him —that this is better than that France
should have repeated its performance of
1914-18? Or do any of them feel, per-
haps, that what has happened simply isn’t
according to Hoyle, and that their writ-
ings possibly have had no little influence
on bringing it about? They write, it
would seem, for posterity. Perhaps pos-
terity, compiling the history of today,
may also write a little —on them.
Miss Stein's Subconscious.
“Army officers,” observes Miss Ger-
trude Stein on page 28 of her new novel
Ida (Random House) “do not wear their
uniforms in the cities, soldiers do but
officers do not. This makes conversation
with them easier and more difficult.”
Naturally this makes reviewing Miss
Stein much easier and more difficult.
Miss Gertrude is celebrated in the
literary world for three things: she dis-
covered Picasso, she has an extremely
whimsical subconscious mind, and she
invented a prattling baby-talk style
which, as Wyndham Lewis pointed out,
greatly influenced Hemingway and which
(it is pleasing to reflect) is consequently
the origin of the short savage sentences
of those bloodthirsty young imitators of
Hemingway in many countries and also
of the short silly sentences of the leading
articles in the newest streamlined news-
papers. Now that she has written Ida
Miss Stein must be credited with a fourth
most noteworthy accomplishment: in
Ida she has created a heroine not only
sillier than any of those in her earlier
books, but even outdoing in howling
imbecility the heroine of Wordsworth’s
“We Are Seven.”
At first it is not quite certain that Ida
is about Ida. When she was about 16
Ida said to her dog Love, “Yes Love,
you have always had me and now you
are going to have two, I am going to
have a twin yes I am Love, I am tired
of being just one and when I am a twin
one of us can go out and one of us can
stay in.” So Ida does (or doesn’t) have
her twin, and Ida from that time on is
(or isn’t) about Ida not Ida but Ida’s
twin (or not). Which means —if it means
anything, which is doubtful —that Ida is
partly about Ida and partly about Ida’s
fantasy-life. Anyhow, here are some in-
teresting facts about Ida:
She did not have anything to do and so
she had time to think about each day as it
came. She was very careful about Tuesday.
Tuesday was Tuesday to her.
There was nothing funny about Ida but
funny things did happen to her.
Arthur was almost old enough to go
away. Pretty soon he did go away. He
tried several ways of going away and
finally he went away on a boat and got
shipwrecked and had his ear frozen. He
liked that so much that he tried to get
shipwrecked again but he never did.
Was she a twin well was she.
Ida woke up. After a while she got up.
Then she stood up. Then she ate some-
thing. After that she sat down. That was Ida.
He married her and she married him.
Then suddenly not at all suddenly, they
were sent there, he was in the army, they
got up and had decided to leave for Ohio.
Yesterday or today they would leave for Ohio.
Any reader who suddenly not at all
suddenly decides at this point that Ida
is leaving for the incinerator is hereby
warned that, if he burns her, he will miss
the rhyming monologues by the spiders,
the dwarfs and the goldfish which are
unquestionably the most brilliant part of
the book and which on no account should
not be missed by readers of any intelli-
gence whatsoever.
“Why,” Miss Stein asks plaintively on
page 110, “should everybody talk about
Ida?”
Why not.
Dear Ida.
Ida, an extraordinary blurb declares,
“is presented faithfully to you by a pub-
lisher who rarely has the faintest idea
of what Miss Stein is talking about, but
who admires her from the bottom of his
heart for her courage and for her
abounding love of humanity and free-
dom.” Why not publish Ida? in fact.
Dear Gertrude.
Suddenly not’at all suddenly this review
of Ida was finished not qt all finished.
He got up. He stood up. He put on his
hat. As he was going out he noticed a
giraffe eating the newspapers on the files.
“What is your lucky number?” he
taunted the poor dumb beast. Suddenly
not at all suddenly there was no reply.
Various Verse
Decayed Actor.
Decayed? Well, let that be your summing up,
But let your justice see me as a leaf,
A desiccated leaf that once declared
A summer to the world, that once partook
The vital song and splendor of the earth.
For I am he who gave a tongue to death,
Rending the grave’s old reticence —who seared
The recreant earth with Caesar’s majesty:
In me he lived again, these burnt-out eyes
Slayed with his indignation, and this brow,
Now dark and shrunken, shone with mastery:
Could I thus clothe me in a Caesar’s mind,
And feel the tramp of conquest in my veins,
And not retain, even in this withered hour,
Some remnant of renown, some faithful gleam
That still projected Caesar?
You see in me the place where passed the fire,
For if this flesh be shrivelled, these eyes bereft,
It is not merely that the breath of time
Made plunder of my honor, for I have been
A field where passion swept, where battle burned,
I have been lit with love’s own torrid triumph;
How then should I emerge from such dear peril
Except as one, bowed, broken by excess,
And yet announcing in that same decline
The opulence that burdened former days?
Maoriland.
J. R. HERBEY.
1918-1941.
Not those patient men who knocked and were
unheeded
where ignorance impeded like a flat panel swung
before the tower-stair to the dark mind of the
young;
another moved beside them on the dais, at the
desk —
War in a square cap, gowned and grotesque.
This was the master whose tongue did the
talking;
then time became a chalking-off of dates upon
the wall —
for no lad chose a calling who heard instead a
call,
and just beyond a boy’s years (so the lesson ran)
the one work waited fitting for a man.
None grew so tiptoe as to see the plain road,
yonder,
at the hour’s edge dip under to the leagues of
calm before.
It was odd to break step and shamble from the
door,
to plough the broad peace, and grow older, and
learn pride
from the day’s task met and the morrow still
defied.
Distant the guns are and no wind veering
has brought them into hearing, nor yet in these
lands
do they bawl between hills as between a pair
of hands;
but here’s what we were bred to ... and strange
it is then
to be lifting our sons up to watch the march-
ing men.
Tattered the bewilderment I pull across my
shoulders
and, shamed before beholders in this tom shirt,
like a slave to my shoes I wander unalert,
with eyes but no thought in them to mark the
way I tread
and a thought without eyes that runs lost in my
head.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
Fairytale.
Where the old world dipped swiftly to its end
In a dry wilderness of drifting sand,
Some distance yet; within the sound and surge
Of the last wars, yet still beyond their marge,
Deep in a valley of the mountains hid,
And shaded by the shoulder of a wood,
Lay the last township, daylong, yearlong stirred
By fears and rumors of the powers that warred
For the destruction of man’s life and soul.
Yet there within the wood lay power to heal,
Longed for and feared, a witch within the wood.
Against her, doors and windows were fast barred
And watch was set, lest by some unknown
egress,
In form of slavering wolf or starving tigress,
She should leap upon their lives and drink their
blood.
Yet, at a hurt or illness, to the wood
Ran messengers, for then, in shape of saint,
Health she would bring, and labor without stint,
And afterwards slip backward like a shade
Into her horrible haunts in the wild wood.
“This witch is not in aspect horrible,”
Mused the young hunter who at evenfall,
Foodless and arrowless, found himself staring
Through the lit window in the chance-found
clearing
At the slim figure stirring at the hearth
Magics most dire and ills for men of earth:
Magic for sure to charm a hungry man, .
And magical accents called him to come in.
Music they made, a voice that filled his heart
With music while he ate; could there be hurt
In a pale girl who fed the wayfarer
And made him dream of stars in shimmering air
Until he felt the world must soon take fire
And he with her into the zenith soar,
Flame linking flame? The young man, half in
dream,
Leaned forward, but she slipped out of his arm,
And on the moment, surest sign from heaven,
At a great blast down the low chimney driven
Roared flame out of the hearth, image of hell!
Out of the house he leapt, and by the full
Pure moon of heaven, such further grace was
granted,
Bore his immortal soul out of the haunted
And horrible witch-wood, ere the day was come,
To the warm safety of his human home.
The elders of the township, each white beard
Wagging with wisdom, in one voice declared,
“No more must our young men be sought by
snares; „
The wood must be kept safe for wayfarers.
Therefore the townsmen gathered logs all day
To build the fire where she must burn and die.
High was the pyre and huge the pyramid
Whereto the witch was by the elders led,
Her hands tight tied behind her, her hair fallen
About her shoulders, her bright eyes not swollen
With rage and pain, but wide and sorrowful
As though no pulse in her beat any ill.
Her the young hunter watched, and knew not why
Some ague took him when he tried to pray.
As she passed by, ere he could turn his back
She looked at him; she gave him but one look,
Yet that look lit in him the fires of hell.
They chained her to the topmost of that tall
Log-builded pyramid, and laid the torch
And greedily watched to see the hot flame search
The truth out of her heart, and that long flame,
Like a red creeper climbing, soon was come
In a blossoming glory to the feet of the witch.
Yet, lo, the power of Evil! As they watch,
The young man leaps to the height of the
pyramid ,
And clasps his arms about her. A bright cloud
Of smoke engulfed them, and when that was gone
No wisp remained of either two or one.
Some power had taken them, the elders said.
Now we may build a road through the dark wood
Whereon our goods may travel swift and straight,
By which sure means our township shall grow
great.
N.S.W.
H. M. GREEN.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”— aIways.
“THE SENIOR STORE.’'
HEAT STORAGE
i
cr
Q
©
ths
ECONOMY
U uou c°°kby
m
::
liliiiilliiiil
11111
m
n
■• v. s •
$ :, ;V;.;
|||;i:
I r
IB?
mm
■m a
' '
CTa so iv
•-•• •• • *
BBBS
: V:; i ;
m
yS:WSS#
:
I
■mi
ILLUSTRATED AT RIGHT
THE ESSE MINOR
has two fires with one flue connection—each fire chamber designed to
give the maximum efficiency for its respective duty. The whole presents
an attractive, self-contained unit which not only cooks for a household
of up to fifteen persons, but provides also an adequate hot water supply
for baths and other domestic requirements.
As the entire unit is heavily, insulated the fuel consumption in both fires
is exceptionally low, while additional surface for the warming of utensils
is provided by the water heater hot*plate.
With each model there is supplied a toaster, two shelves (in top oven),
baking compartment shelves (in baking compartment of lower oven),
deep roasting oven pan, shallow baking pan, fuel hod, filling funnel,
plug lifter, two flue rakes, clinker poker, ash shovel, wire brush and
complete list of utensils.
The whole of the body of the cookers is beautifully porcelain enamelled
in colour (Cream is standard). The top-plate is enamelled Black, except
the boiling hob, and in the case of the Water Heater model, the plate
over water heater. Bright fittings are chromium-plated.
Prices and Catalogues will be sent on application.
• Esse Stoves Lower Ground Floor. Pitt Street. Delivered free only within our
delivery■ area.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
'Phone: M 2401
(Day and Night)
Famous Low Prices
SYDNEY
Postal Address 5
Box 2712 C. G.P.O.
Heat Storage Cooker and
Household Hot Water supply
in one unit . . . Now you can
have the perfection of "Esse"
cooking with its outstanding
economy and ample supplies
of hot water, day and night.
THE
PREMIER MODEL
WITH
HOT WATER UNIT
ILLUSTRATED AT LEFT
Ideal for the Station Home.
This model can also be
supplied with an extra
auxiliary oven to meet
demand for larger hot
cupboard room.
A PRACTICAL INSTALLATION WITH
EVERY FACILITY
The three roomy extra high ovens are .evenly
heated and give three different cooking tem-
peratures, maintained automatically by a
thermostat. They provide healthy, fume-free
cooking and conserve the essential juices and
flavour of the food.
■ iiiiiiiiip
ill
<? .V .•'■•••w?
Hill
-• J V.- . < ?&
Better, Easier, Safer Cooking
The Premier "Esse” is simple and
safe in use. It is always ready for
service at correct cooking tempera-
tures. and is so flexible under thermo-
static control that it will respond
quickly to exceptional demands.
Chefs and cooks all over the country
express delight with the ample
accommodation and the improved
flavour of the food.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY. LTD.
BOWEN STREET, BRISBANE
Are Sole Queensland Agents
for ESSE COOKERS


ONCE MORE FOR LUCK
By OLAF RUHEN.
WHILE the squall lasted and throughout the
long night that followed Dark could not think.
He was conscious only in that he was dimly
aware of fierce biting pains in his jaw, across
his belly, down his backbone and where the lower
rope chafed his thighs. Tossed and thrown every
way, lashed and drenched by the spray sent spinning
ahead of the waves by the wind, he lay like a log.
Sometimes there were long spells of a deeper uncon-
sciousness ; sometimes an agony of being fully awake.
When the dawn came and the strong seas relaxed,
he tried to pick undone the lashings round belly and
thighs that held him to the middle spar, but his
fingers were weak and nerveless, and he could not
do it. Nor could he ease his position on the raft. .So
he lay and thought, and mostly his thoughts were of
the Emily.
They were mixed thoughts, but in the main he
was relieved. Chance fleeting fears about his own
precarious position crossed his mind at times, but he
dismissed them airily. The boys would look for him,
and find him, as soon as the weather cleared. Maybe
they would get a ’plane out, like they had to do for
Jimmy Hutch. But he was well rid of the Emily.
Insurance would cover her.
He had not thought that way when he had first
seen her, drying on the slip in McMaster’s sheds. A
nearly-new craft, her lines were slim and graceful.
Perhaps a shade too slim, but she had eight feet of
beam for her thirty-five of deckline, and he liked the
heayy deadwood that accounted for a deal of her
four-foot * draught. Liked, too, her sheer and the
delicacy of her not overburdened flair. And he was
young enough to laugh at the fears of the oldsters
who dubbed her unlucky. She had drowned her
builder —but a lot of good boys had faded out on the
Kaiana bar. And she had broke the Wingard boys —
but the Wingard boys were green and pretty gutless.
“You’ve caught your last freight now,” the old
men told him while they idled round, watching him
caulk and paint and reeve new lanyards in the stay
deadeyes.
He laughed at them, and in a week he proved
them wrong, but still there was always an under-
current which didn’t spell luck.
In the old days, with the square-ended Rongopai,
it had been his habit to work the crayfish grounds in
the late summer on the treacherous East Side. Always
he had struck a six weeks’ spell of calm, when his pots
yielded rich harvest in a place no others from the Bay
would fish. Always he had been lucky enough to lift
most of his gear before the squalls hit him. That
first year with the Emily, an out-of-season wind
came up after three days, and two-thirds of his fishing
gear was lost. That was stiff —it gave the knowalls a
chance to air their “told-you-so’s,” and that rankled
as much as the loss —and it meant working his long-
lines in the season they were most profitless. Worst
of all, he lost a little of his faith in himself.
The Emily’s engine, too, was a worry. A
standard marine—out of the Ark —it should have been
dependable, and usually was. But if it broke down,
it broke down before he was on the ground, so that
he couldn’t set his lines in time to catch the rising
dawn when the deepwater fish were feeding. Or it
held him up until his freight missed the night train
from the Bay, and he had to pay the exorbitant
freezer charges.
“Get a Diesel,” they said, and someday he would.
But he resented it from men who had made their way
in the palmy days, men he could lose in deep water,
and advice didn’t help.
Yes, all in all, he was well rid of the Emily.
He’d covered everything. He couldn’t pay the rates
against accident, but his six per cent, cover against
total loss would give him a chance to get into the
little Diesel trawler class—-a stout 46-foot ship that
he could go round the world in.
T - * HE raft was still lurching uneasily, and a knife
i turned in his right side as it dipped over the edge
of another trough. He worked at the rope around his
waist, trying to loosen it, but the sheep bend had
jammed just too tight for his weakened fingers. He
wriggled his head, trying to guage the seas from an
unaccustomed angle. “Mightn’t be safe yet, any-
way,” he thought and gave up.
Well, the Emily had played her last trick on him,
and > as usual . just when he least expected it. She’d
pitch-poled. He’d heard of that. Lefty Hansen lost
two mates besides himself in the Storm Bird, one
winter’s night on the West Coast. Plugging into it he
was, on the run home from the autumn blue-cod fish-
ing, two hundred miles from port. Spirelli in the
Galatea two cables astern saw the whole thing. He
watched Hansen’s masthead light lift and soar up-
wards, up and up till the red and green of his side-
lights appeared ; saw the sidelights lift, swaying side-
ways, until, on an angle, they passed the bright white
light of the masthead ; saw the whole suddenly blot
out as the giant roller reached for the Galatea and
he spun his wheel to take it on his bow. Spirelli rode
out the storm there all night, but there were no bodies,
no wreckage to take in tow, nothing of the Storm
Bird but a legend to while away the hours of waiting
for a hundred dawns.
“I thought they said these things ’ud knock a tree down!”
Dark had heard of them pitch-poling all right;
rearing up to fall on their masts. He hadn’t seen it
yet; although now he could claim it for an experi-
ence. He traced back, recalling the details for want
of something better to do. Actually there wasn’t
much he knew.
The fleet were all well on their way home, chased
in by the southerly, when he had pulled his last line
and gone into his tiny engineroom to oil round for
the run. He’d left the engine running, slow ahead.
That was about all he knew, save for the sickening
lift and the thudding crash which had sliced the
housetop from the deck.
The drums had saved him. He carried a score
of them, stowed here, there and everywhere ; five-
gallon drums that he used to buoy his dan-lines. Fight-
ing among the wreckage he had shed his boots, and
then gathered drums, stowing them somehow on the
cabintop. He couldn’t remember the details. He had
the mast that, stepped on deck, had broken away in
its clamp with the house. He had the big boom still
attached by the rigging. He had the knife in his belt
and all his heavy fishing lines that were still tied to
the drums. Somehow he’d lashed the raft together ;
mast and gaff parallel across the deck-beams of the
house. Somehow he’d lashed on the drums, one near
each end of mast and boom. Somehow —for he knew
this was necessary—he’d lashed himself to the raft.
And so he stayed till the storm went down.
\ \ /HEN the sun was high the agony went from his
“ * jaws, and unaccountably it left his belly, but
his back and his side and his thighs where the ropes
crossed them were searing pain. As the raft swung
aimlessly on the swell, his head came round so that
he faced towards the Bay. Thirty miles away, he
judged. He had drifted a long way in the night. The
raft swung away from the Bay, and he thought once
more to try the knot over his belly, and this time
he managed it. After some time, he sat up and tried
to ease his thighs and his calves, massaging them. It
helped his hands and his arms. But the sea was still
empty, and he lost a little of his courage.
Then he thought again about the Emily. “Sup-
pose they find the hull,” he thought, “and they
don’t find me. They won’t bother to look longer.”
But he scoffed at the idea, for the Emily was surely
on the bottom. But he worried a little more. “The
insurance company would win anyway,” he thought.
“If they find the hull they won’t need to pay out.”
Then his mind wandered to more inconsequential
things. He thought of a field behind the docks where
a paintpot had been thrown out. The field was
splattered with dandelions among the grass, and the
yellow of the dandelions was the same exactly as the
yellow of the paint that smeared and streaked the
pot. It looked as though a boy had taken the pot
and dappled the paint in starry splashes on the green
field, and thrown the pot away wantonly and taken
the road up the hill to kill rabbits or throw rocks at
the nesting pigeons on the cliff face.
\ WHEN it was night the sea was nearly calm, but
“** Dark lashed himself again with a great loose
knot. He slept, though he woke often. The next
day was bright and clear. A piece of kelp drifted
close by him during most of the day, and all the
time it was inhabited by silent little seabirds. Once
some Cape pigeons paddled alongside and once a
family of chittering little stormy petrels. He did not
untie the big loose knot that bound him to the raft.
He could roll over within the rope and hide his face
from the sun. When he opened his eyes once, it
was night again, and he saw the stars, and the moon
nearly full, and he thought of the dandelions in the
field behind the dock gates and the paintpot.
He wakened only once to see the next day. His
mouth was full and he was near choking with his
tongue. A half-felt delirium of thirst had made his
other agonies trifling. He did not keep conscious
long. He was unconscious when the wide line of
boats closed in at a signal, when they took him
aboard McDonald’s Lucy and carried him back to
the Bay. It was three weeks indeed before he talked
or bothered to take notice of his mates when they
trooped to the hospital to see him.
Even then he didn’t know how lucky he was
until McDonald, who was president of the association,
told him.
“You’ll be able to start as soon as you get up,
Dark,” he said. “We’ve got her all fixed up.”
“Is this a job you’re giving me?” asked Dark.
McDonald stared. “I’ve told you half a dozen
times this last week,” he said. “It was the oil-drums
that saved her. Svenson picked her up, off Portu-
guese Point. The oil-drums you had in her nose.
Just six inches of her stem above water she was,
straight up and down in the water, the engine weight-
ing her. We towed her in, and the boys have been
working on her. The Emily’s right as a bank now,
and no expense to you.”
Dark was looking at him with his jaw slack.
There was a hint of despair in his eyes. Then he
leaned over and grabbed McDonald’s hand. “Thanks,
Bud,” he said. “And tell that to the boys. It’s damned
good of them.” He loosened his grip and relaxed
among the pillows.
S.H. PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date, June 6, 1941.
£100
FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL.
The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize is offered as
a practical encouragement of Australian writers
and Australian literature “Australian” being
adopted as a convenient term to include Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and Pacific Islands. All
writers born in these parts are included, no
matter where now residing: so also are bona
fide residents, no matter where born.
The prize is an annual award of £lOO, which
may be withheld if no entry is considered
worthy. If this should occur in any year, the
prize-money will still be available for the en-
couragement of writers whose work shows
promise, or shall be otherwise awarded as the
judges may recommend or the trustees decide.
Only novels will be eligible for this 1941
Competition. The Prize will be awarded to the
novel that is considered the most outstanding
contribution to Australian literature. Each MS.
must be submitted under a pen-name, with full
name and address in an accompanying sealed
envelope.
The winner will be free to have his or her
winning work published in book form by any
publisher preferred. First refusal of serial rights
to any entries is reserved to ’ “The Bulletin,”
payment for such rights being in addition to
the Prize. All other rights book, stage, radio
and the like will belong to the author.
Any further details required can be had on
application to the Secretary, S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, Bulletin Office, Box 252 188,
G.P.0., Sydney.


AFTER CHURCH
“Twenty minutes for lunch, gents.”
By GAVIN S. CASEY.
THE town lay in Sunday-evening silence, its
lighted houses cosy and quiet, and its streets
deserted except for occasional sauntering couples.
In the shopping centre a few women lin-
gered in front of bright windows and a few flappers
paraded, nudging and giggling when they passed the
congregations of youths on the corners. Members
of the Town Band were tramping from several direc-
tions towards the park, to give their weekly silver-coin
concert, but for the time being the only considerable
noise came from the churches when voices were
raised in hymns. The streets looked broad and clean
and peaceful when they were empty and the. whole
town looked better than it did ordinarily.
In one of the churches Gwen Willard had been
sitting in her place with the choir for nearly an hour.
The preacher’s voice had droned on, and the melody
of the organ and the voices had filled the church,
and they had all stood and knelt appropriately ; but
most of the time she had watched the swinging higher
branches of a pepper-tree and a patch of starry sky
through a window, and had worried about herself.
She lived with her parents and her aunt and
their circle of friends, and they all went about their
middle-aged affairs, hardly noticing her most of the
time. The days wore themselves away in a routine
of bathing and dressing, attending to her hair and
watching herself bloom in her mirror, and dreaming
of young people who, perhaps, dreamed as she did.
Sometimes her mother had irritating tea-parties, at
which she sang wearily to the company, and was
praised immoderately. Church was a solemn week-end
occasion of bows and frills and orderly behavior
under the eyes of her elders.
Tonight she had sung a solo to the rows of
politely approving faces, and had sensed without
pleasure or annoyance her mother’s proud satisfac-
tion and her father’s lack of interest. She had re-
sumed her seat with the other girls, envying them.
The whispers that rustled along the choir benches
were plans for the long expanse of evening which
would lie ahead when church was over. There were
rows of young men well to the rear of the building
and others smoking impatiently outside beneath the
trees.
Among them on her way into church she had
seen her cousin Joe, and her heart had hammered for
a moment. Joe’s parents were wonderful, considering
how closely they were related to her own. They were
tolerant and easygoing, and as a result Joe’s sisters,
whom Gwen envied furiously, were wonderful, too.
But Joe was the most wonderful of them all, and she
wondered jealously whom he could be waiting for.
The memory of a previous occasion made her hope,
and made her nerves flutter, too. It had been exciting,
and humiliating also, because she had not liked his
mate Jim, who had behaved foolishly ; but nothing
else had occupied her thoughts for days.
Now as she thought of it she realised in a panic
that she would have to have a girl-friend if her hopes
were well-founded, and she wondered if Jane Lyall
would be free. She wondered if she herself would be
able to get away. Then she decided miserably that
she would not be wanted, anyway, and sat in shiver-
ing suspense until the service was over.
But when they filed out Joe was in the shadows
by the choir door, and as he came towards her,
raising his hat, her heart leaped. He was self-
possessed and friendly and confident as usual.
“Can you come out, Gwen?” he asked quickly.
“And bring someone with you. Jim’s got the car.”
“Father and mother,” said Gwen weakly. I
don’t think I could. They’ll be waiting,
Joe winked jovially. “Tell them you’re going
to our place with the girls. I’ll square it with Julie
and Carrie. Tell them I’ll bring you home.”
Then Joe went over to his sisters and started to
t£dk earnestly, and Gwen flew to the front entrance,
breathless and' flushed, to tell whatever lies were neces-
sary was thankful for the darkness. There was
ta j k? goss jp around the church door, instructions about
being home early, and endless delay. She felt mean,
but elated and impatient. As soon as she was free
ske rU shed in search of Jane.
“That’s Tom under the tree there,” said Jane.
“j’ m a f ra id I can’t manage it.”
j did hope you cou ld,” said Gwen dismally.
» Jo£ > s fri ’ end has a car> and there’ll have to be some-
on£ £ j S£ »
“ A ' car ,» crie d Jane. “That’s different. Tom’ll
ceep '
1 w HEN the voung people were together at last
W Gwen was wordless, not able to join in the
bant£r and talk sh£ was hoping that str ong, friendly,
humorous won derful Joe would not choose to have
Jan£ in th ’ £ back S£at with him> as he bad done last
tim£ sh£ willed with all h er strength that he should
noti££ h£r and cho ose her for his companion, and her
leasure faded whe n, in due course, he ushered her in
beside the unimpressive Jim and climbed behind with
frivolouSj giggling Jane .
car and whizzed past out-
min£S and impressive shadows by the road-
side. The bush wa§ and th£ wind of their pas .
£ £ar£ssed Gwen > s neck and arms . Joe laughed and
Jane giggled, and Gwen ached to look around.
When they were silent, she thought she could
feel their eyes looking at her, criticising and
making secret fun of her awkwardness and in-
experience. Or —even worse —they might be
looking at each other. When they parked in
a grove of slender young gum-saplings near
the six-mile dam, and Joe and Jane took a
rug from the back seat and went strolling,
leaving the car to its owner, Gwen was
ashamed and angry.
Jim was uncomfortably close on the seat,
and there was a smell of liquor in his breath.
He made clumsy overtures, and she resisted,
stiffly unhappy. He was easy to repulse ; fool-
ish and harmless really. But he could not, or
would not, understand that she was really un-
willing to do as he wished. They wrestled to
and fro in the confined space, and Gwen
became warm and ruffled and bitterly dis-
gusted with herself. He told her that if she did not
want to be kissed and cuddled she had no right to be
so pretty, and she wearily reflected that Joe did not
think that.
Joe and Jane had gone off into the dark bush
laughing, and no doubt Jane wanted to be kissed.
She hated Jane, and knew that she should never have
brought her a second time. But there had been no
one else. She hated herself and the maudlin young
man beside her. She was disappointed with the adven-
ture and longing to go home.
WHEN the others came back they looked ruffled
and pleased with themselves, and no one had much
to say on the way home. Jim, thoroughly miserable,
concentrated on his driving and Gwen was rigid beside
him, alarmingly aware that there was no sound from
the back seat where Joe and Jane were curled up
under their rug.
Then they were at her home, and Joe, who
was supposed to be bringing her from his people’s
house, got out with Gwen to escort her in. Behind
the high fence they were private. “Listen, kid,” said
Joe seriously. “Why so tough on poor old Jim?
He’s a good chap, and he’s keen on you, and you treat
him like dirt.”
Gwen had no experience from which she could
answer that, but the tears which had been so close
behind her eyelids the whole of the time overflowed
at last.
“Oh, Joe, you fool! You fool!” she cried.
Joe was startled and upset. “Now, now!” he
said clumsily. “What did he do, Gwen?”
He placed an arm around Gwen’s shoulders con-
solingly. He was at a loss over the whole business,
but suddenly worried about it. “I’ll punch him onjthe
nose if he’s really done anything, kid,” he said hotly.
“But y’ don’t want to make mountains out of mole-
hills, y’ know.”
“It’s not that, Joe, ’’ said Gwen. Then, deliberately
and shamelessely misinterpreting his encouraging
pats, she clung to him, closely, quivering with ecstasy
and sobbing still.
“Gosh! ” said Joe, his own usual sureness further
away than ever and his mind groping for words in a
medley of strange thoughts. “I never knew —I never
thought of it, young ’un. We’re cousins, and all that,
and I’ve known you ever since we were babies.”
Gwen was grateful for the darkness. For a few
seconds she grasped defiantly her moment with big,
experienced, wonderful, stupid Joe. She invited, and
enthusiastically returned, his kisses; but then she
remembered what had happened earlier. The car.
Waiting. Jim. Giggling Jane. She should hate Joe,
she realised, but she only despised herself. She
wriggled free of his arms and ran towards the house,
where life consisted of music-lessons and tea-parties
and church.
Joe, back in the car and headed for home, was
strangely silent. It beat the band, he thought, and
there was no doubt that little Gwen was a bit of all
right, even if he’d hardly noticed her before. But it
wouldn’t do. There’d be hell to pay if her people
found out, and he could find plenty of trouble with-
out looking for it in the family. And fancy poor old
Jim, there in the front seat, not being able to get a
look in! It was tough on Gwen, he thought, but it
wouldn’t do, and that was all about it.
He couldn’t go on with it —not as a regular thing
anyway —but it made him feel good. He began to think
what a hell of a fellow he was, and what an example
to poor, spluttering, over-polite weeds like Jim. He
inhaled the fresh night air into his big, supple young
chest and felt fine. He lost interest in Jane, thinking
about it, and she sulked. Jim would sulk, too, if he
knew, Joe thought. It might be worth going on with
it, just for a night or two, to show old Jim.
By that time Gwen was in bed, of course, and in
the solitude of her room she gradually forgot the
shame and humiliation of the evening, and began to
cherish its exciting, memorable moments. Surely Joe
wouldn’t prefer Jane or anyone else now. She was
not likely to see him again until the following Sunday,
and the week would be a slow one, but she would have
something to sustain her through the boredom and the
music-lessons. Even if she did not see him for weeks,
she would find him waiting after church sooner or
later, and she would have hope and excitement until
she did.
The Song.
Softly the song speaks, stranger from the
shadow,
And beckons me, and night outside my
window;
It lays its lips against my startled breath
And calls me from the void of dream and death.
Mind leads tonight where lights have known
no conquest,
These darker paths the lonely heart knows
longest;
And endless nights and I have dreamed too
long,
And you came, too, to learn this hateful song.
Somewhere our singer sits, a hidden sitter,
And sips the music till its sweet is bitter,
And saddened, he has known himself a fool
Stirring so soullessly night’s stagnant pool.
The night is black, and all the houses lonely,
As though burnt-out is life; all substance only
A shadow proves to be. We spurn all sleep,
Fearing its hideous vigil we must keep,
Lest day will never wake. So in the shadow
We sit together waiting for its morrow:
And till that hour of daybreak, must belong
Our animal obedience to song.
The song creeps back, the heart’s old drum
alone,
Late reveller, writhes in. its cage of bone;
The vacant ear is like a gemless eye,
And dawn returns our slumbers aimlessly.
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
jtfzfhit IMm c/tate mellownedd andJjcuqmi
Seppelts
ARMS OF THE CITY OF WESTMINSTER.
To most people Westminster is regarded as a highly important section of London, wherein is situated Buckingham Palace, the Houses of
Parliament, the Abbey, Westminster Cathedral, Government Offices and Scotland Yard. This is correct so far as it goes, but Westminster
is a City of itself, though its present civic administrative complexion is but forty-two years old, resultant on the passing of the Great Local
Government Act in 1888. Actually it has been a civic entity for centuries. Prior to Elizabeth’s reign, it was governed by the Abbot,
and after the Dissolution the Dean and Chapter succeeded to many of the Abbot’s privileges. Before 1542 there were the “Liberties”
of Westminster, clearly defined. In the days of Edward I, Parliament was summoned to “our City of Westminster.” In 1541, Henry
VIII created Westminster a bishopric, which gave the town a “City” status, despite the abolition of the ecclesiastical office a few years
later. A Royal Charter of October, 1900, gave official recognition to Westminster anent civic standing, and its governing body became
“The Mayor, Aldermen and Councillors of the City of Westminster,” the Duke of Norfolk being first Mayor. The Arms of the new
borough are an adaptation of those of the old Burgess Court, with the portcullis as a crest, and the motto “Custodi Civitatem Domine,”
indicating dependence on the Almighty. Supporters for the shield were found in the Arms of the Marquis of Salisbury, who had been
the High Steward of the old Burgess Court. In the quaint and, to the uninitiated, mystifying language of Heraldry, the shield of the
City Arms is thus described:
Azure a Portcullis on a Chief of the second a Pallet of the first, thereon a Cross flory between five Martlets also of the
second, being the Arms of King Edward the Confessor between two United Roses Gules and Argent.


A QUESTION OF PRECEDENCE.
"Unmindful of Stalin, Mr. Herbert Morrison, the Home Secretary, referred to Hess as ‘No. 1 Rat.’ ”
“Never mind, Joe—you’ll always be Number One Rat to me!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
MEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings {opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10 s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad;
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months. I Is.
CASUALTY.
An unrecorded casualty in the Greek campaign was
Dominion status.
Eire availed itself of the thing to snap nearly all
the ties that bound it to the United Kingdom, winding
up with a precarious and very un-Irish neutrality.
Canada and South Africa set so much store by it that
their Governments consulted their Parliaments before
declaring war. In South Africa indeed the Hertzog
Government, a day after Britain entered the struggle,
submitted a motion designed to keep the Union out of
it. The motion was defeated and the Government
resigned ; the new Prime Minister, addressing Parlia-
ment on September 7, confirmed an announcement,
made on the previous day, that his Dominion was at
war, but added that “the House was free to have
decided otherwise.” Canada came in by proclamation
on September 10, after Parliament had debated for
two days an Address to the Throne which was, in
effect, a motion empowering the Government to declare
war.
Judging by their subsequent actions, .Canada and
South Africa set some store by Dominion status still.
But for Australia and Maoriland, for the time being
at least, it has virtually ceased to exist.
When the British guarantees were given to Poland,
Rumania, Greece and Turkey, the Australian and
Maoriland Governments were apprised of what was
contemplated, and perhaps consulted —though this has
never been expressly stated. They were not asked to
become parties to the guarantees, nor did they. Neither
did they refer any of the guarantees to their Parlia-
ments, nor did they summon their Parliaments to dis-
cuss participation in the war.
On September 3, 1939, Mr. Menzies said to the
nation in a broadcast speech: “Great Britain has
declared war, and, as a result, Australia is also at
war.” On the same day the Maoriland Government
informed the British Government that its Dominion,
too, was at war, saying “We entirely concur with the
action taken: the existence of a state of war with Ger-
many has accordingly been proclaimed.” There was
no cavilling at the procedure in either country.
Thoroughly loyal to the Crown, the Empire and the
race, these Dominions would never have contemplated
contracting out of the war. But they were not bound
by the British guarantees.
Had events permitted the sending of Australian
troops to Poland, there would indisputably have been
very strong opposition to such a proposal. And oppo-
sition there would have been in Parliament had the
sending of the Sixth Division to Greece been put to
the vote. The British Government consulted the Gov-
ernments at Canberra and Wellington on the expedi-
tion, but it could have spared itself the trouble. It
only had to ask in order to receive. Mr. Menzies and
Mr. Fraser have made that abundantly clear.
“If ‘we’ had refused to go into Greece,” Mr.
Menzies said, “ ‘we’ would have been legitimately
subjected to a storm of abuse all over the world, and
would have lost our self-respect.” “If T had to make
the same decision again under the same conditions, T
would do the same thing again.” Thus Mr. Fadden,
apparently echoing Mr. Fraser. That gentleman’s
words were “If we had to face the same situation
again, we would certainly come to the same decision.
I have no doubt at all that the people of New Zealand
... will agree that we took the only course open to
us, and that any decision to the contrary would have
involved eternal dishonor.” None of the gentlemen
mentioned Canada or South Africa, which were in a
position to send troops to Greece and did not send
them. None of them would have the face to say that
either Government or either country has “lost” its “self-
respect” or branded itself with “eternal dishonor.”
While such is the attitude of our Australian and
Maoriland leaders, it is idle to talk of Dominion status
or of an Empire War Cabinet. Decisions affecting
the fate of the Australians and Maorilanders serving
overseas will, in effect, be made by the British Gov-
ernment. Its Foreign Secretary, Mr. Eden, is our
Foreign Secretary. If war with France results from
the latest of his exercises in diplomacy, we are in it,
willy-nilly.
In his effort to justify the Greek adventure, Mr.
Eden didn’t go quite so far as Mr. Menzies or Mr.
Fraser. True, he said that “the cause of Greece was
the embodiment of the causes for which we are fight-
ing,” but he added that “had Greece been left to fight
alone we could not have raised our heads again” ;
and by “we” he clearly meant Britain. Indeed the
words “Britain could never have raised her head
again” appear in the Melbourne “Herald” report.
Mr. Eden went on to say that the Greek Government’s
expression of its “determination to resist German
aggression” dated back to February 8, the day on
which “our forces entered Benghazi.”
It was not a cry for help. It was a statement of the
Greek position, and a request that we should state our
position. In the face of these conditions, the Govern-
ment decided to maintain a decision previously arrived
at —to halt the desert advance at Benghazi and to pre-
pare a force to go to the help of Greece.
Words and punctuation are taken from the Mel-
bourne “Herald” report. Perhaps the halting of the
desert advance at Benghazi was the “decision pre-
viously arrived” at, and the decision “to prepare a
force to go to the help of Greece” came later. Any-
way, “this,” Mr. Eden explained, “involved diplo-
matic and military problems, and the Chief of the
General Staff and myself were sent out as envoys.”
At Cairo the “envoys” met “the three Com-
manders-in-Chief” and found them “in complete agree-
ment with the policy of supplementing the help already
sent to Greece in the autumn by the dispatch of land
formations, leaving in Cyrenaica forces sufficient to
meet anything unexpected there.” Use of the words
“policy” and “land formations” is curious, to say the
least. It would be interesting to know whether
Admiral Cunningham considered himself free to
approve or disapprove and what measure of assistance
was asked of and promised by Air Chief Marshal
Longmore. As it happened, the forces left in
Cyrenaica were not sufficient to prevent a serious
reverse and the development of a dangerous situation,
which has had unfortunate consequences in the Arab
world. And the force sent to Greece was so hopelessly
inferior in numbers of men and strength of machines
that all it could do was to try to hold untenable lines
while Yugoslavia and Greece were smashed. At the
cost of 15,000 soldiers, nearly all its equipment and
supplies, serious R.A.F. losses, two destroyers, 187,000
tons of merchant shipping and many hundreds of
seamen, it had to be withdrawn.
Mr. Hughes has been taken to task by Mr. Fadden
for saying that “the Anzacs were driven out of Greece
because—and only because —they lacked equipment.”
“We were assured that our men would be sent to
Greece completely equipped,” Mr. Fadden protested,
“and after they had reached that theatre of war we
were officially advised that they had complete equip-
ment.” The veteran replied that “the term ‘equipment’
covered everything,” and that in the Greek' campaign
“aircraft played a predominant part.”
Every communique from the front spoke of the
devastating effects of Nazi dive-bombers and other enemy
aircraft. British air strength was negligible.
That is the tragic truth and it is idle to deny it.
The R.A.F. itself admits that it “never approached the
strength of the enemy air forces operating in Greece”
and that it “suffered heavy losses,” most of all when it
had to send up “officially unserviceable” ’planes from
temporary landing grounds, having been forced from
its bases when the enemy broke through on the left
flank. Said a Maoriland soldier, quoted by the official
reporter: “The Nazis would dive-bomb section posts,
then loop the loop over them and lean out and grin
at the discomfited soldiers, who prayed for aircraft to
come over and teach them a lesson. Give us the air-
craft and we can beat them all the way.” But they
never had the aircraft, and without the aircraft they
never had a chance.
Mr. Eden unaccountably omitted to mention that
Greek islands in the Aegean had been seized by
Germans from troopships which the Turks had allowed
to pass the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles, and was
sharply reminded of it by Mr. Lloyd George. He did
not forget to say that “we have pledged ourselves to
redeem the independence of Yugoslavia.” That must
be construed to mean Australia and Maoriland as well
as Britain, though the task of reconciling the
Tsketovitches and the Dusanvitches and of inducing
the Croats to lie down with the Serbs, the Montene-
grins with the Bosnians and the Slovenes with the
Dalmatians would appal even the editor of a flapper-
paper.
Mr. Menzies has returned to Australia. He has
accepted responsibility for his part in the decision to
send the Sixth Division to Greece and he will be
expected to justify it by making a full statement in
Parliament, concealing nothing that can be revealed
without breach of confidence. He will be expected
also to give the long-promised account of Dakar and
of the circumstances in which H.M.A.S. Australia
was employed there. And if Parliament is alive to its
responsibilities it will enter upon a complete discus-
sion of the Dakar engagement, of the Greek campaign
and of the reasons, if any, for the perpetuation of
the “tune-in-to-Downing-street” policy, when the set-
ting up of an Imperial War Cabinet, warranted by
1917-18 precedent, is, on the face of it, more necessary
than ever, since the Dominions have grown in strength
and importance and all the Continental alliances have
crashed. It may be that Parliament will resolve that
Australia —remote as it is from the blackouts and the
bombings and the influence exercised by frantic
refugees and hysterical newspapers, and concerned as
it must be with its preservation as part of the Empire,
the claims of which are so apt to be forgotten—
could make a valuable contribution to the common
stock of ideas for conducting the war and shaping the
peace. And there is nothing to prevent its nominating
one of its own members (Mr. Cameron, for instance),
and giving him a small staff of professional advisers,
to speak for the Commonwealth in the war councils
of the Empire.
Uncle Sam's Own War.
Historians can no doubt be depended on to sum
up appropriately on Hitler’s black record and the
foul blight from it fast spreading over the world, but
they will also have to give him the evil credit of having
timed it all very shrewdly. The timing caught all the
democracies —including the U.S.A. —in wretched shape,
materially and psychologically.
Materially, they were all victims of “collective
security” and similar offshoots of wishful sentimen-
tality, which, with a strong urge also from their
pockets, led them into neglect of armaments. Psycho-
logically, they had been weakened by pacifist doctrine
which assumed the world to be something it never
was and hadn’t by a long chalk become ; also, by
false military theories, the main one being the un-
shakable superiority of modern defences against offen-
sive onslaught.
Hitler no doubt reckoned that, being democracies,
they would take time to recover—sufficient time for
his purpose. Except for Britain, he was wholly right
regarding those brought immediately into the war.
Even in Britain —as in Australia and the rest of the
Empire —it took time and tragic events to bring about
complete recovery, if complete recovery has been
made even yet. In regard to America, he had that
general ground to plot on, plus the special ground
that 1940 was an election year. The fact that the
President was in his eighth year of office would have
been still further reassurance. On top of that, Hitler
could reasonably allow an indefinite additional stretch of
time passing before the U.S.A. could make up its mind
to join actively in with those opposing him by force.
In the U.S.A., after nearly 21 months of war,
the talk still goes on. True, some of that talk is
promising enough almost to justify the prophecy with
which a new Sydney evening sheet signalised its
entry as a competitor in the new journalism. It
quoted “shrewd interpreters of political moves and
trends” in Washington as agreeing “almost unani-
mously that the United States will be in the war before
the end of this month.” It is possible that that could
happen; an incident might do it, or a drastic turn
of events pointing the knife straight at America. The
sinking of an American ship might do it. And
certainly, unless words have lost all meaning, the
U.S. is very deeply committed to do something more
effective than being the “arsenal of democracy,” im-
portant, if not vital, as this is in itself. From the
President down there is no important member of the
Administration who has not spoken in terms that can
be interpreted as actual war pledges.
Last week’s contributions included Secretary of
the Interior Ickes:
We must know our will and we must make it felt —
and we must, hurry... .We must give the British every-
thing we have, and by everything I mean everything
needed to beat the life out of our common enemy.
Other important speakers on this side of the discus-
sion could be quoted by the score. For example, Colonel
Baer, Chief of Staff of the Second Corps Area:
I am asked “Will our boys fight in this My
answer is “Yes, and they will fight damn well.”
But there are still others who hold the opposite
view. Thus, Dr. Felix Morley, an authority on foreign
affairs, in the “Wall-street Journal” :
America should now abandon a bluffing which never
fooled the Germans, whatever its effect on the unfortunate
youth who for less than a week occupied the toppled
throne of Yugoslavia. And our officials in high places
would henceforth be well advised to talk less and say more.
Dr. Morley wants to see a negotiated peace, and of
course believes such a thing possible. The “Wall-street
Journal” itself is among the newspapers wholly in
favor of the U.S.A. staying out. It may be a most
encouraging sign that, with scarcely an exception,
Americans taking this stand have generally come
round to accepting that the question of America’s
active entry into the war is not now a matter of if
but when. They still voice their opposition on various
grounds, the “Wall-street Journal” holding that the
U.S.A. needs to be united in the matter, and is far
from it. Raymond Clapper wrote towards the middle
of last month:
We do not yet really believe that the defeat of England
would bring us under an oppressive blight... .Though
we know that England needs ships and protection for
those ships, the resistance in this country is so strong
that President Roosevelt feels limited to the pitiful
gesture of turning over to England 10 little coastguard
cutters, built for the war against rum-runners.
At the same time Hugh S. Johnson discussed the
paradox of 80-odd p.c. of Americans in deadly oppo-
sition to mixing up in foreign wars, yet complacent
to every step of the Administration leading them closer
to that inevitable end. The “Christian Science Moni-
tor” has reported that the issue of “Collier’s” contain-
ing Lindbergh’s “Open Letter to Americans,” opposing
help to Britain, sold over 3,000,000 copies and must
have had at least 9,000,000 readers. Subsequently, the
Gallup Survey people took another of their votes on
the specific question of armed intervention. Replies
from every State, published on April 20, showed more
than four out of five opposed. The majority against
sending part of the army to help Britain was 79 p.c.
For what encouragement it may hold, the majority
against sending part of the air force was 69 p.c., and
against sending part of the navy 67 p.c.
Against that background of resistance, the “Chris-
tian Science Monitor” reports that “pursuit ’planes
and dive bombers are piling up on each other on
United States and Canadian docks at the rate of 50
to 100 a month.” This in itself could be a cause
of forcing the U.S.A. in time into active participation.
But on all the available evidence it will need some-
thing more spectacular, more violently impressive, to
cut Hitler’s time suddenly shorter than he perhaps still
reckons on. For the present, Uncle Sam is still at
war with himself on this dramatic issue, but he at least
has no doubt where his interest lies, and there, it
seems as good as certain, he will himself be in time.
He has progressed by very short steps up to now, fight-
ing with himself all the way. The signs are that he has
just about fought out his private war with himself. If
these signs are wrong, he should certainly drop Eng-
lish as an official language and adopt mximbo-jumbo.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Time for Realism.
At the end of a week which saw Ministers, Opposi-
tion-leaders and private members swarm to Adelaide
for the Boothby by-election, just as if it were peace-
time, the Prime Minister returned to Australia. He
looked tired after his strenuous travelling and speech-
making, but he is to get no rest. Even before he
started on his journey to Canberra to present his
account to Parliament, he had been called upon to
utter several more thousand words.
Yet in Australia, as in Britain, not rhetoric but
realism is the urgent need of the hour. If we could
get realism, we could dispense with rhetoric for the
rest of the war.
The need for realism should have been impressed
on Mr. Menzies by what he read in the papers on
the day he arrived at Sydney. Replying to the latest
of Mr. Eden’s Warnings, Admiral Darlan stated, for
what the statement may be worth, that the French
Fleet would not pass under German control: “The
whole world knows, and the British know better than
anybody else, that I would never give up the fleet to
anyone.” And another “official estimate” of the Sixth
Division’s casualties in the Greek campaign placed
the total at 3983, “the killed, missing, prisoners of
war and wounded remaining in Greece” being
reckoned at 3560 ; the other 423 are wounded re-
ceiving hospital treatment in “Egypt, Palestine or
Crete.” The Australian public was not prepared for
this announcement, since the previous official estimate
was “under 3000 killed, missing and prisoners” (this
was naturally interpreted to mean killed, wounded
and missing), and an unofficial estimate was 1600
altogether. Neither was it prepared for the contem-
poraneous announcement that “Australian troops in
considerable force are fighting in Crete.”
Parliament will assuredly demand to know why
publication of casualty lists has been attended with
so much confusion and delay, and how it came about
that so many of the grand soldiers who had so little
protection against dive-bombers in Greece have had
to suffer a repetition of the gruelling experience in
Crete.
“Wherever we have been beaten,” Mr. Menzies
said, “the reason has been that the enemy has been
able to use numbers of guns, aircraft and tanks
immeasurably superior to ours,” This is true, but,
though Mr. Menzies did not say so, it amounts to an
indictment of British Intelligence and of those who
have had the ordering of all the campaigns in which
this immeasurable superiority obtained. Only European
campaigns and the Dakar sideshow have been un-
successful, largely because the enemy was overwhelm-
ingly stronger in the air; and in nearly every case the
Royal Navy and the Merchant Navy have suffered
severely in their heroic efforts to extricate inevitably
defeated armies. But in East Africa and North
Africa, indeed wherever and whenever the fighting
services have been free to act together in concentra-
tion on definite Imperial objectives, they have been
splendidly successful. Surely the lesson is—and it
should have been learned months ago they should
be left to continue this fruitful co-operation without
being dragged into any more foreign adventures.
Some politicians talk and many newspapermen
write as if this were not May, 1941, but May, 1916.
They look to the British Army to win the war for us.
It is a very fine army, but were it ten times the size
it is and had twenty times the equipment it could do
nothing if the Navy were defeated. If that calamity
overtook us, Britain could be starved into surrender
and the Empire could be attacked piecemeal. While the
Navy remains supreme it is the Dominions’ sure shield
against invasion, and we in Australia and Maoriland
should be the first to recognise it. In fact, we should
be far more conscious than we are of the tremendous
strain under which the Royal Navy and the Mer-
chant Navy have been laboring for 21 months, and
of the serious losses that both have suffered. There
are newspapers so deficient in knowledge, imagination
and gratitude that at the moment when these noble
services are undergoing their greatest strain they
would give them another enemy. The loss of H.M.S.
Hood is a tragic commentary on that supreme folly.
"Cowards" and "Traitors."
Mr. Eden announced in the House of Commons last
week that the Germans were using aerodromes in
Syria, which is not a French colony but is held, after
a fashion, under the shadow of a mandate from the
shadow of a League ; and he proceeded to issue the
now-familiar Warning. Forthwith there was an
avalanche of verbal attacks on “the men of Vichy” ;
and, as usual, the R.A.F., which has been expected
to find men, ’planes and bombs for operations in
North Africa, East Africa, Germany, Norway, occu-
pied France, the Low Countries, Italy, Bulgaria, Hun-
gary, Rumania, Yugoslavia, Greece, Iraq and Crete,
as well as to defend its homeland, was ordered by
newspapermen to bomb not only Syria but Paris.
In Australian newspapers, “the men of Vichy”
were called cowards and traitors. M, Lancial, the
Acting Consul-General for France, protested against
these attacks.” “What resistance,” he asked,
“could the French offer in Syria? It would only
mean useless slaughter and devastation. And what
right have Frenchmen living in a sheltered land to
insult the leaders of their country for not ordering
sacrifices which they themselves have no thought
of sharing?”
This was too much for Mr. Frederick Stewart,
who is Minister for Sempiternal Affairs or something.
Mr. Stewart warned “representatives of the Vichy
Government in Australia” to “exercise the greatest
caution in their utterances and activities.” To Mr.
Stewart “the treacherous co-operation of the men of
Vichy with Germany” was “plain.” And he pro-
ceeded to relate what “we have every reason to
believe” —though “we have every reason to believe”
is not evidence.
At the outset of the disturbances at Iraq, General
Dentz gave assurances that he would not permit the
use of Syrian aerodromes by German aircraft. He said
he had the necessary forces to prevent it.
If General Dentz said that after what happened in the
Balkans, he must have gone mental since Mr. Palmer,
the new Consul-General for the U.S.A., took leave
of him. That gentleman, who arrived in Sydney,
fresh from Syria, on the day Mr. Stewart was per-
forming, described the general as “a very serious-
minded French soldier.”
Mr. Stewart, continuing:
It is sheer evasion to pretend that the French in Syria
have not acted in accordance with express instructions
from the Vichy Government.
Evasion it may be, and General Dentz may be a poor
creature. Admiral Darlan and the hated Laval may,
for their part, deserve every epithet which has been
hurled at them. But until Marshal Petain is proved
false he might be spared the insults of a press which,
down to a year ago, was so very pro-French that it
never told even portion of the truth about the state of
France —though the truth was known —and which at
the same time assured its public that the first sound of
the war gong would bring the U.S.A. and the U.S.S.R.
(the Mighty Soviet) rushing in on our side.
It is useless to expect quixotic behavior from the
rulers of a country in a position so terrible as that of
France. There may be scoundrels among them, as
there were after Waterloo ; but the nation, now as
then, is too far gone to object to the character or
methods of any leader or group of leaders who may
gain for it some measure of relief from its sufferings.
And Petain is no scoundrel.
In all this unhappy world there cannot be an un-
happier old man. Three times he has seen his France
invaded, and in extreme age he has been called upon
to work for a regeneration which he will never see.
The hated swastika flies over the graves of
2,000,000 French soldiers who died in the last war and
died in vain. For nearly a year, 2,000,000 living
French soldiers have been in German prison camps,
and for the same period other millions, men, women
and children, have been fugitives from their once-
happy homes, huge numbers of them houseless.
Wherever he goes and whatever he does, the aged
Marshal cannot escape the appeals and lamentations
of these vast masses of misery incarnate. To expect
him to harden his heart and turn away from them
till the war is decided in our favor is to expect too
much of such a Frenchman.
But the Marshal has bound himself by a solemn
pledge not to place his still-formidable fleet at the ser-
vice ,of the enemy for use against Britain. This
pledge has been referred to in cordial terms by Mr.
Churchill himself. Thus far it has been kept, but
there are people so careless of the effect on American
opinion and so reckless of the consequences to the
Royal Navy, the Merchant Navy, our armies in the
Mediterranean region and the Dominions whose
foreign trade is wholly sea-borne as to propose that,
because the French have suffered what it was not
in their power to prevent, Britain should go to
war with them. What a triumph this would be for
the Nazis! It is just what they are working for.
On the Button Front.
Sydney has disappointed its Lord Mayor ; nay, h £ * s
“heart-broken —I’ve never felt more disgusted. The
poor man was bowed under the blow administered
by citizens who refused to brave rainstorms and
threats of rain to buy buttons and raffle-tickets for
his Comforts Fund.
Only a tenth of the £50,000 expected by the
organisers was obtained ; and the buttons cost £2OOO.
The thing took eight weeks to organise.
What the Lord Mayor forgot was that people are
learning to dodge Martin-place. It is commonly being
referred to as a “death-trap.” Every day for weeks
it has been filled with the blare of loudspeakers,
politicians and others urging the taxpayer to invest in
the war loan or buy war savings certificates ; vaude-
ville turns by troops of physical culturists and parades
by uniformed young and old women. Every day has
been a special “Day” of some sort.
Now the Australian is as earnest a spectator and
as good a spender as anybody. But nobody can
maintain interest in a continual carnival. Even if
the Lord Mayor turned one of his picture theatres
into a free show, running the same old programme
night after night, it would not be long before only
the ushers were viewing it. Which is practically what
happened in Martin-place, helped by a stormy sky
and dribbling rain.
There is, too, the growing belief among the people
that 1914-18 methods should be dropped. Buttons and
raffles can’t win this war. Greece and Crete, Iraq and
North Africa, have stirred Australians to their depths.
They want evidence that Canberra also has been
stirred. If they are refusing to buy buttons and
raffle-tickets it is something in the nature of a strike
against the futility of trying to run a war hampered
by such things.
Dig for Victory.
Sydney “D.T.” barely gave the new Sydney Premier
time to settle in his new job before it was at him to
get on with the King’s Cross tunnel. It remarks that
the thing would cost £350,000, which is the Govern-
ment’s or the City Council’s or somebody’s estimate ;
but “works” of this nature always exceed the estimate.
The hole was to have been dug and paved, etc.,
in a year. Nobody has said how many men —a good
many of them technicians —would be required to dig
and pave it; but responsible Commonwealth Ministers
are repeatedly telling the people that the fighting
services and the war industries are badly in need of
men, especially technicians. Also, somebody will have
to carry the spoil away in motor trucks, which will
use a lot of petrol—a commodity now far too precious
to be wasted on “works” that are neither imperative
nor urgent.
The “D.T.” calls it “an air-raid shelter for 9000
people as well as a necessary civic improvement.”
To spend nearly half a million and use valuable men
and still more valuable petrol on such a thing at
such a time would be regarded as incredible by any
other race than that which inhabits the “D.T.” and
its immediate locality.
As for the City Council, its contribution to the
debate was a recommendation that the tunnel be post-
poned and work begun on the Eastern Suburbs rail-
way, presumably so that the flapper and her
boy friend can more quickly obtain relaxation from
the strain of war in the customary lounging on the
beaches. This little alternative is estimated to cost
£11,000,000.
"In England, Now."
From a man who was there for 20 months:
There is no question of the people’s courage in the face
of air-raids. Nobody ever talks about that aspect of it.
About all you can get them to admit is that things are uncom-
fortable. I’ve watched them going to work in the morning,
passing bombed and burning buildings and scarcely stopping
to look at them. But they watch out for time-bombs. Nobody
pretends to treat them with indifference.
Effects of bomb-blast are unpredictable. I’ve seen a shop
intact, not a pane of glass even cracked, though buildings
next door and across the street were reduced to heaps of
rubble. A big bomb might fall in a road and do no more
damage than make a crater. A small bomb might shatter half
a street
Damage to industrial plant there is, but nothing like
what was expected and not comparable with damage to shops
and dwellings. A night-B/ftz often ties up transport in that
part for some hours, and there is always the job of clearing
up and demolishing. , ,
You feel your way about in the blackout, but there are
people abroad, though bombs may be falling. A mate and
I made for a pub and I got two black eyes through walking
into a wall. That was in the big Sheffield Blitz, when they
were over from 7 p.m. to 4 a.m. For the effect imagine George-
street from Marcus Clark’s to the Quay with pretty well every
building in ruins or burning. Only one girl was missing
from our staff that morning; her home had been destroyed.
You’ve got to admire the women. They go out into the
middle of it on first-aid and A.R.P. work or if they think
little Johnny is where he oughtn’t to be. You see them on a
freezing night, after buying food for the family, going home
with it unhurriedly, though the sirens are blaring and Fritz
and the A.A. guns kicking up hell’s delight.
I hadn’t noticed any food shortage except that you ate
what you were given and knew it was no good asking for
anything different. But there is a need for ships; perhaps it s
the greatest need of all. Fritz can have all Europe, but
if we have ships he’s a goner. Build us freighters of 4000 to
5000 tons capable of 16 to 20 knots and we can laugh at
submarines. Wallowing 10,000-tonners doing eight to 10 knots
are chicken feed for subs., even in convoy.
I doubt the value of the convoy system. Just because
it worked last time doesn’t mean it will work now. The
convoy was a counter, and every offensive fighter soon finds
a way to beat a counter, especially if it’s served up every time
there’s a fight. Faster vessels sailing independently at their
best speed would make it harder for the sub. than groups
of 20 to 60 ships herded together under the care of a couple
of overworked destroyers and reduced to the speed ot the
slowest Plainly, we haven’t the warships to make big convoys
workable, and any ship with speed has her carrying capacity
reduced by being forced to slow down m convoy. But no
new ships should be built that can’t outstrip a submarine.
Nobody can form any idea of the tremendous task ot the
Navy. Imagine, if you can, 10,000 wild western wethers
in rough country full of dingoes and about six kelpies tiymg
to keep them together and fend off the dingoes. That s S(mie-
thing like what the Navy is doing, and finding time as well to
protect landings and evacuations, harry the enemy every time
he comes within range, police the entire sea-surface of the
globe and yet find time to rest, recuperate and repair.
I’ve been back in Australia a week. The best name for
what I’ve seen here is Complacency. Everybody has the air
of looking on at, not participating in, the war. Oh, I know
Australians are doing their bit in other parts, but I m talking
about the Australian at home. Perhaps he isn t to blame. A
lot of the English were the same until Dunkirk and the first
bombs on their cities. Nothing wakes you up quickci than a
b ° m i’got the idea in England that the Parliamentary system
is lacking. There is a cold, implacable purpose on the
enemy’s face that never varies, is never sidetracked by politics
or votes or seniority rights or strikes or the price of beer
Until we begin to wear the same sort of look we 11 continue
drawing low cards from the pack. They re starting to wear
it in England, but they’re awfully slow about it. I haven t
seen a sign of it in Australia. . , ,
Chief effect of the whole period on me is tiredness.
Long hours, continual blackout, Blitzes and the indescnb-
ahle weather—l’d had 10 years of Australian sunshine—all
combined to bring this about. Apart from that 1 m ready
Xhe oi%inary people don’t say much about America in
England. Perhaps they hope for America as an ally; perhaps
they think they can win with U.S. goods. 1 don t know, because
you hear so little about America, except m the papers and on
the radio, and the people have become suspicious of both.
Power Alcohol.
A man interested in it discusses the position and
outlook:
There are three distilleries in Australia equipped to
produce anhydrous or water-free alcohol—a good motor fuel
of octane rating of about 140. The maximum benefit for use
in modern cars is obtained with a 15 p.c. mixture with ordinary
petrol: this mixture is a super-grade fuel, of a type suitable
for modern cars with high-compression engines.
In addition to being a good motor fuel and able to
raise the octane rating of petrols, power alcohol has other
desirable properties which ensure lower engine temperatures
and freedom from carbonisation. Blended with petrol, it can
be used in cars without any alteration to the fuel system. _
The present selling price (wholesale) at the C.S.-R. s
Sydney distillery is Is. 9d. per gallon. The other distilleries are
at Sarina, Q. (National Power Alcohol), and Yarraville, Vic.
(C SR ) Their present output is only 2,000,000 gallons p.a.
It could be increased to 6,000,000 gallons p.a. given sufficiently
cheap raw material. ,
Hitherto molasses has been the sole raw material used
for production of methylated and white spirit, acetone and
butyl solvents, power alcohol —and rum. An increased supply
of molasses is not possible. The ideal raw materials are
sugar and wheat. , . , ,
Our consumption of petrol on the pre-war standard
was 350 to 400 million gallons per annum, so 15 per cent,
of power alcohol for blending calls for a production ot
50 to 60 million gallons p.a. For obvious reasons Australia
will have increasing difficulty in securing an adequate supply
of petrol from abroad during the remaining years ot the war
and for some years thereafter owing to the shortage of tanker
space. Also, it will have increasing difficulty in shipping
abroad its surplus sugar and wheat. .
The growing demands of the Air Force, the mechanised
army and the attendant services—all petrol-driven—demand
immediate action by Canberra. Especially as all the distillery
equipment can be manufactured in Australia and only Aus-
tralian raw materials will be used.


Sociey
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Nakhoda”: “Australia’s pioneering
conditions have produced a man perfectly
at home here,” said the New York
“Times” in an appreciative editorial on
“Australia’s flying Premier.” As every
Australian knows, Robert Gordon Men-
zies was born in one of the wildest parts
of Victoria where the babies cut their
teeth on bullets and have gunpowder
mixed with their milk to make them
tough. His father, James Menzies, a two-
gun he-man, fought his way into the
Legislative Assembly in Melbourne as
representative of Lowan, and got there
only through his ability to draw quicker
than his opponents at the lawless State
elections. Successfully eluding the bush-
rangers, young Robert wended his way
daily to the local State school, only once
being late through having to dismount
from the kangaroo he habitually rode to
hide in a hollow log from the terrible
Ned Kelly. He was then sent to Gren-
ville College at Ballarat, a city notorious
for desperate men and desperate causes.
In emulation of his father he fought a
succession of elections in the savage pre-
cincts of East Yarra, on one occasion, it
is said, shooting an antagonist without
removing his gat from his pocket. In
1934 he look the reckless step of resign-
ing his seat in the State Parliament to
contest the turbulent Kooyong electorate
for a seat in the Parliament of the Com-
monwealth. In 1929 he founded, with
W. S. Kent Hughes, a secret revolu-
tionary society known as the Young
Nationalists and narrowly escaped being
outlawed for it. His career since then is
well known to the public. It is a breath-
less record of adventure, as is mutely
testified by the numerous scars he bears
on his body. Significantly enough, his
favorite club in Melbourne is the Savage.
w * * *
"Wodgil”: Our ancestors who fought
Napoleon were not mealy-mouthed, but
1 doubt if they would have given way to
such paroxysms of rage and hysteria as
followed the arrival of Hess had a
counterpart of that person appeared
among them. There were no flapper-
papers or male-flapper politicians in their
time, and they were used to dealing with
fugitives from the Continent; generals
like Dumouriez, politicians like Talley-
rand and a swarm of other previously-
hostile foreigners. In 1810 they didn’t
scruple to carry on secret negotiations
with Fouche, the cleverest of Napoleon’s
Ministers, though in 1809, while Napoleon
was away fighting the Austrians, Fouche
had organised the defeat of the English
army which descended on Holland.
Moreover, the fellow, as they well knew,
was an utter scoundrel; a regicide and a
mass-murderer: he had not only voted
for the death of King Louis, but had
been personally responsible for the cold-
blooded butchery of hundreds of the
townsfolk of Lyons, captured by the
republicans after the failure of the rising
there. Napoleon got to know of his in-
trigue with the English and dismissed
him. Judging by the ruffian’s subsequent
intimacy with Wellington, who made full
use of his shady talents before and after
Waterloo, Fouche would have been
granted an asylum in England had he
been obliged to bolt to that country in
1810 or 1811. And it might have
happened.
* * * *
“Youanmi”: “Bulong” (B. 21 /5/’4l)
doesn’t know his goldfielders if he thinks
that they don’t still preface the names
of certain towns with “the.” Mining on
the Murchison a year or two ago, I
always knew Southern Cross as “The
Cross” and Marble Bar as “The Bar,”
and I’ve heard Kalgoorlie called “The
Kal.” And in my wanderings I’ve gener-
ally heard Broken Hill referred to as
“The Hill,” Mount Isa as “The Isa” and
Alice Springs as “The Alice.” To sim-
plify a double-barrelled place-name by
dropping half of it and adding “the”
comes naturally to the outback Aussie.
» * ♦ m
“Phildee”; “T. the R.’s” aversion to
modern poets (B. 21/5/’4l) was shared
by the editor of our country-town news-
paper, a simple, forthright man. At meet-
ings of the local literary society, of
which he was president, he was given to
castigating them with every adjective at
his command. Some of us conspired to
play a low trick on him. One day his
“He Was like that at school—never WOULD play.”
sanctum was invaded by a youth lately
returned home from a city high school.
The youngster timidly handed him “a bit
of poetry I’ve written” and bespoke a
favorable opinion and publication. The
“bit of poetry” began this way:
A shipman was ther, wonynge fer by westc;
For aught I woot he was of Dertemouthe.
He rood upon a rouncy as he kouthe,
In a gowne of faldyng to the knee.
A daggere hangynge on a laas hadde he
Aboute his nekke under his arm adoun.
The hoote somer hadde maad his hewe al
broun;
And certeinly he was a good felawe.
The editor stopped reading to glare and
swear. “You bloody moderns!” he
roared. The “poet” didn’t wait for the
next outbreak.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: The sudden marriage is
condemned by divorce Judges and others ;
there are at least a few examples of
happy results. Fifty years ago a young
Englishman got tired of climbing the
stairs of a registry office in search of the
job that was never there for him. The
employment-agency woman told him that
if he could find a willing girl she could
fix him with a job for a married couple.
He put the proposition to a girl whom he
had met in the office. She agreed to take
the job with him ; they went out and got
married and were on their way to their
country home by the night train. Their
golden wedding was celebrated the other
day, the couple being now affluent
station-owners, with a large gathering of
children and grandchildren—five of the
latter were m uniform and there are more
overseas —and friends. And the finest
part of the story is that the couple are
not ashamed of the circumstances of their
marriage.
“Stanley-street”; Air-raid alarms, is it
(B. 21/5/’41)? I had a flat next door to
a Sydney hall which had been fitted with
an air-raid siren. About 3 a.m. a short-
circuit or something set the confounded
thing off, and the devastating howl woke
everybody up. Going out to investigate
I found half a dozen angry men in
dressing-gowns, with murder in their eyes,
We discussed ways and means of silencing
the infernal thing before it occurred to
us to ring the manager. He took his
time, but came at last and turned it
off exactly an hour and five minutes after
the horror had started. And in those
65 minutes of continuous, ear-splitting
noise, not more than a dozen people
appeared in the streets surrounding one
of the most thickly-populated neighbor-
hoods in Australia.
* T * .*„ /T ,
Maple Leaf : Poler (B. 14/5/41)
is a bit hard on Quentin Reynolds. I
suggest that those R.A.F. men were
Canadians ; there is any number of them
m the R.A.F. Reynolds himself speaks
very good English, as anyone can testify
who heard his commentary in “London
Can Take It and Christmas Under
L* re - # #
“Chevroford”: The" most casual
rescuer on record was a one-legged man
at Caulfield who, seeing a five-year-old
girl under the feet of a passing carthorse,
dived to her assistant, fell over, just
missed the revolving wheels, scrambled
up again, put her on her feet and con-
tinued his walk. The father, gazing
impotently from the pathway, rushed up
and recovered his offspring and then
asked the departing figure to whom he
was so indebted. “It’s all in the game,
lad,” shouted the hero, waving his crutch.
He has been an inmate of the Caulfield
Military Hospital since 1919.
* * * *
“Cook’s Mate”: The British seaman
doesn’t change with the seasons. The
’tween-decks conversation of Captain
Cook’s lower-deck ratings was strong,
rough and full-flavored enough to im-
press unforgettably Forster, a scientific
German who accompanied Cook on his
second voyage in H.M.S. Resolution.
They excelled themselves in foul weather.
During a violent gale Forster heard “the
voices of the sailors, louder than the blus-
tering winds or the raging ocean itself,
uttering horrible volleys of curses and
oaths.”
They execrated every limb in varied
terms, piercing and complicated beyond the
power of description. Inured to danger
from their infancy, they were insensible
to its threats, and not a single reflection
bridled their blasphemous tongues. I know
nothing comparable to the dreadful energy
of their language.
They haven’t deteriorated. No soldier
can express himself quite so fluently and
forcibly as a navy man when occasion
arises.
* * * *
“Cauboy”; The announcement by the
Australian-born General G. L. Carpenter
that the huge International H.Q. of the
Salvation Army in London was com-
pletely demolished in the recent fire
Blitz is a reminder that it took two wars
to establish the Army finally on terms
of equality with other denominations.
Now it has equality as a target for Nazi
bombing with ancient London churches,
A unique spectacle I saw in Fremantle
during the 1914-18 war was a launch
setting off for a troopship. It contained
an Anglican bishop, a member of
the Catholic hierarchy, Presbyterian,
Methodist, Congregational chaplains, and
a Salvation Army officer, all cheek-by-
jowl with one another and as jolly as
sandboys. In General Carpenter’s early
days in Melbourne Army meetings were
often broken up by larrikins. The famous
“IOI,” destroyed in London, com-
prised five lofty buildings housing the
central international administration of
finance, banking, social, audit, editorial
and property departments, with base-
ments stuffed with enormous safes and
fireproof galleries stacked with docu-
ments and records. Over 500 officers of
the Army staffed them. Incidentally, the
Army is banned in Germany,
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: A big lottery prize
came to a couple who, as charwoman
and odd-jobs man, toiled by the day or
half-day in our suburb. Apparently
tfi e y so i vec t the trouble of immedi-
ate financial accommodation, for the
nex t clad in gorgeous plumage,
they taxied about the district “telling
o fi” former employers. It seemed
fi e the w jf e ’ s jfi ea —the man evidently
thought it would be better to let bygones
fiyg ones anc j concentrate on alcohol.
However, when the beer began talking,
be made some spirited contributions to
tbe tumu t that boiled up m street after
str f. et 11 became s ° tm , bul u en f tbat < he
P were, requisitioned but all they
coul f do was to advise the offended ex-
employers to proceed by summons,
Summons away! said the insurgent ex-
char when this was threatened. 11! show
Y QZ ab U P - a non-employer, it was a
joy to me to recollect the terms in which
the pair had always been recommended:
She is so respectful, and so is he^
“F.S.”: One of
the major mysteries
of the present con-
flict which press
correspondents
have failed to give
a clear picture of
is the way London
manages to carry
on in face of the
recurrent Blitz. One
item of news is
that the London
“T im e s,” having
been deluged with
complaints from
citizens who missed
finding their morn-
ing copy in their
front gardens, ex-
plained that it had
been faced with the
alternative of re-
ducing its size or
its circulation by a
sixth ; it decided to
reduce its circula-
tion. It was always
a respectably-sized
paper, as English
dailies go, and how
it is able to print
and distribute its
daily output is a
wonder. Another item is the news that
Surgeon-Lieut. Rex Blaubaum, onetime
of Surry Hills, Melbourne, had been
successful in getting his fellowship of
the Royal College of Surgeons. The
information arrived coincidently with the
announcement that the College of Sur-
geons had been razed to the ground in
the recent fire Blitz. Although several
art galleries have been damaged and at
least one demolished, not a single master-
piece of painting has been injured. Four
days after Hitler broke loose they had
been safely deposited in three artificially-
warmed and air-conditioned caches
“somewhere in England.” The most sur-
prising bit of intelligence, however, is
that the trustees still meet in London, and
still calmly inspect and buy pictures.
* * * *
“Bo”: One of Hollywood’s prettiest
boys entered —compulsorily—the army.
So overcome was the colonel of the regi-
ment that he welcomed the distinguished
private personally, and there were bands,
floats, cheer-leaders and the rest. After
chewing that over, I was not in the least
surprised when my flapper paper in-
formed me that in U.S. military camps
provision is made for the reception of
relatives and friends who wish to live
with —or almost with —the doughboy
during the period of training. Each big
camp has its movie theatre, to hold
10,000, and its guest-house with 70 to
100 rooms. Why didn’t we think of that?
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: I have private infor-
mation from a friend in the Gestapo of
the real explanation of Herr Hess’s
arrival in Scotland. Rudolf all his life-
time has had the reputation of being late
for appointments. Having arranged to
meet Hitler in London on May 14, and
aware of his failing, he made an early
start, but unluckily arrived a bit too early.
This has so upset the plans of the Fiihrer
that the date has been postponed sine die ,
EVEN IN UNIFORM.
“Thank goodness the Air Force is modern enough
to allow girls to use cosmetics. Women look more
attractive with lipstick, even in uniform.”
— W.A.A.A.F. Squadron Officer.
What’s wrong with adventitious aids
To beauty? Who would dare deter
Or seek to hinder comely maids
From looking even comelier?
The sex should ne’er its right forgo
Our eyes to glad, our hearts to warm
With an appreciative glow—
Not even when in uniform.
When Boadicea, fierce and fair,
Against the Roman legions rode,
I won’t believe she didn’t wear
The very latest line in woad.
As soldierly Semiramis
To many a hard-won conquest pressed,
Assyrian beauty shops, I wis,
Combined to give her of their best.
The hearts that beat ’neath serge or frill,
Under a silver fox’s skin
Or in a martial garb, are still
Essentially feminine.
The tunic’s cut would seem more hard
And drab, the cloth of coarser stuff,
If those who wear it were debarred
From lipstick and from powder-puff.
In peace or war ’twill ne’er be shelved.
That practice beyond doubt begun
When Father Adam dourly delved
And Mother Eve demurely spun.
And who shall say it hurts or harms?
What woman wouldn’t, shine or storm,
Add something extra to her charms,
Aye, even when in uniform?
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Prendergast and I had a row—l fancy he's thinking of doing a ‘ Hess ’!”
“S.”: Dump a fish or a piece of meat
in any of Sydney’s lanes between Central
station and Circular Quay and a cat will
swoop on it within five minutes. I knew
that, and I knew, too, that there’s a
strange fraternity of human prowlers who
scavenge the garbage-cans each night;
but I hadn’t realised that the two-legged
hunters are as much on the watch and
as quick to move as the cats. What with
milk for lunches and beer for birthdays,
the bottles had been mounting up for
months ; an armful at a time, we carried
them down the stairs and dumped them
in the lane. It took about ten minutes,
and before the last load had reached the
lane two whiskered ancients had arrived
with a billycart, loaded it and were off
into the darkness with the loot. “Me
mate saw you dumpin’ ’em,” said the
one who lingered ; “he give me the tip
and we got the cart.” Where the billycart
was stored I don’t know; but it looks
as if there’s a System.
* * * *
“W.E.R.”: A childish squabble be-
tween two Sydney newspapers over which
had the right to publish “Hitler’s Flying
Visit,” an allegedly humorous fantasy on
the supposed landing of Hess’s boss in
England, let it out that one of them
claimed to have paid £26 ss. for the Aus-
tralian rights. Earnest Australian writers,
after another look at the figures, should
realise what chance they’ve got of com-
peting against that and see about getting
a job on a milkcart or something.
* * * *
“Fi. fa.” discourses on a Melbourne
centenaiy:
On April 12, 1841, the first sitting of a resi-
dent Supreme Court in the District of Port
Phillip was held. Much interest was taken by
Melbourne’s 4479 inhabitants, and the small
brick courthouse on the south-western corner
of Bourke and King streets —formerly the
Lands Office —was filled to capacity. After the
provisions of an Act for the Prevention of
Vice and Immorality had been read to the
doubtless edified audience, the authority of the
Court was proclaimed, the commission of his
Honor Judge J. W. Willis read, and himself
duly sworn in. The learned Judge then de-
livered an opening address which the “Port
Phillip Gazette” praised highly, and in which
he referred to the Supreme Court at Sydney
as “expensive and dilatory.” Dr. Raymond
was sworn in as Sheriff, James Croke as Crown
Prosecutor and five barristers admitted to prac-
tise at the Port Phillip Bar. A ribald con-
temporary of the dignified “Gazette” came out
with jocular comments on the promising supply
of wigs, gowns and white chokers, also on
“that cheerful diversity of nose and whiskers
for which the English Bar is so eminently
celebrated.”
* * * *
“T. McN.”: I had just opened the
morning paper and read that “three im-
portant service appointments are likely
to be announced next week” when
I got an urgent call to adjudicate in a
dispute between the missus and her
clothesline. This settled, my aid was
required in another direction, my mind
all the time on those appointments. At
last I got back to the paper and read on :
They are Commander-in-Chief of the
Australian Military Forces, Commander of
the Air Cadet Corps and Commander of
the Women’s Auxiliary Air Force.
You can’t depress me. This war is as
good as won.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: A curious by-
product of the war in Europe has been
an unprecedented boom in bullfighting
in South America. Now that Yurrup is
no longer accessible to U.S. tourists,
large numbers go south to the Spanish-
speaking republics. The travel-agency
blurbs and guides whoop up bullfighting
as affording unparalleled thrills to the
spectator with complete personal safety,
and make it clear to the adventurers that
they will be dead stuff on Main-street
if they return to the home town without
personal acquaintance with a Plaza de
Toro or two. Even Cuba, where the
bull-ring has been suppressed ever since
the end of Spanish rule some 40 years
ago, is agitating for its revival as a
tourist attraction. The other contribut-
ing factor has been the influx of large
numbers of refugees from Spain.
*
“R. Volt”: The ingenuity of an A.I.F.
private overcame a broadcasting difficulty
at a Melbourne Town Hall recruiting
rally. Finding he was several yards
short of leading wire to connect
the amplifiers without to the mike
within, this chap tore across the
road, explained his predica-
ment to a shopman, borrowed
a radio set, tuned it in to 3LO
and, just as the first speaker
upended himself, put the am-
plifiers into the circuit. The
waves on the improvised
circuit had to travel from the
T.H. to the A.8.C., thence to
the station outside the city and
then back to the T.H., a con-
siderable mileage, but trans-
mission was effective.
* * *
“Hamfat”: “Cauboy’s” “It
was the only money he ever
saved” (B. 14/5/’4l) was
hardly an apt phrase to apply
to Bill Anderson. Up to the
time Bill thought he could run
a racing stable, he had a repu-
tation for frugality that made
his occasional generosity aston-
ishing. Anderson’s first con-
nection with theatricals was as
a billposter at Bendigo. The
Charles Blake Dramatic Co.
called there and had an un-
fortunate season. Years later,
Blake applied to Bill Anderson
for a job. Anderson was glad
to have him and fixed the
salary. “But there will be a
deduction of ten shillings a
"/eek until what you owed me for bill-
posting at Bendigo is paid,” said Bill.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: The front doorbell rang
and the daughter of the Toorak mansion
eagerly answered the summons, to find a
woman standing on the mat with a note-
book in her hand and a businesslike look
about her. “Age!” said the apparition
briefly. “I’m not going to tell you my
age! What do I have to do that for?”
said the staggered young lady. “Isn’t this
Mrs. Kafoopses’ house?” asked the
apparition. “Yes.” “Isn’t she giving a
cocktail party in aid of the Comforts
Fund?” “Yes.” “Well, I’ve come to
report it.”
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Glad “Wodgil” knows what
these modern Australian journalists mean
by “nuts” (B. 21/5/’4l). I’m not quite
clear on it, a condition made worse by
the latest from one of them, sent by Syd-
ney “D.T.” to America:
Burton Wheeler is one of the most like-
able fellows and one of the most eminent
nuts I have met in this country.
Until recently, if an Australian described
anybody as “a bit of a nut” or “a hard
nut,” every other Australian understood
that the person referred to was a hard-
doer, shrewd and full of a dry humor.
But when an American calls anyone a
“nut” or describes him as “nutty” the
meaning is that the person lacks full men-
tal equipment; is, in fact, a bit silly.
There is another possible definition for
the American term, i.e., eccentric. This,
I take it, is what the “D.T.” man meant.
Yet I can’t be sure, because towards the
end of the interview the “eminent nut”
said: “After the war Chamberlain will
prove to have been a bigger man than
Churchill.” That, to a dyed-in-the-wool
anti-Chamberlain man, as any “D.T.”
writer should be, doubtless earned Sena-
tor Wheeler his new title.
* * * *
“K. Ley”: An English friend who went
home after ten years in Australia with
every intention of stopping there returned
the other day. “What are you,” I asked,
“a refugee?” “Yes,” he grinned ; “but
not from bombs. Couldn’t stand the
clima to
“ 'Ere, Joe, 'ave a Molotov cocktail — they're too good to Waste on Dago tanks!”
“C.Q.”: Lud Mayor Beaurepaire, of
Melbourne, asked some time ago for a
crashed Messerschmitt from London to
act as an exhibition piece to stimulate
Red Cross collections. The requisitioned
aircraft duly arrived in Melbourne and
lay for four days on the dock face,
intermittently guarded, while various de-
partments discussed what was to be done
with it. Meanwhile, of course, strangers
did a bit of souveniring. If there had
been as much red-tape about crashing the
Nazi weapon over London as there has
been in releasing it in Melbourne, it
would probably still be carrying Nazis.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: A bit more than three
sheets under, our suburb’s drunk was
meandering homeward, carrying four
bottles of beer on one arm and his hat
in the other hand. Becoming tired, he
sought to transfer the beer to the other
arm, but the hat obstructed him. Gravely
he considered the problem, then sought
to place the hat on the ground. But
when he bent forward the top loading
on the other arm tipped dangerously and
he was forced to straighten. He then
spent some time in deep thought, sighed as
though the puzzle were insoluble, took
a few forward steps, then stopped and
again contemplated the beer and the hat
with the utmost gravity. Then a great
light dawned, and he put the hat on his
head, carefully made the transfer, caught
the hat in his free hand and resumed his
way, his expression of self-satisfaction
worth a quid to see.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: I overheard the conver-
sation at the Melbourne markets. Said a
mother shopping at a second-hand stall to
her somewhat bedraggled daughter:
“You’re 16 —why don’t you gbt a job?
Then I wouldn’t have to keep you.” “How
can I get a job, mum? A manager
wouldn’t look at me. I’m too straggly.”
“Well, why don’t you get yourself fixed
up?” retorted the mother. “How can I get
myself fixed up, mum? Where’m I going
to get the 15 bob for a perm?” “You don’t
want a perm!” “Oh, don’t I? If I don t
look as nice as all the other girls the
manager won’t think I can do the work.
So how can I get a job, mum?” Mum
couldn’t think of any answer to that ques-
tion but the girl seems to have stated an
economic problem for which neither
cosmeticians nor employers nor yet
feminine workers are responsible, inas-
much as they have all been brought up
in a fashion.
* * * *
“D.”: Ken Slessor, the A.l.F.’s official
war correspondent, has a batman who
seems as keen on making news as Ken is
on collecting it. The batman, Private
Henry Beresford (“Ribs”) Murray, first
got himself into print in “S. M. Herald
over a 8.8. C. broadcast with Di.
“Cobbers” Wood and another Digger--
“Granny” disapproved of the Diggers’
slang, and chided them in a leader for
defiling the well of English. Both Dig-
gers made the headlines a second time
when, returning from the broadcast dur-
ing an air raid, they rescued some fire-
men from a blazing fire engine. The
effects of Murray’s third exploit, ho\v-
ever, should last for the rest of his life.
Taken from England to Greece, he met
in Athens a Greek girl he had known in
Perth (W.A.). Before the evacuation he
tore back to Athens, collected the lady,
took her to the Piraeus and conducted
her aboard the only ship leaving that
night—it was packed with troops,
refugees and German prisoners. In Crete
the lovers struck a snag—the girl was
a Greek subject, and the authorities
would not permit
her to leave the
island ; but after
a long argument —
Murray’s a dabster
at that —the offi-
cials permitted
them to be married
in a Greek Ortho-
dox church without
the customary 21
days’ notice. After
the ceremony Mur-
ray and his bride
went on to the
Middle East, where
the lady was offered
a job by the Red
Cross she has
university degrees
in dentistry and
medicine. Her lord,
a lean, six-foot-
three Westralian,
sometime miner,
drover, fisherman
and farmer, is a
nephew of Lieut.-
Col. Harry Murray,
the Old A.l.F.’s
“m os t decorated
man,” and seems to
be running true to
family form.
METEOROLOGICAL.
“It is not generally known that when the kooka-
burra laughs between 12.30 and 2.30 p.m. it is a sure
indication that rain will fall within 48 hours.’’
—Letter to “S. M. Herald.”
I never scan o’ morns the weather maps
And forecasts, or bestow inquiring taps
Upon the aneroid barometer,
The voiceless oracle of other chaps.
My faith is pinned to simpler, surer signs .
Than those the metreorologist divines
From gadgets which enable him to give
His tips on strictly scientific lines.
A bunch of seaweed hanging on the rack,
A household cat that’s (preferably) black,
’Tis these decide if I shall hit the breeze
With or without a brolly or a mack.
And should I hear, between my lunch and
half-
Past two, the jocund kookaburra’s laugh,
I know as surely rain is on the way
As if I’d been apprised by telegraph.
An oak and ash within my garden grow,
And by their leafage in the spring will show
Things hid, 1 guess, from that prophetic
Jones
Who revels in the prefix Inigo.
A swallow flying low, a fowl that blares
His eerie warning to the ambient airs—
With these and suchlike pointers, why
should folk
Be always telephoning Mr. Mares?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


10 for 10d. 20 for I 7 #
E 1869
CRAVEN A,
(jcuU apfmciak tkeit
eiddamlinq q/wMtu
-jJm »*** '
MADE SPECIALLY TO P REVENT SORE THROATS
d
POLITICAL POINTS
Had Menzies returned to Australia a
day or two earlier, he would have found
some of his colleagues and all the Labor
Advisory War Councillors giving their
days and nights to “practical politics” in
Boothby. As it was, he arrived back
in time to predict that Dr. Price would
hold the seat for the U.A.P. The Doctor
did, and the size of his majority—Booo-
-d —was an unpleasant surprise for the
Opposition.
Days before the poll was taken in
Boothby S.A. Laborites were morosely
admitting that it was a mistake to storm
the electorate with so many brisk boys
from Sydney. Dr. Evatt, they allowed,
was an asset, but some of the others were
serious liabilities. For one thing, they
reminded electors too vividly of Lang.
Richards, the S.A. Labor leader,
blithering at a Boothby by-election meet-
ing:—
Dr. Price would not hesitate to force
conscription of man-power on this
country. Dr. Price’s plan would denude
Australia of its manhood and leave the
womenfolk to the unbridled passions of
those who might make their way south
from the tropics.
Less than a fortnight previously Maori-
land Labor called up 19,000 men for
overseas service. Their names had been
drawn in the third ballot of the kind ;
in the first (December 4), there were
14,000 names, and in the second (March
4) 19,000. And all from a male popula-
tion —all ages, and Maoris included —of
about 830,000. Australian Labor poli-
ticians should really make themselves
acquainted with what Maoriland Labor
has done and is doing before they blither
in the Richards fashion.
Westralia looks like rivalling its won-
derful record in the last war, when it
enlisted 32,231 A.I.F. soldiers out of a
population of about 300,000. Of 15,922
recruits gathered in during 17 days of
the new “drive,” 2289 were Westralians.
On a population basis their State’s share
would have been a little over 1000.
A newspaper suggests that the South
African part of the army that has nearly
finished rounding up the Italians in
Abyssinia will be dispatched to the
Middle East. That can only be done if
the Union Parliament approves. While
the Australian Parliament has effaced
itself in these matters, the Union Parlia-
ment has been assured by Smuts that
South African soldiers will not be sent
out of Africa without its consent.
Melbourne “Argus” sharpens its axe;
To Frenchmen whose allegiance is to
Vichy or is not declared, we can only
manifest uncompromising hostility. In the
words of General Catroux, Frenchmen who
support Vichy are guilty of treason; to us
they are guilty of treachery. In war-time
the penalty for both is death.
Still it is to be hoped that the “Argus”
won’t undertake to administer the death
penalty to the whole 20,000,000 or so.
Even at 100 a day, with Sundays off and
a fortnight’s annual holiday, the job
would take 666| years.
In the unhappy days of maritime strife,
a strike of Australian sea-cooks was led
by the secretary of their union, J. Tude-
hope. Now secretary of the Maritime
Council of Trade Unions, Tudehope was
heard last week in one of the most effec-
tive broadcast speeches delivered in these
parts since the outbreak of war. He
said, among other things, that the men
of the Merchant Navy “have relinquished
traditional rights and privileges in the
cause of freedom” ; and that “they are
maintaining their schedules, enabling the
nation to assemble all its resources for
the work of production, and to transport
its weapons and its soldiers to the points
of battle.” In the last war, he added,
1\ p.c. of the merchant seamen lost their
lives, and in this war there are “daily
sinkings.” These are facts which all should
remember ; above all, the kind of news-
paperman who, safe in his swivel chair,
is for ever demanding sacrifices from the
Merchant Navy, the Royal Navy and
the R.A.F, by way of gratifying his
ignorant notions of how and where the
war should be waged.
“Our country is not at war,” said
Moscow Radio ; “it is the wise policy of
Comrade Stalin and his Government to
keep us out of it. But we must be pre-
pared.” For the double-cross or the
triple-cross?
Sydney City Council and its Chief
Warden, who was appointed with a fan-
fare of press trumpets a few months ago,
have now discovered that they don’t
“In spite of Boothby, I don’t think I’d really care to be an Iceberg.”
) amount to a snap of the fingers in A.R.P.,
having no “executive powers.” So the
Sydney Government’s Minister for N.E.S.
' is to be asked to amend the N.E.S. Act
(whatever that may be) to give them said
“powers.” It’s to be hoped the Minister
for N.E.S. does nothing of the kind.
Granting “executive powers” to aider-
men and their offsiders in such matters
would be absurd and dangerous.
The swearing-in of the N.S.W. Labor
Government is to take place today. The
swearing at it will begin as soon as it
starts taxing for spending.
Lyons Radio, quoting Rome on May
7, gave it out that “3000 Australian
troops” were “encircled” by Iraqis in
the Habbaniyah airfield. When this was
mentioned to Fadden he said the Gov-
ernment had “received no information
about the presence of Australian troops
in Iraq.” On Thursday, referring to other
reports, “Mr. Fadden said he had no
advice of the number of Australians
among the Anzac forces in Crete, nor
could he indicate whether any of the
A.I.F. were in Cyprus.” The number of
important matters about which Fadden’s
Government has no information is
astounding.
Eleven resourceful Australian soldiers
from Greece turned up in Turkey last
week. The notification of their arrival
was swiftly followed by a, message giv-
ing their names, military numbers and
enlistment towns. How about handing
over the recording and transmission of
A.I.F. casualty lists to Jacko?
A year ago no one was more pro-
French than Mr. F. Ehrenfried Baume.
Now this “famous war correspondent”
can’t mention France or the French with-
out using immoderate language. Wey-
gand has become “a cowardly traitor,”
Petain a senile poltroon, Darlan and
Laval monsters of corruption ; and, of
course, the R.A.F. should deal it out
to their country in double doses —the
invariable Baume prescription on these
occasions.
rauoen did some effective electioneer-
ing for Dr. Price, though he didn’t set
his standards high. Referring to the in-
vasion of N.S.W. Labor members, he
said that it was the policy of his Gov-
ernment to decentralise industry, whereas
the invaders were for grabbing every-
thing for N.S.W. Because of S.A.’s in-
dustrial expansion, its share of Common-
wealth war expenditure had reached
£24 6s. 9d. a head, and that of the State
from which the invaders came £2O 14s. 4d.
a head. “That’s why they’re over here,”
Artie boomed —“to try to get that four
quid.” Not at all elevated, but it told.
What is left of the U.A.P. in the Mac-
quarie-street Assembly has admitted
H. G. Jackett to the party room. Jackett
is member for Burwood, and by coming
out against his “endorsed” opponent,
Mitchell, he broke all the rules of the
pitiful pre-selection game ; but he was
forgiven immediately. In its present
frame of mind the U.A.P. would admit
Beelzebub to the party room if he called
himself U.A.P.
The story in Sydney is that “approved
restaurants” will soon be permitted to
serve beverage wine at meals, and that
hotel hours will be 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
But all McKell will say is that “there
seems to be almost a unanimous view in
the community that amendments should
be made to the Liquor Act and the Gov-
ernment intends to make them,” and that
“when these amendments are being pre-
pared the position of winegrowers will
be considered.”
Senator Foil, announcing the reorgan-
isation of his Department of Information,
said he hoped to save £BOOO a year
£BOOO out of £198,000, and the rest—
and darkly hinted at staff retrenchments.
He gave no indication as to whether the
department would give out any infor-
mation, a commodity sadly lacking in
Australia.
From Mr. Cain, the Victorian Labor
“leader,” who is seldom heard from:
The real reason why Victorian taxation
is lower than in other States is that its
social services are lowest in Australia.
Provision for education, health, hospitals,
etc., is absurdly low.
Victorians are wondering whether it’s
a threat or a promise.
There are none so warlike as those
who have seen nothing of war. This is
true of a surprisingly large number of
politicians and newspapermen. Evidence
is to be found in almost any issue of
the New Journalism last week.
S.A.’s first locally-built war vessel has
been launched —with the aid of a bishop,
a Governor’s wife, the Premier, a big
Parliamentary party and huge crowds. A
newspaper mentioned that because of
the war “it has been necessary to obtain
most of the machinery in Australia.”
“Necessary” sounds like the last croak
of Freetrade!
Two U.S. Senators have persuaded
themselves that peace manoeuvres are in
progress. Hess’s mission, they assert, was
pacific, and because this was so there
was an immediate lull in the Blitzkrieg;
then Roosevelt mysteriously postponed
an advertised speech, and Secretary Hull
promised a post-war distribution of raw
materials among all nations —“which,” the
Senators said, “is what Germany has
wanted all along.” Above all, it was recog-
nised that the war would reach stalemate
unless Hitler took Gibraltar and Suez,
and that, the gentleman claimed, he could
do “whenever he is ready.” Millions
disagree with them.
Tasmanian Premier Cosgrove gloomily
announces that the Commonwealth Co-
ordinator of Works has refused to
sanction the rebuilding of Hobart and
Launceston railway stations with loan
funds. The blow fell when Sydney was
talking blithely about traffic tunnels and
new suburban railways.
A short statement on the Hess affair
by Sir Archibald Sinclair has put many
a newspaperman’s nose out of joint. The
Duke of Hamilton, the Air Minister said,
didn’t know No. 3, couldn’t remember
having met him in Germany, was unable
to recognise him when they met in Scot-
land and had never received a letter from
him, nor had “any responsible authority.”
The Ministerial statement “has mystified
the public.” That means that it has
mystified the press,
Petain’s reply to U.S. Ambassador
Leahy, according to the Washington cor-
respondent of London “Times”: “What
has Roosevelt, 3000 miles away, done for
me, or what can he do for me when I
have the entire German army on my
neck, and no more than 10,000 gen-
darmerie and not a single machine-gun?”
Forward, the “Argus”!
A White Paper tabled in the House
of Commons at the beginning of March
showed that 19 peers and 12 Ms.P. were
serving with the Navy, nine peers and
17 Ms.P. with the R.A.F. and 138 peers
and 87 Ms.P. with the Army. There are
also 321 peers and Ms.P. assisting “in a
civil capacity” without pay. Lord Hali-
fax, Sir Samuel Hoare and Sir Stafford
Cripps, ambassadors respectively to U.S.,
Spain and U.S.S.R., are taking no salaries
—a sacrifice of £2500 a year in each case.


ANOTHER SIT-DOWN STRIKE.
“Nearly 16,000 cows will be working day and night to supply 5,000,000 tins of condensed milk for the A.I.F. abroad.”


PERSONAL ITEMS
A Price succeeds a Price in Boothby
(S.A.). A “straw vote” taken in the
electorate revealed that some of the free
and unenlightened didn’t know Jack Price
was dead, but everyone knew Archibald
Grenfell Price as a radio talker with a
profound knowledge of affairs who
didn’t care whose corns he trod on.
And he had the party support with
which “The Watchman” unavailingly
tried to dispense in Flinders (Vic.). The
doctor’s father is remembered as a
National Bank manager. His son,
“geographer, historian, and educationist,”
and now politician, is 49.
William James (“Bill”) Adey was a
philosophic spectator of the Boothby
(S.A.) by-election. He stood for Boothby
himself last year, but decided that once
was enough. Successively principal of
Adelaide High School, Superintendent of
Secondary Education and Director, Bill
retired in 1939 with a C.M.G., but not
to leisured ease —he has a seat on the
Public Library Board and the University
Council.
When The Bulletin was young a
great deal of it was subbed and some
of its verse was written by “F.J.8.”
“F.J.8.” was Frederick J. Broomfield,
Always “Fred” to the poets, short-story
writers and paragraphists of the ’eighties
and ’nineties, he died in Sydney last
week, having outlived all his old pals
except Rod Quinn. He it was who
accepted Lawson’s first bit of Bulletin
verse, and to Lawson he was always “my
literary dad.” After he left The Bulle-
tin he was T. A. Coghlan’s understudy
when Coghlan was N.S.W. Government
Statistician, and as such he helped to
give Australian statistical publications the
high world reputation they have held for
many years.
Queensland knew well the Earl of
Suffolk and Berkshire, who was killed by
an enemy bomb a fortnight ago. He was
one of the sights of the Darling Downs
when he was part of Toolburra station,
near Warwick, and, a sportive young man
then, he once arrived at a vice-regal ball
in tails and riding boots. In Queensland
for nine years—he grew tobacco part of
the time—he returned to England in
1934, and married Mimi Crawford
(stage name, Forde-Pigott); there are two
small sons and a daughter. The family
(Howard) is one of the oldest and
proudest in England; Queensland’s
acquaintance was the twentieth Earl of
Suffolk and the thirteenth Earl of Berk-
shire.
William Taylor Rofe, whose strong,
stern features are epitomised in the
accompanying diagram by Coventry,
comes of South Australian pioneering
stock, his father having been one
of the first settlers in Port Adelaide.
William is head of the Rofe carrying
concern, president of the S.A. Carriers’
Association and the Employers’ Federa-
tion, and a Board of Industry commis-
W. T. ROFE.
sioner. He has been Mayor of Port
Adelaide and president of Rotary, and
Sundays find him superintending the
Gartrell Memorial Sunday School. He
plays bowls.
Killed in a ’plane crash at Archerfield
(Q.), Flight-Lieutenant John Collins, of
Beaudesert, who won the speed test in
the Brisbane-Adelaide air race in 1936.
He was the only son of the Collinses of
Nindooinbah, and the last male of his
familv. In 1933 he descended on Sydney
and married its Lord Mayor’s daughter,
Margaret Hagon. With Collins died
Squadron-Leader H. E. Phillips, a Too-
woomba man, who led an air squadron
in the last war at the age of 21.
John Turner, one of Vacuum Oil’s
directors, has gone into retirement at
Melbourne. He was in the oil business
for 45 years, first as a youngster in the
James Service concern. Service, twice
Premier of Victoria in the ’eighties, was
Standard Oil’s Victorian agent.
BOUQUET FOR BOB.
In Melbourne from London is Dr. lan
Sharp, a law graduate of Perth Uni-
versity, who went to the Hub two years
ago to engage on research into industrial
law. The resultant thesis was largely
written under his study table during air
raids, but it was good enough for the
examiners to recommend it for publi-
cation. Voluntary industrial conciliation
was its theme. Dr. Sharp is returning
to Perth.
Rev. Bernard Cockett, new president
of the Congregational Union of Aus-
tralia and M.L., has ministered in some
historic churches. In England between
1925 and 1931 he occupied the same
pulpit from which John Bunyan thun-
dered —the only Australian to have had
this honor. He was minister to the
Memorial Church, Hobart, built in 1830,
and at present preaches at the Pitt-street
Congregational Church in Sydney, He
graduated from Melbourne University,
and took a psychology degree in Sydney.
Tourists all over Victoria knew George
Locke, the “hermit of Cumberland
Valley.” For nearly half a century he
was the sole inhabitant of that lovely
spot which contains the tallest hardwood
trees —mountain ash —in the world.
When his old bark humpy fell down from
old age, he moved into a Forests Com-
mission patrol hut, but he never budged
out of the locality even in the disastrous
bushfires of 1929. He was 81 at the
finish. Very few people knew that the
picturesque old anchorite had once been
a successful prospector with interests in
the Golden Secret mine at Cumberland
and the wolfram deposits at Marysville.
Although the Christian missionary is
very far from being persona grata to the
Japanese authorities in Manchuria, Dr.
A. J. Young, returned to Melbourne from
that province, can claim a Japanese
award which has the same prestige in
Japan as the Victoria Cross has in the
British Empire. Dr. Young, who belongs
to the Church of Scotland, got it looking
after Japanese officers at great risk to
his own life during a plague epidemic
in Manchuria. His wife, a Melbourne
woman, was a missionary in China for
eight years. Her husband had 33 years
of it.
Lord Austin, dead in England at 75,
was trained in Australia for the career
which brought him a seat in Parliament,
a knighthood, foreign decorations, a
peerage and one of the great English
fortunes. He came out to Melbourne
from his native Buckinghamshire in boy-
hood, and became an apprentice at
the Langlands foundry. Afterwards
he managed small engineering works on
his own account and was then snapped
up by the makers of the Wolseley sheep-
shearing machine. He returned to Eng-
land at 24 to control Wolseley manu-
facture there ; with him went a young
Melbourne bride —Helen, daughter of
James Dron, a merchant —who brought
him two children. Under his manage-
ment Wolseleys began manufacturing cars,
and in 1905 he set up for himself as a
carmaker in Birmingham: The world
bought as many of his “babies” as he
could manufacture, and showered wealth
and honors on him.
Passed his eighty-fourth milestone,
J. Hewlett Ross, the elocutionist, who has
taught the art of inflection, declamation
and exposition for over half a century.
His waxed moustache, white thatch, eye-
glass and flowing neckerchief make him
one of the best-known figures in Mel-
bourne, and he used to have a huge audi -
ence over the ether. For 20 years he
lectured in voice-nroduction
ICUUICU 111 V UlCV’pi uuuv UVIX
and elocution at the Uni-
versity, was examiner for
the London College of
Music, lecturer for a score
of other institutions, and
adjudicator in Maoriland.
He was president of the
A.N.A., that breeding-
ground of Australian ora-
tors. An author also, he
wrote an early biography of
A. L. Gordon, helped to
edit the Australian Hand-
book and runs the “Finan-
cial Gazette.”
Grenfell Ruddock, of the
Leighton Irwin firm, ran
away with the richest prize
in the Melbourne architec-
tural world this year —the
Haddon Travelling Scholar-
ship, worth £275, with the
Royal Victorian Institute of
Architects’ silver medal. He
is a Wesley College product
who graduated from the
University as a Bachelor of
Architecture in 1938. He
might have been in the race
for a “Rhodes,” inasmuch as
he was in the Head-of-the-
River crew of his year, and
has his University blue as
rower and footballer.
Ex-Senator Charlie Hardy, th£ Wagga
man who burst into the public eye as
leader of the Riverina movement about
ten years ago, when rural N.S.W. went
mighty close to throwing off the shackles
of Sydney and J. T. Lang, has been
appointed business liaison officer to the
Air Department. He will supervise con-
struction expenditure, a job for which
his experience with his Wagga timber
firm should fit him. Hardy served in
the 1914-18 war with the Ist Field Com-
pany, Australian Engineers, having en-
listed at 18.
After providing in his lifetime for his
widow, three sons and relatives, knight
Hugh Denison, of Associated News-
papers, left £203,601. Two-thirds of it
is to establish a scientific research foun-
dation at Sydney University. St. Paul’s
College in the University and Carling-
ford children’s homes are to benefit also ;
and there is a legacy of £lOOO for the
Sydney branch of the Royal Empire
Society for improvements to its building.
The residue is to be divided among grand-
children.
R. H. Croll, who has resigned from the
job of Deputy-Chief Publicity Censor, is
an ex-civil servant with a unique record.
He retired from the Victorian Education
Department in 1933, and in the civil
service retirement is generally synony-
mous with oblivion, metaphorically
speaking. Since then, however, Croll
has gone on several expeditions to Central
Australia, has made himself something
of an anthropologist, has achieved full
membership of the Arunta tribe, helped
to found the Academy of Art, written
books on walking and art and published
his autobiography. Still showing no signs
of lying down, he intends to spend his
retiring leave in the Centre.
W. A. Laird, manager of Murray
Downs station, Swan Hill (Vic.), belongs
to a family with a penchant for manag-
ing pastoral properties. At Murray
Downs he followed his uncle, Arthur,
appointed in 1916, after he had managed
Willandra for several years. Another
relative, Frank Laird, is in charge at G. B.
S. Falkiner’s Haddon Rig stud, Warren
(N.S.W.). There are 30,000 merinos on
the 61,000 acres of Murray Downs, where
sheep have been grazed since 1847. The
property is owned by the Charles Camp-
bell estate.
Brigadier F. B. (“Lucy”) Hinton is to
have a command in the new Australian
annored division. He went off to the
1914-18 affair with the 6th Light Horse,
got a commission while away, and came
back as second in command to Lieut.-Col.
Bruxner, now N.S.W. Country party
leader. After some service as an instruc-
tor with the N.S.W. Agricultural Depart-
ment in sheep and wool, “Lucy” took up
Killarney, on the Belubula River, near
Canowindra (N.S.W.), and proceeded to
grow lucerne, Border Leicesters and A.I.S.
cattle, while acquiring R.A.S. trophies
for fodder conservation. While there he
assumed command of the 6th Light Horse
and then took over the 4th Cavalry
Brigade as brigadier. After selling Kil-
larney he toured the Orient and got back
in time to take over the recruit reception
depot at Moore Park last year. Later
he bossed the 18th Infantry Training
Brigade. He is popular with all ranks.
Major Frank Weir is the backbone of
the Yass (N.S.W.) unit of the Volunteer
Defence Corps. It was mainly thixmgh
his enthusiasm that the strength was built
up to 100 “regulars,” who spend half a
day in training every week. Weir served
through the 1914-18 war, and returned
to take over Bertangles station from his
father. He looked after the wool exhibit
at the Wembley Exhibition.
Retired from the head of S.A. School
of Arts and Crafts, L. H. Howie, a
painter of National Gallery calibre and
an even better teacher. He saw war
service in Flanders for some time before
being picked to do further good work
as an official war artist.
Nutrition deliberations, evidence on
tests for drunkenness or giving a hand
with military medical matters are all in
the day’s work for Cedric Stanton Hicks,
professor of human physiology and phar-
macology at Adelaide University. On
his latest appearance in the police court
(as a witness), the prof, debunked walk-
ing- and playing-noughts-
and-crosses tests for drunken drivers, and
said that blood tests were the only reli-
able detectors. A Maorilander, Hicks
was a prodigy from Otago. He was in
the N.Z.M.C. as staff sergeant from 1916
to 1919. After sundry Government and
university posts in Maoriland, Cam-
bridge, Adelaide, Zurich and Vienna, he
jogged back to Adelaide, where he seems
to be staying put. He was knighted in
1936.
Knight Jimmy Mitchell, Westralia’s
Lieut.-Governor, who had a 75th birth-
day in Perth the other day, was born at
Bunbury (W.A.), whence fared forth John
Forrest, explorer, statesman and first
Australian-born peer. Mitchell, after a
banking career, entered public life in
1905 as M.L.A. for Northam (W.A.) —
a seat he held for 28 years. Then the
victorious Labor Government appointed
him Lieut.-Governor.
Back on a visit to his native Australia
is Bob Semple, Maoriland’s Minister of
National Service. This champion hater
ROBERT SEMPLE.
of cant is gifted, at 68, with a remark-
able vigor which has its roots in an
early life of hard work. Robert gets
about, and that with the speed with
which he likes all things to be done ; but
one place he didn’t lob into in Sydney
was the “D.T.” office. The “cadaverous,
puritanical, cripple-handed” sneer which
that paper gratuitously handed him
through one of its wandering corre-
spondents was described by the forth-
right Semple as “dragging journalism into
the gutter.”
Wing-Commander Wallace Hart Kyle,
recently awarded the D.F.C. for deter-
mined and successful bombing opera-
tions over Germany, was chosen as a
cadet for the R.A.F. while attending
Guilford (W.A.) Grammar School. Born
at Kalgoorlie (W.A.) 31 years ago, Kyle
returned to Australia in 1937 on exchange
duty, and was stationed at Point Cook
as flying instructor, returning to England
in May, 1938.


W-SM
xZ
m
&
%
Ss&fe
mms
n
rir
/X
■(
m
\
m
ar
M
>
os
aa
„ t .w‘*'jvrV!*i**r-' rf * rr, * t, ' tr '
3
\ m
.+***«** rtf**'**”
V
17 •*
L
m
%
• /
m
m
K
A
a y tiw/.hu a
sn*
WOWM 5 P I
waasHS®&£ :<t /
•mtmsm/m
'-■ V •
TEAM WORK
Australian industry is called upon to play progressively a more important role in
the war effort, and as we reach the stage of complete mobilisation of this industry,
it is wasteful effort to continue with the intense competitiveness which was useful
and effective in peace time.
A new challenge calls on Australian manufacturers to work together as a team, so
that each can help the other, with the one objective of producing essential supplies
in the quickest possible time and in adequate quantities.
For several important items of defence work General Motors-Holden s has been
appointed major co-ordinating contractor and already this has meant working closely
with nearly 700 manufacturers, all of whom have responded and created a fine team
spirit.
As far as it is possible, General Motors-Holden’s wishes to look upon such under-
takings as team work, and desires to express appreciation for the co-operativeness and
enthusiasm of these many manufacturers who have joined them in this essential work.
Who develops Industry serves Australia
MAJOk
CO
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S-LTD
BEDFORD • BUICK • CADILLAC • CHEVROLET • G.M.C. • LA SALLE • OLDSMOBILE • PONTIAC • VAUXHALL
C 752.60


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer” : Squat, impecunious, dry-
throated Sam the Sudden —it’s all right,
I’m learning to write in the modern news-
paper style—had just managed to in-
gratiate himself with the mob in the
Duddo bar when the publican rushed to
the door, cried “Time, gents, please!”
and began to hustle everybody out. Sam,
frantic at the thought of the drink he was
about to miss, protested. “ ’Ere, what’s
y’r flamin’ ’urry?” The publican gave
him a harried look. “Out, everybody,”
he said ; “the p’lice have orders t’ see
the bar’s cleared sharp at six. C’mon,
everybody, out!” So profane, drought-
stricken, disappointed Samuel found him-
self outside. “By cripes,” he snarled, “the
workers of this country want their brains
brushed. They’re alwuz strikin’ f’r more
money an’ fightin’ the boss’s speed-up
tactics, but y’ never hear ’em objectin’
t’ this ’ere speed-up tactic o’ closin’ pubs.
Lot o’ flamin’ blacklegs.” And he picked
up his knot and wandered disconsolately
riverwards, all his good work gone for
nothing.
& * * *
“Greasy”: I see be the papers where a
bloke who has just completed 50 years as
a reporter gives some recollections of
working on country papers in the old
days and talks about the low pay some
of ’em got. “Wasn’t it the same in the
bad old shearing days?” he says.
“Shearers, With aching backs, worked on
heavy-woolled merinos for 12s. 6d, a
100.” Don’t know whether bush re-
porters got aching backs then, but
shearers managed to do their 12 hours
and still go in for horseplay at night.
And the merinos had nothing like the
wool on them then that they have now,
though they had more wrinkles. And
with beer at 3d. a pint a man’s 12s. 6d.
went as far as his 40s. today. The only
bush reporter I ever struck in my tong
days was a long cove in a flowered weskit
and bell-bottomed pants who came out
to the board to do an article on the
greasies and was invited to have a panni-
kin of tea in which the poisoner dropped
a double-header of painkiller. The boss
had to send the reporter back to the
town in a dray, minus his weskit, which
later appeared on the cook’s offsider.
♦ * * ♦
“K.1.N.”: “Bulong K. Kanowna’s”
Jronfoot was sadly lacking in common-
sense when one dead camel caused him
to shift camp (B. 23/4/’4l). A defunct
oont is the easiest of all animals to dis-
pose of. We once had nine dead camels
on Walgra station (W.Q.). As they were
beside the road to Moonah they
threatened to develop into a nuisance.
The boss watched them carefully, and
when the compresed air in their bloated
carcasses eventually burst them he simply
applied a match. The fat oozing from
each animal rendered them so highly
combustible that only a heap of ashes
remained.
• * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “Y’ know Mildura,”
said Mat. “Well, I lands a job helpin’
one of them grape-cockies stack lucerne.
Second mornin’, whefi I gets on the stack,
I spots a depression in it half-full o’ clods
an' stones. I don’t say nothin’, just stacks
more lucerne on top. Next mornin’
there’s another depression an’ more
stones. Still I don’t say nothin’. About
nine o’clock on the third night I goes
out t’ the stack t’ see what time it is or
somethin’, an’ runs bang inter a bom-
bardment o’ flamin’ clods. ‘Here,’ 1
yells, ‘what’s the ruddy game?’ Then
the boss breasts up alongside me an says
‘Don’t get excited. It’s me daughter an’
that young flamer o’ hers from Irymple.
That’s how they stand me orf.’ I thinks
a bit, an’ tells him he oughter chaff the
stack t’ beat ’em. But he drags me away
an’ says ‘Beat ’em, be blowed! That
young bloke never had t’ work hard f’r
anythin’ in his life. So long as I can
kid I don’t want him round here he’ll
keep cornin’. You see if he don’t finish
up marryin’ her.’ No, I don’t know
whether he did or not,” Mat finished.
“I got before they took t’ shootin’ guns
at each other.”
“Are you the little bird that's been telling tales?”
“B 4”: The ophidian that “See Serpent”
(B. 30/4/’4l) disturbed at excavation toil
was not Joe, but Mrs. Joe, of the brown
family. The oviparous shaft-sinker is
addicted to placing her eggs in ground
storage, leaving to Mother Earth the
job of hatching her vicious clutch. She
rarely works by day, but perhaps she was
hard pushed on that occasion. I have
watched her nose-diving among the clods
on moonlit nights and always politely
awaited her intended exit before bringing
the waddy into action. Mostly her future
hopes are placed a few inches apart in
soft-going, but if the ground is hard the
one puncture does for the incubation.
* * * *
“Gryllus”; What is Australia’s highest-
flying bird? On a clear day wedge-tailed
eagles often ascend till they become mere
specks against the blue vault, swinging
in great circles to watch for prey on
the open country below. Flocks of peli-
cans have been seen from ’planes at
10,000 ft. and more flying in V-formation
on the seasonal migration from out-
back to coast, and vice versa■ But my
pick is the brolga, Australia’s only true
crane, like all its foreign relatives a
notable performer on the wing. Each
summer a company of them occupies the
long stretch of river flats and lagoons
spread out 500 ft. below this S.Q. cliff-
edge. Now and then their stately dances
seem to pall as recreation, and they will
gather for a real corroboree. As the
frenzied leapings reach a climax one will
sound a harsh croaking call, the others
join in, and soon the whole party takes
off to swing in a wide spiral ascent which
sometimes carries them beyond the range
of powerful binoculars against a clear
sky. Smaller Asiatic species are credited
with attaining anything between to
five miles, and our big fellows can cer-
tainly equal that if they do not better
it. It behoves some bird-minded aviator
to try keeping a brolga sky-party in view
for altimeter measurements.
“Naturala”: Although I agree that a
bee laden with pollen would hardly be
seen at a waterhole (B. 30/4/’4l), I do
say that all bees seen at water are not
necessarily water-carriers. Some special-
ists carry water to the hive for the use
of the queen and her attendants and vari-
ous interior workers. But all bees drink,
and the field worker satisfies her thirst
before seeking her,load. Thus many field
bees may be seen at water, but not laden,
since once a bee gets a load she starts
right back for the hive. Water-carrying
is the first job given to the young bee on
being promoted to a field-workership.
After that comes pollen-gathering. It’s
odd to observe the pride of a young bee
arriving home with her first load of
pollen. Often have I seen one land on
the alighting board, walk briskly into the
hive, to emerge a moment later and take
off, still burdened with the white or
yellow load, a short flight, another land-
ing and another dignified entrance. Some-
times this will be repeated twice. Just
showing off, done to impress the idlers
in front of the entrance with what a
diligent worker the exhibitor is and what
a fine load she has brought home the very
first time.
« $ $
“Swanlo”: Not only was the hawks-
bill turtle once plentiful around Rott-
nest (B. 30/4/’4l), but the greenback,
the foundation of turtle soup, also once
flourished in the locality. And although
the breed was really exterminated there
back in the ’sixties, there should still be
a few around. A few years ago some
enterprising souls were taken with the
~ , , . A . ,
idea of exploiting the turtle-soup poten-
tiahties of Westraha s nor-west. But
instead of building their canning factory
on the spot, say m the locality of Broome,
h was decided that Cockburn Sound, in
the latitude or Fremantle, represented the
J deal spot, the turtles to be shipped in
salt-water tanks a thousand miles down
from the north. In due course a cargo
arrived. A sea enclosure had been pre-
pared and into this the prospective soup
was dumped, there to await such time
as tbe cans required to be filled. But
on the due date the enclosure was found
t 0 be untenanted. A review of the archi-
tecture then convinced the constructors
tba t h required almost a netting fence
to keep even big turtles confined. Ex-
pecting to deal with shellbacks of at
least an 18in. spread, it was considered
that pickets 6in. apart would suffice, at
the same time permitting a free flow of
the tide and the entry of fish. But the
turtles had proved themselves not
altogether without brain. Turning on their
sides they had squeezed through the 6in.
gaps.
* * * *
‘Entemolo”: Ferocious though the ant
may be and ceaseless in its quest for
food, it nevertheless is in many ways a
benefactor to mankind. As a scavenger
it contributes to the cleansing of the
earth’s surface, gathering up fragments
of offal, dead insects and other forms of
organic matter which, although only
small, might readily become the breed-
ing-ground of disease virus. Seed-eating
varieties, too, must destroy vast quanti-
ties of weed seeds: probably if there
were no ants agriculture’s struggle against
vegetable pests would be intensified ten-
fold. Flies, too, are kept in check. One
of the curses of poultry-raising in sub-
tropical regions is the myriads of flies
that breed in the cleanings of the poui-
try yards. Recently several such districts
suffered an invasion of a tiny red ant.
Watching these, I have noticed colonies
take possession of the poultry-manure
heap, working it from end to end, de-
vouring the fly-maggots as fast as they
hatch out. On many poultry farms flies
have become noticeably less. The same
ant has long been a benefactor to the
W.A. dried-fruits producer. Many fruit
districts-are affected with a grub which
develops close to the stem of the drying
raisin. But directly these appear the dry-
ing trays will swarm with tiny red ants,
every one of which will be seen carrying
off a grub in its mandibles. Without this
assistance it would be practically im-
possible to produce saleable dried fruit
in some localities.
♦
“Surfboat Bill”: “We’re competin’ in
a carnival at Dumper Head last year,”
said Joe the bow hand. “You’ve no idea
what the waves were like. Big fifty-foot
creamy ones that banged down nearly a
mile out. Well, I don’t mind tellin’ you
that I was scared. The rest of the mob had
the wind up, too —all except old Sam the
sweep hand. The gun goes and we shove
off straight into a big curler. I flies about
six foot off the seat, but manages to fall
back into the boat again. Soon Sam’s
pretty wild, for we’re fifty yards behind
the nearest boat. But he gets us pullin’,
an’ soon we’re overhaulin’ the opposition
an’ out into the first line. A blue tub
on the end does a loop-the-loop and lays
out three uv ’er crew. We float over
the big ’un and see we’re just fifty yards
from the buoys. We pull like the devil;
there’s only one other boat strokin’ with
us now and it looks as if she’s goin’ to
beat us on the turn. We’re just ready fer
goin’ round when up rolls
the biggest shoot I’ve ever
seen. She curls up like a
mountain with a big
feathery top. Next thing I
know the boat gives a funny
kind uv a lurch, blood
rushes to me head and I go
all dizzy. I open me eyes
and find that we’re shootin’
fer the beach on the crest of
a monster. Sam’s standin’
on his stroke’s head to keep
bis sweep in and the rest of
the mob are lying around
in the boat groanin’ like
mad. You’ll never believe
me,” said Joe, “but Old Sam
had worked his head and run his boat up
the wave as she was curlin’, did a Kings-
ford Smith turn at the top and caught the
same wave to the beach!”
H*
“B 4”: The toughest bush scrap I ever
. witnessed was between a carpet snake—
ten-footer —and a flying-fox that Joe had
marked for dinner. Don’t know how
long they’d been in holts, but when my
mate and I arrived the carpet had two
coils around the body and one wing of
the fruit thief. Foxy had the other wing
with hooks clamped round Joe’s head and
neck, while his teeth tore and ripped at
the throat of the wriggler, who bucked
and arched away from the murderous
chisels. At long intervals the snake
applied heavy pressure which extracted
deep groans from the bat, but the con-
stant drip of blood was fast draining the
constrictor’s power to work the body-
scissors. After the snake had his go, the
fox lashed out with those tearing teeth
and wriggled and twisted as the snake
bucked back to save his spinal column.
His throat hide hung in strips and the
bat’s blackish fur was stained red. Hav-
ing to walk miles to the camp, we shot
Joe and both took a tumble. As we were
debating whether to give Foxy a rum
or the V.C., that wonderful battler
straightened out, crawled up a stump and,
tumbling off, flapped wearily to his
odorous tree.
* * * *
“Cou”: Shortsightedness or cussedness
causing shying (B. 16/4/’41)? It was
certainly the former with our horses at
a Fiji sugar mill. They were blown up
with molasses, which affected the prads’
eyes to an incalculable degree. The
stable-wallahs also choked them with
oats for the good of the soul of the
sahib, if not for his seat. It didn’t matter
how long I rode any horse, I could never
judge how absurdly short was his sight.
Riding on a moonlit night when the trees
threw black shadows on the white road
was a real nightmare. I noticed that
the moment I relaxed the tension of an-
ticipating a shy, being certain that the
mount had seen the object, the brute
shied. I think the rider communicates
his frame of mind, through touch, to the
mount —tension, then relaxation. At this
moment the horse is thrown suddenly
on to his own responsibility, the object
jumps into his sight, and he shies. If
ever I got wild the fat was in the fire,
and it was a fight from then on. Fight-
ing a horse only makes him stupid. The
cussedness is in the rider. I’ll bet that
when “Langshan’s” hack crossed the
bridge on his pat he made a feint of a
shy, from memory, and, having no dis-
turbing influence on his back, went on.
TO THE RESCUE.
The racing hoofbeats thundered through the
town’s deserted street,
Ringing roundly in the townsmen’s startled
ears;
They wondered, in their lighted warmth, who
rode so far and fleet,
And if his goad were joyfulness or tears.
But a blowing horse was standing, while the
rider faced a door,
Loudly knocking in the recklessness of haste
Till his summons was replied to, and he spoke
a word, no more,
For there wasn’t time a single word to waste.
Between the blasts of howling wind eight
flying hooves were heard,
Beating boldly through the clamor of the
night.
The thunder of the gallop rang; two silent riders
spurred
From the valley up the dark and timbered
height.
Grim-lipped and wordless, side by side they rode
against the gale,
Battling bravely through the dragging bracken
fern,
Till they reached a lonely homestead where a
light burned dim and pale,
And an anxious woman waited, wan and
stern.
And just as dawn was breaking and the night-
wind died away,
Whistling shrilly as it vanished in the light,
They stood and eyed the patient there and
smiled to see the day,
For they knew that Death had lost another
fight.
The farmer turned and firmly grasped the
other’s skilful hand,
Speaking softly as he made his simple vow,
“I’ll not forget that ride last night with the
best vet. in the land,
Nor how y’ worked to save me Jersey cow’.”
And if you don’t believe it and you think the
tale is crook,
Snorting scornful that you doubt my sober
state,
Then for all that you may think you know,
from travel or from book,
You’ve never lived in dairy country, mate.
N.S.W.
ILLAWARRA.


“And don't mix the bottles!"
“Wang”: “We had an old knot-pusher
useter make periodical visits t’ Sinkatank,
up on the Barcoo,” related Dan —“Holy
Joe. The blokes put him down as a
cunnin’ ole impostor ; we’d heard him,
more than once, when he thought he wus
alone, rippin’ out things nobody would’ve
said ‘Amen!’ after. But the womenfolk,
mostly, stuck up fer him ; they reckoned
the men gen’rally wus such a lot of
heathens they couldn’t understand one
of their own seek bein’ religious. Ole
Holy had a scale of charges fer prayin’,
an’ us heathens delighted in gettin’ the
ole humbug goin’. Fer a zack he’d call
down a blessin’ on anyone, fer a deener
he’d add five minutes’ extra prayin’ fer
the soul of his client, an’ fer a coupla
bob he’d let himself go proper and, as
well as puttin’ in good work fer y’,
would call on Jehovah t’ pour down what
he called the viles of wrath on the heads
of y’r enemies. One day when he wus
givin’ a two-bob delivery to the mob one
joker climbed a tree, an’ jist as he got t’
the viles of wrath part dropped an addled
turkey egg on his napper. While the
rantin’ ole humbug wus wipin’ the mess
out of his eyes the cove who’d dropped
it climbed down unnoticed by Holy. We
professed t’ believe that Jehovah had
answered his prayers, but had made a
misshit. The ole blighter didn’t say any-
thing ; but he evidently decided t’ play
safe in future, for next time I heard him
givin’ his two-bob performance he’d cut
out the viles of wrath pourin’ down, an’
asked Jehovah ‘t’ rise up an’ smite our
enemies.’ ”
* * 3= *
“The 0.D.”: Henry Lawson’s old yarn
of the padflogger who hopped into his
swag bobbed up again the other night in
an A.B.C. serial concerning the doings
of two men on the track. Nobody could
object to that, especially as the serial is
a fair effort in its way, but when the
teller of the yarn located it “about seven
mile out of Junee, on the Narrandera-
road,” and had the offending swag lean-
ing “against a bluegum,” I snorted. Any-
one finding bluegums on the Narrandera-
road is hereby invited to call at Old
Junee pub, if it isn’t still burned down,
and book six drinks up to me.
♦ ♦ ♦
“Hanko”; We were talking of fluke
shots. “Well,” said old Ben, “when I
was a kid I see a bloke shoot a broken-
legged horse with a candle fired out of
a muzzle-loader, an’ it knocked me end-
ways t’ think that a sorft thing like that
could kill a horse. First charnce I got
I snuk a candle an’ me old man’s single-
barrel an’ went down be the crick fer a
shot. All I could see was a blue crane
sittin’ on top uv a dead tree. Loadin’
up, I took aim an’ let fly. When the
smoke cleared all I see is a big smear uv
grease halfway up the tree trunk. I
thinks the friction uv the air must’ve
melted the candle pretty sudden. Then
I remembers that the bloke what shot the
horse pressed the barrel right agin its
forehead. I’m just turnin’ away in dis-
gust when there’s a thump, an’ there was
the crane gaspin’ fer breath at me feet.
Yair, the wick uv the candle had gorn
on an’ took a half-hitch round the poor
cow’s throat!”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: “Sou’-west” is right
(B. 7/5/’4l). There is plenty of water to
be got for the mere sinking almost any-
where along the western slopes of the
Darling Ranges and the coastal plains.
But he’s wrong in assuming that it must
necessarily be good water. That “im-
mense water-table, not flowing but stored
in the underlying porous rock,” is brack-
ish to salty, from the very fact of its
stagnation in country which is naturally
salty. The good water is in streams
which flow through devious underground
channels to the creeks, rivers and, pos-
sibly, even to the ocean ; and it’s here
that the diviner comes in. He isn’t in-
terested in stagnant water —the rod won’t
indicate that, fortunately; but he can
follow the course of streams and select
suitable well-sites. Can’t discourse on the
origin or nature of these streams, but a
five-minute swim in, say, the Murray
River anywhere between Pinjarrah and
the Peel Inlet will reveal their presence.
The temperature varies startlingly every
20 yards as the cold fresh-water streams
mingle with the warm ocean tides. And
it was a cocky “out from Pinjarrah”
who, noticing that his sheep invariably
drank from a certain spot on the river’s
edge, sank a well a few yards back and
struck the fresh-water stream that the
sheep had located at its outlet.
* * 3! *
“8.J.8.”: “Bill Harper an’ me,” said
Paddy the Grunter, “ ’ad been movin’
some sheep along to ’ay out from Blow-
fly Flat. We couldn’t find decent water
nowhere. One evenin’ we come to a pool
that was green an’ movin’. We drank it
’cause it was the first water that day. I’ll
never do it again, though. Strike me, it
was awful! D’ye know, it was two
weeks before I could swaller properly—
the tadpoles in that water ’ad scraped me
throat like a rasp. A queer thing ’ap-
pened on the way ’ome, too. A dry
storm hits us, an’ when the thunder
began our ’orses started to play up
proper. We kept as close together as we
could, but them prads bucked so much
that by the time it stopped I was on
Bill’s ’orse an’ ’im on mine!”
jjc * H*
“Poetaster”: From time to time Bul-
letin artists have their “bulls” paraded
by bush pundits for the delectation of
the grinning mob. I hereby declare a
brace of poets fair game. First shaft has
“Midford” as the target. In B, 7/5/’4l
he refers to the indispensable chicken-
sexer making his prognostications by
some unspecified examination of the egg-
yolk- It must be the very latest method,
for the old-fashioned chick-sexer I saw
in action yesterday was examining the
day-old chicks. In the same issue “Ex-
Vic.” sings of the pump-rod “sucking an
empty tank.” In all windmills that T ’ve
been associated with it’s the pump-
cylinder that would do such sucking.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: “Nor’-west” (B.
14/5/’4l) need only come to Brisbane
and take a look at the live specimens in
the Queensland Museum tanks to be
cured of the paralytic results induced by
hearing for the first time about 40lb.
lungfish. Specimens up to 6ft. and
nearly 1001 b. have been recorded. His
trouble is the old one of different fish
under the same popular name, which has
so often led Sydney anglers to call feebly
upon the shade of Ananias when hear-
ing their Melbourne opposite numbers
speak quite truthfully about 201 b. yellow-
tail. The true lungfish, Ceratodus forsteri,
occurs naturally only in the Burnett and
Mary rivers (Q.), above tidal reach,
although it has been introduced to several
others, including the Upper Brisbane.
Its air-bladder acts as a lung, enabling
the fish to breathe in fresh air for supple-
menting or replacing gill-breathing when
the water is too heavily muddy or foul.
“N.-w.’s” alleged lungfish of western
waters are what N.Q. calls mudskippers,
a species of small goby living in salt
water. They have no lung, but their
large feathery gills and close-fitting gill-
covers enable them to carry round
enough moisture for the land antics
which he describes. Allied species occur
all round Northern Australia, mostly on
mangrove or mud-flat shores. I confess
that the supercilious stare with which the
pop-eyed little snobs regard one from a
mangrove-root lounge has more than
once irritated me into shooting them.
“Nigel D.”; I must thank “The 0.D.”
for his explanation of how I came to
imagine that I really caught a bat in
my old black hat (B. 30/4/’4l). But
here’s a trifle more. Bats of the species
I mentioned couldn’t be caught by the
method he mentions, for the simple
reason that the bat, even as it left its
daytime refuge of the hollow tree, had
the clearest visibility in the twilight and
easily avoided any missile, just as the bats
avoided the strung wires in the dark
room. Further, the heathen Chinee of
my day, pursuing the elusive ’weight or
nurturing the cabbage, had a truly epi-
curean appetite for these curious winged
mice. Near by were vast quarry holes,
well sprinkled with stagnant pools over
which gnats and similar insect life
hovered in clouds. On these the bats
preyed, flitting swiftly to and fro in the
starlight. Into the quarry holes the
ingenious Chinee carried a sort of en-
larged butterfly net, but made of black
cloth. Hoisting this aloft, the hunter
had little difficulty in catching his break-
fast, since the bats really did think the
net, like my old black cady, was the
opening into a hollow tree.
* H* *
“Tinopai”: Maoriland has shown great
generosity in the past in its determination
to make a nice home of full and plenty
for various foreign pests. Now another
is apparently going to get the good
things. Some bright official decided that
copra was grand pig food. They fumi-
gated the first shipment. Still, when the
copra I ordered arrived it was just about
carried off the truck by the weevils in it.
The Ency. Brit, assures me that the true
weevil is the largest natural family in the
animal kingdom. Also I read that weevils
have at times affected most grains, trees
and fruits.
3: * * *
“Pro Bono”: Seemingly the last thing
the panjandrums of radio think about
before they put on an item touching on
the abo. is the co-opting of somebody
who knows something about the subject.
In a serial revolving round an auriferous
boomerang, the abo. talk gives an effect
like a conversation between a New
Orleans nigger and a Hollywood Injun.
Nor does the highbrow A.B.C. do any
better when it puts on an abo. A while
ago we had a production in which
the abo. characters and they were
many were made to speak like
Great Chief Sitting Horse of the
Choctaws or the Sioux. The effect
of such grotesque misinterpretation
on the minds of young Australians is
shocking to contemplate. Bad enough the
comic strip and the adventures of Ruck
Bodgers; but what has the unfortunate
abo. done that his very speech should
be murdered to provide a radio holiday?
Actually, the aboriginal speaks English
pleasantly and naturally, even when his
knowledge of the language is limited.
And never does he speak like the vaude-
ville nigger crossed with the chief of the
Mohawks.
“WHAFFOR!"
SHEEPLANDS.
Once this was virgin bush, and death went
roaming
Through scrub that yawned as black as an
abyss;
Wild beasts and wilder men slunk down its
gloaming,
While overhead the soft and sibilant hiss
Of wind in the high treetops faintly mingled
With leafy mutterings. Here Brady rode
In saturnine silence, while the bridle jingled
Its silver rings in songs that sweetly flowed
But found no echo in his brooding heart.
Here, too, the convict fugitives lay sweating
Like hunted animals, their blood astart
In stark despairing terror at each sound—
Listening, listening for the first faint fretting
Bugle-cry of the slavering tracker-hound.
But this has passed like dark and troubled
dreaming;
And now without a stain the sheeplands run
In shimmering tides of pasture, glinting, gleam-
ing,
Shouting their shining laughter to the sun.
Trees lean here like young mothers, shmly
stooping
Above low cradles they alone can see;
And clovers lace the grasses fondly looping
Gay pixie pictures in green tapestry.
Shy speckled quail slip down the narrow alleys
That once were furrows, and the plovers pace
Sedately as meek nuns down little valleys
That hold the quiet of a cloister place.
And everywhere the sheep roam, browsing,
calling —
The wind is warm with them; the sickly sweet
Smell of their fleeces cloys like honey falling
From tropic blossoms torpid with the heat.
The drifting thistledown that dances lightly
Across the hills in airy, fairy bands
Cannot outnumber them, or gleam more whitely
Than these fair flocks that throng the pasture
lands.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE..
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
v (.-1-2 V« »
Hi
m
Security
Economy
Service
Consult
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
m
(Incorporated in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE; Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.;
Robert 0. Wilson. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
OPERATING RESULTS OF TIN PRODUCING COMPANIES
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF
LONDON TIN CORPORATION, LTD.
FOR THE QUARTER ENDED 31ST MARCH, 1941.
* The Estimated Mine Profit is from permitted quota sales before providing depreciation and overhead charges.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Bank of Adelaide
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£* £ £ £
1931.. 91,813 7 p.c. = 87,500 4,313 1,053,795
1932.. 66,776 4 „ „ 50,000 16,776 1,070,571
Transferred to inner reserves, £30,000.. 1,040,571
1933 .. 53,727 4 p.c. = 50,000 3,727 1,044,298
1934 . . 54,497 4 „ „ 50,000 4,497 1,048,795
Transferred to inner reserves, £25,000.. 1,023,795
1935.. 55,201 4 p.c. = 50,000 5,201 1,028,996
1936.. 57,973 4 „ „ 50,000 7,973 1,036,969
1937 . . 61,337 44 „ „ 56,250 5,087 1,042,056
1938 . . 65,788 5~ „ „ 62,500 3,288 1,045,344
To inner reserves, £20,000 .. ..1,025,344
1939.. 71,121 5i p.c. = 65,625 5,496 1,030,840
1940.. 71,393 54 „ ~ 68,750 2,643 1,033,483
1941 . . 66,520 5i „ „ 68,750 1,031,253
Nearly every phase of commercial life
is now subject to Government control
of one kind or another, the aim being
to speed development of our war effort
by directing men, money and production
into appropriate channels. Men have
come forward faster than they can be
equipped with all the appliances of
modern warfare, and there has been no
dearth of money, thanks to British con-
tracts for surplus exports, Government
spending locally, chiefly on war account,
and the pump-priming and other activities
of the central bank. The lag has been
on the production side, and it hasn’t been
all the fault of the industrialists either.
However, evidence is not wanting that
outputs of the right kind are now gather-
ing momentum, though much still remains
to be accomplished.
The banks are in an excellent position
to assist. The contracts and Govern-
ment spending just referred to, together
with credit expansion, including open-
market purchase of long-dated Govern-
ment securities and advances to the
Wheat Board, etc., by the central bank,
have bumped up trading bank deposits
and reduced the demand for advances.
The weight of money has pressed down
interest rates, thus enabling Australia to
finance its war commitments at low cost
and at the same time make possible heavy
taxation and loan-raising without ham-
stringing industrial and other production,
all of which is as it should be. Never-
theless, the fact must be faced that
monetary and economic changes now de-
veloping will call for all-round sacri-
fices, including some recession in the
standard of living.
Though the smallest of the nine asso-
ciated trading banks in Australia, the
Adelaide is a very solid concern, and
always has been—it was one of the few
banks which didn’t close their doors dur-
ing the financial hurricane of the 1890’s.
It gathers over four-fifths of its deposits
in its home State, where it set up 75
years ago. Still, when the books last
closed it was operating on the low ratio
of £3 10s. 7d. of the public’s money for
every pound of its own, and depositors
and others could see 58.8 p.c. of every
pound coming to them in liquids. This
is a very strong position, but it means
relative restriction of loanable funds, and
therefore low earning capacity.
The contraction of £4873 in net earn-
ings for the last term was probably due
to taxation, allowance for which isn’t
disclosed in the published accounts. The
£66,520 of profit claimed was equal to
5.3 p.c. on the £1,250,000 of share capi-
tal. On shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) the profit was a mere
2.9 p.c. The div. was kept at 51 p.c.,
reserves being visibly tapped for £2230
to pay it.
As for the current term, taxation will
bite deeper into takings, costs are likely
to keep on creeping up and shipping diffi-
culties may restrict exports. But war
finance and industrial activity are the
dominating factors in the local banking
structure at the moment. So a 51 p.c.
div. may not be out of reach at next
balance.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1932. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Notes.. £6,603 £6.574 £6,569 £6,569
Bills, etc. 514,913 276,024 367,596 259,125
Deposits 6,031,331 7,000,719 7,391,501 7,782,410
Liquid
assets 3,417,291 3,252,263 4,650,449 4,737,884
Advances 5,108,010 6,950,855 5,010,078 5,156,909
Premises,
etc... 343,117 395,416 422,997 468,939
The growth of £146,831 in advances re-
flects the expanding industrial activity in
S. Aus., which can be expected to con-
tinue—for a while, at any rate. The in-
crease in deposits was £390,909, and in
liquids £87,435 net. The ratio of ad-
vances to deposits was 66.2 p.c. as against
87.1 p.c. three years back.
The market prices the £5-paid shares
(there is a contingent liability of £5 call-
able only in the evdht of liquidation) at
£5 9s. 6d. as against £6 a year ago. The
return at £5 9s. 6d. is 5 p.c. on a 5j p.c.
div. basis, or 4.5 p.c. on a 5 p.c. distri-
bution.
Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 241,946 10 p.c. = 150,000 91,675 1,411,125
1932.. 185,973 10 „ „ 150,000 35,973 1,447,098
1933.. 219,416 10 „ „ 150,000 69,416 1,516,514
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,491,514
Staff bonus. £20,000 .. .. 1,471,514
1934.. 222,988 10 p.c. = 150,000 72,988 1,544,502
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,519,502
1935.. 212,362 10 p.c. = 150,000 62,362 1,581,864
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,556,864
1936.. 234,474 10 p.c. = 150,000 84.474 1,641,338
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,616,338
1937.. 244,149 10 p.c. - 150,000 94,149 1.710,487
1938.. 261,725 10 ~,, 156,250 1 „ ~r . Mr
To Staff Fund, £lo+oo I 95.475 1,805,962
1939.. 290.286 10 p.c. = 181,250 109,036 1,914,998
1940.. 294,430 10 „ „ 200,000 * 844301999498
To staff fund, £lO,OOO j M 4.430 1,JJ9,4-.8
1941.. 364,639 10 p.c. = 200,000 104,639 2,164,067
Written off plantations, £35,000. . 2,129,067
Despite the unhappy position of copra,
on which a large slice of Island activity
—and hence in part B.P.’s merchandising
and shipping earnings—depends, the co.
winds up 1940 showing the best turn-
over and profit in its long history—it
was founded by the long-headed James
Burns in the eighteen-sixties. The profit
shown in the table is reconciled with the
£270,657 claimed in this way:
Gross 1930. 1932. 1940. 1941.
earnings. . £780,855 £700,915 £11,284,081 £1,385,059
Exes. .. 412,907 392,761 845,020 931,163
Balance .. £367,948 £308,154 £439,061 £453,896
Depreciation,
bad debts,
etc. .. 136,017 105,747 178,440 183,239
Profit
claimed. . £231,931 £202,407 £260,621 £270,657
Reserve
movements*+ 1,6,015 —16,434 +33,809 +93,982
Net per
table . . £247,946 £185,973 £294,430 £364,639
* Unexplained additions (+ ) and deductions ( —).
That disregards £35,000 specially written
off plantations and other property in
Papua and New Guinea. After pro-
viding for the heaviest tax bill yet, and
making other specific provisions on an
unprecedented scale, the £364,639 repre-
sented 18.2 p.c. on the £2,000,000 of
capital, as against 14.7, 16, 16.7 and 16.2
p.c. in the four years preceding. So
there was no difficulty in meeting the
10 p.c. div., which has gone out so long
now as to be regarded as an institution.
The market is therefore prepared to
discount the chairman’s warning that “the
co. cannot guarantee the future payment
of regular dividends.” The whole of
the share capital and more besides is
invested outside the business in cash, etc.,
and associated and subsidiary enterprises
which don’t pass on the whole of their
earnings. Apart from Consols, invest-
ments include the half-million ords. in
B.P. (South Seas), Penney’s, the pros-
perous Queensland and N.S.W. northern
rivers chain store, Queensland Insurance,
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance, A.U.S.N.
Co., Jantzen (Aust.), Solomon Islands
Development and Choiseul and Shortland
Islands Plantations. Though Island
enterprises are meeting much the same
difficulties as the parent’s main activities,
the others should continue to produce a
steady stream of income.
The parent’s shipping and merchan-
dising organisation extends around the
Australian coast, out over the Pacific
and north to Java, Singapore, Manila,
Hong Kong and elsewhere. War has
called a temporary halt to further expan-
sion. Over the last 15 years cash issues
at par have added £750,000 to capital
account, the last half-million being put
out during 1938. When the books last
closed the share capital was visibly sup-
ported by £2,129,067 of reserves, so
earnings of 5 p.c. on the two combined
would more than cover the 10 p.c. div.
And there is a wealth of inner strength.
Since 1920 something like £2,600,000 has
been visibly allowed for depreciation,
bad debts, etc. ; another £135,000 has
been openly struck off the book value of
plantations over the past eight years.
As a result, book values fairly shrink
with modesty:—•
. 1937. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital . . £1,500,000 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Liabilities . . 1,717,049 1,863,652 2,302,704
Properties and
shipping . . 1,326,770 1,841,340 2,088,300
Investments, etc... 1,693,218 1,752,687 1,991,348
Slocks, advances,
„ ete 1,060,015 1,125.025 1,207,921
Book debts . . 823.716 1.073,233 1,053,069
oash •• •• 98,816 180,795 226,130
The outstanding movements last year
were the growth of £238,661 in invest-
ments and of "£246,960 net in fixed assets
—a new 10,000-ton cargo vessel was
built, but was requisitioned by the
Imperial Government, which took over
the Bulolo in the previous term. An
accompanying movement was the lift of
£439,052 in the debt, the more or less
liquid surplus (£2,175,764) declining
£92,324.
At 495. 6d. (51s. 6d. a year ago) the
pound shares return just over 4 p.c. from
10 p.c. divs. Visibly the cover is 41s.
3d. No early improvement in copra can
be looked for, and, owing to war-time in-
conveniences and costs, including insur-
ance, shipping will continue to be less
remunerative than formerly. But what-
ever the immediate future may hold, the
long term view remains sound.
Illawarra Steam (N.S.W.)
To Re— Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ e
1931 .. 10,099 10 p.c. = 10,000 99 40,733
1932 .. 8,058 8 „ „ 8,000 58 40,791
1933 .. 8,050 8 „ „ 8,000 50 40,841
1934 .. 8,253 8 „ „ 8,000 253 41,094
Unexplained additions reserves, £3500.. 44,594
1935 .. 8,480 8 p.c. = 8,000 480 45,074
Unexplained additions reserves, £3401.. 48,474
1936 .. 8,346 8 p.c. = 8,000 346 48,820
Tax and bad debts reserves written
back, £2500 51,320
1937 .. 11,871 8 p.c. = 8,000 3,871 55,191
Insurance adjustment, £2llB .. -• 57,309
1938 .. 14,581 9 p.c. = 9,000 5,581 62,890
1939 .. 10,905 9 „ „ 9,000 1,905 64,795
1940 .. 11,243 9 „ „ 9,000 2,243 67,038
1941 . . 12,686 9 „ „ 9,000 3,686 70,724
“Having regard to the relatively low
book values of the vessels compared
with cost of replacement,” the board has
discontinued writing-off depreciation and
now makes an appropriation —£3500 last
year—to renewal reserve instead, which is
included in the profit shown. The ex-
pansion in net earnings is thus more
apparent than real.
The year was a difficult one. First
the coal stoppage interfered with services ;
then dry weather over the N.S.W. South
Coast dairying belt affected the volume
of cargoes, and the Commonwealth requi-
sitioned a second vessel. Meantime fuel,
wage and insurance costs rose steeply, and
the co. had to adjust freight charges three
parts through the term. But because of
the changed policy with regard to de-
preciation—£3l2o in 1940 —the surplus
shown is £1443 higher at 12.6 p.c. on
capital, compared with 11.2, 10.9, 14.5,
11.8 and 8.3 p.c, back to 1936. So there
was again a comfortable margin over
the 9 p.c. div.
Apart from competition from road
transport, the co.’s ships, reported in
good order and insured, have a monopoly
of the carrying trade between Nowra,
where the railway ends, and the Victorian
border and Sydney. Over a long period
a fine and ever-growing pile of cash and
Consol investments has accumulated:
1929. 1934. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Liabilities* .. 8,052 11,413 8,554 12,412
Ship property 44,993 48,980 24,880 24,880
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 2,095 2,595 2,460 2,400
Plant, stocks, ete. 2,315 1,674 1,740 1.636
Book debts . . 13,519 8,704 17,176 17,407
Public securities,
cash, etc... 79,889 94,554 133,807 141,253
* Including tax provision.
Part of the accumulation will be re-
quired for ship replacement when the
time arrives. But the board has never
hinted as to its intentions re the balance.
Appearances are that the co. could re-
turn half or more of its capital without
seriously impairing earning power or
hamstringing itself.
Not quite sure of the effects of requi-
sitionings, mounting costs and taxation
upon dividends, the market pays 395. for
the pound shares as against 455. twelve
months back. At 395., returning 4.6
p.c. from 9 p.c. divs., the scrip is a snug
investment. The cover is 345. Id., of
which 295. sd. is in surplus liquids. Re-
cent rains have benefited the South Coast,
Northcote Brick Co.. Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Mar., Loss. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 1,858 24 p.c. = 3,750 42,564
1932.. 2,530 Nil 40,034
Profit.
1933.. 3,181 If p.c. = 2,500 681 40,715
1934.. 8,846 5 „ „ 7.500 1346 42,061
1935.. 14,398 8f „ „ 13.125 1273 43.334
1936.'. 9,375 6.} „ „ 9,375 43,334
1937.. 9,591 0-i ~ „ 9,375 216 43,530
1938.. 15,861 8i „ „ 13,125 2736 46,286
1939.. 11,532 71 „ ~ 11,250 282 46,568
Depreciation reserve disappears, £lO,OOO. . 36,568
1940.. 13,156 74 p.c. = 11,250 1906 38,474
1941.. 11,211 71 „ ~ 11,250 38,435
Aided by a war-time crop of marriages—
with consequent demand for new housing
—and the concentration of defence spend-
ing in the southern capital, the 14 or so
Melbourne brickmakers experienced their
busiest time yet in the year to March,
the value of permits for dwellings of
all types in Greater Melbourne spring-
ing 19 p.c. on 1939 levels. Here is how
the figures have behaved over a period:
Year to Year to
Mar. 31, Value. Index. Mar. 31, Value. Index.
1929.. £8,196,377 100 1937. . £7,310,673 89
1932.. 1,429,431 17 1938.. 8.451,216 103
1934.. 3,896,064 48 1939.. 8,572,486 105
1935.. 5,058,216 62 1940.. 8,560,888 104
1936.. 6,984,180 85 1941.. 10,212,118 125
Demand on this Northcote co., strength-
ened by a contract (since completed) for
the brickwork of the new Melbourne
Hospital, was so strong, in fact, that a
fourth kiln was brought into production
towards the close of the term.
The competitive nature of the trade
makes delivery costs—charged to the
buyer on a mileage basis—one of the
most important factors affecting sales.
The Northcote works, which turn out
a variety of bricks of all shapes, colors
and sizes, are on the north side of the


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A,. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Svdney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
v * * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Head Office and Registered Office:
271-279 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. C.I
AUSTRALIA
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
SIR JAMES A. M. Elder, k.b.b., Chairman.
The Hon. Sir, Frank G. Clarke, k.b.e., m.1.c., Vice-Chairman.
T. C. Alston, General Sir Henry G. Chauvel, g.0.m.g., k.o.b.
H. G. Darling. H. D. Giddy. D. York Syme.
Chief Manager: L. J. McCONNAN.
Chief Inspector: S. M. WREFORD.
Auditors: JOHN BISHOP (F.c.A., atjsx.) ; S. J. WARNOCK (f.c.a., aust.).
Boards of Advice:
LONDON —The Right Hon. Lord Inverforth, p.c., Chairman.
The Right Hon. Lord Hutchison of Montrose, p.c., k.0.m.g.,
c.b,, d.s.o. Sir James Leigh-Wood, k.b.b., c.b., c.m.g.
NEW SOUTH WALES —The Hon. T. A. J. Playfair,
d. 5.0., 0.b.e., v.d., M.ii.o., Chairman.
RODNEY R. DANGAR. HUNTER WHITE.
QUEENSLAND —Sir Edward H. Macartney, Chairman.
Byrne Hart. De Burgh B. B. Persse.
EXTRACTS FROM BALANCE SHEET,
31st March, 1941
LIABILITIES.
Capital Issued—
-200.000 £lO shares, fully paid £2,000,000
600.000 £8 shares, paid to £5 per share .... 3,000,000
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund (used in the business)
Deposits and Other Accounts .... ....
Notes and Bills in Circulation
ASSETS.
Coin, Australian Notes, Cash at Bankers, Cheques
and Bills in Transitu
Investments and other Liquid Assets
Bank Premises, other Real Estate, etc
Advances and other Assets ....
TOTAL ASSETS £60,195,072
Dividend for the year is at the rate of six per cent, per annum.
THE ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS
will be held at the Head Office of the Bank on Wednesday, the
28th day of May, 1941, at 11.30 a.ra.
£5,000,000
3,300,000
49,750,914
1,850,580
7,914,430
14,798,418
1,373,406
36,108,818
How to build up
your assets
despite heavier
TAXATION
IN these days of heavier taxation, many men are worried
because they are not adding to the "nest egg” that is
to give them security in their old age: where they used
to tuck away a pound or two a week, much of that
pound or two now goes in Taxes.
A man in that position should take out an A.M.P. Endowment
Policy for the amount that he had intended to save. Supposing that
he had planned to save £5OO by the time he reached 60 years; let him
take out an A.M.P. policy for that amount payable at 60. If he is,
say, 29, that will call for the weekly saving of about 6/-, and such
a policy has this advantage: if he should die any time between now
and then his family would get the £5OO plus bonuses. If he should
live to 60, and the past experience of A.M.P. bonuses be repeated, the
£5OO will have grown to something like £875.
There is no better way of saving than that, or any safer way.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to give you details, or write for a
copy of "Life Assurance v. other investments.” It may open your
eyes to the usefulness of A.M.P. policies in these difficult days.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir SAMUEL HORDERN, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., A. E. WEBB,
General Manager and Actuary. Manager for New South Wales
Head Office; 87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
District Offices throughout all States.
Branch Offices at Melbourne. Brisbane, Adelaide, Berth and Hobart,
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
Yarra ; but an interest is held in the trade
on the other side of the river through
ownership of roughly a third of the
capital of other concerns at Blackburn,
Auburn and Oakleigh, and it is from
these that most of the profit comes.
Last term, for example, general in-
vestments, including £22,917 of Consols,
turned in £6940 (up £245); on its own
account the co. earned actually £2190
less (£4271), despite its increased
trading. That left the net result £1945
lower at £11,521, which was a trifle less
than the unchanged 1\ p.c. div. called for.
The growth in costs continues, and the
board may ask for a lift in the price of
bricks, which has been 68s. a thousand
(standard) for 24- years or so now.
Further restrictions on new building have
come into force, too. Still, the market
doesn’t expect home-building, on which
Northcote largely depends, to be seriously
interfered with, and prices the co.’s shares
at 19s. compared with 18s. lOd. this
time last year. At the higher figure the
return on the current div. basis is 7.9 p.c.
Book value of the cover is 255. Id.
The co. is trading well within its
finances, and always has been:
1927. 1936. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 4,823 2,205 6,747 7,778
Freeholds .. 88,230 90,021 87,426 86,174
Plant, etc. . . 34,725 36,951 31,5’90 31,734
Stocks. . . . 2.447 1,888 6,105 3,751
Book debts . . 11,861 4,055 12,861 10,432
Shares other cos. 36,361 41,821 44,321 44,696
Cash, etc. . . 33,060 24,552 21,419 26,926
Despite last term’s larger trading, there
were cuts of £1354 and £2429 in stocks
and debtors respectively; the money
found its way into cash, etc. (up £5507).
Plant is reported in first-class order.
There is still one kiln idle.
In under three years’ digging, Victoria
Gold Dredging, the Newstead (Vic.)
venture in which Gold Exploration and
Finance is substantially interested, has
distributed £325,000 in divs. on a paid
capital of £137,500. But the co. has been
in above-average grade wash most of the
time, so future performances may not
be so attractive. For the year to
March net earnings something below
1940’s £157,591 (after providing £7717
for land redemption, etc.) are indi-
cated. Though throughput (2,594,000
c.y.) expanded 13 p.c., there was a con-
traction of 5900 z. in the gold yield
(20,100 oz.), owing to reduction in re-
coveries from 4.34 gr, to 3.7 gr.; average
3.3 gr. yields have been the order of things
so far in the current term. The property
was bored to contain 19,000,000 c.y., of
which Mines Department permission to
dig 15,000,000 c.y. valued at 3.64 gr. was
obtained ; 6,100,000 c.y. had been dug at
the end of March. Permission to dredge
a new 2,500,000-c,y. block has now added
another year to the company’s life.
» * * *
Poor response of its Grant’s Patch
(W.A.) mine to development at depth has
interrupted Ora Banda Amalgamated’s
quarterly 3d. div. flow. A diamond-
drilling campaign also proved negative;
parallel lodes were disclosed, but were
unpayable. Thus new ore developed fell
10.000 tons short of that extracted in the
year to December. More significant is
that the grade of proved reserves (now
20.000 tons) has declined from Bdwt. to
6idwt., and with 85 p.c. extraction and
costs as they are that isn’t payable, be-
fore allowing for any rebate of gold
tax that may be claimed. Head values
have been lower than ore-reserve esti-
mates in the current term, but the posi-
tion is said to be improving. Here is
the recent operating record:
1938. 1939. 1910.
Revenue .. .. £77,583 £76,465 £81,324
Profit ■ . . . 17,948 20,478 13,439
Divs 10,000 20,000 20,000
Milled, tons . . . . 19,080 18,960 24,075
Gold, oz 8,666 8,112 7,871
Dwt. per ton .. 9.07 8.57 6.54
Recovery, p.c. . . 89.3 88.1 84.8
All-in costs .. 62/6 59/ 56/5
Last year there was a drop in gold con-
tent and percentage extraction that in-
creased throughput and improved costs
failed to offset, and cash reserves were
ratted for £6561 to maintain the 20 p.c.
div. Further costs-reduction is considered
possible; certainly there is room for
betterment. A three months’ free work-
ing option has been taken over a pros-
pecting area east of Hall’s lease.
* * * *
Having run short of cash, Blue Spec, a
small Adelaide co. with an auriferous
outcrop “more than 12 miles long” at
Nullagine (W.A.), is reconstructing. It
proposes issuing half a million 2s.
shares (underwritten at a commission
of 5 p.c.) in a new co. to present
shareholders on payment of 3d. a share.
A call of 3d. is expected to complete the
board’s programme. A report by M. R.
McKeown (consulting engineer) speaks
of at least 15,000 tons of 17.7dwt. ore in
the main property, says there are no
abnormal difficulties in treatment of the
antimonial ore, and claims future pros-
pects are good. In view of the refrac-
tory nature of Blue Spec ore and the high
cost of production in the far-distant
locality where the mine is, there are
others who don’t hold such a bright
opinion.
* * * *
The Comfhonwealth committee to in-
vestigate copper and bauxite resources
under chairman Colin Fraser will have
special interest for Queensland, as that
State has perhaps the greatest chance of
multiplication in copper and possibly
bauxite. The committee has promised
immediately to investigate the big Mt.
Morgan-Great Fitzroy scheme, embrac-
ing a smelter at Mt. Morgan and
treatment at the Mount of the half-
million tons of ore reserves at Mt.
Chalmers. No doubt the Tamborine
bauxite deposits will receive careful in-
quiry.
* * * *
Several new quicksilver holdings have
been taken up in the Kilkivan district,
near Gympie. Production is still very
small, but is growing, and the area looks
the best prospect at present to increase
Australia’s very limited output. Q.S.
Mines has been obtaining some very
good ore in shallow workings off No. 4
shaft. Including developments in No. 2
and 3 shafts, there appears to be bigger
reserves than can be handled with the
present plant, capacity of which may
have to be doubled,
* * * *
The Perseverance mine, on the old
Woolgar field (N.Q.), has been reopened,
and a crushing of 120 tons put through
with values over the ounce. In its earliest
days the mine produced some thousands
of tons of profitable oxidised ore, but
the sulphides came in at about 60ft. and
recoveries dropped to 15dwt. In a field
of high costs this fall settled the issue,
and it has been tried only in a small way
since. The lode consists of 18in. to 36in.
of quartz, with mundic and silver-lead.
The ores are like the usual run on the
Etheridge fields, but the area is sur-
rounded by an expanse of desert sand-
stone country in which the goldfield looks
like a small blob.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
R.C.: Not a front-rank preference stock, and
the co.’s business is one that may be difficult
after the war, though defence orders should
ensure a good volume of turnover for the
present C.F.: “‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,” con-
taining last review, posted. Position doesn’t
appear to have changed much since Con-
stant Reader (Darwin); We have been told
by the co.’s Australian representative that your
claim for new documents has gone through,
and when scrip is issued to all bondholders
(none has gone out yet) you will get yours
with the rest. Letters addressed to you, the
Melbourne representative says, have been re-
turned unclaimed. Check up at the Darwin
post office for the reason for this and write
again to H. A. Hambly, in Melbourne, giving
your name in capital letters, so that there will
be no mistake on this point.


TH4r
<0
T'he *
The Task
that few men want
Experience has shown what a grave mistake it can be to let sentiment govern
the choice of an executor and trustee. Family dissensions, differences between
relations, can lead to loss and distress. Burns Philp Trust Company Limited
will be glad to send you—free of charge—a book (entitled, " The Task That Few
Men Want") —which provides a practical and efficient solution to this problem.
Write to or call at the Company's offices, 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, or any Branch
of Burns, Philp & Company Limited, or Burns Philp (South Sea) Company, Limited,
for further information.
DIRECTORS —James Burns • Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE SYDNEY 1
TELEPHONE : B 7901. Box 543 B. G.P.0.. Sydney.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Duesbmy; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 873C1. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Business, Rollery, Etc
Unemployment 5.3 p.c.
It was pointed out just lately that Aus-
tralian trade-union unemployment had
fallen to 5.3 p.c. for the March quarter
of 1941, a figure that probably hasn’t
been bettered since the Great War period.
In 1925 unemployment fell as low as
5.7 p.c. ; at that time we were living
luxuriously on borrowed money and
high export prices. The number of trade
unionists has increased since 1925 ; even
since 1929 the membership has grown
from 420,304 to 514,379. Over the past
12 months the additions to the ranks have
run to no less than 30,500, which was
more than the total number of unionists
(27,289) unemployed in the March
quarter. It is now difficult to get youths
to fill jobs in most types of business.
Clear it is that enlistments, call-ups,
etc., have not of themselves been respon-
sible for all the cut in unemployment. In
spite of the rather serious drain on our
man-power for the fighting services, the
number of males in work has in-
creased since war began, though the
growth in female employment has been
greater in some States. The total number
of people, male and female, in jobs in
Australia, excluding members of the de-
fence forces not on civil payrolls, was
2.269.000 in March, 1941, compared with
2.193.000 in the same month of 1940.
Average employment in the year 1938-
39 was 2,126,000. At no time in this
country’s history have our manufacturing
industries been so active, though import-
ing difficulties and foreign exchange
scarcity have had adverse effects on
parts of our economy. Some export in-
dustries, too, are stagnant. Wine and
fruit exports have shrunk to little or no-
thing, and the meat industry may be seri-
ously affected, with sugar and metals as
other doubtful examples. Still, so far
as it is possible to obtain suitable labor
now, or to train it for later on, it is prob-
able that the expansion in our manufac-
turing industries has only just begun, and,
provided the war continues to impose
the present peculiar conditions upon us,
growing factory activity will tend to offset
the slump in other occupations. It v/ill be
part of the job of those who are prosper-
ous because of war to look after those
who have suffered from the same cause.
The year 1937-38 was perhaps, up till
then, the most prosperous in Australia’s
history. The next year, nevertheless,
showed a greater factory employment;
the total, excluding working proprietors,
was 544,000. For the month of March
this year, however, the total had risen
to 655,000. It is probably right to say,
too, that the foundations of many new
industries, or extensions to old industries,
have only just been completed. One
reason our imports were so high
until lately was because essential
machinery, tools and materials were
coming forward in quantity. Whenever
an announcement is made concerning our
production of munitions it usually is to
the effect that output has been increased,
perhaps multiplied. Bomber ’planes and
field guns are among our more recent
efforts, for example, and there are other
such items that will call for far more
labor to produce them before we reach
our maximum output.
Growing factory production isn’t con-
fined to munitions. Though some
factories ordinarily making peace-time
goods have been turned over to defence
work, and other plant turning out “non-
essential” goods may be requisitioned for
war purposes, a number of industries
useful both in peace and war have been
newly established or extended. The
manufacture of stainless steel is to be
begun, optical glasses are being turned
out, and —very prominent in the picture
—cotton goods of many new varieties are
replacing imports. A list of fresh indus-
a
“O/j, stop, Harold! You know Reggie is terribly jealous.”
tries that have been established, or are
about to be, and those that might be
would run to some length. Among those
to which more serious attention might
be given is the making of chinaware and
crockery. N. S. Wales and other States
have some deposits of kaolin which,
under suitable factory conditions, could
be turned into first-class china. One of
the essentials in the manufacture of por-
celain is the adoption of much higher
baking temperatures than are used in
turning out earthenware, which is the
most advanced effort the general run of
Australian potteries have attempted.
In spite of the great strides our fac-
tories are making, we must realise that
the demand which has created their
activity has come from two unusual
sources. Firstly, war has caused us to
work hard on the production of muni-
tions and mechanised weapons, stimu-
lated by competition from an enemy
that is expert in the arts of
mechanisation. Secondly, lack of
shipping and overseas buying power
has forced us to develop our own manu-
facturing resources so far as domestic
consumption is concerned as well. When
the war is over the first cause of our
accelerated factory output will disappear,
and part of cause No. 2 will also fade
away.
But there is reason to believe that the
present demands on our factories from
war-time causes will in many cases be
replaced by demands of a peace-time
nature eventually. Some industries have
been guaranteed a measure of protection
in order to get them established in this
critical hour, and they won’t be swept
away by the first resumption of full-scale
importing. Some others will undoubtedly
fizzle out. But when this wasteful
war is over there will be years of
arrears in national and domestic construc-
tion to overcome, and that will keep
many factories busy. Also, we have
reason to hope that, given decent gov-
ernment, the Commonwealth will ex-
pand to a position of greater world im-
portance after the Mad Continent starts
settling down to another period of
quiescence.
The Commonwealth Bank’s holding of
gold and sterling (note-issue branch) and
London funds (banking department)
totalled £74,705,000 Australian on May
19. A year earlier the total was
£59,452,000. On March 17 they had been
up to £81,523,000. During this financial
year so far surplus commodity exports
and current gold production haven’t
been equal to our overseas interest com-
mitments, so that the increase in the
Commonwealth Bank’s funds has come
from unusual sources. Transfer of funds
from other banks has been one cause,
but shifting of capital to Australia, plus
temporary London borrowings, has been
another. On the other hand, it is prob-
able that by this time we have been
called upon to pay for some of the cost
of maintaining the A.I.F. abroad, so that
extraordinary charges as well as
extraordinary additions have been made
in connection with our London funds.
• ♦ * ♦
Die Casters, a Victorian co. (with an
Adelaide branch) that once depended
mainly on the motor and building indus-
tries for its work, is now more intensively
engaged in producing for defence require-
ments, directly and indirectly. Last year
moulding and die-casting activities were
expanded to include sand-foundry work,
and a license for casting elektron mag-
nesium alloys was secured. Another
comparatively recent addition to activities
was the manufacture of collapsible metal
tubes for toothpaste, etc. The co. has paid
10 p.c. p.a. since 1936 ; in 1937-38 a bonus
of 2\ p.c. was added to the ord. div.
Capital has been doubled since 1936, now
totalling £202,500 in 150,000 ords. and
52,500 6) p.c, prefs. Profits have kept
up fairly well, though the market hasn’t
always been satisfied with results —
markets rarely are —and in the term to
June 30, 1940, ran out at 14.9 p.c. on
ord. capital. For the half-year to Dec.
31 the directors reported that turnover
had been well maintained, and that the
co.’s position was satisfactory. Interim
div. was kept at 10 p.c. p.a. Buyers
are now offering 31s. for the shares in
Melbourne. Last price at which sellers
were prepared to do business was 345.
At 335. the shares return 6 p.c.
$ jJ* *i»
Standard Waygood, a Sydney engineer-
ing concern that once made turbo-
alternators, tendered for the job of putting
up a Sydney Harbor bridge, performed
gymnastics with its name, associations
and capital account, and which generally
led a life of variety rather than
profit over the past 15 years, has treated
its shareholders to an agreeable surprise
—a 12j p.c. div. It follows 7\ p.c. last
term, and one distribution of 3| p.c. in
the preceding nine years. Lifts and lift-
maintenance, plus a small-electrical con-
nection, were responsible for the greater
part of any profit shown in the post-
depression period, but recently all classes
of dynamo-electric machinery have been
in production, and there has been a good
war-time demand. The \2\ p.c. div.—
5 p.c. of it is called bonus —absorbed
nearly all the profit claimed, which was
written after allowing £4390 for depreci-
ation. Paid capital is £123,273 in shares
of 13s. 4d. each, for which the market
now offers 12s. 6d., after sales
at that figure. Sellers ask
14s. 6d. Apparently further
demonstration of earning
power is awaited. The co.
owed £52,501 (including tax
provision) last balance day,
and had £62,516 in stock,
£18,638 in debtors and cash,
£111,406 in plant and £8664
in investments.
H= * *
McNiven Bros., Ltd., Syd-
ney ice-cream manufacturer,
as a public co. hasn’t come
up to pref.-share prospectus
expectations. That document
indicated that earnings for
the years to March 31, 1936,
1937 and 1938 were £9639,
£17,329 and £22,838 respec-
tively. Actual earnings for
the last three years have been
£21,764, £5388 and £3031. The latest profit
was shown, however, after setting aside
£14,978 for depreciation and £3OOO for
taxation. Depreciation provision is con-
sidered ample, and stocks are said to be
valued on a conservative basis. The
directors believe that, “given a normal
summer,” next year’s results will be
“much more satisfactory.” The pref.
shareholders (there is £78,999 of ord.
capital, held privately, and £50,000 of
7 p.c. prefs.) have received their div.
regularly, and are quoted at par. Ord.
holders were handed 67 p.c. in 1938-39,
5 p.c. in 1939-40 and nothing for the past
term. The co, has, strong competition in
the shape of the Peters co. McNiven’s
used to be principally interested in the
manufacture of ice-cream cones.
H* ■
As the Sydney afternoon-newspaper
war developed on all fronts Associated
Newspapers ords. dropped back from
12s. lid, to 12s. 4d. Ords. in Ezra
Norton’s co., which had Blitzed the
“Sun” the previous week over the publi-
cation of Hitler’s Flying Visit, rose from
17s. to 18s, 6d.; then sellers dropped
their limits to 18s., buyers offer-
ing 165.. Entertaining, in a way ; but
whether these market movements are
really indicative of anything worth while
only the future can tell. “Truth” ord.
shares at 18s. 6d. showed a rise of ss. 6d.
in a space of weeks. The co. claims that
the “Daily Mirror” sold to the tune of
over 1,000,000 copies the first week. If
it can stabilise at 100,000 a.day in the
immediate future it will be doing well.
One thing should be apparent to inves-
tors in both Associated and Truth and
Sportsman, Ltd.: It will make unusual
newspaper history if the “Daily Mirror”
shows a profit in its first 12 months,
and it will be unusual if the new com-
petition does Associated any good,
especially in present circumstances. The
sharemarket, which previously marked
down Associated scrip considerably, had
probably done so partly in anticipation
of the present competition.


• II
m
rif?.
Established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
{England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,260,000
Capital Issued .. • • 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. •. •• £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
s
Not simply Slacks, but
Woollen Slacks . . . They
make all the difference.
Woollen Slacks are refreshingly
cool and comfortable to wear in
Summer, just as they provide pro-
tective warmth in Winter.
They impart a delightful feeling to
wearers, and are in light but
dependable Woollen materials.
Wool Slacks hold their smartness,
hang nicely and "do up" well.
Wool Slacks stand up to more
gruelling service, and do not crush
or crease easily.
They are In all sizes and shades,
various styles for Men and Women.
For both Economy and Appearance,
select Woollen Slacks from your
Retailer .
Light,
Soft,
Elastic,
Resilient, Strong,
Durable, Absorbent and Porous.
ISADS FOR worn \ WEAR
The sharemarkets, after recovering
some of the ground lost about the time
of the Greek campaign—the Sydney in-
dustrial-share index rose to 125.38 on
May 19 —weakened as the Germans
lashed out at Crete. Up to last week-end
the setback was more general than pro-
nounced, the industrial-share index de-
clining to 124.76. There were one or
two sharp falls. Electrolytic Zinc ords.
dropped Is. 3d. (to 495. 9d.) on Friday,
and Barrier shares were weaker gener-
ally. B.H.P. paids declined to 395. 6d.,
G. J. Coles ords. were down to 575. 6d.
and Woolworths to 15s. Tooth scrip
came back to 505., and Carlton was in-
active round 61s. Bradford Cotton ords.
were sought after at the increased price
of 41s. 6d., and A.C.I. shares were still
firm.
* * * *
Since the McKell Government assumed
office in N.S.W. Australian Gas A shares
have fallen to 98s. —225. below par. Mair
wouldn’t allow an increased price of gas
in order to maintain the 6 p.c. div., and
the last distribution was 4} p.c. The
sharemarket apparently expects worse
from McKell than it got from Mair. It
may be overpessimistic. An income rate
that brings a bond or a share below par
means stagnation, and whether McKell
wants stagnation in the gas industry time
alone will show. At any rate, at last
week’s market price Australian Gas
shares yielded 5.6 p.c. on a 4\ p.c. div.
basis, 5 p.c. if the rate drops to 4 p.c.
* * * *
The Victorian textile group appears
to be doing very well, if market support
for these stocks is any guide. Cotton
cos. especially. There seems to be little
doubt that Victoria is getting its full
share of defence orders ; Sydney reckons
Melbourne is getting more than its share.
So far as cotton textiles are concerned,
however, no cotton mill anywhere in
Australia need be idle for a moment,
such is the demand for these cloths.
Victorian trade-union unemployment is
now the lowest in the Commonwealth, at
3.2 p.c., compared with 7 p.c. in N. S.
Wales and 5.9 p.c. in Queensland. In
pre-war days Forgan Smith’s State had
the best employment record of all;
N.S.W. had nearly always the worst.
Sydney men visiting Melbourne just now
find many trade rivals from their own
city there, too, as well as friends, busi-
ness acquaintances and others. Hotels
are doing excellent trade, and trains and
airlines are booked out. As centre of the
defence administration, this concentration
of activity in Melbourne is inevitable up
to a point. But a large Sydney branch of
a Commonwealth department, if it wants
stamps to put on its letters, has to write
to Melbourne for them. It mustn’t send
across to Sydney G.P.O. to buy them.
Davies, Coop, which now has a paid
capital of £725,875, has market support
for its ord. shares at 31s. It paid 1\ p.c.
in 1939-40, and looks like distributing at
least 8 p.c.—the interim rate —for the
current term. The business has been
extended to Adelaide and Sydney, where
complete spinning and weaving plants are
in operation. A new co. with an issued
capital of £lOO,OOO has been formed to
make flax tarpaulins and firehose. This
mill adjoins the co.’s tyre-cord factory
at Collingwood. The payment in March
of an interim div. at the increased rate
of 8 p.c. p.a. would seem to indicate that
the board is satisfied with earnings in
relation to the fast-growing capital
account. How soon the flax-processing
subsidiary will become a contributor to
the parent’s p. and 1. account will depend
primarily on how long it takes for the
flax-growing industry to develop. The
Department of Supply is encouraging
flax-growing ; there is an Empire shortage
of the stuff.
H. B. Dickie ords. are priced in the
vicinity of 345. Last term a 9 p.c. div.
was paid, but this year’s interim is at the
rate of 10 p.c. p.a. Capital in this case
is now up to £190,000, but sales of towels
and terry cloth appear to be more than
holding their own with the growth in the
share-register. Plant has been extended
here, too, in order to cope with the war-
time demand, which promises to increase
as overseas transport facilities decrease.
The co. was turning out satisfactory
products before war began, so that very
little time need be wasted on experiment-
ing now. Delivery of some new plant
was held up owing to war conditions, but
it should all be in operation now. The
co.’s trading position, for the time being,
at any rate, is very strong.
When the war is over imported cotton
goods of most kinds will start coming
into Australia again. But special duties
and other assistance have been granted
on drills, denims, dungarees, duck,
canvas, tyre-cord, etc., and with the
experience and opportunities granted by
a period of war-time protection Austra-
lian mills should have reached an ad-
vanced stage of efficiency when competi-
tion again arises. In most cases the
sharemarkets are buying cotton-textile
scrip on a war-industry basis, and aren’t
letting imagination get the better of them.
They are asking for a return of 5.2 p.c.
on Davies, Coop ords. and 6 p.c. from
H. B. Dickie. In Sydney, Bradford
Cotton ords. are being bought on a
4.8 p.c. basis. The market’s attitude
seems reasonable.
* * * _ *
Production of Portland cement in Aus-
tralia for the 1939-40 year totalled
864,917 tons (down 2932 tons compared
with the preceding year) valued at
£2,931,394 (down £82,313). About half
the output comes from N. S. Wales. In
1931-32 total Commonwealth production
had fallen to 247,396 tons, and the aver-
age for the quinquennium 1930-35 was
383,500 tons a year. Over the five years
to June 30, 1940, the average output was
790,000 tons, with very little variation
during the last three years. How output
is faring in the year that will end on
June 30 next it is hard to say, but with
the Defence Department taking large
quantities the drop in demand for city
building purposes may be partly offset.
The sharemarket has a high regard for
cement shares in spite of the uncer-
tainty. Chairmen of Kandos and Austra-
lian Cement haven’t been pessimistic.
For the 16s. in the N. S. Wales co.
30s. 6d. is paid ; the Victorian co.’s £1
shares are at 375. In the first case the
yield is 6.5 p.c., in the second 6.7 p.c.
* * * *
After details of Bond’s Industries
accounts became available in Sydney
the scrip showed signs of weaken-
ing. Highest quote this year (before the
Greek affair) was 325. 3d.; following a
slump, market values recovered to 31s.
9d. Sales took place last week at 295.
9d., 30s. and 30s. 6d. The co. has
interesting possibilities, but these possi-
bilities don’t appear to be properly sorted
out in investors’ minds as yet. If cotton
cloth (as distinct from towels and knit-
wear) is added to the lines now turned
out, and manufacture successfully entered
upon, prospects would take a more defi-
nite shape. It may not be possible for
the co. always to sell its surplus produc-
tion of yarn, for which at present there
is a ready market.
* * * *
A new co. is turning out beer in
Adelaide. Springfield Brewery, Ltd., took
over the old Mitcham brewery a couple
of years ago, and is now offering a
popular beer locally and inter-State. The
brewery was owned previously by the
unsuccessful Adelaide Brewing Corp.,
and before that by the Castle-
reagh Brewery. The present co.
appears to have improved the plant
and established a brisk turnover in a
short period. Glass-lined vats are now
being installed, raising production capa-
city from 100 hogsheads to 250 hogs-
heads per week. The co. has done this
and bought the brewery on a paid capital
of under £50,000 —a favorable aspect of
the financial position. Whether it will
be able to make satisfactory profits in
competition with existing S.A. brewing
interests remains to be seen, but the co.
has encountered little difficulty so far in
selling its product.
* * * *
Kaolin washed from a Williamstown
clay under the Ashworth elutriation pro-
cess (B. 23/4/’4l) has now been shown
to have extremely valuable properties in
production of a chinaware finer than is
usually attempted by Australian potteries.
Mixed with bonding clay from Woocalla,
via Port Augusta, it gave a minimum of
shrinkage, suggesting that it could easily
do away with the potters’ customary use
of flint or silica. A modicum of feldspar
was used in the mixture, which yielded
a basin with a beautiful tinkle to the
usual test flip of the finger. Under a
recent merger with Platinoid Metals, Ltd,,
the Williamstown clay and rutile deposits
are controlled by Industrial Metals, N.L.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
CHOICE FOR UNCLE SAM.
(From New York “Herald Tribune.”)
It is difficult to read accounts of the devastation
of London. And it is unnecessary. One cannot
assuage suffering by reading about it nor mitigate a
horror by a study of its details. The horror is there.
It has happened. And behind it there stands the still
greater horror that this kind of thing can happen—
here, there, today, tomorrow, anywhere in our world
that the apelike hands controlling the new powers of
blood and death can reach. They have bombs ; over
and over they have demonstrated that they will use
them. There is no argument with a bomb except a
bigger bomb. There is no argument with a murderous
dictator except to smash the weapons from his hands.
The highest of ideals, the purest of truths, the
noblest of intentions, the most patient exercise of
reason, of conciliation, of defensive courage, mean
nothing whatever against the fall of a one-ton demoli-
tion bomb. They mean nothing whatever to the men
who have been allowed to equip themselves with this
colossal machinery of murder and then to hold up
Western civilisation at the point of their brainless
bayonets. If they wish to take “vengeance” on the
greatest capital of Europe, they take it; if there is
any robbery, any whim of tyranny or torture they
wish to impose, they impose it. And there is only
one safety and one reply. That is a bigger and more
unanswerable artillery, used with a more ruthless
determination.
A bomb offers only two alternatives: “Surrender
or die! ” And because we have all hated bombs and
bloodshed, because we have liked peace and the little
things of life and have wished to hoard our own little
store of money and freedom and comfort, the great
civilisation of which we are a part has been surren-
dering, step by step, bit by bit, over the last 20
years. And yet the death follows relentlessly on the
heels of surrender, step by step, from the smoking
ruins of Chapei around to those of Ethiopia and Bar-
celona and Warsaw and Rotterdam and London. And
so it will continue unless the remaining great peoples
of the world have not simply the defensive courage
but the aggressive drive to rise and turn back that
tide of death upon its authors, the aggressive courage
not simply to surrender and die but to fight and live.
The devastation of London, the torture of Greece,
the agonies upon the seas, were all alike preventable.
If only 10 years ago the great democratic peoples
had all together mustered the determination to fight
and live, there would have been no war. If they had
done so only five years ago, it would have been quickly
won ; if they had done so only two years ago, much
of its horror would have been mitigated. If the
United States can do so even now, late as it may be ;
if we can find the courage to risk ships and men, to
move and act, to balance the lesser costs against the
greater ; if we can turn the will to surrender into the
will to fight, the war will still be won in Europe. If
not, the war will never be won at all —not for all the
heroism and idealism and hope upon which the bombs
rain down —not in Europe nor in the United States nor
anywhere else in the old world of freedom.
But if we in the U.S.A. have the will to fight and
live, we shall find the way to make to unbridled
violence the only answer which can be made, which
is a greater violence, even more ruthlessly applied.
* * * * *
Europe Looks to America
o Condensed from one of a series of New York “Post”
articles by Leland Stowe.)
In the 12 northern, eastern and south-eastern
European countries where I have spent most of the
time since this war started I have had countless
conversations with all kinds of people, with citizens
of all classes. I never met anyone—except an outright
Nazi, an outright Fascist or an outright Communist —
who didn’t speak of America with hope in his voice.
Millions of Europeans, the overwhelming majority
of Europeans, -look at America with hope.
I remember the Finns, the Norwegians and the
Greeks especially; how they all felt that America was
the one land which wouldn’t let them down, how they
counted on American medical supplies, food and
materials and how grateful they were for aid of any
degree, however long it might have been in arriving.
European people today believe that Americans are
incapable of shutting their hearts to human suffering
and misery. They believed, and still believe just as
firmly, that Americans are incapable of remaining in-
different to the destruction of freedom and Parliamen-
tary government among nations, large or small, which
had always shared these privileges with them.
Europeans today still take these things for
granted, but among those millions who are now en-
slaved by Hitler or exist at the mercy of the Nazi
creed there is another conviction. The overwhelming
majority of European peoples, whether in Finland and
Scandinavia or throughout central and south-eastern
Europe, are absolutely convinced that the U.S. cannot
permit Britain and the last non-American strongholds
of Parliamentary government to be destroyed by Hitler.
They believe, blindly but from bitter personal experi-
ence, that the U.S. —from its own self-interest —cannot
conceivably permit the British people to be defeated.
This is why the vast majority of northern and
Balkan peoples, however tightly underneath Hitler’s
instep they are now compelled to live, still believe
with a surprising confidence that Britain and her allies
will win the war. In their eyes, Americans and the
American form of republican government would
simply be committing suicide if they allowed anything
else to happen.
They are convinced of that because they know, all
too painfully, what has happened or is still happening
to them. They know now the things they themselves
didn’t want to believe —and learned too late. Such
things as the frightful cost of hoping to remain neutral
and free and unharmed, all alone. Such things as the
terrific price of the failure of Scandinavian nations and
Balkan nations to unite and treat their freedom as a
common possession, to be defended in common.
Europeans of all classes think that Americans
cannot conceivably risk destruction, even more from
within than from without, by letting the Nazi system
engulf the British Commonwealth of Nations and so
consolidate a gigantic, forced-labor industrial hege-
mony over two-thirds of the earth’s surface.
If the day should come when “everything short
of war” is not enough, they think the U.S. will have to
fight because, in their conviction, that would be the
quickest, cheapest and the only sure way by which
free government in America could be preserved.
They think, the overwhelming majority of them,
that the British commonwealth of peoples—with
American aid of whatever category and degree as
may prove necessary—will win.
Am IV ? illions , and n Hhhions of Europeans look at
America and really believe these things today. So
much so that to them these things are self-evident,
- ,- ° “
Jy in the slow process of achievement through the
ponderous evolution of American hearts and minds.
These are facts. These are the things which the
voiceless masses in the Nazi-enslaved or Nazi-
f t- , rit
dominated countries of Europe, where I have been
working, believe with an almost fantastic faith.
Maybe they are wrong. I am merely reporting
what I know about them. Maybe they are terribly
—Richmond “Times-Dispatch,” U.S.A.
NO LONGER THINKS HE CAN BE
AN OSTRICH.
wrong. If they are wrong I wonder what these tens
of millions of European men and women will think
about America throughout the long, unbroken black-
out in which they will pass the rest of their lives?
Air Invasion a Huge Job.
(Condensed from a “United States News” article.)
Why has not the German air force struck at
England with masses of thousands of ’planes if Ger-
many is so superior in the air?
The answer, as found by United States experts,
is that the job of dealing a knockout blow to Britain
through the air requires first a tremendous job of
organising.
British sources say that Germany is prepared to
put 12,000 war ’planes in the air at one time. Alto-
gether, Germany is thought to have from 36,000 to
40.000 ’planes, but the real fighting strength is concen-
trated in six air fleets. Each fleet has 1700 ’planes,
including 1000 bombers, 625 fighters and 75 reconnais-
sance ’planes.
In attempting a knockout, the Germans would
have to use at least 8000 bombers and 4000 fighters.
These might be sent over England in waves of 500, at
half-hour intervals.
But besides having the ’planes and the trained
pilots, the German air force must have at least 100
fields from which to take off. Each field must be
level and clear of obstructions for at least a mile.
Runways must be camouflaged to avoid observation.
Fuel and oil storage tanks must be installed.
Accumulation of enough fuel at these bases for
an all-out attack is another huge job. If each of the
8000 bombers were in the air for three hours,
the total gasoline consumed would be 6,000,000
gallons. In addition, 180,000 gallons of lubricating
oil would be needed. Storage tanks would have to
be provided at each field. To store the gasoline and
oil needed in one all-out attack would require four
tanks at each field, each tank holding 15,000 gallons.
Great quantities of bombs and ammunition would
have to be supplied. Bombs with a total weight of
13.000 tons would have to be distributed among the
100 airfields. For the machine-guns, 14,400,000 shells
with a total weight of 1440 tons would be required.
The 4000 fighters acting as escorts to the bombers
probably would take off from their own airfields, of
which at least 30 would be needed. Fuel require-
ments for a single all-out attack would be 3,600,000
gallons, or 120,000 gallons on each of the 30 fields.
Lubricants required would be 108,000 gallons. More
than 12,000,000 shells would have to be supplied for
the 4000 fighter ’planes.
For both types of ’planes, the flying personnel
would be not less than 42,000, while the ground crews
would total not less than 20,000. All these men would
be highly-trained specialists. During the all-out attack
every man would have to work at top speed and his
operations would have to be closely co-ordinated with
those of everyone else.
These facts are believed to explain why the Ger-
mans have not yet been able to carry out such a
Blitzkrieg aerial attack on England as was anticipated.
What the British are wondering now is whether the
Germans managed to use the winter months to get
set for just such an attack.
Ex-Ambassador Reports on Spain.
[In the article here condensed from “Life” (U.S.A.),
John C. Cudahy, formerly U.S. Ambassador to Belgium
and one of America’s best-informed diplomats in Europe,
decoribes a recent interview with the Spanish Foreign
Minister, and goes on to give details of the appalling
conditions prevailing in Spain, with a glance at other
European countries also, and a hint of what might
happen if the war lasts into next winter.]
Spanish Foreign Minister Ramon Serrano Suner,
a small man with grey hair and very frail physique,
told me that the only way of relieving the desperate
situation in Spain was by importation of wheat. He
characterised as absurd the British claim that the
eventual destination of such cargoes might be Ger-
many or Italy. All you had to do, he declared,
was to look around you in Spain to be con-
vinced that not a single grain of wheat or
any other provisions could be spared for ship-
ment outside.
He stated that Spain was deeply grateful
to both Germany and Italy for their help
against Communism and anarchy in Spain, but
insisted that it was a mistake to think that the
foreign policy of the country has been in-
fluenced by this aid. Spain had, in a large
measure, liquidated her account for material
assistance, and the country was under no
obligation. Spain had followed and would con-
tinue to follow an independent course in the
foreign field. Nor had Germany ever
attempted to bring any pressure on Spain, or
to coerce the Spanish Government in any way.
He became very earnest and emphatic, leaning
over in his upholstered chair until his nose
was scarcely two inches from mine when he
spoke about successes of Germany and its
present domination of the Continent.
I attempted an answer to his rhetorical question
as to how England could possibly prevail against Ger-
many by military means by suggesting that the
British, aided by the output of American industry,
might some day get mastery of the air and bring
about a crushing offensive against German industrial
centres with a consequent collapse of morale among
the German people. He did not think much of this
answer from a realistic viewpoint, implying that
British and Americans had no appreciation either of
the tremendous power of the German military machine
or of how impossible it would be to dislodge the
Germans from their firm seat on the Continent. He
contended that the effect of United States partici-
pation might mean that the struggle would be pro-
longed to a point of exhaustion, and then the only
victory would be one for Bolshevism.
He returned to this again and again before I left
and told me that this outstanding danger which he
feared was not grasped by many-—this danger of
universal anarchy, disorganisation and chaos which
might come to all Europe if war went on to the stage
of complete collapse. Against this era of lawlesness
and riotous disorder there remained, he said, only
German hegemony. Take that away and you would
turn Europe over to an era of violence which
would mean the end of this civilisation. There must
be some power of restraint, he reiterated, a policeman
on the Continent. And how could England ever hope
to act as this policeman?
* * * * *
Spain is suffering cruelly from hunger, and there
is no present hope of alleviation. On the Prado you
see pitiful ragged human flotsam, shaking from cold
and weakness in the bleak March winds, their mummi-
fied faces the color of smudged clay. Many of them
show advanced symptoms of anaemia, pellagra and
tuberculosis. Dr. Alexis Carrel, studying the effects
of malnutrition and deficiency diseases in war areas
of Europe, is in Spain. He told me that his investiga-
tions show that a great number of people are getting,
in both anti-choleric content and quality, only one-
quarter of what Medicine has always considered the
minimum amount of nutrients necessary to sustain
life. Yet Spanish people have been enduring such
denial for the past five years.
Dr. Carrel says that he has never witnessed such
an impressive manifestation of the adaptation theory
in biology that animal life will suit its needs to avail-
able means, mastering the difficulties of a harsh
environment, creating new defences, building up
resistance, generating immunities and somehow living
on. Medically speaking, many people in Spain should
long ago have been dead from starvation. They are
half dead, yet they persist in living. They are mori-
bund, hopeless, listless, nerveless, wan, without will,
all pith gone from their sorry shrunken frames, yet
they do not die. That imperious instinct to live carries


them on even though life is nothing but a shuffling
round of misery and dull pain. There are many cases
of amnesia and partial blindness from lack of the
essential vitamins, and tuberculosis is taking a heavy
toll as nourishment deficiencies become more and
more pronounced.
Dr. J. H. Janney, of the Rockefeller Institute,
who has made a health survey of all Spain, says that
the enfeebled condition of the people makes them
susceptible to an epidemic of influenza as devastating
as the Black Death of the Middle Ages.
It is among children that one sees the fullest
impact of short rations. Their stunted growth, retarded
mental development, degeneracy and general weakness
are stigmata with which this war generation is scourged
for sins of their fathers, and which will be passed on
as a bitter legacy of suffering for many generations
yet to come.
The cupboard has long been bare in Spain, but
the same sad story comes from many other quarters
of the war-swept Continent. The Belgians tell me the
conditions in their country are as distressing as those
in Spain. The Poles are suffering even more, and from
France is testimony of the most drastic rationing.
There is want in Norway, probably in Denmark, and
yet those of us who early last summer predicted
famine conditions were called “sensationalists.” The
sensation is really more tragic than sensationalists
predicted. What will another winter bring to stricken
Europe?
French-Nazi Collaboration.
[Condensed from a New York “Journal and
American” article by Kenneth Downs, who sent his
report from Lisbon after travelling throughout France.]
You don’t have to spend much time in Occupied
France before you begin to understand things you
didn’t understand amid all the double-talk at Vichy.
You soon realise the most important political fact in
France today is the presence of an enormous German
Army. All things political begin and end there. All
other considerations, brave intentions, hatred of the
conquerors, Marshal Petain, Weygand, everything
else, are dwarfed by comparison.
The tragic change in France and the French is so
great that it must be seen to be realised.
You have the inescapable impression, from the
moment you enter the country, that France is through
for a long time as a first-rate Power. Apathy and
pessimism pervade the land. The people are beaten ;
they admit it.
But the appalling fact that dawns on you gradu-
ally and finally hits you right between the eyes is that
France and America, though non-belligerent, are work-
ing on opposite sides in a war for the first time since
the French and Indian wars in the early eighteenth
century.
France today, against the will of 95 p.c. of her
population, is the ally of Germany in every practical
sense short of the military—in other words, economi-
cally and industrially.
This talk about collaboration or non-collabora-
tion in Vichy is eyewash. Collaboration is a fact, and
has been for months. About 90 p.c. of French industry
is working on German order. There is no choice.
It is work for German order or shut down because of
inability to obtain raw materials, or because of
strangling German restrictions. The bulk of French
industry is located in the occupied two-thirds of the
country.
Moreover, there is danger that collaboration will
be carried to even greater lengths. One of the keenest
men I know in France, who for obvious reasons
cannot be named, told me: —
“I think that before this war is ended it is entirely
possible that France and America may be belligerents
on opposing sides.”
While 95 p.c. of the population are anti-German
and hope for a British victory, they are passive. With
a very few exceptions they have no fight left in them,
and couldn’t do anything even if they had. The other
pro-German 5 p.c. have all the power of German
propaganda and German arms behind them. They
are aggressive, ambitious men who have bet not only
their careers but their very lives on German victory.
They are desperate and will stop at nothing to see
England defeated.
U.S. View on the Irish Bases.
[This comment is from New York “Daily News,”
which has all along been one of the strongest advocates
of the United States remaining neutral.]
If Hitler tries an invasion of England, the betting
is good that he will try an invasion of Ireland at the
same time, if not before. Possession of Ireland would
put Hitler in the position of boxing England in prac-
tically from all sides. Thus surrounded, England
might not be able to hold out, and Hitler might win
the Battle of Britain, still the most important battle
of this war.
If Hitler should invade and take Britain without
attacking Ireland, it is a cinch that he would take
Ireland soon afterward. The net result to the Irish
people of a Hitler conquest of Ireland would be a
Government “co-operating” with Hitler as poor
old Marshal Petain “co-operates” in France. The
kind of “co-operation” the Germans practise in con-
quered countries is based on the principle: “You
give me your watch and I’ll tell you the time.”
For all the well-known 700 years of British
oppression of Ireland, the fact remains that in the last
20 years or so British rule in Ireland has been almost
nil, and the remnants of it have been soft and senti-
mental, if not senile. What Ireland’s present situation
boils down to is this: That Ireland may be forced to
choose in the near future as to whether it prefers
British rule or German rule.
In a democracy, life is comparatively pleasant
and easygoing. You can talk, write and worship as
you please, and at intervals you vote one set of poli-
ticians out of public office and another set in. You
have to pay taxes —but you are almost never con-
scious that the whole set-up rests on force at bottom ;
force as exerted by police, courts, troops, gaolers.
Outside the democracies, the military life is spreading
rapidly—the kind of life in which every citizen is a
slave of the State, and the State’s basic philosophy is
that of force, militarism and conquest. De Valera’s
Ireland wants passionately to go on living the demo-
cratic life, and to have nothing to do with this war.
But how long will it keep its liberty to choose?
It would seem to be only commonsense on
Ireland’s part to let the British begin using again the
naval base sites at Lough Swilly, Cobh and Berehaven,
which the British surrendered to De Valera April 25,
1938. That was a piece of senilely decadent diplomacy
if there ever was one.
The great danger is that it may blow up in
Ireland’s face as well as in Great Britain’s, leaving
Hitler master of both countries. We believe the
southern Irish in the United States, whose opinions
swing great weight here, would be wise to get realisti-
cally behind proposals for releasing the Irish bases
to Britain soon. It would be only a piece of defence
insurance for Irish democracy as well as British.
U.S.A.’s Production v. Germany’s.
(Condensed from an American “Mercury” article by
Fritz Sternberg .)
American industry is far superior to German
industry, even with the Nazis dominating the indus-
trial resources of all Europe. It is superior, above
all, in the production of vital basic materials: steel,
coal and oil.
For an accurate comparison we should not set
present American production against that of a Hitler-
ised Europe. There are still many millions of unem-
ployed in the United States —a great reservoir of
labor power. We are only at the beginning of a pro-
cess that will gradually involve American production
at full capacity. Since German industry was working
at full capacity before the start of the war, a produc-
tive increase there is possible only within narrow
limits, if at all.
The United States leads the world in steel. Its
edge is so decisive that no combination of forces
under Hitler’s control would be able to challenge this
dominance. American industry is capable of turning
out 83,000,000 tons of steel annually, and recently
actual production has ranged from 95 p.c. to 99 p.c.
of this capacity. But this figure may be readily en-
larged. There are no deficiencies of material or
machinery which would prevent an increase of about
20 p.c. in the course of the next year or eighteen
months, bringing output to about 100,000,000 tons.
Germany controls an annual capacity of about
17.000. tons of steel in the conquered and occupied
areas, in addition to 25,000,000 tons at home, a total
of 42,000,000. The ratio of American steel production
at its present level, as against German, stands at
83 to 42.
The situation for coal is approximately the same
as for steel. As against a total of some 327,000,000
tons under Hitler’s command (occupied countries in-
cluded), United States coal stood at 615,000,000 tons
at the end of the last war. Again there are no real
obstacles to gearing production even beyond that
figure. But even at the 615 level, the ratio of Ameri-
can to German output is 615 to 327, or approximately
two to one.
The most startling contrast is provided by oil.
There the ratio is not two to one but twenty to one.
In the first half of 1940 the United States produced
93,700,000 tons of oil. Production, it is generally
agreed, can easily be boosted to 100,000,000 tons for
the half-year, or 200,000,000 tons annually. In the
part of Europe already under the heel of Hitlerism,
oil output is negligible. Germany proper produces a
bare 4,000,000 tons, counting both the natural and the
synthetic varieties. The only other European oil
country, outside of Russia, is Rumania, producing
6.000. tons. Thus we have the contrast of America’s
200.000. tons against 10,000,000 in a Hitler-
dominated Europe.
This limited availability of oil has not as yet
seriously handicapped Germany’s conduct of the war.
The country has maintained a partly motorised war
on land, with an army of millions of men, only for a
few weeks in Poland and a few weeks more in the
Low Countries and France. The increased consump-
tion during those brief periods was more than com-
pensated for by the large oil reserves that fell to Ger-
many as booty in the stricken regions. For the rest,
Hitler has conducted an aerial war in which oil con-
sumption is relatively small. In the Battle of Britain,
Germany now needs oil only for its naval war against
merchant shipping and for its air raids. Since its
aviation bases along the French coast make for com-
paratively short flying distances, the expenditure of
oil is kept at a low point. The picture would change
completely if Germany were involved in a war with
the United States; great distances would necessarily
create a severe German headache in the matter of oil.
Altogether America’s war potential is extremely
high. It towers above Germany’s and above all
Europe’s. The U.S.A.’s industrial plant is about twice
as strong as Hitler’s, and, given time, the inevita-
bility of victory for the United States would seem
mathematically demonstrable. Always, time is the
crucial consideration. And time, it happens, can be
obtained only in one way—by enabling Britain to keep
Germany engaged. Every billion dollars used in aid
to Britain today may later save the United States ten
times that much.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources .)
From time to time the American Institute of
Public Opinion, directed by Dr. George Gallup, has
taken votes on the question: “Do you think it was a
mistake for the United States to enter the last war?”
The voting has resulted:
Entrance Entrance
in 1917 Not Un-
Mistake. Mistake, decided.
Pc Pc Pc
April, 1937 64 28 ’ V
November, 1939 .. .. .. 59 28 13
December, 1940 .. .. ..39 42 19
April, 1941 39 43 ,18
—New York “Times.”
V Hi * * w
Except for the Communists and their allies and
dupes, such as John L. Lewis, organised Labor in the
United States is more solidly behind the President’s
policy of effective aid to the democratic Government
of Britain and her allies in their struggle against totali-
tarian dictatorship and aggression than is any other
section of the community.— Alfred Baker Lewis, in
New York “Herald Tribune.”
* * * * *
Speaking at Toronto, Canada, Mr. Wendell Willkie
laid down three conditions essential to the establish-
ment of lasting world peace: (1) The conquered
countries of Europe must be restored to liberty, and
China saved from aggression ; (2) Nazism and all i,t
means as a menace to liberty must and shall be eradi-
cated utterly, and its leaders driven from power ; and
(3) above all, the British Commonwealth of Nations
and the United States must join together in eliminating
their own trade barriers and obstructions.— Montreal
“Daily Star.”
* * * * *
Many causes probably contributed to success in
avoiding big epidemics in Britain during the winter.
Sir Wilson Jameson considers that the biggest single
factory was dispersal, which in particular prevented
the spread of children’s diseases. Then people are
travelling less, going less to cinemas, leading a simpler
life and still getting enough plain food. They are
busier and have less time to worry about their health.
Educational propaganda has done something to make
them take more care to avoid giving or receiving in-
fection. The view of a doctor who inspects many
London shelters is that shelter air at the worst is no
worse than that of some cinemas and public-houses
in poor districts and that shelterers have actually
gained more power of resistance to disease by having
longer and more regular sleep enforced on them. —
Manchester “Guardian” London correspondent.
* * * * *
German State Secretary Reinhardt, writing in the
“Deutsche Steuer-Zeitung,” states that after the war
additional children’s allowances will be paid for the
first and second child belonging to a household in the
cases of persons whose income is less than Rm. 2400 a
year (say, £l2O or £150). Already there are allowances
of ten marks a month for the third and every succeed-
ing child. The post-war allowances, it appears, are
*not to be paid in cash, but in the form of rent allow-
ances. This is so that it shall be possible for the lower
income groups to rent dwellings which satisfy the
needs of health and of Nazi population policy, with
its emphasis on large families. The system of family
allowances under income tax is also to be developed
so that large families shall no longer be at a disadvan-
tage. These are interesting developments which are
worth noting by our own reformers. — Manchester
“Guardian.”
* * * * rfs
Mr. Roosevelt is still loath to take the American
people into his confidence as to the seriousness of the
most critical of all battles, that for the Atlantic. If
the country knew the truth we are certain that Con-
gress, so far from debating a prohibition against con-
voy, would be insisting that the President be fully
authorised to convoy —in whatever form seemed most
effective and at whatever moment this next step
became necessary to the defence of the United States.
The American people have recognised by overwhelm-
ing majorities that their first and basic line of defence
lies in command of the Atlantic and the survival of
Great Britain. To secure that line they have voted
$7,000,000,000 in aid to Britain and are straining every
energy to produce the goods. Certainly, it is funda-
mental to the whole policy—to which the national
safety has been entrusted —that the goods be delivered.
But they are not being delivered. The air-
planes and tanks and munitions into which the
American workman is putting his skill and brawn are
arriving, too many of them, at the bottom of the ocean.
We believe that the goods must be delivered, and that,
whenever necessary, the naval resources of the United
Stats should be frankly used to do the job and convoy
them to their destination. — New York “Herald
Tribune.”
* * * * *
It is safe to assume that Marshal Petain is entirely
patriotic. There is no reason to doubt that he places
the welfare of his country above all other considera-
tions. No one can question that he would like to see
every German soldier leave the soil of France and
that he would give his right arm to head a regime at
Paris having unquestioned authority over the whole of
his country. For some years he has had his doubts
about the efficacy of the French Parliamentary
regime. More than once he discussed with friends its
shortcomings and the possibility of something else
to replace it. He thinks the new order for France
will be different from Nazism in Germany and Fascism
in Italy. In an interview Petain said: “It is not
against political oppression that our national revolu-
tion is being made but against an obsolete and out-
worn order, and it is taking place in the aftermath
of defeat, seven years after the German revolution and
18 years after the Italian revolution, but in a spirit
entirely different from both those historic revolutions.
It aims—by breaking with the past —to restore
community discipline, to restore quality in labor,
fecundity in family life and a more compelling, per-
suasive sense of La Patrie.” That may mean much,
it may mean little. Only the future can tell. If only
because of his age, Petain is a transitory ruler. What
will follow him may well depend on developments
quite beyond his control. — From a New York “Times”
article by Edwin L. James.


ESTABLISHED 1834. ,
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors;
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
SMOKE-OH!
“The modern Turkish woman, if her husband
does not behave himself, can leave him and
claim support.”— “D.T.”
They refer to it as Allah-money.
•b
“It was like a blow that Tom should have
attempted to kiss her.” — Woman’s paper.
So, of course, she turned the other
cheek.
4* -I*
“Garage proprietors, prior to petrol ration-
ing, had already been hit by the small, low-
powered car.” — “Sun.”
Strangely enough, they preferred that
to the dignity of being bowled over by an
expensive limousine.
“The knotting problem of camouflage nets.”
— “S.M.H.” Women’s Supplement-
Smith packed his fishing-gear, and yet
He didn’t quite get clear.
His wife looked underneath the net
And found the quart of beer.
Elm.
“Girl strike-pickets paraded outside a Detroit
(U.S.A.) corset factory clad in corsets only.”
—News item.
Though such an act might seem obscene
And rightly shock the nation,
Their grievances could not have been,
It seems, without foundation.
Dougal.
»J*
“You are largely what you eat.”
—Diet article.
Then yesterday we were an old crab
and this morning a bad egg.
“We Would like to put a tank on the lay-by, please .”
“A boxer can’t afford to lose his punch.”
— “Sun.”
If he loses his job he loses his job.
-h 'l*
“A long-necked bottle makes an excellent
fruit-crusher. — “World’s News.”
It also makes a first-rate nutcracker.
“She treated her husband equally as well as
she treated her dog.” — Short story.
They both got a clean collar now and
then.
»*•
“Chaplin is the most consistent clown in
history.” — Talkie article.
This will be a blow to Mussolini’s
prestige.
It’s easy, p’raps, to judge a man
By simply looking at his phiz.
But still it’s far too dangerous
To tell him what that judgment is.
E.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“A vivacious woman, Clarice throws herself
with amazing energy into anything that is
going.” —Social blurb.
If she keeps that up she’ll be falling
under the wheels.
•J*
“The result of her indiscretion in going out
insufficiently clad on such a night was that she
suffered the effects of a severe child.”
— Woman’s paper.
And there’s no bonus for the first.
4"
“Are you a coffee snob?” — Article.
Well, we do occasionally turn up our
noses at the muddy-colored liquid the
landlady brews.
Lament.
“A ban on the importation of cosmetics is
expected.”— Press report.
O ruddier than the cherry,
Lips that on mine were pressed,
In days when maidens merry
• The lipstick dabbed with zest.
I’d bear thy nose to glisten.
Cheeks minus rouge or paste;
But paint those lips, for, listen !
I’ve grown to love the taste.
KWEN.
The Critics.
“Why do people always speak so scathingly
of social butterflies?” — Woman’s mag.
“I might be only a typist, Peggy, but
1 reckon I’ve more taste than these social
flutterbrains in the paper”
“Yes, me, too. They’d make you sick.
Look at this one. Halo hat a foot high.
Doesn’t it look positively ridiculous!
And the skirt above her knees. I sup-
pose she only wore it so as everyone
would see her legs—not that they’re any
shape, either!”
“And those orchids! Sickening! Just
all outside show!”
“Til say! What are you doing after
work, Dot?”
“I want to go and get a new hat. I’d
love one of those new haloes as long as
they’re not too high. I can’t wear one
over about a foot high with a plump
face like mine.”
“I’m going home. I want to shorten
that floral uplift dress of mine. Not
because this glamor-butterfly is wearing
them short, mind you. I think she looks
a freak in it. But I’ve got a decent pair
of knees, so I might as well show them
off. And you know, Dot, my boy friend
gets on my nerves, always bringing roses.
If he’d only get me some orchids now
and then—not that I’m mad on them,
mind, but they do make one feel so
lovely and social, don’t they?”
MEOW.
Time to Repent.
“Have you any idea how long it takes to
wink?” — “World’s News.”
Remember that day you were walking
down the street with the wife? And the
little tabby in the tobacco kiosk where
you stopped to get some cigarettes while
the ball and chain was gazing in a near-
by hatshop said sportively: “Hullo, big
boy! Haven’t seen you for a day or
two. When are you going to spring those
chocs, you promised me?”
“Shh!” you hissed just as the wife
turned round. “Trouble stalks in size
fives. See y’ again, kiddo” —and as you
left you winked at her. And the wife
caught you.
The wink took only a second. Explain-
ing it away took a large slice of your
conjugal life.
ELM.
Friendly Hatred.
“There is always a good reason for visiting
friends, even if they are not much-liked
friends.” — Woman’s paper.
“If ever I detested a woman it’s that
Mrs. Borem,” said Maria. “I’ve a good
mind not to go to their place tonight.
1 had been hoping that the projected
Borem visit had been forgotten; the
dashing of that hope was leavened by
what Maria said.
“If you don’t feel inclined to go” -
Diplomatically, I merely offered a sug-
gestion ; I have learned to disguise my
hopes.
“I never enjoy myself at that house,
went on Maria. “She’s such a scandal-
monger ; and I think he’s as bad as she
is. It’s just wasting a good night going.”
I felt now that it was safe to endorse
her remarks. “I must say their company
doesn’t exactly inspire,” I began, when
Maria broke in.
“Well,” she said, “why don’t you get
ready? There you are sitting talking as
if you’ve the whole night before you.”
“But”
“You’ve got to shave, and we promised
to be there at eight o’clock.”
“But,” I gasped, “I thought you didn’t
intend going!”
“Oh, what a fool you are, Aitchem!”
snapped Maria. “Do you think I’d think
of staying away so as to let Mrs. Borem
and her friends talk about us ? Have you
taken leave of your senses?”
H. M.
Hess’s Flight: The Real Reason.
(Exclusive to the “Daily Flute.”)
(By Windbagge Boobe, the famous author
of Secret s of the Dictators .)
I recall vividly my first meeting with
Rudolf Hess, and his manner on that
occasion gives a remarkable insight into
the character of the man. As a dis-
tinguished correspondent of a famous
paper I was, of course, shown every con-
sideration when I attended the 1934
Nuremberg rally, for Nazidom was then
in its infancy, and it was painfully
apparent that Dr. Goebbels was anxious
to make a good impression on the out-
side world.
Perhaps it was due to my thoughtlessly
being courteous and giving Herr Blut-
wurst, the foreign press chief, a “guten
Morgen !” as he passed, but, anyway, one
of his underlings, assuming I was a
correspondent of the “Volkischer Beo-
bachter,” ordered me to line up and form
fours among the German Berichter-
I’corps while Herr Rosenberg gave in-
structions what they were to write.
It was then that my identity
was discovered, and Herr Hess, who
had been standing near by giving
instructions on when the public had
to cheer, came over. I will never
forget the look of fanatical hatred
he bent on me. Speaking out of a face
suffused, purple with anger, he roared out
to the quailing Rosenberg: “Donner und
hlitzen! Who put that schweinhund of
an Englander in here to foul the ranks
of pure Aryans? The pig-dog back to
his sty must be put!” Then he turned
to me, clicked his heels smartly, bowed
low and said in a cultured and charming
musical voice: “A thousand pardons,
Herr Boobe, for the inconvenience.
Kindly step this way.” And, linking my
arm in his, he guided me, talking ani-
matedly the while of his views on the
love life of the Pharaoh Thothmes, to a
seat among my compatriots.
It was a typical Hessian gesture. Some
would even say it was rough, but during
the next five years I had many oppor-
tunities of studying this amazing man,
and I would say he had a dual person-
ality. Some even said he had two brains,
though Streicher, his sworn enemy, swore
he had none at all.
For some reason Hess seemed to take
a liking to me. Once he invited me to
his home, a severe, plain mansion at Pots-
dam. His wife didn’t appear. I heard
later from a high party official who
detested him that Hess had kicked all
her front teeth out because she had
bought him the wrong shade of toenail
lacquer.
After a simple dinner of sauerkraut,
steamed mangelwurzels and dunkiesbrau
—Hess faithfully followed the example of
his Fiihrer, who is a strict vegetarian—my
host questioned me about life in England,
which he apparently associated mostly
with, roast beef, for as he said the words
his mouth twitched curiously and a
hungry look came into his eyes. I was
sure then that the only reason he didn’t
have meat in his own home was that he
couldn’t be sure if his own servants were
members of the Gestapo.
As I was leaving he gave the Nazi
salute, and as he did so his beetling brows
came together in a terrific frown. Then,
bending a ferocious, almost maniacal,
look upon me, he shouted with cynical
bestiality: “It would be to your ultimate
good health to forget our conversation
tonight, Herr Boobe!” and slammed the
door in my face. I hadn’t reached the
bottom of the steps, though, before the
door opened again and he bounded down
the steps nine at a time, despite a notori-
ously-diseased pair of kidneys and a heart
that a celebrated Swiss specialist confided
to me was only hanging by a thread.
“Did you say the English always eat
their roast beef underdone, with the red
blood running out of it?” he asked. I
replied that we did. Thereupon, heaving
a sigh of unutterable yearning and with
a look of tortured wistfulness in his eyes,
the Fiihrer Deputy tottered indoors.
On another occasion I was visiting the
Brown House at Munich during some Old
Guard celebrations. Just as I was about
to leave to dispatch my stuff Herr Hess
buttonholed me. He looked pale, I
thought, despite his swarthy skin. As
we were talking Goring swept past, an
enormous diamond-studded iron cross
swinging like a pendulum on his dropped
chest. I couldn’t help noticing the look
of deadly hatred that the field-marshal
bent upon his rival. Later, in his room,
Hess confided that he feared for Hitler’s
life, as the stars were unpropitious. Obvi-
ously he was deeply concerned, for he
said, “Our beloved leader may not be
fully appreciated on earth, Herr Boobe,
but. remember he will get his just reward
in the hereafter. “Not,” he whispered
slyly, “that that worries his mind.”
As he spoke a rattle of machine-gun
fire came from the courtyard below. I
started up, but Hess waved me down.
“It’s nothing,” he said ; “just an accident
happening to Horst Schwingledunker,
Hitler’s trusted manservant. They sus-
pect it was he put the miniature time
bomb in Hitler’s shaving soap!” Then
he smiled at me and asked, “Tell me,
Herr Boobe, do the English favor a rich
brown gravy with baked lamb?”
I was not in the least surprised when
I heard that the first thing Hess did in
Scotland after having his ankle fixed up
was to tear into roast beef and baked
potatoes. A peace mission? That’s the
last thing Hess came to Britain for!
BO.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
It is improbable there would have been
racing in Sydney last Saturday only that
it was a Randwick meeting. A heavy
thunderstorm an hour and a half before
the first race would have been considered
sufficient ground for a postponement.
It was certain the attendance would
suffer, and that is the main consideration
with most clubs. Though rain for the
remainder of the afternoon seemed cer-
tain, the A.J.C. did not consider a post-
ponement, and luckily there was no
further downfall after one o’clock.
As was to be expected with the
weather outlook so unpromising, a large
number of people decided to miss the
meeting, and, as compared with last year,
the attendance dropped from 17,700 to
10,500, and the tote turnover from
£24,641 to £17,537. Regrettable, because
of the fact that A.J.C. profits from meet-
ings go to war funds. There were no mis-
haps during the afternoon, but sufficient
rain had fallen to soften the track, and
that told against some runners.
Rodborough’s starting price of 7 to 1
for the Flying Handicap was surprising.
Although penalised 51b. for his Rosehill
win a 71b. apprentice allowance took him
within 61b. of the minimum, and it is not
so long ago he would have been con-
sidered a “can’t-lose” proposition on
those terms. Early in the race Rod-
borough did not appear comfortable in
the going, and was some distance back.
At the three furlongs Hydra and Sethia
were together in front, with Glorious
third, and they were well ahead of the
remainder.
Hydra drew away from Sethia at the
top of the straight, but though his chance
appeared a winning one Rodborough
made up his leeway so rapidly that he
had the race safe nearly a hundred yards
from home. Irish Sea ran on strongly
to get third, but never really raised the
hopes of his backers, nor did Glorious,
though she did better than her more-
fancied stable-companion The Squire,
who did not seem suited by either the
going or the distance. Sethia dropped
right out over the last furlong, as did
Sweet Boleiro, and the fact of the time
being 1.28 i gives an idea of how much
slower the track was than usual. It is
possible Rodborough may continue his
winning run, as all the open races to be
decided at Tatt.’s meeting at Randwick
on the seventh of next month permit of
an apprentice allowance being claimed
for him.
Proud Fox was unlucky not to have
previously been an absolute winner at
Randwick, but, acting up to his track
form, was too good for Lockray at the
finish of the Empire Day Handicap. The
latter had a long lead after going six
furlongs, with Pennywise nearest him,
and he was still well clear of his fol-
lowers turning for home. However,
Proud Fox rapidly closed on him in the
straight, and a hundred yards from home
there was no doubt as to the result. Proud
Fox has now paid the cost of his trip
from Maoriland, but, as he is bound to
go up in the weights, another win for
him may be difficult. Lord Valentine,
as in his two previous races, was doing
well at the end, but never looked a
winner. In third place he was well ahead
of Bonny Loch, who was followed after
a gap by Hilarious.
Pennywise, who commenced better than
in her other recent races, was prominent
to the turn, and then could not finish,
while the soft going must have troubled
Red Sails, as he did not shape nearly as
well as at Rosehill earlier in the week.
Early Bird, though looking bright, is evi-
dently still a long way from her old form.
She was always a long way back, and it
was the same with Cable Boy.
No excuse was possible for Gold Pan’s
failure in the Hurdle Race. He was in
charge at the half-mile, and though
joined by Xerxes nearly three furlongs
from home was slightly in the lead on
landing over the last hurdle. Hynes
appeared to have difficulty in finding his
whip when Xerxes again tackled Gold
Pan, and the latter was beaten half a
neck. Presumably there were grounds
for the protest, but few spectators noticed
anything that warranted it. As gener-
ally anticipated, it was dismissed. Duke
Claro weakened after doing well for
about a mile and a half, and, though the
last bit proved too much for Tower Hill,
a return to the winning list for him is in
sight. Shot Gun and The Winger were
pulled up. The latter could not raise a
gallop at the commencement, and was
quickly a hundred yards behind the other
runners. It transpired that he must have
injured himself shortly after leaving his
trainer’s stable, but the trouble did not
manifest itself until he was asked to
gallop.
Pallama and Marchotti made a match
of the Nursery Handicap from the top of
the straight. Pallama led at the leger,
and, though a little further on Marchotti
appeared to have his measure, Pallama
raised another effort and, with Mar-
chotti tiring, scored by the narrowest of
margins. Less than a furlong from home
Marchotti hung in on Pallama, and lost
a little ground when Cook had to check
him. Without ever being really danger-
ous, The Champion, in third place, ran
fairly, and will continue improving, while
of the remainder Pancerta did best.
Lucky Son did not jump away cleanly,
and then, after moving up smartly, died
away before reaching the turn. Red-
breast did not do as well as at her pre-
vious start, nor did Alertful, but Colonel
Post (Posterity-Curtain) is a probable im-
prover, though it is doubtful whether
he made a good substitute for his stable-
companion Epic Poem, who ran well
against Pallama at Rosehill, and would
have met him a few pounds better.
Valcello recorded an all-the-way win
in the Encourage Handicap, for which
‘Maple Leaf was favorite but, owing to
getting away badly, did not give her
backers a look-in for their money,
though she made up so much ground
that she finished sixth. The winner, who
is an aged stallion by Violoncello, won
at Randwick three years ago, but had not
since shown form of much account. He
is evidently suited by a soft track.
Response was in a good position turning
for home, and, though he never really
threatened Valcello, his second was a
sufficiently good effort to make him again
worth backing at his next start. Tom’s
Pick ran well, but Gauntlet did not act
up to his track form, and, while Fan
Dancer was always one of the leading
bunch, she never looked more than a
possible minor-place getter.
Brazen Lad, who led into the straight
in the Welter Handicap from Rival
Chief, with John Peel and Asnazu next,
fought on gamely to win from Veiled
Witch. The last-named, who was fifth
at the turn, looked a winner when she
slipped through on the rails inside the
last furlong, but, though she momentarily
got her head in front, Brazen Lad, who
was wider out, was a little too strong
for her. As he is himself again, Brazen
Lad may shortly win at a middle dis-
tance. His latest success in Sydney prior
to this occasion was at \\ mile 121yds.
at Victoria Park last August.
Tel Asur, though third, did not finish
as strongly as expected, after being
prominent halfway down the straight,
and John Peel tired to nothing after
being third at the bend. Asnazu also
finished weakly, while Rathlin found his
weight too much, and Bestop was always
hopelessly placed. It should not be long
before Celebrity regains enough of her
earlier form to be a mid-week possibility.
* * * *
Taking exception to True Flight’s im-
proved form in winning the Annandale
Handicap at Moonee Valley on Saturday
as compared with his showing at Men-
tone a week earlier, a section of the
crowd yelled uncomplimentary remarks
when Vic Hartney brought the W.A.-
owned horse back to the enclosure. The
short-lived demonstration, though not
altogether unexpected, was unwarranted.
The commission for True Flight on
Saturday totalled only a fraction of the
amount risked at Mentone, where he was
backed down to favoritism and finished
eighth to Maluno. The Eclipse Stakes
winner is not galloping as generously as
he did last spring, and, according to his
rider, seemed likely to “dig his toes in”
more than once on Saturday. Eventu-
ally he settled down to the job, but had
to be ridden desperately to win by a
head from Dannevirke, with West Wind
only half a head away third. West Wind
was unlucky in that she had to make her
run round the field and was forced very
wide on the turn.
With Valhalla and Boisterous A.J.C.
committeeman P. H. Osborne has two
good prospects for important jumping
races. Valhalla, who won both hurdles
at the V.R.C. spring meeting, is trained
in Sydney, but Boisterous is under the
care of Fred Hoysted at Mentone. A
winner at Mentone at his previous start,
Boisterous did not have a strong field to
beat in the Kalkallo Hurdle Race, but
he gave Amnesty a long start and won
running away. In appearance Boisterous
is a cut above the average hurdler, and,
being by Windbag from that former good
galloper Vallino, his breeding leaves
nothing to be desired. Four years old,
he stands plenty of hard riding and
seems sure to keep on improving, but it
is reported that Osborne will rely on
Valhalla for the G.N. Hurdle.
Presence in the saddle of an unfashion-
able jockey, T. Heib, was responsible
for Boisterous’s price easing from fives
to tens. Heib was having only his third
ride in a hurdle race, but he had been
associated with Boisterous in his school-
ing lessons and understands the gelding
well. He rode winners on the flat when
apprenticed to Hoysted, but, owing to
lack of opportunities, decided to give up
riding and enter the french-polish trade.
Recently he returned to Hoysted’s employ,
and a few more displays such as he gave
On Saturday will assure him of good
chances in future.
Country trainer N. Shing, who has
made several successful trips to Mel-
bourne, experienced mixed luck on Satur-
day. Gracmee disappointed him in the
Annandale Handicap, and, because that
mare had been beating Tranent on the
tracks, he states he let the latter run un-
backed in the first division of the Mer-
riang Handicap. Tranent was having his
first race for several months, and,
although he had done well in the stable,
his track work had been indifferent.
Obviously he reserves his best effort for
a race, as there was no suggestion of
loafing on Saturday. Easing in the bet-
ting from threes to 9 to 2, he led most
of the way and won easily from Ouverte
and Con Naru. Pamelus was a dis-
appointing favorite. Third at the half-
mile, he showed no dash oyer the last
two furlongs and finished sixth. Now
in his tenth year, he may be slipping
at last. ... *
Gay Revelry, a 75-guinea colt by
John James from Gayscene, unwound a
devastating finish to defeat Pierre and
Piccadilly Jim in the Barkoola Handi-
cap. Starting at 7 to 1 after tens had
been bet, he lost ground at the start and
seemed hopelessly placed on the bend,
but finished in the gamest possible style
when asked for an extra effort. Distinct
possibilities are associated with Gay
Revelry, who is trained by Harry Gabell
for Dr. and Mrs. J. G. Sheahan. His
only previous race yielded a third to
Invidious at the Valley, and, having been
given every chance to develop, he seems
sure to improve. Pierre and Piccadilly
Jim ran well, each looking a winner until
Gay Revelry arrived on the scene, and
Harith’s fourth indicates a near-future
win.
Hailed as a prospective champion on
the strength of three wins from as many
starts, Invidious lost caste after his failure
in the Barkoola Handicap. Favorite at
7 to 4, he moved through on the inside
to take the lead rounding the turn, but
was beaten quickly and did not respond
when Skidmore pulled the whip. Nine-
stone-three apparently was more weight
than he appreciated, but his previous
form indicated that he should have done
better, and it might be advisable to give
him another chance.
Stable losses on Invidious were re-
couped when Linkboy, also owned by
Andy Morrow and trained by Jack Sing,
recorded a clear-cut win in the second
division of the Merriang Handicap.
Always favorite, he was carried wide at
the bend, but hit the front when fairly
on the way home, and won from
Mollie Con, who was hampered at the
turn, and Parilla. Linkboy’s success fol-
lowed his mile win at Mentone a week
earlier, and, as he seems to be right back
to his good juvenile form of last season,
the handicappers might not yet have his
measure.
Former Sydney trainer E. F. Silcock
brought Lockslea to Melbourne almost
a year ago, but it was not until the
Ardconnell Steeplechase that the gelding
recorded his first Victorian win at his
first start over fences. He had schooled
well, but there was little incentive to
back him against proved fencers, and in
defeating Bridge of Dee and Highland
March he gave bookmakers a 20-to-l
result. He was sore after a school earlier
in the week, and Silcock intended
scratching him, but Lockslea recovered
sufficiently to win a stake of £2OO. He
jumped to the front about six furlongs
from home and won with a good deal
in reserve. Lockslea is engaged in the
G.N. Hurdle and Steeplechase, but Sil-
cock intends-concentrating on him as a
’chaser, provided, of course, that he
stands. His fore fetlocks are trouble-
some, and, according to his owner-trainer,
he is “likely to go” at any time. High-
land March will be all the better for the
race, but the favorite, Tifone, gave an
inglorious display. She jumped badly,
and was never a possibility.
Two cast-offs from L. Robertson’s
stable, Anteros and Edmonton, fought
out a head-and-head finish for the first
division of the Tulloch Trial Handicap.
Edmonton looked like winning when he
ran to Anteros in the straight, but the
latter held him to half a head, with Para-
mente third. Latter might have done
better had he not been disappointed in
going for an opening in the straight.
Anteros was sold in March to F. J.
Casanelia for 130 guineas, while Ed-
monton changed hands for 260 guineas
earlier this month. Casanelia was once a
successful amateur jockey on the flat
and over fences, and, although he has
given up race-riding, he still rides to
hounds. He always has several horses
in work, and is likely to win more races
with Anteros, who evidently is becoming
more solid. Stewards inquired into the
running of Bluebeard, who finished sixth,
but took no action beyond advising
apprentice J. Crilley to put more vigor
into his riding in future.
Latest form said little for Port Patrol’s
chance in the second Tulloch Trial
division, but, starting at 15 to 1 after
twenties had been bet, he led practically
all the way to win from Docker’s Plains
and Gipsy Way. Docker’s Plains ran
on well, and, while still useful on the
flat, may be hard to beat at his next
appearance over hurdles. Larry Resta,
a warm favorite, was a long way back
early, raced to a forward position near
the half-mile, but was soon beaten and
finished last.
* * * *
Harinero, who has done fairly this
season as a sire, had another win on
Saturday, his son Harimark accounting
for the Two-year-old Handicap in Bris-
bane. It was not a performance of out-
standing merit, as with 7.11 he defeated
Adoration (7.7) only a head, and Val-
mith, who ran third, had 8.10. Harimark
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Brush Hurdle Race; Generous
Gesture or Windjammer, 1 ; King’s
Cross, 2 ; King Otho, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: St.
Elmo, 1 ; Loyal Lad, 2 ; Tunisia, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Chatham’s
Choice, 1 ; Pallama, 2 ; Fanvolan, 3.
Brighton Handicap: Aristocrat,
1 ; Brazen Lad, 2 ; Veiled Witch, 3.
Moorefield Handicap; Miss
Heroic, 1 ; Mortine, 2 ; Lord Valen-
tine, 3.
Flying Welter Handicap; Tobasco,
1 ; Elson, 2; Response or Ben-
burb, 3.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(Before acceptances.)
Federal Hurdle Race: Atticus,
1 ; Boisterous, 2 ; Campaspe, 3.
Piccaninny Handicap: Wheat
Sheaf, 1 ; Gay Revelry, 2 ; Harith,
3.
Commonwealth S t e e plechase:
Highland March, 1 ; Tifone, 2;
Lockslea, 3.
Mount Alexander Handicap:
Ellison, 1 ; West Wind, 2 ; Glad-
stone, 3.
Keilor Handicap: Procyon, 1 ;
El Reo, 2 ; Mollie Con, 3.
Empire Handicap: Denis, 1 ; Fur
Trader, 2 ; Linkboy, 3.


was one of last season’s high-priced year-
lings at the Sydney sales, his Queensland
buyers, W. H. and C. W. Mace, giving
850gns. for him. They deserved a return
for their pluck. Harimark is out of
Alimark, by Magpie from Ellais, by
Valais.
* * * •
Cheery Jack won the last V.R.C.
Grand National Hurdles with 11.7, but is
set a much stiffer task this time with
12.4. Up to the present Don Quixote’s
11.13 is the record weight for a National
winner. Valhalla’s 11.4 is 41b. less than
he carried when he easily won the
November Hurdle Race, 2\ miles, at the
Melbourne Cup meeting. At that he is
nicely in, but owner P. H. Osborne has
another good representative in Bois-
terous, with 9.3. Indignity, Bureaucrat,
Winterset and Harley are among the
other horses likely to be backed, and the
double will give punters a wide field for
speculation. Cheery Jack has 12.7 in the
G. N. Steeplechase, and perhaps can be
ruled out. At this stage it would be dif-
ficult to select what will eventually start
favorite, but, on the strength of his easy
win in the Warrnambool Grand Annual
with 11.0, Brightello is bound to find
favor in the early betting. Solicism, Col-
lier, Highland March and Baldasair are
lightweights that have won at Fleming-
ton.
* * * *
Ken Austin and whoever may have
been associated with him in the purchase
of the stallion Battle Song (Spion Kop-
Cradle Song, by Hurry On) for 3600 gns.
last week evidently have no fears re-
garding the possibility of the war affect-
ing breeding and racing in Maoriland.
N.S.W. breeder H. S. Thompson wanted
Battle Song and arranged to go to
2500gns. for him, but at that figure
his agent was badly left. On breeding
it is reasonable to look to Battle Song
to sire stayers, and that was probably
the reason of competition for him being
so keen. Battle Song, who is eight years
old, was a stayer, his wins including the
Irish St. Leger, and the last race he won
before leaving England was the Bibury
Cup, H mile, at Salisbury.
* » . * *
Ajax, who is still at St. Aubin’s, where
he was mated to American time with half
a dozen mares that are to be sent to
California, goes to Widden in September
and is definitely to remain there two
seasons. Some of his progeny will prob-
ably be racing in America in 1944,
where there are two-year-old events as
early as January. If so, buyers at the
Sydney yearling sales in April of that
year may, through American results,
have some idea of the galloping ability
of Ajax’s youngsters. A little while ago
the California Horse Racing Board
decided that horses had to be sired as
well as foaled in California to make
them eligible for races restricted to
horses bred in that State, but it has been
productive of so much outcry that the
question is to be reopened and a poll
taken among breeders in the whole
of California. “The Blood Horse” says
it amounts to a vote of breeders who
have stallions against those who have
not and send some of their mares to
other States to be mated. As matters
stand, though foaled in California, Ajax’s
progeny from the mares shortly to go
to America would be barred from races
for Californian-bred horses.
* * * *
The late W. Booth bred two smart
two-year-olds in Melvale and Pallama,
and, though the latter is not up to the
former’s standard, he is a good-looking
colt and has pace above the average.
In his race at Rosehill he was going at
his ease ahead of the other runners for
nearly five furlongs, and though he was
weakening at the winning-post he lasted
long enough to stall off Epic Poem, who,
like her half-sister Loquacious, will prob-
ably develop into a fair stayer. Pallama,
who is by Hall Mark from Pavarti, by
Moabite from Pereskia, has plenty of
speed in his pedigree. Pavarti won
several short races, and her half-sister
Periwoo was a Gimcrack Stakes winner.
At the recent sales at Randwick Pavarti,
with a filly foal by Silver Standard, was
sold for 200gns. As Pavarti is only nine,
she should be good for many more years
of stud usefulness. At the same sale
Pallama realised 360gns., and his two
races last week put him well ahead of
that amount. His Randwick win demon-
strated gameness.
* 4= * *
There is already the same old whisper-
ing as to what the new Government may
do for Sydney clubs apart from those
racing at Randwick. Perhaps, but for
a long time the new Government will
have more serious matters to attend to
than interference with the control of
racing. Anyhow, who really wants it,
apart from those who, in most cases,
look for greater monetary returns as
shareholders in clubs? The A.J.C. has
no interest in that direction, and is prob-
ably making a much better job of con-
trolling racing than would some board
possibly subject to outside influences —
and not always for the best.
* * * *
Numerically there was a fair field for
the Rosehill Hurdle Race, but, while
Generous Gesture, who has plenty of
pace, jumped well, and won in a style
pointing to further success, the only
others that showed form which said much
for their immediate prospects as jumpers
were Windjammer, Xerxes and Sir Hugh.
Benefited by his race Xerxes upheld
that idea at Randwick on Saturday.
In his schooling lessons Mandowie had
shaped so well that his chance was highly
rated by his trainer, but he was in trouble
throughout, getting up very high at some
hurdles and blundering over others. It
was his first experience in company as
a hurdler, and perhaps he may do better
at his next attempt.
* * * *
Rosehill trainer W. A. Ross has not
been in the limelight for some time, and
now has a comparatively small string.
A win and a half gave him a profitable
day at Rosehill on Wednesday, and he
may not have long to wait before he again
scores with Jolly Times and Hydra. It
is against the latter that he is nasty at
the barrier, and that puts him at the dis-
advantage of starting from the outside
in his races. He has lots of pace, and
at the top of the straight in the Flying
Welter it did not seem as if Sioneel would
catch him. Hydra, though beaten by
Rodborough, again ran well on Saturday
at Randwick.
* H: * *
St. Constant, Sedunum and Marengo,
who had not raced for some time, re-
appeared in the Flying Handicap at
Randwick on Saturday, but, though they
all looked healthy, each was a bit too
burly to suggest winning possibilities.
Sedunum injured himself, so he is likely
again to be an absentee for some time.
Marengo is now owned by Mrs. R. S.
Burnstein, and is trained by C. Ryan. He
won two races this season when trained
by G. Price for “Miss Lorna Doone,”
and as he is only rising five he has plenty
of time to win in his new ownership.
* * * *
In everything associated with racing
there is the possibility of upsets, and fore-
casts as to the A.J.C.’s probable selec-
tions of stipendiary steward and assistant
stipendiary steward were wide of the
mark. Men of experience were chosen.
J. A. Gardiner, who was selected as
steward, first filled a similar position in
Queensland, and for the last 18 months
has been steward to the Northern Rivers
Racing Association. The assistant
steward, H. V. Kelaher, has been
with the North and North-west District
Association for about seven years as
handicapper and assistant stipendiary
steward. For several years he was secre-
tary of the Quirindi Amateur R.C.
The billet of stipendiary steward is
one that requires a judicial mind, as
well as ability to note what takes place
during the running of races. Always
an upholder of the stipendiary system,
I have been personally acquainted with
nearly all who have filled those positions
in Sydney. It is almost needless to say
that some were much better qualified
than others. While a few were slightly
lacking in practical knowledge, others
were inclined to be a trifle too lenient.
There would be little difficulty in naming
the most capable A.J.C. stewards we have
had, but the present team reads a strong
one.
Of course they must expect to be
assailed by fault-finding on the part of
losing backers who, without the aid of
field-glasses, have allegedly seen deeds of
daring by jockeys on losing horses they
have backed. Which reminds me of an
incident in the old pony days. A man
well known in the racing world and a
shareholder in one club was always find-
ing fault with the stewards for lack of
action. He was asked to assist tem-
porarily as a steward when one of the
regulars was absent owing to illness.
After he had acted at some meetings, and
nothing happened, an acquaintance said:
“Hey, what’s become of all those ‘dead
’uns’ you used to see? Now you’ve got
the chance you’re not doing much
about them.” “No,” he replied, “things
are different when you are not losing
your money ; and, in addition to watching
a race without bias, you listen to evi-
dence that leaves no doubt as to some
supposed non-triers having been genuinely
backed by those connected with them.”
We still have plenty of racing authorities
who see a non-trier in nearly every beaten
horse they back.
« * * *
On Tuesday of next week entries close
for all the important handicaps of next
spring in Sydney and Melbourne as well
as those races for horses now yearlings.
* * * *
There is no likelihood of High Caste
going to America, but what a good pro-
position he would be for a big handicap
over there! A mile and a quarter is the
distance at which most of the richest
are run, and, as heavy weights are not
favored by handicappers in the States, it
is improbable he would be asked to
carry much over 9st. With a minimum
of 6.13 they rarely went that high at
one time, but now they occasionally get
up to 9.4. That is a pound more than
Mioland was set to carry at Pimlico
(Baltimore) after his good form at Santa
Anita, and he now rates as the best
handicap horse in America. The chances
are that handicappers over there would
not like to rate a “foreigner” better than
their best, and consequently High Caste
would get in at a weight that would make
him hard to beat if he struck his best
Australian form. He is such a good
weight-carrier that if he did win one good
handicap the extra poundage he might
receive would scarcely stand in the way
of his success in another. However, it
is probably waste of space discussing
what might be in the case of High Caste,
but it would never surprise if the owner
of Gold Salute decided his horse was
worth a trip to America.
* * * *
The Duke of Gloucester’s Cup was one
of the features of the meeting at Timaru
(M.L.) this month. When the Duke was
in Maoriland a few years ago he pre-
sented a cup to the Racing Conference
for amateur riders. The owner of the
winner holds the cup for a year, and
receives a miniature for his permanent
possession. This year it was won by
G. H. Paul’s Norse, who was fifth favorite
in a field of 15. The Cup does not take
place at the same meeting each year, and
in the six years it has been decided no
owner or trainer has won it more than
once. G. G. Beatson, who had a mount
on the recent occasion and won in 1938
on Soho, has ridden in it five years, miss-
ing it only when it was run in Dunedin
in 1939.
* * * *
A run through the A.J.C.’s list of
licensed trainers and permits to train
suggests it would stand a deal of revision.
In America the Horseman’s Guild in
Maryland is agitating for a board of
examiners before whom trainers would
have to appear before being granted a
license. Presumably they would have
to show they were something more than
“horse-minders” who got more as punters’
or bookmakers’ —the latter still illegally
exist in America—advisers than from the
few horses in their care. It would be
nonsense to say that the names appear-
ing in the A.J.C.’s lists are all those of
men genuinely training horses.
* * * *
Trainers’ instructions often beat riders.
Some horses are at their best when
allowed to bowl along in front at an
early stage. Still, experience does not
always teach trainers, and at a recent
meeting I could not understand why a
horse that invariably does best under
those conditions was being held in behind
two or three others. There was nothing
amiss. The rider was simply obeying
instructions, the trainer going in for a
change of tactics. The result was that
when some of the other runners put in
their claims the horse was swamped in
the rush, and, though genuinely backed,
finished much nearer last than first. Ex-
periments are all right at times, but in
racing it generally pays best to stick to
the methods that in the past gave the
most satisfactory results.
* * * *
Doubt attaches to what would have
won the Encourage Stakes at Rosehill
if the chances of three or four had not
been affected when five or six horses
bunched up nearly a furlong from home,
and some suffered in the scramble. As
well-backed Haran was one it might be
inadvisable to allow his failure to count
greatly against him. Jolly Times finished
strongly to beat Rhythmic, who looked
a winner when he got his head in front
just before Metallize, in squeezing
through, caused sufficient trouble to
earn his rider, Knox, two months’ sus-
pension, Some jockeys are hard to con-
vince that rules must be observed, but
one would have thought a veteran like
Knox would, so soon after completing
a term of punishment, have avoided repe-
tition of a similar offence. The favorite,
Crowon, was caught in the barrier, and
was last throughout. Hard luck for his
connections, as, now that the books are
-aware he is reckoned to be back to
form, they will keep him on the safe
side,
* * * *
Prince Ariel, favorite at 6 to 4, made
a great bid for the Adelaide Cup.
He led a hundred yards from home,
but was outstayed by the lightly-
weighted Westralian Yodvara, a son of
Yodelist (Valais-Queen Warbler). In-
dignity repeated the tactics that enabled
him to win the Australian Cup, but
though after going five furlongs he held
a lead estimated at 20 lengths, and was
still in command entering the straight, he
could not see it out, finishing third,
three lengths behind the winner. In-
dignity is in the V.R.C. Grand National
Hurdles and, going on his run of last
week, he will be quite ready for that
race. He carried 8.5 in the Cup.
* * * *
A feature of English sporting papers is
the number of girls now advertising for
positions with horses, also the number
wanted for that class of work. Where
men are required for stables, there is
generally the proviso of “not eligible
for military service.” With so many
jockeys joining up, the services of girls
capable of riding work are likely to be in
strong demand. Two or three years ago
there was quite an agitation for races
for women riders to be put on at recog-
nised meetings in England, and that may
yet come about.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Accounts of Joe Louis’s recent scraps
have all carried the suggestion that Joe
is finding it harder to win his fights. Still,
Joe goes on winning ’em. His latest
victim was Buddy Baer, a couple of
stone heavier than Joe. In the first
round Buddy knocked Joe through the
ropes, after which Joe waded in fiercely.
He damaged Buddy severely, and in the
sixth had him twice on the canvas, Joe
suffering a gashed eye in the process.
The second time Buddy went down was
close to the end of the round, and when
he got up the bell was sounding. Appar-
ently not hearing it owing to the din
the 40,000 crowd was kicking up, Joe
let Buddy have a terrific right punch,
and, Buddy being still unconscious when
the bell went for the seventh, ref.
Donovan called Joe the winner. When
he eventually came to Buddy put in a
claim for the title on the ground that
he’d been knocked after the bell, and
the Boxing Commission was due to con-
sider the claim when this page went to
the printer.
Footbrawl
Just on 20,000 braved the weather at
M.C.G. to watch the V.F. League’s
knock-out matches, and £ 1526-odd was
collected for patriotic funds. Few of the
teams were up to full strength, and the
need for quick scoring turned the games
into bustling rushes with bursts of long
kicking and high marking. Melbourne
disposed of Carlton, Essendon and Fitz-
roy; Collingwood beat Richmond and
Geelong, and then fought a pitched battle
with St. Kilda to win by a point. In the
final ’Wood tackled Melbourne in the
rain, got the lead early and held it to
win by another point, 3.2 to 3.1.
Despite bad weather about 6000 went
to Sydney C.G. and watched a Victorian
side give the locals a lesson. The N.S.W.
men were outclassed by the size and skill
of their opponents, and, except in the third
quarter, when the visitors let them have
a kick or two, took little more part than
the spectators. They managed to score
5.12 to the Victorians’ 15.15, the latter
finding the wet ground and greasy ball
to their liking. With insurance money
added to the gate, the Lord Mayor’s
fund will get about £550 out of it.
* * * •
Randwick, Western Suburbs and
Drummoyne all led their opponents at
“lemons” in Saturday’s round of Rugby
Union matches —and all were beaten.
Second-half superiority of the Eastern
Suburbs forwards gave that team an 8-3
victory over Randwick ; Western Suburbs
soon lost its IT3 lead over University,
■the Students piling on 26 points (29-11);
and St. George, down 3-10, came to life
against the tiring Drummoyne lot, finish-
ing with 14 to 10.
Manly and Parramatta played an even
and vimful game till “Parra.” was granted
a penalty try. That seemed to take the
heart out of the Villagers, and it ended
19-11. Gordon and North had a bitter
struggle in the mud. The Highlanders
collected a couple of penalty goals early
and held on grimly — 6-nil.
Uni. is still on top, with East and
Parramatta next.
Physically and spiritually as stout a
yachtsman as ever handled a tiller
or reefed a mainsail in Port Phillip?
Francis Joshua Bennell has sailed into
the sunset. He was a dentist with
a Collins-street practice who learnt navi-
gation in cruising to ports on the Vic-
torian coast to pull the teeth of the coun-
try population. He twice challenged the
yachtsmen of M-L. to contest the Tasman
crossing, and held the record for the
swiftest run from Melbourne to Tassie.
When in practice in Geelong he ran for
Mayor and won twice. Then he went
to the 1914-18 war, and returned to set
up in Collins-street. Despite his bulk
he was the nimblest member of the crew
of his little auxiliary yacht Oimara in a
seaway. He was 67.


FOR COMFORT AND DURABILITY
No. 163.
■TUMBA"
“PRIDE OF THE ROAD.”
£ll/8/6
(COMPLETE)
A high-grade
Saddle with
narrowest
possible grip
and comfort-
ab 1 e no n-
chafing seat.
Fi r s t - class
materials used
throughout.
N.S.W. freight on
saddles Paid for Cash
with Order. Our Catalogue
is Free! Send for one.
WALTHER t STEVEHSOM ETJj
39S CEORCE ST. SYPHEY
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SljjK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A’CORN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a Gd. packet will do this for you without pain o'
inconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
SILK at 6d. per packet. Packed by FELTON.
GRIMWADE & DUE RUINS, LTD., Melbourne.
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. B21 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
SIMDRU
SJPWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“That Certain Something”
Probably the least appreciated and
most important man in the making of a
film is the director; he is so much a part
of it that the work of the best of them
is recognised as easily as the features of
the players—for instance, the unmistak-
able stamp of an Ernst Lubitch comedy,
or the mark of John Ford on his action
dramas, like “Hurricane” and “Stage-
coach.” Where a stage-play is made
before the audience’s eyes in a few hours,
a film is made over many months of
half a hundred bits and pieces that are
later out and strung together in
the finished production. And the one
man who must have the whole film in
mind, the flow of it, the working up to
a dramatic or comedy peak and the
climax, is the director. Before he starts
on the film, and while he is making it,
he must know the finished article as
completely and as thoroughly as the con-
ductor of an orchestra knows his score.
The second task of the director is, of
course, to roost over each scene with an
eagle eye picking out any flaws in action
and speech and in a hundred and one
other details. As a novelist may write
and rewrite a paragraph or chapter a
dozen times until it satisfies him, so a
director will put the players through a
scene 20 times and more until he is satis-
fied that it fits properly into the whole
film. All of which leads up to the
greatest obstacle to Australian films.
Even “Forty Thousand Horsemen,”
the best Australian film yet made,
was not well-directed; good material
and plenty of spectacular action more
or less concealed such shortcomings
of direction as awkward speech and ges-
ture, an uneven narrative, and the over-
emphasis of certain scenes in relation to
the story as a whole.
The director of “That Certain Some-
thing,” showing currently at Sydney May-
fair, is hailed as a “successful Holly-
wood ' director.” Certainly he has man-
aged to preserve some measure of con-
tinuity in an anaemic, moth-eaten story —
although some scenes are considerably
overemphasised, particularly a dreadful
opening attempt at comedy—and in the
latter parts of the film lie has managed
to impart to it a little of what is called
“polish,” guiding the players so that
their speech and actions appear unre-
hearsed or spontaneous. This polish is
all to the good, and is something new in
an Australian film. Dialogue is loud
but inconsequential. There is also
that devastating delivery of comic lines
punctuated by lengthy pauses, evidently
for the audience to assimilate the joke ;
there is shameless padding out; and there
is, for the first quarter of the film, a
ruinous attempt to impress the title of it
upon the audience by having all and
sundry in the cast puzzling over the
words “that certain something,” as
though they were the cryptic utterance
of an international statesman.
The second —possibly the greatest—
fault of those attempting to make Aus-
tralian films lies in their selection and
even conception of a suitable story.
Early English films failed dismally be-
cause they were a poor imitation of the
slick, well-presented Hollywood stuff.
When the English studios got on to their
own writers, their own ideas and their
own outlook, however, they turned out
films equal to and better than the Holly-
wood variety ; films which were as char-
acteristically English as John Bull him-
self ; films like “Pygmalion,” “On the
Night of the Fire” and dozens of others.
The French studios, too, make —possibly
made—excellent films which are nothing
like the English or Hollywood brand ;
they are peculiarly French and ingrained
with the characteristics of French litera-
ture —particularly a deep, inborn sense
Dick Bentley and Clem Dawe in a spot of damnfoolery in “Sunny Side
Frolics” —Sydney Royal’s outbreak of vaudeville.
of humor. That is what the Australian
film-people will have to realise —that until
they make films with an Australian out-
look and Australian material their pro-
ductions will be as false as the work of
an Australian author trying to write a
masterpiece of Russian literature. “Forty
Thousand Horsemen,” for example,
succeeded because it had a story that was
Australian, it was played by Australians
and told in an Australian fashion.
“That Certain Something” is a length
of flapper-fodder which might be
expected in a twopenny “True Lurv”
magazine or something. It’s all about a
wench from a stocking factory who battles
her way to the leading role in a film
made by a visiting American film-pro-
ducer. All the usual artifices are there
—the snooty rival, the producer’s grudge
against her, the broken lurv-affair, be-
cause the ’ero didn’t make a 30-second
explanation of his actions, and so forth
—and they are all dealt with in the usual,
detailed, enervating manner.
The one heartening feature about the
opus is that most of the players show
very promising ability. Megan Edwards
is a presentable lass and seems capable
of what most of the Hollywood “stars”
turn in—many of them are only the
director’s puppets —and Howard Craven,
as the chief male interest, has an easy,
natural manner and a good deal of ex-
perience with repertory societies to back
him up. Experienced Lou Vernon has, un-
fortunately, to play the American film-
producer, but he handles the part with
gusto and originality, Charles Kilburn,
who is called upon to hang about most
of the scenes nursing a lapdog, shows
surprising poise and suggests a quiet sense
of comedy; it would be interesting to
watch him in something which gave him
some opportunity to show his paces.
These and the supporting players—and
others in other films —have all that is
necessary to make f.a.q. film entertain-
ment. Backed by a good writer, an imagi-
native director and the right material,
there should be nothing to hold them
back. The material? How many stories are
there in the building of the overland tele-
graph line, of the transcontinental rail-
way, of the Kalgoorlie water scheme, in
the mines at Kalgoorlie, in the haulage
men pushing heavy duty trucks through
western Queensland, the N.T; and N.
Westralia! What about the early ex-
plorers or the story of the wreck and
mutiny on Houtman’s Abrolhos a few
hundred years ago? Any film-producer
who can’t find a story in Australia or
Australian history should try something
else for a living.
* * * *
“Before I Hang”
In this light romantic comedy that ever-
popular old actor Boris Karloff has an-
other of the sympathetic roles in which
he excels. Once again he is a benevolent
old gentleman—this time a widower with
a charming daughter and 23 foster-
children whom he has adopted and cared
for since the deaths of their various
parents, all old school friends of his. He
is wealthy, and takes a pleasure in doing
kindly things for strangers. The story
opens with another of his school friends
dying and leaving an only son destitute
and friendless. Mr. Wettingham at once
offers help, but the proud youth declines
to accept assistance. He struggles to fend
for himself, but fails, and is at last
driven to embarking on a career of crime,
and in no time finds himself in gaol on a
charge of bank robbery. At the crucial
moment Mr. Wettingham arrives on the
scene, puts up bail, refunds to the bank
from his own pocket and starts the grate-
ful young man in a good job. The story
closes with Mr. Bettingham bestowing his
blessing upon the youth and his own
daughter, with the 23 foster-children as
a charming background.
Lovely thought, but not strictly in
accordance with grim fact. The fact
is that Boris is at Sydney Capitol
again as a scientist with a formula
for restoring youth to the aged. In
the process of experimenting he inocu-
lates himself with blood from a freshly-
executed murderer, soon finds himself
developing homicidal tendencies and,
after a string of stranglings, comes to a
nasty end himself.
* * * ♦
“Kit Carson”
We hasten to take back all unpleasant
things said about the Australian publicity
people in America. In this mixture of
history and scouts and Injuns at Sydney
Plaza, one of the doughty Carson’s off-
si ders brings down his redskins with a
boomerang. His claim that it k.o.’s
them, scalps them and returns carrying
the scalp is an allowable exaggeration—
the point is that he does throw it with
the right action.
Kit Carson seems to be one of those
semi-mythical early American heroes of
the Buffalo Bill calibre. Portrayed here
by the massive Jon Hall he does every-
thing expected of him and pulls off the
incredible feats of daredevilry that make
’em leap in their seats on Saturday after-
noons. The finish leaves the question of
whether Kit or the army captain landed
the goil, but Saturday-afternooners aren’t
likely to worry much about that.
* * * *
‘‘The Road to Zanzibar”
Bob Hope seems to be about the best
of the American comedians coming on
the screen these days, and the plaintive
Bing Crosby, surprisingly, makes an ideal
comedy partner for him. This, at Sydney
Prince Edward, is the type of light non-
sense, with the barest shred of a story,
that suits the pair down to the ground,
and they make it an even brighter show
than their last one. Dorothy Lamour
again fills in as pretty background.
STAGE AND CONCERT
Orchestra and Bass-Baritone
Bernard Heinze put the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra through a mixed pro-
gramme for the opening of the orches-
tral season at Sydney Town Hall. It
began with Bach (the Brandenburg Con-
certo No. 3) and ended with a Polka and
Fugue from Weinberger’s “Schwanda,
the Bagpiper.” Between were a bracket
of three songs sung by the South Aus-
tralian Arnold Matters, whom Melba
put on the road to success in Europe in
1929, Elgar’s Second Symphony and the
Debussy piece “L’Apres Midi d’un
Faune.”
Matters sang easily and intelligently.
The bold, deep notes of “Within These
Sacred Bowers” from Mozart’s “Magic
Flute” were a little beyond his powers,
but he brought a confident light and
graceful tone to Papageno’s aria from
the same opera and to Rossini’s “La
Calunnia” from “The Barber of Seville.”
Heinze here had some difficulty in re-
straining the volume of his orchestra.
The Elgar symphony was set as the
piece de resistance for the orchestra, and
was handled vigorously and in the grand
manner, but the music was florid and over-
elaborate compared with the simple aus-
terity of the Bach concerto. Neville
Amadio’s playing of the flute in the
“Faune” was a delight.
ARTBURSTS
Knight Lionel Lindsay is one of this
country’s most prolific art-workers. Fol-
lowing on the National Gallery’s display
of its own personal collection of his out-
put—the biggest collection of any Aus-
tralian artist in any public gallery—Mel-
bourne Sedon Galleries have blossomed
out with a show of his water-colors,
tinted drawings, etchings, drypoints, aqua-
tints and woodcuts. He is' the same
Lionel Lindsay in all the mediums, dili-
gently searching for the conventionally
picturesque and illustrating his viewpoint
with uncommon deftness. No medieval
monk ever decorated a missal with more
painstaking care than he has used in
carving the delicate tracery of the iron-
work and its shadows on the wall behind
it in “Spanish Still Life,” and no mosaic
worker ever beat the zoological accuracy
of his “The White Peacock.” But with
all his technical dexterity, his land-
scapes don’t sing, and the separating of
his water-colors from his tinted drawings
is a distinction without a difference. The
water-colors are tinted drawings rather
than impressions, and they seldom go
much below the surface.
* * * *
Miss Jo Sweatman, whose artistic
wares are hanging at Melb. Athenaeum,
has never wavered in her factual method
of portraying Victorian landscape. We
know that this is a wattle and what
wattle it is, and we know this is a gum
and what branch of the eucalypt family
it belongs to —if we have the necessary
botanical knowledge. The drama of light
and shade escapes her, except in some of
her smaller sketches, where she takes a
hurried peep behind the scenes and
comes out with the hint of an impression.


MACMILLAN BOOKS
THE BRIGHT PAVILIONS
By Sir Hugh Walpole
In his latest novel, Sir Hugh A¥alpole takes the
famous Kerries Saga back to Elizabethan times.
Against a full background of that stirring period,
he sets the lives of two Herries brothers —the
one a man of action, and the other a mystic.
Price 14/-; posted 15/-.
A KIPLING TREASURY
A collection of some of Kipling’s best stories,
with a few poems, in a pocket-size volume of
320 pages.
Price 5/9; posted 6/-.
CURTAIN CALLS
A selection of 12 short plays by modern authors.
With a brief introduction and a few notes.
Price 3/6; posted 3/9.
TO-DAY AND FOREVER
By Pearl S. Buck
Thirteen stories of China. One thread runs
through them all—the effect of the new age on
the Chinese people, culminating in the
Japanese war.
Price 10/6; posted 11/-.
These books may be obtained from booksellers;
wholesale only from
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE AND LONDON, W.C.3.
MANY NEVER
SUSPECT CAUSE
OF BACKACHES
[This 013 Treatment Often Brings
Happy Relief
It is surprising how quickly many sufferers
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys. _ , , ,
Your kidneys contain. 15 miles of tiny tubes
or filters which strain the waste and acids
from the blood. A healthy person should pass
3 pints a day and so get rid of 3 pounds of
Waste matter.
If your kidneys don’t work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. Fre-
quent or scanty passages with smarting and
burning are further evidence that something
is wrong with the kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait 1 Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . •
used successfully the world over by millions
of people suffering with backache and other
kidney disorders. They give quick relief and
Will help flush out the 15 miles of kidney
tubes. So be sure you get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS,
A WOMEN'S
LETTER
The Melba Memorial concert was set
for May 19, Melba’s birthday. The big
moment of the night was the unveiling
of the plaque to Melba. This is on the
wall, near the top door on the left of the
hall as you enter from the vestibule. It
is the nearest point to the entrance to
the stage mostly used by the great singei.
Arthur Murch designed the plaque, and
Lord Lurgan, who had treasured the
memory of Melba’s encouragement when
he was a student, made its erection pos-
sible by giving all the earnings from his
Australian tour with the A.B.C.
The voice of Melba was heard again
in the Town Hall. The final aria of “La
Boheme,” sung by the diva at her last
appearance at Covent Garden, and then
her short speech of farewell touched the
hundreds of listeners. A great laurel
wreath with the letter M in gold stood
out in relief against the base of the plat-
form. A souvenir programme with a
striking photograph of Melba was sold.
With badges and tickets of the art union,
the prizes of which were pictures of
Dame Nellie given by Lady Gowrie, the
sales amounted to over £4O, the Mayor's
Patriotic Fund benefiting. Melba, who
raised over £lOO,OOO for soldier causes
•in the last war, would have been pleased
over this.
The Governor-General and Lady
Gowrie had been the guests of honor at a
dinner given by Mayor Crick and his
Mayoress in the Mayor’s rooms. This
made history, it being the first dinner
party to be given there. Lord
Wakehurst also sampled Town Hall food,
as did daughter Henrietta Loder. The
George Armstrongs (he’s the great singer’s
son) were other guests ; so were Shirley
Crick, Ivie Price, the Roy Hendys, the
Frank Cranes. Lady Cowrie’s speech
at the unveiling was simple and sincere.
John Lemmone, Melba’s lifelong friend,
was in the audience. Honorable men-
tion to Mary Allworth for the laurel-
wreath badge she designed for the pro-
gramme-sellers.
Sydney is to have a lunch-hour music
club. A group of enthusiasts led by
Sydney de Vries, Margaret Gillespie, of
Turramurra, and Muriel Henty propose
to form a club with the purpose of hold-
ing a series of fortnightly concerts be-
tween one and two o’clock. The first
and third Mondays in the month are Ijie
days decided on, and it is proposed to
have the first concert on July 7. The
beautifully-appointed new hall in History
House in Young-street has been chosen.
Subscription for the series will be one
guinea. Entrance cost will be 2s. for
each member and 3s. for visitors. These
prices include a light lunch. If you wish
to help the scheme along Sydney de
Vries, at the Conservatorium, or Mar-
garet Gillespie, of Roseburn, Turra-
murra, will be glad to enrol you. Slogan
seems to be “The best music by the best
Australian artists.”
The Nigel Smiths certainly know how
to stage a bright party. Their Monte
Carlo night for Sue Other Gee, the
Voluntary Aid Queen in the Red Cross
Queen stakes, turned their home,
Knellerpore, into a place of light and
cheerfulness and friendly rivalry. The
rivalry was in such games for the higher
intelligentsia as housie-housie, crown-and-
anchor or their first cousins. And here’s
a tip. If you ever want a good showman
for crown-and-anchor, beg, borrow or
steal Norman Hill. He filled the dining-
room, where this game’s addicts eddied
and swirled, with joyous chuckles. He
said to George Falkiner, who had come
up from the big billiard-room, where he
lost practically his all at a game resem-
bling roulette: “Come on, put on your
pound.” When the newcomer ruefully
replied that he had no money left, he said
briskly: “Well, what about putting on a
ram?”
In the drawing-room Mrs. Reg Bet-
tington successfully managed the games
of skill. In the hall opposite to the
dining-room there was a bar set up, and
here cartoonist Jimmy Bancks mixed
each man’s poison according to his taste.
Mrs. Nigel Smith’s frock of ruby velvet
was the right color note for the happy
night. Unusual dishes at the supper were
concocted from recipes in the Red Cross
Shanghai cookery book. The title of this
is Bon Appetit, and Mrs. Smith has
handled its sales for the Red Cross in
masterly fashion. Sue Other Gee looked
as pretty an aspirant for queenship as
could be desired.
This is a Freeman study of Sister Edith
Eglington, who, with Sister Margaret
McCandless, has just completed a rapid
course in wireless and other matters
necessary for work in the Centre. Both
have joined the and will leave
Sydney on June 1 for Oodnadatta via
Melbourne and Adelaide after a round
of farewell parties. They are R.P.A.
trainees, with certificates in obstetrics,
and Sister Eglington has specialised as
a theatre sister. She comes of a pioneer
N.S.W. North Coast family whose mem-
bers have been prominent in agriculture
and education, she herself gaining high
honors in music before answering the call
of the suffering. They expect to spend
two years in the outback as a sort of
preliminary canter to further service.
Their friends have known for some
time that the Albert Doyles would soon
be leaving Sydney the poorer by their
absence. Everybody has liked the
Senior Consul for the U.S.A.—lately he
has been Acting Consul-General. Bright-
faced Mrs. Doyle, too, has been one of
Sydney’s most popular personalities for
the past 10 years. The three daughters
of the family must feel almost like
dinkum Aussies, for it is 12 years since
the family came to Australia. Their first
Consular appointment was to Brisbane.
Already Mr. and Mrs. Doyle are being
booked up for farewells —official, semi-
official and just plain friendly. The
American Society will combine its good-
bye to them and its welcome to the just-
arrived Consul-General for the U.S.A.,
Ely E. Palmer.
Elsie Hannam, B.A. (Hons.) Manchester,
has been made the new principal of
Meriden Church of England Grammar
School for Girls, Strathfield, and will
be on deck at the commencement of the
second term. Miss Hannam has had a
brilliant scholastic career, and was for
four years headmistress of Marsden C.
of E. Girls’ School, Bathurst. Social
work and the Australian Student Chris-
tian movement are her chief interests out-
side academic affairs.
“Funny Side Up Frolics” has even
more pretty dancers and dances than the
first “Funny Side Up” show. Mane
Bremner, as glittering as a bird of para-
dise, sang about a nightingale m Berkeley
Square and told how “The King Is Still
in London” to great applause Clem
Dawe, Kitty Bluett, Dick Bentley and
other laugh-makers must have made all
women present last Friday pleased that
the sex no longer wears corsets too
much cracking of laces otherwise.
Just missed the century to which she
aspired by 14 months, Mrs. Anne Dick-
son, of Rose Bay. Daughter of_E dwa * d
Austin, pioneer storekeeper of Bathurst,
who dealt largely in wool and gold, Mrs
Dickson had many memories of the old
days, including a visit to the Turon as
a young girl. She was an alert old lady,
interested in the affairs of the world, and
almost to the last wrote letters to family
and friends in copperplate handwriting,
There are several great-grandchildren.
,
Saturday reminded ot rommy Moore s
poem “I Stood on the Beach.” Like the
little barque he wrote about, it started
off with everything (except the barometer)
in its favor. It was sunny, it was warm,
there was a march through the city of
mechanised troops, plus a company ot
Free French, there were speeches by the
Governor and by our new Premier in
Martin-place, there was to be a recruit-
ing rally. Then, just in the midst ot the
doings, slosh came the ram. However,
the crowd did hear Premier McNeil s
speech. Very straightforward and manly
it was, with just a touch of emotion. Lord
Wakehurst, too, was heard, and the crowd
in Martin-place sang “Land of Hope
and Glory.” As the wind bared its
gnashing teeth, there was a hurry and a
scurry for the milk bars and teashops in
the neighborhood. And soon the streets
were deserted, and the flags, so gay and
blithe before, hung drenched. The re-
cruiting speakers, however, finished their
job
T , D • Cnpiptu hp-iH n rp
The Royal Empire Society he
ception, by dinner, in the
E“ D at trd" Vs" was’at the
party, and its soul-stirring appeal came
in the screening of a film of scarred and
bombed Coventry. This and another first
release, “Australia Marches with Britain,”
held the guests silent and tense. Presi-
dent Ernest Fisk and his lady were host
and hostess. Her sapphire-blue crepes
were caped in ermine. Archbishop Mowll
and Mrs. Mowll, Lieutenant-General C.
G. N. Miles and his wife, Mayor Crick
and his Mayoress were in the official
group. U.S.A. Consul-General Ely Palmer
and Consul Albert Doyle and the Consul-
General for the Netherlands were in the
hundreds. Mrs. Vrisakis, wife of Greece’s
Consul-General, was among the attrac-
tive ; so was the wife of Keith Smith,
who wore black lace and white Arctic
fox.
Handel’s Harp Concerto in B Flat will
be played by Una Gibson with the Syd-
ney Symphony Orchestra on Saturday
night next. Believed to be its first per-
formance in Australia, it will be broad-
cast in the national programme. Una has
been harpist with the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra since her return from London,
where she studied at the Royal College
of Music—she held a scholarship there.
She was a member of the first orchestra
attached to the college, and had the in-
teresting experience of playing under the
leadership of Dr. Malcolm Sargent, Sir
Thomas Beecham, Eugene Goossens and
Sir Adrian Boult.
Singing-girl Gwen Taylor, who arrived
in London just before Mars got busy,
has met her share of it. She was
injured in a raid, and was for a time very
ill in hospital. Before her misadventure
Gwen was working in the Ministry of
Labor (there being little doing in the
singing world). Now she is back, in the
Ministry working harden than ever for
victory, which she feels is as certain to
bloom for Britain as the crocus in the
parks is blooming now. When she wrote
England was decked with spring. She
had just been to an exhibition of Augus-
tus John’s pencil drawings, was absorb-
ing every music event of note that hap-
pened along, had seen “Dear Brutus’
and had had a night of frivol at a West
End hotel surrounded by uniforms of
practically every German-occupied coun-
try in Europe.
Empty seats and topcoats were seen at
the Symphony Concert last Saturday.
Both were probably due to the cold bite
in the air which had got its teeth into
Sydney about midday. There were fur
coats and coats of velvet, but lots of
people from the far-olf suburbs just
turned up in daytime togs. Even the
Empire Society’s reception did not lure
music-lovers like Dr. Crawford Robertson
and his, as always, smoothly-plumaged
little wife from the first orchestral con-
cert of the season. Another absorbed
listener was Mrs. Stacpoole, who sat with
Mrs. Rouse. Mrs. Gardner, a visitor
from England, who returns there with
her husband very soon, wore the most-
remarked coat of the evening. Fitting to
the waist and then flowing into fullness,
it was of rose velvet, collared in ermine.
Mrs. Gardner was with the Ernest Lash-
mars. Poinsettia-red was Mrs. Bertie
Kelly’s velvet coat. Violet Roche, as
occupied with plans for her Munitions
Queen as ever Guy Fawkes was with his
gunpowder plot, was with Dora Payter.
All concertgoers know conductor Ber-
nard Heinze, and handclapping was loud
and long for him and his orchestra.
Arnold Matters, from South Australia,
got his best effects with his Slander
aria from “The Barber of Seville.” As
you listened to him you seemed to feel
the crawling slug of slander slowly
petrify the vertebrae. Then you reflected
that anyway now there’s a law of libel,
and if anyone did get the venomed
tongue to work about you it might be
worth quite an income. Mrs. Matters was
there, in pastel-shaded lames. The
singer’s sister, too, was in the audience.
Priminister Menzies brought the luck
to his party. The ’plane that brought
him might be looked upon by his fol-
lowers in the Federal House as the blue
bird of happiness. Now that Boothby’s
come home with the bacon there’ll be
no scrambled eggs among the members.
Mrs. Menzies, Billy Hughes, Acting P.M.
Fadden, Senator Foil and many others
of national importance, such as flashlight
photographers, radio men and so on,
were at the flying base to meet the home-
comer. One thing travel has done for
Mr. Menzies, it has speeded up his
speech. He doesn’t sound so much the
heavy Roman Senator. Our Priminister
always had something worth saying, but
it used to need a bit of unwrapping from
its verbal tissue. Mrs. Menzies was even
more smiling than usual when she greeted
her husband after his four months’
absence.
Tonight will be an occasion for the
wearing by Mrs. Brenac, wife of the
leader of the Free French movement here,
of the tortoiseshell bracelet brought from
Noumea and presented to her by Com-
mander Broche, who controls a detach-
ment of Free French forces. Tonight
the Andre Brenacs and the commander
will be the guests of honor of the Pacific
Islands Society. The party will be in
the Carlton Hotel, and after Mr. Brenac
has spoken on the present situation in
the Pacific so far as it concerns the estab-
lishments of the French Republic there
will be a programme of Islands music
and dancing. Ana Laurenson will dance
in the Samoan style.
Invitations for the cocktail party given
by members of the Young Chinese Relief
Movement last week were sealed with
a dragon. He was just a little dragon,
and seemed full of goodwill. A number
of ardent workers and their friends
gathered at Prince’s to discuss plans
for the Dragon Ball to be held
at the Trocadero on June 17. This
year the Australian Legion of Ex-
servicemen will help in organising the
ball, and Mrs. Pao, wife of China s
Consul-General, will receive the debs.
The plans were all talked over between
sips of sherry. A Choy Bow (lucky dip)
stuffed with 500 prizes will be an extra
money-raiser on the big night.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam . . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. Georee.’s St. (i
ABSOLUTELY SAFE!
...and gives INSTANT HEAT
A genuine Lane's Thermil Blue
Flame Stove is absolutely SAFE
and silent. No pricking. No prim-
ing. No pumping. Lights like a
gas stove and is hot instantly. No
pump valves or washers to replace.
Just one fuel, Kerosene. A fill lasts
8 hours. Entirely odourless and
HALF THE PRICE of a pressure
stove.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 444 of 1940.
BETWEEN DOLLIE ARCHEE Petitioner and
THOMAS ROY ARCHEE Respondent.
TO THOMAS ROY ARCHEE late of Cairns
in the State of Queensland and formerly
of Sydney in the State of New South
Wales Grocer.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DOLLIE
ARCHEE has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honor-
able Court on or before the Fifteenth day of
August One thousand nine hundred and forty-
one and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-second day of May,
1941.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
FRED A. NEWNHAM, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, Bull’s Chambers, 28 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends,
TO CECIL DESMOND ALOYSIUS CAREW
formerly of 44 Kilgour Street Geelong
in the State of Victoria but now of parts
unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife IDA
DOROTHY CAREW has instituted divorce
proceedings against you on the grounds of
adultery. Unless you enter an appearance in
the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court
of Victoria in Melbourne on or before the
19th day of June 1941 and file an answer in
the said office on or before the 30th day of
June 1941 the case may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs.
D. G. SULLIVAN, LL.B., of 468 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner.
WOULD LEONARD GEORGE BAKER, for-
merly of Charters Towers and Maryborough,
in the State of Queensland, or anyone know-
ing his whereabouts, please communicate with
the PUBLIC CURATOR, Brisbane?
WILL JAMES KENNEDY or ANNIE KEN-
NEDY, formerly of Charters Towers, Queens-
land, and children of JAMES KENNEDY, or
any persons knowing their whereabouts, please
communicate with the PUBLIC CURATOR,
Brisbane?
Melbourne
Chatter
Rain and a chill in the air made little
difference to the spirit of the Empire
Day crowd which was determined to see
the march through the city. The troops
got wet, as did the onlookers, but,
whereas the latter looked pale and un-
comfortable, the Diggers, in the pink of
condition, seemed impervious to the
worst that the elements could do. There
were not enough bands, but more flags
and streamers came out than usual. It
was school holidays, and the kids were
keen about every bit of the march, par-
ticularly the tanks, Bren-gun carriers and
glittering bayonets. At the tail-end of
each section came trucks plastered with
“Join your pals in the A.1.F.” notices,
a suggestion which was accepted here and
there along the route. Afterwards to the
tune of “Cookhouse Door” new recruits
marched into the Town Hall to eat a
four-course meal prepared in a mobile
kitchen in Swanston-street. Hosts were
the Lord Mayor and 40 of his suburban
offsiders. The tucker was of the stuff
that builds brawny troops —pea-soup,
snapper, roast beef and sultana pudding,
plus the frills of sauces, topped off with
celery, cheese, fruit and tea.
Collectors are well satisfied with the
Empire Day street appeal for the A.C.F.,
successful despite the weather. Proceeds
were raised mainly through sales of
buttons, of produce, jams, cakes, etc. (the
Salvation Army went in heavily for these
foodstuffs), and the spins of lucky wheels.
There, as always, it was the spruikers with
“oomph” who got the crowds. The
S.A.’s takings go to the Red Shield
Appeal, which cause has friends every-
where—for who hasn’t received letters
from troops overseas written on Red
Shield paper?
The picturesque wedding of Sue Den-
nett and Corporal James Barclay
Amhurst Cecil took place at St. John’s.
The flower-filled church had its comple-
ment of small choirboys, who filed down
the aisle to meet the bride and later lifted
their cherubs’ voices, and a stretch of
red carpet to the footpath. The unfold-
ing of the carpet was a signal in code
to the weather for the rain to move on
and give place to the sun. Guests, instead
of arriving like drowned rats, received
but a dewdrop apiece upon their orchids,
which, like luxury furs, were profuse.
The bridal gown of ivory satin had a
twinkle of pearls upon the shoulders, and
white hyacinths and gardenias bloomed in
the bouquet and in the half-circlet which
held the tulle veil in position. Attendants
Mrs. Cedric- Bright and Marie Stable,
who carried white bouquets, wore tiny
hats balanced at a risky angle and wide,
pearl-studded belts with their simplicity
frocks of white ninon. Snugly-garbed
friends inquiring if the girls were cold
received honest replies in the negative—
long bishop’s sleeves being given the
credit for such warmth that wasn’t pro-
vided by general excitement.
At the subsequent reception at 9
Darling-street ’groom’s pal Sergeant Bill
Rodie proposed the toast of the newly-
wedded pair, and best man (in sailor suit)
Harold Featherstone that of matron and
’maid. Other speechmakers were knight
Richard Linton (whose references to the
’groom’s blue-blood connections in
Britain brought blushes to the young
man’s tanned countenance) and bride’s
father, Fred Dennett, who thanked every-
body and expressed a wish for another
bumper wedding when the time comes
for young son Peter to consider matri-
mony. Among the ushers at the church
was Des Barrington, in Air Force uni-
form ; he is an old family friend and
Peter’s godfather. Among South Aus-
tralian guests present were the John
Chapmans and the Warren Bonythons,
themselves but recent acceptors of the
hymeneal bonds.
With the object of putting tea on the
map for those who didn’t know about it
already in this particular habitat, Dr.
Deborah Buller Murphy entertained
guests at the U.S. Cafe one afternoon.
Thus propaganda was scattered through
a commendable menu of hot and cold
morsels that melt in the mouth to the
cafe’s mission in life, funds for evacuated
and other British children. Part and
parcel of the music for the afternoon was
Mrs. H. S. McFarlane, whose voluntary
assistance is intermittently playing the
piano in the lounge and washing dishes
in the kitchen. Among those who did
justice to a piping hot mid-afternoon
snack, welcome while cold winds blew
above street level, were Mrs. Fred Thiel,
Mrs. Weber, of political mind and knot of
hair upon nape of neck, a brunette in
beige, Mrs. Buck Buchanan, and, in an
ensemble of vivid tomato tint, Mrs.
Peter Gebhardt.
From Spencer Shier comes accompany-
ing portrait of Betty Wallace Mitchell,
who recently became engaged to Lieut.
Carl Jess, A.I.F. abroad. Naturally
enough her patriotic interests include the
regimental comforts of the Muds and
Bloods; another of Betty’s activities is
the Y.M.C.A. canteen in Craig’s Build-
ings, where with elder sister Jean she
arrives regularly to do shifts alongside
coffee urns, pie-heaters and other gadgets
popular with recruits who have healthy
appetites.
Unobtrusively, the A.I.F. Women’s
Association carries on its good work
from its domicile at 437 Collins-street.
Since its inception the association has
assisted 700 families. Two trained
almoners, one on full time, the other on
half, tackle the inquiry jobs methodically.
After these interviews liaison officers in
each army unit assist in finishing the
cases and keeping in touch with the
women who have applied for assistance,
which ranges from financial and advisory
to just moral encouragement. The asso-
ciation gets co-operation from other wel-
fare movements and a fair tuning-in to
the ears of the pay office in Craig’s
Buildings. Apart from pay and mainten-
ance troubles, there are problems of
health, and assistance is often sought for
eye treatments and dental repairs (the
Dental Hospital is doing its best in its
crowded surgeries to give preference to
soldiers’ children). Wayward boys who
give their mothers grey hairs before their
time are another problem often solved.
Where the money comes from is too
long a story in these days of newsprint
restrictions, but the ways and means
committee is often surprised at the way
small sums mount up. ihere Mrs. Walter
Carnegie is convenor. Mrs. Kingsley
Norris is convenor of the sewing com-
mittee, which repairs clothes in an up-
stairs workroom, for clothing is often
needed in necessitous cases. The supply
can never cope with the demand for small
boys’ pants —out of stock as soon as they
come in. Mrs. Norris, who early in the
piece imagined that boys actually grew
out of their trousers, now believes that
nothing short of leather gives service
worthy of mention. Most valued member
of the association where boys’ clothes
are concerned comes from Hawthorn
and was during her career a tailoress.
She cuts down discarded “long-’uns,” and
makes with professional skill every week
one dozen pairs of boys’ pants.
An original raffle is in progress. James
Shepherd, of the Old Players and Play-
goers’ Association, is raffling himself at
Is. per ticket in aid of St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital appeal. He says he’s bought tickets
in blocks of land, in bulls, bullocks, sides
of sheep and sides of bacon, chests of
linen and cases of champagne, in dinner
parties for four and pound notes, all of
which prizes have their uses in the right
quarter. Regarding himself as a prize
he boasts that he’s not without virtue,
claiming good health and an amiable dis-
position. He says if marriage is con-
sidered as part of the win it’s O.K. with
him, but he’s a bit cagey about promis-
ing to be a handy man around the house
and garden for evermore.
Juveniles, too, can knit and they can
raise money. The smug proverb “Look
after the pennies and the pounds will
look after themselves” has its palatable
side, as illustrated by the £33,855 raised
by State-school children as their war effort
to date. Of that sum £12,502 has so far
been spent on wool and other materials.
An exhibition of the type of work which
the children do for the Red Cross and
A.C.F. was on show one day last week
(it being school holidays) at the Cam-
bridge-street State school in Colling-
wood.
Socks, long stockings, woolly leg pro-
tectors to be worn under seaboots, car-
digans, balaclavas, tin-hat linings and all
the rest of the knitted militants were
there. The standard steadily improves,
though toe-finishing still presents some
difficulties. There’s a committee of wives
of Education Department officers who
do the unpicking when necessary. Some
schools particularly request criticism and
thus improve by experience in errors.
Woollen rugs were a feature of the show,
single knitted squares being contributed
by either lone pupils or whole classes.
An example of ingenuity came along
from Grade VI girls of Geelong West
in the form of a crochet rug. All the
wool used was unpicked from discarded
cardigans, jumpers, etc. The color
scheme was good and the completed
whole something that might mean the
difference between a fair share of warmth
and freezing to death in an air-raid
shelter.
The boys, too, are knitting, and doing
it mighty well. An enterprising male
teacher in a diminutive rural school where
boys predominate learnt to knit himself
and taught the kids, and their parcels
come along regularly. In bigger centres
where there are more facilities the boys
do carpentry, making splints, etc., for
the Red Cross. Other contributions to
hospitals from Victorian youth include
hundreds of neatly-machined cotton
bags for pipes, tobacco and other odd-
ments, precious possessions that every
patient in hospital likes to have within
reach. The children love a bit of color ;
where they would get bored to death sew-
ing hems on plain face-washers, dusters,
etc., the making of color edgings or
appliqued Red Crosses add zest to the
job. Recently there’s been a holdup
over donors’ tags fixed to each article,
but the children weren’t worried ; they
copied the official marks with map of
Australia, block printing of their schools,
names, etc. Letters of acknowledgment
from men on active service or in hos-
pital throw the youngsters into ecstatic
excitement.
In spite of everything the arts persist.
Lionel Lindsay, Jo Sweatman and James
Flett made solo grades respectively at
Sedon’s, the Athenaeum and Le Meilleur
Cafe. Lionel, shivering at the thought
of Melbourne at the end of May, re-
mained in Sydney, giving the job of open-
ing speech to his pal of some 45 years’
standing Jimmy MacDonald. The latter
orated at length about the virtues of the
senior Lindsay, who seems to be inter-
ested in everything from ants to
palaeology.
James Flett had no formal opening for
his little show, but Jo Sweatman for the
first time acceded to the suggestion for
an official speech, Crosbie Morrison
rising to the occasion. Much of Miss
Sweatman’s work was done at Warran-
dyte, where her home is a country cot-
tage with a bushy garden and an experi-
mental plot of carnations, the evolution
of the various types of which she has
made a study. One of her large can-
vases is being raffled for the Red Cross,
and the Warrandyte branch of the Com-
forts is to receive all catalogue money.
Among Warrandyte visitors present on
the first day were Prof, and Dr. Ethel
Osborne and Miss Florence Thompson,
intends to practise.
Subject of this Athol Shmith photo,
is June Norris, who is to be married
on Friday, June 13, in Wesley College
chapel to Dr. Billy Bones. The couple
met at sea last year, since which time
the doctor has made several trips to
Australia as ship’s surgeon. The young
lady, who is the only daughter of well-
known architect Harry Norris and Mrs.
Norris, of Queen’s-road, is prepared to
remain in this country for some weeks
waiting for embarkation papers, after
which her future takes on a rosy tinge.
A honeymoon trip through the U.S. will
include Washington to make the acquaint-
ance of the ’groom’s family. Subsequent
destination will be Hollywood, in which
city of movies and magnates Dr. Bones
intends to practise.


THE SERVICE MAN
Crete Invaded.
“Ek Dum”: The attack on Crete by
Germans from Greece was an original
experiment about which, in its first
phases, the Germans had little to say.
Perhaps this meant a certain nervousness
about the outcome ; perhaps not.
The attack was preceded by a week of
propaganda. The world was told that
Crete was in a panic, that the British
Ambassador had “deserted” and that
some of the Greek Ministers, consumed
with terror, had hopped it to Asia.
Large concentrations of German ’planes
were noticed in southern Greece, and
there was systematic bombing on both
sides.
On the morning of Tuesday, May 20,
it was announced, on German authority,
that troops were landing by parachute
and glider in Crete and had obtained a
foothold.
The same evening Mr. Churchill told
the House of Commons that 1500
German soldiers wearing New Zealand
uniforms had landed in Crete, and that
their attempt to capture an Allied aero-
drome had failed. He repeated in a
second speech that Maoriland uniforms
had been used. Cairo G.H.Q.’s report
was:
Early this morning German parachutists
and air-borne troops attempted to secure a
footing in Crete. A number have already
been accounted for.
The Germans said they had merely
arrayed their Schirmtruppen in appropri-
ate khaki tropical kit, and threatened
that, if anybody made uniforms a pretext
for the shooting of surrendering Ger-
mans, 10 British prisoners would be
killed for one German.
The attacks were made by the shortest
route — i.e., from the Peloponnesus —on
the western end of the island. They were
preceded by heavy bombing of the naval
base at Suda Bay, and the first objective
obviously was the capture of the Malemi
aerodrome near the base of a peninsula
to the west of Canea and Suda Bay.
The enemy grabbed a military hospital
on the neck of the peninsula at the base
of Suda Bay. This lies halfway between
Canea and the naval anchorage. At 3 p.m.
on May 20 it was reported that the
attack on the aerodrome had failed and
that a number of Germans had been
rounded up, but they were only an
advance guard.
Despite bombing of their Greek bases,
the Germans continued during the night
of May 20-21 to arrive in waves.
The men and their equipment were
dropped separately and in sections at
prearranged spots. Parachutes were
colored differently according to unit and
purpose. Men who landed from troop-
carriers were dropped from 200 ft., the
parachutes opening automatically. The
landing operation took only a few
seconds.
On Wednesday Mr. Churchill added to
his account of the previous day. At 9
p.m. on Tuesday, though fighting con-
tinued, the situation was “well in hand.”
About 4.30 dive-bombers and Messer-
schmitts had made a determined attack
on Suda Bay and had been followed
immediately by glider troops and para-
chutists. Within two hours nearly 3000
had been accounted for.
About an hour later another attack
was made to the east near Retimo,
about 10 miles from Suda and at the
narrowest western part of the island.
Behind this point are many strong posi-
tions on the opposing slopes of the
Madares and Mt. Ida. The island is
here only seven miles wide, and penetra-
tion to the south would mean the isola-
tion of the western end of the island by
land route from Candia (Heraklion).
This operation began about 5.30 p.m.,
with a couple of hours or so of day-
light left.
Up to this point a full German air-
borne division seemed to have been in-
volved. This means 7000 men, made up
of rifle companies, two machine-gun com-
panies, an artillery regiment with 48 75’s,
anti-tank and A.A, companies and recon-
naissance, signaller and other subsidiary
units, using about 250 aircraft. Accord-
ing to Zurich, the Germans reported
having taken a number of points on the
island. They said that the attack, for
which “every preparation had been made
with every kind of weapon,” was the “be-
ginning of the decisive battle for Suez.”
There were substantial troop concentra-
tions in Greek ports, and the sky
swarmed with German ’planes.
The most serious admission made on
Wednesday was that of Mr. Alexander,
First Lord of the Admiralty, who said
enemy troop-carrying ’planes had landed
on aerodromes which had been captured
by parachutists and which were “tem-
porarily in enemy possession.”
On Thursday the campaign began to
take on an all-too-familiar aspect. For
three days waves of parachutists, dive-
bombers and troop-carriers had been
coming over the Aegean. General Frey-
berg, V.C., reported that his mixed
armies of Greek divisions and Maori-
landers were fighting superbly and hold-
ing on with the help of every able-bodied
civilian on the island.
Mr. Churchill’s statement that day was
more picturesque than informative.
Some of it was conflicting. He said in
one breath that “we have no air sup-
port in Crete because we have no aero-
dromes,” and in the next that “we still
hold the Candia aerodrome [it is 10 miles
from the city], although the Germans
are in what is called ‘occupation’ of the
town, probably meaning that they are
ensconced in a few buildings.” It takes
much more than ensconcement in a few
buildings in a city holding nearly 40,000
people to justify the use of the word
“occupation” in a military sense.
8.8. C. announced that, as it was im-
possible to operate fighters from ill-
equipped ’dromes which were subject to
air attack, the British commanders on the
spot had decided to withdraw the ’planes
remaining to prevent their being wasted.
People might well ask how, after
several months of R.A.F. operation
from Crete, it came about that the aero-
dromes were ill-equipped and why, after
the bitter experience in Greece, it was
decided to try to hold Crete when it was
most palpable that the enemy would
again have pronounced superiority in
the air.
Reading between the lines, the
Malemi ’drome must have fallen
almost at once. This was no laugh-
ing matter. It meant that the Ger-
mans held a small peninsula connected
to the mainland only by a narrow neck
of land ; that they must have the positions
commanding Canea, the new capital of
the island. The admission that they were
under fire from Suda Bay does not alter
the fact that, when they landed or cap-
tured artillery, as they must, the Suda
Bay naval base also must be under their
fire. It was a position far from pleasant.
The Royal Navy, as usual, had a
heavier role than it should have been
called on to carry. On the evening of
May 21 the Germans tried to make a
landing from the sea.
Their first attempt cost them two trans-
ports, a number of Greek caiques and
a destroyer. A second convoy of 30
vessels was turned away towards the
islands of the Aegean archipelagos when
attacked by British destroyers.
On Thursday night, there was a confi-
dent note about the Cairo communique,
which, while admitting that Germans had
rolled in from the sky all day on Wed-
nesday, told how Empire forces, assisted
by Greeks and Cretans, had three times
successfully counter-attacked, the enemy
losses being “even heavier than pre-
viously.” The situation at nightfall, ex-
cept at Malemi, was satisfactory.
General Freyberg’s personal summary
was:
We are hard pressed, and much depends
on the next few hours.
By May 24, though the Greek King
and his Government had moved to Cairo
—parachutists tried to capture the King
—matters had taken a somewhat better
turn. Except at the extreme west point
of the island, the British forces (in spite
of fresh influxes of Germans) were hold-
ing their own. Tough, experienced
posses of A.I.F. men and Maorilanders
prowled the beaches waiting for para-
chutists and troop-carriers, and inland
some sort of organisation had been estab-
lished,
British long-distance fighters and
bombers came into the picture. In the
course of 24 hours they inflicted great
damage on the Malemi ’drome and the
beaches and brought ten big Junker 52’s
down, beside 14 German heavy machines.
Other German troop-carriers crashed
on the narrow beaches, and many para-
chutists were dropped either into the sea
or left tangled in trees.
On Saturday afternoon the German
High Command issued its first com-
munique on the progress of the fighting.
It claimed that “the western part” of the
island was “firmly held,” but quoted no
geographical limits. It declared that
efforts by the British fleet to intervene
had been frustrated by the Luftwaffe and
that British tanks—Cairo admitted there
were some on the island —had attempted
to attack German forces but had been
driven off.
These reports were salted with German
and Italian radio allegations which some-
times placed British naval casualties as
high as four cruisers, including one
Leander, and three destroyers, with
auxiliaries and supply ships in varying
numbers.
Nothing was said in the German com-
muniques of the fact that the convoy of
30 troopships—mostly small Greek vessels
—mentioned by Mr. Churchill as haying
been attacked had virtually been wiped
out along with 6000 men. Incessant air
attacks of the Luftwaffe made rescue of
the screaming sailors who clogged the
night-veiled sea impossible for the British
ships. One Italian destroyer, which
seemed to be the sole escort of the
convoy, was sunk. H.M.S. Ajax took
a leading part in the fight.
There is no doubt that there have been
naval losses, for the TEgean skies have
been filled with dive-bombers from close-
flanking aerodromes. But the Admiralty
denies that ship casualties have been any
way near as great as those claimed to
have been scored by the Germans ; and
it is clear that the Navy has been doing
a magnificent job. As for the Maori-
landers, the Australians and their com-
panions, they have shown again that,
man for man, they are superior to the
enemy, and that they can’t be vanquished
except by being beaten down by over-
whelming superiority in mechanical
strength.
Foiled in their military attempts to
capture the island, the Germans on Satur-
day afternoon began the mass bombing
of the three north coastal towns of Canea,
Retimo and Heraklion on a scale which
is described as comparable with that
applied at Rotterdam. All three places
are only lightly defended from the air,
so the invaders were free to attack at
will. Bombs were dropped in rows across
the centre of each town, blasting out
the shopping streets and business centres
with no military objective within miles
of them.
Up to the week-end there was no official
information as to the strength of Allied
forces in Crete. It was believed that,
apart from the Maoriland division, there
were two Greek divisions and a Cretan
Home Guard, which is a fine guerrilla
fighting force, if it gets a chance with its
own weapons —as it might in a fight in
which the British had no air support and
the Germans no tanks or artillery be-
yond light guns.
Somebody asked Mr. Spender, the
Minister for the Army, whether there
were Australians in Crete. Mr. Spender
said that “a substantial number of Aus-
tralian troops landed in Crete after the
evacuation of Greece, and were under
the command of General Freyberg,” but
“recent dispatches did not fully reveal the
extent to which these troops were relieved
by British units and withdrawn from the
island.” That appeared in Thursday’s
papers. On Saturday the puzzled public
read that “a large body of Australian
troops, veterans of the Western Desert
and Greek campaigns,” were fighting
alongside their Maoriland brothers.
Losses in Greece.
It is now clear that they exceeded the
earlier estimates, and even the later ones.
“I estimate our losses at between 100
and 200 killed, 500 to 600 wounded and
approximately 800 missing.” Thus
General Freyberg, cabling to Prime
Minister Fraser on May 2. He added
that this estimate was “very rough” and
that it would be “impossible to get full
figures till a great deal of sorting out
has been done.”
The number of missing has been raised
to 2200 in a cable dispatched by Mr,
Fraser, now abroad, to his deputy, Mr.
Nash. That gentleman said that next-
of-kin would be notified as rapidly as
possible, but there was “quite a lot of
hope that some of the men will reach
shores under British or Greek control.”
Meanwhile “fairly reliable information”
indicated that the 2200 were prisoners of
war.
As for prisoners of war, a represen-
tative of the Red Cross has found 298
officers and 9533 other ranks —Britons,
Australians and Maorilanders —in a tem-
porary camp at Corinth, Greece. And it
was previously reported that 86 Aus-
tralians were, held at Nish, Yugoslavia.
It seems unlikely that these were trans-
ferred to Corinth.
Estimates of Australian casualties
varied from 1600, a number said to have
been obtained authoritatively by “S. M.
Herald’s” correspondent at Cairo, and
by him cabled on May 11, to “less than
3000,” quoted by Mr. Spender on May 8
as coming from General Blarney. As
late as Tuesday of last week it was
“believed” in Melbourne that “the total
A.I.F. casualties in Greece would be
very near the original estimate of 3000.”
On Friday, however, an official estimate
that total Australian casualties, including
sick and wounded in Greece, amounted
to 3983 was received by Mr. Spender
from General Blarney.
The number of “killed, missing,
prisoners of war and wounded remaining
in Greece” was given as 3560. The other
423 were wounded soldiers “in hospitals
in Egypt, Palestine or Crete.” In Greece
a few days before the evacuation 350
soldiers were in hospital. To look after
the sick and wounded “seven medical
officers and 150 other ranks of the 50th
General Hospital remained in Greece,
knowing they had no chance of being
saved.”
Said Mr. Spender: “Small detachments
of Australians who were thought to be
prisoners subsequently eluded the enemy
and are still arriving in small craft.” The
difficulty in presenting the final figures
is attributed to the wide area of the
evacuation, the sinking of several vessels
while it was in progress, dispersal of
the survivors, casualties incurred in night
bombing and loss of records. Estimates
of the number of Australians engaged
in Greece also varied—from 22,000 to
20,000 to 16,000, that being the official
and final figure.
So, although there is fair ground for
the hope that more Australians (and
Maorilanders) may yet turn up, there
being no more resourceful fellows fight-
ing in any war zone, it has to be admitted
that casualties as so far known num-
bered about one-fourth of the force. The
consoling fact is that officers and men
alike maintained the high traditions of the
First A.I.F. The nation will always be
proud of them and of their brothers-in-
arms, and reinforcements coming for-
ward can count it an honor to belong
to such a division as the Sixth.
The Escaping Club at Work.
“Ente Marid”: The Escaping Club, of
which the A.I.F. had so many dis-
tinguished members in the last war, is in
being again.
One batch of A.I.F. men, some
wounded, were cut off in the Olympus
region in Greece. They lay up in the
ravines for a week, living part of the
time on tortoise and the rest on hope,
and sometimes getting away half a jump
ahead of the enemy. The party grew,
was joined by Maorilandefs. Eventually
they set out piecemeal from the coast,
travelling from island to island, always
just beating the enemy to a new foot-
hold. Once they saw Germans arrive
at an island which they had just left.
With the help of a British Consul on
one island, after some days in boats in
which there was no room to lie down,
and in wjiich the water washed over the
gunwales, they secured a steam yacht.
Then they steamed straight through
the Dodecanese, often in sight of puzzled
Italians who apparently could not believe
their eyes, and turned up safe but attenu-
ated in Cyprus.
Another party of 11 N.S.W. men cast
up in Turkey in good health after finding
their way across the Aegean. And there
may still be others knocking about in
Greek waters. Announcing on Sunday
that 2200 Maoriland soldiers were miss-
ing in Greece, Acting P.M. Nash men-
tioned that information had been received
that day of the arrival in Crete of 50
Australians, after “astonishing experi-
ences.”
The same sort of thing is going on
in North Africa. Twenty-four Diggers,
who picked up two Tommies on the way,
and had friendly Senussi tribesmen for
guides, plodded from El Regima, on the
Benghazi railway, to Tobruk, where they
arrived in sections, 38 days out.
And a young machine-gunner from Mt.
Gambier (S.A.), wounded in the thigh
and captured, was left in a shellhole for
36 hours. He was carried by the Ger-
mans to their trenches. They bandaged
his wounds and treated him “pretty
decently.” British artillery opened up
and the Germans ran round the corner
to shelter, leaving him where he lay.
I was feeling better, so I decided to
escape. Using both my hands and my
good leg, I crawled out of the trench and
found a big hole in which I rested. Next
day I crawled another few hundred yards,
and then shouted to our chaps to come
and get me.
His astonished mates, whose machine-
gun bullets had been whistling over him


for 24 hours or so, thought he must be
a German laying a trap, so they started
firing at him. He “had to wait till
night to crawl closer to them.” After
that he went to sleep until daylight,
when a little more shouting brought out
the stretcher-bearers. He is “making a
good recovery.”
In North Africa.
“Ek Dum”: After six weeks the
Tobruk garrison still has its tail erect.
A band plays, three “newspapers”—
cyclostyled—come out, cigarettes are on
issue (but, unfortunately, not beer), and
men come and go by sea.
Yet only 20 miles away there are
savage little forays and desperate
mechanised charges against wire and
fortress by an enemy who recalls an
angry bull plunging at a fence in search
of weak spots. Sometimes the garrison
makes a pass at the bull.
Round Solium, too, the enemy re-
peatedly attacks to little purpose. Desert
heat and sandstorms are hard on his
men and machines.
At the beginning of last week two
German columns moved out of Capuzzo
on the heights overlooking the Libyan
border in an attempt to retake Solium,
but they were dive-bombed by the R.A.F.
and S.A.A.F., which put many tanks out
of action and seriously damaged motor
transport columns. In this fight U.S.
bombers made their debut in North
Africa. Towards the week-end another
sandstorm blew up and hampered land
operations.
R.I.P.—One Empire.
“Ek Dum”: Pictures of the terrain
make it clear that, if Amba Alagi could
be taken, even the fastnesses of the Hima-
layas are no longer Blitz- proof. To cap-
ture such a stronghold against nearly
20.000 well-equipped Italian troops was
a terrific undertaking.
On the north, assaulted by Indians,
the defences made the position unassail-
able ; but S. Africans discovered an
Achilles’ heel on the south, and, climb-
ing sheer precipices on which human
beings looked like flies, they made their
way up two tremendous ridges on May
12 and 13. Transvaal troops held the
dominating Triangle Peak on May 14 and
looked down a wall of the ravine into
which the Italians had burrowed.
Mountain guns are hauled up the
mountain in these days like buckets up
a shaft —the British technique has been
developed on the Indian North-west
Frontier, and some of the Indian units
are adepts at the work.
A concentration of these deadly little
weapons plastered the opposite side of
the ravine, and brought the Italians out
of their holes like ants.
On the morning of May 16 the Duke
of Aosta asked for terms. At 6 p.m. the
cease-fire order was given. On Sunday,
May 18, the Duke agreed to surrender,
and as a preliminary Imperial troops
occupied Toselli Pass. The Italians were
given till next morning to collect their
wounded and make their arrangements
for handing over the town. Commander-
in-Chief included, they gave themseWes
up with all their arms and equipment.
They were allowed to retain their arms
for the surrender ceremonies and were
saluted by their captors as they marched
past. On May 24 resistance south of
Addis Ababa collapsed and another 8570
prisoners were taken.
The Ethiopian Empire of Mussolini is
dead without even being weaned. Nearly
400.000 men of the Italian African forces
have been killed, captured or dispersed,
their transport system shattered, their
air force destroyed.
Vale. Hood!
“Nobby II”: The destruction of
H.M.S. Hood on May 24 was a bad blow.
She was the latest of a line of vessels
so named, and the largest war-
ship in the world. Over 46,000 tons
displacement with full load (42,100 tons
net), she carried a crew of 1340 under
normal conditions, and under special con-
ditions had carried as many as 1500.
She was 861 feet long ; her quarter-
deck was so big that it was possible to
run nominal 100-yard races on it. Her
wardrooms and admiral’s and captain’s
quarters were as spacious as those of a
hotel. She mounted eight 15in. guns and
all the lighter subsidiary batteries from
5.5-inchers downwards. Her engines de-
veloped 144,000 h.p., her speed was round
3li knots. She was a wonderful sea boat.
Hood, however, was not built for the
present age. She was a battle-cruiser,
not a battleship. When she was com-
missioned in 1920 she was faster than
any battleship afloat and as heavily-
armed, but was deficient in protection
pitted against a 1940-class battleship
adversary of almost equal speed and gun-
power. Her armor was 12 inches in a
limited belt below water; 7-5 inches
above the belt; otherwise, 6in. except
on decks, which varied from lin. to 3in.
and 5-4 in. bulkheads.
Her seven or eight knots speed surplus
over a battleship was (as with Renown
and Repulse) her armor against more
compact and better protected heavy ships.
The new 28-31-knot vintage of battle-
ships—King Georges, Washingtons, Lit-
torios, Bismarcks, with 35,000 tons, as
heavily-armed as Hood and more com-
pact—were more than her fighting equals.
Repulse and Renown already had been
reconstructed in 1936 and 1939—the
latter just re-engined when war broke
out. Hood, twice overhauled on a small
scale, the last time in 1931, with a long-
distance cruising record superior to that
of any large naval ship in the world, was
about to go into dock to have at least a
year’s work done on her. She had to
forgo her rebuilding. She since has
been at her old post—Gibraltar—and in
Atlantic seas.
Hood encountered Bismarck (commis-
sioned in November, 1940) while operating
with a formation on convoy protection in
the North Atlantic. Bismarck was either
on a murder prowl or was bound on a
special mission. She was heavily escorted.
On the previous evening the German had
reported the destruction of a convoy in
the North Atlantic.
With other units Hood tackled her.
The German ship, with at least equal
speed and nearly double Hood’s belt
armor, could afford to move in close
enough to make sure of piercing that
huge hull and reaching the British ship’s
magazines. But Bismarck seems to have
been on the run in an all-day battle when
a lucky broadside reached its mark. The
"Cott in Himmel! I'm sure someding hit me.”
Germans claimed to have damaged “a
battleship of the King George V class.”
The Admiralty stated that Bismarck was
damaged. “No damage to our ships worth
mentioning” was the enemy’s reply ; and
it may mean anything. According to the
German account, the battle took place
off Iceland; according to the British
account, off Greenland.
On Sunday every ship available in the
Atlantic and North Sea was chasing the
enemy, who was making for home. A
Fleet Air Arm ’plane got home on one
of the fugitives with an aerial torpedo.
Hood had many links both with naval
history and with the Commonwealth.
As senior ship of the battle-cruiser squad-
ron, she inherited all the inscribed silver
of Beattie’s Lion. She came to Australia,
leading the Atlantic squadron, in 1924 —
Rear-Admiral Grace, commanding the
R.A.N. at sea at present, was captain of
one of her escorting cruisers. Her chief
engineer used to take pride in saying that
she was “really conceived in Australia,”
since “were it not for the Michel thrust
block [an Australian invention] her
engines would be a dream.” She was a
great wireless ship, and her captain, Im
Thurn in those days, was one of the
world’s greatest naval wireless men. It
was in his special wireless cabin in
Devonport (Tas.) on March 31, 1924, that
the first words broadcast from America
to Australia were heard in the Common-
wealth.
Two executive commanders of Hood
came to the Commonwealth. One of
them, Lane Poole, put many a youngster
now making history on the ocean through
his early paces while he was commandant
of Jervis Bay Naval College. Another,
Go olden, hastened back from the 1924
cruise to take over H.M.A.S. Melbourne.
Names associated with Hood crop up
in the tale of the naval war almost every
day. In the battle of Matapan two mem-
bers of the 1924 wardroom who con-
trolled her when she visited the Com-
monwealth had their names added to the
scroll of history—Rear-Admiral Denis
Boyd, C.-in-C. Aircraft-Carriers, and
Captain Sir Philip Bowyer-Smyth, R.N.,
Sydney-born, of H.M.A.S. Perth.
A Fight for Oil?
“Ek Dum”: The campaign in Iraq is
an example of how little propaganda
counts unless it is linked with successful
action. In spite of lurid enemy reports
of Iraq “victories” and German pre-
parations, the British methodically
dispatched armored units 600 miles by
the desert route from Palestine to the
Iraq front, their ’planes meanwhile bomb-
ing Syrian aerodromes where German
machines landed. The Germans appar-
ently did not provide pilots for all the
’planes, for British lads flying the com-
paratively slow Gladiator biplanes shot
Messerschmitts out of the air.
At the end of a three-weeks’ campaign
Habbaniyah was safe, the British had
taken Falujah, a crucial crossing place on
the Euphrates, and were reported to be
within 20 miles of Bagdad. Iraqi attacks,
supported by light tanks, on Falujah
were driven back. British operations
were delayed to some extent by floods.
On May 23 8.8. C. reported that the
Regent of Iraq had returned to that
country and was planning a new Govern-
ment.
One thing the enemy has done —he has
diverted the oil flow from Haifa, Pales-
tine, to Tripoli, Syria; but that is not
so serious as it may appear. The flow to
Haifa had been voluntarily interrupted
previously. The Tripoli pipe can carry
only 2,000,000 tons a year, and that
wouldn’t be much for the Germans if
they could get the lot. There are no
operating refineries at Tripoli at the
moment, so that any oil taken there
would have to be carried crude in tankers
across the Mediterranean, railed to Ger-
many and refined there.
To drive the British out of the Iraq
oilfields before attacking Suez would be
scarcely worth the difficulty and danger.
Nearly 173,000,000 metric tons of crude
oil produced in the world comes from
U.S., 30,000,000 tons from Venezuela,
8,000,000 tons from the Netherlands East
Indies and Borneo, 6,000,000 tons from
Mexico, 11,000,000 tons from Iran, and
4,500,000 tons from Iraq. Bahrein, -in
the Persian Gulf, produced before the
war about 1,139,000 tons, and Burma
about 1,000,000 tons. The British have
taken over Bahrein, having recently
landed a strong force there. Bahrein,
Burma and Borneo turn out enough to
supply the R.N. east of Gibraltar. Iraq
oilfields are for Britain a convenience,
but far from a necessity. Borneo and
D.E.I. are nearer to Australia; U.S.,
Venezuela and Mexico as near or nearer
to Britain.
About the only thing which could
take Hitler to Mosul would be a desperate
need of lubricating oils —the heavy types
of ring compounds which come only from
that field. There have been signs that
he might suffer a shortage. ’Planes
captured in Britain invariably hold over-
used oil, but this may be due merely to
the fact that the Germans are deliberately
economising to the last inch. In 1937,
“Deutsche Wehr,” a semi-official German
military magazine, calculated that Ger-
man usage of lubricant in a world war
would be about 540,000 tons per annum,
of which the Reich could then produce
only 25.9 per cent. Storage for a num-
ber of years would not be such a gigantic
operation that it could not have been
compassed.
If the Germans got Mosul, they
would still have the job of getting the
oil out. And that would remain impos-
sible so long as the Navy was at
Alexandria.
“Aileron”; Whether because of the
Hess visit or of the waning of the moon,
there was comparatively little bombing
of Britain last week, and on Sunday
London reported its 15th consecutive
quiet night. R.A.F. activity did not
slacken much. On Wednesday a small
bomber force blasted Heligoland, and
bombers with heavy fighter escorts
attacked the power station and oil re-
finery at Bethune. Enemy fighters
arriving, there were sharp combats. One
bomber was lost over Heligoland and
six fighters and a bomber over France ;
on the other hand, five German fighters
were destroyed in France. The R.A.F.
blasted Cologne and St. Nazaire and
enemy shipping at the week-end; but
over England there was scarcely any
raiding.
* * * *
The gloomy speech of Goebbels to
sailors and sailors’ wives (B. 21/5/’4l)
was followed by one addressed to A.R.P.
workers in which he said that, while some
districts had been spared, others had
been heavily hit. “How,” he asked, “will
it be possible to speak of Kiel, Bremen
and Hamburg except as in the very midst
of the front line?” And Marshal Milch,
the Luftwaffe’s Chief of Staff, dolefully
remarked in Berlin that “we cannot Just
look on when great damage is done to
our war factories by fires; otherwise,
we will suffer losses that we shall be
unable to make good. I beg you to con-
tinue with your A.R.P. work as before
so as to prevent damage and set an ex-
ample to others.”
* * * *
Britain will “apply
every disability in
its power” to 11
Japanese tankers and
whalers. The ships
are suspected of hav-
ing supplied oil to
German raiders. A
Japanese official
spokesman said he
was at a loss to
- account for Britain's
*“mo s t unwise”
' action.
* m
Squadron - leader
Pattle, whose bag of
23 ’planes was offi-
cially accepted by the
Air Ministry as the
R.A.F. record for
the present war, is
reported missing.
The Luftwaffe dur-
ing the week lost an
Air Corps com-
mander “in the
course of his duty.”
\ * *
The first Maoriland squadron re-
cruited and trained under the Empire Air
Scheme and equipped with Spitfires
bought by private subscription is now
ready for active service in Britain. A
further batch of Australians, Canadians
and Maorilanders reached Britain last
week.
* * * #
An American correspondent reports
the arrival in Britain of the largest convoy
to leave Canada —50 ships with
£31,000,000 (Australian) worth of war
materials. He says that the ships were
menaced by only one U-boat, which
was sunk by a destroyer, and a floating
mine.
* * * *
Evidently replying to a proposal of
the Bishop of Bristol for a night-bombing
truce, an official German statement sur-
prisingly declared that Germany had
repeatedly suggested such an agreement,
but would not repeat it “in view of the
Luftwaffe’s absolute superiority.” Lord
Privy Seal Atlee had previously declared
in the Commons that the Government
would not consider any such proposal.
* H= ♦ *
While President Roosevelt was putting
the finishing touches to the speech for
which the world is waiting, it came out
that the Germans had sunk an Egyptian
liner, the Zamzam, 8299 tons, in the
south Atlantic on a voyage from Pernam-
buco to Suez. Passengers and crew, who
included 143 United States citizens, had,
the enemy reported, been rescued “in
accordance with Germany’s humane
adherence to the rules of international
warfare.” He alleged that the Zam-
zam carried contraband lorries, cars and
machines for British and Free French
forces. The agents said the cargo con-
sisted mainly of lubricating oils, manu-
factured goods and automobiles, mainly
ambulances for the Free French Forces
at Lake Chad, but “nothing remotely re-
sembling munitions.” The U.S. Govern-
ment is inquiring into the sinking. Its
consul at Bordeaux announced on Sun-
day that two wounded Americans were still
aboard a German ship in a French port.


Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ,
P. E. Loxton, E«q. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
SAVE MONEY
ITS
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
NEW
CHAMPIONS
An Empire product—made in
Windsor , Canada
m
Bring BETTER ACCELERATIOK
Spits and jerks when accelerat-
ing put a strain on your car and
on your nerves. New Champions
’"’prove acceleration and ena-
ble your car to pull smooth-
ie. This saves fuel, too. So
much, in fact, that you
soon are repaid the cost
of your new Champions
... and more! Champions
save you money.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Position as governess to young children
wanted. —1486.
Young man, 20, five years’ Bulletin experi-
ence and training in leading Sydney art schools,
wants position as artist or journalist. Refs. —
1274.
Dentist, skilled operator, mechanics, accus-
tomed sole charge busy practices, wants posi-
tion Brisbane. Reliable and trustworthy.
Good refs.—lsoo.
Man, 32, married, capable and experienced,
10 years share-farming Tasmania, seeks posi-
tion working manager. Wife’s health necessitates
warmer climate. —1485.
Dental nurse, Continental and colonial ex-
perience, wants position Brisbane. Good refs.
—1492.
Exchange “Instantaneous Personal Magnet-
ism” for 12 “National Geographical Maga-
zines.” Write first. —1499.
Words of verse, “Dalton’s Rise.” —1484.
Words of verse beginning:
It makes no difference who you are.
Whether you be the jester at the King’s feet,
The shopgirl, the actress,
Or the woman on the street.
—1367.
Words and music of old song “Somewhere,”
also waltz for piano “Eruba.” —1495.
Information Sought.
(1) What was the cost of sending the A.B.C.
Field Unit abroad? (2) Did it go with the
object of setting up broadcasting stations near
the troops with the object of transmitting
news of the troops to their homeland and for
the troops to receive also news from Australia ?
(3) If so, is this being done ? —9606.
(1) The A.B.C. states that it is unable to
supply this information. (2) Yes. (3) Record-
ings describing actions in which Australian
forces overseas have taken part, and also cover-
ing other activities of the troops, such as camp
concerts, are being prepared regularly by the
Mobile Unit. These recordings are broadcast
in the Commission’s programmes as they are re-
ceived. The Commission is also broadcasting
a daily service containing news and sporting
information to Australian forces overseas.
Technical difficulties have been encountered in
establishing receiving points in the camps over-
seas, but these matters are being investigated as
rapidly as possible by the Commission and the
Postmaster-General’s Department.
* * * *
(1) Was a badge issued to munitions workers
in England during 1914-18 ? (2) What was the
design ? (3) Where could a sample be seen ?
9786.
Presume you refer to the thousands of
munition and war workers sent from Australia
to Europe during the war. (1) Yes, from 1916
to early 1920. One was also issued to Australian
war workers. (2) Crescent shape for the
A.M.W. and circular for the A.W.W. (3)
Probably at Defence Headquarters, Melbourne,
or the War Museum, Canberra.
* * * *
Brief outline of the work of Lord Armstrong
during the nineteenth century? Was he born
into the peerage or raised to it during his life-
time ? —1419.
Armstrong was born in 1819 and became a
solicitor in Newcastle (Eng.). His attention
was drawn to certain mechanical problems, and
he devoted himself to the invention of the
hydraulic crane and other machinery for the
better utilisation of water-power. During the
Crimean War he studied the subject of guns,
and produced the famous Armstrong gun, the
biggest constructed up to that time. He intro-
duced many improvements in gun construction,
and in 1859 was appointed Engineer of Rifle
and Ordnance, and received a knighthood.
Later his immense works at Elswick became the
chief establishment in England for the manu-
facture of guns and ships of war. He was
raised to the peerage in 1887.
=B * * *
Page 201 of the Education Department’s very
latest ‘‘Course of Instruction for Primary
Schools” indicates Leigh Hunt as the author of
a poem ‘‘The Grasshopper and the Cricket.”
Four lines down John Keats is given as the
author. Which is correct? —1361.
Both wrote sonnets on that theme, though
Keats’s is probably better known. Keats’s
sonnet was written at Leigh Hunt’s cottage in
response to a challenge from Hunt, and the
two sonnets were subsequently printed together
in the “Examiner.” Keats’s sonnet “On a
Grasshopper and a Cricket” begins:
The poetry of larth is never dead:
When all the birds are faint with the hot sun,
And hide in cooling trees, a voice will run
Prom hedge to hedge about the new-mown mead;
And Hunt’s “To the Grasshopper and the
Cricket” begins”:
Green little vauiter in the sunny grass
Catching your heart up at the feel of June,
Sole voice that’s heard amidst the lazy noon,
When ev’n the bees lag at the summoning brass:
* * * *
What fish measures are employed in Great
Britain ? —1436.
Fresh herrings are sold by the cran, con-
taining 37+ imperial gallons, except on the west
coast, Isle of Man and in Ireland, where they
are sold by the maze, which contains five long
hundreds of 126 each. On the east coast of
England they are sold by the last, which
contains 13,200 fish. They are counted by
the warp, which is four fish. Thirty-three warps
equal one long hundred—l 32; 10 hundred
equal one long thousand —1320. A barrel of
cured herrings in Scotland must always be 26f
imperial gallons; a barrel of anchovies contains
301 b.
* * * *
Nature of climate at Guam ? Is the island
subject to earthquakes ? —1452.
Climate is healthy and on the whole pleasant,
with the north-east and east-north-east trade
winds prevailing for six months of the year,
during which time there is little rain. The
driest month is generally April. From June to
November the south-west monsoon blows at
more or less frequent intervals. During the
rainy season the average monthly rainfall is
from five to 15 inches, and the yearly mean
total about 81in. The mean annual temperature
is 81deg., with a mean max. of 88 and a
mean min. of 72. The island is subject to
typhoons, the worst within memory of inhabi-
tants being that of November, 1900, which de-
stroyed all crops and many w'ooden houses,
with 20 lives lost. Earthquakes are a common
occurrence. The island, being at the southern
end of the submarine chain or ridge extending
northward to Japan, and surrounded south and
east by the Challenger Deep—one of the deepest
oceanic depressions known —must be con-
sidered very unstable. In September, 1902,
there was an earthquake which ruined or badly
damaged every masonry house on the island,
wrecked bridges and blocked roads.
H* H* H*
How can I obtain a high polish on shoes,
especially tan ? I am told that, given certain
treatments when new, shoes retain their polished
surface indefinitely, responding to light rub-
bing?—mi.
Apart from using a liquid varnish, there is
no process known that will give leather shoes
“permanent” polish, but if the leather is care-
fully brushed to remove dust and grit, the paste
(only a smear) rubbed in with a pad over the
entire surface, and the first polishing done with
another pad, a good foundation has been laid
on which a hard gloss can be placed.
Having got a high polish on each shoe, put on
the second coat with a rag dipped first in water
and then in paste, the slightest smear of paste
being used. Brush this surface with a soft
brush and then burnish till the whole is like a
mirror. Barring mud- or oil-splashes this polish
will come up day after day with a cloth, but
the process should be repeated at least once a
week.
* * * *
Method of oxidising nickelplated badges and
buttons ? —lO4l.
Take two parts bichloride of mercury, one
part chloride of bismuth, one part chloride of
copper, six parts of hydrochloric acid, five
parts of methylated spirit and five parts of
water. Mix well. Boil articles in a strong
washing-soda solution, dip in pure methylated
spirit and then dip in the solution. When dry
put articles for half an hour into clean boiling
water. If required very dark, repeat process.
If you have only a few buttons it will be
cheaper to get oxidising done by one of the big
jewellers.
* * *
Recipe for putting wallpaper on a wall
which has been plastered? —lol2.
Give the wall one coat of thin size, leave to
dry, then hang paper with this paste: Soak
ilb. of glue for some hours in cold water to
cover, then dissolve it in one pint boiling water
and add, while hot, £lb. Venice turpentine,
stirring the while. In another vessel make 21b.
flour into a paste with one quart cold water.
Beat the paste till free from lumps, mix glue and
the flour paste and add one gallon of boiling
water, stirring briskly during all the mixing
operations. This paste will grip on almost
any surface.
# * *
Where can I obtain synthetic olive oil? How
does it compare with the natural product ?
9800.
There is no such thing as synthetic olive oil;
what you refer to is probably one of the less
expensive vegetable oils such as peanut oil.
There is probably no difference in the food
value or wholesomeness of such oils as com-
pared with olive oil; the question of flavor
and other qualities is mainly one of personal
taste. Nut Foods, Ltd., of 74 Edinburgh-street,
Marrickville, Sydney, is a manufacturer of
peanut oil. Local suppliers should be able to
assist you in obtaining these substitute salad
oils.
* * * *
How can I prevent the water turning green
in goldfish glass tank ? Water is changed
every week. Is it due to want of plant life,
and, if so, what species? —99lB.
Green water is caused by minute alg3e spores
which form and develop in water subjected to
the sun’s rays or even good daylight. Although
unsightly, it is rather beneficial to fish life
whilst the algae are alive and in the green
state, but should they die and turn brown it is
dangerous. Aquatic plants are necessary in an
aquarium to supply oxygen and require a good
light but not too much direct sunlight. To
prevent the formation of algae the tank should
be in a very subdued light, but then the plants
will not thrive. Better to tolerate the green
water and have the plants flourish. Algae will
sometimes form on the glass, where they may
easily be wiped off, and sometimes they form and
permeate the water; in this case they may be re-
moved only by draining off. It is not a good
practice to change the water too frequently. A
well-set-up tank, say about 12 by 12 by 24 ins.,
should carry on for a year, occasionally siphon-
ing accumulated silt and replacing the water.
Brief Answers.
A.G.H.: Communicate direct with the Tech-
nological Museum, Harris-street, Sydney....
W.M.: Wilson’s Street Directory gives
“Eurimbla” as the spelling... .L.P.: Population
of Trundle, N.S.W., 600; population district,
approx. 1100. The town has an electricity
supply and a water standpipe. Type of country
is good, climate continental, rainfall 20in.
Wheat and wool are grown in the district.
Prospects average... .W.S.: Foir particulars,
write to the Recruiting Officer, Naval Staff
Office, Edgecliff C.M.: Roughly 10.1 acres.
H.M.: A sample of tobacco seed can be
obtained from the manager, Experiment Farm,
Bathurst, for trial purposes. A grower’s
license is necessary, and this can be obtained
from the Department of Customs, Customs
House, Circular Quay, Sydney. Leaflet on
Tobacco Growing has been posted... .J.W.D.:
Under the taxation laws of N. S. Wales
and S.A., dental expenses are allowed as
a deduction, but not under Federal and Vic.
laws. Where medical treatment includes teeth
extraction it seems possible that the deduction
might be claimed and any disallowed objection
taken to the Board of Review or the courts.
. ...J.W.T.: Registered numbers QlBO-000 to
Q2OO-000 were issued between February, 1934,
and March, 1935... .5.G.L.8.: On £330, £l7
6s. Bd.; on £306, £l4 2s. 8d J.W.: The
American steamship Mdrro Castle, Havana to
New York, with 318 passengers and crew of
231, took fire off Ashbury Park on September
8, 1934. Lives lost numbered 134. A report
of the disaster appeared in the “S. M. Herald,”
10/9/’34 A.S.: Write to the Department of
Agriculture for information concerning Saanen
goats G.G.: The apparent movement of the
stars in the sky is due to the rotation of the
earth on its axis, and not to movement of the
stars themselves. The stars, of course, do
move, but the movement is so inappreciable that
it would not be perceived by the naked eye in
hundreds of years... .H.M.R.W.; No demand
for land in locality mentioned. It will prob-
ably be a considerable time before there is any
activity in that part. There is a large area of
land for sale in the vicinity, and in many cases
owners would be only too willing to sacrifice
their allotments in order to be relieved of the
liability of rates and taxes... .P.C.C.: All the
seed from the mixed varieties is likely to be
hybridised. Impossible to say whether the
many-flowered plants are hybrids without grow-
ing the seed and observing the progeny, but
in any case this type of plant requires much
more labor in harvesting than the large single-
headed type. Oil extraction requires a power-
ful press and other equipment, and is not likely
to be an economic proposition for the small
grower A.G.C.: Write to the Recruiting
Officer, Naval Staff Office, Edgecliff, N.S.W.
T.B.: No knowledge of any match race
between a horse and an elephant Mrs. C.H.:
November 3, 1905, was a Friday; June 15, 1909,
a Tuesday R.W.: A meeting was held in Syd-
ney on February 20, 1885, in connection with the
dispatch of the Sudan Contingent. It was de-
cided to form a N. S. Wales Patriotic Fund
“for the assistance of wives and families of
members of the force and for the relief qf
widows and orphans of those who may fall in
battle or die during the campaign.” A com-
mittee was nominated, and a report appeared
in the “S. M. Herald” next day.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
E.I.V. (on Hess):
I know of the Ptlhrer’s kindly deeds,
I’ve seen some in the past;
And just in case he picked on me.
From the Gestapo 1 flew fast.
P.N.:
Or is it Herr Hess at all.
Who out of the sky did fall?
Could be propaganda, too—
That’s quite possibly true.
J.K.; —
For those who lack courage a beating to take
(Distillers of paranoid pain)
Is added advice of rare value, forsooth,
A heedless perusal is vain:
By will that repudiates masochite joy
Dispose of the introvert’s curse;
Outgame such insidious wrecker of hope
Ere starts it to grow and make worse.
. ...K.8.: “By cripes we did get wet!” By
cripes you did! Even the poem’s a washout.
K.H.C.; Say it in prose P.G.: The
end’s dreadful J. 8.: Mechanical... .G.N.S.:
The only thing that distinguishes it from a
hundred others is that the breeze and the trees
are unaccompanied by bees... .8.Mc8.: A
glimmer here and there but your metres are
too singsong.... 8.R.: Ah!
The flies were so numerous in this dreadful spot
That open my mouth 1 simply dare not.
.1 finished my ride but never again
Will I go for a ride on an old cattle train.
H.W.: Scrape a nail along a corrugated
iron fence; rustle a newspaper; kick a kero-
sene-tin along the corridor if you like—but
don’t rhyme “dawn” with “mom” H.N.S.:
Remove that anagram!... .T.1.P.: “Companion-
ship thou lackest not.” Why not say “You
have companions”? ... .M.L.: Turgid....
P.F.8.: Sounds young... .L.M.: Might suit
a woman’s paper... .H.H.: Only too glad to
oblige any poet who wants a wattle-tree planted
over his lonely grave... .J.D.: Promise there;
but not when you describe a bomb as “each
mechanised yolk in his silvered shell’....
M.C.T.: Rhetoric C.M.; You should have
made more of “Barla” P.H.: Try elsewhere.
A.B.S.: Not far off P. 1.8.: Just a flicker.
R.E.R.: Nearer H.C.H.: Not good
enough L. 0., J.S.L. and R.S.W.; No more
than pars J.M.: “Courtship of Stumpy”
aroused no answering desires H.D.; The no-
profanity league drew a faint flicker of inter-
est from the Religious Editor, but that was all.
H.A.McL.: Not for us... .H.E.W.:
Nothing new there... .E.T.F.: An idea, but
you’d need to handle it better... .H.R.H.: You
should place it elsewhere D.M.: Still
doesn’t hit the mark... .H.S.R.: Warded off
“The Counter Attack” W.C.F.: “The
Answer” is no L.G.8.; Not even in the
amateur class... .C.A.McL.; Middling
M. : If you can’t lose it try it as waste
paper on the Salvage Commissioner... .H.H.:
Doesn’t make a yarn... .H.L.: Too slight....
L.R., R.M. and A.L.: Unsuitable M.H.:
You’re the seventh this week with “Gran’pa.”
S.F.McH.: “Kava, Drink of Princes,”
can’t turn our head... .G.R.G.: Doesn’t
qualify C.A.H.: An old story not very
freshly served up R.C.: It’s a bit overdone.
. ...R.C.G.: Stick to something like “Trouble
in the Cane” and you’ll stand a better chance.
... .W.P.: Try elsewhere... .8.R.; “The Trader
Came Back” was an accurate prophecy
D.T.F.: Not here N.C.: Don’t want imi-
tation W. W. Jacobs G.P.: No kid for
O’Regan’s goat F. 8.: Close; try it else-
where. .. .J.M.: Long - drawn - out N. 8.:
N. D.C.T.: Feeble... .C.0’8.: “Well
I’ll be” . True, friend, true.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.J.R.: The alleged joke doesn’t explain why
the swollen dog is floating halfway up the fence.
... .J.H.: Don’t favor a mass of scratches with
an explanatory short story under them
C.S.H.: Overdeveloped ladies in wire-gauze
bathing costumes are out of season —8. L.:
Hack away a cubic foot of the prospector’s
chin and he’d look almost human—M.H.:
Humor too forced.... Bert C.: “Could you
point out the mistakes in this drawing?”
Brother, you’ll have to wait till we have a
couple of columns to spare... .M.P.8.; Gent,
with trilby planted in middle of spouse’s back
while he heaves on the corset strings is a
venerable friend... .H.T.: The point of your
Hess cartoon was blunted before the ink was
dry... .P.J.M.: The female colossus is badly
enough drawn to win a prize in a surrealist
show... .S.W.: The part of the continent you
inhabit is noted for cane, pineapples, rain,
forests, pawpaws and mosquitoes, and yet you
send us a drawing of an English squire talking
to a smocked yokel!... .8.L.: Eyen a fantas-
tic style must rest on the basis of sound
draughtsmanship... .E.M.R.: Pretty but in-
effective trifles... .K.M.: Bas-relief of barman
with teeth like a horse’s saying nothing to
tippler with elephantiasis-stricken forearm
wheeled reverently to incinerator.


STATE
EXPRESS
tn
are
DUALITY
cigarette
luxury
way
every
m
10 for 7d. : 20 for 1 7 2
Also flat fifties and round fifties
COST
EXCEPT
n
if*
IT*
in
777
I
% THREE SEVENS^
'a cigarettes
VISCACELLE-WRAPPED FOR FRESHER FLAVOUR
1052-5-11
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
“Old A.W.U.”: More than 600
A.W.U. men have enlisted from the sugar
belt north of Tully, including some of
the best canecutters in the country, and
many sugar-factory employees have
either enlisted or been drawn away to
munition works in the south. So an all-
round shortage of labor to handle the
coming cane harvest looks certain. There
will be some influx of seasonal workers
from the south, but this, too, is bound
to be reduced. The A.S.P.A. secretary
hints that efforts may have to be made
to get men released from camps for the
cutting. Nobody seems to have thought
of the Women’s Land Army ; perhaps
the spectacle of buxom lasses wading
into the cane with both hands is too, too
crude. Anyhow, mills are eager to make
an early start in an attempt to get the
benefit of the known shipping facilities
for early sugar. Ships for the later out-
put might not be available.
* * * *
John Jenkins, dead in S.A., has left
many a monument to his memory. He
was in charge of lighthouses and jetties
around the coast for many years before
the Harbors Board took them over. But
his chief job was the construction of the
jetty at Darwin when S.A. controlled the
N.T. Many a skipper has cursed that
jetty, but it was a good job in Jenkins’s
time.
* * * *
“Balander”: Brisbane’s Lud Mayor
Chandler had hardly made his announce-
ment that a surplus of £lBO,OOO was ex-
pected at 30/6/’4l, and that wage in-
creases, sales tax and the pay-roll tax for
child endowment would absorb about
£130,000, when he was called upon to
explain why a sum of £BB voted for new
filing cabinets in the Town Clerk’s de-
partment had been used for new gear in
the Mayor’s office. Explaining that such
transferences of money were customary,
his Washup then added that secrets had
leaked out of his office some time ago
because his desk had no lock. What the
secrets were he didn’t say, but it took a
new desk, a chair, a filing cabinet, a
typewriter and repainting of the place to
ensure future inviolability. Now every-
body is wondering what dark skeletons
the Mayor has in the new desk.
« * * #
“Caner”: A youngster who looks like
making a name for himself in agricul-
ture is Keith Skerman, winner of this
year’s Shell scholarship, which will assist
him to study agricultural and veterinary
science at Queensland University. Sker-
man won the Royal National Associa-
tion’s prize for studies in dairy manufac-
tures, and was first in pasture manage-
ment, botany, dairy technology, factory
management, milk and cream testing,
microbiology, English and rural eco-
nomics at Gatton in 1940. He found
time for the college’s first football and
cricket teams.
* * * *
“Gada Ulong”: Red-tape has laid its
awful blight on the Mandate, according
to a report from Rabaul, which tells of
a returned man who sought a service
pension. The letter from Repat. is
quoted:
With reference to your application for
a service pension on the ground of age,
it is with regret that I have to advise you
that as you are a resident of New Guinea
the Repatriation Board rejected your appli-
cation, in view of the fact that you are not
a bona fide resident of the Commonwealth,
as required by the relevant section of the
Soldiers’ Repatriation Act.
Now friends and relatives of men who
enlisted from New Guinea for this war
and will want to return there are won-
dering where they stand.
* * * *
“23-4”: Such is the vanity of man that
few of us can contemplate with equa-
nimity the thought of dying unknown
and unsung, even though the singing be
limited to a four-line rhyme in the local
paper. A Many Peaks man, however,
must have been without the most preva-
lent human failing, for in his will he has
directed that “no more notice is to be
taken of my death than of that of a beast
of the field—none must mourn me, either
by card or advertisement.” A bachelor,
he left his small estate to his three sisters,
no other person to have any claim, “even
to a shirt button.” The humble soul
would probably be shocked to discover
that his attempt at self-effacement earned
him much more publicity than if he had
died with the normal trimmings.
“Norther”: Fred Bradbury just made
the eightieth milestone and passed out
while on holiday. He represented Nun-
dah in the first Greater Brisbane Council,
having been chairman of Toombul Shire
Council. A Birmingham (Eng.) native,
he had been in Nundah 52 years and was
better known than the post office.
* * * *
It says something for legal phraseology
and red-tape that Queensland’s Govern-
ment Railway Department finds it neces-
sary to hire an “interpreter of awards.”
The gentleman holding the position is at
present appealing against the appoint-
ment of an “investigating officer” as
“special officer at headquarters,” a posi-
tion created by the Commissioner to
relieve the secretary of “routine adminis-
trative duties.” The bemused taxpayer
doesn’t know what it’s all about, but he
does know that he’ll be paying for it.
“Lid”: The problem of duplicated
street-names is being aired again in
Brisbane. Although 555 streets have had
their monikers adjusted since 1938,
there are still 1500 cases that need atten-
tion. At present Brisbane is divided into
five zones for street-naming, and it is
proposed to reduce the number to three
and name the streets in each zone re-
spectively after public men and cities of
the Empire and Australian pioneers,
using also aboriginal names wherever
suitable. The Americans have a better
idea—all streets running one way are
numbered, and all those crossing them
are named avenues. A few Australian
towns have made good use of that system.
* * * *
“Q.A.Z.”; “I think we ought to have
a great deal more money to give the men
of the mercantile marine a better time
when they come to this port.”—Queens-
land’s Governor Leslie Wilson in Bris-
bane. Sounds like a gentle reproof to
that city for the hysterical welcome it
gave to strangers while there were in
harbor ships with crews that had
run the gauntlet of U-boats, mines and
bombers and were cheerfully prepared
to run it again.
* * * *
“Youanmi”: Three Brisbane commer-
cial radio stations linked up with stations
at Ipswich, Toowoomba, Oakey, Kinga-
roy, Bundaberg, Maryborough and Rock-
Hampton in an appeal for comforts
funds. It ran on in the form of a con-
cert for over four hours —and it got a
record response. Seventy girls were
needed to cope with subscriptions. In
the first 10 minutes £l2O came in, and
in all over £4OOO was raised.
* * * *
“Youanmi”: Paddy was in the pub at
Tennant Creek holding forth on his
experiences as a wolfram miner some-
where near “Hatches.” “The best turn
of speed I ever saw,” he said, “was one
day when I sprains me ankle so bad I
couldn’t go down the shaft to put the
firin’-stick to the face I’d just drilled and
loaded up all ready for firin’ out. All
I was good for was turnin’ the windlass.
The only offsider I ’ad was a boong
called Yardstick, so I gives ’im the firin’-
stick and tells ’im to get in the windlass
bucket. ‘You go up longa face lightum
fuses,’ I says. ‘Then you come back
longa bucket plurry quick or ’im pfeller
dynamite knockum plurry head clean off.’
Well, I lets Yardstick down, an’ ’e was
so scared ’is eyes were stickin’ out like
organ stops; then I waits for ’im to
give me the signal on the knocker-line
to pull ’im up. Suddenly the knocker
goes ’ard an’ quick, an’ I knows Yard-
stick is in the bucket. I starts windin’,
but, dinkum, before I ’ad the, bucket ’alf-
way up the 50-foot shaft that bloomin’
boong was 400 yards into the bush.”


HTfS
LYS
Is
ROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK tor Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRU. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Foot Abscess.
“Bungaree”: Cause of foot abscess in
sheep (B. 7/5/’4l) is a germ found in
the bowels and excreted with the drop-
pings. Chief sources of infection are
old camps or heavily-stocked paddocks.
Moist soil and heavy feed provide the
conditions for an outbreak. .
The germ enters through any minute
crack in the hoof and the seat of the
abscess is there. The growing abscess
forces its way out of the constricted hoof
area and breaks out on the leg above
the coronet.
Treatment must aim at draining the
abscess from underneath. The hoof
should be pared away on the sole or wall
—the site may be located by pressure.
If this is not done, the tissues and small
bones of the foot will be destroyed and
that sheep written off.
After draining and removing all dead
tissue, paint with bluestone (31b. blue-
stone to one gallon of water) or hold the
affected foot in a bluestone solution of
half that strength, Put all affected sheep
through a formalin footbath—lgal. to
19gal. water—and keep them in it for
15 minutes. Formalin does not stain
wool like bluestone. Walk all contacts
and suspects through the bath once a
week while the danger lasts.
A Feast for the Fly.
“Dead Finish”: Following the bumper
wet season in Western Queensland, and
with green feed assured for the winter
months, the blowfly is already on the
job. In places the situation is serious,
and growers who are anxious to crutch
or shear with nine months’ wool on find
it difficult to get the labor to do either.
Those who have been able to get their
sheep crutched have to watch them for
further strike.
The fly is most active in winter, when
green feed and dewy mornings keep the
wool damp. It’s taking graziers a long
time to realise the value of crutching
wethers when putting the ewes through.
When that is done it is customary to
“pizzle” the wethers at the same time,
often a dangerous job, since the idea
seems always to be to get as little wool
off as possible, irrespective of damage
done. The best plan is to remove belly-
wool altogether—every shearer does that
in a routine way without causing damage
—and there should be some provision in
the pastoral award for belly-wool
removal in these circumstances.
A New Fly Dressing.
“Murrawong”: The C.S.I.R. has long
been on the lookout for a 100 p.c.
efficient dressing for blowfly strike. The
ideal dressing must destroy maggots, heal
wounds rapidly without leaving a hard
scab, be non-irritant, stainless, harmless
to wool, non-poisonous and cheap.
Few dressings comply with these de-
mands. Some years ago the council
brought out glycerine di-boric, a first-
class dressing ; it had later to be aban-
doned because the demand for munitions
pushed the price of glycerine up beyond
the limit of practicability. Cost also
affected the camphor-boracic emulsion
dressing, which was otherwise excellent.
A new dressing known as “8.T.8.”
promises to fulfil all the requirements.
Chief ingredients are boracic acid, tar
oil and bentonite. Two types have been
used—one containing 30 p.c. boracic and
the other 15 p.c. Tests have shown that
“8.T.8. 15” is likely to prove the more
popular.
Bentonite is a new element, a kind of
clay found in parts of U.S.A. and used
as a fine grey powder. Agral 2is in-
cluded as a wetting agent with the ben-
tonite, whose function is dispersion.
Directions issued for making three
gallons of “8.T.8. 15” dressing are: Mix
carefully boracic acid (finely pow-
dered), 14oz. bentonite and Agral
2 to ensure a perfect distribution ; add
2gal. rain or soft water and stir for 10
minutes, then add \ pint tar oil and con-
tinue stirring for another 10 minutes or
until a perfect emulsion has been
obtained.
Sheepowners will hardly find it prac-
ticable to buy the ingredients and mix
them successfully. A mechanical mixer
and ready-mixed powder seem neces-
sary. The dressing should cost about ss.
per gallon, plus freight.
“You kids go on ahead an beat up some quail.”
Your Own Leather.
“C. Punch”: Hide from a poor beast
is seldom much good ; the best usually
comes from a fat four-year-old of the
Shorthorn type, preferably of whole
color. Heifer hide is usually finer than
that from a steer.
A 40gal. cask will hold any hide. It
should be well scoured. Put in about
16gal. of water and half a kero.-tin of
slaked lime. This will loosen the hair
and neutralise the fat. When the hide
has cooled, stir the mixture and lower
the hide in slowly. Poke it down, then
stir again. Use wood weights to keep
the hide under, and keep the mixture
stirred at least once a day till the hair
starts to come off.
Lay the hide out on a flat surface and
scrape both sides clean. Avoid marking
the hide while scraping. If all the hair
won’t come off, pop it back in the mix-
ture for a day or two. Then empty and
clean the cask, half-fill with clean water
and leave the hide in it while making
the curing mixture.
This is made of 81b. of common salt
dissolved in half a kero.-tin of boiling
water. Let it cool. Dissolve 41b. of pow-
dered alum in another half-tin of boiling
water and let it cool. Mix 81b. of white
flour into a thin paste, free from lumps.
Hang the hide to dram Empty the cask
and put the paste in. Add the alum and
salt solutions and mix. Let the lot stand
about 15 minutes and stir again. Lower
the hide into this, and add just enough
clean water to cover it. Poke well down
until all the air is out, then weight with
wood to keep it under. Leave for two
days. Then stir once a day for three
weeks -
After that hang the hide in the shade,
throw a few buckets of water over each
side and leave for half a day, reversing
occasionally. Then spread on a flat sur-
face and rub in with a wool pad equal
parts of tallow and neatsfoot oil, on one
side only. Use plenty and rub well,
Leave for a few hours, then roll the
hide as tightly as possible, wrap in bags
and leave for a few days.
xl _ , i ~ .
You can use the leather for reins, leg-
ropes, whips and falls, straps, repairs to
harness or the like.
Victorian Pastures
V ictonan pastures.
“Ex-C.G.”: In most parts of Victoria
a topdressing with a phosphatic manure
is profitable. Super.—from lewt. to
2cwt. an acre, the amount determined
by soil quality, climate and the type of
pasture and stock—brings tremendous
improvement.
In good rainfall areas up to a bag an
acre should bring good results, but as the
rainfall drops so should the super, appli-
cations, a good rate being a bag one
year and half a bag, or 1121 b., the next.
Super, always leaves a residue ; thus in
a dry year when little growth is made
it is safe to assume that a fair super,
residue is still there for the following
autumn.
As super, increases the growth of
herbage, it increases the drain on other
soil elements like nitrogen, potash and
lime. These must be replaced if pos-
sible, and clover is one of the best nitro-
gen restorers. Attempts to step-up
nitrogen content by repeated application
of sulphate of ammonia tend to restrict
the development of leguminous plants.
Application of lime is a tricky business
and it is best to make a trial strip before
liming the whole of the paddock. Judge
of the lime’s value by watching the re-
action of the grazing stock to the test
strip.
Potash and super, go well together,
but again it is wise to make a test strip
before shoving potash into the whole
area. The necessity for potassic manures
depends largely on management. For
“f? Ce g ’ 00 7“nfall counhy will delete
thg potash conte nt rapidly, whereas graz-
jn g s j oc return most of the potash they
ingest to the soil in the urine. Some
daymen find it worth while to build a
pb m which both dung and urine are
collected to be spread over the paddock
i a t e r.
Hints for the Farm.
“Beater”: Sometimes a tractor will
m i s fire under a heavy load. It may be
due to faulty condition of a high-tension
lead, causing the spark to jump from the
damaged lead to a near-by metal part
when the engine starts to pull hard,
More often it is due to a faulty plug ;
when compression increases with the load
and the throttle is opened it is unable to
fire - Glv f * e P lu ? s , a th °™ u * h o c ' ea ” m *
and reset the points. Always have a
spare set on hand.
“Canbelego”: Don’t stock winter pas-
tures too heavily early in the growing
season. Let stock into the paddock for
an hour each day, but remove them
earlier if they begin to lie down. If stock
ca m P Qn pasture it beCo mes foul. Put
eno ugh stock on to eat the sward down
w i t hin 10 days or so, but don’t let them
graze it too closely. After each grazing,
harrow the paddock to scatter the drop-
pings, and give it ample time to recover
and make good growth before it is
stocked again. Best plan is to reserve
small areas of winter pasture for cows
in milk, breeding ewes or fattening stock,
•■ Go ulbum”: Towards the end of the
• spa<;nn Ipavp natures of Italian
/a P 5
™s°S ked tO , «‘ ve w °
. r and shedding. Lightly
su . c f h areas ta make a seedbed £or the
sel L so *" seed '
E.H.S. : Rye is usually better as
S winter fodder than either oats or
j e Y* § row on the poorest soil
an , § lve a B°°d return where oats and
parley would lose. It is little affected
°Y , frost > makes progress when oats and
Parley are at a standstill, and will stand
rn° re cutting than either. If it is still
y i B°rous when the spring grass displaces
as .= re pJ| f°dder, allow it to mature
an d there 11 be a good return of gram,
Eye straw is superior to that of all
other cereals for thatching stacks, and
§ rain makes excellent poultry feed,
“F. 8.”: The bottom of an old box
and a piece of galvanised-iron, 3ft.
square, makes a good lick box. The


BRITSTAND
GRADER-DITCHERS
For every class oi Ditching and Grading.
Does everything for which you previously
needed a Grader AND a Ditcher, and DOES
IT BETTER. Makes drains over 4' deep, and
banks oyer 4' high. Good lor maintaining,
also station roads, shifting drift, etc. Over
10,000 Grader Ditchers in use in America.
Hundreds already sold in Australia. Your
money refunded if you agree to part with
it after 2-days' trial. Write to-day for free
illustrated leaflet.
BRITISH STANDARD
MACHINERY Co. Ltd.
5 6-5 8 GARDENERS RD.
(West of Botany Rd ), ALEX ANDRIA
Phones Mascot 3,7 0- 5
n
Use the edge
/ U*vv*vvi 'y
GILLETTE
SHOULDERED
EDGE
with the shoulder behind it!
Behind each keen cutting edge of a Blue Gillette
blade there is a long steel shoulder, formed by
three distinct angles in the sharpening process.
This shoulder is there to bear the load under which
the ordinary blade would yield. Result more
clean, smooth shaves for your money. But do
treat the edge fairly. So carefully do Gillette pack
their blades that not even the wrapping is allowed
to touch the cutting edge hold one to the light
and see. So avoid touching it yourself. Unwrap
the blade carefully, always hold it by the ends, and
you’ll get still more shaves per blade!
USE
GILLETTE
AND SAVE STEEL
Gillette Sets 2/7\ to 47J-. Blue Gillette Blades 5 for 1/7.
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., xBi Clarence Street, Sydney
REGISTERED
TRADE MARK
Gillette
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVER
BLUE GILLETTE BLADE
MADE IN ENGLAND
The comfort of a septic tank without any water supply
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Matter is dissolved, rendered sterile and overflows into the soil.
Provides one of the amenities of City life.
$ NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Efficiency, mechanism and long life fully guaranteed
Approved by Board of Health.
Over 1550 satisfied users.
Price, £lB/8/- f.o.r. Sydney.
Including sales tax and crating.
Write Dept. B for illustrated pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
-'Wlp
bottom should be roughly 18in. long
and Sin. wide. Just enough timber should
be left at ends and sides to hold the lick
without spilling. The iron is fixed to
back and sides and at a height of 2ft.
bent over to form a cover. This gives
sufficient opening for the animals to get
at the lick and keeps the worst of the
rain out. Tie the boxes to tree stumps
or posts by wire loops fastened to the
back. See that they are in places fre-
quently used by the stock.
“Peapod”: Goats certainly keep black-
berry eaten down. Where areas are large
and the blackberry is scattered among
pasture, the only satisfactory method is
to tether the goats on the blackberry by
means of a chain sliding along a wire
stretched between two posts. A child
can see that the goats get water and
that the chain doesn’t twist.
“Canbelego”: Remove the calf from
the cow when it is about 12 hours old.
It is harder to teach a calf to drink when
left too long, and the longer it is left
with its mother the more both will fret
when separated. Put the calf in a pen
by itself where it will not be jostled
around or have its navel injured because
of sucking by other calves. If kept in a
separate pen the calf will be easier to
feed and a closer check can be kept on
its condition and health.
“B-gar”: Suggested that jetting of
sheep should be made compulsory in
N.S.W. ; the idea is not likely to find
favor. Jetting with arsenical mixtures
was first tried on a large scale in Queens-
land several years ago. When the first
abnormal fly season came it was found
that jetting alone was practically value-
less and crutching had to be resorted
to. I jetted twice within three weeks
and then had to bring the sheep in and
have them crutched. And remember that
jetting cannot prevent body strike.
W. H. Warhurst, recently elected a
vice-president of Sydney R.A.S., is a
Kempsey man who has been on the
R.A.S. council for 18 years. He started
a Jersey herd on his Kempsey farm back
in 1906, and within the next couple of
years was winning prizes with ponies and
galloways at Sydney shows. His farm
was the scefte of the formation of the
first Junior Farmer Club in N.S.W. He
was first president of the Mid-North
Coast Surf Lifesaving branch, and has
frequently judged Jersey cattle at Royal
and country shows.
Anyone in search of knowledge about
the upper Riverina should get in touch
with Jim Stewart, who has lived in Hol-
brook for 50 of his 75 years. The place
was called Germanton before the 1914-18
war, and Jim was a stock and station
agent there and local show secretary. He
has acted as valuer for both Holbrook
and Culcairn shires, and is a foundation
member of the Institute of Land Valuers,
which blossomed into the Commonwealth
Institute of Valuers. He now keeps tab
on the district’s rabbits for the Hume P.P.
Board.
Outback Occupations.
No. LXX.
EASING THE TENSION.
You’re working in the shed when
Jordan comes along in his car. He’s
dressed up. “Cornin’ to the football,
Jack?” he calls, getting out of the car.
You’ve never taken much interest in foot-
ball in the locality because they play a
different code from the one you were
brought up on.
“Aw, I dunno,” you say.
“Come on,” urges Jordan ; “won’t take
you a minute t’ get dressed. You’ll go
mad if y’ don’t get a bit o’ fun some-
times. Come on.” You’re still hesitating
when the wife appears and Jordan
appeals to her. She thinks it will do you
good, stop you moping about the place,
thinking of the war and the price of
wheat and all that.
Ten minutes later you are beside
Jordan on the way to town. As the car
enters the main street a sleety rain comes
out of the west. “Looks like a dirty
day,” says Jordan cheerfully. “Hang on
till I duck over an’ post these letters.”
He comes back from the post office
with a grin.
“Bogan Downs ain’t here yet,” he an-
nounces. “Be a good chance t’ slip a
coupla rums inter us. We’ll need ’em
down on that ground if this keeps up.”
He indicates the weather.
In the pub you and Jordan encounter
some of the local footballers.' They
smell of embrocation, chew steadily,
hunch themselves in their overcoats and
clump about in their studded boots. You
and Jordan absorb rum. The footballers
won’t drink before the game. “After
we’ve cleaned up Bogan Downs we’ll
be with y’,” one says significantly.
After a couple more drinks you notice
the footballers have disappeared, and you
bring this to Jordan’s notice.
“Gripes,” he says, “we better get down
to the ground. Better take a bottle of
rum with us, eh?” You nod.
The sleet is colder and wetter when
Jordan’s car sloshes through the gates
and swings into the circle of cars ranged
round the playing area. A few people
are huddled in the little grandstand, and
near the scoreboard a caped policeman
tries to pretend the rain doesn’t worry
him.
Time passes. Three small boys and
a dog, with an ancient football between
them, whoop and shriek and bark in the
mud and water in the arena. Jordan
prattles about the days when he used to
play. You are warm and slightly sleepy.
Occasionally Jordan reaches out and
wipes vapor off the windscreen.
More time passes. Then a figure
appears and writes something on the
scoreboard. You can’t read it for the
rain. But word comes round the line
of cars that the Bogan boys have arrived
after being bogged thrice and breaking
a back axle in one car, are changing at
the pub and will be down in a few
minutes. You wipe your share of the
windscreen in time to see the caped police-
man chasing the boys and the dog off
the arena.
You and Jordan take a rum. A figure
in white comes put into the arena. It
stands moodily for a while, gives a few
tentative peeps on a whistle, then retires.
A little later it reappears, followed by
the footballers. The light is bad and the
sleet still falling. You have some diffi-
culty in distinguishing the colors. As
they start you and Jordan take some
more rum.
The rum runs out somewhere between
three-quarter time and the second half
and you and Jordan and a lot of men
and boys are out in the paddock in
semi-gloom trying to see what is going
on. You press forward to what looks
like movement in the slush and are
suddenly overwhelmed by several large
and greasy youths who trample on you
and vanish into the darkness to the
accompaniment of loud yells.
“Tear ’em down! Eat ’em alive!”
you shriek, scraping mud from your over-
coat and wondering where your hat is.
The crowd surges forward and you surge
with it. The crowd falls back and you
fall with it. A figure in white puts its
hand on your chest and says, “Hey, keep
orf the field!”
“Keep y’r ban’s off me,” you shriek
and add, “Go it, y’ beauties, tear ’em
down!” From somewhere ahead there
are a thump and sounds of strong men
struggling. You press forward, slipping
and sliding and feeling the cold rain
sneaking down inside your overcoat
collar.
“Hey, look at that, y’ one-eyed cow!”
a voice shrills in your ear.
“Eh? What? Where?” you ask, and
a small woman suddenly bobs up in
front of you, crying, “Go on. Bill! Go
on. Bill!”
Suddenly the crowd turns and runs.
You run, too. Then you get a cold feel-
ing and decide to seek the haven of
Jordan’s car. There is a blaze of light.
All the headlights have been switched
on to help the footballers. It dazzles
you. The rain falls through it like spear-
points. A large hand grabs you and a
large voice says, “Here, I’ve told y’ be-
fore. Nex’ time I’ll run y’ in.” You
are shot violently into the darkness, col-
lide with somebody, half-fall over a rail
and sit in the mud. You get up and
make your way along the cars, saying,
“Anybody seen Bill Jordan?”
After a lot of floundering about in
the slush and shivering, you locate
Jordan’s car. Jordan, dry and warm, is
sound asleep in the seat. Somehow you
wake him. “What,” he says, “is church
out?” and has backed the car and driven
off before you can say anything.
“One f’r the road,” he says and stops
the car. You find yourself in the pub.
Before a roaring fire you dry off, absorb-
ing more rum and wondering what set
your head on fire.
Three hours later the missus helps
you to bed, rubs your chest with ointment
and forces you to drink hot lemon and
aspirin.
“Goo’ gabe, foo’bawd,” you tell her.
“Does y’ good. Stobs y’ mobin abou’ the
blace thigid o’ whea’ an’ the brice o’
war an’ —whoop-whoop-atishoo-acuhuh.
Has Bister Jordad gord?”
You stay in bed four days.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4Jd. per line; all others at
2|d. per line.
A Victorian’s essay on an old Australian evil which the war is making worse
earns double rates.
Drift to the City
This is one of the major worries of
the Victorian Government at the present
time. Naturally the problem has been
handed to a conference of Government
departments.
There is a solution, but Government
departments will never find it. So long
as State Transport Departments make it
possible for goods to be sent cheaper to
large wens like Melbourne than to local
ports, then so long will all available pro-
duce come to the Big City. Only private
enterprise can bring the population back
to the bush, and private enterprise will
not go back there until it can be reason-
ably sure of a profit.
On paper, Portland might seem to be
closer to Hamilton than Melbourne is,
but if I wish to start a woollen mill at
Portland I find that my competitors in
Melbourne * can get their wool to Mel-
bourne at a freight-rate cheaper than
I can get mine to Portland. More, they
can get the manufactured article back to
Hamilton cheaper than I can. So what
do I do? I build my mill in Melbourne
because I am courting bankruptcy if I
don’t.
Wool is only one example. There are
a hundred other commodities in the same
boat, and Victoria, like every other
State, is dotted with closed-up factories
for which preferential rail freights are
partly responsible.
There is only one way to get industries
back to the country towns, and that is
to give them a fair go. The abolition
of preferential rail freights won’t solve
the problem by a long shot, but it will
go some distance towards it. — Teleco
(Vic.).
Education in the Backblocks
Stick to the city and your children will
be given free the very best schooling the
State can provide. Tackle a scrub selec-
tion where no more than half a dozen
children can be gathered together, and
you will not only have to battle with
double your share of dingoes, rabbits and
other noxious creatures, but you will find
the best a grateful country can do for
you in the way of educational facilities
is a subsidised school, building provided
by the settlers, as well as a big
proportion of the salary and accommo-
dation for the teacher. All in addition to
paying all your share of taxation to meet
the State’s education bill.
Complete education facilities for
children in remote areas would of course
cost more per child than in the more
crowded areas ; but surely the commu-
nity as a whole, which benefits most from
the pioneer’s work of making the back-
blocks productive, should bear this
burden for him.—G. A. B. (N.S.W.).
Closer Settlement
Despite “E. 0.5.” (B. 23/4/’4l), Aus-
tralians will cherish their ideal of closer
settlement, because this policy has given
us a rural population of independent and
educated men. In countries where the
land is owned by a few aristocratic
families the bulk of the rural people are
poor and ignorant laborers and peasants.
Admitted that the bungling of one-
man farms schemes has caused terrible
wastage, but their failure does not prove
that the principle is wrong. The farms
were too small and situated in districts
of low and unreliable rainfall. Some of
the men who took them up were un-
suitable, others had too little capital.
Even so, some of them succeeded, and
in our district the man who won both
the Master Farmer and the Fodder Con-
servation competitions began as a soldier
settler.
i Compare the thriving towns of Wagga
and Temora, which are surrounded by
j small holdings, with the evident stagna-
i tion of other Riverina towns such as
; Holbrook and Tumbarumba, which are
surrounded by big stations.
Whole districts in the heavy-rainfall
areas of N. S. Wales are held by stations
of 20,000 and 30,000 acres which employ
only a few men to look after the sheep.
Fully improved, much of this land will
carry three sheep to the acre. A thousand-
acre farm will provide a farmer with a
comfortable living and provide employ-
ment for one or two men.
Closer settlement does not mean one-
man farms. It means that the land will
not fall into the hands of a capitalist
class and will not be worked by laborers
who are without a hope of becoming
farm owners. — Granova (N.S.W.).
Erosion
Although landowners generally have
now awakened to the dangers of soil
erosion, the damage still goes on, and
will continue to do so until the other
interested parties are prepared to make
some contribution to the colossal task
of erosion prevention.
The other parties are the mortgagees
(80 p.c. to 90 p.c. of farming land is
mortgaged to banks, financial institutions
or the Lands Department). As long as
these insist on their interest being paid
in full, the farmers will be unable (how-
ever willing they may be) to spare the
time and money necessary to build con-
tour banks, fence and sow meadow strips,
nor will they be able to reduce the extor-
tionate demands made on their land by
overcropping and overstocking.
It might be argued that the preserva-
tion of the land is the responsibility of
the farmer. But, on the other hand, if
the destruction of the land goes on at
“Aire you sure it goes through Bathurst, Charlie ?”
the present rate, the ultimate loss to the
mortgagees will be tremendous. It
would be in their interests to waive, or
at least postpone, a big portion of one
or two years’ interest in order that the
farmers may be able to carry out the
necessary preventive work.
The national welfare is so much at
stake in this matter that one of our
Governments might well act as guarantor
for the postponed interest; or, if that is
too much to expect, it might provide
the services of its trained soil-erosion
experts to decide what measures are
necessary on each farm where conces-
sions are applied for, and the cost.
Valuable propaganda work has been
done by one bank in issuing'“Soil Erosion”
booklets, and the valuers of another bank
make a point of writing down the value
of properties showing signs of soil
erosion, but this merely indicates that they
recognise the evil. They will have to do
a lot more than that, and quickly, too,
because every year of neglect whittles
down the value of their securities. We
hear a great deal about the farms which
have been blown away in U.S.A., but
not very much about the banks which
have had to close down in the devastated
areas.—E. O. S. (N.S.W.).
High Price of Conscience
Consider the high price a man pays
for a conscience. Because their con-
sciences dictated that they should do
something more than merely hope for
victory, thousands of young Australians
have given up job, home and comfort and
offered themselves to the nation for a
few shillings a week. On the other hand,
thousands of other young men, whose
consciences are less strict where their
country is concerned, are still drawing
comfortable salaries and spending them
on girls, flash clothes, picture shows and
the horses. This class not only has no
intention of participating in the war, but
will confess, if asked, that as a topic of
conversation they find it boring.
Even if we are tied to a system of
voluntary service (with conscripts from a
restricted age-group only), something
should be done to spread the burden of
war more equitably. Why should the
soldier bear the hardships and discom-
forts of military life as well as draw the
least pay? The Government should see
that those who can serve but won’,t
should be left with only the few shillings
each week the soldier gets. Make their
pay envelopes fight, if they won’t. —
Smilax (Q.). i
The Government’s Job
As the wife of an A.I.F. man who is
serving abroad, I’d like to protest against
the flapdoodle dished up by a Sunday
paper that our troops are the direct re-
sponsibility of the Australian Govern-
ment in, the sense that the Government
should direct their movements in the war
zone. It is ridiculous to say that troops
on active service cannot be moved to or
from any area without the consent of
the Government —delay needed to gain
that consent might mean the difference
between victory and defeat.
What can a pack of politicians know
of the battlefield? What are our generals
for? They should have as complete con-
trol of their armies in war as has a cap-
tain of his ship. If the Government must
personally direct operations, why isn’t it
on the field with the army where it can
have first-hand knowledge of the battles
which are in progress?
My idea of the responsibility of the
Government towards our fighting forces
is to keep the wheels of industry turning
at top speed so that there will be no
shortage of essential equipment to
hamper them, to have ready sufficient
reinforcements fully trained and equipped
and to build up our home defences. In-
stead of searching frantically for scape-
goats to blame for reverses on the field
let them deal effectively with strikes and
other muddling on the home front. —
Plain Jane (N.S.W.).
Preference
It might make A.I.F. recruiting more
popular if the Government were to come
out in the open now and forecast the
forms of preference in employment to re-
turned men. Preference to returned men
was never fully insisted on after the last
war, and returned men themselves were
frequently nervous in their demands,
fearing that even the privileges they had
gained might be swept aside by short-
memoried politicians.
I have met young men excusing them-
selves for not enlisting because of re-
served occupations, yet men in the trades
they are sheltering behind have been re-
peatedly asked for by the Eastern Com-
mand. Will these men expect equal pref-
erence for employment in the years to
come with the men who have gone
abroad? Many of the former are draw-
ing their highest wages for years, and
taxation is their sole sacrifice to com-
pare with the Digger, who has thrown
up everything.
There will be tons of talk later from
the “Couldn’t-Go’s,” and this would be
an opportune time for the Government to
say its piece.— Menin (N.S.W.).
New Orders
Last Sunday afternoon I was sitting
on a form in the Botanical Gardens, and
all around me was a beautiful sinless
paradise. At my right hand sat a lady
contentedly knitting while she watched
her little fair-haired boy playing with a
big, brightly-colored balloon.
Then came another lady and sat at my
left hand. With her was a little dark-
haired boy busily sucking a lolly stick.
Whenever he saw the big balloon he lifted
up his voice and howled for it, dropping
his lolly in the dirt and stamping it under-
foot. Little Snow, at his mother’s request,
offered to lend his treasure, and it was
greedily grabbed by Darky’s sticky
fingers. No thanks were forthcoming,
and Darky just scowled at the appeaser
and trotted off towards the duckpond
with the treasure. In his hurry he tripped
over his own feet and stumbled heavily
on the balloon, which burst. Quite un-
repentant, he scrambled to his hind legs,
picked up the tattered remnants and
threw them as far as he could into the
water among the ducks. Meanwhile
Snowy was sobbing his heart out.
Darky was presently dragged away
from the painful scene, screaming with
temper and scowling back at the good-
natured, gentlemanly little Snowy, whose
happiness he had shattered.
The future structure of society will be
built by the Darkies and Snowies of the
world when they have grown up. Adam
and Noah both started New Orders under
the best auspices. We build but as our
fathers built, and our sons will carry on
the tradition. The best we can do is to
patch up the Old Order with the materials
at hand and train the kids as well as we
can to keep it in repair when they take
over the job.— Human Nature (S.A.).
“The Corker” (B. 2/4/’4l) cannot
claim that more than a small percentage
of great men have sought to impose a
new world order. Neither do their
“thuds” occupy much space, since most
of them died before their effect upon
posterity could be adjudged, and history
is dumb concerning their subsequent
reactions.
All great move-
ments or world orders
owe their very being
to circumstances aris-
ing in preceding cen-
turies. Their course
is moulded by the
influence of great
men, sometimes the
product of the move-
ment itself, sometimes
reactionary antago-
nists seeking to repress
its existence. Crom-
well had no vision of
a “world order.” A
product of the Puritan
tendencies then sweeping England, he
seized an opportunity during civil strife
and ruled England more capably than
any of his immediate predecessors had
managed. The Royalist reaction was the
natural result of subjecting a nation to
the crotchets of a sectarian minority.
Napoleon set out to play the old game
of military conquest, popular even in
Biblical times. Instead of founding an
empire, however, he succeeded in striking
the deathblow to despotic monarchies
and leaving the stage clear for the rapid
development of democratic government.
Russia, which his armies failed to sub-
due, has failed to catch up yet.
If, after the war, a new order arises
anywhere, it will owe its existence to the
destruction of the old order. In such a
case any reconstruction is likely to be
guided by popular opinion ; so it will be
advisable for enthusiastic advocates of
new or old orders to study the subject
carefully to ensure pulling their weight
upon the right side. — Clio (N.S.W.).
“Mein Kampf”
Several chapters of this book are de-
voted to a description of German Parlia-
ments as Hitler found them at the start
of his “struggle.” Here are some of the
features sketched by Hitler, who was
then in prison, planning his campaign
against democracy.
Place-seeking is the primal urge. Tre-
mendous energy is exerted to secure
“seats.” After election the members settle
down to enjoy perquisites of office, avoid-
ing all unpleasant responsibilities and
absenting themselves from the House
except when their political lives are at
stake. Long seasons of somnolence are
followed by feverish bursts of activity to
get rid of arrears of legislation. Care-
lessness and incompetence are the rule.
The welfare of the people takes second
place to the power of the party. “The
seat holders resemble wood grubs, emerg-
ing as moths only before elections.” And
so forth.
Hitler is an opportunist. Any reader
of his book can see that the opportuni-
ties he seized were made for him by the
timeserving, job-hunting, wordy, agitator-
appeasing Parliamentarians of his own


.
K-i
%
iK
s£3%
S 3
SSS
?S6
&*' .
Combine
it
PROTECTION
$
INVESTMENT
£?»
Gj&soi&t
m-
-*>
•>:<
VJt
'**«h. v
**K
bbt*^
With a *National Mutual’ Policy, you not
only have a GOOD INVESTMENT, but
also have GOOD PROPERTY - property
that will not depreciate - that will always
provide sure protection.
. ... ■ ... • : ; A . , .
Your Wisest Investment in Uncertain Times
THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION /AUSTRALASIA.LTD
(Inc. in Viet.)
ESTABLISHED 1869
3SO George Street, Sydney.
NO SHAREHOLDERS POLICYHOLDERS ALONE
SHARE NATIONAL MUTUAL BENEFITS
The Association has funds available for loans at current interest rates on municipal and public body debentures and
first mortgages of suitable City, Pastoral and Agricultural properties.


and other countries. As a psychologist
he betted on politicians being much the
same the world over, and so far he has
won most of his bets. — Who’s Next
(S.A.).
“Your National Dividend”
If C. Barclay-Smith’s “costless-credit”
(B. 9/4/’4l) is so wonderful, why hasn’t
some' other country given it a trial?
Take Russia, for example. Every
foreigner who has lived in the Workers’
Paradise of late years has told the same
dismal story of workers earning a bare
subsistence wage, of poor and inadequate
food, a dearth of warm clothing and of
boots, and with chronic shortages of such
simple items as sewing needles, saucepans
and table knives. The morale of the
Russian masses is at a deplorably low
level; their lives are a dreary treadmill
existence.
Such evils, according to Barclay-
Smith, are all due to a chronic shortage
of money, and can be cured without
effort and without expense by making
entries in a bank ledger, so why in
heaven’s name doesn’t Stalin have
the entries made in the Soviet bank
books? Why didn’t Hitler use this
expedient to make his people the
rulers of the world, instead of em-
barking upon the bloodiest wars of
conquest the world has ever seen? Why
doesn’t Franco use it to end the troubles
of his unhappy land, ravaged by civil
war? Why didn’t Musso. choose it
instead of bringing Italy to what
Churchill described as “the horrid verge
of ruin”? Nobody can say that at least
three of the dictators lacked the power
to put such a policy into force, nor can
anyone say that they haven’t done it be-
cause such a brilliant idea hasn’t occurred
to them.
The time for Australia to usher in the
millennium by entries in bank ledgers
will be when some other country has
given the whole thing a thorough tryout
and has proved it to be sound and work-
able. Everyone will be able to recognise
that great day when it arrives, as it will
coincide with the appearance of a blue
moon dotted with green and purple spots.
—H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
Coastal Shipping
Small vessels trading along the coast
were once the only means of transport
to many ports, These ships were respon-
sible for the development of the
hinterland, as well as the many harbor
works and improvements that Harbor
Boards carried out to deal with the
traffic. Loans were raised for the pur-
pose. Usually a small levy on all goods
and vessels entering the port was made.
This was sufficiept to provide a sinking
fund for debt repayment, pay interest,
maintain port improvements and pay
the staff necessary to operate them. No-
body objected to these levies because
good service was obtained in return.
Coastal shipping was cheap and efficient.
Then came the railways. These were
a constant charge on the taxpayer. As
a result, in order to boost returns, freight
charges were cut far below what the
shipping companies could economically
charge. Business followed the cheapest
route. That the rate was uneconomic
worried nobody. The railways showed
increased earnings (profits don’t worry
them), business people got cheaper
carriage and the taxpayer was too thick
in the head to see that the difference
came out of his pocket.
Coastal shipping fights a losing battle.
As soon as a line is driven from the
seas up go the railway freights. Too
late is it realised that shipping was the
best. Governments sacrifice in shipping
a first-class service, especially useful in
war-time; they rob the taxpayer all
round, and then the Harbor Board,
deprived of its revenue, becomes just
another charge on the rates in order
to pay interest on its loans. . Ultimately
(he taxpayer will be stung for the repay-
ment of the loan as well, — Tinopai
(M.L.).
Motor Registration
There is resentment among private
motorists in Victoria that the State Gov-
ernment is not likely to consider a reduc-
tion in motor registration fees. These
are calculated on the very rough-and-
ready basis of a charge of 3d. per
“power-weight” unit, the “power-weight”
unit being obtained by adding the horse-
power and weight in hundredweights of
the car together. In effect, in normal times,
this method of calculating the tax payable
meant that the private motorist paid
more in registration per mile travelled
than commercial interests, and was, in
fact, subsidising their use of the roads.
Under rationing, this is still more acute,
and in most cases private motorists
will pay more in registration and insur-
ance of their cars than they will be able
to spend on petrol.
In general, the registration charged
yvhen the latest rationing scheme is in
operation will amount to at least Is. for
each gallon of petrol used. Traffic on
country roads has noticeably diminished
with rationing, so the cost of maintain-
ing roads must necessarily be less. The
time is overdue for a reduction in regis-
tration fees in Victoria, and the simplest
method and the fairest would be to
calculate them on the basis of the petrol
ration allowed to each owner. The tax
would then bear some relation to the
amount of use the person who paid it
made of the roads. —E. H. H. (Vic.).
Vocational Guidance
Writers on vocational guidance experts
overlook the main point in any such sys-
tem. Of what use is it to tell a father
on the basic wage that his son has the
makings of a brilliant surgeon, an out-
standing scientist or a competent engi-
neer? Here in Victoria such a boy has
no chance of getting beyond the
secondary-school stage, and is lucky even
then —the State scholarships cover only
the cost of tuition and necessary books,
making no allowance for the cost of
maintaining the boy during his time at
school.
Neither is there provision for making
up the loss of the youth’s potential wages
while he is attending secondary school.
The University is well out of the reach
of such as these—the State grants its
senior scholarship holders £4O a year,
barely sufficient to pay University fees.
The remedy would be for the State to
make its scholarships so liberal that eco-
nomic considerations would not prevent
promising boys and girls from obtaining
the highest possible education. Such
scholarships should provide not only suf-
ficient money to pay school and Univer-
sity fees and buy textbooks, but also
enough to maintain their holders during
their education. — Titun (Vic.).
National Economy
One method of saving which has not
been thought of by our legislators is the
abolition of duty stamps by local govern-
ing authorities. The average council in
N. S. Wales uses over 10s. worth weekly,
the larger ones with trading undertakings
considerably more. In the ultimate result
shire and municipal councils are only
localised departments of State adminis-
tration, and compelling them to affix
duty stamps to all receipts over £2 is
only multiplying the costs of such admin-
istration. The cost of printing them is
a considerable item, and a large quan-
tity of good-quality paper is annually
wasted.
Nearly every council receives grants of
one sort or another from the State Gov-
ernment, It should be practicable to
work out a scheme whereby all local
authorities were exempt from the pro-
visions of the Stamp Duties Act, even if
it meant reducing the amount of the sub-
sidy or grant by a sum equal to the aver-
age expenditure by the council on duty
stamps. In the aggregate, too, the time
saved by the office staffs in sticking them
on would be an item worth thinking
about. I know—l glue on an average of
about 40 a day.— Sandpatch (N.S.W.).
The Forgotten Child
As early as last October word came
over the wireless to the effect that the
Government was making provision for
drought-stricken wheatgrowers in W.A.
That sounded very comforting to those
whose crops were dead or dying. Later
it was announced that portion of the
grant would be free and the rest lent
under 1.A.8. conditions.
After paying last year’s interest to the
Agricultural Bank and the crop lien for
super., insurance, twine, etc., we had the
magnificent sum of £4 9s. 4d. over from
our wheat money. We applied for
drought relief from the free grant and
also for a loan from the 1.A.8. We were
told that our share of the free grant
would be eightpence an acre, approxi-
mately £7 13s. 4d. Through the 1.A.8.
we asked for a loan for sustenance, spare
parts, wages, fuel, cartage, school ex-
penses, doctor’s bills, etc. We recently
received a statement from the Agricul-
tural Bank showing that a loan for most
of the items requested had been granted
for the carrying on of the farm. We
also learned that the 1.A.8. had arranged
to supply us with £65 worth of super, for
growing another crop. As we had already
obtained our super, through our stock
firm, it took some hurried telephoning to
prevent that second lot of super, from
being sent to us.
It was very generous, of course, to
arrange to supply us with £65 worth of
super, we had not asked for, but the sad
part of the story was that the head office
of the Agricultural Bank, which is the
authority handling drought loans, would
not agree to expenditure from the
drought-relief money for school expenses
or doctor’s bills for our youngest child.
When only a kiddie she travelled seven
miles to school in a spring cart and seven
miles home again at night. When that
school closed down she attended another
further from home, cycling 11 miles to
school in the morning and 11 miles home
again at flight. The inspector gave her
a scholarship, and we managed to send
her away from the wheatbelt to a coastal
school. The money from the scholarship
barely paid half her expenses; so, this
season being such a failure, we asked for
money from the 1.A.8. drought loan to
help towards her school expenses and to
pay the doctor’s bills for a severe illness
that she had recently. We were refused
any money from the 1.A.8. loan for
either .doctor’s bills or school expenses,
although the powers that be had £65
available for super, that we did not
require.— Opal Lynn (W.A.).
News
The public has never been so ill-
informed as at the present, despite the
galaxy of radio professors and experts
on the air. The printed word can be seen
and re-read and studied at leisure. The
reader can make an attempt to winnow
the grain from the chaff, but not so with
the radio news commentary. Actually
most of these talks are not news but
vague and nebulous forecasts that are
products of the speaker’s mind.
What an opportunity there is today
with radio to keep the public well in-
formed with current happenings. Per-
haps it would be possible for the A.B.C.
to give a brief resume in its “Weekly”
“Mind you put that out when you've finished."
of the qualifications of news commenta-
tors as military tacticians and experts in
world affairs. It would not take a great
deal of space to do so. —lago (N.S.W.).
Co-operation
Once upon a time a fire broke but
underground on a large mine. The
manager, accompanied by a number of
employees, went underground to. fight
it. On arrival at the scene of the fire it
was found that while it was quite a dan-
gerous one, and spreading fairly rapidly,
there was every possibility of bringing it
under control, provided it was dealt with
promptly.
At this stage, however, an argument
broke out as to whether the men were to
be paid an extra shilling a day for fire-
fighting, and whether 40ft. lengths of
hose were to be used or 44ft. lengths,
even though either length would have
been quite effective if used promptly and
in sufficient numbers. All concerned
became so interested in the argument
over the lengths of hoses and so heated
over the extra shilling a day that they did
not notice the heat of the fire, which
meantime had spread rapidly, and was now
entirely out of hand, surrounding them
and cutting off all avenues of escape.
A desperate effort was made at the last.
moment to do something about it. Hoses
of any length were used, the manager
being quite content to have shorter
lengths used, and the men quite prepared
to use the longer ones. The manager
would willingly have given an extra £1
a day to each of the men, and the men
would willingly have worked for nothing.
Everyone was willing to see the other
fellow’s point of view, but unfortunately
it was too late. The manager and work-
men alike were consumed by the flames
and the mine completely destroyed.
You do not believe it? People
wouldn’t act in such a foolish way in
face of such obvious danger? Well, what
about our war effort? —Adanac (N.S.W.).
Six O’clock Closing
According to “Barwon” (B. 16/4/’4I)
the North Sydneyites are an oppressed
people. On Saturday afternoons they
are compelled by an “archaic lav/” to
line up four-deep in the smoke-laden
atmosphere of pub bars to gulp dow'n a
certain quota of drinks before six o’clock.
Further, the same law compels many of
these citizens —some of them quite decent
—to stagger home burdened with brown-
paper parcels containing bottles or to
unload the contents of their compul-
sorily-poisoned stomachs in the highways
and byways.
Incidentally, “Barwon” completely de-
bunks the ancient myth that men are
called to the bar by the purest motives
of good-fellowship. Fie proves, how-
ever unwittingly, that they are dragged
there by the pull of an acquired drug
habit, to swill their favorite dope in sur-
roundings that would disgust anyone but
an addict. The law only compels them
to leave the bar at an appointed time. It
certainly does not compel or even invite
them to enter it at any time.
Of course, none of the citizens con-
cerned will admit to themselves or their
friends that they have a craving for
alcohol. When they can afford the time
they will hunt around for any excuse
for sinking a few pots. Drinking with
the flies is abhorrent. Shouting and being
shouted for is the popular camouflage to
hide the real reason for stopping a
couple. But when working against time
they don’t even wait to intone the “Here’s
luck” rigmarole. Down they go, one
on top of the other.
Before the “archaic law” was thought
of I lived next door to a pub, and every
Saturday midnight I was compelled, not
by law, but by sanitary necessity, to hose
from my pavement the vestigial remains
of the good old, leisurely, broad-minded
social evening of the period.— Moderate
(S.A.).
Profitbeering
The other evening I sat down to dine
in a Sydney hotel with an old friend.
After a lapse of very loud silence, punc-
tuated with thirst noises, I suggested some
beer. We ordered some, a non-N. S.
Wales brew. Along came the bottle, and
when I asked the waiter about the
damages he said “Three shillings.” I paid
as quietly as possible, and when that was
consumed and my friend suggested an-
other I nominated “something less expen-
sive.” So we risked another Common-
wealth brand, just plain beer, and this
time it cost 2s. 9d.
I remember once paying half a crown
for a bottle of Guinness on the top of
Snowdon. In those days Guinness was
about 4d. a bottle in Dublin. However
in that case there was the excuse of drag-
ging it up to the top of Snowdon. But
here in Sydney there is no excuse for this
profitbeering at all. Even corkage could
not possibly account for it — Mine Guest
(N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
CYPRUS DE LUXE
15 Jewel Precisin
£5/10/-
Watch.
Stainless
Steel.
Specially tested to stand tropical conditions.
Fully Gtcl. Waterproof, Shockproof, Dustproof.
Watch Repair Service. Send jor Catalogue.
DIAMOND
&• WATCH
SPECIALISTS
112 MARKET ST.
SYDNEY,
OPP. DAVIDJONES
d
TYPEWRITERS
of every description
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
FROM £5 UPWARDS.
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States —See ’Phone Book.
SPECIAL OFFER
“Jersey” Cow Rugs, 7/8 each.
Made on style
recommended
by Dept, of
A g riculture;
fitted with
spring: snap
hooks back
- • and front.
No. 22, Heavy Twill Jute 7/8 each
No. 23P, Heavy Twill Jute, water-
proof, unfilled S>/8 each
No. 30, Heavy Jute Canvas (200 z.), 12/8 each
Measure rug: from centre of chest to buttock.
All leading: stores or
SMITH, COPELAND AND CO. PTA., LTD.,
33-37 Regrent Street, SYDNEY,
::
fd
Try the new Roussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and security. Definitely holds, a conditipn
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE UOUSSEIi APPIjTANCE 00..
DEPT. 27, 84 PITT ST.. SYDNEY.
LEARN VENTRILOQUISM
quickly —my new method
'teaches it thoroughly in very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the VENTRILO you can imitate many kinds of
birds, animals, etc. Everything for ONE
SHILLING, including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw your voice.
FRFF Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
n\Lriy Tricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
173 Pitt St., Sydney. 52 Swanston St., Melb.
*4;
4
FAT, FLABBY
STOMACH
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The GOYERNA BELT supports
correctly the delicate organs,
and, by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes waistline
fat and bulge with every move
you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAL, OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will
be Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of
bulge and strain gone . , .
OR NO COST! Write for full
illustrated details of 7 DAYS’
TRIAL OFFER.
GOYERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
f
d
k\
7/
Z-
fei
OILSKINS
for long-, bard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of our
oilskins are our
best advertisement.
Hughes’ Tropical
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Write for Free Catalogue and Samples.
A. J. HUGHES
* (Established 1893),
1218 REGENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Z**JdL Y {
m
With the new scientific
“FOOTHELP”
No More Suffering!
“FOOTHELP” gives you
greater ease and comfort than
you ever imagined possible.
It won’t cost you a penny
if we fail to fulfil these
promises.
Write To-day for
FREE BOOKLET:
“Your Feet and How to
Treat Them Properly,” and
FREE Trial Offer to:
JOHN H. UNGER (Dept. 13T),
65 York Street, Sydney.
SAVE £2
ON BATTERIES
Buy direct from well-known manu-
facturer at wholesale prices. Save
nearly half usual cost. Marshall
Batteries are renowned for long life.
Every battery is guaranteed in writ-
ing. Send for 16-page catalogue
telling you how to choose, instal and
care for batteries for cars, trucks,
cycles, home or theatre lighting.
Marshall Battery Manufacturing Co.,
38-42 Harbour Street, Sydney.
fd
BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCE
CHARGER.
Saves 80% on fencing costs and will last
a lifetime. Absolutely stockproof. Send
for TREK descriptive leaflets.
SINGLE WIRE EENCE CO.,
207 George Street, SYDNEY.
S.A. Agents:
Goldberg Bros., North Terrace, Adelaide.
FINE TOBACCO!
Whitelaw’s Famous Import
Blend Number One.
A flue quality leaf which could not be purchased
anywhere at less than 24/- per pound. Despite
new duties, WHITELAW’S SPECIAL POLICY TO
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS enables us to offer this
tobacco at the lowest price consistent with its fine
quality. Save yourself the middleman’s profit—
buy direct and enjoy an extra fine quality smoke,
expertly blended, fragrant, cool, and satisfying.
Your money back if not satisfied. Send crossed
cheque or money order. (If cheque add exchange.)
Available in Ready Rubbed Fine Cut or Ready
Rubbed for Pipe, 41b. 9/3 delivered; 11b. 17/6
delivered. James Whitelaw and Co., Factors,
Importers and Blenders of Fine Tobaccos, 160
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. (Note new address.)
Bankers: Bank of N.S.W., Head Office.
FLEX> 1-TRftCK
Flex-I-Track for “0” gauge Mechanical and
Electrical Trains. Will fit any make of track
—switches- —crossovers. Make any curve,
gradient—a new layout every time.
• No track sections to
connect —just roll it
out—roll it up.
• Strongly bu i 11 —■
won’t bend or buckle.
• 10ft. (one 6ft. and
one 4ft. section) for
12/6, Plus Postage.
Nett weight when
packed, 51b.
AMPLION (A/siaJ)
Pty., Ltd.,
382 Kent St., Sydney.
NATURAL
WOOD TIES
FLEXIBLE IN '
ANY DIRECTION
FITS OTHER
EQUIPMENT
TRACK/
deaf:
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE, Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW 1
B. A. NOEDL, li.l-8.5.T.,
The Block, 438 George St., Sydney.
f
JTHE WOODEN LOCK PUZZLE
There are many Wooden Puzzles, but,
though the Wooden Lock has only six',
pieces, it is probably the most difficult
of them all. Quite clever people, after
trying for hours, have declared that it
cannot be done ; yet it is readily put
together when you know how. Try it,
( ''do it, and puzzle your friends. Price
/SEVEN PENCE, post tree, with illustrated directions.'
(THE UNION COMPANY. 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne^
d
bunnies
THp fnnnip«;t nii77.lp anrl thp rlpvproct i
The funniest puzzle and the cleverest
toy of the season. Has taken the
whole world by storm. Tests your
nerves, your ingenuity and your
stick-at-iveness. Run the nimble
bunnies into the trap. They start
off nicely, but just when you think
you have them trapped one or all o
them may escape. Only 1/9, carriag
paid. Obtainable only from
Til 1C UNION CO., 299 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne
TILLEY LAMPS
fd
For the Farm, Camping
or
British-made Kerosene Lamps
providing a steady 300 c.p. light
without flickering and without
smoke or smell.
Model EXIOO (illustrated)
can be used as a Storm
Lantern, Table Lamp or Hanging
Lamp. Reflector slips off when
not required. Burns for 10
hours on pint.
Price, 67/6 complete.
Write for catalogue of Radiators
and all types of lamps.
Obtainable from your localagent or
W. Kopson & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
376-382 Kent Street, Sydney.
MA6336.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
f
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
knee pads. Sin. thigh
pads. 4'Jin. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/137-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Jn T » ITV Manufacturing Saddler,
• r, I ALIY 6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
yifJNCHBSTIR
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
2- 750 ft. range, each .... 15/-
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 17/6
Complete with Batteries. Postage Extra.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
IKNINTG
u
Ho\
i
Get rid of
ms BEFORE
they start!
One application of
’HANDLER’S CHEMICAL
DEHOKNER
,/r will remove the horn
bud from any calf up
to two months. There is no bleed-
ing’. Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from its mother
for 30 minutes —the horn bud drops off in a few
weeks. An and humane method. Price,
D. &W. Chandler, Ltd., 0/0
MELBOURNE and all branches. ’p os t Free.
TRY "CENTURY" RADIO
—and save 40 p.c.
(up to £2O).
.It costs you nothing to try the
“Century” Radio. You can have
FREE TRIAD in your own home.
Century Radio Sets embody the
latest scientific improvements . . .
wonderful reception assured from
all over the world on Battery and
All-electric sets. Write at once for
Catalogue. If no “Century” Agent
in your district you can buy at
wholesale prices (40% discount).
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
| LAMBS SAVED
By Using- the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS.
FLIES. OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord—
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient—•
Humane —Safe —and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback—fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection—No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
Also LAMB DE-TAILER, £3/5/-. From all
agents or the distributors: HAIN &
SEARIGHT, 19b O’Connell Street, Sydney.
d
STOP SMOKING
Nicotine undermines your health, often
causing
HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE.
The TOBACCO HABIT can now definitely
be overcome with a new medicinal treat-
ment.
DR. PARKS’ ANTI-SMOKING
MIXTURE.
Mr. H., of Sydney, writes: “After 20
years of constant smoking I am now
cured of the habit.”
Complete Treatment, 5/- post free.
Obtainable only from—
NOEL P. FORD, M.P.S. (Syd. Univ.),
Chemist, 243 King Street, Newtown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Form a Group!
Join a Group!
Buy
WAR SAYINGS CERTIFICATES
“GOLF SHOTS”
by JIM FERRIER
IS NOW ON SALE.
Over 100 photographs of the
champion in action reproduced
from a slow-motion film.
Every shot fully explained.
Price only 3/- per copy from
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.
Box 252 188, G.P.0., Sydney, most
Newsagents or your Club Pro.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
ADDRESS
(i Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
28/S/’4l (See Page 32)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss....,
Cut this out and send with your "Wants” to the Service Department , ‘The Bulletin "
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


500 MILLION PEOPLE
kaxwhoo'/^.'■ v . .... .. • «• ■.., ,v . _■*. ~'“•* *
' *
»v?** X •*
& r? o
WW^^S^V-f •> i: -V
X' ' v v *
.* ,y ‘*.
MW* f“ ; '3-
k
« v
:v*
: ■•■
S
&M.
•■f
is.' ,
v.X'i
«s
'■■■.■■
- -
a«
i--.
;•
■> : , *•
J¥"
place LIBERTY above life
They are the peoples of Britain, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, India and the British Colonial
Empire who are partners in the struggle against the evil tyranny of Nazi-Fascism. They span the worlds
they tap its resources. They are linked together by sea-power and air-power for co-ordinated attack and
defence at all points of the compass. Behind these massed forces of liberty is the industrial might of the
Empire, resting on inexhaustible supplies of raw materials, the superlative quality of its products, and of
the men who make them. This is the front behind the front, the foundations of the great fortress of
which Britain is an advanced post. Throughout the Empire, Imperial Chemical Industries has its associ-
ated companies, its factories and its agents whose energies and products are to-day mobilised in support
of 500 million people in their fight to preserve freedom from disappearing from the world.
“Behind the Empire Throughout the Empire”
■
m I®
m
OF ADSTBAUA &
CIANZ
NEW ZEALAND LTD.
Subsidiary Companies:
BRUNNER MONO & CO. (A/ASIA) PTY. ITB. NOBEL (A/ASIA) m. LTO. INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS PIT. LTD. LEATHERCLOTH PIT. LTD. 1.C.1. ALKALI (AOST.) PIT. LTD, IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES (U) LTD.
