

«'}*
9
m
>r
* <r
m
■
vX-xv^vxW’x*:-:
■ i
Pliiilt
'
,
¥
l Jl
'S-.
ail
&
'
> mmm
HATS
. . , are smartly styled, well made and
attractively priced. They offer you
sovereign value for a pound note.
Made in all the new shades of Grey,
Blue, Fawn, Brown and Green
In 2|in», 2£in», 2fin. and 2|iiu Brims.
Obtainable at all
progressive Hatters 1 and Mercers
The Bulletin
"The Bulletin,”
Vol. 62.—N0. 3213.
Wednesday, September 10, 1941.
Roosevelt Talks of Fighting
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


‘storu Writing
VUI V) at HOPTE
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
9.8. 341
Australian Writers’ Co-operation League.
John Wallace, President.
INCREASED membership required and invited
from writers, literary aspirants and others inter-
ested in Australian literature. Main objective is
to create and foster a public taste and demand
for books of all kinds and other literary worK
by Australian writers, and assist them otherwise.
All information from
W. J. P. FITZGERALD. General Secretary
287 Church St., Richmond, Melb. Tel. J 3397.
The Red Page
"Fol de Roll" Said Yeats.
When W. B. Yeats, as an old man, a
Senator in Ireland, honored by three
generations of poets in England—the
rhymers of the ’nineties, the Georgian
lyricists and the moderns who had at
last “discovered” him —felt that he was
sufficiently famous to say what he pleased
without the “great pose” he had always
frankly assumed, he wrote exultingly:
Now I am in the public-house and lean upon
the wall,
bo come in rags or come in silk, in cloak or
country shawl,
And come with learned lovers or with what
men you may,
For I can put the whole lot down, and all I
have to say
Is fol de rol de roily O !
“Bring along your ragged proletarians,”
he meant; “or bring along the silken
’nineties; bring along your country
Georgians and your learned Pound and
Eliot—and I can beat the whole darn lot
of them.” And the only justification for
such a boast— “ Fol de rol de roily O!”
the egoist exulting in his egoism.
If any poet feels like that about him-
self, his work or his life, he has every
right to say so. Whether or not it is the
strict critical truth doesn’t matter, for
a poet speaks for the rest of humanity as
well as for himself, and Yeats’s exultant
outburst is a statement of the joy, the
daring and the arrogance of the human
spirit. It is the joy and daring, more-
over, of the poetic endeavor, and simply
by stating the truth that delight and arro-
gance do go into the making of a poem
Yeats has done a good deal to put Eliot
down —that aspect of Eliot’s mind which
caused him to break up his rhythms to
match what he saw as the despairing
chaos of the age, and which in his criti-
cism caused him to rail against “person-
ality,” to shrink from the use of “I.”
But can Yeats, critically speaking, “put
the whole lot down”? There are two
new books offering evidence for and
against his claim: his own posthumous
Letters dh Poetry to Dorothy Wellesley
and Louis Macneice’s The Poetry of W.
B. Yeats (both Oxford University Press ;
Moore’s Bookshop).
Letters on Poetry, apart from a hand-
ful of anecdotes—G. K. Chesterton,
waking with a fearsome hangover, call-
ing for a glass of milk and a Bible ;
Robert Graves replying to a couple who
had presented to him a letter of intro-
duction, “If you are the two people I
saw on the beach yesterday, I don’t want
to know you”—is of little general interest.
As an embodiment of Yeats’s theories on
technique and criticism, it serves chiefly
to stress what is already fairly well
known, how fine a technician, how biased
a critic Yeats was.
When the Oxford Anthology of
Modern Verse appeared a few years ago
it was obvious that Yeats had made the
most maliciously irresponsible anthology
ever to come from that august press.
Yeats bad been wonderfully kind to his
friends, wonderfully malevolent to his
enemies. Big names were ingloriously
absent; nobodies were gloriously present.
A great proportion of the Letters take
one behind the scenes to the making of
the Anthology, and show Yeats’s foibles
and prejudices, benevolences and malevo-
lences, all his critical enormities in full
blast. Nobody except Yeats himself is
ever likely to be wildly excited (though
it’s fair enough verse) about Lady
Dorothy Wellesley’s poetry—certainly no
critic in his senses would compare her
with Eliot; yet here is what happened in
the Anthology :
I have finished my account of you—it is
longer than ( thought it would be. Here
is the present calculation of the number
of pages. T. S. Eliot 14J pages, Turner
17 pages, Lady Dorothy 17) pages, Edith
Sitwell 19 pages. But nobody will count.
then, contrasting with Yeats’s exact
observation that Edith Sitwell's verse
presents the unreal and strained world
of the Russian ballet, is his incompre-
hensible (unless understood as the result
of bad conscience about shutting his eyes
to the Great War) loathing of Wilfred
Owen. “Passive suffering,” he defended
himself, forgetting that almost all his own
early poetry was made out of passive
suffering in love, “is not a theme for
poetry.” There’s no doubt that in the
Anthology he tried most unscrupulously
to "put the whole lot down.”
Yeats the technician was a different
man from Yeats the critic. Because they
deal only with his very latest verses, the
letters don't make so good a poet’s text-
book as one would hope ; but, since prac-
tising poets are not likely to go back to
(he moods and manners of the ’nineties,
the principles on which he constructed
his last poems and which have already
had considerable influence on such poets
as Auden and Macneice should be of
immediate interest to Australian poets.
At the end of his life Yeats believed:
(1) That the poet should always use
the natural words in their natural order;
and
(2) That he should keep, at the back
of his mind, music. Neither of these
eminently sound “rules” is new ; but con-
temporary traditional poets are always
liable to forget the first, poets of politics
the second and “specialist” poets of the
factory or the laboratory both.
In Macneice’s very sound Poetry of
W. B. Yeats, besides getting a good por-
trait of Yeats the man and an exami-
nation of Yeats the critic, there is a fas-
cinating study of the technician and the
poet, showing his development right from
his earliest (unpublished) verses in the
manner of Swinburne :
Afar from our lawn and our levee,
O sister of sorrowful gaze!
Where the roses in scarlet are heavy
And dream of the end of their days—
into the ’ninetyish but always lovely nar-
rative poems, on to the lyricism of The
Wind Among the Reeds, thence to his
philosophic and technically-perfect middle
period and so to the “music; and natural
words in their natural order,” to the
joy and gusto of the ballads and songs
written in his extreme old age.
Being Left, and so under the horrible
compulsion of having to regard all haters
of the mob—Yeats and D. H. Lawrence
and Eliot—as “Fascists,” Macneice has
considerable and rather amusing difficulty
in dealing with Yeats’s cult of aristocracy,
but manages pretty well. In discussing
the poetry (Yeats called him “an extreme
radical”) he manages astonishingly well.
On the whole, he likes Yeats’s middle
period the best —the period of
1 am content to live it all again
And yet again, if it be life to pitch
Into the frog-spawn of a blind man’s ditch,
A blind man battering blind men —
but he pays due tribute to each of the
phases of Yeats’s genius, and has the good
sense to appreciate each period as it must
be appreciated—in its period.
There’s not much value in trying to
“place” Yeats—to decide whether or not
he did “put the whole lot down.” Mac-
neice, without attempting to fix a “top
poet,” compares him interestingly with
Eliot, and points out that Yeats’s pride,
joy and orderly craftsmanship are prob-
ably a better influence than Eliot’s
sombre defeatism. That Eliot is the pro-
founder poet of the two doesn’t neces-
sarily make him the better master.
The Civilised Chinee .
Next door to the honorable mansion
of the urbane and industrious Mr. Lin
Yutang lives a certain nouveau riche
named James Alexander Lapps and
known to his neighbors, on account of
his humble origin, as “Fisher” Lapps.
Since his rise to fortune “Fisher” has
not unnaturally begun to covet the
elegant and old-world orchard of the
urbane and industrious Mr. Lin Yutang ;
which faintly irritates Mr. Lin Yutang.
The Lapps family, moreover, though
they have learned the etiquette book by
heart, are not very pleasant persons:
Mrs. Lapps is now speaking English.
She has even learned an Americanism, “I’ll
tell the world!” It is that swaggering “I’ll
tell the world! ” of hers that gets on every-
body’s nerves. She learned it from her
husband, and her children learned it from
her, and now the little Lapps are always
saying “I’ll tell the world!” when they
are not bowing and saying “So sorry!”
The upshot of it all is, the Lapps merely
succeed in being disliked by everybody.
Not content with merely coveting Mr.
Lin Yutang’s honorable orchard and
making overtures to Mr. Lin Yutang’s
not-quite-so-honorable son and daughter,
“Fisher” Lapps eventually began to make
open and violent attempts to gain pos-
session of the orchard: —
The encroachment on my property began
with a iittle kite incident. Before “Fisher”
became rich he never flew kites. But since
then he has developed a craze for flying
kites. One day one of his kites was flying
over my garden and was caught in a tree
branch. Like the respectable member of
society he is, he came over and spoke to
me, “How dare your tree catch my kite?
I must have it cut down. If you don’t do
it yourself, I will cut it down for you.
I'll tell the world!” My son allowed him
lo go ahead, and I’m too old a man to
bother.
For “Lapps,” of course, read “Japs” ;
and if becomes apparent that Lin Yutang,
if too urbane to allow himself to become
angry with the Japanese for invading his
country, is, as a civilised and intelligent
person, just a little nettled at the pre-
posterousness of the Japanese “case”:
Since the first kite was caught and the
first tree was cut down, a regular series of
"‘kite incidents” has begun to follow, for
it seemed then inevitable that every week a
new kite must be flown and caught and an-
other of my trees must be chopped down....
By this time almost my entire north-eastern
tarden is occupied by him, and today he is
ying kites right over the wall of my
north-eastern court. But he goes about
telling all our parishioners that ray trees
were wrong and his kites were right and
that it was the audacity of my trees in
catching his kites which injured his bour-
geois honor and compelled him to "punish”
me by occupying a large patch of my
garden.
The allegory is one of the best things
in Lin Yutang’s With Love and Irony
(Heinemann), a collection of essays on
subjects ranging from war and “Do Bed-
bugs Exist in China?” to nudism and a
strange interloper on the jargon known
as “basic English.”
Only in the fantasy of Mr. Lapps has
Lin Yutang anything fresh to say on
China-verjMi'-Japan. In an essay on the
national characteristics of the two
peoples, about the only new item is this
specimen of a Japanese poem in the
Chinese manner:
Swat not that fly!
He is rubbing his hands and feet.
A masterpiece, Lin Yutang admits.
Seriously discussing the future of
China, he declares:
Japan's problem is not how far she can
penetrate, but how much Chinese territory
she would like to defend for the Chinese
puppet regime inside China. For just as
Manchukuo requires a permanent station of
Japanese troops, so will any puppet regime
inside China require permanent occupation
by soldiers —.and will collapse the moment
such forces are withdrawn. The bigger the
territory of the puppet regime, the bigger
will be the army of occupation required.
The application of guerrilla tactics, plus the
adoption of the “scorched-earth” policy,
which in itself is the surest indication of
Chinese determination to fight to the finish,
will force a stalemate, which I believe is the
only certain outcome.
He believes that the war will so exhaust
Japan that it will become a second-class
Power; and that a new, united China will
arise under Chiang Kai-shek: “the check
to Communism in China lies in the in-
herent Chinese tradition, while the check
to Fascism will lie in the same tradition.”
After the war he believes that the
Western Powers will have to give up their
privileges of extra-territoriality and re-
turn the “foreign concessions” ; “but I
do not believe the change will be charac-
terised by violence.”
With Love and Irony is a much slighter
offering than Lin Yutang’s previous
books, but remains readable for its good-
humor, its humor and its flashes of wit.
What he has to say about American
democracy as it appears to a Chinese is
in no way remarkable, but the epigram
“American democracy is ultimately based
on the ideal of the greatest goods to the
greatest number” redeems the essay.
Similarly with the Conclusion to “What
I Have Not Done”:
I think I am about as moral a man as
anybody and that if God loves me half as
much as my own mother, he will not send
me to hell. If I don’t go to heaven, the
earth is doomed.
And with the laugh at the end of a piece
about a pigeon that was deserted by its
mate:
Now with her husband deserting her, and
her young one dead, the mother pigeon
would not even sit on her eggs. Sitting for
a while at the opposite roof corner, and
taking a last look at her former happy
home (where her two eggs still lay), she
flew away—l don’t know where. Perhaps
she will never trust a male pigeon again.
Except that it’s rather better behaved,
Lin Yutang has a mind very much like
that of James Branch Cabell; like Robert
Lynd’s ; and enough like Lamb's to in-
dicate that the day will yet come when
some laughing, cultured Chinese will write
the equivalent of the “Roast Pork” essay
about the quaint, savage practices of the
English.
Animal Catcher .
Bring-’em-back-alive Frank Buck is a
trifle astray on the koala in his latest
book, Animals Are Like That (Hale,
Ltd.). The only place where koalas can
now be seen, he says, is at a “preserve
set up near Melbourne.” If Frank comes
down this way he’ll of course see the
little chaps very well at Koala Park, Syd-
ney, at Taronga Park (the Sydney Zoo),
and elsewhere.
They can even be seen at large not
20 miles from Sydney G.P.O. However,
they’re not numerous, and the struggle
to keep them from dying out isn’t easy
going. It should particularly interest Buck
to hear that people engaged in keeping
them from joining the dodo have lately
had to complain that petrol rationing was
preventing them from going out to gather
the special sort of gum-tips the koala
prefers. Petrol rationing is also blamed
for a falling off in visitors to Koala Park ;
hence a drop in the necessary revenue.
Yet if there's one thing Australians would
agree to it would be a Commonwealth
grant big enough to provide every koala
in sight with regular rations.
The little chaps have always fascinated
American tourists visiting these parts.
Buck himself, as an American, has a
typical story on that attraction. Word
was once brought to him in his jungle
camp in Katong village near Singapore
that a Chinese steward on a boat had
some rare animals for sale. Buck found
the steward bargaining with Chinese
traders for the sale of nine koalas, and,
thinking of “these rare and delicate
creatures being subjected to the handling
of Chinese dealers in a native bazaar,”
Buck bought them and the steward’s
stock of compressed dried gumleaves,
and eventually got the nine to America.
Buck is not only a kingpin at his job
of animal-catching, but as well an extra
good writer on animals. His defence of
his job is that, though perhaps the animals
don’t realise it, their lives in his hands are
better and of longer duration than if
they’d been left in the jungle. He doesn’t
kill, except, on rare occasions, when his
life’s at stake, as when a python grabbed
his arm in its mouth, and he had to put
three bullets into its head. It dropped
off, leaving 22 sharp triangular teeth
embedded in his arm.
Buck started on his career as a boy
“forking over rattlesnakes to meet the
great American demand for snake-oil
‘medicine men’ of the period.” He has
caught and bought animals for zoos and
the like in most eountries of the world.
Seeking to buy, a white elephant in
Burma, he offered 50,000 dollars. He
was given to understand that he was
being insulting in suggesting that those
who had the sacred beast in their charge
would sell their religious beliefs, and,
anyway, the animal was insured for
175,000 dollars. Hence his failure to
understand why “white elephant” should
be used to designate a dud investment or
liability. Moreover, the animal isn’t
white, but pink, which should knock the
bottom out of one line of malicious tem-
perance propaganda.
Instead of being an object of fearsome
dread, along with the fantod, the elephant
should properly be an object of envy to
the bibulous. He can have a goad feed
of the fruit of the umganu tree or of
millet; he has the equipment in his
stomach for turning it into home-brew;
and next thing he’s well on his ear,
enjoying himself pulling up trees and
otherwise sub-editing the landscape.
Buck gets into the ring against Gene
Tunney, “literary heavyweight,” who
“again contended recently” that Galento
could knock out the gorilla in Ringling
Brothers-Barnum and Bailey Circus.
According to Buck, you could put your
money on the gorilla for a k.o. in the
first round. “An adult gorilla could
take the heavyweight championship away
from the best prize-fighter in the world.”
What chiefly makes Buck one of the
best of animal writers is that there’s no
sentimental tosh about him. He doesn’t
credit animals with human feelings or
with heroic qualities according to human
standards. He admires and likes them,
and writes of them with sympathy, but
always with downright realism.
The Singing Ship: Meta Maclean
(Angus and Robertson). One pleasant
chapter in the history of this war —and
not one of the least important when all
its implications are considered —the voy-
age of 480 British child evacuees to Aus-
tralia. The emphasis on the kids through-
out makes it unsuitable for strong men
before breakfast, but it’s nicely told.
“Ehoa o te Manu”: The pronuncia-
tion of the written double Maori con-
sonant “wh” (R.P. 23/7/’4l) is certainly
not “f” as in “Fonganui,” so loved by
New Zealand broadcasters. Its insertion
in the Maori alphabet as conceived by
the founders of a written Maori language
(a good job of work) is an attempt to
give a phonetic symbol for the Maori
utterance in which the speaker starts off
as if intending to say “f” and then
switches to an explosive “w.” This even
is dying out with modern city Maoris;
some of these are learning to say “f”
as the broadcasters would have them in
Wanganui and Whangarei, etc. “Kowai,’
the common pronunciation for the native
tree kowhai, is quite a fair rendering.
I’ve used it myself in broadcasts.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —the pulse of business
m,mn,
HEAT STORAGE
COOKERS
THE “ESSE” HEAT STORAGE SLOW
COMBUSTION COOKER (or Cooker and
Hot Water Unit) is still available at prac-
tically pre-war prices and incomparable
economy.
The “PREMIER’
with Auxiliary Oven
The “PREMIER*" ESSE can be supplied with
Auxiliary Oven, as illustrated, and with hot water
unit if desired. It gives extra cooking space, as
well as ample “hot-cupboard” room. Smaller and
larger models may also be inspected in Showroom
on the lower ground floor, Pitt Street.
A Practical Cooker
with every facility
Demonstrated
By Experts
free of obligation
ll'
“THE SENIOR STORE”
Utahthm
faojwmu
11
-
;
*
ipll . _ . f
k ; mimv. '
msm
im.
W u\
m
■ -
m
mm
m
n
l m
Ft
■?,
FJf
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
Famous Low Prices
Phone: M 2401 (Day or Night)
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney
THERE IS AN ESSE COOKER
for every Cooking Need —
The BcdUty of an “Esse,” with its sparkling, vitreous enamel
finish in cream and chromium.
The Efficiency of an "Esse" will interest you. You expect a
modern cooker to be practical . . . you do not
cook just as well on the "Esse” —you cook per-
fectly! And at one-fifth of the previous cost.
Achievements of an “Esse” will delight you. It is a
Heat Storage Cooker (with hot water if desired),
with scientific heat distribution to enable roast-
ing and baking to be done in the same oven.
Visit the Daily Demonstrations of better, easier, and safer
cooking and see actual examples of the amazing economy
and results effected, or write and place your catering
problems in our hands without obligation.
* • Esse Cookers —Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Delivered free only within
our delivery area.
Queensland Agents—
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Pty. Ltd
BOWEN STREET. BRISBANE
Victorian Agents—
T. S. Nettlefold & Sons Pty. Ltd.
189 KING STREET, MELBOURNE
Tasmanian Agents—
Robert Nettlefold Pty. Ltd.
HOBART


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
Slate mellcwnmandlmu{,ud
THE LODON MUSEUM, ST. JAMES'S.
A century hence, or even less, historians will possibly relate how writers on London in the years 1940-41, for example, were placed in a somewhat
difficult position in describing notable buildings or establishments by contemporary happenings, notably aerial bombing by the Nazis. These made
the use of the past and present tense in relation to the structures dealt with a matter of conjecture. Take the London Museum. For convenience
sake the present tense will be employed. This centre of London lore, instituted, on the lines of the Carnavalet at Paris, in 1912 at Kensington
Palace for the conservation of antiquities and other objects associated with the history of the Metropolis, was removed to St. James’s Park the
following year, to be housed in Lancaster House, the lease of which was presented to the nation by the late Lord Leverhulme. The name of this
mansion was previously Stafford House, but as a compliment to his native county, Lancashire, his lordship gave it the name it now bears.
Of the great ducal residences of London, Stafford House was not the least famous. It was built originally by Mr. B. Wyatt for the then Duke
of York with money advanced by the Marquess of Stafford, afterwards first Duke of Sutherland. The Duke of York did not live to inhabit
it, and the Crown lease was sold 1 to the second Duke of Sutherland in 1841 for £72,000. The upper story of this noble mansion was from plans
by Sir Charles Barry, architect of the Houses of Parliament. The interior was regarded as superior to anything existing, save in royal palaces, and
the buildings as a whole “the most tasteful and elegant in London.” The decorations were famed, and no less a sum than £250,000 was spent on
the edifice, representing probably nearly £1,000,000 according to existing currency values. As a Museum it is equally unique in the extent and range
of its exhibits. The student of London’s past there finds material which, as has been truly said, “would take a lifetime to absorb. Curiously,
the majority of its visitors come from the country, the outlying sections of the Empire and the United States.


“THE PAST OF THE NATION IN BATTLE THERE."
"Leningrad was founded by Peter the Great, who had the assistance of ‘many ingenious Englishmen,’ engaged during his visit to England in
1697. It has never been taken.”
“London inspired me, my children. Now let London inspire you.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly : 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6a.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign) :
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
IT'S MR. CURTIN'S MOVE.
In a statement issued when the second year of war was
closing, Mr. Curtin said that his party “throughout the
two years” had “resolutely refused to have anything
to do with political intrigue and with seeking after
advantage and position.”
The faults and cracks in the structure of the Aus-
tralian Government have not been of our making. They
did not commence and have not been widened by any
word or deed of the Opposition nor of the War Council.
Thus far the Court is with him. It may be objected
that “the faults ffiid cracks” did not become serious
till vital alterations were made in the Budget to please
Mr. Curtin’s party; but, since it was the Government
that surrendered so ignominiously and must be held
responsible, the point may be waived.
The past thus dealt with, Mr. Curtin gave an out-
line of what he called “the Labor party’s declaration”:
We will govern when we are given a mandate by the
people to do so. If disintegration and dissension among
our political opponents or ill-conceived policies on their
part result in a call being made to Labor, then we are
ready to govern.
I make that statement because I know the mind of the
workers of Australia.... They want none of manoeuvres
and jockeying for position. Least of all do they want
a Labor Government that would be but a miserable echo
of a name.
This has mystified friends and enemies alike,
much as did the much terser announcement of Mr.
Coolidge, made in 1927: “I do not choose to run for
President in 1928.” Until Mr. Coolidge explained in
express terms that he would not be a candidate
puzzled Americans asked whether he would “choose
to run” if supporters made the choice for him. Equally
puzzled Australians are asking what Mr. Curtin is
driving at —whether he means to challenge the Gov-
ernment, and, if he can put it out, to try to keep in
office without an early appeal to the country, or
whether in all these matters he will leave himself
in the hands of Caucus, and, if so, what course that
body will take. Cynics have been heard to say that
the Leader of the Opposition may “know the mind of
the workers of Australia” but doesn’t know his own.
What Mr. Curtin should do, and that as soon as
Parliament meets, is to seek the verdict of the House
on whether the Government which has “had its face
lifted” (his own very appropriate expression) should
continue in office or make way for a Government
headed by himself. This action is warranted by the
strength of his position as leader of the largest party,
by the demoralisation into which the Ministerial parties
have fallen, by their ignoble sacrifice of Mr. Menzies,
a fortnight after the 19 Ministers (in effect, a majority
of both parties) had “unaniriiously” decided that it
was “imperative” that he should go to London as
Prime Minister “at once,” by the secession of Mr.
Coles from the U.A.P. after he had belonged to it for
a whole two months, and by the necessity to compel
Mr. Wilson to declare himself for one side or the
other. And there are good Commonwealth prece-
dents which are familiar to the veterans of all parties,
though the Governor-General may possibly be un-
aware of them.
The first Commonwealth Government (Barton’s)
had no party majority. Neither had the first and
second Labor Governments nor the first and second
Deakin Governments, nor that of G. H. Reid.- For
upwards of nine years there were three parties, none
of which predominated in either branch of the legis-
lature, yet they were years fruitful of measures which
have profoundly affected the destinies of the Com-
monwealth —indeed the quality of representation was
higher and more constructive work was done then
than in any of the three subsequent decades. Not till
the middle of 1909 did a Government with a party
majority arrive, and that Government—consequence of
an unnatural fusion of Protectionists and Freetraders—
had a' short and troubled life and a most disastrous
fall. After the Labor split in 1916 Mr. Hughes gov-
erned for three months with only the remnant of a
party in either Chamber. Not much of a precedent
that, but the others are valid and instructive.
Commanding, as he does, as many votes in the
House as the two Ministerial parties could muster in
the very uncertain event of their being all of the
same mind, Mr. Curtin has every right to maintain
that he, and not Mr. Fadden, should be P.M. His
party gained substantially at the general election,
whereas Mr. Fadden’s faction suffered severe losses.
Two of its Ministers, one the deputy leader of the
group, were defeated at the polls. Mr. Fadden him-
self was not leader then, nor could anyone who voted
on September 21 have had the slightest notion that in
less than a year he would be head of the Government
as exuberant controller of a dozen Agrarian votes.
The leader (and Deputy P.M.), finding what was
left of the party not only distracted but intractable,
forthwith left it to its own devices, taking his leave in
a letter so crushing that nobody could be found game
enough to answer it. Thereby he sacrificed his Minis-
terial post. Exercising a right conferred on non-Labor
members in S.A. he entered the other Ministerial
party-room, but found no comfort there. On the con-
trary, he trenchantly criticised the series of Ministerial
crawls to the Opposition, reserving his most cutting
sentences for the child-bonus botch and the ignoble
mangling of the Budget.
Of that pitiful business Mr. Cameron said, only
seven days before Mr. Menzies gave up the contest
with his candid friends: —•
The Government has never possessed an ounce of
real authority in Parliament since it compromised on its
Budget. A Government which compromises on its
Budget cannot exercise authority, though it can remain
in office and Ministers can continue to draw their allow-
ances. Before a Government can attempt to administer
a continent and conduct a war successfully, it must be
able to govern itself. Time after time, we see lament-
able exhibitions of the incapacity of the present Govern-
ment.
True; and the episode which ended in Mr. Menzies
making way for Mr. Fadden was the most lamentable
exhibition of all. Having “unanimously” declared it
necessary that Mr. Menzies should proceed to London
as Prime Minister, Mr. Fadden and the other 17
Ministers, on discovering that Parliament would not
sanction their “decision” (Dr. Page called it that),
should have had sufficient loyalty and courage to quit
office with their leader, instead of letting him step
down and sticking to their own posts. Now Mr.
Fadden is preparing another Budget which is obviously
to be another contemptible compromise, designed to
purchase more precarious immunity from expulsion
with the abandonment of a few more rags of principle
—that is, if the U.A.P. and the Country party have
any left.
In various inspired communications, the public
has been informed that Mr. Fadden will bring in a
“liberal” Budget, a Budget that will “strain national
credit to the utmost limit consistent with safety,” the
“most socialistic Budget ever presented in an Austra-
lian Parliament.” But if we are to have a socialist
Budget, let it be the work of a socialist. If Australia
is to be conducted along the dark road of credit
expansion, let it be done by those who believe in the
dangerous thing, not by those who have told the
country time and again that they don’t. In other words,
let us have responsible government and not a pale
shadow of it, with convictions as well as authority
sacrificed for the sake of office.
The Labor leaders have been banged severely for
rejecting all invitations to join with the other parties
in setting up a national Government. Their main
reasons for refusing are that such a Government would
be national only in name ; that, by accepting office
in it, even if their leader became P.M., they would
quarrel with their own organisations and alienate
many of those now in the Caucus, who would
promptly form a fierce, unreasoning Labor Opposi-
tion ; and that in the process Communists and near-
Communists might capture control of the A.L.P. in
N. S. Wales, if not in other States. And always in
their minds is the fate that overtook nearly all those
members who followed Mr. Hughes out of the party-
room in 1917. So, from their own standpoint, their
case against participation is strong, though it doesn’t
say much for their party or themselves. And because
it has been presented with some lack of candor, it is
not well understood in the country, and resentment
arising in part from lack of understanding might cost
Labor many patriot votes if the people had to go to
the polls again this year.
But, whatever happens at Canberra, another elec-
tion should not be inflicted upon the people unless
it has been proved beyond all doubt that the present
Parliament is unworkable. Since dissolution of the
Senate is not contemplated by either side (it is only
a couple of months since the 19 Senators elected last
year took their seats), and could not in any case be
brought about for several months, it would be a one-
Chamber election, and it might conceivably be as inde-
cisive as that of last September. If that proved to be
the case, members would have to begin again where
they left off and the disgusted nation would have
been put to great turmoil and expense for nothing,
with the bleak, though distant, prospect of having to
put up with elections for the Senate and elections for
the House in different years.
Roosevelt Talks of Fighting.
Back from his Atlantic palavers with President Roose-
velt, Mr. Churchill broadcast what was described as
his “greatest war speech.” It was full of fight, and in
parts it gave the impression that Britain’s P.M. had
acquired the right to talk fight on America’s behalf.
That applied particularly to Japan, Mr. Churchill de-
claring that, if America found itself at war with that
country, Britain would be ranged unhesitatingly along-
side. He described the palavers as symbolising “the
marshalling of the good forces of the world against
the evil forces the taking up by English-speaking
nations of the guidance of the fortunes of the
broad toiling masses in all continents.” And America
had better look out: Hitler was knocking them off
one by one; if he knocked out Russia and then
Britain, America would be next on the list.
They sang hymns, including “Onward, Christian
Soldiers” ; and, said Mr. Churchill, “I rejoiced to find
that the President saw in their true light and propor-
tion the extreme dangers by which Americans as well
as British are now beset.”
There at the microphone, and since, Mr. Churchill
must have had an ear cocked towards America, wait-
ing for an echo. Others as well have waited. By
their very bareness and brevity cables touching on
the subject would seem to indicate that the speech fell
somewhat flat. It was expected that this would be
rectified when President Roosevelt came to the micro-
phone. It seemed odd and discomforting that he did
not do so, like Mr. Churchill, immediately. Cables
announced that on September 1, American Labor
Day, the President would make an important state-
ment. So this was it —at last, the echo.
Mr. Roosevelt duly made the statement. As an echo
it was a dud. That there was no reference to Japan
could be explained by prior reports of American-
Japanese negotiations for a peaceful arrangement in
the Western Pacific. But there was no echo, either,
of Mr. Churchill’s stirring belligerence on America’s
behalf. On the contrary, Mr. Roosevelt’s speech had
less fight in it than any he has made since the no-
involvement speeches' on which he was elected for
his third term.
Mr. Roosevelt did speak of fighting, but in a
context that made it seem a misuse of a word which
similar misuse has robbed of right meaning. In this
usage politicians “fight” elections. “Our enemies
know,” said Mr. Roosevelt, “that today the chief
American fighters in the battles now raging are those
engaged in American industry, employees and em-
ployers alike.” America, that is, remains the “arsenal
of democracy.” In this role America now seems to be
doing well. In the sense that in modern war pro-
duction represents actual fighting Uncle Sam is cer-
tainly “fighting.”
If the war can be won by such effort —as some
seem to believe it can be —that should be very nice for
Mr. Roosevelt’s country. It will save Mr. Roosevelt
some bother, too. Today the President is in a rather
awkward dilemma, and no speech of his has pointed it
more clearly than his latest. His difficulty is that,
though he has talked fight on a number of occasions
quite as emphatically as Mr. Churchill or anybody
else, he has not yet got around to swallowing the
emphatic positive promises he made when electioneer-
ing. By his words and the words of his administrative
supporters, by acts such as the transfer of destroyers
and the occupation of Iceland, by the joint declara-
tion he signed with Mr. Churchill on behalf of
America and Britain, the United States has been un-
questionably pledged to the destruction of Hitlerism,
if not more besides. But at the back of all that—
the skeleton in Mr. Roosevelt’s cupboard—still stand
those electioneering promises. The Democratic plat-
form on which he was elected stated positively:
We will not participate in foreign wars, and we
will not send our army, naval or air forces to fight in
foreign lands outside the Americas except in case of
attack.
Mr. Roosevelt not only accepted that, but
elaborated on it in speech after speech. A politician
would have got rid of that skeleton with ease ; Hitler
would have done so on principle. Something more
like straight dealing is required of a President.
So the promises on those lines stand, and must go on
guiding American policy until America itself is pre-
pared to admit that changed circumstances and immi-
nent danger may nullify the most sincere of promises.
That would appear to be, a considerable distance away
yet. In July American isolationist papers were
chortling that the “small minority in favor of Ameri-
can entrance into the war” had been shown by the
Gallup poll to have declined from 24 p.c. in June —
the highest ever recorded —to 21 p.c.
For the time being, at any rate, that was the
mood of the country Mr. Roosevelt addressed in his
Labor Day speech. It is hardly a mood responsive to
Mr. Churchill’s proxy-belligerence, nor to two most
significant statements credited to leading British sol-
diers at a few days’ interval early in July. In reply
to the leading question, “Can you win the war without
America’s full-scale participation?” General Wavell
was reported to have stated: “We shall have to have
’planes, tanks, munitions, transport and finally men.”
In reply to the same sort of questioning General
Auchinleck was reported to have stated: “American
manpower eventually will be just as necessary to win
the war properly as it was in the World War.”
Those statements can be taken as representing the
view of fighting men generally. It is a hard view, and
an awkward one, for non-combatant leaders in a non-
conscription country like Australia to accept, but the
truth of it has been demonstrated over and over again
in this war. Whfin the defenders in Libya were reck-
lessly weakened, they were driven back by numbers.
Overwhelming numbers decided the issue down
through the Balkans and Greece. Something like
equality of numbers, more than any other thing, has
given the Germans the hard job they have had in
Russia. Production of the means of fighting is an
elementary essential; but somewhere, sometime, if
the war is to be won, it will be won by fighting, and,
in the face of the German performance, that must
call for every fighting man that those opposing Ger-
many can muster.
Unless electioneering promises cancel out all
subsequent pledges, that clearly includes America. Mr.
Roosevelt now says in other words what he has fre-
quently said: “I express the conscience and deter-
mination of the American people when I say we shall
do everything in our power to crush Hitler and his
Nazi forces.” This pledge, thus repeated over and
over, gives the British side now actively actually fight-
ing a full right to expect that “everything” means
everything. If patience on this side wears thin at words,
and political use of words, that should be under-
standable.
Nobody will deny that Mr. Roosevelt has done a
great personal service to the British side, and every-
body who looks at the American scene without wishful-
thinking must realise that his personal position has
been awkward. But words have lifted hopes so often
that now only actions can have any weight. Mr.
Roosevelt foreshadowed a little in the way of action
in speaking of “more greatly” safeguarding American
production on its way to the battlefields ; but that is
a long way from an active fighting part in the war,
and if that isn’t where all these words are leading,
they might as well be forgotten. Words have had a
very fair innings: what will be looked for now are acts.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Russia's War.
In newspapers and over the air, the Hitler-Stalin war
has been reported in a fashion which has filled the
popular mind with false impressions. 'This is bad for
Australia and no good to the U.S.S.R., in which so
many newspapermen and radio uncles have a partisan
or sentimental interest.
Our people, like the British people, show out
best when they are told plain truths, however grim.
Feed them with sugared stuff in perilous times and
Britons are apt to take things easy and Australians to
indulge in strikes, especially when the spring fret is in
their blood. In this country there has been an ugly
return to striking and to threats of more if “demands”
are not conceded, and this cannot be dissociated
from the enthusiastically fostered belief that the Rus-
sians are winning the war for us. As the British Air
Minister pointed out last week, neither the Russians
nor the Americans can win the war for us ; and the
Russians ate not winning their own war.
On the contrary, the Red Army has been defeated
in a series of dreadful battles, and the people in the
invaded provinces are suffering frightfully. Leningrad
and Kiev are in danger, and Odessa is very hard
pressed. If Leningrad falls the Russians will not only
have lost their second-greatest city, and the vast fac-
tories, workshops, supply bases and depots encom-
passed within it, but Moscow will be imperilled and
naval control of the Baltic will be gone.
In the south a great part of the Ukraine has been
lost and the Crimea is menaced. Which means, among
other things, that naval control of the Black Sea is in
danger, too. The blowing up of the Dnieperstroy dam
has been represented as evidence of the Russians’ will
to conquer, bringing confusion to the enemy by deny-
ing him the resources of an immensely productive dis-
trict and drowning myriads of his men. If this par-
ticular effect was produced the reports from Moscow
have been strangely silent about it, and the destruc-
tion of the dam looks very much like ah act of
despair. Can anyone imagine a British army doing
the like in like circumstances? If it had to give up
such a position it would be with the grim intention
of regaining it and making the enemy pay dearly for
any havoc he might wreak with bombs and firesticks.
Obviously the invaders are having their difficulties
in -Russia, and these difficulties will not end with the
onset of winter, if it finds the Russians standing firm
on a strong line. Rather will they increase. After
all, there must be a limit to the Germans’ capacity to
hold down huge hostile populations. Stalin, deprived
of all his easy conquests —hurled out of Poland,
Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Finland, Bessarabia and
North Bukovina —must have learned that ill-gotten
gains never prosper. The working of retributive jus-
tice may be slow in Hitler’s case, but there are signs
that the process has begun.
At £6600 a Year.
Luck continues to pursue that shrinkingly modest
concern Australian Consolidated Industries. Holders
of £1 ordinary shares, who in 1939 received a free
issue of eleven for every four they held, can sell
them in the market for 495. 6d. or so. But they
would be silly to do that, since A.C.I. can be relied
upon to pay 8 p.c. dividends —equivalent to 30 p.c.
on pre-bonus capital—for a long time to come.
Last month A.C.I. opened a grand new building
in Sydney’s William-street, had Lud Mayor Crick to
do the honors, and feted, among others, sundry Labor
politicians, including Mr. Frank Forde, hot from an
attack on B.H.P. Last week the nation learned that
five floors had been leased to the Customs for two
years, and thereafter on a six-monthly tenancy, at a
rental “not exceeding” £6600 a year, for the accom-
modation of a section “administering Lease-Lend,
operations.” Nobody outside the Customs imagined
that Australia’s Lease-Lend operations had grown to
that extent, and if B.H.P. had been the landlord Mr.
Forde would have exploded with such violence that
fragments of Forde would be traceable from Capri-
corn to Canberra. In point of fact he had another
go at B.H.P. on the day the news about A.C.l.’s lease
to the Customs came out.
The managing director of A.C.I. is Mr. W. J.
Smith. He it was who negotiated a Government con-
tract of noble dimensions for the bounty-fed produc-
tion of motor engines, and who leased a racehorse
to the then Minister of Customs, Mr. Lawson. The
goddess was capricious in Mr. Lawson’s case, but she
has been so constant to Mr. Smith that he should be
worth following at the spring meetings.
A Waste of Whitewash.
The business of whitewashing Communists goes ahead
in Australia with remarkable enthusiasm. Bishops,
minor politicians, parsons, professors and other
persons engage in it at “rallies” in all sorts of places
from Town Halls to boxing stadiums. Sydney had a
“rally” which lasted two days.
The sum total of the addresses delivered at these
affairs —or such portions as are published in appar-
ently sympathetic newspapers, one of which could
be mistaken at times for an Australian edition of the
“Moscow News”—seems to be that the U.S.S.R. is
“our ally,” that it has “joined” in the war for freedom
and that, though it is beating the enemy hollow, we
must spare no effort to aid it. Nobody ever seems to
remind anybody that it came into the war because it
dashed well had to, or that if there is any spare aid
going begging, whether financial, moral or in the way
of equipment and hospital services, the best way to
aid Russia is to give it to our own fighting services.
Nobody ever suggests that a good way for young and
fit Communists to aid their “fatherland” is to get into
the A.I.F. without further delay.
And the Commo. has emerged from his hole all
smiles. He has suddenly become the pet of emotional
churchmen, unbalanced politicians and “society”
women. Nobody questions his loyalty now, though up
to 22/6/’4l he was doing as much as he dared to
injure Australia’s war effort, was calling Australian
Ministers “Fascists” and denouncing the “imperialist
war.” Nobody seems to realise that his sudden change
of front isn’t a change of attitude towards this country,
but a change forced on him by a quarrel between two
foreign countries. He is no more loyal to Australia
today than ever he was, a fact that the people now
petting him would discover the moment his leaders
saw fit to call another tune.
No Australian will deny that the enforced Rus-
sian belligerency is a military asset to Britain (though
it has decided moral and political disadvantages) or
will refuse sympathy to the Russian people, victims
of Stalin’s too-cunning perfidy as well as of Hitler’s
faithlessness and ruthlessness. But nobody should
be deluded into thinking the Commo. has sud-
denly come to love the British Empire. Nor should
anybody be fooled into the belief that the Commo.
is really a dear fellow at heart and has been mis-
understood all this time.
The Sydney “rally” at which parsons, Pink poli-
ticians and others held forth was called a Congress for
Friendship and Aid to the Soviet Union. It so hap-
pened that A. M. Blain, M.H.R. for the Northern
Territory, now serving in his second war, got himself
invited or impressed or something to join in the
speechmaking. “Far from minding your speaking in
the uniform of the Australian Imperial Force,” wrote
the C. for F. and A. to the S.U., “we will indeed be
proud to have on the platform a uniformed soldier of
this great force.”
Whether the Congress was so “proud” to have
Mr. Blain after his speeeh is matter for some doubt.
Though he wasn’t reported in the daily press, he said,
among other things:
If any of you have studied the virile literature of
Australian Communism, what a purge and reorientation
of Communist outlook there has been in the last few
months!
Six months or so ago a drive for new Communist
members was announced. Canvassers were told they
would be credited three points for every new member
obtained in armament or sea carriage industries, but
only one point for others. This, it was explained,
was in accordance with Lenin’s slogan, “Every mine,
factory and workshop a fortress of revolution.”
Now those Communists have ceased trying to turn
“Imperialist war” into civil war. Now they want co-
operation in that same “Imperialist war.” They have
stopped urging war-workers to strike They are willing
to co-operate with capitalists.
Why shouldn’t we co-operate with them? They seem
to have made great sacrifices of principle. Some time
ago, for example, one of their textbooks described
Anglican bishops—l trust his Grace and Bishop Burg-
mann will not think my references indelicate —as
“holy rollers, jumpers and crawlers, purveyors of
religious opium.” But today I seem to see on their
shining faces expressions which presage osculation rather
than liquidation when their gaze rests on a prelate or a
lord mayor.
Thus spoke the man from Darwin, softening the
blow a little by urging help for Russia in spite of the
local Commo. and urging the fit to get into the A.I.F,
No applause was noticed, but earlier in his speech the
rash Territorian got a response when he said that a
few months ago the Commo. was saying that the
British Empire was rotten to the core. “So it is!”
yelled a score of voices.
Footbrawl First?
The week-end that marked the second anniversary of
the war was a great one for the Sydney Rugby League,
which has a rather poor war history. Just on £2OOO
was taken at the “big final,” and those who paid it
got a bonus spectacle in a free fight staged in the pre-
liminary match. The final itself was “not without in-
cidents,” for “many cautions were given” and two
players were sent off. At Lithgow next day (Sunday)
blood and hair flew as a Sydney suburban team mixed
it with a district side. The match was described by
“S. M. Herald” as giving rise to the worst scenes wit-
nessed on a Rugby League footbrawl field. As usual
in these affairs, the poor old referee got the blame.
Perhaps inspired by these successes or by its asso-
ciation with the Congress for Friendship and Aid to
the Soviet Union, League officialdom issued a com-
munique to “5.M.H.,” which —pride of St. George
Societies and British Empire Unions though it is—
dished it up without a word of comment:
Although the King has asked that next Sunday be
observed as a day of prayer, the Rugby Football League
is prepared to permit a Cup-tie match to be played on
that day if the clubs desire.
As it happened, “the clubs” didn’t “desire,” or
decided that they had better not; but the incident is
instructive. By permission of the Sydney Government,
which promised “hundred per cent, co-operation in
the war effort,” gate-money football has become a
feature of Sydney Sundays. It is alleged that, by
providing a people laboring under war-strain with
the relaxation of week-end (i.e., Sunday) sport and
dragging in more cash for themselves, the profes-
sional performers are doing a noble duty. It would
be interesting to canvass this point of view in Tobruk.
The disgraceful affair at Lithgow would not be
surprising to country people familiar with Sunday
football. For that country institution there is some
excuse in districts where a universal Saturday half-
holiday is impossible, but even then it is no blessing.
Western N.S.W. has witnessed similar exhibitions
from time to time, not only on the football field but
later in the town, where Sunday has been turned from
a day of quiet into a riot, heavy wagers are made,
drink flows freely and not only field fights but street
fights are frequent. And now, by permission of the
Labor Government, the thing has been introduced in
the city, in which Saturday is a half- or whole holiday,
and that in war-time. The legality of the gate-money
side of it is more than doubtful, and the kind of mind
at the back of it is best illustrated by the decision
to “permit” games in face of the King’s request.
Provincial Opportunism.
Queensland motor users have been informed by the
State Liquid Fuel Control Board that vehicles carry-
ing land products, timber, etc., should travel only to
and from the nearest railhead, and that petrol for
any further travel will not be allowed. This is an
impudent provincial perversion of petrol rationing,
which is a Commonwealth matter, and the basic prin-
ciple of which is to allow a motor operator a percen-
tage of fuel on his normal consumption. What he
does with it after that should surely be his own
business.
There may, or may not, be a connection in the
fact that on the day the fuel announcement was pub-
lished it came out that the Queensland railways,
despite increased freight and passenger traffic as a
result of war and petrol rationing, were suffering one
of those financial spasms common to such things.
Though revenue for July-August was down £41,506
compared with July-August, 1940, exes, were up
£93,837 on the same comparison. The department
blames higher costs, but freight rates and fares were
increased 5 p.c. early in July.
Mr. McLeay, the Commonwealth Minister who
administers the petrol-rationing scheme, should make
it plain that the strangling of private road transport
in favor of State Government railways was not part
of the design.
Snowy River Madness.
If more words are wasted on any one thing more than
another in Sydney it is a fantasia called the “Snowy
River scheme.”
In brief, it conceives damming the Snowy some-
where about Jindabyne, thus forcing the river to turn
north and ultimately run into the Shoalhaven or the
Wollondilly or Dead Cow Creek or somewhere,
whence it will gravitate into the mostly-dry dams of
Sydney’s No-Water Board. Enthusiasts paint word
pictures of hydro-electric schemes all the way, indus-
tries created thereby, farmers saved from drought
and a general blooming of the entire southern table-
lands of N.S.W., all joyfully reported in the Sydney
daily press.
Nobody seems to know what the thing will cost,
though estimates ranging from £10,000,000 to
£50,000,000 have been put forward, and nobody seems
to have a very clear idea of what the project involves.
The Sydney Minister for Works announced that he
was “very impressed with the Snowy River scheme,”
and a lot of bumbles support him. What they need
to be impressed with is the cold, hard fact that there
is no money for Snowy River schemes nor is there
likely to be any for a long time to come.
What, No Sleigh With It?
Happy indeed is the land that, midst the fears and
fevers of war and the clangor and fire of a disintegrat-
ing world, can hear of strange creatures in its lakes
or galloping across its smiling farm lands. Verily is it
a country of many wonders, and the last of them is
not yet. For to the Tantanoola tiger and the Clarence
polar bear, Guyra’s ghost and Gippsland’s leopard
and all the other one-eyed, nine-tailed, sabre-toothed,
portholed freaks are now to be added one reindeer
(“with very large antlers”) in the Riverina and one
bunyip in Dynevor lake, out on the Paroo.
This reindeer is definitely an advance, since
hitherto our curiosities have been limited to feasible
things like tigers and ghosts. But a reindeer! It
restores Riverina to its old position as leading yarn-
producer of the Commonwealth. Let the Clarence
have its crocodiles and the Paroo its bunyips—we’re
sick of bunyips, anyway—what can stand beside a
reindeer, “very large antlers” and all?
The matter of origin is enough in itself to set
the entire nation speculating. You can get a tiger or
a bear from a circus, a ghost or a bunyip from a
bottle; this apparition must surely have been lost by
Mr. S. Claus on one of his annual pilgrimages or got
loose from a consignment of the goods sent here by
the eminent and businesslike Mr. Disney.
Gratifying, too, that both it and the commoner
apparition of the Paroo abide by the established /tradi-
tion of appearing in approved haunts of such things.
Never yet has an Austral freak had the bad taste to
show up in a suburban garden or city street, where the
hard and suspicious' eye of Authority never sleeps.
No, out on the lonely Junee or on the quiet Paroo
farm they graze, undisturbed by the madding crowd
—until discovered by the city press. Then, like all
shy things, they vanish and are seen not again.
Hail then, Australia Felix, with your solemn-
eyed leg-extenders of the hinterland and your credu-
lous cities! Truly are your crowded places a richness
for the spinners of yarns, from thoughtful reindeer-
finders to radio uncles, syndicated foreign correspon-
dents (all Famous), astrologers, tipsters, “Lucky Fred”
and, yea, even unto the Prime Minister with his
lucky 13.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“T.McN.”: A couple of us, trailing
“quiz” sessions on commercial broadcast-
ing stations with the idea of making a
few bob—the stations pay a dollar a time
for the “quizzes” and listeners who go
in and answer them might win anything
up to a fiver —by forming a syndicate to
work the oracle both ways, were con-
sidering whether we ought to bring our
troubles-and-strives into it. Then a “Yes-
No” session opened up. In this, the
“compere” has three minutes to ask the
candidate questions. A direct “yes” or
“no” outs the candidate, but there is a
cash prize for those who get through.
Somebody observed that the greater pro-
portion of wins at this game went to
women. “Well,” demanded Harold,
“what d’ y’ expect? Who ever heard a
tabby give a direct negative or positive
to a man’s question! ’Sno wonder they
win!” Then a profound silence fell.
* St * *
“Sixenate”: A minor Sydney Court has
heard a queer tale of a young man ruined
by drink—but not alcoholic drink. He
had such a passion for milk that he
couldn’t resist the temptation to collar it
by the jugful. The charge was stealing
5\ pints from a milk depot. The young
man’s parents said that at home, unless
the milk was locked up, it disappeared.
Their son had been put on a milk diet
after a bad accident five years ago and
the craving had started then. The beak
imposed a fine on the particular charge
but sent the offender to prison for three
months for breaking a bond entered into
on the occasion of a former milk-stealing
episode.
* jJ; #
“Bohemian 1 ”: The Maoriland Govern-
ment has tightened up its restrictions on
imported wines to such an extent that
local-grown wines have now a splendid
chance. Some of the first wine made in
Maoriland was so awful that for years
everyone steered clear of it. But of
recent years a decided improvement has
taken place. The best now is much
inferior to good Australian varieties, but
the price of the latter is high, and
steadily increasing. Soon, it seems, it
will be as dear as champagne. When the
Italian expert Romo Bragato reported
many years ago, he gave his opinion that
the Maoriland grape was not suitable for
wine production. Climate and soil were
at fault.
* * * *
“H-Peck”: The way of the reformer is
hard. Most men who have nerved them-
selves to investigate the way their women-
folk organise their housework have
shuddered, but few have had the fortitude
to do anything about it. An exception
was a gentleman who figured as petitioner
in a Sydney divorce court last week. He
drew up a household roster:
7.30 a.m., get out of bed; 9 a.m.,
breakfast to be finished; 9.30 a.m., wash-
ing up to be done; 11 a.m., beds to be
made; 1 p.m., rooms swept and tidied;
afternoons, free; 4.30 p.m., commence pre-
paration of dinner; 6.30, dinner; children
to wash up.
His wife, he said, stuck to this- order of
things for a fortnight and then backslid.
When remonstrated with she said that if
she were allowed to do the work her own
way it would be done properly. So they
quarrelled. Petitioner had got a divorce
decree on the ground of desertion in 1939.
But at the latest hearing the decree nisi
was rescinded on the ground that
petitioner was the deserter.
* * * *
“Clooter”: A thing that amuses me about
these radio and press “commentators”
is the cocksure way they assume know-
ledge of what is in the mind of Hitler,
Stalin, Roosevelt, Konoye or any other
conspicuous figure they decide to talk
about. How many times have we heard
or read that “Hitler’s plan is first to so-
and-so and then to such-and-such by a
quick development of the what-not.” Or
that “when Staiin said he intended to
have steak-and-kidney pie for dinner next
Sunday he was shrewd enough to realise
the impact of this on the mind of the
Japanese war-lords, themselves compelled
to weigh his words against the price of
matches, the biggest single factor in forc-
ing Hitler to plan his shaving-soap pur-
chases six months ahead.” But then it’s
little different from the parent who pre-
sumes to know the mind of God when
he tells the erring child “God will punish
you for that.”
* * * *
“Pinter”: Blime, where’s all this
vaunted Australian support for secondary
industry? Here’s Bill White, of Maroubra
(N.S.W.), who has been making beer
“Mine tinkit boss get ten years."
“You plurry wishful-tinker, Jacky .”
for the past 10 years at the rate of
100 gallons or more a year and selling it
for lOd. a bottle, which shows it must
have been the real Mackay. Bill’s
dodging along, turning out his good old
home-brew and filling a strong demand,
when the flamin’ police raid him. They
find 1009 bottles in the joint and he
shows them his little outfit. Do they praise
him? Does the beak compliment him
on his initiative? Does the Labor Gov-
ernment rush round and cheer this
monopoly-breaker? No, they fine the
poor old cow 100 frogskins and costs!
It’s enough to break a bloke’s heart.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Two incidents attended the
maiden speech in M.L. Parliament of
Mrs. Dreaver. There was a good gallery,
particularly of women, to see how the
second woman Parliamentarian would
acquit herself. The cry went up that
someone had fainted, but when it was
discovered that it was only a man the
ladies again turned their whole attention
to the speaker. When Mrs. Dreaver
stopped, her sister member, Mrs. Stewart,
implanted a chaste kiss on the new legis-
lator’s cheek. Such stern men as Finance
Minister Nash and Man-power Minister
Semple seemed embarrassed at the little
display of femininity.
* * * *
“T.McN.”: Sentimental Laborites and
others who don’t believe in capital punish-
ment (they are moving for abolition in
W.A. and M.L.) must, if they read the
papers, be wondering what sort of a
problem would face an Australian
Government forced to deal with a
case now stirring the U.S.A. Wash-
ington had suffered a wave of sex
crimes which caused the President's
lady to warn girls and women to beware
of strangers, and Congress to shake up
the local police department. The police
have produced a negro, and allege that
he confessed to murdering two women
and strangling two female clerks, a
matron and four negro women, and that
six other victims of his attacks survived.
They add that they believe him respon-
sible for crimes going back to 1934. The
negro may or may not be guilty. But
supposing him to be found guilty, what
sort of punishment or correction would
the reformers recommend?
* * * *
“C.G.”: The fear of pain drives some
people to desperate lengths. A Fitzroy
(Vic.) man, unable to look the dentist in
the eye, insisted on a full anaesthetic and
died under it. At the inquest the dentist
said the teeth could have been pulled
out with a string.
* * * #
“Snarker”: When Mr. Spender gets his
Women’s Home Army going he’s likely
to encounter a bit of bother in trying to
make the volunteers understand that,
once having taken the King’s shilling, as
it were, they are no longer free to rush
off to a bargain sale or a mothers’ meet-
ing as the spirit moves them. The con-
trollers of the Women’s Auxiliary Terri-
torial Service in England report many
a.w.l. cases, and the first court-martial
was held as this was written. The de-
faulters was a corporal and was
charged that “when on active service”
she went a.w.l. for two months. Prosecu-
tion and defence were in the hands of
women subalterns, and the prisoner
announced that she stayed away because
the Group Commandant “wouldn’t let
her leave” the A.T.S. She isn’t likely to
be shot at dawn, but the case should be
deeply pondered by Lieut.-Col. Spender.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Since the introduction of
the subscription system the conductor of
a “celebrity” concert in Melbourne, when
he mounts the rostrum, casts a polite but
indifferent eye upon the main body of
the hall and then an anxious one at the
small space between the platform and
the organ. If this latter space is filled by
7.30 he knows that money is being
turned away —in effect that the
concert has appealed to music-lovers.
If there are vacant spaces he knows
it hasn’t. In the main body of
the hall sit the subscribers, and
they would be sitting there whoever con-
ducted. For the vast majority of them
concert-going is a social occasion, not an
aesthetic experience, and an unused seat
means a couple of bob wasted. The dis-
criminating people are in the despised
kraal in front of the organ.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: Thirst used to be a suf-
ficient excuse for lonely travellers in
Central Australia to interrupt communi-
cations on the Adelaide-Darwin landline.
The position of the break could be more
or less accurately located from one end
or the other and a repair gang would
come to the rescue, no penalties being
attached to the breach of regulations.
The practice, with local variations, has
broken out in Victoria, where death by
thirst isn’t much of a menace. Geelong
telephone officials were recently puzzled
by a disturbance of the system. They
found that a thief or thieves had coolly
used a ladder on the Ballarat-road to
climb the poles and had removed three
and a half miles of copper conductor.
One and a half miles went west in the
same district on a previous occasion.
Shortage of metals is, no doubt, the
excuse, but it isn’t likely to be brought
forward in the police court.
* * * *
“S.V.”: A soft wind blew through the
acrimonious controversy about alien
doctors and medically starved Mallee
districts when the secretary of the
Bush Church Aid Society reminded
Victorians that his organisation main-
tains five hospitals in S.A. by the
unassisted efforts of one lady doctor
and an aeroplane ambulance which
covers 64,000 square miles. One
of the sickbays is 250 miles from the
doctor, yet it has saved lives aplenty.
Largely for romantic reasons, Melbourne
is the principal supporter of the flying
doctor service in the Far North, but
when it was suggested that something
might be done for Werrimull in the
near-by Mallee, which had been deprived
of its only sawbones, it was immediately
made into a problem. Everything urgent
in Melbourne tends to be made into a
problem, which means that there will be
a lot of talk and little done.
* * * *
“Jeff”: Back home for a spell the
Oliver twins, of Fairfield (Vic.), set a
problem while acting as medical-orderlies
in base hospitals in Egypt and Palestine.
Similar in looks and build, they con-
fused the medical staffs and mates as to
which was Jack and which Harry. Their
mother knows them only by slight differ-
ences in gait and voice.
* * *
“Sea Hawk”: Tell
“Capricorn” (B. 13/8/’4l)
that certain peculiarities of
pronunciation are common
to all parts of Australia ;
others appear to be con-
fined to States or localities.
We in Queensland are
given to several departures
from the standard English
pronunciation which may
not occur in the South.
The accenting of the first
syllable in “magazine,”
“week-end'’’ and “July" is
noticeable, though not so
marked as the pronuncia-
tion of the final “e” where
it is meant to be silent.
Even Randolph Bedford,
in a broadcast talk not
very long before he died,
spoke of the pilot station
as “Goodee” Island.
* * *
“Pawang”: Cabled that
Sister Kenny, the Queens-
land nurse who fought the
medical profession over
her method of tackling in-
fantile paralysis, is treating
Marjorie Lawrence at
Minneapolis Hospital for
another kind of paralysis.
The Dean’s Marsh singer was billed to
appear at Mexico City in the biggest roles
at its opera festival, but before the season
started she was stricken with paralysis
of the legs. Health breakdowns just be-
fore an appearance are not uncommon
among singers, musicians, actors, orators
and public performers of all sorts.
Kubelik, when in Australia, was invari-
ably ill before going on the platform and
dosed himself with drugs. His ailment
did not get the better of him till very late
in life.
* * * *
“Exdig”: “T.McN.” (B. 27/8/’4l) is
either not an ex-Digger or has a poor
memory: “You’re for it, Bloggs,” was
the routine way of telling anyone in the
A.I.F. that he had to face the Orderly
Room. It was quite a distinct phrase
from “You’re in for it.” A Digger mar-
ried in England who hadn’t been in camp
at lights out replied to my warning “Oh,
well, I had to be either for it here or in
for it with the missus. I knew which I
could stand best.”
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Touching Australia’s
newest baronet (B. 27/8/’4l), a Sydney
woman’s paper supplements a page of
photographs with some amazing informa-
tion about the Croft clan. The first
holder of the title, one learns, received the
distinction from Charles I on the field of
battle, a statement you are left to recon-
cile as best you can with the fact that
the baronetcy dates from 1671, 22 years
afer Charles was executed. The family,
it is further asserted, is the fifth oldest
in Britain (I wonder who did the tabu-
lating) and the baronetcy the sixth in
point of precedence. As a matter of
fact, there are over 80 English baron-
etcies which antedate 1671, without
counting Scottish, Irish and Nova Scotia
ones. Don’t some of these writers ever
look at a reference book?
NUMBER THIRTEEN.
Another name to swell the list we start on
Whenever memory takes a backward look
At all your predecessors —Toby Barton,
Reid, Deakin, Watson, Fisher, Hughes and
Cook.
With Bruce and Scullin added to the galley,
Lyons and short-lived Page and Menzies, too,
There’s now a baker’s dozen in the tally,
Fadden, with you.
Some men are born to greatness, some achieve
it)
Some have it thrust upon them, so they say;
And, not so long ago, few would believe it
Likely to come your undistinguished way.
Is it shrewd sense, ingratiating patter,
Sheer accident or practised savoir faire
That’s won you eminence? It’s little matter
Now that you’re there.
It looks a job that needs unusual talents.
An acrobat might find it hard enough
On such a shaky rope to keep his balance, .
A Blondin hesitate to try his stuff.
Still, you may find in this exalted station
Your real metier, and use the job
To earn the plaudits of a grateful nation
Denied to Bob.
No dismal omens need your path encumber;
Fool superstitions you can laugh to scorn;
Thirteen has always been your lucky number,
You tell us, from the day when you were
born.
Here’s all the best, my amiable Artie,
And can you into stubborn heads instil
That country is a bigger thing than party,
You’ll well deserve felicitations hearty,
My oath, you will!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Honorable Bokio”: Our Japanese
newspaper “Miyako” say: “British and
American diplomatic manoeuvres come
at a time when the Russo-German war is
facing stagnation and spreading in a
manner which makes us fear that two
years of Axis gains may go to pot.” Too
honorable bally right yes, me too. As
admirable Admiral Suetsago say, the
sands of time are running out fast on
leaden wings, and if Nippon is to take
the bit of Mars in honorable mouth and
forge ahead with all sails spread to catch
the lowering clouds of opportunity she
must pull socks up and hop in for chop.
Honorable Axis’s invincibility is as plain
as pancake, and Russian steamroller will
be rolled flat as pikestaff. Soviet snows
will soon be falling, and, as Spearshake
say, now, isn’t the winter of honorable
contentment made gloriously autumn by
son of Earl of York? Honorable co-
prosperity sphere hitched to Rome-Berlin
star is boiling up from the running pool
of democratic intrigue, and honorable New
Order in East Asia will rise like Niobe
out of sea to spread wings of peace until
bird comes to rest by breaking the chains
of encirclement with muscles like those
of late honorable Hackenschmidt. You
be blowed, eh?
“Si Anu”: The Nazis have never been
credited with an overwhelming sense of
humor, but it must surely have been a
joker who set the Japanese going on
anti-Semitism, to such an extent that the
Japanese Anti-Espionage Federation has
launched an anti-Jewish campaign, with
the theme “The Jews are the enemies
of the world.” The average Japanese
wouldn’t know a Jew if he saw one. He
hasn’t been taught from the cradle, as
have most Europeans, even outside Ger-
many, to believe that the Jews kidnap
Gentile youths and maidens and use their
blood in their paschal feasts. Nor has he
been told that Buddha was crucified by
the hated race or that it was the Jews
who fastened usury on the world. No-
body has ever made his blood curdle
with rage and resentment with the asser-
tion that a handful of rich Jewish bankers
have enslaved the nation and are suck-
ing the blood out of the commonweal.
There is plenty of usury in Japan, but
the usurers are Japanese ; and there are
great banking families, whose names are
not Cohen or Isaacs. But the move
can’t end in a pogrom because there
are no Jews to pog.
* * * *
“Sheila”: Memories of an old Bul-
letin contributor, Dr. N. M. O’Donnell,
of North Melbourne, were brought to
mind when his daughter, the wife of
Frank Brennan, M.H.R., recently passed
away. On three nights in one week he
was a guest at smoke concerts in Mel-
bourne, and on each occasion arrived in
time to hear a recital of Gordon’s “How
We Beat the Favorite.” The “Lament,”
which appears in The Bulletin Reciter,
was penned by him after the third inflic-
tion.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Wowser? John
Norton? “Bohemian’s” (B. 27/ 8 / ’4l)
Dictionary of Old English Terms and
Phrases and its alleged “wow-sir”? Rot!
The whole matter is set out fully in
Pullizlegg’s well-known Guide to the
Swiss Language. Originally “bow-wow-
serr” (“serr” meaning dirty in tenth-cen-
tury Swiss, and “bow-wow” the natural
generic word for dogs of all ages), it was
a term of lower-deck abuse in the Swiss
Navy for many centuries. “Bow,” com-
ing first, as was but natural in a sea-
going nation, was gradually modified in
accordance with the well-known Guyver’s
Law of Etymological Synchronisation to
“I told you the clinic scales Were Wrong. He's 39½lb."
mean pup, or son of a bitch. The casual
manner in which wayside petrol supplies
spread themselves in all sorts of un-
wanted directions over car-fittings natu-
rally suggested to Swiss immigrants in
America the word “bow-serr,” dirty pup.
“Wow-serr” was applied to adult persons
with corresponding minds.
“Hamfat”: This controversy about
who coined “wowser” is interesting, but
does it really matter? It’s a lovely term
anyway. So at least thought an actor
of the old school who was playing the
heavy father in melodrama at the
Majestic Theatre, Newtown (N.S.W.). On
the stage the villain was rubbing it in to the
old man about the sins of the noble but
maligned hero, his stage son. Ned
Corless drew himself up with dignity.
“No, sir,” he declaimed ; “my son may
have robbed the bank, he may have
ruined this poor girl, he may even have
murdered Trevassis, but, thank God, he
is not a wowser!” The end was a de-
parture from his lines, but it took the
house by storm.
* * * *
“T.S.”: You Sydney blokes who heard
your Premier refer to Tassie as a “men-
dicant State” when he found it voting
against him at the Loan Council needn’t
believe our island isn’t doing its bit.
We’ve got a cove from Westralia here
who not only reckons Tasmanian sassafras
is the best wood for making bungs for
beer-casks but has set up a plant at
Burnie to make them. If that isn’t keep-
ing an essential Australian industry going
I’d like to know what is, McKell or no
McKell!
“Avon”: A case that is giving Maori-
land law authorities a headache is that
of a young fellow named Kilgour, who
resigned from the police and joined the
R.N.Z.A.F. when his month was up.
Unfortunately the Police Minister didn’t
accept his resignation, and though he
had been accepted by the Air Force
Kilgour was convicted by a police magis-
trate on a charge of resigning from the
police without permission. Later a further
summons was issued against him charg-
ing him with being a police officer who
had been convicted in a court of justice.
This case, which was to be heard in
camera, hadn’t been settled at time of
writing, but it should be a bit difficult
to decide which loyalty is legally
stronger.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Melbourne trams now
have gal conductors, an innovation that is
causing as much excitement in the
southern city as if it were a feminist
revolution. Chairman Bell expresses him-
self as highly gratified by the skirted
ticket-punchers’ performance, inasmuch
as, on one route, the girls collected all
the fares except those of nine passengers
near the exits during a fairly heavy
revenue trip. This doesn’t say much for
past standards of efficiency.
* * * *
“C.R.”: Departments of Information
are all the fashion and no country is
happy without one. It is little known
that we had them in the last war and
that they worked in much the same way,
though their function was negative, not
positive. I refer to the censorship. One
day I handed an Australian censor a oress
“SAY ‘ PLEASE '!”
cable for perusal—a dispatch from the
usual “authoritative source” at one or
other of the current lie-factories. “What
frightful bunkum!” laughed the censor,
reaching for a stamp. “You’re not going
to pass it,” I protested in amazement.
“Why not?” he retorted. “But you said
it was bunkum!” “Of course it’s
bunkum, and no intelligent washerwoman
would believe it. But it’s bunkum on
our side,” he remarked, bringing his
stamp down with gusto.
* * # *
“L.A.”: Men with big voices, is it? Mick
Kirwan, who died a few months ago,
got his lead into politics by the attention
he attracted at Brisbane’s Central station
when he called the times of trains, later
becoming Minister of the department in
which he had been a porter. A contempor-
ary was a Caledonian cow cocky from the
Darling Downs who was humorously
credited with causing the chandeliers to
go into a shimmy dance when he got
into top gear of oratory. I was in the
waiting room of a Minister on one
occasion when Donald was also waiting
for an interview. As a buxom young
typist came in to speak to the messenger,
Donald leaned over, touched me on the
knee, and roared in what was intended
to be a whisper: “She shouldn’t be here ;
she should be breeding kids! ” The typist
turned scarlet and fled.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Pianist Ignaz Friedman
observed in Melbourne that, although
Australia today is a bigger customer of
music than she was 40 years ago, she is
not a bigger creator of music. He ad-
vised that conductors of the calibre of
Marshall Hall and Verbrugghen should be
imported, up to the number of 20, on
the model of the U.S.A., which had made
great use of European talent, not only in
the arts, but in the field of science, and
had profited by it. But America hasn’t
been made creative thereby. She is one
of the least creative countries. She is
crammed with Old Masters, but where
are her great painters? An Australian
composer has just as good conditions for
creating music as Bach, Beethoven and
Mozart, even as an Australian writer has
just as good conditions for writing plays
as Shakspeare.
* * * *
“Myrtle Maggalott”: Some of these
women have too much to say that’s the
trouble with them really it is why some
of them have been asking the Government
the one in Sydney I mean not the one
that that nice Mr. Spender’s in though
really I don’t know why he isn’t in this
one because he lives in Sydney, but the
one that argues up in that old dump in
Macquarie-street to stop giving coupons
to housewives why shouldn’t we take
them if we want to I’m saving up for an
aluminium kettle I only need to buy an-
other 327 bars of soap and I’ll have it
they don’t stop to think that if they bring
in this silly law all the coupons I’ve col-
lected will be wasted I’m glad to see the
Minister saw some bodies of women no
that doesn’t sound right some women’s
bodies saw the Minister and protested
and I think he agreed with them because
he didn’t say he’d knock them back so
-it looks as if I’ll get that kettle yet but
the hide of those other women I think
it’s awful.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Recent suggestions that the
aesthetic movement satirised in
“Patience” possibly existed only in Gil-
bert’s imagination” go a bit too far. In
London, at the end of the eighteen-seven-
lies, there was a definite artistic revolt
against the comfortable but inartistic
taste of the previous decades —big
mahogany tables, horsehair seats, wax
flowers under glass shade, and so on.
The reformers stressed the good but then
little-known word “aesthetic,” implying
simply love of beauty. They founded the
“greenery-yallery Grosvenor Gallery” as
an antidote to the orthodox Royal
Academy. But, like most other re-
formers, they hit hard, and the disturbed
mid-Victorians hit back fiercely. The
chief apostle was an easy mark, Oscar
Wilde, an affected Oxford undergrad., who
“asked for it.” The air was full of blast
and counterblast. H. J. Byron, of “Our
Boys” fame, had a great run with a
stage satire, “The Colonel,” and Du
Maurier in “Punch” every week was
scathing about the long-haired aesthete
whom one sees now only as the stage
Bunthorne whenever “Patience” is re-
vived. And that opera itself, being
arguably the most tuneful of all the G.
and S. works, finished the slaughter, and
made the innocent word “aesthetic” im-
possible for some 30 years to use seri-
ously. But the movement had its good
effects, even though, as with so many
other reforms, the satire is now re-
membered better than the thing satirised.
THE AVERAGE MAN.
“The average man does not read poetry.”
— OJKM ., 3/91’il.
Some call him “the man in the street,”
Who’s held to embody the view
Of the masses regarding what’s meet
(Or isn’t) to say or to do.
He’s, the many, opposed to the few,
For those who humanity scan.
But where —how I wish that. I knew!
Can you corner the average man?
He’s a figure that’s wrapped in a sheet,
Which writers can always endue
With aught that will back or complete
Some thesis they’re hammering through.
And whether it’s false or it’s true
It seems an ingenious plan,
For you’re never accorded a clue
For finding the average man.
He’s somewhere between the elite
And the sort you might glimpse in the
’Loo;
He’s a quantity far from concrete,
A vague, indeterminate crew,
Perforce inarticulate, too,
Since no one may speak for the clan.
1 wonder am I or are you
Fair types of the average man?
Stay! We’re out of the running, we two.
Since verse that to him is taboo
We can hardly pretend to eschew,
So T’m back where my musings began.
Enlighten me, somebody! Who
The hell is the average man?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“ROOM ONLY" DAILY TARIFFS
Singles -5/- to 10/-
Doubles - 8/- to 181 6
Suites, Family Rooms, Full Catering
Services
S. D. HORNE - MANAGER
m,mn,
THE
VICTORIA
PALACE
AfSLBOOBWSO
A/osr popi/mk worst
Next Town Hall * Little Collins Street
3.41
Invest in Established Companies
Even if you wish to invest only about £2O of your Capital
you can obtain an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies
by investing in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
which provide security by “spread” of investment. Union
Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd., act as Custodian Trustees
of the securities backing the Trust Certificates.
Booklet No. 1 explains it all; your copy will be mailed free
on application to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
The Mutual Life and Citizens*
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £32,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,900,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
POLITICAL POINTS
Page is to go to London “to discuss
various aspects of the war effort as it
affects the U.K. and Australian Govern-
ments,” Menzies having declined all
offers. Churchill has promised “full and
free discussions.” Should they be inter-
rupted by the sudden illness of some
War Cabineteer in circumstances necessi-
tating an immediate operation, the doctor
will be an outstanding success.
From Melbourne “Argus’s” Canberra
man:
It used to be the practice for a Minister
who disagreed with his leader to resign.
The new idea seems to be to get rid of the
leader.
True, and cleverly put. But the “Argus”
chap was not so happy when he wrote
that “Mr. Wilson [C.P., Vic.] has shown
himself a Menzies sympathiser.” Mr.
Wilson’s sympathies begin and end with
Mr. Wilson.
Every day and in almost every paper
you can now read something like this:
In an essentially political Budget expendi-
ture —especially expenditure that might be
profitable if an election came—would be
the first consideration Tremendously
increased bank credit may be necessary
One member of the Cabinet is reported
to have remarked that the Budget under
discussion would “win any .election.”
So that is to be the criterion! Not
whether the measures “under discussion”
are sound and equitable, mindful alike
of present and future necessities and just
to the thrifty—particularly to those with
savings-bank balances and life and
endowment policies but whether they
can “win any election.”
The bosses of the alleged U.A.P. and
U.C.P. in N.S.W. (“U” stands fov
United!) are still searching for explana-
tions of the shattering defeats they suf-
fered in September, 1940, and June, 1941,
and are ready to accept anything in the
superficial line. The grim truth underlies
what has been going on at Canberra this
last fortnight. These parties With the
fraudulent titles have made office their
be-all and end-all. The alliance which
ranged them against Langism has become
an alliance of expediency. The ideas and
principles which sustained them they
have abandoned one by one. And parties
without ideas or principles are dying on
the hoof.
The Canberra correspondent of a Syd-
ney paper, having a dabble in the current
Budget festivities, states that a main
feature of the discussions, then under
way, was “Extension of social services to
show the workers that they are not ex-
pected to wait until the end of the war
for the new order.” There’s nothing new
about taxing one section of the com-
munity for the benefit of another —and
the votes it may produce. That’s as old
as politics.
Dr. Evatt, M.H.R., must feel like a
flighty wife with the eye of a private tec.
on her. He accepted an invitation to
Mildura, in Wilson’s electorate, where-
upon every reporter in Canberra back-
tracked him for a fortnight. Now all
hands are looking for the “significance”
of it. Both Evatt and Wilson deny there
is any, but denials are no good to sus-
picious husbands.
.Sydney newspapers had barely done
boasting that a whole day of industrial
peace had passed when Sydney textile
workers came out almost en masse against
an award which granted them a rise in
pay which they declared wasn’t enough.
Several militant young women got into
holts and he-officials of the union told
the girls not to be naughty. All that
responsible Ministers could do was
mutter something about not letting the
soldiers down.
The Sydney Premier isn’t finding life
a bed of roses. Fie has been forced to
allow it to be said that, though he in-
tends to discontinue wages tax, as prom-
ised, he must make up the revenue loss
by increased company and income tax.
Those who voted for his Government
didn’t expect that. Then, invited to table
documents containing instructions to pub-
lic servants to join unions, all he could
do was mumble something about being
willing to do so but “the honorable
gentleman might give thought to some-
thing of a constructive character.” So
might Mr. McKell, if it comes to that.
“Blackout” Heffron, the Terror of the
Subbubs, finds it “lamentable” that Com-
monwealth income-tax deductions have
been refused to firms forced by him to
spend money on A.R.P. work. “Black-
out” could fix it by persuading his own
concern to allow A.R.P. deductions from
State income tax ; but “Blackout” won’t.
Alleged at Canberra that Wilson, who
stands on the axis of the political see-
“But, Percy, if we let you go, who’d look after the ladies’ war effort?"
saw, may join the Fadden Ministry. If
he does he will doubtless entertain the
Cabinet in idle moments with his bird
imitations, “Wheat, wheat, wheat.”
Victoria’s Liquid Fuel Board continues
to save a spot of petrol by cutting down
supplies to public transport bodies. The
result is that people within a 30-mile
radius of congested Melbourne can’t go
about their avocations. On a recent Sun-
day, however, 800 private cars speeded
out of the suburbs to view snow that
had fallen on Donna Buang ; but perhaps
that is Premier Dunstan’s notion of de-
centralisation.
The high cost of tea in Victoria is in-
teresting Premier Dunstan, and it cer-
tainly is questionable—-the rise of lid. a
pound represents an increase of 75 p.c.
on Ceylon leaf and 100 p.c. on Java.
But that is nothing compared with the
high cost of maintaining a superfluous
State Parliament.
“S. M. Herald” had a priceless photo-
graph of two clergymen, an Anglican and
a Methodist, singing the “Internationale”
at the Congress of Friendship and Aid
to the Soviet Union, and obviously
making heavy weather of it. As priceless
was the Methodist’s assertion, reported
in a Sunday paper, that “Russia comes
nearer to the Christian standard than
many a professed Christian country.” As
only friends were present the assertion
was not challenged, which was just as
well for the enthusiast. Should he repeat
it in mixed company some nark may ask
how Russia, “as embodied in the formid-
able figure of Stalin” (Churchill), has got
on about the Commandments, particu-
larly the first, sixth, eighth, ninth and
tenth.
“Washington feels that the pitiable
failure of Germany’s ‘Crusade against
Bolshevism’ is largely attributable to the
wise statesmanship of the Pope.” London
“Times” got that from its Washington
correspondent, and the thing must have
been read with fury by Famous Corre-
spondents and Sunday-paper strategists
with a mania for bombing Rome and
invading Spain. But no doubt these
maniacs will break out again.
A Mrs. Renee Von Bronneck, from
Austria, wants to start a Free Austria
movement in Australia and has secured
the blessing of M. Andre Brenac, of the
Free French movement, though M.
Brenac suggests that “the Commonwealth
Government might be embarrassed by all
these ‘Free’ movements.” This is very
possible, but Mrs. Von Bronneck is draw-
ing inspiration and hope from No. 10
Downing-street.
Mr. Churchill' has promised that after
the war Austria shall be restored to its
former independence.
If the possibility arises the Dominions
will have something to say about that.
Nothing done at Versailles did more to
make Hitler possible than the veto on
Austrian unity with the other Germans,
and nothing could do more to bring
about another Hitler and another war.
Cameron has admirers in strange
places. “S. M. Herald” has allowed its
Canberra “special” to say that “95
p.c. of Mr. Cameron is hard driving
force and honest, courageous Austra-
lianism.” Lang’s “Century,” which has
had a sneaking regard for the man all
along, supported his suggestion that
General Mackay should be asked to
reveal the equipment position and the
full facts about Libya, Greece and Crete
to Parliament at a secret sitting, and
ridiculed Spender’s objection that this
might lead to the general being questioned
by “junior officers,” saying that Cameron,
when Minister for the Navy, could have
anticipated the Spenderian colonelcy and
objection by making himself an admiral.
And Dr. Evatt, rebuking the man from
Barker, acknowledged “his great gifts of
oratory.”
When in Australia, Holmes, the veteran
British trade-union leader, fell foul of
Communists, who, blackguarding him
in their fashion, insinuated that he did
not represent the British trade-union
attitude to their gang. That the fine old
fellow did was made abundantly clear
at the Trade-Union Congress at Edin-
burgh. There the chairman, Gibson,
while expressing approval of the military
arrangement with Russia since belliger-
ency was forced on that country, said
“This does not imply the least sympathy
with the British Communist party
leaders.”
The astonishing gyrations of these people
have placed them in the lowest category in
the esteem of the British working class.
For them, the war ceased to be an Im-
perialist war at 4 a.m. on June 22, and
became a righteous one.
The Australian Labor-union attitude is
even more contemptuous of Corns.,
though not yet defined —it should be —
in precise terms.
It came by wire from “Dugout Dick,
Commerce House, Melbourne”:
Have just received beam wireless from
the boys at Tobruk demanding one farthing
per day health allowance and seven thirty-
seconds of one penny per day war-time load-
ing. Failing granting their demand they will
down weapons at twenty-five- hours
thirteen seconds on thirteenth instant.
Position seriously threatens to disturb state
of trance on home front. What can be done
about it?
Another royal commission is indicated,
plus an extension of bank credit that
will “win any election.”
HelTron, the provincial Minister for
“National” Emergency Services, intends,
if he can, to compel “vessels in Sydney
Harbor and on other waters of the .State
to observe blackout conditions during
tests.” So ''the Royal Navy and the
R.A.N. and the Merchant Navy and the
rest and all the little fishes are to be
under this provincial’s dictation and the
Commonwealth Constitution gets another
knock.
Spender announces that “Army News”
is to be issued bi-weekly for the instruc-
tion and entertainment of the troops. It
will cost them a penny a copy, and the
Sunday issue will contain a colored comic
supplement. This should stimulate re-
cruiting no end.
George Bassett, who knows the
country, told his fellow Leg. Councillors
in N.S.W. that “our soldiers deserve
better after the war than an attempt to
settle them in the Western Division.” He
added that erratic rainfall, a sheep to
13 acres, a 70-hour week and no schools
for the children would make farming out
there “precarious.” But Mr. Tully, who
was a civil servant before he turned
politician, refuses to be swayed by little
things like those.
In a commonsense interval, Fadden
heaved cold water over the enthusiasm of
the “aid-for-Russia” ladies and gents:
National Security (Patriotic Funds) Regu-
lations provide that funds are not to be
established or moneys raised without per-
mission... .The purpose is primarily to
ensure that needs of our own fighting
forces are met.... Strict control and con-
servation of our resources apply not only
to money appeals but also to proposals
to send medical personnel and supplies.
The corrective came when it was most
needed.
The Victorian Cabinet spent several
hours last week discussing cream, it hav-
ing been reported that cream was in-
creased in bulk with the use of laughing
gas, and that this was quite in con-
formity with the provisions of the Health
Act. The public may not have got a
laugh out of the cream it consumed, but
it is getting a dour laugh out of the spec-
tacle of a Government whose right hand
knows not what its left hand doeth.


AXIS MISUNDERSTANDING.
“According to Losovsky, Mussolini, at his meeting with Hitler on the Russian front, agreed to send more divisions to the front to fill gaps caused
by the Germans' heavy losses.”
“Mein Gott, Benito, vot’s dis? I said DON’D send me any more of your help!”


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE KEYNES PLAN OF POST-WAR CREDITS.
THE COAL CONTROL REGULATIONS.
September Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
Equal to the Finest
Imported
Sold only in BOTTLE
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Earle Page, on his fourth visit to Lon-
don since he joined the Bruce-Page outfit
18 years ago, is not likely to stay there
long. He is 61, doesn’t like the cold and
doesn’t command the oratory which
makes a Dominion Minister popular in
Britain. Also he likes his own way, and
so does Churchill. One of the main
attractions for him in the visit will be
that one of his two serving sons is over
that way.
Two years ago Percy Jenkin came into
The Bulletin office to have a chat about
his plans for the censorship —he had been
appointed Chief Censor. As such he did
a very good job, and he was named
Director of the Information Department.
Then cerebral haemorrhage struck him
down, and the fine fellow is dead at 45
—a real loss to the newspaper world and
to Australia. He was born in Melbourne
and educated there, and was editor of
Perth “Daily News” and Adelaide
“News” before receiving his war-time
appointment. He saw service in the 1914-
18 war and was interested in the Citizen
Air Force, being on the reserve list as a
flying officer.
G. C. R. CHAMPION,
Public Defender of N. S. Wales.
Celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of
his ordination, Thomas O’Shea, Arch-
bishop of Wellington and Metro-
politan of M.L. He was born in
San Francisco in 1870, came to
Fernland in infancy and was the first
student enrolled at St. Patrick’s College,
Wellington. He was one of the best half-
backs the college ever put into a Rugby
field, and as well was a useful batsman.
Had his theological training at the Marist
Fathers’ Institution, Hawke Bay, where
he taught mental philosophy for three
years after his ordination. He was co-
adjutor to Archbishop Redwood in Wel-
lington until that prelate died in 1935.
Millice Culpin, possibly Australia’s
oldest doctor, has passed out in Brisbane
at 95. He started school at Stevenage
(Eng.) three months before the Crimean
War began and reached Brisbane in the
late ’seventies. He was Federal member
for Brisbane, 1903-06. Except for a trip
to England he never had a holiday from
active practice until he retired. Chess was
his favorite pastime. One son is a pro-
fessor of psychology in London, another
a medico in Brisbane and a third was
killed in action in 1914-18.
Mick Grace, only son of one of the
Grace Brothers who founded the big
Sydney business of that name, is on
active service abroad and has been pro-
moted to flight-lieutenant. This is his
answer —the only one possible to him
and a most effective one —to a snarling
Sydney politician who had the face to
insinuate that he had got his wings
through influence. Flight-Lieut. Grace,
who is married, learned to fly his own
machine and is as game as they make
them. In fact, a real Australian—all wool
and a yard wide.
There is speculation at Canberra as to
whether Walter Nairn will remain in
the Chair if the Fadden Government is
voted out. Though he has always been
a good party man, there is no fanaticism
in the Perth lawyer’s composition, and
he might not consent to make the sacri-
fice. If asked to make it, he is sure to
consult Colebatch, ex-Minister, ex-
Premier, ex-Agent-General and ex-
Senator, and now a M.L.C. once more,
who was a senior staff man when Nairn
was a junior on the long-deceased Perth
“Morning Herald,” and who was instru-
mental in getting Nairn nominated for
the seat he won in 1929. Should Nairn
step down there are at least two other
U.A.P. men who would consider offers.
The ceremony of burning a candle to
give absent Melbourne Bumbles time to
ride on swift horses from the farthest
confines of the city to vote in the mayoral
election was rendered superfluous again
this year, Frank Beaurepaire being re-
turned unopposed in accordance with
what has become a fixed convention.
Another fixed convention is that the Lud
Mayor who performs the hat-trick gets
a title. This is the ex-world’s champion
swimmer’s second term. As rough and
ready a mayor as Melbourne has ever
had, he has concentrated on the war
effort. Last year he opened a swim-
ming pool in the country by taking the
first header into it. .
The first anniversary of the death of
Dr. William Maloney, M.H.R., brought
forth a balance sheet of the Little
Doctor’s Free Milk Appeal for children,
which was to have been Melbourne’s
memorial to him. About £6OOO has
been expended on the purchase of milk
and cows. Now money has ceased to
come in and the committee cannot carry
on, so a balance in hand is being dis-
tributed to 32 creches and kindergartens.
Dr. Maloney’s philanthropy was in-
exhaustible during his life.
Visiting his native Maoriland recently
has been David Firth Reid, London man-
ager of the Bank of N.Z. He was born
at Arrowtown, Otago, 62 years ago and
has been in banking all his working years,
joining the old Colonial of N.Z. in 1894
and crossing to the N.Z. the following
year. He has been in London for eight
years and has served as chairman of
British Overseas Banks, Associated Aus-
tralasian Banks and the N.Z. Society
(London). Plays golf, love's a day’s fish-
ing, and says the bank’s premises in
London are still in commission, though
bombs broke windows and damaged
ceilings.
When John William Bleakley, Director
of Native Affairs in Queensland, retired
from active duty on August 30, the
descendants of Australia’s original in-
habitants lost a very good friend. Coming
from England as, a child he grew up in
Queensland and joined the Abo. Depart-
ment in 1907. Appointed Deputy Chief
Protector in 1911, he was Chief Pro-
tector from 1914 to 1939, when the title
was changed to its present form. During
his 27 years of control seven additional
Government mission stations were built
and two new Government settlements,
with 2700 inmates, added to the original
one of 100, also a modern isolation
hospital on Fantome Island treating ovei
200 patients. Bleakley’s film camera
records of native customs and cere-
monials are ethnological treasures.
Described by the “Times” as making
a most agreeable picture as he cut his
way to victory, Sapper H. Malkin, oi
Gunyah (Vic.), has got a mention in this
war of machines by wielding an axe in
England in a spectacular tree-felling com-
petition. Known all over Gippsland as
“Lofty,” he belongs to its Axemen’s
Association and has been a consistent
performer at the Show in Melbourne. He
is with a Forestry unit.
Passed on, F. S. Andrews, for many
years secretary of the Employers’ Federa-
tion of W.A. In association with the
sons of Septimus Burt, K.C., he estab-
lished Soccer football in the State.
Andrews was well liked and had happy
associations with numerous unions in
conciliation and arbitration proceedings.
A link with the days when that crafty
warrior Sir George Grey was waging
war on the Maoris was Thomas Alex-
ander Gentles, who died at Auckland last
month, aged 86. His father came to M.L.
in 1847 as a soldier of the Royal Artil-
lery and settled at Howick. T. A. Gentles
went a-tributing on the Thames gold-
fields, made a bit of money, and set up as
a provision merchant in Auckland., He
was able to retire 25 years ago.
Major-General Doug Wynter is one
able Australian soldier in this war who
has had hard luck. Like Brudenell White
and Glasgow, of Villers Bret., he began
his military career in one of the old
Maryborough (Q.) volunteer units the
Wide Bay Regiment—transferred in 1911
to the permanent staff among a dozen
fledglings who afterwards reached briga-
dier’s rank or better and saw the last war-
through, coming home with five mentions
in dispatches, a D.S.O. and a C.M.G. He
was one of the first officers chosen for
G.O. command when the present war
broke out, and took the contingents of the
new young A.I.F. to England and then
MAJOR-GENERAL WYNTER.
round to Egypt. Temporary bad health
sent him home to Australia, but he is
on the way back to the top. He is a
rare combination —a good staff man and
a good commander —and esteemed among
his peers as a “soldiers’ soldier.”
Well known in Australasian ports was
Capt. John Beighton, R.N.R., who with
his crew was lost when his vessel was
destroyed as a result of enemy action in
the Atlantic. Only son of a Central Otago
(M.L.) pioneer, Beighton served his sea
apprenticeship on the barque Onyx. After
he obtained his master’s ticket he held
command of various steamers of the
Union line, and skippered Australian
troop and supply ships during the 1914-
18 war. After that he commanded the
Commonwealth ship Largs Bay till she
was sold to British shipping interests.
PRESIDENT MORGAN,
of S.A. Arbitration Court.
Many an Australian visitor to London
of former days will lament the passing of
the Rev. W. Pennington-Bickford, for
more than 30 years rector of St. Clement
Danes Church on its island in the Strand
opposite Australia House. A shy, quiet
man with a fine tolerant humor and
charming manners, he made all Aus-
tralians welcome. The rectory in
St. Clement’s Inn Passage—it had been
converted from a couple of old cottages
and two shops—was a delightful place to
visit. He married the daughter of his
predecessor, the Rev. Septimus Penning-
ton, whose family had been connected
with the church since 1640, and added
the name to his own. Samuel Pepys
attended service at St. Clement Danes in
November, 1661, and mentions in his
diary that the minister’s text was “All
good and perfect things come from
above.” Nazi barbarism has converted
the famous old church into little more
than a shell.
Knight Hubert Wilkins has bobbed up
in .his native Australia again, this time
from Chungking (China), where he was
doing a job for Chinese war orphans on
behalf of the American Committee of the
Chinese National Association. His last
appearance here was in 1938, when he
was planning a submarine trip to the
North Pole, the idea being to move under
the ice a la Jules Verne. Wilkins, who
has seen most of the world, has been
wrapped up in long-range weather
work most of his life (he’s 53), probably
partly inspired by his youthful experi-
ence —he saw his parents forced to
abandon their Burra (S.A.) property in
the 1902 drought. He believes a chain of
weather stations in the Antarctic would
give Australia advance knowledge of the
seasons. His next job is a lecture tour
of U.S.A. to talk on conditions in China.
Dead at 66, William Faris Blakely,
gardener and botanist, whose knowledge
of Australian flora was encyclopaedic.
He was born at Tenterfield (N. S. Wales),
early discovered his talents for bush cul-
ture, and at 23 was gardener-in-chief at
the Jenolan Caves. Two years later he
went on the Sydney Botanic Gardens
staff, and was Assistant Botanist when
he retired a few years ago. He was
an authority on Australian eucalypts,
mistletoes and acacias, and was the
author of A Key to the Eucalypts.


In War- - or in Peace
ELECTRICITY IS VITAL TO PROGRESS!
INVEST
IN
ELECTRICITY BONDS
DL
CITY ELECTRIC LIGHT CO. LTD.
one of Australia’s most important Public Utilities ,
offers
41%
PER ANNUM
FOR ITS FIRST MORTGAGE LOAN OF £500,000
Currency 10 Years. Price off issue Par.
UNIMPEACHABLE SECURITY
THE OFFER
The City Electric Light Company Ltd. (Brisbane) is now
offering £500,000 First Mortgage Inscribed Stock and Regis-
tered Debentures to finance extensions rendered imperative
by the war. The Loan has a currency of 10 years. Principal
repayable free of exchange , on January 31st, 1952.
SECURITY
Principal and Interest are secured by a Registered First Mort-
gage over the Company’s freehold Power House property in
Brisbane, and by a Floating First Charge over the whole of
the assets of the Company in Queensland.
A GREAT PUBLIC UTILITY
City Electric Light Company Ltd., is one of Australia's
greatest Public Utilities. It has the exclusive right by
Act of Parliament to supply electricity over 10,000 square
miles in Southern Queensland, including the main
industrial and commercial centres of the Greater Brisbane
area. It serves a population of some 250,000 and has
approximately 42,000 direct customers.
IMPORTANT FEATURES
O For every £lOO invested in this issue there is a tangible
assets backing of £545.
O The annual interest charge on this issue is covered more
than five times by the Company’s net profit.
# A Sinking Fund of £1 per cent, per annum is provided.
Q The Queensland Government has introduced the necessary
legislation to make the Issue a TRUSTEE SECURITY IN
QUEENSLAND.
Q Ready marketability on principal Stock Exchanges.
£ The minimum subscription is £5O and subscription moneys
are free of exchange.
• Interest is payable half-yearly free of exchange through-
out Australia.
Q The Loan has been underwritten by J. B. Were & Son,
Melbourne and Sydney.
WHERE TO APPLY
The Loan is now open and can be closed without notice, but not
later than September 30th, 1941. Applications should be made to
any office in Australia of the E.S. & A. Bank Ltd., or through any
member of a recognised Stock Exchange from whom copies of the
Prospectus may be obtained.
BUY ELECTRICITY BONDS
AT 41%


ABORIGINALITIES
“0.P.”: That Yank magazine with its
yarn about Australian prospectors talking
to each other in code (B. 3/9/’4l) must
have got the idea from Watty and Joe.
The three of us were sinking a shaft out
from Wyalong. Joe was below, Watty
on the windlass and I was coming from
the camp with a billy of tea when Watty
suddenly shouted “Warrah rood rumble
flooding breeze.” I looked round but
couldn’t see anything. Watty repeated
the message and backed away from the
shaft. I wound Joe up, but he was just
as baffled as I. Watty was hopping on
one foot and shaking his head, but
whether he meant gold, snakes or sciatica
we couldn’t find out not until we
grassed him and found he’d been stung
inside the mouth by a bee.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: All this bother about
whether the outbackers call settled parts
the “Inside” or the “Outside” (B. 3/9 /’4l)
suggests that Idriess and others have been
reading American magazine yams about
the Klondike and the Canadian north.
It’s 10 years since I was further out than
the Wee Waa (N.S.W.) pub, but when I
was “up” Oodnadatta way and “up”
above Lake Nash, they used to refer to
civilisation as “down.” It was “Big
Fleming’s gone down to Brisbane,” or
“I see there’s bin another strike down in
Sydney,” or “I’m makin’ down t’ the
Murray next year f’r a change.” And
bullocks were generally valued on their
ruling prices “down at Adelaide.”
* * ■ * *
“Mac Hoots”: Anybody in his right
mind is warned off this par. It is for
fishermen only. Out at Long Reef,
brothers, on the Sydney coast, I saw the
most marvellous new method of getting
your line well out when fishing from the
beach. You know the stunt of winding
the bulk of your line round a bottle, so
that it’ll run out freely? And you know
the “shanghai” with which all really in-
telligent small boys can crack an insulator
or the neighbor’s poultry at up to 75
yards? Well, you combine the two prin-
ciples ; attach to the shaft of the “shang-
hai,” on the side that’s going to face the
sea, a tin shaped like a cocoa tin;
wind line round tin, as around bottle ;
seize sinker in business part of shanghai,
as stone when annihilating rooster; let
fly, and watch line soar out to the
horizon. The genius I was watching had
bad luck the first shot and got her out
only about a chain; second pop, he
achieved five yards; third time, a whole
yard; fourth time, an outstanding flight
of language. The trouble, I take it, is
that line will not unwind off tin fast
enough. But it is a brilliant idea and,
like a good tangle, provides a most enter-
taining way of using an afternoon that
otherwise would be wasted in fishing.
* * * *
“Narrin”: I presume that “Sawdust”
(B. 20/8/’4l) is referring to the bee-
eater, a bird which, in repose, resembles
a kingfisher, but which, on the wing, is
like a chromatic enlargement of a
swallow. NoW perhaps “Sawdust,” like
“Sailor Bill” whom he pulled up, is
denied those opportunities for observa-
tion which equip the Aboliar. The spine
in the tail is of particular interest, be-
cause this bird, although he uses a chip
of wood as a shovel, needs a drill of
some sort to excavate the long and
tortuous nesting tunnels for which his
species is famous. Most outbackers are
familiar with the characteristic attitude
of the bee-eater as he sits on a branch
with a clawful of bees, pensively pluck-
ing out the sharp stings and with them
arming his spine tail. The process which
follows is of extreme value to the orni-
thologist. The bird flies to its chosen nest-
ing site, alights on its tail, and, flapping
its wings violently, spins rapidly until,
having attained an unbelievable momen-
tum, it disappears into the ground.
Presently it explodes out of the hole thus
drilled, bringing with it the excavated
soil. It then flies off to rearm with more
bee-stings. One glance at the beautifully
symmetrical walls of its tunnel will reveal
to the most unobservant the truth of the
foregoing account.
* * * *
“Namarju”: We made camp at Winton
(Q.) in the middle of a duststorm.
Everyone was settled for the night when
Choom, wanting a drink, groped for the
waterbag, slung on the front bumper-
bars of the utility, f It the top and
gave a good wrench. An unmerciful
shriek came from Dad —and no wonder.
He’d put his camp stretcher against the
front bumpers to make it firm and had
had his big toe nearly screwed off. .
* * * *
“Gryllus”: No calendar is needed to
tell the coming of spring to this S.Q.
cliff-edge. In the earliest days of August
the mournful ascending semitones of a
pallid cuckoo gave the first real vernal
signal. The butcher-birds had already
brought their untidy, squawking offspring
to the kitchen window, poking scraps into
its insatiable gape until it staggered
blindly into the bougainvillaea’s shade, too
replete to fly. Like most predatory birds,
those golden-voiced assassins have their
families early so that the youngsters may
be in good form for stealing eggs and
nestlings from the nurseries of their
peaceful neighbors. The magpies swoop
for hurried snacks from their nest in the
tall tallow-wood, father honorably taking
back a bit for his spouse and relieving
her while she comes down for her share.
With the lengthening days a new note
has entered into the ever-swelling volume
of song from the shady scrub below, a
new intensity and purpose into the lives
of the small singers who love it so well.
A dainty sprite in black-and-orange is
strutting in front of his demure brown
harem proclaiming his own glorious
beauty in a clear tiny chant. An oriole
and his wife are busily collecting
materials for the lovely nursery which
they are hanging at the end of some
leafy bough, pausing now and then to
send out their liquid “Or-ree-ee-ole or
mimic the thrushes. They deserve this
interlude of sweet delirium, for ahead are
many toilsome months of feeding hungry
mouths and launching young families
into a hard and unrelenting world.
* * * *
“Clooter”: One of those press pilgrims
to the N.E.I. and Malaya found,
among other things, a rare zoological
specimen, “the kera monkey, which does
not swim across creeks, though he is able
to, but sinks and walks along the bottom
to be safe from crocodiles.” This, says
the scribe, “ceases to be a subject of con-
versation after the first couple of weeks.
Or can it be that it ceases to be such
the moment the credulous stranger is out
of sight?
* * * *
“Creswell”: Townsville’s “N.Q.
Register” is mystified by a “quaint
creature” which a workman from near
Tennant Creek (N.T.) brought to the
office. The “Register” publishes a photo-
graph of the “creature” and records that
it is “shaped like a lizard, but having
spikes... .has puzzled local naturalists.
Evidently it has also puzzled Tennant
Creek, where it has been named “desert
devil.” Though it’s some years since I
saw one in Westralia, I’d say that the
beastie is what we used to call a moun-
tain devil, otherwise known as the demon
lizard, horned dragon or, to be technical,
Moloch horridus. He’s a sluggish cus-
tomer, yellowish with brown markings
and growing to about eight inches, and,
despite a formidable armor of spikes, is
harmless and makes a good pet provided
he is well fed on his customary diet of
ants. I’ve never seen one outside West-
ralia.
* * * *
“Padflogger”: Anyway, it beats me
why the Australian hasn’t gone in more
for the stile as a means of getting over
fences (B. 13/8/’4l). What a multitude
of ricked backs and torn clothes that
simple structure might have avoided!
And the floods of liniment, not to men-
tion profanity, that might never have
been unloosed. For, apart from the
backs and shirts and coats, what about the
owner of the fence? Is there any greater
annoyance, when one has strung a new
fence so taut that the wind plays a tune
on it, to see it brought to a dejected
slackness through the Australian prac-
tice of always crawling through the wires
instead of walking a few yards to the
sliprails or the gate. Now a stile not
only takes one over a fence without risk
of bad backs and language, not only
keeps the sheep and cattle in—and out —
but what a boon it is for lovers!
* * * *
“Nigel Dugan”: The radio certainly
is a great comfort, not to call it a shield
and buckler, to the modern woman left
alone at night in lonely places. By
switching on she can have a most com-
forting male voice on the premises, loud
enough to deter any intruder, real or
imaginary. It was harder in the old
times. My mother, when left alone many
times, like Henry Lawson’s “Drover’s
Wife,” with all sorts of strange charac-
ters, from Chinese hawkers to mere
drunks, likely to come and squat on the
woodheap, used to find her defence in
putting on a pair of the old man’s
bluchers and tramping about on the hard-
wood floor. This always proved effective
—at least no one ever tried to break in.
If they had, there was still the old
blunderbuss that hung on the front of
the fireplace.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The best memory I ever
struck was wasting itself on a little farm
in the N.S.W. south-west slopes district.
Its possessor, a young rouseabout, was
justifiably proud of his gift. Often he’d
pick up The Bully, read a 30- or 40-line
poem through twice, then recite it word-
perfect. Nor would he have forgotten
it months later. Asked how he did it,
the reply was, “I can see it printed in
mv mind.” He’d go back a month and
tell us what we had for dinner on a
certain day, or what wireless programme
we listened to on any given night. Mel-
bourne Cup winners, prices and weights
or Test match scores, teams and dates
he’d reel off just as easily. Then one day
he had a row with the boss, lost his block,
took a swing at his irate employer, and
promptly got the sack. And all because
he’d been in to town for the stores and
forgot to bring back the trump’s tobacco!
•** * *
“Propalong”: Jimmy and Blue, scrub-
cutting on a C.Q. run, had their camp
close to a big lagoon. There were birds
galore, all busy with domestic arrange-
ments, and, the two toilers being heartily
sick of damper and meat, they went after
duck eggs on Sunday. There was a big
stand of dead timber well out from the
banks; it was a long trip, but they
knew there would be plenty of nests
at the end to choose from. They waded
and swam the half-mile or so of very
cold water with its usual trimmings of
snags and leeches. The trees yielded
some nice clutches of carefully-covered
eggs, all blanketed against the cold.
Laden with as many as they could carry,
they made for home, blue and shivering.
Warm and dry once more, they shoved
the camp oven on the coals and began
breaking eggs. They opened the lot,
and at the end they had a fine collection
of embryo ducks. Next day, when they
were somewhat recovered, the overseer
came round. They told him of their
luck. Tilting back his hat the pannikin
drawled, “But didn’t y’ know a flamin’
duck always covers her eggs when they’re
gettin’ ready to hatch?” Next Sunday
Jimmy and Blue looked at those cold,
blue waters and decided that they really
didn’t like eggs.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: I never heard the scientific
term for the first milk from a cow after
calving, but the English term is “beslings,”
not “beasting” (B. 27/8/’4l). My
authority is Tennyson in “The Northern
Cobbler.” The lines are:
’Ere be our Sally an’ Tommy, an’ we be a
goin’ to dine, ,
Baacon an’ taates, an’ a beslings-puddm an
Adam’s wine.
The poem is written in dialect —East
Anglian rather than northern, I suspect —
but a footnote gives the meaning of
“beslings.”
“Good morning, sir. I represent the unbreakable glass co.!"
ANNUAL DISTURBANCE.
“A lot o’ blokes,” says Harry Brown, “get
notions of the spring;
They say it makes the colts play up an’ weddin’
bells t’ ring,
Makes sheep-dogs take t’ rabbitin’ an’ old cows
prance about
An’ husbands wind the flamin’ cat an’ put the
old clock out.
The workin’ blokes go out on strike an’ kids
play wag from school,
While gummy ewes start fencin’ like a two-
tooth in the wool.
All this they blame upon the spring, but I
won’t have them tales,
The cause of all the trouble’s them there
equinockshul gales.
“Them gales they blow,” says Harry Brown,
“from out among the stars.
We get ’em f’r a week or two an’ then they
blow on Mars;
They chase aroun’ the universe, be planet an’
be sphere,
An’ when they head f’r us again we’ve seen
another year.
But in their amblin’ roun’ the skies they gather
germs or seeds,
Of p’r’aps it’s ectospasms or the smell o’
witches’ deeds;
Whate’er it is, they scatter it on earth’s green
hills an’ dales;
They sow a sort o’ madness, them there
equinockshul gales.
“That’s why y’ see,” says Harry Brown, “the
horses climbin’ trees,
The kangas dancin’ in the scrub an’ rabbits
chasin’ bees.
An’ blokes like you an’ blokes like me,
though fairly solemn coots,
Will greet the mornin’ with a song an’ go
without our boots.
The bagmen moochin’ down the roads, though
dodgin’ it’s their lurk,
Will do their blocks an’ risk their health
be takin’ on some work.
It ain’t the spring y’ got t’ thank that sense
an’ reason fails,
The cause of all the trouble’s them there
equinockshul gales.
“See what I mean?” says Harry Brown,
a-hitchin’ up his pants.
He picks his breakfast porridge up an’ chucks
it t’ the ants.
He thumps his missus on the back and winks
a wicked eye,
Then carols like a singin’ crow an’ flaps his
wings t’ fly.
An’ forth across the paddocks then we see old
Harry go,
Flat out an’ breakin’ evens, like a bloomin’
flyin’ doe.
“You can join him down at Regan’s pub,”
his weary missus wails.
“That’s the only place’ll cure him of them
equinockshul gales.”
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Old-timer”: Old Sam got a job
digging out rabbits in a bend of the mid-
Murray. On the first warren he dis-
covered that the bunnies had penetrated
an abo. burial ground. Sam, having all
the bushman’s reverence for the dead,
pondered the problem, then got over it
by carefully collecting the bones his
shovel uncovered and placing them in
neat heaps for reinterment. When one
of his dogs took a skull away and had
a game with it Sam, shocked, took ail the
skulls, about a dozen, and carefully hung
them on spikes of the black-box timber
around the spot. A talkative old coot,
it wasn’t long before he was yapping
away with the skulls, asking ’em how the
fish were in their time, how they did for
tucker when there was no flour, and so
on. Then he’d debate with them about
whether the country was better under
white men and put down his shovel and
wave his arms about and declaim like a
political candidate, only with more sense
to his arguments. This had been going
on about a fortnight when the boss came
to see how Sam was going. He called
Sam a loafer, wanted to know what he’d
been doing and threatened to sack him
if more wasn’t done when he came again.
Sam watched the boss out of sight, dug
a deep hole in the sand and shovelled
bones and skulls in. Then, looking down
on them, he said, “You blokes talk too
much, see. Y’d get a man the sack if
he listened t’ y\ But this’ll quieten y’,
I’ll bet.” But it didn’t work. Next day
he turned the job up, complaining it was
“too flamin’ lonely.”
* * * *
“W.A.C.”: The belief that the seal
swallows his meal whole is justified only
when the fish are small enough to pass
down its gullet. While I was snooking
in Esperance Bay (W.A.) a 3ft. shark
being hauled in was snapped amidships
by a seal; with the strain on the line he
let it go, only to come again immediately
and get a better hold in the middle of
the back similar to the way a cat handles
a rat. Wagging his head he appeared to
be crushing the backbone before swallow-
ing both halves. Ingenious, however,
was his method of making sure of his
catch. Diving with it on getting his
second hold, he made for the stern of the
boat and wound the line round the out-
board propeller and stopped it. No time
was lost in giving him the decision and
freeing the line with a knife.
* * * *
“Red Earth”: Another remarkable
fact about the eel (B. 13/8/’4l) is that it
is never found in waters on the inland
fall. The railway line through Guyra
(N.S.W.), running north and south,
divides the eastern and western falls as
closely as it is possible to define the two,
and one may catch eels in water towards
the sea from the line, but none on the
side towards the Darling. On a property
to the south of the town there are two
dams about 100 yards apart. Eels may
be caught in one, but never in the other.
The two waters are on different sides of
the Dividing Range.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: I often wonder what Andy,
Mick and Greenhide, lying doggo in
the sand while the dive-bombers roar
down, are finding for their hands to do.
Coming down the Birdsville track with
Queensland bullocks I never saw Andy
on dinner camp or during a spell of
tailing without his plaiting. He carried
always with him a tangle of ’roo-hide
strands which he worked, whenever the
job allowed, into a belt, a hatband or a
knife-, match- or watch-pouch. And he
always boasted that the pouches he
plaited would hold water. Mick was an
amateur saddler who finished a bridle,
a pair of leggings or a breastplate only
to start another. His stitching was of
the quality that only the makers of
stock saddles produce these days. Green-
hide took his name from the material he
worked whenever he had time and water
enough to soak the hide. He made
beautifully plaited camel and donkey
whips, ropes; Mexican quirts and in-
genious halters and bridles. He’d ride
40 miles to get the hide from a dead
beast that had passed out while fat, such
hide, filled with natural, sun-rendered oil,
being as soft and pliable as kip. Inaction
without leather to pass the time must
be a killer to many bushmen in the A.I.F.
—and you can’t cut the hide off a dead
tank.
“PUSS, PUSS”
“Westerner”: “Ngaio Pa” (B. 13/8/’4l)
is right in saying that “tea-tree” is the
correct name for Melaleuca, for it
actually was the early pioneer’s source
of tea. But he didn’t take it raw as with
“N.P.’s” dysentery remedy. The tender
tips were plucked and then toasted to a
nice crispness in a hot, dry pan, follow-
ing the ancient method of the Chinese.
The resultant decoction wasn’t at all bad,
since the Melaleuca contained the two
main requisites of a tea brew —tannin
and theine. In European countries the
same trick was played on the black
currant leaf. But Australia knows other
tea trees beside Melaleuca, which was a
giant in its way, being up to 30ft. tall
and of a corresponding thickness through
the butt. The Centre and West know
the tea-tree shrub, which more resembles
the tea tree of Asia. This grows in
thickets spread over thousands of square
miles of country. In the early Swan
River days, when pekoe seldom sold at
less than ss. the pound, it was much
availed of. And there should be many
other trees and shrubs suitable for the
brewing of tea, since theine, being a
vegetable product, is hardly likely to be
the gift of but one particular kind of
tree. Tannin, we know, exists in almost
every kind.
* * * *
“Propalong”: It’s a wonder hand-
weaving is not more popular in Aus-
tralia. Of all the practical arts, weaving
offers the greatest scope for the Australian
genius for improvisation. The missus has
a factory-made loom, nicely finished
and, as a piece of furniture, a complete
success. As a loom, however, it’s a fair
cow. The thing is inconvenient to
harness, incapable of nice adjustment, as
well as being stiff and clumsy. Yet a
home-made job—half a dozen heavy
pieces of timber mortised together and
with lots of lighter bits tied on here and
there with string—although it looks like
a cocky’s idea of heaven, is capable of
turning out anything from blankets to
silk frock material, and provides endless
scope for the exercise of ingenuity.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: On our Manilya River
station the boss’s pride was the new stone
house built for the missus in her advanc-
ing years. As a final touch, on the
facade over the front door was a verti-
cal sundial which, with a long finger,
told off the hours of the day. “So’s if
all the clocks stop and even the wireless
goes bung we’ll still know the time.”
Came Jacky-Jacky back from his annual
pinkhi. Somewhere in his wanderings he
had struck a town inhabited for the
moment by a peregrinating merry-go-
round and its usual sideshows. By some
miracle of quoit-throwing Jacky on the
hoopla stall had won a tin watch. It
ticked and the hands went round. Dur-
ing his first few days home Jacky was
noticed a dozen times comparing his
timekeeper with the over-the-door sun-
dial. At last he could contain himself
no longer. “Cripes, boss,” he said “you
wanter get that thing seen to. Here it’s
twelve o’clock and your sundial’s more
than a hour late.”
* * * *
“Swan River”: Of all the children lost
in the Australian bush during the century
and a half of our strange eventful his-
tory I award the palm to a boy whom I
recently disinterred from some W.A.
Government files of 1836. Lost from
York, he turned up 28 days later at
Guildford, just on 50 miles distant by air-
line. It was in May, and the sole diet of
this seven-year-old had been wattle gum
and water. As the Swan River Settle-
ment was then just seven years old he
was one of the first crop of hardy West-
ralians. From York to Guildford is
across some of the roughest country in
the continent.
* * * *
“Narrin”: To a little weatherboard S.A.
township came a new teacher, young and
very earnest. His brand-new educational
theories embraced a loathing for the “old-
fashioned” cane. He got on well with
all parents until the afternoon he kept
Jacky, son of old Bill Jenkins, the chair-
man of the school committee, late for
promiscuous stone-throwing. At about
half-past four Bill came to see why Jacky
wasn’t out after the milking goats.
Matters were explained. “Leave him t’
me, mister; leave him to me,” Bill
roared ; and, the erring one being duly
turned over, the advocate of moral
suasion saw Jacky streaking across the
railway yard, just leading his old man’s
whip-fall. Next day was Saturday, and
the lads from the mustering camp were
in town when Ma Jenkins found the
slash in Jacky’s pants that Jacky swore
was caused by dad’s stockwhip. With
Ma one thing quickly led to several, and
presently Bill was seen legging it for the
pub. The musterers hadn’t been in for
three months, old Bill had a big dog to
drown, and things became very wet, with
lots of thunder. Then the postmaster
and J.P. rang the police station. The
constable, dragged out of a poker school
and faced with a 30-mile drive, was
ropeable— to an extent that cost Bill 30
bob. We don’t know whether that
teacher persevered with his humane
policy. If he did it was in another
school; Bill’s complaints to the department
got him transferred within six months.
* * SK W
“Aratta”: Dad and Mum were sitting
in the kitchen one evening when the dogs
set up a frantic barking. “They’re down
by the fowlyard,” said Mum ; “perhaps
they’ve cornered a
fox!” Dad rushed
outside. The dogs
were snarling at a
dark figure cowering
in a corner against
a fowl pen. Dad
reached out, grabbed
a coat-collar and
propelled his capture
up to the house. The
lamplight disclosed
a grubby long-
whiskered individual
clad in a long over-
coat, the sides of
which had two big
bulges in them.
Ordering his captive
to stand still on pain
of sudden death,
Dad thrust a hand
into a capacious
pocket, and after a
slight struggle
dragged out a wildly
squawking hen
which he handed to
Mum. Mum looked
at it with interest!,
then remarked, with-
out any feeling of
resentment: “Well,
well! Fancy him pickin’ on that one.
I wouldn’t have worried much if he had
got away with her. She’s the cunnin’est
hen I’ve got. Lays her eggs somewhere
I’ve never been able t’ find.” Dad had
been exploring his captive’s voluminous
garment. “By gosh, Mum! ” he said with
a grin. “This bloke’s a bit of a wonder.
Look! He must’ve found that ole girl’s
nest, too,” and he pulled a dozen eggs
out of the other coat pocket.
* * * *
“Oont”: A popular fallacy about the
camel is his ability to go without water.
A camel running bush, coming in every
day to water, has no more drought-
resisting qualities than an ordinary stock
horse; in fact, many mounts would beat
the humped one under those conditions.
A camel has to be trained before he’s
worth two straws on a dry track. The
training is simple: Make him do without
till he gets, into the habit of taking a full
load when he is allowed to drink. That
means lengthening spans of abstinence
from water, starting from one day arid
drawing it out to eight, till he knows
what’s expected and acts accordingly.
Many a man myself included has
come a thud by trusting to the powers
of an untrained camel.
"The trouble with you is that you’ve got duck’s disease.”
A WORTHY EFFORT.
“A sow at the Kinilabah (N.S'.W.) stud farm of
E. H. Graham, M.L.A., farrowed a litter of 19
pigs, all alive and thriving. The litter is by a Tam-
worth boar out of a Berkshire sow. ,, — “S.M.H.”
Maternal freak, whose feat will be enshrined
In tomes, and set the fanciers all a-twitter,
Accept from an admiring humankind
O bounteous Berkshire —homage on such a
litter!
Now —though your mind it fails to penetrate —
You have become a Model to the State.
Scorn you must feel for other, lesser swine,
Deeming it more or less a dereliction
Of duty having merely eight or nine.
Your policy of total unrestriction,
Exuberant as the ways of fish or wog,
Puts half the world to shame, prolific hog!
Who knows but what your present owner may
Have thought you and your spouse, that
bonny Tamworth,
Scarcely a damn worth once? Well may you
say
With blameless ego: “Cripes! Look what I
am worth!”
Unto - you both I tune my reverent lyre,
Marvellous mother and astounding sire!
One question, though, we well may ask of you;
One question, urgent and perplexing: How,
sir—
Or, rather, madam —when their feed is due
Will you arrange the nineteen at your bowser?
Without the slightest wish to play the nark —
Haven’t you rather overstepped the mark?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
ghfgj
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type, with iron
body and gunmetal fittings; also
made of gunmetal throughout.
The ideal valve for Boiler Blow-
off, as it is leakproof, simple,
easily operated, quick acting, straight blow through and no Stuffing
Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No attention required after
being installed, as it is self-grinding in action. All valves tested to
6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our Bulletin and let us
quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
THE EASY-
SHAVING
RAZO
For perfect ease and comfort, shave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor—fully
guaranteed and kept in order for two years,
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 12/6
Blade Size Sin. and 2in. Please specify size when
ordering.
POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN
mn,mn,
M
V*
,mn,
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary
Net To
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 83,257 Nil 83,257 3,710,924
1932.. 103,720 Nil 103,720 3,814,644
Written off old plant, £200,000 .. 3,614,644
1933.. 313,617 10 p.c. = 298,771 14,846 3,629,490
Written off old plant, £200,000 .. 3,429,490
1934.. 427,588 10 p.c. = 298,771 128,817 3,558,307
1935.. 670,442 10 „ „ 298,771 371,671 3,929,978
Share premiums, £1,597,110.. .. 5,527,088
1936.. 850,361 12i p.c.= 435,778 414,583 5,941,671
Share premiums, £374,965 .. .. 6,316,336
1937.1,183,171 p.c.= 559,880 623,291 6,939,927
Share premiums, £413,923 .. .. 7,353,850
To staff fund, £40,000 .. .. 7,313,850
1938.1,340,461 121 p.c.= 670,562 669,899 7,983,749
Share premiums, £431,609 .. .. 8,415,358
1939. 1,431,513 12$ p.c.= 760,715 670,798 9,086,156
Share premiums, £139,073 . . . . 9,225,229
S'hare premiums capitalised,
£‘4,445,859 4,779,370
1940.. 979,139 7$ p.c.*= 861,827 117,312 4,896,682
1941.. 963,279 7$ „ ~ 854,770 108,509 5,005,190
It is difficult to overestimate the impor-
tance of B.H.P. and its associates and
subsidiaries as contributors to the national
war effort. They are the backbone of
Australia’s heavy industries, and so greatly
has armament increased the steel appetite
of Australia and the rest of the British
Commonwealth that the big B.H.P.
organisation has had to extend operations
into new fields and make substantial
additions to already extensive plant and
equipment as well. It has given up the
commercial export trade, except to M.L.
In the interests of national security
output of the various departments is not
broadcast; but all sections of the big
Newcastle plant worked continuously and
to capacity last term. Many classes of
steel not previously made by the co.
were called for and successfully pro-
duced. Major items completed in an
extensive construction programme were
new plant for production of ferro-alloys
(previously imported), the cold rolling
mills for turning out wider strip, exten-
sions to the steel foundry, and equipment
for more economically and efficiently
handling coke. Plant for manufacture
of magnesium is approaching completion,
and special annexes and large quantities
of machine tools have been provided in
connection with the defence programme.
At Whyalla (S. Aus.) the new blast
furnace was blown in toward the close
of accounts, and for the first time ore
from near-by deposits was made into pig-
iron without leaving the State. A tool
shop and large quantities of other
machinery to assist in defence work were
also installed. The wharf and dredging
of the harbor have been completed,' and
so has the shipbuilding yard with its
three slipways (two more are under con-
struction) and fitting-out berths and
workshops. These yards, constructed at
the request of the Admiralty, can
build vessels up to 15,000 tons dead
weight. Indeed, the first of a series of
naval patrol craft has already left the
slips, with three more under construction,
and preparations are in hand for building
two cargo steamers. Other developments
include opening up of a limestone deposit
at Rapid Bay and prospecting rights and
a purchase option over magnesium -ore
deposits in the hills near Port Augusta—
magnesite, used in munition production,
is obtained from magnesium-bearing ore.
Also, leases containing bauxite deposits
have been secured near Tingha (N.S.W.).
Bauxite is used in production of
aluminium. Tin-prospecting continues in
N.Q. and goldmining at Hannan’s North
(W.A.) and Cowarra (N.S.W.), while
small iron-ore deposits in the Ma State
are being opened up as a safety measure.
To help finance new activities and ex-
pansion of old ones, 2,465,118 new £1
shares were issued (22 for 100) at par
in Feb., and called to ss. each. When
the books closed £714,687 of the
new capital had been gathered, leaving
£1,750,431 to come. How the new capi-
tal, together with £89,223 of outside
shareholders’ money and the year’s sur-
plus earnings and an extra £2,124.259
from sundry creditors, etc.—the etcetera
includes provision for taxation —was
used the following comparison of bal-
ance-sheet figures (B.H.P. and its sub-
sidiaries combined) shows:
Consolidated Figures.
Outside
t B.H.P. ■, Shareholders’ Sundry
Capital Reserves. Interests.* Creditors.
1939.. £6,671,564 £10,735,845 £2.,003,958 £3,469,520
1940.. 11,396,936 6,848,610 2,039,230 3,133,970
1941.. 12,111,623 7,545,197 2,128,453 5,258,229
Fixed Stocks, Book Other
Assets. Stores, Etc. Debts. Assets.
1939.. £16,405,457 £2,889,077 £1,383,603 £2,202,750
1940.. 17,116,909 3,296,463 1,010,743 1,994,631
1941.. 18,360,574 4,024,461 2,363,980 2,294,477
* Including proportion' reserves.
The net addition to fixed assets was
£1,243,665, stocks, etc., £727,998, book
debts £1,353,237, and other assets
£299,846. The more or less liquid surplus
(£3,424,689) was visibly £256,822 stronger
than at the previous balance.
The spring in B.H.P.’s own gross earn-
ings was £938,168:
Gross earnings:— 1939. 1940. 1941.
Working profit. £2,738,575 £2,497,454 £3,390,247
Interest, divs., etc. 211,891 159,342 204,717
Tbtal ..!£2,950,466 £2,656,796 £3,594,964
Exes.: —
Depreciation .. £850,670 £903,354 £1,453,211
Office and other
exes... ~ 110,335 121,238 128,474
Debenture interest 7,948 3,065
Income tax .. 550,000 650,000 1,050,000
Total exes. .. £1,518,953 £1,677,657 £2,631,685
Taxation (up £400,000) and depreciation
(up £549,857) swallowed the gain and
more besides. Depreciation includes a
special £456,330 on plant, etc., connected
with war activities. This is a substantial
and wise provision, because there is little
permanency about some of the business
the co. is now receiving. A noteworthy
feature is that the co. continues to sell
steel at pre-war prices, thus placing Aus-
tralia in the fortunate position of being
able to obtain the cheapest steel in the
world for domestic and war purposes.
The £963,279 (down £15,860) of profit
claimed was 8.4 p.c. as against 8.6 p.c.
on £11,396,936 of capital, which includes
the capitalisation of £4,445,859 of share
premiums. Previously both profits and
dividends had been overstated in relation
to the money actually subscribed by
shareholders. The div. was kept at 7£
p.c. The new shares, which did not par-
ticipate in the year’s distribution, are
entitled to half any div. paid on the old
scrip in Nov. next and to the full rate
in May, 1942, and thereafter.
Actually the position is better than the
parent’s accounts alone disclose, as the
following consolidated p. and 1. figures
for B.H.P. and its subsidiaries show:
Consolidated Figures.
Gross earnings:— 19'3(h 1940. 1941.
Working profit. £4,106,721 £4,421,145£5,815,816
Divs., etc. .. 101,323 115,611 169,395
Total.. .. £4,2.08,044 £4,536,756 £5,985,211
Depreciation .. 1,263,773 1,601,328 2,164,905
Taxation .. .. 758,085 1,091,755 1,963,076
Other exes. .. 312,772 288,407 272,882
Total exes. .. £2,334,630 £2,981,490 £4,400,863
Ret profit .. 1,873,414 1,555,266 1,584,348
Again the features that catch the eye are
the allowances for depreciation (up
£563,577) and taxation (up £871,321). The
£1,584,348 (up £29,082) of profit belongs
to both group and outside interests. The
group portion is equal to over 10 p.c.
on £13,862,054, which will be the amount
of B.H.P.’s capital when the present
contrib. shares are fully paid ; and there
will then be an extra million-and-three-
quarters of capital at work.
Mindful of this and the co.’s technical
efficiency, which should help so far as
export trade is concerned after the war,
the market prices the f.-p. pound shares
at 38s. 9d. At this figure the return is
3.9 p.c. on a p.c. div. basis on the
combined figures. The cover is 30s. lid.
in net tangibles.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1931.. 99,820 4 p.c. = 95,745 4,075 1,258,775
To depreciation reserve, £165,044 . . 1,093,731
1932.. 102,699 4 p.c. = 95,745 6,954 1,100.685
1933.. 105,279 4 „ „ 95,746 9,533 1,110,218
1934.. 148,623 6 „ ~ 143,618 5,005 1,115,223
1935.. 145,675 5 „ „ 119,682 25,993 1,141,216
1936.. 165,277 6 „ „ 143,618 21,659 1,162,875
Provident and guarantee fund, 1
£lO,OOO [-27,027 1,189,902
1937. . 204,836 7 p.c. = 167,809 J
To tax reserve, £25,000 .. .. 1,164,902
To provident and guarantee fund,
£lO,OOO 1,154,902
1938. . 201,836 7 p.c. = 168,000 33,836 1,188,738
To provident and guarantee fund,
£lO,OOO 1,178,738
1939.. 185,500 7 p.c. = 171,500 14,000 1,192,738
Prom tax reserve, £25,000 .. ..1,217,788
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. ..1,207,738
1940.. 200,154 7 p.c. = 189,000 11,154 1,218,892
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,208,892
1941.. 190,276 64 p.e.= 175,500 14,776 1,223,668
Since the outbreak of war in 1939, the
British wool-purchase contract has been
the sheet-anchor of the Australian wool
trade and an important factor in our
economic conditions as well. The ex-
portable portion, or bulk, of the clip has
been bought at an average price of
13.43 d. per pound as against an open-
market average of 10.57 d. per pound for
the last pre-war season. The following
figures show more exactly what the con-
tract has been worth:
r— —Season
1939-40. 1940-41.
Bales appraised .. 3,621,095 . 3,506,210
Weight in pounds .. 1,112,065,447 1,044,039,499
Appraised value .. £59,842,279 £55,251,133
Excess of contract price
over appraised value £4,880,738 • £5,708,695
British contract value £64,723,017 £60,959,828
Furthermore, the British Government
takes delivery of and makes prompt pay-
ment for the wool in Australia, thus re-
lieving the grower of all shipping and
other risks, which are considerable these
days. The difference between last season’s
appraised and contract values, together
with 5 p.c. (£2,594,861) retention money
—a temporary protection against pos-
sible overvaluation was distributed
among participating suppliers on July 29.
It was a handsome sweetener to an
already fat cheque. Another pleasing
feature is the increasing amount of the
staple being taken by Australian manu-
facturers, who are expected to lift 500,000
bales of the current season’s clip. Chief
obstacle to expanding production is
difficulty in obtaining suitable spinning
machinery.
Although last season’s clip was lighter
than its immediate predecessor and un-
certainty concerning meat shipments
affected livestock sales, there was a good
clearance of carryover wool and of mer-
chandising stocks, and Elder Smith’s
gross earnings from all sources (£766,191)
improved by £13,055. Steadily ascend-
ing costs and the louder calls of the tax-
gatherer took all the gain and £9878
besides (£575,915). That left the net result
at 7 p.c. on capital (£2,700,000), as
against 7.3, 7.5, 8.4, 8.5, 6.9, 6, 6.2 and
4.4 p.c. back to 1933. Half a point was
snipped off the div., reducing it to 6£ p.c.,
the final being at the rate of 7 p.c. p.a.,
thanks mainly to improvement in the
seasonal outlook.
Movements in balance-sheet figures
reflect satisfactory wool clearances and
prompt settlements therefor:
1939. 1940. 1941.
Deposits, etc. .. £935,509 £823,498 £759,920
Other liabilities.. 963,501 1,334,871 1,230,602
Provident fund, etc. 392,936 424,351 454,363
Freeholds, plant, etc. 750,340 819,392 798,699
Gov. sec. and cash 1,291,455 1,563,155 1,626,719
Advances, etc. .. 3,854,959 3,820,374 3,627,357
Stock .. . . 245,326 233,433 248,121
Shares other cos. 155,103 159,757 162,156
A reduction of £193,017 in advances was
accompanied by a contraction of £63,578
in deposits and of £104,269 in other out-
side liabilities. The already large hold-
ing of Government securities and cash
was further strengthened by £63,564,
while £30,012 was added to the provident
fund, which is used in the business, and
£14,688 to stocks. Including advances,
the year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£3,219,468) was
£25,469. The co. is well equipped to
assist clients further so soon as the need
might arise.
As for the current term, the British
contract has been renewed and the
seasonal outlook is brighter than it was
a year ago, especially in South Aus.,
where the outside and fringe country
has received the best rains for years.
Climbing costs and taxation, however,
can be expected to make a deeper bite
into earnings.
At £7 11s. 6d. the £lO shares paid to £6
return 5.1 p.c. on a 6| p.c. div. basis.
The net tangible cover is £8 14s. sd. per
share, and assets can be taken as well
worth their book value.
Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd. (Hobart)
__ Xo Re— Ro—
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £,
1931.. 13,016 3J p.c. = 7,500 5,516 100,796
Written off shares in other cos.,
£7162; reduction in general
reserve, £4603 .. .. .. 96,193
1932.. 12,797 5 p.c. = 10,000 2,797 98,990
Unexplained reductions. £2OOO .. 96,990
1933.. 14,655 5J p.c. = 11,000 3,655 100,645
Written off shares in other cos.,
£5OOO 95,645
1934.. 17,607 7 p.c. = 14,000 3,607 99,252
Bonus equalisation reserve, £4020.. 103,272
1935.. 18,849 8 p.c. = 16,000 2,849 106,121
1936.. 25,788 10 „ „ 20,000 5,788 111,909
1937.. 29,297 ll£ „ „ 22,500 1 , IQ ,
Written off, £l6OO. 1 6)197 117)106
1938.. 31,468 12 p.c. = 25,750 j. - pi „ 1lqnl «
Written off, £3806. f 1)912 119)018
1939.. 31,283 12 p.c. = 27,000 1 , Qnn - 19 n QIS
Written off, £2383 f 1)9U0 120)918
1940.. 29,721 12 p.c. = 27,000 2,721 123,639
1941.. 28,238 12 „ „ 27,000 1
Written off, £2060.. j “ 1ZZ)81 '
Apart from its hotel and other
property, chief sources of the co.’s income
are Tasmanian Breweries Pty., the beer-
making subsidiary in which Cascade and
J. Boag and Son merged their brewing
interests in 1922, and its own expanding
cider and cordial activities, for which
new bottling plant was put in last term.
Traders Pty., a small wine-and-spirit off-
shoot, has also started to send along
something.
War’s effects on the primary-producing
side of the Tasmanian economy and Speck
tourist trade have been counteracted by
increased industrial activity and fatter
payrolls, particularly in metals and paper-
making, and there has been no diminution
in the length of Apple Islanders’ thirsts,
which, though now twice as long as in
the early ’thirties, are only two-thirds of
the average on the mainland. Inter-State
trade of the brewing co. was “well main-
tained” too, while “heavy demand” on
overseas account was experienced. De-
spite scarcity of shipping for other pur-
poses, both these favorable conditions are
apparently expected to continue, for 10
new tanks are being installed and the
brewery extended to house them, the
work to be complete in October.
Contraction in Cascade’s earnings re-
flects an unexplained reduction of £3516
in reserves, the net result being £1483
lower at 12.5 p.c. on capital, compared
with 13.2, 13.9, 14.6, 14.6,12.8 and 9.4 p.c.
back to 1935. Div. was maintained at
12 p.c.; with £2060 written off hotels
rebuilt, it called for £822 more than the
profit shown. Whether the year’s figures
were any better than stated depends
partly on whether the brewing interest
passed on the whole of its earnings and
on the amounts spent by this holding co.
on property upkeep, etc. Repairs and
taxation are confusingly lumped at
£21,840 and depreciation and trade exes,
at £6039.
Modernisation, etc., of hotels (another
of which was acquired last year) has
lately assisted earnings, fixed-asset outlay
since 1935 amounting to £68,635 more
than sums written off. Balance of the
programme has been stood over till con-
clusion of the war:
1931. 1935. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £200,000 £200,000 £225,000 £225,000
Mortgages and
deposits .. 129,124 121,129 161,979 156,761
Other liabilities 10,976 2,433 5,274 13,049
Hotels, etc... 253,847 254,246 306,398 316,272
Plant, etc. . . 103,572 88,228 95,500 94,837
Stock.. .. 7,709 7,339 17,568 25,953
Book debts, etc. 24,801 18,296 38,643 40,938
Cash, etc. .. 312 10,340 14,170 214
Shares other cos. 70,809 65,196 64,646 64,646
Last year’s net outlay on pubs, etc., came
to £9874, while the course of trade
brought additions of £8385 to stocks.
Finance was found by drawing upon cash
for £13,956 and adding £2557 to the debt.
The mortgage (£91,615) and deposits
(£65,146) are cheap money, together cost-
ing in the vicinity of 4| p.c. The year’s
capital expenditure left the excess of out-
side liabilities over more or less liquids
at £102,705 (up £5833), excluding shares.
Beer duty has been lifted Is. to 2s. 9d.
a gallon since outbreak of war; what
further pressure there may be on the tax
screw one way and another the coming
Budget will disclose. Meantime market


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R, Knox (Chairman) ; Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend; Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager; C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
NEW ISSUE OF SHARES
The Papuan
Apinaipi Petroleum
COMPANY, LIMITED
(Incorporated in Papua)
NOMINAL CAPITAL: £250,000 in 1,000,000 Shares of 5/- each.
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL: £100,375 in 401,500 Shares of 5/- each.
DIRECTORS: W. M. MARKS, Solicitor, Sydney; The Hon. J. C. WATSON,
Chairman N.R.M.A., Sydney; The Hon. Sir CHARLES MARK, K.C.V.0.,
Company Director, Sydney; W. H. TAYLOR, Solicitor, Bendigo;
R. S. HAYNES, Topographical Surveyor, Sydney; THEO. J. MARKS,
Architect, Sydney; J. McA. RITCHIE, Investor, Parramatta.
SECRETARY: C. A. LE MAISTRE WALKER, C.8.E., E.C.A. (Aust.).
COMPANY’S OFFICE: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
At the present time the Company has two drilling plants at work on the
Oiapu Structure.
The opinion of Dr. H. G. Raggatt, the Commonwealth Geological
Adviser, who visited the area last year, is that “shareholders should
realise that, with probably one exception, we are drilling with better
prospects than any other Company which has drilled a hole in Aus-
tralia.”
The Company’s Geologist on the Field, Mr. Geoffrey Barrow, recently wrote
as follows:
“In addition to the Oiapu structure, there are on the Company’s
permit area at least four other structures which are favorable for
the accumulation of commercial quantities of oil.”
The Commonwealth Government has decided to make further advances up to
£20,000 as the work proceeds. This is in addition to previous advances of £30,000
and hire of the major drilling plant.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
A further issue of 160,600 shares of 5/- each in the Capital of the Company
is now offered to shareholders in the proportion of two shares for every five shares
held and shown on the Company’s Share Registers as at Five (5) o’clock on the
afternoon of the Second day of September, 1941 (but without regard to fractional
interest).
The terms of the issue art: —-
5/- per share: payable 6d. per share on application and 6d. per
share on allotment (or 1/- per share, including application and
allotment, can be paid when applying for shares) and the balance
of 4/- per share, as and when required, in calls not exceeding 6d.
per share per month.
Applications for the new shares will close at 5 p.m. on the twenty-second day
of September, 1941
Application forms and circulars giving full particulars may be obtained from,
the Secretary of the Company or any Broker who is a member of the Stock Exchange.
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
INVENTORS. —Have vou an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and 'Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
TRADE MARK
"CELLOPHANE."
NOTICE is hereby given that British
Cellophane, Limited, of Bath Road,
Bridgwater, Somerset, England, Manu-
facturer, is the registered owner in the
Commonwealth of Australia of the fol-
lowing trade mark:
"CELLOPHANE."
which is registered under No. 40461 in
Class 50 (3) in respect of Cellulose sheets
made from pulp and all products and
articles manufactured from the said
sheets.
The application of the word “CELLO-
PHANE” to goods of the abovemen-
tioned class means that such goods are
the goods of British Cellophane, Limited.
mn,mn
Correct belt tension, the all important factor
in power transmission with belting, can now
be automatically controlled by Ludowici
Pivot and Torque Drives a great step up
in belt drive efficiency.
The 23 different stock sizes and types of
Ludowici Pivot and Torque Drives cover
every possible application. Increase pro-
duction, eliminate belt slip, lengthen belt
and bearing life by installing an A.T.C.
drive in your plant.
Victorian Office: 20 Queen's Bridge Street,
SOUTH MELBOURNE. Agents All States.
BELTING • PULLEYS • BEARINGS . SHAFTINGS • COUPLINGS • ALL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT
for the 21s. shares paid to £1 stands at
425., to yield 5.7 p.c. from current divs.
Book value of the backing is 30s. lid.
Prosperity of the co. will be mainly
governed by the availability of shipping.
Second Victorian div.-payer (Victoria
Dredging, at Newstead, leads in the Gold
Stakes), North Deborah is the only major
Bendigo producer to maintain its 1940
position in 1941. Another 2s. 6d. is
to go out on Sept. 23, bringing the aggre-
gate distribution of this Deborah-
Monument Hill float to £190,600. A
grade of 22dwt. is at present being won
mainly from the south stopes at 560 ft.,
while the formation in the north drive
at 620 ft. is opening up in good style. The
940 ft. level is being driven south to con-
nect with the Deborah 1000 ft. workings.
* * * *
Papuan Apinaipi, which geologically
appears to have prospects as good as
any, if not better than most, in the Papuan
hunt for oil, has two holes down (the
major well to 2100 ft.) in its Oiapu for-
mation. Four other structures are said
to warrant investigation, but only costly
drilling (no gusher has yet been struck)
will prove the existence or otherwise of
flow-oil. Hence the £40,150 of new capital
now being sought to supplement Com-
monwealth aid. The old shares have
recovered a shilling since announcement
of the issue.
* * * *
Mandated Alluvials, the Papuan ven-
ture with loads of speculative (past)
history but only one 3d. div. against its
name, has finally got the new plant on the
field. With it as mine manager comes
P. J. Walsh, for some years sinter super-
intendent at B.H. Associated Smelters,
Port Pirie, suppliers of the plant, which
includes a desulphurisation section for
treating the ore before smelting. Hopes
hinge on the Laloki mine, where develop-
ment is proceeding from opencut and
adit driven into the main body. Above
the adit an ore estimate last year by
George More, mining engineer, was
150,000 tons, with the ore apparently
living down (in the case of the old
Sapphire, a sill proposition, it didn’t).
Original assays per ton were gold 2|dwt.,
silver }oz., and copper, the attraction at
the moment, 4j p.c., with better values
claimed over a width of 35ft. in the
opencut. The idea is to treat at least 100
tons daily, and at metal prices then ruling
More estimated working profits at
£41,000 p.a. Current market valuation
of the show, however, is £12,500. Some
copper-gold matte has been going for-
ward to the mainland all along, but
Commonwealth assistance has been
necessary to finance recent capital outlay
and development. Reopened areas are
said to be yielding quantities of good-
grade ore.
* * * *
In the driest season for 42 years, En-
durance Tin (n.-e. Tas.) produced 122.7
(down 20i) tons of stream tin for a profit
of £15,404 in the year ended June. Four
3d. divs. (20 p.c.) absorbed £9471, taxa-
tion paid £2703 and further provision for
the same purpose £3705. Drought re-
duced yardage (346,800) by 30 p.c.; but,
by sluicing shallower drift, recoveries
lifted from 0.651 b. to 0.791 b. The quest
for further areas hasn’t been successful;
still, there is 9-10 years’ work (4,420,000
c.y.) in those now held. Values aren’t
indicated ; average yield from the third
of the area so far sluiced has been 0.921 b.
—not necessarily representative of what
is ahead. Cash, etc., of £15,065 had
accumulated at June 30, from which 6d.
a share is now to go out as return of
capital—£47,3s6 in ss. shares.
* * * *
Greenbush.es, Westralia’s only remain-
ing tinfield, is very much down on its
uppers. A year ago it was broadcast that
a modest revival had been staged. Now
the plant on one area is for sale, the
dredge on another is idle, and elsewhere
operations are nearly at a standstill. In
all, £1,000,000 worth of tin has been
taken out of Greenbushes, but nearly all
was won years ago.
* * * *
Market for the scrip went further
ahead on actual news of the awaited new
issue from Hill 50 (W.A.). It is of
£25,000 in 4s. shares, one for two, and
will raise the share-register total to
£75,000. The money is to pay for plant
enlargement, now almost ready to come
into production. The upward trend of
costs was kept down to 3d. a ton
(455. lid.) in the year to May, thanks
mainly to a saving of 2s. a ton in
development outgo. This nevertheless
added 60,374 tons over and above ex-
traction to proved and probable ore
(291,564 tons), though there was slight
reduction in grade from 6.34dwt. to
5.94dwt. After charging £4278 for de-
preciation and £BO5B for taxation (to-
gether £6958 more), net earnings of
£31,529 record improvement of £3726 on
the 1940 showing, and an extra 6d. per
share (2s. in all, or £25,000) went out.
Millings rose from 24,909 to 27,072 tons
and recovered grade from 7.l2dwt. to
7.64dwt. Value of ore reserves indicates
reduction in future yields; this should
be more than made up for by the higher
rate of treatment and anticipated cost-
savings. Co. is working a series of big
lenses, not a continuous lode.
* * * *
Wiluna (W.A.), the London-controlled
operating co., shows a profit of £107,684
from mining for the six months ended
June. Developmental exposures during
the period included:
Main Lease Workings. —East lode (2000 ft.
level), assays of 3.6dwt. over a drive width
of 7ft. and length of 1328 ft., and 3.Bdwt.
over an exposed width of 4ft. in winze
sunk to 2100 ft.
Happy Jack Lease. —At 600 ft. level,
7dwt. ore opened up over a drive width
of 6ft. and length of 165 ft.; 6.Bdwt. stuff
for 202 ft. over a width of 6ft.; and3.7dwt.
values in a winze width of and depth
of 112 ft.
* * * *
Dividends of £356,500 were paid by
Westralian goldmining cos. in the seven
months ended July, against £613,180 for
the corresponding period last year. It
reflects decreased distributions by Kal-
goorlie Golden Mile cos. and Sons of
Gwalia and non-payments by others.
* * * *
Burbidge (W.A.) may make money
from sulphur as well as gold. Encouraged
by an optimistic Mines Department
report, boring has commenced to deter-
mine extent and value of large sulphide
ore-bodies in the co.’s holding.
* * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.), which staged
marked recovery (since maintained) in the
latter half of the term, shows profits of
£29,779 stg. (down £681) for the year to
March. Dividend of 2s. sd. (against
2s. 6d.) requires £30,209.
* * * *
Edna May Amalgamated (W.A.) has
exercised its option over a prospecting
area of 12 acres adjoining on the west.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
STALIN’S WAR: AMERICAN VIEW.
[The forthright comments in the article by Eugene
Lyons here condensed from the American “Mercury”
are widely representative of views being expressed in
America. They have direct bearing on the somewhat
cooled American attitude to the war. Corns., by their
shifts and twists, have themselves to blame. They
opposed and damaged America’s war effort up to the
day that Hitler turned on Stalin.]
What did the super-Machiavelli on the Moscow
River do with the rich harvest of his years of diplo-
matic sowing? He threw it all into Hitler’s lap as a
bonus lor being allowed to remain a helpful “neutral”
with the right to do a little scavenging after battles.
In August, 1939, Stalin had a clear and unham-
pered choice between the Fascist Axis and the demo-
cratic Allies. Either choice involved the risk of war.
But, whereas his support of the Allies might reason-
ably have postponed or obviated the Second World
War, support of the Axis made that war an immediate
certainty.
It was not out of necessity that Stalin chose the
Axis, but in the delusion that he was making a master
stroke of Machiavellian statesmanship. With one blow
he demolished his years of anti-Fascist propaganda
and political alliances and sold the wreckage for a
promissory “peace” note signed by Hitler. He sacri-
ficed tens of millions of friends in many countries,
evoked hatred and contempt in the very places where
his prestige had been highest, and took upon himself
for ever the blood-guilt of having touched off the most
devastating war of all time.
As appeasement of Hitler the Soviet-Nazi Pact
was incomparably larger and more humiliating than
Munich. Chamberlain and Daladier at least had the
mistaken hope that Hitler would abide by his under-
takings. Stalin, having witnessed the aftermath of
Munich, could harbor no such illusions. Chamberlain
and Daladier, however foolishly, sought to purchase
peace for all Europe by paying off the robber nation.
Stalin aimed only to buy peace for himself by plung-
ing all Europe into war. The Western appeasers had
been criminally mistaken. The Kremlin appeaser was
mistakenly criminal.
It should be emphasised before new myths take
root that Stalin’s was not a single act of appeasement.
The pact was only the signal for a continuing and
deepening propitiation that lasted 22 months —until
the Nazis would have no more of it. No supposedly
Great Power in modern times has so slavishly served
another. Stalin helped to kill off France by preaching
defeatism to its masses. Until the very morning of the
invasion of Russia he preached immediate peace on
Hitler’s terms to embattled Britain through British
Communists and fellow-travellers. In every country
his agents worked overtime to advance Hitler’s local
policies, so that the Comintern and its multitudinous
extensions became little more than branch offices of
Dr. Goebbels’s Ministry of Propaganda, shouting for
know-nothing appeasement of Hitler and promoting
sabotage-strikes in war industries.
Stalin’s statesmanship was further polluted by
greed. When Hitler struck down Czechoslovakia he
allowed Poland to help itself to a sliver of territory,
only to swallow up Poland, sliver and all, soon there-
after. Now the Nazis similarly inflamed the cupidity
of the Kremlin. They encouraged Stalin to help him-
self to half of Poland, all of the Baltic States, mouth-
fuls of Finland and Rumania. They knew, as the rest
of the world knew, that the Soviet dictator was thereby
erecting around Russia a wall of enemy peoples hun-
gering for vengeance ; and that he was stirring up
fear of the Russian Bear in every Balkan and Near
Eastern heart. There can no longer be any doubt that
Turkey, for instance, feared a Soviet invasion from
the east in case of a Nazi attack from the other side ;
that fear facilitated Von Papen’s job in obtaining the
Turkish non-aggression pact which signalised the Nazi
attack on Russia.
Stalin, the all-wise, took the bait. He relinquished
the goodwill of Europe for a few bits of soil. By the
time Germany, having conquered the rest of the con-
tinent, was ready for Russia, it had the support of a
Europe united at least in its hatred of Stalin’s Russia.
Even thus Stalin, years earlier, had fallen for the Nazi
trick of inflaming his pathological suspicions of his
associates. There are many grounds for believing
that the Gestapo, if it did not itself originate the
Stalinist purges of military and naval leaders, helped
along the good work by providing “evidence” against
the ablest Soviet generals, admirals, aviation designers
and industrial directors. Hitler thus used the G.P.U.
firing squads to achieve his first major military victory
over Stalin.
Despite Stalin’s abject surrender to the Nazis
during 22 crucial months, Russia was forced to fight.
The lie will be industriously spread that Stalin is
fighting because he refused to knuckle under to Ger-
many’s demands. But the fact is that Hitler and his
war staff did not give Stalin the chance to refuse.
There was apparently no ultimatum because Berlin
was afraid it would be accepted. For reasons of their
own they preferred to take Russia the hard way,
rather than through face-saving capitulation without
war.
Taken off guard by the suddenness of the
onslaught, Molotov spoke the truth in explaining tear-
fully that Hitler had made no complaints. In the pre-
ceding weeks Stalin had hurriedly recognised the short-
lived pro-Nazi regime in Iraq and expelled the repre-
sentatives of Greece, Yugoslavia, Denmark and Nor-
way. He had speeded up sabotage-strikes in Ameri-
can defence plants.
Had Russia intended to hold out against Hitler’s
demands, it would have chosen its own time for the
inevitable war—while Germany was deeply involved
in Greece, let us say—instead of leaving the initiative
to Hitler. It is clear that Stalin counted on continued
appeasement. The record should therefore be kept
clear. Stalin did not join the democracies. He was
pushed in among them by Hitler. He was pushed in,
moreover, after he had been allowed to prove to all
and sundry that the Kremlin was ready to betray
Turkey, Persia, China or anyone else at Hitler’s com-
mand.
Such has been the bankruptcy of Stalin the states-
man. He might have headed off the war. At worst,
he would have been a respected and trusted ally in an
almost total encirclement of Hitler’s Germany, play-
ing the role of protector of his small neighbors, with
the halo of leadership in the anti-Fascist crusade
around his head. He would then have faced the Nazi
dictatorship with the backing of an unexhausted
Europe. Instead, that continent is united against him,
because it now hates Stalin even more than it fears
Hitler, Most of his potential allies have been destroyed
—with his own cynical help.
Our common interest in defeating Hitlerism should
not for a moment dull the edge of our sympathy for
the victims of Stalinism. In the First World War
there were many who accepted the aid of the Russian
monarchy against Germany without approving or sup-
porting Czarist tyranny. Similarly, we must exploit
the accident of Russia’s present involvement without
compromising with the Soviet despots.
The Nazi invasion of Russia is Hitler’s most
treacherous aggression, because it is directed against
a fellow-dictator eager to submit and industrious in
self-abasement. Whether he remains ostensibly a ruler
or not, it is the end of Stalin as the world has known
him in the past. And it is an end unrelieved by any
suspicion of heroism or principle or human decency.
Eyewitness in Bombed Britain.
[This graphic account of bombing effects in various
parts of Britain is condensed from a New York “Sun”
article by Allan Nevins, Professor of American History
at Columbia University and 1941 Harmsworth Professor
at Oxford, who has just ended a six months’ stay in
Great Britain. Prof. Nevins won Pulitzer prizes in 1933
and 1937 with his biographies.]
“It is impossible,” wrote the Lady Mayoress of
Plymouth (Lady Astpr), “for the ordinary person to
—New York "Post.”
RISING—OR SETTING?
visualise a Blitz unless he has lived through one.” A
Blitz is far worse than most people can imagine before
it occurs, Again and again in Great Britain a city has
made what it considered to be adequate preparations.
Then, when the German bombers swept over, the
inhabitants found that some aspects of the disaster
were more terrible than they had anticipated, and
that their measures were insufficient.
In six months in Great Britain I saw most of the
worst-stricken cities. The centres which had suffered
most heavily in proportion to their extent and popu-
lation seemed to me to be Clydebank, Birkenhead,
Coventry, Southampton and Bristol. Plymouth and
Portsmouth should undoubtedly be added to the list,
but them I did not see. The damage in great parts of
Liverpool and London was appalling, while in Bir-
mingham, Manchester and Glasgow it was very heavy,
and in Sheffield far from light. Belfast (which I did
not visit) has also been hard hit; late in April one
raid cost 500 dead and more than 1500 injured. Yet
in not one of the centres which I was able to inspect
had the important war facilities been put out of action
or badly crippled. In most of the cities factories,
docks, shipbuilding works and wharves were operat-
ing much as usual.
Clydebank, the great shipbuilding town which
stretches for miles along the north side of the Clyde
below Glasgow, and which was particularly vulnerable
because of its masses of tall stone tenements, suffered
two appalling raids on March 13-15. I happened to
reach the city the morning the second was ending.
Glasgow hospitals were choked with the wounded,
Glasgow homes filled with evacuees. Herbert Morri-
son later announced in Parliament that on these two
nights about 1100 people were killed.
The Lord Provost of Glasgow, Sir Patrick Dollan,
said that 60 p.c. of the houses in this community of
about 95,000 people were destroyed or uninhabitable.
Yet the great John Brown shipbuilding works and
others, the wharves and docks that make Clydeside
so busy a port area, the vessels in the river itself,
were hardly touched. The Germans had come over
at a great height, 20,000 to 30,000 feet; they had
ringed Clydeside with incendiary bombs, and then
they had poured incendiaries and high explosives in-
side the blazing oval. Accurate aim had been impos-
sible. The moon was full and a blazing timber yard
supplied light like a gigantic torch ; yet from their
high altitude the bombers could hit nothing but the
general target. Work in the area limped for a few
days because many hands were killed, wounded or
exhausted. Then it fell into its old stride again—with
a number of its Communists cured of their former
attitude.
The situation seemed much the same in other
centres. In the handsome city of Bristol the damage
from repeated raids was heartrending. Architecturally,
Bristol is not unlike a small edition of the older, more
historic part of London, with winding streets, fine old
churches and lovely backwaters holding quaint sur-
vivals of the past. Many of its finest structures now
are gone. They range from that beautiful relic of the
Renaissance St. Peter’s Hospital, with its ornate tim-
bering and its entrance curiously embellished with
scriptural designs, to the recently-built Great Hall of
Bristol University, which went up in flames along with
the fine library of King’s College, London, brought
thither for “safety.” They include the fourteenth-
century almshouses; the Temple Church with its
memories of the Crusaders; the Hole-in-the-Wall
Tavern, where Stevenson is said to have invented
Long John Silver. The art gallery and library have
been damaged ; the city museum was so heavily blasted
that for a time its stuffed giraffe leered crazily from
the roofless, wall-less upper floor.
Yet in Bristol nearly all the important war facili-
ties were unscathed. The General Hospital was half
destroyed, but ships were unloading and loading at
the great basin in the heart of the town. Many fine
old fifteenth- and sixteenth-century houses were re-
duced to cinders ; but the factories which ring
the city outskirts had been little hurt. I was
driven about by the Vice-Chancellor of the
University and his son-in-law. Some idea of
the ruin in the shopping and residential area
may be gained from the fact that at various
intersections they became lost. Nothing but
rubble stretched on either hand and the
familiar landmarks were gone.
Yet the industrial districts were mainly
intact. Down at Avonmouth, a few miles dis-
tant, the wharves and port installations were
safe. As a war-time asset Bristol was little
hurt.
In Southampton it seemed to me that fully
one-third of the business area was demolished
or rendered unusable. At one point in the
poorer residential district a rough rectangle of
nearly 10 acres was one level desert of broken
brick and mortar.
Yet the great piers were obviously for the
most part in working order, their cranes and
tracks, their sheds and warehouses, little dam-
aged. Children played in the streets near the
waterfront, for their parents were hard at work.
A different story could be told of Plymouth and
of parts of Liverpool, where real war damage
has been done. But in Southampton the
bombing had obviously been widely indis-
criminate, had fallen mainly on shopping and
residential areas, and had left the port little
harmed.
In Birmingham a few factories have been
gutted, but most of the great plants are in-
tact ; the main damage is to houses, hotels,
hospitals and shops. But Coventry is the most
extraordinary illustration of the inability of
the bombers to do real vital damage. As a
city Coventry is mutilated beyond all recognition ; as
a manufacturing area it is still practically unharmed
and vigorously busy.
I was shown about Coventry by Aid. W. Halli-
well, Laborite chairman of the emergency committee.
He told me that when the war began Coventry had
about 74,000 houses. In the great Blitz between 4000
and 5000 were demolished, and about 50,000 were
more or less damaged. The death roll for that
November night was more than 500. Exact figures
cannot be given; some dead bodies are still being
found, some never will be found, The business area
has largely disappeared. The cathedral tower rose
gaunt and impressive over the ruined nave, its shat-
tered walls enclosing uneven piles of stone, brick, lime
and glass.
Aid. Halliwell furnished a moving description of
the days after the great Blitz. The population seemed
stunned by the 11 hours of continuous bombing and
by the extent of the catastrophe that met their eyes as
they crawled from the shelters. The water system had
been put out of commission, the gas mains were
smashed, the electric lighting gone. Streets were
choked with rubbish and pitted with craters. About
250 unexploded bombs lay in the city. Half the rest
centres prepared in advance had been Blitzed. One
of the first steps taken was to send around loud-
speaker wagons to announce that vehicles were stand-
ing at such-and-such spots on the outskirts and would
carry the homeless to refuges in neighboring towns.
But the most harrowing task was the burial of the
9lain. As workers carried the mangled bodies to the
mortuary, the authorities decided to allow nobody to
visit it to identify a corpse.
“We had to have wills of iron to keep to that
decision,” Halliwell remarked. Bereaved wives, hus-
bands and parents pleaded for just one look at their


dead. But many of the bodies were unrecognisable,
and many others so horribly torn that it was out of
the question to let people into the hall. “We just
begged the mourners to remember their dead as they
had last seen them,” said Halliwell.
Aid. Halliwell asserted that only one important
plant was permanently put out of action in the
November Blitz. The first thought of the authorities
was to get the factories back into operation. About
300 miles of flexible steel pipes were laid on the sur-
face for water. Jointless metal piping brought gas
where it was needed ; light and power were quickly
restored. Within a few days the large mills and fac-
tories were going back to their regular schedules. As
war work was resumed, the authorities laid plans for
decentralising the industries, and some factories were
moved farther away from the heart of Coventry. This
reduced the losses in the April raid.
Of course it would be incorrect to say that no
important war damage has been done in Great Britain.
Not all of the bombs failed to find military objectives.
The docks at Liverpool have suffered heavily at one
point. A munitions ship is said to have blown up
there, with terrible results. Docks and port facilities
in London have been badly injured. Anyone who
goes through Birmingham on the Great Western
passes within a few feet of a huge factory completely
gutted. Great warehouses full of valuable goods have
been destroyed in some large cities, notably Bristol,
Manchester and Liverpool. But by far the greater
part of the damage has been without military effect;
it is damage to civilian life and the arts and amenities
of civilisation.
Nowhere is this truer than in London. The great
Blitz of April 16 there, which I witnessed, was simply
a piece of German spitefulness, a vindictive attempt
to smash as many as possible of those artistic and his-
torical monuments in which London is so incompar-
ably richer than Berlin. Almost equally barbarous
were the attacks in May. These blows, with the deaths
that they caused —for on April 16 the British lost more
lives in London than in the main Greek campaign—did
practically no military harm. They were blows at
civilisation which left Germany as well as the rest of
the world permanently poorer.
The indiscriminate bombing points to a German
hope to break the morale of the British people. But
not in even the worst-hit towns has it been impaired.
The Lord Provost in Glasgow, after describing how
Clydesiders had withstood two nights of heavy raiding,
burst out: “The spirit of these people is moun-
tainous.” That was a good deal for a Scot to say.
It is evidence of the high morale of the people
that the demand for vengeance has not become great
or widespread. It has unquestionably grown. Mr.
Churchill, after touring bombed Manchester on April
26, said: “It’s a tragedy, but they will get it back
threefold.” The Lord Mayor of Bristol was quoted
in April as saying: “Hearts are being hardened against
Germany because of the senseless, indiscriminate
destruction of places of beauty and history.” But
when I referred to this in speaking in the city, an
auditor rose to say, “There is no bitterness here” —
and others nodded.
The fact is that the British method of concen-
trating on military objectives is better than the German
method of indiscriminate bombing. The former may
yield important results; Britain’s endurance shows
that the latter never can.
Forecast —Hitler Style.
(From New York “Herald Tribune.”)
Looking over the latest telegrams from the Rus-
sian front one cannot help wondering what the
Goebbels organisation does about the Great Man’s
back speeches. There was, for example, the Reich-
stag address of Sept. 1, 1939 —the keynote for the new
war, the bugle call summoning the German people
to its ardors and the justification for all the slaughters
and privations to which it dedicated them. Examining
it again, one is struck by the thoroughness with which
it covered everything that has happened in the last
two years:
My love of peace and my endless patience must not
be mistaken for weakness, much less for cowardice 1
have now decided to address Poland in exactly the same
language as Poland has been using toward us for
months.... I have solemnly declared and repeat once
more that we have no claims at all on these western
States, and shall never demand anything from them
Germany has no interests in the west, the Westwall is
for all times to become the frontier of the Reich. We
have no other aims in the future and this attitude of the
Reich will remain unchanged
The neutral States have assured us of their neutrality
exactly as we previously guaranteed their neutrality. This
assurance we consider a sacred obligation, and as long
as no one infringes on their neutrality we, too, shall
painstakingly observe it
[Russia and Germany] have resolved to enter into
an agreement which will exclude any application of
force between us in the future... .This decision is
absolutely final! In the Great War, Russia and Ger-
many fought against each other That will never
happen again!
Our aims: To see to it that a change takes place
in Germany’s relations with Poland, which will ensure
a peaceful co-existence of the two States 1 will not
wage war against women and children. I have instructed
my air force to limit their attacks to military objectives.
Should anything happen to me in this war, my first
, successor shall be Party Member Goring. Should any-
thing happen to Party Member Goring, his successor
shall be Party Member Hess In the event that some-
thing fatal should happen to Party Member Hess, I am
about to make legal provision for the convocation of
a Senate appointed by me, who shall then elect the
worthiest
November, 1918, shall never occur again in German
history
Sieg Heil!
There it all is, about as completely and accurately
in reverse as a political pronunciamento could be.
Even “Sieg Heil” has turned into “Viktoria Heil,” and
with every other declaration already stultified one
wonders how much faith the German people can put
in the promise that there will “never” be another
November, 1918. Yet this is the fundamental docu-
ment, as it were, upon which the whole war is being
waged. Goebbels, surely, cannot permit the circu-
lation of any such incendiary stuff as this.
Tight Rations in Japan.
(Condensed from a “Christian Science Monitor” article
by Randall Gould.)
Victims of self-pity who think they are “only
working for the Government” should take a trip to
Japan. The Japanese today really are “working for
the Government,” and there is no complaining worth
mention.
The Japanese are still drawing on an almost
though perhaps not completely inexhaustible source
of patience, loyalty and innate good nature as one of
the most vital weapons in their national armory. Crisis
after crisis has brought fresh demands until the present
period finds the ordinary Japanese staggering under a
burden of economic restriction.
The very word “luxury” has been anathema to
patriotic Japanese almost since the beginning of the
China hostilities on July 7, 1937. The changes which
have been wrought in the fare and raiment of even
the most frugal of never very luxuriously fed and
clothed Nipponese have been startling. Imported
goods first felt the iron hand of authority. It was
decreed many months ago that even such relatively
essential imported food as canned milk could no longer
be brought into Japan, because the purchase of things
—New York “Herald Tribune.”
WHERE’S THE OILCAN?
of that sort required foreign exchange and the Gov-
ernment needed all available foreign exchange for
buying oil and munitions with which to assure an early
termination of the so-called “China incident.”
Sugar is produced on Japan’s own island of
Formosa, but sugar had to be rationed in order that
some might go to the million men in China. Even
that basic necessity rice began to run short, although
the Japanese forces in China lived on Chinese rice so
far as possible and took it away from impoverished
Chinese consumers in order to replenish the supply
at home.
The Japanese rejected staple fibre as long as they
could, for the good reason that the earlier-produced
staple fibre melted away in the first rainfall. And
Japan has plenty of rain! But as time went on it
began to be apparent that a somewhat improved
version of this wood-pulp was considerably better than
nothing at all. The same was true of eating “ersatz”
candies made of bean paste and similar not very
attractive ingredients, and of riding charcoal-burning
buses, instead of the formerly numerous and cheap
cruising taxicabs, and of making rifle-bolts for the
Government at a narrow margin of profit instead of
devising ingenious and fairly profitable toys to be sold
at the night fairs along Tokyo’s “Ginza.”
It is with this last item that we begin really to
get into the neighborhood of the idea of “working for
the Government.” Japanese manufacturers went to
work for the Government because the Government
was able, through its rapidly extending system of
controls, to cut off raw materials to those making
goods officially deemed unnecessary. It was a case
of do what the Government said or shut up shop.
Yet morale remains good in Japan—not of the
best, not what it was a few years ago, but still good
and not of a revolutionary calibre by any stretch of
imagination. The extravagance and militaristic ex-
tremism of the Tokyo leaders is protected by the
traditional Japanese feeling of the nation as one big
family, in which cohesion must be the rule. There
can be grumbling, there can even be dissent when
decisions are to be made, but once a course has been
adopted there must be loyal uniformity in carrying
it out.
Of late, when the shoe pinches rather hard and
when some rebellion might be expected, the Japanese
people least of all see any chance to remedy anything
by revolt. Their plight has been pictured as forced
upon them by nature and by grasping, envious foreign
nations. They see their national destiny only as a
stern march straight ahead. But every Japanese knows
that rations for the march are running painfully short.
Fallacies About Hitler.
(From a Manchester “Guardian” article.)
There are two fallacies into which we may fall in
judging the prospects of Hitler’s bid for world power,
both of them dangerous to our cause. One is the
belief that his plan is a tolerable and even promising
plan for bringing order and unity into the confusion
of our age. This is the view of the Fascists in Italy,
the Falangists in Spain, the adherents of Nazi and
Fascist ideas in all countries, and of Marshal Petain
and his colleagues in the Vichy Government.
That plan is repulsive to all who still consider
liberty and justice to be essential properties of a decent
civilisation. It is accepted by men like Marshal Petain
because they see in it a guarantee for order and
stability. Their terror of Communism has made them
abandon all ideas of public liberty. They argue that
Europe has been ruined by liberty, that her several
States cannot keep the public peace, that what she
wants is a master who can organise her political and
economic life and impose his discipline on her habits
and passions. Lincoln said that
there is a wolf’s code for liberty.
So there is a wolf’s code of order,
and Hitler’s partisans prefer even
that code of order to the dangers
of freedom.
Nobody who is not im-
prisoned in this narrow outlook
can imagine that a system based
on rapacity and oppression can
ever give Europe a tolerable life.
To suppose that Hitler’s magis-
trates, Hitler’s police, Hitler’s
spies and assassins, supported by
the Quislings he can enlist in the
several countries, can do more
than hold Europe down is to dis-
regard all the lessons of history.
There is nothing stimulating or
vitalising in his system, nothing to
create any kind of moral force or
common purpose, nothing to
satisfy such universal instincts as
the love of liberty and the desire
for justice.
There is a second fallacy
which is at this moment the more
dangerous of the two. This fal-
lacy disparages, as the other exag-
gerates, the power of Hitler’s plan.
It is the fallacy of thinking that
because Hitler’s plan could not
succeed as a plan for revivifying
Europe it could not succeed as a
plan for coercing her. These ob-
servers believe that the scheme
will collapse by its own weight.
Here, and still more in the United
States, there is a temptation to
think that we can leave the plan
to its inevitable fate and that it
is unnecessary to destroy it by
war.
This fallacy has acquired a
greater momentum from Hitler’s
attack on Russia, for the plan
now looks more top-heavy than
ever. It is a most mischievous
train of reasoning. It is one thing to hold that Hitler’s
plan does not offer Europe a tolerable life; it is
quite another to hold that if he wins the war he can-
not impose it. Napoleon’s system went down in war.
The resistance of peoples he had subdued or invaded
helped his enemies to pull him down, but his fall was
due to war waged, not by rebels unaided, but by other
Great Powers. In the last two or three years he had
against him Britain, Russia, Prussia, Saxony, Austria,
Sweden and Spain. Nobody can say when, or whether,
his system would have fallen if there had been no
States ready and able to put strong armies in the field,
and to apply the pressure of a fighting and blockading
fleet.
The writer of an article in the “New Republic,”
discussing this delusion, says truly that conditions
are much more favorable to Hitler than they were to
Napoleon. The concentration of power produced by
modern technique has gone far towards disarming
rebellion. The master of ’planes, tanks and motorised
divisions can laugh at dangers that haunted the dreams
of the Metternichs and the Alexanders. The laissez-
faire school are asking the United States to trust that
starving populations, with no modern weapons in
their hands, will overturn a system which has col-
lected under its control the productive power of a
continent.
What can be thought of the optimism that believes
that in this age of mechanised warfare the disarmed
peoples of Europe will be able to dethrone the Nazis
if once those peoples are conquered and the Nazis
left in power? The Nazis are setting- out with de-
liberate and scientific thoroughness to corrupt and
destroy the virtue of the peoples who are to feed and
arm their masters. They wage war on the universi-
ties and culture in all its forms ; they poison social
life ; they employ famine as a weapon; they evict
on a great scale, settling garrisons of German colonists ;
they keep two million Frenchmen as prisoners of war
in order to make still wider the disparity of popula-
tion between France and Germany; they seize the in-
dustries of other countries and keep in their own
hands all the equipment useful in war; they organise


Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
AUTO OILED,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS .
m
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
"
1
sy
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
JOHN DANKS & SON My. ltd
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ’Phone: CB3BO.
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY ’Phone: M 6505,
Europe as their arsenal and their granary. The hatred
that they provoke in every country will grow, but
hatred without arms is like Swift’s man in a shirt. If
Great Powers still fight against Hitler the day will
come when that hatred will help them to overcome
him ; if those Powers let Hitler win the war the ex-
plosions of that hatred will end not in revolution but
in defeat and massacre.
Isms in South America.
[Tn the article here condensed from New York
“Herald Tribune” Edward Tomlinson describes the strong
anti-Communist feeling prevalent in South American
countries, which makes the work of Axis agents there
easy.]
The German war against Russia gives Nazi agents
and propagandists in South America a new lease of
life. Governments and leaders in the majority of the
countries have always disliked Stalin as much as if
not more than they have Hitler. The Fiihrer’s diplo-
matic emissaries in the southern capitals have from the
beginning been at great pains to explain the mock mar-
riage between Berlin and Moscow. Before the con-
summation of that now violently broken union their
most appealing argument, aside from the importance
of closer economic ties with the Reich, was Ger-
many’s determination to save Europe from the blight-
ing influences of Communism.
Indisputable evidence of South American dis-
trust of all things Russian is the fact that of the 10
republics on the continent only the Governments of
Uruguay and Colombia ever accorded diplomatic
recognition to the Soviet regime. Uruguay’s was with-
drawn long ago. Colombia never got around to send-
ing a representative. Even Chile, with a Popular
Front Administration, and with a local Communist
party actively supporting it, has not sent a Minister or
an Ambassador to the Kremlin. Only in Uruguay,
Chile and Colombia have extreme radical organisa-
tions been tolerated.
Leaders in several of the countries are able to
offer convincing proof of Communist dangers. In
Brazil Communistic elements infiltrated themselves
into the armed forces, and Soviet or extreme
radical influences were actually responsible for several
military revolts against the Government. Communists
made a direct attempt against President Vargas’s life
and even the lives of his wife and children. In Peru the
A PR A, or extreme Leftist movement, suspected of re-
ceiving Russian backing, is still considered by the
official and business world the greatest threat to the
safety and stability of the nation. During the revolu-
tionary period in the early ’thirties, one of the bloodiest
outbreaks of recent times took place when Apristas in
the northern city of Trujillo were blamed for the
murder of scores of upper-class citizens and their
families in the public streets.
The very day after the campaign against Russia
was launched the police of Buenos Aires swooped
down and arrested the entire staff of the newspaper
“La Hora,” the leading and most outspoken pro-
Communist paper in Argentina. Meantime, the Nazi
organ, “El Pampeiro,” is allowed to proceed blatantly
on its way.
Mussolini’s friends among the millions of Italians
in Brazil and Argentina, not numerous but important,
will enter once more into active propaganda in South
America. They had never been very happy about
the Berlin-Moscow affair. Fascism in South America
actually lost face and support on account of it. But
now Fascist agents will leap to battle again. By the
same token the Communists in all the countries will
also become more active. In turn, the revitalising of
the Reds and the increased activities among old radical
extremists will play right into the hands of ambitious
natives who sympathise with the Nazi-Fascist cause.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources .)
The “V for Victory” plan will make trouble for
the Nazis in a cafe society kind of way. But Hitler
will hardly be overthrown by the scribbling of “Vs”
on walls, nor by the most resolute humming of the
first four notes of the Fifth Symphony. The Nazis
did not conquer Europe by means of Wagner and
we shall not retake it with Beethoven. — Samuel
Grafton; New York “Post.”
He $ ' $ He
The London Passenger Transport Board is now
employing 8000 women in jobs formerly done by
men; 5000 of them are bus conductors, and one may
expect that number to be increased. By the end of
the last war there were about 7000 women conductors
on the buses. — Manchester “Guardian.”
* ' * * * *
Both the United States and Great Britain are
employing economic warfare against Japan with ex-
treme delicacy. Neither wishes to see Japan a pros-
trate Power, beaten into a position of impotence.
They hope that gradual tightening of economic bands
will restrain Japan from actions which might inflame
the entire Far East. From Japan’s standpoint these
economic measures are not so important as the rup-
ture of trade relations with the Netherlands East
Indies. Japan believed she would be able to get oil
from the Indies even if the United States stopped oil
shipments. If the Indies persists in refusing to sell
oil to Japan the Nipponese will be in a situation
which they might decide calls for direct action. The
Japanese say that they have enough oil to supply their
nation’s need for a full year under war-time condi-
tions—and they mean a war against a first-rate Power.
That statement is debatable. — New York “World-
Telegram” correspondent.
*****
Statement by General Auchinleck, on leaving
India to take over from General Wavell: “I would
like to lay stress once more on the importance of
what we soldiers call depth in the defence. One
hears arguments and demands that India’s fighting
forces should be concentrated in India so as to be
able to defend her as and when the enemy comes
knocking at her gates.
This is the surest way to
court defeat and disaster,
utter and complete. All
history proves it. The
enemy must be kept at a
distance; he must be
attacked wherever he is.
The farther from India
that we can send our
troops, our ships and our
aircraft the more secure
she will be. The best de-
fence is attack, and attack
we must and will.” —
London “Times.”
* * *
Those who, like Field-
Marshal Ironside, seem to
belittle the enemy and
speak overoptimistically of
American help and a
speedy end do Britain a
great disservice. We shall
win with American and
Russian co-operation, but
the success of the latter is
still problematical, and
the full force of the former
will not be seen until the
end of next year. We
have got to realise that, as
the Prime Minister has put
it, we are only at the be-
ginning. We have almost
all the way to go, and we
shall have to travel for the
next six months mainly
on our own desperate
exertions. Manchester
“Guardian.”
* * *
We were told cease-
lessly for 20 years that war
. settles nothing. This is
far from being the case;
it settles one thing the
control of the immediate
future. We and our asso-
ciates had that control in
1918 ; we did not know
what to do with it. The
best we can say is that the
world would have been far
worse off had Hohenzol-
lern Germany gained such
a degree of control. If
Nazi Germany gains it
today or tomorrow we
shall see it used to forge
such chains upon the
world as shall not be broken save at the cost of
untold blood and torment and perhaps the eventual
ruin of our civilisation and a return to the Dark
Ages. We may today look with hope upon the steps
that are being taken to smooth out the economic ills
of that part of the world to which we still have access,
to use our own vast resources to that end in close
co-ordination with the vast resources of the British
Commonwealth, to draw to our side the other peoples
who are still free, great and small; for such steps are
not only essential ingredients of victory but in them-
selves promises of that better world which is the only
guerdon that makes the price of victory worth the
paying.— Major George Fielding Eliot; New York
“Herald Tribune .”
* * * * *
The East Indies contain a population equal to
nearly half that of the United States, about three-
fourths that of pre-war Germany and about one-third
greater than that of Britain, France or Italy. They
contain some of the most densely populated territory
in the world and could not provide living room for
Japanese immigrants. In peace they offer a market
and source of supplies for Japan. As victims of
aggression they offer a possible 60,000,000 slaves. —
New York “Times.”
* * * * *
Senator Thomas has stated in the U.S. Senate
that Germany, which has taken over the equipment,
the factories and the labor of the hapless countries
her armies have overrun, has a trained fighting force
five times greater than when the war began. Hitler
now has at his command 260 divisions of trained
seasoned soldiers, not to mention the forces Mussolini
can muster. At the moment Hitler’s armies are fully
occupied in Russia, but who can say how much longer
the Red Army can continue the struggle? And then
what? — New York “Times.”
*****
William Hale (Big Bill) Thompson, Chicago’s
three-term Mayor, who once threatened to punch the
late King George of England “in the snoot” if the
monarch ever came to Chicago, now hopes England
will emerge victorious against Germany. The veteran
of nearly 40 turbulent years in Chicago politics told
an interviewer he favored aid to Britain “because I
believe that in so doing we are helping the defence
of this country. We should extend to England in
every way we can, short of sending our boys to foreign
battlefields, every possible aid.” — New York “Sun.”
*****
Just leave it to those Communists. For a year
and a half “THE YANKS ARE NOT COMING”
was the official slogan of the Communist party, used
as a rallying cry in its literature, its rallies and parades.
Then Hitler invaded Russia. Now Mike Quin, author
of “THE YANKS ARE NOT COMING,” has un-
veiled a new slogan in the “Daily Worker.” It is:
“THE YANKS ARE NOT COMING TOO LATE.”
—New York “World-Telegram.”
*****
The American Peace Mobilisation became a
source of embarrassment to the Communists when
Russia joined the Allies and the signals were switched
to all-out anti-Fascist opposition. Reason prompted
that the best course for the party was to let the
Peace Mobilisation quietly disintegrate. But here
the gagman, obviously, stepped in, ready to do any-
thing for a laugh. The initials now stand for “Ameri-
can People’s Mobilisation”—-“for Victory Over
Fascism.” — New York “Post.”
*****
Shortage of scrap iron is so serious that it may
cut U.S. steel production 10 p.c. this autumn. The
principal reason for the shortage is the 25,000,000 tons
of scrap the U.S.A. exported in the last eight years
—most of it to Japan. — New York “PM.”
*****
What have we [Americans] been debating with
rising fever during the last few years? Foreign
ideologies and how they might be adapted and suited
to us ; or why we should take the side of one to
destroy another, lest the other should come and devour
us. Among the principal political ideas now in con-
troversy among us we can think of but one that could
lay even doubtful claim to American origin. That one
is the idea of a Federal Union World, called also Union
Now and Union Now With Britain, and its proposal
is to surrender American sovereignty to a world Gov-
ernment and denationalise the United States ot
America. Where is this United States of America that
would sacrifice its birthright for the sake of the world
and give its substance to be spread for an international
feast? It is a strange land, and if it is ours we are
strangers in it. But we disbelieve in its existence.
Nor do we believe the national totem is extinct. It
is only sick. — “Saturday Evening Post.”
*****
No one, perhaps not even Hitler’s own generals,
knows how many air squadrons and armored divi-
sions have been shattered in the war against Russia,
how many lives have been squandered or what strains
have been put both upon the German war potential and
the morale of an anxious people. We do know that
there has been a heavy fall in Nazi prestige all over the
world ; that there is a tide of rebellion —however
vague as yet —swelling among the conquered peoples ;
that British bombs are falling ip a slow but steady
crescendo on German cities ; and that there are signs,
not only in the air war, of new offensive energies stir-
ring in the British. “Now is the time!” beats (in the
rhythm of the Morse “V”) ever more insistently in
the minds of all free men —the time for that action
upon every front, not only the military but the indus-
trial and political and psychological, which will have
the maximum effect in bringing this vast tragedy to
some tolerable close. Whatever lies immediately ahead,
these, already, have been crucial weeks in the history
of Western civilisation. The danger now is not in
hoping too much; it is in realising too little the
immense change they have wrought and the immense
opportunity they have opened—for those who will
seize it. — New York “Herald Tribune.”


mm
The amazing parts commercial refrigeration and air conditioning play in
commerce today is well indicated by the large list of industries served by
Werner equipment.
In the 41 years that this firm has specialized in the manufacture of refrigeration
and air conditioning, it has seen industry after industry improve its processes
of manufacture and its storage capabilities by the use of Werner equipment.
m
m
&
i
a
m
%
/
*§
--ijii
. -
Today, the Werner
organization is en-
gaged in the greatest
task it has ever under-
taken - supplying
material from a greatly
enlarged plant to the
Defence Departments
of the Commonwealth.
While thus engaged,
it shall continue to at-
tend to the current
requirements of its
many customers in the
essential industries of
food storage and
production.
INDUSTRIES SERVED BY
WERNER
REFRIGERATION
ABATTOIRS
BAKERS
BREWERIES
BUTCHERS
BUTTER FACTORIES
CONFECTIONERS
CAFES
COUNCILS
DAIRIES
DAIRY PRODUCE SHOPS
FISHMONGERS
FRUIT STORAGES
GROCERS
GUEST HOUSES
HOSPITALS
HOTELS
ICE MANUFACTURERS
ICE CREAM FACTORIES
MARKETS
SHIPS
Werner's are refrigeration specialists who have
been building nothing but refrigerators for 41 years.
Their technical advice is always available for any
refrigeration problem. Year-round service is
available to all users.
M 497
JC
R. WERNER
*an *Aid
• CO -9
FINEST REFRIGERATION SERVICE IN AUSTRALIA
Showrooms: 608 Little Collins Street, ttelhonrne. MU 6275. Works: 54 Burnley Street, Richmond JALI6I Agents in oil States
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
N.S.W.: STUART, WALKER & CO.PTY.LTD.,I74 Clarence St., SYDNEY S.A.: R. WERNER & CO. PTY. LTD., 56 Franklin St., ADELAIDE
W.A.: ATKINS (W.A.) LTD., 894 Hay St., PERTH QLD.: G. A. ROCHE PTY. LTD., Cr. Ipswich Rd.and Reis St., Woolloongabha, STH. BRISBANE
TAS.: NOYES BROS. (MELB.) LTD., 36 Argyle St., HOBART; 59 George St., LAUNCESTON
CRAVENA
are kinder . .
to the throat
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
mmew.
wmmmmm
m
:*K>
*f:
2819 :
H!
P/9 M i 001 #/I w > OS
Z/P w l OS aOI "/ 01
A MIXED GRILL.
David Low, apparently carried away
with the “New Order” claptrap, declared
in London that human nature is altering.
Possibly there’s a bit of erosion going
on at the peak of Mt. Everest, but nobody
notices it. Dave had better use the
pencil to express his philosophy—he does
it much better that way.
* * * *
“Nakh”: The suggestion made at the
Sydney conference of the Master Hair-
dressers’ Association that men’s salons
should feature permanent waving, setting,
special haircuts and facial massage has
caused a wave of horror in tonsorial
circles in Melbourne. One master hair
shampooer declared that it was a lot of
hooey and Sydney men must be a pack
of effeminates. Recalls the occasion when
a fair damsel accosted a bearded artist
in the street in Melbourne and told him
that she liked his pictures but abomi-
nated his appearance. “What’s wrong with
my appearance?” mildly asked the artist.
“I don’t like your beard,” said the young
lady. “It looks so effeminate.” “Looks
effeminate, does it?” replied the painter.
“What’s your criterion — : the bearded lady
at the Show?”
* * * *
“Herdsman” on origins:
The earliest story of pastoral Australia is one
of its strangest. When Phillip’s little colony
had been settled on Sydney Cove for about four
months the Governor took it into his head to
find out just how well off it might be in
domestic animals, so he issued an order that
all the inhabitants should make a return of
the livestock they owned. It is on record that
in Australia 153 years ago there were one
stallion, three mares, three colts, two bulls, five
cows, 29 sheep, 19 goats, 49 hogs, 25 pigs, five
rabbits, 18 turkeys, 29 geese, 35 ducks, 122
fowls and 87 chickens. A prisoner was put
in charge of the bulls and cows, with orders
to drive them out grazing every day and never
on any account to let them out of his sight.
However, this didn’t quite suit him personally,
so he left them to their own devices about
noon each day, whilst he went back to camp
to get his dinner. On his return ohe after-
noon to the place where he hoped to find his
charges, they were missing. After vainly look-
ing for them for a couple of days, he reported
their loss to the Governor and took what was
coming to him.. None of several search parties
sent out succeeded in tracing them, and they
were completely lost for seven years, until
Governor Hunter, having heard rumors of wild
cattle to the southward, set out from Parra-
matta to investigate. On the bank of the
Nepean River, near the present site of Camden,
he came across “a very fine herd of cattle
upwards of 60 young and old”—the descendants
of those lost in May, 1788. So the Cow-
pastures district got its name.
* * * *
William McKie, the Melbourne
organist whom, for some reason best
known to itself, the City Council
couldn’t keep, is now organist and master
of choristers at Westminster Abbey, one
of the poshest musical appointments in
England, between intervals of serving
with the R.A.F. Volunteer Reserve.
From Melbourne he went to Magdalen,
Oxford, as organist and instructor. He
was born at St. Philip’s vicarage, Colli ng-
wood, and educated at Melbourne
Grammar.
* * * *
The one diverting feature of Queens-
land’s new Parliament is the presence of
three new parties and one old one, each
consisting of one man. Brand (Isis) is
the sole survivor of the Country party ;
J. F. Barnes (Bundaberg) is sponsor, sec-
retary, leader and Whip of the self-
invented Andrew Fisher Labor party;
H. R. Moorhouse (Windsor) performs
similar functions under his own hat for
the Democrats ; and Bruce Pie (Hamil-
ton) is the solitary Independent. With
a majority of 21 over any possible com-
bination, the Forgan Smiths are set till
1944—0 r unification, should that much-
needed blessing come first.
* * * *
“E.D.” in indignation:
I rise to dispute the claim made for one Eric
Baume, whose publishers pronounce him “Aus-
tralia’s foremost war correspondent.” Mr. Baume
went to France for a few weeks uniformed as
“a British officer, except that our cap badges
were of gold with an endless cable round them
and the letter ‘C’ woven in the middle.” The
War Office had, at first, used the letters “W.C.,”
but Americans objected. Mr. Baume wore his old
militia badge, “a highly irregular proceeding,”
together with his Jubilee and Coronation
ribbons. He admits that “I could have gone
back to England within three days I never
saw a shot fired in anger in France. But I
saw a great deal of shots that could have been
fired and the moves that could have been made.”
All our correspondents in the Middle East have
been under lire often. One was decorated
by the Greeks for bravery, and another men-
tioned in British dispatches for a gallant rescue
under fire.
* * * *
“D.”: Versailles limited the German
Army to 100,000 men. It was the worst
blunder the treaty-makers committed.
Germany immediately began to build its
army on the basis that the whole of its
100,000 men should, in effect, be officers
with special engineering training. When all
else went to pieces in Germany the High
Command maintained such good relations
officers’ M Schools ST
Russia, and the too-cunning Trotsky and
his associates allowed Red Army troops
to be used for demonstration purposes,
These German schools continued in
Russia till long after Hitler came into
power. Until Stalin’s 1937-38 purge
Russian metal industry was honey-
combed with German technicians. So
anything the German Army doesn’t know
about Russian terrain, Russian climate,
Russian armament and Russian morale
isn’t worth knowing.
“S.T.S.”: Just a word in support
of “Colonel Bungstarter’s” claim (B.
14/8/’4l) that the Bard of Avon may be
S p e j t a j moS { so that no one way
can be stamped as correct A ll that
“ X t STT*,"
tK *> s ° th f the Shakespeare
an<d . terse Shaxper don t both
appear in its columns. But the sixteenth
century was reckless about spelling. The
youngsters of today learn from frequent
radio that the Ann Boleyn of my school-
days may just as well be Bullen. And I
have lately found, in a volume of his own
period, the great man now always
accepted as Thomas More spelt with a
double o, just like Tom. Moore the poet
of a later age.


KEEP UP THE CONDITION OF YOUR STOCK WITH
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
Stock will make the best use of coarse dry fodders if Tri-cal-os is
always before them. Tri-cal-os is a pure bone product containing a
guaranteed minimum of 33% phosphoric acid and 40% lime and is
the most economical and reliable form of calcium and phosphorus
for all stock feeding; it is specially processed to ensure maximum
digestibility. Regular feeding of Tri-cal-os prevents bone troubles and
deficiency diseases, ensures early maturity and maintains good all-round
condition.
Obtain all particulars about Tri-cal-os from—
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne ;
G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Egelabra Merino Stud
H. E. KATER & SON,
Warren, N.S.W.
Established 62 years.
Four times winners of
Stonehaven Cup.
Grand Champion Ram and Ewe
Sydney Show, 1940.
Rams for Sale.
Tel., Warren 10.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sheep Ticks and Dips.
“Bungaree”: There is a lamentable
lack of reliable information available
about the sheep tick, and recent C.S.I.R.
findings in field and laboratory will be
welcomed by sheepmen.
It has been proved that, off the sheep,
a tick will not survive more than six
days under normal weather conditions,
and the majority will perish in half that
time. In tests ticks were exposed to
varying temperatures and humidities
ranging from 4° C. to 37° C. and from
10 p.c. to 100 p.c. humidity. Above
15° C. maximum length of life was five
days, but at 4° C. ticks survived for as
long as 15 days at low humidity. Under
90 p.c. humidity some survived for 24
days. This means that a paddock need
be spelled for only a week to rid it of
ticks in the ground or timber.
Tick eggs or pupae are attached to the
wool. In long wool they may be iin.
to lin. from the tip. Thus if a fleece
is shorn to within iin. of the skin all
eggs should be removed. Heavy neck
development of merinos often results in
a lot of wool being left where most eggs
are to be found.
One dipping isn’t sufficient because
many pupae remain to reinfest. Pupae
take about 22 days to hatch. At time of
dipping some may be due to hatch within
a few days. Allowing for growth and
breeding, if.the second dipping is done
after 19 days complete eradication should
result, provided the sheep are put in a
clean paddock and the dip used has killed
all hatched ticks.
By placing ticks on various parts of
the sheep and checking their movements
it was found that young males preferred
the lower underside of the neck and
young females made for the crutch and
rear belly-wool. Later there was a general
movement toward the brisket, but at all
times ticks preferred the underside. About
half the pupae are deposited on the lower
side of the neck and most of the re-
mainder on the lower sides and belly.
Some sheep are more susceptible than
others. Ticks do not increase on strong,
healthy sheep to the extent that they do
on weak sheep, and young sheep attract
ticks more than old ones.
Age-marking Sheep.
“B-gar”: Many small graziers don’t
bother about age-marking their sheep
and rely on mouthing, but as teeth
growth depends on varied conditions no
reliable indication as to correct age can
be obtained by mouthing. To protect
both buyers and sellers age-marking
should be made compulsory.
The simplest marking system is the
five-year cycle one, which has operated
successfully in parts of Queensland for
years. It uses only the front portion of
the ear, which makes for easy detection
when drafting.
For all years ending in “0” or “5,”
e.g., 1940 and 1945, the ear is left full.
For years ending in “1” or “6” a point
mark can be inserted. For years ending
in “2” or “7” a front notch can be used,
and for those ending in “3” or “8” two
front notches. For years ending in “4”
or “9” a point mark and a front notch.
There is little mutilation of the off ear
and the marks are such that they can
easily be picked out. The back of the
ear can be used for class or cull marks.
Mitchell Grass.
“Orange Road”: At Bogandillon, west
of Forbes (N.S.W.), Mitchell grass and
lucerne turned up trumps as a pasture
mixture. The paddock carried a wheat
crop last autumn on heavy, blackish soil
that was fallowed in a virgin state. Rain
failed to follow a fair germination and
ewes harvested the crop. At the end of
July a mixture of 21b. of lucerne and
|lb. of Mitchell was sown with 401 b. of
super, an acre, through a combine set
so the tine-points would barely scratch
the ground, since a second growth of
wheat was anticipated. A light hit with
the harrows covered the mixture.
There was a good rain in September
and the lucerne struck well. There was
more rain in November and December,
which again pleased the lucerne, though
“Why did you hit your wife with a hoe?”
“Cause I ’adnt got un rake, Curly!”
there was no sign of Mitchell grass. But
by Christmas it was there, so thick that
in January a big hay-cut of lucerne,
Mitchell and summer grass was taken
off. After that the Mitchell came again
and seeded.
The paddock of 97 acres carried about
75 sheep from December to July, but
they didn’t affect the grass. The farm
is in the 18in. rain belt, but has averaged
only Min. for the past 10 years. This
spring it is being closely watched. The
experience suggests that Mitchell grass
seed carries over a dry and cold winter
in the ground and comes away with
spring rain and warm weather.
Phalaris on the Tablelands.
“R. Ney”: H. F. White, of Guyra
(N.S.W.), has shown what can be done
with improved pastures on high country.
He rejuvenated a phalaris stand which
had suffered from dry weather by plough-
ing it under and resting the paddock till
the new growth got a fair start. Another
dried-up paddock was sown to turnips,
which gave a good crop, and after they
were grazed the phalaris came on again.
On weed-infested stands White uses
the harrows to root up the weeds, waits
for rain to bring them away and belts
them with a double-set of harrows again.
After one such treatment he got the best
crop of phalaris he’d had, both for seed
and hay.
He uses phalaris as a winter grazer
and a summer hay crop, cutting the
latter fairly late so that the new growth
comes on in late autumn and establishes
the stand for the cold months. His theory
is that hay-cutting has the same effect
on phalaris as pruning on a vine—forcing
new root growth and bringing the top
growth with a rush at the right time.
White doesn’t fancy sowing pastures
in spring in country like the New Eng-
land* though others claim it to be all
right so long as weed growth is kept
down after seeding.
Fedweb Flour.
“Nabby’s Barn”: J. R. Fisher, analyst
for the N.S.W. Agricultural Department,
has been looking into the flour quality
of the Fedwebs, 1 and 3, wheats for short
fallow country of summer rains.
Fedweb 1, a late-maturer with a
medium strong grain which sometimes
brings premiums—when the prime sample
is light amber colored and vitreous —and
is of excellent milling quality, is harder
than Ford and the stock dresses freely
on the mill, giving very high flour yields,
often superior to those of Ford.
Like Guiar, the gluten of Fedweb 1
is well-balanced, but the balance doesn’t
hold as well as that of Guiar when the
crop is grown in a dry season. Still,
the quality is much higher than that of
f.a.q. wheat, and a percentage of Fedweb
1 in a mill grist means a general improve-
ment. Gluten content may range from
8 to 18 p.c. according to the season.
Water absorption of the flour is high
and diastatic activity good. It makes
loaves of large volume similar to those
made from Guiar. Flours of this type
produce large, well-piled loaves with a
good crust color and crumb texture. All
this, of course, is of the prime samples ;
the lesser don’t measure up so well but
still make excellent filler wheats for the
base of the mill grist.
Fedweb 3 has a low gluten content
and isn’t recommended for general grow-
ing. The grain is hard to distinguish from
Fedweb 1 and has similar milling quali-
ties, but Fedweb 3 gluten has no stability
and the grain never earns premiums. The
gluten quality is too low for bread-
making from straight Fedweb 3 flour and
it is only a low-grade filler wheat.
Turnips as Fodder.
“Huxave”: The value of turnips as
winter fodder is undoubted. Last year
turnips sown as late as mid-April came
good for winter. They are particularly
good in districts like the Monaro where
other winter foods are scarce.
Though the turnip is 88 p.c. water, all
the dry material is digestible ; and it con-
tains a high proportion of sugar, with a
dash of lime and phosphoric acid.
Sheep will fatten on turnips, and they’re
good for cattle and pigs and for ewes
lambing or with lambs at foot. Swedes,
however, taint cows’ milk. For dry cows
cut them in pieces before feeding to avoid
danger of choking. Sheep feed off the
crop in the field and leave only the shell.
This, ploughed in with animal residue,
is a good fertiliser.
Turnips make a good catch crop after
hay. About ylb. to lib. of seed should
be mixed with 561 b. of super. Sown in
early autumn they may become stock
feed or bring good prices on the vege-
table market. On the Dorrigo and Com-
boyne (N.S.W.) splendid fodder crops
have been got by broadcasting seed on
ashes of burns, but good rainfall is
necessary.
Best varieties for stock are Purple Top
Swede, Purple Top White Globe, Hardy’s
Green Globe, Yates’s Green Globe and
Purple Top Mammoth. Purple Top
Swede has highest food value. Success
is more dependent on moisture than soil
quality.
Hints for the Farm.
“Canbelego”: For maximum destruc-
tion of lice when dipping, make sure of
a clean muster. Use a proved arsenical
powder dip, and do the dipping thor-
oughly. Sheep should carry enough wool
to hold the dip, so put merinos through
four to six weeks after shearing, cross-
breds and longwools about two months
after shearing.
“Goulburn”: Roll the land well down
after growing a green manure crop.
Rolling retains moisture that might easily
be lost when a good growth of legumes
is turned under. It holds the moisture
needed for the fermentation of organic
matter.
“Canbelego”: Grow a green crop,
preferably a legume like cowpeas, in
coastal districts on summer fallow. The
crop provides valuable humus when
turned under. It can be drilled to allow
inter-row cultivation or broadcast to
smother weeds, and will help to bring
the soil into good condition for autumn
sowing.
“Y. Dent”: Fungi likely to cause poor
germination and seedling blight are fairly
common in seed maize, both in and on
the grain. Proper seed selection gets rid
of all ears showing obvious mould growth
and other signs of fungus infection, but
the grain can be affected internally with-
out being noticeable. An organic
mercury dust —it can be obtained ready
for use —is an effective pickier. It should
be dusted on at the rate of 2oz. a bushel
and can be done any time after threshing,
provided the grain is dry and well-
matured. Best time is a few days before
sowing.
“Jayem”: A paddock of sub. clover
on W. B. Pascoe’s farm, Koreelynn,
Orange (N.S.W.), carries an average of
10 sheep per acre the year round. Eleven
years ago, Pascoe took over 100 acres
of abandoned cultivation and sowed it
with sub. clover. For the first three
years growth was slow, but topdressing
with lcwt. of super, developed an excel-
lent stand. Koreelynn is more than
3000 ft. above sea level and has an aver-
age rainfall of 40in. Sub. clover does


mn,mn
TIMBER KILLER !
Kills largest trees in FIFTEEN
WAYS from roots to top. New
method. NO RING-BARKING!
Prevents sucltering! Eradicates
BLACKBERRIES! 5/6 tin, posted.
AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO (15ft.).
BEAKS HEAVILY FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 20011)8. Sow NOW. 2/6 packet.
N.S.W. SEED CO., 693 George St., SYDNEY
STRIKE IN
SHEEP
Now Easily Prevented
Latest veterinary research has discovered that
effective strike in sheep can only occur when
bacteria are present. The fly may deposit its
eggs and the eggs may hatch, but unless food
in the form of bacteria is present the maggot
quickly dies. Destroy bacteria and you prevent
strike.
Way-Bio strike preventive is the most powerful
anti-bacteria preparation known to science. It
is the result of scientific treatment of many
different species of Eucalypts in a specially-
designed plant wherein the compounding of their
active principles has produced the most positive
of all blowfly strike preventives. Unlike ordi-
nary remedies which may rapidly evaporate,
Way-Bio gives lasting protection because its
viscous components prevent evaporation and
preserve its highly antiseptic properties for long
periods. Order supplies from your stock and
station agent or general store, or write to the
Manufacturers, W. K. Burnside Pty., Ltd., Mel-
bourne and Sydney.
Vokes klejM
ONCE A YEAR
mn,mn
Atmospheric changes affect seal.
Coating burns off filament.
Vacuum declines with age.
Vibration upsets balance.
Heat injures insulation.
Gases upset stability.
Tiny grid wires warp.
Joints are strained.
REVALVE WITH
KADIOTRON
AUSTRALIAN MADE .... ALWAYS AVAILABLE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
47 York Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
+
Another reason why the
RED CROSS
needs your help!
m
m
>4
: 1
f \
mi h
Mobile Blood Banks for A.I.F. cost over £2,000 each
In today’s warfare, with ferocious
bombing of troops and civilians,
blood transfusion is necessary to
save thousands of lives that other-
wise would be lost through shock
and bleeding. Again the Red
Cross has stepped into the breach
by organising a National Blood
Transfusion Service, which enables
healthy citizens to give their blood,
which is grouped and stored for
use in saving lives of our men
wherever they may be fighting.
The Red Cross has already sup-
plied four Mobile Blood Banks for
the A.I.F. In addition the Red
Cross Society has established Blood
Transfusion Services in Capital
Cities and other important centres
in Australia as part of the National
Emergency Services.
Give HELP give NOW
. . . IT’S URGENT
Authorised by the Central Council of the Australian Red Cross Society.
mm
m
■w'
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines).
Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
well there, and one paddock of five acres,
shut up for 10 weeks, yielded 2\ tons of
clover hay. With s.c. Pascoe has con-
verted two areas that were almost un-
productive as a result of soil erosion
into highly productive pastures. Rye
grass was introduced into the sub. after
the land was ploughed. A big area is
saved for hay each year, and the owner
says he has no fear of drought. Pascoe
saves his own clover seed and got about
5701 b. of burr from a third of an acre.
Pigs are run on sub. clover at Koreelynn.
Pastures provide all of the feed, except
cracked grain given the sows at farrow-
ing and in winter.
“Mullengah”: As a lad of 20 Charles
Crichton came to Young (N.S.W.) from
Scotland 50 years ago. He bought a
block of 210 acres and stocked it with
200 lambs bought for 2s. 9d. each. His
first wool clip totalled five bales. The
Crichton properties, of which Glaisnock
is the chief, now total 7900 acres, and in
good seasons the clip reaches 300 bales.
Crichton is president of Young Show
Society, and was for 13 years president
of Burrangong Shire Council. He has
been on the council for 33 years. He
established a merino stud at Glaisnock
12 years ago, and has won many prizes
with his sheep at southern shows. Three
sons have properties of their own.
“Ben C.”: The C.S.I.R. offers the fol-
lowing suggestions as to substitutes for
ammonium sulphate as fertiliser: —Rice:
Nitrates can’t be used; in some cases
green manure alone is the only substitute.
Potatoes: Farmyard manure. Sugar-
cane : Green manure for first-year cane ;
artificial nitrogenous manures for second
or ratoon crops. Bananas: Sodium
nitrate; leguminous green manure crops
recommended, but inorganic nitrogen still
necessary. Sultanas and currants: Green
manure ; sodium nitrate. Citrus: Sodium
nitrate or green cover crops; farmyard
and sheep manure will wholly replace
ammonium sulphate. Pome and stone
fruits: Green cover crops or sodium
nitrate.
“Norther”: The Queensland Agricul-
tural Department is still calling for more
cotton. Dairymen in cotton country are
being urged to plant every spare acre.
The Commonwealth has guaranteed an
average of per pound for raw
cotton, which means at least 4.3 d. per
pound of seed cotton f.o.r. the nearest
railway station. From 5001 b. to 7001 b.
of seed cotton can be expected per acre
in cotton country ; with irrigation, up to
16001 b. Cost of seed is l|d. per pound
(delinted seed) and it takes 121 b. to sow
an acre. Seed can be had from the
Cotton Board, payment to come 'from
the crop.
Outback Occupations.
No. LXXXVI.
The Grey Destroyers.
Heaven only knows where they came
from. You go to bed one night with
everything in order; you get up next
morning and three of them hop out of
your left boot and run, squeaking, across
the floor. They’re scuttling all over the
house. In the kitchen the missus lets out
a shriek as mice cascade out of the cup-
boards, flood over the bread-box, pour
across the floor.
You and the boys take to them with
sticks. You get the dogs in, and the
cats. For a while there is great slaughter.
Then you get tired. The dogs get bored
with the mice and want to eat the cats,
which are also bored with the mice and
wouldn’t mind taking on the dogs. Some-
how you get breakfast.
There is a council of war. The boys
set about making traps out of kero, tins,
oil drums and other receptacles. The
missus ties her hair up in a scarf and
goes frantically about the house, shooing
and swishing and crying. You empty a
big box, swing it on wires from the ceil-
ing and put all the tucker in it.
Leaving the family battling you go
out to feed the horses. They’re in the
yard and you grab a bag of chaff. The
bag disintegrates into a million grey spots
which scuttle into the other bags. Fran-
tically you run to the stack of seed wheat.
It has germinated into grey grains, each
with four legs and a tail. And a rank,
musty smell rises from everything.
You sit down, fighting back a feeling
of panic, on a heap of empty bags. The
bags squeak and run away. You sit on
the ground, half-expecting it to do the
same. You try to make a plan, but what
can you do? You’ve fought fires and
floods, droughts, erosion, weeds, blow-
flies, sickness, grasshoppers, insurance
salesman, rabbits and rabbit inspectors,
taxation commissioners, footrot, lung-
worm, smut and shire councillors. But
none of them infested your home in mil-
lions, filled your mattresses, carpeted the
floors, flowed over and through and
around everything, died in thousands and
supplied more thousands to die, again to
be followed by more thousands to —you
pull yourself together and go to the
house.
The missus has collapsed. One of the
boys is ministering to her; the other sits
gloomily eyeing the moving landscape.
Realising that if ever your inspiring
leadership was needed it is needed now,
you rally them, order the boys to run up
a galvanised-iron fence round the house
and advise the missus to go and lie down.
“And where,” she asks bitterly, “will I
lie?”
There is no answer to that question
and you know it. You leave her sitting
there with the broom, her one sure
weapon against the grey horde that wants
to sample her ankles, and go forth to
aid the boys.
By dark the house is surrounded by a
2ft.-high iron barrier and you and the
family retreat inside it and attack the
invader. All night long the battle goes
on, the dead being carted to the barrier,
heaved over it and wiped out by the liv-
ing. Somewhere towards dawn you boil
the kettle and make tea —the only thing
to get the taste and smell of mice out of
your system. Worn out, the missus sleeps
on the table wrapped like a mummy in
blankets, guarded on either side by your
devoted sons, each of them weary to
death.
After the refreshment you stagger
outside and peer through the growing
light towards the stables. The thatched
roof has gone, and the uprights and
beams pulsate with the grey life. You
know there is nothing left of the chaff,
the hay, the grain that once were there.
The horses have gone to the paddock, the
dogs have disappeared, there isn’t a cat
in sight and the last surviving chook
roosts gloomily on the windmill plat-
form, knowing that she must come down
sooner or later and meet her fate. The
trees are still standing and you can hear
sheep bleating somewhere.
You go back inside, where there is
hardly a mouse left alive, and flop down
for a bit of sleep.
Later, you struggle up out of the
depths of unconsciousness. Your wife
has vanished ; so has your elder son. The
other boy is standing in a corner, trying
to count the mice that pour through the
door. You struggle up, brushing away
the grey horde flowing over you, and
wade through them to the verandah. By
sheer weight of numbers they’ve forced
down a panel of your barrier and are
coming on in an irresistible tide.
There is nothing to be done about it.
You feel sorry for the missus and your
elder boy, and the home you’ve known
so long, but weeping can’t save them,
You turn back to the survivor, but he,
too, has vanished. You feel a bit sorry
about that, for he was a good kid and
mi ght have made a champion farmer.
You fill your pipe, light it and take a
stroll round the house, looking at this
and that, wishing you could have kept
going, but too tired to fight against your
end. The myriads of mice heave and
struggle around you, their bright eyes
peer at you and you blow smoke at them
and laugh, for you’ve suddenly realised
that though this isn’t the end you’d have
chosen it doesn’t really matter, because
you’re purely an imaginary character
anyhow.
Just before the final grey wave of mice
comes on you grab a pencil and write:
The mice have eaten everything. Every
darned thing. Soon they’ll wipe me out.
Wel1 ’ a ™ an cwrt live forever and 1 had
a g°°d time while it lasted. This is the
end G f jack; Fordcubbin and his Outback
Occupations. So long, all.
And with a flourish you fade into the
limbo of fictional characters.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4jjd. per line; all others at
2«d. per line.
A Sydney man’s short study of civilisation and what it implies is No. 1 this week.
Civilised ?
I have just witnessed still another
writer’s amazement at the fact that Ger-
many, in such a short time, was able to
overwhelm France, “the most highly
civilised country in the world.” Rubbish.
Civilisation is one of those words now
so loosely used as to mean anything or
nothing—any deserted, flea-ridden hut is
a “sign of civilisation” to some citizens,
while the bigger the cities, slums and all,
the more “civilised” we are.
Civilisation to me implies a highly
desirable state in a country healthy
homes, wholesome food, a reasonable
balance of work and leisure for everyone,
unlimited opportunities for education
and, resulting from these conditions, an
interest in national affairs sufficiently
general and alert to keep them progres-
sive, clean and strong. In short, a nation
which can produce and enjoy comfort and
culture, and still stay fighting fit.
To acclaim a community as being
“highly civilised” because of its art and
literature when at the same time it is
world-famous for fancy food and dress,
and notorious for frills, frolics and
factions, when its politics are corrupt
and its birthrate stagnant, is not only
ridiculous but dangerous.
Perhaps I am wrong. Perhaps a man
is at his best when he sits back sur-
rounded by all the comforts, treasures,
services and reputation which his earlier
vigor brought him; when he can pay
others to keep him alive and do his deal-
ing and even his fighting for him. And
perhaps a nation similarly rich in material
matters is the most highly civilised. But
if it is, then civilisation is something to
avoid, and we want a new word to de-
scribe that nation which, having cleaned
itself of the mud of barbarism, can dis-
tinguish between progress and senility and
evolve measures for retaining its prime.—
D. L. (N.S.W.).
After the War
Mr. Eden’s declaration that a defeated
Germany would be rendered innocuous
militarily but that her economic rum
would not be sought (B. 27/8/ 41) was
not a wise one. The one end could not
be achieved without the other.
No large country that retains political
freedom and economic strength can be
kept militarily negligible, for armies can
be trained clandestinely and industry so
organised that factories can be switched
from production of peace to war
materials at a moment’s notice. In the
course of time conditions are certain to
arise that will enable whatever military
restrictions have been imposed to be
openly set aside.
The military penalties imposed on Ger-
many by the Treaty of Versailles were
more obnoxious to the Germans than
those of an economic character. All
sections of the community resented them.
Many who disagreed with Hitler’s general
policy supported him because he made
their abolition one of the main planks in
his platform.
Germany was able to rearm after the
1914-18 war and to attain her present
position through the quarrels of the
countries that fought her in 1914-18.
They were an ill-assorted lot drawn to-
gether by a variety of causes. Once the
war was over their divergent interests
asserted themselves and they went their
several ways. Some became rivals, and
two of the most important, Japan and
Italy, entered into close friendship with
Germany. The States that are or have
been associated with England in this
war are as heterogeneous a lot as the
last bunch, and there is no evidence that
they would long maintain a common
front.
No people of spirit will resign them-
selves to enforced military weakness
longer than circumstances compel. An-
other attempt to bind the German people
in this way, therefore, would suffer the
same fate as the last.
After the Napoleonic Wars the vic-
torious Allies did not try to cripple
France either materially or militarily,
though, under Napoleon, she had proved
as great a menace to her neighbors as
Germany is today. It was realised that
such-measures would play into the hands
of the militarist element in France. The
mildness of the victors had such good
results that Europe enjoyed peace for
nearly 40 years, and when war did break
out it was not France that was the
aggressor.— Castlereagh (N.S.W.).
Salute to Tobruk
The Federal Government met on
August 20 and adjourned on August 28
after what the newspapers described as
“nine days of feverish activity in which
questions of the greatest possible im-
portance to Australia were discussed.
In all those hours of talk about subjects
so important to Australia, sometimes ex-
tending to the midnight hour, not one
member thought fit to send on behalf of
the people of Australia a message of
encouragement and pride from the
national Parliament to the men of
Tobruk who are holding the ramparts
6000 miles from home. Recent letters
from the garrison published in the press
are bitter at the news of industrial
trouble-making and political selfishness
which has reached them from home.
What their feelings will be on hearing
that the national Parliament met and
adjourned without a message to them is
not hard to imagine.—W. K. D. (Q.).
Recruiting
There are other factors besides glamor-
ised war news which adversely affect
recruiting (B. 27/8/’4l). I enlisted the
other day at the age of 44 and would
say it was very badly publicised. Re-
cruiting posters should appeal for recruits
with more attention to the psychological
approach.
One of the more attractive features of
army life is the sense of real comrade-
ship which exists, sincerely and naturally,
in the army. It is something which is
peculiar to the services (army, navy and
air force) and does not exist in civilian
life. One recaptures (even at my age)
the freedom of school days, worries are
left behind, and one steps out into a new
future. Surely more emphasis should be
placed on these things in appealing for
recruits instead of the present crude
method. — Pte. (N.S.W.).
The Volunteer Defence Corps
The V.D.C., formed more than a year
ago, was confined originally to returned
soldiers. It was soon discovered that, in
country districts at least, the numbers of
returned men were too small to enable
the formation of units, so the corps was
thrown open to men of 18 to 60 not
eligible for the A.M.F. or the A.I.F. Since
that was done, great numbers have joined
the units, all of them busy men, many
coming miles- each week (in our district
up to 30 miles) to attend drills and field
days.
During these 12 months or more,
repeated promises of uniforms and equip-
ment have been made, and uniforms are
very tardily making their appearance.
But no equipment—not even a rifle or
a dummy round of ammunition —has been
issued for training purposes. One unit
I know of has had wooden rifles made
and weighted, at a cost of 2s. per head.
We have been told that there is a
shortage of supplies for overseas and
home defence, but in a near-by town
there is a survey unit equipped with
rifles and a Lewis m.g. which it has never
used and of whose use it
knows nothing. The local
V.D.C. unit has trained rifle
and m.g. instructors, but is
not allowed to have this stuff.
As for instruction, the
V.D.C. is an integral part
of the army, and has a
defined place in the defence
of Australia. Yet I do not
know of one case in which
the Army has allotted an
instructor to a V.D.C. unit.
Much help in training has
been given by militia officers,
but this has been voluntary.
And although many of the country men
have to travel miles, none of them has
received one penny even for travelling
expenses. Battalion and group com-
manders to do their jobs must cover,
and have covered, thousands of miles, but
so far they have received nothing. A
very few petrol ration tickets have been
reluctantly given, but not enough to buy
one tenth of the petrol used.
As for quotas, the V.D.C. has its
allotted work, but the numbers authorised
in each unit, battalion, etc., are hopelessly
inadequate for the jobs. Some day a
per capita fee of 10s. is to be made avail-
able for each member of the corps. The
total number authorised is at present
50,000, making the outlay for the whole
country £25,000. If conditions were im-
proved, double that number of men could
be got, but one supposes that the author-
ities are afraid of the extra cost!
So much for the treatment meted out
to as good a lot of men as this country
has produced. What is behind it? If
the Government does not want the corps,
let it say so and let the men save their
time and scanty petrol. But if the corps
is* needed, then action and encourage-
ment are long overdue.
These men want little. They don’t
want pay; they don’t care about uni-
forms ; they want only to be trained to
help defend the country if the need should
arise, and to be given some equipment
to train with, and some help in the way
of instruction. — Wahgunyah (Vic.).
Uniform Allowances
So the “Women’s Home Defence
Army” is to be provided with a “£2O
uniform allowance for all ranks”! The
militia officer “called up for full-time
duty” gets a uniform upkeep allowance
of £5 p.a. The one uniform is supposed
to last for two years. Anything like a
good, hard-wearing outfit costs all of ten
guineas from any military tailor, and
after a few months of continuous wear
the best feels and looks like any civvy
suit would after living in it for a year
without a change.
The days of social status and indepen-
dent income in commissioned ranks are
gone. As A.I.F. enlistments have de-
pleted the ranks of home-defence officers,
commissions have been granted to effi-
cient and well-deserving rankers. Many
of these officers have no personal means
other than army pay, but they are sup-
posed to keep up appearances and fit into
the more expensive life.
They were better off financially as
n.c.os., for now, as officers, they are
slugged by the heavy hand of taxation.
Further, if home-defence officers are —as
many highly-qualified technical men of
1914-18 experience have been —posted as
instructors at military schools, they don’t
get the 35.-a-day field allowance, an item
which makes a big difference.
A vast gulf separates A.I.F. and home-
defence army conditions. Yet, given the
opportunity, Australia’s home army
could handle a tough job equally with
the A.I.F. overseas, and it is deserving of
equal privileges. —D. B. K. (N.S.W.).
From Canada
It’s amazing how little anyone in
Canada knows of the country “down
under” ; they have a strange conception
of conditions of life there. For instance,
one officer confided to me that when the
first Australian course of pilots came to
this flying school everyone was very dis-
appointed in them. “We expected,” he
said, “tall, dark bushmen —like those
you have in your army —who say ‘Aus-
trylier.’ ” Our uniform, distinctive among
the grey-blues of Canadian, English and
Maoriland airmen, makes it easy for us
to enter into conversation with strangers
of every caste, and through them we find
how little is known of Australia.
The other week there was a Stampede
here and everyone said “You must go ;
you never see anything like this in Aus-
tralia.” We went and were fed up half-
way through. It was a very third-rate
edition of a Melbourne Royal Show —
only it consisted almost entirely of buck-
ing horses and steers. Yet this was given
free publicity by the newspapers as the
greatest spectacle of its kind in the world.
And Americans from the southern States
travelled all the way to Calgary to see
it. Surely some of that vast tourist
traffic could be attracted to Australia to
see the Sydney Easter Show.
One man did more for Australia over
here than ever the staff of the A.N.T.A.
did. He was R. G. Menzies. Everyone
here is full of praise for him. He is
remarkably popular because of his—to
them anyhow—sane and sensible outlook
on the war and its problems. If one
man can do as much as he did in help-
ing to cement bonds of friendship how
much more could expert publicity men
do. A pity that the A.N.T.A. doesn’t
use that sort of man. —400700 (Canada).
*
“The Far East”
I should like to have a crack at the
weird way in which we here in Australia
look at the map of the Pacific and the
lands to the immediate north of us. We
talk of “the Far Eastern” question,
adopting the phraseology and geographi-
cal outlook of London towards matters
at our front door.
It is small wonder that youngsters, for
instance, at an age when an intelligent
comprehension of what is going on in
the real world is essential to get a proper
balance after years of living inside the
covers of books, should regard this ‘ Far
Eastern” question as something remote
from them.
We want another term for the Japanese
situation and the conglomeration of
events in China, the China Seas and
above and around Singapore and the
N.E.I. It is definitely not the “Far
Eastern” question; it is the uncomfort-
ably Near North. —R. H. G. (W.A.).
New World Orders
Prime Minister Smuts, broadcasting his
vision of the future, forecasts the end
of small independent sovereign States and
the forcing together of a great world
organisation of free democracies, the
inner circle of which will be the British
Commonwealth, with the U.S.A. as the
closest to that circle, and outside Hitler’s
present victims. One guess is as good
as another, and if General Smuts likes
to tear a page out of the book of the
Communist canon and Hitler’s Mein
Kampf he is entitled to do it.
Bigger and bigger conglomerations ol
people are in the fashion, but fashions
have changed in the past and there is no
reason to believe they won’t go on chang-
ing in the future. Huge conglomerations
can’t be run on democratic lines because
they require an enormous amount of
organisation, so the tendency is towards
“Can you boys in the back row see quite clearly?”


REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
intensely centralised control, and that
control is just as likely to get into the
hands of a dull greengrocer sort of man
like Stalin or a violent fanatic like Hitler
as into the hands of a Pericles—in fact,
more likely. Dictators running huge
agglomerations of people on the lines of
a departmental store in competition with
other dictators with other departmental
stores don’t accord with my predilections
for the new world order, nor do they
suggest a world of peace and plenty. They
suggest rather intenser antagonisms and
greater conflicts.
Hence my vision of the future is the
reverse of Mr. Smuts’s. I see the world
breaking up into smaller and smaller
sections, as Europe did after the smash-
up of the Roman Empire.—L. L. (Vic.).
Youth and Age
Something revolutionary in the history
of economics was recently propounded
from a Presbyterian pulpit. Salaries
should decrease, not increase, with age,
said the man of God (with apologies for
trespassing on the field of economics).
A man’s stipend should be at its peak in
the strenuous days of providing for a
growing family. From that struggle, he
said truly, many a man emerges with
scars that the days of prosperity can
never efface.
However impracticable the idea would
prove in administration, it is an undeni-
able truth that prosperity comes to most
men when the adventurous needs of
youth have been reduced to the simple
requirements of old age.—Jack Hegh
(Vic.).
Overcrowded Schools
The politician who succeeds in having
a school to accommodate 700 or 800
pupils built in his electorate regards it
as a good job done ; but the local doctor
takes a different view of it. He knows
that a big school in the district means
more child ailments, more colds, more
’flu, more measles and whooping cough,
and more midnight calls by worried
mothers. Reasons are that an epidemic
in a school of seven or eight hundred
children naturally spreads faster and
further than in a school of a few hun-
dred, and in the bigger schools, space
being restricted, the children are con-
tinually crowded together and the risk
of contagion increased. Overworked
g.ps. would welcome a restriction of
schools to a few hundred pupils.—
Smilax (Q.).
Teachers and Punishment
I agree with “B. A. Ker” (B. 27/8/’4l)
when he says that caning in schools
should be abolished, but he’s out of date
when he mentions a “sixer” for “wagging
it.” That was the way in his day, per-
haps, and in my day in Maitland cer-
tainly. A similar method was used for
fighters and onlookers, names being read
off the old white starched cuff.
Today, however, a teacher simply for-
wards a blue form, with the particulars
of suspected truancy, to the Child Wel-
fare Department, and it then becomes a
question between an officer of the depart-
ment and the parent. The teacher has
no further worry. It is his job to teach,
not get the child to school.
The same method should be adopted
for children who are constantly and
wilfully disobedient in major matters.
Then the teacher will attain a more pro-
fessional status, instead of being a semi-
public-flagellator. — Plentyana (N.S.W.).
It does not follow that because
criminals and unruly universal trainees
are controlled without corporal punish-
ment (B. 27 /8 / ’4l) its use in schools is
unjustifiable. A criminal is gaoled, and
a trainee who refuses to obey orders or
is guilty of riotous conduct is given un-
pleasant fatigue duties or transferred to
a unit which performs the most uninter-
esting and onerous of army functions.
For schoolchildren to be treated simi-
larly they would have to be sent to a
reformatory, a form of correction that
should be reserved only for the most
desperate of cases.
There are many offences committed
by schoolchildren that are not serious
enough to deserve such a drastic method
of punishment, yet merit one less mild
than detention for an hour or so after
school.
In a primary school detention is the
only practical alternative to the cane for
ordinary school offences. It has the
double disadvantage that it is not feared
nearly as much and the teacher has to
remain as well as the culprits. Caning is
not necessary in high schools. Expulsion
after a certain number of warnings
would be a sufficient deterrent—imprac-
ticable in a primary school because
attendance is compulsory.
Of course it is not impossible to
manage schoolchildren without recourse
to corporal punishment. I have been in
classes that ;were models of good be-
havior under one master, though he was
mild-manered, and bedlam under another
of much more impressive presence. The
boys made no attempt to rag the first
because they instinctively realised that
he was not to be trifled with, while the
other was all threat and no performance.
Unfortunately the first type —a natural
leader—is exceptional in any sphere of
life. The mass of teachers must rely on
means other than personality for con-
trolling their charges.— Lyle (N.S.W.).
The only mistake —and it was funda-
mental —that the Minister of Education
in N. S. Wales made in banning the cane
in schools was to make his decision
public. The instant he did so it became
a theme for polemics in which prejudices
were aired by all and sundry, and teachers
were obliged to commit themselves in one
way or another. If the Minister had quietly
approached his subordinates and ex-
pressed his private opinion that the use
of the implement was an indication of
lack of ability on the part of the teacher,
nine-tenths would have thankfully
accepted.
The number of teachers who want to
use the cane is very meagre ; and once
non-use of the cane became the standard
it would be a virtue. Any resort to
the old primeval method would be re-
garded as a failure on the part of the
teacher.
Corporal punishment is quite un-
scientific, and modern intelligent opinion
is all against it since psychologists like
Freud and Adler have published their
researches into the unconscious. Re-
"I Want three gentlemen to come up on the platform!”
pression of a desire does not remove the
desire, but only makes it manifest itself in
another direction, and the teacher who
believes in repression is simply ignorant
and old-fashioned. — Pawang (Vic.).
Juveniles
“Plain Jane” (B. 27/8/’4l), if a woman,
can’t have any sons of minor age, other-
wise she would think twice before giving
them the Open Sesame. The age of con-
sent is authoritative because of the admis-
sion that juveniles don’t reach adult
reason until 21. The argument that if a
man is old enough to fight he is old
enough to decide for himself doesn’t
wash because it would be applicable to
the married state, and we should then be
down to the level of primitive people.—
JIKA (Vic.).
Professors and Newspapers
As an ex-newspaperman I am inclined
to agree with “Viator’s” protest (B.
20/8/’4l) against university professors
writing for the papers and doing us out
of our precious-little-a-line ; but it would
be unreasonable to expect them to re-
frain from supplying authoritative tech-
nical articles when requested. Having
had some training in science and several
years of close association with scientific
work, I can assure “Viator” that among
technically-trained men the popular press
is notorious for the inaccuracy of the
little chunks of scientific stuff published
from time to time.
News items on .technical matters,
especially cabled items, are almost in-
variably followed by a statement in the
next issue to the effect that Prof. A. at
the University says the reported new
element was discovered 15 years ago, or
the new American cure is well known to
Australian medical circles. It never
occurs to the dailies that they could
easily check up on their facts by ’phon-
ing local authorities before publishing
reports of marvellous steps in scientific
progress.
Worse than the cabled stuff is the
article by a well-intentioned journalist on
some local development in engineering
or applied chemistry. A few weeks ago
a Melbourne paper published an article
on gas producers which was chock-full of
technical errors, which any graduate in
engineering or science would spot at
once. It was typical of the rubbish that
is being published almost every day.
The only articles on technical topics
that I place any reliance on are those
writen by qualified experts, and even then
I sometimes fear the sub-editor’s blue
pencil has been at work, deleting the
essential or boosting the trivial. Journal-
ism is nobody’s preserve; Australian
journalism would be saner and healthier
if everybody stuck to the few subjects
he really knows something about. —
Wusslean (Vic.).
“Costless Credit”
I am not concerned with “costless
credit” or any other class of credit. But
I was amazed to find “Peak” (B.
13/8/’4l) state “Basically, money is a
convenient commodity to effect an ex-
change of goods and services.” Money
is not a commodity. It is simply a record
of wealth or services. The time will
come when the human race will abolish
it altogether and put in its place a more
efficient system of recording the doings
of the commercial world.
Are we to assume that the yardstick
and the scales are the creators of all
wealth? Man creates all wealth, and it
is from this reservoir we must draw.
During the last war the British Govern-
ment ran short of money, and millions of
it was created double-quick. This was
quite justifiable, because the valueless
pieces of paper were backed up with all
the resources of the British people.
I notice that in all talk relating to
money and finance discussion seems to
be endless. Why? The simplest of
all phases of our civilisation is money
and finance. But the simplest matter
in the world can be made complex
by ignoring (or ignorance of) elementals.
Men do not work for money, but work
for a concrete objective. Wealth- will
not last long, and is consumed on the
one hand or wears out on the other. But
money is not destroyed in the sense
that wealth is. A five-pound note printed
by the Bank of England over a century
ago is still as good today as the day it
was printed.
Work {plus intelligence) is the only
thing that will bring us wealth. So far
no wizard has discovered the magical
means by which Homo sapiens can dodge
work. Certainly our capacity for produc-
ing wealth has increased enormously—
i.e., we get bigger catches in our nets.
But the idea of multiplying our scales
and yardsticks to make us better off is a
pretty fairy tale. — Herbert Mulvihill
(M.L.).
N.T. Roads
“X.T.” (B. 6/8/’4l) should be sure of
his facts before criticising the Spender-
Foil policy of road-building. The Ten-
nant Creek-Queensland border road has
been formed and will be gravelled later
where necessary. The country traversed
is undulating ; the height from the top of
the rises to the bottom of the hollows
varies from 50 to 150 feet, and is there-
fore easily drained. Also there are 70
miles of it following a flat divide where
no drainage will be necessary. It would
be of no advantage to raise it three feet
above the “surrounding plain,” as “X.T.”
says the Indian Grand Trunk road is,
because there is no plain.
Some vehicles did bog to the cardan
shaft on the new north-south highway,
but this was only to be expected when
some 300 miles of road were constructed
by S.A., Queensland and N.S.W. road
authorities in about 76 working days. The
total length which gave trouble did not
exceed 2 p.c. of the length of the whole
road, and that is something of an achieve-
ment. These bad patches were repaired
by the State’s maintenance gangs and
by the army pioneers, and right through
the wettest season for 20 years the
heaviest road troop movement ever
undertaken in Australia took place. A
hundred or so vehicles a day are still
using the road. —G. (Q.).
Party Politics
So the British public is “puzzled by
the crisis in Australian Federal politics.”
In any other part of the world than the
Antipodes it is incomprehensible that that
Dominion, whose troops have held the
centre of the stage in battle, should be
so remote from the conflict psychologi-
cally as well as geographically. The two
factors do not make sense, least of all
to those who have been riding out the
storm in their island fortress for so long.
Perhaps some members of the British
public are remembering only too bitterly
the price of politics. The whole world
has been paying a stiff price for French
politics for more than 12 months, and
will go on footing that bill
for a long time to come.
But the sorry tale goes
back further than that.
This war itself might be
laid at the door of Ameri-
can party politics, as
many thoughtful Ameri-
cans admit. Woodrow
Wilson’s adversaries would
not let him get away with
the proposals he fathered
for the saving of the world.
What might have been a
reasonable foundation for
an eventual New World
Order, given time and the
necessary weight and
prestige, was sabotaged for
party ends by the opposi-
tion in Washington.
A League of. Nations
strong enough to with-
stand its own growing
pains, courageous enough
to correct its shortcomings,
universal to make compul-
sions effective, might have
withheld the act that
started the stone‘that dis-
lodged the boulder that
caused the avalanche. I
said might, for it is one of history’s great
“Ifs.” But we could at least have known
the answer, have had the benefit of a
great experiment tried to the utmost, if
it had not been for party politics.—
Vigilant (Vic.).
Apples and Pears
A Victorian orchardist of my acquain-
tance, a hard-working fellow conspicuous
for his unfailing good humor in any
sort of circumstance, informed me with
his habitual grin the other day that he
had just been instructed to dig a trench
round his fruit trees, shake his apples
and pears into it and then fill in the crop
under instructions from the Apple and
Pear Board, the compensation he gets
for each tree thus wantonly despoiled
being Is. 6d. At the same time I read
that thousands of Victorian school-
children are suffering from malnutrition.
The “explanation” of why food must
be destroyed instead of being given away
is that it would cost more to gather,
transport and market it than the price
the producer would get if the retailer
were to make a profit. The answer I would
give to that example of departmental
reasoning is that evidently retailers’
profits are more important than the
children. —C. Q. (Vic.).


Is yow cai hard
to start ?
Good, hot sparks are an aid to quick
starting reduce strain on the battery.
Discard worn-out spark plugs. Install
new Champions and enjoy a
peppy, responsive engine.
They will soon pay for
themselves in the fuel
they save. Factories,
Feltham, Eng.
Windsor, Can.
Toledo, USA.
a
%
A
%
m
asm
ail
iSiii
■a
im
iii
m
??il mm
MSI
mmfflk
imm
C
CONTAINS SILLMENT
THE MIRACLE MINERAL
Sillment seals
Champions
against trouble-
some leakage,
at the shoulder
andpast the cen-
ter electrode,
common to or-
dinary spark
plugs. This
patented fea-
ture corrects
rough, uneven
and wasteful en-
gine operation
caused by leaky,
overheated
spark plugs.
Install new
Champion Spark Pings!
Answers to Correspondents
No notice ( except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stapips accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused :
P.K.: —
Stalin in one great slam
Blew up the Dnieper dam,
Engulfing, inundating
Millions of those whom he is justly hating.
. ...M.M.: “Why should she bewitch me so?
This is what you wish to know.” Who said
we did? A.D.0.: Why dost thou say “Yet
fair art thou” when thou meanest “Yet you
are fair”? AJ.McI.: Show us something
a bit less melodramatic... .E.S.: Conventional
themes, conventionally treated A.S.: For a
woman’s paper... .T.G.: Keep at it E.R.J.:
You flatter us C. 8.5.: Both have a glimmer.
E.L.P.: Try it on the marines J.M.:
That one’s been going the rounds for a long
time L. 8.: Its lightheartedness is appealing;
but it’s too clumsy in parts and too flimsy
as a whole... .A. 8.5.: The yarn, like the
“ ’ermit,” is adorned with a yard of snowy
ziff.., .T.M.L.: Your pacifist’s hardly up to
Holy Willie.. ..G.H.G. (England): Adds
nothing to Kipling W.M.: It’s only a frag-
ment A.W.R.: That one’s not up, but keep
trying W.C.D.: “The Wounded Bird” flut-
tered into the w.p.b D.C.F.: Treacly
PJ.: “The Last Boat Home” sunk at the
moorings... .H.R.L.: Read it to the office
bore to get rid of him... .F.G.8.: You’re a
little late with “War Will Come” 8.F.M.:
Not here.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.McC.: The damsel glued to the queer
bend in the horse’s back looks more tragic than
comic 8.M.: Why deprive the poor fellow
of ears and eyebrows? V.A.K.: Linework
fair, but poses are all too stilted T.G.: Cut
out that wash and concentrate on line work,
using stipple for your half-tones D.N.:
Mummified south of the waist K.S.L.: How
could three amorphous lumps of wood talk
across a bar counter to another chunk?
G.E.C.: There are faint hopes for you as
a signwriter’s straight-line drawer... .S.P.: AH
lack vitality W.H.: Old gags and slapdash
art are a fatal combination... .G.F.G.: There
is always hope when one is 15 S.R.: At least
your energy is impressive J.G.: Two verti-
cal corpses on the golf links have been re-
moved to the 19th... .M.L.: Awful.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.; P. E. Loxton, Esq.;
Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.; E. E. D. White, Esq.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Hi
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Wanted by man-nurse position in w. Vic. to
care for elderly gentleman or invalid. —2326.
Pointer dog to mate with pedigreed bitch.
Good home. —2345.
To buy small printing outfit. —2328.
Information Sought.
(1) Are the air cadet squadrons which are
to be formed to be full-time courses? (2) If
so, what course does the Air Force intend giving
to extend training over one to two years ? (3)
Are instructors to have honorary positions, or
will they be full-time instructors from the
R.A.A.F. ? (4) 1 have applied for a position
as education officer with the R.A.A.F. In the
event of my being unsuccessful in this, would
it be possible to apply for the position of in-
structor in the cadets? (5) What are the
various ranks in R.A.A.F. and corresponding
ranks in Navy and Army? —l9l3.
(1) All squadrons of the Air Training Corps
will operate on a part-time and honorary basis.
Cadets will be required to attend training
parades on two nights in each week and alter-
nate Saturday afternoons. (2) A comprehen-
sive syllabus of instruction has been prepared
to cover the two-year course for cadets who
enrol at 16 years of age. Similar courses
of six, 12 and 18 months’ duration have been
prepared for cadets who enrol at the ages of
17£, 17 and 16jt years respectively. (3) All in-
structors will act in an honorary capacity, a
number being granted honorary commissions as
training officers. (4) An unsuccessful applicant
for a commission as an R.A.A.F. education
officer could apply for an honorary commis-
sion in the Air Training Corps. In the case
of Queensland, the application should be for-
warded to No. 3 Wing Headquarters, Brisbane.
(5) The relative rank of officers and airmen
with the officers of the Navy and Army is shown
in the following table:
Air Force. i Navy. Army.
Marshal of the Admiral of the Field-Marshal.
Air Force. Fleet.
Air Chief Admiral. General.
Marshal.
Air Marshal. Vice-Admiral. Lieut.-General.
Air Vice- Rear-Admiral. Major-General.
Marshal.
Air Commodore Brigadier.
Commodore. (Ist and 2nd
Class).
Group Captain. Captain. Colonel.
Wing Commander. Lieut.-Colonel.
Commander.
Squadron Lieutenant- Major.
Leader. Commander.
Flight-Lieut. Lieutenant. Captain.
Flying Officer. Sub-Lieutenant. Lieutenant.
Pilot Officer. Act. Sub-Lieut. Second
(com. officer Lieutenant.
from warrant
rank).
* * * *
How can a position as air hostess be
obtained, and what are the qualifications? —
2180.
The method adopted in regard to the appoint-
ment of air hostesses by Australian National
Airways is that application is first made to the
co.’s matron for a personal interview. A
limited number of applicants are then chosen to
attend an air hostess training school in Mel-
bourne, at which evening lectures are given
over six to seven weeks. At the completion of
the lectures those trainees considered suitable
are put on a waiting list. As vacancies occur
they are given one month’s probation as air
hostesses, and if their work proves satisfactory
at the end of this time they are appointed to
the permanent flying staff. As the classes are
held in Melbourne, applicants must live mere
whilst attending lectures. The co. does not hold
itself responsible for any expenses incurred in
connection with attendance at training classes.
* * * *
Biographical details of J. F. Archibald ?
1769.
Jules Francois Archibald was born at Warr-
nambool (Vic.) in 1856; his father was an
Irishman of Scottish extraction and his mother
a Frenchwoman of partly Jewish descent. He
worked on a local newspaper for a while 'ancl,
after experience in Melbourne and Queensland,
joined the Sydney “Evening News” in 1879,
met John Flaynes and, with him, founded The
Bulletin. He took complete charge of the
literary side of the paper and “gathered round
him the most brilliant coterie of young writers
Australia had as yet seen. Several of them, in-
deed (e.g., Louis Becke), he may be said to
have made; there was not one he did not
train, and improve in the training. Henry
Lawson, Victor Daley, A. B. Paterson, Bar-
croft Boake, Louis Becke, Steele Rudd, Price
Warung, John Farrell —the list could be doubled
with ease; and two more names must be added
to his list of discoveries, though literature was
not exactly their metier —those of James
Edmond, who succeeded him as editor, and ot
Norman Lindsay.” Archibald settled down as
editor of The Bulletin, and “as a sub-editor
(and he was probably the greatest sub-editor
Australia has known)” he pruned away ‘ with
delicate and almost unerring judgment the crudi-
ties and excrescences that abound in the
writings of ardent but untrained youth. Fail-
ing health in 1902 forced him gradually to with-
draw from active work, and in 1914 he sold his
interests in The Bulletin to the still-working
partners. In 1918 a good offer took him to
“Smith’s Weekly,” but he died on September
10, 1919.
* * * *
Would a study of Esperanto be justified
in Australia? Any club or organisation that
would assist a student ? —2252.
No practical advantage in such study. No
tutors known in Sydney, and no club.
* * * *
. (1) Is there a law in Queensland which allows
a man to brand stock running wild in the bush
and carrying no brand ? (2) If so, has a person
to own any certain number of stock of his own
before having a right to brand? —2270.
(1) No. This may lead to a breach of the
Criminal Code in relation to illegal branding
unless the person branding such stock can prove
ownership. (2) Under Section 18 of the Q.
Brands Acts 1915 to 1937, an owner of a
registered brand is required t 9 transmit a
return of all stock owned by him, and if he
fails during three consecutive years to transmit
such return all registered brands and earmarks
of which he appears to be the owner may at
the discretion of the Minister be cancelled. It
will therefore be seen that to retain the owner-
ship of a 'brand a person must make e return
of stock owned by him.
* * * *
(1) Is bee-farming profitable in Australia ?
(2) How much capital is required? (3) Where
can information be obtained? —2284.
(1) A fair living can be made from bee-
farming. It is necessary, however, to gain a
good knowledge covering the management of
bees and to have the apiaries established in a
district favorable for honey production. (2)
A start in commercial bee-farming may
be made with about £3OO. This amount would
secure, say, 100 hives of bees and necessary
items of plant. (3) Arrangements could be made
to visit the Hawkesbury Agricultural College,
Richmond (N.S.W.). A modern apiary is
established at the college and demonstrations are
given amongst the bees.
* * # *
(1) What do the following terms denote with
regard to mineral oils: crude, fuel, Diesel, dis-
tillate, residual? (2) Are there any engines
which function on crude oil? —2256.
(1) Crude oil is petroleum as it issues from an
oil well. It is a mixture of many substances,
ranging often from natural gas down to bitu- .
men, and including dirt, sand and water. It is
obviously unsuitable for use without some form
of refining. Fuel oil is a general term cover-
ing distillate, Diesel oil and residual, but is
generally used to cover that portion of the
crude which is left over after petrol and kero-
sene have been removed and the dirt and
water separated out. It is suitable for use in
furnaces, boilers, etc. Distillate is the fuel
which is distilled from the crude immediately
after the kerosene. It is a high-grade Diesel
fuel. Diesel fuel is a grade of fuel
oil which is sufficiently light and sufficiently
clean and free from harmful impurities to be
useful as fuel in the average medium or slow-
speed Diesel engine. Residual oil is another
name for fuel oil, since it includes that pro-
portion of the petroleum which is left over
after the petrol, kerosene and possibly distillate
have been removed. (2) There are - practically
no crudes on which an engine would function
satisfactorily. It is a very common error to
refer to fuel oil, Diesel oil and distillate as
“crude oils,” and to refer to Diesel engines as
“crude-oil engines.”
* * * *
How can 1 convert a quantity of champagne
that has gone flat into vinegar? —227l.
You will need one pint of good-quality wine
vinegar. Put it into a large bottle or jar and
suspend in it a piece of yeast about the size
of a walnut and wrapped in cloth. Add a pint
of the champagne and leave it stand for three
days. Add a pint of the wine every three days
till you have sufficient vinegar, then bottle it.
* * * *
When starching dresses, what should be used
to prevent bits of starch adhering after ironing ?
—2277.
Trouble is in the making of the starch, not
the ingredients. Put one tablespoon of starch
into a basin, measure two tablespoons of cold
water on to it and mix to a smooth paste,
using a wooden spoon for preference. Now
pour in rapidly one pint of boiling water till
the color changes to the typical starch color
and is thickish. Measure quantity of this
mixture and add to it an equal volume of hot
water. This is full-strength laundry starch;
dilute with cold (for frocks one part to eight
parts of water). Knead and squeeze garment in
this solution, squeeze out, rub off all surface
starch with muslin rag wrung out of hot water
and iron immediately.
* * * *
Cure for fowls eating eggs? Could it be
taken for granted that one hen only is the
culprit, there being eight laying hens in the
run ? —2278.
Egg-eating among a pen of fowls may be
commenced by one hen, but if it has been going
on for any time it would be highly probable
that most of the birds of that pen would have
developed the habit. A cure is difficult. Fre-
quent gathering of the eggs is most necessary.
The liking of the fowls for the egg may be dis-
couraged if one or two eggs are blown, filled
with ammonia, the hole sealed up and the
eggs placed in the pen. If the egg-eating habit
was general, the birds would rush at these eggs
and break them. The fumes would be most
objectionable to them.
* * * *
The value of the solar constant is reckoned
in calories. What is the relative value of one
such calory? —226o.
The rate of arrival of energy from the sun
to the earth’s surface is 1.94 calories per
minute. A calory is the amount of heat which
will raise one gramme of water one degree centi-
grade in temperature. To express this in
British units the relationship is 2.52 calories
to one British thermal unit, which is the
amount of heat required to raise one pound of
water through one degree Fahrenheit.
* * * *
What can I do to prevent glazed tiles sur-
rounding an open fireplace from falling out from
the effects of heat? Ordinary mortar will not
stand the high temperature? —232s.
Nothing except, after setting tiles in mortar,
to avoid lighting a fire for as long a time as
possible, even six weeks. Heat is very de-
structive of cement.
Brief Answers.
W.K.T.: (1) The Federal basic wage for the
six capital cities (as a whole) was at August,
1914, 555. 6d.; at August, 1916, 645.; at August,
1939, 795.; at August, 1941, 86s. (2) The cost-
of-living relatives for the same dates are 100,
116, 133 and 146 T.R.W.: Total coffee ex-
ported from Brazil in 1939-40 was 15,553,000
bags valued at £14,892,162 sterling 8.5. R.:
Lionel Logue, specialist in speech defects, was
born at Kent Town, Adelaide, on February 26,
1880. Yes, he attended George V1....P.L.:
The schooner Boomerang left Newcastle for
Clarence River on January 12, 1865, and was
never heard of again... .R.T.: Queensland is
the second largest State in the Commonwealth-
-670,500 square miles R.L.P.: Tennant
Creek is the main goldfield in the N.T. Write
to the Mines Department, Darwin L.D.:
Kalgoorlie draws its water from Mundaring
Weir on the Helena River, a few miles from
Perth K.R.8.: Pelsart’s ship, the Batavia,
was wrecked on the Abrolhos Islands, off
Geraldton (W.A.), in June, 1629 S.V.F.:
Write to the N. S. Wales Department of Agri-
culture for its booklet on the codlin moth.
R.L.: Yes, both the platypus and echidna
lay eggs and suckle their young D.M.R.:
Write to Angus and Robertson, Sydney....
G.R.H.: Menzies did not force Lyons to resign;
Menzies resigned from the Lyons Ministry
over the National Insurance question shortly
before Lyons’s death L.W.: The southern
bank of the Murray River (not the river itself)
is the border of N. S. Wales and Victoria
T. 8.: The Snowy River rises in the Southern
Alps, flows generally east, then turns south,
then west, then south again through east Gipps-
land into the sea S.M.: (1) Yes. There are
five homoeopaths listed on page 72 of the
Sydney Classified Telephone Directory. (2)
Write* to Elliotts and Australian Drug Pty.,
Ltd., 20 O’Connell-street, Sydney 8.C.: The
effect of such a regimen would be to produce
thirst and diarrhoea. An intake of six drachms
of salt each day would not affect the brain.
Dogs do not go mad as the result of gnawing
ham-bones 111 : A truss is merely a mechani-
cal device designed to retain a reduced hernia
(or “rupture”) in some position approximating
normal. See a doctor A.M.N.: Don’t know
the meaning of “secondary constipation.” May
be able to advise if you send further details.
A.G.T.: Unfortunately, no treatment is
likely to produce any improvement; the damage
is done and cannot be repaired. A quiet,
ordered life such as you are leading is the only
precaution against further damage... .D.S.:
Little is known as to the underlying causes of
the condition, but the one outstanding feature
is that in a very high proportion of cases there
appears to be an inherited and constitutional
basis for the disease. High blood pressure and
its sequelae (results) “run in families.” Diffi-
cult to estimate the effects of modern life and
the use of alcohol and tobacco. The onset of
the disease cannot be prevented with certainty.
Drugs haven’t much permanent effect....
T.L.M.: “Cyanogas” releases hydrocyanic acid
gas when exposed to the air. It is widely used
for fumigation and pest-destruction. Write to
Buzacott-Wolseley, 7 Market-street, Sydney, for
detailed information and instructions Miss
B. : Write to the secretary Women’s Volun-
tary National Register, 16 O’Connell-street,
Sydney F.E.C.: Q’land population at the
last census (1933) was 947,534, and in 1939
it was 1,015,927. Commonwealth population
in 1914 was 4,940,952, and in 1939 the figure
was 6,997,326 T.J.McR.: Young adults very
frequently increase in. height a little after the
early twenties begin, but no system of exercises
is likely to accelerate the process. Don’t overdo
physical exertion merely with the idea of adding
to your stature... . D.J.L.: The motto of the
State of Massachusetts is Ense Petit Placidam,
sub Libertate Quietem— With the Sword She
Seeks Quiet, Peace Under Liberty P.R.V.:
There are two ways in which that should not
be done, and you’ve tried them both. Any of
the other methods you mention should give
better results G.M.H.: Principal products
of Tanganyika are sisal, cotton, coffee, ground
nuts, hides and skin, beeswax and ivory
G.F.K.: For a graphotype block, the draw-
ings are made on a chalk surface with a silicious
ink. After the surface is dry the soft parts
are brushed away and a block is made from
what remains in relief... .K.H.S.: Sounds a
rather tall tale. However, there is a breed of
rabbit, the Flemish Giant, that weighs around
151 b. to 201 b H.J.H.: May be some connec-
tion. Leghorn (or Livorno) is an Italian pro-
vince on the Mediterranean, with an area of
133 sq. m J.L.W.: From your description,
most likely a falculia, which has that sickle-
shaped bill. Found only in Madagascar
C. : When founded in 1865 the Salvation
Army was known as the Christian Mission.
The present title was adopted in 1878 :
W.8.F.: Under the Constitution of Chile the
President is elected for six years, the 45
Senators for eight years and the 143 Deputies
for four years, all by direct popular vote....
F.J.S.: Certainly foolproof, but nevertheless
rather unnecessary precautions 5.8. R.:
Nothing in Hoyle to that effect. Sounds like
a purely local ruling.


L
as
TO
PROTECTION
99
U'
r
WATERPROOF
TARPAULINS,
TENTS, Etc.
No matter how hard the downpour or how continuous the rain,
"BIRKMYRE" tarpaulins give you undoubted protection.
The canvas is made from highest grade raw materials by
Scottish workers and the famous BIRKMYRE PROOFING is
recognised as the world's best. Obtainable from reputable
makers. If any difficulty is experienced in getting supplies,
write Wholesale Distributors:
GOUROCK ROPES AND CANVAS LTD.
(Incorporated in Scotland.)
BRISBANE MELBOURNE SYDNEY
SMOKE-OH!
“Although aware that an enemy patrol was
advancing towards him somewhere out there
in the darkness, he determined to stick doggedly
to his port.”— “D.T.”
And perhaps fling the bottle defiantly
at them when it was empty.
b b b b
“This particular labor-saving device will prove
a veritable boob to the housewife.” — Advt.
Most wives, however, will opine that
the boob they’ve already got working
for them is enough.
»I« b ►!« b
“She had no idea that her hostess had got
her new top set of teeth only that day. It
came out in the course of conversation.”
— Woman’s paper.
And didn’t the dentist get roared up
afterwards!
b b b b
b b b b
“Some confusion resulted from the expressed
intention of several members of the committee
of arranging for the disposal of the surplus
fruit. Eventually it all fell on the secretary.”
— Woman’s paper.
Let’s hope it hadn’t gone bad in the
meantime.
b b b b
“What does the young author learn from his
first few stories?”— Literary course.
How efficient the postal services are.
b b b b
“ ‘No fun making comedies,’ says movie
director.”
Nor in paying to see them.
b b b b
“Youth can be yours quickly.”
— Advertisement.
But Prudence insists on knowing first
what he looks like.
•b b b b
“Hair waves for men proposed.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
Absent-minded s.p. bettors, when
asked by their hairdressers “A long
waved bob or a short bob, sir?” might
dreamily respond “Oh, a bob each way
as usual.”
b b b b
“Schreck was the next and last man to add
to Dalby’s tally. He snatched the ball from a
Toowoomba player and ran 25 years un-
opposed.” — Dolby ( Q .) “Herald.”
He’d have been going yet but the
team’s trainer couldn’t keep up with him.
•b b b b
“Girls Pull Old Car to Pieces.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
When gossiping my lady quits
And all her week-end leisure spends
In pulling motor-cars to bits —
I wonder has she any friends 9
P.C.
“Any idea what time the blackout starts, mister ?”
“Bertha’s face was twisted in agony as she
came to the decision. Only skilled surgery,
she felt, could now save Clive. She would
consent. Dr. Berthold could operate on his
head.” — Short story.
That’s how easy it was to the doc.!
b 4 1 b >!’
“Watch, lady’s 9cwt. small, square, black
cord band.” — “S.M.H.” Lost and Found ad.
She had plenty of spare time on her
hands!
•J* •£• •£•
b *!* b
“ ‘You know,’ said Amy Fotheringham con-
fidentially, ‘my son Gilbert takes the queerest
view of things. 1 really don’t know what to
make of him.’ ” — Serial story.
What about a candid-cameraman?
b •!• v *l*
“The two girls, who will be coming down for
the spring meeting, will be starving at the home
of their aunt, Mrs. .”— Social report.
Well, they’ll be no worse off than if
they put up at our boardinghouse.
4* 4*
“Before rebuilding operations the church
would hold at most three hundred. Now it
will accommodate seven.” — Church paper.
Any further expansion and it is feared
the kirk will disappear altogether.
b b b b
“A hundred widows mourn a king.”
— "World’s News.”
In his present state the king must be
happy for the first time.
“Bride deserted on wedding day.”— “Sun.”
Perhaps she prepared the breakfast
herself.
q. q. b b
“Last summer’s shortening of skirts, it is
thought, reached the limit in brevity consistent
with dignity; this spring they will not be worn
any longer.”— Woman’s paper.
And to hell with dignity.
*|#
“Women tram conductors.” — “Sun.”
The one thing they insist upon,
Or else they’ll get the huff,
Is that the bags have extra space
To take the powder-puff.
E.
To the Girl Friend.
Now that we’ve argued all the night,
And / have proved you can’t be right,
Employing dialectic bright
And wielding satire’s thong ;
My thesis being proven true,
Seeing I’m arguing with you
There’s only one thing left to do —
Admit that l am wrong!
T. W. NATHAN.
A Washout.
“When washing cretonne add a handful of
bran to each pint of cold water.”
— Woman’s paper.
It was really the wife’s fault! She
went down to her ma’s in the country
for a week or two, and you know how
women put things away where you can
never find them. Well, a man couldn’t
spend all the morning looking for the
bootbrushes, so I just gave the shoes a
brighten-up on the nearest thing avail-
able in the bedroom, which happened to
be the cretonne curtains. Unfortunately
some of the boot polish showed up on
them.
The only thing to do was to wash them
before the wife got back. Remembering
the handy-hint I’d read in paper wrapped
round some empties, I soaked a dozen
handfuls of bran in the copper with the
curtains. After putting them through the
wringer I found that the bran was still
thick in the tucks, and you know what
picking wet bran out of rucks and tucks
is like. So I co-opted the services of a
couple of Leghorn roosters. My only
mistake lay in not allowing for their
spurs and enthusiasm.
I’m now going the rounds of the rag-
shops, and 1 hope to match the stuff and
get it made up before she returns to-
morrow.
ELM.
Habit.
“Her husband used to go to two-up schools
every night. He never stayed long in any em-
ployment.”—Divorce report.
He tossed the pennies; and so hot
The habit grew in this gay pup
That when a job of work he got
He very promptly tossed it up.
H. M.
Hatters.
“Do you remember when first we put feathers
on our hats?”— Woman’s paper.
“But how fashions have altered since
then, Mabel. You should see the creation
I bought last week”
“You bought it last week? And
you’re still wearing it! Oh, darling, how
terribly old-fashioned of you.”
“I can’t help myself ; it’s such a pet.
It’s the sweetest blue feather you ever
saw, and, would you believe it, the
feather is actually trimmed with a little
hat!”
EVE.
Explanation.
The specialist, bottom lip between
thumb and forefinger, turned to his
patient. “This nagging stomach pain,
have you had it before?”
His elderly patient nodded emphati-
cally. “Oh, yes, at various times.”
“H’m —just whereabouts do you
get it?”
“■Right in the pit of the stomach,
doctor.”
“Well, just how would you describe
it?”
“It’s a sort of constant gnawing. A
dull sort of a nag.”
“H’m. Just get on this table, if you
don’t mind.”
For the next five minutes the specialist
pressed and pummelled every square
inch of the torso beneath his hands.
After that more catechism. He was
finding the case rather puzzling. He
tried another angle. “Do you get this
pain after meals?”
His patient considered deeply. “No,”
he announced at last. “Now I come to
think of it, I don’t. And I do wish you’d
hurry, doctor. I am due to take my class
at 11.”
“I won’t keep you much longer, pro-
fessor. You say you don’t get this pain
after meals. Yet it has manifested it-
self only since about nine this morning.
Surely that would have been a little
after you had had your”
His patient leaped to his feet and
seized hat and stick. “My God, doc., I
think I know now what it is. I forgot
to have breakfast this morning!”
K.
Beauty Abandoned.
“Almost every chemical that goes on to a
woman’s face to help make it beautiful is in-
dispensable for purposes of war.”
—Brisbane “Telegraph.”
If, then, dishevelled women pass
Like pitiful unpainted ships ;
If streets of broken looking-glass
Precede a dearth of ruby lips,
Deny not there is more than beauty
To ladies white as Leghorn pullets,
Remember that they face their duty ;
And beauty must give way to bullets.
F. J. B.
Sheer Cruelty.
“On several occasions when I asked him to
buy me stockings he punched me in the face.”
—Wife in divorce.
Poor lady ! It appears that she
Received some nasty knocks,
For when she asked for stockings he
Would only give her socks!
T. W. N.
Strange Maladies.
“Mr. R. W. D. Weaver, Sydney M.L.A., who
has been unopposed for six years, commenting
on the possibility that the U.A.P. Council
may recommend multiple endorsement, said
“I favor an ‘open go.’ I welcome opposition.
I don’t want to be the only candidate.”
— “Sun.”
The editor-in-chief of the Great Daily
frowned heavily as he tapped the page
he held. “A hell of a fine thing this is! ”
he barked at the news editor. “Just on
deadline and here I’ve got to kill this
story of Von Papen’s suicide. Why
couldn’t you see that the cable merely
referred to a reliable authority quoting
an unusually trustworthy source, and that
it lacked confirmation through any other
channel? I expect you to appreciate
that it is the policy of this paper to give
only authentic news. And, by the way,”
he added, as his stunned subordinate
turned to go, “starting from tomorrow
my own leader will not carry my sig-
nature. I consider that it is more in
keeping with the dignity of a high-class
journal for its editor to remain anony-
mous to its public.”
Commenting on the proposal that a
women’s auxiliary anti-gas and search-
light army be raised, Sir Basil Bigbiz, the
ragshop knight, said: “Whilst I am in
favor of women playing their full part
in the successful prosecution of the war,
I certainly disapprove of their rushing
into uniforms at the slightest provocation.
It is an item of needless expense for
many girls who can ill afford it. Any-
way, I think they look much nicer in a
simple frock of some cheap material.”
• •••«•
Miss Deirdre Doolittle, president of
the Hawthack Younger Set and chairman
of the Committee for Aiding Indigent
Albanians, turned to the social reporter
of the “Blurb.” “This will be the last
cocktail-party that the set will be giving
in aid of this cause,” she said. “We have
decided that our fellow-Australians should
come before foreigners, so in future all
our champagne-, sherry- and cocktail-
parties will be given to assist orphaned
children of Melbourne’s poorer districts.
We feel that by working hard like this
we will be assisting our country. No,
no pictures, please” —this as the accom-
panying photographer started to draw a
bead on her—“l don’t want either my
name or photo, to appear in the social
columns, just the work of the set as a
whole. I loathe personal publicity!”
At Reno (Nevada) yesterday Rosita
Rabbitbrain, ash-blonde film star of
“blorp” fame, burst into uncontrollable
tears when she asked permission of the
Judge to withdraw her divorce petition
against her sixth husband, ace producer
Mervyn Z. Snodgrass. The ground for
the divorce had been mental cruelty,
based on the respondent’s habit of tying
a mauve bow around the neck of her
Pekinese when he was aware that she
was subject to hysteria at sight of that
particular color. Miss Rabbitbrain, speak-
ing in a low voice and obviously under
great emotion, told the Court that her
greatest ambition was to become the
mother of a large family, and that to this
end she was prepared to sacrifice her
career. After the withdrawal and subse-
quent reconciliation, Superior Judge
Gumboil announced that he would give
a party in Miss Rabbitbrain’s honor, but
the star, in thanking him, said she would
prefer to slip quietly away with her
husband.
Station.2PQ has announced that, fol-
lowing a check-up on the fan mail of
glamor-announcer Plantagenet Twerp,
the figure previously given as 27,000 was
an unfortunate error. Actually, only 17
letters had been received, and these were
mostly either abusive or sarcastic. The
position was clarified in fairness to the
sponsor of the “Hotcha Pal” session con-
ducted by Mr. Twerp.
BO.


*
ll
SW
C\
Si'S*
iiill
. . We Kids have our rights. We
didn’t ask to be bom into this
generation of war and strife —but
here we are! Isn’t it up to you to
help us over the hurdles which lie
ahead? We don’t ask much (because
we know what you are up against
just now); but can’t you pay a
few shillings a week into a Savings
Bank account, so that we have a
fair start when we grow up? Surely
it isn’t too much to ask? Won’t you
open a Savings Bank account on our
behalf next pay-day? We thank you
now . . . and we’ll thank you all our
lives. Please do it!”
commonuiCDLTH
snumcs brim
i OF nUSTßflLlfls
Kromo-Elk Hid© Coss3ck««»
k
A 34.
Another Abbey Special . . 35|-
Here’s value if you are looking for a stout boot that
will stand any amount' of hard wear. In brown Kromo-
Elk Hide, with heavy soles, and full range of sizes
and half-sizes. (Note: This is a particulaily big-
fitting boot.)
ABBEY
SHOES
316 George Street,
234 Pitt Street,
Sydnsy.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
The Vital Budget
Budget time is here again, the most
important period of the year in Canberra.
The scope of the current year’s war effort
is being decided, as well as the means by
which it will be financed. Not only is the
finance needed to supply the Empire as
a whole with part of its war requirements ;
it is wanted more particularly to equip
our own men adequately for the time
when they will come into contact again
with our principal and most efficient
enemy. In Greece and Crete their equip-
ment was a matter of controversy. Labor
should be particularly interested in the
welfare of these men. But Labor, as
represented at Canberra, has not so far
shown much sign of being sufficiently
grown-up mentally to cope with the
problems arising out of the deter-
mined onslaught of a ruthless enemy.
The Menzies Government, to its credit,
pursued a financial policy which, on the
whole, was realistic and comparatively
fair. Middle incomes were no doubt taxed
too solidly and the lower and very high
incomes—in some States —not solidly
enough. In the case of the lower incomes,
Labor and some U.A.P. men of the good-
as-Labor type forced a compromise ; in
the case of anomalies among the higher
incomes, State. Governments barred the
way. Useless as they are, as a body they
would not stand aside to help the war
effort.
This paper doesn’t feel obliged to chalk
up to the credit of the Menzies Govern-
ment the basic idea of the financial policy
adopted. It has always believed that the
brains of the war-finance plan were out-
side the Government —probably in the
Treasury, co-operating with authorities
in other Empire countries, such as
Canada, which in particular has been an
exponent of the pay-as-you-go principle.
But Menzies put the plan into operation
in Australia and backed it solidly until
he and Fadden “compromised” with
Labor, McCall, Wilson, etc. The
compromise didn’t save wage-earners
much in taxation, but it showed weakness
after Menzies had said “no compromise.”
The whole basis of the 1939-41 finan-
cial arrangement depended on strong
government. Instead of offering the people
anything except hard work it demanded
more taxation than had ever been levied
before. It acknowledged that war was a
waste, not a thing for all to profit from,
and that as expenditure on war was
waste it was no use putting a capital
value on war expenditure either by
financing all of it from public loans or
loans from the Commonwealth and
trading banks. Thus taxation had to
figure largely in the picture if we were to
be honest and weren’t to wake up one day
and realise that through kidding our-
selves we had brought the whole credit
structure of the Commonwealth into
chaos and our personal welfare with it.
In this paper’s opinion the chief fault
to be found with the financial methods
adopted up to the end of 1940-41 was
that taxation was not availed of suffi-
ciently and that excess-profits tax was
merely a high-profits tax. Churchill
offered the Empire nothing better
than blood, sweat and tears in the
dark days soon after he took office.
He was honest, and the people
took him at his word and survived the
disaster in France and the subsequent
Battle of Britain. In Australia there is
too much of the idea that we can have a
war effort without paying for it: that
we can even profit from it. But there is
nothing surer than that the portion of the
cost of this war that isn’t paid for in
taxation as the money is spent will be
paid for with deferred penalties later on,
when we may not be in so favorable an
economic position as we are at the
present.
What has been the effect of our
-financial policy up till now? The heavier
taxation that fell on those who had tax-
able incomes when war started has been
largely used to make war materials and
keep the services in action. In making
war materials employment has been
found for thousands, and for the March
quarter of 1941 unemployment had fallen
to 5.3 p.c. of registered trade-unionists,
compared with 10.2 p.c. for the last
quarter preceding the outbreak of war.
Though enlistments have had something
to do with the falling-off in unemploy-
ment, there has been a large increase in
actual employment as well.
In short, there has been a redistribution
of incomes out of which those on the lower
incomes have done well. Much of the
cost of our war effort is represented by
Australian labor, and the middle and
higher incomes have paid for this labor.
The basic-wage-earner himself has con-
tributed little or nothing. Up to £2OO a
year he pays no Federal income-tax, and
up to £4OO a year he doesn’t contribute a
great deal. He is protected by Arbitra-
tion Court awards against rises in in-
direct taxation, such as sales tax and
Customs duty, and he has often come in
for substantial overtime payments. If
those people whose income rises and
falls with basic-wage adjustments were
well looked after before war broke out
they are particularly well looked after
now. The burden of war has touched
them lightly, but many of them aren’t
satisfied. The more noisy elements have
been outrageous in their demands.
Price control has operated well, and it
has favored the wage-earner. The in-
tolerant attitude of some sections of
organised Labor, however, shows up
in the case of Australian Gas and
other similar Sydney cos. Because higher
wages and coal prices don’t allow to be
paid the 6 p.c. div. which Lang per-
mitted, these cos. have asked permission
to raise the price of gas. The gasworkers
have demanded higher wages, but insist
that the price of gas be kept down. To a
considerable extent this is typical of the
official trade-union attitude toward the
whole war effort. It is hard to believe
that it represents the outlook of workers
as a whole. But “fair go,” so long an
Australian institution, is not a prominent
feature of our political life at present.
The cost -plus system of getting jobs done
has in itself been an unsettling element.
In spite of the huge taxation bill Aus-
tralia industrially has been more active
over the past two years than at any
previous time in its history. “Paying as
we go” has lightened the immediate and
future burdens arising from war by giving
us confidence and stability. To the
extent that we don’t borrow or inflate
to finance war costs we know that there
will be that much less dead horse to get
rid of after the war is over. It is impos-
sible to avoid the burden of war. The
best way to carry it is squarely on our
shoulders.
Though the prophets who saw disaster
in the taxation method of financing the
war have instead all the evidence of pros-
perity before their eyes, there are pin-
headed or snakeheaded gentlemen at Can-
berra and elsewhere who are clamoring
for an “easy” way out. They demand the
“more liberal use of central bank credit”
instead of increased taxation to pay for
the greater war appropriations made this
year—an extra £90,000,000 or so has to
be found. They don’t mean, either, that
the Commonwealth Bank should make
loans available on the basis of repay-
ment in a few years. Their idea is that
the loans should be owed to the bank for
all eternity. There seems to be little use
telling them that credit expansion of this
kind has eventually to be turned into a
public ioan or a tax, and that if it isn t
turned straightforwardly into a tax it will
become one of its own accord —through
inflation.
There should be no hedging or hum-
bugging over the issue now in hand at
Canberra. The use of central bank credit
will not make anybody’s war effort easier
for them. We cannot do better for our-
selves than pay as we go. If the incidence
of taxation is in some cases unfair, let
us alter the incidence. But let us know
where the incidence falls by avoiding
“credit-expansion” snares. With almost
full employment throughout the country
there is no excuse for the use of credit
expansion as a stimulant. The war itself
is all the stimulant to production that we
should want.
A springtime atmosphere swept over
’Change dealings last week. After two
weeks of sustained strength some high
kicking took place among prices. Tooth
scrip in Sydney soared up to 565., after
sales at 51s. 6d. a month earlier. This
was one of the most spectacular rises.
But G. J. Coles, up from 625. to 665. 6d.
in four weeks, wasn’t far behind. Among
silver-lead issues Zinc Corp., given a
fair amount of notice here, jumped from
555. to 655. 6d. Electrolytic Zinc at 545.
for the ords., ex rights, was much firmer.
Shares in North B.H. and the South mine
were not responsive. The lift in Zinc
Corp. was apparently due to previous
undervaluation. Sydney and Melbourne
retailers were bought into at higher
prices, Anthony Horderns’ and Farmer’s
being particularly selected. Paper shares
were stronger, and cement scrip firmed
to something like record quotes. Koitaki
Rubber went higher, too. Hosiery shares
showed some recovery—they are in the
most unfavorable position of all the
textile cos/ —and woollen and cotton cos.
were firm, though rather inactive. Hotel
scrip was considerably stronger all round.
Colonial Sugar was well up, and British
Tobacco put on weight, partly in view
of the temporary lifting of tobacco
rationing. Broken Hill Prop, was still
the Cinderella of the market, largely be-
cause Mr. Forde has been talking a lot
of nonsense and making a lot of remarks
that sounded like threats of nationalisa-
tion. If the responsibility of nationalising
B.H.P. rested with him even he would
probably have more sense than to inter-
fere.
The rise in the market as a whole was
best expressed by the Sydney index of
industrial share prices. On July 5 it stood
at 124.02, on Sept. 1 it was up to 128.07,
and by Sept. 3 it had risen to 129.50,
receding slightly (to 129.41) next day.
In some cases, such as Tooth, the in-
creases were in much greater proportion
than that. Some investors are querying
whether the buoyancy in a number of
cases will be sustained. There is no
accounting for what a sharemarket will
do in its humors, but, taking a long view,
most stocks should be worth holding at
their present prices. The ones to beware
of are those which have sprung into
prominence because of their munitions
contracts. Most woollen and textile cos.
fall into this category, though cotton
cos. are a class on their own. Some steel
fabricating cos., too, will find the post-
war readjustment hard to cope with. But
the basic steel industry should do all
right, and the same applies to most oi
those industries which were doing well
before war broke out and which haven t
overextended themselves since in order
to get into the war-time business offering.
The capital restriction regulations may
turn out to be a blessing to many cos.
in the long run.
* * * *
Under the heading of “Form-filling
Mania,” the “Times Trade and Engineer-
ing” says, “There is not the slightest
doubt that the form-filling required by
Government offices has become an in-
creasing check on production, because
men whose time might be more usefully
employed are called off their work to fill
up forms and undertake wearisome cor-
respondence. The magnitude of this evil
is far greater than can probably be
believed by those who have not had
actual experience of it.” It is the same
or worse in Australia. There are seven
Governments here, and almost two
national capitals, Melbourne partially
usurping Canberra’s position since war
broke out. In addition to returns for
ordinary income tax, employers now have
to fuss over Federal tax deductions
made incredibly clumsy by the depart-
ment —State tax deductions, payroll tax
and tax on divs. payable to absentees.
And that is only the beginning. It makes
one wonder how a young country like
Australia can ever develop while so much
of its energies is devoted to the pre-
paration of returns, etc., for non-produc-
tive Government departments which often
have a non-productive outlook. Recently
a Sydney businessman had to get in touch
with the P.M.G.’s Department in Mel-
bourne before he could get a ruling on
the simple matter of having a telegraphic
address registered. Sydney branch of a
big Commonwealth war-time department
has to send to Melbourne for its stamps.
Melbourne has probably to put up with
similar phenomena.


BRANDAUtR'A
m
%
TPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
c. nAXDAVSK a 00. 144. BIRMINUHAM. EHO
Safe and Profitable —
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man s earning-power, but matures
the life policy. . ,
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to The Bulletins criticism (26/1/ 38). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria : A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
For a mild, mellow,
wholly satisfying^*
smoke—777 s
Virginias!
3*
STATIn
mss
WAI/n
7d
%
2 °to,
l /2
Ah ° *» e, t . *2
*e s
s-.v-
-tH
m
111
? imut.
\]VflG\N\&
C\Gr<W.ftTtS
j'
f swtexjs^
THREE SEVENS^
Virginia cigarettes
V I SCACELLE•WRAPPED FOR FRESHER FLAVOUR
Priminister Fadden, in his week-end
broadcast, said that this year about 30
p.c. of the nation’s total resources would
be “devoted directly to the war effort.”
If the “nation’s resources” means the
national income, then Mr. Fadden has a
war expenditure of about £300,000,000 in
mind. Whatever is borrowed overseas,
however, doesn’t immediately come out
of our national resources; so if Mr.
Fadden is precise in his language and
thinking, our total war outgo may be
above £300,000,000. Not all of the
total marked “war expenditure” will be
true to label; some of it will be
waste. It is up to Fadden and his col-
leagues to keep waste at a minimum.
The shilly-shallying about “the liberal use
of bank credit” doesn’t look reassuring
in this respect.
* * * *
“Because of war uncertainties,” Felt
and Textiles is having its new issue of
235,968 £1 ord. shares underwritten. The
scrip is being put out at a premium of
10s. a share. What underwriting com-
mission is being paid to J. B. Were and
Son hasn’t been announced in press
paragraphs, but in the present state of
market support for Felt and Textiles
shares underwriting of any kind was
unnecessary. The rights to the issue are
selling at upwards of 7s. The shares
may be paid up in full on application
(closing date September 30).
* * * *
Koitaki Rubber (Papua), which has
taken part in the forward movement
lately so prominent on ’Change, is a par-
ticularly interesting stock. It paid a 121
p.c. div. on its £75,000 of ord. capital in
1939-40, making an average of 8 p.c. for
the half-dozen years to that date, and in
the same time it spent about £lO,OOO
on its plantations. Rubber takes about
six years to come into bearing, and the
co. has been building up potential earn-
ing power at the expense of current divs.
to some extent. It has 2200 acres of
rubber, more than half of which has yet
to come into full production but which
will add to output gradually over the
next six years. For the term which ended
on June 30 accounts are due any day
now ; it hasn’t been the best of seasons,
but prices have been very good, and
better results can be looked for. At 255.
the yield is 10 p.c. on a 121 p.c. div.
basis. What rubber prices will be like
after the war can only be guessed at, but
the co.’s improved plantation position
should help in the event of their dropping
back unduly.
* Ss * *
The Federal Government has agreed to
advance Austral Oil Drilling Syndicate
£33,333 to assist in the development of
the Lakes Entrance oil field. Victorian
Government will make the loan up to
£50,000, which will be free of interest
for three years. The field has recently
been the subject of an investigation by
U.S.A. oilmen.
* * # *
Activity in the 2s. shares of Natural
Gas and Oil Corp., owner of the
disused Balmain Colliery under Sydney
Harbor, flickered up again last week —
this time following reported investigation
by Dr. Raggatt, Commonwealth Geo-
logist, into the possibility of using natural
gas as a motor fuel and substitute for
imported gas oil for increasing the
thermal capacity of coal gas. The drill
first brought in gas in 1935 ; but, though
the pressure has been increasing, the co.
hasn’t been able to do much about it,
partly through paucity of funds. If Can-
berra can be invoked as a benefactor,
sealing of the colliery, sinking of new
bores into the coal seam and installation
of suction pumps are talked of. Com-
mercial application of the methane gases
as an alternative motor propellant
depends mainly on the quantity available
and cost of distributing in the special
cylinders called for, both matters yet to
be determined. Qualitatively, welding
and fuel tests appear to have been satis-
factory. Treasury approval for issue of
“a limited number” of shares was
obtained last year ; but until now the old
scrip has been below par.
* * * *
Adelaide Steam, which has declared a
final div. at the unchanged rate of 3| p.c.,
making p.c. for the year, has had a
good rise in the sharemarket. Down to
275. a couple of months ago, there were
sales of the shares last week at 30s. ex
div. This is a good, solid stock, interest-
ing from the point of view of its invest-
ments as well as its shipping lines, which
are now under charter to the Govern-
ment. Among the investments is a hold-
ing of over 526,000 shares in J. and A.
Brown collieries. Coal has been doing
better in spite of all the politics surround-
ing it. Adelaide has interests in airlines
and a substantial holding in other in-
vestments, in the books at an undisclosed
but written-down valuation. “Shares in
subsidiaries, £136,500,” is a separate item
in the balance sheet. It refers mainly to
the Waratah Tug Co.
* * * *
Maoriland’s Social Security Bill pro-
vides for free medical service from
general practitioners. The Government
will pay the doctor ss. for a consultation
in his rooms, 6s. 6d. for visiting homes
in cities, and 55., plus Is. 3d. a mile,
for visits in country districts. Services
requiring skill beyond that expected from
a g.p. are not covered by the legislation,
but it appears that all doctors other than
specialists will have to come under the
scheme. The Maoriland Budget set aside
£600,000 for medical benefits during
1941-42, and altogether hospital benefits,
etc., were expected to cost £3,000,000. An
agreement was reached with doctors
before the Budget was brought down.
Perturbed, apparently, by “amazing
profits” being shown by some cos. and
sent to America and other countries, Mr.
Clarrie Martin, N.S.W. Attorney-General,
is considering amending the Companies
Act so as to make compulsory the filing
of balance sheets by proprietary cos. It
isn’t a bad idea, though if carried a
little further it would mean that there
wouldn’t be any difference between the
obligations of public and proprietary cos.
worth worrying about. Filing of balance
sheets, however, won’t of itself stop
profiteering. But while Mr. Martin is
interested in company legislation he might
make it obligatory on public cos. to
publish aggregate figures of their sub-
sidiaries, as in Victoria.


THE SERVICE MAN
The Threat to Leningrad.
“Ek Dum”: Press reports of the war
in Russia continue to be optimistic and
unhelpful. On September 6 Sydney
“Sun” came out with a map which
showed that Marshal Timoshenko’s
armies had swept over Smolensk to the
Beresina, crossed that river further south
and captured over 15,000 square miles of
territory held for weeks by the Germans:
Threatened with the loss of the fruits of
11 weeks of tremendous sacrifice by
Russian successes on the central front, the
Germans are making desperate efforts to
relieve the pressure by smashing into Lenin-
grad in the north.
Other papers and A.B.C. took the same
tone.
Next day brought the weekly German
and Russian communiques. That of the
enemy mentioned heavy fighting on the
Gomel-Bryansk-Smolensk front; the
Russian bulletin referred to heavy fight-
ing “between Gomel and Bryansk.”
Bryansk has been mentioned several
times on these pages as a danger point.
It is a great railway junction, key to the
southern approaches to Moscow. Read-
ing between the lines, the Germans still
held all the country which the press had
obligingly captured, and General Koniev
—credited with the “successes on the
central front” —had been forced back at
a very dangerous point for the Russians
—a point where a break-through would
mean the separation of the Moscow
armies from those of the Ukraine, and
of Moscow from the resources of the
Don and the Volga and the oilfields of
the Caucasus.
This central drive by the Germans, if
it is pushed home, might prove more
effective than that upon Leningrad. The
enemy asserts that he has succeeded in
piercing the defence lines which shield
Kiev along the Dnieper, south-east of
Gomel. A 8.8. C. official wireless com-
munique said on Sept. 8 (Sydney time,
6.30 a.m.) that it was “still not possible
to say whether the Germans were on the
way to decisive success,” but they were
pressing the Russians hard at three points
—Odessa, the Gomel-Bryansk front and
Leningrad.
Leningrad is in a tight corner. The
Finns have forced their way back into
the territory which the Russians snatched
from them in 1940. They declared on
Sunday that the whole of this area was
now in their hands, and that their frontal
units were at Sestrorjezk, 10 miles from
Leningrad. A few days before they had
announced the recovery of Viborg, their
sacred city, and, next to Helsinki, their
main Baltic port.
The Finnish claim to the recapture of
Viborg was denied from Moscow, but,
after three days, was admitted to be true.
A Stockholm correspondent explained
that Marshal Voroshilov had withdrawn
15 divisions from the Karelian isthmus,
allowing the Finns to reach their old
border. This was by way of encourage-
ment to them to ask for peace, since it
was known that they were tired of the
war and hungry. It was not explained
why the Russians, in that case, had not
withdrawn from Hango, a few miles
from Helsinki, where they had estab-
lished a strong naval base.
The Finns denied that they were ready
yet for peace. By Sept. 4 (they said) they
had reached a point from which their
heavy artillery could shell Kronstadt, the
great naval base which guards Lenin-
grad’s Baltic doorway. The capture or
immobilisation of Kronstadt would leave
Leningrad open to naval attack as well as
land assault.
Voroshilov’s behavior was remarkable
for a man who was supposed to be
placating his enemy. He had left Viborg
in a state which was described in the
following terms by a N’York “Times”
correspondent who was allowed by the
Finns to visit it:
It is a city devoid of everything living.
Of a city of 120,000 people nothing what-
ever remains. It has been blasted to ruin
with not one house habitable. The story
of Viborg is one of the most terrible
stories of the war.
And delayed-action mines were left behind.
The real reason why the Russian divi-
sions were withdrawn was that they had
found themselves stuck in a nasty trap.
They were in the Karelian isthmus, which
is a narrow strip of land 30 miles wide
at its base between Lake Ladoga and the
Baltic. They were shut in on the n.-w.
by the advancing Finns. Across the
base, the River Neva forms a watery slip-
rail, one end mortised into Leningrad
itself, the other into Lake Ladoga along-
side Schlisselburg—which in German
means “key fortress city.” It is a great
munitions-manufacturing centre the
“Essen of North Russia.” Once it was
a prison. Short as it is, the Neva
is a deep stream —sometimes as much
as 55 or 60 feet; and in spots it is
700 feet wide. Voroshilov had to get to
that river as quickly as he could to pre-
vent a German passage of it, to strengthen
his grip on the eastern defences of Lenin-
grad and particularly to save the eastern
railway to Vologda and Moscow from
falling into German hands. This line is
the only one giving access now to
Moscow, the main line being cut.
It was a neck-or-nothing business, be-
cause within a very few days it was
admitted by Moscow Radio and by
8.8. C. and other witnesses at second-
hand that the Germans had made their
way sufficiently far eastward across the
Karelian isthmus base to shell Schlissel-
burg, which is on the Ladoga shore.
Leningrad was then, obviously, in a state
almost of complete siege.
It can be taken for granted that the
Russians would not have allowed the
enemy to approach the suburbs of
Leningrad as a military manoeuvre.
For 100 miles all round the city, there
are waste marsh and forest, with com-
paratively little population and no large
towns —ideal terrain for a -defending com-
mander with ample * armored mobile
forces who wishes to spare the civilian
population. Voroshilov has his ground
ranged for artillery, his roads mined,
his forests pillboxed, his fields tank-
trapped and covered and prepared for
progressive barrage work, with his shift-
ing resistance from point to point well
served by railways radiating from the
central defence point.
The German advance across this coun-
try, though slowed down, has not been
stopped. Closing in centrally, its weight
of pressure on the kernel of defence —
the city— must increase enormously every
mile. The ranks of the Panzers become-
every day more closely packed, the guns
are closer together, the weight of men
and material behind becomes infinitely
greater. On Sunday, September 7, it was
announced by Moscow that Leningrad
city itself had become the area of defence.
It is an area of about 72 square miles.
If there is a rotten place in the world
to defend, it is Leningrad. Its centre
clusters round the junctions of the 700 ft-
. Neva with the Little Neva and the
Great Nevka. Each part of it, except
the main southern, is virtually an island,
and destruction of the bridges would
have the effect of an explosion in the
centre which would break co-ordinated
defence to bits.
The main city radiates off on the south
Neva bank from the Winter Palace, the
Hermitage and the Admiralty and Eng-
lish Embankment. From this focus, three
great streets run out fanwise, including the
Nevsky Prospekt, which is about three
miles long, with Moscow station two-
thirds the way down its length. Moscow is
400 miles away. The Gorokhovaya and the
Vosnesenky—the Soviets may recently
have changed the names —move towards
the Warsaw station. The south part of
the city is cut into bands by canals,
running east and west.
Looking north across the Neva is the
frowning fortress of Peter and Paul swim-
ming, as it were, in the river. East of it is
the Viborg Quarter, an industrial’ centre.
South-west across the river junctions is
Vasilievski island —Basil’s Island —joined
to the palace region and the city on the
south by bridges. The island’s eastern
point was the old commercial centre in
Czarist days. The Stock Exchange stood
there. Behind its site lie the University
and scientific and military institutions.
A flood which rises 14ft. would cover
most of the surface of Leningrad. It has
not a single hill of any description. Its
streets are regular—those in the commer-
cial sector as well squared as those of
Melbourne, and as wide. It is, therefore,
not much adapted to street fighting, more
especially as much of it is built of wood.
Dive-bombers could smash the barricades.
Helsinki Radio asserted on September
6 that huge fires, which could be seen
100 miles away, were burning in Lenin-
grad. It quoted prisoners as saying
that the fires had been raging for days ;
that thousands of Leningrad inhabitants
were already homeless, wandering the
streets in bitter damp and cold and food-
less; that crowds were surging in from
southern and western suburbs already
pockmarked by artillery fire, and that the
food situation generally was desperate,
Prisoners were alleged to have declared
that dive-bombers were raking streets and
defensive positions.
Almost directly afterwards, the Ger-
mans said that they had found a weak
spot in the main defences and had driven
through it, that now only one rail-
road remained open out of seven into the
city, that all the roads had been blocked,
and that the city’s position had become
precarious.
The Russian report was that supplies
were sufficient, that every man, civilian or
otherwise, was in a defence post, and
that women and children daily accom-
panied their menfolk to dig trenches and
carry on the chores of battle. It was
denied that artillery shells were falling
in the city, denied that the air defences
had been pierced. The “Red Star,”
official organ of the Red Army, reported
that the Germans had “used the whole
of their air force, four air armies and a
corps,” vainly against the air defences of
Leningrad. A broadcast from Leningrad
said that 320 bombers out of continuous
waves had been brought down. Four
air armies and a corps means 7500
machines of all types. They should be
able to blow any city to matchwood,
A.A. defences and all, if it was practic-
able to use such an armada without
months of preparation, which it isn’t.
The Leningrad command stated that on
Friday air onslaughts had cost the Ger-
mans 117 ’planes, and that before that
their machine casualties had numbered
hundreds. And the land defences had
not been penetrated. One attempt to
cross a river—which could only be the
Neva—had been pushed back. Com-
munications with the outside world were
completely open. The Russian Navy was
helping in the defence. The enemy
gave a list of naval wreckings designed
to suggest that the Red Navy had almost
ceased to exist.
The Germans last week emphasised
that the attack on Leningrad would not
be hurried. They even suggested that
r • j •, . J , rll b r i
Leningrad might not fall for weeks,
They are propagating the notion that it
cannot be fed for long, and that defend-
ing a city with 3,000,000 civilians in it
in a bleak northern climate, where even
now there are only a few hours of day-
light, is a hellish business. And cer-
tainly if it can be consummated it will
be a great military achievement.
The vital factor from the enemy’s
viewpoint is the walling off of the city,
with its vast industrial and armament
factories and naval yards, from the rest of
tt , i j it j
the country, He has already compelled
the evacuation of the western Ukraine,
and deprived the Russians of much of
this year’s harvest and perhaps all of
next year s. The Dmeperstroy dam, with
its vast power resources, which meant
food, munitions, armaments, has been lost
t _ t L=, nsci} And thmioh Odossa
to the U.S.b.R. And though Odessa
holds out stoutly, the Black Sea has been
walled off west of the Dnieper from the
rest of Russia. And evidently the Ger-
mans will strive to do the same thing in
the north, to block out Murmansk and
Archangel, though these ports are not
much use after next month
mucn use alter next montn. . .
By reaching their present extreme point
in the north, near Ladoga Lake, the in-
vaders are on the verge of securing access
t° the great plains east of Novgorod,
in which they will be able to curve down
through the Yuroslav country to appear
at Moscow’s back door, unless salutary
measures are taken to stop them.
Moscow is the ultimate objective of all
these moves. The Germans are first bent
on strangling its sources of supply, at
the same time putting tourniquets on its
main arteries. Only when it is weak and
threatened with depletion will the two
drives from the south, near Gomel,
x,nl , ’ r T
towards Bryansk and east from south
of Leningrad begin to close and curl
round their objective. Whether this pro-
gramme can be effected is another matter.
Nothing can be done to help the
U.S.S.R. on either front. ’Planes can be
sent, but it takes a long time to establish
even a few squadrons 1250 miles from
England. There IS a report that some
British ’planes are in use over Leningrad.
No R.A.F. arms or supplies, or even the
type of petrol for which the delicate
engines are built, are standard with
Russian. Vast quantities of material, re-
serve ammunition, engines and spare parts
would have to be taken With squadrons
sent from Britain, and there is no means
whereby it can be done.
And to send man-power from England
is open to some of the same objections.
The Russians have more man-power than
they are likely to be able to employ. Man-
power, like air-power, would be little use
unless it arrived complete with its own
heavy equipment.
This is a mechanised war. There is
no evidence that there has been a static
infantry action worth a dump through
the whole of it. The things the Russians
are most likely to need are ’planes, tanks,
guns, shells, transport —in fact, all the
things which John Bull has no means of
sending them quickly, and which he
would have no right to send them in
present circumstances till his own sup-
plies are fully superior to the German.
Even if supplies were available, and
an expeditionary force could help, the
mercantile marine position stands in the
way. Sinkings have been reduced, but
they are still serious. And with the
limited operations carried on to date
overseas, well over 10,000,000 tons of
mercantile shipping has been diverted to
regular military usage.
The London Sunday press is indignant
that, having gained a foothold in Iran,
the British Government is not imme-
diately pouring troops and supplies over
the Caucasus —one vapid idiot speaks of
the “Iranian siesta.”
A completely equipped and air-
supported mechanised force bound for
South Russia via Iran would call for 60
tons of shipping per man permanently
employed. It would take two to three
months at least to deliver it, if Palestine,
Iraq, India and Egypt were not to be
completely stripped of men.
From Basra to the Don is over 2000
miles, and in two months there will be
three mountain ranges between the sea
and the battlefields of the Ukraine which
may be completely impassable because of
snow and weather in general.
The writer crossed the least of these
ranges—the Alvand —in May in a snow-
storm. On the plains below the tem-
perature was 110 in the shade. And the
peaks of the Elburz are twice as high
and run up to nearly 19,000 feet. Any-
body who talks about sending large forces
through Iran to Russia at this time of
year is a fool.
Th e Glory That Is Tobruk.
Two letters from Tobruk. One was
from a Victorian soldier to his mother:
Whoever edits the Service Man’s pages of
The Bulletin is pretty well informed. Little
paragraphs that must have been a lot of guess-
work at the time they were written are very
accurate and to the point, and must be written
with a certain local and technical knowledge.
So, if you are looking for facts just a bit
ahead of the others, follow those pages.
The other came from a Tobruk hos-
pital to The Bulletin :
“Ek Dum” pulled a boner recently with other
correspondents when he painted life in Tobruk
as being lightened with the music of brass bands
and with the usual athletic sports and other
amenities of garrison life.
Whereupon “Ek Dum”:
I have to admit it, though my authority was
an acting official correspondent. He was not
necessarily blameworthy, since he may have
been serving a military purpose. But men
who have come back from Tobruk and men
who write from inside it leave no doubt about
the conditions.
One described the town the other day as like
a bit of the dead, scorched surface of the
moon. There isn’t an inch of it that hasn t
been gone over with machine-gun fire or bomb-
ing—'it has had 1250 raids. There isnt
a minute day or night—or there wasn’t when
the last mail left —when there was any certainty
that it would be safe to cross the street.
No ship could come in or leave without bring-
ing a hornets’ nest into the sky. No mail
’plane could go out with the certainty that it
could get safely over the lines. After the
worst May in memory in North Africa (B.
21/5/’4l) every building was chipped with shell-
fire and bomb blast, every hospital a regular
target, served with “bomb-happy” warders in-
stead of with nurses, who had been sent away.
Even the “bomb-happy” cannot be spared.
Sport was impossible in the ordinary sense.
Water was so scarce that the wounded were
going without anything like adequate supplies,
and attempts to get them away cost many lives.
Some died of the heat on the racing destroyers
or on the hot, weary train journey beyond
Mersa Matruh.
Bombed is everybody who comes into or
goes out of the place. So far from having
brass bands and any kind of civilised life,
denizens of Tobruk are hard put to it to deal
with the monotony which is even deadlier than
dirt or bombs. A swim on a scrap of beach
in a lukewarm sea, lectures, a few cracked
records on a phonograph, occasional mails and
the nightly lucubrations of Lord Haw-Haw,
who runs a special session for those whom h e
addresses as “you rats of Tobruk,” are the
normal diversions.
Every day like clockwork —after dawn, at
lunchtime and from 5.30 to 8.30 p.m., the Axis
artillery growls. _ , , .
Through all their troubles, the Tobrukians
maintain an offensive spirit. .
The consolations which the tiny force has
in its trials, apart from its own unbeatable
courage, are that it is making Fritz ana
Giuseppe wish ardently that they were on the
Russian front, and that money is piling up in
their pay books. Cairo is in for a boom
presently. , .
If there is one thing more unpleasant ana
dangerous than being perennially in Tobruk, it
is being in that part of the Royal Naval
forces which sees to it that Tobruk is tea,
munitioned, reinforced and relieved ot its sicx
and wounded at intervals. _ ..
Some of the little auxiliaries that work with
the Navy are wonderful. Witness the 400-ton
Maria Giovanna, which was taken from tne
Italians, and has since done 20 trips into me
gun-blasted port carrying men and materia s
and armored against aggression only with ligh
calibre m.gs. Her captain, “Pediar Palmer
lieutenant on the Navy List is a Sydn y >
wily, with long and versatile experience-ex
Shanghai Volunteer Reserve, ex-company
commander of Chinese Lancers. He has added
the weight of a D.F.C. to that of his mounting
not be thought that only the garrison
is suffering. Lord Haw-Haw’s virulence and


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT - OF TAS-
MANIA (Divorce).
Launceston District Registry.
TO BERTRUM SHEKLETON formerly of St.
Leonards in the State of Tasmania.
TAKE NOTICE that a petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a notice to you
to appear and answer the charges in the peti-
tion of GRACE HELENE SHEKLETON of
Ricketts’ Hotel Scottsdale in the State of Tas-
mania praying for a dissolution of marriage
In default of your so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the Court
will proceed to hear the said petition proved
and pronounce judgment in respect thereto
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the
purpose aforesaid within Thirty days after the
date of this publication an appearance must
be entered at the Principal Registry of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street
Hobart or at the .Launceston District Registry
Cameron Street Launceston.
(l.s.)'W. H. VERRALL,
Disinct Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 626 of 1941.
BETWEEN VIOLET LILLIAN ANDREWS
Petitioner and
ALLAN BRADGATE ANDREWS Respondent
TO ALLAN BRADGATE ANDREWS late of
Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the said VIOLET
LILLIAN ANDREWS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is apply-
ing for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
that you have without just cause or excuse wilfully
deserted her and without any such cause or excuse
left her continuously so deserted during three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance to
the said suit at the proper office of this Honor-
able Court on or before the Fourteenth day
of November next and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-first day of August,
1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
C. P. WHITE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 761 of 1941.
BETWEEN DAISY WINIFRED EASEY Peti-
tioner and
FREDERICK RONALD EASEY Respondent.
TO FREDERICK RONALD EASEY formerly
of Dulwich Hill and King’s Cross in the
State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DAISY
WINIFRED EASEY has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for a
decree for dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Court on or before the Twenty-fourth
day of December One thousand nine hundred
and forty-one and that in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner, will proceed and the
suit will be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Third day of September One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
* Registrar in Divorce.
FRED M. DODD, Solicitor for Petitioner,
81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 942 of 1941.
BETWEEN ELSIE EILEEN SIMMONS
Petitioner and
CYRIL FREDERICK SIMMONS Respondent.
TO CYRIL FREDERICK SIMMONS late of
Bondi.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELSIE
EILEEN SIMMONS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honourable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion without just cause, or
excuse during three years and upwards, and
take notice that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honourable Court on or before the
twenty-eighth day of November One thousand
nine hundred and forty-one, and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited, or
obtaining further time, the petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the petition
filed herein may be had on application to the
undersigned free of charge.
DATED this eighth day of September, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. B. SWEENEY, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
104 Hunter Street, Sydney.
the fury of Rome Radio are largely the symbols
of Axis frustration and irritation. The
Luftwaffe, which was to have blasted London
out of existence, has been unable to dislodge
a few Australians and their British mates, or
even to shake them.
Panzer units commanded by one of the
generals most experienced in mechanised war,
units of which rolled through the defences of
France and Belgium, have found themselves
unable to roll through those same defences into
which the A.O.T.N. lipped as into tissue paper
only a few months before.
German correspondents and prisoners have
paid tribute to the toughness, initiative and
fighting power of the garrison. Even when
the compliments are back-handed like Lord
Haw-Haw’s, they mean something. One German
declared a few days ago that the sufferings of
German troops outside the perimeter were
greater than those of the garrison, because
the latter were served directly by sea, and were
in any case “savages” bred in the desert, in-
stead of amid the comforts of a civilised father-
land.
The term “savages” must have made our
fellows chuckle. Their success is due to superior
physique and mental quality and adaptability
and moral fibre and a sense of humor which no
German ever was bom with. A.I.F. opinion
of the German is that he has plenty of courage
and knows his weapons, but is too stereotyped
in method. Last week the lads were still going
strong—patrols were active in several sectors,
inflicting heavy casualties and occupying an
enemy post. About 100 enemy ’planes made
heavy dive-bombing attacks.
The Invincible Navy.
“Nobby II”: Brassey’s Naval Annual,
which brings the history and statistics
of the naval war up to February, 1941,
shows that three of the new 35,000-ton
King George V class battleships had then
been launched two have been com-
pleted and Duke of York must be close
to commission. Jellicoe and Beattie
were building ; so were four 40,000-ton
16in.-gun leviathans of the new Lion
class. So swiftly do events move that
cruisers like the new Fiji, which is shown
in Brassey as incomplete, already have
been sunk in action.
At the beginning of this year five ships
of the Fiji class 8000-tonners which
carry 12 6in. guns—-were building but
had not been launched, four more were
nearing completion and there were 10
Didos on the way. Didos are lineal heirs
of the original Sydney and Adelaide
classes, but, against the oldsters’ 25,000
h.p. and 25.5 knots, they are pushed
along at 33 knots by 62,000 h.p. and are
armed with 10 of the new deadly 5.25’5,
which also form the secondary armament
of the King George Vs. The ordnance
tables as yet are silent about the speci-
fications of these weapons.
Illustrious, 23,000 tons, mounting 16
4.5’s and 20 smaller guns—speed 30.5
knots—was the first of the new class of
aircraft-carriers at sea, though Formid-
able has since joined .her, and perhaps
Victorious. Three others are well on the
way.
Destroyers, “apart from an uncertain
number building in Australia,” included
eight Napiers (1920-1935 tons), nine
Milnes (1690 tons), eight Laforeys (1920-
1935 tons) —25 in all; and there is a new
class—“ Town Class, ex-U.S.N.” Most
of the names are common to Britain and
tJ.S.A. Five new submarines, 1090-1575
tons, are listed under construction, with
an entirely, new class (“Hunt”) *of 18,
about which no details are given.
When present programmes are com-
plete John Bull will have 20 battleships
and two battle-cruisers over 30,000 tons,
and Uncle Sam will have 20, with a few
obsolete and obsolescent in the 27,000-
29,000-ton class. Between them they
will have more heavy capital ships than
all the rest of the world put together.
Last week was particularly busy for
the R.N. in the Mediterranean. A sub-
marine cut out a 10,000-ton Bin. cruiser
from an Italian force off Messina Straits
and seriously damaged it with a torpedo.
Other submarines met a convoy off the
Italian coast and almost certainly sank
a large liner —apparently the 23,365-ton
Duilio.
A tanker in a convoy off Sicily was
sunk and the 5000-ton Aquitania
damaged, and in the Central Mediter-
ranean an 8000-ton Italian supply ship
went down.
On Tuesday night the F.A.A. drove
a big convoy off Sardinia into such a
state of confusion that Italian destroyers
appeared to fire on their charges, and
some narrowly escaped collisions. There
were five merchantmen and seven de-
stroyers in the flock.
One of the merchant ships blew up in
a burst 9000 ft. high, and another was hit
squarely amidships by a torpedo. Two
smaller vessels were badly damaged.
Other F.A.A. formations bombed aero-
dromes in Sicily.
Italy lost another submarine. H.M.S.
Hermione, the very latest thing in Didos
and sister to the lost Bonaventure, sighted
Musso.’s scavenger riding the surface at
dawn. She tried to crash-dive, but the old
and now rare signal “prepare to ram”
was made, and Hermione, at 28 knots,
went straight through the enemy, which
bled oil all over the bridge and the
yeoman of signals, and went astern as
a crumpled ruin, from which there was
not one survivor.
It was smart work, since the U-boat
was three-quarters of a mile away when
sighted.
The R.A.N. Again.
Admiral Cunningham, C.-in-C., Medi-
terranean Station, to W. M. Hughes:
Under the distinguished command of
Captain H. M. L. Waller, D. 5.0., R.A.N.,
H.M.A.S. Stuart has an unsurpassed record
of gallant achievement. This fine little
ship and her gallant ship’s company
have taken a leading part in all principal
operations of the Mediterranean Fleet and
have never been called upon in vain for
any difficult job. The work of her engine-
room department in keeping this old ship
efficient and in good running order has been
beyond praise.
Some of H.M.A.S. Canberra’s crew on
leave also have a little to add to history.
They cleared up the fate of two German
raider supply ships in the Indian Ocean
a few months ago. Canberra, which was
patrolling with Maoriland’s Leander,
came upon the 7000-ton tanker Ketty
Brovig and the 7400-ton Coburg.
Both ignored warning shots, but after
a bomb had been dropped they scuttled.
Canberra rushed a boarding party to the
Coburg to try to save her, but found
her engine-room full of boiling water.
Meanwhile Leander had picked up the
crew. Coburg was shelled to sink her
quickly. The Ketty Brovig’s crew was
taken off by Canberra.
Torpedoes, Depth Charges,
Words.
“Nobby II”: Washington was stirred
to the depths by the news that a U-boat
had fired several torpedoes on the United
States 1090-ton destroyer Greer while
she was west of Iceland on her way to
the U.S. base in Greenland with mail.
The aggressor did not show her nose.
The Greer dropped several depth charges
and it is “believed” that she damaged the
submarine.
In the isolation quarter it “was con-
sidered likely that the submarine mistook
the Greer for a British ship because of
its similarity to the transferred Town
class destroyers.”
If the Greer was sailing in peace order,
in natural grey without camouflage and
with her bow number up—it can be seen
through a glass miles away and her
ensign at the staff and not at the peak,
as British and other naval ships fly it in
war-time, the U-boat commander must
have been stone blind if he did make
a mistake in daylight. The U.S.N. and
the Germans agree that the attack began
in the afternoon (2.29 p.m.). The com-
mander of the destroyer reported , that
visibility was good. A British flying-boat
helped to repel the U-boat.
At a press conference Mr. Roosevelt
said he “accepted the challenge” inherent
in the attack, which was made on the
American side of Greenland, and had
ordered the U.S. Navy to eliminate the
U-boat. “And you can quote me,” he
said, “as emphasising ‘eliminate.’ ” Asked
whether the destroyer had been in an area
which Germany had declared a belliger-
ent zone, he declared that the U.S. had
not been notified of a belligerent zone
in that area, and though a blockade
had been declared it was an essential of
a blockade that it should be effective.
There was no effective blockade in the
area.
And he scouted the idea that there
was any justification in the possibility that
the U-boat captain had fired without
waiting to discover whether the ship he
was firing on was British or not, and
scoffed at the suggestion that the matter
might be allowed to lie because no
damage had been done.
Immediately after the announcement
from Washington Berlin held forth as
follows:
American Red Cross ships have arrived
safe in British waters. This shows the re-
spect of the German Navy and Air Force
for the Red Cross and for American ship-
ping, but passengers would do well, while
feeling gratitude for their immunity in the
blockade zone, to assure themselves whether
the cargoes in those ships were what they
were said to be.
On Sunday morning the German Gov-
ernment announced that a U-boat 220
miles s.-w. of Reykjavik (Iceland) had
fired two torpedoes at a destroyer of un-
known nationality which had attacked it,
and that the submarine’s action was justi-
fied on the ground of self-defence. The
torpedoes missed. The destroyer con-
tinued dropping depth charges till mid-
night without success. The communique
added: “The attack on the U-boat proved
that Mr. Roosevelt had given shooting
orders to the U.S. Navy and was trying
to provoke incidents to force the Ameri-
can people into war.”
It was announced that Mr. Roosevelt
would make a 15-minute speech “of
major importance” at noon on September
9, Sydney time. Delivery of the speech
was postponed because of the death of
his mother. Meanwhile German Radio
fulminated against the U.S. Navy and
the President, and one broadcast linked
the Greer incident with a speech made
by Mr. Mackenzie King in London.
The Canadian P.M. had said that Mr.
Churchill’s declaration that Britain would
stand side by side with Uncle Sam in
the Far East was a sure sign of the
deepening interdependence of the free
world. He thought that “a similar
declaration by the United States regard-
ing Germany” would serve to shorten
the war. Mr. Churchill thanked him for
having “put in terms, perhaps more
pointed than I, as British Prime Minister,
would use, that overpowering sense we
have that time is short, that the struggle
is dire, and that all the free men must
stand together” if the world was to be
spared chaos.
American reactions to the Canadian
P.M.’s words were unfavorable.
Berlin Bombed Again.
“A.”: On August 31 Germans made
their first heavy raid in England since
July. The objective was Hull. They dive-
bombed through A.A. fire, and swept
over in low-flying formations, hitting a
communal shelter (the inmates were
buried) and wrecking many homes.
Other parts of the east coast and Home
Counties saw raiders, and there was a
little A.A. fire in an outer suburb of
London —London had been alert-free
right through August.
On September 3, among intermittent
moonlit clouds, a big force of heavy four-
engined Stirlings, Halifaxes and Man-
chesters, with a few Hampdens, gave an
exhibition over Berlin which took the
form of the heaviest bomb-dropping the
German capital had felt. Most of the
loads were decanted on industrial
suburbs. Air Minister Sinclair said: “We
hit the city hard.” The A.A. fire, though
unusually heavy, shaking windows and
walls, failed to drive off the attackers.
While Berlin was being peppered
Frankfurt was being beaten up—mainly
its wounds are round its railway stations
and junctions and factories, and some
big fires were started. Nine bombers did
not return from these two raids.
The Coastal Command had all day
been using its broom on the skies of
Northern France and the Lowlands,
brushing German fighter squadrons out
of the sky. The Bomber Command’s Fly-
ing Fortresses also held a daylight picnic
above the clouds of Bremen, which could
be clearly seen through the gaps.
On September 4 there were raids from
La Pallice to Rotterdam, and the Flying
Fortresses again took a busy part. A
few German ’planes were seen over n.-e.
England and were driven away by heavy
A.A. fire. Berlin was left to the Red Air
Force, which, according to German
A.R.P. command admission, killed 30
and injured 72.
In the week-end there were raids on
the Ruhr and on Oslo Harbor and the
usual activity over the French coast.
Soviet ’planes again bombed Berlin —
twice.
The first Australian fighter squadron
to operate from Britain came through its
first month with a grand record. Out of
the Fighter Command’s total of 124
machines destroyed, the R.A.A.F.-trained
men claimed 18. Scores were:
Flight-Lieut. Finucane (the only non-Aus-
tralian in the squadron), 9; Pilot Officer
W. K. Truscott, 2; Pilot Officer W. D.
Eccleton (since missing), Pilot Officer
Thorold Smith, Pilot Officer D. E. Lewis,
and Sergeant Pilots R. Gazzard, E. Taun-
ton, A. Stuart and K. Chisholm, one each.
Thorold Smith shared in the destruc-
tion of another. Son of a Sydney dentist,
he was a very fine forward in the Univer-
sity Rugby Union team.
The damage being wrought to German
industry is not achieved without sacri-
fices of valuable lives and machines. It
needs a big raid to pay for the nine
bombers which were lost in the Berlin-
Frankfurt affair, but production both of
machines and of men under the Empire
Air Training Scheme is such that the Air
Command feels that it can afford to take
risks.
“There are now no Australian troops
in Cyprus,” war correspondent Fitchett
has been allowed to report. ’’Strong
British reinforcements,” it seems, have
been landed on the island, protected in
part by R.A.A.F. machines, and shown
to their posts by Australian transport
units —who presumably re-embarked in
the returning troopships.
* * * *
Two fresh batches of R.A.A.F. pilots
have arrived recently in Britain after
completing their training courses in
Canada.
* * * *
Two American tankers laden with avia-
tion spirit—one carried 95,000 gallons—
duly arrived at Vladivostok. There was
no “incident.”
“Tid Apa”: From the lucubrations of
a Yankee sob-sister, Martha Gellhom, in
“Collier’s”:
Singapore looks like a Hollywood set out
of De Mille... .Bristling with pillboxes,
’planes and uniforms, it lives in an atmo-
sphere of parties, gin slings, gossip, in-
trigue and easy money—and a possible war.
And if the worst comes to happen, there’s
always the United States Navy.
Wading through forests of “nightly
parties,” “pale, well-dressed women with
perfect hair-dos,” “lordly, well-paid civil
servants” and “small, chic, very European
restaurants,” Martha presently found
some troops;
Jn a movie there has to be a comic re-
lief and in Singapore the Australians pro-
vide the great blessing of laughter....
Everyone, however, is not amused by the
Australians.
The Bundles for Malaya movement
should not forget Martha. There must be
a lot of people in Malaya who would
accept her with glee as a Christmas box.


The strong
shouldered
edge bears
the 10ad...
GILLETTE
SHOULDERED
EDGE
Three distinct angles in the sharpening process
of every Blue Gillette form a strong steel shoulder
which bears the load. That is why every Gillette
serves you longer and shaves you cleaner . . .
But you must treat the delicate edges fairly. Not
even the wrapping is allowed to touch the edges
of a Gillette when it is packed hold one to
the light and see. Unwrap the blade carefully
and hold by the ends do not touch the edges.
A little care in this regard will give you many
more delightful shaves.
USE
GILLETTE
AND SAVE STEEL
Gillette sets 2/7J to 47/ Blue Gillette Blades 5 for 1/7•
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
BUY
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
Personal and Missing Friends.
ERIC GORDON BRASSEY, formerly of New
Zealand, communicate MINTER, SIMPSON
& CO., 31 Hunter Street, Sydney. Information
to his advantage.
IF RICHARD PEPPER, late of Geraldton,
nephew of Miss Emily Pepper, of Cambridge
England (deceased), will communicate with his
parents he will hear of something to his ad-
vantage. Anyone knowing his
please communicate with ALTORFEK &
STOW, Geraldton, W.A.
Edith Mangin or Mangan (formerly Wells)
IF abovenamed, formerly of Sebastapol,
Ballarat last heard of married Mangan or
Mangin’ (?), who had fruit barrow Sydney,
communicates with her son undersigned she will
hear something to her advantage.
STANLEY LAWRENCE WELLS DAVIS,
SIA ' Box 1068, Broken Hill.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
All Types of Luggage Stocked
:
irall
mmm
OVERNIGHT BAGS
Calf Leathers, Outside Pockets.
English Frame .. . . 45/-
C. E. KITCHING
319 George Street, Sydney.
(Near Wynyard Station.)
PTY.
LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
AT THF TAI kfTFS
Z-v 1 11 ll—. 1 z-\i-^ivii—.kJ
“Major Barbara”
This latest piece of hinted G.B.S. is as
fine screen entertainmen as anyone could
ask for. Its story doesnt fit conventional
screen lines as well as Pygmalion, but
it’s all the more refreshing for that, and
it’s also a much more entertaining and
spectacular display of Shavian mental
acrobatics than the previous film.
The cast—an admirable selection from
the best English players-is near enough
to perfect. Towering over them all is
Robert Morley in a striking and delight-
ful portrayal of the armament baron,
Wendy Hiller, as the a.b.’s daughter who
renounces her parent’s wealth for service
with the Salvation Army and then, with
the aid of a particularly brilliant Shavian
mental performance, renounces the Army
f° r f* er parent, turns in a similarly
Marie Lohr and a strf of other p layer s,
aU of whom set a histri onic standard
* s rare jy a ttained on the screen,
pfi m j s a t Sydney Century and is one
tQ §ee
* * *
T - . , , , »> ti—
th^ ir latest opus ’ G
Marx Brothers have a go at various
hackneyed aspects of Western film s,
and, given something to get their teet
really into, they’re in their element. It s
pure farce, with bright moments of bur-
lesque and stretches of the Marx brand
of sheer tomfoolery ; and the Brothers
are always worth seeing for the nleasure
of watching Chico and Harpo do their
respective bests on the ivories and the
harp. With them, at Sydney Capitol, is
Lloyd Nolan in an f.a.q. thriller, “Mr.
Dynamite.”
* * * *
“The Lady from Cheyenne,” at Syd-
ney State, is intended as a comedy, but
Loretta Young, as the lady, has to carry
it through some dull patches. She is a
schoolmarm who turns up at the auction
of land lots in a proposed new town,
same being conceived in the fertile and
villainous mind of Edward Arnold and
being designed for the profit thereof. His
subtle scheme is fo foster the town, but
to keep control himself of the river front-
ages and subsequently to put a fancy
price on water for stock. Loretta unwit-
tingly heaves the proverbial spanner by
deciding that she would like a river front-
age, and talking so long and loud that
they are forced to sell her one. Then,
discovering the dastardly plot and still
talking long and loud, the schoolmarm
fosters a feminist movement to put the
evil Edward behind bars. Undeterred by
discovering that women could not sit on
a jury she turns suffragette, heads for the
local legislative body and, still talking
loud and long, wins suffrage. One is
filled with most profound sympathy for
the evil Edward.
STAGE AND CONCERT
The sixth “celebrity” concert of the
season at Melbourne Town Hall was but
poorly attended, though Prof. Heinze
provided a varied feast of music and the
orchestra some admirably sensitive play-
ing. The exhilarating “Huntingfield”
symphony of Haydn, with its charming
andante, opened the proceedings. Then
basso Arnold Matters, returned from
England, electrified the audience by his
singing of the Hans Sachs monologue from
Wagner’s “Mastersinger,” in English. The
singer’s enunciation, was first-class, and
he followed the line of the exciting story
with sure dramatic feeling. He was just
as sure of himself in the Count’s aria
from “Figaro.” “La Valse,” the choreo-
graphic poem for orchestra by Ravel,
which followed, was an affair of bits of
waltz music contributed by the strings,
with the heavier artillery flattening them to
the earth with strange, angular reverbera-
tions. It would have been a good one for
Walt Disney to interpret. The Brahms
symphony No. 2 poured light and gaiety
over the rest of the evening, but its softer
moments were marred by the Town Hall
whistle, which is that institution’s equiva-
lent of the old Theatre Royal cat and
just as difficult to exorcise, apparently.
* * * *
Ignaz Friedman made his first solo
appearance at the Town Hall, Melbourne,
last week and instantly charmed his audi-
ence and kept it charmed through a long
all-Chopin programme. Few pianists
could make of one composer such a
varied experience. Friedman played the
F Sharp Impromptu, the Sonata in B
Minor, the B Minor Scherzo, threw off a
torrent of smaller jewels, splashed and
sprayed the notes about in fury and sub-
sided into whispers which were as near
the zero of silence as the acoustics of
the Town Hall permitted. A particularly
brilliant item was the Nocturne in E
Major. There will be a couple more con-
certs next week.
* * * *
A very pleasant concert (for the Red
Cross) was held at Sydney Con. last week
by singers Eileen and Jack Lyons and
pianist Dagmar Roberts. Mezzo-soprano
Eileen Lyons sings Schumann lieder very
acceptably, and tenor Jack of that ilk can
declaim Beethoven and Handel impres-
sively. Miss Roberts’s accompaniments
were all that could be asked for, and as a
soloist she played Chopin etudes and a
Moussorgsky piece with considerable
power and dexterity.
ARTBURSTS
The Society of Artists’ annual show at
the Education Department’s Gallery,
Sydney, at first glimpse appears to have
gone all “modern,” most of the brave
new art being displayed just inside the
front door. Sydney National Gallery,
which bought eight pictures from the
show, took two from this section —Mar-
garet Preston’s “I Lived at Berowra” and
Arnold Shore’s “The Park.” In the non-
eccentric oils section the eye is caught by
a large “Icarus” by Arthur Murch, seem-
ingly inspired by William Blake, a re-
markable cloud study by John D. Moore,
and a well-painted “Poplars on the
Molonglo” by Dorothy Thornhill. Lloyd
Rees has been attempting a broader style
without much success, Eric Wilson paints
French streets very realistically and
Herbert Badham limns a characteristic
and bright Australian scene in “Swim-
ming Enclosure.” A newcomer, James
Cook, who paints in a very heavy, im-
pressive style, caught the eye of the
Sydney Gallery trustees with “Bakery in
the Cotswolds.” One of Adrian Feint’s
landscapes, as delicate and stylised as a
Mozart sonata, also goes to that Gallery,
and so does William Dobell’s very char-
acteristic “Milliner.”
Judged from the standpoint of faithful
representation, the two technical bests of
the show are undoubtedly Charles Meere s
“Dinan-sur-Rauce” and W. A. Dargie’s
nude “Pamela,” both in oils.
In water-colors the most notable ex-
hibits are Sydney Ure Smith’s careful
colored drawings of the Sydney harbor-
side, Daryl Lindsay’s charming “Murano,
Venice,” and a nice landscape by Frank
McNamara that goes to the Melbourne
Gallery.
Of special interest in the sculpture sec-
tion is a head, “The Connoisseur,” by
Daphne Mayo. Everybody in art circles
in Sydney knows the subject and
appreciates the speaking likeness.
* * * *
This year’s show of the Teachers’
Federation Art Society at Federation
House, Sydney—the third of such annual
occasions—contains only half as many
exhibits as last year. The only notable
contributors on this occasion are James
Gleeson, who has invented some night-
mares more fantastic and sinister than
ever, and W. A. Placing, whose posters in
primary colors are now done (apparently)
with a trowel instead of with a white-
wash brush. Rah Fizelle shows a nice
pencil study in the academic manner and
two funny-looking heads to prove that he
can shed such shackles.
**' * *
Rupert Bunny’s show at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, is filled with land-
scapes painted in France in the impres-
sionistic style he picked up there —out-
lines hazy, drawing indeterminate, color
etiolated. But there is a return to an
older, more virile manner in some flower
studies. No. 25 is quite snappingly effec-
tive. Some monotypes of figure studies
lack emphasis and point, but are
pleasantly colored.
* * * *
George Colville is showing oils and
water-colors at the Le Meilleur studio-
cafe, Collins-street, Melbourne. He is an
old and practised hand at turning out the
kind of landscape which used to be
fashionable with the art-loving public be-
fore the “modernists” commenced
practice. It is competent and neat, but
not penetrating. Most pleasing are the
little sketches. >


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The Canterbury Park management
probably had some anxious moments
when rain was falling on Friday night,
but everything came out right. A fine
day, an attendance of 16,000, track in
good order, and first-class racing. There
were a couple of unpleasant surprises
for backers of favorites, but they are
used to that.
The Guineas was one shock. Yaralla
and Chatham’s Choice raced together
in front until reaching the back stretch,
where Yaralla held a narrow lead. Their
relative positions were the same to the
turn, and when Yaralla increased his
lead a furlong from home a win for him
seemed assured. However, Chatham’s
Choice kept coming, and fighting on in
the gamest possible fashion defeated
Yaralla in the last couple of strides. The
latter tired, and though it was thought
he would have done better if allowed to
make greater use of his pace in the early
part little excuse was possible for him.
Beau Son, who did not get a clear run
throughout, struggled on well to fill third
place, but did not finish any better than
The Champion, who lost ground through
blundering at one stage. It’s Funny’s
form was much below that shown by
him at Randwick, and, apart from the
first two, only Prince ever looked a win-
ning possibility. A fast run took him
into third place at the turn, but though
momentarily he looked like going right
on he stopped so badly in the straight
that he finished seventh. It was a feather
in the cap of a young trainer, H. R. Pap-
worth, to win such an important race so
early in his career.
f • • • • • •
In the Canterbury Stakes Reading
proved there was justification for his
backing as the first leg of Epsom and
Metropolitan doubles at the end of last
week. Second to Session when the field
settled down, he passed her soon after
turning into the straight, and ridden right
out scored by half a length from High
Caste, who, last in company with Caesar
and Beau Vite soon after the start, was
being hard ridden after going three fur-
longs. He was then so far behind Read-
ing that he did well to finish close
to him. A furlong from the winning-post
there seemed a slight chance that he
would make up his leeway, but the task
was too great.
•••••#
Amiable narrowly beat Session for
third, the latter displaying a lot of pace,
and even if she is unequal to success in
and Epsom she will probably win some-
thing during the spring. Beau Vite, as
generally anticipated, was too slow in
finding his legs in such a short race ever
to be dangerous, and the opposition was
much too strong for Caesar, who was
having his last race.
Kama is fast, but a poor stayer. She
commenced smartly in the Flying Handi-
cap, but Martheus led her at the half-
mile and then went on to win by
half a length from Air Link, who will
make amends at a longer distance. C. Ryan
has done well with Martheus, having
won three and a half races with him in
two and a half months. Reception, in
third place, again ran an excellent race,
while the solidly-backed Creditor, after
making a sharp dash that took him up
third at the straight entrance, dropped
out again after passing the leger.
Irish Sea’s fourth was a sufficiently
good effort to make him worth following
during the next few weeks, but though
Tel Asur was well in the betting he was
disappointing. A longer distance will be
more to his liking. Rapture’s showing
was good enough to give her prospects
of paying expenses at one of the mid-
week or provincial meetings.
Dashing Cavalier’s form in the War-
wick Stakes the previous week did not
suggest early success in anything, but
though, in company with Yours Truly,
he was some lengths behind Gilltown and
Malagigi at the home turn in the Turf
Club Handicap he finished in great style
to win from Red Pete, who was ham-
pered when attempting to get through.
Aristocrat came from a long way back at
the turn to run third, while the last bit
stopped Gilltown and Malagigi. How-
ever, it will not be long before both do
better. Royal Sceptre and Bona Fide
were the early leaders, but Gilltown had
their measure after going six furlongs.
The support accorded Beauregard for
the first division of the Trial Stakes
pointed to that race being a good thing
for him, despite his outside post posi-
tion. He commenced fairly, but after
going two furlongs started to drop back,
and though hard ridden could not get
near the leaders. In the straight he ran
on to finish fifth, but over the last half
of the trip never quite looked a place-
getter. When Home Rule led into the
straight from Merry Monarch he
appeared a winner, but eventually the
latter disposed of him in easy fashion.-
Walkalong was a moderate third, and
Hazaden’s fourth was good enough to
give him a winning chance at a mid-week
meeting. Tyrannus will be improved by
the run, but Southerly, from a bad posi-
tion, did not do as well as on some
previous occasions. Merry Monarch’s
official time was only a half-second worse
than that recorded by Reading in the
Canterbury Stakes, and a half-second
better than that of Martheus in the
Flying Handicap.
Commencing smartly The Elk soon
led in the second division of the Trial
Stakes, and though Manlock seemed like
troubling him halfway down the straight
he was losing ground at the winning-post.
Gundare (from F. McGrath’s stable)
and Canvasser were prominent at the
turn, but weakened in the run home,
leaving Parsing to beat Half Way for
third. The last-named did not have the
best of luck or would have been closer.
There was money for Midnight Blue,
but it was lost when she was sent from
the inside to the outside at the barrier.
This was The Elk’s first win since August
of last year, but there may not be such
a long interval before he is again
successful.
John Dory missed a place at Randwick
the previous Saturday, but as it was noted
that luck was against him backers again
stood him, and he shared favoritism with
Omapo for the Campsie Handicap, Bel
Oiseau being best backed of the others.
The last-named was on the rails, and
being squeezed back at barrier-rise did
not after raise the hopes of his backers.
Trade Mark did the pacemaking, waited
on by Roxford, Red Sails and Omapo,
but though Red Sails appeared to have
the race safe when he settled Trade
Mark in the straight he could not stall
off John Dory. Mischief, in third place,
finished strongly, and will do better over
a longer trip. It will be the same with
Anpapejo, who looks really well, and
there is still hope for Roxford. The New
Zealand Cup winner Serenata was a
runner, but was not fancied.
Melbourne stables will have four repre-
sentatives in the A.J.C. Derby. In addi-
tion to Murmuring and Laureate, Lugano
and Cloudy Bay earned starts as a result
of their sterling performances at Flem-
ington on Saturday. Lugano won the
Memsie Stakes, and Cloudy Bay was
beaten half a head by Royal Peter, to
whom he conceded 61b., in the Warris-
ton Handicap.
Lugano had finished a long way behind
Sun Valley and Tranquil Star in the
Underwood Stakes a week earlier, but
interference prejudiced his chance in that
race, and there was sufficient support to
force his price from twenties down to
twelves on Saturday. Behind Positron,
Tranquil Star and Sun Valley entering
the straight, he headed Tranquil Star
about a furlong from home, and was
able to stall off a strong finish by Rivette,
who easily defeated Tranquil Star for
second money. Lugano is the first three-
year-old winner of the Memsie Stakes
for many years, and probably he is the
best of his age in Melbourne. He won
like a stayer, and his weight-carrying
ability is reflected in the fact that he
scored with 9.1 over a mile at Fleming-
ton in July.
With four Flemington wins in less than
three months, Lugano has been a rare
bargain at his yearling cost of 160gns.
By John James from Bucentaure, he was
bought by J. J. Kitson, and at the same
sale Stepney, a colt by John James from
Divine Lady, purchased by N. L.
Partington for llOgns. The identities of
the two became mixed later, and it was
only after they had been training in dif-
ferent stables for some time that the mis-
take was discovered. Owners of the colts
thereupon decided to race the pair in
partnership and place them under the
care of a “neutral” trainer, M. Crossey.
Partington has had the better of the deal
so far, but Stepney, although still a
maiden, shows good promise. Lugano
has been ridden in all his wins by H.
Olsen, who will have the mount in the
A.J.C. Derby.
Rivette demonstrated that she cannot
be far behind the form that enabled her
to win both Cups two years ago, but
Tranquil Star’s lack of dash at the finish
was disconcerting to her Caulfield Cup
backers. There appeared little excuse for
her, though rider F. Tocknell stated after
the race that she pulled too hard early,
and was left in front at the turn —sooner
than he had intended. Sun Valley’s Caul-
field Cup stocks also slumped because of
his failure to do better than sixth. He
lost two or three lengths when Tranquil
Star crossed him near the six furlongs,
however, and was thrown off balance.
That incident, combined with severe in-
terference suffered by El Golea soon after
the start, brought a month’s suspension
for Tranquil Star’s rider. Zonda was
never dangerous, but her stable-mate,
Positron, starting at 50 to 1, led most of
the way and hung on fairly to finish
fourth. He will improve.
Cloudy Bay, drawn wide at the barrier
—a disadvantage in mile races —was last
of a strung-out field six furlongs from
home in the Warriston Handicap, one
mile, but, after looking the winner a few
strides from the post, he was outstayed
and beaten half a head by Royal Peter.
Latter, a big Peter Pan-Alicia colt, also
recorded a particularly good perform-
ance, as he was ahead of only two horses
at the six furlongs. Cloudy Bay was on
trial for a Sydney trip, and W. Balloch,
who manages owner G. J. Barton’s Aus-
tralian racing affairs when the latter is in
Maoriland, was impressed by the per-
formance. He is of opinion that the colt
is a genuine stayer, and, in respect of
an A.J.C. Derby start, was influenced by
Yaralla’s defeat in the Canterbury
Guineas.
• •«•••
Cloudy Bay may be all his admirers
claim for him, but form points to Lugano
being the better Derby proposition. They
met in the Two-year-old Mile at Flem-
ington in July, and Cloudy Bay was
beaten a neck. He looked rather un-
lucky in running that day, but the fact
remains that Lugano conceded him 171 b.
Velocity firmed for the Cups follow-
ing his defeat of Sir Locket and Carpen-
tier in the Heatherlie Handicap, 10 fur-
longs. He was pocketed more than once,
but stretched out in fine style once he
got clear in the straight, and outstayed
Sir Locket to win by half a neck after
the latter had looked all over a winner.
Velocity was racing for the second time
since his failure in the Sydney Cup.
Minor placings in the A.J.C. St. Leger
and the Australian Cup prove his stamina,
and he is better treated with 7.11 in the
Melbourne Cup than with 8.3 in the
Caulfield Cup. On Saturday he met Sir
Locket 71b. better than Caulfield Cup
terms, and the latter, whose two previous
races had been at six furlongs, should be
a better proposition at his next appear-
ance.
Carpentier, racing for the first time
since April, made a game attempt to lead
for the rest of the way after hitting the
front near the six furlongs, and, although
outstayed, he will not be a 33-to-l chance
at his next start. He is engaged in the
Caulfield but not the Melbourne Cup,
the distance of the latter race being con-
sidered too far for him. Westralian-
owned Ronolive made up considerable
ground to finish fourth, but Togo, backed
from tens to second favoritism at 9 to 2,
was never really dangerous.
A change of jockeys brought about a
change of form in All Veil, 10-to-l
winner of the Whittier Handicap. He had
revealed no dash in his three previous
races, and Ashley Reed, who had ridden
him in each, informed one of the part-
owners, W. Balloch, that the horse did
not seem to go kindly for him. Reed
suggested a change of riders as an ex-
periment, and Hartney was substituted
on Saturday. Hartney saw to it that All
Veil did not loaf on the job, and the
Newmarket winner, pulled to the out-
side of the leaders, High Title and Aurie’s
Star, coming to the furlong post, won
stylishly from Kanuri, who came through
on the rails to defeat High Title for
second money.
All Veil’s improved form did not meet
with the approval of a small section of
the crowd, but no one was more sur-
prised than Balloch. He stated that he
put on only £lO for himself and a
similar amount for his partner in the
horse, G. J. Barton.
• • . . • •
High Title’s defeat was a bitter blow
for backers, and Ashley Reed was criti-
cised for seemingly “holding him up”
instead of making more use of his early
pace. Perhaps High Title would still
have been beaten had he set up a lead
of several lengths early, but the public
is accustomed to seeing the colt race that
way, and did not appreciate the changed
tactics. Aurie’s Star had every chance,
and, although he battled on gamely
enough to finish fourth, obviously is not
as good as he was. It was his first defeat
on his favorite track for almost 18
months.
Isonomia overcame difficulties to win
the Doona Trial from Martinez and
Dream Girl, and this four-year-old
Maoriland-bred gelding by Nightly from
Acrelinore appears to have a bright stay-
ing future. He completed a double for
trainer J. Pengilly, who had won earlier
with Royal Peter. Zalmon, backed from
12 to 1 down to favoritism at 7 to 2,
finished fourth after having every chance.
Riccarton followed up his Moonee Valley
success of a week earlier by winning the
Sandringham Steeple in rather atractive
style from Gracstello and Bunnegal.
Solecism, favorite, was one of the first
horses beaten.
* * * *
On Monday double business of most
note in Sydney was the coupling of
Freckles and Aristocrat for the Epsom
and Metropolitan. Freckles was almost
as strong in demand as High Caste for
the Epsom, the order of the fancied
horses being as under:
EPSOM HANDICAP.
High Caste
Freckles
Rimveil
Evergreen, Reading
Amiable, Session
High Rank, Panchio.
METROPOLITAN.
Lucrative
Veiled Threat
Pandect
Gundagai, Reading
Dashing Cavalier, Aristocrat
Binnia Hero, Beau Vite, Remarc, Red Pete.
* * * *
Kindergarten is not to race again in
Australia this spring. Last week he
developed ligament trouble in his near
foreleg, and, as veterinary opinion was
to the effect that a complete breakdown
might result if he were persevered with,
he is not to fulfil further Australian en-
gagements. Bad luck for his owner and
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Hurdle Race: Generous Gesture
or Windjammer, 1 ; Glaucus, 2;
Xerxes, 3.
Novice Handicap: Pan Pipe, 1 ;
Dark Warbler, 2 ; Gold Rush, 3.
Tramway Handicap: Freckles, 1 ;
Evergreen, 2 ; Irish Sea or Geebung,
3.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Chatoona, 1 ; The Champion,
2 ; John Halifax or The Elk, 3.
Chelmsford Stakes: High Caste,
1 ; Lucrative, 2 ; Beau Vite, 3.
Spring Handicap: Aristocrat, 1 ;
Gundagai, 2 ; Triggerman, 3.
Welter Handicap: Willie Green,
1; Levraut, 2; Red Sails, 3.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(Before acceptances.)
Boomerang Hurdle: Winterset or
Victory March, 1; Amnesty, 2;
High Wave, 3.
Corroboree Maiden Handicap :
Corredor, 1 ; Triumvir, 2 ; Basalt, 3.
Mount Cottrell Steeplechase:
Dorset, 1 ; Riccarton, 2 ; Gracstello,
3.
Moonee Valley Stakes: All Love,
1; Tea Cake, 2 ; Skipton, 3.
Budgeree Handicap: Carlton, 1 ;
Contact, 2 ; Snow White, 3.
Nulla Nulla Handicap: Spear-
main, 1; Chatasan, 2 ; Wheat Sheaf,
3.


DON’T NEGLECT
A Common Case of Piles. It may
Lead to Serious Results.
When people, generally, under-
stand that all such fatal diseases as
Fistula, Ulcer of the Rectum, Fis-
sure, etc., almost invariably begin
in a simple case of Piles, they will
learn the wisdom of taking prompt
treatment for the first appearance
of this trouble. DOAN’S OINT-
MENT is unequalled for every form
of Piles —Bleeding, Itching, Pro-
truding, and Blind Piles, and hun-
dreds of lives have been saved by
using this cheap but effective
remedy right from the start, be-
cause at such times a single tin
has often effected a cure, while in
the old deep-seated, chronic cases,
several tins are sometimes neces-
sary.
DOAN’S OINTMENT is healing,
antiseptic and soothing. That is
why it is equally successful in over-
coming Eczema and other skin
complaints. But be sure you get
DOAN’S,
trainer, also for those backers who com-
menced two Cups doubles with him.
* * * *
The Canterbury Guineas did little
towards enlightening backers as to the
probable result of the AJ.C. Derby.
Prior to Saturday I thought Yaralla was
as likely to get a mile and a half as any
other of the Sydney colts, but now it
is difficult to be enthusiastic concerning
him. The first half-mile of the Guineas
was run at a comparatively easy pace,
but even that did not enable him to quite
see out the nine furlongs. It was not
with anything approaching a brilliant run
that Chatham’s Choice beat him. That
colt simply plugged along for the last
50 yards, and Yaralla was unable to
respond.
As Chatham’s Choice hung on well he
must now enter into Derby calculations,
but it cannot be said he did much better
than either Beau Son or The Champion
over the last quarter-mile. If anything
they were a little closer to him at the
winning-post than at the top of the
straight. Still, it is improbable they would
have caught him even if there had been
another furlong to travel. Chatham’s
progeny have shone more over short than
long distances, but last season one of his
sons, Chatoona, dead-heated for first in
an 11-furlongs race at Randwick.
The Champion, though beaten for third
by Beau Son in the Guineas, put in good
work over the last furlong, and it is quite
on the cards for both those colts to
reverse positions with Chatham’s Choice
and Yaralla over a longer distance. It’s
Funny did not shape like a stayer, nor
did Prince, notwithstanding that last
autumn he was generally selected as likely
to shine in that respect. Perhaps he may
yet act up to last season’s promise, but
his latest effort was not encouraging. The
Rosehill Guineas has not often been a
good guide, but until that is decided it
will be difficult to be at all pronounced
in any opinion as to Sydney’s best for
the Derby.
The Melbourne representatives have
also to be taken into consideration. Mur-
muring is expected to stay, and as Lugano
was too solid for the older horses in the
nine-furlongs Memsie Stakes at Fleming-
ton on Saturday his form must be
accounted at least as good as that of
Chatham’s Choice and Yaralla in the
Canterbury Guineas. Though beaten by
Royal Peter in the Warriston Handicap,
Cloudy Bay’s run made him a starter for
the AJ.C. Derby, but, unless there are
further developments, Lugano reads like
being Victoria’s best chance in that race.
Laureate, winner of one race at Fleming-
ton, and another at Mentone last season,
has been in Sydney some time and is
doing well.
* * * *
If figures were always reliable, the
Canterbury Stakes discounted High
Caste’s Epsom chance. He met Reading
131 b. better than Epsom terms, and,
though he gained several lengths on the
latter in the last three furlongs, the fact
remains that he was beaten. High Caste
was excused on the score that he was
slow in finding his legs, and for the first
half of the journey he certainly did not
stretch out in the same fashion as in many
other of his races. The Epsom is an
extra quarter of a mile, but if he does
not do -better in the early part than on
Saturday he is going to find success diffi-
cult with 9.13.
As Reading met Session and Amiable
on worse than Epsom terms, they will
have to improve to turn the tables on
him at Randwick. Session did well for
five furlongs, but it was not form that
really said much for her Epsom
chance, though she is expected to
improve. Owing to a mishap she
recently had a quiet time in her work.
Amiable, who met her on only 21b.
better than Epsom terms, came home
more strongly than she. If Munro were
offered his choice of mounts between
Session and Reading it is unlikely he
would now choose the former, for whom
he was engaged soon after the weights
were issued. Reading ran nowhere in last
year’s Epsom with 9.2, against the 9.5
of High Caste, who won.
* * *
Dashing Cavalier outshone most of the
Metropolitan candidates that ran at Can-
terbury on Saturday, but in winning the
Turf Club Handicap he carried only the
9.0 he will have to put up in the Rand-
wick race, while Aristocrat, who finished
well in third place, had 8.1. Conse-
quently, with 6.13, he will meet Dashing
Cavalier 151 b. better. It may be con-
tended that Aristocrat is not of the class
to win a Metropolitan, but he is by The
Buzzard, and a middle-distance winner.
He should, at least, hold Gilltown, Mala-
gigi and Yours Truly, who were behind
him at Canterbury, and is 161 b. better off
as compared with Red Pete, who beat
him for second.
Katanga and Remarc, other Metro-
politan candidates, ran in the Flyfng
Handicap, and did no better than could
be expected at six furlongs. Both wear
a healthy appearance, and the next three
weeks should do a lot for them. Katanga
has done particularly well since he last
raced, and I have an idea that either in
Sydney or Melbourne he will show to
greater advantage this spring than at
any previous time. He is nicely weighted
in the Caulfield Cup as well as the Metro-
politan.
w • • • • 4,
Beau Vite was another that was not
running at a suitable distance at six fur-
longs in the Canterbury Stakes, and it
occasioned no surprise when he was
always one of the last two. He had
sprinted smartly during the previous
week, but there is a great difference be-
tween making fast time from a moving
start and standing behind a barrier.
However, I think he looks even stronger
now than when he did so well last
autumn.
* * * *
All Love arrived in Melbourne in good
condition, and before the Caulfield
Guineas will be afforded the opportunity
of running against two or three of her
possible opponents for that race. If the
Guineas were to be decided at Caulfield
her defeat would be improbable, but the
mile at Flemington makes it harder, and
that may improve the prospects of some
of the southerners. As Lugano beat the
older horses at nine furlongs at Flem-
ington on Saturday he, for one, reads
like a tough proposition, and the form
of Royal Peter and Cloudy Bay in the
Warriston Handicap left no doubt as to a
mile at Flemington being within their
compass. High Title may be actually the
fastest of the Melbourne colts, but he
is under suspicion as a miler.
* * * *
Barrier positions, according to some
followers of racing, make very little dif-
ference at a mile. The result of the
Welter Mile at Kensington last week did
not uphold that idea, so far as that course
is concerned. There were 15 runners,
and, apart from Heiron, who made a
forward move at the turn, the place-
getters never looked like coming from
anything outside Red Bruce, Rameo and
Gallop, whose respective post positions
were 3, 1 and 2. Rameo did the pace-
making from Gallop and Red Bruce in
that order, and the last-named, patiently
ridden by McCarten, slipped through on
the rails turning into the straight, and
defeated Rameo and Gallop by the nar-
rowest of margins. On the other hand, the
first division of the Flying Handicap was
won by Reception, who drew No. 13, the
extreme outside position, and Status was
No. 9 in the second division.
* * * *
Some lucky purchases have been made
in England for Maoriland. Beau Pere,
at lOOgns., was one, and another was
Kindergarten’s sire, Kincardine, a half-
brother, by Gay Crusader, to Gothic,
winner of two Newmarket Handicaps
and a Caulfield Futurity Stakes for Sol
Green. The “Horse and Hound,” in re-
ferring to Kincardine, says he was bought
as a yearling in 1924 for 5200gns. by
A. B. Walker, and won £7353 in stakes.
When he retired he was sold in 1929 for
850gns. for stud purposes. The paper I
quote says that in 1933 he was again sent
to auction to dissolve a partnership,
and was bought by Major W. J. Rowley
for 18gns. The latter exported him to
Maoriland after the covering season of
the following year in England, but it is
not stated what advance he received on
that 18gns. he gave for him.
* * * *
Neither books nor backers are often
wide of the mark at mid-week meetings
in Sydney. There was nothing in Lam-
beth’s showing in the race won by The
Champion at Victoria Park a fortnight
earlier to suggest he had a mortgage on
the Kensington Novice Handicap in a
fair field. Probably the fact of Munro
being his rider had a lot to do with it,
but he opened at a short price and closed
favorite. He was so badly placed round-
ing the home turn that a win for him
seemed improbable, but he finished so
strongly that he scored decisively. He
is a plain-looking three-year-old gelding
by Blixten (Night Raid-Receipt), who
started favorite for the 1933 A.J.C.
Derby, but was beaten by Hall Mark
and Deputy Ruler. His dam. Dancing
Rose, is by Roseworthy from that good
stayer By Play, a daughter of St.
Alwyne. Payten, who trains Lambeth,
has made a good start this season, and
as his team —the largest at Randwick —
includes some older horses that are com-
ing on nicely, and at least a couple of
promising two-year-olds, the chances are
he will have his share of wins at the
spring meetings.
* * * *
“5.8.” writes from Adelaide: Harold
Bickford, who bought Chatasan, winner
of the Truganina Handicap at Moonee
Valley on August 30, for his wife, is one
of Adelaide’s best-known sportsmen. For
many years he was the metropolitan
racing judge. Back in the ’nineties he
was a prominent cyclist. That is one
sporting link with Mrs. Bickford’s trainer,
Pat Quinlan, of Mentone, for he, also,
won many races on Victorian cycling
tracks and roads. Chatasan is a typical
Chatham and should win many more
races. Bickford and his wife —they went
from Adelaide to see their son, who is
in the R.A.A.F., as well as to attend the
meeting—allowed Chatasan to run un-
backed,
* * * *
In last week’s issue I slipped in refer-
ring to Laureate as a brother to Lucrative.
He is by Law Maker from Stage
Wit, by Whittier from Stage Girl, and
as a. yearling cost 600gns. He is in the
same ownership as Lucrative, that of R.
W. McLean, and, though he is not related
to Lucrative, that has not altered my
opinion as to his proving a useful colt
in the autumn, if not earlier.
He * * *
If report is correct, some of the un-
registered meetings held on licensed race-
courses in aid of war funds are not im-
proving the standard of country racing.
At a recent meeting four horses that had
competed at registered meetings were
alleged to have had a temporary change
of name. Meetings for war funds are
commendable, but why not seek to have
them registered and run under strict
control?
* * * *
Maoriland gelding Algerian, who has
been mentioned in connection with the
Epsom and Metropolitan, in which he is
respectively weighted at 7.7 and 7.5, is a
five-year-old gelding by Beau Pere from
Zarene. He won three so-called “hack”
races as a three-year-old, but started only
once last season. As he ran nowhere
with 8.2 (minimum 8.0) in the Winter
Cup, one mile, at Riccarton (Christ-
church) last month he will need to im-
prove tremendously to win either of the
big races at Randwick.
* * * *
England’s New St. Leger, run on
Saturday last, was won by Sun Castle,
with Chateau Larose a head away and
Dancing Time third. Sun Castle, who
is trained by Captain Boyd-Rochfort for
Lord Portal, was greatly fancied for the
Derby in June, but was unplaced. He
is by Hyperion from Castle Gay, and
in A. Fawcett’s Free Handicap Sweep-
stakes at the end of last season was
weighted at 9.2, the top weight being
Poise, 9.7. As Chateau Larose had only
7.12 in that race he must have come
on a lot this season.
* * * *
Another of California’s valuable han-
dicaps, the Hollywood Gold Cup, of
$75,000, was run at Hollywood Park,
Inglewood, on July 19, and was won by
the five-year-old horse Big Pebble, who,
with 8.7, beat 12 other runners in 2.2$
for the mile and a quarter. As usual in
American races the pace was terrific in
the early part, the first quarter being run
in 225, half-mile in 46 and six furlongs in
I.los. The topweight, Mioland, was
third with 9.4, and the winner started at
11 to 2. First money, inclusive of for-
feits and sweepstakes, was $62,475
(approximately £19,000), second $15,000,
third $7500 and fourth $3750. In addi-
tion to the $75,000 for this race the club
gave $22,000 for seven others the same
day making its contribution $97,000
(about £A28,500). They certainly do
things in a big way at some American
tracks.
The Massachusetts Handicap was also
decided in July. It is run at Suffolk
Downs (Boston), and on the recent occa-
sion was won by S. D; Riddle’s three-
year-old Man o’ War colt War Relic
(7.4), who cut out the nine furlongs in
1.485, a track record. War Relic, who
was a late entry, started at 11 to 1. The
first five horses shared in the prize-money,
the winner taking $48,300 (approximately
£A14,690), second $lO,OOO, third $5OOO,
fourth $2500, and fifth $1250.
Footbrawl
Over 50,000 saw Essendon defeat
Richmond in the first semi-final at
M.C.G. At their previous conference
Richmond bolted in the first quarter with
eight straight goals to one and on that
carried the day. This time strong ruck-
ing, good handball and fast, straight-
down-the-centre play gave the Dons
eight quick goals to two.
In the second quarter Richmond
steadied Essendon with bustling and
crowding, but couldn’t close the lead to
better than 10.4-7.7. In the third it settled
down to a grim business of get-your-man,
but the ’Dons showed they could play
that too, and by the close of the quarter
it was obvious that the first quarter burst
had left the Tigers almost toothless.
After that Essendon proceeded to ad-
minister a football hiding to the worn
Tigers, running out by 21.9 to 11.15, an
effect of fast and accurate attack and
a ruck that refused to be bluffed.
It is Carlton v. Melbourne next Satur-
day, the loser then to face Essendon and
the winner thereof to meet the winner
of the Carlton-Melbourne match in the
“grand” final.
* * *
It is to be East v. University for the
Sydney Rugby Union “grand” final next
Saturday.* The Students’ speed carried
them to victory over Randwick. Throw-
ing the ball about, backing up and moving
ahead all the time, they jolted Randwick
into errors. Though ’Wick tackled grimly
its pack couldn’t match the ’Varsity set.
Time after time the ball shot back from
the Students’ scrum and was swung out
along the line or driven to the wings with
long, cleverly-timed kicks by the five-
eighth. When, rarely, the ball did go
Randwick’s way, it dribbled out slowly,
and was lost by indecisive passing
among the inside backs.
Randwick all through the season had
been noted for the speed of its back line.
The Students, man for man, were yards
faster. The Greens lost Gray-Spence, the
full-back, and when Miller moved back
from his outside centre position there was
a further jolting of the line. At half-time
University was 11 to 5 (one try, con-
verted, and two penalty goals to one con-
verted try). After the interval Randwick
tried hard, but the back line never
functioned smoothly, and points were lost
with missed penalty kicks. ’Varsity added
two more tries and Randwick one, and
at the end of a grand game it was 17
points to 8.
# # * *
“G. Sneak”: One of the first jobs
facing the controllers of Australian foot-
ball is a straightening out of the rules.
There are so many now that an umpire
needs to carry a book on the field, and
the worst of them is the holding one.
It has caused more trouble than any
other. Nobody wants it and nobody can
understand why the “heads” persist with
it. What is needed is a reversion to about
1925 and a fresh start from there, other-
wise the game will become so cluttered
with rules that it may lose its speed and
spectacular quality.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: As to these N.S.W. fights
in Rugby matches, has the Australian
Rules remedy been tried? In S.A. there
are five umpires (one central, two line,
and two goal) watching the play closely.
Nobody is sent off the field, but after-
wards any one or more of these officials
may report a player for unfair or “un-
duly” rough play to the governing body,
which has three sportsmen appointed to
hear each case and (if it is proved) “out
the offender for so many matches. Any
attempt to strike a man is among the
most serious offences; any disputing of
an umpire’s decision counts, too. The
result is peace —outward, at any rate. As
for a general brawl of spectators, sensible
S.A. hardly knows such a thing, but the
English Soccer League’s stern plan of
disqualifying the whole ground itself for
so many weeks ought to meet it.
Killed in action in Abyssinia, Major
Arthur W. Briscoe, of the Transvaal
Scottish—“ Dooley” to all South Africans
and the Australians who met him in Test
matches. He was an attractive batsman
and played for both Transvaal and South
Africa. One of four brothers serving
with the South African forces, he got an
M.C. two days before his death.


Woman't Letters.
From Melbourne
Melbourne honored the troops with the
size of the crowd for the Victory V Day
march, but cheering was spasmodic, as
always. Regarding processions, this city
just can’t show its enthusiasm with its
lungs, though it will yell itself hoarse over
a football match. Figures were not to
hand at the conclusion of the street col-
lection held conjointly, but all badges
were sold and all 36 stalls were satisfied
with business. The lucky wheels were
back again and accounted for the success
of the day, which means a lot of money
for the Red Cross. Whether the moralists
like it or not the point can’t be evaded.
No street appeal day can be a bumper
success without provision for the gen.
public’s gambling instinct.
Dogs and horses are helping the
prisoners of war adoption scheme, and
poultry, pigeons and cage birds are all
out to help the R.A.A.F. at the Royal
Show for 1941. Women’s industries are
not on the programme, and abandoned
also are most of the indoor sections held
last year within the length and breadth
of the exhibition, now a somewhat
draughty home from home for the Air
Force. Equestrian events took place at.
Moonee Valley on Friday and Saturday,
and the dogs may be seen and heard at
Luna Park on 19th and 20th. On 25th,
26th and 27th in the Doric Hall, South
Melbourne, the wings of the feathered
fraternity will assist wings of another
ilk. The poultry industry and the Royal
Ag. Soc. thought alike in the matter of
the aerial beneficiaries. On 17th and 18th
pigs will be in the picture to be appre-
ciated by those who love and understand
them at the lamb-holding yards of the
Abattoirs.
The Horse Show at the Valley occu-
pied the middle of the arena, with three
show rings, a better idea than last year’s,
spread over a vast area of track and
birdcage. The weather was good and the
whole event a mixture of horse gym-
khana, picnic race meeting and polo, on
the selfsame spot as in the palmy days.
Those who follow the hoise brought in
their entourage their lunch and their chil-
dren, who swarmed on to the wet grass
sucking lemonade through straws and
almost crawling under the horses’ feet,
for the barriers were such merely by
courtesy. Under the new arrangement
spectators had a much better view of
events than ever before and were particu-
larly appreciative of the jumping, set out
as a figure eight according to the Olym-
pic Horse Show plan.
Among women riders the Garryowen
Trophy caused most speculation. The
four judges took about one and a half
hours to make up their minds and add
up mark§ for horse, equipment and riding
ability, which time span wasn’t the endur-
ance test it sounds—one year it was 6.30
p.m. in the pouring rain before decisions
were announced. Mrs. H. T. Coffey on
Colorado, one of Mrs. Herbert Allen’s
horses, was declared champ., with Helen
Nichol on Mrs. A. A. Laidlaw’s May Be
and Mrs. W. R. Nevins as runners-up,
and sashes also for Mrs. Keith Spurr,
Kitty Sutherland and Fairlie Hagenauer.
All competitors stuck rigidly to black
coats and bowlers. The majority wore
white camellias and a few sported yellow
waistcoats. Beige breeches were almost
uniform, but Helen Nichol wore hers in
brown and Mary Bartram’s were black-
and-white check. Mrs. Ken Moore and
two of the Irving sisters were also in
the event and had many other interests
right through the two days.
A snack lunch, plus a roof garden (cum
view and windbreak) thrown in for no-
thing, is being offered to the general
public on the top floor of the Auditorium
Building, 167 Collins-street. Proceeds are
for the 19th Brigade and 2/8 Battalion.
The official luncheon took place a week
after the little restaurant had opened sub
rosa, among friends, so that the amateur
waitresses could get some practice in their
new jobs. Cost of crockery, etc., was
met by an “oddments” do among bat-
talion well-wishers, who, to the tune of
£l6, bought and sold one another’s home-
made goods, for which many of the
materials came out of Mrs. Vasey’s
garden at Wanterna.
As well as a country garden Mrs.
Vasey possesses a sewing machine, and
pedalled away till several midnights
making red and blue gingham aprons,
cushions and curtains to go with the
white t and blue crockery. On the day
of the opening lunch she was up with
the early-morning sparrows picking wild-
flowers, heath, parrot- and donkey-
orchids to decorate the tables. Present
among representatives of other regimental
comforts funds were Mrs. Ted Milford
and Mrs. L. R. Stillman, wearing respec-
tively the badges of the 2/4th and 2 /11th.
Inset from Broothorn, Mrs. E. M. Dye,
one of the “three musketeers” (the others
are May Angliss and Mrs. Garnet Cur-
wen) who are daily voluntary workers in
the Lord Mayor’s Appeals office, aloft of
the Town Hall. Among events on the
horizon which the committee is taking
in its stride is the A.C.F. Ball at the
Palais on September 24, Mrs. Dye’s par-
ticular responsibility for that occasion
being raffles. One of the dance ticket
secs, is Mrs. H. P. Ogilvie, whose pride
and joy, daughter Jean, otherwise Mrs.
Redvers Dunbar, is one of Ernest Bevin’s
girls. She recently switched over from
a mobile canteen to driving an ambu-
lance, and sleeps several nights a week
on a makeshift bunk in a concrete
garage. On nights when there’s no call
she says her sleep’s remarkably sound.
A year old is the tinfoil sorting depot
in Lonsdale-street of the Children’s
Hospital. Helpers scrubbed their hands
and unwound themselves from overalls
for a stay in proceedings—in honor of
the year-old party served with aluminium
decorations (pasted over old tins used for
flower vases), with tea and words of
amiability over the £7OO raised out of
thin air. The hospital president, the
Latham lady, congratulated everybody
and joined in the general SOS for more
helpers on week days from 10 till 5 and
on Wednesdays till 10 p.m. Mrs. Ernest
Poolman was chatelaine behind a Gar-
gantuan enamel teapot.
Mrs. Poolman, with Mrs. G. D. Young
and Mrs. Lamb Smith, brought a birth-
day present in the form of an iced plum
cake with one candle. The depot had
other presents —an electric jug from the
Kew auxiliary and (so that not only the
inner man could be pepped up in sur-
roundings necessitating no heating and
no smoking) a mirror before which the
helpers could groom themselves in com-
fort. This from Mrs. Paul Wischer, who,
with other scrap depot helpers, believes
that, although a woman’s best friend is
her compact, a brush-up in a miniature
mirror is like a bath in a pudding basin.
An absentee from the ceremony was Mr.
Hutton, aged 80, who works every day
at the depot, but retreated strategically
for home in the face of a women’s party.
A vote of thanks also went to “Fred,”
the hospital’s ambulance driver, cheery
pal of the children and of the staff.
The Travellers’ Aid is on the march for
£5OOO. Public appeals haven’t been the
society’s line of country, but as travelling
has changed and expanded since the day
of the horse and buggy (when the T.A.
was sitting on butterboxes in a dusty loft
of Craig Williamson’s), so have travellers
in distress increased in numbers. The
society copes with lost property from
runaway grandmothers to forgotten
umbrellas. There’s a debt upon the roof
of the new hostel opened last year, but
members would rather face up to this
overdraft than return to the days of the
homes in Spencer-street and opposite the
Flagstaff Gardens, where rain came in
but fresh air stayed out. The Lord
Mayor opened the appeal in the Town
Hall. Other speakers included the Har-
rison Moore lady, General Chauvel, Mrs.
L H. Moss, “Lady 8.,” and two ecclesias-
tics, Prior G. F. Clery and Dr. Fieed-
man.
From Sydney
Those who went to the private view
and to the opening of the Society of
Artists’ Show helped the Red Cross as
well as doing their bit by art. Every
person through the turnstile meant 2s. to
the cause. People said “wonderful show
considering it’s war-time.” But war
never has hindered the expression of the
artist, unless he is on active service.
While there was no uplift about Friday’s
opening, there was an uplift about some
of the work. Daphne Mayo’s and
Fleischmann’s sculpture stirred the pulse
to -a quicker beat. At the foot of the
long gallery Adrian Feint’s rich flower
piece repeated the damask tones of the
hangings which swept down at the back
of the dais, making it look like a setting
for “Macbeth.”
Fleischmann’s portrait bust of Mrs.
Pao aroused the admiration of Mrs.
Hubert Fairfax, and Dpbell’s “Milliner”
won the intent gaze of clever Phyllis
Shillito of the Technical College art
world. Frank Medworth, the Tech.’s art
director, was there, too, and watched with
satisfaction while a pressman photo-
graphed “Darlinghurst Lady,” who owed
her being to one of the college students.
Betty Wharton, Mary Stephens and
Patrica Walker were a trio of young art
enthusiasts. Pat, like the girls on the door,
wore V.A. uniform. For the duration
she has given up her interior decorating,
and at present is an attractive bit of
efficiency at Yaralla.
Chief delight to the eye, apart from
the subjects on the walls, was Mrs. Roy
Buckland’s hat. It was a tiny tricorne in
pale lobelia-blue, and its crown bloomed
with small flowers of the same hue. Her
suede gloves exactly repeated the toning.
She spoke of the “Down Argentine Way ’
party for the Industrial Blind that is to
be the swish affair of October. There
will be South American belles, and dash-
ing gauchos, and Caballeros, and the
Troc. is to look as much like a bit of the
Argentine as possible. Mrs. Gregory
Blaxland was a tall good-looker ; artist
Jimmy Bancks brought his attractive wife.
Mrs. Zander’s hat was cornelian in tone.
The Hugh Poynters, the Fraser, Clapp
and Gullett ladies, Mrs. Lee Falkiner,
Hilda Lane Mullins with sister Mrs.
Norris, Mrs. Tom Bateman and Helen
Souter were noted.
Pat Pringle wandered into The Bul-
letin’s home one day last week with
the very handsome Lord Lurgan cup
which she had won in the Eisteddfod.
This was in the contest where the aria
had to be one for which Melba was
famed. Pat’s lyric soprano ran off with
the prize. She also won first prize for
the Gilbert and Sullivan aria, in cos-
tume. This showed acting ability as well
as liquid notes. The clever girl’s father was
well known as a singing teacher and
musician in Casino. Now, with his
family, he lives in Sydney, where he is
the organist and choirmaster at Rose Bay
Scots Church. Pat is a pupil of Roland
Foster. Photograph from Somerville,
Lismore.
Seals day comes round again next
Friday! It is just a year since the Red
Cross seals began to play their part in
war’s aquarium. Mrs. Nigel Smith is
longing to have a birthday party for
them.
One of the guests -at the wine party
for the King George Fund for Sailors
last week told that the Bodega wine
cellars were convict built, and were in-
deed part of the old barracks which gave
Barrack-street its name. The cellars are
now probably a good deal more pictorial
than in the days when some of writer
Jack Abbott’s characters may have known
them. There’s a stairway with a green
iron handrail leading from the street
level, and there’s a fountain in the
entrance court. The counter, too, is
blazoned with an aborigine motif. Here
are W'arriors fighting and dancing, and
the print of human feet. The party was
the gift of the management. Among the
hostesses were Mrs. Harold Bott and
Vicki Gordon. Thomas Gordon and
his lady, surgeon Herbert Maitland’s
widow, Mrs. John Woods, the graceful
See sisters, Violet Wiltshire and Matron
Burchell, Mrs. Sterling Levis, Mrs. F.
Allen, Mrs. Cavaye and Ruby Adams
were among the wine tasters.
Last week the women took a hand at
recruiting. It was a colorful, a stirring
sight to see hundreds and hundreds of
women showing their readiness to deprive
themselves of the company of husband,
sweetheart or son by taking part in
this procession. Wednesday’s rally im-
pressed the crowds who lined the ways
to Martin-place, the rendezvous of these
smartly-stepping companies of N.E.S.,
V.A.D., W.A.N.S., St. John Ambulance
workers, flying girls and girls in the
dark blue and gold of voluntary or
emergency Naval Reserve. Soldiers from
past wars and soldiers off to the present
struggle gave a nod of approval to the
disciplined ranks.
This meeting was a sort of heart-to-
heart talk from woman to woman. The
plea was not to be a stumbling-block to
the men of the family if they felt they
should enlist. Mrs. Sarah Downes, a
grandmother, one of whose grandsons is
called “the baby of Bardia,” was
applauded when she said “If your men
ask your advice on enlisting say ‘Go, and
God go with you.’ ”
Pretty Mrs. F. J. Davy, who died all
too young, is to have from the hockey
girls of this State the sort of memorial
that would have appealed most to her.
Among her many activities the Rachel
Forster Hospital’s good always took a
foremost place, so it has been decided
to fit up the laboratory in the Rachel
Forster’s new home in her name. It will
be necessary to raise £lOOO for this pur-
pose, but the hockey girls are sure their
friends will rally round in helping them
install equipment that will benefit the
womanhood of the State, and be a lasting
reminder of the sport’s gifted secretary.
Treasurer is A. Hocter.
Lewisham Hospital had a blue and gold
afternoon for its annual meeting. This
was held last Sunday in a big marquee
in the grounds. The flag-draped dais
held a full cargo of doctors, prelates and
politicians. Archbishop Gilroy, Mon-
signor O’Donnell, Minister for Health
Kelly and Dr. McPhee were among
the speechmakers. Dr. Walter Burfitt,
senior, so long connected with the
hospital, was at the meeting with
his wife and had the pleasure of
hearing his work spoken of in glowing
terms. An army of doctors with their
wives were listeners. The Hollingdales
were there ; also the Dr. Joe Coen couple.
Mrs. John Woods’s hat with its blue
bows was distinctive in the front rows.
There was tea with a bewildering assort-
ment of goodies for all.
About 340 friends of the Free French*
filed into the Federation Hall in Phillip-
street last Saturday night. The occasion
was a concert organised by the wife of the
leader of Australia’s Free French, Andre
Brenac, and sister-in-law Mrs. Alice
Brenac. Marea Wolkowsky and Marie
Baker divided the programme. Marea
sang songs of mezzo-soprano calibre.
Marie included Chopin and Debussy in
her piano numbers. Curt Prerauer played
Marea’s accompaniments. Well-knowns
in the French community were listeners.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly was patroness of the
concert. Later she and her husband, now
recovered from his illness, gave a supper
party at the Macquarie Club.
The Camp Libraries should have a few
replenished shelves as a result of the
party in the Fellowship of Australian
Writers’ Club last Friday. Corporal Bill
Fitz Henry had prepared the ground by a
talk on what soldiers read. By half-past
five the young man on the door was being
barricaded by a swiftly-mounting pile of
books and magazines. Around Chief
Librarian Ifould, at a table near the
windows overlooking Clarence-street, were
a group of other noted book custodians,
including Jean Arnot of the Public
Library. The women’s committee of the
Fellowship had done the catering in *
happy style, and among those busy
handing out the sandwich and the
savory were Mrs. Fitz Henry and Mrs.
Berry. Mrs. Margaret Dale talked plays
with Lute Drummond. Marjorie Quinn
came with a group of friends from
Manly. Poet Rod Quinn’s portrait looked
down on the crowded room in friendly
fashion. Everybody was a writer or a
friend of writers.
The Seventh Australian Cavalry Regi-
ment Welfare and Comforts Fund has a
new address: Room 2, Third Floor,
Prudential Building, Martin-place. Tele-
phone 81333. Ruth Jenkins is the hon.
secretary. Meetings are still held on
second and fourth Thursdays of each
month.


COMMONWEALTH REGULATIONS SAY
Vou can’t do this
*T
\Y\*
NEW
SHOP
in
jgcfeg^'
HI
s
H
H
inn
PS#?:
* PIT 7 ;
>4
&88
a
The building of hotels, offices, big houses and shops, and
flats is now prohibited, except in unusual circumstances.
MODERNISE WITH MASO>NITEI
blocks of
MORAL:
• Masonite boards—steel strong, infinitely
durable and universally adaptable—are the
answer to tlie problem of modernisation.
Economical, easily worked and conveniently
sized, these versatile boards are available in
densities and thicknesses for every interior
requirement. Masonite is adaptable to every
architectural design, finish and treatment,
and makes possible a form of modernisation
which will stay modern. Samples and full
details will be gladly supplied by the Build-
ing Materials Division of The Colonial Sugar
Refining Company Ltd. Masonite boards
are made in Australia from Australian tim-
bers hitherto thought commercially useless.
PRESDWOOD . . TEMPERED PRESDWOOD . . QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE ■ •
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division) Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
They possess the advantages of wood with-
out the disadvantages. Masonite is used for
both modernisation and new construction:
for floors, counter tops, for “tiling”, for
partitions —-in fact for “1000 uses”.
0
TEMPRTILE
Adelaide Perth
and VIGOROUS AGAIN
Doctor* *«y your virility and vig-
our depend greatly on your Hor-
tndne Gland*. 821 Oland Tonic
Tablet* contain genuine glandular
extract.' Will definitely rejuve-
nate you and bonish weakness.
Price 10/4. Write TO-DAY.
MEN!
CLAN 0
TONIC
B I V J 1 ff
CHEMIST, 31!) George Street, Sydney.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam . . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse,, St. George’s Tee., Perth
NOTHE OF TWENTY-EIGHT
“Bada Noro”: What debil-debil
hovered round McDonald, Minister for
External Territories, when he visited
Papua? At Hanaubuada he was welcomed
by Rakatini Keke and Gorohu Gabe. Both
died within a fortnight of each other, and
the D.O. is having a devil of a job con-
vincing their friends that somebody didn’t
use magic against them.
* * * *
“23-4”: Tom Jennings, of Alma Vale,
is dead at 71. He won the Stradbroke in
1913 with Amberdown, a good per-
former, and later founded the stud in
which Spearfelt, Corban and other horses
have sired some of our best stayers in
recent years.
* * * *
Chester Parker, Queensland Rhodes
scholar for 1938, has been gazetted a
lieutenant in the Royal Navy. He sur-
vived the sinking of the Dunvegan Castle
and is now serving aboard a corvette
somewhere in the thick of it. He joined
the R.N. two months after war broke
out.
**■*■*
“Zend Avesta”: “Boiler” (B. 27 /8 / ’4l)
should verify his “facts” before rushing
into print. Says his farmer, “At one of
their camps in Brisbane it took 40 land
girls to milk a cow.” What was really
meant, as was explained a few days later,
was that there was only one cow for 40
girls to practise on. Land girls are all
right, as was shown in a letter I received
from a cotton-planter friend in Queens-
land’s Burnett country: “Most of the
girls can pick cotton like veterans. They
pick it clean, too, and I have yet to find
a rock or a pumpkin stuck in the bottom
of a picking-bag.” A crack at some of
those carefree male pickers who haunted
the cotton country in pre-war days.
* * * *
“Norther”: The Bulletin has frequently
drawn attention to the gloomy fact that
many Australian fighting men in this war
are only sons and that when one of them
is killed, as in the case of Corporal Jack
Edmondson, V.C., it means the end of
his line. It has happened again, this time
through the death of Leading-Aircraft-
man George Christian Hale Wilkinson,
a Brisbane boy, in a R.A.A.F. ’plane
crash at Wagga (N.S.W.). Wilkin-
son, an only son, was not only a brilliant
law graduate of Queensland University,
but the last male of a line that goes back
to Charlemagne through Edward 111 and
Robert of Normandy. The Percys “out
of Northumberland” are in the family
tree, and the Hale family, the dead air-
man’s grandmother’s line, is linked with
that Sir Matthew Hale who was Lord
Chief Justice under Cromwell and who
was praised by John Milton. A Wilkin-
son was chaplain to Queen Victoria and
a Hale first Bishop of Brisbane.
*.* * *
“Norther”: Things like petrol ration-
ing are generally arranged by city chaps,
which is why country blokes wish the
country were governed from some out-
back place by outback coves. Up our way
just now —round Hughenden—there’s a
heavy growth of grass, and fires spring up
every second day. Before rationing, a fire
would bring helpers from as much as 50
miles away within an hour. Now a man
has to think hard before he jumps in the
car and races towards the smoke ; often
the distance is beyond his range. Most
people have to put out their own fires
these times, which is probably why so
many of them are getting out of hand.
A man who comes along to help put out a
bushfire is doing a national job, and he
ought to be able to get tickets for a re-
newal of the petrol consumed.
* * * *
“Poi-poi”: Queensland Bacon Associa-
tion is making a success of exporting
bacon in bitumen —the ordinary bitumen
used on roads. By this means the meat
is going to tropical parts where re-
frigerated storage isn’t available and it
can be carried on ordinary freighters.
The bacon is wrapped in stockinet,
then three wrappings of greaseproof
paper and another of stockinet; the
bitumen is smeared over all and the pack-
age made airtight. Pieces of 51b. size
are popular. The old method of casing
in salt is still used in Malaya and adjacent
parts, but the bitumen system is likely to
displace it.
“Well, I don't give a damn if you do join up!"
‘ “Mr. Munt”: N.G. is considering from
north to south its first award for miners.
It was framed by Arthur Blakeley, the
old A.W.U. man, who was named Com-
monwealth industrial inspector after he
lost his seat in Parliament. Arriving by
air-liner, he heard the views of both sides
and delivered his judgment, which applies
to metalliferous mining in the Morobe
district. The award is for a 44-hour week,
and rates per day are 28s. for miners,
bracemen, flatmen and platelayers ; 295.
for pipe fitters ; 275. Bd. for blacksmiths ;
28s. 4d. for carpenters; and 295. lOd. for
electricians. Overtime is time and a half,
and there are to be six-hour shifts for
work in hot spots, oilers and gumboots
for wet work and 12 days’ annual leave,
with preference to unionists, of course.
Rates for sluicers and dredgers are to
come. All we need now is the usual cloud
of award inspectors, the usual strikes,
and we’ll know N.G. has at last attained
civilisation.
* * * *
“Balander”: Sugar is becoming almost
as big a headache to Queensland as
wheat is to other States. Forgan Smith
has rejected a growers’ proposal for a
1942 pool, and growers are taking this as
an indication that voluntary acreage re-
striction is necessary, there being little
hope for an increased market. The
Premier holds that production of the
largest quantity of cane within the limit
of cost is best as it will give the greatest
possible employment and benefit to the
sugar country. All the same he isn’t
game to predict even a year ahead, and
for that reason peaks will have to be
fixed from time to time. Growers’
organisations are urging limitation of in-
dividual quotas and a cutting down of
costs on ratoons.' Meantime the stocks
position is worrying. Normal exports are
about 400,000 tons a year, and if lack of
ships causes a pile-up it’s going to be
hard to find safe storage for the stuff.
Buildings now being run up will scarcely
hold it, and for more buildings material
is hard to get. A ballot may be taken of
growers as to whether a co-operative
power alcohol distillery should be estab-
lished to provide an alternative outlet,
the State Government to finance it. At
the worst it is estimated that it wouldn't
mean more than Id. a ton levy, and, if
the report of the p.a. committee is accu-
rate, there is no reason why it shouldn t
succeed. But is the p.a. committee’s
report accurate?


TROUBLE IN THE CANE
By R. CARSON GOLD.
il LAMIN’ cows on a cane farm,” Vansitter often
I said vitriolically, expectorating on the palms
of his calloused hands so that they would grip
more firmly on the hoe handle, and looking
across at the half-dozen cows Rasmussen kept on the
lush grass of the river paddock. Why Rasmussen
chose to keep them, in view of the absurdly small
quantity of cream they supplied for the butter factory
on the north bank of the river, when he owned vast
acres of fine cane was something of a mystery to
Vansitter.
“This ain’t cow-cockyin’ country,” he’d grumble.
“It’s cane land.”
That was the first rumbling of the volcano of
trouble that finally erupted between them.
Cows are persevering creatures, with theories in
their bovine minds that grass—and crops—are so very
much more succulent when they grow on the opposite
side of a fence. One of Rasmussen’s cows put her
head between the strands of Vansitter’s wire fence,
and, heedless of the barbs, pushed and reared until
the top strand was loose enough to slip over her back
when she stepped over the bottom strand. The rest
of the cows followed dumbly, and proceeded to feed
on Vansitter’s sacred young cane.
He saw them when several stalks had been almost
denuded of leaves. Where another person would have
shouted angrily, Vansitter exploded. He rushed down
among the cane, but halfway down reason prevailed
and he stopped his headlong rush, realising that, if
frightened, the cows would crash madly and hap-
hazardly over his cane. He walked then, fuming in-
wardly, a human jumping cracker waiting for a favor-
able opportunity to explode again. “Flamin’ stupid
wasters!” He picked up a clod of earth and heaved
it at the nearest beast. It started and flung up a
scared head, moving off.
“You put a foot on that cane an’ I’ll —I’ll bite
your flamin’ tail off!” bellowed Vansitter in an uprush
of anger at the beast’s stupidity. Only by extreme
patience and expert heading-off did he manoeuvre the
cows round the headlands of the canefield and out the
gate, for the cows had simply refused a second nego-
tiation of the wire.
That was the first time. The second was not
long in coming, and it saw the culmination of all
Vansitter’s vexation. The cows this time destroyed
three whole rows of young cane, trampling down
what they did not eat. When Vansitter saw them, he
was speechless for a full minute.
“I —I hope you get the worst flamin’ toothache
this side of the river!” he said at last. The observa-
tion was strangely innocuous in view of his extreme
anger, but at the moment it was all he could find to
say. He snatched an old stockwhip from a hook on
the wall of the shed and moved down to the field,
cracking the whip like intermittent rifle-fire. There
was no patience about him this time: he had gone
beyond that. He rushed pellmell upon the cows,
shouting vociferously and cracking the whip.
The cows took fright. A frightened cow is a
blundering, stupid creature. One of them, while the
others trotted foolishly round to the gate Vansitter had
opened, tried to rush through the wire. Its horns
caught, and the cow’s head slewed round. There was
a faint snap, and the animal dropped dead at Van-
sitter’s feet.
He stood for a moment in petrified amazement,
not actually at the cow’s sudden death, but at the
trifling manner of it. Sometimes the most absurdly
trivial accidents will kill a cow, while it will survive
others so serious that they might be expected to
kill an elephant.
“Well, I’ll be stonkered!” Vansitter managed at
last. “Of all the damn’ silly things to fold up an’ die
like that! ” He lifted the cow’s head ; its neck appeared
to be broken. “Anyway,” he added as an afterthought
to provide some measure of comfort to his conscience,
“if cows die as floppin’ easy as all that, they ain’t
worth keepin’.” All the same, he had a guilty feeling
that that consolation would be of no use to Ras-
mussen.
“S’pose I’ll have to tell him,” he grumbled to his
wife when he was back in the house. “Only what
the dickens I’m gonna say even the Lord doesn’t know.
It’s a pretty big thing to stonker a neighbor’s cow,
even if it is an accident.”
“You’d better let me tell him,” said Mrs. Van-
sitter sensibly, omitting to word her private thought
that Vansitter would probably only make matters
worse by attempting to thrust the blame on Ras-
mussen for keeping cows at all.
“No, I killed the thing, an’ it’s up to me to do the
explainin’.”
He stamped irritably out of the house and saddled
a horse, his annoyance mounting as he rode down
Rasmussen’s track at the thought of the invidious
position in which Rasmussen’s keeping of the cows
had placed him.
“Hullo, Van,” Rasmussen greeted him dubiously,
wondering just how much damage his cows had done
to Vansitter’s cane. “The cows been in?”
“Yair,” snapped Vansitter. “You ought to have
had more sense than to keep ’em on a cane farm.
On’y a man with the sense of a bandicoot would’ve
done so.”
This was unjust and Vansitter vaguely knew it,
but he excused his accusation on the principle that
attack is much the best form of defence and that he
hated cows.
“When I want advice from a bullheaded old kan-
garoo I’ll damn’ well ask for it!” roared Rasmussen.
“What the hell do you mean, cornin’ bellerin’ over
here like a bullroarer?”
“One of your cows is dead,” Vansitter said
bluntly. “I tried to chase it out, but it broke its fool
neck in the, wire. I’ll pay for it.”
“Sure you didn’t shoot it?” snarled Rasmussen.
“I told you the truth. It was your fault for
keepin’ ’em at all. Then they wouldn’t be here to
get into me field.”
“A man can keep elephants if he likes on his own
property. As for the cow, I wouldn’t touch your
money if you tied me up an’ shoved it down me neck.
Get off me place before I set the dogs on you!”
Vansitter, realising that, for all his bullheadedness,
he had got out of the matter a lot lighter than he had
anticipated, rode back up the track.
Thereafter he and Rasmussen passed each other
in the township like two strangers. If Vansitter were
in the hotel bar when Rasmussen came in, Rasmussen
simply turned round and went out. To Vansitter, who
normally was a jovial soul, and who was quite pre-
pared to apologise, this was a worrying matter.
One day he asked Rasmussen to stay and have
a drink.
“I wouldn’t drink with an old dingo like you,
Vansitter,” Rasmussen said foolishly.
Only the combined efforts of Van’s friends saved
him from starting a fight. After that he no longer
attempted to wave the olive branch.
VANSITTER’S cane grew swiftly into maturity and
demanded to be cut. He saw the mill people and
arranged for the delivery of the crop. In a small
sugar-growing district like Loo Rivers, where the mill
can handle only so much cane at a given time,
arrangements such as this have to be made so that
cane will not be left waiting in the trucks and lose a
lot of sugar content during the delay.
“At the end of next week,” they told Vansitter.
“Just now we’re crushing Ross’s.”
On his way back from town Vansitter dropped
in to see the Laymans, three young men who were
trying to carve a farm from virgin scrub. To make
ends meet, they hired themselves out as cane-cutters
or as anything else the moment demanded.
“Hullo, boys,” Van greeted them.
“’Lo, Van.” He thought they looked at him a
little uncomfortably.
“Gut for me this year? Same pay as usual.”
The elder Layman colored. The others looked
at him, thrusting upon him the position of spokesman
“What’s up?” growled
Van. “Ain’t the pay all
right?”
“Ain’t that, Van.”
“Well, what is it?”
“We heard you had a
Government bloke lookin’
over your patches for
Weil’s disease.”
“Weil’s disease,
nothin’! You must’ve
been dreamin’. There ain’t
been a Government bloke
near the place.”
“Well, we ain’t takin’
any chances, Van. We got
this place to build up, an’
if we go sick there won’t
be any money cornin’
along to pay off the instal-
ments.”
“But this is Central
Queensland. There’s no
Weil’s disease so far south.
Don’t be a dill!”
“Cane rats bring it,
don’t they?”
“They reckon so.”
“Ain’t your fields
lousy with cane rats?”
“No, they’re not! ”
bellowed Van. “Whoever
said so is a liar.” It was
sheer injustice, he told
himself. There hadn’t been
a cane rat on his fields for
years.
“Who told you?” he
asked.
“We ain’t sayin’.”
“Layman,” rasped
Vansitter, “if you don’t tell
me I’ll see you boys don’t
get a tap of work in Loo
Rivers again.”
Layman gulped. It
was a threat which Van-
sitter, whose influence on the farmers was large, might
easily bring to fruition.
Layman said, lowly: “It was Rasmussen. Only
don’t tell him I let on.”
“The dirty twister! You believe him?”
“Well —we ain’t chancin’ Weil’s.”
Vansitter left them and sought out other men
who had cut for him from time to time. Loo Rivers
did not provide enough cane for the professional
cutters to go through the district. They passed it in
the train, going north. Not one man would consent
to cut Vansitter’s cane. He fumed, swore and raved,
but they were adamant. In vain he claimed that
Weil’s disease was not so far south ; nobody was
inclined to risk it. Vansitter’s cane seemed likely to
rot on the fields.
It would have done so had Vansitter not met
Lacey the hobo, who hopped off the train as it slowed
down before crossing the bridge.
He rolled down the embankment, dusty, dis-
hevelled, but grinning his satisfaction of having cheated
the Government of its fare.
“Hullo,” Vansitter said, adding, although it was
obvious, “jumpin’ the rattler?”
“Yair. Thought there might be some cane needin’
to be cut round here. Meetin’ a few of the boys.
They’re cornin’ in on the next goods train, if the cops
don’t get ’em.”
“They’re lookin’ for cuttin’ jobs?”
“Sure. Got any?”
“Yes, you’ve got a job. Your cobbers, too. Come
an’ have a drink.”
“That’s the talk, boss,” grinned the bagman,
appreciatively.
In the bar, Vansitter said: “Of course, you’ll hear
some rumors that my cane’s ratty. A dirty dog I had
a box-on with reckons it’s got Weil’s disease.”
Lacey laughed. “He must be dingbats, boss.
There’s no Weil’s disease down this far.”
Recognising a twin soul in this belief, Vansitter
invited him to another drink. “We’re cuttin’ next
week,” he said. “Anybody’ll show you my place.
Vansitter’s the name.”
They shook on it, and Vansitter went home in an
elevated mood.
T ATER on, he fell to brooding over Rasmussen’s
*— perfidy. He went down to a scrub patch he had
brushed near Rasmussen’s cane, and examined it to
see if it were ready for the burn-off. It was dry and
brittle. “Didn’t think Ras’d do a dirty thing like
that,” he told himself, watching the flames leap and
sway in the dead brushing.
The fire rushed through the brush, gaining
strength and speed. Vansitter watched it in case it
“Hey, mister, you’ve left something behind!"


surged out of his control. Tongues of it crept near
Rasmussen’s fence. Van thrashed them out. “Serve
him right if his cane caught,” he muttered.
Sparks flew, some settling in the dry trash hang-
ing from Rasmussen’s cane. It caught; flared up.
Vansitter could have thrashed it out, but a devil took
possession of him. Rasmussen had played him a dirty
trick, and it would serve him right if the trash
burned off. It would not hurt the cane, but Ras-
mussen would have to cut in a hurry. If he did not
he would lose a lot of the sugar content.
“Let him find cutters on the spur of the moment,’’
the little devil said to Vansitter. “And his cane’ll
have to stand over until yours is crushed.”
Vansitter watched the fire sweep through the
trash on Rasmussen’s cane. When it passed, the cane
was black and bare, calling abjectly for the cane-
knives and immediate crushing.
Rasmussen and his men stormed down, too late
to be of any use. And when Vansitter saw the stricken
look on Rasmussen’s face he no longer felt clever.
“The fire got away, Ras,” he said helplessly.
It was feasible and right, Rasmussen saw, for
fires did get out of hand.
“I’ll cut her in the mornin’,” he said, knowing
that Vansitter knew that the words were merely a
brave show in front of Vansitter. “Be all right if she’s
cut straight away.”
“Sorry, Ras,” Vansitter gulped. He hadn’t the
heart to tell Rasmussen that the mill was taking his
own cane first. He was glad —and secretly ashamed —
of the fact that Rasmussen did not think he could be
swine enough to burn his cane deliberately.
Farmers did not do things like that, Vansitter
thought, going back to the house for a drink. He felt
he needed it to wash away thoughts of his secret
shame, as if the spirit would make him clean inside.
Of course, Rasmussen had played him a nasty trick,
but to Vansitter the lie about the Weil’s disease
seemed strangely white and blameless beside his own
black perfidy. And Rasmussen, even though they
quarrelled, had thought him incapable of such vileness.
That realisation bit hard at Van’s conscience. Even
the whisky offered no solace. The hot tang of it was
like a tongue of flame from the fire which had burned
through Rasmussen’s cane.
He walked slowly down the track across his pad-
docks to Rasmussen’s place. He bent down to pass
through the barbed-wire fence, keeping his eyes straight
ahead, refusing to look at the bare, charred sticks of
the crop.
Rasmussen was sitting on his verandah staring at
the black field when Van came up out of a paddock
of paspalum. When Rasmussen saw him he forced
back his drooped shoulders and faced Vansitter
squarely.
“Hullo, Ras,” Vansitter said. “About that
cane”
“Yair?” snarled Rasmussen. “Come to gloat,
eh?”
“Why should I want to gloat, Ras?”
“Ain’t you havin’ your cane cut any day now?”
“Yair, but—l come to tell you I let that fire get
outa control.”
“What?” Rasmussen rose to his feet with a buf-
falo roar. “Why, you” He threw a punch at Van-
sitter, but he sidestepped it. Before Rasmussen could
recover his balance, Vansitter’s heavy body and strong
arms had him jammed against the verandah post.
“Now, listen, Ras,” Vansitter said. “I let that fire
get away, an’ I’m damned sorry. I feel dirty, like I’d
been cleanin’ out a sewer. I’m cancellin’ my crushin’
arrangements. You can have your cane crushed as
soon as you cut it.”
“Go to hell! I won’t take charity from a no-
good, lousy dingo like you.” He lowered his voice.
“I never dreamed you’d let me cane burn deliberate,
even though we was fightin’.”
“Yair, I know. But now I’m gonna make up
for it.”
“No, you ain’t. That cane can stand there until
she rots before I’ll accept anythin’ from you so’s you
can go round tellin’ everybody what you done for
me.”
“Don’t be a bullheaded old fool, Ras. I can cut
my stuff any time, but you can’t, ’cos she’s been
burned-off. You can’t afford to wait.”
“Well, I’m waitin’, see? An’ now let me go, an’
get out!”
“Ras, I ain’t gonna let you go round Loo Rivers
playin’ the martyr, however much you’d like to.
You’re takin’ my place, I tell you.” He stepped back
and released Rasmussen. “An’ I’m phonin’ the mill
right now!”
He stalked inside to Ras’s telephone. Rasmussen
hurled himself at him. “I tell you you ain’t gonna
do it, Van!” he bellowed. “I’d die rather than take
help from you.”
Vansitter stepped back and hurled his fist against
Rasmussen’s jaw, dropping him in a heap.
Struggling back to consciousness, Rasmussen
heard Van’s voice from a distance: “Yair, that’s right.
You crush Rasmussen’s cane in place of mine. Yes,
he’s cuttin’ straight away.” He hung up and turned
round.
Ras looked up at him and grinned. “You damned
stubborn old cow!” he said, and held out his hand
so that Van could help him to his feet.
EIGHTEEN
By MARGARET TRIST.
EIGHTEEN years ago Mrs. Summers had had-
a baby. For that reason she was now icing
a sponge with white icing and putting absurd
blobs of pink round the edges. Concentrating
fiercely she wrote in the centre “Happy birthday,
Eleanor.”
“There,” she murmured proudly, and stepped back
to survey her handiwork.
“Very nice, my dear,” said Mr. Summers
promptly, but kept himself buried in the paper.
It was a Saturday afternoon in late November.
Mr. Summers sat on the little back porch just off the
kitchen. For the last two hours he had been reading
his paper, or rather he had it raised as a buffer
between himself and the world.
“Now, I’ll make a good hot cup of tea, said
Mrs. Summers from the kitchen. “Thank goodness
all the baking is done early. There’s only the sand-
wiches to do, and I’ll get Eleanor, the lazy little puss,
to help me with them when she comes in.”
“A good idea,” replied Mr. Summers dutifully.
Mrs. Summers brought out the tea and sat down.
“That girl is really the limit,” she said. “You’d have
thought she’d have stopped in and helped me this
afternoon. But not her. lust put on that ridiculous
swim-suit her Aunt Evie gave her, just like any ordi-
nary Saturday, and went romping off to the beach
with that horrible Dorothy from next door.”
“You should have made her stop, my dear.”
“Made her stop!” exclaimed Mrs. * Summers.
“Made her! I said to her ‘Eleanor, I’m up to my
eyes this afternoon, and I want you to beat the
eggs for me.’ Do you know what she said? Can tbe
done, I’m in a frightful rush. Don’t bother to beat
the eggs. lust throw them in.’ Did you ever hear
the like?”
Mr. Summers made a noise in his throat and
shook his head.
“It’s not that she hasn’t been brought up prop-
erly,” went on Mrs. Summers. “I’ve struggled and
saved and worked myself to the bone for that girl.
She was so earnest and it was so hot that perspira-
tion dripped down her plump face. “Lord only knows
what I haven’t given up for her. There’s not another
person in this world that knows what I went through
for her the day she was born.”
Mr. Summers looked away. He hoped he wasn’t
going to hear again all those intimate details of
Eleanor’s birth that Mrs. Summers had made it an
almost nightly practice to recount to him. It seemed
for a moment that he was going to, but the expres-
sion on his wife’s face changed and she slipped back
to her present grievance.
“It being her birthday I held my temper and
reasoned with her. ‘Eleanor,’ I said, ‘whose birthday
is it?’ ‘Mine,’ she answered, cheeky as you like. ‘And
whose party is it?’ Do you know what she said? It’s
her exact words. ‘To all intents and purposes it’s
yours.’ You could have knocked me flat with a
feather. ‘Whose friends are coming?’ I asked. ‘Yours,’
she said. Then do you know what she said? Tried
to put me in the wrong, she did. ‘Mother, you can’t
make me quarrel with you today. It’s my birthday
and I’m happy.’ And off she went, singing if you
please. I can’t make the girl out. And after all I’ve
done for her.”
ELEANOR, in the swim-suit Aunt Evie had given
her, lay on the beach. Aunt Evie was a dear, a
funny *old woman with a youthful zest for living.
Eleanor’s mother disliked her, so Eleanor and Aunt
Evie met infrequently, but every birthday Aunt Evie
sent along a parcel —something frivolous, expensive and
delightful. Aunt Evie’s parcel made birthdays worth
while. Eleanor lay on the beach and pretended she was
naked. The sun shone upon her body ; the wind blew
upon it. In her mind’s eye she could see it, slim and
white and shining against the sand. She smiled
dreamily. It was her birthday, she was eighteen and
very happy. It seemed as if after a long time she had
come to peace. She no longer resented what her
mother had done for her. The debt of gratitude that
had burdened her childhood was gone for ever. She
owed nothing to anyone but herself. She ceased to
think. It was enough to be happy.
To Mrs. Summers’s relief Eleanor arrived home
from her swim in a tractable frame of mind. She
kissed her mother, also her cousin Agnes, who was
thirty-five and plain and had come early to help.
Tea was a pleasant meal. Eleanor quarrelled with
no one. She accepted Agnes’s platitudes, was not
rude about the things her mother had done for her
as a little girl. “She’s going to be human after all,”
thought Mrs. Summers. “Upbringing does count in
the end.” Eleanor was smiling to herself inwardly.
“This must be being grown-up,” she thought. “Nothing
or nobody can hurt me any more.”
Eleanor dressed for her party in the little bed-
room that her mother had planned for her witll
much care and sacrifice. “I wanted a new dress badly,
but I bought a mat for Eleanor’s room,” her mother
would say. Or, “I went to town to get shoes, but I
bought a cover for Eleanor’s bed. Silly of me, I sup-
pose, but I’m like that. Eleanor comes first.” Or, “I
didn’t go outside the door for months so I could get
Eleanor that dressing-table.” Often, as a little girl,
Eleanor had lain in bed crying because of what her
mother was going without to give to her. The room
had almost suffocated her. As the years went on she
grew to hate it. But now it didn’t matter. Only she
herself mattered. Grown-up and sure of herself, she
went steadfastly to meet the onrush of talcum powder,
handkerchiefs and eau-de-Cologne.
MRS. SUMMERS called it the lounge. Her eldest
sister, Aunt Bessie, called it-the sitting-room;
her husband’s sister, Aunt Jane, called it the drawing-
room ; her mother, a very old lady, went so far as to
call it the parlor. But the name did not really matter
very much. It was a room twelve by fourteen, reso-
lutely curtained and carpeted in a heavy, dark shade
of green. There were a three-piece suite of Genoa
velvet, a piano, an occasional table, a china cabinet
packed with drab china, oddments of silver and an
undistinguished assortment of glassware. Besides the
furniture the room now held a dozen of Eleanor s
relations, a few neighbors and several of her mother s
girlhood friends.
“Ellie has shot up,” said her grandmother dully.
“It’s no time since she was a baby,” murmured
Aunt Bessie.
“Just seems the other day she started school,
mumbled Aunt Jane.
“Doesn’t the time go?” said Agnes.
Eleanor smiled indulgently and ceased to listen.
Her birthdays rolled into one. She sat patiently on a
dining-room chair and endured. Almost she felt
herself on the chair with her legs dangling ; resting on
the rail halfway down, stretched downward so that
her toes brushed against the carpet. A dozen birth-
days that she could remember all so drearily alike.
“Elly has shot up,” “No time since she was a baby,”
and then the conversation veering away to her mother,
leaving her stranded on her chair, relieved but lonely.
The sadness of all her years bore down on her ;
summer nights when she had lain awake and listened
to children laughing in the next-door garden, white
moonlight seeping through her curtains, the scent of
summer flowers coming through her windows. She
pulled herself back to the present with a jerk, but the
restlessness had taken hold of her and burned within
her still body. “I’m eighteen and they still treat me
like a baby,” she thought resentfully. Eleanor gazed
from one to the other of her elderly relatives, hating
them all. It wasn’t her party. It was her mother’s
party.
Agnes had gone to the piano and was playing
sentimental songs in a futile, half-hearted way. In a
moment her father would come in and start singing.
He had gone with her mother to the kitchen to help
with the trays. No, she wasn’t going to listen to her
father singing tonight. After all she was owed some-
thing on her birthday if only peace and quietness. She
was tired of sitting on the silly chair. It made her
ache all over. The impatience of all the birthdays she
had sat there forced her to her feet. It was a relief
to stretch her legs. Everyone was talking. No one
noticed when she slipped from the room. She went
quietly to her bedroom, locked the door and went to
bed, and after a while, lying there, she began to cry
softly in the darkness. She was eighteen and unbear-
ably lonely.
i< A REAL nice sponge that,” said Aunt Bessie to
h er contemporaries in the lounge-room as she
took a generous bite of Eleanor’s birthday cake. She
turned to Eleanor’s mother. “Well, I’m afraid you’ve
only got yourself to blame for Eleanor’s tantrums.
You always did spoil her.”
THE BREAKING WAVE.
Winter on earth, and the sea homing like winter,
Storming the forts of the hard Australian coast;
And nowhere peace, unless in the breaking wave
—Snow on the rocks and the sky jagged with frost •
The heart can sustain its load, like a hush of foam,
One moment of exaltation. Too like the roar
Of guns in the heavy whiteness, too like the gunfire
That shakes our world to pieces, the surf on this shore
Explodes and crashes and stuns, for a man to dream
That peace like a rock-pool, the sunken pillar of light
Eternal under the breakers, will glitter again
Ice-blue with the turn of the water, today or tonight.
Who will take his stand on the cliff with the broom
and ti-tree,
Stubborn and bent, like sheep with their backs to the
weather,
Will not today or tomorrow sing you that song
“My girl and l lay down in the sky together” ;
But will sing with the iron surf of mine and torpedo,
Shipwreck and death by drowning, the droning
bomber;
Of a sky like sea and man like a shark beneath it,
And winter too strong to sit and dream of summer.
And who will go down to the beach to pick up shells
In the boom of the surf, let him clench them tight in
his hand,
Say “Here was a pretty thing!—was love, was
laughter; ,
Such things have been known to exist, even on land.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
Pelmanism is a scientific training.
It substitutes good and faithful
habits of mind and memory for
slovenly and fearful ones. Thus it
promotes steadfastness, definiteness
and continuity of effort
Pelmanism is endorsed publicly by
more than 100 Prominent People.
Pclmanists are found in practically
every calling.
Pelmanism is permanent in its efTect
on the Mind, Memory and Person-
ality.
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
There are orer half a million
Pelmanists, of whom more than
44,000 have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London,
The Institute has been established
in Melbourne for over 33 years.
Training for Effectiveness
jDELMANISM offers help in the solution of personal problems, but its main purpose is
to train the individual’s powers so that he will be effective in all his movements, so
that everything he does will be well done and produce the effect he intends it to produce.
The result is seen in the multifarious acts attendant on earning a living, in his social relations,
in his recreations, in his inner life and in his outward contribution to the tremendous effort
the Empire is now making.
JNTO whatever channel the energies of men and women may be directed, by whatever
means they earn a livelihood, and however they may make manifest their intention to help
in the common effort, the development of certain qualities is necessary to full effectiveness.
These are:—
Perceptive Faculty
Concentration
Self-control
Judgment
Decisiveness
Will-Power
Self-confidence
Initiative
Organisation
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
DELMANISM develops these qualities. It develops them quickly and permanently. It
A creates desirable and serviceable habits of mind and of will that continue and strengthen
as time goes on. Thus Pelmanism is not so much a study as a training designed to
strengthen the mind and character and enlarge the personality as a whole. It succeeds because
it trains the conscious and the subconscious alike so that every faculty will, when called
upon, contribute its share in making a good performance of anything that has to be done.
We give extracts from a few letters from many thousands received by the Institute in Melbourne.
DOCTOR: “Pelmanism has shown me how to observe
instead of merely seeing.” 1
TEACHER: “Increase in my powers of Concentration
and Memory. Increase in Self-Confidence. Greater
interest in people and in my surroundings.”
CLERK: “I have just received my Diploma in
Economics at the Sydney University and I am grateful
to the Institute for showing me bow to use my mind.”
STAFF C APT AIK: “I want to thank you for your
attention and express the hope that I may keep in
touch with the Institute in the future as the occasion
offers.”
SHEEPFARMER: “I have kept an account of the
time spent on the Course, ydt amounted to a shade under
three months and the average time per day—4o minutes.”
ENtiINEDRIVEB: “It is with a wonderful sense of
ability and security that I face the future.”
AIRCRAETSMAN: “My memory is improved, my
concentration developed and I am a better observer.”
PRIVATE: “I have developed Will Power, Observa-
tion and Memory. I feel that I can step into the future
with both feet firmly planted on the path to success.”
SOPPIER (ENGINEER): “Yesterday I learned that
promotion, and to a higher rank than that which 1 had
expected, is coming my way in the near future. 1
attribute my promised advancement to Pelmanism. It
was only the benefit 1 had already gained from it which
carrietkine through at
SOPPIER: “I was one oi three to be promoted out
of a class of thirty selected Tor special training.”
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy of “The Efficient
Mind,” 76 pages, post free. Your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential
communication; we have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelraan Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Telman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane. Melbourne
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
136
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
* For local office, address
see Page 6.
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
* 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-).
SEND “THE BULLETIN” TO
THE LADS OVERSEAS—
Special Concession Rates:
12 months 15/-
6 months .... 8/-
3 months . 4/-
post free.
!$°
era
§ v
i Ac*-
\o\
#■’
,«w
,\V'
a V«;;
-" ,-'V
■ . '*>'>> ««*
rvv- C,C' \o c '


ULTIMATE Leads Again!
FULL BANDSPREAD
SHORT-WAVE TUNING
Overseas Tuning and Reception Revolutionised! Short-wave
Stations spread up to sixteen times further apart than on
ordinary Receivers! Each Short-wave Band located on a separate
scale! Overseas Stations tuned in as easily as Local Stations.
Foreign Stations logged and re-located instantly and unerringly!
Another outstanding testimony to “ULTIMATE” excellence!
798 verified' Radio stations were received on a standard “Ultimate” Receiver
—a world’s record! Mr. R. N. Shaw uses an “Ultimate” Receiver to compile
the “Wireless Weekly” Short-wave notes! “Ultimate” Receivers hold nine
Champion of Champion Awards in New Zealand! An “Ultimate” Receiver
was used by the Commander R. E. Byrd Expedition to the South Pole! The
official Australian Adviser to the British Broadcasting Commission uses
“Ultimate” Receivers exclusively! Mr. L. J. Keast (Randwick, N.5.W.)
compiled the log of more than 400 Short-wave Stations, published in “Wireless
Weekly,” with a standard “Ultimate” 8. “Ultimate” leads everywhere!
ULTIMATE “MAJESTIC” 9-VALVE A.C. GRAND CONSOLE
Featuring Full Bandspread, Dial and Wave Band Indicator, Spinner Tuning Anti-drift
Devices, Automatic Volume Control, Electric Tuning Eye, etc., etc., in addition to
all the modern improvements that have made “ULTIMATE famous. Special Push-
Pull Audio Output gives (a) Cancellation of Even Order Harmonics resulting in
much higher than average tone quality; (b) High Power Output giving nearly three
times the power of the average set; (c) Heavy Bass Notes are handled in a most
natural manner even at high volume. All five wave bands include a high gain of
radio frequency amplification, resulting in extreme sensitivity. T one is superb,
performance is magnificent. The ULTIMATE MAJESTIC 9is as near perfection
as human knowledge and skill can make it it is made for those who want the best!
Illustrated literature and full details supplied on request.
v
For Victory.
ULTIMATE 7-VALVE MULTI-WAVE A.C. MANTEL MODEL
Featuring the new ULTIMATE Full Bandspread, Spinner Tuning, Automatic Volume
Control, Anti-drift Devices, Special Bin. Rola Reproducer in addition to all the
modern ULTIMATE improvements in Radio construction and reception. Special
Low Volume Bass Compensation device gives this outstanding set volume, tone and
performance equal to most average Console Models. Sensitivity of response has
to be heard to be fully appreciated. Super-plus performance is assured by
ULTIMATE reputation. Tone is magnificent with full, rich, even, deep, mellow
tone. Compact and ultra-dependable even under the most adverse conditions.
Specially suited for tropical climates and outback conditions. Impregnated against
humidity. The only set of its kind obtainable on the Australian market. “Classic”
Cabinet of beautifully matched and piano-finished contrasting veneers make the
ULTIMATE 7 MANTEL MODEL a truly artistic Radio Set. Investigate the
ULTIMATE before you make a decision — there is not a better Set made! Full details
on request.
V
For Victory.
Note: This is for Special Applications
ULTIMATE 7- or 9-VALVE MULTI-WAVE A.C. Transportable Mantel
l itis model must not be con fused with the usual small portable battery-operated sets with
their comparatively limited sensitivity.
This set incorporates the identical fuli-sized chassis embodied in the “Majestic” Console
illustrated at top right, with all its special features and refinements, such as Bandspread tuning
on Short-wave Bands, and others, in an easily transportable form. This is achieved by means
of a simply-attached lid fitted with handle.
Power is immense, tone is superb, sensitivity is extreme, performance is almost unbelievable.
Take it anywhere 240 A.C. current is available—dependability and satisfaction are assuied
under even the most difficult conditions. The ideal set for particularised work, for the hard
of hearing, for reception-rooms, halls, meetings, dances, etc. There s nothing like it on tne
market for convenience, appearance, durability, dependability and performance. Removal ol
front sliding lid instantly transforms this unique set into a most artistic-looking Mantel Radio
worthy of first place in any home. Particularly suitable tor the Pacific Islands wherever
240 A.C. power is available. Specially protected against humidity and insects. bully
guaranteed in every way by “ULTIMATE" reputation.
For Victory.
N ew ly,released illustrated literature giving full details of “ULTIMATE
FULL BANDSPREAD Receivers now available post free. Write for it today.
■
0m
a
m
It
m
ft:;t
It
i: i
m
: sy:
■
m
mm
m
mmmm
■
m A m r; M
: ; vr
■■ ■ .'■'
rhM
mn,mn
Sole Australian Concessionaires: . CVIUdEY
GEORGE BROWN & CO., LTD., 267 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Distributed in Victoria by ./. H. MAG RATH PTY.. LTD., 20S Little Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
FILL IN AND POST NOW.
GEORGE BROWN & CO, PTY., LTD.,
267 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Please send me without obligation illustrated literature
giving particulars .of “VLTIMML" l ull Bandspread
Receivers
NAME
ADDRESS
