

0
i
m \
WmM
■
m
. ••
-J
*V -1
1
■
:■
Sk» - “■■
w,
: ?v
if
■
; ¥>
.
* V"'".
8
TO THE WORLD’S FINEST FIGHTING MEN
WMM ' ' ''J
I?.. :.
mm
Department of Information Photograph.
■rZgm
Vt
IS:
//
sons of Australia are fighting on sea,
land, and in the air, earning tributes from
the whole world for their outstanding fighting
qualities, we on the home front pledge ourselves
to play our part.
Advertisement Inserted Anonymously as a Tribute to Our
Fighting Forces.
1520
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
Vol. 62.—N0. 3215.
Wednesday, September 24, 1941.
The Nazi-French Marriage
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


II
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE .
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
pour Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised m the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
«.B. 141
The Red Page
SYDNEY BOHEMIANS.
“My style,” says Phil Lindsay frankly,
“has jagged edges that too often need
clipping; it sprawls and overlaps the
pages while I pursue some new and
fascinating but 100 often irrelevant idea,
and now and then it glitters a trifle too
blindingly with garish images.” A true
bill ; even counsel for the defence —and
the gusto of his descriptions of Sydney
scenes, life and people will turn most
readers into enthusiastic partisans—will
have to admit that Phil’s style smacks a
little, it hath a certain flavor of the
historical novelist.
1 saw, behind my eyelids, girls lifting
skirts while they paddled barefoot in the
dew or rained the drops as God’s cosmetic
on rosy cheeks showering sweet snow of
hawthorn down; then did I hear the echo
of melodious birds with names as eloquent
as their own songs—only to have my
dreams clashing about my ears at the
blatant cackling of that fiend in feathers,
the kookaburra, or the vicious shriek of
parrots; then within me I could see girls
with skin like cream while 1 glared at the
tanned faces of Australian wenches; then
were silken mists unfolded, lacily, like a
woman’s gown, lo reveal in their heart
white hawthorn or a rush of scarlet roses,
and with a self-conscious shudder would I
turn from dusty flannel-flowers, even from
the luscious smell of timid boronia, from
the insolent, blood-red waratah, and the
fluffy yellow wattle making one weep and
sneeze with its tickling pollen. Ah, did I
not love England then, when Chaucer was
my ‘guide!
Gripes!
But perhaps it’s not quite fair to quote
that particular paragraph, for it occurs
right at the opening of Td Live the Same
Life Over (Hutchinson; Angus and
Robertson), and there’s nothing else quite
so florid in the rest of the autobiography.
It’s the engine getting steam up ; once
it’s really going, it rattles through the
Sydney scene at a great bat, and the
views from the carriage windows —Dar-
linghurst larrikins, Darlinghurst maidens
at the King’s Cross picture theatre, a
fair-dinkum Darlinghurst ghost, Darling-
hurst Bohemians in their beery lairs—
are all as vivid as they are amusing. It
all has exactly the atmosphere of Ken-
neth Slessor’s William-street poem, which
Lindsay quotes:
The red globes of light, the liquor-green,
The pulsing arrows and the running fire
Spilt on the stones go deeper than a stream;
You find this ugly, I find it lovely.
Smells rich and rasping, smoke and fat and fish
And puffs of paraffin that crimp the nose;
Or grease that blesses onions with a hiss;
You find it ugly, 1 find it lovely.
The dips and molls, with flip and shiny gaze
(Death at their elbows, hunger at their heels)
Ranging the pavement of their pasturage,
You find it ugly, I find it lonely.
“Like Ken,” says Lindsay, “I, too,
have found it lovely ; but also like Ken,
I am, for all the veneer of modern
scepticism, an intense romantic who yet
hopes to find a Sonia in a whore, a
Falstaff in a pub.”
The sort of literary and artistic
Bohemia Lindsay writes about, continuing
the traditions of the Henry Lawson
Bohemians, and ranging or raging from
Darlinghurst to the Quay, with the
“Bully pub” a conspicuous port of call,
has pretty well vanished from Sydney
these days. Only a few black-and-white
artists scrupulously preserve its rites and
occasionally manage to send the com-
munity off its colder head for no dis-
cernible reason, unless mighty ghosts are
abroad, demanding propitiation and
libation. Simply because it is vanishing,
Bohemian Sydney is worth putting on
record ; and there is another, more impor-
tant justification for this autobiography
—that a literary world, like any other
world, exists only when it is written
about; that by means of such books
as this (and also by lighter offerings,
such as Julian Ashton’s recent Now
Came Still Evening On and even Eric
Baume’s / Lived These Years) a literary
and artistic tradition is being created in
Australia.
From that point of view, and also from
the purely critical viewpoint, for he writes
well when he comes down to the earth
of direct description, easily the best bits
of I’d Live the Same Life Over are the
portraits of Sydney writers and artists
Phil knew before he exiled himself to
write historical novels in London. Ken-
neth Slessor, for example:
A sandy-headed fellow with round blue
eyes behind pince-nez, Ken was usually
very quiet, watching with an amused smile
beneath the clipped moustache the antics
of friends and strangers alike; his wit was
sudden and often unexpected, for he never
obtruded it, yet it could be devastating.
Robert D. Fitz Gerald:
Huge, lean, gaunt Fitz, with the bright
dark eyes and tousled hair, striding down
Pitt-strcet —I can see him now! —a theo-
dolite tossed carelessly over one shoulder,
roaring suddenly at the sight of a friend.
Norman Lindsay, Phil’s father (with
this one goes an excellent description of
Norman’s home in the Mountains, at
Springwood):
And there was Norman himself, saunter-,
ing, smiling towards us, with his panama
tipped over his eyes... .Within a minute we
were talking about art, or Blake, or the
Australian bush, or beer, or something of
the kind, exactly as if wc were carrying
on a discussion in which there had been
no break... .Norman is quick in all things,
in gesture, in talk, even in eating and smok-
ing, and very much so at work....A man
of such frantic energy that he cannot re-
main still for a moment, except when listen-
ing to music... .People would motor out
to peer through the gate, hoping to espy
some of his long-legged harem of naked
ladies, simply because he preferred to draw
and paint the nude above any other sub-
ject. Actually, few men lived a more chaste
or less riotous existence; drinking rarely
more than a glass or so of wine at meals,
and eating less than enough to keep a baby
alive, he was a slave to his pen His
ideas, roughly the opposite to the Nazis’
today: nothing counted to him except in-
tellect ; all that man existed for was to pro-
duce the artist ....
What adds greatly to the value of these
pen-portraits—and there are dozens of
them —is the sincere admiration with
which Phil speaks of the works of the
men he portrays. He is obviously a
warm champion for the Australian poet,
novelist and artist in the cold and fog
of London.
When his autobiography lakes him to
England it loses some interest. There is
a notable glimpse of brother Jack Lind-
say’s beard, but from then on the book’s
richness fades; not just because London
is a long way from Sydney, but because
the story of a successful novelist’s early
struggles has been told over and over
again, with only minor variations. But
the Darlinghurst stories (including a
King’s Cross New Year), the portraits of
writers and painters, such matters as the
founding of “Vision” and the Fanfrolico
Press, and the general picture of a gay,
generous and vigorous Sydney that, if the
slump and Hitler haven’t killed it, is at
any rate hibernating, are all very good
stuff indeed.
Life Is Ernest.
There’s something of a mystery about
Arturo Barea’s autobiography The Forge
(Faber; translated from the Spanish by
Sir Peter Chalmers Mitchell), for it
could pretty well pass for a novel by
Ernest Hemingway. It’s not only in its
matter slumdom, some bullfighting,
much cruelty and much sex, all told with
a mild bias towards the Left —that it
resembles a Hemingway picture of Spain ;
the manner, too, is Hemingway’s.
The very first paragraph, both the
scene and the style, might be Ernest him-
self speaking;—
The wind filled the two hundred breeches
and blew them out. They looked to me like
stout, headless men who were swinging sus-
pended from the lines of the drying-yard.
Wc boys ran between the rows and laid
smacks on the swollen bottoms. Senora
Encarna chased us with a cane that she
used to beat stains from the dirty linen.
We took refuge in the labyrinth of streets
formed by the four hundred damp sheets.
Sometimes she caught one of us; the rest
of us began to throw lumps of mud at the
breeches. Stains were made as if the owners
had made a mess in them, and we thought
of the whipping they would have been given
for being dirty pigs.
Who but Ernest would have thought
of opening a book like that, making it
clear from the outset that he is offering
349 pages about “dirty pigs”? What
writer not under Ernest’s benign influ-
ence would have thought of dragging in
the whipping when, since the trousers
belonged to grown-up men, the small
boys probably thought of no such thing?
And who but a Hemingway would have
made an opening paragraph consisting
of seven short sentences?
Since Hemingway learnt his rhythms
not from the Spanish but from Gertrude
Stein, it’s possible that Sir Peter Chalmers
Mitchell has been falsifying the style of
the original; but it’s also possible that
Death in the Afternoon had so great an
influence on .Spanish writing that the
Spanish themselves have begun to write
the Stein-prattle.
As to the matter-life is real in Spain
and it may very well be Ernest, too.
Indeed, Barea’s descriptions of bullfight-
ing so much out-Ernest Ernest in blood-
thirsty realism that Death in the After-
noon’s ecstasies about “living sculpture”
and “great tragedy” are shown for the
precious tosh they are. There’s no “great
tragedy” and no “living sculpture” about
the village bullfights—source and arche-
type of the great Madrid spectacles —
described by Barea ; there’s only naked,
cruel blood-lust and sadism:
The sport begins on the first day of the
fair with what is called the “whisky bull,”
because they let it out almost at dawn when
people take the first drink of the day. The
wagons become full of women, old men and
children, who shout out, crying for the
liberation of the bull, which is a calf for
the young boys to fight.
At first the little beast attacks and drives
off the boys. But afterwards, as it is so
small, they seize it by the horns, throw it
to the ground, kick it with their heavy-
boots or beat it with sticks, and by eleven
in the morning it is tottering on its legs and
no longer fights; it keeps trying to escape
from the band of lads and children, who
have now all ventured to get down into the
square, and it backs up against the wheels
of the wagons.
As the blurb truly says, “to read this
book is to understand a great deal of the
background of the Spanish Civil War” ;
and not only the immediate background
in the ferocity of the villagers and the
terrible poverty of the slums where Barea
spent his childhood, but the bitter his-
torical background, so well remembered
that the children know as a matter of
course that the stone cross in the street
(hat has not changed since the seventeenth
century commemorates soldiers who were
hanged on a gallows there in the Middle
Ages, and that where the street ends
among the prisons of the Inquisition
stood another gallows where “they burnt
thousands of heretics and hanged men
famous in history, like Riegb.”
wSome of these historic memories, burnt
into the pattern of the modem Spanish
mind, are not without their charm and
humor. Barea tells one story that brings
Burgomaster Max of Brussels to mind;
As you pass through Mostoles you see in
(he square a statue of the Mayor of Mos-
toles, who was in office when Napoleon was
trying lo conquer Spain. He was an old
bloke with a coffee-colored cloth cloak, a
large hat with a very wide brim, and a
very Jong staff. When he learned that the
French were in Madrid he summoned (he
town crier and gave him a proclamation
to utter to the public of the village. In
that proclamation he, the Mayor of Mos-
toles, declared war on Napoleon.
Also embedded in the minds of the
people is the legend of how the goads-
men, of the fighting bulls,
defeated with their goads the cuirassiers
of Napoleon: “and an Englishman who
came to Spain to help us and was called
Wellington was astonished, and they did
not believe him in his own country when
he told them about it.”
Like the interwoven story of Spain,
Barea’s own life is a mixture of the grim
and the gay, the sordid and the charming.
His mother was a washerwoman; he
himself, under the protection of a wealthy
aunt, rose from street urchin to shop-
boy and then to bank clerk. The book
ends with his leaving the bank in a rage
in young manhood ; according to the
introduction, he is now a political refugee
from Spain. It’s a pity that the rules
for Leftists force him to run a glaze of
glumness oyer the autobiography as a
whole, for, treated artistically instead of
politically, his material would have made
a fine book. Even as it is, he forgets
occasionally that it is his duty to be
miserable and breaks out into comedies
of gamin pranks or peasant avarice or
banking Babbitry that would have pleased
Balzac or De Maupassant.
The Man Who Saw the
Numbat.
There is a man at Darlinghurst who
keeps a dingbat in his wardrobe for a pet.
When tickled with a corkscrew, its large
purple ears revolve with evident satis-
faction and it emits a peculiar whistling
note, not unlike the mating-cry of the
chiff-chaff.
Also fairly familiar to Fellows of the
Royal Zoological Society, of course, are
the bat, the dumbat, the wombat and the
mortal combat. But Mr. Charles Barrett
in Coast of Adventure (Robertson and
Mullens) offers a new one: the numbat.
Is it purple? No.
Can it play the jew’s-harp with only
two teeth? No.
Does it know the lucky number? No.
The numbat or banded ant-eater, a mar-
supial link with the ancient past, was
thought to be almost extinct in the West,
having long since vanished from South
Australia. But we had news of it from
the Wandoo Hills, and went there hope-
fully, motoring down from Perth with
people who had not heard of the numbat
before, and didn’t care two hoots about
its future, anyway.
But Mr. Barrett, to whom all birds,
beasts, fishes and bugs, from Osprey
Island’s ospreys to Queensland’s inch-and-
a-half ants, are both interesting and
endearing, cared several hoots for the
shy marsupial ant-eater, so he tracked it
down to its home in a hollow log, caught
one and lost it, spotted another when
he had his camera ready, and now in
Coast of Adventure offers “the first
photographs ever taken of a free numbat
in its native wilds.”
And a charming creature it looks, too.
Among Mr. Barrett’s photographs all
good—there’s only one more handsome,
and that’s the head of Bella, the abo-
riginal girl from the Rev. Theodor
Webb’s mission station at Milingimbi,
Arnhem Land, a perfect subject for an
Epstein bronze. The one Mr. Barrett
says he took of Wonngu, the abo. artist,
with his 26 wives and some 30 or 40 of
his 60 children, might, though less beau-
tiful, have had greater news interest, but
the photograph is missing.
And that’s the only complaint there
is to be made against a book which as a
whole is a most readable account of a
naturalist’s knocking-about in the least-
known portions of Australia, chiefly
Arnhem Land: all that’s in the book is
good, but there’s a lot left out that might
well have been in.
For instance, Mr. Barrett gives only a
couple of sentences of Mr. Webb’s trans-
lation of the Lord’s Prayer into the
Kopapingo dialect; “For ever and ever”
had to be rendered as “You Father like
this first before, afterwards this world.
You will be like this after this world
finished.” Even if it has been published
before, the whole of the prayer would
have been interesting, and new to most
readers. Then Mr. Barrett visits the old-
time haunts of .Toe Cooper, the buffalo
hunter on Melville Island, and writes,
“They tell Joe Cooper yarns as long as
you’ll listen to them, at the Top End”:
to say that, and then not to tell any of
the yarns, is plain maddening.
For what is in it, however, the book
is worth anyone’s while. Australia’s one
of the few countries where a man can
still really go exploring, and there’s no
douhl that Mr. Barrett’s been exploring.
Neither in George-street nor in Collins-
street does one encounter Mr. Barrett’s
Jumping Fish: —•'
The mudflats support a vast number of
obscure little lives; none stranger than the
mud-skipper or jumping fish, with periscope
eyes, which spends much of its time skip-
ping and jumping over the mud, and climb-
ing on. to mangrove roots at low tide. It
enjoys a sunbath; perched on a root or
stone, it is quite at home, having large
gill-chambers filled with air, while the tail,
dipping in the water, also helps to keep
a fish alive out of its element; being an
ally of the gills—an extra organ of respira-
tion.
Furthermore, there is the rifle fish, which
squirts a drop of water at a spider or
an insect within range, knocks it into the
water, and so gets its dinner. There is
also—or isn’t there? —the marsupial tiger-
cat, which Mr. Barrett never quite saw ;
and the rainbow serpent which he didn’t
quite see on Wessel Island, but of which
he did see fascinating abo. drawings.
A nightmare abo. burial ground, “the
isle of the dead” ; a modern abo. rock-
painting of the crew of a Japanese
lugger; sufficient flies, sandflies, mosqui-
toes, dengue and malaria to satisfy The
Bulletin’s “Feng-Shui”’ that all is well
with the tropics; orchids, crocodiles,
snakes, abo. ceremonies, poisonous shells,
new varieties of ants, numbats, dingbats,
wombats, rumbats ...
Search for a Social Philosophy : F. W.
Eggleston (Melbourne University Press).
In his search the author makes a care-
ful historical examination and analysis
of the structure of society—law, politics,
economics, ethics —arguing the need for
a synthesis of the underlying principles
as an aid to solving the special problems
of each group. Mainly for students of
the social sciences, though there is some-
what wider appeal in the excellent essay
in which he brings international affairs
within the structure, with the essay on
ethics coming in the nature of a sequel
to that enlargement.
The Sassoon Dynasty: Cecil Roth
(Robert Hale, Ltd.). The author of The
Magnificent Rothschilds pieces together
the story of another prominent Jewish
family, including a brief biographical
sketch of Siegfried Sassoon, who, after
severe war experiences, which included
wounds and a decoration, set the fashion
for savage war poems written from the
pacifist angle. Roth suggests that what
has happened to Jews in Germany since
then, and other German acts, may have
somewhat modified such war outlook and
made it seem that that last war was well
worth fighting. The Sassoons hailed origi-
nally from Bagdad.
Fortunes in Minerals: lon L. Idriess
(Angus and Robertson). This isn't Idriess
the story-teller, but Idriess the author of
Prospecting for Gold— one and the same
person, but different. Here he deals
factually and descriptively., with the
variety of minerals that can be found
in Australia, where to look for them,
how to tell them, and what to do about
them when found. “This book,” he says,
“is written to help the modern prospector
who must seek not only gold but all the
minerals now hungrily wanted by old and
new industries,”


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —
“THE SENIOR STORE’
r
Bf.RgJE
m
r
W*K
A
Wm.
LTY
“Nelson’s” Special
Achievements...
The important things you look for in an
Encyclopedia are all outstanding features
of "NELSON'S” . . . accuracy . . .
completeness . . . clarity . . . scholarship
... international scope . . . up-to-the-minute
facts . . . dramatic and informative
illustrations . . . beautiful, lifetime binding.
These qualities verify "NELSON'S"
supremacy as a thoroughly dependable
and authoritative reference library.
& msors mm s xiuors sapors aiuors msors msors
2Sf *!“*?.“ E ™f* «mm mamtm immmm
■
' '" v ~ ' ■ ,-vFI., ><. u?: „„
LAM-Mir ME..OLY OLY-
SAJI SAM.STH ST&TUR TUR-£w
Each volume measures
9| x 6f x If inches.
Large double-sized volumes.
★ To-day’s Best Reference Set for
You and Your Family!
Those family discussions! Is one Happy Family
without them? Modern parents often feel non-
plussed at the children's eager interest in all manner
of matters unknown "When We Were Very Young".
But with a Nelson's Encyclopedia there's a happy
and conclusive ending to every problem: "Look it
up in the Encyclopedia!" Thus is the eager mind of
the modern child satisfied. Anthony Horderns'
century-old store advises parents to eguip the home
with a "Nelson" and thus embark the kiddies
happily on their Voyage of Life. Nelson's
Encvclopedia is
Equal in scope to a digest of
the contents of a library of
1,500 BOOKS
• BEAUTIFUL
BINDING
Nelson's Encyclopedia
is bound in sturdy
covers of ribbed grain
simulated leather in
beautiful Cardinal Red
handsomely decorated
in gleaming gold . . .
★ ORDER FORM
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD.
Box 2712 c, G.P.0., Sydney
, 1941
■ Please send me one set of Nelson's Encyclopedia
Special 1940 -edition, complete in 15 large double-
sized volumes. Price, £7/17/6 the set, delivered
free to my address if within your free Metropolitan
Delivery Area.
I understand that freight (for 48 lbs. packed
weight) is extra for delivery to country addresses.
-K (a) Please charge to my account.
-K (b) Remittance is enclosed covering cost of books
(£7/17/6) plus freight.
Total £
(c) I wish to arrange to purchase this set on your
Extended Credit System. Remittance is enclosed
covering deposit of £l/12/- plus freight.
Total £
Name...,
Address
Signature
DELIVERY FREE WITHIN ’ OUR DELIVERY AREA
-¥ Please strike out two sentences not required.
THE SET OF 15 VOLUMES
REGULAR
PRICE
£lO/10/-
df
EASY TERMS:
Deposit, £l/12/-;
Balance payable in
Six Monthly Instal-
ments of £l/2/- each.
V
n
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'Phone: M 2401 Day or Night
Post to Box 2712 c, G.P.0., Sydney


ROYAL
PURPLE- PARA
f
Seppelt's
A “WOOL” CHURCH AND ITS WINDOWS.
No part of England is richer in ecclesiastical
history and memorials than the counties of
Gloucester and Somerset. Long ago Fuller
explained the venerable proverb, “As sure as God’s
in Gloucestershire,” as referring to the number of
churches and religious houses in the county. When
wool was the staple commodity of England, the
Cotswolds geographically represented the wealth
of the industry, and the sheep farmers were
equally famed for their “long purses.” They
were of a strongly religious turn, hence the
churches they erected, scattered about the county.
At Fairford, in East Gloucestershire, some 26 miles
s.-w. of Oxford, is to be found one of the most
remarkable of these, built by one John Tame, a
“prince of wool-land.” At the close of the fifteenth
century, this worthy decided to rebuild the church,
and produced a perfect example of the period.
The famous stained glass fills the 28 windows,
including those of the clerestory. Once it was
asked whether the church was made for the glass
or the glass for the church. An old story had it
that John Tame captured at sea a vessel bound
from Flanders to Italy laden with “painted
glass,” and built a church to hold it. This is a
fable. The wealthy wool merchant was not likely
to spend his holidays in playing buccaneer. The
glass certainly came from Flanders, and was the
work of an artist, Aeps, who flourished 1480-1528.
Flerbert Evans, an historian of the Cotswolds,
asked a question, still unanswered, how the
windows came to survive the two great icono-
clastic storms which passed over the country in
the century after the Reformation. It was an
exceeding piece of good fortune they did, wanton
destruction elsewhere remembered. A poem, “The
Fairford Windows,” by a Cavalier versifier, con-
tains the lines:—
“Fairford boast
Thy Church hath kept what all have lost,
And is preserved from the bane
Of either war or Puritan
This beautiful pre-Reformation edifice consists of
navem lanthorn space under the tower, chancel
and north and south aisles, which extend eastwards
so as to embrace the tower between them. The
massive central tower harmonises wonderfully
with the other parts of the church. May it still be
spared the ravages of twentieth-century warfare.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62.—N0. 3215.
Wednesday, September 24, 1941.
AN OLD IRANIAN CUSTOM.
“The Shah has abdicated and been succeeded by his son. Reports that he has £5,000,000 invested in the U.S.A. and still more in Britain are to be investigated.”
“Son,I leave you everything except my foreign investments. Carry on!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. £, Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
Ar 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathans Buildings {ppp. G.P.0.),
W cl I i yi gto fj .
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly : 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and mter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas C Foreign ) ;
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2s ■
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth. New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
Id. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places. 4d.
SIX (6) BUDGETS.
Mr. Fadden’s Budget speech should begin with a
clear statement of the difficulties imposed on him as
war Treasurer, and of the waste, extortion and con-
fusion of which taxpayers are the victims, by the
existence of seven taxing Governments, each with its
army of assessors and collectors, and all hacking away
at the national income. He should point out that it
is as necessary in Australia as it is in Britain that
the national income should be reserved for war taxa-
tion, and that nearly half the war-time revenue of
the United Kingdom is raised in this way. He should
go on to recall that when uniform income taxation
was proposed to the State Premiers they flatly rejected
it and set to work on their own Budgets, each with
income tax as a groundwork, and that five were intro-
duced before he could introduce his own. Thus his
position as the person charged with the financing of
the war effort had become intolerable, and he had
arrived at a decision which he asked the Parliament
representing the nation to support.
The Constitution (Mr. Fadden should proceed
to say) was unsatisfactory in many respects, but it
provided a way out of this chaos of taxes and taxing
authorities. According to Section 109, “When a law
'of a State is inconsistent with a law of the Common-
wealth, the latter shall prevail, and the former shall,
to the extent of the inconsistency, be invalid.” A
Commonwealth law taxing all income a hundred per
cent, would thus make waste-paper of all the State
income, unemployed-relief, social-service, development
and emergency tax and assessment Acts.
The Government proposed to introduce such a
law, and had prepared a scientific schedule of rates
based on ability to pay. Beginning at £2Ol, it would
take from every person in Australia what it con-
sidered a fair individual contribution to the cost of
the war and would return him such of his income as
it would not require for that purpose and for the
maintenance of provincial services on a sufficient but
not lavish scale. To the States there would be given
amounts equal to those they collected from their
litter of income taxes in 1938-39, less net Common-
wealth child-bonus expenditure in each State. The
amounts would be set out in a State Grants Bill.
Complaints of insufficiency would be referred to the
Commonwealth Grants Commission, which would be
authorised to make a thorough examination of the
expenditure of the complainant Government —a thing
never done in the alleged Parliaments which are sup-
posed to control the public purse. That, or something
like it, is what Mr. Fadden should say, but nobody
expects him to say it.
With war expenditure leaping every month and
the Commonwealth Treasurer at his wit’s end to meet
it, the State Governments ought to be trying to help
him in every possible way, especially as the unem-
ployment which was the excuse for their harshest exac-
tions has shrunk to small proportions. Instead, they
are budgeting for more revenue and more expenditure
than ever, as well as trying to make it impossible for
Mr. Fadden or his successor to satisfy his income-
tax requirements without victimisation.
Mr. Dunstan, of Victoria, complacently antici-
pates that his revenue for the current year will exceed
last year’s total (£27,397,000) by £1,465,000 and that
his expenditure will go up £1,596,000 to £28,851.000.
Having 2400 unemployed to look after, he has taken
something more off the unemployed-relief tax, which
is nevertheless expected to bring in over a million.
Mr. Playford, of South Australia, reports that the
“financial position” of his State is “exceedingly good.”
Mr. Playford means by this that he succeeded in
spending £12,918,300 in 1939-40 and £13,007,500 in
1940-41 and hopes to spend £13,335,000 this year. Mr.
Playford, it seems, would spend even more, did not
prudence restrain him: “it is essential that the greatest
economy should be practised, not only by individuals
but by Governments themselves.” He, too, has reduced
taxation, to the extent of £BO,OOO.
Mr. Willcock, of Westralia, and Mr. Forgan
Smith, of Queensland, who are taking as much as
they can get from taxpayers in all groups, except
those excluded for political reasons, are “not going
to increase taxation,” and are astonished at their
own moderation. There is nothing moderate about
their revenue or expenditure. In 1938-39, when there
were more unemployed in both States (Mr. Forgan
Smith claims that only 3.49 p.c. of Queensland union-
ists are now jobless), Mr. Willcock’s revenue was
£10,949,600 and his expenditure £11,170,100. His esti-
mates for this year are £11,527,100 and £11,725,400
respectively. Taking the same two years, Queensland
revenue is expected to increase from £19,330,300 to
£21,784,200 and Queensland expenditure from
£19,316,300 to £21,722,400. One would have expected
a gentleman from Perthshire to show some regard for
economy in war-time.
All these gentlemen are spending as much loan
money on provincial “works” and things as the Loan
Council and the market will stand. Mr. McKell, of
N, S. Wales, had the face to ask for £16,163,000 (re-
duced from £18,163,000) to implement his election
programme (that is the polite way of putting it), and
is still bitter because the Loan Council fobbed him
off with £7,405,000. He blames Mr. Fadden, and had
another crack at that gentleman in his Budget speech.
Perhaps unconsciously, Mr. Fadden made a most
effective reply by publishing the prospectus of a loan
for £100,000,000, of which £30,000,000 is for the war
(and, of course, that will suffice for only a brief
period) and £70,000,000 for conversion of securities
maturing in November. This appeared contem-
poraneously with the reports of Mr. McKell’s tirade,
and it showed the attacker in a very unfavorable light.
Mr. McKell has budgeted for a revenue of
£62,097,709, up £488,412, and for an expenditure of
£62,077,562, up £468,265, leaving a surplus of £20,147.
Marvellous—or it would be if the figures could be
depended upon ; but since the Commonwealth Govern-
ment has relieved Mr. McKell of all child-endowment
expenditure, which used to run into £1,400,000 or so,
the estimated increase, deducting “Federal payroll tax,
£260,000,” should be nearer a million and a half than
half a million. Mr. McKell undertook to abolish the
unemployed-relief and social-service taxes, which
brought in £6,363,900 in 1938-39. He says he is going to
do it without imposing any additional burden on any-
one, except persons “now receiving favorable treat-
ment” (alleged tax-dodgers, it is presumed, and share-
holders in dividend-paying concerns, who are to be
taxed “without a rebate”— i.e., double) and “those
with more than £l5OO a year,” who “will have to meet
a negligible increase,” by “revising” the income tax.
From the persons “now receiving favorable treat-
ment” and the shareholders to be taxed “without a
rebate of tax,” this wonder-worker expects to get an
additional £1,100,000, On the other hand, he is remit-
ting a million by granting a £250 exemption, plus £6O
for each child, to family men, and by making other
concessions, all of which will “relieve 110,000 persons
entirely.” Moreover, he has positively declared that
“persons with means of £l5OO a year” will “pay less
than they pay now” and that there will be “no increase
in company tax.” And he is going to do all this,
in the process increasing income-tax revenue by
£7,000,000-odd, without depriving Mr. Fadden of a
penny. Still more marvellous, but cynics will be
incredulous, at least until the new income-tax rates are
published, and for the present Mr. McKell has chosen
to conceal them.
It may be taken for granted that Mr. Fadden and
his Taxation Commissioner are among the sceptics.
When Mr. Fadden introduced the taxation proposals
which were “amended” to please Mr. Curtin, he quoted
figures which showed that incomes under £4OO ac-
counted for £517,000,000 of private income totalling
£745,000,000, and Mr. McKell virtually proposes to
exempt the N.S.W. section (at least two-fifths) of this
majority group. Mr. Fadden said further that “the
great variation” in State rates of income tax had
“very considerably hampered Commonwealth taxation
at all points of the scale,” and that “taxation of higher
incomes had been pushed to the limit.” He set 14s,
in the £ as “a reasonable limit to the effective rate
of Commonwealth and State taxes combined” ; but
as a result of “the amendments” made to placate the
Opposition, persons in receipt of even £l6OO a year
are paying 10s. in the £ to the Commonwealth on
the excess over £l5OO. Commissioner Jackson has
pointed out that, because State rates of tax differ so
much, and because the Commonwealth exempts all
amounts paid to the States, Federal tax payments on
the same income differ in every State ; and the more
taken from the taxpayer for provincial purposes the
less remains for war purposes. He suggests that the
Commonwealth Government should make its own tax
uniform by ceasing to exempt payments made to the
States.
This would certainly remove demented and dan-
gerous features of the present disorder. It would
probably lead to terrific taxation of high incomes ;
on the other hand, it would enable the Common-
wealth to become master in its own house,
relegate the States to their proper position of inferiority
and oblige them to answer to their own victims with-
out passing the buck. But it would be far better for
the Commonwealth to assume full control, if necessary
by exercising its full powers under Section 109, This
will have to be done some time, and there is no better
time than the present.
The Nazi-French Marriage.
Such a speech as was broadcast to the French people
by Marshal Petain last month would once have been
extensively, or at least adequately, reported. Instead
of having it served up scrappily, with interpretations
by anonymous and other “famous” correspondents,
newspaper readers would have been given credit for
enough intelligence to do their own interpreting. They
would certainly have made more than the whole tribe
of “famous” correspondents made of it as a pathetic
and revealing human utterance.
The “famous” tribe put the speech through their
sieve, and dished up a couple of bare, bones liberally
garnished with their own opinions. Practically all
that cable readers were given was that “Vichy had
announced collaboration with Hitler,” and that
Admiral Darlan had been put in charge of the French
Ministry of National Defence, with direct control
over the French land, sea and air forces. There was
much fury about traitors, but nothing of the tragic
human element of the speech.
The rot of views instead of news started a long
time before newsprint rationing, censorship and other
war accidents provided an excuse for wretched re-
porting. It had extended widely years before this
present war broke out. It is not that half the “famous”
are ever deliberately misleading. Mostly it is sheer
ignorance. They could not, for example, fairly be
accused of deliberately withholding from people in
places like Australia the actual French peasant re-
actions to the pre-war scares and to the war when it
came. Quite probably, not being in touch with the
ordinary French people, they believed all the heroic
rubbish they cabled. It is now coming out in books
that French peasant reactions were extremely painful.
The Frenchman on his bit of a farm wanted almost
anything rather than to be called up personally, torn
from his family and sent into the Maginot Line.
Accounts can now be read of tough Normandy
farmers breaking down and weeping like women at
the news. One recently published book gives a
number of such instances in a small locality, and not
one instance of anything resembling the feeling that
inspired Frenchmen in 1914.
The truth can now be seen that the French as a
people had no heart for the war. It would be very
different if they were free men and being called up
today; but the point is that cables did not at the
time give a hint of the real state of the French people.
Similarly reports today generally depict the French
as, on the one hand, all ready for and conspiring for
revolt; on the other hand, as willing enough col-
laborators with their Nazi overlords. The real pic-
ture, as revealed in the text of Marshal Plain’s broad-
cast, is somewhat different.
It is a miserable picture—of a once-great people
i educed to a state that would stir pity in the most
loftily sneering or most fiery armchair fusiliers among
“famous” correspondents if their obsession with
national politics left any room for pity for national
peoples. The Marshal revealed more of the true
present state of the French in his few opening sen-
tences than all the interpretations of the “famous”
have managed to convey;
Frenchmen! I have grave things to tell you. For
the last several weeks I have felt an ill wind rising
in many regions of France. Disquiet is overtaking
minds; doubt is gaining control of spirits. The authority
of my Government is made the subject of discussion;
orders are often being ill executed... .A real uneasiness
inflicts the French nation. The reasons for this uneasi-
ness are easy to understand. Cruel hours are always
followed by difficult times.
Pathetic in the deepest meaning of the word ; but
not the voice of a craven or a traitor. Rather, the
voice of one with the capacity of feeling deeply who
had been through a hell of the mind such as no
“famous” correspondent ever faced.
The old Marshal spoke as a leader weighed down
by the wretchedness of his France, and as one
who —whether rightly or wrongly, as the “famous,” in
their purely political findings, assess right and wrong
—places the present welfare of his suffering country-
men above all other considerations. He had in mind
“the farmers, who, without labor,” are carrying on ;
“the miners, who have worked without respite night
and day to obtain coal for us”; and “all those
workers who return from work only to find fireless
homes and meagrely-set tables.”
It is thanks to their unceasing efforts that the life
of the country has been able to be maintained; despite
defeat. It is with them and through them that we will
be able tomorrow to build a France free, powerful and
prosperous. Let them wait with me for better times.
The trials of France will have an end.
Petain knows, and the French who listened to him
know, where the blame lies. They want no telling
by correspondents, however “famous.” They know
that the whole secret of France’s present wretchedness
is the open one of the German plundering, and, above
all, the German holding of the best part of the
nation’s young manhood as prisoners—the Marshal
put the number at “more than a million” ; others
have put it at nearly two millions. Whatever is said
and whatever is done, every day that that situation
lasts the French bitterness against the Germans must
bite deeper and deeper.
It is true enough that the Marshal announced col-
laboration with the Germans ; and if Hitler is the
surface-gazing ignoramus of “famous correspondent”
report the banns of the awkward marriage perhaps
pleased him. The Marshal spoke deferentially, as
became one leading along a wretched bride —ready
for anything for the sake of the family; but he
described collaboration, as offered by Hitler, as “a
long-term labor” which “has not yet been able to bear
all its fruits.” “We must,” he told his French audi-
ence, “be able to overcome a heavy heritage of dis-
trust handed down by centuries of dissensions and
quarrels.” He saw nothing easy in it: “it is an
immense labor, which requires on our part as much
will as it does patience.” For his own part: “France
cannot really be governed except from Paris. I
cannot yet return there, and I shall not return there
until certain facilities are offered me.”
Such is the marriage of Marianne to the Nazi as
arranged. Debt and near-starvation for a dot, and
for a honeymoon indefinite slavery. It is a poor return
for the British lives lost in the last war and in this
war helping to defend the now miserable French
people, and it may have results which will put an
end to British Continental alliances, if that has not
already been decided. But it would be a poor thing,
too, if the hostile, superficial “famous correspondent”
judgments on the French and Marshal Petain were
accepted as gospel. Their situation calls for deep
and sympathetic examination if they and their pos-
sibly unwelcome and unfortunate future actions are
to be properly understood.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Constitutions, Helpful and Unhelpful.
Events have demonstrated beyond all question that,
as an instrument of government in time of war, the
British Constitution is vastly superior to the Constitu-
tion of the United States and that of this Common-
wealth. The same superiority exists in the Consti-
tutions of Maoriland and South Africa. There, as
in Britain, the Government is in control of everything
necessary for the prosecution of the war and is thus
in a position to concentrate on that supreme job.
This it has done in each country, and in each Parlia-
ment has accepted the Government’s leadership, as
the Government has responded to the instant need.
In Australia we see the legislative power divided
among seven Parliaments, and finance and transport
the sport of seven Governments. Though the Aus-
tralian war effort is by no means to be despised, it
would be idle to pretend that the full resources of the
nation have been marshalled or that such as have been
employed have been vigorously directed from above.
For what has been done we have to thank chiefly the
instinct of the people for self-government, shown
especially in emergencies ; the energy and resourceful-
ness of those engaged in the production of all manner
of war materials and, above all, the fine intelligence
and fighting quality of the men in the combatant ser-
vices. There has been no national leadership such as
South Africa has received from Marshal Smuts, not-
withstanding that he had to contend all along with
a strong anti-war party. It is highly improbable that
Smuts could have done much if to this obstacle there
had been added a Federal system, with the anti-war
party predominant in the former Boer republics and
State Premiers meddling in everything.
With all the goodwill in the world, Mr. Roosevelt
has been handicapped by the U.S. Constitution.
Thanks to the national trust reposed in him, as
expressed in the Democratic majorities in both Houses
and in the third-term election, he has done more to
aid Britain than any of his predecessors could have
achieved in like circumstances. But he has had to be
supremely skilful in dealing with Congress and public
opinion, and there remain checks to his 'power
and impediments to his zeal for action such as Mr.
Churchill has never to consider.
It is the function of Congress, not that of the
President, “to declare war and make rules concern-
ing captures on land and water.” The raising and
support of “armies,” the provision and maintenance of
“a navy” and the framing of “rules for the govern-
ment and regulation of the land and naval forces”
are likewise in the power of Congress, not that of the
President. The President cannot even make a treaty
unless “two-thirds of the Senators present concur.”
In short, as Bryce said, “he has not a free hand in
foreign policy.”
But though “he cannot declare war, for that
belongs to Congress, he may, as Polk did in 1845-46,
bring affairs to a point at which it is hard for Con-
gress to refrain from the declaration.” To that point
Mr. Roosevelt has been steadily and consistently
moving. He has seen, perhaps more clearly than any
other man, that Hitler can’t win the war unless he
beats the British Empire, and that he is determined
Hitler will never do.
"Follow Britain !"
Australia has 498 State politicians, 61 of whom are
Ministers with their own staffs. What easy times they
have and what privileges they enjoy—especially the
privilege of meddling in national matters and “antici-
pating” the war Treasurer’s Budget—compared with
their opposite numbers in Britain!
The London County Council has more to do
than the two-Chamber tribulation in Macquarie-
street, Sydney, and has nearly two million more
people in its district. Similarly Lancashire, the West
Riding of Yorkshire, Kent, Essex, Durham and Staf-
fordshire have respectively greater populations than
Queensland, South Australia, Westralia and Tasmania,
and their County Councils are kept busier than the
Parliaments of those States, which “work” parts of
three days in the week for three or four months in
the year.
Under the jurisdiction of the average English
County Council are elementary and higher education ;
maintenance of main roads and bridges; “work in
relation to agriculture” ; public health, including the
accommodation and care of the blind, mental defec-
tives, lunatics, t.b. and v.d. cases; supervision
of food supplies; organisation and management of
indoor and outdoor relief; prevention of pollution of
rivers ; housing ; control of coroners and the county
police.
If they had the privileges and gave themselves
the airs of Australian State Premiers, the chairmen of
these important bodies would go to London every few
weeks and argue with the Chancellor of the Exchequer
about the “allocations” they expected from the next
Government loan, and tell him that he would be wel-
come to what he could bleed the taxpayer for after
they had got in their cuts first. Having only the
powers which Parliament chooses to give them, which
are expressly limited, they, of course, do nothing of
the sort.
The Little Masters.
Another of the multitude of little masters with whom
Australia is inflicted had his hour last Sunday night.
On that occasion 1,400,000 persons, living in 71 Syd-
ney and Blue Mountains districts, found themselves
forced to do without lights on pain of having their
homes forcibly entered by other citizens —honest folk,
voluntarily doing what they consider a duty, but apt
in some cases to behave like all the other little bosses —
and being fined a tenner.
“Blackout” Heffron, the Terror of the Subbubs,
was loose again. He’d got loose before, both in Syd-
ney and on the coalfields north and south, and with
all the pomposity of the little boss he’d been telling
everybody they “must” conform to his dictates, from
Commonwealth navigation authorities down to the
humble citizen out for the day, sternly warned by
“Blackout” to get home before 9 p.m.
Sunday’s “full-scale” performance was Sydney’s
second in five weeks. Meantime, Newcastle, Mait-
land and other parts had been put through it, and
the fever had spread to Queensland and Victoria,
where more little bosses were quick to follow Mr.
Heffron’s example, one of them even asserting that the
Ministry of Munitions “must” obey the “regulations.”
What it is all costing beggars the imagination. In
Sydney architects estimated that it would take
£3,000,000 to carry out Mr. Heffron’s instructions, and
all Mr. Heffron could reply was that “only the N.E.S.
technical committee was able to say how much it
would cost.” A morning newspaper discovered that
a home could be blacked out for anything from 10s.
to £10; possibly inspired by this, a maker of black-
out material testily declared that people should be
compelled to buy it. Add to all this the cost of special
lights for transport systems, vehicles, hospitals, corre-
spondence, petrol—a thousand and one things—all at
the behest of our little masters, who seem to be respon-
sible to nobody and to have nothing else to do but
plan more and more blackouts.
And the only excuse is that there is a remote pos-
sibility that a few seaborne aircraft might some day
raid the Australian coast. A possibility that doesn’t
seem to worry Singapore, infinitely closer to the
danger zone and very much more likely to be bombed.
In Singapore nobody worries about blackouts, nor
deep shelters either; the authorities have merely
advised people to make for the open if the worst
comes. And Bristol, which has been bombed horribly,
is spending £20,000 to improve its street lighting. This
decision is supported by the London (yes, London )
“Daily Express,” Lord Beaverbrook’s paper, which
insists that the blackout is a nuisance and a failure.
The blackout has proved useless in defence. It has
had a bad effect on war production, has dampened the
spirits of workers, delayed transport of night workers,
and caused hundreds of road deaths. Lights out when
a warning comes, but not before, should be our policy.
And it should be the policy in Australia should
the improbable happen. These little Heffrons have
had their hour and the nation has had enough of their
nonsense. Let Mr. Abbott come forward and take
control.
Public Opinion Polls.
The Gallup method of sounding public opinion on
current matters has been introduced into Australia
by “Australian Public Opinion Polls.” The method
consists of interviewing what are called “representative
cross-sections” of the public and from the replies
assuming what the whole public thinks. It is in opera-
tion in Britain and America and, though it does give
a fair representation of public opinion, its findings are
subject to correction because public opinion on most
matters is seldom stable for long.
First poll to be taken is announced as concerning
ten topics, “including women’s pay, conduct of the
war effort, war-time government, relations with the
Soviet Union and compulsory savings.” Somewhat
frothy subjects, which appear to be based on a study
of the main news pages of big-city dailies, where
frothy subjects are magnified out of all proportion.
And the A.P.O.P. statement that “farmers constitute
more than 22 p.c. of Australia’s population” is
not borne out by statistics.
All the same, A.P.O.P. could serve a useful pur-
pose by taking a vote on conscription. Though
Prime Minister Fadden probably subscribes to his
predecessor’s, “This Government is committed to the
voluntary system,” more especially since he is “mov-
ing towards Labor,” it is by no means certain that the
majority of Australians do. And there is good cause
to suppose that, in their general change of mind since
Germany invaded Russia, some of the once-most
vociferous opponents of conscription have swung the
other way.
And though it will have plenty of opponents, a
more important viewpoint is that of Major-General
Mackay, back from the Middle East campaigns, who
spoke in a national broadcast words that should
have been under banner headlines in every Australian
newspaper;
The A.l.F.’s chief need is men Can we play our
part in stemming the enemy’s attack by sending abroad
a small band of volunteers? ... .When once the nation
has decided on war, surely the next step is to carry
it through determinedly to a finish. Can we do this
without putting ourselves out, without upsetting the
routine of our lives? Of course we can’t.
The man who had commanded the fighting 6th
Division took a smack at the “Business as Usual”
fallacy and the idiotic list of reserved occupations:
“In the army the idea that an officer or a man cannot
be spared to take up some other duty hardly exists.”
He suggested that there were employers who put
men on the reserved list to save themselves the incon-
venience of replacing them.
There are other men back from the Middle East.
Most of them are astounded to find the country going
about its business in the same old way. But it does
so because it is leaderless, there is no vital rallying
point to stir it. A Government that announced the
truth of the war position and then asked for a vote
for conscription of men, money and material might
provide that point.
Mr. Harrison Bans a Book.
Hooray! Hooray! Hooray! Mr. Harrison, the
Minister for Quaint Old Australian Customs, has
banned a book. What a triumph for freedom that is!
Irrefutable proof at last that an antiquated and bigoted
provincialism can no longer clamp its dead hand on
literature to the shame of Australians of culture and
the amusement of visitors from abroad.
Not the least pleasant aspect of the case is that
Mr. Harrison, who has not so far given birth to any
great work of creative literature other than perhaps a
few Regulations, now takes his place among the minor
immortals. It would have been something, indeed, to
have written Ulysses, the most-talked-about novel this
century has so far produced ; but it is also something,
not altogether to be despised from the point of view
of notoriety, to have prevented a nation from read-
ing it.
Having achieved fame, Mr. Harrison should be
satisfied. And, being satisfied, he should take his
absurd ban away and keep it in the Customs House
cupboard until the next time somebody writes an
important and controversial novel from which it is
desirable to protect the Australian public.
What on earth-got into Mr. Harrison’s great brain
to start him banning Ulysses at this time? According
to “S. M, Herald,” rumors were current at Canberra
that the Minister was up to something and, asked
about it, Mr. Harrison said “I have already banned
the book.” Alone he dunnit! But the whole business
was fought out years ago. On the advice of an expert
literary committee, the ban was lifted by Mr. White
when he was Customs Minister. Has it been proved
to Mr. Harrison that furious and horrible reading of
Ulysses since the ban was lifted has undermined the
national character? Do little children, smuggling it
into their beds at night, revel in its obscurities and
neglect their lessons to debate the merits of the stream-
of-consciousness method in highbrow fiction?
Whatever orgies, perceived only by the vigilant
eyes of Mr. Harrison and his “officers,” have been
going on in Australian nurseries, the U.S.A. seems to
have survived the dreadful consequences of allowing
this book to remain at large. No moralist in that
haven of moralists has found it necessary to revoke
the decision of the Court of Appeal which allowed
Ulysses into the country ; no politician has jumped
up to controvert the Hon. John Woolsey’s judgment
on the book:
.... A very powerful commentary on the inner lives
of men and women. Rather a strong draught to ask
some sensitive, though normal, persons to take but
. nowhere does it tend to be an aphrodisiac. Ulysses may,
therefore, be admitted into the United States.
And since the learned Judges of America, an
expert committee of Australian literary men and a
different Australian Customs Minister all got along
all right, the proper remedy appears to be not to
ban the book again, but to look for a different
Minister.
Mr. Harrison’s reported challenge to any news-
paper that dares to question his decree to print cer-
tain “passages he could nominate” from Ulysses is
impertinent nonsense. A newspaper, unlike a novel,
has to try to please everybody, and there are certainly
passages of Ulysses, as of Gulliver’s Travels and a
hundred other classics, that could not be reprinted in
a newspaper. Indeed, until somebody writes a book
on the Great Australian Wowser, it is not possible to
say in print, in good Shakspearean English, exactly
what all men of goodwill think about the banning of
Ulysses.
"For Education and Charity."
“T.McN.”: Under the will of Ernest E. T. Williams,
a Caulfield (Vic.) man, over £400,000 has been left
for educational and charitable purposes. Melbourne
University and its Conservatorium of Music, Swin-
burne Technical College, five of the larger hospitals,
the benevolent asylum, district and bush-nursing
societies and a boys’ training farm are all to benefit
and there is to be a trust for charity. This naturally
produced words of gratification from the representa-
tives of the benefiting institutions.
I have no wish to interfere with any man’s de-
cisions as to what he shall do with his money and the
late Mr. Williams deserves the gratitude expressed.
Far too often these big estates are left to be whacked
up among relatives who don’t really need the money.
All the same, it seems to be a reflection on the national
or the individual outlook, I’m not sure which, that no
large sums are left or trusts endowed for the assist-
ance of the national culture. What Australian, for
instance, has ever left £400,000, even £40,000, for the
encouragement of letters?
Before anyone rushes in to declare that the Uni-
versity and its Con. represent culture, let me say that
I agree, but universities should be, as should hospitals,
benevolent asylums and charitable institutions, ade-
quately financed from taxes. That is a Government’s
plain duty, and the fact that most of our Governments
fail in it doesn’t alter the fact.
An amount like £400,000 is, after all, a drop in
the bucket of the enormous sum needed by Australian
educational and charitable institutions each year.
N.S.W. Hospitals Commission could swallow it in one
bite and still be hungry. But, given as a fund to
provide literary prizes, to cover the cost of publishing
worthy verse, history, biography, sociological studies,
novels, short stories, etc., it would not only stimulate
Australian creative effort, but also Australian appre-
ciation. To any wealthy Australian who is wondering
how to divide up the doings I commend the foregoing
argument for the good of himself and his country.


Society
"AND ITD Pts pRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bo”; I have missed during the last
few weeks the voice of a lady who
drivelled over the ether about its being
unpropitious for people born under the
sign of Leo to keep lysol in a vinegar
bottle when Pisces is entering its third
house, and so forth. Perhaps the effort with
which she wound up the last “session” I
heard may have something to do with it.
She had got on to Hitler, about whose
“black months” and fate every “student
of astral influence” has blurbed reams.
Said the lady dramatically and with great
positiveness; “He will die in 1941!”
Then, apparently becoming conscious
that she was taking too great a risk,
she hedged by saying “This event, though,
might be delayed by Hitler himself, who
is also a keen student of astrology.”
After that brickbat I went and started
chewing the carpet.
** * .
“Youanmi”; An American journalist
has been wandering over this country
to discover what makes Australians the
men they are and what gives them “that
indomitable spirit.” In my humble
opinion any man who sets out to do that
is taking a risk, but not half the risk the
visitor took when he told a Sydney
flapper paper the result of his search.
Did he find his answer on the beaches?
Did he find it on city sports ovals?
On racecourses? No.
I got my answer when I visited mills in
the tail-timber country at Pemberton
(W.A.); when I visited sugarcane planta-
tions in northern Queensland; on stations
in the Northern Territory; goldmines and
farms.
And now, perhaps, flapper-press editors
and photographers will urge the Govern-
ment to deport the miscreant forthwith,
and with contumely.
* * * *
“Acting-Private Gladys”: A little while
ago a girl in an English unit was made
to change her lipstick because it was
too vivid and now a girl corporal of 41
.has been court-martialled and put back to
the ranks because she insisted on going
on leave whenever she wanted to I was
going to study to become a commodore
or bombardier but if that’s the way
they treat a girl who’s helping her
country win the war I won’t go to all
that trouble anyway I know that Maudie
Wilson our platoon sergeant didn’t turn
up for parade last Friday that’s the day
Sleet’s big spring fashion parade was on
in fact only 7 of the platoon turned up
I believe and they were only the old
frumps who still wear skirts without
godets and do their hair in buns well
they didn’t cashier Maudie or whatever
they call it still it must be thrilling to
know that your fate is in the hands of
a stern grim old general with red tabs
all over him and a lot of exciting young
officers in the court and perhaps a nice
looking one defending you really if it
was like that I wouldn’t mind if they
were- a bit stricter like they are in Eng-
land but it’s no good me getting court-
martialled because they can’t reduce me
to anything isn’t it silly!
* * * *
“Bombardier”: “Oxmead” (B.
10/9/’4l) suggests that a wimmen’s
paper was somewhat incorrect in its
reference to the Croft baronetcy. It was.
When in England recently I visited Croft
Castle and met Lady Croft, the mother
of the just-dead baronet. She was in Aus-
tralia in 1933 and we travelled to England
together. I learned from her that the title
was received during the reign of Henry
VI, 1422-1461, after the Battle of Mor-
timer’s Cross, and not in 1671 as the par.
suggests. As the family is mentioned in
the Doomsday Book it’s a safe bet that
it is one of the oldest in England.
* * * *
“Avon”; The story of the voyage of
the great Maori canoes from Hawaiki to
Maoriland, culmination of a migratory
process that commenced in the tenth
century and ended in the fourteenth,
seems to most Europeans as legendary
as the stories of King Arthur and the
court of Camelot, but there are some
extant relics of the voyage, which is
more than can be said for the Arthurian
romance. The most important of these
Maori relics has been handed over to
the custody of the Dominion Museum,
in Wellington. Known to all Maoridom
as the “korotangi,” it is a representation
of a wood-pigeon, lOfin. from beak to
tail tip, carved very skilfully in Asiatic,
not Polynesian, style from a block of
green serpentine. There is a hole bored
in the breast, suggesting it once had a
pedestal. The Maoris say that this image,
like the ruder carvings brought in the
“Harry, promise me you'll keep clear of the Baltic and the Black Sea."
canoes Matatua and Arawa, came from
Hawaiki in the canoe Tainui. It was lost
for centuries, and found again in 1878
on Major Drummond Hay’s estate at
Cambridge (Auckland province) buried
in the roots of a tree. It was identified
positively by the Maori king Tawhiao and
the great chiefs Rewi Maniapoto and
Ngahau, who cherished the traditional
accounts. Rewi held a tangi over it,
wailing and weeping. The chiefs coun-
selled that the bird be cast into the
Waikato River, lest evil befall, for it has
a strong mana tapu, but the pakehas
overruled this notion, and the Maoris,
seeing that no harm has come, have got
over it. Archaeologists connect the image
with the dove of the deluge mentioned
in Genesis and in Chaldean inscriptions.
* * * *
“Jachris”: “Meeting With Terror”
is what the Sydney “Telegraph” heads
it, and that’s what it is. It begins
Greasy-faced, German-serving Pierre
Laval, shot in Paris last fortnight by Ger-
man-hating Paul Colette, got out of bed
last week in his Versailles hospital.
If there’s a prize for the beastliest ex-
ample of this method of maltreating the
language, I enter the foregoing.
■ * * He *
“Taniwha”: The sort of walking tour
that Sydney bushwalkers have fantastic
dreams about was undertaken by one
Nicolaus, who has finished tramping all
round Maoriland’s South Island. His
equipment was a 501 b. rucksack con-
taining a tiny tent and a sleeping-bag,
change of clothes and food. The
2000-miles march took four months;
expenses £2O. This trek was undertaken
in midwinter, and only those who have
lived in Maoriland’s south know what
that means. Even in the far north, in
Nelson province, the rivers freeze so
hard and deep that the pioneers used to
do their cattle-droving on them. And the
country Nicolaus traversed, barring some
nice stretches of smooth beach on the
east coast, is as wild as any in the world
—the tangle of fiords and mountains in
south-west Otago is still largely unex-
plored. Nicolaus, born in England, has
been 10 years in the Dominion. Four
years ago he circumambulated the North
Island.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Army catering officials
'and others assembled for lunch at the
William Angliss Food Trades School in
Melbourne the other day had served to
them dishes of soup, meat, vegetables and
other comestibles all made up out of
desiccated ingredients prepared in the
school’s chemical laboratory. The
general verdict was that the taste was
excellent. An exuberant pressman re-
marked that the menu was better than
his wife had ever provided him with
from fresh material and prognosticated
the day when all Melbourne’s food will
be delivered as powders in tins. Neverthe-
less a once-famous Paris chef now living
in retirement in Melbourne tells me that
the new fad is quite superfluous except,
perhaps, for military purposes, and that
Australians don’t know what untapped
food resources they have. “Look at me,”
he said. “I live in a little flat and I have
no garden, as you can see. But if I want
a salad for dinner I walk along the Yarra
bank and I find ten salads.”
* * * *
“Red Devon”: Until J. H. M. Abbott
claimed the distinction for John Caesar
(B. 6/8/’4l) I was under the impression,
gained from The History of Australian
Bushrangers, that Australia’s first de-
clared outlaw was Michael Howe, of Van
Diemen’s Land. Mick was proclaimed an
outlaw in the early 1820’s, and a career
marked by coldblooded brutality, which
he even extended to a faithful gin when
he was hard pushed, was brought to a
timely end by a Mr. Perry on Southern-
field station. Howe was driven from a
hill on to a narrow, ragged neck of land
and with the flooded Shannon River on
three sides of him was cornered and shot.
* * * »
“J.G.”: The Digger slouch hat made
its first military appearance about 1886
when Colonel Tom Price organised the
Victorian Mounted Rifles. Their uniform
was khaki with maroon facings; the
Digger hat was turned up on the right
side. A year or so later Col. Eddy
organised the Victorian Rangers, an in-
fantry regiment. Their uniform was very
much the same as that of the Mounted
Rifles, including hat, except for scarlet
facings. The hatband was a plaited one.
Later on still came the formation of the
N.S.W. Lancers, who also adopted the
slouch hat but turned it up on the left
side, and decorated it with bunches of
black rooster feathers, thus pioneering
the emu plumes worn by Australian
cavalry in the 1914-18 war. In the South
African war the men of the Victorian
contingents wore their hats turned up on
the right side ; N.S.W. men had the left
side turned up.
*•••••
“McNarrrk”: Y’ ken be the press these
Austreelyans gangin’ roon’ screechin’ wi’
rage aboot some ither body else wearin’
the same sorrt o’ hat as Austreelyan
soldiers? Losh, ’tis a caircumstance
compared wi’ the feelin’s o’ Scots con-
fronted at their mornin’ parritch wi’ a
picture o’ twa Chinee bairns got up in
plaid costumes, Glengarries an’ a’, at a
Sydney function. The tairtan o’ the rig
wasna seen frae Herma Ness tae the
Borrder, though the Lowlands are
notorious for tairtans no Hielan’man wad
encounter wi’oot reachin’ for a club, an’
nae doot ’twas that of the McWool-
worth or maybe the Farmerjones. Tis
a bitter thing, ye ken, for a mon tae come
12,000 miles frae his native lan’ tae
weetness yon spectacle an’ tae gang tae
his kirk the Sunday after an’ there
obsairve, sittin’ spry as hares in the
heather, four o’ the same plagiarisin’
heathens listenin’ tae the meenister an’
chewin’ peanuts !
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Archbishop Head, of
Melbourne, seems fated to become a
target for litigation. A long-drawn-out
battle with a clergyman in the country
occupied him when he was a comparative
stranger. Recently one Henry Milton
Neville Short took out a writ claiming
nominal damages for the Archbishop’s
alleged refusal to permit him to resume
his duties as captain
of the bellringers,
member of the choir
and choir librarian
at St. James’s Old
Cathedral Church in
King-street. Short
quoted the Act of
Uniformity of 1552
as imposing an obli-
gation on him to
attend church and
claimed that church
officers had no juris-
diction over mem-
bers of the church in
respect of worship.
He lost his case.
* *
“ H.T.B. ”; Poet
Bernard O’D ow d
told a Melbourne
audience the other
day that it was up
to Australian poets,
artists, orators,
preachers) and
teachers to arouse
Australians with the
truth about their
magnificent country,
their liberty and the
destiny they could
have if they went
after it. He said he
believed poetry still
had the power to stir
people with its im-
passioned persuasion,
and maybe he’s right.
Certainly the press
has lost its old ability
to sway the nation,
probably because of
its obsession with advertising, glamor and
“famous” correspondents, and it has given
up publishing verse except the sort of
tripe that bursts out of suburbia when in-
spired by a ridiculous “V for Victory”
campaign. Radio missed a great chance
by not having good verse broadcast, and
this is an aspect that might be considered
by A.B.C. All the same, while our poets
are trying to imitate European and
American eccentricities, our preachers
worrying because Diggers drink beer, our
teachers dabbling in politics and our
artists trying to be “contemporary,” Mr.
O’Dowd seems to be a voice crying in
the wilderness.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Just as old Sydney has
mostly disappeared (B. 27 /8 / ’4l), old
Parramatta is also rapidly disappearing.
Elizabeth Farm House still stands,
and so does Experiment Cottage, but the
old George-street Home has been de-
molished. First erected as Commissariat
Stores, it was later used as a military
barracks and later still as an immigration
depot. In 1862 it was opened as a home
for the aged and infirm, and was used as
such until it was demolished a year or
so ago. Firholme, once occupied by
Huon de Kerillion, tutor to Macarthur’s
children, is to go, and the little school
building behind it, the oldest still stand-
ing in Australia, is qlso threatened. The
Macquarie-street Homes have gone; so
have the female factory and all the toll-
bars, Lennox bridge has been altered,
and other historic buildings have been
so modernised as to be hardly recognis-
able.
ON THE RAIL.
“Mr. Wilson, the Victorian Independent who holds
the balance of power in the House of Reps., is a tall,
solemn person who occupies a room of his own, shuns
all approaches from members of either party and has
become more of an enigma than ever.”
—Canberra item.
Solemn and tall, he keeps a firm restriction
Upon his tongue. Ev’n when his face is
scanned
There’s nothing that would warrant a prediction
Whether with Ins or Outs he’ll take his
stand,
Though one may sense, perhaps, a quiet con-
viction
He holds the fate of Fadden in his hand,
And aims to fill the role upon the screen
Of what they call “the god in the machine.”
Aloof he sits, inscrutable, impassive.
Shunning the ways his fellows’ feet have trod,
Hugging his sombre isolation as if
His pattern were some old Olympian god.
Conscious what grave events, what issues
massive
Still undetermined, hung upon his nod.
And he who’d learn what Mr. Wilson thinks
Might just as well attempt to pump the Sphinx.
Of noisy partisans the mute rebuker,
He shrills no challenges, no desk he thumps.
Let others strive for fame or place or lucre,
Careless of these his lonely path he stumps,
Yet with the air of one who holds at euchre
The joker, or at bridge the ace of trumps.
This is his crowded hour. Is it a bit
Strange that he’s out to make the most of it?
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Hacksaw”; It took the Camberwell
(Vic.) Council to go one better than the
sort of editor who used to start a leading
article with the classic sentence “We warn
the Czar.” It has just recommended that
“the Glen Iris and District Progress
League be informed that, because of the
international situation, the council can-
not provide a bi-weekly clearance of
household garbage.”
* * * *
“Abie”: Stumbling through Poems of
Today, 3rd Series (Macmillan, 1938), and
the mysterious lyrics of Edith Sitwell,
Gerard Manley Hopkins, etc., I came
across the following gem, representative,
it seemed to me, of much of the book:
Sociable, tremendous tree,
Softly, in the dusk, a woman is singing to me;
Some god, quite irresponsible and young,
Squawking they rise from reeds into the sun,
Steadily, steadily,
Stop all the clocks, cut off the telephone;
Summer for England ends: simple and likeable
Swift, in a moment’s thought, our lastingness is
wrought.
Obscure? Yes ; but hardly more obscure
than some of the rest, and no doubt
modernists could be found to praise the
subtlety and balance of its evocative
phrases. It wasn’t for quite a while that
I realised that I was reading part of the
Index of First Lines.
* * * #
“Jurumudi”: According to the Direc-
tor of the Australian Institute of Indus-
trial Psychology, waiting to go over the
top is always worse than going over, and
the A.I.F. in Malaya will continue to
suffer mental inertia and depression till
the order to go into action. That rather
misses the point, which is that there is
such a thing as tropical ennui. It is the
bugbear of civilians as well as soldiers,
and they endeavor to get over it in all
sorts of quaint fashions. In
one station where I was em-
ployed methods adopted at one
time or another were to walk
to the top of the nearest
mountain, touch it and return
without stopping ; getting one’s
head clean-shaven or, alterna-
tively, trying to grow the
longest beard and the bushiest
moustache in the district; liv-
ing one’s day backwards by
having supper when one got
up, playing tennis at noon in-
stead of after sundown, and
ending the day by having break-
fast and a bath before going
bye-bye ; and similar infantile
reactions. Then there was a
man who filled his bedroom
with potplants and sentenced
himself to six months’ con-
finement indoors. But none of
these devices ever exorcised the
ennui demon. The only indivi-
duals who mastered it in my
experience were those who
were capable of finding their
new environment just as inter-
esting as their English or Aus-
tralian home towns ; and it will
be the same with the Austra-
lian soldier. Col. White, the
Australian airman, who was
years in a Turkish prison,
told me that he didn’t find a
moment of it boring.
* * *
“Uramao”: An original sort
of war prophet was the lad
who told an Armed Forces
Appeal Board in M.L. that it was
a waste of time to push him into camp
as the war was on its last legs. Pressed for
his reason for so believing, the applicant
said that during his working career he
had never struck a job that lasted for
more than two months. The board looked
at him admiringly and decided that the
experiment ought to be tried.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Victorian Nat. Gallery trustees
have announced that plans have been
made for safeguarding their treasures. The
gallery, they consider, is more strongly
built than most city buildings and pro-
vides a shelter in itself, but the 100 most
valuable pictures will be sent to the
country if a crisis develops. Others
slightly less valuable and the magnificent
collection of ceramics will be stored in
the basement. I hope the gallery is as
safe as the trustees think it is. London
authorities did not think their galleries
safe to keep anything in. I should also
like to think that the trustees know which
are the 100 best pictures. Trustees of
the past didn’t know or it wouldn’t have
been necessary for Director MacDonald
to write down by thousands of pounds
previous purchases, as he did recently.
The present value of the gallery’s posses-
sions is estimated at round £3,000,000.
* * * *
“L. de R.”: I see that Charlie Chaplin’s
film “The Great Dictator” has been cited
in Washington as an example of war
propaganda designed to engender hatred
of other people. The only definite
propaganda in it seems to me to
be contained in Charlie’s monologue
at the end. What he said was
“ Information? Ain't there a clause in the Constitootion Wot says an
Englishman s 'ome is 'is castle?"
“ Thanks,padre,fr splicin' us.Now Would you mind fading away?"
that everybody would wish the world
to be made better, but he gave no par-
ticular instances as to how the world
could be made better. Charlie doesn’t
know how the world is to be made better
any more than does Ivan Menzies, the
current apostle in Melbourne of “moral
rearmament.” He has only good inten-
tions, which, unfortunately, are what hell
is paved with.
* * * •
“Sturt-street”: Ballarat (Vic.) claims to
have experienced the most astonishing
theft in history. Somebody broke into
an undertaker’s and got away with
40 bottles of alcoholic embalming
fluid and various gadgets used in inter-
ments. Now the city is wondering if a
quiet little murder is about to be cele-
brated, followed by a sort of bootleg
disposal of the victim.
* * * *
“Stoopid”; A grand battue some Sun-
day has been suggested to reduce Mel-
bourne’s pigeon population. Archi-
tects are to blame for the graceful birds
becoming a problem. The new packing-
case style of building, without ledges or
architraves, offers little attraction for the
pigeons, and they tend to migrate to the
dwindling number of old carved-stone,
corbelled, buttressed and deep-recessed
ones. In one of these the employers of
a lad on five bob a week became alarmed
at the fact that his style of living seemed
much above his station. When he turned
up one day with a new motor-bike they
set a watch on him and found him leav-
ing with a heavy sack on his
shoulders. Investigation revealed
a dozen pigeons in a state of in-
toxication. The lad confessed that
it was his custom to sprinkle grain
soaked in whisky on the rooftops
and collect the birds when they
collapsed. He sold them as squabs
to clubs and cafes. It is said to
be a regular profession amongst
the city’s small boys, and they are
adding a silent protest to the
objections of bird-lovers to the
suggested slaughter.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Over one hundred
years had to pass before Mel-
bourne staged the first battle
between whites and aboriginals.
It occurred in Fitzroy last week
and resulted in the rout of the
abos., who were hopelessly out-
numbered and lacked munitions
in the shape of beer bottles, the
pubs being closed against them
but open to their antagonists. A
police report blamed the abos. for
the fracas. They wander about
the streets begging and giving
gumleaf concerts, thereby upsetting
the Melburnian, who is the most conser-
vative of creatures. Abo. sympathisers
blame the whites for displaying color
prejudice. Non-partisan citizens want to
know why the abos. aren’t at Lake Tyers
Mission, which contains several square
miles of lovely lake and island.
“Piper’s R.”: Some Yankee humorist
long ago, in a gibe at the English, said
he felt sure the British Empire would last
because the Good Book said “Blessed
are the meek, for they shall inherit the
earth.” He’d have thought more of
them had he witnessed the answer to the
King’s call to prayer on 7/9/’4l. In the
English fields they were bringing the
harvest in, toiling through the Sabbath
to beat the enemy raider, with one eye
ever on the sky and an ear alert for
warning sirens. Then the hour of prayer
came and men and women left the harvest
and went into their churches, or what
was left of their churches, and soon their
singing voices drifted out among the idle
machinery. Those who, hot and dusty,
went to the local pub afterwards for beer
and cheese found the rector there with
them. Then all hands went back and
toiled till dark. In the cities some of the
congregations stood in roofless fanes, and
in Coventry’s ruin of a once-loyely
cathedral all the Bishop said was, “Let
us give thanks for our unity, for the
spirit of our men and for mercies, known
and unknown.” His altar was built of
stones from the ruins with a cross made
of charred roof timber^.
* * *
“Strict Veg.”: According to “Bohemian”
(B. 10/9/’4l) there is a fine chance
for Maoriland wines now that the M.L.
Government has tightened up the restric-
tions on imported wines. I doubt it,
if the Australian experience is any
criterion. Australian wine is better than
the M.L. variety and in many cases just
as good as, if not better than, the im-
ported. But it might as well be hogwash
for all the average Australian benefits by
it. He could get as much good wine as he
could drink if he wanted it; but he
doesn’t. He has a prejudice against it
and it is his own prejudice which stands
between him and getting it, not any
restrictions the Government puts upon it.
In Melbourne you can’t get a glass of
Australian wine at a bar without
earning the scorn of the barmaid,
who thinks you ought to drink beer. If
you want a glass of Australian wine with
your dinner you can’t get it, in most
cases, because the cafe proprietor
hasn’t a license. Governments would
soon lift the restrictions if the public
wanted them to—there are no re-
strictions on the American movie.
But most Australians, including drinking
ones, think that drinking is naughty or
harmful because that is what they were
told as children. European people have
a different tradition. A man who has lived
in Australia 15 years told me that
when he first came to the country he
started to drink tea but began to get ill.
So he went back to the wine and at once
became healthy again. In his own
country even the children drink wine for
breakfast, and they are just as healthy as
Australian children. If an Australian
child asked for wine for breakfast its
mother would have a fit.
PSYCHOLOGICAL.
“The standard of barbering in the Army is to
be improved. A good haircut has a psychological
effect.” —Army Minister Spender.
Admittedly it may be so.
The man who feels he looks his best
With heightened confidence will go,
And extra ginger in his chest,
To any job he’s headed for,
From making love to waging war.
A trim-clad frame, well-fitting boots,
An adequately barbered mop
In any style one’s taste that suits
(Barring, perhaps, a prison crop)
From all such things you may expect
A psychological effect.
How fashions change! The Spartans knew
How deep it goes, this human trait;
And put a premium on it, too,
Only in quite a diff’rent way
From ours —the opposite, you’ll see,
From Mr. Spender’s recipe.
Those warriors staunch, whose record rare
No race could touch, no time may dim,
Relied on long and flowing hair
To keep themselves in fighting trim,
And inculcate, one may suppose,
Due apprehension in their foes.
Yet the same theory explains
The reason why, it seems to me,
They combed, but wouldn’t cut, their manes,
While waiting at Thermopylae
To face the swarming Persian hordes
(And “sup with Pluto” afterwards).
If clippers deft in fingers spry
Can to contented heads conduce
(Although it’s useless to deny
They cooked the luckless Samson’s goose),
The barber ranks among the elect,
Above all rivals, in respect
Of psychological effect.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


&
f n
Ay
%
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
w
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE KEYNES PLAN OF POST-WAR CREDITS.
THE COAL CONTROL REGULATIONS.
September Issue Now On Saie.
PRICE 21- PER COPY or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting a Simple
Case of Piles
Any person takes serious chances
in neglecting an attack of Piles.
This ailment-has a tendency to be-
come chronic and there is also
danger of ulceration, and forming
of Fistula, both very difficult to
cure. The safest remedy for any
form of Piles, whether itching or
protruding, is DOAN’S OINTMENT.
In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the
many cures made by it have made
it famous in every corner of the
world. It enjoys a greater demand
and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other Pile remedy ever
placed on the market.
Let DOAN’S OINTMENT give
you the relief you so sorely need.
Refuse all substitutes.. Remember
the name DOAN’S,
POINTS
This war abounds in mysterious per-
sons like the Russian who cuts in on
German Radio bulletins and the unknown
whom 8.8. C. addresses as “John,” and
another has bobbed up at Canberra.
Making his way into Curtin’s bedroom —
described by that conscientious but
aggrieved statesman as “a popular recep-
tion bureau” —he produced mysterious
documents which should not have been
in his possession. There followed mys-
terious Parliamentary questions which
were answered in mysterious terms,
whereupon sundry Labor-union worthies
were heard asking mysteriously for a
royal commission. Then the mystery was
mysteriously referred to the Advisory
War Council, and there was mysterious
mention of a secret-service fund con-
trolled by Billy Hughes and said by that
gentleman to have been in existence since
1917 —though Scullin denies all know-
ledge of it. And so the mystery grew
until it was alleged in some quarters to
have become in some undefined way a
Menace to the Government. Fadden has
undertaken to make “a full statement”
to-day.
Hughes, defending “the use of special
funds to protect the public interest
against subversive activities”:
As everyone knows. Communists sought,
by cunning and insidious methods, to
hamper the war effort. The extent to which
they have succeeded can be judged from
strikes and stoppages. The fund has been
used to counteract this influence and to
promote peace in industry.
This may be taken to mean that public
money has been used to nobble ruffians
who should have been jugged. But Billy
protests that it has been devoted solely to
“a vigorous campaign of counter-propa-
ganda.”
In B. 10/9/’4l a Queenslander had a
pungent comment on the neglect of the
Commonwealth Parliament to send “a
message of encouragement and pride to
the men of Tobruk.” At the instance of
Senator Brand the omission has been
repaired, and the terms employed could
scarcely have been better chosen. All
the same, General Mackay’s remark is
pertinent: “Well deserved ; but the best
message that could be sent would be
one that reinforcements are coming and
will continue to come.”
At the Melbourne Trades Hall debate
on aid to Russia two letters from the
Australia-Soviet Friendship League were
read. Trades Hall co-operation was
sought in both missives: (1) in removing
the ban on “Moscow News,” “Soviet
Land” and similar publications, and (2)
in imposing a ban on The Bulletin, to be
extended even to “Uncabled Additions.”
The reading of the letters gave delegates
ten minutes of good clean fun. Most of
them were aware-that the gang that wants
to switch the embargo from “Moscow
News” to The Bulletin is largely
recruited from the Civil Liberties League.
Meeting in Sydney at the week-end,
the Federal A.L.P. executive drew a clear
and logical distinction between the “mag-
nificent effort of the Russian people”
and the attempt of “Communist sub-
sidiaries” to “capitalise it for their own
purposes.” Of the Australia - Soviet
Friendship League it said: “No member
of the A.L.P. can become a member of
the league or other kindred organisation
and retain membership of the A.L.P.”
Simple and sufficient.
McKell, the Sydney Premier, insists
that he is reducing taxes of all people
with less than £l5OO a year. The Oppo-
sition and the Taxpayers’ Association
can’t see it, but McKell’s supporters
accept the astonishing intelligence, though
he is keeping the evidence up his sleeve
or in his hat or somewhere.
Calwell, M.H.R., asked Fadden
whether his attention had been drawn
to a Coles report of a lynching at a
U.A.P. meeting on August 28. The
alleged victim gave the answer, saying
he had been told that the corpse was
“looking remarkably well preserved.”
The most unfavorable verdict on
McKell’s Budget has come from Lang.
He is in favor of it.
Abolition of the second N.S.W. income
tax should mean that the Sydney Gov-
ernment will cease taxing income from
Victoria, which it has been doing for
ten years. On this income the victims
had to pay the Sydney Government far
more than the Melbourne Government
would have taken from them in relief
taxes, so the* N.S.W. tax has not only
“I assure you, Mr. Curtin, there’s nothing mysterious about it. Our
chef,M.Hughes,could tell you it’s been on the menu for 24 years.”
been unjust but extortionate. The best
that can be said for the Sydney Govern-
ment is that it taxed Victorian income
separately. Now people who are in
receipt of it have a dreadful suspicion
that Victorian and N.S.W. income are to
be lumped together and taxed at a much
higher rate. Whether the suspicion is
unwarranted or not it will not be re-
moved till McKell reveals the rates he
intends to impose.
Nelson T. Johnson, the U.S. Minister
to Australia, told the newspapers he was
greatly impressed with the Parliament at
Canberra:
While I was there I felt that I was wit-
nessing a committee of the people engaged
in the people’s business. There was nothing
restrained about it.
Now, what did he mean by that.
8.H.P., which Forde, M.H.R., hates
so much, is co-operating with the S.A.
Education Department in establishing
what Jeffries, the Minister, describes as
a “multi-purpose” school, “one of the
most up-to-date of its kind in Australia.”
For a start the company is finding £17,500
toward the cost of a building, in part of
which its Whyalla apprentices will receive
instruction from “a skilled staff.” In an-
other wing “the highest possible” technical
training will be given ; in another there
will be domestic-arts and housewifery
courses for girls; and the rest will be
given over to a high school. This ought
to furnish Forde with matter for another
blast of invective.
Hardly had the Federal Customs
Minister finished banning, or re-banning,
Joyce’s Ulysses than somebody dis-
covered that a reproduction of Herbert
Draper’s picture, “Lament for Icarus,”
on the front page of the N.S.W. school
magazine for third class, had had two
of its originally nude nymphs draped.
It shouldn’t be long now before all bald-
headed men will be compelled to wear
bars in public.
With the sound sense which charac-
terises British labor-union pronounce-
ments nowadays, George Gibson’s suc-
cessor as president of the Trade-Union
Congress* Frank Wolstoncraft, dismissed
the agitation for a Continental offensive
as madness. He said Britain was doing
everything possible to help the Russians,
and a landing on the Continent “would
mean throwing thousands of lives away
only to provide a stage show.” Still what
are thousands of lives to newspaper
strategists?
Though there is to be no Royal Show-
in Melbourne this month, there is to be a
Royal Show holiday, evidently to permit
tired Government clerks to go to the
races. In Sydney the August bank holi-
day, that queer out-of-season copy of an
English custom for which there is sound
warrant in England, was observed by
Government departments, and there were
races and gate-money football. You
can’t keep a win-the-war State Govern-
ment down.
The Prices Commissioner has allowed
another increase of 2d. a pound in the
price of tea, making it Is. Id. a pound
above pre-war price. If this keeps up
it’ll soon cost as much to be a teetotaller
as a beer drinker.
Westralia leads not only in recruiting
for the A.I.F. and the R.A.A.F., but (per-
haps moved by the same impulse) in
manufacture and use of producer-gas
plants. The Government at Perth
recently claimed: that the number of
motor vehicles fitted with producer-gas
outfits, “over 3000,” was “more than the
total for the other States put together,”
and output is expected to reach 10,000
by February next. In the process there
has been a brisk revival of charcoal burn-
ing, the origins of which go back to the
beginnings of the Swan River settlement.
Bosses of “militant unions” have writ-
ten to Curtin urging him to dish Fadden
and promising support —on conditions.
Among the conditions are “release of
anti-Fascists from gaol and internment
and restoration of legality for the Com-
munist party.” The gentlemen suggest
“a conference;” and won’t get it.
After a High Court trial which had a
special interest for lawyers, the Sydney
concern known as Fostar’s was acquitted
on a charge of having possessed boot
soles fraudulently stamped. The charge
was laid under the Defence Act, and the
Crown filed ten other indictments against
the managing director and a foreman.
What course will now be taken had not
been announced at the beginning of the
week.
Pending the result of a conference
between the parties in Melbourne today,
work was resumed at the textile mills on
Friday, after a close open vote at a
“stormy” meeting of strikers. All such
meetings will be “stormy” while open
votes are allowed, and there can be no
true vote while opportunities for intimi-
dation exist.
Westralia’s Legislative Council is—er—
running true to form. Its performances
for five weeks or so, as recorded in
“Hansard”:
July 31: Assembles at 3 p.m. and listens
to Lieut.-Governor’s speech and one (1)
member. Adjourns at 4.1 to August 5.
August 5: Meets 4.30 p.m.; disperses
5.51.
August 6: Occupied 4.30 p.m. to 6.14
p.m.
August 12: 4.30 to 6.15; 7.30 to 9.58.
August 13: 4.30 to 6.15; 7.30 to 8.32.
August 14: 4.30 to 5.57.
August 19; 4.30 to 6.15; 7.30 to 9.3;
adjourns to September 2.
Sept. 2: 4.30 to 4.51; adjourns to Sep-
tember 9.
Business done: Address-in-Reply adopted
and one (1) Supply Bill passed. The
salary is £6OO p.a., plus free riding in
Government trams and trains, the rail-
way passes being good for Government
lines throughout Australia and Maori-
land.
A Government lottery agency seems to
be about the easiest and most profitable
thing going these times. A concern which
rejoices in the title of the Golden Invest-
ment Company drew £12,191 last year in
commission on the sale of Queensland
lottery tickets in other States where
Queensland lotteries are illegal, its com-
mission being 9.09 p c. on ordinary sales
and 10 p.c. in special cases. Other city
agents collected £64,650 and country
agents £47,240. The com. in these cases
was 4.5 p.c. on full tickets and 13.6 p.c.
on one-sixth shares; so the poorer the
“investor” is the more is gouged out of
him. One of the merits of premium
bonds which Fadden ought to be seriously
considering at this moment is that there
is no commission racket. Others are that
the bondholder is assured of the return
of his capital, of regular interest and of
a chance of drawing a prize in a monthly,
quarterly or half-yearly gamble.
“Feng-Shui”: I read the first official
statement of Dr. Hsu, Chinese Minister
to Australia, without excessive expecta-
tions, If the names of the respective
countries had been reshuffled it would
have made no difference. Mr. Eggleston,
the Australian Minister to China, will
presently be making his statement at
Chungking. I will eat my hat if he
doesn’t use approximately the same
formula. The two diplomats belong to
different races, but they are both uni-
versity products, and universities seem
to be the same the world over.


THE PSYCHOLOGICAL TOUCH.


Queensland
insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office;
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers'
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
281 IB
Broad Last Shoe
i ,
If broad feet have made it impossible for yon to
get a shoe that is really comfortable, try this
new Abbey Shape; you’ll be more than satisfied.
Made especially for men with broad
feet, this Abbey Shoe is exceptional
value. Made with a plain stitched
vamp and cap, in highly polished
Black Calf. Stocked in full and half
sizes in wide fittings. Order TODAY
while stocks last.
ABBEY
SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
Equal to the Finest
imported
Sold only in BOTTLE
At Most Hotels
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
PERSONAL ITEMS
In the scientific line no more distin-
guished man has been sent abroad in this
war than Dr. C. H. Kellaway, whom
Canberra is dispatching overseas to study
war-time medical problems. As director
of the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute
for the last 17 years, he has helped to lay
the ghosts of psittacosis, infantile
paralysis, snakebite venom and the mys-
terious Q disease, and he has organised
the grouping and preparing of bloodbanks
for Australian soldiers. A generous and
self-effacing individual, he is much better
known in Europe, Britain and America
than he is in Melbourne, and some of
the researches of his assistants (notably
Dr. F. M. Burnet, who has been tracking
down the wog of influenza) are watched
wherever two medical scientists are
gathered together. Young doctors have
come as far as from India to work under
him. The son of a parson. Dr. Kellaway
was born in Melbourne in 1889,
graduated from Melb. Uni. and studied
at the Lister Institute in London. He got
an M.C. in the 1914-18 war for devotion
to the wounded under terrific fire in the
Ypres sector.
Charles H. Holmes, who becomes
Director of Information at £l5OO a year,
was general manager of that very fortu-
nate concern the “National” Travel
Association, which has changed its name
without losing its Commonwealth subsidy.
Holmes was a protege of railwayman
Clapp. Credited with what Senator Foil
calls a “wide knowledge of Australia,”
he has written books and edited a maga-
zine. He served in the last war, returning
with an M.C., and on the outbreak of the
present war was attached to Army Head-
quarters.
Picture of a Frith victim:
Asked to come clean with his autobiography
Colonel Edmund Osborn Milne drew his lithe
figure up to its full height, squared his lean jaw
and said: “Never mind about me, except for
LT.-COL.E.O.MILNE.
my opinions. I have heard it said that the new
Digger could not be as good as the old. I
have just seen him in the field, trained by the
old Diggers with their long seasoning and wily
experience of war, and I can tell you that
he is the salt of the earth. Not a tithe of his
story has been told. You can shout that on
my authority.” However, there are a few things
to be said about the colonel. In civilian life
he is superintendent of passenger transport to
the N. S. Wales railways and former Deputy
Chief Commissioner. He held his first military
commission in 1910, controlled Army Corps
supplies on Gallipoli, was D.A.Q.M.G. to the
4th Division in France and afterwards to the
Australian Corps. He was mentioned in dis-
patches and won the D. 5.0., and was very
much on the active list still in 1939, command-
ing a battalion. They sent him off with the
new A.I.F. to the Middle East, whence he
has come home to apply his experience at H.Q.
Joel and Lazarus Blashki had their
eighty-third birthday in Melbourne last
week. Joel sailed before the mast, served
in the U.S.A. Navy and nowadays sells
insurance. Lazarus made the first hand-
made cigarettes in Melbourne on the site
of the Theatre Royal in Bourke-street,
and is now living in retirement. Their
father was a jeweller.
lan McConachie, a Stawell (Vic.) youth,
went to Melbourne University from
Geelong Grammar School on the strength
of several scholarships. He has come out
of Queen’s College with the Keith Levi
Memorial Prize in Medicine, the Beaney
Scholarship in Surgery and the Fulton
Scholarship in Obstetrics and Gynae-
cology, topping the medical list for 1941
and sharing the Jamieson Prize for
clinical medicine. He is 24.
Col. Van S. Merle-Smith, who arrived
recently in the entourage of the U.S.A.
Minister to Australia as military attache,
is to “observe” Maoriland also. He
is a lawyer by profession and saw
seryice in the 1914-18 war as a
major in the 42nd Division of the
U.S.A. Army. He was a member of
the army of occupation as an aide to the
Secretary of State, and was Assistant
Secretary of State in the Wilson Adminis-
tration in 1921. His recall to the army
from civil life came a few months ago.
A. T. (“King”) Cole, posted for service
in the Middle East with his present rank
as Air Commodore, will find himself on
familiar ground. His first real active-
service work was done in the 1914-18 war
in February, 1917, from El Arish, in a
bunch of six pilot-officers who included
Ross Smith and “Peter” Drummond, now
second in command of the R.A.F. in the
Middle East. A few days later he directed
the fire of a French battleship which
shelled Jaffa. On April 21 the same year
he was shot down near Tel El Sheria,
burnt his machine and was picked up by
Air Vice-Marshal Williams. A month
later. Cole and Drummond were out to-
gether bombing Abu Hareira, and a few
days afterwards he and R. A. Austin
picked up Le B. Brown, who had landed
under fire. Austin, who was carrying
Brown, was forced to land, and Cole went
down and smashed his own machine try-
ing to lift the pair. The three did a
dangerous sneak through no-man’s-land.
At the end of an eventful year, Cole went
to England to become a flight-com-
mander in No. 2 Squadron. He had
enlisted straight from school. He is a
fine solid, battle-scarred Australian, much
decorated, mentioned ip the Australian
War History no fewer than 20 times, but
as unassuming as they come.
Arnold Henry Nordmeyer, who as
Maoriland’s Minister of Health sponsored
the amendment to the Social Security
Act which has set the B.M.A. by the
ears, is a 50-year-old ex-Presbyterian
minister who has represented Oamaru
since 1935. Dunedin-born, he graduated
at Otago University, and was ordained
in 1925. He was minister of Kurow, on
the Otago-Canterbury border, for 10
years and resigned to go into politics.
A seat on the Waitaki Hospital Board
paved the way, and services to Rugby as
referee and selector have helped the ex-
parson’s popularity. He’s a useful hand
in debate.
Guy St. John Makin, first chairman
of the S.A. Architects’ Board (he was
recently re-elected), was born at Gawler,
S.A., son of Col. Frank Makin, and had
his architectural training in Adelaide and
GUY ST.JOHN MAKIN.
London. He is a past president of the
R.A.T.A and of the 5.A.1.A., is a partner
in Koonoona sheep station, Burra, and
gardens as a hobby.
The Sherlock Gold Cup goes this year
to Charles Pearcy Mountford for his
color film “Brown Men and Red Sand.”
The film, a scientific record of abo. life,
was taken during a recent Centralian
ethnological expedition. A member of
the Adelaide University’s Anthropo-
logical Board, Mountford has led or
accompanied many expeditions to the
Mann, Musgrave and Petermann ranges.
He’s 50 and has made the art, legends
and customs of the abo. his hobby.
Herbert Harold Tory, recently elected
president of the S.A. Institute of Archi-
tects, has been associated with the insti-
tute since 1920, when he became a
Fellow, 10 years later being elected to
the council. Born in Adelaide in 1888,
Tory was indentured in 1906 to E. J.
Woods and W. H. Bagot and became a
partner before he hung out his own
shingle. Pre-1914 vintage architectural
students of the S.A. School of Mines will,
remember lory’s lectures. He loves his
garden and has a reputation as a water-
colorist.
“Uramao”: Two Maorilanders are in
the forefront of contributors to war-time
medical science. Knight Harold Gillies,
born in Otago, whose miracles in plastic
surgery have become known throughout
the world, has evolved a new method of
treating jaw fractures by steel pins and
movable nuts, thus eliminating much pain
and cutting down the period of recovery.
Another Otago man, Prof. R. R. Macin-
tosh, has become head of the Nuffield
Department of Anaesthetics, which has
developed what is known as the Oxford
vaporiser, a machine that measures the
amount of anaesthetic that can be
administered. It is suitable for use in
any circumstances, such as on the battle-
fields. Oxford has conferred an honorary
degree on Prof. Macintosh.
Passed over in the fullness of years:
At 58, in Melbourne, Frederick James Rae,
Director of the Botanic Gardens and Govern-
ment Botanist. He was born at Blackwood,
Victoria, and graduated from Melbourne Uni.
He was principal of the School of Agriculture
and Horticulture at Burnley, and served in
1914-18 with the 10th Battery, Field Artillery.
Rae was placed in control of the finest Botanic
Gardens in Australia at a time when pressure
was being brought to make them more botanical
than aesthetic, and he fought consistently to
maintain their landscape plan.
At 76, Captain Charles Cornelius Plunket,
of Auckland, M.L., a Melbourne-born master
mariner who commanded many fine sailing ships,
among them the N.Z. Shipping Co.’s Hurunui,
which in 1895 he took from London to Lyttel-
ton in 86 days. He was member of a ship-
surveying firm in Auckland till he retired five
years ago.
At 89, Alfred Henry Miles, of Wellington,
M.L., chairman of directors of Murray, Roberts
and Co. Born in Surrey, England, he arrived in
M. in a sailing ship. In the 1914-18 war he
was chairman of the Munitions and Supplies
Board. A great music-lover and a very quiet,
courteous gentleman.
In Sydney, at 65, George S. Stening, one
of the early dairy diploma winners at Hawkes-
bury College and afterwards a power in the
N. dairying world for many years. His
four sons are all doctors and all are on active
service.
At 62, after having seen recent active service
abroad, Major Thomas Farr, M.C., D. 5.0., of
Wellington, M.L. The major was buried on
the day of the annual reunion of the 13th
Battery, Ist N.Z.E.F., and his last letter
was read: “I shall rejoin my old comrades
of the battery who have preceded me. They will
be waiting to receive me in the transport lines,
1 trust with a rum ration and the cooks with
their dixies ready. Farewell, comrades, and
good cheer.”
At Melbourne, aged 66, Archibald Campbell,
general sales manager and a director of H. V.
McKay Massey Harris. Canadian-born, he
had his training in the Massey Harris factory in
Toronto, and got his first glimpse of Australia
30 years ago as a travelling salesman. He re-
turned in 1924 as g.s.m. for Australasia, and on
the retirement of A. S. Patterson became acting
general manager. After the McKay-Massey
Harris merger in 1930 Campbell became a
director. Rotary was one of his interests.
At 87, the last surviving foundation scholar
of Prince Alfred’s College, Adelaide, W. H.
Colliver, contractor. He joined on the day
the school was opened by the Duke of Edin-
burgh in 1869.
In Sydney, at 72, Captain W. T. C. Firth,
for many years one of the best-known and
best-liked shipmasters in the Australian coastal
trade. Son of a sea-captain and shipowner,
he made his first voyage at 15 under his father
from Hobart to M.L. in the barque Oceania.
She struck a rock in Cook Strait and sank in
seven minutes. Ten years later he joined the
Howard Smith service as third mate of the Koo-
noowarra, and remained with the firm for the
rest of his long sea-life, which included a spell
of troop-carrying in 1914-18. He had 55 years
of the sea.
Major - General Sydney Fairbairn
Rowell, the new Deputy Chief of General
Staff at Victoria Barracks, Melbourne, is
fresh from all the major campaigns the
A.I.F. has engaged in. He went away
in October, 1939, as General Blarney’s
chief staff officer, and served in Egypt,
Greece and Syria. In the 1914-18 war
he was 20 when he graduated from Dun-
troon to a commission in the 3rd Light
Horse and service in Egypt and Gallipoli.
Invalided in 1916, he then went through
MAJOR-GENERAL S.F.ROWELL.
pretty well the whole gamut of adminis-
trative posts, with a term at Camberley.
He was born in S.A., son of Colonel
James Rowell, of Lockleys.
“ Spokeshave ”: Theatrical people
laughed when Melbourne’s Lud Mayor,
Frank Beaurepaire, suggested that cheer-
leaders should be posted along the route
of the next A.I.F. march through the
city in order to stimulate enthusiasm. If
Frank really thinks the notion a good
one he should have kept it dark. Fancy
a prima donna announcing that she was
going to have paid claquers amongst her
audience at her next concert!


£5
U
1*
V
»1
/\
'V
/X
A
f.
L
r
r
r
AN ORGANISATION
GEARED FOR
NATIONAL DEFENCE
WORLD - WIDE COMMUNICATIONS
Vital to defence and commerce, A.W.A. operates wireless
telegraph and telephone communication services to all parts
of the world,
COASTAL AND MARINE COMMUNICATIONS
Life and property at sea are guarded by A.W.A. coastal radio
stations in Australia, Papua and New Guinea, and by wireless-
equipped ships of the Australian Mercantile Marine.
MANUFACTURING
At the A.W.A. Radio-Electric Works at Ashfield, near Sydney,
3,500 Australians are engaged in manufacturing every type of
wireless equipment for use at sea, on land, and in the air.
A.W.A. are manufacturers for the Navy, Army and Air Force,
in addition to Government Departments, Civil Aviation, Ship-
owners and Airlines.
RESEARCH AND ENGINEERING
The A.W.A. Engineering and Research Laboratories are carry-
ing out work for national defence.
, *
The pioneering efforts and services of
A.W.A. during the past 28 years have
been major factors in building up the
Australian Wireless industry.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(MIA) UNITED
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: An awful thought has
just struck me that, what with the spread
of popular education through the schools
and the radio, not to mention those edify-
ing nature shorts on the movies and
brilliantly instructive articles on Aus-
traliana which appear in American
periodicals, the time isn’t far distant when
the average Australian will know all there
is to know about most things. The radio
and the motor-car have penetrated the
outback, and there is far more knowledge
loose out there than there was, for a
man can no longer live isolated in a hut
with his pet theories and not have them
corrected. And the constant criticisms,
•assertions and corrections in the Abo.
pages of the old red Bible can have only
one effect, i.e., to finally put right all
the misconceptions about snakebite,
getting bushed, stopping the tea from
being smoked and so forth. Then the
bush will lose its humor and there’ll be
no more flavor in anything. If it goes
on I foresee the last Aboliar cashing his
last contributor’s remittance and mourn-
fully assuring the blonde glamor girl in
a green-and-white beer palace that there’s
nothing left. Imagine it, you blokes,
nobody to pick on and nobody to pick
on you, and if you can imagine it, just
be a bit careful about rushing in with
a correction every time some bloke says
something which looks like 2£d. a line
to you.
* * * *
“0.P.”; I refuse to be torpedoed over
this curlew business (B. 17/9/’4l), first
because I maintain that the bird is, not
“might be,” a stone plover, and, second,
because “Capricorn” smells like a bloke
whose knowledgeJs limited to the north.
He claims that thrbird is known as thick-
knee, scrub curlew, cry-by-night, willaroo
and kweeluk, and that the last two are
the only appropriate ones and kweeluk
has the widest currency, “at any rate
in the north.” That doesn’t hold, be-
cause there are far more people in the
south, and I’ll buy drinks for every one
of them who even heard of kweeluk.
“C.’s” European curlew got its name in
the same way as ours —from its call—and
any Australian who would say our cur-
lew’s call is nearer to “kweeluk” than
to* “cur-leeu-u-u” needs his ears brushed.
The kweeluk certainly comes into it, on
the end of the call —the nearest 1 can
get in phonetic spelling is that given,
though the short final notes could
be rendered as “kweeluk, kweeluk,
kweeluk,” though “lee-u, lee-u, lee-u” is
just as good. Nobody said our bird was
related to the European, anyhow. As
for “Sailor Bill,” I didn’t push him
under; all I said was that he’d mixed
his names, and I ask him to remember
that in my favor as I go down for the
third time.
“Mat’s Mate”: Several of us were
arguing about the way a man passes the
time when he’s on the track. Some
reckoned they sang to themselves, others
estimated and paced distances, concocted
imaginary turns of luck like finding a lost
barrel of beer, debated with their
shadows, planned their attack on the next
homestead and so on. “Well,” said Mat,
“I count. Yair, fence-posts, telegraph
poles or railway sleepers. Reckon there
ain’t a bloke in the country so full of
figures as me. Now, take the line from
Echuca to Balranald ; there’s 2865 sleepers
in it an’ ” “Garn,” cut in Germany
Jim, “there can’t be that many,” Mat
looked him over. “Righto,” he said, “I
say there is, an’ if y’ don’t believe it y’
can flamin’ well count ’em, see! ”
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: Taking a short cut across
Henare’s farm I found him painting a
large yellow V on a big stone that had
just been colored a bright red. “Making
things look a bit patriotic to passers-by?”
I asked. “Well, I kill two birds on te
one stone,” he replied. “Five times before
I work te paintbrush some of us make
te weary walk from te wharc because
this stone look like a cast sheep. Now
everyone know what it is without eye-
strain.”
“Ahoy,there! What ship ”
“Propalong Cassidy”: Waal, folks, I
just done read one o’ these yere Wild
Westers. Proppin’ along ’crost them
yeller prairies o’ print I done consederable
thinkin’. ’Pears like this he-ro hombre
is gettin’ thutty bucks per month an’ his
beans ’n’ biscuits. Outa this it seems
like he has ter pervide silver-mounted,
hand-tooled saddlery, spurs way up in
the same grade, ten-gallon sombreros, silk
shirts ’n’ things, an’ pearl-handled six-
shooters. Also he’s a plumb dead shot.
Waal, gents, I jest reached me down m’
liT ol’ scribble-pad an’ set right down
to do some slap-up calc’latin’. I reckoned
’er out like this: Takin’ pre-war prices
o’ .455 S. and W. ca’t’idges, I calc’lated
it sure would cost me half a dollar per
day, seven days a week fer one year, an’
one quarter per diem thereafter, for
ammunition sufficient to get to this yere
he-ro’s state of shootin’ pro-ficiency an’
to keep in practice an’ that includes
usin’ a mirror an’ doin’ a powerful lotta
shootin’ on empty shells. Waal, I rises
to address the meetin’ to this effect: Any
time I done rode on one o’ them Aus-
tralian ranchos fer thutty bob Aus-tralian
an’ chops ’n’ damper-dust, ef I’d ex-
pended all that there on battle-powder—
waal, by the time I’d spent a few bucks
on forty-rod ’n’ smokin’ I’da had t’ use
pants made ex-clusively o’ boiler-plate.
* * * *
“Mac Fergus”; Will “Mat’s Mate,”
“Mat” himself, or any other inky-fingered
bush-working hyperbolist have Walter
Williams on as a corn-puller? From mid-
April to end of August, Walter pulled
over 4000 bags of shelled corn, con-
tracting on the Darling Downs (Q.). His
record day of eight hours was 51-j bags
of shelled maize. As it takes about three
bags of corn in the husk to fill one bag
of “shelled,” Wally had to snatch 1641
bags of corncobs in that time ; just under
three minutes per bag. Now shoot,
brothers, shoot.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Little Curl, talkative
enough out on the station among the
men, was the dumbest coot you could
find when he got among the women in
town. Shied right off them, in fact, till
anew girl came to work at the store.
Curl took one look at her and was gone
a million. It took him several weeks of
hanging round the store before he was
able to make his first approach. Breasting
up, he stammered, “How’d it be —I —well,
how about the pictures tonight?” She
studied him for a bit, then replied, “Well,
I don’t usually go out with strangers, but
you’ve talked me into it.”
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: The quaint and harmless
little “mountain devil” (B. 10/9/’4l) is,
apart from the dingo, the only creature
which the abo, kept as a pet. White
settlers who tried it found that the
creatures almost invariably died in cap-
tivity, and the mystery wasn’t solved
until somebody saw a lubra dip her pet
lizard into water one evening; that was
the substitute for the dew which Moloch
horridus absorbs through his skin at
night in his natural state. A directly
opposite case is that of the platypus. In
his wild state he makes the mouth of the
burrow among tree roots with an entrance
so small he has to wriggle hard to get
through. That squeezes all excess mois-
ture out of his fur. It was only by provid-
ing him with a board with a hole just big
enough for him to scrape through when
leaving the water that enabled the duck-
bill to be kept successfully in captivity.
“Douglas J.”: I don’t know whether
the blue-tongued lizard of W.A. differs
from that of eastern Aus., but every
time I take a fine-day stroll in the W.A.
bush I come across our kind —and any-
thing more harmless couldn’t be
imagined. Even when I pick Bluey up by
the nape of his neck all he does is open
his mouth and put out his violet-blue
tongue, at the same time whacking
around with his stumpy tail, which has a
sort of wart on the tip that might be a
sting but isn’t. My blue-tongue grows to
about 15 inches at his largest, is heavily
scaled, scales having a rather high lustre.
He possesses a triangular head, giving
him a more defined neck than any others
of the lizard tribe. Never have seen him
in motion, not even on a road with a
car coming. Seems too inert to scratch
a feed, yet is always in good condition.
Had a mate once who systematically
collected Bluey, skinned and cleaned him,
then fried him. “Overland trout” was
what Old Jack called such provender.
Never go short of a feed in the bush
while Bluey is available —he fries like fish,
smells like fish and tastes —well, try him
yourself next time you go hiking and
get bushed.
• * * •
“Youanmi”: Sam’s young missus was
in the maternity hospital for the first time
and Sam had torn himself away from his
week-end’s fishing to be at the hospital.
Presently a nurse came out and informed
him he had acquired a son. “What’s he
weigh?” he asked. “Oh, he’s quite a big
fellow,” she smiled, “just on nine pounds.”
Sam frowned. “Big!” he muttered.
“ ’Struth, I caught a snapper last week
twice that weight!”
* * * *
“Narrin”: Never felt much sympathy
for the crow until, visiting the Adelaide
Zoo a while ago, I came across a lone
Kelly in a large cage. Either the kan-
garoos had made me homesick or I recog-
nised a fellow-exile from the bush ; any-
how I couldn’t resist trying out my best
crow language. At the first “ca-ar” that
greasy black devil exploded out of his
sardonic repose; in a few seconds he
was dashing frantically round the en-
closure, keeping as close as he could, and
replying at the top of his voice. Didn’t
know that birds were strong on emotion,
but that prisoner’s wild joy was as un-
mistakable as the despairing melancholy
of his farewell croaks. Boundary riding
teaches a man to regard Kelly as a sort
of feathered Hitler,
but — well, a bullet’s
kinder than the con-
centration camp.
* *
“Old Camp”:
Tracks in western
Queensland may
raise enough dust to
tickle the average
nose (B. 27/8/’41),
but one of the dusti-
est pads Australia —
or the world — ever
saw was the early-
’nineties road be-
tween Southern
Cross and Cool-
gardie. Dry with a
dryness that would
make W.Q. look like
a bog, it was com-
posed of loam that
worked down to the
finest flour. And
after several years’
churning by wagons,
drays, horses and
oonts, it was a foot
or more deep — out-
side the ruts. • But
even that was beaten
by the three - mile
stretch between
Hannans and the
Boulder Block in the
days when the Great
Boulder G.M. was
young. One day a
bloke slightly sober
fell down on that
pad. He was dead,
smothered, before
the next passer-by
came along. When
the wind blew across
such country there were only two things
possible to and inside and close every
door and other opening, and then sit
half-smothered until the sirocco passed
—or wrap one’s head in a blanket, bag
or coat and squat with one’s back towards
the blast, as the boys now do in Libya.
* * * *
“Valerin”: “What’s the big idea.
Dad?” I asked as the old man was push-
ing his nondescript flock of sheep through
the race with a foot-high obstacle across
it. “Classin’, that’s what I’m doin’,” he
explained. “Them that gets over I keep
for the flock ; them that don’t I cull out.
Can’t afford to feed rubbish these times.”
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: Both “Old-timer’s” boss
(B. 6/8/’4l) and the Queensland blokes
who hoist the whole outfit to the
surface go to a lot of unnecessary bother
in getting to a stuck or worn-out foot-
valve. Having had a hand in the sinking
of quite a few wells, I always saw to it
that a ladder was put in. With a tim-
bered well this means merely the nailing
on of a few dozen 2 by 1 cleats, number
depending on depth of well. If stone,
then the ladders have to be hung. If
any danger of rungs giving way through
age or wet, then drop a rope down from
the surface as an extra steadier should
a rung give. A good length of fencing
wire will do. And here’s a trifle about
well-sinking. Put the pump and pipeline
in a corner. That gives a lot more room
for manipulating the chain tongs. And
it also admits of the well hole being
made much smaller. I have sunk wells
through soft going only two feet square
—a big saving both in labor and in
timber.
NAVVY’S SONG.
I sing the song of the swinging picks—
Ah, well the navvies named them,
In rough and ready style, “Mad Micks,”
For never task has tamed them.
City and town they’ve fashioned well
And roads, where’er you find them.
Swift wheels and waving bushlands tell
How railways came behind them.
By Laura Vale’s vine-clustered slopes.
By fttr-away Kalgoorlie,
The picks have shaped from human hopes
The works men visioned surely.
Rock-ramparts never made them yield,
Though homage might be due them;
With hard-set heads and doubly-steeled
The Mad Micks belted through them.
Before the loud jackhammer came,
The drill we call pneumatic,
The Mad Micks played the navvy’s game
With energy emphatic;
And mad though they may be sometimes,
Swung by each rough and coarse man,
They sang the first wild mining rhymes
From Gympie to the Norseman.
Their clink and clatter, ring and thud
Against rough quartz and metal
Have quickened many a miner’s blood
That no defeat could settle.
By Ballarat and Charters Towers,
Or where the Turon chattered,
The Mad Micks mocked the bushland flowers
As Fortune’s gates they battered.
Jackhammer Joe may roar his song
Like giant locusts shrilling;
The shovels sing the ranks along
Where loaded spoil is spilling.
But never was more magic spun
When from the Mad Micks clearing
The rich reef glitters in the sun,
With half a nation cheering.
I sing the song of swinging picks,
In front ranks you would find them —
Ten thousand strong they marched, Mad ■
Micks,
With madder Micks behind them.
And when the nation’s saga’s sung
Of battle and endeavor,
This song that through the years has rung
Will thunder on for ever.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“D.E.”: It was Tennyson (wasn’t it?)
who wrote:
O blackbird! sing me something well:
While all the neighbors shoot thee round,
I keep smooth plats of fruitful ground
Where thou may’st warble, eat and dwell.
No poet could do that there in Tasmania.
One of those sternly realistic departments
has declared war on the warbler with
“the golden bill, the silver tongue,” and
is offering sixpence for his head. A
farmer writing in Launceston “Examiner”
protests that sixpence is not nearly
enough; there should be a florin for
heads and “a good price also for eggs.”
It would “then be worth while for expert
shots to hunt the birds, by all methods
and get the eggs.” The Government, of
course, is blamed for letting the black-
bird increase and multiply.
* * * *
“Gidya George”: Lately I was over
miles of central Queensland country 1
hadn’t seen for 40 years. During the
’9B-’O2 drought the mulga had great
scars cut in it where it had been cut
for scrub feeding. 1 knew one patch on
Maneroo where practically every tree for
two miles square was levelled. Now the
old trunks and boughs have rotted back
into the soil with odd exceptions, of
course —and a man wouldn’t know a
tree had ever been cut there. That
applies to mulga, beef- and leopard-wood,
gooya and other soft timbers. Gidya and
boree take centuries to come again, and,
apart from the Georgina country, neither
of those old hard-heads will shoot once
it’s cut.
* * * *
“Murlonga”: Fine watermen were
those blacks who made their headquarters
on Whitsunday Island (N.Q.). They had
to be. Their canoes were bark, braced
with a couple of stakes, and in those tide-
rips they used to shift from island to
island with little more than paper-edge
freeboard. And it was always the call
of the belly which sent them from one
place to another —Long Sound for dugong
and turtle, Molle for pigeons, other
islands for fruit, Whyriba for stone to
make tomahawks. If a canoe did fall to
pieces and dissolve, or if one was
swamped, that mattered but little. Canoes
were easy to make ; any boy or gin who
couldn’t swim for unlimited hours didn’t
deserve to live. They had no fear of
sharks with yellowish palms and feet
soles as the only thing visible they were
practically immune from attack. But
that horror of the reefs the groper had
the dread of the devil in all of them.
It mattered little where shipwrecked
crews landed: they had the knowledge
of the tides to take them to another
island. The chief problem in those
islands of otherwise plenty was water.
* * ♦ •
“Pinjarrah”; If they are worrying down
Port Phillip way about the fish eaten by
the poor remnants of the once-mighty
seal tribe, then Vic-
toria’s fish supplies
must be in a bad way.
Prior to the coming of
the white man there
was always ample fish
to provide for 10,000
times as many seals as
may be seen nowa-
days. When one reads
of the massacres per-
petrated by south
coast sealers, one
realises that the sea
must have been abso-
lutely thick with fish
to provide the pelagic
multitudes with the
sufficiency to live and
propagate their kind.
With the near exter-
mination of the seal,
fish should have in-
creased. But there are
few things so all-
devouring as the
seine net, especially when used for
blind hauling. This means taking a bight
of, say, 1000yds. of net out from the
beach, and then hauling the catch right
up on to the sands. In this way much
weed is gathered, which in turn traps
tens of thousands of small fry. Market-
able fish are picked out, the rest left to
the gulls. If a nation of seven mil-
lions has practically devastated the sur-
rounding seas in little more than a
century, what are future generations going
to do for fish?
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Beasts and birds of the
wilds are satisfied with one drink per day.
Cows and sheep the same, unless water
is practically shoved at them. Camels,
even in the Great Victoria, have gone
18 days without a refill; horses four and
five days. Man can train himself to do
almost as well. Ernest Giles seldom had
more than two drinks a day when crossing
Australia. David Carnegie, who went up
the W.A.-S.A. border from Coolgardie to
Hall’s Creek and back in 1898, followed
the same practice. Both, more than
once, under the worst conditions, went
three days without water, and I don’t
doubt that they could have gone another
day or two lying down under shelter.
Activity uses up body moisture, just as
it does food.
» * ♦ ♦
“Oliver Filter”: I’ve seen some fright-
ened dogs in my time, including one tyke
that was paddling in a swamp and had
its paw nipped by a gilgie—or yabbie, as
you easterners call ’em —and another that
ran slap into a lamp-post when it looked
tailwards ; but the most startled canine
I’ve ever seen was a big Airedale that
was given to swimming off a Westralian
beach. One lazy summer day Terry was
cruising about 50 yards out when the
water a few yards ahead of him was
broken by a seal. Both animals gazed
wonderingly at each other for a matter
of seconds, then the seal emitted a bark
and dived. Terry didn’t have half as
much poise without even a yap he
churned the water in a rapid turn and
left a wash like a speedboat in his dash
for shore. For a couple of weeks the
closest he got to swimming was standing
“Poor old Blue —his wife in Sydney's expecting a kid"
“Pull yourself in a bit,dear."
on the beach and barking at the sea and
the wonders it contained.
* * *
“Zake”: “The Dope” landed a job at
Callaghan’s cowery. He really liked
milking, though this was probably due
to the fact that leaning his forehead
against Strawberry’s gently heaving flank
induced a delightful torpor, from which
he would be eventually aroused either by
his own snoring or Callaghan’s howl
of anger. For the rest, he plodded
around doing odd jobs, and the slowness
of his gait was matched only by his
truly wonderful capacity for absorbing
the weird answers which “Smacker”
Martin, who was putting up a line of
boundary fencing, gave to his many art-
less questions. Noticing Grandpa Cal-
laghan, 88, hobbling around, “Smacker”
told “The Dope” that the old cove only
two years ago had won the old buffers’
race at the district sports, doing the
100 yards in under 16sec. “not bad
goin’, that” —and that he’d have been in
it this year only his daughter-in-law
hadn’t aired the sheets properly during a
spell of wet weather and the old bloke
had got rheumatism. He warned “The
Dope” to shift his bunk to the other side
of the verandah or the steam from the
kitchen might make him a cripple. That
day it rained, and next morning when
Callaghan sounded the usual reveille
by banging a bucket against his bed and
then yanking the bedclothes off he was
startled to see his employee clad in
rubber kneeboots and sou’-wester. He
told Callaghan he wasn’t taking a risk
of getting round like “the gaffer.”
* * * *
“Wang”: Dan speaking: “I worked
fer a cocky one time along with a city
bloke who was a great skiter. He was
always maggin’ about the narrer escapes
he’d had from death, thanks to his ‘quick
thinkin’.’ One day the boss was
breakin’ in a young colt t’ harness. He
had him stuck in a light dray an’ was
standin’ up in it
tryin’ t’ urge him
forward, but the
contrary nag kept
backin’. He’d been
well ‘mouthed,’ an’
the boss had
trouble guidin’ him
with the reins t’
dodge objects be-
hind. The city cove
was keepin’ up close
to the turnout,
watchin’ things. ‘Y’
ain’t doin’ it right,’
he says. The boss
glared at him
angrily, an’ for a
second took his
attention off the
prad, with the result
that the back of the
dray bumped hard
against a stump, an’
the boss was slung
out an’ landed fair
on the bloke, flat-
tenin’ him. ‘Cripes!’
growled the city cove
when he got his
breath back, ‘I never
see such luck. Y’
got the whole pad-
dock to hit and you
must break y’r fall
on me.’ ‘No luck about that,’ ses
the boss with a gratin’ laugh ; ‘that was
just some of y’r quick thinkin’, me boy.
I had t’ pick somethin’ soft t’ land on,
so I headed straight fer you.’ ”
* * * *
“Propalong”: This is not an advertise-
ment, but does anyone know'- a better all-
purpose weapon than the old Winchester
rifle? Short and sturdy, it’s an ideal
gun to carry on a saddle, although it is
often rather too short for quick snap-
shooting. The solid casting which pro-
tects the mechanism is a good insurance
in knockabout work. Although the more
popular calibres like the .32 and .44 have
a high trajectory, and although you can
kick your hat faster than a bullet from
the latter, anything they hit stays hit, and
their very slowness ensures that the
barrels remain serviceable through more
years of hard work and misuse than most
brands. The lever action, though not so
foolproof as the bolt, is quick and handy.
Even the little .32, with hollow bullets,
compares more than favorably with, say,
the military rifle in stopping power at
short ranges. Writer should know —he’s
used one on wild camels.
« * * *
“Billy See”: The jumbuck and the abo.
are not the only ones listed in Aus-
tralia’s historical record as having con-
served life by means of the light desert
dewfall. When Eyre, back in 1840, was
doing his remarkable across-the-Bight
march, his most treasured possession was
a small sponge. With this he, before
daylight most mornings, went round the
thinly foliaged trees, brushing leaves, col-
lecting drops which, squeezed into a
pannikin, made a drink-
* * * *
“Aratta”: The sour-looking old bloke
sitting on the bar-room form didn’t join
in the applause that greeted the end
of the sentimental ditty just sung by the
half-sozzled bushwhacker. He just glared
at the performer and muttered in his
whiskers. “That sorta singin’ don’t
appeal t’ yer, eh?” remarked “Stump-
jump” Steve. “No, it don’t,” replied the
other emphatically, “an’ I’ll tell yer why.
I useter own a bit of a circus, not a big
concern, just three elephants an’ a troupe
of performin’ dogs; but I made a decent
livin’ out of it. Then I took on a chap
t’ do a bit of singin’ t’ me audiences —
an’ be cripes he could sing, too ; them
sugary sentermental things. He useter
have the audiences bawlin’ ev’ry night.
That wus all right with me, though, so
long as they enjoyed it. He’d been with
me a week, an’ I’m showin’ in a big
building in the showground of a fair-
sized town when one night he sang a noo
song, ‘My Jungle Home,’ and could he
put the sobstuff in! I noticed me
elephants snufflin’ a bit. Yer know,
elephants never ferget, an’ he’d touched
even their hearts, an’ took their minds
back t’ happy young days o’ freedom.
Well, they must’ve started thinking about
it again after the performance, for next
mornin’ when I go to feed ’em I found
the place waist-deep in water an’ all me
dogs drowned. That was bad enough,
but them damned elephants, from standin’
all night up t’ the knees in water, had
caught cold, an’ that afternoon they all
started coughin’ at once. Yair, wrecked
the buildin’, they did, before they
wriggled out, and the showground people
got heavy damages agen me. Blast them
sentimental songs!”
WHERE THE SWANS GO.
Somewhere out where the wild swans go
And the long brown rivers wind,
There lies the land of my dreaming youth,
The home of my careless kind.
The sun beats down as it beat of yore,
The winds blow just as strong,
And stillness comes with the rising moon
And the curlew calling long.
The years drift by as they always did
In the land with time to spare;
The years drift by on lazy feet
With little of fret or care.
Till—it comes with a sort of sharp regret—
A man is as old as the land;
Old and set in his ways and thought,
As barren as drifting sand.
The kernel of dreams is dead and shrunk,
The husk drifts down the road;
Camping and tramping the seasons round,
Only his habits for goad.
Somewhere out where the wild swans go
And the long brown rivers wind,
There lies the slow seducer of youth
The timeless drug of the mind.
N.S.W.
KNOT-HUMPER.


When a Man’s Young
The man who, in his youth, lays down plans for
his financial security is the one who has an inward
contentment as he piles up the years.
Frank Blaker Priestley is such a man. In 1890,
when he was 19, he took out his first policy with
the A.M.P. Society. It was for £l,OOO, payable to
his heirs on his death. That called for an invest-
ment equal to 7/3 a week, a sum that, all through
his life, he has never missed.
If Mr. Priestley were to die to-morrow, his widow would
receive the Society’s cheque for £2,688, made up of the original
£l,OOO plus £1,688 in accrued bonuses. To date he has paid
to the Society £954 spread over 51 years.
A grand investment as well as a comforter? Well, Mr.
Priestley thinks so.
The moral; Mr. Priestley started young. Why shouldn’t you
do the same?
Ask that the Society’s nearest office send an experienced
man to give you details. If you prefer, ask that a copy of
"Life Assurance as a Family Asset” be posted to you.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office hi the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.B.E. Chairman of the Principal Board
A. W. Sneddon, F.I.A. .. General Manager and Actuary
C. M. Martin Chief Inspector and Secretary
A. E. Webb Manager for New South Wales
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart and Canberra, A.C.T.
District Offices throughout all States.
55 Years’ Experience as Executors
In these swift, moving times it is a good plan to read over your Will now
and again. Be sure that it Includes provision for an Executor w r ith long
experience and sound judgment (born of that experience) to deal with any
difficult situation that may arise. “Your Executor and Trustee, a book that
explains the Company’s service and charges, will gladly be sent to you on
request. It will be helpful.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS:
T H. Kelly (Chairman) ; Brigadier the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.;
e'. R. Knox; H, Norman Pope; Allen 0. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P• Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others.
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £59,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
The WILDCAT COLUMN
G. J. Coles & Co.
, Dividends ■,
Rref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1931. .66,944 12,000 10 p.c. = 47,690 7,254 50,254
Premiums on new shares, £4500.. .. 54,754
1932..80,535 12,000 10 p.c. = 48,500 20,035 74,789
Premiums on new shares, £44,050 .. 118,839
1933.104,135 12,000 10 p.c. = 56,525 35,610 154,449
Written off, £5OO . . .. .. .. 153,949
1934.109,777 12,000 10 p.c. = 70,860 26,917 180,866
Premiums on new shares, £22,500 .. 203,366
1935.146,445 12,000 12* p.c. = 89,700 44,745 248,111
Premiums on new shares, £9630 .. 257,741
Bonus scrip issued, £72,360 (£54,000
from reserve against goodwill, not
treated as an asset herein) .. .. 185,381
1936.168,925 12,000 12* p.c. = 99,856 57,069 242,450
Share premiums, £192,230 .. .. 434,680
1937.240,028 12,000 18J p.c.=171,224 56,804 491,484
Bonus scrip issued, £97,840 .. .. 393,644
1938.261,408 12,000 171 p.c.=188,347 61,061 454,705
1939.274,704 12,000 18§ „ „ 201,800 60,904 515,609
1940.278,047 12,000 171 „ „ 209,871 56,176 571,785
1941.281,214 12,000 171 „ „ 226,015 43,199 614,984
Variety chain stores are an outstanding
feature of the development of modern
merchandising methods. With quick cash
turnover and service reduced to a mini-
mum —there are no deliveries or book
debts—these chains have been able to sell
at small profit-margins, their own net
earnings depending mainly upon the
volume of turnover. Also, they usually
do well in hard times because many who
passed by these shops in flusher days
turn and go in.
In 1924 Coles’s paid capital was
£32,416, and there were three shops with
an aggregate turnover of £190,982. Now
paid capital is £1,441,515 in 150,000
8 p.c. cum. prefs. and 1,291,515 ords.,
and there are over 80 stores in the chain,
which extends to all States in the Com-
monwealth. Turnover, which was in the
neighborhood of £4,000,000 three years
ago, isn’t broadcast. The amount added
to the share-register since 1927 has been
£1,205,295, of which only £170,200 was
bonus scrip. Still, the new issues, made
mostly at par, have been in the nature
of bonuses to shareholders because of
the handsome premium the scrip has
commanded in the market. Such rapid
expansion, however, need not be looked
for in the future, though, subject to
economic developments, further growth
of turnover can be expected. For many
years the co. limited the top price of
any article to 2s. 6d. This self-imposed
restriction was recently removed, to the
benefit of turnover.
There was a marked increase in sales
last term, helped by the free spending
brought about by war conditions. The
co. continues to receive goods from
Britain at frequent but irregular intervals,
and losses through enemy action are re-
ported slight. Shipments from foreign
countries have ceased, and their place
has been taken largely by Australian-
made articles. The German Blitz on
London caused the co. to close its office
there for a month, bombs having fallen
both sides of the building; but the staff
is back again doing business as usual.
After meeting bigger wages and tax
bills, and allowing £103,835 (up £17,479)
for depreciation, the board wrote net
earnings £1143 better at £258,349. Taking
into the reckoning a net addition of
£22,865 to the freehold reserve, the year’s
profit was £281,214 (up £3167), or suf-
ficient to pay the pref. div, and show
20.8 p.c. on ord. capital, compared with
22.1, 24.4 and 21.4 p.c. for the three pre-
ceding terms. The div. was kept at
17i p.c.
Owing to transport and other difficulties
it was necessary to add to stocks.
and the board went to its bankers for
the purpose;
Capital— 1936. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Ord. .. £800,775 £1,094,528 £1,291,515 £1,291,515
Pref. .. 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Overdraft 62,730 161,273
Creditors* 106,650 116,565 130,966 139,495
Employees’
funds ~ 23,635 37,585 40,722 40,566
Tax prov. 62,787 91,057 130,962 164,829
Freeholds* 572,181 888,506 950,198 1,034,581
Leaseholds 174,919 252,917 310,009 294,563
Fittings,
etc. .. 251,251 378,405 406,192 461,310
Stocks .. 484,645 532,514 668,957 854,918
Debtors.. 3,603 10,875 13,966 12,537
Cash, etc. 8,467 69,208 95,780 33,905
* Not including- balance of unpaid purchase money
on freeholds: 1936, £144,130; 1939, £197,000 ;
1940, £182,000; 1941, £182,000.
To carry £185,961 more merchandise and
add £55,118 to the book value of plant,
etc., and £84,383 to freeholds, £161,273
was raised on overdraft. There was a con-
traction of £46,989 in the more or less
liquid surplus (£378,026).
As for the outlook, the chairman says:
If conditions were normal, your directors
would advise that the co. was in a good
financial position and doing excellent busi-
ness, but artificial conditions created by war
expenditure are an unsound basis on which
to plan future requirements. No attempt
is being made at present to lease sites or
open new stores.
Discerning shareholders will have no
quarrel with this decision.
At 675. 3d. (60s. 3d. a year ago) the
pound ords. return 5.2 p.c. on a 17£ p.c.
div. basis. The prefs. at 335. 6d. return
4.8 p.c. The net tangible cover is
£l3 14s. 2d. prefs. and 295, 6d. ords.
Castlemaine, Perkins, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931. • 59,007 8 p.c. = 49,958 1 q oon*
Provident fund, £lOOO f 8,049
Intangibles disclosed, £32,100 .. 90,129
1932.. 62,242 8 p.c. 50,000 1 -ia oao inn 171
Provident fund, £2OOO ) 10,242 100 > 371
1933.. 71,575 8 p.c. = *>o,ooo 1 18,575 118,946
Provident fund, £3OOO )
1934.. 69,255 8 p.c. = 50,000 1 16 755 135701
Provident fund, £2500 [
1935.. 83.539 8 p.c. = 57.1151 23,924 159,625
Provident fund, £2500 f ’ ’
1936.. 93,739 8 p.c. = 67,415 ( 23,824 183,449
Provident fund, £2500 )
1937.. 134,118 10 p.c. = 104,167 1 27,451 210.900
Provident fund, £2500 f
1938.. 102,555 8 p.c. = 90,101 ) 9,954 220 854
Provident fund, £2500 J
1939'. . 140,669 10 p.c. = 125,000 ) 13,169 234,023
Provident fund, £2500 f
1940.. 133,307 8 p.c. = 113,115 117 093 251,715
Provident fund, £2500 )
1941. . 138,683 8 p.c. 120,000 )in iq*? qqq
Provident fund, £2500 3 16,183 267,898
‘Subject to an unspecified amount of intangibles.
Treasury control of capital issues and
building has called “whoa!” to the ex-
pansionary process whereby this Brisbane
brewer and the Queensland, which
together quench most of the thirst in the
State which has eight-to-eight trading,
have for some years followed each other
on to the market for fresh funds to pur-
chase new pubs and modernise old ones,
thereby tying down and widening the out-
let for their products—price discrimina-
tion isn’t gone in for. But there has been
no let-up in the demand for the brew,
which called for further extensions to the
brewing plant last term. Export trade now
comprises a large slice of most brewers’
business, too, and there seems to be no
paucity of freight space for the purpose.
In November last, excise—at 2s. 9d. a
gallon, now a third of the price of bottled
beer—was bumped up another 9d.,
making the war-time increase Is. Still,
the lift was passed on, and after providing
for income taxation (£100,000) on a scale
only before exceeded in 1940, when
£106,000 was set aside, the C.P. organisa-
tion shows net earnings £5376 higher at
9.2 p.c. on capital, compared with 9.4,
11.2, 9.1 (a strike year), 12.7 and 11.1 p.c.
for the five preceding periods.
Div, was kept at the 8 p.c. at which
it has been steady (with a 2 p.c. bonus
added in ’37 and ’39) for a decade, and
another £16,183 ploughed in after con-
tributing £2500 to staff funds. Deprecia-
tion openly struck off was £12,525 ; and
it’s safe to wager a keg or two that this
was anything but the only provision of
its kind. “Furniture and plant in hotels,
£3088,” appears at scarcely the cost of
footrails, and the same conservative valu-
ation extends to the more substantial
assets. Which suggests that profits as
stated should be considered along with
a handle of Fourex,
Here is the record of energetic growth
since the best of Perkins’s business —the
rest was acquired half a dozen years later
—was bought just before consumption
began to fall away following 1929:
Paid 1927. 1935. 1940. 1941.
capital . . £372,694 £781,250 £1,500,000 £1,500,000
Liabilities* 69,361 251,984 316,898 355,372
Tax prov. 30,000 106,000 100,000
Brewery,
Warehouse “J® 329 - 732 471 * 720 486 ’ 931
Hotels . . 151,095 774,170 1.523,471 1,525,879
Stocks . . 66,516 74,244 122,764 126,605
Debtors . . 107,269 64,710 95,159 107,888
Cash, etc. 8,429 13,715 32,237 38,467
* Includes unstated provision for contingencies.
The board didn’t really bog in, how-
ever, till 1934, since when £1,014,096
net has been added to hotel properties
and £162,260 to the brewery to handle
the extra trade; £875,000 of the addi-
tional finance was put up by shareholders
at par, and outsiders called on for only
£191,173.
Though lighter incomes confront many
exporters, Army demand and defence
spending—witness industry’s call on Bris-
bane’s electricity and gas suppliers —
should keep Bung busy at the pumps,
and the market isn’t apprehensive
about the contents of today’s Federal
Budget as specifically affecting brewers.
From current divs. the 12s. 6d.-paids, an
inter-State stock, return a solid 4.6 p.c.
at 20s. lOd. Written-down backing of the
cover is 14s. 9d.
H. B. Dickie (Melb.)
Net r Dividends To Re- Dc-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves, ficit.
£ £ £ £
Goodwill, £27,000 27,000
1935*. 3,450 6 p.c. 2,783 667 26,333
1936.. 8,127 6* p.c. 7 „ 7,510 617 25,716
1937.. 10,504 5i „ 7i „ 8,325 2,179 23,537
1938.. 13,960 5* „ 8 „ 8,825 5,135 18,402
1939.. 13,422 5| „ 8 „ 8,825 4,597 13,805
1940.. 15,600 6 „ 9 „ 10,944 4,656 9,149
Share premiums, £6,250 .. .. 2,899
Reserves.
1941.. 22,582 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 10,591 5,991 3,092
*,Six months.
War has brought rapid expansion of this
Melbourne towel and terry cloth manu-
facturer and produced orders of 813,000
towels for the services. But not all
present prosperity is due to Mars’s influ-
ence ; earnings were taking respectable
paces in the right direction even before
September, 1939, and this is the encourag-
ing aspect of the long-term view, provided
recognition is now given to the high
capital cost of current expansion and the
small heap of net reserves, and finances
husbanded against later resumption of
importing.
The business, which had its beginnings
in 1926, has been a public venture since
1935, when conversion from a private
co. of similar name took place. Since,
original capital of £92,755 (£27,000 repre-
sented by goodwill) has more than
doubled, mostly by issue in the 1940
term of 50,000 new ords. at 225. 6d. and
25,000 6 p.c. prefs. at par in order to
add to the spinning and weaving mills,
the former in order to turn out con-
denser yarn following imposition of a
duty on the imported article. The last
£33,889 (including £6250 premium) came
in during the period covered by the latest
accounts, and this table shows where this
and other money went:
1935. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital'.. £92,755 £115,000 £162,361 £190,000
Liabilities .. 29,220 45,306 26,486 81,377
Tax provision. 1,530 2,470 8,709 10,000
Freehold .. 29,856 37,350 55,733 76,268
Plant, etc. .. 29,846 35,280 42,846 106,035
Stock . . 27,543 58,804 55,098 62,302
Debtors, etc. 1 1 16,547 28,818 34,824
Cash, etc. J 12, ' 1u { 807 12,406 13,740
Last term’s net expenditure on plant, etc.,
was £63,189, and £20,535 was put into
new buildings to house it. In the process
the debt grew by £54,891, of which
£37,587 is coming to the bank, the sur-
plus of more or less liquids declining
from £69,836 to £29,489.
Small benefit can so far have been
reaped from recent extensions. Indeed,
through delivery delays, the last of the
new spinning mill won’t be in place till
the end of 1941. Notwithstanding, last
term’s net earnings lifted £6982 to £22,582
—allowing for a full year’s pref. charge,
13.4 p.c. on ord. capital as it now stands.
Gross earnings (£44,045 after deprecia-
tion of £6516) sprang £6218 ; administra-
tive exes., etc. (£21,462), were actually
£764 lighter, despite provision of £1291
more for taxation (£10,000). The extra
point added to the div. made 10 p.c. and
left £5991 to put by.
Since the end of July the pound ords.
have lifted from 355. to 40s. in the
market, to yield 5 p.c. from 10 p.c. divs.
Though demand for the co.’s expanding


INVENTORS. —Have vou an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and 'Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ; Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend; Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Does you car jerk and
straggle on the hills?
Even the best spark plugs,
after a certain time, become
worn out and inefficient.
Then they should be re-
placed because weak spark
plugs cannot produce com-
plete combustion; conse-
quently, fuel is wasted and
power is lost. Install new
Champion
Spark Plugs,
the only plugs
with the Silli-
manite insula- I
tor and the hH
Sillmentseal.
Factories, JT
Feltham,/
Eng. Wind-
sor, Can.
Toledo, B
usa. I Wfmk 11
CONTAINS SILLMENT
THE MIRACLE MINERAL
ini
v \\ ivnmm
.filllim
Mum
| mm
Even the best spark plugs,
after a certain time, become
worn out and inefficient.
Then they should be re-
placed because weak spark
plugs cannot produce com-
plete combustion; conse-
quently, fuel is wasted and
power is lost. Install new
Champion
Spark Plugs,
the only plugs
with the Silli-
manite insula-
tor and the hH
Sillmentseal.
Factories, if
Feltham,/
Eng. Wind-
sor, Can. /S^ZZT^|?yvS
Install new
Champion Spark Pings!
Sillment seals Cham-
pions against trouble-
some leakage, at the
shoulder and past the
center electrode, com-
mon to ordinary spark
plugs. This patented
feature corrects rough,
uneven and wasteful
engine operation
caused by leaky, over-
heated spark plugs.
jS£S£
m
2
50
4
10
for
10
for
20 for 1/8
100 for 8 4
Far greater
smoking enjagment
CRAVENA
10* ‘
■ T x *
•:••••••■ v X<v>'
k
n
2811
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE
THROATS
output will be governed only by produc-
tive capacity, shareholders should be con-
tent to stay on around that rate while
the management digs in. Book value
of the cover is 20s. sd. ords. and £4 16s.
6d. prefs. (seldom dealt in).
Following the strong rise in Zinc
Corps, over the past month. New Broken
Hills also shot up last week —a con-
trast to lighter bids for other
Barriers. The yarn attaching to “Little
Zincs’ ” buoyancy was that some sort of
amalgamation with Zinc Corp. was in
the wind, which, of course, would enhance
immediate div. prospects. Development
of both properties is proceeding on com-
plementary lines, and a fusion would
make for convenience of working, as
New B.H. will not only mill at the Zinc
Corp. plant, but also haul from its
parent’s new Freeman shaft. In any case,
conclusion of a deal for disposal of
surplus lead to Uncle Sam, whose
domestic price (there are duties) is twice
the British f.o.b. contract figure, would
be incentive to hasten New B.H. to
production, a position existing marketing
difficulties don’t encourage. Whether large-
scale overseas sales would cause Britain
to revise her recent decision to reduce
her own purchases correspondingly has
to be seen. Otherwise, American sales,
though probably meaning increased re-
turns, may not involve higher production.
* * * *
North Deborah 6s. 9d.-paids over £5,
Central Nell G wynne (10s. shares),
formerly a stalwart of Bendigo, below
15s. were the features of last week’s
Melbourne market. The wealth which
has enabled North Deborah, the baby
which excelled its neighboring parent, to
pay £190,400 in divs. in two years has
come mostly from the upper reaches of
the Deborah-North Deborah inner reef
at 560 ft. Substantial ore is still intact
there, but chief bull point is that crush-
ing material is now also being hauled
from the lower reaches at 620 ft. and the
Deborah fault formation at 940 ft. without
visible effect on recent 22dwt. millings.
Intention is to connect up with the
Deborah workings at 1000 ft., as was done
above. Central Nell is still drawing ore
from the big slopes at 800 ft., 920 ft. and
1080 ft. levels, but values aren’t what they
were —for the half-year which ends this
month, an average 4.3dwt. so far, com-
pared with 6.4dwt. and 7.7dwt. for the two
preceding periods. There have been no
spectacular turn-ups yet at greater depth.
Cloncurry (N.Q.) hasn’t responded as
expected to increased copper prices.
Plucked as it is, Trekelano still looms out
as the chief producer with 16 tons of
metal on the last monthly list, next being
nine tons. Plans for development in the
Trekelano seem to have gone awry. But
then mining plans have changed since
the days of Mt. Elliott, Hampden and
that coruscation of moneyed cos., nearly
all from overseas. The Cloncurry cup-
board is devoid of capital now, so what
can be expected of Trekelano? Yet it’s
been a grand mine.
* * * *
The ups and downs of Miclere
alluvial goldfield, Clermont (C.Q.), have
been lately in evidence—duffers for some,
fairy gold for others, particularly those
in the Constellation series. Venus and
Mars and now Neptune have come along
with over ounce dirt, and that on a run
of 60 tons, so it’s scarcely a flash in the
pan. Ounce wash is a wonderful propo-
sition when wolves are being kept from
the doors on sdwt., and lOoz. slugs are
sometimes picked up. Up to the present
the Milky Way has found its track well
watered.
* * * *
Support for Boulder Perseverance
(W.A.) is showing up. Income (£22,867
stg., up £18,271 last term) from the 65
p.c.-owned Enterprise has been useful
here in combating higher costs and the
growing demands of British and Australian
Treasurers, who together bit off £10,408
more at £54,125 in 1940, and the co.
stands out in the West as an English-
domiciled mine to maintain both profits
and divs. Development added 19,885 tons
to ore reserves in the latest term, lifting
them to 490,300 tons, grade 6.lBdwt. In the
Enterprise, which shows half the working
profits of its parent for rather more than
half as much work, there is another
422,800 tons in sight averaging 6.46dwt.
Perseverance has taken an interest in
Champion Mines, owning blocks in
Southern Rhodesia, but development here
doesn’t seem likely at the moment.
* * * *
Norseman Associated (W.A.) has sus-
pended operations and is applying for
exemption on its Mt. Barker mine be-
cause of “shortage of man-power and
the financial position.” Its neighbor,
Norseman Developments, operating the
Northern Star, is doing likewise for
similar reasons. Mining prospects of
both don’t hang by a very strong thread.
The market can’t see as far as it would
like to in the case of the parent co.,
either, whose scrip has gone to a 20 p.c.
discount, although grade rather than
quantity of crushing material appears
the present trouble here.
* * * *
With Norseman G.M. down at heel,
Central Norseman is the mainstay of
Norseman field (W.A.). This Western
Mining Corp.-Phoenix Mines interest is a
rarity at the moment, output for the first
half of the current year running some
1000 tons above the previous year’s four-
weekly average, while, helped by reduced
dilution, there has been improvement
from 7,3dwt. to nearly 9dwt. in re-
coveries. The last ore estimate put the
mine three years ahead of the mill. Im-
pressive profits to date have gone mainly
back into the property.
* * * *
Ora Banda United, the London-
controlled venture claiming to have spent
over £102,600 on its Westralian goldmine
and to have proved more than half a
million tons of payable ore above 200 ft.,
announces a mining method new to Aus-
tralia, though not to the U.S.A. Work-
ing on the opencut system, the dirt will
be dug by scrapers or buckets attached
to cables, carried by them to the bins
on the flying-fox principle and auto-
matically dumped. Simplicity and low
operating costs are claimed as features
of the method, expected to make
possible the “profitable treatment of vast
tonnages of gold-bearing dirt now un-
. profitable.”
Yellowdine Gold Areas (W.A.) has
taken an option on a show six miles
north of Ridge Bros.’ mine (Evanston),
which it hopes will take the place of
the mine it is now working and whose
pay-ore is about exhausted. A
rich 12in. leader going down in the
centre of a 6ft. ore-body is mentioned.
In lieu of deposit, vendors get proceeds
of gold won during the option period
(17 months), plus £15,000 if a deal is
made.
* * * *
Shareholders of Commonwealth Mining
and Finance, Gt. Boulder Mining and
Finance, Beryl Gold Corporation, North
Kalgurli United, Murchison Develop-
ment and Meekatharra Gold Mines, the
remaining seven of the eight De Bernales
cos. formed in London, have agreed,
after votes of confidence in the boards
and management, to exchange their hold-
ings for shares in three De Bernales
cos. formed in Westralia, namely Comet
Gold Mines, Yellowdine Gold Develop-
ment and Australian Gold Production
(formerly Emu). Dividends are hinted
at in the near future.
* * * *
Freney Oil (W.A.) is confident of
getting sufficient applications for its new
shares to enable it go to allotment. It
is also hopeful of inducing the State Gov-
ernment to part up with a further subsidy.
The bore is reported to be stabbing, at
4190 ft., hard sandstone “flaggy in places
with a few currant-bedded dark shaly
bands.” Dr. Wade reckoned that if oil
was there it would be struck between
4000 ft. and 5000 ft. State Government
geologist Forman, recently on the spot,
estimates the drill will have to go deeper.
* * *
The half-million issue of 4\ p.c. 10-
year bonds by the City Electric Light Co.
(Brisbane) was fully subscribed in three
days. The scrip was made a trustee in-
vestment in Queensland by special Act.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
WHY GERMANY ATTACKED
RUSSIA.
[Numerous guesswork explanations of just why
Germany should have turned on Russia have been pub-
lished, none of them very satisfactory. The most expert
and authoritative explanation so far read is that issued
by the Imperial Policy Group, London, and here con-
densed. The group has established a world-wide repu-
tation for the singular accuracy of its information.]
Why did Germany strike at Russia when she
could have gained so much by negotiation?
There were powerful military, political and eco-
nomic reasons. The policy of alliance had proved
useful, even highly successful. But Hitler is desperately
pressed for a decision in the war, and experience
showed that Russo-German collaboration, even with
military control of Western Europe, would not serve
his purpose.
One of his first needs is to bring the Continental
Powers to the conference table, and to provide them
with sufficient means to keep Europe running as a
going concern. He also needs to gain new strategic
advantages for his war against Britain. He was driven
to search for some means of performing a decisive
and convincing act in the military, political and eco-
nomic spheres. Rightly or wrongly, he came to the
conclusion that an attack upon Russia would meet
his needs. The complete defeat of the Soviet would
raise German military prestige to unprecedented
heights ; on the other hand, Europe’s hatred of Com-
munism would make an anti-Bolshevik policy popular.
Despite Germany’s great military successes, and
the growing number of people to be found in all Con-
tinental countries with a vested interest in the “New
Order,” Hitler has found it impossible to bring about
that great political fait accompli for which he has been
so eagerly searching, and which is so vitally impor-
tant to him. Germans are not popular; also, Europe
does not want to be dominated by one Power, if it
can be averted. The key people in Europe, without
whose acquiescence Hitler could produce nothing like
an impressive plan, have not quite believed that Ger-
many will ultimately be successful, and were shocked
by the Russo-German Pact.
Then the food situation upon the Continent, out-
side the frontiers of Germany, is becoming extremely
grave, and, since this is entirely due to a war which
Hitler started, it does not help his diplomacy. In
Spain people are dropping dead in the streets from
starvation ; in Italy stores are running out; the Paris
Prefect of Police in June broadcast a message to the
people of that city begging for patience and asking
that alarm and despondency shall not be felt regarding
food supplies. Even in Germany, where the food
situation is not at all bad, the meat ration was cut
down in June.
The conquest of Russia will provide a solution
of the food problem for Western Europe—though it
may be at the cost of millions of people in the Soviet
Union itself.
The question of oil, so vitally important if Europe
is to be kept going, although somewhat overrated by
many observers, is nevertheless very important. Ger-
many, although not on the verge of collapse owing to
lack of it, is certainly in need of greater supplies,
especially of lubricants. By drastic reduction consump-
tion could be brought down to an emergency ration
of 8,700,000 tons. Supplies at Germany’s disposal
amount to between 11 and 12 million tons. After
having provided Europe with the very minimum emer-
gency ration, Germany is left with between three and
four million tons annually for military purposes.
It must not be forgotten that both she and Italy
had large supplies when they entered hostilities and
have since captured considerable stores. On the other
hand, Europe cannot be run as a really prosperous
undertaking upon the minimum ration of 8,700,000
tons per annum. The surplus which remains for mili-
tary purposes coincides almost exactly with the
amount of synthetic oil produced in Germany.
Although this industry is being expanded rapidly, with
the growing strength of the R.A.F. the danger of
really important damage being done becomes greater,
and this has probably provided another factor which
has influenced Hitler. Oil he might well have been
able to obtain from Russia as the result of diplomatic
bargaining, but it is a good deal more satisfactory to
become the owner of such a resource than to be a
client.
There are, therefore, urgent economic reasons for
the attack upon Russia, which offers a rich and glit-
tering prize of uncommon attraction.
In a war of equipment Hitler is forced to face
the facts and figures as to military supplies. He must
have reviewed the position as it was left after his own
and his Italian ally’s expenditure of munitions in
Greece and Africa. Two compelling factors stared
him in the face: (1) the opening up of the U.S.A.
campaign of production ; (2) the damage—the steadily
mounting damage—which the R.A.F. has been inflict-
ing on his centres of industry, and the Coastal Air
Arm on his shipping. At the same time the increas-
ing destruction of U-boats and the failure to win the
Atlantic battle have demonstrated his inability to put
a stop to Britain’s growing power in the air and on
the seas.
He may well have been forced to the conclusion
that complete mastery of fresh sources of supply placed
in more invulnerable areas was rapidly becoming a
necessity.
In the military sphere the scheme was scarcely
less enticing. Success would improve Germany’s
chances in the Middle East and Asia, she would be
able to bring her forces right up to the boundaries
of Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan, India and China. She
might capture the Russian Fleet and a large number
of aircraft, as well as vast quantities of war material,
some of which could certainly be expected to survive
the destruction wrought during hostilities.
In the political sphere the inducements are also
great. An American spectator reported on the re-
actions of the German people to the first news of the
attack:
All in all it seems to me that no one over the
age of 15 who can read and write has anything but
approval for the German move. To the vast majority
of Germans it seems perfectly clear that in regard to
Russia things are right back where they should be.
The decisive political elements in nearly every
Continental State responded in much the same way,
and, needless to say, the enemy is making a bid for
the support of many Catholic and Orthodox circles.
Hitler believed that, in the event of the campaign
not going well, he could mobilise all Europe to assist
him preventing the advance of the Red Armies west-
wards.
It is quite clear from reports which reached
Britain from Germany that the Nazi leaders were con-
vinced that the campaign would prove swiftly suc-
cessful and absolutely decisive.
Far too many people build their hopes upon the
belief that Russia can never be defeated, because she
has a vast hinterland into which her forces can retire
for an indefinite period, and where they can reorganise
New York “Herald Tribune.”
HARVEST.
at their leisure for a counter-offensive at some future
date. The theorising is hopelessly old-fashioned. A
long retreat in modern war invariably ends in
disaster, unless the retreating forces can be shipped off
across a strip of water —as at Dunkirk, in Greece and
in Crete, The only possible exception to this rule
might be found in the smaller operations in Africa
and Asia. The confusion of a long retreat under
heavy air bombardment proves devastating—as the
French armies had good reason to know. We should
be foolish to believe that it would be practical for
the Russians to retreat far into the hinterland and
then recover. Apart from all other considerations,
they would be in grievous danger of being cut off
from their supplies, particularly from oil and food.
There are those who think that Germany has
really very little to gain from beating Russia, because
of the difficulty of “policing” so large a territory. But
we must not lose sight of the probability that Hitler
has far-reaching schemes afoot for setting up new
Governments in the place of those he would depose
if militarily successful. He certainly has plans for
separating the Ukraine from the rest of Russia. If
an independent Ukrainian Government is set up, one
thing is certain —it will be under German influence —
for many of the Ukrainian separatist leaders have long
worked closely with the German General Staff.
Hitler certainly has not the slightest intention
of attempting to occupy the whole of Russia indefi-
nitely. If he had, we could take a good deal of com-
fort from the fact, for it would prove a strain upon
his resources of man-power, already taxed to the
utmost in the administration of Western Europe. This
is already a cause of great anxiety to the German
generals, whose councils are not by any means a
series of victorious war dances (as some people sup-
pose), but often, and for the most part, are anxious
consultations on how such problems, as well as many
others, can be solved.
If the German attack upon Russia succeeds, Hitler
will probably call a Continental conference for the
settlement of Europe on the lines of the “New Order.
We must be prepared to see that meeting very well
attended. He will have much to offer as master of
Russia. And he may even have the foresight to con-
tent himself with the control of the policies of the
occupied countries while abandoning the physical
occupation, thus creating a most dangerous situation.
But the chief result of such a success would be a
gigantic air offensive against Britain, with the object
of striking a smashing blow at our island supported
by all the resources of European and Russian industry.
State of U.S.Public Feeling.
(As explained by New York ‘‘Herald Tribune.”)
That the majority of Americans oppose U.S.
participation in the war is a favorite argument of
the isolationists, based on consistent returns from
straw votes posing the question “Should the United
States enter the war?” If “now” is added or if no
time is mentioned, the noes pile up large majorities.
Yet in these same straw votes majorities vote just
as consistently for the United States taking any posi-
tive steps, however warlike they may seem. In a
Gallup poll 62 p.c. have, for example, registered
approval of the occupation of Iceland. If the question
on entry is prefaced by an “if” —if it is the only way
to defeat the Axis or to prevent
the surrender of Britain —they
vote for entry. Majorities vote
against any peace on the basis
of the status quo with Germany
holding the conquered countries,
Britain holding her Empire.
Large majorities vote approval
of the way the President is
handling his job, vote dis-
approval of Lindbergh. And
overwhelming majorities register
their belief that the United States
will enter the war sooner or
later.
What, then, of those con-
sistent majorities against entry
into the war —now? Do they
mean that the people are incon-
sistent, confused, afraid of de-
cision? We believe they mean,
rather, that Americans hate and
distrust war, that no man is will-
ing, even in a “poll,” to cast a
vote for war one moment before
it is necessary. Barring some
overt, dramatic incident which
times and defines the issue,
people have not the information
by which to judge whether now
is the moment. Until they have
proof that it is, or assurance
that the proof exists, they will
vote against participation.
But they approve the steps
thus far taken because they are
convinced that U.S. principles
and security are threatened, and
that there must be action to
avert the threat or to meet it. If
such action leads to shooting,
then we must fight. Further,
they believe that the war will
sooner or later involve us and
that nevertheless we must act.
There is nothing inconsistent, or
confused, or fearful in that
reasoning—nothing to give comfort to last-ditch isola-
tionists, or to Hitler and his allies.
Turkish Toss-up.
(Condensed from an article by Frank Gervasi in
‘‘Collier’s,”U.S.A. )
It’s probably just an old wives’ tale, but in Turkey
they tell it and believe it —that Kemal Ataturk drafted
a codicil to his will prescribing for Turkey peace in
large doses. “For as long as you honorably can do
so,” Kemal is supposed to have written, “keep Turkey
out of war. But if you must go to war don’t fight on
Germany’s side. With Germany you lose if you win.”
That Turkey will be faithful to her alliance with
Britain is insisted on constantly in English and French
from Radio Ankara. But Radio Ankara’s Arabic
propaganda since Germany invaded Russia follows
the Berlin party line. In other ways, too, Turkey’s
behavior indicates that Franz von Papen hasn’t been
wasting his time in Ankara.
Turkey refused to permit Germany to ship troops
and munitions across Turkey into Iraq when Rashid
Ali started revolution there. When the Vichy Gov-
ernment sought Turkey’s permission to move troops
and material to reinforce the Vichy army in Syria,
Ankara said “No.” Here was further evidence of
Turkish fealty to the British cause.
But, despite such evidence of Turkey’s pro-
English policy, if Turkey could be put on trial
tomorrow to determine whether she is guilty of
attempting to be all things to all men or, more specifi-
cally, of being more pro-German than pro-English the
prosecution would win in a walk.
The new trend of Turkish-Arab propaganda dove-
tails with trustworthy reports that Von Papen has
offered Turkey Armenia and convenient parts of the
Soviet Socialist Republic of Azerbaijan in return for
neutrality or non-belligerency. Seventy-five per cent,
of the Azerbaijan’s population is Turkish. Armenia
was Turkish territory until the last war. Azerbaijan
is one of the richest areas in all Russia, but the Turks,


LISTEN
to old lady of threadneedle street
Sponsored by
2UE, WED. & FRI., 7.45 p.m. A Dramatic Programme of Outstanding Merit
S3NIM
dazzled by the vision of the at least partial re-creation
of the Ottoman empire, believe the Germans would
give it away if Russia is conquered. Anyhow, the
Turks appear to believe the Germans sufficiently to
play Goebbels’s propaganda game on the radio.
The evidence mounts that England temporarily
has Turkey’s body, but Germany, with her promises
of restoring some of that glory that Turkey lost in the
last war, owns Ankara’s soul.
The Fifth Column has been in Turkey for years.
The soldiers dress well and entertain the Turkish
middle-class merchants lavishly. It is in this business
element that anti-British conversational propaganda
circulates, and it is this element more than any other
which is against Turkish participation in the war
against Germany. Foreign Minister Saracoglu is a
middle-class former tobacco merchant.
Many English people have been refused Turkish
visas since the war began, but not one German appli-
cation for permission to visit or stay in Turkey has
been turned down. German officers crossed Turkey
in civilian clothes with their uniforms in their suit-
cases to assist Rashid Ali with the revolt in Iraq and
to “instruct” the Vichy French army in Syria. They
used Rumanian, Bulgarian and German passports.
Ankara vies with Lisbon and pre-war Amsterdam
as the centre of phony news. There correspondents
who can’t get any closer than 200 miles from the
Russo-Turkish frontier are covering the war in Russia.
From Ankara radiate a hundred reports every day
about what is going on in the Balkans, in the Middle
East, in Russia and everywhere in this hemisphere
except in Turkey itself. There’s nothing in the Ankara
reports about the dockside riots in Izmir and Istanbul
which the army was obliged to quell with rifles and
bayonets. For the past three years none but a few
officials have been permitted by the suspicious Turk-
ish authorities to travel freely in the country.
Fat freighters flying the swastika move con-
stantly through the Bosphorus. British ships may be
held up two or three days, but cargo-checking for-
malities are completed for the Germans in a few
minutes. The Turkish Government laid down a rule
that no Turkish ships may sail outside their own terri-
torial waters. But the Germans were able to charter
12 Turkish vessels for use in the eastern Mediter-
ranean. * .
From the southern coast of Asia Minor to the
Dardanelles the Turkish coast is “guarded” by islands
that were once Greek but now are German. Prime
Minister Saydam at a Cabinet meeting after the fall
of Greece, made a speech congratulating himself and
the Government that he and it had had the wisdom
of being on both sides of the war. The Greeks have
been driven from the islands. Turkey hopes to have
them in payment for being smart in dealing with Ger-
many.
British occupation of Syria, however, will prob-
ably stiffen Turkey’s backbone. The British will be
able to move men and equipment to Turkey from
the Nile and Palestine in the event of Turkey being
attacked. Britain still hopes Turkey will remain
faithful and that President Inonu and Foreign Minister
Saracoglu will realise before it is too late that the last
words of Ataturk, spurious or real, were certainly true
in that to win with Germany will mean to lose Turkey,
anyhow, because Germany wants Turkey as an ad-
vanced base for the final crashing attack against the
British Empire that lies east of Bagdad. And Turkey
isn’t a mere waste of mountains and desert. It is a
storehouse of chrome and manganese, and the iron
and steel mills at Karabuk will be at least as impor-
tant in revictualling the German war engine as the
copper mines of Yugoslavia and the oilfields ot
Rumania. Hitler wants to take Turkey alive as he
took Rumania and Bulgaria, and Turkey knows this.
The army and the peasants of Turkey prop up
the hopes that Turkey will fight if attacked by Ger-
many. The Turkish Army mission was impressed with
Britain’s military strength when it visited General
Wavell’s command in the Nile. British planes and
armaments are standard Turkish Army equipment.
And the peasants who ultimately form the Turkish
Army will fight for their land. Neither the Turkish
Army nor the Turkish peasant is in a mood to bargain
with the Germans. It is among the comfortable
middle and upper classes of Turkey that the Germans
find their friends.
If Germany needs Turkey as the powerhouse
and base of operations against the Middle East and
the terrain beyond Bagdad, Britain needs Turkey s
assistance for the defence of Syria, Palestine, the
Nile and the empire that sprawls over the lands ot
Araby and India. Of all the Balkans Turkey has the
best army. Of all the Balkan armies the Turkish has
the best chance of giving the Germans a fight What
exactly is the numerical strength of the Turkish Army
nobody seems to know, but it is estimated that the
country could put into the field nearly one million
men. _ ,
If Germany chooses to attack rather than But-
garise Turkey then the Turks will badly need the
British. The Turks will need tanks and [planes.
Turkey has few anti-tank guns, although their light
artillery is supposed to be adequate and modern. They
have only one motorised brigade but plenty of cavalry,
and the Turkish Air Force numbers about 500 ’planes,
of which only 250 are first-line aircraft. Britain, based
in contiguous Syria, could give Turkey everything she
needs to halt the Germans.
If the decision lies with the peasants and the
army there is small doubt as to what Turkey will do.
But decisions rest with politicians, and it was Turkey s
politicians who negotiated that Non-Aggression Pact
with Germany while the Germans swallowed the
Balkans up to the neck which joins Europe to Asia at
the Dardanelles.
Turkey never fulfilled the British alliance any
more than she kept her word in the contract with
Rumania, Yugoslavia and Greece to go to their help
if they were attacked. . . ,
Turkey should be in the war now and at Britain s
side. And there is still a chance that Turkey’s peasants
and Turkey’s peasant army will place nationhood
above dishonor and, like the Greeks, will have a war
for it.
“V for Vulgar.”
(From Louisville “Courier-Journal,” U.S.A .)
The matter of our [U.S.A.] lighthearted emotional-
ism in a warring world is examined at some length by
the “New Yorker” in connection with
the “V campaign,” a light enough matter
in itself, perhaps, but possessing tor
thoughtful persons a few disquieting
implications.
“V stood for Victory, says the
“New Yorker,” “where men and women
were not in a position to utter the whole
word out loud, where people could do
nothing more aggressive than try sur-
reptitiously to let the invader know that
their spirits at least were unconquerable.
V stood for Victory where a man paint-
ing it on walls at midnight might easily
have been whipped or shot if caught
But one continent’s brave symbolism all
too readily became another’s silly fad-
dism.”
This is, the “New Yorker” implies,
all a part of our typically joyous absorp-
tion in the make-believe of war. We
are, if we admit the truth, having our-
selves a thoroughly fine time in a world
of terror. We have adopted all of the
invigorating thrill and bustle, safely in-
sulated from the pain and the anguish
that are the heart of war by the illusive
wideness of oceans and by the easy senti-
mentality of a nation of movie-weepers
and radio-serial sufferers.
We mean no impertinence by our
vicarious adoption of the sorrows and
the desperation of Europe. From our
seats in the audience we may nrnan with
a quite genuine woe over poor little Bel-
gium, poor little Plymouth, poor little
Greece. But when the crash and the
rumble die down, when Plymouth lies
quiet in its ashes, when the thick mist of
silence blots Belgium from our sight.
wh*en Greece settles down to defeat and
starvation, we can wipe our eyes quite cheerfully and
go, chattering, home to supper.
For these are not our troubles, and, we feel in our
hearts, we are betraying quite a pleasing sensibility
in suffering so hard for the British and the Belgians
and the Greeks whenever we happen to think of them.
And if these poor, brave people hit upon V as the
symbol of a secret faith, why then we will show our
faith, too, with a waggle of the fingers, a doodad in
the hair and a pleasing assortment of novelties
fashioned to retail at a dollar.
Verily, as the “New Yorker” says, when we who
have not yet admitted to a faith worth suffering for
will do such things so cheerfully, V must stand also
for Vulgarisation. And perhaps the time has come to
ask ourselves, in all humility, when we shall have done
with this orgy of stimulants for a counterfeit emo-
tionalism. For, evade the irritating truth as we will,
we must grow up some day. And the world that is
awaiting us with increasing impatience is not a pretty
one for babies in men’s bodies.
Hitler and Germany Change.
[Condensed extracts from a New York “Life article
by Stephen Laird, who left Germany m June this year
because of inability to send important news through the
increasingly severe German censorship.]
During my seven months in Germany the people
of Germany stayed about the same —apathetic, in-
tensely patriotic, hard-working, funless, eating poorly
but enough. But “they”—the Government—under-
went a change. The so-called Nazi revolution died.
The “Wave of the Future” was revealed as a great
black wave out of the past —military despotism. The
party fell. The army rose. The national economy
turned reactionary. Hitler changed, too.
After eight years of steady, thunderous successes,
Hitler thinks of himself as a superman who can
make no mistakes. He no longer accepts the advice of
lesser men. No one now questions Hitler in his pres-
ence. No one today would dare tell Hitler that the
German people want peace ; that they’re sick of belt-
s, “ “
fSSSit^s-5
lake more than three weeks to annihilate the Red
Army The generals knew that the Russian military
forces were far stronger than anything they had pre-
vio . metj that there had been n 0 preparatory
“tourism” by Germans in Russia, that the Russians
tour y tQ overthrow their regime as Hitler
thought But the generals had a bad record for
prop h eC y. They had been sceptical about the occupa-
tjon of t y he Rhineland, about the break-through of the
Maginot Line, about the quick crack-up of France.
Hitler had called every turn. He seemed to be a mili-
tary genius. So if Hitler said that the Russians could
be licked in three weeks—why, all right then, three
weeks.
Hitler is no longer primarily a political leader.
He is a military conqueror and his life revolves around
New York “Post.’
SWEEP THE ATLANTIC!
military things. Long hours of study in books of
military science have given him an amazingly good
grasp of the art of war. He is undisputed commander
in chief and head tactician of the German forces. He
maintains a personal military staff of his own, headed
by General Alfred Jodi, which meets with him at
least once a day and works out his ideas for the
regular Army General Staff.
In this new role Hitler is supremely happy. This
is how he has always dreamed of himself. His
favorite painting is one showing him on horseback
in shining armor, which he regards so highly that it
is now displayed throughout the Reich. Being a great
military conqueror is far more fun than being poli-
tical leader of delicatessen-store proprietors and the
rest of the frustrated middle-class.
When at Berchtesgaden or Berlin, between visits
to the front, Hitler’s daily routine is much the same.
Usually he goes to his bedroom about 2 a.m. and
hates to get up before 11. He is said to sleep only
about four hours, but spends the rest of the time
brooding and reading. People who know him say he
reads or looks through two books daily, many of them
technical books about armaments and military his-
tory. He reads rapidly and has a photographic
memory.
Like Hitler, the control of the German Reich
has undergone a change-over from party to army.
Today Germany is ruled by a military dictatorship.
The party control began to slip as soon as the war
started and is now almost finished. Ley, Goebbels,
Storm Troop leader Viktor Lutze and other party men
have been able to do nothing to stem the tide towards
army control of the State.
There is plenty of bitter dissatisfaction in Ger-
many. But it is hopelessly split up and does not
coalesce into an effective opposition. The Catholics
hate the Communists; the Prussian monarchists are
for the Hohenzollerns and the Bavarian monarchists
for the Wittelsbachs ; the monarchists of either stripe
don’t go along with any radical or democratic groups ;
the Bavarians refer to “the Prussian Nazi gang” ; the


democrats cannot see anything for themselves in the
future.
Though the Germans would like peace—peace
now, with victory—they do not want it at the price of
defeat. They remember what peace meant after the
last war and they know it would be worse this time.
They know that, quite aside from any British peace
terms, the conquered peoples of Europe are waiting
for the day of revenge.
The great majority of the German people think
first that Germany must not lose the war and only
second that the rdgime must go. When the German
proceeds further with his thinking, he asks: “Displace
the regime with what? What can we get together
on? If we win the war under this regime, we will
not be able to displace the regime. If we overthrow
the regime now, we will not win the war.”
The German people like to think that somehow
things will get better. But, how is the war going
against Russia? Is America going to fight us? When
is peace possible? Might we lose the war? Don’t
think about it. Work. Wait in line. Sleep. Live
through it.
The war with Russia has probably brought the
feeling of real war to the German people for the first
time. Most of the early victories were swift and com-
paratively bloodless. I happened to be in a little vil-
lage when the Crete invasion occurred and I was
present when the news came that two of the local
boys had been killed. They were the first boys from
the village to fall in the whole war. Now, with the
terrible slaughter on the eastern front, many German
families are at last suffering personal losses of sons,
brothers, sweethearts. An American entry into active
warfare would, I believe, have a powerfully deteriorat-
ing effect on German morale.
Stalin’s Dangerous Position.
(Condensed from a New York “Sun” article by George
E. Sokolsky.)
I do not see how Stalin could hold his Russia
together in the face of military defeat. 1 do not see
how Russia could avert an anti-Stalin revolution.
I do not delude myself in a hopeful anticipation
that that would be the end of Communism. Ideas of
that sort continue to hold the imagination and hopes
of their advocates long after their fallacies have been
exposed. There would be Communists in the United
States and in England and perhaps even underground
ones in Hitler’s Europe, but the Soviet Government
would probably be destroyed by the Russian Army as
the Czar’s Government and Kerensky’s Government
were destroyed by the Russian Army.
I believe that similarly disposed troops would
rebel against Stalin, and would, of course, have the
assistance of Germany, as Germany assisted Lenin and
Trotsky to kill off Kerensky’s Government during the
last war. If any analogies are permissible, this one is
surely more apt than the oft-told tale about Napoleon’s
miseries in Moscow. Hitler would be supplied with
steam heat and electricity, both of which Napoleon
lacked. And Hitler’s armies travel on gasoline, not
on snowshoes and rags.
I make this point not because I can rejoice in a
Hitler victory but rather because we must prepare
ourselves for a shock. Those who believe that Stalin
would continue the war indefinitely from the steppes
and tundras of Siberia are whistling in the dark. We
must be prepared for the shock of the elimination of
Soviet Russia from the war altogether. We must pre-
pare ourselves for the consequences of some kind of
pro-German Russian Government, a Russian Vichy.
It is going to be tough on the come-hither liberals
who have been dreaming of the mighty Russian forces
rolling on to Berlin to save the world for democracy.
There never was a chance of the marijuana dream
coming true.
From this point we [Americans] would have to
reconsider our own position. Would we leave Europe
to Hitler, or would there be a war between Germany
and the United States for the control of Europe?
America needs to be sure that our answer is right;
we have guessed wrong too often so far.
Volunteer System Attacked.
[The article by Major-General J. H. Elmsley here
condensed from the Toronto “Globe and Mail” deals
directly with Canada, but the argument applies just as
strongly to Australia, which is also “committed- to the
voluntary system”—Mr. Menzies used the phrase, but the
policy is rigidly that of Labor and of practically all -
hands at Canberra, except the soldier-politician Mr.
Cameron.]
The Government of a democracy, from a military
viewpoint, is a weak and incompetent type of Gov-
ernment to be entrusted with the full responsibility of
conducting a war, and especially a war that threatens
the very existence of a nation.
The Government of a democracy is naturally a
Government primarily dominated by civilians repre-
senting civil interests, and even the smallest and most
insignificant constituency has its own representative in
Parliament. The fighting services in war have no such
representation, and, as they are also debarred by mili-
tary law from the expression of opinions in the press
or over the radio, they are therefore denied any means
whereby they can place their views on war either
before Parliament or the people. It is, of course, known
that all ranks of the service are entitled to express
their views through “the official channels,” but these
channels rarely function and the discussion of matters
of military policy is absolutely forbidden.
It is incredible but true that in the past a democ-
racy has always regarded its fighting men as mer-
cenaries, that is, men employed to fight, to sacrifice
their lives and undergo appalling hardships while the
nation itself maintains its peaceful occupation and
normal standards of living. A democracy desires to
wage war on a volunteer system of service: the
patriotic and conscientious men and women of the
nation are called upon to fight and bear the hardships
of war, while the nation itself under Government
authority and encouragement adopts the status of non-
combatants, that is, a class of people neither actively
or passively engaged in war.
No military man, if he could express his opinion,
would approve of a volunteer system of service both
for soldiers and civilians in the present conflict, when
this system has proven an utter failure in the past and
jeopardises the success of our fighting men in the
actual theatre of operations. Let us examine three
well-known campaigns very briefly in support of this
statement. C .
. (1) Napoleon in 1800 et seq., as head of the French
State and Commander-in-Chief of his armies in the
fields, enforced conscription of men, money, food,
labor and war material; and with the full power of
the French nation behind him and his soldiers he
secured victory upon victory in his campaigns. Hitler
today, as head of the German State and of his armies,
and supported by that efficient body, of men known
as the German General Staff, is crushing his opponents
by the adoption of similar methods.
Wellington opposed Napoleon and the French in
campaigns from 1808-15 under a democratic Govern-
ment and a volunteer system of service. His official
dispatches and personal letters, covering this period,
are filled with urgent appeals to his Government and
his influential friends to furnish him with the men,
arms and equipment he deemed necessary for the suc-
cessful conduct of his operations, and he would even-
tually have been overwhelmed at Waterloo but for
the strong and timely assistance he received from his
ally, Blucher. The British Government of that date,
the Government of a democracy, could not claim
that this victory was attributed to their adequate sup-
port of Wellington and his soldiers in the field.
(2) The South African War, fought under a volun-
teer system, lasted for some three years but could have
been brought to a successful conclusion in one year
and with fewer casualties if our field forces had re-
ceived the support from our democratic Governments
that had been officially authorised and promised. We
Columbus “Dispatch,” U.S.A.
THE FORGOTTEN MAN OF EUROPE.
who fought in this war know that our cavalry regi-
ments and infantry battalions had been reduced to
half their strength by casualties and lack of reinforce-
ments. More officers and men died from illness and
exhaustion than those killed in action. Our senior
officers, like Wellington, appealed repeatedly for rein-
forcements, clothing, food and forage, but without
success. It is evident that a democratic Government
can be a cruel and unreliable organisation in its asso-
ciations with war.
(3) The war of 1914-18, except in its final stages,
was conducted on a volunteer system of service. In that
war Canadian battalions of an authorised strength
of 700 were in many cases reduced by casualties to
260, and these weakened battalions were expected
month after month to fight the frontage allotted to bat-
talions of full strength. For the first two years of
that war we were grievously short of gun ammunition,
particularly for counter battery work, and as a result
thousands of lives were sacrificed unnecessarily.
Such are the conditions of war as conducted under
a volunteer system of service and by the Government
of a democracy, that is, by a Government of civilians.
I do not claim that the Government of a democ-
racy wilfully and deliberately ignores the interests of
their fighting men, but 1 do claim that in their ignor-
ance of the principles of war, and especially of the
conditions of actual warfare, they are more likely to
jeopardise the success of their soldiers in the field. The
volunteer system of service, both for civilians and
soldiers, has proved dangerous and futile in the past,
and there is no reason to assume that it will prove
otherwise in this war. People who desire to conduct
a war on a voluntary basis are endangering the suc-
cess of our soldiers and the future of our nation.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources .)
The following facts are vouched for by the best
possible authority on the matter. In certain districts
in England funds are now being raised for “victory
festivities,” and these “victory festivities” are not to
mark some distant end of a longish war ; they are
regarded as being just round the corner. And why?
Because Russia is now fighting beside us, and there-
fore victory must overtake us willy-nilly in a week
or . two. No wonder Authority is shocked that even
the lightest-minded of the population can be as
feather-brained as this. How far this delusive insanity
has got a hold since Russia came in it is not easy to
say. The districts where these “festivity funds” are
being raised are mostly districts that have not been
raided, though it is astonishing to hear that they in-
clude one or two districts of London itself. — Man-
chester “ Guardian” London correspondent.
3fC Jfe * * *
Dispatch from Vichy; shortage of medicines,
shortage of insulin, shortage of animal livers from
which insulin can be made, shortage of quinine, short-
age of cotton, shortage of food to make the bones
and muscles of the growing generation. News from
Norway: general shortage of food, special shortage of
fish on which Norwegians have depended. News from
Denmark: dairy stock killed off for lack of imported
feed ; therefore, as in Holland, Belgium and Germany,
not enough milk, butter and fats for the most meagre
health. From Spain, on the fringes of the Nazi system:
children are dying for lack of proper food. From the
Balkans little news, but a certainty of dreadful want.
From Western Russia: grain reaped under fire or
not at all, burning farms and villages, shorter commons
still for the normally short commons of the Soviet
Union. From Japan : the cost of rice going up, wages
going down. From Japanese-occupied sections of
China: semi-starvation, in some fought-over northern
provinces actual starvation, with possibly millions
dying. This is the New Order. — New York “Times.”
* * * * *
On August 16 in a shipbuilding yard which only
seven months ago was a barren mudflat the first of
the 60 10,000-ton cargo ships ordered by Britain slid
down the ways in San Francisco Bay. She was
christened the Ocean Vanguard—as her name implies
she is the first of many like her. Rear-Admiral Emory
S. Land, chairman of the United States Maritime
Commission, declared that the goal of the American
shipbuilding programme is the construction of 1200
merchant vessels by the end of 1943. He mentioned
“two ships a day.”— New York “Times.”
* * * * *
Our [U.S.] hair must be curly. Our smile must be
sweet; our lips must be parted in a darling bow.
How else explain why so much of the world bleeds
to defend us? It must be exhilarating for the sweating
Poles and exile Czechs, the English and the Chinese
to hear girlish laughter, to know that we approve of
what they are doing. We have embraced half the
nations in the world, kissed them on both cheeks,
told them officially that they are saving our lives.
Now we are watching the battle, with a foolish-fond
expression. It is the damnedest face any country has
turned to the world since the world began. Both sides
are going to remember us, after this is over, as some-
thing fat and cream-colored that clung to a high, safe
wall during the earthquake.— Samuel Grafton; New
York “Post” columnist.
• * * » *
Asked at a press conference in London if he could
stop the sale of raspberries in London at seven shil-
lings a pound, Lord Woolton, the Food Minister,
replied with an emphatic “No —why should I? lam
trying to distribute food, not to deal with mental de-
ficiency. If anyone pays seven shillings a pound for
raspberries he is foolish, and so is the retailer who
puts them up at that price. We are at war. We are
fighting for our very existence. I really have something
else to do than deal with the folly of a person who
charges seven bob for raspberries.” Lord Woolton
recalled that after a raid on London strawberries
were offered at a guinea a basket in a shop outside
which men were repairing bomb damage. “One of the
men told me in a language which it would pay you to
hear what he thought of that particular shop,” Lord
Woolton added. “Well, I have an account at that
shop and I have not been in since.” — Manchester
“Guardian.”
* * * * *
We may be hopelessly wrong, but we do not
believe that when Mr. Matsuoka was in Berlin Adolf
Hitler asked him to invade Siberia, in any circum-
stances. We do not believe that Mr. Matsuoka, who
is a fierce little person but who is essentially a gentle-
man, would in Berlin promise to stick Stalin in the
back and then negotiate a neutrality pact with him.
We do not believe that Hitler wants Japan in Siberia
now ; and we do not believe that the Japanese Army
commanders, with their very limited available man-
power and still more limited supplies, have the slight-
est desire to challenge the Siberian Far Eastern Army.
We believe, though always ready to be shown wrong,
that what Matsuoka promised Hitler was a first-rate
disturbance in the Pacific which would keep the
American Fleet there ; that Japan is not yet ready
to deliver it, and that, to repudiate it, Matsuoka had
to be disowned. — New York “Herald Tribune.”
* 4c sj:
Satisfying neither isolationists nor interventionists,
President Roosevelt doggedly follows the “middle of
the road” Japanese policy he has pursued ever since
the sinking of the U.S. gunboat Panay in 1937. Then,
by making known a few facts such as the atrocious
treatment of American women missionaries in China
by the Japanese, the President could have provoked
a conflict. He refrained. Many persons thought that
the President, with his somewhat labored public ex-
planations of his “limited sanction” policy towards
Japan recently, was clearing the way for a bold nolicy
of all-out sanctions, and that he had won the British
over to the idea. Now the same people believe the
Administration is continuing the policy of “gradual-
ism.” For one country invaded, Indo-China, so much
sanctions ; for the next country, so much more. For
an attack upon Singapore, perhaps full sanctions. But
at no time violent “provocation” of the Japanese. War,
if there must be one, between Japan and the U.S. will,
if the President has his way, patently be one of
Japanese making, not American. — New York “Post"
Washington correspondent.


OAOQy Of-
CONFIDENCE
“Confidence is most importantsaid the WoolgroWer.
“Especially in sheep-breeding. But you cannot be confident
unless you are sure of your sires, so I make sure by getting
my rams from F. S. Falkiner & Sons. Its significant that
this firm imports more than 26% of the merino rams intro-
duced into Queensland —better than one in four. Obviously
a great many breeders share my confidence.
BOONOKE
and
WANGANELLA ESTATE
Merino Rams—Confidently recommended.
F. S. FALKINER & SONS PTY., LTD.,
Boonoke, Bo° n °k e Nor*,
Conargo, N.S.W. ’Phone Urana 15. Widgiewa, N.S.W.
On the Farm . . .
as in the Factory
pARMING today must be
placed upon the same
basis of efficiency as other
types of production, to meet
present and post-war needs.
And the benefits of applied
science become increasingly
available to the farmer.
The Rural Bank is playing a
valuable part in helping
rural industry to achieve
higher standards and meet
the needs of the times. It
has given its wholehearted
support to such progressive
measures as rotational graz-
ing and cropping, diversified
farming, fodder conserva-
tion, pure stock breeding
and the Junior Farmer
movement.
Branches throughout the
State are equipped and
staffed to provide a friendly,
helpful service. At any of
these any reputable member
of the public may open a
cheque account or invest
money on interest-bearing
fixed deposit.
* Use the Bank's Service
Department to obtain
general information and
statistics. Rest and Writing
facilities are provided for
country visitors. The
Service Department is
situated on the Ground
Floor of the Head Office
Building.
BUBAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFF I C E:—M ART I N PUCE, STONE?
Commissioners'.
C. R. McKERiHAN (President) —H. ROGERS —P. KEARNS
”Serving You .... Serving the State”
Ab SIMPLEX
W WINDMILLS
“The strong, silent typel
19
>5
There is something in the
quiet efficiency and water-
punching power of the
M.-V. SIMPLEX which
likens it to the “strong,
silent men” who get
things done in this world
—without fuss or apparent
effort. The SIMPLEX is
making a real contribution
to rural production, by sav-
ing labour, saving petrol
and saving money for the
Farmer and Grazier.
SPRAY IRRIGATION
" Halves the labour!
99
-
I
In these times, when more than ever economy of labour m Spray
Irrigation is of first importance to the man on the land, the IVI.- .
Trailer System offers the greatest labour-saving contribution ever
made available to Spray Irrigation Farmers In your own interests
we urge you to investigate the merits of this patented device,
which represents the very latest in Spray Irrigation development.
SHEEP JETTER and
FIRE FIGHTER
m
"The Moffat-Virtue Spray Plant Is a Godsend." —
Thus writes the Manager of “Corinda” Station, a large pastoral property
in Central Queensland, and he continues: “ we put it up on the
truck and, using 2001 b. pressure, myself and two men, one driving the
truck, put out a mile and a half of burning waist-high grass at midday
last week with 40 gallons of water. Along the tracks 40 gallons do about
two miles.”
Though primarily designed for Jetting sheep, M.-V. Jetters, in
the last few months alone, have saved many thousands of acres ot
valuable pastures and station property in grazing districts, because
they are just as effective in fighting fires as in combating the sheep
fly. Further, the “M.-V.” Jetter can be adapted to other uses, such
as flame-throwing for destroying grasshoppers and weeds. Our
Jetters are approved and used by the N.S.W. Department or
Agriculture.
WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS OF THE LINE IN WHICH
YOU ARE INTERESTED—TO-DAY!
Telegrams: “Virtue,” Sydney
’Phone: FL 5214 (6 lines).
MOFFAT-VIRTUE LTD.
11-25 PALMER ST., SYDNEY.
ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND MACHINERY
S AT TOOWOOMBA & LONSREACH, OLD. MERCHANTS
SHOWROOMS 44 BRIDGE ST. lOPP. WINCHCOMBE C4RSON LTD.I. SYDNEY.


HELP SUMMER PRODUCTION-FEED
TRI-CAL-OS
TRI-CAL-OS is Sterilised BONE FLOUR,
a pure bone product without admixture
of any other substance, and having a
guaranteed minimum of 33% phosphoric
acid and 40% lime. It is specially pro-
cessed to ensure maximum digestibility
and assists stock to make the most of
dry summer fodders. Tri-cal-os is the
most reliable form of calcium and phos-
phorus for all stock feeding.
Obtain all particulars about Tri-cal-os from
DaViS £air tin n - 0 - B^ X D 3^ 83 £’ s y dne y J G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne; G.P.O
758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
(EV;
Egelabra Merino Stud
H. E. KATER & SON,
Warren, N.S.W.
Established 62 years.
Four times winners of
Stonehaven Cup.
Grand Champion Ram and Ewe
Sydney Show, 1940.
Rams for Sale,
w
I
Tel., Warren 10.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON’T WORR. I ’M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Victorian Herd Tests.
“Milk Valet”: R. M. Chirnside’s
Mornmoot Jerseys headed the Victorian
herd tests this year for the seventh time
in succession. Herd average was 561.81 b.
of butterfat for 21 cows.
Comparing the season, W. J. Yuill,
supervisor of testing, remarks that a dry
winter and lean spring were followed by
good rains in early summer and there
was good feed throughout the eastern half
of the State. In the north-east and far
Gippsland some herds in the summer
passed their spring flush, but it stayed dry
in the north and north-west. All the
same, the 2078 cows averaged 3451 b. of
butterfat, a fair figure.
Mornmoot’s record is sufficient indica-
tion of the herd’s quality, but Yuill adds
that in the seven years it has produced two
champions, each of which has exceeded
7001 b. butterfat three times, nearly 100
cows have put up more than 5001 b., 30 of
them have beaten 6001 b. and 10 passed
the 7001 b. mark.
Champion cow of the tests is a Friesian
for the first time in nine years. She is
Road’s End Sandra, with 8111 b. of
butterfat but with a decided opposition
to machines. She is hand-milked by her
73-year-old owner, R. W. Smith, whereas
the rest of the herd go to the machines.
This may have helped her figures, along
with the Murray air ; she’s at Swan Hill.
Her record for two years is: 1939-40,
16,2801 b. milk, 4.07 test, 6621 b. butterfat,
501 b. milk on last milk day; 1940-41,
19,3971 b., 4.18 p.c., 8111 b. and 551 b.
Number of cows tested this year was
up 26 p.c., probably in view of the Cattle
Breeding Act, which from 1945 will
demand production figures for a bull’s
maternal side.
‘‘Falling Disease.”
“Brecko”; “Falling disease” in cattle
in s.-w. Westralia has been traced partly
to a copper deficiency in pastures. Symp-
toms are most marked from August to
October, when, despite abundant feed,
there is general loss in condition and
coats become rough and stary. Affected
cows frequently eat soil around roots
and butts of upturned trees. Temporary
sterility occurs and there are symptoms
of severe anaemia. In calves growth is
retarded and joints are often knobby. On
bad properties each succeeding generation
becomes smaller in frame.
Copper, alone or with other minerals,
has been found to forestall anaemia. In
the Busselton and Northcliffe districts
Denmark No. 1 lick, a limonite lick con-
taining copper, has prevented sterility as
well as anaemia. It is claimed that where
an adequate quantity of Denmark lick
been given, not less than 2oz. daily,
no “falling disease” occurred.
Copper salts alone may be equally
effective, but no complete evidence is
available. Topdressing with copper com-
pounds has given improved pastures and
grazing on treated areas has benefited
cattle. At Gingin, another area deficient
in copper, the copper content of a mixed
pasture has been raised by topdressing
with bluestone.
A Pig-feeding Test.
“T. Mcßerk”: J. A. Morrow and S. H.
Edwards have published the results of a
test with cereal-feeding of pigs at Ruther-
glen (Vic.).
They used 70 head, progeny of Large-
Middle White cross sows and a Large
White boar, born and reared to weaner
stage in pens and given skim milk with
crushed wheat and barley to supplement
the sow’s milk. At eight weeks they were
graded into uniform size groups. Each
group was run in a small paddock of fair
pasture, which quickly went off before
the pigs and dry weather. Each paddock
had a simple shelter-shed and ample
water.
No. 1 group was fed crushed barley
and |gal. of skim milk a head daily;
No. 2, crushed barley and |lb. meatmeal;
No. 3, crushed barley; No. 4, crushed
wheat and £gal. skim milk; No. 5,
crushed wheat and Jib. meatmeal; No. 6,
crushed wheat. Average weights at be-
ginning were (in pounds) 31.7, 34.7, 30.7,
38.5, 37 and 37 respectively; at the
finish, 137.5, 142.3, 86.6, 133.4, 122.2
“Hurry, George, or they'll be married before We get there!"
and 71.2, giving an average gain of 105.8,
107.6, 55.9, 94.9, 87.2 and 34.2.
From the start it was obvious the pigs
on skim milk were developing the
quickest. Those on meatmeal weren’t
far behind, but those fed on grain alone
weren’t in the hunt. After 13 weeks the
No. 1 group had to be sold, having
reached 1571 b. and getting overfat.
No. 2 group, which didn’t put on fat as
quickly, was sold at 1701 b. after 19 weeks.
Striking values on a general basis and
after considering such factors as varying
grain prices, pig prices, type arid quality
of pig-meats for which market quotes are
published, the authors worked out this
“indication” of returns:
No. 1 group: 16 pigs increased in value
£3O 10s., feed cost £l6 15s. 10d., net
return £l3 14s. 2d., per pig 17s. Id.;
No. 2 group, 13 pigs, £25 17s. 6d., £l7
3s. Id., £8 14s. 4d., 13s. 5d.; No. 3, 14,
£l4 4s. 2d., £9 3s. 4d., £5 os. 10d., 7s.
2jd.; No. 4, nine, £l6 10s. 4d., £7 11s.
lid., £8 18s. 5d., 19s. lOd. ; No, 5, nine,
£l4 155., £6 18s., £7 175., 17s. 5d.; No.
6, nine, £6 14s. 6d., £3 155., £2 19s. 6d.,
6s. 7d.
Navy Beans Wanted.
“Everton”; Anybody with a few acres
of Victoria to spare about Orbost, Bairns-
dale, Neerim South, Koo-wee-rup, the
Dandenongs, Daylesford, Koroit, Beech
Forest, Whitfield, Beechworth or Woo-
rinen should try Navy beans. The fight-
ing men want them and will continue to
want them. The Department of Supply
is prepared to pay 20s. the 601 b. bushel
and will supply seed at 20s. a bushel,
taking repayment from crop returns. Vic-
toria has been asked for 1500 acres.
Soil should be free-working. Without
irrigation it is best to sow as soon as
frost-danger is past, say late September
or October. Under irrigation sowing can
be done as late as January. The beans
need shelter from heavy winds and it
can be got by inter-planting of sunflowers,
maize or barley in strips half a chain
to a chain apart. Look out for rabbits.
The beans are best sown with a drill,
30-351 b. an acre. Drop seed about 6in.
apart m rows about 30in. apart on a fine
tilth allowing the seeds to go down about
2m. to 3in. in very light soil. Where a
response is likely, 2cwt. an acre of a
two-super.-one-sulphate-of ammonia mix-
ture should be useful, but keep the
manure away from the seed. You’ll need
inter-row cultivation to keep down weeds
and hold moisture. Clean cultivation
steps up yields and quality.
The beans are ready to harvest when
the plant is yellow and the leaves are dry-
ing and falling. They can be hand-pulled,
ripped out with a skim-plough or mown,
Rake them into windrows and let ’em dry
thoroughly in the paddock. If it rains
turn the windrows over to stop stain and
mould. Once cured, they can be
threshed at once or stored under cover.
Any thresher can be adapted for the job,
or it can be done by hand. Always
guard against moisture and dust. If all
goes well the yield should be at least
30 bushels an acre. Inquire for seed
from the Victorian Department of Agri-
culture.
Hints for the Farm.
“Yeno Ham”: For a motherless foal,
choose milk from a freshly-calved cow
and low in fat. Dissolve a tablespoon of
sugar in warm water, add three to five
tablespoons of limewater and enough
fresh milk to make a pint. Use an ordi-
nary feeding bottle, and give about a
fourth to a third of a pint every two
hours for the first few days, always
warming the milk to blood heat. Gradu-
ally increase the amount and lengthen
the period between feeds. Leave out the
sugar when the foal is about a month
old, but keep on with the limewater. At
six weeks a gradual change to sweet skim
milk can be made ; after three months the
foal can have as much as it will drink
three times a day. As soon as he can
take them, start feeding solids —oatmeal,
crushed oats, bran, a little oil meal and
lucerne hay.
“Goulburn”; To destroy ticks on pigs
use a mixture of equal parts of paraffin
oil and crude oil with one part of sulphur
to every four of the mixture. Apply with
a soft brush, concentrating on the ears,
inside the elbows and the breasts, favorite
spots for the parasites. Repeat in seven
to ten days.
“Huxave”: Maize grain is invaluable
for cows—particularly in winter. A
N.S.W. South Coast farmer added 21b.
of crushed maize to a ration of silage and
lucerne and the milk yield increased
p.c., making the maize worth 6s. a bushel.
A bushel of ground maize contains 20
to 25 p.c. more feed value than a bushel
of cobs. Coarse grinding is better than
fine.
“Ironbark”: For pumpkins prepare the
ground two or three weeks before plant-
ing, keeping it worked until the seeds are
in. Put three or four seeds to each
hole and thin out the weaker plants when
they come up. Soil should be able to
hold moisture but also well drained. If
it is light, sandy stuff, give it plenty of
farmyard manure or decayed vegetable
matter from the compost heap. Where
the summer is likely to be dry, dig a
hole about 2ft. deep and 3ft. wide and
stick in a barrowful of manure, rotten
leaves, old straw, etc. Blood and bone
deep down in the hole and a scatter of
sulphate of potash near the top. A straw
mulch on the surface is a great help.
When the vines are showing flowers pinch
olf the end of the runner to help set
the fruit. Once it starts to set give the
plants some liquid manure every fort-
night. Don’t sow seed if there’s danger
of a late frost catching the young plants.
A kerosene bucket of water staked to
each bed, with a tiny hole to provide
a steady drip, will push the pumpkins
along in the driest weather.
Hugh McEachern, Tarcutta
(N.S.W.), has a Red Poll herd whose
butterfat production beats that of many
recognised dairy breeds. More than 25
p.c. of the cows have produced 4001 b. of
butterfat, or more, in 273 days, and
Annandale Stella holds the Common-
wealth record for her breed with an aver-
age of 4491 b. a year for 10 years.
McEachern claims that Red Polls would
suit dairy farmers who fatten steers.
Sydney R.A.S. has added
Ghurka to the list of wheats which can
be entered for its field championships this
year (B. 27/8/’4l), making 18 varieties
in all, 13 recommended and five tabbed
as “promising.” Very little Ghurka is
grown in N.S.W. ; its habitat is Victoria.
“Mt. Boppy”: On 230 acres at Orange
(N.S.W.) Norman McClymont this season
produced 540 tons of potatoes from 50
acres ; grew 30 acres of oats and had a
120 p.c. lambing from 420 ewes. There


dfd
TIMBER KILLER !
Kills largest trees in FIFTEEN
DAYS from roots to top. New
method. NO BING-BARKING!
Prevents suckering! Eradicates
BLACKBERRIES! 5/6 tin, posted.
AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO (15 ft) ■
BEAKS HEAVILY FOB A WHOLE YEAR.
Yields 2001 b s. Sow NOW. 2/6 packet.
N.S.W. SEED CO., 693 George St., SYDNEY
Better Way to
deal with
Blowfly Strike
Graziers all over Australia are finding it best to
use Way-Bio strike preventive which does not
scald and cannot wash out.
Way-Bio is the result of scientific treatment of
many species of Eucalypts in a specially-
designed plant wherein the compounding of
their active principles has produced the most
positive of all blowfly strike preventives. It
heals the wound without scab-formation, pre-
vents re-strike, is non-poisonous and is harm-
less to sheep and fleece.
Use Way-Bio when crutching to prevent strike
or re-strike and to save sheep already struck.
Saves time and money, since sheep once treated
are safe for the whole “danger” season, and
its use costs less than one penny per sheep.
Order Way-Bio from any stock and station
agent or large store, or write to the Manufac-
turers, W. K. Burnside Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
and Sydney.
7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
V&Cves diMiU lnlyM
ONCE A YEAR
V /•
,
Atmospheric changes affect seal.
Coating burns off filament.
Vacuum declines with age.
Vibration upsets balance.
Heat injures insulation.
Gases upset stability.
Tiny grid wires warp.
Joints are strained.
REVALVE WITH
RADIOTBON
AUSTRALIAN MADE .... ALWAYS AVAILABLE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), ltd.,
47 York Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Tty., Ltd.
f
Another reason why the
RED CROSS
needs your help!
lx
Relief for Air Raid Victims
Just one activity of the Australian
Red Cross is to help British Air
Raid Victims. The Red Cross has
sent over £30,000 in cash and
more than 3,000 cases containing
£50,000 worth of clothing to
bring warmth to homeless British
sufferers from Nazi brutality.
Over 600,000 garments in good
order have been supplied yet
still more are required. In the
Red Cross Refugee Clothing
Depots in all States, voluntary
workers devote their days to an
endless round of making, altering
and cleaning garments which are
despatched overseas. In addition
to workers at depots, other volun-
tary helpers in homes and fac-
tories produce clothing for this
great humanitarian cause. This
service must go on!
Give HELP . . • give NOW
. . . IT'S URGENT
Authorised by the Central Council of the Australian Red Cross Society.}}
fd
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.O
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6 Hot and Cold Water
Double Rooms from 11/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. -
Telephone: 8W1531 ([7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
SYDNEY.
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
■ Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
are 70 acres of well-established p. rye-
grass and sub. clover and 30 acres of it
in a new stand. He supplements with
cereal hay and reject potatoes. Each
paddock is under pasture for at least two
years, red clover and rye-grass being used
in the rotation. Pastures get lewt. of
super, an acre annually and a good sur-
face cultivation, Last year McClymont
sold 70 tons of pasture hay, harvested
from 20 acres, in Sydney. Cost of baling
was £1 ss. a ton, and the hay made
£8 2s. 6d. a ton. That sideline will be
extended.
“H.C.”: Maoriland is converting butter
into “butter fat” by a new technical pro-
cess in which the butter is liquefied by
steam. It is then run through an ordinary
cream separator, and comes out minus
water, casein and other substances, re-
ducing the weight by at least 18 p.c. The
fat, packed in tins, requires no refrigera-
tion and goes overseas in ordinary cargo
ships. It can be returned to normal
butter very easily and is useful in the
making of margarine.
“8.C.”: Australian harvesting
machinery has made a great impression
in Britain. The Sunshine people have
received an order for another 2000
headers, making a total of 4500 machines
ordered since the war began. Some ol
the 12-footers would almost fill an English
wheat paddock.
“N.U.P.”: A N.S.W. South Coast
dairy-farmer tried adding 21b. of crushed
maize a day to a ration of silage and
lucerne. The milk increased by 22y p.c.,
giving a return of 6s. a bushel on the
maize at market prices, its actual value
on the grain market being 3s. 6d. a
bushel. It is reckoned that nine bushels
cf maize will produce 1001 b. of pork.
With pork at per pound, this means
4s. 2d. a bushel for the maize.
“Jayem”: C. E. Prell, Gundowringa,
Crookwell (N.S.W.), controls soil
erosion and fills gullies by sowing
surrounding country first with sub.
clover, and then with perennial rye
and Phaiaris tuberosa. The pasture
spreads down into the gullies and
forms a silt trap. The bottom of the
gully gradually rises until it reaches a
point where the top of the gully starts to
wear down. Some gullies on Gundow-
ringa have practically filled in, and others
are now merely slight, grassy depressions.
Outback Occasions.
No.2.
TEACHING JIN BALDWIN.
The occasion of the first time Jim
Baldwin cinctured his currants is one
we aren’t likely to forget. Jim was an
eager young fellow who'd taken the block
on the year before. He didn’t know
much about vines. As we were his neigh-
bors he frequently came over to our
place or we went over to his place and
Father would give him a “few hints.”
We’d nursed him successfully through
the pruning, showed him how to make
up bundles of his best cuttings and put
down layers to replace lost vines, helped
him with the general ploughing and
coached him through the first irrigations.
Then it came time to cincture his
currants, so we took the opportunity one
night when Mother was out and Jim
came over, bringing a couple of bottles
of beer.
“You’ll have to cincture them currants
soon,” Father said, after he’d had a
drink.
“Yair,” said Jim, trying not to show
that he didn’t know anything about it.
“Yair,” said Father, “you have to do
it to stop the sap, you know, so the
fruit’ll set.” Jim looked a bit doubtful,
so Father explained how it was necessary
to take a thin strip of bark out right
round the main stem of the vine, and
how it checked the flow of sap, but soon
healed and didn’t affect the vine so long
as it was done properly. By this time
Father had had his third glass of beer.
He isn’t a drinking man, and that much
beer made him talkative and demonstra-
tive.
He wanted to show Jim this thing
properly, also to show how good he was
at it. So he got the cincturing knife,
rubbed it up on the stone and then got
down on the floor and took a neat circle
out of the leg of Mother’s dining-table.
Jim said he could see how it was done,
so Father gave him the knife and Jim
took a less neat circle out of another leg
of the table. Then we talked for a bit
and presently Jim went home.
Next morning we were having break-
fast and Father dropped his matches on
the floor, bent down to pick them up,
looked hard at something under the table,
gave Mother a funny look and then got
very thoughtful.
Later, when we were out in the shed.
Father said, “Listen, there might be
trouble if Mother sees those table legs,
so I’m going to sneak in and cincture
the other two and then varnish them
over. She’ll never spot it then. She’ll
be in the laundry and you’ll have to keep
watch.”
The table had a large red cloth that
hung down all round, and Father got in
under this and went to work while we
watched. Mother kept coming in and
wanting to know where Father was and
why weren’t we out on the block instead
of sitting about in everybody’s road.
After a bit she came in and said she
was sure there was something funny
about us, and what was that smell of
turpentine, and we could get out and
stay out. So we gave a sort of agonised
look under the table and went out.
Presently there were loud words inside,
and Father hurried out and called us
into the shed and clipped us under the
ear and said why couldn’t we use our
brains. So we knew that Mother had
found out.
That day was the first time in our
house that we ever sat and ate our lunch
without a word being said. It made us a
bit sick, and we were glad to get out
again because Mother looked as though
she was planning a murder. Father
looked as though he was planning to be
the body in the case.
Anyhow, that evening Father said we'd
better go over and see how Jim Baldwin
was getting on. When we got near we
saw a funny-looking dwarf on the head-
land. It turned out to be Jim, and Jim
said he’d been cincturing all day, and
couldn’t stand up straight, and every-
where he looked he saw the trunks of
currant vines, and he couldn’t keep up
this hopping from vine to vine, and his
head was sore from bumping the trellis,
and his eyes were full of bark-grit, and
the sap was burning the cuts on his hands.
If, said Jim, there was much of this sort
of thin" in vine-growing, he’d picked a
darn peculiar way of making a living.
Well we manaaed to get him standing
Well, we g . • unnse where
up straight and ove „ ’ leaned
he bached, having no w .
against the wall, because he sai
sat down he’d never straighten ou ag .
So Father told him about the trouole
over the table, and sort of said if he had
any of that beer left it would go pretty
well. Then Jim said he wasn’t going to
be blamed just because Father lost his
head when he had a drink and went
round hacking at people’s dining-tables,
We didn’t say anything—just sat there
and looked at Father, who’d gone red
in the face. Then Jim Baldwin said,
“My heavens, look at the vines. They’re
everywhere. And I’ve got to r.ng 'em
all. Gimme me knife or 111 never get
done.” And he brought out his knife
anc * grabbed one of Father's legs and was
j us t going to cincture it when Father
broke loose and jumped outside,
So W£ went home again, and Father
sa j d jj m must have been working with
his hat G ff j n the sun, but he’d always
thought Jim was a bit touched, and per-
haps we’d better keep away from him for
a bit. Then we went inside and tried
not to feel cold before the implacable
look on Mother s face.
After that occasion Father never
seemed overanxious to help our
neighbors.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4j|d. per line; all others at
2ld. per line.
The tragedy of life in a marginal district is the theme of the contribution placed
first this week.
In a Marginal District
There is a district in S.A.’s Murray
mallee where most of the farmers are
bankrupt. They have hung on to their
land for years only because of Govern-
ment assistance. Their talk outside the
local hall on concert nights is largely of
what does or does not constitute a mov-
able improvement—they are prepared to
get out, as they will have to as soon
as Government relief fails them. From
any angle this state of affairs is pathetic.
The land on which these people were
encouraged to settle, on which they have
been kept, is a wind-eroded waste of sand
and limestone. The whole district would
make a small sheep holding.
One of our gravest contemporary
problems, the “drift to the cities,” has its
beginnings in just such districts. There
is nothing there for the young men, there
is no future, there is no chance of estab-
lishing fresh families on the land. There
is not even work.
Men such as these farmers have no
incentive to raise families. The man
who makes a farm is usually the first to
desire posterity to which he can hand
on the thing of his making. Here
there is no security, no heritage, only
that despairing inanition which follows
fruitless labor, and which ultimately
breeds a “poor white” type.
These marginal districts are a sink for
public money. As long as the holders
are kept on their land the taxpayer must
contribute. The farmers are battlers,
many of them Diggers, It is humane,
and it may be dressed up to look
economic, to give them a chance.
Australians should insist that there be
no further rash subdivision gestures, no
“generous” allotments of land, which,
“giving the small man a start,” are the
genesis of a host of social and economic
ills. Certainly there must be no settling
of returned men on hopeless land. —
Propalong (S.A.).
Closer Settlement
Much has been said about closer settle-
ment in the N, S, Wales Western
Division, but that area will always be a
land of big holdings until some means
of economical and never-failing irriga-
tion is discovered. The Western Division
has been mentioned as an area for settle-
ment of soldiers demobilised after this
war, but heaven help any of them who
are given small areas —they’ll be “settled”
all right.
It is extraordinary that closer settle-
ment cranks and politicians should always
turn to the Western Division, which,
under present conditions, can only be
worked in large holdings by men who
understand the country. If closer settle-
ment is wanted, there is plenty of land
available in much more favorable areas.
According to statistics, there are 1,577,156
acres suitable for cultivation in the
coastal areas of N. S. Wales, where rain-
fall is assured, but only 340,229 acres —
not 22 p.c.—are cultivated.
With such country available —even if
it is not all first-class land —any talk of
closer settlement in the Western Division
is nothing else but a smokescreen. Land
on the coast may be more expensive than
that in the west, but the return from
small areas would be reasonably certain.
In the west, a man would starve on what
would be considered a decent-sized
station in a more favored locality.—Cow
Time (N.S.W.).
Labor Shortage
Certainly conscription would equalise
the responsibility regarding war service
throughout the Commonwealth (B.
3/9/’4l), but in S.A., where large muni-
tion factories have suddenly sprung up,
there is another problem, one which is
giving farmers a headache. Hundreds of
country men are drifting citywards, where
an unskilled worker can earn anything
up to £8 a week, as compared with the
30s. a week and keep paid by the farmer.
And the chap thinks he is “doing his bit”
into the bargain.
The dearth of farm labor has become
so intense that Premier Playford is con-
sidering calling on the militia to over-
come difficulties during the coming har-
vest. In spite of these conditions, thou-
sands more munitions workers will be
needed by the end of this year. When
the authorities wake up to the true state
of affairs they will find that something
more than conscription is needed to solve
this problem.— Pequena (S.A.).
This Freedom
For the right to use his own truck to
carry his own goods from the coast to his
business in an inland town, an acquaint-
ance of mine pays an annual license fee
of nearly £2OO to the State Transport
Board. But even for that tremendous fee
the permit allows him by no means an
unrestricted carriage of his goods. He is
permitted to make only two trips each
week and to travel only on specified
days; the route he is to travel, the time
he is to start and the time he is to return
home, the strictly limited class of goods
he may carry, his maximum load, the ser-
vicing and repair of his vehicle and even
the signs to be painted on the side of the
truck are all laid down for him, and heavy
penalties are provided for their breach.
Also, the vehicle must be produced for
inspection by the Machinery Inspector
"Gas perdoocer , me foot! Can t 'ee see We're preparin' for tea-meetin'?"
each half-year, and may be driven only
by an approved adult driver, and the
owner must permit, whenever required,
an officer of the board to travel free of
charge on the vehicle to ensure “that the
Act and Regulations thereunder are be-
ing complied with,”
It speaks volumes against the State-
controlled railways that, despite the fee
and mass of provisions, the owner still
finds it more convenient and profitable
to carry his own goods. But the license
does make queer reading in a country
that is pouring out its blood and treasure
“to restore to the world that freedom to
live our own lives in our own way which
is our heritage from centuries of Chris-
tian civilisation.”— Smilax (Q.).
From Tobruk
“Dugout Dick” (B. 10/9/’4l) omitted
an important item in the claim from
Tobruk for a new award. The following
extract is from a letter dated August 8:
Your story of the Waterside Workers’
strike for 6d. an hour “dust money” spread
like wildfire and handed the boys the best
laugh for weeks. Under that award we
ought to be on 10s. an hour, with double
time when a breeze comes up.
What Tobruk’s reaction to the textile
strike will be is doubtful, for even a
Digger’s sense of the ridiculous has its
limits—A. F. H. (N.S.W.).
“Will they never come?” (B. 3/9/’4l)
is a question which must be haunting the
depleted A.I.F. in the Middle East, and
as the wife of one of them I put forward
these odd sentences from recent letters
from a member of the Tobruk garrison:
We have now been here four months
It seems as though we can’t leave here for
a while until there is some unit to take our
place I am afraid too many at home
are hiding behind the exemption clauses....
According to our local statistician we have
had over 1120 air raids here since March 2.
A leave scheme is being evolved. Only a
few will get it though. We can only send
one at a time. Of course we all hope to
be let out of here before long.
—Plain Jane (N.S.W.).
Idealists
All men have certain ideals by which
they claim to guide and model their lives,
but unfortunately most of us give only
lip-service to our ideals and are not pre-
pared to make any sacrifice for them.
When the testing time comes, however,
the real idealist willingly gives up home
and job, comfort and security, and
hazards even life and limb, to prove that
principles mean more than mere words.
That is the reason why thousands of
men have enlisted, and, although most
of them would deny it, it is true none-
theless. For that reason, although
there may be a hundred good poli-
tical reasons why the voluntary system
should be retained, the system under
which Australia has, twice in a quarter-
century, lost thousands of young idealists
while the selfish, the materialistic and the
worldly-wise wax and grow fat and in-
crease and multiply cannot but have dis-
astrous results upon the history of this
young country. If every 25 years we are
to lose our potential reformers and
crusaders, what chance have we of ever
making Australia a truly great nation?
—Smilax (Q.).
The Militia
If the militia want the same uniform as
the A.I.F. (B. 27/8/’4l) they should be
prepared to take the same risks as the
A.I.F. High military men in their drive
for A.I.F. recruits say that the first line
of Australian defence is overseas, but
“Jeff” in his three months’ camp has
thought out military strategy better than
men who have spent their life on these
matters.
If the men of the Middle East and
Malaya are reinforced, there will be no
need for fit men in any great number
here, as the enemy won’t get this far.
Anyway “Jeff’s” suggestion should be
sent to the navy. I am sure our matelots
would fall round his neck if they were
called back from their overseas stations
to swing round the buoy waiting for the
foe to appear. Our airmen, too, who are
serving overseas would no doubt be
pleased to come back here and fly ancient
chaffcutters around Australia. —R. S. M.
(S.A.).
Volunteers and Conscripts
Now that there is talk of conscription
it is refreshing to read the words of a
great statesman on the subject of volun-
teers and conscripts:
At the beginning of the war, and ever since,
a variety of motives, pressing, some in one
direction and some in the other, would be
presented to the mind of each man physically
fit to be a soldier, upon the combined effects
of which motives he would, or would not,
voluntarily enter the service. Among these
motives would be patriotism, political bias,
ambition, personal courage, love of adventure,
want of employment and convenience, or the
opposite of some of these. We already have
and have had in the service, as it appears, sub-
stantially all that can be obtained upon this
voluntary weighing of motives. And yet we
must somehow obtain more or relinquish the
original object of the contest, together with all
the blood and treasure already expended in the
effort to secure it. To meet this necessity the
law for the draft has been enacted. You who
do not wish to be soldiers do not like this law.
This is natural, nor does it imply want of
patriotism. Nothing can be so just and neces-
sary as to make us like it if it is disagreeable
to us. We are prone, too, to find false argi>
ments with which to excuse ourselves for oppos-
ing such disagreeable things.
The words are those of Abraham Lin-
coln and the occasion the war to preserve
the Union. They make interesting read-
ing now that a war to preserve democracy
itself is being fought, Democrat
(N.S.W.).
Fit Men
According to Queensland’s Deputy
Director of Recruiting, it does not follow
that because a man is able to carry on
his civilian occupation efficiently he is
therefore fit enough for the army. But
why not? If the defence needs of the
country are so urgent that every avail-
able man is required, it is hard to see
why a man who is organically sound and
able to do his civilian job competently
should not be of use to the army, which,
after all, is only a small world in itself,
which has to be fed, clothed, entertained,
healed and indexed very much like the
great world itself.
There are too many instances of young
giants being rejected because of a squint
in the eye or flat feet, of sportsmen, trained
to the minute, being rejected for strained
muscles, and of men who have tramped
scores of miles to enlist being refused as
being “unlikely to be able to march.”
Something of the spirit of the Registry
Office is needed in our recruiting depots.
It doesn’t reject an applicant until it
has made every possible effort to find
a iob he can do competently. Smilax
(Q-).
Climate and Camouflage
That eminent administrator Army
Minister Percy Spender made a bad pick
in choosing the Awful Climate as his
alleged reason for deciding to move
troops who have put in 12 months’ ser-
vice at Darwin, From the scientific
standpoint the question of climatic influ-
ence in Australia’s tropics was settled for
good and all by the Australasian Medical
Congress of 1921, which, after investiga-
tion of an immense amount of local evi-
dence, decided that, if anything, the
health and vigor of tropic-born and
tropic-dwelling Australians was rather
better than that of their compatriots from
further south.
Sociologically, the matter has settled
itself by the fact that the highest rate of
population increase in any of the States
for the last 40 years has occurred in
tropical Queensland, both in respect of
birthrates and migration. It is not due
to Italian immigration either. British
stock preponderates heavily, some of it
going back to the fourth and fifth genera-
tion of locahborn. Both in the last war
and this N.Q.-born troops have been out-
standing in physique and endurance of
effort.
Had Mr. Spender paid proper atten-
tion to providing suitable means of
recreation and spare-time occupation for
the troops stationed at Darwin he would
not have needed to exhume so decayed a
myth as climate in order to explain recent
troubles there. His gallant fellow-officer,
Lieut.-Col. Jim Gerald, would have been
able to advise him on the recreation side
of the job.— Dungeness (Q.).
Minister of Waste
Why is there no Minister of Waste in
the Cabinet? The other day I received
a bundle of 50 income-tax return forms
from the department, and inside each
were two similar instruction sheets. Re-
cently I was at an auction sale and saw
28 rolls of toilet paper, bearing the stamp
of the Victorian Railways Department,
sold for Is. The auctioneer explained
that the rolls had been rejected by the
department because, believe it or not,
they were slightly discolored. — Domino
(N.S.W.).
Then and Now
Comparison of a modern product with
its equivalent of a generation ago never
fails to amuse. Great improvement is
claimed by industry in technical methods
and “rationalisation” is a word that was
heard very often before this war. Adver-
tisements laud in detail the improvements
they claim for their products as com-
pared with their predecessors.
Yet there must be a flaw somewhere in
the argument, for there is hardly an
article in common use today which is not
inferior in quality to those of our grand-
parents’ time. A list of things in this
category would become a tedious cata-
logue, but take grandfather’s suits, for
instance. They wore for a generation and
then were cut down to serve for another
decade. Compare household linen now
with the fine stuff of grandmother’s
“box,” which lasted her lifetime and was
still ready to start again.
Furniture of sound, well-seasoned
timber fashioned by patient craftsmen to


7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
stand while generations passed has
yielded to flimsy hypocrisies of plywood
and veneer which can scarce withstand
a hot summer. A stout leather shoe is
almost unobtainable, though designs are
legion and externals attractive. Our
houses are at best jerry-built by compari-
son with the solid veterans still to be seen
in older suburbs or country towns. It has
even been said that our thoughts and
morals are today as flimsy as our pots
and pans.
Perhaps there was something after all
in the “good old days,” some honesty in
work and dealing which we modern
“smarties” lack. — Vici (Vic,).
Going to Whyalla
A mob of us, all strangers to one an-
other, were travelling in a smoker to
Whyalla, which is now the “boom town”
of S.A. Most of the talking was done
by a self-confessed Communist, who
waxed eloquent about the profiteers who
were battening on the labor and sweat
of the toiling masses, etc. He demanded
to know if we agreed with a system that
allowed a few plutocrats to live in luxury
while their serfs existed on a mere pit-
tance and the children of the workers
cried for bread.
No one argued the point with him, so
he soon ran through his parrot speech
and began to talk like a human being.
In ordinary conversational tones he de-
scribed Whyalla for our benefit, and
spoke admiringly of one man who had re-
cently sold his pub for £BO,OOO, of another
who was making a clear £4O per week
running a billiard saloon, and of a third
who was coining money as head of a
two-up school, and so forth.
It soon became clear that he had no
real grudge against the owners of wealth
generally. His hate was reserved for
those only who employed their fellow-
mortals to produce articles of use. For
the rich men who supplied refreshments
or entertainment he had nothing but
admiration and praise, not unmixed with
envy of their brains and ability and an
obvious ambition to be one of their num-
ber. — Listener (S.A.).
Banking and Credit
“No. 2 Teller” (B. 20/8/’4l) quotes an
English banking journal as stating that
banks “create credit without restraint,”
If this is intended to mean that banking
deposits and advances are created by the
action of banks without any restraining
influences, it is obviously incorrect.
Let “No. 2 Teller” ask his manager
to explain the actual procedure with
regard to advances by the bank, and he
will find that the creation of credit is
subject to the following real restraints:
1. Finding a borrower willing to go into
debt to the bank.
2. Satisfying the bank as to the charac-
ter and ability of the proposed borrower
and as to the soundness of his position
with regard to assets and liabilities.
3. Showing that borrowed funds are to
be used for an approved purpose and in a
way which will keep the loan safe.
4. Arranging satisfactory reduction pay-
ments to clear the advance.
5. Obtaining satisfactory security so that
the bank can recoup itself by realisation
of such security if the borrower’s plans go
astray and the business fails to earn funds
to repay the loan. In this connection it
is to be noted that the credit is given
against the borrower’s own assets—not
against those of the community.
Furthermore, the advances of a bank
as drawn by a borrower create liabilities
against the bank in the form of deposits
in the names of the parties to whom pay-
ments are made, or in the form of pay-
ments due to other banks on account of
their depositors. The amount of cash
and liquid assets in relation to total lia-
bilities has therefore to be watched, and
this also has a restraining influence on
the bank’s actions.
The fact is that a bank’s business is
conducted on the same lines as many
other businesses, and attempts to show
that there is something mysterious or
magical about it are futile. Money in the
form of currency and deposits in banks
are different things used for similar pur-
poses. —C. H. L. (W.A.).
“No, 2 Teller,” in writing of bank
advances and deposits, refers to the
English method where a customer’s loan
account is charged at once with the
amount of the loan arranged and the
corresponding amount is credited to a
current or deposit account on which the
customer draws cheques. Thus it is true
there, as the quotation by the Hon. R.
McKenna said, that each advance creates
a deposit. But that does not mean that
all deposits come from advances.
Deposits grow also from proceeds of
production and from savings.
In Australia we have the overdraft
system. The borrower builds up an
advance account in the bank’s books
to an arranged limit the entries
are not first passed as in England,
but the advance account grows as the
borrower draws cheques on it as he makes
use of the loan moneys. Cheques drawn
may be cashed or paid to the credit of
other advance accounts, in which case
deposits are not affected. Even if we
say that the tendency is for loan moneys
as drawn to go to credit of current
deposit accounts that fact proves nothing
against the banking system. It merely
amounts to the fact that the bank’s books
record the double entry —a debit to one
to the credit of another. This is the
case in every transaction in business,
whether recorded in the books of a bank,
a merchant or a private individual.
Ex-Teller (W.A.).
Prison Work
In Australia we believe in the idea that
the prisoners should be kept by the State.
Why? Because some unions have said
that the competition of prisoners with
the outside world would be unfair. To
what extent? How many prisoners are
there as compared with the number of
people outside? The percentage is
extremely small —about .0001. But it
is a mistake to turn them into loafers, or
workers who do the unnecessary work
of sweeping the corridors down every
five minutes and cleaning cells every
quarter of an hour.
While we were busy enforcing virtual
idleness or uselessness on prisoners during
the years 1900 to 1914 the Germans knew
better. They faced the same situation
and dealt with it wisely. They put their
prisoners to making toys, etc., and ex-
ported them mainly to British dominions,
including Australia. So we wise Aus-
tralians managed to defeat the future of
our own prisoners by employing men in
gaols in Germany— Professor (W.A.).
"What do y' mean, wrong mess ?”
Apples
I’ve always contended that the Apple
and Pear Board was making the best of a
difficult job. That was until today, when
the wife came home with what the green-
grocer told her were Canadian apples, im-
ported and sold retail at 6d. a pound. What
did the board do with surplus normally ex-
ported which we were exhorted in
the press and over the radio to eat? It
we ate the surplus, 111 be pleased though
surprised, but if the board just let it go
bad ! —E. H.H. (Vic.).
Church People
Why should church people be branded
as wowsers because a few are narrow-
minded? We have our religious cranks
and hypocrites and temperance fanatics,
I’ll admit (just as non-churchgoers have
their Communists, profiteers and loafers),
and they at least have strength of charac-
ter and the courage of their convictions.
The same cannot be said of many of the
intemperate type of beer-sparrers or get-
rich-quick fellows who have no more
control over their drinking or gambling
habits than a dog has over its fleas.
Anyway, the cold-tea disciple is only
a very small percentage of the great body
of ordinary, unobtrusive church people,
who, as a whole, cannot see any harm in
a raffle, a bob each way on a nag or a
couple of bob in a sweep if it is indulged
in by adults who can afford it. Neither
can they see any harm in an occasional
homely pot of beer. Actually, a moderate
drinker has far more willpower than even
a strict teetotaller.
And don’t forget that church people
give mentally, physically and financially
in war and peace. At present they are
doing their bit for their country in their
own quiet way, and when this war is
over they will still continue to give,
merely transferring their efforts from the
war front to the home front again.
In most churches, including my own,
a good percentage of the collections is
set aside for Red Cross funds, and the
big churches have special collections
every week for the upkeep of rest hostels
for service men erected in their own
grounds. — Danbo (Vic.).
“Impregnable”
Many castles and fortified towns so
situated as to appear impregnable (B.
27/8/’4l) have fallen more than once
to an enemy. Edinburgh Castle, though
perched on a high rock, has several times
been taken by escalade. It would be
difficult to imagine fastnesses harder to
capture before the advent of bombing
’planes and modern artillery than
Zahara, Alhama and Ronda in Granada.
All top the summits of high peaks with
precipitous sides, Zahara actually being
above the flight of birds and drift of,
clouds. Yet in the wars between Spaniard
and Moslem each changed masters.
Ronda also fell almost bloodlessly to the
Franco forces in the recent Spanish Civil
War. . _
As strongly placed is Constantine in
Algeria, which surmounts an almost
isolated rock two thousand feet high.
This has not prevented its being captured
time and again, on the last occasion by
the French in 1837, against opponents
with firearms. ,
Conversely, most of the deathless de-
fences of history have been of either
towns with neither natural nor artificial
protection or with merely hastily-con-
structed fortifications, or of out-of-date
strongholds. Saragossa, where Napoleon’s
veterans were kept so long at bay by
defenders mainly civilian; La Puebla,
scene of the Mexican commander
Ortega’s heroic stand against the troops
of Napoleon III; the Residency of
Lucknow ; Kut-el-Amara ; the Alcazar of
Toledo and Tobruk all come within this
category.
The stronger the position to be taken
the more the ingenuity of the attackers
is stimulated, while the defenders become
proportionally careless. —A. D. (N.S.W.).
Poetry and the People
“F.J.B” (B. 3/9/’4l) falls on his face
a bit heavily when he says “The average
man, from choice, does not read poetry.
So why should poets write for him?”
The average man, from choice, would
read poetry, but he has no choice in the
matter. So many poets consider he isn’t
worth appealing to that they just ignore
him and fly over his head with involved
specimens of “art” until, after a few vain
attempts to find some meaning behind
all the rhyme (or lack of it), the poor
average man turns to the sporting news
with an inferiority complex covered by
a sigh of relief and the remark “There s
too much posh in poetry.”
Despite what the more “educated
classes may think, it’s surprising how
many “average” men can appreciate
beauty of thought—provided it’s handed
out frankly, and not put into some secret
code to be untangled only by the initiated.
Poetry should be for the masses,
written in their language. But how many
poets are genuinely interested in the
masses, despite what they preach in their
passionate soul-bursts? Most poets
would prefer to hear a so-called brainy
little clique say “How exquisitely phrased,
and how subtle!” or something equally
“flattering” than to hear a tremendous
army of “average” people cheering in
obscurity.
The trouble with much poetry is the
poets. And the trouble with the poets
is their interest in the poetry rather than
the inspiration behind it. Poetry has
too long been regarded purely as an
“art” instead of as intellectual food for
all classes. Therefore most of it should
be written to the “average” man, even
if it means resorting to the simplicity
of the “ballad style, allegedly one of
the more primitive forms for expression”
in this art.
Wordsworth was one poet who knew
the worth of words, but he also knew
that the worth of a really poetic idea
doesn’t always need to be decorated by
brilliance of technique, particularly if it’s
to appeal to the greatest number of
people.— Meta (N.S.W.).
Promotions
Several men on active service abroad
with the A.1.F., who no doubt noted
with interest that the Director of A.I.F.
Entertainments commenced his military
career with high commissioned rank, have
written to the Brisbane press protesting
against the anomaly which prevents many
n.c.os. who have shown enterprise and
initiative in the field from reaching com-
missioned rank. All reinforcements from
Australia bring with them their own
officers, so that vacancies for n.c.os.
who have proved their fitness under shot
and shell are few and far between.
Equally unjust is the regulation by
which personnel of the Australian In-
structional Corps (Aus-
tralia’s best-trained and only
professional soldiers) are
prevented from attaining
higher rank than warrant
officer. Many of these men
are veterans of the 1914-18
war, and all of them have
been thoroughly trained in
military schools and are
acknowledged experts in
their spheres. Some of them
are granted substantive, or
courtesy, rank as lieutenants
and even higher, but techni-
cally they are inferior to
the rawest militia subalterns
and are probably bound to
give them a salute. —D. (Q.).
No Collaboration
I am a carpenter by trade,
so when war broke out I
offered my services as a
tradesman to the Army,
Navy and Air Force. All
filed my applications and
all promised to call me
up if and when they
needed me. I also offered my services to
the Ministry of Munitions and received
a similar promise. Eighteen months have
since elapsed and I’m still waiting for
a call.
Finally I chucked my job in the
country and brought my kit of tools to
the city. Jobs were offered to me by
the score, but I didn’t want to help build
flash new offices or flats. I renewed
my application for munition work. Again
no job offered. I applied direct at a
munition works and was given a scant
hearing, with the astounding information
that no carpenters were required. Then
I saw a friend who told me that any of
the private contractors at that same
munition works would give me a job.
I started within eight minutes of
applying to one, and I’m still working
for him, helping to build munition fac-
tories and doing something useful
towards the war effort. He informs me
that he could have employed me on that
sort of work for the past year or more.
All that time my four separate appli-
cations were lying, mute and forgotten,
in office files.
Making the rounds of departments was
always a heart-breaking sort of job. Today
they have an improved method of getting
rid of callers—they hand you a form to
fill in, with a promise to call you up
when you’re wanted. Then you wait
and keep on waiting.
It’s too late to talk about the national
register—it’s out of date by now. What
is needed today is a thorough overhaul
of all the applications stowed away in
files and the publication of all the jobs
available and the qualifications required.
Far too many skilled and able-bodied
men are wasting their time and talents,
especially in the building trade. — Bert
(S.A.).


“FORRERS”
Self-Oiling Pump
MOTOR OR ENGINE DRIVE
We are Sole Distributing Agents for
Forrers Pumps in every State in the Commonwealth except
Queensland.
John Danks c.SqnP^L#
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
AND AT 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
100 LB. PRESSURE OR
230 FEET ELEVATION
CONTINUOUS PERFORMANCE
24 HOURS A DAY WITHOUT
ATTENTION.
MIND.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Woolclasser, returned soldier, disengaged
after Sept. 14, seeks engagement. Refs. —2366.
Educated single man, 48, sober, active, present
book-storekeeper large company cattle station,
W.Q., wants change to privately-owned sheep
property similar capacity. Ten years’ station
exp., competent shorthand-typist, and holds
A-grade motor and 3rd steam certificates.—24ol.
Method of preparing American dish, smoked
turkey.—2332.
To buy, second-hand, D.C. welding generator
up to 100 amps. Good order. —2387.
To buy book on how to convert car generator
for D.C. welder. —2390.
To exchange four or five rooted plants of
white flowering plum ( Sinensis alba, dwarf, 4ft.)
for pink variety of same ( Sinensis rosea).—
2386.
To buy Recollections of a Rambling Life, by
Thomas Archer. —2384.
To buy General and Practical Optics, by
Lionel Laurence. —2339.
Information Sought.
(1) How can shale suitable for processing for
shale oil for motor spirit be distinguished ?
(2) Process of extracting oil? (3) Approximate
cost of plant for small supply of 0i1? —2265.
(1) Oil shale is restricted to coal measures,
where it occurs in association with coal in
N. S. Wales. It is dark in color and somewhat
resembles crude asphalt. It burns readily,
with a bright yellow, smoky flame. Its quality
may be judged roughly from its specific gravity,
the best material being light in weight. (2) Oil
is obtained from shale by destructive distil-
lation in one of many different types of retort.
This retorting operation yields a crude oil which
needs further refining by either “straight run”
or pressure distillation, followed by a com-
plicated chemical process. The process can-
not be carried out without an extensive know-
ledge of retorting and refining methods, and
close control is necessary at all stages of the
many operations involved. (3) The smallest-
sized commercial unit would cost several thou-
sand pounds to erect.
* * * *
How could a man of 25, with a Junior Uni-
versity pass, residing in Central Queensland,
learn a trade, preferably electrical? —2241.
The prospects for a man of 25 becoming an
electrical fitter and mechanic are not bright. In
Q. a person desirous of securing such qualifi-
cations would have to serve an apprenticeship
of five years in the workshop of a firm
approved of by the Group Apprenticeship Com-
mittee to the Electrical Trade, and 25 is too
old to commence such an apprenticeship.
* * * *
Method of eradicating bookworms, and of
preserving books not yet infested 3—2375.
Take all books from shelves and expose to
sunshine, beating each one to remove dust and
debris, then soak a cloth in a strong solution
of formalin, and dab on places attacked by the
worms; replace when dry. Dust books occa-
sionally with powdered alum.
Any safe means of getting rid of rats ?
Can’t use poison on account of children ?
—2405.
Try barium carbonate, which is poisonous
to rats but harmless to human beings. Cost is
only about a shilling per pound, and it can
be bought without the formalities necessary in
purchasing most poisons. Ingredients required
to prepare baits are barium carbonate Boz.,
flour 170 z., pollard 60z., tallow 50z., common
salt loz., water half-pint, oil of aniseed 10 drops.
Mix the barium carbonate, flour and pollard,
and stir in the melted tallow; then dissolve the
salt in water and add slowly. The result should
be a stiff dough, which is rolled out to a thick-
ness of about half an inch, cut into half-inch
cubes and baked in an oven till dry. Mix the
aniseed oil in an eggcup of water and spray
the cubes. These are now ready for distribu-
tion, but should be handled as little as pos-
sible, and then only after the hands have been
coated with aniseed oil to obliterate the odor
of human beings. About one-fifth of a cube
is sufficient to kill a rat.
* V * *
Method of softening bore water? —2428.
One method is to take a large barrel holding
about 32 gallons and put 2in. of charcoal in
the bottom of it, then put a 6in. layer of
clean sand on top of the charcoal and a 2in.
layer of wood-ash on top of the sand. Put in
another 2in. layer of charcoal and cover with an
Sin. layer of sand. Cover with a loose-fitting
perforated disc of zinc and pour in water to
fill barrel to the brim. Stand the barrel on
a verandah or platform and put a piece of
piping in the bottom to carry off the filtered
water to a second barrel or tank. All impuri-
ties will be left in the filter. After a month’s
use the barrel should be emptied and refilled.
Bore water may also be treated with alum, by
dissolving ’a slightly heaped dessertspoonful of
alum in one pint of water and allowing it to
stand for a few hours. Strain off the clear
liquor and use it in the proportion of about
five tablespoonfuls of alum solution to one
gallon of water. If only a small quantity of
water is required, use as much alum as will
cover a threepenny piece in one pint of water.
The alum will not affect the taste of the water.
To treat chemically, send a sample pint of the
bore water to the Government Analyst, and see
what chemical causes the hardness; then a
remedy can be applied. Various elements cause
what is termed “hardness” and antidotes differ
accordingly.
* * * *
Brief biographic details of Julian Salomons ?
—2378.
Julian Emanuel Salomons was born at Edg-
baston, near Birmingham, on November 4, 1836.
He migrated to Sydney in 1853, obtaining em-
ployment as a stockbroker’s clerk, but he
proved himself such a powerful speaker at a
debating club attached to the Synagogue that
his co-religionists provided funds to send him
to England to study law. In 1858 he entered
Gray’s Inn, was called to the Bar there in
1861 and returned at once to Sydney to prac-
tise. At first he devoted himself to criminal
cases, and made a reputation in the notorious
Bertrand case; in after years he preferred the
civil courts and obtained a large share of
Crown business. In 1869 he entered politics
as Solicitor-General in the second Robertson
Ministry, and sat in the Leg. Council from
August to December, 1870, as representative
of the Government. He resigned from the
Council in February, 1871, but was reappointed
in March, 1887, as Vice-President and repre-
sentative of the fourth Parkcs Ministry. He
left office, with Parkes, in January, 1889, but
broke with his leader on the question of Aus-
tralian Federation, which he strongly opposed,
and came back to office in October, 1891, as
Vice-President of the Council in the third Dibbs
Ministry. In 1899 he left the Council to be-
come Agent-General for the colony in London,
but resigned that office also in 1900. In 1886
he was chosen to succeed Sir James Martin as
Chief Justice of N. S. Wales, but discovered
that his appointment was distasteful to several
puisne Judges and resigned before being sworn
in. In 1899 he was made a bencher of Gray's
Inn. Salomons died at Sydney on April 6,
1909. (Kt. Bach., 1891.)
* * * *
Any details of the wrecks of the (1) Charles
Eaton, (2) Dandenong or (3) Neva ? (4) Any
knowledge of an American ship, the Junior,
which came to Sydney in the IBSOT ? —2388.
(1) The barque Charles Eaton, from Sydney
to Singapore, was wrecked on Great Barrier
Reef, near Sir Charles Hardy Island, August,
1834. Five men in a boat arrived at Timor;
25 of the remaining people were murdered by
natives, two boys being spared. These were
rescued on Murray Island by the Isabella,
August, 1836. (2) The s.s. Dandenong, a
Sydney vessel, foundered off Jervis Bay, Sep-
tember 11, 1876. In a very heavy southerly
gale her screw-shaft broke and damaged the
after bulkhead so that she filled with water
and sank, drowning 40 people. At Sydney
during this gale it is recorded that one violent
gust of wind reached a velocity of 153 m.p.h.
(3) The Neva was a convict ship from Cork
for Sydney, which was wrecked near Cape
Wickham, King Island, on May 14, 1835. She
carried 240 people, of whom 205 were convict
women and children. Only 22 people got
ashore, seven dying shortly afterwards. The
15 survivors met with the shipwrecked crew of
the Tartar and were rescued a month later. The
wreck occurred at 4 a.m. during a strong
westerly gale with a heavy sea which smashed
the ship to pieces within three hours of
striking the rock. (4) There was an American
whaler, the Junior. The crew mutinied off M.L.,
killed the master and third mate and badly
wounded the first and second mates, whom they
forced to navigate the vessel to N. S. Wales.
Ten of the mutineers left the ship off Cape
Howe, January 7, 1858. Of these four landed
and were captured; the other six were not heard
of again. The ship arrived in Sydney on
January 10.
* * * *
Some information on the disappearance of
£4OOO from the ship Oceana or Oceania at
Williamstown about 1895 and its discovery by
some children about 15 years after. Who were
the owners and in what newspaper or newspapers
is there an account of these events? —22s3.
Only record of Oceania in newspaper files is
that she twice called at Melbourne in 1895.
There is no account of a robbery. Local his-
torians know nothing of it. There is a story
that £20,000 worth of gold was discovered to
be missing on another ship at Colombo. A
member of the crew many years afterwards
claimed to know where the gold had been con-
cealed and took the police to a dam near Mel-
bourne, but there was no gold there.
* * * *
(I) A few directions for making a good job
of putting in a new axe-handle? (2) Any sug-
gestion for preventing too frequent breakages?
—2409.
Get the old handle out by boring a few
half-inch auger holes through the eye, thereby
loosening it. Then drive it out with a broad
punch made of an old axe-handle. Never burn
a handle out, as heat ruins the temper of the
steel. Having got all the handle out, round
off the edges of each side of the eye with a saw-
file. This not only removes burrs of steel from
the hole but helps to compress the new handle
and tighten it as it is driven in. Never hit
the axehead with a hammer or another axe, but
use only a short billet of hardwood. Rasp off
where the steel marks the handle and hit the
axehead until the handle pokes through about
Hin. Saw that much off, having sawn the wedge
slots the same distance deeper. Always use
wooden wedges, which can be made from an
old axe-handle and should be about 2in. long
by H,in. thick, tapering to one-sixteenth thick.
When nearly home saw them off |in. from the
head and drive them again. (2) Misplaced
blows and a blunt axe lead to the part near the
head being jarred or chipped till it breaks if
jammed in a piece of wood. Most of this
trouble can be prevented by cutting out a piece
of sheet iron, bending it double, and fastening
it on the handle just below the head.
* * * *
What is the process of converting metallic
lead into white lead? —2396.
The metallic lead is corroded in what are
called stacks—rectangular chambers with walls
of wood, brick or concrete usually not exceed-
ing 30ft. in length, breadth or depth. On the
ground at the bottom of the stack is placed
a thick bed of cinders and on top of that
a 3ft. thick bed of spent tan bark. On this layer
of tan bark are arranged symmetrical rows of
small earthenware pots filled with dilute acetic
acid, between which are stout wooden blocks
and beams. Pig lead, from 99.95 p.c. to
99.98 p.c. pure, and free from all but the most
minute traces of other metals, is poured into
moulds and allowed to cool. These castings,
known as crates, wickets or buckles, according
to shape, are set out uniformly spaced from
one another upon the tops of the pots: not
actually in contact with the acid or the tan
but supported upon the pots. Then close-fitting
boards are laid upon the wooden beams until
the whole layer is floored. On this floor an-
other arrangement of tan, pots of acid and
lead is constructed, and this process repeated
until the chamber is stacked to the top and the
stack completed. Corrosion begins almost at
once. The tan bark begins to ferment, the
heat begins to volatilise the acid and the lead
is attacked. As the heat increases, carbonic-acid
gas is generated, which in turn acts upon the
lead. In about 10 days the stack attains a
temperature of about 180 deg. F., and corrosion
is actively proceeding. After an average period
of 110 days the top layer of tan is removed, the
board floor very carefully swept clean, the
boards lifted, and the corroded lead exposed
to view.
* * * *
Method of tanning wallaby- or rabbitskins
with wattlebark for rug-making? —2292.
Rabbitskins can be tanned easily by rubbing
baking powder thickly on to the fresh, wet
skins daily till dry. All rough parts are then
rubbed off with a piece of brick and any mem-
brane removed. The wattlebark solution (for
tanning any skin) is made in this way: Crush
wattlebark as fine as possible, put it in a
wooden, earthenware or concrete vessel and fill
with boiling water. When cool pour off into a
similar container, add boiling water to cover
and leave to cool. Pour off water and repeat.
These three fillings, all mixed in the second
container, are the right strength. Soak skins till
soft in clean fresh water (24 to 48 hours),
scrape off all fat, put in a tub and soak in
solution for four days to a week, airing each
half-hour each day. Dry in draughty shed,
rubbing now and then to soften. Trim with a
sharp knife.
Information Supplied.
“P.P”: There is a Sydney Esperanto Club;
address, Milson’s Point Station Building.
Brief Answers.
D.R.H.: Most of Australia’s wool is wanted
by the Federal Government and the factories
making uniforms, etc., for the troops. You
will have to wait till the war is over... .M.L.:
Elliott’s Carolina Sports by Land and Water;
Bassett’s Slavery and Servitude in the Colony
of Carolina; Warner’s On Horseback; Lefler’s
North Carolina; Winston Churchill’s Richard
Carvell and The Crisis.... 1.T.H.: Caringa
means peaceful home... .F.G.0.: Cheaper and
easier to get a new one T.P.R.: Doubt if it
needs cleaning; print forwarded was merely
out of focus... .W.N.M.: Popular Science
Lectures are still delivered at the Australian
Museum. Fixtures are: September 25, “Biology
in War,” Professor E. Ashby; October 9, “The
Romance of Gold Mining in N. S. Wales,” T.
Hodge-Smith; October 23, “Wandering
Through China,” E. A. Briggs; November 13,
“Life Histories of Some Australian Butterflies,”
G. A. Waterhouse... .G.W.L.: No exaggera-
tion, but it is not the largest gem-stone in the
world. The Smithsonian Institution in America
recently acquired an almost flawless crystal of
topaz discovered in Brazil and weighing 153
pounds or 350,000 carats. The average topaz
for a ring or necklace weighs about five carats.
. ...D.A.E.: Westminster Abbey, a seventh
century structure, was rebuilt by Edward
the Confessor in 1065 P.V.K.: Jack
Sheppard and Windsor Castle, both by Wil-
liam Harrison Ainsworth, a nineteenth cen-
tury novelist... .D.K.G.: The Christian names
of the Duke of Windsor are Edward Albert
Christian George Andrew Patrick David, and of
the present King Albert Frederick Arthur
George L. 5.8.: The first record of a daily
paper in the U.S.A. is the “Pennsylvania Even-
ing Post and Daily Advertiser,” issued in Phila-
delphia by Benjamin Towne, editor and pub-
lisher, in 1783... .F.G.T.; In that particular
model, at the point you mention, there is a
filter which sometimes tends to clog F.M.N.:
The usual arrangement is with stroke side on
the coxswain’s left H.V.E.: That stroke,
hitting the red ball first, scores five points....
C.J.8.: “City Lights” was produced some time
before “Modern Times” 0.8. R.: Japanese
crews, using short blades and shortened slides,
have achieved some phenomenal rating in short
bursts, but 40 strokes a minute or over is high
rating under normal conditions... .P.A D.:
Kempsey now has a municipal swimming pool.
... .N.J.A.: Queen Victoria had eight Maids
of Honor, who succeeded each other in pairs
with unfailing regularity. Their duties were
to read the papers aloud to her, drive out of
an afternoon and play to her in the evenings.
Salary attached to the office was £3OO a year,
and each received a dowry of £lOOO on her
marriage, in addition to carrying away her
badge of office, a brooch consisting of a minia-
ture of the Queen set in diamonds.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally ,
The Muse aroused:
L.8.D.:
Now we British begin
Bigger raids on Berlin,
Increasing in rapid progression,
And we don’t mean to stop
Till we’ve fixed up the “drop”
For gangsters who have an obsession.
. ...R.C.: “Thus did I muse, and, musing,
stayed.” No; went... .S.W.: It tails away....
T.McC.; “Pleasant” was for its smoothness;
“pale” for its lack of gusto G.G.: What
on earth is a “janitor of ailments rife”?....
H.H.: Mild... .8.M.: “To My Idle Car” would
be best kept as a tender secret between the poet
and the flivver J.M.: Promising 8.R.:
“Reject, repudiate, despise.” We will, if you
keep on being didactic A. 5.8.: Both weak-
lings .... D.C.M.: Mere description J.P.:
Clouds “cavorting”? ... .G.W.: You don’t quite
get it....W.C.: Nothing new in that 0ne....
W.E.L.: “Further” coming back to father
L.8.D.: Such excellent ideas in such execrable
verse... .A.G.C.: You speak for thousands:
The wattle with its brave and bright display
The forest lands improves in every way.
. ...J.L.W.: “There’s something in the surging
sea.” We know. Water E. 8.: Tell him to
say it in Norwegian C.M.O. and M.McE.:
Thanks, but we don’t reprint L. 1.: Some-
body else might like it F.A.8.: Smacks of
“Ginger Mick” J.M.W.: Wordy H.G.D.:
Not up.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Bert C.; Looks like a surrealist nightmare.
. ...M.D.S.: Your animal would appear to be
the result of a mesalliance between a lion and
a goat-giraffe cross... .N.K.: Why are the
figures framed in heavy lattice work?... .5.8.:
It’s the first rowing boat we’ve struck that
balances on top of the water on the bottom of
its keel R.J.P.: Another 10 years’ hard
study and you should be able faithfully to
depict a sable cat sitting in a blacked-out coal-
shed. .. .L.C.8.; Hop into any police court and
then have a look at your drawing again
S.C.T.: Overcrowded A.K.L.: If you’d
given the lady a beak she could have been
mistaken for a flamingo R.T.L.: People in
queue all out of focus C.L.: Received, one
drawing of skeleton in dressing-gown; couldn’t
you think up a gag to fit it? H.P.: Would
appreciate indication as to which is buffalo and
which hunter.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Comnany
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors; THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines); 87361. Branches in All States. 139 Pitt Street, Sydney.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
Leather Portfolios
Sr.
For those bulky papers in Black
and Brown Seal Grain Cowhide:—
Ideal for Military Requirements.
16in. x llin. —with 3 divisions.
Price: 52/6
Others: 72/6, 90/-, 97/6.
C. E. KUCHING
PTY.,
LTD.,
“For Everything in Leather.”
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(near Wynyard Stn.)
'Phone: 8W7133
SMOKE-OH!
“Television will most certainly be installed
in thousands of private homes after the war.
But it will be only the beginning. After that,
what ? ’ ’ — Science article.
The t.-p. collector.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mr. is greatly improved after being
knocked down by a car last week.”
—Suburban paper.
His friends think he should now make
a real job of it by getting bowled over
by a five-ton truck.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Hitler, it is thought, is on the point of
launching a microbe war.” — “D.T.”
As Germany’s most virulent germ,
Goebbels is expected to lead the attack.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“According to the police, the woman in the
next flat said she was talking to a lady visitor
at the time, and heard nothing.”— “Sun.”
What a peculiar lady visitor!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“To be a successful girl farmer you need
keenness, good health and the temperament to
be content with country life.” — Woman’s mag.
Also, of course, a farmer husband to
do all the work.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Business Touch.
Maria has business ability. She says
so herself.
“It is because they recognise my busi-
ness ability,” proclaimed Maria, “that our
branch of the W.H.A.T.S. have made me
sole director of the drive for funds.
You’ll see what a success I make of it,
for all your sneers”
“I’ve got all the work I can possibly
manage without” I began.
“Who’s asking you to do anything?
I don’t want any interference from any-
body,” snapped Maria.
Maria at once got busy. I don’t think
she ever worked me and her friends
harder in her life. “I’m not asking your
assistance,” she said as she came in with
a bundle of letters, “but surely it isn’t
too much to ask you to draft replies to
these for me. You know how I hate
writing letters to people I don’t know.”
After that it was just a matter of my
interviewing picture show managers,
town clerks, band secretaries, shopkeepers
and sporting bodies, and biting patrons,
etc., for donations.
“I’ve never been so busy in my life,”
said Maria later as she lolled in a lounge
chair reading the write-up of her com-
mittee’s activities in the social columns
of the “Scream.”
Of course, it was a resounding success.
Maria said so herself though she was
forced to admit that the drive had
resulted in a loss of 10 shillings, “But
think of the advertisement we got,” she
said proudly. “And we’ll come out of it
square. I told the committee you’d be
donating 10 shillings!”
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Response.
Whene’er you make me sigh and yearn
I feel my heart within me burn.
Which seems to prove, beyond all ques-
tion.
You give me nervous indigestion.
T. W. N.
“An elephant’s trunk contains more than
2000 muscles.” — “World’s News.”
And the animal never forgets which
ones to use in the right place.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Motorists in this district at night often run
down rabbits.” — “D.T.”
But that’s nothing to what the cockies
call them in the daytime.
“Now YOU'RE the type of man that should be in khaki."
“The spirit of rebellion is abroad at Canberra.
It will surprise nobody if shortly certain poli-
ticians are revolting.”
— N.S.W. North Coast paper.
Some strike us as being that already.
4* 4*
“It’s fun to make .a comeback.”
— Woman’s paper.
The trouble is that we never think of
them until we’re halfway home.
4* *l* •£•
“When cakes are handed round, it is quite
permissible for you to take your pick.”
—Etiquette hint in woman’s paper.
That is assuming they’re rock-cakes.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“I have very hairy arms. Could you tell me
a sure way to take the hair away?”
— Woman’s paper.
Certainly. Treat them with a good
hair tonic.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“It has been said that grey horses have a
strange smell, which disturbs other horses.^
—“Sunday Sun.’
When a grey horse runs last at 10 to 9
on one week and wins at long odds the
next, its odor (if the opinions of dis-
gruntled punters are reliable) is strongly
reminiscent of ancient fish. But should it
gallop like a hamstrung billygoat among
mules on Wednesday and then donkey-
lick a smart field at 6 to 4 three days
later, that’s a horse of an entirely different
smell.
“Men’s pay for women.” — “Sun.”
But they have been known to hand
back enough for two ounces of tobacco.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Never trust a horse further than he
can throw you.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A large export trade in Australian gins to
the Dutch Indies is anticipated in the near
future.” — News item.
Bigfoot Billy’s comment is that s’pose
Gubmint want takim that pfeller gin
blong ’im not gibbit ’nother pfeller gin
catchim pfis, cookim goanna, catchim
tschillin’ do wash ’long station missus, or
he go walkabout ’long that gin plurry
quick time an’ no takim then.
Utility.
We have pinned up in our sitting-room
in manner that is fitting
All the maps that have a bearing on
the fray :
There is one of the Pacific whose dimen-
sions are terrific,
And it leads a vast and various array.
As their gaudy color mixtures clash with
furniture and fixtures
Their appeal to any artist may be
small.
Still, we’re not above confessing we con-
sider them a blessing,
For they cover up the beer stains on
the wall!
T.W. NATHAN.
Odd Corners.
“Be clever with those odd corners.”
■ —Furnishing note.
But, if you’re in the car, just try to
be clever by cutting one while you’re on
your wrong side and skid around it at
35 and it’ll be odds on some cop getting
even with his notebook.
The corner of the tablecloth where you
drop the beetroot is easily treated if
you’re clever enough to push your plate
over it before the wife can see it. When
you’re clearing the things away after-
wards, all you’ve got to do is slide the
cloth round until the beetrooty part is
opposite where she was sitting.
The corner in the toolshed is one of
the best hide-outs for the couple of week-
end quarts. But don’t try to be too
clever and hop in every two minutes to
get a tool when you’re clipping the
hedge. Once your house detective gets
on the scent you’ll be properly cornered.
E.
Accomplishment.
Whene’er I hear milady speak
I think her talent most unique.
Indeed, her art of conversation
Should make her famous through the
nation;
For who, with such a perfect touch,
Could say so little in so much ?
NAT.
Hints for Landladies.
“The secret of boiling rice satisfactorily is
to put plenty of water on it at the start.
— Woman’s paper.
A great tip for landladies. To one
cup of rice add twenty cups of water and
a little salt. If more flavoring is re-
quired put it on the stove alongside the
saucepan the dog’s meat is cooking in
and leave both lids off. Strain rice, serve
the liquid for the dear-soup course. Now
halve the rice, serving one half for the
main course, adding a twelfth of a kidney
to each plate. Serve the other half of
the rice for dessert with a quarter-cup of
mock cream evenly divided among your
twenty boarders and the cat.
Just one more point: keep your
“Lodgers Wanted” sign on the front
door so as to keep refilling the places
at table as your old boarders pack up
and leave.
ELM.
Discretion.
I prithee, kiss me not so hard.
Although your lips be sweet.
This wild display of your regard
Is rather indiscreet.
So kiss me gently, my adored.
Let passion’s force abate;
Remember that I can’t afford
Another dental plate!
N.
Glamor for the Troops.
“The Minister for the Army, Mr. Spender,
stressing its psychological advantages, is aiming
for higher standards of haircutting in the
A.1.F.”
Though walrus moustaches are banned in
the ranks,
And brasshats may frown on the wear-
ing of “beavers,”
The marcel will now be “correct” for
the tanks,
And gunners gain glamor in glossy
side-levers.
It’s plain that the swaddy with hair
rudely shorn.
For bayonet work would be scarce
worth a fiddle.
But see what a terror he’ll be with it
worn
A la Brosse, or when parted with care
down the middle!
In pre-Percy days the Digger with hair
starting to encroach on his tunic collar
would finger the half-caser in his kick
and say to his cobber: “Aw, come on,
Blue, we’ll go and have a few sherbets.
I was goin’ to buy a haircut but you
can have a go at it.”
“Jakaloo. Got any scissors?”
“No, but I souvenired a pair o’ tin-
snips over at ordnance stores this mornin’.
Better give ’em a rub up on a brick first
—they’re not too sharp!”
So, back from the canteen, Blue would
borrow a basin from the babbler and
start snipping hunks of hair off here and
there while his customer would hold both
his ears back just in case. The result
might not have met with a gigolo’s en-
thusiastic approval, and from the back
the effect might be not unlike a draught-
board seen through a distorted lens, but
after all the hat covered a lot of it, and
in any case it wouldn’t be noticed much
in a week or two. Actually, there was a
certain amount of pleasurable anticipa-
tion in the operation. One’s cobber might
make a good job of it; on the other
hand, if tinsnips and hiccups proved a
disastrous combination at least the mob
would get a laugh out of it.
Now what is there for a poor Digger
to look forward to? He falls in for his
first hair-do parade and is marched up
to the camp barber saloon. The sten-
torian voice of the warrant-officer-barber
pulls him up with a “Sh-hun! One pace
forward, march! Spring to it, there.
Now two paces left, march. Feet to-
gether, chin up, under this light here.
Stand at ease! Now, sergeant, carry on! ”
The sergeant-barber subjects him to a
minute scrutiny. “H’m! retrousse apse,
prominent cheekbones, square jaw.
Coarse, wiry hair, eyebrows meeting over
bridge of nose. Best effect will be for the
hair to be left fairly long in front and
brushed straight back in that old Orleans
style favored by Georges of Paris.”
Here the O.C. Barbers’ Battalion, who
has just strolled along the line of chairs,
chips in. “You forget, sergeant, that his
eyebrows are inclined to turn up at the
ends. Remember the dictum laid down
by Johann Glubbe of Budapest—that
that type of eyebrow combined with a
retrousse nose calls for a single wave
going diagonally across the head from
a parting on the left.”
“But this bloke’s got a cowlick, sir!”
“Well, give him the cut popularised
by Marcel of New York, with a short
half-curl over the left temple and a part
on the right. If that doesn’t take, his
cowlick will have to be removed. Don’t
forget the vibrator on his forehead. And
see that he reports for fingertip scalp
massage every day until those follicles
are looking healthier!”
Time was when it meant only scroung-
ing someone else’s plate, knife, fork,
housewife, water-bottle, etc., when the
troops got the oil that a kit inspection
was imminent. Now you’ll see fellows
tearing around trying to tea-leave some-
one’s blackhead squeezer, or borrowing
a bottle of hairset lotion or a pair of
eyebrow tweezers from the blokes doing
guard duty.
It is not to be doubted that a close-up
of a hardbitten Digger with an unruly
thatch, dense masses of hair sprouting
aggressively from his ears and unkempt,
beetling brows has put the wind up many
a wop and Jerry around Tobruk. Their
reaction to the appearance of a Digger
with pointed side levers, pencilled brows
and de-wrinkled foreheads is awaited with
interest.
But the Newest Digs may get one thing
out of this new glamor business. An
issue of bay rum could, at a pinch, spin
out the dinkum stuff.
BO.


Banking fulfils a
THREEFOLD PURPOSE
JT collects moneys, distributes moneys,
and safeguards them. Rigid adher-
ence to the principle of interdepend-
ence underlying this threefold purpose
has been found the safest and soundest
Banking system. Had a better one
been possible, business needs would
have demanded it long ago. The
National Bank is always ready to assist
sound enterprises, consistent with a
policy of adequate protection of the
funds of its depositors.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria)
- -
Around 5 p.c. Annual Yield
with Safety
Your investment —even as little as £20 —in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
gives you an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies yielding, at
present prices, around 5 °/o per annum. Moreover, your investment is
definitely safeguarded by Custodian Trustees: Union Insurance Society
of Canton, Ltd.
Now is your opportunity to share in the increasing activity of Industrial
undertakings. Write for Booklet No. 1, post free, on request to the
Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
Telephone: 85294.
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
G.
P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
Business,Rollery.etc
A Comparison with Canada
Though not so much has been heard of
Canadian troops in action, the Dominion
itself has been making a big effort at
home. It is spending the best part of
£380 million (Australian money) this year
on war. That is apart from about £240
million it will spend on behalf of the
British Government. As to its own war
expenditure, 65 p.c. is being paid for in
taxation—that is, about £250 million is
being provided on the “pay-as-you-go”
principle. Personal-income and national-
defence taxes will bring in almost double
the revenue of 1940-41. Companies will
pay a minimum of 40 p.c. of their earn-
ings to the Government. By virtue of
this, though most Canadian cos. show in-
creased or greatly increased gross earn-
ings, their net profits have fallen, though
divs. are for the most part being main-
tained.
Total taxation in Canada (apart from
provincial taxes) in 1941-42 will be the
equivalent of £36 10s. a head Australian.
Total borrowings work out at £28 a head
of the 11,000,000 population. War taxa-
tion runs out at £23 10s., and total war
expenditure, apart from that on behalf
of Britain, at £36 10s. a head.
In the 1940-41 Australian Budget a
war expenditure of £26 10s. a head was
provided for, of which £6 a head was to
be spent (and largely raised) overseas.
War taxation was £9 10s. a head, Federal
civil taxes £12. Australia’s war effort
in 1941-42, as outlined by Fadden
at Warwick, will be on a greater
scale than in 1940-41, but at £32
a head it is still below that of
Canada And in this effort we don't
know yet to what extent taxation
is going to figure, though talk of
“a liberal Budget that would win any
election” is not reassuring to those who
see taxation as the only sensible and
rational v/ay of paying for war waste.
In the previous year the Budget set aside
for war the small sum of £9 10s. a head
out of taxation, and the present shilly-
shallying at Canberra doesn’t suggest that
this figure will be greatly increased by
the 1941-42 Budget. This behavior of the
Fadden Government arises out of fear
that clear recognition of war waste as a
national tax, to be treated as a personal
tax, would not be “popular” with some
of the Canberra boys and the electors. It
is all a tragic evasion of a vital issue,
the effects of which will have a great
bearing on our post-war welfare.
The comparisons between Australia and
Canada, on a per capita basis, can be
accepted as reasonably relative of the
sacrifices being made in both countries.
Canada’s national income is computed at
£l5O a head, Australia’s at £125 a head,
but there is probably nothing like that
difference in comparative living standards.
Australia’s war effort is undoubtedly a
big one, and it is a tax whether so re-
garded or not. But whilst Canadians are
accepting the imposition of heavy taxa-
tion rates as the logical way of paying
for the inroads of war into their living
standards, some Canberra politicians and
noisy papers and credit cranks are de-
manding a comfortable war for Aus-
tralia —a war that isn’t going to inter-
fere with living standards or put people
to any inconvenience. Some really toy
with the idea of making a profit out of
the war. At the same time most of
them want the war to be carried on.
Where such people are at all sincere
they seem to have the idea that money
can do things that the industrial machine
can’t. They don’t appear to realise that
it is materials and labor that are required
for our war effort on the home front and
that those vital things should be given to
the Government free of charge. The only
way “costless credit” can be diverted to
the Government is through taxation. All
other methods of finance must be costly
to a Government unless it decides later
on to bilk its creditors or the people as
a whole.
In Canada the policy of pay-as-you-
go up to the present has had no really
harsh effects. Restriction on civil con-
sumption has probably been less severe
than in Australia. Though prices of some
things have been raised deliberately in
order to discourage the use of com-
modities needed for the war effort or for
the British civilian, the cost of living had
risen less than in Australia up to the
middle of this year.
Labor disputes in Canada have been
few. There have been disturbances in
the steel and aluminium industries, but
production has not been delayed to any
serious extent. There has been criticism
of war-time controls by Labor, which
seeks higher wages and greater unionisa-
tion, but in the main the war programme
has sped ahead. In an effort to prevent
inflation the Government last year
limited most wage rates to those estab-
lished during 1926-29, or thereafter up
to December, 1940, with provision for
increases in rising living costs only with
regard to basic necessities.
In March, 1941, Canadian employment
in non-rural occupations was 19.7 p.c.
higher than a year earlier. Though the
amount of war contracts placed in the
first six months of the war was only £25
million, by June 15, 1941, the total had
increased to £SOO million. In April this
year business activity was 9 p.c. above
the righest peak of 1929; unlike Aus-
tralia, until the outbreak of war Canada
had never regained its pre-depression
level of industrial output. In 1941 it is
expected that manufacturing activity will
exceed 1929 levels by as much as 40 p.c.
In addition to its own £3BO million war
effort, Canada, as has been mentioned, is
buying about £240 million-worth of
Canadian goods on behalf of the British
Government. The physical burden of war
on Canada in 1941-42, then, will amount
to about £620 million, less the amount
of stuff obtained by Canada from the
U.S.A. The U.S.A. is sending some
materials to Britain via Canada, and
recently Canada lent Britain £9O million
Australian to help finance its Canadian
and U.S.A. purchases. Already Canada
owes Britain less in Federal debts than
Britain owes Canada. It is being debated
in Britain as to whether the sterling debts
of the provinces and the stock held in
Canadian railways will be repatriated to
Canada in order to wipe out what Britain
owes the Dominion. Otherwise the war
may finish with Canada a creditor
country. Britain’s gold reserves have
already been severely depleted.
Canada’s war production has increased
so fast that between now and April, 1942,
its production of certain war materials
will be so much in excess of Empire re-
quirements that it will be possible to
supply the U.S.A. with between £6O-
-- and £9O-million-worth of war
materials —perhaps more. And output is
growing rapidly.
The general policy adopted in Canada
is a farseeing one. The Dominion is
enjoying a period of activity and spread
of incomes similar to that experienced in
the Commonwealth, but it is not deluding
itself about the real nature of war’s cost.
It is writing most of it off, through taxa-
tion, as soon as the money is spent, and
Labor has fallen into line with the idea.
The Royal Bank of Canada remarked
that the “Budget has deservedly met with
almost universal approbation.” The
sanity evident in Canada should not have
an embargo placed on it by this country.
The way Canada is getting down to its
war effort means that, if it can carry
it on for the duration, the Dominion
will come out of the war in excellent
industrial and economic shape to share
in post-war trade. Australia has just as
good a chance if it can only be per-
suaded to look facts in the face.
A Commonwealth loan of £74,079,100
will fall due for repayment on Nov. 15.
Mr. Fadden, who likes to talk in approxi-
mate figures, says a £100,000,000 loan is
to be floated on Oct. 7. Of this,
£70,000,000 is for the conversion and
£30,000,000 for the war effort. It may be
that the sinking fund will look after
£4,000,000 or so of the maturing issue
and that the Prime Minister’s figures are
roughly correct. Interest offered will be
2\ p.c. on five-year securities and 3i p.c.
on 9-16-year stock —these terms are the
same as for the last loan. At the end
of April last the Commonwealth
approached the market for £35,000,000,
of which £27,000,000 was for defence.
The public took £24,852,000 of the
£35,000,000. This time the operation
should not be any harder than on the
previous occasion provided Canberra’s
general attitude toward the war effort
doesn’t become more uninspiring than it
has been over the last few months. The
abolition of rebates of tax on divs. by
the Commonwealth and N.S.W. will bring
in anew class of subscriber, and money
on the whole is plentiful. But Fadden
and Labor had better be very careful
in their talk about the use of “bank
credit” for war finance or they’ll drive
people away from Government loans.
McKell, in robbing Peter to pay Paul,
is abolishing rebates of tax on divs. and
reducing the statutory exemption from
£250 to £156, while at the same time
increasing allowances for dependants
from £SO to £6O each and doing away
with the unemployed relief tax. Much
of his scheme to increase ordinary taxes
is still unrevealed. But “more than
£7,000,000 will be raised by extending the
scope of the income tax,” while the
“abolition” of the U.R. tax is expected
to involve the loss of £8,000,000. All
McKell’s “abolition” of U.R. tax amounts
to is a shifting or increasing of tax or
changing the name of the tax. Ordinary
income tax now reaches down into
classes it never touched before, and
double taxation is being imposed on
shareholders in cos. The Commonwealth
Government is also indirectly providing
McKell with some of his revenue by
virtue of the allowance it makes for State
taxes paid. Although total taxes to be
raised by N. S. Wales this year may be
little higher than last year, the fact that
the higher incomes are being asked to
pay more tax and the lower incomes less
means that the Commonwealth will be
cramped in the higher realms, where it
gathers most of its revenue.
• • • • • *
On an income from divs. of £2194
a N.S.W. taxpayer would, at last year’s
rates, pay £97 in U.R. tax and £9 in
super-tax. Assuming that he paid similar
rates from a similar income in the pre-
ceding term he would be allowed £lO6
as a deduction by the Federal authorities.
That would leave £2OBB as his taxable
income for Federal purposes, on which
he would pay £745 at current rates. But
under a system of State abolition of div.
tax rebates the ordinary N.S.W. tax and
super-tax would rise to £196, albeit the
U.R. tax has been wiped out, and the
taxable income for Federal purposes
would fall to £IO9B. The Federal tax
would thus drop £46 (to £699). And . that
is assuming that the general scale of taxes
on incomes in the vicinity of £2OOO isn’t
raised by McKell. It is a certainty that
it will be, in which case the Common-
wealth and the taxpayer will both con-
tribute further to the upkeep of N. S.
Wales’s ever-hungry finances.
• • • • • •
From a shareholder’s viewpoint the
main feature of McKell’s Budget has yet
to be revealed. As it stood on the day
of presentation, the abolition of U.R. tax
and the increased deduction for Federal
purposes almost offset the effect of the
cutting-out of rebates. On div. incomes
of about £2OOO, in the absence of any
increase in the general rate of tax, the
increase in all income taxes would be
about 4 p.c. But there will be an in-
crease in the rates, and that is what is
awaited.
* * * *
Bradford Cotton’s net profit of £66,087
was equal to 12.3 p.c. on ord. capital,
allowing for pref. requirements, com-
pared with 16.1 p.c. in 1939-40, when
the net result was £48,499. Paid capital
increased by £132,965 during the year,
adding to the remarkable growth since
1935. Much of the new capital raised
over the past couple of years hasn’t yet
had a chance to bring in anything.
Profit of Bradford and its subsidiaries
last term was altogether £68,197,
after providing £34,284 for depreciation
(up nearly £24,000) and £43,090 for taxa-
tion. Associate cos. are Austral Silk and
Cotton, C. and D. Mills, and Sanforising
Services of Australia. Austral Silk is
turning out cotton yarn, C. and D. canvas
and duck, and the Sanforising co. pre-
shrinks cotton goods by a patented pro-
cess. Vast expansion by the undertaking
as a whole so far hasn’t had time to be
reflected in current earnings. But later
on the new capital should do well for
itself. The old capital has worked
wonders. Very little of the co.’s business
is relying on war activity.


do not experiment with imitations.
C. BBAMDADM * CO, Ltd, BIRHIHGHAM. ENO
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
LANE'S
*o
'^S
° p ßimimq
NO PUMPING
11.
\et«W
CofT'P
VO*'
&
*l*
V©
SfJ°°
KEROSENE STOVE
□JU/AiLL
BWt
BLUE
in
s'
lights
SVOV
Go»
WVe
ONLY ONE FUEL
V. —Kerosene
eXPe^s7vE
A/O
vni
Osh
oL
e PI.
°c e
ABSOLUTELY SAFE and SILENT
SEE YOUR LOCAL STORE
NO THANKS',
/’c/ rather a
"Red Capstan/
; 'sMlmm
iltliiiiili
' I Ipp: gp « pj^
SMI •?• I® I V |
iSI^
gsg?
WMiM
.
■
as??-
■ssssses
■
$ 'A
r
■
»:
%
iH
iii
V... M
mth
■ o
ffi
M
, ' i
mm
I > Jl l-
lliii
;3*S
a ■
Z&SSS*'*
L
ssa
m
WMMMMM ilili
mmm.
1
d&eybe 4&nd&t /
tIME *ok A ! iTa
I ,\ \,
\ c ® \
& 1
Capstan Special Mild . . Red Packs ★ Capstan Medium . . Blue Packs ★ Capstan Full Strength . . Brown Packs
The break in the sharemarkets last
week had its beginning in Sydney, where
McKell’s Budget started the ball rolling
downward. His taxation proposals, so
far as it is possible to analyse them,
show no definite increase in taxation
except at the expense of the Common-
wealth Government. Even in the case
of abolition of rebates of tax on divs.
the additional burden to be imposed on
shareholders depend principally on the
new general taxation scale (that is still
to be announced), since the abolition of
U.R. tax partly compensated for the new
impost. The worst feature of the new
company-tax basis is the unsoundness of
the principle on which it will operate.
In Melbourne on Tuesday of last week
there were still more rises than falls on
’Change. In Sydney there were far more
falls than rises, and this applied to shares
in cos. domiciled outside of N. S. Wales.
A peak in Sydney prices was reached
on Monday, when the general index of
shares rose to 131.26, the highest level
reached for some years. By Wednesday
there was a fall to 129.16, which com-
pared more than favorably ■‘•with prices
established a couple of weeks ago and
was considerably up on the 116.50 “low”
of this year. Melbourne soon followed
Sydney’s trend, and in some instances
outstripped it in its downward drop.
Paper shares were a case in point. There
are great possibilities ahead of these cos.,
and in the recent enthusiasm of the
market Associated Pulp was pushed up
from 335. in August to 375. 6d. on Sept.
13. By the 16th the shares had slumped
to 355. 3d. in Melbourne, but were quoted
the same day in Sydney at 365. 3d. Aus-
tralasian Paper, which had rocketed to
38s. 9d., came down to 375. 3d. in both
cities. Accounts of the operating co.
came out the day of the market’s main
reverse, but the figures were not really
so disappointing as they looked at first
view. The 8 p.c. div. of the holding cos.
appears particularly well secured even
under the present heavy burden of
taxation, and after the war prospects
should improve out of sight.
- • • • • *
Tooth shares lost as much ground as
any stock. But Electro. Zinc, G. J. Coles
and Woolworths also figured prominently
in the setback. These are high-div. stocks,
and a Federal Budget is now due. A.C.I.
fully-paid shares dropped back from
50s, 6d. to 495. 6d. Broken Hill Prop,
shares, which had been taken cautiously
to 40s. during the period of enthusiastic
general buying, slipped back to 38s. 9d.,
then steadied at 395. This stock is still
almost as low as it has ever been during
the past few years.
On Friday the market eased a trifle
after an effort to rally. W. R. Carpenter
(up to 38s. 6d.) was an exception. The
previous setback, though sharp and
definite, was nothing compared with
what we have become used to in
recent times. In a measure it was due
to previous overoptimism, plus political
problems. The news of Russia’s increas-
ing difficulties on Thursday had no
noticeably adverse effect on prices. But
the whole aspect of the situation backed
up the view expressed here last week —
that “shares need to be bought selectively
and with full regard to the taxation in-
volved, with an eye to post-war possi-
bilities, and not forgetting the chances
of further depressing stretches before the
battle is won.”
» ♦ ♦ *
Broken Hill South’s net profit for the
year to June 30, after providing for in-
creased taxes, at £341,051 was £12,448
higher than in the year before and £9OOO
below the 1939 result. Developments
since the close of accounts have been
renewal of the British lead contract and
talk of the U.S. buying any surplus.
* * sfc *
London has also had its Stock Ex-
change boomlet. Speculative buying has
been affecting all classes of stocks. “A
victory-just-aroundffhe-corner” feeling is
the impression gathered by onlookers,
many of whom, however, aren’t so opti-
mistic. “A crazy movement,” one critic
calls it, adding that shrewd dealers will
soon start unloading the scrip they bought
up earlier at bargain prices, and “on any
less favorable turn of war news a lot of
people are going to be caught.” Last week
London industrial shares were at the
highest level of the year. The break in
the Australian markets was not related
to London tone.
* * * *
Australian Paper Manufacturers, the
essential asset backing of Australasian
Paper and Cumberland, provided £200,677
(up £75,677) for taxation and £234,930
(up £54,261) for depreciation, then
showed a net profit of £242,378 (down
£11,350). Had taxation and depreciation
charges been as in 1939-40, net profit
would have been up £119,000.
* * * *
George Farmer, the Ballarat bacon con-
cern, through its Melbourne secretaries
says it thinks unfair The Bulletin's
statement (3 /9 / ’4l) that the average div.
paid by ihe co. over the five years to
June, 1940, was 0.5 p.c. in view of the
fact that during the period £17,400 was
also declared in divs. on the pref. shares,
which were repaid in 1939. It is a fact
that during the period in which ord.
shareholders were paid an average of 0.5
p.c. the pref. shareholders received 8 p.c.
p.a. until paid off. The business since
has not had the use of this £60,000 of
pref. capital.


THE SERVICE MAN
Serious Beyond Question.
“Ek Dum”: Whatever may happen to
Mr. Fadden, he is entitled to the credit
of having told a nation which has been
over-exposed to wishful thinkers the cen-
tral truth about the Hitler-Stalin war. He
said on Wednesday that the position was
serious for Russia. In spite of obstinate
resistance and heavy losses, the German
attack had maintained its impetus and
was pushing steadily into the interior of
Russia.
Progress might be less than the Ger-
mans expected and the cost greater, but
it would be a profound mistake to sup-
pose the enemy had not calculated on a
campaign lasting into the winter, or that
the winter would necessarily hold him
up. Australia might have a direct part
to play in the programme of economic
aid to Russia, but no good purpose could
be served by taking on commitments
before the Governments of Britain, the
U.S.A. and Soviet Union had agreed on
a co-ordination plan.
By Sept. 15, although the wishful
thinkers were still performing in news-
papers and radio stations, the German
drives into the Ukraine had acquired a
bushfire speed. The one from Gomel
ate up Chernikov and in a single day
reached Konotop, 70 miles onward. A
second force, split into double prongs,
bored across two points on the Dnieper
75 miles apart. These were Von Rund-
stedt’s men of the southern army group.
Those coming down from the north,
where the world had been led to believe
that they were being hurled back towards
the border, were Von Bock’s central-
sector armies.
Driving across the river at Kremen-
chug, the ancient salt centre of the north
Ukraine, with an industrial population
of 70,000 and a great railway bridge
spanning the fast-flowing stream, Von
Rundstedt’s western column turned
north-west, while Bock’s spearhead came
down from the direction of Konotop and
linked hands with it on the morning of
September 16, having travelled about 200
miles in three days. This progress, was
almost matched by Von Rundstedt’s men,
showing that there was little resistance.
The bracelets were now completely
round Kiev, 125 miles to the west, and
Saturday brought an exultant German
bulletin to the effect that the city had
surrendered.
The first enemy account claimed that it
had been taken intact and that the Nazi
flag was “floating from the ancient
citadel.” A later report mentioned ter-
rible ruin and desolation. Water and
electricity works had been destroyed;
everything that could be wrecked had
been wrecked ; indeed the Russians them-
selves, true to their scorched-earth policy,
had devastated their loveliest city, which
holds over 800,000 people and is 1200
years ojd. An Italian report, in which
there was a note of pity absent from
the German accounts, mentions that the
city had been without water for a week
and that the inhabitants and the wounded,
who filled “schools, theatres, hotels and
private houses,” had not eaten for three
days.
The Russians did not admit the loss
of Kiev at once. On the morning of
September 21 they reported that the
outer defences had caved in, but that a
gallant defence was being put up in the
centre of the city. They announced that
the Germans had lost 40 per cent, of
their attacking forces in forcing the gates.
The Italian report testifies that the
defenders resisted for three terrible days
after the attackers had reached the centre
of the city.
While these dreadful scenes were going
on in the neighborhood of Kiev, two
wings of the Kremenchug German army,
the enemy asserted, had swung north-
east, joined with some other force from
the Ukraine and taken Poltava, only 88
miles from Kharkov. Kharkov (popu-
lation 800,000) is the huge arsenal and
industrial city which has fed Budenny’s
armies with materials and reinforcements
throughout his retreat. Poltava is a main
railway junction; its population is round
100,000.
The country about Poltava is an
unstable tertiary intrusion between the
chalk on its north-west and the granite
on its south-east edge. None of it is
more than 700 feet above sea-level. The
countryside is undulating, but deeply
scored with streams and ravines whose
banks are piled high on the eastward or
defensive side. It should have been
good terrain on which to bring up help
or reinforcements or to hold a spear-
head infusion of mechanised forces
during ordered Russian retirement.
The worst feature of the Poltava-
Kiev disaster is that the lassos of Bock
and Rundstedt caught four Russian
armies, which, Berlin announced grimly
on Sept. 19, were being “methodically
annihilated.” The Red Army journal
admitted the encirclements, but said the
Russians were resisting strongly. The
Germans claimed the capture of 150,000
prisoners, 151 tanks and 601 guns.
On other fronts the fighting had
not stood still. Germans and, to their
north, Hungarians broke across the
Dnieper between the wrecked Dnieper-
stroy Dam and the Black Sea, 40 miles
above Kherson, after fierce fighting for
a broad bridgehead. They debouched
out on to the plains and steppes of the
Taurida, cut the railway and road from
Moscow to the Crimea and reported
having reached Genischevsk, 200 miles
east of Odessa, opposite the belt of the
curious cutlass of land which stabs down
through the Sea of Azov on the east of
the Crimea. This is called “The Tongue
of Arabat,” and encloses the “Putrid Sea”
on its west. The Crimea covers about
10,000 sq. miles. At Sevastopol, 300
miles from the Bosphorus, it holds the
best-placed naval anchorage in the Black
Sea, and another good harbor nearer the
nine-mile strait which forms the entrance
to the Azov Sea in Theodosia. Much of
it is good country—it is the home of the
Russian merino—and strategically it has
an enormous value for any nation with
anything of a navy.
Evidently the Germans calculate that
by advancing across its neck they will
strangle the peninsula. The Russians can
be expected to put up a stout fight for
it. Its capture would shorten the way
for Hitler to the Caucasus oilfields by
300 miles and enable Von Rundstedt and
his men to take Budenny’s armies and
the great industrial country of the Don
and Donetz in the rear. And before he
passed the narrow isthmus of Perikop
the enemy ruthlessly bombed Crimean
towns. Some of these towns have their
roots in Byzantine history; others were
for centuries under Turkish rule ; others
again are enshrined in British military
annals.
This advance along the Black Sea
brings the German front within 250 miles
of the heart of the Don and Donetz in-
dustrial centres. Within that range are
Kharkov, Rostov (510,000), Torganrog
(149,000) and many other large mining,
industrial and seaport towns. Genichevsk
is the furthest-east point the Germans
have reached. It is 110 miles east of
the line of Smolensk ; about an equal dis-
tance west of the line of Moscow.
If the drive pursues its way along the
Azov coast and the Poltava spearhead
loops round Kharkov and turns south,
more great armies and almost all the
remaining part of the Ukraine which
matters industrially will be engulfed.
It is necessary, as Mr. Fadden has
acknowledged, to take a realistic view.
Hopeful talk about the huge resources on
which Russia can draw from beyond the
Volga and the Urals is born of vague
delusions. Even developed resources
cannot be made available quickly enough.
The essence of Russian needs beyond the
Donetz-Don region is railways on a
scale to serve swiftly a front which
will open out fanwise when it passes
the Kursk Hills. The Soviet Gov-
ernment does not possess such rail-
ways, and, if it did, this country could not
provide adequately the most important
munition of all —grain—or many other
things which the Ukraine alone produces.
The area which the Germans have
taken and immediately threaten —it is
about li time's the size of Victoria —
produced (1939) 80 p.c. of the coal of
the Soviet Union, 70 p.c. of its pig-iron,
50 p.c. of its steel, 60 p.c. of its iron
ores, 85 p.c. of the sugar output, 66-70
p.c. or its agricultural machinery and 95
p.c> of its iron ores, besides the grain and
other farm produce off 69,000,000 acres
of cultivation, or more than half the
whole cultivated area of the U.S.S.R.
The Caucasus produces over 90 p.c. of
the oil fuel used by the U.S.S.R. A
pushing forward of the Genichevsk spear-
head for another 200 miles would cut
off the last of the Black Sea routes by
which that oil can be got to the Russian
war front. The Volga-Tambov routes
will be the only ones left open by which
Moscow can be served with oil from the
Caspian. The whole outcome of the war
may depend on the ability of Budenny
to hold back the two movements toward
Kharkov and Torganrog.
As if they had not enough trouble on
their hands in the extreme south, the
defenders are in ;difficulties on other
fronts. Newspaper “experts” expatiated
on Marshal Timoshenko’s victory at Yart-
sevo, where road and rail bend 25 miles
n.-e. of Smolensk on the way to Moscow.
This news was interpreted as meaning
that the ruins of Smolensk might be again
invested. From a military point of view
this operation would be useless. In view
of what was happening on both the
northern and southern edges of the central
front Smolensk looked like a baited trap.
Only a couple of well-buried lines of
print told that a death struggle was in
progress for Bryansk. From that great rail-
way centre, it had been reported a week
before, the Russians hurled their enemy
back across the Desna. He turned up,
blasting his way up the valley only 20
miles from the important town.
Bryansk and its vital junction are about
150 miles from the Russian spear-
point at Yartsevo. Veliya Luki is about
150 miles n.-w. of Yartsevo. Eastward of
that, near Toropetz, another German
thrust towards Kalinin, on the Moscow-
Leningrad line, is in being. Let those
two thrusts —towards Kalinin and Bry-
ansk—break through suddenly and curl
round with the rapidity which marked
the Chernikov - Poltava - Kremenchug
drives and all Timoshenko’s armies de-
fending the face of Moscow might find
themselves enclosed and cut off from the
capital in the same way as Budenny’s
armies round Kiev. Even if Timoshenko
fought his way out, the extremes of the
line would have footholds which would
enable the invaders by that time to push
forward two more sides of a corral to
encircle Moscow.
If Leningrad fell, the bulk of Marshal
von Leeb’s forces would hurry southward
to sit on the Veliya Luki arm of Bock’s
northern thrust and give it added weight
or push east to get behind Moscow.
Leningrad, though still offering a very
stout defence, was in a perilous position
on September 20. The Germans in a
sad tone of voice read the order of the
day of the Leningrad defence committee,
which asserted that the city would be
defended to the last man and woman, and
that if the Germans captured it they
would find only a heap of ruins. The
Germans seemed much cast down by
this —it made their tender hearts bleed
to think that the Russians should submit
a population of 3,000,000 people to the
kind of Attilan barbarism which marked
the captures of Warsaw and Rotterdam ;
but they made it clear that the decision
would not have the slightest influence in
preventing them from being barbarians
on a vaster scale than ever.
In effect, Berlin reported that 1200
’planes had been bombing the city for
two days in devastating relays, and that
Von Leeb had penetrated the outer
suburbs; was, in fact, within eight miles
of the city proper —which is about six
miles across. But the Russians said on
Sunday that they were counter-attacking,
and though their fleet is hemmed into the
Gulf of Finland it seems to be co-operat-
ing usefully.
And the Russian outpost at Hango,
below Helsinki, has held out gallantly.
The Germans, however, reported on
Sept. 21 that they had occupied Oesel,
the island from which Soviet bombings
of Berlin had been carried out, and the
neighboring island of Moon.
The brightest spot in the Russian
battles is Odessa, Besieged now for
nearly two months, its sea connections
gradually whittled away, it still fights
back. Last week Major-General Mors-
head, the A.I.F. commander of the forces
in Tobruk, sent a telegram expressing
Tobruk’s admiration for Odessa and
Odessa sent a spirited reply.
So long as Odessa resists it must
be a thorn in the side of the Germans,
and it will become doubly important if
Bulgaria comes into the war. On Mon-
day it seemed likely that relations
between Russia and Bulgaria would be
broken off immediately. A Sofia com-
munique declared that Russian para-
chutists had been dropped in the
Dobrudja and that a Russian submarine
had landed “terrorists, armed with radio
sets and explosives,” on Bulgarian soil.
An Istanbul report from the Indepen-
dent French Agency declared that the
Turks had closed the Dardanelles to war-
ships and intended also to control mer-
chantmen.
From the Far East there are reports
of disturbing developments. The Japanese
army in Manchukuo is on manoeuvre.
The Government at Tokyo has protested
to Russia against the presence of mines
in the Sea of Japan, and demanded
“adequate measures to assure peace and
security” in that sea. It is asserted in
Tokyo that mines have sunk some small
Japanese ships in Japanese territorial
waters. And U.S.-Japanese discussions
are declared to be at a standstill.
On Sept. 18 the Germans gave what
purported to be a precise account of their
losses in the Russian war from June 22
to August 31: Armies, 84,354 killed,
292,690 wounded, 18,921 missing ; Luft-
waffe, 725 machines, 1542 dead, 3980
wounded and 1378 missing. They de-
clared that they held 1,800,000 Russian
prisoners and had “probably” killed
more. There is a world of inhumanity
in that “probably.”
The Middle East Stirs.
“Ente Marid”: The back-end of the
Libyan summer is regarded in some
quarters as having been a period of sloth.
Actually, it would be better described as
a period during which each side has been
busy jumping on the immobilised bare
nerves of the other —adding bombs, land
mines, night sniping, star shells, tank
sorties and bayonet picnics to flies, fleas,
heat, dust, rocks-under-the-spine, inter-
mittent fever, itch, dryness and the atten-
tions of numerous African fauna which
fight on both sides.
Beginning on Sept. 13, there was a new
liveliness on the Libyan front. That
night lightning raids were made from
Tobruk, the success of which was adver-
tised by the soreness of Rome Radio.
They laid out a number of Italians,
smashed a few guns, and provoked the
enemy to retaliate with an indiscreetly
heavy posse of German tanks and
armored vehicles which, by weight rather
than daring, flattened and overran the
A.I.F. listening posts. They failed to get
away before British tanks arrived and
took their opposite numbers prisoner,
while the Tobruk artillery chased the
supporting infantry back to its jackal-
holes outside the perimeter. The stirrings
of Tobruk were echoed by restlessness
along the Libyan frontier.
There were other experiments and
mutual bombing of all battle-scarred towns
and ports between Mersa Matruh and
Tripoli. Most towns along the Libyan
coast now look on the nightly strafe as
something which is part of nature.
The Germans made a feature of
alleged bombings of camps and armored-
vehicle laagers early in the week, and
declared that they had also shot up the
harbors of Suez and Port Tewfik.
Next, two German-Italian armored
columns were discovered about 40 miles
inside the Egyptian border. Pretty hefty
units with 120 armored vehicles, they
were evidently sneaking down across the
plateau to try to cut the road to Siwa
Oasis. Patrols picked them up in time
and a suitable force, backed by S’African
bombers, made them glad to see home
again.
On September 16 Cairo had a raid
which killed 39 persons and wounded 93
—not only barbarous but stupid because
of its effect on the Arab world. The Ger-
mans declared that their attack was on
the R.A.F. base at Heliopolis, and they
had a list of military damage as long
as Dr. Goebbels’s tongue to record. But
Cairo ruins and wounded told the story
and the Egyptian Government protested
to Berlin. Alexandria was attacked two
nights afterwards and there were a few
civilian casualties.
On Sept. 14 S’African armored forces
were in action for the first time on
the Libyan border. They captured 10
German tanks for the loss of one armored
car. Tanks, aircraft and arms flow in
an unending stream to the Army of the
Nile, and the liveliness continues. Axis
shipping was given a bad time during
the week. A Dutch submarine sank an
Italian 6000-ton supply ship and a 1200-
ton sailer. The Italians admitted the
sinking of two motor ships off Tripoli,
and the F.A.A. hit a ship in a convoy.
Mr. Churchill’s estimate of 750,000
troops in the Middle East —which stag-
gered more people than the Germans —
has given Berlin the horrors on a large
scale. On Sept. 16 Berlin Radio dwelt
at length on its expectation of a large-
scale British offensive in Libya; and
another Berlin reporter heard later in
the week through Madrid that “hun-
dreds of merchant ships” were on their
way round the Cape with supplies for
the Middle East and Russia.
Though shelling has been heavier,
reconnaissances more frequent and raid-
ing continuous since the sorties of Sept.
13, it was said in Whitehall there were
no signs that a major offensive was
imminent. Indeed, there is not likely to
be anything serious while the Axis com-
manders are on the alert, unless the Army
of the Nile has become so strong that
surprise doesn’t matter.
There is a striking difference in the
Middle Eastern scene from that presented


Missing Friend.
ESTATE OF WILLIAM SCOTT, late of Wel-
lington (N.Z.), formerly a labourer, but latterly
a hairdresser and tobacconist (known in boxing
circles as “Nugget” Scott, and who at one time
worked on the N.S.W. Railways and the
Woronora Dam). Would any person knowing
the whereabouts of the parents, brothers, sisters
or next-of-kin of the above-named, please
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Wellington?
INFORMATION is required as to DONALD
LLOYD FINEY (a son of Stephen Finey and
Annie Maria Finey, both deceased, and late
of Alawoona, South Australia). Served in Grbat
War, on Fruit Block at Glossop (S.A.) in 1920-
1921, last heard of in Griffith (N.S.W.) in
July, 1937, in Picton (N.S.W.) in May, 1938, and
Penrith (N.S.W.) in September, 1938. Particulars
required by FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE
EXECUTORS and TRUSTEES LIMITED,
36 Franklin Street, Adelaide (S.A.).
INFORMATION is required concerning
CHARLES WILLIAM JOHNSTON, formerly
of Bridgetown, Western Australia, last heard
of in Melbourne, Victoria, in December, 1920.
If alive he would now be about 75 years of
age. Particulars required by SLEE & ANDER-
SON, Solicitors, Bunbury, Western Australia.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1166 of 1941.
BETWEEN EMMA FREEMAN Petitioner and
HOWARD ST. AUBURN FREEMAN Respon-
dent.
TO HOWARD ST. AUBURN FREEMAN
late of Newcastle in the State of New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EMMA FREE-
MAN has commenced a suit against you in
this Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired to enter an appearance to the said suit at
the proper office of this Court on or before the
Sixteenth day of December One thousand nine
hundred and forty-one and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Seventeenth day of September,
a.d. 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
BRAYE, CRAGG & COHEN, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, Bolton Street, Newcastle;
by BRAYE & MALCOMSON, 92 Pitt Street,
Sydney, City Agents for BRAYE, CRAGG &
COHEN.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1062 of 1941.
BETWEEN ESTHER MARY DEVERNE Peti-
tioner and
WILLIAM FREDERICK DEVERNE Respon-
dent.
TO WILLIAM FREDERICK DEVERNE late
of Auckland New Zealand and late of 173
Coogee Bay Road Coogee.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ESTHER
MARY DEVERNE has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the ground of de-
sertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this Court
on or before the 12th day of December One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on appli-
cation to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of September
One thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
BOYCE & BOYCE, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner, 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 370 of 1941.
BETWEEN GLADYS KATE ANDERSEN
Petitioner and
ALFRED WILLIAM ANDERSEN Respon-
dent.
TO ALFRED WILLIAM ANDERSEN late
of Sydney in the State of New South
Wales Labourer.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GLADYS
KATE ANDERSEN has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Fifteenth day of Decem-
ber One thousand nine hundred and forty-one
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Eighteenth day of September,
1941.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. G. PALMER, Solicitor for Petitioner, 9
Bligh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1412 of 1941.
BETWEEN LILIAN ANDERSON Petitioner
and
STEPHEN ANDERSON Respondent.
TO STEPHEN ANDERSON.
TAKE NOTICE that the said LILIAN
ANDERSON has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court on the grounds
of desertion without any just cause or excuse
for a period of three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Fifteenth day of December One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-one and in the
event of your not so doing within the_ time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and de-
termined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned solicitor free
of charge.
DATED this Sixteenth day of September, a.d.
1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ALLAN E. CUPIT, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
five months ago. What has been accom-
plished is a remarkable tribute to the
efficiency of the command. The Italians
have been virtually driven out of the
war, so far as they are to be considered
as a fighting force. Ethiopia has
been cleaned up, Iraq stabilised, Syria
secured (if it wasn’t secure before), the
campaigns of Greece and Crete redeemed
from disaster, and the air position revo-
lutionised by the re-equipping of squad-
rons throughout with new machines in
place of the ancient but trusty biplanes
in which the R.A.F. and R.A.A.F. suf-
fered earlier. Above all, the Mediter-
ranean has become Admiral Cunning-
ham’s mare nostrum, save along the
French African coasts and in the TEgean.
Cyprus has been made safe, the Iranian
gate blocked —it was a danger spot, but
it could not be closed till Russia agreed.
The approaches to Suez have been cleared
of raiders, the Red Sea of Italian naval
units.
The Middle East forces are now in
an offensive rather than in a defensive
position, if Mr. Churchill’s figures are
right. No doubt the Command will be
glad to be rid of the Libyan campaign
as early as possible, with an eye on the
possibility of greater things.
If Bulgaria should enter the war against
Russia, a consummation for which Hitler
seems anxious, Middle East affairs might
assume a different color. Turkey
might be dragged in on one side
or the other. The prophetic maps
published in Germany by the official
organ of Hitler’s Black Guards in 1937
marked out a strip the whole depth of
Asia Minor, west of Adalia on the south
and the mouth of the Sakaria River,
with Thrace and the Bosphorus and Dar-
danelles, as Germany’s final bit of booty,
after the Baku oilfields had come under
the flag of the Reich. On the other hand,
the Turks might be tempted with an offer
of the Armenian and other districts which
they tried to wrest from Russia towards
the end of the last war.
The possibility of a Russian collapse
cannot be forgotten. It would at once
turn Iraq, Iran and Syria into front
defence lines in a battle for British pos-
sessions in Asia.
British Naval Losses.
“Nobby II”; Ship casualties in the
R.N. throw an instructive light on the
gallant and ceaseless effort of the sea
forces, as well as on the relative deadliness
of the various forms of attack. They
also show up the blind folly and in-
gratitude of newspaper strategists whose
ceaseless cry is for more “expeditions.”
To the end of the Cretan campaign
four British battleships had been hit by
bombs, four by torpedoes one was
Royal Oak, sunk in Scapa Flow one
by gunfire, and one touched a mine.
Two battle-cruisers —Hood and Renown —
were hit by gunfire, and Hood was sunk.
Of 23 cruisers recorded as hit by
bombs, five were lost; of nine hit by
torpedoes, two sank. Other agencies
damaged eight or nine but not lethally.
Two auxiliary merchant cruisers went
down under gunfire, five others were hit
by shells, and 11 out of 13 hit by tor-
pedoes were sunk.
One aircraft-carrier was sunk by gun-
fire and one torpedoed—Courageous and
Glorious—and the new Illustrious and
another received bomb hits. Over 30
destroyers were bomb-marked, ten being
sunk. Twelve were struck by torpedoes
—six were sunk ; of 18 hit by mines eight
were sunk; of 10 hit by gunfire four
went to the bottom. Bombs got 10 mine-
sweepers, and the waters closed over four
out of six which struck mines.
The gallant little trawlers suffered most
of all. Over 40 of 50 hit by bombs were
sunk, and between 40 and 45 are on the
bottom as the result of mines.
"Capture or Destroy."
“Nobby II”: President Roosevelt lost
no time in issuing orders to the U.S.N.
to “capture or destroy, by every means
at your disposal,” Axis raiders above or
below the sea surface between the Ameri-
can continent and the waters adjacent to
Iceland.
The U.S.N. at once reported that con-
tracts had been let for 2851 ships. It
announced that 17 battleships, 12 air-
craft carriers, six large cruisers, eight
heavy cruisers, 40 light cruisers, 74 sub-
marines, 197 destroyers, 51 minesweepers,
431 submarine chasers and 17 floating
workshops are under construction. It is
a navy in itself comparable with the
whole of Britain’s in peace time, and will
completely alter the naval balance of the
world when added to the fleets afloat.
On September 17, Colonel Knox,
, Secretary for the Navy, said that U.S.
naval units were convoying goods sold
under the Lend-Lease legislation to
Britain.
He admitted that the U.S.N. was help-
ing to hunt for the German raider which
is supposed to be operating in the South
Pacific. And there is talk of handing
over to Britain German and Italian ships
seized by Uncle Sam.
On September 18 President Roose-
velt asked Congress for another
£ A 1,500,000,000 to buy arms and ammu-
nition for Britain and her allies, under
the Lend-Lease Bill.
Up to August 31 supplies had totalled
in value £A101,425,G00; but actual
previous allocations from the
£2,187,000,000 vote made by Congress
were £1,900,000,000-odd and contracts
for over £1,000,000,000 already have been
let. It gives a glimpse of the avalanche
of materials which will be available next
year.
The new vote which has been asked
for calls for nearly £300,000,000 for fresh
ordnance supplies, £210,000,000 for ships,
£170,000,000 for ’planes and £100,000,000
for armored equipment and vehicles.
Uncle Sam is certainly getting ready
to do his bit. His last actions have
brought him perilously near to war, and
one of Colonel Knox’s naval advisers let
it out to a press conference on September
17 that preparations had gone even as
far as the netting and mining of the
approaches of several jmportant U.S.
harbors.
A report reached Washington that a
U.S. warship had sunk a German raider
operating in the South Pacific. Presi-
dent Roosevelt would not affirm or
deny it.
But the U.S. Postmaster-General told
a conference on Saturday: “War is upon
us. We did not go out to meet it, but
it swept the seas like a hurricane, chal-
lenging our freedom.”
“Aileron”; German Radio —when it
could make itself heard above the echoes
of the aurora —has been bragging of the
“failure” of the R.A.F. onslaughts on
the Continent. Though the R.A.F. is
not doing its dangerous job without loss,
it has other views. On Sept. 16 the Rhine-
land saw some of its towns burning; on
Wednesday 300 fighters made terrific
swoops on many objectives ; on Thurs-
day Le Havre was further battered, with
other northern French towns. The R.A.F.
shot down 17 machines, of which Aus-
tralians bagged four and Maorilanders
three. R.A.F. losses were one Blenheim
and 13 fighters, of which four were Aus-
tralian. On Friday bombers flew 1300
miles to raid Stettin. And Saturday was
the Fighter Command’s busiest day since
January. Sweeps were made from the
Netherlands to Cherbourg, and heavy
bombers were covered in a series of raids
which ranged as far as Berlin and Frank-
furt. Flight-Lieutenant Finucane, the
Irishman who leads the Australian fighter
squadron, accounted for three out of six
enemy machines bagged by the fighters,
and Sergeant Chisholm, of the squadron,
destroyed his fifth Messerschmitt. Enemy
raiding was light—a few machines were
over England, and at the mid-week
bombs were dropped over the Thames
estuary.
* * * ♦
Men from H.M.A.S. Stuart are home
on leave after two years at sea, having
been in almost every naval engagement
in the Mediterranean. Stuart helped to
bombard Bardia in June and July, 1940,
was under heavy fire from a cruiser in the
battle of Calabria, was at Matapan and
in the Greece and Crete evacuations, and
acted as part of the screen to the battle-
ships during the Syrian naval bombard-
ments. War seems to agree with the
visitors —they are as hefty-looking a lot
of ratings as any navy could produce,
* * * ♦
“Tovarish”: Regulations governing the
new Red Army political command make
it clear that commissars have been placed
at the front as the “representatives of the
Communist party and the Soviet Gov-
ernment” :
The war has demanded that our political
workers do not confine their activities to
propaganda but also assume responsibility
for military operations at the fronts.
Commissars are to “comb out and re-
port” to the Red Army High Command
and to the Party officers whose conduct
is “unbecoming” and also draw up lists
of cowards and panic-mongers and
traitors and deserters. They were
assigned on July 19 to every “regiment,
division, military school, army company,
battery and battalion.” In effect, every
officer from company commander up-
wards is now under the orders of a Com-
munist politician. This may help to ex-
plain those very tardy American relief
measures.
* * * *
Major General Iven Mackay told Syd-
ney Legacy Club that it , was “only a
fluke” that the A.T.F. was mixed up in
the Crete campaign. It was never in-
tended that Australians should garrison
the island, but many shiploads were driven
there by enemy action, and others went
because the voyage was short and ships
could unload there as a halfway house
and hurry back to the Morea for another
cargo. Thus it happened that many units
which had strapped their equipment in
Greece arrived without more than one or
two rifles or machine-guns:
The men were not properly equipped
when the Germans attacked. They were
mixed up in different units and were immo-
bile.
It was almost impossible to evacuate
some of the troops in the centre of the
island, the general said. The 7th Battalion
(Victorians) was left behind almost entire.
And many are still in the island, not as
prisoners, but wandering about free try-
ing to look like peasants, they—with their
usual versatility—having learned the art
of disguise in Greece.
* * * *
“Ek D.” pieces the facts together:
The German order of battle is; ’Planes as
advance artillery, fast, light units for recon-
naissance and disruption, fast-medium tanks —
up to 25 tons —heavy tanks and armored units,
and infantry. Marshal Tuchachevsky favored
this German method, and based his defence plan
upon it before he was shot. He scoffed more
than once in military papers at Marshal Voro-
shilov’s idea that a war could be won against the
Germans “through the enthusiasm and fighting
power of the individual Russian soldier.” The
Voroshilov technique is to use massed infantry
heavily armed with light weapons and sup-
ported by armored brigades. Finnish corre-
spondents reported in the Kurkijoki sector on
August 18 that Russian troops were so tightly
packed that “not one Finnish shell was
wasted.” Hanson Baldwin, the N’York “Times”
military critic, wrote that great masses of
infantry, whose principal arm was the rifle,
and uniformed guerrillas, principally armed with
rifle and pistol (whose fate if caught was death),
were “in one sense the shock troops of the
Soviet Union.” Russian Field Service Regula-
tions say “infantry in close co-operation with
artillery and tanks determines the outcome of
the battle... .Therefore, other types of arms,
acting jointly with the infantry, perform their
tasks in the interests of the infantry both in
offensive and defensive action.” But editions
since 1939 are not available.
* * * *
One of the most formidable of the new
British tanks had “Banjo” Paterson for a
godfather. A deadly medium-heavy type
of British Panzer, it has been christened
“Waltzing Matilda.”
* * ♦ *
“Nobby II”; The “London Gazette”
establishes Tommy Eagles, aged 16, as
the youngest potter of a German raider.
Tommy was making his second voyage
when a bomber attacked his merchant
ship, wounded the 60-year-old gunner
with shell splinters and put his gun out
of action. Enter Tommy in his pyjamas,
a determined gleam in his eye and un-
mindful of a hail of bullets. He fixed
the gun and one more raider bit the
waves. “Good work,” said the Govern-
ment, handing him a civilian decoration,
though a civilian may receive a V.C.
when he bears arms.
• * • ♦
“X.T.”; Reza Shah Pahlevi, who has
abdicated in Iran, was a cavalry officer
in the last war, and came into power
with a stern determination to have an
efficient army. His methods of getting
it smacked of those of the Augustan
Roman emperors, and, though he never
went so far (like Nero) as to make a
slack colonel climb a greased elephant and
slide down a rope off it for the amuse-
ment of a sportsground crowd, he at least
was causing a sensation when I was last
in his realm. He had shot an officer
who limped across a parade ground out
of step.
“Tamum Shud”: The new Iranian
Shah, Prince Mahomet Riza, took the
oath during the week, as the Russians
reached Tehran. British and Russian
staff officers had entered the city earlier
in the morning. The British procession
was headed by heavy armored cars, fol-
lowed by mechanised infantry. Russia’s
detail arrived more spectacularly, its
column being headed by a large tank
flying the red flag. Associated Press
(America) reported that conferences are
in progress to settle misunderstandings—
Russians, using parachutists, having seized
barracks, aerodromes and railway yards
without consulting the British. The first
batch of surrendered Germans from Iran
is on its way to British India. Britain’s
old enemy, the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem,
is said to be sheltered in the Japanese
embassy at Tehran, and the Iranian Gov-
ernment, at the request of the British
Ambassador, has asked that he shall be
handed over.


Only Gillette can make
this three-angled
cutting edge...
N)
li
,v*vvwwj '
GILLETTE
SHOULDERED
EDGE
The micro-sensitive adjustment of Gillette’s
own machines make possible the three angles
of the Gillette cutting edge. The super-hard
steel of the Blue Gillette takes a keener edge and
holds it longer. But the cutting edges of Gillette,
being so delicate, must of course be handled
carefully. Hold a wrapped blade up to the light
and you will see that the edges do not come in
contact with the wrapping. Hold the blade by the
ends and every Gillette blade will serve you longer.
USE
GILLETTE
BUY
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
AND SAVE STEEL
Gillette sets 2/7i to 47/-. Blue Gillette Blades 5 for 1/7.
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“The Lost Melody,” by a Danish
author and put on by the new Gong
Theatre at Melbourne University Union
under the direction of B. N. Jubal, of
Vienna, was announced as a new and
revolutionary approach to the theatre,
inasmuch as audience and stage became
intermingled. Since audiences can’t help
identifying themselves with the charac-
ters in a play if it is a good play, audi-
ences and theatre have been mingled
since the days of Euripides and Shak-
speare, so there is nothing new in that,
Hero of the piece is Mr. Johnson, a
dissatisfied white-collar worker who
thinks that out in the sunlit world of
Nature there is a melody which will
charm away his discouragement. Eleven
of the scenes are devoted to his railings,
then he marries and gives his wife the
exclusive benefit of listening to his corn-
plaints about everything in creation. The
remaining scenes are given over to his
search, assisted by his wife, her mother
and father, for the lost bit of spiritual
music. In the last scene he makes the
blinding discovery that it is better to lead
any sort of life than the life of conven-
tion, and the lost melody is found ; but the
playwright doesn’t explain how the con-
ventional Mr. Johnson can act unconven-
tionally with his intellectual equipment,
so his solution raised more questions than
it answered. Harry Marks as the self-
pitying Johnson, Bettye Goldsmith as his
wife, Ida Glasser and Leo Cash as the
mother and father, and the rest of the
40 performers did their parts well, but
the effect was too pretentious. Music,
written specially by Diana Halford and
orchestrated by Gladys Warland, with
Dr. H. Schildberger conducting, was very
pleasant.
* * * *
O. D. Bisset and G. F. Hole, who pro-
duced Walter W. Ellis’s “A Little Bit of
Fluff” for Sydney’s Independents, them-
selves acted the main roles and struggled
valiantly to inject a little life into the
outworn farce. That they succeeded at
times in drawing a little laughter from its
hackneyed situations was a sterling
achievement.
* * * *
A new bill at Sydney Tiv., “Ladies
First,” has an entirely feminine cast, and
it is understood that the management has
engaged a team of visiting' American
wrestlers to cope with any unfortunate
misogynist who strays in. The long stretch
of high-pitched speaking and singing voices
without the relieving effect of the lowly
male tends to make the auditory impres-
sion of the show rather flat, but that is
atoned for by the feminine touch, notice-
able in that it is a particularly well-
dressed show—the finale with chorus and
entire cast in Scottish rig is the best seen
lately. Dorothy Foster comperes effi-
ciently, and Jenny Howard is the back-
bone of the piece, singing and goat-act-
ing in great form throughout. Custom-
ary vaudeville acts —magician, acrobats,
trick cyclist, juggler, etc. —cast a fairly
substantial doubt on the term “weaker
sex.”
* * * *
Melbourne Tivoli claims to have lifted
its present attraction, “Black and Blue,”
intact from the Hippodrome in London.
If so, it doesn’t look it, and Mo is
probably the all-sufficient explanation.
Mo would stamp his peculiar characteris-
tics even on the reading of a railway
timetable, and he succeeds in surrounding
with an aroma of sex even the simplest
statement. For the rest, the bill is
full and ample. James and Kuester
do remarkable things with hats, Elsa
Stenning does an oleaginous Danse
Romantique, and Billy Samuels is the
Foremost American Dancing Comedian
of the moment. A Sillysound Newsreel
conducted by Charles Norman has points
about it, as also have the Tivoli Love-
lies.
* * * *
Percy Code was the conductor of last
week’s A.B.C. orchestral concert in Syd-
ney, and the programme was an interest-
ing one. Delius’s “Paris —The Song of a
Great City,” amorphous in outline and
expressing the very antithesis of the
“Gay Paree” of the music halls, was pre-
sented with considerable dignity and
sweetness. The more familiar Fourth
Symphony of Tschaikowsky—the only
front-rank symphony which has been
completely programmed by its composer
—was played with more brusqueness and
less brooding melancholy than is usual,
but that’s a good tendency these times.
Harold Williams, whose voice has never
been in better fettle, obliged with
“Wotan’s Farewell.” He still sings this
splendidly. Elgar’s fine setting of a
Handel overture opened the concert.
* * * *
Jeanne Gautier, the staid and level-
headed-looking French violinist, was the
soloist at the eighth “celebrity” concert
at the Town Hall, Melbourne. The Men-
delssohn violin concerto would be popu-
lar with most, whoever played it, but
there was nothing staid about the lady’s
playing of it. She carried the exquisite
melody along with zest and finish, and
got an immediate response from the usual
vast assembly. William Cade, of Adel-
aide, was the “guest conductor.” He
made clean work of “The Flying Dutch-
man” overture, and in Saint-Saens’s sym-
phonic poem “Phaeton” gave a vehement
interpretation. Beethoven’s Second closed
the evening.
* * * *
Peter Cooper, a young Maorilander
who has recently gained a footing in
Sydney radio, gave a recital at History
House, Sydney, last week. He is
courageous—the Brahms Romance, Op.
118, and a Ballade and Chopin’s B
Minor Sonata challenged comparisons
with very great performers—but he is
technically well grounded and his Haydn-
playing is unequivocally delightful.
* * * *
There are no half-measures about the
children who attend the afternoon con-
certs revived last week at Melbourne
Town Hall by Prof. Heinze. They are
either completely bored or enraptured,
and, unlike adults, they don’t hesitate to
show one mood or the other. The pro-
fessor is a first-class raconteur and knows
how to play on his audience’s feelings. He
“explained” the structure of the music,
ran his orchestra through Wagner’s “Fly-
ing Dutchman” overture, Saint-Saens’s
“Danse Macabre” and other easily com-
prehended numbers, and got the young-
sters singing popular airs like “Swanee
River” in chorus.
Sydney Musical Society’s rendering of
“The Mikado” at Sydney Con. was, if
not startling, at least lively and enter-
taining. Joe Joseph (Ko-Ko) was the
life of the party, a little off the Gilsulli-
van path perhaps, but none the less
amusing for that. Stan Buddie (Pooh-
Bah) also good, if a little sonorous;
Frank Lisle (Pish-Tush) quietly capable ;
Reg Willoughby (Nanki-Poo) singing
tunefully, and John Faassen (Mikado)
particularly good. Marcia Schofield
(Katisha), Dorothy Licette (Pitti-Sing)
and Cath Williams (Yura-Yum) also fair
enough ; ladies of the chorus good with#
considerably more life than the gentle-
men.
AT THE TALKIES
Sydney Mayfair is giving fair value
for the price of seat with “The Devil and
Miss Jones” and “Hurry, Charlie,
Hurry,” both good, light entertainment
of the Hollywooden brand. The “Miss
Jones” piece concerns “the richest man
in the world,” who is dismayed when
his effigy is burned outside a large de-
partment store, which, he discovers, is
one of his many interests. He gets a
job in the slipper department of the store,
where he is accepted as a weary old
gentleman who has been turfed from job
to job and is held up as living example
of the cruelty of department stores and
their owners. A bewchus young counter-
jumper and her older cobber shower
kindness upon him, and so, when the
eventual showdown comes, all works out
as might have been expected from the
first half-dozen scenes. Highly romantic
and sentimental, but, with Charles
Coburn and Jean Arthur in the main
roles, it’s filling the pews.
“Hurry, Charlie, Hurry,” is a length
of congenial slapstick about a small-town
bank manager whose sassiety-climbing
missus talks him into inviting the “Vice-
President of the U.S.A.” to a house party.
Nobody, except the missus, expects the
V.-P. to arrive, and sundry cobbers of the
bank johnnie turn up disguised as the
august political gentleman, who eventu-
ally turns up in person and further con-
fuses matters. It’s been done before,
but with Australian Leon Errol carrying
the piece along with prodigous energy
it assays a laugh to the foot.
• ••••*
On stage is Roy Lagerlow, a mimic
whose vocal acrobatics carry him from
imitations of Disney’s “Goofy” and
Popeye to one of Richard Crooks.
Mimics come pretty thickly these days,
but Lagerlow’s a fair sample of a good
one.
* * * *
“The Great American Broadcast,” at
Sydney Regent, is a conventional stereo-
typed clotheshorse for Alice Faye,
roughly built round the development of
modern commercial broadcasting. John
Payne is an impecunious young man,
full of brilliant money-making ideas and
with a timely friend in Cesar Romero,
who is rolling in lucre. Jack Oakie once
again loses the goil to the ’andsome ’ero,
takes it like a man and continues to
mother the ’ero throughout the piece. It
is a stock story, but there are moments
of rather frothy entertainment. On
the same bill is a Disney short, “The
Little Whirlwind,” and he has yet to
turn in a bad one.
* * * *
Marlene Dietrich, who seems to have
beaten Mae West at her own game, is on
view again at Sydney State, this time as
an adventuress who nearly marries a
wealthy New Orleans banker, but ditches
him at the last moment for the hairy
chest of a rough, uncouth sailor lad.
Marlene’s acting is as bad as ever and
her figure seems a little more emaciated,
but she is still well and truly on view,
and that, evidently, is the main thing.
ARTBURSTS
The scope of competition for the Sher-
lock Gold Cup, given by the Australian
Amateur Cine Society, Sydney, has been
restricted by war conditions, but 19
entries were received this year. First
place is given to “Brown Men and
Red Sand,” by C. P. Mountford,
and is a record in color of an expedition
to Centralia promoted by the S.A. Tourist
Bureau. As a record of abo. life and
customs, apart from its iesthetic merits,
the film seems to be extraordinarily faith-
ful, while the strangeness of the scenery
(the locale is the Musgrave Range) and
the prevalence in it of pinks and reds
create a most unusual atmosphere. Binghi
in this record preserves his primitive dig-
nity. It is curious to note that the liberal
use of blue made by B. E. Minns and
other artists in representing the skin of
the abo. is corroborated by the color
camera. Runner-up film is “New Hamp-
shire on Parade,” a gorgeous record of
autumnal scenery made by F. C. Ells,
an American amateur. Films will be
shown at Sydney Con. on October 11.


AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB.
SPRING MEETING 1941
FIRST DAY, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 4.
THE A.J.C. DERBY, of £5OOO, ONE MILE AND A HALF.
THE EPSOM HANDICAP, of £3OOO, ONE MILE.
THE COLIN STEPHEN STAKES, of £l3OO, ONE MILE AND A HALF.
(Standard weight for age.)
SECOND DAY, MONDAY, OCTOBER 6 (Eight Hour Day).
THE BREEDERS’ PLATE, of £l3OO, FIVE FURLONGS.
THE METROPOLITAN, of £5OOO, ONE MILE AND FIVE FURLONGS.
THIRD DAY, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8.
THE CRAVEN PLATE, of £l3OO, ONE MILE AND A QUARTER.
■ (Standard weight for age.)
THE GIMCRACK STAKES, of £l3OO, FIVE FURLONGS.
FOURTH DAY, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 11.
THE RANDWICK PLATE, of £lOOO, TWO MILES.
(Standard weight for age.)
6 Bligh Street. SYDNEY.
GEO. T. ROWE. Secretary.
SPORTING NOTIONS
SPRUSO GIVES YOUR HAIR A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES.
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
There were 16,000 “paying guests,” as
well as others, at Rosehill on Saturday,
and tote turnover of £21,559. It was
almost as difficult to struggle through the
paddock betting ring as at Randwick on
a big day. Four winners were popular
with backers, but, while the respective
wins of Laureate, Gundagai and Recep-
tion should have put them on the right
side, some bookmakers reported to the
contrary. The track was in great order.
New records for Rosehill were made at
seven furlongs and 11 furlongs and at a
mile and a half over hurdles.
No excuse was possible for Yaralla’s
defeat in the Rosehill Guineas. Davis
handled him well, having him slightly in
front of Chatham’s Choice along the
back, and shooting him away at the
straight entrance to gain a lead that
looked like giving him the race. Then
Laureate appeared on the scene, and was
too solid for Yaralla over the last half-
furlong. It’s Funny, in third place, ran
well, but though Beau Son had a clear
passage most of the way his chance was
not a winning one after entering the
straight. Nor did Galliard do anything
to warrant the idea that he was some-
thing more than a useful handicap horse.
The Champion was another that scarcely
did as well as expected, though he made
up a little ground in the straight.
Chatham’s Choice failed to act up to
his Canterbury Guineas form, being well
beaten two furlongs from home. The
Bailiff was a complete disappointment.
He was unable to get near the front at
any part. The fact of jumping away
indifferently added merit to Laureate’s
win. The betting on the race was some-
what surprising, as, though it was scarcely
warranted by public form or his track
doings of last week. Beau Son opened
favorite at 2 to 1, while 7 to 2 was ob-
tainable about Yaralla. At the close of
business, however, the latter was favorite
at 2 to 1. Costing 600gns. as a yearling,
Laureate is by Law Maker (Phaleron-
Book Law, English St. Leger winner)
from Stage Wit, by Whittier-Stage Girl,
by Comedy King.
Rimveil was never seen to greater
advantage than in the Camellia Stakes.
Sixth at the half-mile he was fifth at the
turn, but, finishing strongly, he beat Ami-
able a length, after the latter appeared a
probable winner opposite the leger.
Hydra, who did the pacemaking, led
into the straight from Creditor and Ami-
able, and, though Valve cut him out of
third place in the last few strides, it
should not be long before he wins.
Creditor ran fairly, and Grand Fils did
sufficiently well for the greater part of
the trip to give him a winning chance
shortly in a slightly weaker field. Air
Link was not a possibility at any stage,
and, even admitting he struck a little
trouble, ran indifferently. It was the same
with Overbold, and the distance was too
short to give Remarc a chance ; while,
though he is again looking very bright,
Tuhitarata never got in it. In doing
1.24 F Rimveil cut a quarter-second off
Mohican’s course record.
High Caste never appeared in danger
of defeat in the Hill Stakes. Reading,
after being nasty at the post, quickly took
up the running, High Caste dropping into
second place, with Pandect and Lugano
reasonably close to him. At the turn it
was apparent High Caste could go up to
Reading when Bartle wished. High
Caste had Reading beaten as soon as the
straight was entered, but was kept mov-
ing to stall off a strong challenge by
Pandect, who surprised by running such
a good race at a distance regarded as
short for him. Lugano was last, and
some distance behind Reading, his form
going towards confirming the idea that
the standard of the three-year-olds is not
up to that of the older horses. High
Caste’s record is now 58 starts for 30
wins, inclusive of two dead-heats, 18
seconds, four thirds and £31,540 in prize-
money.
Form followers received a setback
when Gundagai won the Rosehill Spring
Handicap. His showing at Randwick the
previous Saturday was below stable
expectations, but joining Chatoona in the
lead in the final furlong in Saturday’s
race he beat the latter half a head. Fifty
yards from the post Gundagai held a
slight advantage, but then Chatoona got
his head in front, only to be again dis-
placed by Gundagai in the last two or
three strides. Binnia Hero, another that
ran badly at Randwick, was a moderate
third, followed by Yours Truly, who was
prominent throughout. Santa had a long
lead at one stage, but died away at
the finish, as did Malagigi, who was
fourth a. .he leger. , . .
Heavily-backed Dashing Cavalier, who
was the whipper-in along the back, made
up a lot of leeway to finish fifth. He
is a hard horse to follow, as though
he may win brilliantly one week he seems
as likely as not to cut up badly the next,
His owner and trainer must have found
him something of a puzzle. The pace
was too fast throughout for Anpapejo,
Discipline and Dyne, but that was not
surprising, seeing that Santa made it so
lively that in winning Gundagai made a
course record of The previous
best was Oro’s 2.17 J-.
* • • “ • ■ *
Reception made an all-the-way win of
the first division of the Highweight Han-
dicap. When Tel Asur made a dash
in the straight he looked a winner, but,
despite his steadier of 9.12, Reception did
the better over the last bit. Maorilander
Monte Christo was a good third, and
may pick up a race before returning
home. In finishing fourth Überous
showed that he is coming on again, while
Roxford did not acquit himself nearly
so well as at Randwick a week earlier,
He commenced smartly, was well placed
to the turn and then dropped out.
......
Merrimba did not shine in Connette’s
race at Randwick, but he worked so well
on Thursday last that he was strongly
supported for the second division of the
Highweight Handicap, though Jazbeau
and Widden were in greater demand. Jaz-
beau showed his customary pace, but
though he led at the turn, where Mer-
rimba was fourth, the latter’s finishing
run was too much for him. As Mer-
rimba’s previous win was at Rosehill he
evidently has a liking for the track. Fairy
Glass, in third place, ran on sufficiently
well in third place to justify her owner
in looking for a win with her in the near
future. Brazen Lad was backed, but
never threatened danger, and Brazen Boy
was one of the tail-enders practically
throughout.
Glaucus opened and closed at a short
price for the Hurdle Race, and justified
his favoritism by leading throughout.
Tartanus, Mab’s Boy and Brethren were
his nearest followers along the side and
back, and, though the first-named never
looked a probable winner, he made a
promising showing. Up to the straight
entrance Mab’s Boy seemed a certainty
for third, but he then tired so greatly
that he was beaten by Glittering Flame,
who, considering the ground he lost at
the jump at the side, did well to get a
place. He is worth following as a
hurdler, while, apart from Mab’s Boy,
there seems little hope of any of the un-
placed runners giving an early return,
though a longer distance would help
Mag Mort. Glaucus cut out the mile
and a half in 2.38 i, further demonstrat-
ing that it is necessary for present-day
hurdlers to have a full share of pace in
order to win races.
* * * *
El Golea, victim of gangsters who shot
him in mistake for Beau Vite last spring,
and who still has two bullets embedded
in a hind leg, gave further proof of his
sound constitution and gameness by
carrying 9.5 to success in the Mentone
Cup on Saturday. Previously he had not
won beyond a mile, but the manner in
which the Newmarket winner ran the 10
furlongs with 81b. more than his Caul-
field Cup weight has brought him into
more favor for the latter race.
It was a muddling and at times rather
rough race, so excuses are possible for
several of the beaten runners. On the
other hand, the slow early pace prob-
ably suited El Golea, who was always
well-positioned, missed all interference,
hit the front at the top of the straight
and battled on well to win from Ronolive
and Historian, with only necks separat-
ing them. Ronolive, last coming to the
half-mile, and almost off the course after
a remarkable run had carried her near
the leaders at the turn, was definitely un-
lucky, but El Golea is staying better than
previously, and a mile and a half might
not now be beyond him. He failed in the
Caulfield Cup last year after momentarily
looking dangerous at the turn, but has
61b. less to carry this spring, when he will
be ridden again by N. Creighton. An
offer of 700gns. was refused recently for
El Golea, who will have his next race in
the Melbourne Stakes at Flemington on
October 4.
Ronolive was never better than at
present. On Saturday she carried only
41b. more than her Caulfield Cup weight,
but she adds to the long list of possibili-
ties for that race. No excuse was pos-
sible for Historian, and he will need to
improve to better his third in last year’s
Caulfield Cup. Velocity, carrying 81b.
more than his Cup weight, ran on strongly
to finish fourth, and he may have done
better had the race been more truly run.
His failure did not lessen his Caulfield
Cup chance, while Sir Locket’s rather im-
pressive fifth regained him most of the
admirers he had lost at Moonee Valley
three days earlier. Australian Cup
winner Saul did best of the others, and
he is close to another win.
Hopes are entertained that Millais,
winner of the second division of the
Yarraman Handicap, will develop into a
definite prospect for the Caulfield
Guineas and the Victoria Derby, A
good-looking chestnut colt by Portofino
from Fissian, trained by L. McCann for
Mrs. Norman Meyers, he is a half-
brother to the Oaks winner French Gem,
and, judged by his comfortable defeat
of Gay Revelry and Danfino over seven
furlongs on Saturday, a distance should
not trouble him later. Gay Revelry, who
conceded Millais 111 b., recorded a ster-
ling performance after being third-last at
the half-mile and going very wide on the
turn. It is improbable, however, he will
improve as much as Millais, who did not
have his first run until March and has
raced only four times in all. At the time
of writing it was intended to run Millais
in the Pascoe Handicap at Moonee
Valley next Saturday, and more will be
known of his classic prospects should
he contest that race.
Millais and Gay Revelry are first
acceptors for the Caulfield Guineas, but,
quite apart from the fact that Laureate,
Yaralla, All Love and other horses
with better performances in the same
race, neither was as impressive on
Saturday as High Road. The last-named,
who has built up into a very powerful
colt, did well to run fourth among the
older horses in the Leslie Stuart Stakes.
Slowly away, he finished strongly, and
may have been even closer had he not
met with a check inside the last furlong.
High Road was racing for the first time
since his defeat of All Love in the Ascot
Vale Stakes in the autumn, and appeared
more than a handful for his lightweight
rider, T. Unkovitch. Trainer L. Robert-
son stated after the race that High Road
may not run again until the Guineas,
after which he will tackle the Victoria
Derby. He will be ridden by A. Breasley
in both those races.
Panka, owned in S.A., but trained in
Melbourne by F. Godby, won the Leslie
Stuart Stakes decisively from Angular
and Orcadian. While Aurie’s Star and
Operatic cut at each other for the lead,
Panka was ridden confidently by Purtell,
who timed his run nicely and won with
almost two lengths to spare. Panka has
won over nine furlongs at Flemington,
and may be a possibility for the Cantala
Stakes, in which he has 8.0. Quality
Handicap conditions, combined with an
allowance of 51b., reduced Aurie’s Star’s
weight to 8.9, but, although sent out
favorite, his lack of dash at the finish
afforded further proof that he is on the
downgrade.
A plunge on Liege misfired in the first
division of the Yarraman Handicap.
Backed from sevens down to favoritism
at 7 to 2, he began slowly and finished
only seventh without ever flattering his
supporters. Morvi, an Eastern Monarch-
Serenelle colt, compensated for a recent
Ascot failure by disputing the lead with
Windward, taking sole charge when
fairly on the way for home and win-
ning decisively from Lilette and The
Trapper. The Trapper, although over
four lengths behind the winner, looked
unlucky. He struck trouble near the half-
mile and was ahead of only two of the
16 runners at the turn.
Chamberlain, a Caulfield and Mel-
bourne Cup lightweight, recorded an
attractive win from Manawatu and Para-
mente in the first division of the Dande-
nong Welter. He hit the front about a
furlong and a half from home, and was
not in danger of defeat subsequently.
Even if not up to Cup standard, Cham-
berlain has been a good proposition at
FOR RANDWICK.
By “PILOT.”
Trial Hurdle Race: Duke Claro,
1 ; Glaucus, 2; Tartanus, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Lam-
beth, 1 ; Thrax, 2 ; Steal On, 3.
Novice Handicap: Dark Warbler,
1 ; Winooka Girl, 2; Pan Pipe or
Goldbrook, 3.
Flying Handicap: Flying Knight,
1 ; Irish Sea, 2 ; Merrimba, 3.
Green Hills Handicap: Aristocrat,
1 ; Triggerman, 2; Gilltown, 3.
Welter Handicap; Fly, 1 ; Status,
2 ; Tetreen or Fan Dancer, 3.
FOR RED CROSS MEETING
AT RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Charity Encourage Handicap:
Lo Dokes, 1 ; Duke Cullen, 2 ; Rap-
ture or Dundalk, 3.
Three - year - old Handicap:
Lagoon, 1 ; Magi, 2 ; Justitia, 3.
A.I.F. Quality Handicap:
Freckles, 1 ; Hydra, 2 ; Panchio or
Irish Sea, 3.
Red Cross Cup: Gundagai, 1 ;
Yours Truly, 2 ; Goose Boy, 3.
City Tattersall’s Stakes: Beau
Vite, 1 ; High Caste, 2 ; Lucrative,
3.
Diggers’ Highweight Handicap:
Metallic, 1 ; Omapo, 2 ; Jazbeau or
Tetreen, 3.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(Before acceptances.)
Pascoe Handicap: Millais, 1;
Vermont, 2 ; Spearmain, 3.
Merri Trial Handicap: Quiamo,
1 ; Aynoona, 2 ; Yeldir, 3.
Lindsay Gordon Steeple: Grac-
stello, 1 ; Riccarton, 2 ; Dorset, 3.
Quality Handicap: Zonda, 1 ; Sun
Valley, 2 ; Tea Cake, 3.
Tullamarine Handicap: True
Flight, 1 ; Sir Locket, 2 ; Ronolive,
3.
Ailsa Welter: Plana, 1 ; Orcadian,
2; Manstar, 3.


the 500gns. paid for him at auction by
J. J. Holden. He was entered for minor
races at Randwick this spring, but is un-
likely to make the trip. Pretoria,
favorite for Saturday’s race, was never
a likely winner; Dark Felt was never
out of trouble and finished nearer last
than first, and well-backed Alpine Maid,
having her first race for a year, finished
only a moderate fifth.
Distinction, a half-brother to the
£19,000 horse Talking, and himself a
750gns. yearling, returned to the win-
ning list in the second division of the
Dandenong Welter. Incidentally, his win
was a change of luck for trainer J. Holt.
Distinction was backed from sixes to
fours, and, taking charge at the top of
the straight, fought on gamely to win
from Comic March and Deliberate.
Further improvement is probable, as
Saturday’s race was only his second since
November, but Distinction will have to
show good form in better company
before he can be considered seriously for
either of the Cups.
Stewards would have ordered a divi-
sion had more than 20 of the 23 acceptors
stood their ground for the Hampton
Handicap, but three course withdrawals
saved considerable confusion. Alternate,
a big Parenthesis gelding who had been
unluckily beaten at Mornington two days
earlier, was backed from 20 to 1 down
to tens, and, pushing his way through a
bunch of horses nearing the turn, fin-
ished strongly to defeat the pacemaker,
Corredor, and Martinez. He equalled
Palencia’s course record for the distance,
and, although he carried only 7.7 in re-
stricted company on Saturday, more is
likely to be heard of him.
R. Hall, a successful rider on the flat,
recorded his first win over jumps on
Morse Code, a 10-to-l chance for the
Banyan Hurdle. Morse Code outstayed
Amnesty, who had attempted to lead
throughout, and, having raced over
hurdles only twice, improvement is prob-
able. High Wave, a warm favorite,
appeared to be ridden overconfidently,
but a bad jump near the six furlongs,
combined with interference when
Amnesty shifted out at the last hurdle,
took a lot of the steam out of him, and
he weakened into third place.
♦ * * ♦
The announcement that Beau Vite was
not to start in the Metropolitan did not
come as a great surprise. His trainer,
F. McGrath, has all along favored Beau
Vite running in the w.f.a. races in Sydney
and the Melbourne Cup, and that
naturally influenced the owner’s decision.
* * * *
After the Rosehill meeting the order
of fancied horses for the Epsom and
Metropolitan underwent a slight change.
On Monday horses prominent were as
under: —
EPSOM HANDICAP.
Evergreen, Freckles.
Rimveil.
High Caste.
Amiable.
All Veil, High Rank.
Panchio.
METROPOLITAN.
Pandect.
Lucrative, Veiled Threat.
Gundagai.
Aristocrat, Chatoona, Triggerman.
* * * *
Rimveil’s Camellia Stakes win at Rose-
hill seemingly disposed. of a few horses
previously credited with Epsom prospects,
Amiable in particular. She did not look
as if her condition could be improved,
while Rimveil should be all the better
for his run. However, he carried only
a pound more than his Epsom weight
and did not meet such favorably-weighted
horses as Freckles, Evergreen, Panchio
and All Veil. In itself, however, the style
in which he settled Amiable gave him an
undeniable chance.
High Rank, meeting Rimveil only !21b.
worse than in the Doomben Newmarket,
seemed to me to have quite as good a
chance as Rimveil, but, while the latter
won at Rosehill, High Rank was not
impressive at Ascot last week. The best
that could be said of his effort was that
he ran on fairly, but the field was
moderate. Ascot is not a course that
suits all horses, but, while Randwick is
likely to be much more to High Rank’s
liking, it cannot now be contended that,
on latest form, his chance equals that of
Rimveil.
High Caste put up fast time in the Hill
Stakes, but in that he was favored by the
smallness of the field. He is a great
weight-carrier, but there is still the fear
that the bustling to which he will neces-
sarily be subjected early in the Epsom
to gain a good position will tell against
him. Reading’s Hill Stakes run did not
put him in line for an Epsom win, and,
apart from Merrimba, nothing that ran
in either division of the Highweight
Handicap can be taken into account for
the Randwick mile. Beyond advancing
Rimveil’s claims, Rosehill running did
not throw much light on the Epsom.
Freckles and Evergreen continue to do
well in their work. As between those two
the A.J.C. handicapper evidently has no
doubt as to what the result would be if
the Epsom were run at seven furlongs.
In today’s Flying Handicap at Randwick
he put them on the same mark, whereas
in the Epsom Evergreen has to concede
Freckles 131 b. Amiable was placed only
61b. above Freckles against the 201 b.
separating them in the Epsom. If it were
always possible to rely upon figures they
would reduce the possession of Epsom
chances to about half a dozen horses,
with Freckles holding a decided advan-
tage provided he can see out the mile.
* * * *
Laureate was the only horse the Rose-
hill Guineas brought to the front as a
probable stayer. He came home better
than anything that finished behind him,
and there is no reason for supposing the
result will be different over the additional
three furlongs. Last year I thought owner
R. W. McLean a trifle unlucky not to
have won the A.J.C. Derby with Lucra-
tive, but he looks like being compen-
sated this year.
Yaralla again weakened at the end of
nine furlongs, but, as of those he beat
only It’s Funny was doing as well
at the finish, presumably he will still
tackle the Derby. Beau Son looks the
part of a Derby colt, as does The Cham-
pion, but it would appear that both have
been overrated. The longer trip may make
a difference, but it is now difficult to
visualise either as a Derby winner,
though The Champion’s trainer has
not yet given up hope. Nor did
Murmuring shine in the Guineas, and,
notwithstanding it is dangerous to
condemn any horse because of one poor
run, Lugano will have to do very much
better than in the Hill Stakes in order to
win the Derby. Cloudy Bay and Basalt
are the only Derby candidates yet to be
seen out in Sydney.
* * >:* *
Gundagai’s effort at Randwick a week
earlier sent him out of favor for the
Metropolitan, but his win in the Rose-
hill Spring Handicap in remarkably fast
time reinstated him to some extent,
though he is still some points longer
than his stable companion, Veiled Threat,
whose progress is satisfactory. It was
only on the post Gundagai defeated
Chatoona at Rosehill, but, as he will be
meeting the latter 81b. better than in the
Metropolitan, he seems sure to be his
master again. Binnia Hero will also meet
Gundagai 81b. worse in the Metropolitan,
so his chance of turning the tables does
not appear bright, nor does that of Dash-
ing Cavalier, Malagigi or Yours Truly.
Dashing Cavalier made up a lot of
ground in the last three furlongs, but
drops only 21b.
Pandect’s run in the Hill Stakes put
him well in the limelight for .the Metro-
politan, but it must not be overlooked
that he will meet Lucrative only 31b.
better than when the latter beat him in
the Sydney Cup. As bearing on the
Metropolitan, Gundagai and Pandect
came out better than any of the other
runners at Rosehill. Remarc’s failure to
get anywhere in the Camellia Stakes
could not be counted greatly against him,
owing to the distance being unsuitable,
but I still think he will be better in Mel-
bourne than Sydney this spring.
♦ * * *
It is surprising that Sydney’s minor
clubs did not consult the A.J.C. and the
bookmakers (who are vitally interested)
before asking the Government for place
betting on our racecourses. Bookmakers
are divided on the question. Some hold
that it would be absolutely unfair to
them to make starting-price betting com-
pulsory on all, while others would have
no objection to a number of bookmakers
being licensed for starting-price business
only. Anyhow, as the State cannot gain
anything financially by the alteration, it
would seem unsafe to bet on the Cabinet
giving the request favorable considera-
tion.
• * * *
Are present-day racegoers worse losers
than those of a past period? There were
occasional demonstrations in the old
days, but now a horse cannot run better
one week than another without loudly-
voiced demands to “Rub him out.”
These demonstrations are not confined
to one city, being of fairly regular occur-
rence in Melbourne and Brisbane, as well
as in Sydney. There may be times when
they are warranted, but not so in a
majority of cases. Practical men know
that reversals of form are not un-
usual on the training-track and are only
to be expected in races. A horse may
gallop like a champion one morning, and
a few mornings later send a trainer home
with a headache, the result of wondering
what was responsible for its poor show-
ing in its work. Still, when a horse runs
a good race and then a bad one, or vice
versa, it would be difficult to convince a
large section of racegoers that everything
was in order. Money, or rather the loss
of it, always talks loudly.
• * * *
The death occurred last week of jockey
W. Elliott, who won the Agua Caliente
Handicap and several races in Australia
on Phar Lap. Elliott’s other important
wins included the Australian Cup, Oak-
leigh Plate, Toorak Handicap, Caulfield
Guineas and Adelaide Cup.
• * * *
What a pity it is that more people
who are regular racegoers and are in a
financial position enabling them to own
a racehorse or two refrain from doing
so. They may put a “fiver” or a “tenner”
on nearly every race during an afternoon,
but the idea of racing something of their
own does not appeal to them. They
would sooner pester owners, trainers and
jockeys for information —even minor
stablehands are not barred in their search.
It may mean an occasional present, but
that is cheaper than ownership. On a
racecourse some men seemingly lose all
sense of dignity —if they ever possessed
it. The other day I heard a trainer
remark: “When you have a horse with
a chance it is amusing to note the men
who wish to rub up against you. Off the
racecourse they would regard it as quite
a condescension if they even gave you a
nod. It would not be policy for me to
do so, but I often regret that I am not
in a position to make a fitting reply
when some of these individuals question
me as to my chance of winning.”
* * * 9
The present N.S.W. Government is evi-
dently expected to give quite a lot of
consideration to matters appertaining to
racing. The latest move is seemingly
towards a Board of Control. It has been
suggested that after a finding by the
stipendiary stewards has been upheld by
the A.J.C. committee any offender should
be given a further right of appeal—pre-
sumably to a politically-appointed board.
Well, the A.I.C. has done a lot towards
bringing racing to its present standard in
N. vS, Wales, and if it is ever subordinated
to some board, possibly susceptible to
outside influence, it will be a sorry day
for the game.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week the Legislative
Council passed the bill which aims at
the suppression of starting-price betting.
That will not be easy, no matter how
drastic the provisions of the bill. Where
there is demand there is generally supply,
especially where money is involved, and
it would be safe to bet that many of those
men now doing starting-price business
will continue despite the risk of heavy
penalties.
* * * *
Opinions differ. E. A. Lamb is opposed
to my idea of readmitting geldings to
our classic races. He evidently believes
that the yearly increase in the number
of our stallions —no matter how indif-
ferent they may prove as racehorses,
and the uncertainty as to whether they
will be of greater value at the stud—is
preferable to the possibility of a gelding
occasionally winning a Derby. He writes
as follows:
I have been a great advocate that all good
types of Australian thoroughbreds should,
where possible, be kept entire in order that they
may be later distributed in the country for
breeding purposes at a reasonable figure. Be-
cause a horse cannot go fast enough to win
races it by no means follows that he will
not make a very fine sire of remounts. Racing
really should only be tolerated in war-time
because of its national importance, viz., to
maintain the breeding of thoroughbred stock
for the siring of remounts so badly needed
in this country. The position at present is de-
plorable. The shortage of suitable animals
for any form of utility work has never been
so low as it is at present.
I therefore thoroughly disagree with “Pilot”
(B. 27/8/’4l) that geldings should be given an
opportunity of running in classic races. The
whole object of these races is to attract the
best class of animal and keep them entire for
stud purposes. Owners are discouraged enough
by the majority of trainers always advocating
that their colts should be geldings, the reason
obviously being that they are easier to train,
are less trouble, and are looked upon en-
tirely as a business proposition. If references
in the sporting column were occasionally made
to the good type of animals racing irrespective
of their racing ability it would be helpful and
encouragement to owners to look upon their
animals as something more than mere gambling
machines.
My critic is optimistic if he expects
owners, especially those who pay high
prices for yearlings, to be educated up to
regarding their horses as something more
than possible sources of profit. We could
probably do with less racing, but Mr.
Lamb’s opinion that it should only be
tolerated in war-time with the ultimate
view of breeding remounts will not meet
with general endorsement.
* * * *
The first two-year-old race of the
Maoriland season was run at the Wan-
ganui J.C. meeting this month, and was
won by G. M. Currie’s Damask, a filly
of his own breeding. She is by Spiral
(Limond-Drax) from Curtain (Thespian-
Cowl), three-quarter sister to Veil, dam
of Veilmond. Damask, who was second
favorite, beat the second horse four
lengths. Gladswood, who raced and won
in Sydney a few years ago, was one of
Curtain’s progeny.
* * * *
The Racing Employees’ Association of
America planned a strike at Hollywood
Park, Inglewood (Cal.), on July 10 if
their demands for higher wages from
employers they believed could afford
them were not granted. The association
is composed of stablehands they
describe themselves as grooms—and they
asked for $125 (nearly £3B) a month. All
sorts of things were threatened in the
manifesto issued by the union, but the
strike fell through. Many Australian
stable employees would probably hurry
off to California if they thought there was
a chance of getting £9 a week.
M.Q. and Rafferty
The ring adage “They never come
back” carries its own rider, “But they all
try to,” Prima donnas have nothing on
’em. The latest addition to the list is
Ron Richards, who tossed three Austra-
lian titles into the discard and gave the
game up for good about eight months
back. Ron returned last week to make a
draw of it with Max Raynor over 12
rounds in Adelaide. It was a dullish
encounter, Ron palpably short of a
gallop. If he gets himself into condition
again, he should have little trouble get-
ting back his titles ; nobody has appeared
since he “retired” who looks within long-
distance cooee of him.
With Ambrose Palmer in his corner,
Cec Overall, the Victorian cruiserweight,
was badly outpointed by Young Frisco
at Brisbane, though he had nearly 91b.
the better of the weights. At Newcastle
Billy Britt, though down three times, put
“Young” Campbell to sleep in the fifth
round. Overall and Britt have been
talked of as opponents for Richards.
Foofbrawl
Essendon and Melbourne are to play
the V.F. League “grand” final next
Saturday, the ’Dons having put Carlton
through at the week-end by 13.15 to 9.14.
Sixty-five thousand people were at the
M.C.G. when the ’Dons did their job, and
£5378 18s. was collected at the gates. A
blustery wind and a hot sun affected
play. Carlton repeated its previous mis-
take of silly short passing to forwards
who found the backs as smart as them-
selves.
Though Essendon had the advantage
of the wind, Carlton held it in the first
quarter, but afterwards the Blues wasted
time with hand-balling, the wind played
more tricks and the ’Dons got a break,
kicking 4.2 to four points. It was 12.12
to 4.12 at the end of the third quarter.
The last was a mixture of football and
fight.
On form, Essendon has as good a
chance as Melbourne for the pennant,
but this Page expects Melbourne to col-
lect it.
In the Vic. Association semi-final, Port
Melbourne and Prahran staged a ding-
dong game at Toorak Park. Prahran,
with the wind, kicked 8.4 to 2.0 in the
first and failed to score in the second,
while Port landed 6.8. In a fine last
quarter Port just managed to get there
by 15.19 to 15.17. Coburg to meet
Prahran, and Port waiting for the winner.
* * * »
“S.T.S.”: Remarkable record of Ken
Farmer, who has played his last League
game (Australian Rules) for North Adel-
aide, receiving all sorts of compliments
both on and off field. (He finished well,
scoring seven goals himself, although on
a badly beaten side.) Farmer played for
13 seasons and in 11 kicked over 100
goals. His 134 in a season is S.A.’s
highest, his 23 in one match ties a record
dating back to 1894, and his aggregate
of 1418 is claimed to be the best for
Australia.
* * * *
Services (Army and Air Force) fielded
a rattling good team for their Rugby
Union game against Combined City at
North Sydney a finely-balanced com-
bination of Union and League men, with
Max Carpenter, the Union international
from Victoria, centre, and Ross Mc-
Kinnon, the N.S.W. League international,
five-eighth. Playing fast, open football,
Services won 30-29. All the same City was
unlucky to lose. It led by 29 to 27 (si:;
tries to five) when the final bell rang,
just as the ball was kicked back into
play. Services dashed after it, sheer de-
termination bringing them a decisive try
in the corner.


Wormen's Letters
From Melbourne
Thirty-five new officers at W.A.A.A.F.
headquarters in Mayfield-avenue had
their graduation parade on Saturday
morning, and, like nurses in uniform,
looked handsomer than any ordinary
women, however well-dowered with
looks, can ever hope to be. There were,
according to Squadron-Officer Stevenson,
a few who had not the knack of fixing
collar-studs, so that their collars sat un-
easily on their necks, but most did their
new blue uniforms and gold braid proud.
Marea Lucas, daughter of the Greek
Consul, was there, and near by Jean Wal-
lace Mitchell, a ranker, was drilling in
her blue dungarees with a smart squad.
Nine of the thirty-five, who have been
seconded to Bankstown, N.S.W., are
already known as the Bankstown Babies.
Dogs had their day at Luna Park on
Friday and Saturday, and what a day!
The show was organised by the R.A.S.
as one of its sectional exhibits, and, like
the horse gymkhana, it attracted all the
faithful and their animal friends. Only
sign of war-time was that profits go to
Red Cross Prisoners of War fund, and
that the luxurious floats in which doggies
used to arrive at the Showgrounds were
superseded by utility trucks in one
case by a sedan from the back of which
debouched about a half-dozen Pyrenean
mountain dogs, the biggest ever. Mrs.
Gatehouse owns these giant pets, which
are not yet front-rank favorites. Cocker
spaniels and smooth-haired terriers
seemed most popular, and the corgis, like
the ones Princesses Elizabeth and Mar-
garet Rose own, were receiving great
attention from the crowd.
Red Shield Units of Service, senior
link, did a nice job of work in filling
Toorak village theatre on a gala night
to provide money for the Salvation
Army’s mobile canteen, which had not
only been promised, but actually bought
and set working overseas, on the strength
of the word of these active Toorak vil-
lagers. Perhaps it’s the village air, but
when the Fraser lady and Mrs. W. L.
Russell Clarke put their hand to the
plough they do get things done. There
were some luscious frocks on view, and
all admired Mrs. Jim Fitzgerald’s flair
for making a picture night like a fashion-
able at-home. The Red Shielders used
to work for Blarney House till it needed
their assistance no longer; then they
transferred their energies to the Salva-
tion Army, which is keeping them busy
over Red Shield House and etceteras
such as this canteen.
The emergency conferring of degrees
at Wilson Hall on Saturday proved a
more exciting and picturesque affair than
the suggestion of a scramble in the
“emergency” led people to believe. The
University wore an air of springtime
gaiety, with its venerable walls set in
trees bursting into blossoms, pink and
white and red, and tender green leaves.
Of the 101 meds. who made their bow
to Mr. Justice Lowe, Chancellor, 15
were women. Among these was beautiful
Elizabeth Mary, daughter of Dr. Kenny,
who is not only one of the first Catholic
laymen of Victoria, but a Papal Cham-
berlain and a Knight Grand Cross of
the Order of St. Gregory the Great to
boot. The Kenny family, which came
to see Elizabeth go through her hoops,
included Rosemary, her sister, who is
one of Melbourne’s clever young pianists,
and but for the war would have now
been overseas for more study. After the
ceremonial there was a nice tea party at
the Union rooms, with Iven Mackay and
his lady in the foreground as the Chan-
cellor’s guests of honor.
A spot of friendly banter was ex-
changed by two gentlemen of the cloth
at the annual meeting of the C. of E.
Mission of Streets and Lanes, to which
is attached the order of the Sisters of
the Holy Name, founded just one hundred
years ago. Speaking briefly, the Bishop
of Ballarat retired to make way for the
Bishop of Goulbum, “whose oratory and
figure will put my attributes in the
shade.” Regarding his figure, the Bishop
of Goulburn admitted superior width but
not length, proceeding with a story of
how even the solidily proportioned quail
before woman. This bishop was a very
scared man when the Mother Superior,
Sister Ida, threatened to remove the
sisters from Goulburn unless a children’s
home was established within a year. The
home was found, the babies are doing
nicely, everybody is happy and the bank
is carrying art overdraft that is diminish-
ing.
A couple who really should write a
cookery book illustrated in black-and-
white or with just snippets of their own
backchat are Moira Masters and Mrs.
VV. Bagnell, Clyde “old girls” and excel-
lent co-operators in their cooking demon-
strations. Mrs. Bagnell learned her craft
in Australia, but Mrs. Masters attributes
her skill to travelling “with an open
mind” in the U.S.A., Toronto and
London. At the Y.W. last week, for
“Cooking in War-time,” ingredients were
odds and ends and raggle-taggle (chooks
and pig-bucket are on iron rations), and
end-of-session result was the audience,
a spoon apiece and light in the eye like
lions at feeding time, bearing down upon
stove and demonstration table. Palatable
soups resulted from witches’ brews of
onions, potato skins, peapods, grand-
father carrots, celery tops, bacon rind
and outer leaves of lettuce. Succulent
was the onion and potato pie, a labor-
saver —unpeeled onion (thus no smell),
potato and turnip thrown upon the oven
shelf and forgotten about for an hour
or so.
Use for accumulation of dripping was
suggested in nutties made from granose
biscuits, brown sugar and almond essence.
Talking of salads, Mrs. Masters demon-
strated with carrot juice flavored with
lemon and mint and set with gelatine,
doing a surprise act with the juice. By
hard squeezing of the grated carrots in
a damp cloth she obtained juice by the
cupful, leaving in the cloth only rub-
bishy husk. “Do it often and regularly,”
she recommends, “and your wrists will
be just as strong as mine.”
Occasionally there came a stage
whisper from Mrs. Bagnell—use salt and
pepper here and sugar there—she being
outside the fold of Dr. Hay, while her
confrere is a dyed-in-the-wool addict of
The Diet. Successful and very simple
sweets were made with a little extra
stewed fruit juice, whisked with cream
and semi-set, or grated apple mixed with
cream and sugar. For the kids, who are
alleged to love it as life itself, there’s a
“pineapple spread” made from a boiled-
till-thickened liquid around pineapple
skins and cores.
Vi Tivey, Valerie Purves, Sandra Bail-
lieu and Ruth Colman (Ruth’s photo-
graph from Athol Shmith) are ticket secs.
for the Victory V Ball to be held in
St. Kilda Town Hall next Friday. The
boys in navy blue and necessitous cases
among their dependants will benefit from
the numbers and conviviality of those
present, for the dance will aid Navy
House and the R.A.N.R. Fund. The
Flinders Naval Depot band will be in
action.
Every variety of opinion, from “the
best play I have seen” to “interesting, but
not art, and it dragged too much,” was
on exchange regarding “The Lost
Melody,” the Gong Theatre’s first play,
produced by Viennese refugee B. N.
Jubal. The two nights’ season packed
the Union Theatre, the Jewish community
rising to the occasion. Jubal gets co-
operation from his pupils, whether Jewish
or Gentile. They stick out three nights
a week for three months of rehearsals.
Marcel Frishman, Herta Schnierer, Nancy
Mclntosh and members of the cast had a
hand in decor and costumes, backcloths
being particularly lively. Distributed
among the girl performers was a more
than average share of beauty.
Engagements are coming thick and
fast. Latest is Cherry Walter’s with lan
Carson, who not only plays a super
game of squash but is in the public eye
as a tennis man. Cherry is very orna-
mental and gets about the various well-
known tennis courts a lot, but so far has
not broken into first-grade stuff. lan is
A.I.F. nowadays.
The marriage this week of Joan Reilly
and Dr. John O’Donoghue, of Middle
Park, interested many folk, for both are
popular.
From Sydney
A preview of the new Rachel Forster
Hospital for Women was one of the
heartening sights of last week. While
devastation is howling at the other end
of the earth, here is work being done by
women for women, and thereby for Aus-
tralia. The hospital is in three sections
(two blocks of two floors), and on top a
sunroom. The main block for the
present stands at five floors, but in its
completed state it will put on another
two storeys. The hospital will open
with 120 beds, but is planned to take 201.
A great point for comfort and for
smooth running is that each nurse will
have her own room. These rooms have
cream walls and ceilings in green or pink,
according to the light. The nurses’ sitting-
room will have its low corner seats piled
high with cushions ; its curtains are to
be of hand-blocked linens. The tables in
the dining-room have a mirrorlike sur-
face. The bathrooms are primrose and
pale green.
There are some nice old trees in the
grounds, and the lawns are being bor-
dered with flowering shrubs. The Patho-
logical Department is right opposite the
front door —Dr. Marie Hamilton says
every time she sees the roomy depart-
ment she thinks she must be in a dream
—it is so large in comparison with the
one she is now using. In Dr. Mary
Puckey the hospital has a splendid chief
executive officer. Eighteen years ago the
women doctors of Sydney started this
great work in a four-roomed house in
Surry Hills. In the years they have asked
very little from the public. Now they are
trying to raise £BO,OOO. Every woman in
the State could help them, if only by
buying a sixpenny brick in the hospital.
A romantic rounding off to a
schooldays friendship was the wedding
of Judith Moxham and Lieut. Alastair
Cameron Smith. Both the bride and
’groom are of Killara, the bride’s
father being Dr. Cecil Moxham. He
gave his daughter away, and she wore
the traditional bridal array. Her frock
was of white lame, flower-embossed.
Her tulle veil was topped by a flower
coronet. Her bouquet was of creamy
orchids. ’Groom’s present to the bride
was a string of pearls and pearl earrings.
After the marriage in St. Philip’s on
Church Hill, bride’s parents entertained
at the Macquarie Club.
In silver lettering on air force-blue
cards the Women’s Auxiliary of the
R.A.A.F. Central Area Comforts Fund
invites its friends to cocktails on
nesday, October 8, from 5.30 onwards.*
That happens to be in Race Week, and
the cards carry the message “Exaltation
after winning, consolation after losing.”
There’s a very social committee running
the party. Tickets are 7s. 6d. each, and
in with that go two drinks and a floor
show by Frances Scully’s ballet pupils.
The Ernest Fisk garden at Lindfield
was a dream of spring last Saturday.
Here were plum and peach blossom and
clouds of azaleas. Tea was served in a
wistaria-hung bower. From the hot sun-
shine tall and spreading trees beckoned to
their shade. Lavender posies were in tune
with the garden setting and found ready
sale. So did the cakes (not one left by
half-past two) and the preserves. For
the small clients there were pony rides.
Junior Red Crossers carried an immense
Union Jack about the grounds, singing
the refrain of a song written by Mrs.
E. W. Fenner for the occasion. In re-
sponse to their appeal, coins and some-
times a note were thrown into the flag.
The fair benefited the Lindfield branch
of the Red Cross.
There will be fun and games at the
Pickwick Club on Friday. The doings
will start at nine o’clock and will
go on till one the next morning. Kur-
raba’s Mrs. E. K. White, who is presi-
dent, and Mrs. Ted Scorfield are energetic
committee members, and the Institute for
the Deaf, Dumb and Blind children at
Darlington will benefit. Secretary is
Joyce Jolly, treasurer Mrs. L. Treweeke.
Browning enthusiast George Bent has
just received news of friend Stanley Bate,
the young English composer who was,
with his wife, recently in Sydney The
two are now settled in New York, and
Mr. Bate’s “Sinfonietta” was, when the
letter was written, being done for the
first time under the direction of Kous-
sevitzky. Mr. Bate was engaged to play
the piano part in his own piano concerto
conducted by Beecham in the Carnegie
Hall. His ballet “Perseus” has been pub-
lished and is to be produced in the Metro-
politan Opera House with choreography
by Anton Dolin. With Beecham Stanley
will do a tour of British Music through
South America. Mrs. Bate is busy in
New York with British War Relief work
under the direction of Lady Abingdon.
The Roseville home of Walter Jardine,
whose art has often been featured in
The Bulletin, was invaded by the Army,
Air Force and friends one night recently
to celebrate the engagement of daughter
Byrl to Sergeant Keith John Words-
worth of the R.A.A.F. Byrl for some
time worked with her father in his studio.
Photograph by Sidney Riley.
The Lyceum Club got a party all ready
for actress Kathleen Robinson of White-
hall Productions. But Kathleen, owing
to the Minerva six o’clock programme,
could not come. The A.B.C.’s Frank D.
Clewlow very generously stepped into the
breach, and held the guests at the club
at attention point with a three-quarters
of an hour’s talk on radio drama. The
A.B.C.’s Federal Controller of Produc-
tions has done Shakspeare with Allan
Wilkie, produced in conjunction with
John Drinkwater, has been connected
with the repertory movement in Eng-
land and in Melbourne, has even been
with the Carl Rosa Opera Co.
Frank D. sketched the winding road
of radio drama from the days when it
was all sound and fury, truckloads of
mechanical-effects machinery going on
tour with a play. On one occasion in
the North of England, when the action
of a play depended on the miaow of a
cat, the very elaborate contraption to
make the sound (which, incidentally, was
manned by two studio hands) went
dumb ; and the whole cast leaped to the
rescue and miaowed in chorus. It must
have been a thrill to radio listeners to
hear a soprano, tenor, bass, and possibly
two shades of baritone in that miaow.
Mr. Clewlow has discovered in Shak-
speare (and possibly his predecessors and
contemporaries) the almost perfect radio
dramatist, because, owing to absence of
effects, the characters almost always had
to paint the scene in their opening lines.
Lyceum’s president, Mrs. Metcalfe, made
pleasant thanks. Mrs. A. G. Thomas,
who directs the drama section, hostessed
in a suit of clipper-blue. “Joe” Collins
was there ; so were the Misses Tildesley,
Grace Scobie, the acting Mr. Bissett, Mrs.
Sterling Levis, Mrs. Muscio, Miss
Elizabeth Plummer, the Norman Catts
couple, Mrs. Davison and Josephine Foss.
Members of the Royal Motor Yacht
Club are made of stern stuff. In the very
teeth of their flotilla of petrol-less yachts
they declared the season open at the cosy
Rose Bay haunt last Saturday afternoon.
Instead of races and the busy and cheery
noise of their craft churning along paths
of foam, the members and their friends
mooched about under a speckless sky,
played cards and drank tea. There was
a splendid roll-up, and the men and a
few of the women were trimly nautical
in their attire. Many of the R.M.Y.C.
members do coastal patrol and N.E.S.
work on their own craft and at their
own expense.
Bob Ashton, another of the famed
polo-playing brothers, is about to face
wedlock. Jane Mills, a daughter of
the John Mills couple, of Bonny Rigg,
Quirindi, is the girl in the case. Bob’s
parents were the James Ashtons, of
Double Bay. He is now a Flying-Officer
in the R.A.A.F.
Tomorrow qfternoon the Vogue Theatre
at Double Bay will bubble with excite-
ment. The Eastern Suburbs branch of
the C.W.A. is holding a film afternoon
to help along its own war efforts. In
between camouflage netting and making
speeches at the Penguin Club, Mrs. Carty
Salmon, with Mrs. Herring, is looking
after the distribution of the tickets. Mrs.
Percy Crossing, Marie Brennan and
Dorothy Browning are other hard
workers. Deanna Durbin works hard
dispensing glamor in the film.


HOT NUMBERS
TO KEEP YOU COOL
m
HERE’S just one of the
new Soltine Cloths that
your tailor or store is dis-
playing with immense
pride. It has a Bowater
Brown ground with double
silk hair-line, featuring a
group of very subdued
brown cluster stripings.
And these handsome, style-
right Soltine suitings
actually "breathe” keep
you "air-conditioned,” cool
and comfortable always.
S « E
Born, Shorn, Woven and Worn In Australia
1/ unable to obtain, write to Box 489 Q,
Post Office, Melbourne, and we’ll advise
you where you can set Soltine Cloths.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman); M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;F. E. Loxton, Esq.;
Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G. ; E. E, D. White, Esq.
General Manager — D. S. FORBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra. Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Nortnern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the W orld, this
Bank oilers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
IN THE SERVICE
OF THE NATION
TOO
Wool Is one of the most essential raw
materials of war. The men of the
Forces march, fight and sleep in wool,
and the Australian Wool Industry
leads the world.
123.000. sheep owned by 95,000
Woolgrowers are providing over
1.100.000. lb. of wool to British
and Australian manufacturers.
Wool from Australia is being utilized
for Uniforms, Underwear, Socks, Blan-
kets, Boots and Gloves for Airmen,
linings for Shell Cases, Bomb Boxes
and Cartridge Cases, Aircraft Pack-
ing, Polishing Bobs, etc.
NORTH OF TW ENTY-EIGHT
The “Development” Tax
“Balander”: Queensland’s Minister for
Labor and Industry found himself de-
fending the State development tax last
week. This impost is a second income
tax, but the Minister was “offering no
apologies for its continuance.”
It is a vital factor in maintaining the
prosperity of the State.
This sort of reasoning is typical of the
State politician. A Government claps
on a tax in bad times for a specific pur-
pose, and when the fundamental need
disappears it gives that tax another name
and continues to impose it for other
purposes.
If, as the Forgan Smiths say, they are
unable to reduce this “development” tax
now when conditions are favorable, what
is the taxpayer to expect in the event
of even a mild slump? There is bound
to be a period of disorganisation when
demobilised soldiers and discharged
munition workers flood on to the labor
market, and States that persist in main-
taining their wages taxes —though under
other names —and using the money as
fast as they get it are going to come
hard up against the limit in taxation.
Since January, 1939, Queensland has
spent £3,700,000 of development tax on
things that earlier generations believed
should be financed out of ordinary
revenue. The claim that Federal payroll
tax and increased basic wage levels make
it necessary to keep up taxes is surely
another argument against the ridiculous
multiple-Government system. In private
enterprise, increased taxation means a
cutting down of expenses, a method
totally foreign to State Governments.
In the way of taxation Queenslanders
can stand a lot, but in these days of
war and war taxes they feel a fierce
sense of injustice at the continued in-
fliction of this “development” tax.
“Point 5”: Our Mr, Cooper’s Budget
contains no changes in taxation rates
and he predicts a bit of a surplus.
Naturally, the Government’s “war effort”
was copiously mentioned (all these State
Governments are sure that they have a
war effort): “The Government has
endeavored to guide expenditure into
channels of greatest advantage to the
war effort,” and has “co-operated to the
full” with the Commonwealth. So, for
that matter, have the W.A.N.S.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: Queensland’s Dalby
training farm for backward youths is
claimed by Health Minister Hanlon to
represent a new development in Aus-
tralia. Dr. Flora Innes, the director, is a
Queensland-born graduate of Edinburgh
Uni. who spent many years in India
studying anti-social tendencies in rela-
tion to physical condition and environ-
ment, and the psychical results of mal-
adjustment of character. The underlying
idea is to identify the types of back-
ward youth most likely to react favor-
ably to treatment and to co-ordinate the
work of opportunity schools with that
of organisations interested in converting
such social misfits into useful citizens.
Dr. Innes will also act as medical super-
intendent of the Kenny Clinic for
infantile-paralysis sufferers.
* * i. *
“Darwarb”: Army Minister Spender’s
decision to move troops from Darwin
after 12 months’ service because of the
climate seems typical of the effete South.
There are plenty of good reasons for
moving men after 12 months in one spot,
but Darwin’s poor old climate isn’t one,
and statements like Spender’s help to keep
the North empty by contributing to the
popular southern idea that white men
can’t live north of 28. Raphael Cilento,
Queensland’s Director of Health, knows
better; “There are more people living
permanently in the tropical area of
the Australian continent than there
are, for example, in the whole of Tas-
mania. They live whole lifetimes there
without any loss of vigor, physique or
mentality.” Spender ought to try it some
time.
* * * *
“Tippit”: “Winton Willie” (B.
17/9/’4l) is right about fires on the
downs country in western Queensland
and the N.T. —a light breeze and a spark
in that dry Mitchell grass can spell ruin
to hundreds of miles of good feed. One
of the worst, if unintentional, firebugs in
that part of the country is the motorist
who pelts matches and cigarette butts
out of the window without extinguishing
them first. One offender I knew was a
pastoralist who, although he knew the
folly of the habit, could never break him-
self of it. He was cured in the end.
Driving one day across the open downs
with nothing but Mitchell grass in sight,
he lighted a cigarette and carelessly
flicked the match over his shoulder. A
couple of miles further on a disturbing
smell and uncomfortable warmth caused
him to look round and find the back of
his car well and truly alight. He
jammed on the brakes, left his car and
covered 30 yards in record time, then
turned to see a six-gallon drum of petrol
explode and practically demolish his
flivver. That, and a subsequent 15-mile
walk before he was picked up, cured him
of all incendiary habits.
* * * *
“Norther”: One way of increasing the
population would seem to lie in encourag-
ing the visits of American warships.
Seven lads from the two latest cruisers
to come so liked the place that they
decided to stay. Five have been roped
in ; the other two are still missing. Per-
haps they’ve gone out to see the Lake
Dynevor bunyip.
“Dungeness”: Queensland’s oldest co-
operative settlement has gone back to the
wallabies and bandicoots. Just after the
Shearers’ War in 1891 stalwarts from the
camp at Barcaldine bought a bit of good
\ , u ° 110
country, put up buildings sank wells,
planted vegetables, vines and fruit-trees,
went in for pigs, an d settled down to
transmute socialistic doctrine into a
pleasant means of livelihood free from
the capitalist’s carking influence. For a
while it worked well; the orchard and
vegetable gardens gave good yields, the
pigs throve, and the vineyard produced
enough grapes to supply most of the
Central-west. Then came disputes—
founded mostly on questions of profit-
sharing ; disputes led to breakaways, and
numbers dwindled until the undertaking
could no longer be properly worked.
One by one the dreamers drifted away
and the once-prosperous patch relapsed
into wilderness. An old Chinaman re-
vjved one of the gardens for a few years,
feut Amo Domini has got him> a nd the
bright socialistic dream of half a century
a g Q j ias d i sso lved into nothingness,
* * * *
“23-4”: Delicacy is not dead. Report-
}ng the passage through his town of an
aboriginal woman, the Irvinebank corre-
spondent of “N.Q. Register” put it like
this; “It is many years since this centre
has witnessed the spectacle of an
aborigine in her native dress.”


BILL DIED IN CRETE
By OLAF RUHEN.
I DON’T know if you remember young Bill
! Silston, a fair-headed chap I used to knock
I around with
I looked at the letter a long time. It’s not
a common name, Silston, but I had it at the back
of my mind somewhere. Not that the name should
have meant anything to me. It just happened to be in
one of those letters that fellows bring into the office
at times. We’d had a dose of them —every paper
had —and they weren’t a great deal of use to us, but
we went through them religiously. It was just another
boy writing to his mother —the most wonderful news
in the world for her and for his dad, who brought
it in, but no highlights, so far, for us. Till Bill Sil-
ston’s name made me think. Then I remembered.
| T was away back I met him, 1932 or 1933. I forget
1 just when. I had been up shepherding in the Daley
Pass country, and was hanging on through the autumn
with the chance of a rabbiting block. I used to get
my meals and a camp off a homesteader there, Frank
Archer, and I worked them out as far as I could. He
had the best rabbiting block in the district for winter,
and he’d just come off the shearing muster with me.
Also, he had a hundred and fifty sheep on his little
six-hundred-acre patch, and a big gaggle of his geese
wandered the swampy station valleys, and between
one thing and another he used to make out.
/ His heart was in his gunroom, and he was trying
to work up a little tourist trade for the district so as
to have an excuse to be out on the hills all day. There
was plenty of sport—mainly the big red deer, though
quail and the Paradise duck and the little whio were
plentiful, and we shot many a nice salmon trout out
of the river, just for the sake of variety. Every time
he went to town, every car that stopped him passing
through, he told them about the sport. He lugged
heads for miles just to hang them on the fences for
the benefit of tourists, and the rest of the lads in the
district used to stick up a few, too, if they shot them
handy to the road. After a while, a shooting party or
two used to show up.
Bill Silston was in one of them. There were
three young chaps. They’d been camping along the
road, and decided to get a thrill out of the deer while
they were in the country. It was the right season. I’d
heard the first stag roar the night before they came.
They didn’t have any rifles, but Arch had plenty,
and they had a fiver, and Arch guaranteed they’d
get a head. Reds are an easy enough proposition,
even for newchums. Arch had three deer rifles, two
303’s and a Savage 28/30, and I loaned the lads mine,
an old Stevens that had had so much use that the
rifling was all worn away at the muzzle. She sent
away every sixth shot end over end—you could hear
them “sish-sish-sish.” I used to use it to settle fish
mainly, but it still had a stag or two coming to it.
Arch gave it to this Bill Silston, and carried his
favorite, a 1918 Army issue fitted with Limond sights.
I took along a B.S.A. .22 ; it was a case of Hobson’s
choice anyway, but I had a theory that you could
knock over deer with a pea-rifle if only you got them
in the right place,
• Deer were scarce that morning, and we had to
tramp about six miles carrying the rifles before we
saw our first. Sometimes we could shoot them from
the back door in the mornings, and at nights we
could always get them in the home paddocks, lying
under the car headlights with the spot flashed in their
eyes.
Those three kids couldn’t take their eyes off the
first stag. We didn’t trouble him. It was 1000 yards,
and we kidded them it was more. Our home-filed
ammunition didn’t have a hope, and we didn’t want to
spoil our reputations at that early stage. But he was
a fine beast, on his own, and his head looked like a
big dead matagouri. He cantered away round the
sideling of a face you’d have sworn a mountain goat
couldn’t tackle.
“Won’t we load yet?” asked the kid they called
Gerrie. I don’t remember much about him, but the
other was Jack Tyler, whom I’ve run into a few times
since. I told them to watch Arch ; time enough for
them to load when he filled his magazine. He used
to say he had a nose for deer.
It wasn’t long after this he stopped halfway up
a spur and loaded. Sure enough, over the crest there
were three hinds and a stag in the hollow, and when
the boys let loose it sounded as if all the artillery in
the world had gone into action. Tyler and the other
chap unloaded their magazines on the hinds. Bill
Silston had the single shot, but he didn’t attempt to
reload, and I had to take the rifle off him to eject the
empty. I’d told him that it was a monte to stick if
he didn’t. I had the idea that he felt like weeping.
The stag was a fourteen-pointer. Arch had got
it with his first shot, though the lads never knew that.
He’d promised them the head, and it wasn’t good
policy. They would all think they had aimed straight
anyway. Arch finished off the hind, too, which was a
mercy. It had about six bullets in it, and those filed-
offs tear something of a hole. The other two may have
been carrying lead, too, but they ran downhill, and
straight away from us, and that’s a darned difficult
target.
Arch carried the head, and I took a haunch,
although we had a fair step for home, and all of it
rough, because I was venison-hungry, and the lads
hadn’t ever tasted any. The lads started off carrying
the five rifles between them, but Silston and this
Gerrie chap had to turn it in—they didn’t make much
effort—and Arch and I finished up with two rifles
each and the meat,
WE came out of the hills on the highway about
three miles from home just above where old
Adam Rumsey had his camp. That was where all
the fuss happened.
We didn’t see the deer at first, and they didn’t
see us. There were seven of them —six hinds and a
young stag. They were grazing quietly about 150 yards
higher up the face, facing the direction we had come
from. There was a fairly stiff breeze, and, as usual,
they had their tails to it.
Arch signed the lads to lie down, and they
grabbed their rifles, loaded and were able to take a
good aim for the first shot. Two deer fell, the young
stag and the hind in the lead. That was Arch’s shot,
I knew. Bill Silston hadn’t fired, and he lay over on
his side, with a white face. I grabbed the Stevens
from him. I could use it if he couldn’t. I fired with
Tyler’s second shot, and another hind fell. I reloaded,
and by that time the hind had rolled down. It was
over the next shallow spur, and was getting away,
slowly though. I could only see its head and the line
of its back, and it was struggling. I thought of the
.22, and gave Silston the Stevens back again. Sure
enough, the little bullet dropped it, and I went over.
My first shot had gone away end over end again,
and it was a miracle I ever hit the beast. Firing for
the kidneys, I had broken both hind legs, and still the
hind had been able to make a break for it on its
stumps. The .22 shot in the neck had dropped it
quietly.
Gerrie and Jack Tyler climbed up to the yearling
stag at the top of the hill—the rest of the hinds had
vanished long before, of course —and Arch followed
them. Bill Silston, still carrying the Stevens, came
over to have a look at the hind with her mangled
legs. As I mentioned, those filed-off bullets leave a
hole about twice the size of a dum-dum’s traces, and
“ Don't go too far —mother Wants me back for tea.”
especially if they strike bone. His face was green, and
I thought he was going to be sick.
I’ve never seen such a circus as started then. Jack
Tyler reached the place where the two deer were
lying, ahead of Gerrie, and to help him up the
last steep pinch he grabbed hold of the hind legs of
the yearling stag. That would have been all right if
it had been dead, but the little blighter, with his
mammy dead, was playing possum. He scrambled up
before Tyler got over his surprise and laid as neat a
pair of hoofs in the pit of his stomach as anyone
would wish to see. He knocked over Gerrie, and the
two of them took a dive down about sixty feet of steep
face, together with the yearling, and a fair average
assortment of rocks ; you know the sort of country it
is in Daley Pass.
Gerrie landed underneath—fortunately, because
I don’t think Jack Tyler could have stood much more
—and the yearling came on running, swinging a fore-
leg. The shot that dropped him had hit his shoulder.
Arch dodged to one side, and the deer, dodging him,
veered over to the spur were Silston was. I heard a
shot. The boy had done his nut and fired. I didn’t
take any notice at the time, because I suddenly remem-
bered this was the best haunch in the outfit and it
was getting away. I could see that swinging leg, and
I rushed him with the skinning-knife in my hand. I
got my arms round his neck and tipped him. We came
down pretty heavy, but I didn’t notice it for a good
five minutes. I slit his throat, and stabbed into the
marrow, but it was a bigger job than I realised. The
hot, sweet, stinging blood gushed into one eye and my
mouth and closed my nostrils, and I was bathed in
it before I could get up,
’ Arch was sitting up on the ground. I couldn’t
see anything wrong with him.
“You might have given me a hand,” I yelled.
“You might have given me one,” he said.
His leg was bleeding, and he was hugging it.
Silston’s bullet had grazed it. I say “grazed,” but it
had cut pretty deep, and right- across the thickest part
of the calf. There was a ragged flap of skin hanging
top and bottom of the cut.
About this time Gerrie disentangled himself from
Jack Tyler and the rocks and came down. He was
walking stiff and sore, and his cheekbone was gashed
open. His clothes were a bit more ragged than they
had been.
He said “Jack must have got hurt bad. He’s
unconscious.”
I said “Jesus.”
“Aren’t you coming?” he said, very aggrieved.
I said “I’ve got a man shot here,” and he said
what I said,
I forgot about Bill Silston for a while, till we
got straightened up.
Old Adam had seen something of the commotion
and he came up to lend a hand. Jack Tyler came
too, enough to walk down by himself, and Arch
came down hanging on to my shoulder. When I came
up to get the haunch I ran into Silston and sent him
down to the camp.
Adam had been in luck that day.. They’d turned
off the race that carried the summer water to the
station’s cattle and ram paddocks, and he’d followed
it round and got sixteen nice trout and a lot of little
ones. He put on a meal for us, but he’d had some
cooking when he heard the shots and seen the com-
motion, and he started in to finish them off when
Silston arrived down. That was what settled him. I
didn’t see it, but Arch told me about it.
The old man was quite a decent cook for other
people. His method of preparing fish for himself was
to place them in hot fat in all their pristine beauty
of scales and innards, hoist them out between finger
and thumb, take the head in one hand, the tail in
the other, and eat from right to left like a cat. Arch
told me Silston took one look at that, glanced away
and saw a pile of months-old eggshells under the bunk
where Adam had thrown them, and was sick all over
the floor.
Well, the rest of that story is just what you’d
expect. The bruises lasted a few days, and Arch was
walking round again in a week. We found the laughs
in it long before the lads went away. I forgot all
about Bill Silston. He was just the figure in the back-
ground of that story. I’d never heard of him again till
I picked up the letter.
I READ the letter through twice. I grabbed my
' machine and typed it out and sent it through to
the subs, just the way it was:
“I don’t know if you remember young Bill Sil-
ston, a fair-headed young chap I used to knock around
with. He was on our transport, coming from Greece.
A Jerry ’plane machine-gunning the road got him.
He had a smashed right shoulder, a bullet somewhere
in the ribs, his right forearm smashed and his right
leg below the knee. He managed to signal to a lorry,
and they took him aboard and carried him fifty-odd
miles to a beach.
“Then it was discovered that they were at the
wrong beach. Bill had put in a lot of effort to get
there, and you can imagine the disappointment. But
he wouldn’t chuck in the towel.
(Continued on next page .)


“He started to drag himself to the track to the
next beach. Jerry came down again and he crawled
into shelter. But the bushes were set on fire by incen-
diary bullets in no time. Once more he crawled out
and started to drag himself along. Once more, after
a struggle, he was found and helped. At the right
beach they dressed his wounds better.
“The Navy came at dusk, and someone saw Bill
through the job of getting out by boat. He, fainted in
the boat, and came to on the ship’s deck, with his
wounds being re-dressed. All through this, and in
hospital here in Crete, no one ever heard him com-
plain or grumble.
“His brother was here in Crete, and went to see
him. ‘She’ll be all right,’ said Bill, with a grin. But
he died after a little m6re than a week.
“They were all like that. Just as game as they
could be. And it wasn’t hard for a fit man to be
afraid. Bill is typical of all I 5aw.,.,._._”
A JOB IN THE MILL
By GAVIN S. CASEY
NOISE and dust on the lease went together. At
week-ends, while the plant was still, outlines of
all the sheds and dumps and buildings were
clear-cut against each other. During working
days, when the cracker crunched up the stone and the
long belt hurried it into the mill where the big drums
powdered it, there was a constant roar and the air
was grey. Dusty men with dusty tools toiled with
the steady rumble of the ball-mills in their ears, and
the roaster fires glowed and everything was all right,
while what came up from below was being handled
and sent on to the gold-room.
Now there was dust but no noise except the pant-
ing of the winder and the small sounds from the
fitting-shop, so something was wrong. The vapor of
grey pulverised earth hung everywhere, but the belt
and the cracker and the ball-mills had all stopped.
Everyone cocked an ear, and members of the ball-
mill gang dropped their tools, waiting for a shout to
tell them they were needed on their proper job.
Young Jim Murray was shifting drums of carbide
with old Curley Walkerton, and the idea of an end
to that weary job didn’t worry him in the least. Any-
way, he was eager for a chance to show what he could
do. Since he’d been made one of the gang a fort-
night earlier, the mill had run like a clock and they’d
had nothing but light laboring around the plant. The
ball-mill gang filled in their time that way while every-
thing was in order. But if the plant went wrong they
were called from the rigging or digging or whatever
they might be doing, and set to work to show their
speed with spanners. It was flat out without rests
until things were running again, and then they knocked
off and got a full day’s pay, even if the job took only
an hour. It was enough to make a lively lad like
young Jim hope that something would happen.
“Well, they’ll want us this time, by the sound of
it,” said Walkerton sourly, straightening his aged back
with the aid of hands against his hips.
“Yes,” said Jim hopefully. “We’d better go
across.”
“Wait till they sing out,” said the old man.
“You’ll have plenty o’ work when they do.”
That was how he would look at it, thought Jim.
Why they kept an old coot like him on a gang that
was supposed to move fast in emergencies was a
mystery The grumpy wreck didn’t have a spark of
speed left in him. On this stunt of shifting the car-
bide drums Jim had been able to carry two to his
one, and he’d done nothing but grumble all the time
and talk about not being a horse. If the rest of the
gang weren’t faster than the old bloke it would be no
trouble to hold his own.
Big Charlie Barstow, who was foreman of the
ball-mill gang, and chief rigger when there was
nothing doing there, came into view near the shaft.
He waved to them, pointed up at the mill and went
rapidly towards it. The engineer shot out of his
house and scuttled anxiously along the road.
“Hell! I wonder what’s wrong this time,”
grumbled old Walkerton, limping painfully after Jim.
AT the mill there was a broken belt, and a couple
of electricians were poking around the hot motor
that had been driving it. The members of the gang
were grouped around the big drum that it normally
kept spinning,' They were standing well clear while
Charlie Barstow and Tommy Goodwell investigated.
Charlie had a bar, trying to turn the drum either way.
Little Froggy Randall was systematically laying out
long lines of spanners and hammers and punches,
well away from the job, but not too far. The dust
was already settling, even in the mill itself.
“She won’t go a fraction,” Charlie grunted.
“Somethin’ in there. Down she comes.”
Jim jumped forward, full of eagerness.
“Wait a while, young ’un, we’re not ready for you
yet,” Tommy Goodwell said.
Three of the gang got to work, without any orders,
on the plates on the side away from the drive. The
rest waited while Charlie and Tommy set to work on
the big pulley-wheel. Tommy held a two-foot punch
while Charlie stood on the drum and took six whacks
with a heavy hammer. He put all his weight behind
them, but nothing shifted. “Hell!” he said, jumping
down. “Fractuer for that!”
Froggy had it ready, and there was no time
wasted. A nicely judged charge sent the pin jumping
to the opposite wall.
“Bloody shaft looks bent,” grumbled old Curley.
“It would be!”
“That plate there. Bottom nearest the wall,”
little Froggy barked at Jim, who had been fidgeting
all the time he had had nothing to do.
“ Now , perhaps you’ll keep your eye
on your Work!”
There were rows of bolts that looked as if they
numbered thousands, and Jim started with a will.
He squatted down as the man on the other side was
doing, and Curley worked standing on the plate above.
The spanners fitted like gloves, made for the job, but
it was awkward with the nuts nearest the floor and
along the turned-out joints. Jim’s hands were used
to carbide-drums and shovels, and he fumbled a bit
and exasperated himself.
“Stuck here!” someone,yelled, and Froggy came
running with a cold-chisel and hammer. There were
three rapid blows on the other side somewhere and a
bolt sheared. The nut and the severed end pinged
against the next ball-mill, and metal rasped as the
men on the end which had been begun first wrenched
a plate clear and laid it aside. Jim was sweating and
stealing glances at the man next to him. He was a
fast cow that! He was halfway down the second
row, and Jim was sweating and not finished his first.
“Ready here! Give us a hand, Jim,” old Gurley
barked from up above. Jim was glad to get to his
feet, but amazed and humiliated to find the old man
with only two nuts still holding his plate.' He held
the weight, and Curley got to work, his spanner mov-
ing with precision and speed, like something mechani-
cally handled. They took the plate out, and Curley
winked at him and knelt down to give a hand with
his job. Curley didn’t say anything, but Jim felt
angry and ashamed and a bit awed. It was a bad
start.
They got Jim’s plate out, but there were dozens
of similar or more awkwardly shaped ones, with hun-
dreds of nuts. The old hands on the ball-mill gang
didn’t seem to hurry, but they didn’t talk, and they
didn’t waste any movements. The mill was right
above the roasters, and the temperature was about
120 degrees. Froggy had a waterbag hanging beside
the job, and Jim decided that a drink a plate would
be a fair thing. He was ready for the first and the
second, but when he went for the third Tommy Good-
well sneered at him.
“That what they teach y’ at the School of
Mines?” Tommy asked. “How t’ fill yerself with
water and pole on the job?”
Jim felt savage. Tommy was a stinker, anyway.
He’d crack him later for two pins, but just at the
moment there was this blasted job to be done, and
he felt sick in the stomach, anyway.
“Don’t take any notice o’ that cow,” said old
Curley, not worrying to keep his voice down. “You’re
goin’ all right. On’y lay off the water. It’ll make you
crook.”
THE spanners fitted the nuts like gloves, but it was
as hot as hell, and Jim was tired, and his eyes
were full of sweat. There were thousands of blasted
nuts, and always something to bark your knuckles on
if you fumbled. The others all worked like machinery,
taking no notice of him or of each other, and he hated
them. When he was half a plate behind he panicked,
and started fumbling worse than ever. Old Curley
came to his rescue again, and he felt ashamed and
pulled himself together. His hands bled all over the
place, and his stomach heaved with heat and too much
water, and he wished he’d never heard of the ball-
mill gang, had been kept on ordinary laboring around
the lease. But after an hour of it the internals of
the machine were sufficiently revealed and they stood
back,
“Bearing!” said Charlie Barstow, groping inside.
He pulled out a mangled piece of metal. The experts
fitted the parts ; then Froggy handed Barstow a spirit-
level and a straightedge, and he and Tommy investi-
gated again, while the gang rested and chiacked each
other.
“Shaft’s all right, anyway,” Tommy announced
after a while.
“She’s easy then. We’ve only got to put her
together and we’re through,” said Curley Walkerton
gleefully,
Only got to put her together, Jim thought. But
it was easier, just as a return journey seems shorter
than the trip out. Jim lost more skin from his fingers,
and accepted a hand from old Curley again, and was
humiliated and overheated and distressed. But he
drank less water, and didn’t feel bad in the stomach,
and he didn’t hurry so much, and therefore went
slightly faster. It was nightmare enough, though, and
when it was over he was ready to go back to shifting
drums of carbide any time the management asked.
The electrician shoved home the switches, and
the belts grunted, and the mill started to rumble again.
Dust came up in clouds from the floor, and the long
conveyer from the poppet-legs began to move. The
winder drums spun, too, as the skip went down for
more ore to feed it. The men in the ball-mill gang
helped Froggy to throw the tools back in their boxes.
It was only two and a half hours since they had begun
the job. , Only 11.30! Jim could hardly believe it.
AFTER they had cleaned themselves up, they strolled
off the lease, leaving the rest of the mine working.
It would have been good if he hadn’t felt so sore
and humiliated. They headed down to the pub for
a drink together, and he hardly knew if he had a right
to stay with the party.
“Hell! I’m sorry, Curley,” he apologised to old
Walkerton. “I thought I’d be able to do that work as
fast as anyone.”
“You did all right,” said Curley. “We’ve had
slower than you, an’ plenty of ’em.”
“Tommy didn’t seem too pleased,” offered Jim,
feeling a little better.
“Tommy!” snorted Curley. “That cow don’t run
the show. It’s Charlie Barstow you’ve got to satisfy,
not that flash donkey.”
“You’re all right, son. You’ll get used to it,” said
Charlie Barstow, from somewhere just behind.
“O’ course you will. It’s knack, that’s all it is,”
said Curley.
That made Jim feel good. He almost started to
swagger. Old Curley was telling a long tale about
the young fellows they’d tried out on the gang who’d
been hopeless, one or two who’d cracked up altogether
and had to quit because of the speed and heat. Jim
felt pretty capable, and pretty fond of old Curley
and all the rest of the gang, except perhaps Tommy.
They were all right.
They had the rest of the day to spend as they
pleased. It was a proper reward for men who were
picked for their speed with tools. As for lumping car-
bide around the lease, Jim thought as he regarded his
pleasantly foaming pot, Curley was right and it was
horses’ work. Members of the gang had to do some-
thing while things were running all right, of course,
but it was obvious that skilled men weren’t expected
to burst themselves at that sort of toil. He certainly
wouldn’t try to carry three drums to Curley’s two
any more.


Treat CAUSE
/ B —— l
hot
IS
The theory of treating symptoms rather than the cause
still not generally understood. There are those who, if
they have a pain in the kidneys, rub in oils or emulsions.
Liverish Deoole take a headache cure, and nervous folks still
take stimulants, or even drugs, to
“steady their nerves,” and so on.
They fail to see that they merely
ease the trouble, only for it to
return in a more severe form. In
other words, they have not extin-
guished the fire, but simply turned
off the fire alarm. Treating the
cause may take a little longer and
call for more patience, but it has
the advantage of being much more
beneficial.
In Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills will be found a
medicine that by acting on the Liver and Bowels corrects the
everyday little ills of life. For Biliousness, Constipation, Sick
Headaches, and such complaints arising from Imperfect Digestion
and Sluggish Liver they are unexcelled.
FOR
BILIOUSNESS
INDIGESTION
CONSTIPATION
SICK HEADACHES
RHEUMATISM
Dr. Morse’s
I
I
I
(dortkLiver
THEY MAKE YOU LOOK AND FEEL BRIGHTER
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Windbum and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face before
and after shaving will be found
soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street.
Sydney, N.S.3JP., and 6 Parish Street,
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/71 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Parish Street, Wellington. N-Z.
Price 2/1 per box (six boxes 12/-). P ost
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
For local office, address
see Page 3.
TO “THE BULLETIN ,”
* 252 George Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue,
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-).
SEND “THE BULLETIN” TO
THE LADS OVERSEAS
ry
Special Concession Rates:
.•o-
-12 months 15/-
6 months .... 8/-
3 months . 4/-
. / ~*V
post free. .\9'
*
>
/ . f C/
•••’ ,o£
s* e
‘ .'' oO'. „vn n S c
C \VV \o°


t re
HE
.i«i
ummm
\% ‘‘tyk '
S'
s*
*1
~ ?T -. RW
r *^~
?<&■ - * ,/tf />: ■ *r/jjm *■; I IjI I I i 111 •*//////fill!
4 «
#i//J
I
J®
..:■
/>.
■' -^WhM
*
m
fm
m
*
i
<r/
liip>
*
1
m
m
m
ir t
u
• ,
BO T t D
t'-k l D
i'll
111
m
mi
GIN
m
in
l.U f
SPvV G|N, S/l^
Ii^''CutI.OEOHSWIETIW
t*o*\ Mali *^nd - Uri‘*-
'■ «*4>t.W ; A>;Tsilbo :
, ’ *>• AiV op «f 1
it'; vpint i 02
I I » f
KA.
I I
I I I
I I I
I I I
J u
FI
r. <
I 111
OE
U«M
CIK
*tp
BIN
CASTLE OH
* . *•*
ii; c *.ti, OE OIN ~f‘'
«« *•■*• w i*
GILBEYS
THE GIN OF GENERATIONS
BRIGHTEN THE PARTY
Never a dull moment in any social
gathering if the inspiring cocktails
or delightful long drinks, with a
generous Gilbey's basis, start the
ball rolling.
Gilbey's is the right hand
of the host or hostess who
want to make their party
"go"—without going too
far — Gilbey's gives lots of
palatable pleasure and just
that glow that puts every-
one at their best.
DRY
GIN
