

The ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
purchases: ORES
CONCENTRATES
and other materials containing COPPER, SILVER, GOLD
CASTING WHEEL FOR COPPER INGOTS.—A series of moulds is mounted round the rim of a horizontal wheel. The copper is
melted in the furnace in the background, and run into the mould opposite the pouring spout. Then the flow is cut off momentarily,
while the wheel moves round, bringing the next mould opposite the pouring spout—and so on. Moulds are tilted and emptied
automatically as seen on the right, after which they are sprayed and come round to be filled again.
The Works of this Company are situated at Port Kembla, on
the South Coast of New South Wales.
They were first established in 1908 for the refining of blister
copper produced at Mount Morgan (Q.), and for the custom
smelting of ores and other materials containing copper, silver and
gold. Such materials were obtained from various centres
throughout Australasia.
Later, the Refinery was extended to cope with the treatment of
blister copper produced by the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
Ltd., Tasmania, and the Hampden-Cloncurry Copper Mines Ltd.,
Queensland.
Ores and concentrates are treated in a blast furnace to produce
matte; that is, a copper-iron sulphide, which also contains the
precious metals present in the original ore.
Air is blown through the liquid matte to burn out the iron and
sulphur, thus producing blister copper, which is melted again, cast
into anodes, and refined electrolyticaily. The copper so refined is
cast into the famous ESA Brand Wirebars and Ingots.
The Company also has a well-equipped plant for the separation
and refining of the precious metals, which may be obtained either
from the original ores, etc., or as bullion.
ALL THESE OPERATIONS ARE CARRIED OUT WITH THE
HIGHEST METALLURGICAL EFFICIENCY AND SKILL. THUS
VENDORS CAN BE ASSURED OF MAXIMUM RECOVERY AND
HENCE OF MAXIMUM RETURNS.
The Company gives prompt settlement tor the silver and copper
contents of the material shortly after assays have been agreed, at
the same time making an advance payment for gold only.
The Company is an Agent of the Commonwealth Bank for the
handling of gold.
A leaflet giving the Company's Ore Purchase Terms will be
sent gladly on request.
The ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING CO. OF AUSTRALI
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
Registered Office:
25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Melbourne Office:
COLLINS HOUSE, 360
Works: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
1322
THE Bulletin
“The Bulletin, Vol. 62. No. 3217.
Wednesday, October 8, 1841.
Russian-War Developments (Page 30)
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office* Sydney, N.S-W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Learn
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. 241
The Red page
"Sonnefs to the Unknown
Soldier."
Douglas Stewart’s new volume. Sonnets
to the Unknown Soldier (Angus and
Robertson), includes not only the eleven
sonnets of the title, but also another
sonnet sequence of nine with the title
“The Dreaming World” and a few other
poems, all reprinted from The Bulletin.
The poetic gifts displayed in these poems
are of a very high order, but the author
is, 1 should say, no poet for the million.
Readers who are familiar with the his-
tory of the sonnet as a literary form in
English and other Western European
literatures, and especially those who are
sticklers for orthodoxy in the classifi-
cation and definition of literary forms,
may be inclined to quarrel with the author
on the score of his label. His “sonnets’
conform to the “rules” solely in respect
of the number of lines, 14 in each. In
the title set, “The Unknown Soldier,”
there are no rhymes at all; the line
indeed normally has five beats, or stresses,
or “feet,” the movement being, however,
not iambic, but rather or
trochaic. In the second series, “The
Dreaming World,” the lines, 14 in
number, are rhymed and arranged as in
the less severe form of the Elizabethan
model, but the metre, again, is far from
being the conventional iambic.
The measure has a closer affinity with
the so-called hexameter of English poetics
than with any metre, such as blank verse
or heroic metre, in which the iambus is
the staple unit. It is, in effect, the Eng-
lish hexameter wanting its final foot.
The metrical effect, which is all-important,
is one of lightness, rapidity and extreme
flexibility, permitting, as the line does, of
an almost infinite range of variation in
movement and adaptation to the exigen-
cies of the emotional content. It is, in
short, a free form, of the typically
modern kind, unshackled by rigid rule,
yet, be it observed, not wanting in that
discipline whose absence ruins so much
contemporary writing in verse. Consider,
for example, the wide difference in move-
ment between
Who if not you, who if not I is this'?
and
To the constable’s book and the hopeful
idlers remaining,
lines which, under the old rules and
accepted conventions, could not possibly
occur, as these two do, in the same poem,
and could not well be regarded as corn-
metrical at all.
Let me now consider what the poet,
with this fine instrument in his hand, has
tried to convey to his readers by way of
a message. If I find this far more difficult
than the Study of his metre it is chiefly
because he is a modern, not only in his
rejection of older metrical rules, habits
and conventions, but also in his choice
of themes, and still more in his method,
or want of it, in handling them. Even
the most spiritual and ethereal of our
classic poets, Shelley, for example, when,
at the peak of spiritual exaltation, he
seems to soar on wings of song into the
loftiest regions attainable by the human
soul —
Life, like a dome of many-colored glass,
Stains the white radiance of eternity
is still saying something which has within
it a hard core of truth, expressible, but
less finely, in the language of mere prose.
But we cannot always says this of the
modern singer:
Turning towards the night like a turning sleeper
The world is moving with all its darkening
dreams
Into a dream so immeasurably deeper
That stars are pebbles and time and space are
streams
And the racing waters cry out in words of light.
In passages like this we hear a sort
of elfin music, a melody not of this world,
which conveys to the mind the same sort
of spiritual ecstasy which it receives from
noble music, not expressible in words.
This poet, like some few other moderns,
tends to be rather the musician than the
preacher, the sage or the teacher, the
people who hold, and transmit to others,
creeds, doctrines and scientific truths. He
is indeed at one with the modern phil-
osophers, the astronomical physicists and
seekers after reality the Bergsons,
Eddingtons and Whiteheads who will
maintain that ultimate truth can never
be expressed in language as we know it.
If it is ever to be attained and expressed
by men, they say, it must be through the
medium of music, or of mathematics, or
of some process of our mysterious con-
sciousness which is as yet unknown. All
we can do, as Bergson says, is “to ring
truth round with convergent metaphors,”
and this, or something very like this,
Stewart attempts to do.
With this limitation always in mind I
may essay the task of interpretation.
Dealing first with the sonnets “To the
Unknown Soldier,” I premise that it is
hardly possible at this time of day to
say anything really new about war and
the trade of the soldier, but the old
truths may be newly stated and receive
new lustre and life from fresh impres-
sion ; and it is this, in my judgment, that
Stewart has succeeded in doing. Here
are the ancient, age-old themes: the
futility and the tragedy of war in the
mass; the perennial fighting spirit of
man ; the heroism of the individual; dis-
illusionment ; the ingratitude of the de-
fended ; hope for the future of a world
purged of war. At Dunkirk
a man who. was lover, husband, father of
children.
Workman or farmer or bank clerk, not ot
importance,
Walked cursing into the flames and died on the
beach....
and
This was the man
Who died at Thermopylae, and died at Waterloo,
Died at Gallipoli, died in the mud at Pass-
chendaele.
The fighting man in the ranks, all
through recorded time, falls and rises
again, the Unknown Soldier. “He does
the fighting”—
And he will sing and fall and fight again
Many times before the white dawn breaks on
the world.
Hero as he is, his fate, as an individual,
a unit, is to be
Remembered by no man when peace comes
back to the earth,
though he “goes down into hell to save
the light of the world.”
Remember him once for the lonely flame within
him .. , i,
In the days when the mountains are lit and all
the green valleys.
There is yet hope for a new world to
come, a hope born of the courage and
heroism of the soldier:
And by his endurance the world rolls on to
the light,
And the grass comes up in the spring and the
children laugh, ....
And, dead and forgotten, he lives m their
laughter for ever.
The soldier must not expect too much:
You shall have the soldier’s reward as from
time immemorial;
A column of stone in the park for the men
who are dead,
Speeches and cheers for the living, the pubs
wide open,
And a girl in your bed at last; and after ten
days ,
The morning sunlight will taste like dirt in your
mouth....
In the long dull years of ordinary living
You shall knpw what you know, and that shall
be your reward.
These are some of the reflections, in
the poet’s mind, of the highlights of war.
Reflections they are, but not in still
waters. The mind, whatever it may be
(and this nobody knows, not even the
psychologists), is at any rate not like a
lake or pool, but something more like a
running stream, in which no clear re-
flection is possible. Upon this stream,
which is our experience and all we may
be said to know, the world of events
casts its images, an affair of broken lights
and dancing sparkles. That gives one
aspect of Stewart’s poetry of war.
In his “Sonnets to the Unknown Sol-
dier” , the poet has travelled, we may
say, along a certain road, towards a
certain goal, but with many divagations
and side-trips along byways. It is not
always easy to follow his itinerary, but
it is child’s play compared with the fol-
lowing of his track in his sonnet sequence
“The Dreaming World.”
Here we have a set of nine rhymed
poems collected under the one title. The
general theme, if indeed there be one,
simply cannot be set forth clearly in
words and must be dimly apprehended
by the doubtful light of brilliant revela-
tory phrases whose relation to the main
theme, if any, is indeterminate. In each
of the octaves the beauty of the material
world of human, animal and vegetable
life and emotion is disclosed in a series
of fragmentary sketches; a stream issuing
from a marsh ; a street accident; singing
birds and a playing child; trees, a dozing
soldier and his girl; snow and a snowy
world ; a pair of lovers ; the earth re-
volving among the stars. In the sestets
are vague questionings, dim speculations,
and the poet’s confessions of his in-
adequacy for the task of interpretation
of these scenes, all being so dreamlike,
so superficial and evanescent an expres-
sion of some sort of life going forward
within the framework of the dream of a
sleeping world.
The relation of the explanatory or
interpretative thought, as expressed in the
sestet, to the central theme is often far
from clear to me, especially in the fourth,
fifth, sixth and seventh sonnets of the
series, but perhaps the responsibility for
that fact rests with, myself rather than
with the author. The poem as a whole,
while abounding in beautiful and haunt-
ing phrases and flashes of happy expres-
sion, sometimes sombre, sometimes dazz-
lingly bright, fails to convey any coherent
message to the mind of at least one
reader. In short, to enjoy this sort of
poetry to the full you must be a bit of
a poet yourself, with as clear a vision and
as subtle a probe of imagination as those
of the author.
ARNOLD WALL.
Snow on China .
Edgar Snow's Scorched Earth (Gol-
lancz ; Moore’s Bookshop) is not, as its
title might imply, of much value as
descriptive reporting; neither the teem-
ing cities nor the landscapes come to life
as they did, for example, in W. H.
Auden’s book on China ; nor is the curi-
ously haphazard warfare described as it
will be when Hemingway comes to light
with a book about it. There are flashes
of description, but they are incidental to
the crowding, jostling, enormous collec-
tion of facts.
China began the war With fewer than 50
tanks, and in buying ’planes before the
war started was “especially badly stung’
in the matter of defective machines by the
Italians “the Generalissimo discovered
that his air fleet, which had boasted of
a thousand battle ’planes, actually had
less than 150 ready for action.” In 1938
Japan got 76 per cent, of her aircraft
and parts from America. Now that
shelters have been provided, Chungking is
the safest war-time capital in the world ;
but when it was first bombed —a moment
of description:
Spacious public shelters were being dug,
but a third of the population still had no
protection. Government officials, given
advance warning, sped outside the city in
their motor-cars —Cabinet Ministers first,
then Vice-Ministers, then minor bureau-
crats. The populace soon caught on ; when
they saw a string of official cars racing to
the west they dropped everything and ran.
A mad scramble of rickshaws, carts, animals
and humanity blew up the main street like
a great wind, carrying everything before it.
More facts. Free China Proper —the
area still not conquered by the Japanese,
and not including Tibet or Outer Mon-
golia—was in 1940 a country of about
2,200,000 square miles, nine times the
size of France. As late as July, 1939,
China got 60 per cent, of her munitions
from Germany. Properly seasoned with
red pepper, rats taste better than young
pullets; “Quite de-licious!” Snow’s guer-
rilla friend assured him.
Snow’s narrative mounts up to a
complete history of the China struggle
from its beginning to as far as he can see
into the future. That future, it’s obvious
from Snow’s facts about Chinese Reds,
is going to be affected by the Communist
problem to a far greater extent than the
ordinary Leftist outpourings would sug-
gest. Of Japan’s 40 divisions in China,
Snow declares, 17 are engaged in fighting
the Communist Eighth Route and New
Fourth Armies; the Reds, that is, are
occupying the attention of two-fifths of
the entire Japanese forces. Armed Com-
munism in China is thus a pretty formid-
able force, and upon its relations with
Chiang Kai-shek, Snow believes, “the
whole edifice of unity in China might
stand or fall.”
Snow believes that Chiang Kai-shek
should make concessions. If he doesn’t,
he’s likely to win the war against the
Japanese and find that he’s lost it to the
Reds. But Snow notes that there have
been liberal concessions, and still
the coalition against Japan remains
uneasy and uncertain. The conclu-
sion, though Snow doesn’t state it,
is surely that revolution is an absolute
which cannot from its nature be
appeased ; so that, even if the patched-up
truce lasts for the duration of the wai
against the invader, China has renewed
civil war to look forward to. It appears
that in “telescoping three centuries ol
history into three decades,” China has
landed itself into the mess that Spam
more slowly achieved. If unity is not
maintained, “China may yet be beaten, ’
Snow says.
On Japan, as on China, the effect of
Snow is appropriately damping. Believ-
ing that the Japanese system, like the
German, is committed to “continuous
war,” he submits a few more cold facts
to correct the popular belief, fostered by
nearly all other writers on the subject,
that a few bombs on Tokyo would finish
the Japs: “Japanese industry may prove
less vulnerable to air bombing than is
generally assumed. The greater part of
the 112,000 factories of Japan are small
plants, employing an average of 28
workers each, and thousands of them are
located in villages away from the main
centres of communication.” Japan, he
declares, is self-sufficient in food, unless
Manchukuo were blockaded ; there are
reserves of war materials sufficient for
two years; still large reserves of man-
power—3,ooo,ooo trained men, apart from
the 1,200,000 engaged in China ; and, as
to sea-power:
Admirals may not all agree, but many
now doubt whether sea-power alone, even
if it could be massed in superior weight
on'Japan’s own sea frontiers, could quickly
subdue Japan. As she has developed con-
tinental bases —which at this writing
clear to the borders of Burma and give her
access to the heart of the British colonial
empire—she has become more secure
against blockade by sea.
He advocates “a durable political front”
between the Pacific Powers against Japan,
in the beliefs that (a) this is now the only
way of dealing with Japan ; (b) that a
firm front might stop the Japanese drive,
in which case there would be “social
revolution in Japan within not more than
two years” ; and (c) that if the army and
navy “preferred hara-kiri to surrender,”
it would indeed be hara-kiri.
Let’s Face the Facts (Bodley Head).
Series of war broadcasts given for the
enlightenment of Canadians by a score
of publicists, including Dorothy Thomp-
son, Alexander Woollcott, Clare Boothe,
Robert Sherwood, James Hinton, Hen-
drik van Loon, etc. Probably made tip-
top hearing; as reading, like the great
bulk of radio stuff, somewhat thin. Still,
a good deal of interesting information
can be gleaned from it, and anyone who
does his or her war bit talking should
find it well worth looking into. All
royalties to Lord Mayor of London’s
Air Raid Distress Fund.
The Lawn Beautiful: Andy Moodie.
Useful booklet by a N.S.W. agrostologist
who has done much to bring Sydney golf
greens to a high standard. For the house-
holder who wants an attractive lawn it’s
dirt cheap at Is. ; gives the dinkum oil
on everything about planting and keep-
ing a lawn. Entire proceeds of the
booklet’s sale go to the Red Cross. Apply
to N.S.W. Department of Agriculture.
The ABC of Criminology : Anita M.
Miihl (Melbourne University Press).
Lectures given by Dr. Mtihl at Mel-
bourne Uni., and published as an Aus-
tralian Council of Educational Research
report. The lectures add up to a power-
ful argument for the scientific approach
to the problem of crime prevention and
the ditto treatment of criminals. The
book as a whole is a first-rate introduc-
tion to the study of criminology.
White Man’s Work: W. C. Thomas
(Brokensha and Shaw, Ltd., Perth, W.A.).
“On Araluen hills the flowers are sleep-
ing” ; “The hills of Nannup drowsy are” ;
“The Ferguson comes idling through”
from which first lines the simple nature
lyrics that arc the best of this collection
run much as would be expected: easily,
pTeasantly, and with a pictorial quality
that will give them local appeal.
The Greyhound: B. A. McMichan
(Angus and Robertson). New second and
revised edition of this standard work on
the training, management and diseases of
greyhounds, by one of the best dog men
in Australia. If anybody wanted to know
anything more about greyhounds he’d
have to teach one of them to talk.
The Magic Bow, by Manuel Komroff
(Heinemann). Light romantic fictionised
account of the life of Paganini; his
setting out from home, early concerts,
lucky acquiring of a couple of marvellous
violins, his somewhat subdivided love
affair, and his musical career sketchily
but effectively presented. In the back-
ground Napoleon’s wars, which give the
tale almost a present-day atmosphere.
E. H. Sugden of “Queen’s": Mary
Florence Sugden (Lothian, Ltd.). Un-
pretentious brief biographical portrait of
the first master of Queen’s College, Uni-
versity of Melbourne. Written by his
daughter, it is rather in the nature of a
family piece, but nevertheless gives a
good idea of the man.
Oxford Pamphlets. Latest additions:
The Jewish Question, James Parkes;
Canada, Graham Spry; Germany’s New
Order, Duncan Wilson.
Maoriland’s Internal Affairs Depart-
ment continues to put out its excellent
“centennial surveys.” The latest to reach
Australia are The Farmer in New Zea-
land, by G. T. Alley and D. O. W. Hall,
and Educating New Zealand, by A. E.
Campbell.
Human Physiology: A. A. Abbie
(Angus and Robertson). Author is senior
lecturer in anatomy at Sydney Uni. Text-
book “covers the ground for courses in
physiology up to and including the
standard required by general nurses.”
Dents have entered into the spirit of
bringing the war home to the nursery
with three children’s booklets, well
illustrated in color: The Sailor, The
Soldier and The Airman.


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every act.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
The Fisherman’s Friend . . .
Wherever rod has bent and reel has sung... wherever the waiting line has throbbed
to life in the fight the fisherman loves . . . the quality of tackle has asserted itself.
This is the fisherman's friend . . . quality tackle that stands the test at the crucial
moment ... and this you buy at Anthony Horderns' famous low prices.
u
SPLIT CANE ROD
A. —Horrocks' Ibbotson Split
Cane Trout or Blackfish Rod.
9ft. long with two top joints.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price, 35/-
35
/
CANE BEACH ROD
B. —Split Cane Beach Rod, 7ft.
long. Agatine rings, screw reel
fittings. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price 65/-
65
/
HEAVY CANE ROD
C.—Bartleet's Heavy Split
Cane Rod, Bft. 2 joints, por-
celain rings, cork grip and
lock joints. At Anthony
£7lo'-
Horderns'. Price £7/10/-
BARTLEETS CANE ROD
D.—Split Cane Trout oi
Blackfish Rods. 9£ft., cork
grip, suction ferrules, two
top joints. At Anthony
£slo'
Horderns'. Prices
70/-, £5/10/-
%
HICKORY
CAME FISH ROD
BEACH
ROD
E. —Combination
Hickory Rod,
10ft.. with short
heavy lance wood top. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, 30/-
30-
F. —Split Cane
Game Fish Rods.
sft. 6in. with de-
tachable butt.
Prices, 105/-,
Heavy Game.
£6/-/-, £ll/17/6.
Light Game.
£7/10/-, £9/-/-.
Prices, 105/-,
105-
G.—Split Cane
Beach or Rock
Rod. Bft. 3 joints,
porcelain rings, screw reel
fit'/ng. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price 47/8
47'6
%
«s
f >■’' *.<*>
CABLE
LAID
<>
••••••'• V :
FISHING BAGS
FROM IQ'6
Strong Fishing Bags with
ample room. At Anthony Hor-
derns'. Prices, 10/6, 15/6, 20/-
English Fawn Material Fish-
ing Bag. Price 38/6
★ You Can’t Better These
SALINE BRAIDED waterproof Silk Line. 25 yard coils,
connected. Size F. Price 8/6
KINGFISHER DOUBLE TAPERED TROUT Line. 30 yards.
Sizes 1 2 3
Prices 24/- 28/6 32/6
NIMROD SPECIAL BRAIDED Flax Casting Line. In 25
yard coils. 8 connected. Sizes 1 2 3 4 5
Prices 2/3 2/6 3/- 3/6 4/-
?' a &
I \
K \
i
* ■ v ''' ~
Attorn*
W 4
B I G CAME
FISH REELS
57'6
Constructed of special material
unaffected by salt water and
unbreakable. Automatic handle.
Stop brake mechanism easily
applied by star-wheel to the de-
sired tension. Sizes, ins. 5 6^
Prices 57/6 99/6
SAMSON CAME
FISH REELS
£6lo'-
Diameter, 6 gin. Line capacity,
600 yards, 39 cord. Reel
taken -apart for clean-
ing. A good strong reel. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price,
each £6/10/-
\U
STEE L I T E
CHECK REELS
B'9
Sizes 3iin. 4in. Sin.
Prices 8/9 9/9 14/9
Centre Pin. Prices 17/9 18/6 22/6
Anti Back Lash.
Prices 29/- 30/9 36/9
BAKELITE
CASTING REELS
19'6
Sizes 4in. Sin.
Prices 19/6 24/6
Wood. Price .... 14/6
★ ENGLISH TROUT REELS
u
from £l'7'6
Trout Reels with aluminium drum. Sizes,
Inches 3 3?
At Anthony Horderns'. Prices .. 27/6 37/6
With Agate Guide. Price 50/-
Bakelite Trout Reels, Sin, with optional check.
Prices 4/-. 6/9, 8/9
Fishing Tackle —Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Delivered free only within
our delivery area.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
PHONE M 2401 (Day or Night) POST x 0 BOX 2 712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
lime cf f uiM mellowneJdandlmuj/uei}
seppelt's
LITTLEMORE CHURCH.
O*.* so near London uZ^Stt
Of course, this is drawing the long bow with a vengeance, loi al ■ . Atb Q r England the “Mother of Arts and
much in the nature of an “ possessing ano a f f Iffley is Littlemore, made famous in almost recent years in the
Eloquence,” is fam,bar with Iffley Lock. A p " r 'f at' Littlemore formerly a priory of Benedictine nuns, founded in the reign
ecclesiastical history of the Empire, to go back a little T . w hjt e after Henry V1!I ascended the throne,
of Henry If, and among the smaller religioushouses in Europe,” Centuries later.
It was given to Cardinal Wolsey towards establishing Christ Churth, me non (fflustrated) Cardinal Newman built . Here to
Littlemore was to achieve that fame which became world-w . , ,• ; s near the Church a range of buildings once locally
Littlemore he came from St. .o"sfNewZn in hfs ■•retiremem.” Here on
known as a Monastery, where Mark Pattisoa, Ward Christ” by Father Dominic, the Passionist, the good father making holy puns
October 8, 1845, Newman was received into the , One fold of Chr st by amu no m for the poor , but the largest room serves
on the name of the place Today the Monastery called Jhe College, how he chatted with an old woman who lived in
the purpose of a public library. Mac Coll, who visited this centre of n f nd r That wfs “before he became Pope. The Pope of Rome, that’s
the kitchen and remembered Newman when he resided there wi p p ’ ■ T djd hear the church of England gave him some punishment
the real Pope, over-persuaded him, and he went away and never came backagam. V with no carpet on the bricks, like any
for leaving, but don’t rightly know. The clerk s wife had een o see i , mLj , is vis j t ed by Christians of all denominations, who
noor nerson and he said it was to be humble and like his Master that he did it all. Littlemore » „
fovefflememory of the great man who gave to the world that imperishable hymn, Abide with Me.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62.—N0. 3217.
Wednesday, October 8, 1941.
A GOOD HORSE IN HIS DAY.
"You'll need better dope than those, mates—he’s a pretty sick horse.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria c Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathans Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly : 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad :
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign ) :
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire.
Id. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
LABOR TAKES OVER.
Defeated by a majority of three on the Budget
censure motion, Mr. Fadden last Friday resigned and
advised the Governor-General to send for Mr. Curtin,
who shortly before had received his life gold pass for
such extended service as Opposition-Leader that it
had come to look like a life job. The votes of the
two Victorian Independents, Mr. Coles and Mr.
Wilson, threw the Government out. Each of them
protested that he was acting on the highest of altruistic
motives, as did everyone else who managed to get a
word into the debate.
The claim of Mr. Coles to pure altruism was
contested by Mr. Fadden with somewhat more heat
than was raised by any other issue in proceedings
singularly lacking in fire. Mr. Fadden rated the
chain-store man’s altruism at something under half a
crown. According to Mr. Fadden, the principle in-
volved was the exclusion of Mr. Coles from the
Cabinet—an aspersion which Mr. Coles invited Mr.
Fadden to repeat on oath. Mr. Holt enlarged Mr.
Coles’s ambition to nothing under a full crown; “Mr.
Coles had approached a number of members and
invited them to associate themselves with him in a
new party, strong enough to impose its view on the
country.”
Such back-fence pleasantries aside, it appeared to
be generally agreed that somewhere or other there
was a war on, and that a simple Parliamentary occur-
rence here in distant Australia —a debate mothered
by political opportunity and fathered by political
opportunists —was somehow of great importance in
connection with that remote affair. Therefore the
debate should be done with quickly; should bring
about a change of Government; and should not on
any account lead to an election. All these ends
accomplished, the big majority of those directly con-
cerned —and many others besides —heaved a sigh of
relief.
A thanksgiving service held immediately after-
wards would have had a record attendance. Those
present would have included all Australians holding
the belief that who sits in what seats at Canberra is
not of the slightest importance; that the faintly-
remembered war —not party, nor individual, prefer-
ences—will dictate Australian Government policy and
acts for some time to come. Present also would have
been those who believe that Mr. Curtin and following
have had a fair enough spin of control without respon-
sibility ; those —not necessarily Labor supporters —who
believe that only Mr. Curtin and following can put
an end to the industrial troubles that have made
Australia at war look like a rightly populated Fools’
Paradise ; those fed up to the neck with the strutting
egotism of mediocrities, attempted government by
newspapers, and other aspects of the protracted poli-
tical farce in all its acts; those who believe Mr.
Curtin has tucked away somewhere on his own a
secret fund of unlimited proportions to do what he
proposes to do, without what he proposes to do with-
out ; and —leading in the grand queue—every seat-
holder in Canberra with good reason for dreading
an election.
On the lines of appeal that could have been
presented to electors, those in dread must have
included many on the ex-Government side. Mr.
Fadden’s amended Budget—which was made the
excuse for the change-over —was one that only a Gov-
ernment financing a war effort would have dared to
put forward. It hit pretty well everybody in the
country harder than ever where everybody is most
tender —j n the pocket. To find, as the Government’s
opponents did, that it meant the taxing of lower
incomes was obviously correct, and, with the alterna-
tive implied, a fair election winner. To that were
added the further election-winning bids of increased
pensions and increased pay for soldiers ; and—pos-
sibly best of all for such a purpose —the attack on the
Budget’s compulsory savings programme as merely
a means of trying out the idea of conscripting men
for overseas service. In Mr. Curtin’s interpretation;
The compulsion idea aimed at the very root of
the Commonwealth. People would say that if money
were to be called up compulsorily would not men be
called up compulsorily for service overseas.
With that raised as a bogey, and not disowned,
winning an election could possibly have been easy.
Three years ago it would have been just as easy to
win an election on no compulsion even for home ser-
vice—official Labor policy at that time, not since
disowned, though now disregarded. Presumably by
“service overseas” Mr. Curtin meant a long way over-
seas : if a fear that he has himself expressed in alarm-
ing enough terms should any day turn out to have
been justified, would Darwin mark the furthest limit
of Australia’s home-defence front line?
In any case, Mr. Curtin’s dictum that the “com-
pulsion idea” aims “at the very root of the Common-
wealth” would seem to suggest an extraordinary ability
to twist away from simple realities. If it were true,
the Budget which Mr. Curtin’s Government now has
the job of remoulding nearer to its heart’s desire
should be dispensed with for that reason alone: how-
ever remodelled it will enforce compulsion on the
great bulk of the communitv. By the same dictum
compulsory national service even for home defence
should be at once abolished ; so should compulsory
unionism, along with all the other numerous forms
of compulsion accepted as right, necessary and
democratic.
Instead of being anything like a logical argu-
ment against conscription for overseas service, Mr.
Curtin’s speech provided a whole string of arguments
in favor of that very step. Both the doomed and
the hopeful in the House applauded his reference
to “the complete unity of the Australian people and
of this Parliament to prosecute the war to a successful
conclusion.” The debate was only ostensibly con-
cerned with the Budget, which “was, in effect, the
problem of the ways and means of war.” The real
concern was achieving stable government and by and
through .it the fullest national effort in “the prosecu-
tion of the war” and “the attainment of victory.”
He defined war as “a physical thing fought by
fighting men, supported by the economic strength of
the civil population,” And, all that being so, “we
have been inviting volunteers to serve in a war in
which, if they are worsted, our country is lost and
our liberty destroyed.”
There would seem to be only one logical con-
clusion to that patently true statement of the position
—the very opposite conclusion to that reached by
Mr. Curtin. A different view could possibly be taken
if recruiting figures were truly satisfactory. Not in
Mr. Curtin’s State, but in other parts of Australia,
they are far from it, according to published state-
ments of recruiting authorities. This would still be
an undemocratic and weak-kneed method of waging
a war in which the admitted cost of defeat is that
the country could be lost and the liberty of its people
destroyed, but so long as it worked those who believe
it must be continued even at the risk of that cost
might claim to have a case. The point having been
reached where nobody can pretend any longer that
it is likely to work adequately, it demands to be
faced as a problem of the greatest importance to the
community, and a solution found for it if at all
possible.
To begin with, instead of conscription being set
up as a bogey, the issue should be plainly and fairly
explained. On the one hand, it should be pointed
out that—on the almost daily statements of recruiting
authorities, until the Director-General of Recruiting
surprisingly came out with a slightly more cheerful
version on Monday—“inviting volunteers” had proved
a failure. Unless the new Government is to produce
some magical means of stimulating volunteering those
in the A.I.F. already doing more than their fair demo-
cratic share may lack sufficient reinforcements and
on that account would have to do more than ever,
without proper rest or relief. On the other hand, it
should be made clear that nothing could be more false
than the commonly held and considerably encouraged
notion that conscription would mean bundling every
young man in the country into a uniform and sending
him overseas. It would be a matter for Government
decision how many needed to be sent. It would mean
the Government of the country rightly taking up a
responsibility now left to individual youths. It would
mean that the country’s elected, leaders had had the
courage to act on their convictions the sort of con-
victions fairly and fully enough outlined by Mr.
Curtin. Instead of a departure from democratic prin-
ciple, a blow struck “at the very root of the Common-
wealth,” or anything of the sort, it would affirm faith
and belief in democracy and express the forthright
commonsense view that the major concern in a war
being fought for survival is to survive.
All this, of course, does not apply only to this
Labor Government which now takes over. thing
of shreds and patches which preceded Mr. Curtin’s also
somewhat variously branded lot was similarly com-
mitted to the voluntary system.” It had the great
advantage over the new Government of a compara-
tively easy stage of the war as regards the provision
of fighting man-power. Its main job was on the
home front, and—with the Opposition under Mr.
Curtin’s wise leadership refraining from obstruction
for obstruction’s sake, though as far as it could enforc-
ing its own lines of policy—the late Government
deserves to be well remembered for a notable per-
formance on the materials-production side. For its
oast part Mr. Curtin’s Government deserves similar
opportunity to show what it can do. It takes over
with the war future unpredictable, except that it
is certain to be dark and difficult, with the need for
fighting man-power becoming more and more urgent,
dependence on the voluntary system becoming more
and more tragically weak and out of date, and the
A.I.F. abroad looking to Australia not to let it down.
Amateur War Directors.
People unfamiliar with the ways and pretensions of
the New Journalism must have laughed at the heroics
of Mr. Joseph Winkler, late of Canberra. Mr.
Winkler was employed on the staff of a Labor paper,
now deceased ; then he somehow got a Government
publicity job, which was terminated abruptly by the
then Prime Minister two days after Mr. Winkler had
revealed what the previous P.M. called “an atrociously
improper document” to the then Leader of the
Opposition. Other proceedings with which Mr.
Winkler’s name has been associated are to be the
subject of an inquiry by a distinguished Judge, and
are therefore not to be discussed, but the facts here
mentioned, all explicitly stated in Parliament, are not
among the matters which his Honor has been com-
missioned to explore.
“Ever present” in Mr. Winkler’s “mind” was the
need for “a hundred per cent, war effort.” Urged on
by pure patriotism, Mr. Winkler sought to “rectify
things that are wrong” in order to “provide” his “coun-
try with the means” for the hundred per cent, war
effort. And “had the course I took been followed
by attention to the more national aspect of what was
worrying me, the public would have derived immediate
benefit from it, and that will be the verdict of his-
tory.” Yes, history!
I am confident that history will justify my intentions,
and I regret that the result was not otherwise than it
has been.
All this is exquisitely ridiculous, but it has its
serious side. Mr, Winkler’s obsession with the import-
ance of Winkler is characteristic of the journalistic
school in which he was brought up. The New Jour-
nalism abounds in persons with inflated notions of
their own talents and influence and of the power which
their papers wield. Their vanity is fed by the signed
article, and ministered to by minor politicians who
seek their favors, and whom they puff outrageously
while conducting mean vendettas against public men
who will not submit to their dictation. They get the
news from the same sources, dish it up in the same
style and exploit the same tricks of the trade the
commonest is the pretence that “the public demands
this or that, when the “demand” comes really from
some conceited little editor or from some imitation
Northcliffe, probably rolling a log. With Hollywood
views of history, some sentimental ideas about the
French and Russian revolutions and a dense ignorance
of practical affairs they profess to know more about
banking than Davidson, more about government than
Menzies and more about war strategy than Pound
and Wavell.
We have seen some of these worthies run groups
of candidates against the Government they profess to
be supporting. Others, operating unobtrusively over
a wider field, have set up as political kingmakers, with
some success. Of late these efforts at government by
newspaper have been accompanied by attempts to dic-
tate imperial war strategy which are even more dan-
gerous. British newspaper articles demanding offen-
sives “to help Russia” have been republished in Aus-
tralia with approving comments or added suggestions,
such as that Australian airmen should be sent to
Vladivostok and Australian troops to the Caucasus,
The furious fancies of the “famous” John Gordon
and the “famous” Frank Owen have been presented
to Australian readers as if the military wisdom of all
the ages were concentrated in these inkslingers’ heads.
The truth, of course, is that the “famous” pair were
trained for newspaper work and not for war, and
that they are completely ignorant of essential facts
which are necessarily kept locked in the breasts of
Mr. Churchill, his service advisers and his War
Cabinet colleagues.
Obviously referring to these amateur strategists and
the mischievous agitation they have worked up, the
British Prime Minister spoke some very wise words
last week. He repudiated the insinuation that “we are
a weak, timid and lethargic Government who are
usually asleep or held back by excessive scruples and
inhibitions and are unable to act with the vehemence
and severity which these violent times require.”
I hope that some of our hardened critics will realise
the fate awaiting nations and individuals who take the
easy or popular course, or who are guided in defence
matters by the shifting winds of well-meaning public
opinion. Nothing is more dangerous in war-time than to
live in the temperamental atmosphere of a Gallup poll,
always feeling one’s pulse and taking one’s tempera-
ture.
Though shipping losses had fallen —in the July-
September quarter to one-third of the previous quar-
ter’s total —and destruction of enemy shipping had
materially increased, “we must expect that U-boat
warfare, supported by scores of Fock-Wulfes, will be
intensified.” And though we were “no longer alone,”
the position of Russia was such that sacrifices of
the most serious kind must be made to enable” that
country “to remain in the field indefinitely as a first-
class war-making Power.” That meant weapons and
supplies, which must be sent “month after month, and
on a growing scale —not only tanks, aircraft,
aluminium, rubber, copper and oil, but many other
materials vital to modern war,” What more it might
mean could not be discussed without giving informa-
tion to the enemy ; “and if Hitler does not tell his
plans I do not see why we should discuss ours.” One
thing was certain: “he still retains the initiative,” and
with" it the power to strike in several quarters, for,
in spite of “a shortage in the air,” he has “the divisions
and the weapons and the means of transportation :
We do not know how far he will attempt to pene-
trate the vast lands of Soviet Russia....or whether he
will decide to stand on the defensive and exploit the
territory of immense value he has conquered. Should
he choose this course, we do not know whether he will
turn part of his vast army southwards to the valley
of the Nile, or whether he will attempt to make his
way through Spain into north-west Africa, or whether,
using the great Continental railways of Europe and the


immense chains of airfields, he will shift his weight
westwards and assemble an extensive army, with all the
special craft he has constructed, for an attempted
invasion of the British Isles. It would certainly be in
his power, while standing on the defensive in the east,
to undertake all three of these hazardous enterprises at
the one time.
So it was necessary to keep sufficient forces at
the points of danger. And the army in Britain was
“not too large” for the job it had to be ready to do.
It was “a medium-sized but very good army; a finely-
tempered weapon.” And it deserved well of the
country, as did its comrades in the Mediterranean and
the Middle East, “who might soon have to bear
the brunt of German fury and organisation”;
When 1 learn about the frightful, indescribable atroci-
ties which German police and troops are inflicting on
the Russian population in the rear of the advance of
their armored vehicles, the responsibility of His
Majesty’s Government to maintain an ample, high-class
lorce here, to annihilate any invaders from the sea or
from the air, comes to me in a significantly ugly and
imposing form. I could not reconcile such a responsi-
bility with breaking up or allowing to melt away those
highly disciplined, seasoned fighting units which we have
now, at last, so laboriously created. Anyone who, with-
out full knowledge, should attempt to force the hands of
those responsible would act without proper warrant and
would not achieve any useful purpose, because, in the
discharge of the duties the House has confided to us,
we are determined to take our own decisions and be
judged accordingly.
Capital, and absolutely convincing, except to such
of the amateur strategists as are so vain and cocksure
as to be incapable of being convinced. Mr. Churchill
has made more eloquent war speeches, but never one
weightier in matter or more effective in riddling a
plausible case. For the moment he seems to have
silenced the parties to this latest and worst newspaper
stunt, but they are sure to break out again. Mean-
while a short Act should be passed in each of the
British Commonwealth Parliaments for the protection
of worried Governments and the men of the fighting
and auxiliary services, the latter especially. It should
be to the effect that any newspaper editor, writer of
signed articles or radio speaker who demands that
British imperial fighting men and merchant seamen
shall be employed in hazardous expeditions, regard-
less of any other consideration but his own ideas of
strategy, shall be deemed to be willing to risk his own
life m the particular expedition he urges, and, if such
should be decided upon—whether as a result of
irrational clamor or not—will be obliged to share the
dangers, even if his person has to be dug out of a
funkhole or a hollow log.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Foll's Foster-Child.
The Department of Information had a comparatively
modest beginning. The late Henry Gullett thought it
could get along with £33,500 in its first year, 1939-40
(actually a bit under 10 months), and when £43,700
was spent (£22,000 in salaries and the rest in “general
expenses )it didn’t seem out of the way. But a
change came over the scene when Senator Foil took
charge. Last year there was a prodigious leap in
expenditure, and there is to be a further enormous
advance this year unless members object.
In respect of its own activities” the department
spent in 1940-41 £174,300, of which £63,800 went in
salaries and £110,400 in general expenses. So McLeod,
M.H.R., was informed in the House on September 17,
by the then Minister McDonald on behalf of col-
league Foil; in the Budget papers, however,
the total is given as £182,000. Another £42,900
was spent “in advertising on behalf of other Govern-
ment departments,” Information having acquired an
Advertising Branch, which hires space in newspapers
and “national periodicals” and time on radio stations,
as well as splashes on posters and moving-picture
screens. It has also set up a News and Information
Bureau in New York, with a director at $7500 p.a.,
an editorial assistant at $3500, a lady librarian, index
clerk, etc. ($1820), a lady clerk ($1820), a stenographer
($1380), a photographic librarian and research officer
($1560) and three other persons. This totally unneces-
sary bureau is apparently to be a permanent burden
on the taxpayer.
Senator Foil might be described as a political island
totally surrounded by press boys. He took a party
of them on an aerial trip to Darwin, the Netherlands
East Indies and Malaya, and, judging by results to
which Major-General Gordon Bennett has borne indig-
nant testimony, the thing was a washout. The cost
may or may not be debited to the “travelling and sub-
sistence” vote for the current year, £l3,3oo—up £5lOO.
Salaries and allowances and extra-duty pay are to
cost £81,900. The item “National Film Council” goes
up from £ll,BOO to £40,300, and a National Publicity
Campaign is to run away with £66,000. Total for the
twelvemonth, £276,900. There are two or three reduc-
tions on 1940-41 expenditure, and, very curiously, one
of these is in respect of “the official war correspondents
and official war photographic services,” down £lOOO or
so from £6OOO. The work of the official war corre-
spondents and photographers has been a credit to
these enterprising Australians, and nobody would
object if it cost a bit more than it has done. But
the setting up of the New York office is an imperti-
nence and an imposition.
As a rule the inquisitiveness of members who
ask questions about departmental expenditure peters
out before the estimates are debated in the Canberra
fashion. There should be a departure from slipshod
practice in the case of this Foil foster-child, which is
making such excessive and disproportionate growth.
For Temperance.
Blue P. : One of the drawbacks to liquor reform
m Australia is that the temperance campaign is in
the wrong hands. The average blue-ribboner of the
male variety has never suffered the pleasure of getting
half-stung with a few mates or even the solemn glow
of serene peacefulness that enfolds a man quietly
absorbing a pint in a corner of the bar after a hard
day’s work. Consequently, he is flat out for aboli-
tion, and loses no opportunity either to afflict the
country with his views or to press for prohibition.
. The reaction of the man who likes his pot is
instantaneous and often violent. He knows that the
few drinks he has, so far from doing him any harm,
contribute to good cheer and tolerance, and that his
mates, by virtue of being sinners like himself, aren’t
likely to curl a disdainful lip at him. Also, he never
insists that the prohibitionist should be forced to
drink as the prohibitionist insists that he should be
forced not to drink, and he takes the prohibitionist’s
efforts, well-meant as they are, as an unwarranted inter-
ference with personal liberty. He refuses to be con-
demned as a weak-willed fool because of the corm
parative few who don’t know when to stop. There is
no more logic in completely banning alcoholic drinks
because some people persistently get drunk than there
would be m banning motor-cars because some people
can t control them. There is a lot more to it than
that, but enough has been said to show the gap
between the drinker and the temperance advocate.
Temperance doesn t, or shouldn’t, mean prohibi-
hon. When an anti-liquor organisation builds a
Temperance Hotel it should be a place where a
temperate drinker can get a beer if he wants one. As
it is, the man in search of a beer shies off such a place
as a dinkum blue-ribboner shies off a dinkum pub.
Thus a good English word has lost its real meaning,
and the stage is reached where the missus and kids
can go down the street and soak themselves in ice-
cream and lemonade while I sneak fearfully to a side-
door, am furtively handed a bottle and told to get
away quick, “the Johns are on the job.”
Suppose the temperance campaign were taken up
and vigorously conducted by brewers and publicans.
Mo publican likes to see drunks hanging round the
premises. Neither does any brewer. Both know that
excessive drinking harms their trade and brings it into
disrepute. Both know, or should know, that so long
as it is possible to see a drunk reeling along the street
or weeping in the arms of a crayfish, so long will a
section fight to have them and their business abol-
ished. This also is true of the drunken motorist and
the type that becomes violent or criminal when drunk.
.... ? f > inste ad of spending vast sums to fight the pro-
hibitionists, the makers and purveyors of alcoholic
drinks suddenly joined in the fight for real temperance,
they d not only cut the ground from under the blue-
nbboners feet, but could quickly reduce drunkenness
and the evils associated with it, and in a very short
time nobody would care two hoots if the pubs stayed
open 24 hours a day. In any case, the spectacle of
both sides contending for liquor reform would be a
tonic to the nation.
The male blue-ribboner has been mentioned. I
refrained, out of innate courtesy, from referring to
the female variety.
One for the Doctors.
“Avon”: Maoriland’s Labor Government having
placed on the Statute Book amendments to the Social
Security Act which fixed a scale of charges for
medicoes and directed that the State and not the
patient should be looked to for payment, everyone
waited to see what the B.M.A. would do about it.
They didn’t have long to wait.
The council of the M.L. Branch sent Health
Minister Nordmeyer a resolution that was in effect a
challenge and an ultimatum. The council pledged
members to continue medical service to the community,
but
informs the Government and publishes forthwith in the
press that, in view of its objection to the proposed
amendments to the Social Security Act, medical practice
on and after October 1, 1941, will be carried on as
formerly.
Nordmeyer climbed down. Last week he announced
his intention to introduce further amendments of the
S.S. Act substantially raising the fixed fees for medical
attendance and, most importantly, permitting doctors
unwilling to accept payments from the S.S. Fund to
collect fees from patients. And operation of the con-
tentious amendments was postponed till November 1.
The Interned Alien.
Parliamentary question: “How many internee Courts
of Appeal have been appointed, and what does it cost,
approximately, to maintain them annually?” The
Ministerial reply was that “there are 19 of these
courts, and that annual costs “cannot be estimated
with any degree of accuracy,” being dependent on
the number of appeals which are dealt with from
time to time.”
Not all the 19 tribunals hear appeals from aliens
born in enemy countries, but apparently seven do.
Senator Cameron’s namesake in the House described
the procedure adopted in these cases —he stressed the
point that an appellant interned in one State may have
ms appeal heard in another —and mentioned the
expenses which an obliging Government defrays :
i/ 7s. a day for the chairman of each tribunal, and
£5 ss. a day for each member, with a Crown
prosecutor, a clerk and four shorthand writers to assist
them in the discharge of their duties.
Returning to the subject, Mr. Cameron asked the
House to disallow the regulation under which these
proceedings are held, saying it was “too painful for
words that, at a time when the nation is engaged in a
life and death struggle, the Government should go to
all sorts of trouble in order to look after these people,
many of whom came here because the Nazis planted
them here.” But the House was not interested.
Regulations under which alien internment camps
are established and controlled are many and various.
No objection can be taken to Reg. 10, which provides
that “Internees shall be treated humanely and protected
against acts of violence and insults and from public
curiosity.” But there are other regulations which pro-
vide, in effect, that the internee shall receive treat-
ment not only better than the ordinary prisoner of
war, but in many cases better than is accorded to our
own men in camp.
Reg. 18 specifies that the “food ration of the
adult male internee shall be equivalent in quantity
and quality to that of the soldiers in the internment
camp... .and internees shall be afforded the means of
preparing such additional food as they may possess.”
This latter provision is one unheard of in military
camps. Other regulations ensure that the internee is
not bored during his enforced stay in camp. Reg. 20
provides for an internees’ canteen (profits to go to the
internees); Reg. 22 for the establishment of a library
in each internment camp—our soldiers have to depend
on private generosity for reading matter —Reg. 21
makes sure that the internee is not deprived of his
smoke, and by Reg. 26 “provision” must be made at
each internment camp “for games and recreation.”
As to the internee’s correspondence, Reg. 30
grants privileges to the alien and his friends which are
denied to the soldier and his family. “Letters and re-
mittances of money and valuables and postal parcels
addressed to enemy alien internees from places out-
side Australia or dispatched by them to places out-
side Australia shall be exempt from postal charges,
and internees shall also be allowed exemption from
postal charges in respect of letters to civilians in Aus-
tralia.”
Lastly, care is taken that the internee has ample
opportunity to place his complaints before the authori-
ties. Official Visitors” are appointed to visit the
camps regularly to hear complaints and receive peti-
tions. Representatives of the Protecting Powers may
call at the camp and speak with the internees. The
internees themselves may elect an “internees’ represen-
tative” to place their complaints before the authorities,
and internees “shall not be liable to punishment if
their complaints are found to be groundless.” Not
one of these methods is available to the rank and file
in our military camps.
It would be interesting to know if Nazi Germany
and Fascist Italy have reciprocated with similar regu-
lations. It doesn’t seem likely.
More Border Trouble.
That education should be a Commonwealth affair is
further emphasised by the Melbourne “Age” discovery
that Australian kids living on the north side of the
Murray, though forced by location to attend a school
on the south side, can’t compete there for scholarships.
This rule came out of a conference of State
directors of education, and Victorian officials justified
it on the ground that Victorian taxpayers shouldn’t
have to pay for scholarships for children of other
States. A N.S.W. official, asked if the same rule
applied in his principality, said: “Unless the child
resides in the State it is ineligible for State scholar-
ships.” Presumably it would apply to children on
any border.
The notion that taxpayers would be robbed or
deprived of something if the kids were given an open
go is typical of State officialdom. If the taxpayers
were asked they’d certainly wipe out this border ban,
which implants early in the minds of those affected
that they’re not Australians but Victorians, Queens-
landers, New South Welsh.
Merely one of the many disabilities border people
suffer under the present States system, it adds to the
rising feeling in favor of at?lishing the States as
political entities, along with their alleged “rights.”
Wells's Newest Wildcat.
“Lord Luvus”: H. G. Wells has laid before the
British Association for the Advancement of Science
his latest plan for perpetual world peace.
There must be federal control of air and the
material of international transport; the planet must
be rescued from ruthless political and mercenary
appropriation; world resources must be conserved
on a federal basis; a fundamental law must be
imposed providing for every man fair participation
in those resources and a sense of responsible* owner-
ship for our planet.
And the way he is going to do it? By a common
language, a common medium for political, scientific,
philosophical and religious inter-communication and
a world encyclopaedia.
Well, Wells wrote a world encyclopaedia himself
in the shape of his Universal History and no two
people seem to agree as to its value. If Wells can’t
get people to agree with him on the simple matter of
opinions in a book, how does he think some vague
federal authority is going to get them to agree on
morals, politics, economics and religion, except with,
say, the aid of an immense air police force? And if
he does it with an air police force, in what way would
his federal State be any different from Hitler’s?


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS”
“Q.A.Z.”: The monotonous regularity
with which the Appeals Censor lifts
bans imposed on films by the Chief
Commonwealth Censor —“Love on the
Dole” is a recent subject of their atten-
tions —is almost as amusing as the general
machinery for film censorship in Aus-
tralia, Not quite, though. It’s funny
enough with imported films; the Com-
monwealth Minister for Customs lets them
into the country, the Chief Common-
wealth Censor bans ’em and the Appeals
Censor lifts the ban. With locally-
made films it’s funnier still; say
the Commonwealth Censor bans ’em
and the Appeals Censor upholds his de-
cision, then, under the N. S. Wales
Theatres and Public Halls Act, the N. S.
Wales Chief Secretary’s Department can
authorise the film to be shown in N. S. „
Wales. The Commonwealth Censor is,
however, also the Victorian film censor,
so he can prohibit the film being shown
in Victoria, which means N. S. Welsh-
men may see what Victorians may not.
And, to carry the business to its farcical
conclusion, if the Commonwealth Censor,
the Appeals Censor and the Chief Secre-
tary’s Department all agree that the film
can be shown in Australia, the Minister
for Customs can then step in and pro-
hibit the film from being exported, i.e.,
shown abroad.
* * * *
“Bo”: More abused than any Budget
could ever be are a few adjectives which
should grace our language. Once the
sporting scribes got a stranglehold on
poor old “brilliant,” that was the finish
of it. It survived the horror of being
applied to a Sydney bung’s beer and to
the performance of the winner of the
10-mile walk, but crashed when it was
applied to the performance of a hen in an
egg-laying contest. “Freak” (as an adjec-
tive) is invariably applied to any storm
that breaks over a capital city, while
nobody can get out of an accident lightly
without the dailies stressing his “amaz-
ing” escape. When a hack politician
who hasn’t two clear notions on any
subject under heaven arises to say a lot
of dreary words he makes a “fighting”
speech; “fighting,” too, is the attitude
credited to any tinpot solicitor defending
any petty malefactor. Now “courageous”
is getting a good burl. The latest example
of it was applied to a rider’s effort in a
cycling road race the other day. A few
days before cables told of a bloke run-
ning the gauntlet from Tobruk to an
outpost with a message. “Courageous”
was not applied to the A.I.F. man’s deed.
# * * *
“Hamfat”: Whether “Banjo” Paterson
wrote the original “Waltzing Matilda” or
not, he certainly did not write the multi-
tude of stanzas which were added, full
of local and topical allusions to suit
the place where they were sung. These
probably were the work of the itinerant
entertainers who turn up at shearing
sheds to give the boys a sing-song. But
“Matilda” never matched for length and
woolliness “The Wild Colonial Boy.” I
once heard a man sing 127 verses of “The
Wild Colonial Boy”—“all I know of it,”
he said. He swore that he was in a train
once with a man who started singing the
“W.C.8.” at Blayney, and without repeti-
tion (except in refrain) the song lasted
him until Orange. The singer then left
the train, remarking “If youse blokes
were coming on to Wellington I’d sing
youse the rest of it.”
* * *
“Cauboy”: It is always amusing when
entrepreneurs start discussing the drama
from the mdral viewpoint. In indignantly
refuting a suggestion by the secretary
of the Actors’ Equity that plays which
had been big overseas successes had been
ignored by Australian producers because
they contained no bedroom scenes, sex
motives, murders or poor-girl-marries-
rich-youth episodes, E. J. Tait retorted
that his company had never catered for
dirty plays and refused to buy overseas
successes like “Tobacco Road” (a play
approvingly quoted by his critic) be-
cause they had nothing but sex in them.
Why talk about sex as if it were a sub-
stance as easily identified as sugar? It
is the way sex is treated that is impor-
tant. Mr. Tail’s firm put on “The
Women.” I didn’t like “The Women”
and I do like “Measure for Measure” ;
but on the one occasion Shakspeare’s play
was done in Melbourne I glanced over
the prompter’s shoulder and observed that
whole pages had been scored out. Mr.
“And remember the schoolmaster saying he knew YOU'D be the one in
our class who d come to a bad end."
Tait ought to be asked to define what he
means by sex.
* * * *
“Nakh”: Melbourne Jewry is celebrat-
ing its centenary. A little company of
Jews arrived in Victoria in 1839, and
there had been earlier migrants from
N-.5.W., Van Diemen’s Land and S.A.,
but it was in September, 1841, that
Asher Hymen Hart formally founded the
Melbourne Jewish congregation, number-
ing 57. Three years later the synagogue
in Bourke-street was erected. By 1854
the Hebrew population had risen from
300 to 1547. But there was a shortage
of females, and Nathaniel Montefiore’s
Jewish Migration Society in London set
out to make up the deficiency. Syna-
gogues sprouted like mushrooms, and in
1857 there was a secession, when the St.
Kilda Hebrew Congregation was
founded. Hitler having provided a strong
stimulus to Jewish emigration, there are
now large voluntary ghettoes in Fitzroy
and St. Kilda. Amongst distinguished
Melbourne Jews have been Nathaniel
Levi, Victoria’s first Jewish member of
Parliament; Edward Cohen, M.L.A. and
Mayor of Melbourne ; Benjamin Benja-
min, claimed at the time to be not only
the first Victorian but the first Jew to
receive a knighthood; Isaac Isaacs,
Chief Justice and Governor-General; and
John Monash, G.Q.C. of the Australian
forces.
* * * *
“Umber”: John Longstaff had this
much of luck in a not particularly easy
life—he was for years not only the best-
known painter in Australia, but the only
Australian painter whose name was
known to folk outside art circles. For
that he could thank “Breaking the News,”
the picture with which he won the Vic-
torian Gallery Travelling Scholarship in
1887. A Sydney weekly reproduced it for
its Christmas supplement, and it went all
over Australasia and was liked all over
Australasia for its straightforward drama
and pathos. The two plates warming on
the hob brought a tear to every feminine
eye. It is easy enough to ridicule that sort
of art—a lot easier than to do something
memorable in that line —but Longstaff s
youthful masterpiece could stand it. In
1907 the “Lone Hand” thought it worth
while to reproduce the picture, its popu-
larity undimmed by the years. It still
holds its place as an outstanding limning
of a scene from Australian life—as true
in sentiment and feeling as anything Law-
son ever penned.
“Exdig”: John Longstaff was in the
Boer War as well as the 1914-18 one ;
he was fond of telling how at the end
of 1918 he had forgathered in a London
bar with a mixed crowd of Dominion
officers and was moved to tell an Aus-
tralian Bushmen’s Contingent experi-
ence. A South African chipped in; “I
know you fellows had a hot time. I
ought to know. I was sniping at you!”
Longstaff laughed and pointed to the
South African ribbon on the Springbok’s
breast. “If you fought with the Boers,”
he said, “how do you come tc be wear-
ing that ribbon?” “I’ve got a perfect right
to wear the South African medal,” re-
torted the other. “I was in the war,
wasn’t I?”
* * * *
“K.P.”: A few years ago the sulpha-
nilamide group of drugs looked like the
answer to therapeutic prayer in dealing
with pneumonia and certain other fatal
microbic diseases. Now a refugee French
worker at the Rockefeller Institute in
New York, Dr. Rene Dubos, seems well
on the way toward an even greater scien-
tific discovery. Reasoning that every
living thing eventually rots away under
microbic action, including microbes, he
set out to look for the particular kind of
microbe which destroys its disease-bear-
ing relatives in soil. Eventually he
isolated a species of soil-microbe which
did this very thing by means of
an excretion. He isolated the excretion,
named it gramicidin, and tried it on
disease microbes in culture. It killed
them promptly. Then he injected one
fifty-thousandth of a grain of it into a
mouse. The mouse subsequently sur-
vived inoculation with enough pneumonia
germs to kill 10,000 unfortified mice.
Then came the snag—gramicidin was
too poisonous to be injected into large
animals, such as man. Also it did not
work against an established general in-
fection. But it cleaned up infected
wounds, antrums and other localised
infections in miraculous fashion when
the sulphanilamides failed, and continu-
ing research shows every promise of find-
ing an allied substance which can be
injected safely into the human body.
* * * *
“Hacksaw”: My experience confirms
what “Strict Veg.” says (B. 24/ 9/ ’4l)
about the attitude of Australians to the
wine of the country. In Europe the
native usually dilutes his wine with a
little water because he likes to drink a
lot of it. The Australian, though he
likes highly-diluted alcohol in the form
of beer, never dreams of adding water to
his local wine, though it is, on the whole,
much more alcoholically potent than
European. And the whole attitude to-
wards wine is wrong. Breasting the bar
of a quite respectable pub in Melbourne,
I asked the damsel for a sherry. “Three-
pence or sixpence?” she asked sharply.
I plumped for the higher figure, hoping
I would get a better quality. But she
was thinking in terms of quantity, not
quality, and poured me out a potful. In
Europe wines are sipped, not gulped.
* * * *
“F.S.”; From all accounts, the annual
exhibition of paintings by Australian
artists which will open on Oct. 16 at the
National Gallery in Melbourne is likely
to attract a lot of interest. Pictures have
poured in from all parts of the Com-
monwealth, the bait being a prize of £5OO
and two of £2OO. Freak painters have
been busy. But Australian art com-
mittees haven’t yet allowed their legs
to be pulled to the same extent as
the judges of the Paris salons at the
height of the gaga fashion. One artist
sent in a blank canvas. Asked what the
picture meant, he said it represented “a
whole world of unexpressed ideas,” and
the committee solemnly accepted it and
hung it under that title.
* * * ♦
“C.Q.”: The lowest maternal mortality
rate in the world is claimed by the Vic-
torian Bush Nursing Association. It is
two deaths in 1000 cases, a figure so low
that the U.S.A. Department of Infor-
mation refused to believe it and de-
manded confirmation.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: How and when
did the idea originate that the A.I.F.
badge represents the rising sun? Actually
its origin in something like present form
was from a trophy of
bayonets and swords
surrounding an im-
perial crown which
adorned the office of
Major - General Ed-
ward Hutton when he
was commandant of
the pre - Federation
Victorian military
forces. When the first
contingent of Light
Horse went to South
Africa a symbolical
representation of this
trophy was used by
them as a distinguish-
ing badge. Later on,
when defence had
been taken over by the
Commonwealth, the
Light Horse badge
was submitted to a
Birmingham firm as a
, basis for designing a
badge for Common-
wealth forces gener-
ally. Owing to a mis-
understanding, they
deviated still further
from the original basis
of the Hutton trophy,
and a good deal of
official discussion fol-
lowed. In 1914 Major-
General W. T. Bridges
selected the modified design for the first
A.1.F., and it first went overseas with the
Ist Australian Divvy, which he com-
manded up to his death on Gallipoli, May
15, 1915.
* 9. * *
“Pawang”: Victorian Education De-
partment has quaint ideas about the
psychology of children. The other day 15
parents were fined on 47 charges of hav-
ing failed to send their kids to school. In
one case of a boy who had answered the
rollcall twice in two years the mother
told the Court that she had even sought
the assistance of the police to get her
child on to the department’s benches. The
P.M. pleaded with the attendance officer
to withdraw the charge, without avail,
and the parents were fined for the ump-
teenth time, much to their annoyance.
This, of course, is probably what the
child wants. In nine cases out of ten the
kid who won’t go to school is reacting
not against school but against his parents.
« * * *
“Oliver Filter”: I, too, have often
enough been sold as a residential perma-
nent with furniture and goodwill (B.
1 1 10/’4l). I raised no objections, how-
ever, as I like a change of landladies occa-
sionally, and the respect with which I
was passed on from one to the next led
me to believe that I was a model boarder.
But the illusion was rudely shattered after
the last change-over. After the new land-
lady had been in occupation for about
three weeks, I arose one brisk Sunday
morning and ran the mower over the
front lawn. Later, over a morn-
ing tea, she confided in me: “I was so
relieved; Mrs. Bloggs told me when I
bought this place that I could rely on
you to cut the lawn, and I was begin-
ning to think she’d had me on.” That,
and other things, led me into marriage.
PLATONIC.
Strange, is it not, that Plato, wise old bird,
Whose fame while literature lasts will live.
Should have enriched our language with a word,
Sponsored, as one might say, an adjective,
That whensoever it’s employed will stir
A twinkle in the eye, a grin sardonic,
In people whoTe invited to infer
The feeling of a him towards a her
Is just “platonic”?
One might have deemed the adjective would be
Used to denote some special school of
thought.
Some brand of erudite philosophy
That the illustrious Athenian taught.
But no. It’s never yoked with Plato’s views
On graver problems in his world lonic,
Neither with art nor science does it fuse.
It’s only love —or fondness, if you choose —
Can be “platonic.”
The species of attachment he defined
In physical attraction had no part;
It marked a union between mind and mind —
Not, be it noted, between heart and heart.
Spirits might rush together, souls might slip
Into alliance perfectly harmonic
With never press of hand or touch of lip.
Clearly, the latter form of partnership
Is not “platonic.”
Most things that students in their Plato read
Have stood the test of time, we all agree,
Yet modern cynicism scouts the creed,
’Twould seem, of passionless affinity.
How else explain the unbelieving stare,
The mocking smile, the scepticism chronic,
When anyone suggests that an “affair”
(To use the current phrase) between a pair
Whose mutual obligations lie elsewhere
Is just “platonic”?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Spokeshave”; The Australian literati,
parsons and university professors who
have rushed to the defence of Ulysses
seem to me just like an artist acquaint-
ance who engaged professional girl
models to pose for him in the nude.
One day his daughter came to him and
said that she was going to pose in the
nude for another painter who could not
afford to engage professional models.
“Oh, no,” said the father, “you can’t do
that.” “Why not?” she retorted. “It
wouldn’t be quite nice,” said the father.
“Well,” she said, “if it wouldn’t be nice
in my case it can’t be nice in the case of
your professional models. Or is it the
money that makes all the difference?”
Would the intelligentsia who have rushed
to the defence of Ulysses encourage their
daughters to read it?
* * * *
“Taniwha”: M.L. Chief Justice Myers
recently had a case with some unusual
knobs on it to deal with. A couple of
lads spent a lot of money on a fruit
machine in a billiard saloon and got no
dividends. It’s not very strange that they
were so unlucky, because the machine
was so adjusted that the odds were 728
to 1 against the chap who dropped his
money in the slot. The youngsters be-
came peeved at their continued bad for-
tune, returned later and broke into the
saloon, opened up the machine and con-
fiscated its ill-gotten thruppences, amount-
ing to £l2. Fruit machines are illegal
in M.L., and the legal position was a bit
obscure, but Myers, C.J., with a verdict
of “guilty” to act on, evolved a very satis-
factory settlement. He found there was
no doubt that burglary had been com-
mitted, convicted, ordered the accused to
make restitution, admitted them to pro-
bation for three years and, most merci-
fully, kept their names out of the papers.
A noise as of stampeding bisons at the
rear of the court was the police starting
off to raid the fruit-machine proprietor.
* * * *
“Hawkshaw”; Probably no big city
in the world has such stretches of wilder-
ness in close proximity to densely popu-
lated areas as has Sydney. The other
day a bushwalker
who was exploring
not far away from
the Pacific High-
way, at Gordon, on
the North Shore,
came across a skull
suspended from the
low bough of a
gum-tree, and un-
derneath a little
pile of bones and
rotted clothing. It
seems, from iden-
tification of a
watch, a micro-
scope and other
relics, that this is
all that remains of
a middle-aged man
who left his lodg-
ings at King’s
Cross nine months
ago. If so, his body
may have remained
unseen all that
time in a spot nine
miles from Sydney
post office and not
half a mile from a
railway station.
“F.S.”: It was gloomily predicted con-
cerning Melbourne’s blackout that it
would be a Roman holiday for the smash-
grab thief, the breaker-and-enterer and
the car-pincher ; also that the accident list
would be tremendous. The incidence of
crime, however, showed no increase and
the accident ratio declined sharply. One
air warden walked off a wharf into the
Yarra in pursuance of his duties, and a
detective got a black eye from a police-
man but not on account of any inter-
necine conflict in the force. The detective
saw two dim shapes struggling in the dark
and intervened in the cause of law and
order. The shapes were a policeman
and a drunk. The cop thought he was
being attacked by a cobber of the
offender and let out a swipe which floored
the surprised detective.
“X.S.”: Patriotic enthusiasm lacks en-
couragement in Melbourne. A citizen
more susceptible than most to A.R.P.
propaganda observed a car with lights on
on the road during a blackout, and told
the occupants in emphatic language to
turn those lights off. It turned out to be
a police-patrol car, and the enthusiast
was fined £2 for using warm language on
a public highway.
* * * *
“Eureka”: During Sydney’s last black-
out a warden whose eyesight had had
nearly 80 years of strain followed a light
for half a mile, but the light kept just
in front of him. “Put that cigarette out,”
was his first order, but on having another
look he was convinced that it was a torch.
As he hastened it kept flashing on and
off. Surely someone signalling Morse
code with a small torch, he reckoned.
Then the owner of the torch charged him
and nearly bit him. It was a one-eyed
dog that kept turning his head round as
he trotted away from the warden.
* * * *
“Nakh”: Paris must be squirming
under the iron heel of the Nazi, for in
its days of independence it was one of
the most tolerant cities in Europe.
Shortly after a young Australian artist
moved into a Montmartre studio he
began to be pestered by a neighbor, a
Polish sculptor, who, whenever he lost
his inspiration, used to wander around
with a loaded revolver. The artist would
be at his easel and, hearing a noise, look
up and see the semi-madman glaring at
“Hi, Albert, you're Wanted on the smoke signal!"
“ Don't stand there, Prendergast. Get up and put your thumb in the hole!"
him from his skylight. Or, in the dead
of night, a shot would ring out. Finally
the artist went to the police and com-
plained about it. “Has he shot you yet?”
asked the gendarmes. “No,” said the
artist. “Has he threatened to shoot you?”
“No.” “Well, we can’t do anything until
he does one or the other.”
* * * *
“Ologist”: I see that the compound
preposition “onto” has broken into the
columns of The Bulletin (1/10/’4l). Is
there such a word? Fowler says that
writers and printers should make up their
minds on the matter. If there is not
such a word, they should omit the to in
such a context as “The Pan-Germans are
strong enough to depose a Foreign Secre-
tary and force their own man on to
the Government in his place,” which is
good English without it; if there is, and
they like it better than the simple on or
to (“an odd taste,” he comments, “except
under very rare conditions”), they should
make one word of it. The use of on to
as separate words is, however, correct
when on is a full adverb, as in “We must
walk on to Keswick.” As summed up
by H. A. Treble and G. H. Vallins in
An A.B.C. of English Usage, the rule is
therefore: ( a ) if on is an adyerb, use
on to; ( b ) if on is not adverbial, and its
association with to is necessary to the
sense, use onto; (c) do not use onto
where simple on or to expresses the mean-
ing intended. Let me add that a dissen-
tient voice is raised by M. Alderton Pink,
M.A., who says in his Dictionary of Cor-
rect English that onto “has not yet won
official acceptance: it is better to use the
two separate words.” But what is “offi-
cial acceptance,” and who is responsible
therefor? Anyway, onto has found a
place in Webster’s mammoth New Inter-
national Dictionary.
* * * *
“Youanmi”: Any nominations for the
sound or sounds most typical of modern
civilisation? I’ve rejected the crash of
heavy artillery and the clatter of trams
and trains and modern transport for a
much finer sound, one you can hear any
time you stroll into one of those large,
nothing-over-2s. 6d. chain stores. It’s
the ringing of cash registers, a chorus
as constant and un-
broken as that set
up by a plague of
locusts. Listen to
’em sometime and
I’ll buy a drink for
the chap who can
spot a half-second
break in the chorus
during normal
trading hours.
* *
“S.T.S.”: A mere
ten-bob matter has
claimed the atten-
tion of the High
Court, sitting in
„ Adelaide. But it
was admittedly a
nice point. A
magistrate fined a
lady the nominal
amount for permit-
ting a man without
a license to drive
her car. A Judge
quashed the convic-
tion. Full Court
restored it, but only
by a majority vote.
Now the High
Court has been
asked to decide whether one can
“permit” a tiling without knowing it;
if she was not aware of the driver being
unlicensed, was she guilty? Final answer
is yes: “If she didn’t know she didn’t
inquire ; and it was a fair inference that
she didn’t c<ire. The breach was enough.”
* * * *
“Zake”: Agree with most of what
“N.X.” (B. 1/10/’4l) says of the bunk
drivelled about the Diggers abroad ; but
that they should have been reported
strolling around Bardia and Tobruk in
clobber other than their own uniform
shouldn’t surprise. The Old Diggers had
no lack of practice in it. ■ When the
Squareheads broke through up around
Messines in early 1918 and the civvies
fled, leaving us to occupy feather beds
and take over their livestock, some hectic
days followed, especially when a river
of “point-blank” started to flow. One
of my cherished possessions is a photo-
graph of nearly every man of our unit’s
detachment, depicting them in everything
from skirts and blouses to top-hats and
frock coats. In Corby, too, during the
Mont St. Quentin stunt, invitingly open
and unattended shops provided silk
nighties and bloomers, which proved a
welcome change of night attire to chatty
underpants and singlet. Also, I can still
faintly recall the thrill I got when a
dozen of us, got up in old civvy slacks,
flannels and sweat-rags round our necks
and our faces suitably camouflaged with
grease, followed the ship’s stokers off
the gangplank right under the O.C. trans-
port’s eye when we went ashore at
Colombo,, later to greet hilariously the
rest of the ship’s company as the poor
cows marched through the town to the
barracks in about llOdeg. of no shade.
* * * *
“Spare Me Days”: Why doesn’t some-
body stop newspapers publishing “close-
ups” of returning Australian soldiers
being kissed by their relatives? This
is Yankee “human interest” journalism
at its worst and shows poor respect for
genuine human emotions. The natural
joy of a wife or mother on such an
occasion isn’t meant to provide a public
spectacle, and if some irate Digger sud-
denly wakes up one day and does violence
to both photographer and camera he’ll
have my complete sympathy. Percy
Spender should ban the silly business.
* * * *
“Blue P.”: The horrors of the new
journalism pale before an atrocity now
being perpetrated in the columns of the
oldest agricultural weekly in N.S.W. For
some unearthly reason it has taken to
regarding a man’s occupation as more
important than his name, and its para-
graphs begin “Gunbower farmer (Mr.
B. N. Lome, Strathford, Maryhill) says
that, etc.,” or “Dairy Instructor, Depart-
ment of Agriculture (Mr. A. Brown), is
convinced that, etc.” The problem in
this is whether the dairy instructor or
the department is Mr. Brown. I was
prepared to dismiss it all as a form of
spring madness until I came upon
“Narrabri citizen (Mr. C. Segol) has
applied, etc.” Now I expect any time
to read that “Australian soldier (Pte. B.
Smith) is back from Tobruk,” or “Sydney
taxpayer (Mr. J. Brown) was fined for
refusing to obey N.S.W. policeman (Con-
stable Jones) when crossing Burwood-
street (Parramatta-road) before Traffic
Court (Mr. A. Magistrate) on 1941 day
(10th September).” What the paper’s
farmer readers think of it I daren’t guess.
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING.
“Deceitful dresses for the not-so-slender.”
— Dress-~shop advt.
“Deceptive” would perhaps be better, slightly;
There’s something jarring in the word
“deceit,”
A sort of frank admission, made forthrightly.
Of a deliberate design to cheat.
Still, for expressing embonpoint politely.
The “not-so-slender” touch is hard to beat —
A harsh idea softened, nothing more.
And, say, what else are euphemisms for?
“Deceitful dresses!” Seldom are we handed
An operation so expertly traced,
So forcible a claim, an ad. so candid
On what firm trust in modistes may be placed
To minimise the torso that’s expanded
And camouflage the disappearing waist,
In short, to make, by some artistic feint,
The frame within the frock 100k —what it
ain’t!
If Snips, with stacks of patrons “none-too-
slender,”
Would only take for patterns and for guides
The dress-designers of the other gender,
We might be offered crafty coats, besides
(For figures that have shed their pristine
splendor)
Fraudulent waistcoats and mendacious
“strides.”
Still, though it’s never featured by the trade,
One can’t be sure such raiment isn’t made.
“Deceitful dresses!” Ah, had Adam never
Devoured the apple that ensured the Fall,
Had that infernal Serpent been less clever
Eve with his machinations to enthral,
It’s clear there would have been no need what-
ever
For these expedients, no need at all.
Even the least dissimulating rigs
Gould scarce be fashioned from the leaves of
figs.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


51- 10 « 6
so*
gif; 8m° 18
Si n ». lcs> 8!' tic
s o.
///*
flext Town Hail • Little Collins Street
20 Investments in One!
Your purchase of FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES secures a “spread” of investment over 20
leading Australian Companies listed on the Stock Exchange.
You also obtain a yield, at present prices, of around 3 % per
annum, and your investment is safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees: Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Booklet No. 1 gives full details. Your copy posted free on request
to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
The Mutual Life and Citizens*
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £32,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,900,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
POLITICAL POINTS
Curtin is the fifth Labor Prime Minis-
ter, and leads the seventh Labor Gov;
eminent since Federation. J. C. Watson
Jed the first, Andrew Fisher the next
three, W. M. Hughes the fifth and J.
Scullin the sixth. All survive except
Fisher; Hughes and Scullin are still in
politics. The new P.M. was secretary
of the Victorian Timber Workers’
Union, then entered journalism and be-
came editor of the “Westralian Worker”
and author of Labor booklets and pam-
phlets, some in collaboration with Frank
Anstey. Member for Fremantle, with
one break, since 1928, he got a fright
from Lee in the last election. He has
been Federal Labor leader since 1935
and has not previously held Cabinet rank.
Curtin has the chance to prove whether
Labor can do what U.A.P.-C.P. failed
to do—give the country inspiring leader-
ship. If he can do that there is fair
reason to expect that he will get support
from others besides the two Independents
who voted Fadden out. Labor has re-
peatedly given the assurance that it stands
for a single, united war effort. It takes
charge of a nation resentful of political
doddering, which is something its way
in its job of now making good.
Members of the defeated Government
fell over themselves to assure Labor of
support, though Coles, who spragged the
works, had said he anticipated an elec-
tion. Holt got near the truth of it:—•
If there is one thing on which this
country is united, it is that an election at
this time would be disastrous.
“Disastrous” it would be —to individuals
as much as to the country.
Wilson of the Wimmera confessed to
the strain of being the balance on the
see-saw while speaking just before the
Government defeat on Friday.
My position in the House has been one
of heavy responsibility. It is an incident
of the last election that I should have been
placed as one man between the two major
pin ues.
The decision of Coles must have come
to him as something right off the bargain
counter.
Curtin’s attack on the Budget was a
token affair, except where it held out
election bait. Fadden’s taxation and com-
pulsory loans were “spread inequitably,”
pensions weren’t high enough, and
soldiers’ deferred pay shouldn’t be de-
ferred. He was all in favor of a big war
effort, but didn’t say how he’d manage
it on lines different from those already
defined. The private banks were handling
too much national credit, and he differed
with Claude Reading, of the Common-
wealth Bank Board. Still, he agreed to
speak on Tuesday night in support of the
£100,000,000 arranged by Fadden and
the Commonwealth Bank, and will prob-
ably agree to a lot more of the Budget
before he’s finished.
Alberta, Canada’s Douglas Credit State,
has defaulted again on a loan repayment.
It’s agreeable, however, to continue pay-
ing half the interest on the unrepaid loan.
Alberta has altogether defaulted to the
tune of 21 million dollars.
Curtin uttered one great truth in his
attack on the Fadden Budget:
The seven existing taxing authorities
throughout the Commonwealth should be
reduced to one. This would be the most
equitable method of dealing with the prob-
lem.
“Very easily said,” chirped Government
voices. Very easily done, too, by any
Government with the will to recognise
plain facts and deal with them. All Labor
politicians are supposed to be committed
to unification, which would mean one
income tax among many other benefits.
Unfortunately, they never give it any-
thing more than lip service, and not much
of that.
Sydney people who don’t read Mel-
bourne papers imagined that the press
campaign against Menzies was confined
to two Sydney newspaper offices. But
in his speech on the affair of the secret
fund the ex-P.M. said he had read “im-
plications against myself in a section of
the Melbourne press that is notably hostile
to me.” The “implications” and others
which have appeared in print are among
the matters to be sifted.
“S. M. Herald” thinks that if Menzies
were made leader of the Opposition it
would be to “give him the chance of an
almost impossible political comeback.”
TAKEN OVER.
There is only one way in which Bob could
be really obliterated as Granny and the
“D.T.” desire: and that is for Granny
and the “D.T.” to brand him as one of
their “outstanding candidates.”
F. W. Doidge, who was one of Beaver-
brook’s men and is now a Maoriland
M.P., has revealed a bit of history which
shows that Ramsay MacDonald, now
almost universally disparaged, was no
idle dreamer on a great occasion:
In September, 1931, MacDonald, then
P.M., summoned all the editors of the
London daily newspapers to No. 10 Down-
ing-street. He announced that Britain was
going off the gold standard, and he said to
the editors, “According to how you repre-
sent this news to the public there will be
financial panic and food riots and that kind
of thing, or there will be calm and confi-
dence and even a feeling that better times
are at hand. Tomorrow, gentlemen, the
government of the country is in your
hands.” Unanimously the morrow’s press
broke the news on the right note. There
was a panic in Wall-street but none in
London.
September, 1940, was to witness an
even greater example of Britain’s capacity
for rising to an emergency—this time to
the confusion of the Nazis.
Law enacted in Victoria: The bill
came before the House. The Opposition
asked for adjournment and was refused.
One by one, member after member
moved amendments to exclude his elec-
torate from the scope of the bill. Each
amendment brought a division. Six hours
later the bill, unaltered, was passed, but
its third reading was adjourned for a
week. The bill? One concerned with
tomatoes.
“The terrific taxation imposed on
higher incomes amounts to nothing less
than confiscation, and in many cases
will mean bankruptcy.” Thus Terewth,
of all papers, echoing a howl of anguish
emitted by Lord Mayor Crick. That
robust patriot was all broken up with
emotion at the plight of the man on
£5OOO, “condemned to carry on his
normal domestic obligations” on a trifle
of £1700; and, as for “higher incomes
still,” only “individual moratoriums”
could avert the wholesale sacking of
gardeners, chauffeurs, butlers, valets and
the like. But surely these distressed five
thousand and ten thousand and twenty
thousand pounders should have contrived
to sock away something in the piping
times. Anyway, couldn’t some of them
sell their racehorses?
, * , . ~ . f tvtcw
Slab from a short history of NS W
Government borrowing, written by e
“ State raised its firs, loans
in America, two of $25,000,000. Up to this
point the proportion of public debt held
in London and America aproximated two-
thirds of the total. In 1931, however, the
raising of loans overseas, except for re-
newals, was discontinued. Prior to this
date it had been the practice to meet over-
seas interest from the proceeds of London
loans. Discontinuance of this borrowing
made it necessary to transfer funds from
London at a heavy cost of exchange.
Such are the bedrock facts of an un-
speakably wasteful and disgraceful busi-
ness. Politicians of all parties borrowed
to the limit abroad to make themselves
good fellows with the electors, and to
pay the interest which their public works
programmes regularly failed to yield. And
so far from being reformed and repentant
they would be delighted beyond measure
if they could start doing it all over again,
One of the silliest things done by Syd-
ney’s Mair Government, now no more,
was to guarantee the overdrafts of con-
cerns in the film-production business. It
risked £52,500 in this muzzy experiment,
saying to the companies, in effect, “heads
you win, tails the public loses.” Thus the
public didn’t profit by the success of
“Forty Thousand Horsemen,” though the
guarantee of £15,000 has been dis-
charged ; and on June 30 the State was
still up for two amounts of £12,500 and
£25,000 with which the Mairs backed
Cinesound Features and Argosy Films.
Argosy perpetrated “That Certain Some-
thing,” which was something terrible.
Although Australia has a crowd of
Government tourist bureaux, and
although aeroplane and shipping com-
panies supply all the information war-
time trippers require, the excrescence
now called the National Publicity Asso-
ciation is getting a Commonwealth sub-
sidy of £BOOO in this third war year for
the Lord knows what. And, dead and
rotten as it is, the League is down for
another swag of £34,000. Considering
that the people are being taxed up to the
eyes, this waste of their money is wicked.
“Surprise is expressed by some London
papers at Mr. Churchill’s insisting that
the invasion threat is as serious as ever.”
No, what they’re “surprised” about is his
commonsense in refusing to Jet them
stampede him into attempting an invasion
of Europe.
“The Dunstan Government,” said the
Victorian U.A.P. leader, “seems to have
got to the stage where it has ceased to
function.” If only it were true and if
only the same could be said of the
McKell, Forgan Smith, Playford, Willcock
and Cosgrove outfits.
South Australia’s A.L.P. convention
has decided that each Labor politician
must send in a half-yearly report to the
Labor Council on the work he has done.
Specimen report: “July 5, House met
3 p.m. Listened carefully. House ad-
journed for Christmas recess, 6.15 p.m.
Matter of Smith’s father duly noted for
next Assembly.”
What is “credit expansion”? The man
who does the National Bank’s “Monthly
Summary” has a crisp term for it—“the
mother of inflation.” And what is in-
flation? “Excessive issues of currency
notes or excessive resort to credit ex-
pansion or both.” And the effect? “It
forces prices upward, and thus reduces
the purchasing power of the people” ;
and then you get profiteering, industrial
unrest and worse.
Business confidence is undermined and
topples over. Production of goods shrinks
and all savings—insurance policies, deposits
in banks, money advanced on securities.
Government and municipal bonds, deben-
tures and stocks, as well as cash in hand
lose real value. In conditions of extreme
inflation they become worthless.
And there are, of course, political con-
sequences as well. In Germany the
steadiest elements of the population, the
middle class and the thrifty workers,
ruined by inflation, threw their support
to Hitler.
N.S.W. Chief Secretary Baddeley, in-
vited to ban a film, “Comrade X,” which
rubbed Pink and Red complexions up
the wrong way when shown in Queens-
land, testily replied that the same crowd
had asked him to lift a ban on “Till the
Day I Die.” “You can’t have it both
ways,” he said. They don’t want any-
thing both ways; they want everything
one way—their own.
As Royal Commissioner to inquire
into the “secret fund” Justice Halse
Rogers wasn’t sure of his ground, com-
plaining that there was nothing in his
commission that gave him power either
to compel answers from witnesses or the
production of documents. He proposed
to proceed and “see what happens next.
What happened was the defeat of the
Government that commissioned him and
a new P.M. now “considering” the pas-
sage of an Act to give the Commissioner
the powers he lacks.


FAREWELL TO A WARLORD.
“Before the Government fell, Mr. Spender said he was going to Darwin to make a personal survey of the A.l.F.’s requirements.”
“You tell the new bloke it’s STOUSH we want, not glamor!”


Queensland
Insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
EVERY MARRIED MAN
week put away regularly now will buy f
ndants in the event
endowment* policy you can ensure against want in your owi
s’B old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
‘‘THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments,
actuary’s report see “Bulletin, 26/1/ 38.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
liberal bonuses
For review of
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J- Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices;
Victoria- A C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland- AC A. Building, 270 Queen Street Brisbane.
Sooth Australia; Paringa Building, 13 Bindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT ST/U
RUM
Equal to the Finest
Imported
Sold only in BOTTLES
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
PERSONAL ITEMS
“El V.” looks over the new Federal
Government stable:
Leader John Curtin. —Pleasant fellow-towns-
man of Norman Lindsay; 56, studious, kind-
hearted and able to see the other fellow’s
viewpoint; the first P.M. from W.A. From
the secretaryship of the Timber Workers Union
he became editor of “Westralian Workei
during the last war, went to Geneva as an
International Labor Conference delegate in 24,
and in ’2B at his second try won Fremantle in
the Reps, by 1600-odd votes in a poll of 40,000.
He has had a struggle to hold it—was beaten
by 5000 in 1931 by William Watson, won in a
50,000 poll in 1934 by 1000, and last time was
2500 behind Lee in the primaries and seemed
beaten when the soldiers’ vote and distribution
of preferences of the third candidate, Clarke,
saved his bacon.
F. M. Forde, Deputy-Leader. —Became
the baby of Queensland Legislative Assembly
at 27 in 1917. Age and Canberra air have
given him a certain portliness, but even be-
neath his Anthony Eden hat he has not
lost his schoolmasterly delivery. Was Scullin’s
Trade and Customs Minister and has been
deputy-leader since ’32.
Norman Makin. —Quiet, unassuming; use-
ful member of the War Advisory Council;
consistent peacemaker; has held Hindmarsh
(S.A.) since 1919 without a break. He was a
patternmaker —a good one at that —in his early
days. During the Scullin regime he sat as
Speaker.
Jack Beasley. —Leader of the “Non-Com-
munist” Labor section and before that of the
breakaway Lang section which did much
to wreck the Scullin Government. One of the
most incisive minds in the House. He inherited
the mantle formerly worn by W. M. Hughes
as West Sydney’s M.H.R.
Dr. Evatt. —Nobody can teach him much
about the job of an Attorney-General.
He gave up High Court Judgeship to take
Barton (Sydney) from teetotaller Albert Lane
in 1940. Legal opposite number of Menzies.
Also given a chance. —E. J. Holloway, of
Melbourne Ports, the most radical of the
oldsters and the man who beat S. M. Bruce for
Flinders in 1931. J. J. Dedman, Scottish-
born, educated at Edinburgh and Melbourne
Universities, with eight years’ service in ,the
British and Indian armies to his credit (1914-
22); came to Australia in 1922; is a farmer,
and was the victor of Corio when R. G.
Casey went to Washington. Joseph Silver Col-
lings, leader of the Senate minority, whose
voice was to be heard in 1916-18 wherever anti-
conscription words were thickest. Victorian
Senator R. V. Keane, his deputy; about the
size of Big Jawn Forrest; sacrificed the general-
secretaryship to the A.R.U. for politics. John
Solomon Rosevear, the witty tram conductor;
satellite of John Beasley, and deputy-leader
of his “Non-Communist” Labor party; beat
E. G. Theodore for the Dailey seat when Theo-
dore was Federal Treasurer, 1931. C. W. Frost
(Franklin, Tas.), one of the M.H.Rs. who went
to King George V’s Jubilee. Chifley, one of the
ablest of them, has been a sick man like Jim
Scullin. Eddie Ward, the firebrand from East
Sydney; would be a bigger nuisance outside
the Ministry than in it. Senators James Jarvist
Arnold and Ashley, N. S. Wales paladins whose
names began with “A.” H. C. Barnard—Bass
(Tas.) since 1934 —another railwayman, and
Calwell, successor to little Doc Maloney in
Melbourne, and a Melbourne alderman.
Labor is not as strong in debate as the new
Opposition. Whatever they were as Ministers,
Menzies, Fadden, Cameron, Hughes and
Spender are formidable critics.
Sons of five Cabinet Ministers of the
Speck are doing their bit in the present
conflict. Attorney-General McDonald’s
son is in the A.I.F- and was in the
Grecian business; Honorary Minister
Culley has three boys with the colors ;
D’Alton, Minister of Agriculture, has a
son in the Air Force, and last week a
son of Chief Secretary Brooker and a
younger son of Premier Cosgrove enlisted.
The Premier’s eldest son was killed in a
bombing raid on Norway.
Russell Beal has won the Wavell Prize
for which 48 student officers sat at the
Middle East Officer Cadet Training tfnit.
Beal was a Victorian Country Roads
Board draughtsman who went overseas
as a sergeant last October. He comes
from East Malvern (Melbourne).
Wing-Commander lan Dougald Mc-
Lachlan, commanding officer of the
R.A.A.F. squadron in the Middle East,
is a Victorian, born at Hawksburn 29
years ago. He entered Duntroon in 1928
and in 1930 was allotted to the R.A.A.F.
He got his training at Point Cook, was
a flying officer by 1932 and in 1941 be-
came a wing-commander in the Middle
East, There his knowledge of army-
tactics and strategy has been invaluable
in battles against the Italians and the
Germans—“under his determined leader-
ship the squadron has often overwhelmed
a numerically superior enemy.” He
fought in Libya and Syria and has re-
turned to a staff position at R.A.A.F.
h.q. in Melbourne.
Lieut.-Col. W. C. N. Waite, Deputy-
Director of A.I.F. Recruiting in S.A.,
whose appeals for volunteers are on the
THE P.M.
. j s a grey-haired veteran of
f ll m & uuy ’ _ J A . < m in icon
two wars. Born in Adelaide m 1» .
Waite, at 19, sailed for S Africa with me
ffigj s.A. contingent as a corporal, being
r)romoted to lieutenant in the field. When
r Uonrrprl tbp war drum Waite
the Kaiser banged the war drum wane
was one of the first to e ,
Lading, com ”“ ded ‘ h f, 7 * h
L< ? ne P l ne an h - nso Waite was
wher e nettedl his
promoted ie Rr :„ ac j e AFA Be-
ntand of the 11th
tween wars he * . .
“C. 8.”: John Longstaff was looking
pretty seedy the last time I
an exhibition, and the fa °t surprised me.
for if there was one man Alwavs
bentgnand gallant and kindly to aspiring
young ar tists, he looked as if he had
gone through the artistic maelstrom with-
out a struggle ; yet he had a childhood
w ffich WO uld have daunted ninety-nine
young students out of a hundred. That
] s probably why he could identify him-
se]f with the struggles of the younger
generation. At ten, at Clones (Vic.),
where he was born, he won a prize against
all the children of Victoria, but his
father had ambitions for him which
landed him willy-nilly in the family
business at Shepparton. Out of work-
ing hours John was always sketching
landscape, but this didn t prevent his
father apprenticing him to the Mel-
bourne counting-house of Sargood, Butler
and Nicholl. His first streak of luck
came when Butler took an interest in him,
overruled Longstaff, senior, and got t e
son established at the Vic. National Gal-
lery at 20, after which he never looked
back He was the first winner of the
Gallery’s Travelling Scholarship, painted
six years in Paris, returned to Australia,
left again for Paris and London and
stayed abroad till 1921, exhibiting at the
R.A. and the Paris Salons, painting Eng-
lish kings and queens and later Austra-
lian generals and statesmen in the Great
War as an official artist. He was Aus-
tralia’s first knight of the palette, won the
Archibald Prize five times and ended up
a Nat. Gallery trustee. He was solid
and traditional in his painting and quite
untouched by any contemporary move-
ment, indigenous or imported.
Sybil Irving, who has been appointed
controller of the Australian Women’s
Army Service, be-
longs to a distin-
guished family. She
is a daughter of
Brigadier - General
Godfrey Irving,
who served in the
Boer War and the
Great War, and a
granddaughter of
Martin Howy Irv-
ing, who did a bit
of soldiering him-
self in the intervals
of bringing up 12
children (one was
editor of the Kal-
goorlie “Miner”)
and instructing
thousands of Mel-
bourne youngsters
as professor of
classics and Eng-
lish and college
principal—the ver-
satile man was also
Public Service
Commissioner and
A.M.P. chairman.
His father was that
Edward Irving who
was Jane Welsh’s
tutor, Carlyle’s
friend (Coleridge's
also), and the most
eloquent, hand-
some and talked-of
preacher of his
day. The most un-
fortunate also, for,
expelled for heresy
from the Church of Scotland, he died, a
sad and worn-out man, at 42, when his
son Martin was three.
K. S. Isles, whose The Truth About
Compulsory Savings (written in col-
laboration with Bruce Williams) has just
been published by Robertson and
Mullens, is Adelaide Uni.’s Economics
professor and has hobnobbed with
Keynes. Born at Oatlands (Tas.) in 1902,
Isles was educated at the Speck’s Uni-
versity and at Cambridge. He lectured
in the Old Dart before stepping up, in
1939, to his present Adelaide post.
Missing in the Middle East, Major Ivor
K. Whittaker, Air Intelligence Liaison
Officer between the A.I.F. and the R.A.F.
He stroked Scotch College eight in 1927
and was a leading skier, representing Vic-
toria and winning a big trophy in Switzer-
land in 1937. He went overseas as a
captain with the first A.I.F. contingent,
and before his final disappearance
narrowly escaped capture. He was taking
dispatches to a general between Derna
and Benghazi when he was injured in
a collision. The general was captured.
L. R. Coleman, new managing-director
in Australia of the J. Walter Thompson
advertising concern, arrived recently from
U.S.A., where he went from Paris when
the Germans arrived. He had charge of
the firm’s Paris agency from 1933 to
1940, and afterwards took charge in
America of publicity for the British War
Relief Society. A member of the Inter-
national Distribution Commission, he has
attended Chamber of Commerce con-
gresses in Berlin and Copenhagen.
Charles Barrett, the man who waylaid
the wily numbat, is not the only Aus-
tralian naturalist to rediscover an animal
believed extinct. Another is Hedley Her-
bert Finlayson, honorary curator of mam-
mals at the S.A. Museum and author of
The Red Centre, his rediscovery being
the plain rat-kangaroo. Since 1943, when
it was described as Caloprymnus cam-
pestris by John Gould from three speci-
mens sent to London by Governor Grey
—habitat was given as “somewhere in
S.A.” —the oolacunta, as the abos. call
it, was thought to have joined the moa
and the dodo. Finlayson, who is Adel-
aide-born, 46, and demonstrator in
chemistry at Adelaide Uni., tracked it to
its Centralian lair in 1932.
Everybody in Australia who is in
touch with radio has heard of R. C. V.
Humphery, whose Concise Radio Hand-
book stands on thousands of shelves.
Formerly one of the high-tonnage tech-
nicians of A.W.A., he is nowadays O.C.
and Chief Instructor of the Army School
of Signals, Casula, N.S.W., with rank as
lieut.-col. He’s 45, was born in Eng-
land and educated there and in France.
Had his first taste of soldiering in “The
Buffs” (3rd Royal East Kent Regt.) in
1912. In the 1914-18 war he was with
the A.I.F. and had the bad luck to be
knocked out, wounded, soon after com-
mencing active service. He has been a
Signals officer in the Australian forces
since 1933.
Squadron-Leader R. W. Bungey, com-
mander of the recently formed Australian
Spitfire Squadron, has been awarded the
D.F.C. for “gallant and efficient leader-
ship.” In August, the squadron downed
24 enemy ’planes —the highest of any
squadron —and leads the way for Sep-
tember. Born at Glenelg (S.A.) 26 years
ago, Bungey, after a brief career in in-
surance, enrolled at Point Cook, where
in June, 1937, he gained a short-service
commission in the R.A.F. On the out-
break of war he was posted to bombers,
saw service in France and was one of
the last airmen to leave Dunkirk. Bungey
was appointed to his present command
in May, 1941.
For them the long day closes:
At Barwon Heads, Victoria, at 66, Cecil
Cleeve Cox, retired bank manager. Maonland-
born, he spent most of his life in the Dominion,
retiring five years ago. His tennis career was
remarkable, his record of provincial champion-
ships commencing in 1898 and continuing till
1931 With H. A. Parker he beat Anthony
Wilding and R. W. Heath in the N.Z. doubles
in 1906.
At 81, at Wellington, M.L., James Smith,
Greenwich-born, who closed his 50 years ser-
vice with the Union S.S. Co. as superintending
engineer at Wellington. He held a similar
job in Sydney, 1913-1920, and was driving the
engines of the old Moeraki when she broke the
Tasman record.
In Melbourne, at 67, C. A. Norris, g.m. of
National Mutual Life and onetime member of
the Victorian State Electricity Commission,
Chairman of the Victorian Transport Regula-
tion Board and Commonwealth rep. on the
State Employment Council. One of Melbourne s
leading actuaries, he was Melbourne-born, edu-
cated at Carlton College and started with the
N.M.L. ot 17,
At Brighton, Victoria, aged 82, Captain
Arthur Walden. He was a lad of 14 when he
signed aboard the barque Araunah, 448 tons,
for the voyage from London to Launceston.
Then he sailed in windjammers in Australian
and Pacific waters. Later he went into steam
and skippered the Flinders and the histone
Ferret During the 1914-18 war he commanded
three Commonwealth Line steamers, the Coo-ee,
Bulga and Bulla.


BRANDALERrS
m
t*" 1
rPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a bbamdadise * co, us, BIRMINGHAM, eng
GUARANTEED
FOR TWO YEARS*
FREE SETTING
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. A 11
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle, 12/6
Blade Size Jin. and 2in. Please specify
size when ordering.
POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITH.EN, 654 George St., Sydney
BANISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE ..
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man-
hood. Price 10/6.
u
WRITE
TO-DAY
T. J ONE S £ CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney,
SMOKE-OH!
“This war can be won, in the kitchen.”
— Advt.
In that way it differs from most other
wars married men know of,
•J* *l* 4*
She thought it funny that he should come
home after midnight so frequently.”
— Woman’s paper.
But did she merely laugh?
( . , *i* 4*
“His passion for backing horses lost him a
prosperous bootmaking business.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
Went for them hell for leather until
he was on his uppers.
4* 4*
“Mr. Wilson (U.C.P., Dubbo): ‘lt’s a petti-
coat Government.’ ” — “Hansard.”
It seems more likely we’re being
governed by bloomers.
“t* *l* T*
Many of these rough diamonds are
dull company.
v *l* •!* 4*
“There are estimated to be about 40,000 direct
descendants of Confucius Jiving in China at
present.”— “World’s News.”
Confucius say, “I not spend entire life
just making proverbs.”
"j* >!•
“A meeting will be held in the school of
ruts for the blackout test.”— Courier-Mail, ’*
No use —cats can see in the dark,
»!•
"Dry weather affects fish.”
—Brisbane market report.
Thirst or sunburn?
*t* *l*
Bill on Fish Control.’ — “Sun” heading.
You ought to hear Joe on it, though!
■ *2* •£«
“Shop staff’s raid lesson.”—' “Sun.”
The lesson’s main points were; “When
raid commences, don’t move. Stand with
back against wall or table till raid is in
full swing. Then go about work in usual
manner, only quicker. If attack becomes
very heavy send SOS for urgent assist-
ance. After raid is over, repair counters,
goods, etc., in time for the next day of
the bargain sale.”
King Peter of Yugoslavia speaks perfect
English, of course. He had an English gover-
ness since she was a baby.”— Woman’s paper.
In fact, they taught each other their
first gurgles in English.
*b *b *b »b
“This hotel is equipped with every modern
convenience, including running water in every
roof.” — Tourist-guide advt.
Not through them, we hope.
“Does the blackout inspire citizens with con-
fidence or do they consider it useless? Most
air-raid wardens would definitely answer “Yes.”
—Sydney suburban paper.
They pick these fellows because of
their discretion.
•b *b *b *b
“Shrewd judges were surprised at the horse's
failure, as he is trained on the curse.”
—Turf paper.
The ones the punters added, then,
would scarcely affect him.
*b *b *b *b
“At the thought that, penniless, and with
this queer fog descending on his brain, he
might wander unidentified, Oliver turned gold.
What was his name?” — Serial story.
Midas?
•b *b *b *b
“Sir Basil leaned back in his chair, hands in
pockets, complete master of himself as he
puffed at his cigar. Then his mysterious visitor
leaned forward. ‘You remember Simon Darrow?’
he drawled, and his eyes narrowed. Sir Basil’s
mouth fell open. (What will he do next? —see
next week’s instalment).” — Serial.
Try to put out the fire on the carpet,
we suppose.
•b *b *b *b
“As the ladies departed for the setting-room
Harold turned to his companion. ‘I know
Edith's aunt hates me, the old fowl,’ he said
gloomily.”— Short story.
She seemed to be a broody one, too.
•b *b *b *b
“Their distinguished visitor did not wait to
change, so anxious was he to get acquainted
with the Australian bush. Within a few minutes
he was being taken for a tramp along the bush
tracks near the homestead.” — Woman’s paper.
That's what our railways do to your
clobber.
•b 4* *b *b
Though a rhymer of sorts, I am totally
lacking
In love for the bards of an earlier day,
For I find, while my battered old brains
I am racking,
The cows have said everything I want
to say !
N.
Fashion-plate.
“Though men’s mercery generally will be
quiet in tone, sleeping suits will be the excep-
tion. They will be of gay patterns.”
—Fashion note.
No gaudy tie entwines my neck,
I may not don a giddy waistcoat;
Nor does one green or yellow speck
Light my funereally chaste coat.
A touch of envy / might make
Within the breast of any Quaker.
You might at first glance undertake
To say I was an undertaker.
Yet think not that my life is quite
The dreariest of dreary dramas.
You really should drop in one night
And see my mauve-and-pink pyjamas !
CLEM LACK.
Ballytoemania.
“A few scraps of Australian political folk-
lore survive from the Arcadian years.”
~“S. M. Herald.”
We are more worried about the survival
of political folk-dancing than political
folklore.
Political folk-dancing is woven round
an intricate pattern of mythical themes
with an alarming variety of sidesteps
dominating the motif. All the performers
in this class of dancing appear to attach
an extraordinary value to the sidestep,
the one exception being in the Payday
Fantasia, an arrangement through which
they remain on their toes.
Of course, Parliamentarians have
always led the taxpayers a merry dance,
but the down-at-heel effect is not so merry
as they’d have you believe.
The Recess Revels consist of many
plain steps taken two or three at a time.
Need we add that these steps are in front
of Parliament House and lead to the
nearest way home? This arrangement
was entitled “The Flight of the Swallows,”
but that was dropped when the boys
discovered that it was alienating the
temperance vote.
D. McM.
Variety.
“Defends dancing girls at recruiting rallies.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Strangely enough the defender was a
woman.
“Yes,” she said brightly, “my husband
watches these girls for hours at a time.
Dancing girls fascinate him and that makes
“ Ot or cold ?”
me so happy. I hope dancing girls are
allowed to remain in recruiting rallies
because my husband will still sneak out
a few hours each day to watch them,
and that gives me such a brand-new
excuse for a row when he comes home.”
EVE.
Crusty.
“Will the husband of the future be able to
brag about his mother’s cooking?”
— Woman’s paper.
Husbands in nineteen fifty-three,
Will ask as they sit down to tea,
“Darling, why can’t you give me pie
Just like my mother used to buy ?”
PATON.
Beating the Petrol Problem.
“Mothballs are the latest fuel substitute being
used to increase car mileage.”— “Sun.”
In no sphere of human endeavor has
there been more selfless devotion to a
cause than that of the unsung heroes who
put strange messes in their petrol tanks
in the hope of getting a few more miles
during the week-end.
Boldest of all is “Tester” Simpson.
For long our suburb has resounded to
the devil's tattoo of the “car” for which
some super-salesman separated “Tester”
from a fiver. Even before petrol ration-
ing was introduced “Tester” spent every
spare minute tinkering around w.ith sub-
stitute “mixtures,” If the perfect mix-
ture is typified by a series of spits, jumps,
backfires and a smoke-screen from the ex-
haust that a destroyer commander might
envy then he unquestionably achieved it.
But he was never one to be satisfied with
a single triumph.
No virtuoso fiddler with a £5OOO
Stradivarius tucked under his chin ever
tuned his instrument with greater meticu-
lousness than did “Tester” with his car-
burettor ; that it still functions —or partly
so —despite the fact that he still hasn’t
discovered where to fit the four parts that
are still on his garage shelf is one of
those minor miracles that sometimes
happen.
One day I struck him staggering out
of the suburb’s hardware store with six
gallons of mineral turps.
“Got a contract to paint the G.P.O.
in your spare time?” I asked.
“Don’t be Uncle Willie!” he said.
“I’m mixing this with my petrol to spin
it out.”
“But that stuff’s only used to make
paint with,” I said.
Simmo looked at me pityingly.
“Haven’t you ever seen a paint factory
go up in smoke?” he asked. “Whaddayer
think makes it blaze so fiercely? The
turps in it, of course. Well, anything
with inflammable qualities like that simply
must be effective in an internal combus-
tion engine. It stands to reason. I’ll
start off on a fifty-fifty basis and gradu-
ally reduce the petrol until I’m running
on pure turps. It’s a soda.”
Some days later I met him outside
his front gate just as he had started his
engine up.
“What are you averaging on the
turps?” I roared out above the din. “Four
seize-ups and a cracked cylinder-head to
the gallon?”
Simmo, with the wheel vibrating
violently between his hands as he bobbed
up and down on the jolting, quivering,
palpitating and undulating seat, was
giving an imitation of St. Vitus executing
a particularly wild measure. He shut off
the engine so as to make conversation
possible.
“Listen, boy,” he said, “I went up the
Mountains Sunday with a full load. Just
before Blaxland there’s a big new
Packard in front doing about 45. 1 gave
the accelerator only a touch and passed it
just like that! On turps, too! Whadda-
yer know about that?”
“Yair,” I said. “But it was coming
towards you, wasn’t it?”
Simmo savagely pressed the starter.
There was a slight cough, then silence.
Getting out, he went round to where
the cranking handle is permanently kept
in its socket. After some violent wind-
ing, the mechanical mess began to agitate.
He climbed in.
“You mugs who stick to petrol
can only go a lousy twenty miles a week,”
he roared as, slipping the tortured lever
into what he hoped was first gear, he
jerked away. “You wouldn’t wake up
to yourselves if a toolshed fell on y’!”
Some time after
that turps skyrock-
eted in price and I
dropped in to see
how “Tester” was
faring. “Not on the
turps now?” I asked
him.
“No, too dear,” he
replied.
“Why don’t you
give these mothballs
a go?” I urged him.
“They couldn’t muck
your engine up more
than it is.”
“Tried ’em! ”
“Tester” said. “But,
being round, they
used to rattle like
hell in the tank, and
you know how an-
noying a row like that is in your car. I
couldn’t buy any square ones. But I’m on
to a better lurk. Y’ see, I worked it out
that if stuff that kills moths’ll make a
car go, then so should any other insect-
killer. Well, I bought up a lot of old
flypapers cheap. It was a crook job
getting the stuff off the papers, but I
did it and soaked some in plonk that
I got up at the wineshop at Is, 3d.
a gallon. I’m shoving in a pint of
treacle, a cup of vinegar and some
volatile office clag to every two
gallons of the mixture. A bloke told
me that eucalyptus embrocation is good
stuff, too. I’m getting a cylinder of com-
pressed air and I’ll regulate the carburet-
tor so that it runs half on air and half
on the other stuff. I expect to get thirty-
eight to the gallon for a cost of Is. 9d.
You mugs are paying 2s. Bd. for juice
that only gets you twenty, aren’t you?”
and he laughed.
Chugging past our place the other day
“Tester” shed four leaves of his front
spring. They made a noise like a few
skeletons doing the rhumba on a galvan-
ised roof, but Simmo didn’t hear it. An
hour or so later I took the spring up to
his place. I found him on the back
verandah raucously singing. He greeted me
boisterously. “Cm on in, old boysh,”
he roared. “I’ll show y’ me mixture.
She’s goin’ good-0h—142 to the gallon
and pull y’ up brick wallsh, shee?”
I looked at his wife in surprise, as
“Tester” was, to my knowledge, a tee-
totaller. She pushed him back in the
chair. As he gazed around him as one in
a trance, his wife explained.
“He left the engine running in the
garage when he came in,” she said. “The
door was closed, and he must have got
a good sniff of the exhaust!”
BO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“0.W.W.”; Hone, an inveterate
gambler, was annoyed: “Te missus just
miss me te chance of winning ten bob
from my cousin Cutti,” he growled. “She
empty out te water she wash his bed rug
in before I have a chance to strain it.”
“And what’s that to do with dropping
half a quid?” I asked. “Well,” Hone
"Why couldn't you tell a man you d just painted the hath?"
replied sadly, “I bet Cutti we find at
least twenty fleas in te rug juice, an’ he
say he bet there not more fan three;
but before we can get te milk-strainer
going te missus upsets fings.”
* * * *
“Dungeness”: That alleged Malayan
monkey (B. 10/9/’4l) which walks across
the bottom of creeks in order to avoid
crocodiles recalls the submarine feats of
my old friend Joe Hirschberg. For many
years Joe drove the coach between
Croydon and Forsayth in Queensland’s
Gulf country, and each wet season he
had to cross the flooded Gilbert somehow
whenever any blanketty blankard hap-
pened to leave the boat on the wrong
side. A big-boned man of remarkable
muscular development, he had striven to
learn swimming from the best teachers
in Australia, but entirely without success
on account of some freak of specific
gravity in his physical make-up. His
method was to take a hefty rock under
each arm in order to steady him against
the current, walk through the 10ft. or so
depth ot rushing water to a rock about
halfway across, take a breather there,
and finish the 100-yard journey in the
next lap. Pulling the boat back he would
transfer loading and passengers, swim
the horses over, and harness up to the
spare coach kept there for such occasions,
As for crocodiles, Joe never gave them a
thought if one had been so silly as to
have & tackled' him he was the sort of
person who would have ridden it across
and made it tow the boat back.
“K.P.”: With fervent indignation I
draw attention to a flagrant example of
misappropriation of an outstanding Aus-
tralian discovery in surgical technique.
I refer to the closed-plaster treatment of
wounds, so widely and beneficially used
in present-day war surgery. The credit
for originating it has been wrongly and
unjustly given to British surgeons. In
point of fact, it was evolved in Australia
many centuries before any British indi-
vidual even guessed that there wrw an
Australia. Certainly Brother Binghi used
mud instead of plaster in his particular
technique, but the principle is identical,
and it is principles that count in scientific
advancement. Let credit be given where
it is due and commemorate the admirable
work of the long-forgotten discoverer by
at least a memorial tablet in what re-
mains, if anything, of the Royal College
of Surgeons,
* * * *
“Taylor Ville”: I’ve seen Joe three
times in five years. The first time was
shortly after he left the bush, settled
down and got married. I was invited out
to tea, and things went well until his
missus brought in a roast leg of mutton
on a big dish. Joe jumped up and
grabbed it without getting a hold of the
cloth his wife had round the thing. He
put it down with a bang that rattled the
crockery, stuck his hand under his arm-
pit and said “Hell, that sanguinary, lurid
plate was hot!” Then he remembered.
“Sorry, old girl,” he told the missus. Next
time I saw them there was a third party
at tea, a little chap in a high chair, and
Joe and the missus were as proud as if
their wool had averaged eighteenpence.
During the meal the young shaver got his
plate right out on the edge of the tray
on his chair. “Look out, missus Joe
yelled. “He’ll have the bloo-bl-bla -
bla-blanky thing on the flo°r-
a year later I met Joe in the stre.et-
had a wild sort of look and a
fixed stare in his eye. Come n ave a
drink,” he said. We went. And we had
several. Joe began to wave ms arms
about. Then he got snaky. Alter mat
he got very sorry for himselt. I“ en . ll
all came out. The nipper was talking
well, but he’d got hold of a sort oi
stammer, and the missus blamed Joe.
After all he’d gone through for that ki
it nearly broke his heart. He we P
my shoulder, and we had some more
drinks,
* *
“g a. Ker”; If ever a bird had cause
t 0 curse a malignant Fate, the common
star fi ng i s surely the one. A more en-
tbusiastic or regular bather never wore
feathers yet as sure as his nibs sets up
domes ti c menage in the roof of a
habitation swarms 0 f lice will
simultaneously. The “spag,”
™ ve m ie lar with h is
although also rengiou y s
ablutions whenever shallow water is
available, indulges m addfiional dust
baths, obviously to rid himselt ot. me
minute pests. Other birds—among them
the domestic fowl—bath in dust °niy ;
but the budgerigar, who shuns water ana
apparently takes no substitute precautions
whatever over personal hygiene, never
appears to be worried by parasites, either
upon his person or in the happy home.
“Edjudina”: “Oont” (B. 10/9/’4l) is
quite right about a camel needing to e
broken to going long spells without water.
But here’s the point: the trained camel
has been known to endure 18 days of
the Centre’s worst without moistening its
lips. But never have 1 heard of, or seen,
even the toughest brumby standing more
than four days of similar conditions, and
we had some pretty tough equine stock
knocking around the W.A. goldfields in
the ’nineties. Actually the oont s paunch
has a specialised section devoted to water
storage, which naturally falls into disuse
when the animal is allowed to guzzle at
will. The horse, on the other hand, has
absolutely no equipment for making any
such provision.
“D.R.H.”: The prad’s aversion to the
oont is well known, but few people realise
that the reverse is equally true. The
camel quickly gets accustomed to the
horse, but until he does so there II be a
pulling out of nosepegs whenever the
two meet. Picnic race meetings at Farina
(S.A.) usually put on a camel race, which
often ended in disaster if the younger
members of the mustering camps were
out for fun. As soon as the oonts passed
the starting line two or three youngsters
would canter across on their Sunday
hacks. In a minute or two the field
would break from their normal pace into
a gallop, get out of hand and have to
be sorted out of the grandstand, the
booth and the saddling paddock for half
an hour afterwards. And yet, despite all
this, just try to turn a bolting camel with
a horse. Gallop up alongside and the
oont may turn across in front of your
horse. For this reason the brutes are as
dangerous as that horror of the drafting
camp the stray calf, which kills more
stockmen than all the rabbits that ever
dug burrows.
“Rott Nest”: The bloomer that bloke
made with his patent surf fishing-line pro-
jector (B. 10/9/’4l) was that he had his
line wound round the outside of the tin
instead of inside. In the old whaling
days all lines were carried in tubs; from
tubs they ran out, coil after coil, and
with never a tangle were they coiled in
by an experienced hand. In modern
whaling, where the line has run out with
the speed of the gun-projected harpoon,
free running is even more necessary. So
the old-fashioned tub still remains in use.
Even a ball-bearing windlass-barrel or
reel would retard the harpoon and bring
about a miss. So inside coiling remains
the only way in which friction can be
eliminated and free running ensured. But
it would take a good man to coil a gut
line inside a quarter-pound cocoa-tm- —
though it might be done with a damp
linen or cotton line.
* * * *
“R.H.P.”: Modern health authorities
express a lofty contempt for the epi-
curean joys of “beslings” (B. 10/9/’4l).
The description of milk in the Pure
Foods Standards (substantially the same
in all States) reads: “Milk is the normal,
clean and fresh secretion obtained by
completely emptying the udder of the
healthy cow, but shall not include the
secretion obtained during the fifteen days
immediately before and ten days imme-
diately following on parturition.” All
things considered, these old-time gour-
mands must have had fairly tough
stomachs to get down, and keep down,
their ideas of a good blowout.
“Gumsucker”: The term “beastings” —
the first milk from a cow newly calved —
was common among Irish cow-keepers
in the Cabbage Garden 50 years ago.
They were the only ones I ever heard use
it. But as for making it into a pudding
a la Tennyson’s rhyme, the mere sugges-
tion of such a dish would have made
them recoil with horror. The calf being
still too young to suck, the lacteal fluid
was given to the “gintleman” who in the
Quid Country had paid the rent.
* * * *
“Atrax”: Does the old bush tradition
still prevail that the peculiar markings
on the swimming bladder of a Murray
cod represent a picture of the pool where
it was born? Mounted on cards and
varnished, they used to adorn many a
cocky’s mantelpiece in Victoria and N. S.
Wales of a generation or two ago, often
showing quite remarkable effects of river-
side scenery resembling good etchings.
Actually, of course, they are caused by
branching blood vessels in the semi-
transparent bladder wall. Unusual mark-
ings on fish and animals have always
interested superstitious mankind. The
crosslike tubercle-pattern on the back of
the “Holy Cross” toad of western Q. and
N.S.W. secures its immunity from the
shanghai of every right-thinking small
boy—though heathen Binghi regarded
Notaden bennetti as a delicacy when
skinned. Every fisherman recognises the
thumb- and fingerprints made by St.
Peter on the ancestral John Dory or
Moses perch when he grabbed them at
Capernaum to pay his taxes. In ancient
days such things were believed to con-
stitute the “doctrine of signatures,” a
divine indication to mankind of all living
things which were of use to him.
* * * *
“The Gosling”: My own dog being
laid up with grass seeds between his toes,
I borrowed a red kelpie bitch from a
neighbor and found her to be a won-
derfully keen and obedient worker, need-
ing only my hand signals to control the
sheep from long distances. I had just
crossed a railway at a built-up section,
with the dog running about 50 yards
ahead, when I noticed a hare running
towards her from 10 chains or so inside
another fence. I expected the hare to veer
off with fright. It took up a position
just behind the dog. Becoming aware
that she was followed, the kelpie stopped
and turned, but the hare ran on until the
dog could have grabbed it with a lunge
of a few feet. Then the hare ran com-
pletely around the dog, stopping to look
her squarely in the face. At this stage
the madness must have worn off, and I’ll
bet that hare had a few bad moments
before it set its legs flying. Through-
out, the kelpie had stood totally be-
wildered, glancing first at the capering
hare, then at me for a word or sign of
command. Scientifically I can understand
that the instinct of the hunt has been
bred out of the dog, but do I have to
believe it to this extent?
* * * *
“Bagot”: Dad was supervising the
building of a new bridge over the creek,
when the new hand chimed in with the
suggestion that the structure would not
stand up to the heavy loads intended for
it. “You mind y’r own business,” roared
Dad. “I’ve built more bridges than you'll
ever see, and I know what I m doing.
“Sorry,” came the reply, “I was only
trying to help. After all, my old man
was a bachelor of science, and I think
I’ve inherited a little of his brains.
“Yairs?” snorted Dad, “he might have
been a bachelor, but I don’t see where
the flamin’ science comes in! ”
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: Met a proper future
fisher bloke today. Aged eight, he ad-
mitted having pinched Dad’s second-best
line, but Dad wouldn’t be back till after
the war and he could have pinched the
best one only be thought he might lose it
or get it taken off him by some big
bloke and Mum said she couldn’t get any
fish so he thought he’d have a try. I
helped him in the chucking-out problem,
and while he was pulling in to show how
he’d got the idea something tugged. In
response to an excited eye I suggested
letting it run a bit and then strike hard.
A fish jumped, the angler held on and
hauled in bravely with agonised glances
whenever the line ran out through small
fingers. A final pull brought a 41b.
flathead to his very feet. He pulled it
well up on to the bank, took a long look,
remarked “Strike me!” and fainted.
After sprinkling and recumbency he re-
turned to a glorious world of self-created
triumph and apologised for apparent
sissiness. “Thought that big bloke near
where we’re stayin’ might get old of it
before I’d showed it to Mum,’ he ex-
plained.
THE LAGOON.
Can this be the same lagoon,
Reft of wildness, curbed and cramped,
By whose waters, lit by noon
Or moon-silvered, oft 1 camped;
Paths around it, trim and ordered —
Where is now its grace of trees,
Oaks that once its shoreline bordered,
Ti-tree swaying in the breeze?
Hither hieing, wild apd free,
Waterfowl from marsh and lake
Pilgrimage o’er land and sea
Now no more at seasons make;
Come from lowland or from highland,
Or lone waters in the west,
Now, no more on yonder island.
Journeys ended, do they rest.
Here no longer reed-birds pipe.
Here no more the black swan hastes,
Here no more is seen the snipe
Fresh from far Siberian wastes;
Here the teal shows now no feather,
Here in sunshine or in rain,
Wind at rest or windy weather,
Struts no more the crested crane.
Here no more the mullet surge
Inward in a silver host,
Sped by some ancestral urge
Yearly up an ancient coast;
Here no more, though vigil keeping
Hour on hour, from tide to tide,
Shall man glimpse them flashing, leaping,
Sending circles far and wide.
Though the breadth of this lagoon
May at times seem beauty-lit,
Seen by others, ’neath the moon
Or when sunset purples it,
Still for me has fled its wonder
And the witchery it wore
When, green leaves and high stars under,
Camped I where I camp no more.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Come on, Sonja—give us a go!”
♦
“Old-timer”: Bill got back from the
town pretty late and slipped into bunk
without waking Ned. At dawn Bill got
out again to go for the horses, shook
Ned awake, told him to light the fire
and departed. Outside the tent there
was a Mallee fog, a white cloud that
limited vision to 25 yards. Bill got the
bridle and stood listening. Presently he
heard the horse-bell tinkle off to the
right and set forth. After feeling his way
for 10 minutes or so he stopped to listen
again. The bell tinkled ahead. As Bill
pushed on the tinkle stopped, then sud-
denly it broke out in an agitated manner
off to the left. Bill headed that way.
After an hour he was still blundering
about in the white opaqueness, his rage
mounting at the elusiveness of the
damned bell. “Cunnin’ cows can hear
me,” he concluded, and tried to walk
lightly. More aimless chasing followed.
Suddenly Bill stopped. The bell was
silent. He listened for it in vain. After
a bit he decided to wait for the sun and
turned to go back. Then he realised that
he didn’t know where the camp was.
He could see near things, but beyond the
fog shrouded everything. After a lot of
shouting and answering shouting between
himself and Ned he finally made the
camp, to see the horses in the brush
yard. “Yair,” said Ned, “I got up
through the night, seen the noddies near
the yard and the fog makin’ up, so I run
’em in t’ save trouble, Y’ was in such
a flamin’ hurry I never had a chance t’
tell y’. The tea’s made.”
* * * *
“Murlonga”: The abo. is nothing if
not a worksaver, as witness his method
when about to chop a possum out of a
tree. After tracking it to its nest he
prods in the hole with a long and pliable
twig with a short fork on the end of it
until he finds bottom. Then he twists
his twig and pulls it out. If there’s fur
on the fork he measures from the mark
on the stick from the opening in the tree,
thus getting the exact length of the hole
and where to chop. The same idea is
employed with birds in hollow limbs.
* ♦ * *
Mat’s Mate”: It was a cold Sunday
and we were hanging round the fire in
the parlor of the pub, swapping lies and
buying drinks, when a talkative cove with
a terrier dog wandered in. After a drink
or two we got talking about dogs, and
this cove started showing us how clever
his mong. was. He had it turning somer-
saults, fetching his hat, standing on its
hind legs and all that sort of thing. The
dog wasn’t bad, but the cove couldn’t
stop skiting, and at last Mat said, “Aw,
it ain’t hard t’ teach a dog anythin’. Me,
I any dog t’ do what I want it
t’ do.” The cove eyed him and said
“Gam.” Mat said, “Look, bet y’ drinks
all round I can tell your dog t’ do some-
thin’ an’ he’ll do it.” The cove thought
it over, then says, “Ribuck. But no tellin’
him what y’ bin bearin’ me tell him.”
Mat agreed. Then he grabbed the terrier
and threw it near the fire, yelling “Come
out of that fire, pup!” The cove paid,
but only after we convinced him the
mong. wasn’t hurt and that it was no
good trying to fight big Mat. But he
didn’t stay long after that.
* * * *
“Capricorn”: I’d opine that the bird
that puzzled “T.0.M.” (B. 17/9/’4l) was
a young nankeen heron, which differs
markedly from the adult of the species,
being a dirty white in general color, with
brown wingtips, and having
little fleshy knobs at the back
of the head which might
easily be taken for the red
topknot that “T.0.M.” men-
tions. The characteristic
plumage of the mature bird
—beautiful cinnamon back
and cream breast, glossy
black crown and pure white
plumes hanging down the
back —is not assumed till two
years of age. The eyes are
remarkable in size and
appearance, being adapted for
both day and night sight, for,
though mainly nocturnal, the
birds can often be seen about
long after sunrise and long
before sunset. Usually they
move in pairs, and don’t go
too far from water, owing to
a diet mostly confined to
yabbies, mussels and frogs.
Their flight may appear to be
labored at the take-off, but
when they get a go on they
can equal anything on wings.
Like the pelican, then they
do take their rare flights they
seem to make excursions of
them and climb up nearly out
of sight.
* * *
“C.R.”: One of the first
things Victoria’s brand-new
Minister for Decentralisation
might give his attention to is
the growing dirtiness of
rivers, which is making it
more and more difficult for
towns to get clean water.
The dirt is due to settlers and
bushfires having removed the
forest cover. The consequent soil
erosion fills the streams with clay
which silts up watercourses and causes
bars and other troubles. Melbourne
Board of Works has spent a lot of
money on the alleged “beautification”
of the Yarra in those parts where canoe-
ists canoodle and holiday-makers wander.
The money could have been better spent
in a wholesale scheme of replanting the
banks of the upper reaches with the swift-
growing wjllow. The willow holds the
banks and makes pellucid water, costs
next to nothing to plant and needs no
attention, multiplying faster than the
rabbits. But simple solutions of prob-
lems never appeal to committees.
* * * *
“Astern”: Water, especially for wash-
ing purposes, was the pet aversion of our
mass of agricultural intelligence who
came from the city, and eventually it
extended to the neglect of satisfying the
thirst of the farm animals. The boss was
roaring him up one day for failing to
give the horses a drink after the day’s
ploughing. “How the hell do you expect
the nags to carry on if they don’t get
plenty of water?” the boss exploded.
“Aw, I don’t know that water’s so good
for ’em,” said his employee. “I’ve seen
’em standing up to their middles in it
and they were as poor as crows! ”
* * * «
“The 0.D.”: The wood-and-water joey
was told to split up the last big log on
the woodheap, a twisted old yellowjack,
so he got the mall and wedges and went
to it. He had one wedge well driven in,
placed the next and gave it a mighty
swipe. The first wedge shot out of the
log, went through the laundry window
and fell in the copper of boiling water,
splashing the face and arms of the
washergirl so that she had to be doctored
and bandaged. Nothing would convince
her that the joey hadn’t thrown the wedge
at her because she had refused to meet
him that night. After all the excitement
and tears had simmered down the
offended joey had another crack at the
log. This time the flying wedge chipped
a hunk off his shin and laid him up for
a week. The boss had the log dragged
well away and put a charge of fracteur
in it, and, believe it or not, a flying chunk
of wood went through the 30ft. high
tank above the garden, and most of the
water was lost before the hole could be
plugged.
* ak * *
“D.R.H.”; It is hard to realise in these
days of machine-guns, automatic-rifles
and artillery with a range of from here
to Hades that the muzzle-loading shot-
gun has only recently gone out of fashion.
Even now in the S.A. district where I
grew up men refer to a modern gun as a
“breech,” and the old guns are still occa-
sionally to be found. Great patterning
and hitting pieces some of them are, too.
And very adaptable. I remember when
Choom, boasting of his shooting, was
invited one lunchtime to hit a kero.-tin
with the old muzzle-loader. He sat down
for steadier aim, shut his eyes on the
pull, and, as the roar from the double
load of black powder deafened us and
wrapped him in a thick blue fog, he hit
the ground on his back, while the half-
handful of ball-bearings that Charlie-the-
Wag had so carefully rammed home
sailed off somewhere among the seraphs.
* * * *
“Botano”: The bamboo may have all
those 175 uses claimed for it by the
Malays (B. 3/9/’4l), but it is by no means
a good world citizen. In early W.A. days
wattle and daub was a popular form of
building construction: the wattles in the
form of pliant sticks were plaited in and
out of a palisade of spaced saplings, the
whole forming a wall of rough basket-
work, which was finally filled with
puddled clay or mortar. Which is the
true wattle and daub. Quite early it
occurred to a parental Government that
the introduction of a small bamboo might
go far towards lessening the tedious labor
of cutting and collecting the hundreds
of necessary pliant sticks. Thus, even
today, thickets of bamboo are to be seen
along the Swan and at other spots around
Perth. But it is a bamboo so degenerate
that it is useless even for a fishing rod,
so susceptible to wet that it rots in one
wet season, so weak in the stem that a
child can break it. It isn’t even good
for fodder, since the fibre of its leaves
forms balls in the animal stomach. But
it is ornamental and shady and so earns
the bare right to exist.
* * * ♦
“Acombe”: The only water on
Smithers’s back-country run was in a
sandy hole in an insignificant creek that
usually went bone-dry when he needed it
most. A casual ringbarker who’d done
some mining showed Smithers a spot on
the flat a few yards from the waterhole
where he thought some deeper ground
might hold permanent water; so one
slack time when it was getting pretty dry
Smithers and his man got to work. Sure
enough, at 20-odd feet they struck a
sandy drift and more water than they
coujd handle. Smithers got a pump and
engine and an extra man and managed
to get his well down through three or
four feet of sand to bedrock, and slabbed.
By that time the waterhole was about
dry, so Smithers rigged some fluming and
started to fill the hole from the well. He
kept the little engine flat out for three
days without lowering the water in the
well more than the couple of feet it went
down in the first couple of hours’ pump-
ing. But he didn’t fill the waterhole—
the water disappeared into the sand. So
Smithers spent 60 quid on a tank and
troughing, pumped the tank full and
bought two hundred steers he couldn’t
have carried without that well. In a fort-
night the well was dry. Smithers put the
steers into the long paddock with me in
charge, and I ate their dust for 600 miles
before it rained and they found a market.
Yes, that waterhole and well both tapped
the same bed of loose sand, the well in
a “pocket” in the bedrock a little lower
than the bottom of the waterhole ; and
the water Smithers pumped into the hole
just ran back through the sand into the
well. There were only a few thousand
gallons in that “pocket” altogether, and
what the steers drank they carried away,
and that was the end of it.
“Have you seen Private Johnson ?”
THE LONE STEER.
Where the Jong trail of lilac on the hill
Betokens chill, dim shade,
the little roan goes out and back at will
Along the path he’s made.
All day he browses quietly adown
The gully where the fern
Thrusts through the flagstone crannies, and the
brown
Fronds of the bracken burn;
, so Quietly!... Then, in blue eves
When the drab slope knows
Such ardor of the setting sun, dead leaves
Are redder than the rose;
Ihe lone beast seems to feel a mild surprise
As, climbing once again,
He lifts his head, and casts his dreaming eyes
Across the floodlit plain.
Sad-colored facets are aglow; a bird,
Under an orchid’s snow,
Carols a sweeter lay on weathered bough
Than aught that we can know.
And while the wan light-ripples break, and ride
the last sharp soaring scar,
It is as though he heard, borne on that tide,
Fey music from afar.
Often! have watched the herd spread wide,
Fanhke across the green,
Till only he is left on the cliffside,
Alone, aloof, serene! *
And I have envied him, there where he stands
Beside his gilded tree,
Still as an emblem blazoned on the bands
Ol ancient heraldry—
Have envied him, as there he takes sweet toll
From lights and silences,
Weaving a garland—nay, an aureole—
Out of his loneliness.
QUEENSLAND.
E.M. ENGLAND.


The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
m
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors
BkofL r H E d?yl E F - N - YAE "'Te! C SSd° > 8,11 THO “ S wYmSSON
E V T WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILDAL COUMN
Tooheys, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
July. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 78,050 61 p.c = 78,000 50 631,568
1932.. 72,027 6 „ „ 72,000 27 631...U5
1933.. 72,659 6 „ „ 72,000 659 632.254
1934.. 84,426 61 „ „ 78,000 6,426 638,680
1985.. 92,751 7| „ „ 90,000 2,751 641,431
1936.. 108,819 8 „ „ 96,000 12,819 654,250
Share premiums, £lOO,OOO .. .. 754,250
1937.. 120,136 9 p.c. = 112,453 ) 9 fi8 o 7^003
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 1 2,683 706,933
Share premiums, £70,000 ~ .. 826,933
1938.. 151,973 9 p.c. = 131,905 ( 1S 068 842 001
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. J 15,068 843,001
Share premiums, £89,051 .. .. 931,052
1939.. 152,287 9 p.c- = 144,327 ) 9 nan 934 012
Staff fund. £5OOO .. ..| 2,960 J 34,
1940.. 170,213 9 p.c. 155,843 1 n 079 043 000
Staff fund, £5OOO .. ’
1941.. 156,360 9 p.c. = 155,925 435 943,817
The war has stimulated consumption of
beer by absorbing practically every
employable male in one or other of the
fighting and supply services or war-
production industries. Wage rates have
been lifted, too, and the cranky official
taboo on “wet” canteens in local A.I.F.
camps has been removed. Further, the
Defence Canteen Service has seen that
our troops overseas don’t go short of
Australian beer.
The following table shows what has
been spent on beer, etc., in N. S, Wales
since 1932:
, —Expenditure—, Consumption,
Year Per Head Gallons Per Head
Ended Total, Popu- ( K \
Dec. 31, £’ooo. lation. Beer. Spirits. Wine.
1932-. 10,380 £4 0 6 6.99 .24 .49
1933.. 10,500 4 0 9 7.27 .24 .57
1934.. 11,490 4 7 7 8.22 .27 .59
1935.. 12,530 4 14 9 8.98 .29 .61
1936.. 13,320 4 19 10 9.83 .29 .62
1937.. 14,520 5 7 9 10.72 .31 .62
1938.. 15,870 516 8 12.59 .31 .60
1939.. 16,620 6 011 12.87 .32 .60
1940.. 18,230 611 6 13.67 .32 .64
Last year saw an increase of £1,610,000
in total expenditure, and the amount per
capita was only 10s. 6d. less than for the
boom years 1927-29. Wage increases and
the rise in cost of materials, freights, etc.,
have, of course, bitten deeply into the
bigger takings, and so have the lifts in
excise and taxation of co. profits.
After openly providing £47,873 (up
£15,347) for depreciation and allowing
something for bad debts and other con-
tingencies, the spring in Tooheys’ gross
earnings for the 12 months to July 13
last was £178,265:
Gross 1936. 1938. 1940. 1941.
earnings.. £615,283 £780,887 £935,661 £1,113,926
Exes. .. 506,464 628,914 772,647 957,566
Profit
claimed .. £108,819 £151,973 £163,014 £156,360
Exes., which include increased but un-
specified payments for taxation and
excise, made off with all the increase and
£6654 besides. That left the net result
just over 9 p.c. on capital as against
9.8, 9.5, 10.3, 9.6, 9, 7.7, 7 and 6 p.c.
back to 1933. The div. remained at 9
p.c., and only £435 was visibly put on
the shelf.
As for the current term, compulsory
loans and taxation will tend to leave
less of private incomes available for
immediate spending, while further
taxation and a stiffening and extension
of controls to reduce spending not neces-
sary for war purposes seem likely before
the year is out. Still, the Government
will spend more, so there will still be
plenty of money about, and the public
policy is to keep interest rates low. The
new Budget proposals therefore have had
little effect upon the market price of
sound securities like brewery stocks.
At 295. 3d. Tooheys f.-p. 16s. shares
return 4.9 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis. The
net tangible cover is 245. 9d.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1929 1 . 1934. 1940. 1941.
£ £ £ £
Capital .. 1,200,000 1,200,000 1,732,500 1,732,500
497,220 245,933 563,469 669,142
Loans* .. 325,773 795,301 799,651
Brewery,
hotels, etc. 1.593,197 1,891,053 3,339,178 3,435,604
Stocks .. 161,886 77,354 101,876 122,090
Book debts 584,413 437,784 623,858 617,128
Cash, etc... 24,059 7,146 13,491 9.039
Shares in
other cos. 39,050 $9,212 39,212
* Advances by subsidiaries. + Including taxation, etc.
Since 1929 the net growth in book value
of fixed assets has been £1,842,407, which
has gone largely into hotel properties,
though the brewery has lately received a
lot of attention. The net growth in the
figure last term was £96,426, and in stocks
£20,214. The amount coming to sundry
creditors, which includes provision for
taxation and other contingencies, in-
creased by £105,673. Leaving loans from
subsidiaries and shares therein out of
the reckoning, the contraction in the more
or less liquid surplus (£79,115) was
£96,641.
Adelaide Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1931.. 112,756 4 p.c. = 93,005 19,751 435,681
1932.. 119,427 H „ ~ 104,631 14,796 450,477
1933.. 126,243 5 „ ~116.257 9,986 460.463
1934.. 149,489 6 „ ~ 139,508 9,981 470,444
1935.. 149,651 6 „ „ 139,508 10,143 480,587
1936.. 149,312 6 „ „ 139,508 9,804 490,391
1937.. 173,003 7 „ ~ 162,759 10,244 500,635
1938.. 182,927 7 „ ~162,759 20,168 520,803
1939.. 201,610 7i„ „ 174,385 27,225 548,028
1940.. 182,815 „ „ 151,134 31,681 579,709
1941.. 180,066 6J „ ~ 151,134 28,932 608,641
Of the £2,325,135 of paid capital
£1,550,090 was provided by bonus scrip,
scattered in 1920. That was just after the
European flare-up of 1914-18. But his-
tory need not be expected to repeat itself
in this respect. Although more cargo is
offering today than inter-State freighters
can comfortably handle, Government
economic controls, including freight and
charter rates, have prevented expansion
of net earnings.
Indeed, since the close of the latest
accounts, the Federal Government has
taken over all vessels in the inter-State
trade. Control has been vested in the
Shipping Control Board, but management
remains in the hands of present owners.
The financial terms of the chartering have
not been broadcast, but they are not
likely to amount to anything more than
what the Government considers a reason-
able return.
This co. has 31 vessels —six passenger
and 25 cargo—aggregating 78,073 tons.
Six of the fleet, including the two largest
passenger vessels, have been taken by
the Government for Empire service,
and another, which left the slips in Scot-
land last year, has been impressed by
the British Ministry of Shipping. The
rest of the fleet is mostly engaged in the
Australian inter-State trade. Earnings,
therefore, will consist of charter and
management fees, supplemented by tak-
ings from tugs, tenders, launches, hulks
and lighters, together with pickings from
outside sources. These sources include
a wad of Government securities, etc.
(£747,087 at June 30), over half a million
shares in J. and A. Brown and Abermain-
Seaham Collieries (div. p.c., up p.c.,
for its latest term), control of the Wara-
tah Tug and Salvage Co. and an interest
in Newstead Wharves and Stevedoring
Co. (Brisbane) and Australian National
Airways.
Last year’s net earnings, which were
affected by lighter passenger takings and
increased running and handling costs,
were only £2749 lighter than the 1940
figure. That was after taking into the
reckoning unexplained additions of
£15,000 to the insurance account
(£355,000) and £15,000 to the repairs,
renewals and replacements reserve
(£253,500). The £180,066 of profit was
7.7 p.c. on capital as against 7.8, 8.6, 7.8,
7.4, 6.4, 6.4 and 6.3 p.c. back to 1934.
The div. was kept at 6j p.c.
Despite the trend of taxation, the
market counts on that rate being main-
tained, and offers 30s. 6d. for the pound
shares, at which the immediate yield is
4.3 p.c. Visibly the cover is 255, 2d. in
net tangibles; and it is obvious that
assets are worth more than their book
value.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures shows it:
1935. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital ~ £2,325,135 £2,325,135 £2,325,135
Sundry creditors.. 74,236 103,616 146,363
Provident fund .. 239,656 90,218 96,164
Steamers, properties,
etc. .. .. 1,322,532 1,607,365 1,559,290
Shares in subsidiaries 136,500 136,500 136,500
Stocks and stores.. 42,729 66,888 69,038
Book debts and in-
vestments .. 408,520 596,960 745,768
Consols, cash, etc. 1,279,089 772,345 747,087
To meet an addition of £148,808 to book
debts —the workshops are doing defence
work —and investments the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors was increased by
£42,747 and cash, etc., was drawn upon
for £25,258. There was a net reduction
of £48,075 in the book value of fixed
assets, which are reported well main-
tained and in an efficient state. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£1,455,866) was £77,007.
Silverton Tramway Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 53,471 SJp.c. = 43,750 9,721 182,632
1932.. 42,807 5 „ „ 25,000 17,807 200,439
1933.. 47,761 2i „ „ 12,500 35,261 236,700
1934.. 52,165 10.7 „ „ 37,500 14,665 250,365
1935.. 59,642 8.9 „ „ 31,250 28,392 278,757
1936.. 67,710 14.5 „ „ 43,750 23,960 302,717
1937.. 62,937 20 „ „ 50,000 12,937 315,644
Deprec. reserve disappears, £20,368.. 295,276
1938.. 81,676 22i p.c. = 56,250 25,426 320,702
Deprec. reserve disappears, £11,803.. 308,899
1939.. 76,511 20 p.c. = 50,000 26,511 335,410
1940.. 53,957 20 „ „ 50,000 3,957 339,367
1941.. 51,236 20 „ „ 50,000 1,236 340,603
The British contract for the purchase of
lead and zinc remains substantially in
force and the three big Barrier mines have
maintained their output. But owing to
shipping difficulties, all the concentrates
haven’t been railed to the smelters at the
seaboard. So, despite increased pas-
senger and other traffic on defence
account and because of petrol restric-
tions, there was a contraction of £12,184
in gross earnings (£149,602) last term
—the co.’s 36-mile track links Broken
Hill to Cockburn, where it connects
with the S. Aus. Government rail-
way. A tight hold was kept upon out-
goings, the net result being only £2721
lighter, despite a lift in the basic wage
and a louder call from the taxgatherer.
That was after taking into the reckoning
an unexplained addition of £6825 net to
reserves, mainly on account of deprecia-
tion. The £51,236 of profit shown
was 20.4 p.c. on capital as against 21.6,
30.6, 32.6 and 25.1 p.c. for the four
preceding terms. The high rates in ’39
and ’3B were assisted by building opera-
tions at the mines and other special
factors. Divs. actually paid were again
20 p.c.
Other features of last year’s activities
were manufacture of machine tools for
the Department of Munitions on a cost
basis and construction of a yard, at the
Government’s request, to facilitate trans-
fer of goods between the co.’s line and
that of the N. S. Wales railways. The
idea is to guard against the possibility
of war developments interrupting inter-
state shipping. In this event the co.’s line
would be taken over by the Government.
Shareholders’ interests will be protected
“under the terms of an agreement to
be made with the Commonwealth
authorities.”
Balance-sheet figures show an in-
crease of £11,511 in fixed assets, mainly
on account of new 31-ton ore wagons:
1934. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £350,000' £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Creditors .. 33,799 59,853 53,665 61,303
Fixed assets.. 483,069 461,976 469,511 481,022
Fuel and stores 23,316 20,957 20,532 19,973
Sundry debtors 38,934 66,610 61,837 58,688
Cash, etc. .. 89,887 81,011 91,152 92,223
All plant and equipment, including the
permanent way, are reported in good
condition ; and much depends upon that.
The more or less liquid surplus (£109,581)
was £10,275 less than at the previous
balance
What the future holds for the business
depends largely upon the life of the mines
at the Barrier, and this will be governed
mainly by the price of lead, zinc and
silver, development of fresh ore, and
costs. Recent developments on Zinc
Corp.’s leases and New B.H. Consoli-
dated’s ground have greatly lengthened
the life of the field, and there may be a
strong reconstruction demand for metals
when the war ends. Earnings would re-
ceive immediate benefit from any lead
deal with the U.S. Metals Reserve Co.
At 28s. 6d. (30s. 6d. a year ago) the f.-p.
10s. shares return 5.2 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. basis, which was the rate of a pay-
ment since the close of accounts. The
net tangible backing is 475. 3d. per pound
of paid capital.
Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Net Dividends. Written To Re-
June, Profit. 9 p.c. Off, Etc. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1931 .. 25,427 18,000 1000 6,427 224,314
- 7 p.c.
1932 .. 22,186 14,000 1000 7,186 231,500
1933 .. 20,760 14,000 1000 5,760 237,260
8 p.c.
1934 .. 24,947 16,000 3000 5,947 243,207
1935 .. 25,842 16,000 5000 4,842 248,049
104 p.c.
1936 .. 29,212 21,000 4000 4,212 252,261
Staff ins. reserve taken in, £10,000.. 262,261
10 p.c.
1937 .. 27,021 20,000 5000 2,021 264,282
1938 .. 28,400 20,000 5000 3,400 267,682
1939 . . 31,419 20,000 5000 6,419 274,101
1940 .. 29,123 20,000 4000 5,125 279,226
1941 .. 26,818 20,000 2500 4,318 283,544
This is Australia’s biggest trustee co., and
a very solid institution it is, too. The
volume of trusts keeps on expanding, and
can be expected to continue to do so.
Nevertheless, there isn’t the profit in
trusteeship and the agency business that
usually goes with it that there used to be.
That is because corpus and other com-
mission charges have remained steady
while the work involved in administra-
tion, collection, etc., has greatly increased,
and so has the burden of taxation and
other overhead.
Consider these figures;
Year Exes.
Ended Gross Ex- p.c. of
June, Trusts. Income. penses. Income.
1911 ..£8,853,862 £27,895 £16,850 60.4
1921 .. 18,432,862 77,404 55,261 71.4
1931 .. 41,152,590 143,665 120,141 83.6
1932 .. 42,364,572 127,070 110,115 86.6
1934 . . 45,812,450 132,468 112,379 84.8
1935 . . 48,115,327 140,427 118,543 84.4
1936 . . 49,843,142 150,994 125,983 83.4
1937 . . 51,675,485 158,379 133,581 84.5
1938 . . 54,068,638 168,225 143,019 85.0
1939 57,144,759 178,385 152,299 85.3
1940 . . 57,081,014 188,937 163,600 86.5
1941 . . 59,362,240 186,528 161,917 86.8
Last year the value of trusts put on the
books exceeded the value of estates
wound up by £2,281,226, which augurs
well for future earnings. Too much
notice, therefore, need not be taken of
the contraction of £2409 in gross earn-
ings. Despite heavier taxation, exes, were
pulled back £1583, which suggests that
the management keeps a tight hold upon
outgoings. Still, these made off with 6s.
more of each £lOO of gross earnings.
Including a net addition of £2207 to the
commission reserved account —£132,170,
which is the unearned portion of corpus
commissions—but deducting £2500 sent
to the staff fund, included in the written-
off column of the introductory table, the
year’s profit was only £BO7 less at 12.1
p.c. on capital, compared with 12.5, 13.2,
11.7, 11, 12.5, 10.4, 10.9 and 9.8 p.c.
back to 1933. The div, was kept at 10
p.c., and, subject to the exigencies of
war and the Treasury, looks like remain-
ing there for the present term.
When the books closed the co.’s
£200,000 of capital, the reserves and
£33,959 coming to outsiders were in-
vested in Government securities, etc.,
£216,615, premises, etc., £115,594,
mortgages, etc., £122,711, debtors’ bal-
ances £4136 and cash £68,448.
The market prices the £lO shares paid
to £2 —the other £8 is a reserve liability
callable only in the event of liquidation
—at 85s. as against 80s. a year back.
The return at 85s. is 4.7 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The backing is 965. 9d.
in net tangibles.
Queensland Cement and Lime Co.
Net i Dividends N To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
■ & £/ £>
1931.. 18,843 8% 6% 6% 15,601 3,242 32,218
1932.. 15,831 8 „ 6 „ 6 „ 15,601 230 32,448
1933.. 15,725 8 „ 6„ 6„ 15,601 124 32,572
1934.. 21,078 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,051 3,027 35,599
1935.. 25,963 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ 20,502 5,461 41,060
1936.. 20,779 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,052 2,727 43,787
1937.. 19,715 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,052 1,663 45,449
1938.. 20,838 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,052 2,786 48,235
1939.. 21,560 9 „ 7 „ 7„ 18,052 3,508 51,743
1940.. 20,833 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 18,052 2,781 54,524
1941.. 23,359' 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ 20,502 2,857 57,381
* Excluding depreciation reserves, £233,532.
The board has spent liberally extending
and modernising its Darra plant, the only
one north of twenty-eight. Use of coral
from the co.’s Moreton Bay leases for


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents — Advt
*** * '
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated bv
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ; Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend; Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
333’s always
please!
I always
smoke
m
m
333’5! ’
X
■
■m
m
s B
■
/
m
m
%
iS*SA
EXPRESS
1
The secret is
he 333’s blend
fllltS choice
' Virginia
tobaccos
CORK TIPPED
and PLAIN:
9-7cL, 18-1/2
Also flat fifties
130'-8 41
the whole production has further
benefited costs, and there have been pro-
gressive reductions in selling prices, cut
another 4s. a ton in April, when most
traders were increasing theirs. The co.
therefore has now little to fear from inter-
state competition, most of which in the
past has come from Goliath, the low-cost
Tasmanian producer at present experi-
encing transport worries.
The 25th year of production was
marked by record output and a special
all-round 1 p.c. jubilee bonus, which,
but for the requirements of war finance,
might otherwise become more than
a passing gesture with the Federal
Government so large a consumer. This
new customer more than made up for
any slackening of demand from the old
State client last term, and general con-
struction activity was brisk in the
northern metropolis, too. So, despite the
tendency for most costs to rise and lower
prices, net earnings ran out £2526 higher
at £23,359. That was after “full pro-
vision” had been made for taxes and
other contingencies, visibly reserving
another £15,000 for depreciation and
giving a staff fund a £lOOO kick-off.
Capital is in 44,878 first 8 p.c. and
182,183 second 6 p.c, cum. prefs. (both
really preferred ords., advancing point for
point with the ords, above 6 p.c.) and
18,000 ords. Allowing for the minimum '
pref. rates and 6 p.c. to the ords,, balance
of last term’s was 3.2 p.c. on the whole
of the capital, as against 2.1 p.c. in the
previous term. Actually, including the
bonus referred to, first prefs. got 10 p.c.
and other shares 8 p.c., leaving £2857
to put by.
In three years the co. has expended
£113,708, financed mostly from its own
resources, on the chief earning asset.
Last of the outlay is now in sight:
„ 1936. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £245,061 £245,061 £245,061 £245,061
Creditors* .. 15,965 46,520 47,328 57,441
Freehold, etc. 30,710 20,976 20,976 20,976
1 lant, etc. . . 321,644 401,309 429,276 440,931
Stocks .. 37,811 53,167 66,356 94,980
Book debts . . 23,741 40,111 33,494 41,327
Cash, etc. .. 97,491 49,346 33,396 16,705
* Including provision for taxation.
When completed, the new No. 3 mill will
lift capacity to a figure “greatly in excess
of Queensland requirements for many
years.” Plant appears at cost, less un-
stated writings-off. So there may be some
genuine profit in the £233,532 visibly
accumulated for depreciation.
The more prevalent second prefs. are
the most active share, returning 5.7 p.c.
at 28s. from an 8 p.c. distribution, or 5
p.c. if the special bonus is dropped.
Excluding depreciation reserve, the net
tangible backing is £6 14s. lOd. firsts,
£1 Bs. 3d. seconds, and £4 3s. 9d. ords.
There will be a lot of delayed construc-
tional work to get on with later.
The search of Australasian Petroleum
is the most important yet in the expensive
Papuan oil hunt, and if no gusher is
brought it will not be because of half-
measures. More funds are now
needed, and nominal capital (previously
£1,000,000, all issued) has been doubled.
Financial backing comes mainly, through
subsidiaries, from the powerful Standard
Vacuum (New York) and Anglo-Iranian
(London) cos. Through Nominated
Holdings, Oil Search, original holders of
the areas, has 200,000 shares (65,000
paid for in cash) and representation on
the board, to retain which it must
maintain a proportionate interest of at
least 8y p.c. Oil Search also has associa-
tions with the old Texas co,, which threw
off Caltex (Aust.) Development to pros-
pect Oil Search’s North-West Cape area
(W.A.). Oil Search puts up no money,
but rakes in a royalty if oil is struck.
* * * *
In a cheer-up report to shareholders,
Freney Oil (W.A.) states (1) that the bore
is now at a most important stage ; and
(2) that Commonwealth and State Gov-
ernments are taking interest in opera-
tions, and that their respective geologists
will inspect the bore about mid-October,
Report adds that the search for oil is a
slow and tedious process—something that
Freney shareholders hardly need remind-
ing. Co. went to allotment on the mini-
mum subscription of 150,000 shares in
its recent 264,500 share offer, and has
applied to both Commonwealth and State
Governments for a further subsidy, it
still has shares for sale.
* * * *
After six years, Spargo’s Reward enters
the Westralian div. list with a 3d. dis-
tribution (£9636), payable October 23.
Latest profit, after £2634 depreciation, is
more than doubled at £21,166. After
reducing liabilities by £8782 and spend-
ing £4104 on additional stores and £2257
on fixed assets, co. joyfully reports im-
provement of £9333 in the cash position
over the year. Ore reserves are set down
at 37,500 tons —12,500 (6.9dwt.) positive,
25,000 (5.5dwt.) probable. Development
to No. 5 level is considered necessary to
keep the mine two years ahead of the
mill on a 3000-tons-a-month throughput.
Production of recent months has been
around 2200 tons for a working profit,
before development, of roughly £1 a ton.
* * * »
Yellowdine Gold Areas (W.A.) is to
sink a vertical prospecting shaft on its
new Evanston option, and hopes to inter-
sect the lode at 70ft. From its old mine,
about exhausted, net profit for the year
to April came to £15,256. The venture
is fairly and conservatively run.
* * * *
Little Freeburgh Dredging (Vic.), which
commenced digging the previous August,
paid £7875 (45 p.c.) in divs. from profits
of £13,853 in the year to Aug. 15—a per-
formance which encourages the market to
pay 12s. 9d. for the ss. shares, of which
only 70,000 are issued. Dredge turnover
was 485,800 c.y. for 24580 z. smelted
gold, a recovery of 2.43 gr. At that rate
of digging there is another 16 years’
work in the co.’s Bright property, origi-
nally estimated to contain 8,300,000 c.y.
of 10.73 d. wash (gold at £8 an ounce).


UMCABLED ADDITIONS
RUSSIAN WAR ASPECTS.
(Condensed from an article by the editor of London
"Nineteenth Century!")
It is not enough for the Germans if the Russian
armed forces are defeated. It is not even enough if
the Germans hold Leningrad, Moscow, Kiev, Baku.
It is not enough if all Russia is occupied as far as the
Urals and the Caspian Sea and the Red army, navy
and air force are broken and are cut off from their
sources of supply so that no organised attack can be
made on the Germans in the east. Even a conquest
of Russia as complete as the conquest of Poland
would not be enough. The Poles were defeated in the
field, but they were never defeated politically. The
Germans have failed to break the Polish national spirit
or to carry disunity into a nation which, in peace-
time, was one of the most disunited in Europe.
Although the Germans have inhuman methods of
coercion at their disposal, they have been unable to
find any Poles who will comply so far with the
demands of the conqueror as to form a puppet Gov-
ernment. There have been no Polish Quislings.
The Germans must not only win their war with
Russia, they must also win the peace. They must
make political victory follow victory in the field —
and both victories must be swift, sure and final. They
are at war with Russia to make peace —their peace—
with Russia. If the Russian armed forces remain
intact, the Germans have lost the war. For the Ger-
mans it is everything or nothing in Russia. When
they have occupied Leningrad, Moscow and Kiev, the
second period of the war will begin—the period of
political warfare. Their purpose is not only the dis-
solution of the Russian armed forces but the dissolu-
tion of the Russian State.
Hitler went to war with Russia not only because
he wanted peace— his peace—with Russia, but also
because he wanted an alliance with Russia —with the
Federation that will emerge from the ruins of the
Soviet Union if he has his way. He is determined to
bring Russia into the Pax Germanica —usually known
as “The New Order.” It will, if he is victorious in the
field, be easy for him to restore Estonia, Latvia and
Lithuania as independent States. Whether he will be
able to establish an independent Ukrainian State is, for
him, the all-important question. If he cannot, then
he cannot achieve final victory, no matter how com-
pletely he may be victorious in the field. If he can,
he will be master of Russia. It will not be enough to
set up a puppet Government at Kiev. He cannot suc-
ceed in the Ukraine if the Government he establishes
has little support amongst the population. Some sup-
port it would certainly have, for the Ukrainians have
suffered much at the hands of the Muscovite despot-
ism, It is reliably computed that 5,000,000 of them
perished in the famine 10 years ago. Unlike other
Russian famines this famine was not the result of
drought, but of Stalin’s agrarian reform —it was the
instrument which the Central Government used to
break any attempt to resist the “collectivisation” of
the farms. Ukrainian nationalism has never quite
died out. But the Ukrainians also have a strong sense
of Russian nationalism, which the famine impaired but
did not kill. The younger generation and most of
the men who have served in the armed forces during
the last 10 years are Russian first and Ukrainian
second. Hitler’s chances of political success in the
Ukraine depend on the ability of Ukrainian, as dis-
tinct from Russian, national sentiment to provide a
sufficiently solid foundation for an independent State.
The Germans must occupy Georgia also, not only
because they need the oil but also because Georgia
is a base from which they can develop a most formid-
able threat to vital British interests in the Middle
East. The advance on Baku, which will follow the
advance on Kiev and Odessa, is part of the general
offensive against the British Empire, If the Germans
occupy Georgia, the war in the Middle East will take
on a new and dangerous aspect. To strengthen the
Imperial Forces in the Middle East is a very urgent
matter for three reasons, all of them decisive: to
defend vital Imperial interests, to assist the Russians,
and, when the time comes, to undertake those offensive
operations which, in the Middle East, as in the Near
East, and, indeed, in the south, the west and the north,
must throw the Germans back into their own country,
there to suffer the defeat that will finally break their
armed might and to accept the terms of peace that
must keep it broken. The Georgians, too, have suffered
under the Muscovite despotism. The last Georgian
rebellion was quelled by the Red Army in 1924 and
followed by the massacres that are characteristic of
the Communist dispensation. Georgian nationalism was
always anti-Communistic and had leanings towards the
moderate Socialism of Western and Central Europe.
It was strongest amongst the industrial workmen of
Baku. Again, the question is, will Georgian national-
ism assert itself against Russian nationalism, which
has, in recent years, gone far in absorbing Georgian
local patriotism? Can the Germans establish a Gov-
ernment at Tiflis that will not be repudiated by the
entire population?
From the military point of view what the Ger-
mans have already achieved is prodigious. The small-
scale maps published in the newspapers are very mis-
leading. Merely to supply so vast an army over so
huge an expanse of territory and with communications
so long, so scanty and so defective is a triumph of
organisation. The ordinary Russian soldier is show-
ing one quality which must be profoundly disturbing
to the Germans —his fighting spirit has not been
affected by changes in the system of government. He
is a patriot now as he always was. The war is being
reported very well, even if tendentiously, in the
German press, German war correspondents hold
military rank and take part in the fighting (they have
had casualties in every campaign). They write as sol-
diers who are also trained journalists. They give a
vivid picture of Russians who go on fighting in the
German rear with that strange blending of fanaticism
and almost fatalistic stubbornness which has been
observed in the younger generation of Germans them-
selves. There is undoubtedly a stronger national spirit
in Russia than was generally expected. If that spirit
can survive military defeat and prevail against local
patriotism, the Germans cannot win in the political
warfare which they are preparing.
The German decision to attack Russia was
astounding in its audacity, but it cannot be dismissed
as the deed of a madman. The Germans know what
they are doing, though events may show that they have
been mistaken. If they fail in Russia they will be in
extreme peril of disasters greater than any they have
suffered since the Thirty Years’ War, for, whereas they
can expect their social order to survive defeat at the
hands of the British Empire, they cannot have the
same expectation if they are defeated by the Soviet
Union.
If they are successful in the field and are on the
way towards the achievement of their political pur-
pose, they will try to convert the war which Russia is
waging against them into a war for them. They will,
in their propaganda, put forward the plausible, even
if unfounded, contention that Great Britain has again
failed to help her ally, indeed that every treaty of
alliance with Great Britain is a death sentence. They
will appeal to the Russians as fellow-socialists and
invite them to join in the struggle for national social-
ism against plutocratic imperialism. To the Baltic
States and to the Ukraine and Georgia they will
endeavor to present themselves as liberators.
It may well be that the Germans have lost heavily
in killed and wounded, but their casualties will hardly
affect their plans with regard to the British Isles. But
New York "Herald Tribune."
AN ENCIRCLEMENT OF HIS OWN MAKING.
it is not at all certain that they are planning an offen-
sive against Britain at all, though it seems highly prob-
able that they will take reprisals on British towns
for the recent bombing of their own cities. A com-
plete German victory in Russia —that is to say the
defeat of the Russian armed forces and the dissolu-
tion of the Russian State-may or may not cause the
Germans to take the offensive against the British Isles.
The danger to Great Britain lies elsewhere—it lies in
the Middle East, but it is also more general than this.
If the Germans are masters of Russia it will be very
much more difficult to win the war against them, for
with that vast hinterland at their disposal they can
achieve far greater invulnerability to all forms of
attack than they could if Russia were hostile or even
neutral.
They have invaded Russia not merely to remove
a menace to their eastern security and to increase the
supplies which they need for the further prosecution
of the war, but also to make Russia a vassal-ally as
part of the Pax Germanica. It is an illusion to sup-
pose that the Pax Germanica —or New Order —will
not last because people will not like it. That people
do not like being subjected to alien rule is a pheno-
menon that is not unfamiliar in history. But alien
rule has, nevertheless, persisted for centuries over vast
populations.
The Pax Germanica could last, because people will
always prefer order to anarchy, and, if there is no
hope of an order of their own, they will accept a
German order. It is not enough to frustrate a Ger-
man offensive against the British Isles —that will not
win the war. It is time the British Government turned
its attention not merely to the task of preparing for
a German onslaught but to the task of winning the
war — w hich is a very different matter. It is necessary
for Great Britain to develop a strategic con-
ception which will determine the nature of the
general offensive against Germany. Without a
general offensive, systematically planned and accom-
panied by political warfare, Germany cannot
be defeated. It is idle to suppose that she can
be defeated merely by dropping bombs on her cities.
The blockade is already a failure. It is also necessary
that the Government develops a political conception
that will determine the nature of the peace. Political
warfare is the link between the actual fighting and the
enforcement of peace. The political order which will
emerge from the war must not be a German order. It
must not even be a British order. It must be a
European order. But the strategic order must be
British, or at least predominantly British.
Strategically, the peace must be a Pax Britannica
without this there can be no order in Europe and no
lasting peace. Time is getting short. The Pax Ger-
manica is being imposed on Russia now. Before long,
unless the German plans miscarry, it will prevail
throughout the whole of the Continent. It must be
destroyed, and destroyed swiftly and completely, or
else it will achieve permanence. If it is not destroyed,
if the British Empire come to terms with it, then, after
a while —and not a long while, either—the Germans,
whether under Hitler or not (for that makes little dil-
ference), will begin the Third World War. And they
will win it, for with territories so vast at their dis-
posal, with the resources of these territories organised
for war in advance, and with stategic positions of the
greatest menace to the Empire in their hands before
hostilities begin, their victory is as certain as any-
thing can be certain in human affairs. Great Britain
had a chance in the First World War. She took it,
and lost it in the peace that followed. She now has
a second chance. She will not have a third.
War Towards India.
(From an article by London “Times’'’ India correspondent. )
It may presently be found that in extending the
war into Eastern Europe the German invasion of
Russia fired the first shot in extending the war
into Asia.
The defeat of Russia would bring the
Nazis to the gates of India, fulfilling a possi-
bility which Mr. Churchill has envisaged from
the first; and the struggle now raging between
the White Sea and the Black Sea has given
fresh significance to India’s strategic position
among those territories of the British Com-
monwealth which lie between the Eastern Medi-
terranean and the Southern Pacific.
The possibility that the Nazi leaders might
search for victory in the East has been closely
analysed in India since the war broke out by
the Viceroy and his military advisers. Their
prompt action in sending troops to Iraq was
the first move in a calculated policy designed
to restrict German adventures in the direction
of India. Many commentators do not hesitate
to say that the appointment of General Wavell
as Commander-in-Chief in India was inspired
by the need to secure the services of a great
strategist to appraise the effects of the Russo-
German war on British dispositions from the
Suez Canal to Singapore. The situation of
India in relation to existing zones of opera-
tions and its importance as an area of produc-
tion and supply give it special significance
should the Russo-German war develop, as it
may, into an attempt to subdue the British
Commonwealth by attacking its component
parts in the East while leaving the Mother
Country in armed isolation in her island
fortress.
India lies in the rear and at the centre of
that vast defensive zone in the Middle East
which runs from Libya to the borders of
Turkey, and is capable of throwing in massive
forces and supplies to such theatres of war
as the new threat may open up. She
is herself sheltered behind the great Himalayan bar-
rier where her own defences have been strengthened
from Chitral to Chaman in territory where British
and Indian troops have had generations of war experi-
ence, and where modern armies would find their
mechanised equipment a hindrance rathei than a help.
Speaking of a possible Nazi drive through the
Caucasus, General Wavell has said that the difficul-
ties for the enemy would be terrible.
In another respect India is prepared for any
emergencies arising from the Russo-German war. The
organisation of the Eastern Group .Supply Council,
while designed to serve the existing areas of combat
throughout the Middle East, possesses the adaptability
required to cope with such a crisis as might arise from
Nazi penetration of our defensive zones east and
south of Suez. The task of maintaining an extensive
Imperial army in the Middle East has been obviously
and directly affected by the partial blocking of the
Mediterranean as an ocean highway, by the need to
use the longer route by the Cape, and by the general
menace to shipping which arose when Italy intervened
in the war. These conditions enormously enhanced
the importance of securing supplies of all kinds which
could be manufactured in the Eastern Hemisphere.
The countries participating in the Supply Council,
which include India, Australia, New Zealand and
South Africa, were organised in time by the Viceroy
through an agency for making all possible use of
material assets by arrangement between the partners.
The elastic character of the system that has been
evolved can respond on the supply side to changes in
the strategical position from Port Said to Singapore.
By its operations the sinews of war in ever-growing
volume are secured to the Imperial forces ranged over
two continents.
British Style Compulsion.
(Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post article
by Vincent Sheean.)
Crawling around through the coalmines, visiting
the factories or tramping the fields here, you would
see — men and women who are glad to give 12


hours every day to the job of beating Hitler. Partly
because they are earning money, partly because they
know their elected representatives are watching over
them, but most of all because they know that if Hitler
wins they are condemned to slavery.
The other day I reached the face of a seam in
a coalmine. The coalmining industry is Britain’s
foundation; no Empire would have been possible
without coalmines. Those miners seemed to me to
epitomise the spirit of Britain’s man-power. And Jim
seemed to me the quintessence of the men in the mines.
All I know about him is that his name is Jim ;
he is a magnificent man, the salt of the earth. He
was probably in his middle thirties, and without being
particularly big he was a superb physical specimen,
with shoulders and biceps like a health advertisement.
His ultra-blue, ultra-English eyes gleamed with humor
from a face completely darkened by coaldust. He
was having his eleven-o’clock break —20 minutes’ rest
sanctioned by custom —and had been eating his usual
refresher of bread and lard.
What do you suppose he was talking about? He
was a member of some guard unit for this particular
colliery, and on the preceding night one of the
Regular Army infantry regiments had attacked the
mine on manoeuvres. The Home Guard had driven
off the regiment with great success and Jim had been
in the forefront of the battle. He told the trade-union
official taking me through the mine all about it.
Though I could scarcely understand speech so rich
in vowels and country expressions, I could see the
twinkle in his eye and catch his splendid cocky, inde-
pendent swagger. He thought it a huge joke that he
and his fellow-miners had been able to beat off the
regulars ; he was proud as Punch. There seemed
nothing remarkable to him about the fact that he
had been up all night on Home Guard duty and was
now doing his shift at the pit face.
I thought as he talked that this was the true
answer; nobody can ever beat such people. This is
victory.
For Jim is symbolic of the wholehearted energy
of organised British Labor. This driving single-purpose
force exists, and through it a miracle has been per-
formed, the miracle of a truly united people.
I shall never forget an occasion on May 22 last
year when Clement Attlee, the Leader of the Parlia-
mentary Labor party, rose in the House of Commons
to present what is known as the Emergency Powers
Defence Act, To me this seemed one of the most
revolutionary events of human history. While I
listened to Attlee’s pallid phrases I thought “This is
how things are done in England—without violence,
academically, according to tradition and protocol, but
nevertheless done,”
The Emergency Powers Act declared that “all
persons and all property” were at the disposal of the
State. It sounded like nothing less than an adoption
of new systems of government. We all began to think
that this Emergency Powers Act was a desperate ges-
ture at the last moment.
Such was not the case. The Emergency Powers
Act is at present a fundamental document under
which the mighty effort of the British people is regu-
lated. It enables the Government to issue “essential-
work orders” under which such industries as coal-
mining, munitions, aircraft, shipbuilding, ship repair-
ing and docking, and indeed any judged essential, are
compelled to continue work. And it is compulsory—
make no mistake about that. The worker is frozen
to his job just as in Germany or Russia. But the
astonishing thing, which gives observers faith in the
British political genius and survival value, is that this
thing is both compulsory and voluntary. In every
case workers and leaders are consulted before any
such “essential-work order” is issued, and in every
case the workers have agreed. And conditions under
which they execute their hard task are constantly
invigilated by their own representatives.
Speaking broadly, the fundamental principle of
this arrangement is that the Government is pledged
to consult representatives of organised Labor on any
or all questions involving the interests of the British
working people. As can be readily imagined, this
means practically everything. So far as I am aware,
this arrangement, which has been brilliantly success-
ful and has saved England, has not a parallel at any
other period or place in human history.
The “essential-work orders” under which British
labor is frozen to its job are all very recent. Most
essential-work orders have been issued since April of
this year. The Government went at this very slowly.
In a country profoundly consecrated to freedom, it
was difficult to find techniques of compulsion. It was
necessary to study what German and Russian regimes
had done. This repulsive necessity was probably
what delayed everything so long. Nobody in the
Government has told me that they studied German
and Russian techniques, and yet I have before me
summaries of all German labor decrees since 1933,
as well as the best available summaries of Russian
decrees on the same subject, and it seems to me
rather obvious that these British decrees are essen-
tially the same thing.
What it comes to is this. A worker on any funda-
mentally important job cannot leave his job. A
worker can be transferred from one job to another by
the judgment of competent persons in the Ministry
of Labor. Right to strike is not exactly abolished, but
it has become so remote, by voluntary action of Labor
leaders, that it practically exists no longer. All in-
habitants of the British Isles must register for national
work, and all may be called upon for any service
which seems necessary.
This sounds like what the Germans and Russians
have done, and is, in fact, practically the same thing.
But the enormous difference is that compulsory labor
in Britain has only been adopted as an emergency
measure under innumerable guarantees. Every de-
parture from normal trade-union practice is solemnly
recorded and filed away against the day when Britain
shall have won and shall restore the full liberties of
the people.
There is something about compulsion, whatever
its compensatory advantages, which goes against the
British grain. Consequently, small temporary stop-
pages of work have occurred all over England.
Although trade-unions nearly always exert their influ-
ence to get the men back to work, it can by no means
be contended that war-time legislation has brought
industrial disputes to an end. It has, however,
cushioned all such shocks by a whole system of arbi-
tration and appeals. With wages rising, union officials
consistently on the Government’s side and a pervad-
ing sense of war emergency, there are as few out-
breaks of strife as seems humanly possible—far fewer
than in the last war, for instance.
You probably have no idea how hard most Eng-
lishmen work. I had no idea until I began to talk
to workers in factory or mine. I have spoken to some
men who have had no holiday for 18 months, who
have worked 72 or 74 or even 80 hours a week, who
have no sure prospect of easier conditions of work.
New York “Post.”
BEWARE GARGANTUA!
and who, nevertheless, are quite cheerfully determined
to go on until Hitler is defeated.
The great mass of Englishmen belong to indus-
trial Labor, and it is industrial Labor first of all that
has made this year’s war effort possible. But a vic-
torious effort must accomplish even more than the
miracle already accomplished. Such an effort must
correctly employ to the maximum the full man-power
—and woman-power—of the entire population. That
is this war’s No. 1 problem. This realisation came
late to England, but it is now being acted upon in
preparation for a long ordeal.
Towards the “Bridge of Ships.”
(Condensed from New York “Journal of Commerce.”')
Britain did not express dire alarm over the ship-
ping situation until the latter part of 1940, by when
it was apparent that many ships would have to be
built if Britain’s war efforts were not to be futile.
The British Purchasing Commission placed an order
for two special shipyards and 60 simplified freighters
in December of that year. In January, 1941, a pro-
gramme for 200 single design freighters was announced.
Contracts were awarded in February. The first keel
was laid in April and 30 were down to August 1.
Since then 112 more of the same type have been
ordered and funds authorised for another 418, while
at the same time the total of standard Maritime Com-
mission types contracted for was increased from 198
to 398. Another 123 of these superior merchant ships
will be ordered before long, along with 45 coastal
ships of barely 2000 gross tons each, and 16 small
tankers.
The completions of larger merchant ships in 1940
totalled 53 ships of about 460,000 gross tons. This
year, it is now estimated, nearly 120 such ships of
approximately 1,000,000 tons will be delivered. In
1942 some 400 ships of 3,200,000 gross tons will be
built, plus about 150 for which contracts will shortly
be placed, and in 1943 the total will be still higher.
For each of these years completion of 550 to 600 big
merchant ships of over 4,000,000 gross tons is expected,
a gain of more than 350 p.c. over 1941, and of about
1000 p.c. over 1940.
When Britain made her plea for ships and more
ships late last year, she stressed that she could get
by on her existing tonnage and contributions from
the American merchant marine for a year, but that
heavy new production must be assured by 1942. The
job is being done.
Known As “The Auk.”
e . fThis personal descriptive character sketch of General
Sir Claude Auchinleck, who took over in Egypt from
General Sir Archibald Wavell, is condensed from a
Collier s” article by Frank Gervasi.]
Ever since 1930 General Sir Claude John Eyre
Auchinleck has been one of the British Army’s leading
exponents of armored warfare. That’s at least one of
the reasons why at the age of 57 Sir Claude is a full
general and Commander-in-Chief of the armies of the
Middle East.
Sir Claude talked tanks and motorisation while
Hitler and Goring were still beer-hall roughs. It
took him nearly eight years, but he pulled the Indian
Army down off horseback and gave it motors. He
wanted cavalry to move 300 miles a day when its
maximum speed was 30, and he envisioned infantry
marching into action at 100 miles a day when its
forward movement was limited to 10.
Even three or four years ago his concept of war
was considered radical and revolutionary. The official
biography of General Auchinleck states merely that
he was able “to put many of his ideas into effect.”
The truth is that for five months General Auchinleck
and his staff labored on blank maps of India tacked
up on the walls of general headquarters in Simla,
filling in down to the last machine-gun
where ’planes, tanks, motor transport
and rapid-fire armaments were needed.
They proved to the Chatfield Commis-
sion that the security of India depended
upon having not camels and cavalry but
tanks and armored cars, not sabres but
tommy-guns, not lookouts on hilltops
but fast reconnaissance ’planes, and not
merely artillery but squadrons of mobile
heavy artillery called bombers and
squadrons of fighter ’planes to chase
the enemy’s bombers. In 1938 the
Chatfield Commission ordered the
modernisation of the British Army in
India.
Of all his names the one that fits
General Auchinleck —which he pro-
nounces Awkinlek —best is the straight-
forward “John.” The Claude contrasts
with his bearing of a well-conditioned
light-heavyweight and could be set down
to a fond error of Mother Auchinleck’s
except that he got it because his father’s
name was John Claude and when they
named him they just reversed it. The
Eyre is his mother’s family name, and
the Auchinleck is Scottish from way
back. Lady Auchinleck is Scottish, too,
a Stewart of Appin, and she’s very
pretty.
To his troops and to his staff, when
he isn’t listening, Auchinleck is “the
Auk,” which is a contraction of his sur-
name, but tells more about him than
Claude or John. He’s as direct as a
monosyllable and as forthright as the
crack of a pistol. He said he would
be in the lobby of Shepheard’s Hotel,
Cairo, at three o’clock that afternoon,
and at three he was there. There was
considerably more than six feet of him
in a short-sleeved khaki shirt that was
unbuttoned at the collar. He wore shorts and moved
on ample feet in the way of a man who knew' exactly
where they were taking him.
His eyes were clear, blue-grey and steady. They
looked from under the overhanging ledge of a broad,
slightly-freckled brow. He’s just this side of being a
redhead. His head is set on a powerful neck, and he
has a clean jaw. His mouth is straight and wide and
his lips are dry, and he looks as though he forgot to
shave his upper lip, but it’s really a close-cropped
moustache.
That he arrived promptly at three o’clock proved
more than the obvious. It showed that the Auk
doesn’t take siestas. At least, not unless it’s so hot it
knocks you down. Three o’clock in the afternoon is a
poor time to make business appointments in sultry
Cairo. At that hour everybody except those who
keep themselves awake by blowing taxi-horns and
clanking bells and blackmailing sleepers into baksheesh
by cranking barrel organs under windows is taking a
nap. But the Auk was there at three and you had a
hunch suddenly that lots of people would be skipping
siestas thereafter in this highly important part of
the world that’s fighting Hitler.
He refused a cigarette. The Auk doesn’t smoke.
He likes a drink of whisky and soda but prefers beer.
He’s a hot-weather fighter, and he discovered on the
north-western frontier and in the deserts of India and
Mesopotamia that smoking accelerates the drying-out
that body tissues undergo when water is scarce, and
water is always scarce in the desert.
“Sure we can win the war,” he said, “Sure we
can win it. But it’s got to be won in Germany, per-
haps in Austria. We’ve got to bring the war to the
enemy. Our battlefield is his own backyard. Napoleon
was beaten that way. And it’s the only way. Any-
thing short of the decisive total defeat of Germany
will mean what?” He looked up and stuck his chin
out. “It will mean a patched-up peace. Germany in
control of all Europe will turn around and offer peace.
You wait and see. And that will be a decisive
moment. Acceptance of any peace would be nothing
but an armistice and then it would begin all over
again.”
“But where could Germany be attacked?”
“I don’t know now how we will get at them. But
there will be some way. Something will turn up;, and
if nothing does we’ll have to make a battlefield.”
Although of Scottish origin, Auchinleck’s family
moved to Northern Ireland several generations ago,


and maybe it’s a coincidence or maybe it’s just that
Northern Ireland breeds soldiers, but three of the
topmost jobs in the British Army are held by Ulster-
men. General Sir John Dill, chief of the Imperial
General Staff, and General Sir Alan Brooke, Com-
mander-in-Chief of the Home Forces, also come from
Northern Ireland. Auchinleck himself was born almost
literally with the roll of drums in his ears at Aider-
shot, the heart of military England, where his father
was stationed.
In 1914 the Auk went with his regiment to Egypt,
and when the Turks attacked the Suez Canal in
December of that year he was with a machine-gun
section on the eastern and, therefore, the Turkish
and decidedly the wrong side of the canal. He
fought his way out of that extremely tough situation,
and later went to Aden and Mesopotamia, where he
spent three years of the war and distinguished him-
self sufficiently to win the D. 5.0., the Croix de Guerre,
the Order of the British Empire and to be breveted a
lieutenant-colonel.
He was appointed in 1933 to the command of the
Peshawar Brigade. For three years he fought the
Afghan tribesmen on the north-western frontier. For
three years he fought at the Khyber Pass and he was
“British Soldier in India” in the best traditions of
Kipling, and his conduct of the Mohmand campaign
in 1935 is still regarded for its daring and skilful em-
ployment of men and guns as what the official sketch
of the Auk calls “a classic.”
From officers who fought with him and knew
him in that campaign I learned independently that the
Auk saved a victory from what might have been
disaster due to the soldierly bungling of others. It
was then that he proved conclusively that mechanisa-
tion of the Indian Army was indispensable, for he
demonstrated that proper co-ordination between
’planes and tanks will beat horses and camels. The
details of exactly what happened, however, remain
one of those gentlemanly secrets the army keeps re-
ligiously, and, since the Auk will probably wind up
this war as one of the few generals who will not have
written a book about it or about his life, what he did
on the Khyber will remain locked up in his own
modesty. , ,
This tough six-footer’s work day will run trom
12 to 14 hours and up, because he likes soldiering.
To Allenby, war was a distasteful business. But you
get the feeling the Auk enjoys it.
Settling with Germany,
[Condensed from a New York “Times Magazine
article by Douglas Miller, who spent 15 years in the
American Foreign Service in Germany and tor six
years of Hitler’s reign was American commercial
attache in Berlin.]
The time has come when the democracies can
play upon the mistrust and cynicism which exist in
Germany. To do so with the greatest effectiveness,
and to be prepared to deal with a defeated Germany,
we must understand the state of mind in Hitler’s
Reich today. , ~ TT . .
Very few Germans go all the way with Hitler.
He puzzles them, frightens them and disgusts many
of them. The Germans are not convinced that Nazi
propaganda in the press and on the radio is truth.
They suspect many things that they hear, but don t
know in what direction to look for truth. They have
learned to distrust their own official propaganda, but
they also distrust foreign radio broadcasts or the wild
rumors that circulate underground. Everybody passes
on these rumors, but few believe them, I have heard
more horrid tales about Nazi atrocities circulating in
Germany than I have ever known to appear outside
the country. But it doesn’t seem to make much dif-
ference. Some of these underground rumors are
astonishingly accurate and have told long in advance
news which was confirmed later. But the Germans
have been shocked and jolted so hard that they are
now rather apathetic.
The German Army is no longer as popular as it
used to be. The radio has surfeited the public with
military music. Uniforms and medals are a dime a
dozen. The officers still form a favored class apart.
They have a professional interest in war. The common
soldier doesn’t share this enthusiasm. No one wants
him to think or act on his own initiative. He is taught
to fear his officers more than the enemy, and certainly
doesn’t love them. All propaganda to make the army
popular has only succeeded in making it all-pervasive.
Almost everyone is engaged in the war effort, and
there is little personal distinction now in taking part
in it. People do their work, but without much
enthusiasm. , ,
In some respects the present army has advantages
over the Kaiser’s troops. The officers have been
selected from a wider group of the population , lack
of aristocratic birth is no longer a bar to promotion.
Officers and men probably understand one another
better than they used to. But the army is hard;
punishments are severe; discipline is very strict.
Officers are able to get more performance m this way,
but such a system has in it the danger of mutiny and
revolution. , .
It is true that the German soldiers are sometimes
literally worked to death, but the Germans have a
long military tradition. They take a stern pride in
the fact that their army is tough. Only in moments of
extreme excitement or anger are they likely to take
any revolutionary action. .
The people generally are cynical, but astonish-
ingly patient and good-humored. They refer to black-
outs' as the time when the Government audits its
books ; but in a way it seems quite clear that there
would be nothing gained permanently by dividing Ger-
many up into a series of small States. They would
quickly unite again or form some new sort of secret
association for common action.
It is not feasible to destroy 80 million Germans.
American opinion now would not hear of it. Even
if American opinion should change this could not be
a possible solution. It is also impossible to allow the
German people to escape the penalty of their crimes.
Human nature in the other countries will not allow
it. The Germans must be forced to give back what
they have already stolen, which will cause such eco-
nomic hardship inside Germany as to outrage nearly
all the people there and make them implacable
enemies of the post-war Europe. It is not possible to
supply the Germans with fresh capital to replace what
they have destroyed and offer them a working partner-
ship in a new world, much as we might like to <jlo so.
They have tasted the heady wine of world domination.
We could not offer them any less and expect them to
like it. What possible solution remains?
To me it seems that we are not justified in doing
anything to the German people in the way of punish-
ment. We are not their judges. But, for the sake of
our own future security and world peace, we are
entitled to take such steps as may be necessary, no
matter if this does treat the German people severely.
I should not advocate the imposition of any outside
government upon the German people. I should leave
them their independence and national unity. I would
apply the principles of total war which they have so
ingeniously worked out and remove from Germany
all the industrial fabric which maintains the war
machines. Industrial disarmament is permanent under
modern conditions.
I would haul out trucks, commandeer supplies of
metals and machinery, take up strategic railroad tracks.
1 would redraw future boundary lines so that the coal-
and ore-fields in the east and west would lie outside
the boundary of the Reich. I would supervise the ports
and the frontiers so that war-essential machinery and
metals would not enter the Reich. This is perfectly
feasible, practically possible. Such a policy would
force the Germans to devote their entire energies to
tilling the land to raise adequate supplies of food to
keep themselves alive.
This would mean that the German cities would
decline. The total population would drop to a smaller
Omaha “World-Herald,” U.S.A.
“THE GUY THAT WROTE THE BOOK.”
figure. Young men would emigrate. It would give
the rest of the world a breathing space for many years
to settle its own problems before deciding whether it
could get along peaceably with what remained of the
German people or not. This proposal is harsh. Any
post-war settlement will have to be. It forces the
innocent to suffer with the guilty. Unfortunately this
always happens in war. If anyone else has a better
proposal, now is a good lime to discuss it.
The Nazis have invented and applied total war.
Nothing will get that idea out of the world. It will
be at the back of the mind of every nation which is
engaged in a controversy with its neighbors.
Total war means either total victory or total
defeat. The world has become so small and war has
become so all-devouring that the only really safe
country is the one country or group of countries in
the world which possess military superiority. To
have a second-best armament no longer makes any
nation safe. Either Hitler’s system will dominate the
entire world and enslave every country or we shall
have to take such final steps as to remove for ever
this menace to our safety and our future.
It often has been suggested that a breakdown of
Nazi Germany might lead to Communism. This does
not seem at all likely. A violent swing to the Left is
a natural result of military disaster suffered by an
aristocratic or imperial regime. But the Communist
and Nazi systems are so similar that the revolutionary
change from one to the other would not seem to
promise much in a period of crisis. I should be more
inclined to think that, if Nazism is discredited and
broken by the war, the German people will be deathly
sick of any centralised bureaucracy and all mass
slogans. They will be more inclined to rally around
local people whom they know ; for example, trusted
city officials, respected landowners or popular generals.
Germany may see a breakdown of all central authority
when the Nazis are through. The reaction would be
likely to be away from socialism, away from national-
ism, away from all government by propaganda.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
The original Reign of Terror was confined to
Paris and a few of the French provinces. Todays
Reien of Terror spreads over the whole of Europe and
reaches into Africa and Asia. The arrests and execu-
tions in Paris can only remind us once again of the
true state of affairs in every city and land under the
Nazi heel. They remind us that Hitler’s New Order
everywhere rests on fear, and on fear alone. There is
no real acceptance of it, no willing co-operation with
it, among the masses of the peoples it enslaves. —
New York “Times.”
* * * * *
France, by all the reports, is about as Teutonised
after its 14 months in chains as is Poland or Czecho-
slovakia. Resistance smoulders as a red-hot coal. The
people of France cling to their thought of liberation,
and all the decrees of the Petains and the Von Stuelp-
nagels are useless to put it out of their minds. They
are as insistent as ever that, before it’s all over, the
Germans shall be expelled and themselves set free.
No other conclusion is possible from the unceasing
reports of resistance and irreconcilability that get
through the censors. — New York “Post.”
* * * * *
Next year “ugly duckling” cargo ships for
Britain are scheduled to be completed at the rate of
one a day, providing some 2,500,000 gross tons for the
year. If, in addition, 2,000,000 tons of vessels of the
standard type can be completed as planned, merchant
ship construction in the United States would aggre-
gate some 4,500,000 tons. The British Empire is ex-
pected to turn out upward of 1,500,000 tons of ship-
ping, so that total production next year may exceed
6,000,000 tons, or well in excess of this year’s esti-
mated losses of 5,000,000 gross tons. Also, the Ameri-
can Bureau of Shipping now expects that 110 to 115
vessels will be completed this year, as compared with
an earlier figure of 100. If these production schedules
are attained American shipyards will have done all
that is being asked of them, which is to turn out suffi-
cient ships to offset Britain’s maritime losses, and thus
to maintain supply lines across the Atlantic. -New
York “Journal of Commerce.”
* * * * *
All jokes in France today turn on food. Here are
examples:
Two men are taking breakfast in a hotel shop
and one says:
“This coffee has a queer flavor, don’t you think?
The other retorts:
“It isn’t coffee, man, it’s tea.”
At this moment the waiter appears and asks;
“Would you gentlemen like another cup of choco-
late?”
Meantime their wives are talking in the lobby.
“I hear,” says one, “that Molyneux has brought
out a wonderful new perfume. The name itself is a
dream.”
“What is it called?” asks the other.
“Roast pork with crackling.”— New York “Times”
Vichy correspondent.
* * * * *
For the sake of America’s own future security
and that of the whole world we believe this country
should do its full part at once in the fight against
Germany. Certainly England alone without the
United States cannot lift the German menace from
the world. — New York “Post.”
% * * * *
All that Stalin gained out of his evil bargain with
Hitler has been taken away. Far from buying immu-
nity, the Soviet Union is forced to suffer the worst
horrors of the most frightful war ever waged upon
mankind. The Russian people, although they are
making the invader pay more dearly for every foot he
advances than he has paid for any previous conquest,
are giving their lives to demonstrate that you cannot
make peace with Hitler. — New York “Times.”
* * * * *
What sort of person stands up best in the Blitz ?
Who runs to cover and who doesn’t? Who thinks
first of the other fellow and who thinks first of him-
self? Who suffers a nervous collapse and who emerges
cool and smiling? There is no doubt about the
answer. The replies have been unanimous. Persons
who have shown the most cool-headedness, swiftness
in action in an emergency and sheer courage are that
long-despised middle class. The so-called “Maiden-
head refugees,” those who have gotten out of it all
by evacuating themselves to pleasant places in the
country far from military objectives and near good
inns and golf courses, have been the well-to-do.
The very poor often have gone to pieces, at least
for the moment. But men and women from five-room
flats and seven-room houses have been cool, non-
chalant heroes. — Dorothy Thompson C London ) in New
York “Post.”
# * ♦ *
The United States, whose tactic of 1917 had
already been proved a form of self-deception, is losing
heavily from the general state of war raging through-
out the world. She may even be driven to paying the
full price by becoming involved in the war. Her
great fault in being the first Great Power to secede
from the League of Nations, and thereby sounding the
death knell of a supernational authority that might
otherwise have saved the world from war, contributed
as much as any other single factor to the present
world-wide chaos. Having largely helped to establish
the League, she then refused to be a member—refused,
that is, to share the responsibilities and sacrifices that
alone ’would have given the League its necessary
authority. In the financial and economic sense the
United States was the only Power that “won” the war
of 1914-18 —that seemed to reap any material benefit
from it. By keeping clear of the war until the com-
batants were all exhausted and then, as it were, giving
a casting vote, the while she tightened her financial
liens on the whole of Europe, America achieved some-
thing “realistic,” slick and apparently profitable. The
appearance was destined soon to be belied. Ihe
United States was destined to learn in her own experi-
ence that prosperity, as adversity, is indivisible, and
that her own prosperity could be achieved, not by
competitively securing the spoils for herself but only
by co-operatively sharing them. As though to drive
home the lesson, the United States has found that the
effect of the present war has been that she, too, has
suffered financially and economically from the general
collapse of the world at war .—George Glasgow, in
London “Contemporary Review.”


&rj ll
•v I N < <r> as- t
5« ■*•■.! A ; w ■\: v .
Lt
n
r
-
<?o
>»
lit
tut
W. 350
CN.
*«
Each year, more wool is being consigned
to Schute Bell. An ever-increasing list
of satisfied clients is a certain indication
of the consistently high prices they obtain.
Strict attention to every detail in con-
nection with appraisements is the policy
of Directors. Send your next clip to
them for appraisement and prove what
they can do for YOU!
ù
WOOT AND PRODUCE BROKERS
FAT & STUD STOCK AUCTIONEERS
STORE, STOCK AND PROPERTY
SALESMEN
1 B E
Telegrams:
NT STREET, SYDNEY
Schute Bell, Sydney. Telephone; 8W4341.
a
THE NEW Sin.
GREAT SCOT
LATHE
V
m
Accurate, Smooth and Quiet
A special heavy duty Lathe designed for use in Production
Shops, Machine, Shops, Garages, etc-, and where bronze, steel,
cast iron, plastics and fibres, etc., are machined. Special
features include Automatic Cross Feed, Dynamically Balanced
Head Stock Cone, White Metal-lined Bearings, 3 in. Centres,
Full Set Change Wheels for all Standard Threads, 2 ft. 4in.
between centres, Vibrationless, High-speed Production Bench
Lathes, built to Strict Tolerance Limits.
BENCH MODEL, price £125/-/-
FLOOR MODEL £137/10/-
UNIT DRIVE MODEL £165/10/-
iSk
(ESStm
Changing Times...
Changing Needs ...
JN the factory and in the
field, these changing
times make calls on the
initiative of all citizens of
the State. New products . . .
new methods, for the nation
and for the individual, these
are the needs of today. . .
To meet these needs on the
farm the Rural Bank has
encouraged every scientific
and progressive movement,
fodder conservation, diversi-
fied farming, pasture im-
provement etc., and its
field staff and fifty-seven
branches throughout the
State are equipped to pro-
vide a friendly, helpful and
efficient service.
The functions of the Rural
Bank include up-to-date
banking facilities. Any
reputable member of the
community, irrespective of
occupation, may open a
cheque account or invest
money on interest - bearing
fixed deposit.
* Use the Bank's Service
Department to obtain
general information and
statistics. Rest and Writing
facilities are provided for
country visitors. The
Service Department is
situated on the Ground
Floor of the Head Office
Building.
RURAL RANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFF I C E;-M ART I N PLACE, SYDNEY
Commissioners'.
C. R. McKERIHAN (President) —H. ROGERS —P. KEARNS
",Serving You ... . Serving the State”
“This book of photographs.. .should be on the shelves of all
Australian golfers, both for its instructional value and as a,
very faithful ' record of the methods of our greatest player ”
—From Eric Apperly's introduction to the book.
JIM PERRIER’S “GOLF SHOTS”
contains 118 photographs of the champion in action, selected by Terrier from a special
slow-motion film made of him before his departure for America.
The essential points of each shot are illustrated and explained In a way that puts
80 off the stick within the reach of everyone.
The size of the page is 10 x 12 inches.
The few copies remaining I
to clear at A'" (postage 3d, extra).
From the publishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. BOX 252188.
SEND FOR YOUR COPY NOW


To prevent and cure mineral deficiency feed
TRI-CAL-OS
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os is the most reliable form of calcium and phosphorus
for all stock. It contains over 70% tricalcic phosphate,
having a guaranteed minimum of 33% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Tri-cal-os is a pure bone product without
admixture of any other substance and is specially processed
to ensure maximum digestibility. Stock take to it readily.
Obtain all particulars about Tri-cal-os from—
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne; G.PO.
Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Egelabra Merino Stud
H. E. KATER & SON,
Warren, N.S.W.
Established 62 years.
Four times winners of
Stonehaven Cup.
Grand Champion Ram and Ewe
Sydney Show, 1940.
Rams for Sale.
Tel., Warren 10.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
Foot Diseases in Sheep.
“Huxave”: Footrot is a specific infec-
tious disease caused by a micro-organism
{Fusiformis nodosis). Though it is helped
by wet conditions it does not develop
without the presence of the micro-organ-
ism. Sheep of any age may be attacked
but few act as carriers. It appears mostly
when there is a flush of feed, and the
infective agent will survive in pastures
or sheepyards empty of sheep for a brief
period.
First sign is a reddening of the skin
between the claws. The part becomes
moist, fluid oozes from under the skin
and it has an objectionable odor. There
are a little pus and a small amount of
yellowish-grey dead material between the
separating tissues. Front portion of the
wall of the hoof may become separated
from the underlying tissues, which are
particularly sensitive. There is pain, and
the sheep often moves on its knees. This
stage may develop within a fortnight.
A concrete footbath built in the shape
of a race or pen is useful. It should
contain a solution of either formalin or
copper sulphate. Formalin is cheaper
and should be used in a concentration
of 2 p.c. Copper sulphate is satisfactory
in a proportion of ylb. to the gallon of
water. This concentration may be in-
creased up to double. Affected feet must
be trimmed carefully and loose, sepa-
rated horn removed to allow antiseptic
to come into contact with diseased tissues.
Sheep should remain in the bath for one
hour or longer. The solution may be
used five times before renewing if sheep
droppings are skimmed off each time.
No external dressings are as satisfac-
tory as the bath. But where only one
or two sheep need treatment, make a
mixture by stirring 2oz. of finely-ground
copper sulphate into a quart of warm
Stockholm tar, adding a tablespoonful of
lysol. Apply with a brush to the pared
hoof.
To eradicate footrot, 14 days’ spelling
of pasture is necessary to oust infection.
Feet of all sheep on infected properties
should be periodically examined, and
animals showing trace of the disease
isolated.
Digital suppuration, or foot abscess, is
caused by the microbe Fusiformis necro-
phorus, which exists in the intestines and
contaminates pastures where droppings,
under influence of green feed, are heavy.
It usually occurs after heavy rainfall.
Only one claw of the sheep is usually
affected and pus is present in heavy
quantities. After careful paring of suffi-
cient horn to permit antiseptic to reach
the pus and dead tissue, sheep may be
treated as for footrot. This disease is
not controllable by elimination of
affected sheep or spelling of pastures.
Financing the Pig.
“T. Mcßerk”: It’s not easy to arrive
at the profit from a pig. Best way is to
work on a per-pound basis, and L. A.
Downey, a Victorian pig expert, gives an
example based on a 1401 b. dressed-weight
pig from conception of the dam cost
of her upkeep is included —until it is sold
at 2001 b. live weight when about 200
days old.
First, costs are estimated at 10s. for
labor, Is. Bd. for capital outlay, Is. for
plant depreciation and 6s. for selling by
auction, a total of 18s. Bd., or 1.6 d. per
pound on a 1401 b. carcass. Food costs
will vary a lot. About 7|cwt. of meal
or its equivalent is required to produce
the 1401 b. carcass. It may consist of
cereal meal, with just enough protein and
minerals to balance the cereals, or sepa-
rated milk may be used with cereal meal.
Pasture, forage crops or other foods may
be used, but the 7|cwt. about covers it.
Downey has it that about 10 p.c., or |cwt.,
of this will be protein and lime and salt
supplement costing 10s. delivered to the
farm. Its equivalent in separated milk
would be 120 gal. at Id. a gallon, still
10s. This, on the 1401 b. carcass, is .Bd.
per pound. Remainder of the food re-
quirements in terms of grain is \l\
bushels wheat or 15 bushels barley. Every
additional gallon of milk is equal to a
pound of grain.
That makes total costs £1 Bs. Bd., or
2.4 d. per pound. Taking a fair average
“Wot about slipping in for a quick one , joe?”
of per pound at auction the 1401 b.
pig makes £3 15s. 10d., a net return of
£2 7s. 2d. This, worked out in terms
of wheat and/or barley, gives 3s. 9d.
and 3s. 2d. a bushel respectively. Those
who have to buy their grain would need
to take off 4d. a bushel for freight, grind-
ing and other costs.
Dog Tick Pest.
“H.C.”: From now until February, dog
ticks will appear in waves of varying
intensity in N.S.W. coastal districts. One
of the best deterrents is a kerosened cloth
rubbed over the dog’s fur each day. The
cloth should not be heavily soaked or
the skin will be burned. Kerosene is
not only repellent, but frequently forces
ticks already in the fur to drop off.
Search daily for ticks, particularly
around the head and in the ears.
Ticks attached to the skin should, after
an application of turps, be cut off at skin
level. Symptoms of presence are restless-
ness, a stertorous cough or vomiting of
thick yellow mucus. Paralysis of the
hind legs sets in when tick poison has
been present in the system 72 hours.
Where a vet. isn’t available, an emetic
of bicarb, of soda—half a teaspoon to
a cup of boiling water —dropped into the
side of the mouth keeps the dog vomiting
and the intestines free of the poisoned
mucus, thus preventing further paralysis.
One tablespoonful of emetic every two
hours for 24 hours. No food for some
days, the dog should not be allowed to
lap water greedily and should be kept
warm.
A bush treatment is the boiling of a
fair amount of maidenhair fern, allow-
ing the water to cool and spooning it
into the side of the dog’s mouth. Very
few dogs ever become tickproof, even
after several doses of paralysis.
Saving Wheat Land.
“Ben C.”: O. Bowden, of S.A. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, has been looking
into the question of the best way to put
back into wheat land some of the fertility
that is taken out of it. Humus can be
returned to the soil either by animal
manure or decaying vegetation. The
latter offers the best chance through rota-
tional cropping.
Some idea of the deterioration of
wheat country is given by Bowden after
ten years’ tests in the S.A. wheat country
north of Adelaide. Under the rotational
crops and systems now being used, he
believes that 11 p.c. of the land will im-
prove in fertility, 32 p.c. will improve
to a lesser degree and 2 p.c. improve
slightly, 9 p.c. is stagnant, 9 p.c. losing
slightly, 30 p.c. heavily and 7 p.c. very
heavily. This, he believes, can be taken
as a fair representation of what is going
on in the rest of the Australian wheat
country.
Considering the rotations and their
effect on fertility, Bowden found that
three years’ pasture, then fallow, then
wheat was impracticable on the average
wheat holding because of lack of area.
Two years’ pasture, then fallow, wheat,
fallow, wheat made about the same
demand on the soil as pasture, fallow,
wheat, but the latter had become more
popular and almost invariably brings
wheat-sick country back to fertility.
Under this three-year system it is a good
idea to sow a cereal on the stubble in
the pasture year if no dense growth of
self-sown stuff can be expected.
A good rotation for keeping an even
balance is the three-year one followed by
a stubble crop—oats, of course —which
also means a fair stock turn-off. The
pasture, fallow, wheat, fallow, wheat sel-
dom works out and won’t carry much
stock.
The old fallow, wheat business has
caused a lot of trouble. This is the cursed
“single-crop” practice that has reduced
the mallee and better country to poverty.
It eats away fertility, topsoil, credit and
hope. There ought to be a law against it.
There is evidence that over a six-year
period of the single-crop rotation the
gross return of grain alone from the three
harvests rarely exceeds that from the two
harvests in six years under pasture, fallow,
wheat. The cost of the extra fallow in
the former is only a fraction of the ulti-
mate cost of drained fertility, and there
is little or no return from stock. The
fallow, wheat, stubble crop systern isn’t
much better than the “single-crop” sys-
tem, and, all things considered, the pas-
ture, fallow, wheat method is best, though
there is still room for a better.
Ergot in Pastures.
“Eskdale”: Paspalum and water couch
in the north-eastern and Gippsland dis-
tricts of Victoria seem to take ergot
pretty heavily when conditions are favor-
able, as they were last autumn. There
are 20 known species of ergot. The one
causing trouble in Victoria is Claviceps
paspali, which has been known here only
since 1935, though it was branded in
Maryland (U.S.A.) in 1902. It is when
certain moulds or fungi become super-
imposed on the ergot that stock poisoning
results.
Ergot is easily spotted. There’ll be
white fungus on the heads and a sticky
mass clings to any-
thing touching them.
This attracts insects,
which thus help to
spread the trouble.
One of the first signs
that ergot is causing
trouble in the dairy
animals is cessation
of milk secretion
and falling condi-
tion, followed by
listlessness and ap-
parent lack of appe-
tite. There may be
diarrhoea at first, but
constipation is cer-
tain to follow. Then
come staggering gait,
twitching muscles,
shivering, some lame-
ness and partial
paralysis. Coats get
harsh and the eyes
glare ; they may also
discharge, the nos-
trils, too. Death
comes from conges-
tion of the lungs
when an affected
cow refuses to get
up.
First thing is to get them off the affected
pasture. Then give a purgative, lib. of
Epsom salts and Hoz. of ginger in a
quart of water. Repeat if necessary. To
help recovery a tonic is good —1 dram
sulphate of iron, 1 dram nux vomica, 2oz.
Epsom salts, 2 drams gentian ; mix with
treacle and give once a day for three
days.
Good management will prevent trouble.
If the paspalum is kept grazed and pre-
vented from seeding there’ll be no ergot;
better still, replace the paspalum with
better pasture. Kikuyu could well dis-
place it on low river flats.
“Way Back”: F. H. S. Roberts, veter-
inary entomologist to the Queensland
Agricultural Department, has proved that
cattle ticks which get on to sheep can
fully develop and females that drop off
on to the pasture can lay fertile eggs.
Larvae from the eggs will attach them-
selves to cattle or sheep and develop
normally. The remedy, of course, is a
close watch and dipping when necessary.
“Mackay”: Banana-growers in the
Eumundi and Yandina (Q.) districts are
getting heavier crops by the one-bunch-
one-sucker system. By right selection of


u
TIMBER KILLER !
Kills largest trees in FIFTEEN
DAYS from roots to top. New
method. NO KING-BARKING!
Prevents suekering! Eradicates
BEACKBERRIES! 5/6 tin, posted.
AMAZING CEIMBING TOMATO (15ft.).
BEARS HEAVILY FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Vields SOOIbs. Sow NOW. 2/6 packet.
N.S.W. SEED CO., 693 George St., SYDNEY
END
BLOWFLY
STRIKE MENACE
. . safely, surely
Now you can give healthy sheep definite pro-
tection against blowfly strike, and treat struck
sheep safely with no danger of re-strike, with
W.ay-810, the most positive-of-all blowfly strike
preventives. Way-Bio kills maggots, does not
scald and does not wash out. Way-Bio heals
wounds without scab-formation. It prevents
re-strike, is non-poisonous and is harmless to
both sheep and fleece.
Way-Bio has been compounded by a special
treatment of many species of Eucalypts wherein
the extraction of their most active principles
definitely makes them effective in both the pre-
vention and cure of blowfly strike.
Hundreds of graziers are saving time and money
with Way-Bio, since sheep once treated are safe
for the whole “danger” season, and its use costs
less than one penny per sheep. Order Way-Bio
from any stock and station agent or large
store, or write to the Manufacturers, W. K.
Burnside Pty., Ltd., Melbourne and Sydney.
*
tv'
C
\H
Australian Radiotron Valves,
fitted in your set, is your assurance
that replacements are available
when necessary.
fifIDIOTROn VfILVtS
will give full tone realism to your radio
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
73 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
u
BILLABONG”
WINDMILLS
HAVE
AUTOMATIC
OILING AND
ENCLOSED
GEARS
THE BASIS FOR
EFFICIENCY IN PUMPING
,- u DANK3-
e/|n
. L.~T£D.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MAKERS OF PUMPING EQUIPMENT FOR OVER 70 YEARS.
ù
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
followers for subsequent cuts, 500 cases
an acre has been the average for the life
of the plantation. To select the right
first follower avoid suckers growing from
eyes or buds in a circle near soil level.
Suckers which come from buds below
the top layer of eyes—about Sin. down
in the soil —are the ones. Desuckered
banana plants benefit by greater amount
of sunlight, food and moisture, yielding
a fruit of higher grade in greater quan-
tities. The one-bunch-one-sucker plan-
tation is easy to bait for beetles and to
inspect for bunchy-top and general
diseases.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Departments
(1) Victorian award rates for shearing-shed
hands under 18, under 21, and adults, with
tucker ? (2) Shearing rates for blades and
machine and rates for tucker for shearers? —
2520.
(1) Under 18, £2 11s. with keep, £3 17s.
without; between 18 and 21, £2 19s. 6d. and
£4 ss. 6d.; over 21, £4 14s. and £6. (2)
Machine shearers get 355. per 100, hand
shearers Is. more. Machines, 70s. for rams
over six months and ram stags; hand shearers,
2s. more. If rations are found, 265. is charged
for board. Special rates for stud ewes and
lambs are generally settled by agreement.
* * * *
(1) Is it unlawful in N. S. Wales to keep
an entire horse on the farm for the owner’s
own use without registration ? (2) Penalty, if
any? (3) Cost of registration?— 233B.
(1) Stallions which are used by the owner
lor breeding purposes only with his own mares
do not require to be registered, but applica-
lion must be made to the Department of
Agriculture for a permit to keep them. Such
Pf m ‘* I s V£ *fid for the purpose until August
rb f“44, after whjch date the horse cannot
be kept as a stallion unless registered. (2)
It is an offence for any person to have in
his possession after August 31, 1941, any
stallion unless a permit has been issued to keep
it or unless such stallion has been registered,
and any person who so contravenes the pro-
visions of the Act is liable upon summary con-
*° a f not exceeding £5O. (3)
* * * *
Method of tanning skins other than by wattle
bark? —2496.
One method is by using alum. Stretch the
skin lightly on a board, the hair side down-
wards, and tack it in place by the edges. Scrape
oft the flesh and (at with a blunt knife and
work in some ordinary chalk freely with plenty
of nju'd rubbing. When the chalk begins to
powder and fall off, remove the skin from the
board and rub in plenty of powdered alum,
t hen wiap up closely and keep in a dry place
ior a lew days.
Outback Occasions.
No. 4.
CURING A COLD.
The occasion of catching cold almost
always follows the time when you meet
Bill Smith or somebody and observe their
heavy eyes and hear them bark. Where-
upon you say, pridefully, “Aw, it’s only
a matter of lookin’ after y’rself. I never
get a cold.”
About an hour later you feel a bit
dopey and you say to the missus “Gripes,
it’s warm.” She’s got a rug over her
knees and is sitting close to the fire and
she looks at you. Whereupon you let
loose an enormous sneeze and she says
anxiously “You’re not getting a cold,
I hope, dear.”
“Code, be food!” you reply. “Just
because a bad sdeezes doesd’d bead he’s
god a code.” All the same, you reckon
you feel a bit tired and think you’ll go
to bed. She says she’ll bring you in a
hot drink and some aspirin.
Half an hour later you’re under the
blankets, sweating like a pig. Your head
aches and your eyes burn and every now
and then you bark like a blue cattle-dog
that’s been chained up all night. Strange
fancies play about in your mind and fre-
quently you wonder if tomorrow is Sun-
day or whether it will bring three bob a
bushel at the local mill.
Next morning you arise feeling three
stone lighter and having a job to make
your feet stay on the ground. Your
head is mighty heavy, your throat dry
and barks rip out of you like shots from
a muzzle-loader. The missus protests at
your getting up, and you say that the
best way to stop a cold is to work it off
and it takes more than that to lay you
up and there’s far too much coddling
these days and women get excited over
nothing. She replies that if you get
pneumonia you’ll know it, whereupon
you laugh and bark and splutter and
demand your breakfast.
After breakfast you light your pipe
and make off down the paddock. Won-
dering how the chaff got in your tobacco
you empty the pipe, scrape the bowl and
refill it. It’s still chaff, and every time
you draw you bark. You put the pipe
away and try chewing a match. You’re
digging out a small rabbit warren, but
somehow the mattock is hard to lift and
the darned burrow won’t stop spinning
and you feel sick. You go up to the
house and sit down and pant and bark,
and the missus says she thinks it’s ’flu
and perhaps you’d better go to bed.
You don’t want to go to bed and you
say so, violently. She says it’s funny
how strong men act like children when
they get sick. This nettles you, so you
put on an overcoat, go and get in the
car and take yourself to town, deter-
mined to see a doctor and get rid of
this flamin’ bark.
In town you meet Sam Hayes. Sam
is a hearty cove and ridicules the idea
of going to the doctor. “Rum, boy,”
says Sam, “that’s the stuff to fix a cold.
Good old rum. Drink it hot or drink it
cold, what’s the difference? C’mon.”
In the pub you are handed a glass of
hot liquor at Sam’s order. You sip it. A
slow feeling of comfort steals over you.
You have another. You and Sam talk
a bit, then you have another. You begin
to feel yourself again and Sam wants to
recite.
You decide to leave Sam, buy yourself
a bottle of rum and go to the car. Your
eyes are clear and your brain active.
You sail out of town at a fast bat, speed
up the road, turn in at the gate with a
flourish and run up to the house.
The missus comes out and looks at
you. “What did he say?” she asks.
You frown, trying to remember.
Then you recall it and reply, “Aw, I
dunno. Something about a bloke named
Bannerman, from the Dandenongs or the
Baw-baws or somewhere, ridin’ through
the fog of his dreams with roses on his
chest. He would have” You stop,
peer closely at the missus, and ask, “But
you wasn't there? What do you know
about it?”
Then you sit down on the running-
board of the car and get the hiccups.
Things begin to go round, and in a faint
red haze you’re aware of being helped.
You lie down and are enfolded with heat.
Fires burn in the night along the distant
ranges and you give up trying to hold
the big wether because he keeps on drop-
ping cigar butts in the long grass, while
the rabbit inspector runs round shooing
the ants off the manna on the mallee
bushes. Presently they all go away and
you’re left alone in the bedroom. You
feel a bit shivery and remember that
bottle of rum, so get up, throw a blanket
round yourself and make for the car.
You get back unobserved and help your-
self, Great stuff to keep you warm, rum.
You stoke the fire with more fuel.
Next morning you awake. The sun is
shining into the room and there is an
appalling smell of alcohol. You lift your
head to see what happened and a bolt
of lightning hits you in the back of the
neck and sizzles round your ears. The
missus comes in. Her mouth is com-
pressed, but she carries a large, heavenly,
glorious, magnificent cup of tea. You
feel it trickle into every tiny corner of
your being and call for more. A little
later you’re able to get up and sit in the
sun. You nod and grin at the chooks
and say, “Gosh, it’s sudden, but y’ can’t
beat rum,”
The missus speaks from behind you.
“No,” she says. “Do you realise you’ve
been out to it for over 48 hours? I’ve
had the doctor. He had to use a stomach
pump. Said you were the first case of
alcoholic poisoning in the district for 10
years. Seemed to think you’d been drink-
ing all your life. Says you must rest at
least a week. All you had at the start
was a slight cold. No, you can’t beat
rum and I still say men are childish.”
She flounces inside and you gaze at the
chooks in abasement.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4Jd. per line; all others at
2*d. per line.
First place this week for a writer who has a war plan that will make politicians
tremble.
Men for Overseas
The adventurous side, the comradeship
or even a man’s innate love of a free 1
fight should form the basis of appeals
for recruits for the A.I.F. Even the ,
“Mister-hereVyour-hat” touch is better
than appealing to a man to do his bit.
Doing his bit means contributing his
share to the defence of his country, and
it is obvious that a member of the A.I.F.
is doing very much more than his share
when compared with others, whether they
be militiamen or munition workers. Con-
sider the job of holding Tobruk and that
of making gun-barrels under union con-
ditions with war-time loading chucked in.
If the latter job is worth £7 a week the
Tobruk job is worth £27—that is, if you
could measure bravery in terms of cash.
Asking a man to do his bit, therefore,
or appealing to his sense of duty only
opens in his mind the whole question of
this inequality of sacrifice —the root
cause of the failure to get recruits. Most
young Australians are ready to pull their
weight in the team, but most have a
lively objection to being imposed upon
or, in other words, being the mugs. And
unless it is love of adventure or some-
thing of the kind that induces them to
join up, that is what it amounts to. The
rest of us are imposing on them.
The solution is to cut out these appeals
and merge the A.I.F. with the militia.
All agree now that Australia’s front line
is Egypt and Malaya, and if this is so
any Aussie soldier should stand his
chance of being sent there. The terri-
torial limits set by the Defence Act
would, of course, need extending ; but
even the U.S.A., though technically still
a neutral, is finding something of the kind
necessary. The step with us is essential.
There’ would be many advantages.
Troops overseas could be relieved, all
units iti turn would see actual service con-
ditions to their gain, and ah fit men if
not reserved would stand to contribute
equally to Australia’s defence. —T. E. P.
(N.S.W.). _____
“War Loading”
Can anybody advance one sound logi-
cal argument as to why any employee
engaged on essential war work should
be granted a “war loading”? Of course,
we’ve all heard the stereotyped and lame
excuse, “The bosses are making fortunes
out of it, why shouldn’t we cash in?”
But wouldn’t it be more consistent with
the war effort if excess profits were taxed
to the bone and wages maintained at an
equitable balance?
The war industry employee alone of
all workers can say “I’m set for the
duration.” No matter what commodities
are restricted, confiscated or become un-
procurable, whatever industries are
closed down as unessential or collapse
for want of a market, his money will be
there every payday.
He is exempt from mili-
tary service, and if anything doesn’t suit
him he can strike —despite the national
emergency regulation which says he can t.
He suffers no privations, hardships or risk
of terrifying death or mutilation ; but
when the soldiers return and claim prefer-
ence he can claim equal rights as an
essential war-worker.
Nobody will deny that factory workers
are doing a good job —while they keep
working. But the man going through
hell for six shillings a day will have his
own views on persons who are using
his urgent needs as a lever to prise a
“war loading” out of a financially
harassed war effort. —B. A. Ker (N.S.W.).
Cheers for the A.I.F.
Lack of cheering at an army march-
past seems to worry civic heads and a
few idle people. It doesn’t bother those
pressing at the street barricades. Many
watching the men swing by have close
relatives marching, and some have
memories of past processions. And de-
spite pride in their men, many fail to
keep their composure.
Those cheering men and women who
have no friends or relations wounded or
killed, and none on active service, and
who wish for more enthusiasm shown
for men going to war, should not be in
the crowds. There are places they should
be filling in the munition factories or one
of the services.— Mrs. P. (S.A.).
Tobacco for the A.I.F.
From a soldier fighting in Libya:
Received your parcel the other day and I
thought I was in for a good smoke. I was
terribly disappointed. The tobacco done up m
packets is useless. I tried to roll a smoke
and when I lit it it went up in flames. In
future could you send it in tins, please?
—K. H. W. (Q.>
Canteen Orders
“Adsum” (B. 17/9/’4l) is very much
astray about canteen orders. Money-
order offices are open from 9 a.m. to
4 p.m., not 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., and can-
teen orders can be bought up to office
closing time, 6 p.m. Ex-Officio
(N.S.W.).
Help for Russia
We must not let sentiment enter into
our calculations when we plan ways and
means to help Russia. We should re-
member, first and last, that, paradoxically,
we do not wish to help Russia, but rather
ourselves. The Russian Government had
no thought of helping us when it signed
the treaty with Hitler that enabled him
to start this war.
If we must send expeditionary forces
to help Russia, they can only operate
within her territory or through the open-
ing up of a new front in the west. We
must realise that both courses would be
dangerous, and we must, before adopting
one of them, convince ourselves that these
gambles would have some chance of
success.
Strategically the outlook for helping
Russia with man-power does not seem
a bright one.
The alternative, invading Europe, looks
even less rosy because, first of all, we must
find an ally there who will help us dis-
embark our troops. Otherwise we may
have a repetition of Gallipoli in the last
war.
It seems to me that we can best help
Russia by supplying her with armaments,
and not by torturing ourselves into think-
ing that we ought to be doing more.—
Strategist (N.S.W.).
The Merchant Navy
Commodore Muirhead-Gould said in
a speech to the Royal Empire Society
that Australians did not fully realise how
much they owed to the merchant navy.
Admiral Harper, R.N., stated at the
outbreak of war that the merchant
navy was the Empire’s first line of
defence. The men of the merchant navy
can truly be said to have been in the
front line from the very hour that war
was declared; almost the first hostile
act that Germany committed against Eng-
land was the sinking of Athenia. Facing
mine and torpedo, submarine, dive-
bomber and raider, maintaining the vital
lifeline between Britain and her Empire
overseas, these men go about their daily
tasks with no thought but that they are
doing their job of work. Carrying food,
troops and munitions, at Dunkirk, Crete
and Greece, their praises are for the most
part unsung, yet they are as essential to
the successful prosecution of the war as
any of the fighting services. They are
the very lifeblood of the Empire.
Are these indisputable facts realised by
Australians? I wonder. Outside all the
canteen huts are notices “Open to all men
of the fighting services.” Could we not
add to that the words “and to the mer-
chant navy”?— Steamship (N.S.W.).
N.E.S. and Blackouts
I was astonished and not a little angry
at “The Little Masters” (B. 24/9/’4l).
This article heaps ridicule on the N.E.S.
—an organisation formed in all good
faith under State Government auspices,
presumably with the full approval of the
Commonwealth Defence authorities, to
whom at least the possibility of an emer-
gency must be apparent. If not, surely
the public would be reassured and the
immense expenditure of time, energy and
money would be diverted.
The personnel of the N.E.S. are in the
main earnest citizens, the majority not
either of an age or sex to undertake active
military duties. They are, within the
limits of their capacity, striving to do
what they consider their duty and pre-
pare themselves to help in whatever emer-
gency may arise, without thought of per-
sonal or social gain, and even at great
inconvenience to themselves.
As to the value of blackouts, this ques-
tion, of course, is tied up with that of
the likelihood of the emergency referred
to ; but as one in fairly close touch with
N.E.S. I have not noticed any particular
objection on the part of the bulk of Syd-
ney householders to observing the regu-
lations.
With regard to cost, any war must in-
volve expenditure that may be purely
precautionary, but it would be cold com-
fort to a bombed community if, having
heeded the exponents of the “it can’t
happen here” theory, those exponents
were confounded in practice. And in
such case I rather feel that The Bulletin
would, exercising its privilege of criti-
cism, be one of the first to ask of the
authorities “Why wasn’t something done
about it?” —E. K. (N.S.W.).
War Savings Certificates
Asked why, if it so urgently needed
money, the Government restricted in-
dividual holdings of war-savings certifi-
cates to £250, the official answer was
that the certificates were intended for the
small investor, and, as they were exempt
from tax, the restriction was intended
to prevent people turning their capital
into w.s.c. to avoid taxation. Why £250
should be fixed as the limit for the small
investor is hard to say ; many people
drawing insurance policies and lump sum
superannuation would be only too pleased
to help the nation by investing in the
100 p.c. security of w.s.cs., and many
clubs and associations could contribute
more than £250 if permitted. As to the
second objection, it has apparently not
yet occurred to officialdom that this dif-
ficulty could be removed by fixing £250
as the limit of tax-free holdings, in the
same way as £lOO is fixed as the maxi-
mum permitted deduction for insurance
premiums.— Solicitor (Q.).
“Revolt in Europe”
Reports of sabotage, attacks on Ger-
mans and “Quislings,” underground
movements and executions in reprisal
keep coming out of occupied Europe with
a persistency that suggests a basis of
fairly solid truth.
And German garrisons must always be
tense, knowing that people hate their con-
querors and that crowded cities, under
the everlasting blackout and despite the
curfew, offer opportunities innumerable
for conspiracies and shots or stabbings in
the dark.
The escape of the kings of Norway,
Greece and Yugoslavia, of the Queen of
Holland, must also worry the Nazis, for
so long as they are safe across the sea
their peoples look for their return, as the
Scotch did for the Stuarts and the Royal-
ists of France for the Bourbons. And
France has its De Gaulle.
All this and the knowledge
that somewhere there are armed
forces of Norwegians, Dutch-
men, Poles, Czechs, French,
small though they be, waiting
with the British Empire for
their chance, and with America
coming closer and closer to actual fight-
ing, are nourished in the hearts of the
oppressed.
Between that fact and actual revolt,
however, there is a big gap. The war in
Russia must have cost the Germans
heavily in fuel and equipment, but only
a fool would assume that they didn’t
expect it to do so and that they didn’t
expect to replace their losses of material
from Russian sources. And it should
prove enlightening to some people that
Germany had the ability effectively to
garrison all Europe against invasion and
still race into Russia with armies capable
of contending against a weight of num-
bers and equipment at least as great as
their own.
That achievement alone makes small
the hope of an early successful revolt in
Europe, though what may happen after
the coming winter has reduced popula-
tions to desperation gives room for specu-
lation. Meantime, Australians shouldn’t
be misled by the implied hope that revolt
is only a matter of days in Europe. They
should give up accepting those ideas that
any other strength but that of Britain
and the British Empire will keep foreign
boots from British soil, and, with a full
knowledge of the colossal power of the
Germans on land, realise the task the
Empire faces. —C. S. (N.S.W.).
Correction
In my letter on V.D.C. (B. 11/9/ 41)
I stated that a survey unit stationed near
by had rifles and a Lewis gun which it
had never used, and of which it did not
know the use. I have since learned that
that statement is incorrect. This unit is
on a war footing, and has been and is
being trained in the use of both rifles
and Lewis gun.
I regret having made a statement
which is not only incorrect but has
offended members of the unit concerned.
I might add that the V.D.C. is now being
allowed the use of the Lewis gun men-
tioned, and that the survey unit has given
the local V.D.C. every assistance within
its power. — Wahgunyah (Vic.).
Tunnels for Melbourne
Nine Melbourne citizens out of ten
are completely sceptical of the probability
of air raids, and the consequence is that
money spent in conflict with the general
feeling is largely wasted. The most sen-
sible A.R.P. measure would be for the
State Government to start excavating for
the tube railway under the city which
experts regard as inevitable. If the
bombers come the excavation tunnels
can be used as shelters, and if they don’t
the cash won’t have been wasted. The
tunnels then can be used for the under-
ground railway system. The Govern-
ment would reply that it has the sense
but it hasn’t the money. It certainly
hasn’t the money.—C. Q. (Vic.).
Post-war Plans, Where?
What is to be done for the returned
men? Australia is rich in neglected
potential sources of wealth. Miles of
country between Bourke and Nyngan
(N.S.W.) have been almost depleted of
vegetation of any kind by overstocking.
How much of the wealth from wool has
"Come to bed now), ’ Any—the War will be on again tomorrow."


remained? Only the wages of the em-
ployees, managers and agents.
In the areas of the Upper Darling,
Culgoa and Bogan not one worthy
attempt at water conservation has been
attempted. Bourke, through which so
much wealth in wool has passed, has no
water supply worthy of the name, nor
have the great station properties done
better. A kind of stupid stoicism has
deadened constructive planning.
The only attempts at water conser-
vation are structures of broken logs
packed with rotted sandbags. The in-
frequent floods carry these off like match-
wood, the waters often flooding home,
stockyards and sheds. The man on the
land just puts up with it. He knows that
years of drought might follow, but accepts
what comes with a martyrlike air and
appeals to the State for help. He has
to hand-feed sheep half the time.
One year of the wealth produced in
Australia would lay the foundation of a
proper water conservation scheme and
permit river lowlands to be converted into
agricultural areas which would grow feed
for the years of drought—feed now im-
ported at very high prices.
Surely our soldiers will deserve some
foresight on our part. Surely some plan
which will retain the wealth of the
country they call home can be devised
so that each may have a share in the
comfort to be found in good and cour-
ageous organisation. Seven Parliaments
and scores of committees and boards
should be capable of something.—
Narran (N.S.W.).
A University Windfall
One of the strangest phenomena in
human nature is how seldom people
recognise the real factors that condition
their make-up. If they did there would
be a fundamental change in our concep-
tion of education.
David Lewis, a Melbourne draper, died
leaving £700,000 —the largest bequest of its
kind in the history of Australia —to the
University to provide scholarships for the
sons of poor parents, the reason being
that all his life he had wanted to use his
money in a way that would help boys
who, like himself, were deprived by lack
of money of the benefits of education.
The trust is to be administered by the
Vice-Chancellor of the moment, two busi-
nessmen and the Director of Education.
Mr. Lewis started work as a boy
in a small Welsh village, was appren-
ticed to a London draper and then came
to Australia with £5O in his pocket and no
education to speak of. He retired in 1910,
having made himself, by his own unaided
efforts and wits, a millionaire, the chief
benefactor of Prahran, an art patron and
one of the leading citizens of business
Melbourne. In short, he was successful.
Yet, with the best intentions in the world,
he has left his money to provide condi-
tions for making more successful citizens
which are the complete antithesis of
the conditions which made him success-
ful. The committee appointed to admin-
ister the bequest has the power “from
time to time, in its absolute discretion,
to conduct competitive examinations or
adopt other means for deciding the eligi-
bility of pupils”—in other words, to select
individuals in exactly the opposite way
from which Mr. Lewis was selected.
So, whether he knew it or not, Mr.
Lewis rejected his own experience and
accepted society’s valuation that the best
place to educate an individual for life’s
battle is a university. Sidney Myer was
another citizen who, without the aid of
a university or even a high school, made
himself into a captain of industry and
a financial magnate, so he must have at
least acquired a working knowledge of
economics; yet the first thing he did
with his money was to endow a school
of economics at the Melbourne Univer-
sity.—Pawang (Vic.).
Crime and Sentimentality
The N.S.W. Attorney-General promised
a deputation that he would recommend
to his Cabinet a bill to abolish the death
penalty and flogging, though he said he
would have to study similar legislation
in Westralia and Maoriland before doing
so.
It was insisted by the deputation that
there was no instance of an increase in
crime where the death penalty had been
abolished and that no man in the N.S.W.
prison service would undertake to do a
flogging. As to the first claim, Mr. Justice
Reed, of the Maoriland Supreme Court,
has different views:
Abolition of the death penalty constitutes
a license to any murderer to maim or kill
any warder who displeases him, because he
knows the limit of punishment is life im-
prisonment, which will be served concur-
rently with the life sentence he is already
serving.
On the question of flogging, the Maori-
land jurist stated that in at least one
recent case it had had a marked effect
in checking sex crimes against children.
If flogging deters only one intending
offender, and thereby one child escapes,
surely that overrides any consideration
based on theory. This class' of offence is
generally premeditated by a type of
man who deliberately frequents children's
playgrounds and the streets with the in-
tention.
As for the notion that nobody could
be got to do the flogging, the father or
elder brother of the child-victim could
be asked about that.
Every schoolteacher insists that the
chief power of the cane in maintaining
discipline is the deterring knowledge that
it is there and will be used, rather than
the actual usage. The same thing applies
to capital punishment and flogging. And
while Mr. Martin is looking into the
Westralian aspects he should also look
up the case of the fiend who, after serving
sentences for offences against children
in Westralia, continued his dreadful prac-
tices until caught and executed in Vic-
toria.— O.T. (N.S.W.).
“Ulysses”
As one who has compulsorily waded
through the mass of filthy, insane
verbiage, I can only conclude that the
majority of those who are rising in their
wrath to defend this book have never
read it. I refuse to believe that any
decent Australian could bear to think of
such perverted obscenity and such
diabolical blasphemy even accidentally
finding its way into the hands of his
children —a tragedy that could easily hap-
pen with the book’s wide distribution.
I hope the bishops who have objected
to the banning are quite unacquainted
with the book. Terrible would be the
scene if a bishop mixed some of the
passages with his Sunday text.
I even doubt whether The Bulletin
writer (24/9/’4l) has read Ulysses, for to
compare its worst passages with
Gulliver’s Travels is like comparing
metho. with mother’s milk.
What an unfair fight this is, with one
side hamstrung because the matter it
condemns is so filthy that nobody can
publish it to justify the action taken!
Great play is made of the decision to
allow the book entry into the U.S.A.,
because, as the Judge said, it was more
of an emetic than an aphrodisiac—won-
derful tribute to a so-called literary
work! Anyhow, why should we follow
that land, noted for the salacious muck
it has sent here as literature and for its
Hollywoodian standard of moral values?
Why did not The Bulletin mention
the fate of this book in England and
Canada?
True, 20 years have elapsed since the
initial mistake of allowing its entry was
made, but that does not affect the ques-
tion whether it is suitable for distribution.
And possibly most of its champions do
not know that a sales-boosting display
was made only recently.
True, also, the ban was imposed by
Minister Harrison on his own initiative,
but that does not alter the fact that the
book is filthy, obscene, blasphemous.
By all means let it in for purposes of
study. As a medical man I would recom-
mend it as a textbook for those studying
mental diseases. — Schizo (N.S.W.).
Gallup Polls in Australia
No good purpose can be served by the
introduction into Australia of the system
of irresponsible stickybeaking which has
become so popular in the United States
under the name of Gallup Polls, and the
thing has ugly possibilities.
Should, for example, a conscription
referendum be forced on us by sudden
war emergency, irresponsible screechings
about Gallup results could easily influence
a large body of voters before polling-
day. Without such an emergency unde-
sirable influence could be exerted upon
recruiting and other important features
of the war effort.
The present confused condition of
national politics renders it particularly
undesirable that any further potential
confusion-element should be permitted to
operate. At any rate, poll questions should
be limited strictly to those which have
received preliminary approval from the
Federal Minister to whose sphere of
administration they apply. A responsible
Federal officer should be stationed in
each compiling centre with power to hold
up publication of any poll result for
Ministerial decision as to its desirability.
—Colbun (Q.).
Equal Pay
“Equal pay for equal work” as between
men and women looks like being a per-
sistent thorn in the side of commerce and
industry. To find a solution that will
make both sides happy and please the
mind of a logical looker-on seems about
as feasible as squaring the circle. Yet
it could be so easy, and the only sane
“NoW I'm 'ere 'n all, lead, what about givin' me 'aircut, too?"
way of administering the child-endowment
scheme should have provided a broad
and natural answer.
The position now is that a single man
of adult age receives wages sufficient for
himself, plus a margin for non-existent
wife and children. To that extent
economy is overburdened and, what is
probably worse, the young man is in a
way to acquire the easy habits that will
tug at his purse strings for the rest of
his life. The recurrent clamor to place
women workers (who are mostly single)
in the same false opulent position would
aggravate social and economic problems.
The object of the women is to acquire
theoretical equality with the overpaid
single man, without considering the
underpaid large-family man ; of the men,
to drive out female competition and
render women practically unemployable.
The result would still be unsatisfactory,
inasmuch as a very large number of
women would have to be retained in
industry and commerce if the wheels are
to keep moving. The resultant bloated pay
envelopes would not produce a genera-
tion of thrifty and contented wives. When
women are able to earn man-size wages
there is an almost universal tendency to
marry late, if at all, and those who do
“make the sacrifice” are not always easy
to live with.
The obvious way out —and the child-
endowment scheme should have fur-
nished the golden opportunity—would be
to place all adult workers on the same
single-person wage or salary. On to that
universal basic wage would be added the
amounts needed by the individual for his
or her dependants, plus the present mar-
ginal rates for skill.
The cost of labor to the employer
himself would be computed on the
present man-wife-and-child basis. The
surplus on the wages of the single
employees could either be paid to the
Government for redistribution to family
men and women, or used by the employer
to offset his extra payments to those with
more than one child. Settlements between
employers and Government for the ad-
justment of debits and credits would not
be much more tiresome than the present
machinery of wages tax and post-office
paydays. The system would at least have
the virtues of being scrupulously just
between individuals, economically equit-
able and (I hope) satisfactory to both
the trade-unionists and the ladies. — Tin-
muth (Vic.),
Preparing for the Great
I hobnob in my spare time with what
is officially described as “an officer of
the Commonwealth Department of
Customs.” On learning that said C.D.C.
was to lease five floors of a big, new,
elaborate Sydney building at £6600 a
year, that all five were to be fitted out
with elaborate desks and whatnot, I re-
marked to my friend, “Hey, what’s the
strength of this flamin’ Customs mob of
yours? Can’t you blokes handle this
here Lease-Lend stuff without hirin’
palaces t’ do it in? Blime, no wonder
the country’s short of dough!”
In reply to this courteous interrogation
my friend spat accurately and with
Chesterfieldian charm through the bus
window and said, “Now look, I’m sta-
tioned in the Sydney department, see. Me
an’ all the rest of us here could eat the
Lease-Lend stuff with a few extra hands
an’ we wouldn’t want no palace, see.
But it’s a Canberra staff that’s cornin’ up,
an’ if you think any ordinary buildin’ is
good enough for the bloods from Can-
berra—well, you don’t know much, see.
Me, every time I have t’ go round t’ that
new buildin’ an’ see one of them Can-
berra clerks I’ll have to salaam the com-
missionaire on the door, bow to the lift-
man, wipe me feet an’ beg an audience
with the presence. An’ if me finger-
nails is dirty from me work in the old
Customs House I’m a cert t’ be repri-
manded. No, lad, you ain’t awake t’
Canberra, I can see that.”
This conversation is detailed from the
security of anonymity, it is the simple
truth and it is given largely for its value
as a revelation of the kind of peanuts
we’re growing at Canberra.— Sixty Days
(N.S.W.).
“Costless Credit”
What “more efficient system of record-
ing the doings of the commercial world”
could be devised than money (B.
10/9/’41)? It has functioned satisfac-
torily since the world was young, prov-
ing as suitable for the most highly indus-
trialised societies of today as for simple
agricultural communities. Barter was the
first process of exchange, but the incon-
venience of this system was felt even in
primitive societies. And so, at a very
early stage of social development, money
was evolved.
The functions of money are fourfold:
(1) To act as a Medium of Exchange,
something for which every other com-
modity will exchange; (2) to be a
Measure of Value, something in which
the value of all other commodities can
be estimated, and therefore compared ;
(3) to act as a Standard for Deferred
Payments, something in terms of which
the amount to be paid at a future time
can be accurately expressed to the satis-
faction of both debtor and creditor; (4)
to be a Store of Value, something in
which the means of buying can be re-
tained at its original value for a long
period.
For a currency to serve those pur-
poses it is imperative that any changes
in the purchasing power of the monetary
unit should be of a very gradual nature.
A sudden huge increase in the amount of
money in circulation brings about infla-
tion. Therefore, those who advocate the
printing of vast quantities of banknotes,
calling it “credit expansion,” and talking
vaguely of such issues being “backed by
the whole resources of the people,” are,
wittingly or unwittingly, championing
inflation.
Inflation is invariably vicious in effect,
and, moreover, cannot be continued inde-
finitely. Every country that has tried it
has had to re-stabilise its currency within
a short period.
Before paper money was devised dis-
honest Governments practised a form of
inflation by adulteration of the metal
coinage. Such conduct was universally
execrated. Monarchs and politicians who
stooped to it are still traduced in modern
history books, some by pens that have
been glib in advocacy of the far worse
form of today.— Lyle (N.S.W.).


iim
3 3
m
d
• they
had everything
while he lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO LTD
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
LANES
A/o
C^//V
No p */ai/ng
NO PUMPING
RVt^ S
ooolJ
\eteW
CoW'P
\P
KEROSENE STOVE
LIGHTS
Stov
Gas
live
f ONLY ONE FUEL
—Kerosene
o N ° £ *PENsJ^t
Nq
u *)p
Osh
e pl.
°c e
BLUE
flame
ABSOLUTELY SAFE and SILENT
SEE y O U R LOCAL
STORE
LADIES' FITTED
DRESSING CASES
, . . from KITCHINGS’.
iIHPI
In beautiful chrome tanned cowhide.
FITTED AVI Til mirror, comb, and hair
brush on lid and glass containers for
powder, toothpaste, scent, etc., on body
of case. Enamel and chrome fittings.
PRICES:
20 inches, £lO 22 inches, £ll.
Free Delivery to all Suburbs.
C. E. KITCHING at
319 George Street, Sydney.
Near AVynyard Station. 8W7133.
Our service Departmerrt
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. •
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot last
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. ... ,
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
To buy copy of The Bulletin Reciter.—
2563.
To buy Coles’s Thousand Best Poems. 2561.
Copy of poem “Der Tag,” written by a
Bristol porter during 1914-18 war. -562.
Information Sought.
0) Which foreign language would a young
Australian in commercial occ “P < s°l l d , l [
most profitable to study ? (2) Will the fact
that France is a fallen nation affect the use of
French in countries where Freach is not the
native tongue? (3) If so, would it be better
to study German in view of the increasingly
wide use by compulsion of German in Europe.
(4) Is Dutch considered harder for an English-
man to study than French? ’ (5) Do you advise
the study of Spanish? —2sl9.
(1) It depends on your line ol business.
German is understood everywhere m Scan-
dinavia and Eastern Europe ; French m most
places—it is still used for diplomatic purposes
in almost all countries. In the Americas,
Spanish is the most useful. For an Australian
looking for special opportunities, Japanese or
Chinese (national language, or Mandarin) Would
give a good linguist the best chance, since so
few people speak them. (2) The use of French
is not likely to wane to any great extent, it is
the easiest language of all European tongues
to acquire. (3) Each language suits particular
people and serves particular purposes What-
ever happens German will remain the native
tongue of 100,000,000 people and the casual
language of many more radiums. Dutch
is a difficult language to speak efficiently. The
Dutch usually are good linguists and speak and
write other tongues. (5) In foreign competition
outside Asia the man who has not both French
and German or French and Spanish or German
and Spanish is at a disadvantage in doing
international business.
# ♦
(I) Method of obtaining the superficial con-
tents of timber in logs ? (2) Difference between
Hoppus and Brereton methods of measure-
ment? (2) Which method is in general prac-
tice ? —2320. - / .
(1) The two methods mostly used are; fa)
Hoppus or quarter-girth method— One-quarter
centre girth under bark in inches squared, multi-
plied by length in feet, divided by 12. E.g., log
60in. centre girth under bark, 24ft. long, con-
tains 450 super, feet (15 x 15 x 24 divided by 12).
(M Brereton measurement —Mean of the ena
diameters under bark, in inches squared, multi-
plied by length in feet, divided by 12, multiplied
bv 7854. E.g., log 28in. diameter one end and
20in. diameter other end and 24ft. long con-
tains 905 super, feet. Mean is 24m. (24 x 24
x 24 x .7854 divided by 12). (2) The volume
in super, feet obtained by Hoppus method is
equal to that obtained by Brereton muUxphed
by 7854 E.g., Brereton volume 1000 super,
feet' equals 785.4 Hoppus super feet (3)
Hoppus method is used in most of the Austra-
lian States and Brereton method usually lor
imported logs.
* * * *
(1) I have been informed by a dentist that
“unbreakable” dental plates are unknown. Is
this true? (2) If untrue what dam, if any,
would one have against dentist if an unbreaK
able” plate broke? (3) What is price charged
for “unbreakable” plates? 2334. ,
(1) Flo denture can be aesenbed as absolutely
unbreakable. The term “unbreakable is often
loosely ascribed to certain types of denture
composed of various plastics In actual fact,
this means little more than that they are more
durable and less likely to break than oidmaiy
vulcanite dentures. (2) Does not arise. (3)
Prices vary widely according to the type ot
plastic material used.
« * * *
Origin and characteristics of the var jf t
sheep-dog known in the Hunter Valley, N.S.yV.,
as German collie? Are they of any special
value as compared with kelpies and border
collies? —2437. , . .
Eighty years ago German settlers brou o n
specimens of the Brunswick sheep-dog to
Queensland. The Australian cattle-dog sprang
from these imported dogs. The dogs in
the Hunter Valley probably have the same
origin. They have no special value as com-
pared with the kelpie or border collie. Ihe
is no breed known officially as German collie.
* * * *
Where can I get plans of apparatus for spin-
ning and weaving wool?— 2511. „
The “Australian Womans Mirror will post
reprints of articles “How to Make a Loom
(two) and “How to Make a Spinning Wheel
on receipt of lOd. in stamps.
* * * *
I have a King Edward VII penny, minted in
1902. The King’s head faces the wrong way
to the right. The figure of Britannia on the
opposite side is also facing the wrong way.
What is the value of this penny? 2491.
There is nothing unusual about your penny,
which is worth just one penny. Since the
reign of Charles II each sovereign has faced
in the opposite direction to that of his or her
predecessor. Queen Victoria faced to the 1c ,
therefore Edward VII must face to the right.
Britannia has faced to the right since the icign
of George IV.
* * * *
Correct diet for kelpie pup about three
months old. —2456. , • „ c „ v
The pup should have three meals a day, say
11 a.m., 4 p.m. and 8 p.m. The first could
be table scraps, the second egg flip over broken
wholemeal dog biscuit. The last should be taw
beef, in pieces, not minced.
* * * *
(1) What are the prospects for a lad 16 years
nine months old and wearing glasses to correct
eyesight in learning to fly for commercial pur-
poses? (2) Can he learn flying cheaply while
in the employment of an airlines co., and where
should he apply for further particulars ?— 2258.
(1) Licenses are issued in two categories (a)
“A” private and (6) “B” commercial. In the
case of private pilots the applicant must be at
least 17, and in the case of a commercial license
19, and in each instance must be medically and
physically fit; in the case of an A pilot he
may wear glasses to correct sight. B pilots
must, in addition to passing a theoretical exami-
nation on aircraft, engines, navigation, meteor-
ology, etc., carry out practical flying tests
after being in sole charge of an nncraft for
100 hours, be medically and physically fit and
have the full vision of both eyes. Bad eyesight
would debar a lad from holding a commercial
license, all other conditions being complied with
(2) He would require to join a flying training
organisation, and though he might be given
dual training under the age of 17 he would not
be permitted to fly solo until he was passed medi-
cally fit and had attained that age. Under present
conditions it is difficult to obtain flymg train-
ing owing to petrol rationing. Each pupil is
rationed to one hour's flying per month and as
a trainee is required to complete 10 hours
flying at least, including dual and solo, before
being allowed to undergo the practical test for
a private license, there is not much opportunity
for a lad at this juncture to take up flyin 0
as a profession; this also applies to learning to
fly as an employee of a regular airline co.
* * * *
How should chrysanthemums be prepared for
exhibition in a show? 2555.
A board for 12 blooms should measure 32m.
x 24in„ Sin. high at the back and 4m. at the
front; the holes for the tubes are 4m. from the
edge all round, and the distance from centre to
centre Sin. The board is painted black. Though
the blooms will keep for several days after
hoinsr cut it is a good idea to leave them
on the plant until the afternoon before a show
as flowers that are dull or
Points to be observed in a good bloom are size,
with a corresponding depth, refinement of out-
line brilliancy of coloring, with freshness to tl
extremity of the florets. Chrysanthemums
generally need little dressing, but any deformed
florets should be removed and bruised florets
snipped off with scissors, and to make a sym-
metrical bloom straggling florets should be put
thpir nlares The largest blooms are usually
placed in the S back row and the smallest ones
?n front In choosing flowers for a stand
select those whose colors blend well, and if
ft can be avoided do not put two of the same
color together Keep the blooms well up on
the stand.
Brief Answers.
sa? li^ro‘wi& w Ms
license Vo is required, but the sale of ammu-
niS e is Q regulated q by the Explosives Ac
tr. which vou should refer. See also JNanonai
Security regulations dealing willL P». s f 0 s “J ee 0 j
SSS ¥aymcloMnS|l
fs Postponed until the end of the period after
he war equal to the length of your war ser-
vice or six Q months thereafter, whichever is the
shorter If you find you cannot pay the inter-
est or ra"s y o“ both’ you can apply to the
Court to postpone payment of these,_ too.. ••
HS • A council may construct aspecial cr *
inc over a footway and a gutter bridge and re-
cover the cost of construction, from the owner
or occupier for the time being of the lana
thereby Served. It cannot fix a charge having
no relation to the cost. It imay do the work
■mrl make the charge whether applied loi or
not SAP - (1) The control and regulation
Sf boardbg-houses is vested in Shire and Muni-
cipal Councils. Refer to your local counc
for bv-laws and ordinances. (2) In the absence
of agreement the landlord can ask whatever
tcrms he likes. (3) You would have the right to
refuse to pay casual rates, but if you do so
you would have no nght to stay o . ( ) ’
in any circumstances. (5) and (6) See ans\\e
to (II C A.R.: (1) Wholesale price m drums
was Is. lid., the retail price ex-pump being
according to ’fancy of garage propnetom, but
probably from 2s. 2d. to 2s. 3 . O P
on 21 /3 /’4l and id. on 15/8/41. Plus ia.
duty, this makes present retail price
Price-cutting is no longer permitted... .A. i .a. .
Scour with emery cloth and carefully wipe ou
with a rag damped with olive f: Af l r ,
the cleaned stove, polish outside with black:
lead ...C.T.; You lose. Total cattle in Eng-
land Wales and Scotland, 8,500,000-odd; m
SraS 13,100.400 t your w, c
should not wear th at badge. ...J.D.W..Oflicers
of the Accountant Branch of the navy, which
includes victualling, pay, accounts and
secretariat, have the word paymaster pretixea
to their rank... .W.C.: Tire facts should
reported to the shire and also to the Boaicl oi
Health....A.W.S.: The duties of the treasurer
include the receiving of moneys liom the sec re
tarv keeping of books and accounts, p epc ‘
S’ of balance sheets, banking of moneys
received drawing of cheques and generally
assisting the secretary There is no objection
to the president also being treasurei.... r .A. -
A.I.F. men who landed at Gallipoli are not,
entitled to wear the silver rosette on the 1914-15
star ribbon C.S.: Yes, short stones are
broadcast by the Broadcasting C^ r P? r a l „'? ns m
Britain M.L., South Africa and Canada....
A.0.D.; Write to the Recruiting Officer, Naval
Staff Office, Edgecliff, Sydney... .H.J.T.. Apply
to Trade Marks Sub-office, Hobart, for forms.
Forms, when filled in, must be sent with tee to
Commissioner of Patents, Canberra. bu
fee of £l, owner can take out provisional patent
for nine months, within which period he must
send a complete specification with a fee of £2.
It is accepted within two or three months and
advertised for three months in the journal fee
£2. If unchallenged, it will then be sealed jo
a further fee of £5, the total cost of Patenting
for five years being £lO.. v,% lL >2l Cartes
issues of “Vision” were Published. (2) Varies
From 15s. to £1 for set and ss. to 7s. 6d. for
single copy. Try Ellis Buds Bookshop 21
Bourke-street, Melbourne... JS.. Not resiaen
tially qualified for old-age pension. . M ay apply
for invalid pension. When claim is submitted
in prescribed forms, it will be consideie ....
T.T.; Tarragon vinegar is vinegar flavored with
tarragon, strength being a matter of taste. Best
way is to pluck the green matured leaves and
Sp in cold yinegar. Try a pint ol ymegar
and a few leaves at first, leave lor a week and
try with a salad—if not strong enough, add
more leaves... .W.G.C.: Specimen described is
a brass game counter in common use for cam
andother games (or about a hundred years.
The reverses are of great variety, and all are ex
tremely common. Specimen defied bears
a variation of the Australian coat of arms, a
double-headed eagle with shield, sword and orb.
Value when new, . about 6d. per dozen ....
S J P.: The coin is a silver five-franc piece
oi' Leopold 11, King of Belgium. It is not of
solid silver but is of the usua! currency ahoy.
Collector value 45., it in Mint eonmtion....
A.S.S.; Best time of the year under normal
conditions for fishing at Laurieton (N.S.W.) is
from December to February. Take No. 3 or 4
gut lines in 80-yard lengths for bream and
whiting, No. 6 80yds. for flathead and No. 8
or 10 120yds. for snapper. Get in touch with
A. G. Ostler, Laurieton, concerning accommo-
dation E.F.8.: No job for an amateur. It
would be much cheaper and more satisfactory
to buy a grindstone ready cut T.K.S.C.:
A good preparation is Cooper’s Weedicide.
This mixture is in liquid form and easily
diluted to the correct strength for application.
It is advisable to damp the soil before apply-
ing ; this helps the poison to contact the
roots of the weeds quickly. Apply at the rate
of one part of Weedicide to 100 parts ol
water. A one-gallon tin (price 10s. 6d.) is the
right size for a tennis court.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted: and no Mb.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:-^
AJ.D.:
One day when driving camels
One died of a disease;
And I thought of the worst of all camels —
Hitler, over the seas,
L.G.W.; —
We read every day of the A.I.F. and the battles
that they’ve won.
And wonder at the courage of these bronze Aus-
tralian sons .
From the outback of Australia with its stately gums
so tall, , ~
The largest of our cities and country towns small.
A.E.W.: Both close... .E.D.C.: A bit
more work on “Wheat Lands” and you d have
harvested ’em... .M.C.L.: Pomes that begin
with “Have you” or “If you” arc outed
on sight....D.L.S.: “There is greatness m
the grandeur grim.” There are also truce
growling “g’s”... J.H.; “I shall not c fy Ex-
celsior !’ ” We are truly grateful... .Tabus.
Dunno why one should callously grin at When
I shall ride to Rookwood,” but one does....
BID.; Metre’s monotonous N.P.: Nearly.
....L.L.: Tags EJ.McK.: Some benevolent
w.p.b. might give it a home...-AAV.B.: ‘The
man had hired an aged hack.” To write the
poem? A.R.D.: The fact that spring follows
winter was sung, once and for all, by a bearded
gentleman named Wog (or, according to some
authorities, Ugh) in approximately 8574 b.c.
B.G.: There’s a better thing on the same
theme floating around... .JiS.C.; It nevei gets
into its stride P.S.; It was not a Vision
of delight when first it burst upon our sight..
J.M.: It lumbers L.N.: Sarcasm alone is
not enough. ...VJ.: A sickly glimmer indeed.
.J.G.L.: Not up... .N.G.M.: 800-lme poem
telling how Sir Lennonvere removed Sir
Andrew’s curse from Catherine and got a kiss
from the lips of the fair lady would have de-
lighted great-great-grandma M.A.; That bee
won’t buzz in these pages H.M.O M.:
Working girl’s lament lacks substance HT.
and A.F.: Both slight... .N.A.D.: “Spring
Evening” seems to be your trouble....M.L. :
We didn’t laugh... .M.E.K.: Might land it
elsewhere....J.J.L.: “The Weeds” not for our
plot J.F.: “Fear Walked with Them, but
not with us J.M.: Morbid.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.P.: Gent, with cylindrical torso supported
by a pair of bolsters and sporting a beard
which grows to within an inch ol his eyes
turned down flat M.R.N.: Did someone
tell you that beyond the concrete pavements
Australia is peopled exclusively by congenital
idiots? A.D.G.; Cultivate a lighter touch.
W.R.: Save them; some day we might de-
cide to run a page of Awful Art Examples....
H.L.; Inject a bit more life into those figures
and you’ll be within shooting range of the
peter A.E.: A bandy-legged racehorse ridden
by jockey capable of carrying the moke might
win a race, but we doubt it... .P.C.8.; You
draw Fadden crossing frozen ice marked
“Budget” in a snowstorm labelled “Secret
Fund” with a swarm of bees with “Criticism
printed under them around his head. Surely
you might have had the P.M. in shorts and
singlet and a fly veil? ... .K.R.: A f eeble pun
and a vile drawing Bert C.; If you were to
cover up with Chinese white all the bulls you
made you’d cause a shortage in that com-
modity R.H.C.: When your humor catches
up with your draughtsmanship you’ll get close.
M.K.: It took five minutes to skulldrag it
from its wrapping, five seconds before it hit
the basket.


■ ■
a^feSr - . - ',
fww^mmmWWmm
te;3 ' ■■■■;,.
KHP WAR FROM OUR SHORIS
vfiOv ; ; .’“v ■ .;'/..5V,,..,,. • -•■
, '■ •' , ‘ ii
»r.r
l jn
/ % m
<// i k -'1
:: S
•?
f.-TI:
;• 1
r V/*.
h- V?
irv
S 8
If///®
&
ifli!
H
K
m
1
m
m
i'o'l.'J;
i
■ ■ i
m
11 ■
SStt
mr
II
S
HS
's<.
SSS
Ik
fafiaiaaab
This can happen here. Don't let it. Our homes, our
privileges, our way of living are at stake. Do what
you can 1 . Lend all you can!
The immediate call is for £100,000,000 of new and
converted War Loan money. Buy every Bond you
can. Realize the urgency. Realize that the call is
for small savings as well as large. You can invest
as little as £lO, and even that by instalments. Find
every pound you possibly can, put it in the War
Loan, and do it now.
If you have Loan Holdings now maturing, convert
them. You'll assist your country by not requiring your
Government to pay off maturing Bonds. Money means
little if it does not fight for Australia's preservation!
Apply at once, at any bank, money order post office, or
stockbroker. Interest is 2\% for 4-5 years or 31% for
9-16 years. Subscriptions may be paid 10% deposit, balance
in 6 instalments to 2nd May, 1942.
CONVERT YOUR ZORN
BOLDINES NOW MATURING
*"WAR LOANL**
A MIXED GRILL.
“Skyrider”: There is a tinge of irony
t b e c j rci]rrKfanr „ „ i nf f i, e
L? ji 6 a lot a u
B uns that guard Kronstadt were made by
Krupp, and that a 135-ton monster built
i n 1900 was in 1940 still regarded by
K- rr , n<: f ar b ac • f u A a f an ™ Jr
Kronstadt as kingpin in the defence of
the fortress in spite of the modern ones
beside it. Krupp, the elder, founder of
the big Essen firm, was a great admirer
of Russia, and his guns — sold to Russia
years before—helped the garrison of
Przemysl to hold out in the 1914-18 war.
In 193 ° * e S? viet granted to Krupps an
area °i 27,000 acres m the Ukraine for
sheepbreeding. It was done to attract
foreign capital. The German shepherds
must have been very useful to the 'nvader.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”; A good point in the
, • „ * .. nnriA °
design the 9000-tonners now being
built in Australian shipyards for the
Commonwealth is the crew accommoda-
«»-„ T he old r style fo-c-sle. with its
attendant risks m collision and austere
disregard of comfort or privacy, has been
replaced by two-berth cabins at the after
j r ,, , . .... , ... ,
end of the shl P fitted Wlt h settees, ward-
robes, washbasins and reading lights in
the bunks Separate mess and recreation
in ctnnHnrrl nlans
rooms also included in standard plans,
are the subject or union protest on
account of their proposed location be-
tween Nos 3 and 4 hatches. The Ship-
building Commission maintains that the
. / 5 . a n u„
winches overhead will be oil-driven an
practically noiseless, as such types really
are, but the Seamen’s Union seems likely
to press the point. In any case it pays
owners to provide good, crew accom-
modation. Too many British ships are
lacking in this respect.
* * -
From Somewhere-in-the-Indian Ocean:
_ * ‘* . , , 0 i,
Our first trip ended at Berbera, British
Somahland, and from Berbera we earned a
number of Italian evacuees of the highei ci -
servant class. No doubt our small ship wa
thc Void 3 but delations were cordial although
Iho t afffi^iVifv S was in rrl to overcome •
nnH whfn a ft e rn^. C oiit that l was an Australian
fhere was a rlin l n T excitement
Australia? ‘TL™ Znfy ISLII
i? n( .w for he hnH a
yy There a IS„ P w even m£e cmnha .c
cousin there A matron was^even .more> emphatic
-
bera* T for
tutors. Thc d attentions' of the Hobart did
„ “ .. '„ .* y •. n/h-tt town them ic
liesust back Horn the beS and, apart from
the tattered flag flying over the top of the
largest shellhole in the largest building, is no
different from a hundred other Arabian or North
African native towns. The harbor is quite
good, being formed by a mile or more of
sandspit which would protect it from the seas
if there were any in that part of the Gulf;
but the curse of the place is the khareef.
It starts at 10 at night: hot, dry and full
of fine sand. By the morning it has risen to
full gale force, and the ships are straining
at tw * anchors ’ lt dies out at £ oon> and as the
afternoon wears on the faint breeze dies too,
till at four o’clock it is dead calm and the
effort of lifting a beer soaks one right through,
Behind the town stretches a plain, and behind
this ’ an apparent stone’s throw but an actual 25
miles, are the hills; brown, bare and as barren-
looking as they make them. The plain is
covered with camel thorn and provides good
hunting-ground for energetic sportsmen
unlucky you may get a Somali, a goat or a
camel, the importance rising in that order.
On to Italian Somaliland, where we took off
t he . population of two fishing villages Neither
had any sort of a harbor, and the towns
they are marked on the map as such—com-
prjsed a row Q f tQ y buildings set just out of
reac b G f the surf and nothing else but the
bare hills in the distance.
We enjoyed the hospitality of the sole repre-
sentative of the Crown, one captain. Said hos-
pitality consisted of glasses of tepid water—all
he had till our contribution came ashore. He
50 Somalis under his charge and about
the same number of prisoners—mainly minor
officials and four officers. He and the latter
h d , bit of ba d French between them, but
they had got on well enough, and I shouldn’t
have been° surprised to have seen him weep
when we took them away-it’s a lousy place to
be stuck by yourself. The captains idea was
that his prisoners were not at all bad fellows,
that only one Italian called for hatied.
The next dump was very similar. Here the
officer in charge came out, per very leaky
rowing boat, for a drink and was hailed as a
long-lost friend.
S’African officers have assumed me that fight-
ing on this front was clean, and it is a fact
that our hospital ships were scrupulously re-
spected by the Italian forces.
“ULYSSES.”
Twas written years ago and widely read.
Most you could say about it has been said,
Whether in blame or praise. The author’s dead.
The cheers and hisses,
The storms that raged about him, anyone
Might be excused for thinking over and done,
When off his tail sprang Mr. Harrison
And banned Ulysses.
At duty’s call he grappled with the book —
Though to such tasks, when office first he took,
It’s pretty obvious he couldn’t look
To have to buckle —
Distasteful though it was, he read it through,
As any honest arbiter would do.
And ex officio pronounced it too
Close to the knuckle.
It set the blushes mantling in his cheek;
He held it stuff that might have shocked a sheik,
It struck him as subversive, so to speak,
Of all decorum.
No use to fault his dictum, for, you see,
The Minister of Customs needs must be,
As well, our watchdog of propriety
And censor morurn.
One reservation only he allows:
Should blokes like you and me desire to browse
On fruit that grows on these forbidden boughs
His course will stop us.
But eager students still may hear the voice
From overseas, and glean instruction choice
For scientific purposes from Joyce,
’S magnum opus.
So in the days when Fadden and his mates
Upon the hustings stand to test their fates
And partisans review in hot debates
Their hits and misses.
Then Harrison will have one card to play
Tnat other derelictions should outweigh;
ox l? f s £ e ™ s J o , r s . ee hi ™ sla P his chest and say:
1 banned Ulysses.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


PRIDE of a
Modern Kitchen ...an
AGA Cooker
mm
m
i
■ :
The AGA is the Cooker you need for your modern well-
equipped kitchen. The AGA is almost unbelievably
economical. It cooks efficiently, scientifically, by STORED
heat; is simple to use, always ready; beautifully finished and
clean as a china plate.
Let us show you why the AGA is better for every kind of
cooking, and advise you about the AGA model suitable for
your home in city or country. Model C (shown) cannot burn
more than two tons of coke in a whole year, costing 30/- a
ton in the city. Freight increases price of fuel in country, but
annual consumption is so low that amazing economy is possible
anywhere in Australia.
40,000 owners in the British Empire alone have proved the
AGA Cooker to be No. 1 unit in a modern kitchen.
* Call for a demonstration, or write for AGA Catalogue R.lO.
AOA
(REOD. TRADE MARK)
Jfi£ Onglnd skatSmagt
COOKER -j
k MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO., LTD.
(Inc. in N.Z.) Established 1852.
45 KING STREET, SYDNEY
432 Bourke St., Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
S <V. AGENTS: Colton, Palmer & Preston, litd., Adelaide.
TASMANIAN AGENTS; A. G. Webster & Sons Ltit,
Hobart. AGENT FOR W.A.: Malloch Bros., Perth. AGENI
FOB QEI).: Queensland Primary Producers Co-operative
Association, Etd., Brisbane.
Does you car use more
fuel than it should?
It is false economy to use spark plugs too
long. Worn out spark plugs become carbon
encrusted give a weak spark and the re-
sult is sluggish performance, wasted fuel
and a car that is unpleasant to drive. In-
stall new Champions every 10,000 miles.
They pay for themselves in fuel savings
alone, besides greatly improv-
ing your car’s performance.
Factories, Feltham, Eng.
Windsor, Can. Toledo, USA.
&
$0
.m
m
liim
WmWm
mm
Install new
Oiampion Spark Plugs!
Sillment seals Cham-
pions against trouble-
some leakage, at the
shoulder and past the
center electrode,
common to ordi-
Sk nary spark plugs.
*This patented feature
l corrects rough, uneven
and wasteful engine op-
eration caused by leaky,
overheated spark plugs.
CONTAINS SILLMENT
THE MIRACLE MINERAL
Business, Rollery, Etc
The Under-£B-a-Weeker
From W. S. Middlin, Ballarat (Vic.):
Your article (B. 10/9/’4l) on “The Vital
Budget” was well written, but it shows a lack
of knowledge about wage-earners. I am a
wage-earner getting between £2OO-£4OO, the
class which you say “doesn’t contribute a great
deal” to the war effort. Well, on war effort
I earn enough to have a day’s pay taken out
of my wages in taxation.
“Price control has operated well, and it has
favored the wage-earner.” What rot! Control
has allowed my firewood to rise from £1 per
ton to £1 10s. within the last six months
potatoes from 3s. a bag to 9s. a bag in one
night. And what about tea? Clothing has
risen out of all reason —boots up from 15s. a
pair to 225. 6d., for instance. My newspaper
increased in price, and the house has got to go
without paint. It is not what I pay in taxes
directly but indirectly; being a consumer every-
thing is passed on. The Government gets its
chop out of my tobacco and cigarette papers.
Out of the gallon of petrol I use on my bike
to get to work lid. goes Government way;
my baker informs me that 13 taxes are passed
on in a loaf of bread for me to pay. Being
a wage-earner and consumer, I pay everyone
else’s taxes.
Mum had to pay double in price for blankets.
Price control operates well with vegetables.
Caulis and cabbages Is. 6d. each! This country
may be a paradise for the wage-earner, but not
as 1 have to live and pay. Yesterday my hair-
dresser put up the price of cutting my golden
locks. Still your kind of talk goes on. Do
try and give the poor old toiler a bit of a go
and not put the boot in!
Other people besides W. S. Middlin have
made their complaints about the way taxa-
tion affects them. Some, however, aren’t
sufficiently lucky to be classed as wage-
earners, being white-collar folk or farmers
whose interests aren’t looked after by an
arbitration court. They have to pay all
the increases in price that Mr. Middlin
(who does not say whether he is subject
to an award) complains about without
having any guaranteed compensation in
the way of an increased basic wage.
Since the war began, and since war-
time taxes were imposed, the Federal
basic wage has been lifted 7s. a week —
about 9 p.c. Victorian awards “follow
Federal rates to a large extent,” the Com-
monwealth Statistician assures us. This
same authority—and The Bulletin
admits that it relies • on his statistics
greatly—gives evidence to show that,
taken all over Australia, the buying power
of the increased basic wage has decreased
by about half of one per cent, since war
broke out. And that is only because it
is impossible to adjust these matters to
the fine nicety that one might like to see.
The basic wage is supposed to cover
food, groceries, rent of four- and five-
roomed houses, clothing, fuel, light,
household utensils, household drapery,
fares and “other miscellaneous household
requirements.” The authority here, a
high and disinterested one,' is the Com-
monwealth Year-Book, a publication not
studied nearly enough. It would be diffi-
cult, of course, to compile a “basic” wage
covering “essentials” in the case of all
families under all conditions in all towns.
But Ballarat is one of the cities to which
the statistician refers when he compiles
his figures, though if he has never lived
in Ballarat he may not give fuel (such as
firewood) in winter-time the “weight ’ it
deserves. The statistician’s compilation is
at best an average. And when a wage-
earner comes to spend his margins for
skill on non-essential things he may find
he isn’t protected at all.
The Bulletin was particular in point-
ing out in its Sept. 10 article that if basic-
wage-earners “were well looked after
before war broke out they are particularly
well looked after now.” For the purposes
of its argument it is entitled to wash its
hands of matters relating to pre-war
taxes, since it only dealt with war finance
and the war effort. Of the 1 Id. a gallon
tax on petrol, 7+d. was in force before
war broke out. The 13 taxes passed on
by the baker are most certainly looked
after by the basic wage. So are additions
of sales tax to various items in the basis
of the wage. Excise on tobacco and beer
was in force at high rates long before
the outbreak of war, and war-time addi-
tions are only a fraction of what was
already in force. Everyone who drinks
or smokes is subject to these imposts.
Trade-union unemployment, though no
lower than it should be, is now down to
3.6 p.c., compared with 10.2 p.c. in Sept.,
1939. Picture-show revenues are soaring
in the cities, showing the great spread in
incomes. Admittedly country towns have
been affected by the flow of workers to
city munition jobs, where they average
well above the basic wage, and Ballarat
may have suffered, too. But isolated cases
do not constitute a rule.
Unlike basic-wage-earners, holders of
Commonwealth bonds have had no in-
crease in income since war began. In-
terest rates have fallen all round. Where
dividend rates have been increased by
companies it has mainly been in cases
where they were doing rather poorly
before—Mort’s Dock and other engineer-
ing concerns, for example. B.H.P. has
not lifted its distribution since the out-
break of war, and it has paid greatly in-
creased taxation, like all other cos. And
when divs. reach the hands of share-
holders they are taxed irrespective of
what tax the co. has paid.
If Mr. Middlin has only one day’s pay
taken from him in all classes of taxation,
war and peace, he is very lucky. If he
only knew it, he probably has more than
that taken. The upkeep of streets,
drainage, sewerage, education, Parlia-
ments, public departments of a non-pro-
ductive kind, pensions, repatriation and
defence have all to be paid for just the
same as rent, food and clothing. And
the more socialised we become the more
we shall have to pay in taxation, even if
we don’t like what we get in return.
Prices of blankets should not be any-
thing like double the old prices, unless
thev have been imported. Prices of cauli-
flowers and other vegetables are mainly
local matters. So is.firewood, to some
extent. Prices of haircuts in Sydney have
risen, but higher wages are being paid
to barbers, and there aren’t so many
heads to shear, seeing that so many fel-
lows have gone overseas. Unlike those in
munitions and similar industries, barbers
and others of their kind have been hit
by war.
People earning under £4OO a year rep-
resent about 70 p.c. of the personal in-
comes of all Commonwealth citizens. Yet
out of total Commonwealth income taxa-
tion of £39 million in 1940-41, this class
of earner paid only million. Cer-
tainly it may have borne a far larger
proportion of the indirect taxation, but
so far as the basic-wage-earner is con-
cerned increases in indirect taxes on essen-
tials are covered except in odd cases of
odd circumstances.
It is not expected that, per head, the
under-£4OO man should pay as much in-
come tax as the man on £lOOO a year
or more. Nor is it expected that he
should pay in the same proportion, or
anything like it. But some war contri-
bution is expected from him, and £2i
million out of £560 million earned is only
about a penny in the pound. In 1940-41
most of those earning £4OO a year
certainly paid more than a penny, but
those earning under £2OO paid no-
thing at all. In the current year people
earning as low as £lOO will have to con-
tribute in compulsory loans. What the
various income groups will have to pay
is yet unknown, but the total from all
individuals is expected to be £2O million.
The higher as well as the lower incomes
will contribute.
There are imperfections in the distri-
butions of rewards and burdens in Aus-
tralia. But the burden of any undue
profits that may accrue to some manu-
facturers and other employers does not
weigh as heavily on the worker as the
load imposed by the stiff working of the
machinery of too many Governments and
the barriers raised by self-deception m
the matter of work and wages. Too
much store is put by money wages irre-
spective of what those wages will buy.
Inflating wages hamper this country’s
opportunities to expand and at the same
time do the worker no good. Our present
problem is one of hard facts. Everyone
has to make a contribution to the war
effort, and the man on under £4OO a year,
because he represents such a huge pro-
portion of our production and consump-
tion, has to figure in the picture to a
larger extent than in the past. It is im-
possible always to shove the burden on
the “other fellow.” The “other fellow”
in this case isn’t nearly as big and im-
portant as he looks.
The Raw Cotton Bounty Bill provides
for the payment of a guaranteed price
of 15d. a pound on cotton above strict
good ordinary grade produced in the
1942 season and thereafter until one
season after the war. This price will in-
clude any net revenue from by-products
such as cottonseed oil or cake. It is
estimated that in 1941-42 Australia will
use 80,000 bales of raw cotton, against
a peak Queensland production to date
of 17,471 bales,
A bounty of 4d. a pound is pro-
posed to be paid on copper wire used
in the manufacture of rubber-insulated
cable and wire other than that used in
defence work. The bounty is retrospec-
tive to June, 1940, and continues to June,
1942. Maximum amount payable over
the two years is £25,000, and there is a
provision that profits must not exceed
8 p.c. on capital employed. Olympic
Tyre’s turnover of cables in its first year
of selling was £215,000.
There is to be no bounty, it appears,
on the building of wooden ships. The
Tariff Board takes the view that wooden
ships are being built where necessary to
meet the requirements of shipowners, and
that no assistance is needed to keep this
activity going. When the war is over, the
board considers, it will not be practicable
to build wooden vessels, with certain
exceptions, and meanwhile war conditions
make protection or a bounty unnecessary.
* * * *
Cessnock Collieries has reported a net
profit of £23,106 for its past term; m
the preceding year £21,265 was earned.
Depreciation provision, £15,000, is up
£5OOO. A div. of 8 p.c. (against 7 p.c.)
calls for £22,000. With an average div.
record of 5 p.c. over the past 11 years
the co. is in a class of its own among
N.S.W. coal cos. Keen and careful man-
agement has been largely responsible.
Most of the profits come out of the col-
lieries, though there is a handy parcel of
liquid and semi-liquid investments, cash,
etc., totalling £44,000.


Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.; F. E. Loxton, Esq.;
Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., 0.M.G.; E. E. D. White, Esq.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The shoulder
behind the cutting edge
n
Giuenc
SHOULDERED
EDGE
The long steel shoulder of the Blue Gillette
Blade is there to bear the load under which
the ordinary blade would yield. Only these
three angles, which form a shoulder or
buttress behind the cutting edge, are strong
enough to give really long shaving life. But,
of course, no edge will withstand rough
handling. Remember . . . never touch the
edges (especially when unwrapping the blade). Lather
richly and you will get longer shaving comfort out of
every Gillette blade you use.
USE
GILLETTE
BUY
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
AND SAVE STEEL
Gillette sets 2/7\ to 47/-. Blue Gillette Blades 5 for 1/7.
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
ù
More and more people are smoking
CRAVENA
every day
quality always tells!
MADE
SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE
THROATS
The £100,000,000 Loan
The big loan opened yesterday (7th).
New money asked for amounts to £3O
million, while about £7O million requires
conversion. Interest and terms are the
same as the preceding issue, but the rate
is below the 4 p.c. which the expiring loan
carried. On a five-year loan 2\ p.c. is
offered this time, and on the 16-year
term the rate is 3f p.c. Interest is sub-
ject to Commonwealth but free of State
taxation. Here is a comparison with
previous operations back to the time they
were resumed on the open market at
the turn of the depression:
In-
Term, Issue, terest,Return,
Date. Amount. Years. Price. P.c. P.c.*
7/11/’32 £8,000,000 10 Par 3* £3/15/-
22 /5 / ’33 8,461,000 9 Par 3} 3/15/-
16/11 /’33 10,316,000 10 £99/-/- 3* 3/12/5
5/6/’34 12,234,000 14 98/10/- 3± 3/7/8
20/11/’34 15,042,000 14 99/15/- 3 3/0/5
11/6/’35 12,500,000 14 99/10/- 3f 3/8/5
26/11 /’35 7,500,000 14 99/15/- 3f 3/15/5
2/6/’36 9,000,000 15 98/10/- 3f 3/17/6
26/11/’36 7,500,000 15 97/10/- 3* 3/19/4
27/4/’37 7,500,000 11 99/5/- 3| 3/19/1
30/11/’37 8,000,000 14 99/15/- 3| 3/15/6
19/5/’3B 10,250,000 16 99/10/- 3| 3/15/9
15/12 /’3B f 71,700,000 16 Par 34 3/17/6
21/2/’39 8,500,000 16 Par 3| 3/17/6
14/6/’39 4,750,000 16 £99/-/- 3* 3/19/2
-/6/’39 13,000,000 4 Par 3£ 3/10/-
-/11/’39 $12,000,000 3-5 Par 31 3/10/-
15/3/’4O 18,000,000 ( 5 Par 3f 3/7/6
116 Par 3| 3/12/6
15/5/’4O 20,000,000 {,5 gr 2| 2/15/-
28/11 /'4O 28,000,0001 gj $
30/4/'4l 35,000,0001,5 Par 2| 2/10/-
7/10/'4lf 100,000,0001 It
* Including redemption, t Cash and conversion
issue. Jlssue taken by central and/or other
banks.
At the present time financial conditions
within Australia are buoyant. There is
an easy banking position so far as ordi-
nary commercial activity is concerned,
but the Government has taken the place
of other borrowers to a large extent. For
this reason, it is desirable to pass the
Government’s present borrowings on to
the public in the greatest possible
measure. In view of the high State
taxation still being levied, and by reason
of the abolition of rebates of company
taxation by the Commonwealth and N. S.
Wales, there should be more supporters
to this loan than usual. It deserves sup-
port from every point of view. With its
associate, substantial taxation, it repre-
sents the only sensible method of war
finance offering from Canberra.
The defeat of Fadden and the com-
missioning of Curtin to form a Govern-
ment was followed on the Stock
Exchanges by a fairly sharp fall in the
price of 8..H.P. scrip. The contribs.
dropped from 28s. 3d. to 275. 9d. on
Saturday morning, and the paids came
back 6d. also. After sales at 545. in
Friday’s strengthening market, Tooth
scrip slipped gently to 535. 9d. Consols
were easier, and Electro. Zinc was down
6d. A.C.I. shares remained steady;
Mr. Forde, who has B.H.P. in the
gun, is apparently on the best of
terms with A.C.I. In any case,
it remains to be seen whether even
a Labor Government, with the respon-
sibility of governing on its hands, will
have anything to do with the wild sugges-
tions of Mr. Forde in the matter of
nationalising B.H.P. Though Mr. Forde
also doesn’t like banks, shares in these
concerns were not noticeably weaker on
the morning after the afternoon before
at Canberra. The incoming Government
is likely to have its hands full for a while.
* * * *
In the attack last week on the Budget
Labor brought up the matter of com-
pulsory loans in Maoriland, comparing
them with the post-war credits scheme in
Australia, and pointing out that M.L.
had dropped the compulsory-loan scheme
after one go. If Labor is really satisfied
with comparisons of this kind its intelli-
gence is at a pretty low level. In M.L. the
loan was levied on people who had paid
more than £5O in income tax, and was at
the rate of their income-tax liabilities,
less £5O. On high incomes taxation and
compulsory loan were frequently more
than a person’s total income for the year.
Under Fadden’s plan no such state of
affairs would have arisen, while people
who pay much less than £5O in tax were
to contribute. It is the people under £8 a
week who will provide most of the post-
war credit revenue. Even the lowest
incomes in M.L., however, pay 2s. in the
£ in security (national and social) taxes,
and ordinary taxation begins at £2OO.
H« * * H«
The Queensland 7 p.c. loan raised in
New York in a desperate stage of Theo-
dore’s reign has been paid off by the
Commonwealth. Whether any of it was
bought up on behalf of the Common-
wealth before maturity is not revealed.
It amounted to about £2,000,000 Aus-
tralian, and for a considerable time after
war broke out was at a colossal discount.
Large slabs of it were acquired by Aus-
tralians in pre-war days when it was
going cheap. Up to June 30 last the
Commonwealth took over private bal-
ances in the U.S.A. totalling 1,630,000
dollars, and acquired securities to the
value of 4,123,000 dollars. The M.L.C.
Assurance had bought £330,000-worth of
the Queensland loan in New York when
the exchanges were free, and with other
Australian holdings of the issue this made
repayment of the loan easier. The M.L.C.
took Consols in repayment.
sfc * * ale
Unemployment for the June quarter
of 1941 was down to the record low
level of 3.6 p.c., which compares with
10.5 p.c. at the outbreak of war. The
national income for 1941-42 is expected
to reach a record “high” of £lOOO mil-
lion, indicating the extent to which our
output has responded to the demands of
war, though higher prices are to some
extent responsible. The increase in the
national income above the last pre-war
year will be over £2OO million, on present
estimates, when the current financial year
closes ; in the two-year period (to June,
1941) in which the figure expanded by
£135 million (1 1\ p.c.) the cost of living
in Australia rose by no more than 9 p.c.,
indicating a desirable state of affairs.
Savings-bank deposits have risen £l5
million in a year to the record level of
£252 million. Picture-show receipts are
well up, trading bank clearings are far
above pre-war years, deposits have risen
£42 million in two years, and the
big rise in the note issue also lends per-
spective, especially when compared with
the moderate rise in living costs, to the
great activity among industries and
workers since war broke out. In this
atmosphere Mr. Curtin comes forth and
says the taxation burden should be better
spread clearly inferring in his attack
on the Budget that until the man on
a high income is taxed down to the
basic wage the basic-wage-earner should
not have his income touched —and that
borrowing and credit expansion are pref-
erable to increased taxation. For the pur-
poses of war finance Australia has never
been better equipped to take a taxation
burden on its shoulders. The lot of the
worker at present, especially when his
increased numbers are taken into account,
has never been happier from a monetary
viewpoint. During the depression most
wages suffered a special cut, and unem-
ployment rose to 30 p.c. of registered
trade-unionists. It is not too much to
say that by shirking its responsibility
now with regard to carrying a light load
of war taxation Labor is inviting another
period of depression as well as humbug-
ging the war effort.
* * *
Australian Iron and Steel, the ords. in
which are owned by 8.H.P., will pay the
full contract rate of 1\ p.c. on its pref.
shares this term. Previously the rate has
been subject to the Interest Reduction
Act, and worked out at 5.8 p.c.


THE SERVICE MAN
The Fight for Eastern
Ukraine.
“Ek Dum”: After Kiev had fallen and
Budenny had retreated to a new line,
saving the Donetz basin with the re-
mainder of the main coal and metal
resources of European Russia, plus keep-
ing open Caucasian oil communications,
obviously became the main preoccupa-
tions of the Red Army. Leningrad and
Smolensk became secondary fronts.
Inversely, the main German objective
became one of keeping momentum on
forces east of the Dnieper. Before
Russia could assemble new forces and
consolidate new defence lines, the Ger-
man High Command needed to mop up
the great Don and Donetz mining and
industrial centres, and try to climb north-
ward behind Moscow, at the same time
strangling the supply and oil lines from
the Caucasus.
In pursuance of these aims, German
spearheads passed the invested Perekop
Isthmus, where road and rail communica-
tion between Crimea and the mainland
had been cut, and pulled up at Marinpol,
only 120 miles from Rostov.
All that needed to be done now about
Leningrad on the German side was to
leave a thick ring of besiegers round it,
resilient against the city’s tanks as they
sought desperately to break through.
Marshal Timoshenko’s position,
whether he temporarily advanced or not,
must be determined in the end by
Budenny’s in the Ukraine. If Budenny
fell back so must he.
When the full history of the war comes
to be written, the last week of September
and the first weeks in October will be
noted as one of its crucial periods.
Before that, the Huns had merely been
at the “sable palisade which closed the
[Russian] castle’s barricade.” Between
Sept. 23-Oct. 5, they had begun an
attempt to tear down the portcullis and
lower the drawbridge. The main moat
of the Dnieper had been crossed and
they were under the walls along a lengthy
front.
The eyes of most of the “experts” on
September 30 were on the Crimea, at
the approaches to which Von Rundstedt
was supposed to have concentrated nearly
250,000 men. The semi-island peninsula
was considered as the major objective of
the Germans. The London “D.T.” cor-
respondent in Stockholm expected an
air-borne attack by two full German
divisions, for which, he said, 1000 trans-
port ’planes had been brought up within
36 hours. There has since been no indi-
cation, beyond say-so, that the assault
on the Crimea has been characterised by
the fury with which other crucial attacks
have been driven home.
The most disturbing statement on Sept.
30 was one which emanated both from
Berlin and Ankara that a German force
was operating nearly 100 miles east of
Dnepropetrovsk. Though it was not con-
firmed from Russian sources, Russian
mentions of towns at which Budenny’s
armies were counter-attacking in the south
showed that the Germans certainly had
penetrated far beyond the road and rail
links between the Crimea and Moscow.
The statement had an even more dis-
turbing significance when connected with
a previous French report of a German
spearhead at Stalino, 75 miles north of
Marinpol.
Two pipelines leave the Caucasian oil
region. One runs directly from Baku
to Batoum at the eastern end of the Black
Sea. The other leaves Makhach-Khala,
200 miles up the Caspian coast. It divides
300 miles onwards at Armavir, one sec-
tion going s.-e. to the Black Sea port of
Tuapse, the other going through Rostov
and ending at a depot 30 miles from
Stalino at Nikolaievsk. Stalino is about
100 miles east of Dnepropetrovsk; not
much more than 150 from Kharkov, but
east of the longitude of the latter city,
and on the main fringes of the coal
country of the Donetz and of the heart
of the industrial region.
The drive had undoubtedly been made
here to threaten Kharkov’s oil and coal
supply and that of all towns between
Azov and that centre of the U.S.S.R.
On October 1 Moscow admitted the
loss of Poltava, which the Germans de-
clared that they had entered a fortnight
before. This Russian admission was linked
with a German story of heavy attacks
by the Luftwaffe on railways and other
communications with Kharkov, 78 miles
to the north-east.
Two claws had begun to reach out for
Kharkov, but the news from the north
of the Ukraine front, where it merged
into Timoshenko’s central zone, had sug-
gested at first that the third and very
necessary claw wielded by General
Guderian had been mangled to the point
of amputation as it reached for Kursk.
On Friday, Oct. 3, Hitler, breaking
silence for the first time since May, con-
firmed the news that the new offensive
had been 48 hours in progress in the
Ukraine and, he said, had resolved itself
into a “gigantic battle which would de-
cide the fate of the Bolsheviks.” He
declared that “the chief tasks... .had been
achieved” ; that the German High Com-
mand had been astonished to discover
how gigantic the preparations of Russia
had been: —
We have only just missed the destruc-
tion not only of Germany but of the whole
of the civilisation of western Europe.
This was absolute nonsense. Various
German official defence publications, in-
cluding the solid “Military Scientific
Review,” an official journal of the Berlin
War Ministry, have incessantly in the
past three years paid tribute to the enor-
mous strength of the Red Army. In any
case, the sureness of'the German strokes,
their perfect timing and linkage and
general execution cannot be the product
merely of a hastily assembled defence
effort by a surprised and hard-pressed
German army, meeting a sudden and
unexpected threat.
They represent the functioning of a
vast mechanised military machine forged,
engined and run-in to smoothness and
created for the specific purpose of smash-
ing an enemy of known gigantic strength.
However, as Hitler’s speech confirmed,
a vast mechanised attack on the scale
of the Kiev encirclement was already in
being against the Donetz basin and a
prong was pushing eastward from the
curling spearhead in the Azov country.
An enclave had been created south of
Kharkov with the lower Dnieper as its
bottom and the sides of its mouth formed
by a German wall of troops on the
Azov coast and between Dnepropetrovsk
and Poltava. In this area there were
plenty of Russians, testing the Hungarian-
held bridgeheads of the Dnieper and try-
ing to relieve the German pressure
(which had bored through the Perekop
gateway into the Crimea proper) by fling-
ing themselves on the German flanks.
Moscow on Sunday claimed success
for some of these operations—the cap-
ture of 30 villages and an advance of 20
miles in 36 hours. The Germans said
the Russians had been flung back, 20,000
prisoners and large quantities of guns
and armored vehicles taken.
In Moscow, where radio had been dis-
located by raids, the allied committees
on supplies hastened to push forward
their conclusions in two days instead of
five. The British and U.S. delegations
were able to promise Stalin everything
he needed, while British bombers night
after night pounded 'Stettin and Ham-
burg, the two big German bases for the
Baltic campaign, and British ships pushed
through the closing twilight of the north
to Archangel with supplies. The Luft-
waffe attacked Newcastle, Hull and other
North Sea ports and centres in a fierce
endeavor to prevent the sending of tanks
and other help.
North to south, the position in the
week-end was as follows;
It had snowed for the first time in
desultory fashion along the whole north
and centre.
The Russians and the R.A.F. were
staving off Finnish attempts to take Mur-
mansk. The Finns had cleared Lake
Ladoga of Russians and had taken Petro-
vadovsk, on the shores of Lake Onega,
finally breaking communication between
Moscow and Leningrad and Murmansk.
Marshal Voroshilov had flown to Mos-
cow to attend the inter-Allied Confer-
ence. The Leningrad garrison claimed
to have re-established rail communication
with Moscow. (The Germans painted a
picture of mile on mile of rail and road
systematically rendered unusable by the
complete obliteration of the permanent
way.)
A new vicious and heavy armored
plunge by the Germans on Timoshenko’s
southern flank had reached a point “to-
wards Kursk,” which meant that a circle
holding about 15,000 sq. miles, with
Kharkov as its centre, was two-thirds
drawn within German spearheads. The
battle for Kharkov and the Donetz Basin,
however, was only taking shape.
Both sides have issued new claims
about casualties. Hitler on Friday said
that the Germans had taken 2,500,000
Russian prisoners and captured or de-
stroyed 22,000 guns, 18,000 tanks and
14,500 ’planes, and had penetrated 625
miles at the furthest point into Russia —
the average is just over 480 miles by the
map.
Moscow retorted officially that actual
Russian losses were 230,000 killed,
720.000 wounded, 178,000 missing, with
7000 tanks, 8900 guns and 5300 aircraft.
The Russians place German losses at
3,000,000 killed, wounded and taken
prisoner, with 11,000 tanks, 13,000 guns
and 9000 aircraft.
On these figures the Russians admit
the loss of 428,000 men killed, wounded
and missing since August 19, plus 1500
tanks and 800 aircraft lost or wrecked.
The German casualty lists issued up to
August 31 admitted to 84,000 killed,
292.000 wounded, 18,921 missing.
The Admiralty Edits a Tale.
“Nobby II”: When this war is over
there will be a great chance for some
successor to Dante to write the history
of Musso.’s naval battles. The other
morning my radio blared suddenly from
Rome that the “British Navy” had been
heavily defeated by the glorious Italian
Air Force. Two heavy cruisers were sunk
for certain, also a light one; another
heavy one.“seemed to have been sunk.”
Still more British casualties poured out
in an excited rush. The tale came to a
triumphant finale when the sky heroes,
after having practically wrecked H.M.S.
Nelson, formerly flagship of the Home
Fleet and one of Europe’s two 16in.-gun
ships, came proudly home to be received
by 11 Duce.
The Germans declare that Nelson was
towed into Gibraltar damaged so badly
astern and starboard that she will take
months to repair.
The Admiralty got to work in its sober
way on the yarn, and edited it until it
was almost unfit for publication by an
Italian adventure magazine.
Naval units guarding a large British
convoy became aware that there were
sky dingoes slinking among the clouds.
Preparations were made accordingly.
Early in the afternoon three groups
of torpedo bombers, fighter-escorted,
attacked the convoy, while bombers
skimmed overhead without attacking.
A torpedo hit H.M.S. Nelson and
“slightly reduced her speed”—her armor
is Min. belt, 6.25 in. deck and 16-9 in.
bulkhead. A motor-ship was lost and
three F.A.A. fighters, the crews of two
of which were saved. Neither convoy
nor escorts suffered any other damage.
The F.A.A. fighter squadrons bagged
one Italian fighter and four torpedo
bombers, while another torpedo bomber
was placed as a probable loss. Ship fire
brought down a fighter and six torpedo
bombers. A fairly expensive picnic for
the enemy.
While the excitement was at its height
the news arrived that an Italian naval
force was at sea. It did not remain at
sea long enough for a meeting, though
longer than it might have remained had
it come within range of Nelson’s guns.
In the afternoon another cloud of
torpedo bombers was noticed in the sky,
but the F.A.A. went up and drove them
off.
Next day there were still sky dingoes
about —the F.A.A. collected a specimen.
But they did no damage.
The convoy “safely reached its des-
tination.”
Sea and Air War.
“Nobby II”; Mr. Churchill in his war
review said the Germans had used even
larger forces of U-boats and long-range
’planes than before against British ship-
ping, but “British counter measures
on the largest scale, proved most success-
ful.” Losses of English, Allied and neutral
ships during the quarter July-August-
September were only one-third the losses
of the previous quarter.
As a matter of simple arithmetic, this
means that losses have decreased to about
130,000-140,000 tons per month, though
it must be taken into account that there
have been no Greece or Crete evacua-
tions to send up figures.
At the same time, the fact that Britain
has been able to send a number of naval
ships—the Germans say 31 in all —includ-
ing battleships and heavy fast units, for
repairs and overhauls in U.S. yards
seems to show that the position has been
eased, either or both by decline of
enemy activity by sea and air and in-
crease of British long-distance air-patrol
activity and U.S. naval protection.
Mr. Churchill proceeded:
During the same three months —July,
August and September—our slaughter of
enemy ships Italian and German has
been increasing by leaps and bounds. In
fact, it is about \\ times what it was in
the previous three months.
This would mean that 718,500-odd tons
of Axis ships had been sunk in the three
months. The Admiralty claimed that
for the whole period of the war to
May 10 2,912,000 tons had been sunk;
to July 10, 3,391,000 tons. July, August
and September sinkings would therefore
bring war-total German and Italian losses
to 4,109,000 tons.
On June 30, 1939, Germany and Italy
between them owned only 7,472,000 tons
of mercantile 5hip5—4,492,000 tons Ger-
man and 2,979,000 Italian. So it is little
wonder that both German and Italian
Radios and propaganda services treat the
sea war as of major importance beside
even the Russian-front battles.
Any belligerent country which has a
long coastline to serve, many large ports
at its disposal, communications every-
where arranged with those ports as nuclei
and overseas campaigns in progress like
that in Libya must acutely feel shipping
shortages.
If the centre of war shifts to the Middle
East beyond Suez, shipping will be even
more necessary to the Axis. It would
be an immense saving in land transport
—assuming the German armies should
get as far as the Caucasus —if they had
a fleet in the Black Sea adding a com-
munication line from Varna and Cos-
tanza.
After their bitter experience of the
last war German people have art
omnipresent realisation of the dangers
of British sea superiority and a
fear complex on the subject. Hence
Dr. Goebbels keeps up a campaign
which sought to persuade the Ger-
mans that 778,000 tons of British ship-
ping had been sunk by the Reichsmarine
and Luftwaffe, together with 98,000 tons
destroyed by the Italian Navy and Air
Force, in June alone. Since then the
German people have been led to believe
that Luftwaffe and U-boats together have
destroyed the British and Allied marine
(exclusive of Russia) at the rate of
180,000 tons a week for the last three
months. Their claim for September
embraces the sinking of 630,000 tons of
British shipping alone.
The same sort of rubbish is being
broadcast about the air offensive against
Britain. Ports, aerodromes, naval vessels,
’planes, wharves, warehouses are immo-
lated by a Luftwaffe which England
scarcely sees these days save as a fleet-
ing shadow hurrying by on a reconnais-
sance. Occasionally there is a seemingly
purposeless raid on some town, perhaps
to keep the R.A.F. tied to Britain as
much as possible. Or some special town
—Newcastle and Great Yarmouth during
the week —is attacked for some specific
purpose.
But there is nothing on the scale on
which the R.A.F. is operating along the
German North Sea coast and Channel
ports, and as far afield as Stettin, the
great Baltic supply base from which the
attackers of Leningrad are receiving
much of their supplies.
Mr. Churchill said that Germany had
no shortage, save in the air, and that
was “a most serious shortage.”
Mr. Churchill said that outside the air
the enemy “retains the initiative.” It
may, he said, “seem likely now that we
shall bring in several million more tons
of foodstuffs and supplies than I men-
tioned privately to the House early in
the year,” and that Britain is “within
measurable distance of receiving the
benefit of that immense flood of Ameri-
can shipbuilding which, together with
our own production, we look to to carry
us through 1942.” But he warned:
I deprecate premature rejoicing oyer
these considerable facts, and I indulge in
no sanguine prediction about the future....
We must expect that enemy U-boat warfare
supported by scores of Focke-Wulfs [/.£.,
the big four-engined sea-bombers which
were built to match the Sunderlands] will
be intensified... .We must not relax for
one instant.
Mr. Churchill’s statement of the sea-
war position was confirmed by Mr. Bevin,
Labor Minister, who said that Britain
was losing fewer ships in three months
than in one month previously, but “this
must not be regarded as an indication
that Britain had mastered or even effec-
tively combated the U-boats.” The fall
in losses of merchant ships in July and
August “certainly was not due to Ger-
many’s losses of U-boats.” Probably one
main reason for the lull was “German
preparation for a complete change in sea-
war tactics.” Many German submarines
(said Mr. Bevin) had been recalled to take
part in large-scale manoeuvres in the
Baltic. He believed that this might be to
familiarise the commanders and crews


Missing Friends.
Estate of Rebecca Adams, Deceased.
ANY person knowing past or present where-
abouts of OSCAR BROWN, a son of Sarah
Brown, deceased, and a nephew of Rebecca
Adams, deceased, please communicate with the
BALLARAT TRUSTEES COMPANY, Malop
Street, Geelong, Victoria.
ESTATE OF ARCHIBALD JENKINS
Deceased, Intestate.
WILL LILLIAN MORTON, daughter of the
said Archibald Jenkins, or anyone knowing her
whereabouts, please communicate with the
undersigned?—W. B. GEDDES, Public Trustee,
14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1442 of 1941.
BETWEEN FLORENCE JOHANNA ANNA-
BEL COWELL Petitioner and
HERBERT FREDERICK SIDNEY COWELL
Respondent.
TO HERBERT FREDERICK SIDNEY
COWELL late of Grafton in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said FLORENCE
JOHANNA ANNABEL COWELL has com-
menced a suit against you in this Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse. AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Twenty-
fourth day of December One thousand nine
hundred and forty-one and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-sixth day of September
One thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
COLIN M. POLLACK, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, Grafton, N.S.W.; Sydney Agents,
SMITHERS, WARREN & LYONS, Solicitors,
169 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
with a new strategy in accordance with
which the vessels would hunt in large
packs and make mass attacks.
There are some signs that this policy
already is being tentatively employed. It
could be made very deadly until Britain’s
expansion in numbers of long-distance
seaplanes and destroyers produces
mastery.
From Changsha to Singapore.
“Fong Tsz”: The northern arm of the
Japanese Army attacking at Changsha
found itself grabbed suddenly by the
wrist eight miles from the city by a
superior Chungking force under General
Hsueh Yueh.
According to the Japanese, who
actually occupied at least part of bomb-
blackened Changsha for four days, there
was a “voluntary withdrawal” after a
“series of smashing victories,” when the
unsporting Chinese insisted in throwing
600.000 troops on the neck of only
100.000 Japanese.
The Chinese story is that in a 48-hour
battle 40,000 Nipponese were killed and
wounded and 130,000 encircled.
The Japanese spokesman remarked that
if the Chinese “reappeared in the Changsha
area” the Japanese would “occupy the
city again,” and would not even stop at
“assaulting Chungking itself.”
Discussions between President Roose-
velt and Admiral Nomura seem to have
reached a temporary stalemate, though
it was reported from Shanghai that Presi-
dent Roosevelt’s reply to Prince Konoye’s
note has been handed in at Tokyo.
Japan informed the Dutch East Indies
that continuing supplies of large quan-
tities of oil and other materials to the
U.S.S.R., while refusing to supply to
Japan, would “be considered an un-
friendly act.”
Early last week Saigon French Radio
complained of the “illegal” arrests of
Indo-China citizens by Japanese military
police as an infringement of French
sovereignty and of the agreement be-
tween Japan and Vichy. Next, the French
Colonial Government issued a gazette
which asserted that a “full report on
Japan’s infringements of the occupation
agreement”—there was allegedly looting
in the Chinese quarter of Ftanoi, apart
from the arrests —had been sent to Vichy
with a. request that a protest be made to
the Japanese Government.
The arrests had been considered the
more serious because some of the victims
were Chinese consular officials, who were
arrested within their own consulate
grounds by Japanese soldiers, also accused
of taking away consulate property. Vichy
was prompt to offer the Chungking
Chinese Government its “deep regrets.”
It described the Japanese soldiers’ actions
as “outrages.”
On October 3 it was announced that
the Japanese had retaliated by seizing all
the main private commercial warehouses
in Saigon. A serious position obviously
was growing there. At the week-end
Japanese troops in Indo-China had begun
large-scale manoeuvres.
The United States Ambassador to
Japan, Mr. Grew, had a long conference
with the Japanese Foreign Minister, Ad-
miral Toyoda, after which the Admiral
saw the Emperor.
At Singapore a conference was attended
by Air Chief Marshal Brooke-Popham
(British C.-in-C., Far East), Vice-Admiral
Geoffrey Layton (C.-in-C., China Station),
Mr. Duff Cooper, who will shortly visit
Australia, the Governor-General of the
Straits Settlements (Sir Shenton Thomas),
the British Ambassador to China (Sir
Archibald Clarke Kerr), Dr. Earle Page
and the British Minister to Thailand (Sir
Josiah Crosby). They issued no report,
but Minister Crosby said afterwards that
he fully believed the expressed determina-
tion of Thailand to remain neutral to be
“sincere and genuine,” and pointedly re-
marked that the numbers of Japanese in
Thailand were large and increasing. The
British C.-in-C. afterwards visited the
Philippines.
Both Air-Marshal Brooke Popham and
Vice-Admiral Layton have since made
blunt statements about the defensive posi-
tion and the determination of Britain to
prevent penetration by Japan further
southward.
Vice-Admiral Layton said:
We do not want war in the Pacific, but
we intend to fight if any of our territories
is threatened. Obviously an attack on the
Dutch East Indies would be of immediate
concern to us, as it would jeopardise our
lifeline to Australia. I hope the Americans
are coming to realise that they would
have to go begging to Japan for rubber or
tin if Japan ever gains control of Malaya.
He added that the defences of Singa-
pore were being strengthened day by day
by new air and naval facilities, and that
troops were “coming in so fast that we
do not know where to put them.”
Talk of Peace.
“Ente Marid”: Europe has been
strangely full of peace talk. It began in
Sofia with a suggestion that Hitler had
offered Stalin a peace “on very advan-
tageous terms,” and that it had not then
been rejected. At the same time, talk
of war between Bulgaria and U.S.S.R.
died.
On October 1, Losovsky, the Russian
spokesman, said it was “merely an
attempt to allay anxiety in Italy and Ger-
many about Axis losses.”
The rumor cropped up again in
Ankara, Stockholm and Washington.
Lord Halifax said that information re-
ceived from the British and U.S. delega-
tions in Moscow flatly contradicted the
yarn. Simultaneously, Berlin Radio
remarked, without relating its edict to
the story, that there “could be no peace
with Bolshevism, which must be
destroyed.”
On Oct. 5, French Radio reported
that, speaking at the opening of the
Lyons Fair—where one of his walking-
sticks had been auctioned for 140,000
francs—Marshal Petain had said that if
America made an effort for peace
France would follow with all her might.
He asked what better service could the
United States give the world than to try
to restore peace, a move in which Mr.
Roosevelt, he said, would have the sup-
port of the Pope. The new German
envoy who has been established in occu-
pied France warned that his appointment
must “not be interpreted as a peace move.”
And Mr, Myron Taylor, Mr. Roosevelt’s
emissary to the Vatican, has returned
from Europe “with important informa-
tion for the President,” after visiting
England and Ireland and acting, accord-
ing to the New York “Times,” as the
“key man in confidential negotiations with
the Pope.”
New and Deadly.
“Aileron”: The new British fighter
’planes—pictures and details have reached
Australia—must give the Luftwaffe Com-
mand nightmare.
American papers are a little stunned
in their criticisms. New York “Daily
Mirror” printed a photograph of the
latest Spitfire and commented:
Slow to learn that a fighter needs at least
eight machine-guns in the wings, the U.S.
Army Air Corps brain-trust still lags behind
the parade in adopting air cannon for the
wings. Two months ago they said: “It
can’t be done.” The answer is above—a
Spitfire with two cannon in the wings.
Britain designs killers.
That Spitfire certainly looks a killer.
It seems to have been given greater
wingspread, and, though the calibre of
the two cannon are not made public,
they are at least 20mm. —four-fifths of
an inch—besides the usual complement
of assorted .303 machine-guns. It will
be bad for anything less than a heavy
bomber with armor which finds this piece
of work hurtling towards it, though the
Spitfire is actually inferior to the new
Bristol Beau, which brings the fighter into
the weight and power and range class of
the Blenheims and Lockheeds,
The Beau is something to make a
fighter pilot of 1939 gasp. It has a wing-
spread of 58ft., weighs 21,0001 b. loaded,
has a range of 1500 miles and does 330
m.p.h. at 14,000 ft. It carries four
20mm. Hispano-Suiza cannon and six
Browning machine-guns its bursts
should be at the rate of about 8000-9000
rifle bullets and 800-1200 20mm. shells
per minute. Its horse-power is almost
equal to that of a four-engined, 32-
passenger commercial flying boat —about
2900 h.p. Production of this machine in
quantity will clear the air of western
Germany of a lot of rubbish and make
fighter escorts possible for bombers rang-
ing as far afield as Bremen and Hamburg
—and, at a pinch, Berlin.
The first German pilots who met Beaus
over the Channel Coast never knew what
hit them. They were wiped out.
Major-General Northcott, G.O.C. of
the new armored division —the first in
the A.I.F. —is to consult at first hand
with General Blarney about arrangements
and equipment for the division when it
lands in the Middle East. Colonel Ander-
son, senior administrative officer, will be
present at the consultations. The A.D.
has been put together, men and materiel
alike, in record time. Most of the equip-
ment bears the label “Made in Aus-
tralia,” and the Royal Tank Corps officer
who was imported to command the tank
and armored schools at Pukkapunyal
and Seymour (Vic.) says that human
material which has gone into the making
of the division is without superior,
physically or in intelligence, in any army
in the world. The training has been com-
pleted in virtually record time.
* * * *
The R.A.A.F. squadron, operating over
the English Channel in September, for
the second month running put up the
highest score of destroyed enemy
machines in the British Fighter Command
—which includes British, N.Z., Canadian,
Indian, U.S., Free French, Polish, Czech
and Belgian squadrons. The squadron
bagged 18 Messerschmitts. Scores; Finu-
cane, five; Truscott, four; Chisholm,
three; Stuart, Willis, Thorold Smith,
Douglas—an R.A.F. man born in Mel-
bourne, now promoted squadron-leader
and seconded to another squadron—Dun-
stan and Wawn, one each. The squadron
lost five pilots, of whom A. K. Try (Syd-
ney) and A. R. Stuart (Brisbane) are re-
ported prisoners. Three newcomers have
joined—David Downes (Brownlow Hill,
Camden), Ross Williams (Sydney) and
Jack Morrison (Grafton). Finucane, the
lone Irishman who tutors the squadron,
will be 21 on October 16 and has brought
down 20 enemy machines.
* * * *
An Axis raider or U-boat has sunk
another U.S.-owned ship—the tanker
I. C. White, 7050 tons —450 miles off
Pernambuco. There are reports from
Rio de Janeiro that a U.S. naval force
had caught the raider and that a naval
battle was in progress off the Bahia
coast.
Another batch of the A.T.F., naval and
other units have been landed at Singa-
pore. “All well and full of fight” is the
report,
♦ * * *
“Ek Dum”: A great deal of reorgani-
sation is in progress in the Middle East
with the growth of armies. The defence
line is now as long as that in Russia —
1300 miles from the Libyan border in
a continuous barrier to every possible
avenue of approach to Suez, Iran and
India from Europe. Troops of every kind
are included—A.l.F., British, S. Africans,
Indians, Free French—who have gained
an accession of 20,000 volunteers from
Syria and the French colonies —Poles,
Greeks, Yugoslavs, Danes. The armies
have been divided into two zones,
western and eastern. General Henry
Maitland Wilson, who commanded the
Libyan and Syrian drives, has taken over
the eastern, but there is no word at time
of writing of the name of a western
C.-in-C. It is reported from Cairo that
General Blarney is representing strongly
that the A.I.F. should fight as a corps,
as was originally intended that it should
when it reached corps strength Today
—its second birthday fell on Oct. 7—the
new A.I.F. is the largest Dominion force
serving away from its homeland.
♦ * * *
The spearhead of the British air offen-
sive in the last week has been against
Channel ports and the German ports
dealing with supplies for the German
armies attacking Russia. Hamburg and
Stettin have been attacked night after
night. Italian industrial centres have
come in for fairly frequent pastings. In
the week-end the Bomber Command
heavily attacked Dunkirk, Rotterdam,
Antwerp and Brest and Aalborg aero-
drome in northern Denmark.
* * * •
There have been several sorties from
Tobruk in the last few days, and the
usual ranging of aircraft on both sides
in nightly attacks. The Germans
bombed Tobruk and Mersah Matruh, and
British bombing was concentrated on
Benghazi and, late in the week, on Bardia
and its surroundings. But the greatest
Mediterranean activity has been along
sea supply lines.
* * * *
“Ek D.”; Our Mr. Spender had been
interesting himself in, and praising, a
Tommy-gun designed by a young N.S.W.
plasterer. Good luck to the inventor if
he has the goods. A few of the weapons
have been made, and one was tried on
the range in the presence of the Minister,
some unnamed experts and the press. It
seems like a miracle if an efficient gun
which will do the work of the “Tommy”
can be made for between £6 and £lO,
as is stated. Machine-guns and sub-
machine-guns hitherto have been compli-
cated affairs, and as chancy as film stars ;
the Bren has something like 1800 parts
in it. If the Owen gun is all Mr. Spender
says he believes it is, the inventor could
find a market for it in U.S.A. which would
put him beyond dependence on Govern-
ments ; but final judgment is for experts
—not merely one but several in different
branches—and they are not likely to be
able to pass judgment as easily as Mr.
Spender. The tests of a gun’s efficiency
and suitability for military usage are
prolonged and drastic, and highly tech-
nical and scientific.
* * *
Officially announced that, after 10
months’ operations, the R.A.A.F. squad-
ron in the Middle East destroyed 94
enemy aircraft, probably destroyed
another 19, and 70 are known to have
been so badly smashed by it that they
were almost certainly unrepairable. The
squadron has been at work continuously
during its 10 months’ existence, save for
two short rest periods, and, apart from
actual destruction, it has carried out in-
cessant reconnaissance duties and filled
in its spare moments with ground straf-
ing. Its biggest bag was 14 American
Glenn Martins of the French Syrian Air
Force. The R.A.A.F. was then flying
Curtiss Tomahawks, but its whole record
needs to be appraised in the light of the
fact that the early successes were made
in obsolescent biplanes competing against
the most modern products of Italian war
factories.
* * * *
Donald Cameron, chairman of the
N. S. Wales R.A.A.F. recruiting com-
mittee, an old Light Horse commander,
has broken loose on recruiting:
Air Force recruiting is in a healthy con-
dition; A.I.F. recruiting is not.... The
mighty flow we expected is little more than
a trickle. Did 65,000 men give their lives
in the last war that their sons and nephews
and friends should placidly look on from
afar while civilisation goes to the very
devil? lam driven unwillingly to the
belief that the gaps in the ranks of the
A.I.F. are a scathing indictment an ugly
stain on the heritage our forefathers handed
down to us.
The Government has it in its hands to
save old soldiers from the pain and em-
barrassment of having to make pro-
nouncements of this sort, and young men
from having to listen to them.
* * * *
Ex-Army Minister Spender took steps
to prevent the improper sale of A.I.F.
badges and color patches. In future
buyers will have to establish their bona
fides with a pay book. It should have
been done a couple of years ago—for
all Mr. Spender knows, the whole of
Hitler’s Schwarze Korps may be equipped
with A.I.F. insignia by this time.
* * * *
“Aileron”: Sydney “Sun” is staggered:
The Soviet replied to the Nazi air attacks
on Moscow by hurling these giant, six-
motored bombers at Berlin, with what
devastating results the world has learnt,
despite rigid German censorship. The
great ships should perform a paralysing
role as nights lengthen in winter.
The picture which occasioned this en-
thusiasm is of an ancient A.T.N. 20
converted passenger liner, designed round
1935 —by contemporary standards about
the same as the clumsy old Fokker in
which Smith and Ulm flew the Pacific
in ’2B. It has neither the ceiling to climb
out of A.A. range nor the speed—top
about 170 m.p.h.— to run away, nor
economical bomb-carrying capacity. Its
wing loading is about 16.6 pound per sq.
foot against the modern bomber’s 401 b.,
and the picture shows it to be unarmed
for’ard and both unarmed and incapable
of being emergency armed astern. Any
Short Sunderland commander who en-
gaged it would be asked to resign from
his clubs for shooting at a sitting bird.


i
i
0
i
i
V
ROLLS RAZOR
We can recommend with every confidence this modern
English Safety Razor, knowing the quality of the
material and the standard of the workmanship. Has
a hollow-ground blade and fitted with hone and strop.
Complete in strong nickel-plated presentation case,
57/6
Extra Blades, Hone and Strops Available.
Mail your order immediately, as stocks
are limited.
Pike tfictheiJ
LIMITED
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Every shave
perfect shave
with a
MB
3248
FOR THE COUNTRYMAN.
SPECIALLY
PRICED AT
52/6
HOW’S THIS FOR VALUE?
Here’s one of the finest boot values ever offered
the countryman. As wonderful wearing as it
is comfortable. Double Soles, Ooze Calf
Uppers, with reinforced Elastic in sides and
Leather lining throughout. Priced at only 52/6,
this strong country boot is obtainable in a full
range of sizes and half sizes with wide and
extra-wide fittings. Order TODAY.
ABBEY
SHOES
316 George St., Sydney
324 Pitt St., Sydney
SUNDRY SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Robert’s Wife”
When Edwin Styles stalked on to the
stage at Sydney Minerva dressed as a
parson the first-night audience naturally
burst into laughter. But instead of tell-
ing the one about Mrs. Wannamaker, as
at the Tiv., or stripping off his hassock
(cassock?) and capering about in a shirt
as on his last Minerva appearance, Styles
smiled the sad smile of one who knew
he would be misunderstood and pro-
ceeded to be not the Comic Parson but
a perfectly serious one.
An intelligent, enthusiastic, up-to-date
cleric, seriously disturbed at the falling-
off of congregations ; seriously perturbed
at the antics of his pacifist son ; a little
worried by the fact that his doctor wife
insists on her separate career; uncertain
that he has really done the right thing
in insisting that Mrs. Jones’s estimable
(though apparently half-witted) boy Dick
should marry the unpleasant young per-
son whom he has got into trouble ; re-
sembling the conventional stage parson
only in the one rather contradictory
point that he’s too guileless to spot that
his devoted parish-worker, Miss Orley is
in love with him.
All these plots, sub-plots and counter-
plots, coupled with the metamorphosis of
Edwin Styles, had the audience puzzled
in the first interval. It is, in fact, a bad
first act, having no momentum to carry
it into the second. Nobody could be cer-
tain which of the themes was the main
one, nor that any of them were going to
be of dramatic importance ; and there
still remained the possibility that the
whole thing would blow up into comedy.
There was always a chance that the vicar
would run away with Mrs. Jones or that
Dick would murder the bishop.
But nothing like that happened. The
piece developed into moderately interest-
ing discussion on religion, life, politics,
love, etc., with the conflict of the hus-
band’s and wife’s careers as the centre of
interest. Gradually it corrected the im-
pression that it had been cho-sen because
Styles, hankering like all comedians to
play serious roles, had been secretly
yearning for years to be a parson : the
management must have selected it for
the full-length, vital role it gave to Marie
Burke as the wife.
The clergyman was not quite Edwin’s
style, but he managed very well. Marie
Burke was excellent. Lifelike character
studies came from Ethel Gabriel as th e
sorrowing Mrs. Jones ; Kathleen Robin-
son as the faithful Miss Orley ; from
Muriel Steinbeck and Natalie Simon,
Frederick McMahon was so good as the
sinister but gentlemanly High Church
clergyman who opposes Robert’s wile
(and has been so amusing in lighter roles
at the Minerva) that he seems due for
a part that will let him stay on the stage
for considerably longer than the five
minutes he does,
* * * *
When “The Sorcerer” turned up at
Melbourne His Majesty’s the audience
seemed lo i ose the customary air of
a religious service and re-
u ° tb ~ nn i n c Q f
ponded to the music “d thejimps ot
Mr. Menzies with a m t
taneous feeling than at custom y
nights. The music was gay and ietcmng,
the libretto was suitably polysyllabic and
the story as Gilbertian as anybody could
wish for. Conductor Packer, producer
Nightingale, the orchestra and the players,
judging by the crispness of their per-
formance, were gratified to have some-
thing net 0w ’ t0 get tbe j r teet h into. Gregory
Stroud was an excellent Sir Marmaduke
p o i n tdextre and Maxwell Oldaker was
tune f u i as the Grenadier Guardsman ;
Richard Watson gave a sound perform-
ance ag the vicar? and E ve ly n Gardiner as
Lad Sangazure ’ W as a billowing mass of
gatin with a bi u owy contralto. Viola
WJI was the we n. Voiced, if innocuous,
Abne
* * * *
nf
J he . , ,^ ic f n i J Town Hill (Handel
Messiah at Sydney
scored the final bar on £ ' ’ th ’
having taken 24 days t P
whole oratorio) was under• • •
pices, Bernard Hemze conduct! g
Sydney Symphony Orchestra an e
Hurlstone Choral Society singers. W
appeared likely to be the usual per ui -
tory and wearisome ritual exercis
brightened up and took on life paring
the end, with Stanley Clarkson s splen
delivery w hy Do the People,
best bit of Handehan singing Sy ney
heard for a decade. F ™ m , tFen
wards there was some zest and gusto m
the atmosphere and *e Hallelu ah
Chorus” had uplifting quality. Heddie
Nash, tenor, and Evelyn Hall, contralto,
acquitted themselves fairly. Thea Phillips,
soprano, seemed unsympathetic.
♦ * * *
One fancies that “Accent on Youth,”
Adelaide Repertory’s latest success, was
written to help the American author
Raphaelson assure himself that he isn t
really old at 50. For the hero also is a
playwright of that age, and irresistible to
women, though always liable to forget all
about a midnight elopement if he gets a
sudden inspiration at 11 p.m. Then,
when he is ready actually to marry one
of them, but finds a “dumb” youth crazy
about her, the veteran can’t resist giving
him a lesson in lovemaking, and sees her
carried off before his eyes. But she comes
back later, having found athletic Youth
boring even on a honeymoon. Though
purely of the stage, the play gives a fine
chance to the experienced Robert
Matthews (his wife, well known as
Muriel Marks, was producer) and to Joy
Watson, who adds unsuspected power to
her youthful charm. Good support by
Donald Noblet, Sweeney and Lowe.
* * * *
There was a remarkable example of an
individual triumphing over his conditions
at the concert at Melbourne Town Hall
in aid of the Association for the Advance-
ment of the Blind. George Findlay, the
sightless musician, conducted the associa-
tion’s choir in a series of numbers, in-
cluding “The Dance” of Elgar, and
accompanied Thea Phillips when she
sang “The Blackbird,” a song of his
own composition.
* * * *
Friedman finished his account with
Melbourne at the Town Hall last week,
and the largest audience of the season
listened to another all-Chopin pro-
gramme, including the sonata with the
famous funeral march in it.
ARTBURSTS
Old gnarled oaks and seedlings are bud-
ding simultaneously at the Victorian
Artists’ Society’s show in Melbourne.
Some of the saplings look as if they had
already been ringbarked by their training,
and the old guard appear more rigidly
set in their ways than ever. A few
of the young ones look as if they were
still springing. In “Grey Day, Gipps-
land,” E. L. Fraser has been trying to
say something about what he saw before
him, as also S. W. Spence in “The Second
Crop.” But most of the moderns
look as if they were trying to remember
something they had read in a book or
seen in an art journal. Dorothea Francis
applies geometry to houses, and Alan
E, Warren applies it to the human
figure. Gwendolyn Grant’s study of cane-
cutters in the blinding light of N. Queens-
land has some kick about it. The society
still maintains its chamber of horrors in
the vestibule, though Alfred Dunstan’s
“Winter Morning, Frankston,” shouldn’t
be in that galley. Amongst the black-
and-whites P. J. Gare and Alan E. Warren
draw nudes less traditionally than is usual
amongst V.A.S. draughtsmen. In “Scud-
ding Storm” John Rowell has shaken off
his usual style and got a trifle looser.
* * * *
Unusually good is the spring show of
S.A.’s Society of Arts, without very much
inter-State help, though Dora Wilson
deserts the human vertebrae for the upper
end of Collins-street. Will Rowell has
a powerful mountain from Queensland,
and Loxton, a newcomer, two or three
things, all good. Among the locals, Whin-
nen, Webber and Ragless are as usual
prominent. This show carries the Mel-
rose prize for figure, and it goes this
year to Nora Heysen with a powerful
“Mother and Child” ; the versatile lady
has a fine flower-piece, too. Webb, Mc-
Cubbin and Millward Gray did the judg-
ing, and the society’s prize for oils goes
to Max Ragless with a Rundle-street
study, that for water-color to T. H. Bone
with gum-trees. The National Gallery
has bought a heavy farm scene by Mar-
jorie Gwynne. These last two decisions
have caused some comment.
* * * *
The Le Meilleur Studio cafe in Collins-
street continues to bring art to the diners ;
William Spence is the latest up for in-
spection with a show of water-colors. He
has an eye for the obviously picturesque
and a neat way of putting it on paper.
“The Haunt of Early Artists” has historic
interest. It is the remains of the Eagle-
mont house where the Lindsays, Streeton,
Tom Roberts and others forgathered.
AT THE TALKIES
“A Woman’s Face,” at Sydney Liberty,
belongs to Joan Crawford ; it’s a horribly
scarred phiz done up to look something
like that of Frankenstein’s monster and
has had the psychological effect of turn-
ing poor Joan into a vicious criminal,
blackmail being her main racket. A
plastic surgeon catches her when she calls
to sell his wife some incriminating letters,
becomes interested in her case and effects
a complete reconstruction of her dial,
turning her into the familiar, moon-eyed
Joan. Her soul, or whatever it is, then
has to catch up with her face, which it
does when she shoots a fellow-criminal
to prevent him disposing of a cheild who
stands in his way of inheriting a fortune.
Story is effectively told in the flash-back
method from a courtroom where Joan is
on trial for murder, each of the witnesses
contributing his or her part of the
narrative. Conrad Veidt turns in his
usual polished performance as the fellow-
criminal, Melvyn Douglas is the surgeon,
Osa Massen his philandering missus,
Albert Basserman good as the steel mag-
nate whose grandson is nearly disposed
of, and Reginald Owen as capable as ever
as one of Joan’s hirelings. Good enter-
tainment for them that likes such fare,
the film is extravagantly presented and
made with the technical excellence of
most M.-G.-M. shows, though a Con-
tinental studio would have made it better
at a fraction of the cost by substituting
artistic feeling for the technical brilliance.
* * * •
“Sunny,” at Sydney Regent, is the third
of a string of screen versions of popular
musicomedies, with Anna Neagle as
leading lady, and is tip-top light enter-
tainment, The Neagle does these parts
with effortless ease, and this time has
John Carroll as her beau. Carroll’s voice
has a pleasing richness, and he handles
the familiar “Sunny” tunes in great style.
Story is as piffling as most musicomedies
are, but it serves its purpose in a lightly-
entertaining film. |
* * * *
“Adam Had Four Sons,” at Sydney
State, and he got ’em a bewchus gover-
ness from Sweden and she brought ’em
up to be fine young men. And Adam’s
wife died and Adam, being a stockbroker,
went broke and the governess had to be
returned to Sweden. And Adam made
his fortune again, the governess returned
and the 1914-18 war broke out and some
of Adam’s sons went, one of them leav-
ing behind a wife who was bad and who
seduced another of the sons. And the
governess took the blame to save Adam’s
feelings. And there was great travail
in Adam’s house and the governess was
nearly booted therefrom, but the erring
son confessed his sins and Adam married
the governess... It’s something like that,
anyway, with Warner Baxter as Adam
and Ingrid Bergman as the governess.
It’s Miss Bergman’s second appearance
and, though she hasn’t much opportunity,
she still shows out as one of the most
promising of recent additions to the
screen.
* * * *
A good cast —Robert Young, Laraine
Day and Tom Conway —and first-class
production all round stage a losing fight
with a stereotyped plot in “The Trial of
Maiy Dugan” at Sydney Capitol. Even
the plot makes one or two valiant efforts,
but the last act—a fantastic trial of the
goil wronged by society—proves too
much. An example, however, and with
it is “The Great Swindle,” with Jack Holt
on the trail of an insurance-fraud fire-
bug. Surely no more horrible thought
could beset a criminal than that Jack
Holt, massive jaw and all, was hot on
the trail.


SPORTING NOTIONS SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVEUNESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
An attendance of 80,000 at Randwick
on Saturday was the highest for many
years, and it was even more difficult to
get about the paddock than at Fleming-
ton on a Melbourne Cup day. As A.J.C.
profits go to war funds all-round satis-
faction was expressed at the unusual
patronage. The totalisator turnover was
£92,852 15s. for six races, against £80,560
for seven on Derby day last year. The
Epsom alone was responsible for £25,486
15s. It would be interesting to know
how much the books handled, but, while
information on that score is unlikely to
be forthcoming, it is safe to assume that
the amount completely dwarfed the tote
turnover. The big bets receiving press
mention would alone warrant that
assumption, and some day or other they
may set some Government wondering
whether the tote alone would not give
the State a much greater revenue than
the present dual system.
The Epsom was a remarkable betting
race, with four horses —Freckles, Rim-
veil, Evergreen and High Caste—at prices
ranging from 2 to 1 to 5 to 1, and nothing
else shorter than 14 to 1. Freckles firmed
from threes to twos, and his failure was
a triumph for those critics who all along
contended the last furlong would find
him wanting. Quickly in the lead from
Panchio, Valve, Trade Mark and Session,
he led into the straight from Session,
Valve, Panchio and High Caste. Still
clear at the leger Freckles’s backers were
commencing to congratulate themselves,
but then High Caste could be seen
charging through on the rails. He had
to go round Freckles, but, disposing of
him in short order, looked a certain
winner.
Then Rimveil, who was a long way
back for the first five furlongs, and
tenth or eleventh turning into the straight,
loomed up on the outside, and, with a
phenomenal run, headed High Caste in
the last few strides. His effort was
reminiscent of his Villiers Stakes win,
when he came from a seemingly impos-
sible position at the home turn. He is
another instance of the luck of yearling-
buying, costing only 80gns. at that age.
High Caste, though beaten, ran a great
race, and not only will he be hard to
down in today’s Craven Plate but must
be given a first-class chance in the Caul-
field Cup, in which, with 9.7, he has the
same weight he carried when second to
Remarc in last year’s Williamstown Cup.
Amiable could not have looked better,
and, in getting third, ran right up to her
best recent form. She is something more
than a possibility for the Cantala with 8.9.
She is also in Saturday’s Toorak Handi-
cap. Tuhitarata, who was slow in find-
ing his legs, and was one of the last three
at the half-mile, came home so strongly
that it was by a narrow margin he missed
a place. As he is evidently getting better
with each run he may pick up a race be-
fore the close of the meeting. High
Rank, who did much better than the
previous week, was not far from the lead-
ing four, and Merrimba also made an ex-
cellent showing in company that was
generally regarded as too good for him.
Panchio was prominent for seven fur-
longs, but the eighth was one too many.
Next to Freckles, Evergreen was the
greatest disappointment of the race.
Drawn wide out, he was not ahead of
more than four horses after going
two furlongs, and then a check near
the half-mile, when moving up with
High Caste, sent him back again.
In the straight Munro made an unavailing
effort to get a run through, and Evergreen
wound up seventh. As he and Rimveil
were fairly close together rounding the
turn it will be gathered that his effort
did not approach that of the former.
After doing well for six furlongs Session
and Valve could not see it out, and All
Veil never got in it. Trade Mark, In-
dustry and Algerian were outclassed,
though the first-named showed pace,
and Hydra lost many lengths at bar- (
rier-rise. The time, 1.36, was a quarter- j
second slower than the record for the
race made by High Caste last year,
......
Trained by G. Allen for S. Buckley,
Rimveil is by Veilmond from Rima, by
Backwood from Love Comedy, by
Comedy King from Amoureuse, by
Wallace.
„ * * *, . *, ,
McLean was somewhat unlucky
n( ?J to h ave vvon \ ast yf ar s A.J.C. Derby
wdh , Lucrative, but Laureate compen-
sated that disappointment, and now
reads bke a V iP tona Derby winner and
a Melbourne Cup proposition In the
R o^ ll Guineas he was the only runner
that finished like a staying possibility,
and m Saturday s race he bore out the
“fpression then formed Always well
P lac ® d Laureate was fourth or fifth enter-
! ng j he u straight. A furlong from home
5* > dashed aad ’ h . eadin S Chatham’s
Choice, went on to win by a little over
two lengths from Galhard, who ran sur-
prisingly well, and would have made a
closer finish of it only for having to be
checked inside the last furlong when
Chatham's Choice hung in. But even
if "lore favored by luck in running
Oallinvd could not have beaten Laureate,
......
On Thursday Laureate galloped so dis-
appointingly in company with The
Champion that subsequently a vet. was
called in to see whether there was any-
thing amiss with him. The report was
satisfactory, but McCarten, naturally
being influenced by the gallop, cautioned
the owner against indulging in anything
like a plunge on him.
•
Yaralla disposed of any idea that he
could stay, and is unlikely to go to Mel-
bourne. He and Chatham’s Choice were
close together in the lead from the mile
post until turning for home. Yaralla
collapsed commencing the last furlong,
a nd though Chatham’s Choice shifted
about just at the end he was beaten only
a head for second by the faster-finishing
Galliard. It’s Funny ran well to get
fourth, but never looked like a winner ;
while The Champion, after being second-
ast living the straight and still a long
wa Y back at the seven furlongs post, was
then used rather freely to be third to
Yaralla and Chatham’s Choice at the
half-mile. There still seemed hope for
b™ as a place-getter entering the straight,
but that he weakened over the last fur-
lon § was not surprising.
There was a fair gap between It’s
Funny and Thrax, who was fifth, but, as
the latter was doing better at the winning-
post than anything behind him, he may
later win distance handicaps. Beau Son
did not even do as well as in his previous
races this season, and A. E. Cooper, who
gave 3500gns.< for him as a yearling,
should account himself lucky in not now
being his owner. Prince and The Bailiff,
who represented B. Payten’s stable, did
not give any trouble, and the fact of the
former losing ground through getting on
to another runner’s heels did not cost
him a chance of gaining a place. Nothing
favorable can be written of the Mel-
bourne colts Lugano, Murmuring, Cloudy
Bay and Basalt.
It was McCarten’s fourth A.J.C. Derby
win. His first was on Ballymena in 1923,
and then followed Ammon Ra and Theo.
Owner R. W. McLean has had a good
innings in classic races during the past
year. Lucrative failed in the A.J.C.
Derby, but then won the Caulfield
Guineas, Victoria Derby and A.J.C. St.
Leger. Now Laureate has the Rosehili
Guineas and A.J.C. Derby to his credit.
Lucrative collected the Sydney Cup
also. He has proved a profitable pur-
chase as a yearling, and Laureate has
given a great return for his 600gns.
The time, 2.32, was a half-second
behind Phar Lap’s record for the race.
The fastest part was the last half-mile,
that being run in 50sec. against the first
mile in 1.42.
H. Freedman trains Laureate, who is
by Law Maker (Phalaris-Book Law, by
Buchan) from Stage Wit, by Whittier
from Stage Girl, by Comedy King from
Petruvia, by Stepniak.
Beau Vite was much too good for his
Colin Stephen Stakes opponents. Read-
ing made the early running at a
comparatively easy pace, but Beau Vite
was never far away, and not much in
advance of Lucrative and Pandect. At
the top of the straight Beau Vite had
Reading beaten, and experienced no diffi-
culty in stalling off Lucrative and Pandect
when they attempted to get on terms with
him inside the last furlong. The surprise
was Dashing Cavalier. After being
second-last up to the three furlongs, he
came home so well that he cut Lucrative
out of second money. There was only
a head between them, and, in fourth posi-
tion, Pandect was about half a neck
further away. The time, 2.32|, was three-
quarters of a second slower than that
put up by Laureate in the Derby.
There was an unusually large field for
a Randwick Hurdle Race, and after he
took up the running from Berrima and
Punarua at the end of the first mile
Royal Sceptre “chanced” a couple of
jumps, nearly getting rid of Hynes, He
also ran about at the last two jumps in
the straight, but lasted long enough to
win from Lithgow, who made up a lot of
ground over the final half-mile.
Up to the turn only Punarua looked
like troubling Royal Sceptre, but he tired
in the run home. At Randwick the previ-
ous Thursday Royal Sceptre ran a better
mile than most of the flat-racers, and
Punarua did one of the best five-fur-
longs gallops. Generous Gesture, who
shared favoritism with Royal Sceptre,
was fourth, but was never doing well
enough to suggest success, while Berrima
tired three furlongs from home. Mag
Mort made up a lot of ground to finish
fifth after being last for a long way.
If he runs today he and Lithgow should
be best worth backing of Saturday’s
beaten division. Mag Mort is also
engaged at the V.R.C. meeting.
*•••••
Lo Dokes showed his customary pace
in the Trial Stakes, but, though first into
the straight from Patrician, Rhythmic and
Dundalk, he could not come on when
challenged by Lambeth and then Red
Pete. Lambeth, who looked a winner
when he ran up to Lo Dokes after pass-
ing the leger, blundered slightly at the
crossing, and in a rattling finish was nar-
rowly defeated by Red Pete, a lightly-
framed son of Peter Pan. A little while
ago Red Pete was credited with being a
Metropolitan possibility, but he was with-
drawn from that race consequent on his
moderate showing in the Red Cross Cup.
Lo Dokes got very tired just at the
end, while, after being bustled most of
the way, Dundalk hung on well to run
fourth. Rhythmic shaped fairly, but
Scarlet Ranger, who struck trouble, never
looked like justifying the support
accorded him. With age Patrician is not
improving as a stayer. He was Lo
Dokes’s nearest follower to the turn, and
then dropped out. Levraut was also
wanting over the last couple of furlongs,
but as Goldbrook did a little better than
in his recent races he may yet do some-
thing justifying the 1300gns. paid for
him as a yearling.
The only race thoroughly enjoyed by
the books was the Kensington Handicap,
the winner turning up in the unthought-
of Duke Cullen, whose form in the
Charity Encourage Stakes won by Lo
Dokes the previous week seemingly did
not give him the slightest chance.
Nominally at 33 to 1 in the ring, the
totalisator returned 94 to 1 about him.
Jazbeau was the early leader, lasting until
the straight was entered, where Sethia,
Kama and Rylstone were nearest him.
Sethia, who was sent to the outside at
the barrier, led commencing the final fur-
long, but, though Asnazu then looked
dangerous, Duke Cullen shot up on the
outside to score a three-quarter-length
win from Sethia. Tetreen and Diadem
were next, and close up, while Rylstone,
who was a short-priced favorite pre-
sumably because Munro had the mount
—never got further forward than fourth,
and finished eighth or ninth. Kama
again entirely failed as a stayer, while
Breeze and Rodborough both shaped suf-
ficiently well to suggest they are not yet
“has-beens.” Webster eased Micawber
shortly after entering the straight in the
belief that something had gone wrong
with him, and he finished second-last.
* * * *
The programme for the second day
opened with The Shorts, of six furlongs,
and Milanja and Dick Whittington with-
drawn left a field of seven. Winnipeg,
after two recent failures at headquarters
over seven furlongs, showed a flash of
his form of a season or so back, scoring
nicely from the Maorilander Duvach
and the three-year-old Kingsdale. With
Munro up, Winnipeg was well forward
all the way and looked a winner at the
leger. Fly showed the way to the home
turn but failed in the straight and finished
with nothing on its heels.
The Breeders’ Plate went to Bangster,
a brown colt by the Australian sire Pen-
theus-Dixie Lass, trained by W. Paul
and ridden by F. Delaney. It was an
honest win. The Pentheus colt had to
fight off repeated challenges over the last
furlong. Hall Stand, a chestnut colt by
Hall Mark-Trasina trained by B. Pay-
ten, was not far behind the winner. A
trial winner at Randwick and Kensington,
Hall Stand showed up early, dropped
back and appeared to be beaten, but came
again strongly at the finish. Third was
High Flight, a brown colt by Melfort-
Queen Balak.
At the finishing post the Metropolitan
looked almost as open as it did at the
barrier. Up the straight Lucrative was
coming through the field and at the leger
seemed to have a winning position, but
Dashing Cavalier challenged and, with
Lucrative running a little wide at the
finish, the Constant Son horse won
narrowly. Behind them Chatoona and
Triggerman fought out an equally close
finish for third money. Triggerman held
on and was slightly to the fore at the
post. Dashing Cavalier showed more
consistent than he has done, proving that
his solid second to Beau Vite over a
shorter distance in the Colin Stephen
Stakes on Saturday was a sound run.
m * * *
Many Caulfield Cup hopes were in the
melting pot at Flemington on Saturday.
Velocity, winner of the Stand Handicap
with 71b. more than his Cup weight, and
El Golea, unluckily beaten by Panka in
the Melbourne Stakes, came through with
distinction, but Tranquil Star and Rivette
were among the disappointments.
Velocity’s brilliant win was one of the
best Cup trials of the season. Time after
time in the straight he was blocked when
going for an opening, but eventually he
“bullocked” his way through and the
race was over immediately he saw day-
light. He won running away from the
consistent Sir Locket and Contact, and
although those horses will meet him re-
spectively 51b. and 71b. better next Satur-
day week it is difficult to visualise either
reversing positions with him. Velocity
gives the impression that he will con-
tinue to improve.
Excuses were possible for several
beaten horses in the Stand Handicap.
Five of the runners lost considerable
ground at the start, and the race itself
was a fairly rough affair in patches.
Velocity would have been unlucky to
lose, but Saul ran into more than his
share of trouble, and his fourth contained
considerable merit. He met the place-
getters much better than Caulfield Cup
terms, but while that race may be beyond
him he is obviously back to the form that
enabled him to win the Australian Cup
and should ?epay following. Ronolive
was in trouble most of the way, and her
failure can be overlooked, while the
Adelaide Cup winner Yodvara ran a
creditable sixth and is improving. On
Saturday, however, Yodvara carried only
11b. more than his Caulfield Cup weight.
El Golea was definitely unlucky to
have been beaten half a head by Panka
in the Melbourne Stakes. Whereas
Panka experienced a good run through-
out, and obtained an opening alongside
the rails in the straight, El Golea received
FOR RANDWICK.
THIRD DAY.
By “PILOT."
Craven Plate: Beau Vite, 1 ; High
Caste, 2 ; Mildura, 3.
Gimcrack Stakes: Hesione, 1 ;
Corroboree, 2; Angel or Good
Intentions, 3.
FOURTH DAY.
Randwick Plate: Beau Vite, 1 ;
Dashing Cavalier, 2.
FOR V.A.T.C. MEETING.
(At Flemington.)
(Before acceptances .)
1010 Trial Handicap: Frill King,
1 ; Willunga, 2 ; David Spear, 3,
Debutant Stakes (colts and geld-
ings) ; Great Britain, 1 ; Danilo, 2 ;
Gallant Gentleman, 3.
Debutante Stakes (fillies): Lady
Valiant, 1 ; Miss Understood, 2;
East End, 3.
Caulfield Guineas: Laureate, 1 ;
High Road, 2 ; Skipton, 3.
Toorak Handicap: Panka, 1 ;
Amiable, 2 ; Carpentier, 3.
Herbert Power Handicap: True
Flight, 1 ; Positron, 2 ; Billposter, 3.


a knock which sent him back several
lengths near the five furlongs. He was
behind eight or nine horses on the turn,
and after being forced to make his run
on the outside would have won in an-
other stride or two. This performance
at a mile, combined with his Mentone
Cup success at 10 furlongs, strengthened
the idea that El Golea will now not find
H mile beyond him. He carried 61b.
more than his Caulfield Cup weight on
Saturday and finished better than Car-
pentier (third), Historian (fourth) and
Tranquil Star (fifth). Carpentier drops
31b., Historian 21b. and Tranquil Star
41b. in the Cup.
Tranquil Star’s Caulfield Cup stocks
have slumped badly. She seemed to be
going easily in the lead with Gold Strand
rounding the turn, but showed no fight at
the finish, and on latest form is not the
mare she was in the autumn. Zonda did
not improve on her recent efforts, and
Rivette ran much below the form she
showed when second to Panka over a
similar distance at Moonee Valley a week
earlier. She met Panka 91b. better on
Saturday, but was never a possibility, and
finished ahead of only three of the 13
runners. Vermont did best of the six
three-year-old runners, and there are pos-
sibilities associated with him.
Panka was backed from tens down to
sevens for the Melbourne Stakes, and
although the luck of the race was with
him he emphasised the fact that he is
one of the most improved horses in
training. It was his first attempt at w.f.a.
and his third successive win, and he
appears to have a mortgage on the
Toorak Handicap next Saturday. He
drops 81b. to 8.4 in that race, and as the
Melbourne Stakes did not leave him
open to further rehandicap will start a
pronounced favorite.
All Love’s eclipse provided the sensa-
tion of the Edward Manifold Stakes, a
race for three-year-old fillies, each carry-
ing 8.7. Thought to have improved since
her failure at Moonee Valley, she was
backed from 6 to 4 against to 10 to 9 on.
All Love may not have won in any cir-
cumstances, but misfortune at the start
prejudiced her chance. Obstinate at the
barrier she was being led in by a clerk
of the course about a length behind the
line-up when the tapes rose and, declin-
ing to jump straight into her stride, she
was well back in the field after going a
couple of furlongs. All Love joined
Kelos in the lead near the half-mile and
was first into the straight, but the effort
took too much out of her and she weak-
ened into fifth position.
Primavera won the Edward Manifold
Stakes in the style of a true stayer. The
daughter of Windbag ran right away from
Wheat Sheaf and Beauty Spot at the
finish, and now looks the logical winner
of the other important races for fillies
this spring—the Wakeful Stakes and
Oaks. Her connections, however, are
considering the advisability of passing
over the Wakeful Stakes and giving her
her chance against the best colts of her
age in the Victoria Darby, run the same
day. She is engaged in the Caulfield
Guineas next Saturday, but at the time
of writing it was indefinite whether she
would run. Primavera is raced on lease
by R. A. Stevens from her breeder, A. G.
Hunter, and is now fulfilling the promise
contained in her second to All Love in
the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes.
Great Britain recorded one of the best
performances seen by a juvenile early in
the season when he defeated Regency
and Duke Fred in the colts and geldings’
division of the Maribyrnong Trial
Stakes. Always favorite on the strength
of brilliant track trials he moved toward
the flat-side rail soon after the start, but
after hitting the front veered toward the
opposite side of the track. He finished
under the judge’s box and still had a
length to spare. Great Britain represents
the oldest get of the imported sire
Enfield, and his dam Belgian Star is a
sister to Great Legend. He cost Mrs.
D. Belsom 850gns. as a yearling, and
Saturday’s win repaid £350 of that sum
in stakes alone. Like the A.J.C. Derby
winner Laureate, he is trained by H.
Freedman. Regency (The Buzzard-
Katitcha) and Duke Fred (Duke John-
Miss Manfred) should be cheap at their
respective yearling cost of 300gns. and
210gns.
Lady Valiant’s success in the fillies’
division of the Maribyrnong Trial Stakes
was beginner’s luck for her owner, J. M,
Wise. The latter, a bus proprietor of
Geelong, had not previously owned a
horse, but took a fancy to Lady Valiant
(Valiant Chief-Lady Mauve) after a bid
of 290gns. had been refused for her at
auction, and bought her privately for
300gns. The filly represents the oldest
stock of Valiant Chief, who was a first-
class performer himself and is standing
at the stud at a fee of only 25gns. Backed
from fifteens down to tens, Lady Valiant
joined the warm favorite and pacemaker,
Miss Understood, in the lead about a
furlong from home and won decisively
from Philander, who cut Miss Under-
stood out of second money. Philander
(Parenthesis-Davine) cost 120gns. and
Miss Understood (Gay Lothario-Sweet
Echo) 240gns.
* * * *
Freckles was the sixth successive
favorite to run unplaced in the Epsom,
the others being Beaulivre, Adios, Night-
guard, Talking, and The Marne.
* * * *
On the concluding two days of last
year’s AJ.C. spring meeting Beau Vite
(5 to 4 on), Fly (7 to 4), Ensign (10 to
9 on) and St. Constant (equal with
Sedunum at 7 to 2) were the winning
favorites. The longest priced winner was
Tel Asur (20 to 1), but Scientist (8 to 1)
and Hope (10 to 1) were also satisfactory
results for the books. For the whole
of the meeting 74 favorites were success-
ful in 25 races, and, in addition to those
mentioned, the longest-priced winners
were Masterpiece (10 to 1), Hydra (20
to 1) and Pierce (10 to 1).
* * * *
A breeder who gives racing the same
support as F. W. Hughes deserves a
good return, and, apart from those who
lost their money on other runners, most
visitors to Ascot last week were pleased
to see two divisions of the two-year-old
race won by youngsters in which he was
interested as a breeder —Mardevon and
Marquesan, both by The Marne. Easy
Mark, one of his youngsters and also
by the Marne, dead-heated for third in
the third division of the Ascot race. The
Marne, who was a brilliant sprinter, is
by Heroic from Kalyanni, by Treclare.
Owner Hughes’s only acceptor for to-
day’s Gimcrack Stakes is Oriole, by Oro
from Volonte.
* * * *
Beau Vite’s owner, R. V. Stewart, is
in a fair way of being classed among
“lucky owners.” He has not raced many
horses, but Beau Vite, at 900gns. as a
yearling, has given him a great return,
and in the two-year-old Indian Sign—
one of his own breeding —he has a
promising colt. Indian Sign has won at
each of his two starts, and after his
Marton success a Wellington writer said
it was impossible for a colt to be more
sensible or even-tempered, and that he
was bound to go on improving. Indian
Sign is by Bulandshar from Countersign,
by Paper Money from Kilberry, by Kil-
broney from Success. He may be racing
here next year, his engagements including
the AJ.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes, Cham-
pagne Stakes and AJ.C. Derby. T. R.
George is training him.
* * * *
There are very few surprise entrants
for the V.R.C. weight-for-age races. Gay
Revelry and Burrabil are in the Lin-
lithgow Stakes, and, if they are possi-
bilities for that, should run well in the
Cantala Stakes with 7.5 and 8.2 respec-
tively ; and if Velocity, who is in the
C. B. Fisher Plate, is genuinely up to
w.f.a. form, he should do well in the
Melbourne Cup with 7.11. Gay Revelry,
another Fisher Plate entrant, has 7.0 in
each of the Cups.
* * * *
Mildura is the only Sydney horse of
account missing from the general entries
for the V.R.C. meeting. He has come
on so rapidly that it was generally anti-
cipated he would be nominated for the
V.R.C. w.f.a. races if nothing else. His
only engagements at Randwick are
the Craven Plate and the Waverley
Handicap. I am writing before the
declaration of acceptances, but presum-
ably he will be a runner for the former.
In last year’s Craven Plate, when con-
ceding Beau Vite 41b., he was a trifle un-
lucky to be beaten a half-head by the
latter in 22\ —Randwick’s record time
for a mile and a quarter. Mildura is
sure to give a good account of himself
today, though there is the chance of the
lack of recent racing telling against him.
* * * *
Velocity is in strong demand for the
Caulfield Cup, though figures favor him
to a greater extent in the Melbourne
Cup. He has 8.3 in the former and 7.11
in the latter. Although a winner at a
mile and a half, it must be remembered
in his favor at a longer distance that,
with 7.7, he dead-heated Tidal Wave
(8.2) for third place in the Aus-
tralian Cup, and, though he was
four lengths behind Lucrative and
Pandect in the soundly-run AJ.C. St.
Leger, he finished well. He subsequently
ran in the Sydney Cup with 7.5, and
finished a long way back. That, however,
was in a measure excusable, as he struck
a lot of trouble. He is out of Mooch
Along, who is by Linacre from Steel-
away. The latter’s dam, Destiny, was
related to some good English win-
ners. If Velocity should win the Caulfield
Cup, and receives the maximum penalty
of 101 b., that will carry him up to only
8.7. At that he would still have a good
chance in the Melbourne Cup.
* * * *
The Cantala Stakes has been a good
race for Sydney-trained horses during
the past twenty years, those successful
during that period being Violoncello,
Claro, Amounis (twice), Vaals, Dermid,
Denis Boy, Care Free, Mohican, St. Con-
stant and Gold Salute. It is not improb-
able that something beaten in the Epsom
may succeed this year, though a penalty
for a win in that race did not stop
Claro, Amounis (1926) or Vaals in the
Cantala, while Denis Boy also carried a
penalty for his Metropolitan win.
* * * *
In the ordinary course of events it is
up to another three-year-old to win a
Melbourne Cup. The last successful was
Peter Pan in 1932, and before him
Trivalve in 1927. Since Peter Pan there
has not been even a second, and only
one third, Tidal Wave.
* * * *
The new S.P. Betting Act operated in
Melbourne last week, and under its pro-
visions every part of a hotel premises
is deemed a street, so far as betting is
concerned. Without a warrant the police
can now arrest any person suspected of
starting-price betting if he refuses to
give his name and address or gives a
name and address which the police be-
lieve to be false. Any person who, from
a racecourse, is convicted of conveying
or attempting to convey information
relative to betting to a person not on the
course is liable to a fine of £5O or im-
prisonment for six months. And still the
business will continue, though the risks
entail greater caution than in the past,
« * * *
Unfavorable weather played havoc
with the V.A.T.C.’s admission and total-
isator receipts for its last financial year,
which ended on August 31. The club
had to abandon its June meeting, and the
year’s return from admissions was £17,781
less than in 1939-40. In addition, there
was a totalisator decrease of £96,727.
As the club paid £52,444 in taxation, it
did well to distribute £56,930 in prize-
money, that being only £8309 less than
the previous year.
* * * *
Taurangi, a six-year-old mare by
Beau Pere, heads the New Zealand Cup
weights with 9.0. Then come Rakanui
8.8 and Gladynev 8.6, while Serenata
has 8.2. The fact of Gladynev having
so much weight upholds the contention
that Maoriland’s handicap horses of last
season were not up to the standard of
many previous years. Kindergarten is
good, but doubt concerning the strength
of the handicap opposition and the cer-
tainty that the other three-year-olds were
not of really high class tended to dis-
count the opinion held by many that he
was as nearly as possible the greatest
horse of his age ever seen in Maoriland.
« * * »
The annual report of the Bloodhorse
Breeders of Australia stated that the ex-
port of horses to the Malay States and
Dutch East Indies had been satisfactory,
but the suggestion that breeders might
look forward to overseas buyers being
represented at future yearling sales
savored of undue optimism. Where are
they to come from? There are com-
plaints from America as to overbreeding,
and, in any case, yearlings bred to Aus-
tralian time would not appeal to that
country’s buyers. Tried horses are wanted
for India and the other countries men-
tioned in the report.
* * * *
The principal yearling sales held in
America are those at Saratoga in August.
“The Blood-Horse” says 577 were sold
for $1,000,200, an average of $1747
(about £A535). The highest price was
$18,500 (about £A5700) for an English-
bred colt by Hyperion from Penicuik
11, the purchaser being W. P. Chrysler.
Of the fillies the one by Blenheim II
from Risk did best, realising $10,500,
though at that she was not far ahead of
the Mahmoud-Miss Irene filly, who
made $lO,lOO. Five youngsters by Eng-
lish-bred Sickle (Phalaris-Selene) aver-
aged $6060, and Blenheim II averaged
$5338 for eight. Mrs. Ethel V. Mars was
the principal buyer at the sales, giving
$44,900 for eight. In the last seven
years Mrs. Mars has bought 110 year-
lings at Saratoga, and paid $643,300 for
them.
* * * *
It is of interest to Australian breeders
that at the Saratoga (New York State)
sales in August an imported English-bred
yearling colt by Dastur from Book Law
was among those offered. Competition
for him was so keen that he realised
$9500 (about £A2920). Book Law is the
dam of Law Maker, sire of Laureate, the
A.J.C. Derby winner.
* • * •
“Do bookmakers ever go broke?”
queries a country correspondent. Cer-
tainly they do. Not many of those who
stick absolutely to their business of lay-
ing horses, even though they may have
some bad trots, but some can be recalled
who went under as the result of their
own “cleverness.” They tried to combine
backing and laying them, by either sup-
porting their fancies straight out or
“hanging on” to short-priced horses they
believed would win. The natural result
was that they often had bad days when
their fellow-layers were good winners.
* * * *
American three-year-old crack Whirl-
away was beaten in the Classic at Arling-
ton Park (Chicago), but quickly made
amends. On August 23, with only four
opponents, he won the American Derby,
H mile, at Washington Park (Chicago),
his price being 5 to 1 on. He equalled
the race record of 2.4, and the $44,975
(about £A13,630) for first increased his
total to $320,611. He is now sixth on the
list of America’s greatest winners. Sea
Biscuit being first with $437,730.
* * * *
The war has not caused any decrease
in the Auckland R.C.’s prize-money for
the principal handicaps at its summer
meeting. There are five of four figures
—Auckland Cup £3500, A.R.C. Handicap
£l5OO, and Railway Handicap, Summer
Cup and the Nathans Memorial Handi-
cap of £lOOO each. There are two £750
w.f.a. races at the meeting and the Great
Northern Derby carries £2OOO. All of
which shows what the tote has done for
a city small by comparison with Sydney.
* * * *
The largest attendance at the recent
Hollywood Park (Inglewood) meeting,
which extended over 51 days, was 57,736.
Prize-money totalled $843,600 (approxi-
mately £A256,580) and the racing days
held for charities returned $lOB,OOO
(about £A32,850). The most successful
stable was Circle M Ranch, which earned
approximately £A27,580 in nine wins.
* * * •
The longest race meeting in America
from now to the close of the current
season is that of the New Hampshire
J.C. (at Rockingham Park, Salem). From
Sept. 21 to Nov. 15 it has 42 days.
Almost needless to say, the racing is on a
dirt track; turf would not stand it.
* * * *
The largest straight-out tote dividend
ever paid in England was £341 2s. 6d. for
2s. on Coole at Hay dock Park in
November, 1929. Australia’s record is
still D.O.D.’s £836 16s. for £1 at Adelaide
in 1881.
M Q. and Rafferty
In an Australian bantam title scrap at
Leichhardt George Smedley beat Teddy
Lawler per technical k.o. in the twelfth
round. For most of the distance it was
a poor fight, both of them seemingly
acting on the theory that in time not
boxing but age would decide it. So it
turned out. Without having been
knocked about, Teddy was showing dis-
tress signs in the ninth. He weakened
further in the tenth, was as good as
knocked and wanted to turn it in in the
eleventh, and in the twelfth had been
down for nine, up and down again, when
the ref. saved him from further damage.
Ownership of the title —as with most
Australian titles at present —is disputed.
Eddie Miller claims it on the fairly
reasonable ground that he once won it
and has yet to be beaten for it. He
will find Smedley a tough item; but
neither of them looks a natural bantam-
weight.
As a prelim, to the Smedley-Lawler
scrap, the Little Boy from Lithgow, Les
McNabb, who’s at least as big as High
Caste, knocked out yet another victim,
Buddy McMahon, inside a minute. Show-
ing an improvement of 11b. in weight
—he’s now 21.2 McNabb occupied
three-quarters of the ring when he stood
up, held off Buddy’s gnatlike efforts to
get near him and then smote with a
right that had behind it the weight of
an advantage of sst. 101 b.
* * * ♦
Despite his own opinion that he has
slipped somewhat, Joe Louis had one of
his easiest world heavyweight title fights
against Lou Nova. He let Nova make a
show for three rounds, then began fight-
ing. By the sixth Nova was such a
hopeless case that the ref. called it off.
# * * »
At Melbourne Stadium on Saturday
night Ron Richards easily beat A 1
Basten, who had been adjudged holder
of the middleweight title Ron threw into
the discard when he “retired.” With a
half-pound advantage over Al’s 11.8,
Ron ended it in the fifth —t.k.0., the bell
having come while A 1 was still recovering
from the effects of a very nice right cross.
Those present were reaching for their hats
as early as the third. Though the scrap
wasn’t for the title Al might be well
advised to relinquish it without further
argument.


KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
Flush Out Poisonous Waste
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get
rid of 3 pounds of waste matter, the 14 miles
of kidney tubes and filters become clogged
with poisonous waste and the danger of acid
poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition Is a danger signal and
may be the beginning of nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles, puf-
finess under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Frequent or scanty passages, with
smarting and burning, show there is some-
thing wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes and filters.
Don’t delay I Ask your chemist or store
for DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS ...
used successfully the world over by millions
of people. They give quick relief and will
help to flush out the 15 MILES of kidney
tubes. GET DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS at your chemist or store.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM
6AM
6KG
6GE
St. George’s
Perth ....
Northam. .
Kalgoorlie
Geraldton
500 watts
2000 watts
500 watts
500 watts
Hse.j St. George’s Tee., Perth
COMMONWEALTH REGULATIONS SAY:
Von can’t do this
ft*
NEW
w,
m.
/
m
ip
\ft
0
m
m
■
A
mm
1
The building of hotels, offices, big houses and shops, and blocks of
flats is now prohibited, except in unusual circumstances . MORAL:
MODERNISE WITH MASONITE I
O Masonite boards—steel strong, infinitely
durable and universally adaptable—are the
answer to the problem of modernisation.
Economical, easily worked and conveniently
sized, these versatile boards are available in
densities and thicknesses for every interior
requirement. Masonite is adaptable to every
architectural design, finish and treatment,
and makes possible a form of modernisation
which will stay modern. Samples and full
details will be gladly supplied by the Build-
ing Materials Division of The Colonial Sugar
Refining Company Ltd. Masonite boards
are made in Australia from Australian tim-
bers hitherto thought commercially useless.
They possess the advantages of wood with-
out the disadvantages. Masonite is used for
both modernisation and new construction:
for floors, counter tops, for “tiling”, for
partitions—in fact for “1000 uses”.
PRESDWOOD , . TEMPERED PRESDWOOD . . QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE . .
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division) Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
TEMPRTILE
Adelaide Perth
NORTH Of TWENTY-EIGHT
Maryborough (Q.) city council has no
favorites. Requested by the Trades and
Labor Council to fly a Russian flag the
council decided to comply, and to fly
also Scottish, American, Greek and
Chinese flags. This is the first indication
that it has become necessary to placate
Scotland.
* * * *
“N.”: O’Hara, a Proserpine man, has
a skin rug, part hair and part wool, which
he swears is the coat of a sheep-goat
cross bred on Dent Island. It weighed
841 b. when killed, says the O’Hara, tasted
as good as mutton, and there are plenty
more wethers and ewes of the cross on
the island.
* * * *
“K.’s Paddock”: An Ayr youth re-
cently spent a morning he isn’t likely
to forget. Crabbing at Windmill Creek,
he went to an old mill for a drink and,
stepping inside the building, put his left
foot on a perpendicular 4in. nail, the
business end of which penetrated so far
as to pin him to the floor. He managed
to get hold of a beam overhead with his
hands and, unable to free the spiked foot,
stood in that position for five hours until,
by a sheer fluke, a passing wayfarer
also decided to seek a drink at the mill.
It was about 7 a.m. when the lad was
spiked, it was 2 p.m. when the ambulance
arrived to free him.
* * * *
“Toowong”: Anybody beat the record
of the Suthers boys, Douglas, Garth, Rod
and Angus, all under 30 and all captains
in the A.1.F.? Angus is the youngest
but is the senior officer, having his com-
pany on active service before he was 22.
Rod and Garth have both been in
Tobruk, and Douglas is still in Australia
as a liaison officer. Now their sister is
a transport driver in the Air Force. Their
father is A. O. Suthers, headmaster of
Toowong school.
* * * *
“Oily”; The inevitable drunk, trying
to find a tram in a Brisbane suburb, got
a devil of a shock when one rounded the
curve, left the rails and headed straight
for him. He gazed at it for one horrified
moment, then fled. The tram stopped on
the footpath outside No. 93 Caxton-
street. Its own number was 94.
* * # *
“Balander”: Cressbrook, on the upper
Brisbane River, is the first Queensland
station to celebrate its centenary. It is
still held by the family of the first owner,
David C. McConnel, probably the first
white on the upper Brisbane, who took
it up in 1841. It earned a name for
Shorthorns and later for Herefords ; then
part of it became the Nestle concern’s
Queensland headquarters. Its original
owner became a director of the first bank
in the State and built Bulimba House —
the property is now held by a grandson.
At the centenary service in the chapel at
the homestead a lot of old cattlemen
turned up, including one born on the
place and others with memories going
back to the ’seventies. A tablet to the
founder was unveiled.
* * * *
“Norther”: J. F. Barnes, the Bunda-
berg publican who got himself elected
to Queensland Parliament for the purpose
of reforming the liquor laws, particularly
regarding trading hours, issued an in-
vitation to the W.C.T.U. to have tea with
him at Parliament House and talk the
whole thing over. The ladies refused the
invitation and challenged the Barnes per-
son to move for a referendum on liquor
hours. At the moment a boding calm
reigns.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Poi-poi”: Harold Simmons, a noted
Union player in younger days, and
latterly interested in golf as a member
of Royal Queensland and Sandgate,
passed out suddenly at 53. He was
Queensland manager of the Hoffnung
concern, a bachelor and prominent in
the Q.T.C., Tatt.’s, C.T.A. and Rotary.
* * * *
“23-4”: A. K. Thomson, lecturer in
English at Queensland University, con-
tributed brightly to a current controversy
on school examinations when he told the
New Education Fellowship that speakers
and writers on education were experts,
humbugs, or conscious and unconscious
humorists. He was roughest on the
last because of their wooden pomposity
and their habit of beginning an article
by writing down their names complete
with academic distinctions. People were
impressed when such persons condemned
the examination system, though the
aforesaid academic distinctions were
gained by examinations. All the same,
Mr. Thomson isn’t keen on examinations.
He declares that some of the world’s
best men were reckoned dull at school,
and that far too often a boy or girl gets
a life sentence on the result of a school
test.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: One of three A.I.F. recruits
in a recent draft was William Kratzmann,
from Charleville: 6ft. sin., 16st. 51b., and
a perfect physical specimen in build.
Two Surat cousins, John and William
Ronald Taylor, top 6ft. 3in. and 6ft. 2in.
respectively.
* * * *
“Dungeness”; Another fine old
Queensland country home has become a
memory; Kilkivan homestead, 70 miles
west of Maryborough, built in 1846 by
J. B. MacTaggart and bought by F. H.
Stephens in 1913, has been destroyed by
fire. Frank and Alick Jardine, in later
years leaders of the expedition to the
Somerset settlement on Cape York, spent
schoolday holidays there, and Alick was
a jackeroo for a period. Another visitor
in MacTaggart days was Leichhardt.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Droughty conditions along
the Barwon River where it forms the
boundary between Queensland and New
South Wales have got local graziers
arguing over a puzzling point of law.
Tick regulations provide heavy penalties
for unauthorised entry of stock to N.S.W.
For many miles the river is either so
low as to be easily wadeable by cattle
or reduced to a string of waterholes with
firm ground between them. The cattle
don’t care a moo for notices about
penalties, and everyone wants to know
where the liability rests for seeing that
they don’t stroll across. The regulations
are entirely uninformative on the subject,
except for stating the penalties which
will accrue if the silly cows do.
* * * *
“P.D.”: The rat plague in western
Queensland is bringing some strange but
effective inventions to light. Men on the
Cloncurry line sank large drums in the
ground, half-filling them with water and
hanging a piece of bread about six inches
above the drum. Result: 600 rats in four
weeks.
* * * *
“Tuiop”: Brisbane City Council is to
permit the conversion of two-storey
wooden houses into flats or tenements.
Labor condemns it, holding, for one
thing, that such places would be death-
traps in the event of fire. Lud Mayor
Chandler has “no doubt that more war
industries will come to Brisbane ; people
will come here, and where are they going
to live?” Even if more people do flock
to Brisbane; it will be wrong to house
them in such places, for not only will it
increase the slum evil but the job of
shifting them out later on will be hard.
A much better way would be to persuade
the Government to establish war indus-
tries in country towns, where housing is
available and where there is ample land
for building.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Twelve hundred-odd pigeons
which raced from Oodnadatta in Cen-
tralia to Adelaide had a great time with
a northerly gale, on which they had
merely to sit and be taken to their des-
tination, 545 miles away, in a trifle over
nine hours. The winner, a two-year-old
hen, was timed to have done 1755 yards
to the minute all the way, with second
and third only a decimal point worse.
* * * »
“Vee”: A traveller from Malaya has
had his fill of the “V for Victory” busi-
ness. At Darwin he “declared,” among
other things, a “V” badge, bought in
Malaya for “about four Straits dollars.”
Customs discovered that the duty on such
articles is 100 p.c., and the patriot had
to fork out 11s. 9d. to keep his badge!
“Chevroford”: Londoners travelling to
and from their blitzed city can now only
travel third-class, second and first having
been progressively abolished. But it took
a war and wholesale bombing to do it.
Victorian railways continue to cling to
this relic of snobbery. Despite rolling-
stock shortage and traffic congestion
trains pull out daily in their hundreds
from the “busiest station in the world”
with their second-class carriages stuffed to
suffocation and their first-class ones
almost empty.


Women's letters
From Melbourne
Headlines of the Blue Wings dance
at No. 9 were the seven virtues in the
ballet, hairy-chested young airmen in tulle
skirts and Victory Vs who are the pride
and joy of No. 1 Stores Depot. Their
“manager” is L.A.C. Tom Mudge, a nice
young man with upturned nose arid in-
tense expression who for some reason
always carries around with him a largish
photo, of the Laverton ballet: ex-rivals
(Massine and Markova had nothing on
them). Those husky lads are now abroad
in half a dozen different countries.
Group-Captain Marsden couldn’t make
the date to see his boys in action, but
Wing-Commander Reg Francis called in
officially. Mrs. Wallie Tunbridge
organised the compact and friendly little
party. Among dewy youth present were
Norma Dickason and Sheila Chinnery.
Compulsory loan notwithstanding, the
Red Cross Shop is keeping its flag
flying and its assets up—for September
profits again passed the average monthly
figure of £250. Recently divs. have
accrued from china and several pieces
of Copeland which were once in the
collection of Redmond Barry. There’s
an accent on flowers for sale, and boxes
at a round cost of ss. (no charge for
services of the boy on the bike) may be
ordered for hospitals or friends else-
where. Among steadies in the floral sup-
plies line are Alistair Clark, Sister Hughes
Jones, of Olinda, and Arthur Bloomfield,
whose hyacinths, from Gisborne are a
joy.
The Governor, convalescing, received
a box of flowers last week packed
by Mrs. Archie Thompson with the shop’s
good wishes for the speedy mending of
bones. The mixed bowl in the window
is still the prerogative of Mrs. Hume
Turnbull, who completes the issue, grow-
ing, picking and arranging the blooms so
displayed. The shop will specialise in
Christmas gifts at moderate prices, and
there is choice always at hand for cus-
tomers who like the sheen of antiquity
upon their possessions. Last week a cedar
chest, backstage owing to limited space,
was going cheaply alongside a sewing-
machine snapped up as soon as it arrived.
Advertised in pencil signwriting upon an
ivory tablet was a set of otherwise un-
procurable wood-carving tools.
Everybody would like to stretch out a
helping hand to prisoners of war, and
the opportunity will arise even with frills
at the wrist for the song-and-dance night
on October 30. It’s a nation-wide drive,
and the Victorian section of the broad-
cast music will emanate from St. Kilda
Town Hall, where a dance will be in
progress for a modest five bob. Hostesses
may register their own parties in the same
manner as adopted for the recent radio
party drive, with the Angliss lady, Mrs.
Roy Maclellan or Janet Thompson at
the Town Hall. The prizes, read from
a preliminary list produced at the first
meeting by E. W. Trend, might not be
in the line-up of diamond and platinum
rings (an overworked idea, anyhow), but
they will be practical and worth winning.
Country is meeting town halfway;
already inquiries have come from rural
districts about booking local dos for
the 30th, but there are stipulations that
music must be on tap until milking-time.
Two operatic singers and a composer
of lighter music are uniting for a recital
in the Assembly Hall on October
20, when Thea Phillips and Arnold
Matters, coming down to simple pastures
from the pinnacles of grand opera, will
sing Edith Harrhy’s songs to the com-
poser’s accompaniments, (Miss Phillips
recently became engaged to Claude
Wallis; wedding in November.) Miss
Harrhy will also play solos at the con-
cert, and her name is figuring again on
December 3 for a gala show at the
Princess in aid of patriotic appeals. It’s
called “Alaza,” the name of the Corsican
girl who’s the heroine of the story of
this locally-written comic opera ; music
by Edith Harrhy (150 pages), book and
lyrics by Erskine Urquhart and Richard
Lomas. The National Theatre and Wil-
liam Carr are doing the tricky job of
producing the premiere.
Of interest to the musically-minded
and to the Red Cross and Comforts (for
the shilling entrance tickets are popular
throughout the University and among
friends of the talented young) was the
concert festival in the Melba Hall. Three
competitive nights were necessary for
the weeding down of the 33 entrants.
Four students chose the first movement
of the Beethoven G Major Concerto, but
tastes varied and the moderns were in-
cluded. Seven finalists were chosen by
the adjudicators to compete in high-
falutin company of the Symphony
Orchestra at a concerto concert in the
Town Hall on November 8. Winner
and runner-up will be given honor and
glory and broadcasts. Another students’
effort for the Red Cross last week was
a concert with young Noel Nickson as
conductor and Mary MacLeod as soloist.
Patriotic jobs are proving irresistible
to the efficient staff of the Society for
Crippled Children. Almoner Marion
Urquhart is now Director of Rehabili-
tation for the Red Cross, and fine and
upstanding she looks in her uniform. Ex-
assistant sec. Robina Sutherland, who is
as imperialistic as they make ’em in her
home town, Glasgow, joined the forces
of low pay and no glamor early in the
war. She’s a V.A.D. at Heidelberg ; on
a day off last week she made a point of
attending the S.C.C. annual meeting.
(Very successful. Recent legacies cheered
the balance sheet enormously.) If re-
quired the society’s highly qualified occu-
pational therapist Sylvia Docker will be
ready to assist returned wounded soldiers
in learning useful and curative hand-
crafts.
It must be a pleasure to be asked to
dinner by Myrtle Lindsay, who can not
only cook but who knows good meat
when she sees it. There’s no butcher
born who can trick her. She also knows
cattle on the hoof and can spot diseases
in animals, living and dead. In short,
she’s a qualified meat inspector and the
only woman to attain such specialised
knowledge. Miss Lindsay was among
the successful candidates in the recent
exam. It’s held annually and there are
never many passes. Modestly she attri-
butes her success to her grounding. She
was a nursing sister at Royal Melbourne,
was a district nurse, joined the Health
Department four years ago, and holds
the Royal Sanitary Institute and Inspector
of Schools certificates. Her present job
is to inspect private hospitals—some 200
come within her 40-miles area. Whether
the future holds for her a job at the
abattoirs in gumboots and overalls isn’t
yet known, but seems likely in view of
the present march of feminism.
This is recently - engaged Winkie
Murray (Spencer Shier photograph),
younger daughter of the late J. H.
Murray and Mrs. Murray, of Orrong-
road, who is to marry Flight.-Lieut. John
Holden, son of the E. W. Holdens, of
Adelaide. Winkie of the Titian hair wears
a sapphire ring and has an eye towards
period furniture for the flat which with
luck will be occupied about Christmas-
time.
From Sydney
Randwick may at some time have held
more berserk battlers than it did last
Saturday for the opening of the spring
meeting, but it is hard to believe so.
Politeness was not the best policy in that
maelstrom of humans. If you tried to
sidestep a surging tide making for the
tote or the ring you simply had your
nose pushed in by other forces of Mam-
mon eager in another direction. The
day was warm, the sun went discreetly
veiled in grey and hats which were the
day’s great votive offering to the season
were, large or small, equally in the pic-
ture. Under the most skull-fitting turban
there was no beetroot, face.
If the girls had followed the style tip
they would all have backed Rimveil for
the Epsom. Almost every rim had its veil,
its nest of tulle. One girl with an in-
finitesimal white topknot had two long
streamers of black tulle with great white
chenille spots. Another hat might have
been the crowning ornament to a wed-
ding cake. It started as a tiny circlet of
gardenias and ended in a sherbet of
snow-white tulle. There was no doubt
as to where Ludovia Ozoux’s sympathies
lie. Around the band of her black beret
were lettered in gold “Forces Navales
France Libre.” Carma Nathan’s hat was
a tiny blue and white platter on which
red roses were set. Rada Penfold Hyland
got away from the tulle motif, and her
hat dangle was a blue and white silk
check scarf.
Mrs. Roy Buckland looked as cool as
a strawberry sundae in her pink and
white spotted frock and fetching white
hat. Mrs. Fielding Jones had the name
Margot in white lettering, each letter
standing on a green, yellow or blue
square, around the crown of her Breton
sailor. “Boss of the Track” (as the
American visitor called him) Pat O’Shea
and sister Ella, down from Queensland,
were among the Pat Osbornes’ guests for
lunch. Mrs. Teddy Houghton’s blue coat
had china blue and white spotted revers
to match her frock. Her upturned hat of
white felt had a'white quill piercing its
crown. Cool-looking in her blue-green
silk suit was the Hon. Henrietta Loder.
Among wearers of green was Mrs. Geoff
Manchee, from Moree ; Mrs. C. Black-
burn’s pleated red gloves and red Breton
sailor were among things admired. Mrs.
Hector Livingstone, the pretty Norman
Nock lady, Mrs. Cavaye, Mrs. Forrest
Hughes, Mrs. H. Weigall and Philippa
Stephen were others noted.
Here is a north-side-of-the-harbor
attraction. She is Mary Kathleen Woods,
the daughter of Mrs. John Woods, of
North Sydney, and she is just back from
Melbourne, where she has been taking a
domestic-science course at the well-known
Tay Creggan. Art and the drama both
attract her. Falk photograph.
The opening of “Robert’s Wife” was
a smoothly-plumaged affair. The Minerva
foyer threw back the ray of jewels, the
sheen of silk and satin to the lights over-
head. Many admirers of Marie Burke
were there, anxious to see her in the part
of Robert’s wife. Among these were
Mrs. Jimmy Dickson, whose evening coat
was long and white. Pilot-Officer John
Faviell and his wife took in the show ;
so did the Maurice Gulsons, she still smil-
ing over picking Duke Cullen (almost
£24 for five shillings) in the last race.
Rada Pertfold Hyland’s satins were
lustrous and topped by white Arctic fox.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly held reception between
acts. Mrs. Sep Levy was in exquisite
black. The H. J. Bradys, E. J. Tait were
noted in the multitude.
After the races today everybody will
be crowding to the cocktail party for
the R.A.A.F. Central Comforts Fund.
Tomorrow there will be Mrs. W. A. Hol-
man’s bridge party for medical aid to
Russia at the Pickwick. From twilight
tomorrow all through the night the
Trocadero gives itself over to the
“Down Argentine Way” revels. These
will benefit the Sydney Industrial Blind.
On. Saturday an after-the-races party
worth attention will be that given by
the C. P. Johnsons at their Edgecliff-road
home. This will help the Sydney Day
Nurseries.
Geographically tucked between “Mes-
siah” and “Robert’s Wife” the Sydney
Hospital Ball drew dancers to the Aus-
tralia last Saturday night. Mrs. Keith
Cudmore, who had labored all the after-
noon, had done marvels with the flower
arrangements. In a week-end in which,
save for the lush orchid, there was some-
thing of a flower famine, her bowls of
Watsonia and tall spikes of blossom (a
lot of this hand-made) deserved high
award. Another worker through the
afternoon was Mrs. K. D. L. Cudmore.
As nice a flutter of debs, as ever hatched
under bright chandeliers was presented to
the wife of the hospital’s president, Nor-
man Paul, by Mrs. Hamilton Kirkland,
ball president. Her frock was of flowing
black chiffons, her trig little jacket of
white brocade. Gay as tulips in the wind
was the Dutch ballet arranged by the
wife of Sydney Hospital’s secretary,
Colonel Burrett. Her ballerinas were
members of the hospital’s administrative
staff. Admired was Mrs. Keith Cud-
more’s bouffant picture frock of black
taffeta and net, in which were caught
large white flowers.
The Ernest Salengers, of Killara, have
been made grandparents for the second
time in seven months. First grandchild
to arrive was Elaine, daughter of the
Ken Andersons, of Roseville. One day
last week daughter Barbara (Mrs. Max-
well Munro) presented them to her
daughter, Margaret Ann.
Cyclones and cymbidiums are irrevoc-
ably linked in the minds of those who
went forth in search of orchids on the
day of last week’s big storm. From
streets where savage winds threatened to
rip the clothes from one’s torso—and
on one corner at least a lightweight girl,
after teetering about wildly, was com-
pelled to seek the supporting arm of an
O.S. in matrons —it was pleasant to walk
along aisles of orchid beauty in David
Jones’s auditorium. A sight filling the
eye with loveliness was the great tub con-
taining the Cymbidium ceres of Mr.
Bonnyman, of Banksia. On its six spikes
this held aloft 130 rose-pink blooms. For
any orchid to be crossed with an Alex-
ander! Weston Brit is equivalent to the
alliance of King Cophetua and the Beggar
Maid. These hybrids were the really
exclusive personalities of the show.
This was a John Bissett exhibition, and
it is for the encouragement of amateur
growers. They had responded by defy-
ing the day’s bursts of rain and arctic
winds by turning up in their hundreds.
All down the right side were Mr. Bissett's
own rich blooms. Down the left side
were the prides of the amateurs. Here
were sprays of white and ruby Cattleya,
of cattleyas that were Vatican purple.
L. H. Hawley, of Lindfield, has given
the world a new beauty in Glasgow En-
chantress, white as snow, tinged with
pink. Another Scots name was among
the exotics. It was the green-petalled,
red-lipped Robin Adair. Near by is a
stately Helen. There Cordelia and
Caprice contrast their markings. These
orchids are worth a good instalment on
the Tower of London, but at heart they
are simple creatures, and any suburban-
ite can grow them. You can grow some
species in tubs under trees as long as
the trees are deciduous, or on a verandah.
There were other parades of orchids at
Mosman Town Hall and at Anthony
Horderns’.
A nice preliminary canter to the doings
of race week was the party given by
the medical Oscar Diethelm couple at
their Woollahra home last Friday. This
was to celebrate son Basil’s engagement
to Peggy Cooper. Peggy’s parents were
the late L. T. Coopers, of Casino, Rich-
mond River, and she is one of St. Vin-
cent’s most youthful trainees. Dr. Basil
Diethelm is now senior resident at St.
Vincent’s.
The reception-rooms of the Carlton
were dizzy with fun and games last
Thursday night, and C.U.S.A. Hut at
St. Mary’s will benefit thereby. . Hun-
dreds flitted from card game to com-
petitions, and then spent any surplus cash
at the various stalls. Mrs. Dan Kelly,
of Kirribilli, was president; and all the
members of the hut committee bustled
about doing their bit. Everything was
clear profit, and there’s now an extra £3OO
(or probably nearer £4OO when the last
groat has been rounded up) for increased
recreation facilities for our warriors at
the hut and enlargements to the kitchen.
Gilsullivan’s evergreen “Ruddigore”
will be presented at the Con. by a cast
from the Junior School of St. Aloysius's
College. The 0.8. U. Comforts Fund,
C.U.S.A. Naval Club and the College
Bursary Fund will share the booty. The
13th and 16th are the dates.
A musicale in the home of Mrs. J.
Wride, of Gordon, brought in £25 for
the Bombed Victims of Wales Fund. The
programme was arranged by Mrs. P. D.
Belcher and Idwal Jenkins, and the
Alexander Gordon lady spoke.
When the wind is shrewd there can
be no pleasanter place to have lunch
than the kiosk in Martin-place, near
Macquarie-street. When summer days
come, it is equally pleasant to eat at the
tables in the open air. This kiosk is run
by the voluntary workers from the
National Council of Jewish Women, and
its takings go to the Mayor’s Patriotic
Fund. In slightly over eight months
more than £l2OO has been raised by this
splendid war effort. You can even go to
the kiosk for your after-theatre coffee,
for the workers keep open in the even-
ings, and also on Sunday. Incidentally,
the voluntary workers, besides cooking
and serving it, donate a good percentage
of the food.


OCKER GREEN and the OLD SHEILAH
By LEO KELLY.
that Ocker Green knew about Mrs. Hills was
that her husband was dead and that she and her
I tribe of children lived up in the dilapidated
fibro shack just past the brickyards. What he
did not know was that “old Mother Hills,” as she was
known in the neighborhood, had noticed him at a
meeting one night and had taken a fancy to him. In
fact, she was busy making up her mind to catch Mr.
Green, matrimonially speaking, as inexorably as a
prawn in one of her prawning nets. That was why
she had suddenly appeared at the Unemployed Rooms
where Ocker and the boys bunked at the back and
placed the services of herself and her sulky at the
disposal of the organisation.
Now Ocker was unemployed, bald and twenty-
nine. He was also a bit of a lare and fond of any
kind of transport. Naturally it wasn’t long before
he was up in that sulky.
This was just what Mrs. Hills had calculated. Not
that she made things too willing. She had her wits
about her and had no intention of showing her cards
yet awhile. First she started plying Ocker with
tobacco. As soon as his pouch was half-empty she
would toss him a two-ounce packet. Then she com-
menced slipping him two-bob bits in between times.
Ocker was not the person to say no. Next she got
hold of his clothes, washing, ironing and mending.
One day she bought him a sports coat.
Ocker himself would never have heard the twigs
snapping if it hadn’t been for the boys.
“The old sheilah is certainly pitchin’ fer you,”
someone said.
For once his know-all face looked blank. “Y’re
nuts,” he sneered ; “she’s old enough to be me old
woman.”
“That’s all right,” replied the other ; “she ain’t as
old as that, but you want to watch y’r step. She’s
layin’ fer you.”
Ocker looked nasty. “Well, she can lay some-
wheres else fer mine and so can you,” he snapped.
After that, the boys started chipping him a lot
about “old Mother Hills.” They made him tired.
She was making him look stupid. After a few fights
he commenced to avoid her. When she would turn
up he always had something else on.
One day he found her sitting in the hall rolling a
cigarette between her big freckled fingers.
“Listen,” he hissed. “What’s the big idea always
hangin’ around this joint? Tryin’ to make me look
a mug? Y’re only wastin’ axle grease cornin’ down
’ere. Now hop on y’r sulky and git.”
She sat there in her white sack of a dress, the
ridiculous straw hat perched on top of her red, bony
face, staring at him with hard agate eyes.
“Go on, git,” he menaced.
“Git y’rself,” she suddenly blazed. “Who do you
think y’re tryin’ to push around? Y’re not the
boss here, don’t forget.”
“You just hop on your sulky and git.”
“I’ll go when it suits me.” She started to cry.
Ocker was panic-stricken. If the mob came
in he would look a mug. Throwing open the back
door he ran across the yard and up the lane.
When he returned an hour later the hall was
empty. “Well, that’s fixed her,” he thought. But she
was back in a week, and Ocker was almost relieved.
He had soon felt the absence of the additional social
services that went with Mrs. Hills, the tobacco, free
laundry and pocket money. They went out in the
sulky again as though nothing had ever happened.
Mrs. Hills wasn’t too pleased with things just
the same. How was she to hook Ocker? That was
the question. If by some incredible chance she mar-
ried him she would lose her pension. A cheque in
the hand was better than two dole dockets in the bush
any day, A woman had to be practical, she thought
grimly. On the other hand, she wasn’t going to live
with a bloke. The questions of economies and respec-
tability had her perplexed. She decided to let things
take their natural course and hope for the best.
A QUALITATIVE change took place in their rela-
_ tionship the following week. Ocker broke out in
boils. Dole diet over a period of months was respon-
sible. They came up hard, red and unripe through his
blue tattoos. He couldn’t walk, talk or sit. Mrs.
Hills came down to the “Rooms” twice or three times
a day to bandage and anoint.
“It’s no good, Ocker,” she growled one morning.
“You’ll just have to come up ’ome. I can’t attend to
you prop’ly down here.”
Ocker had a boil on his neck and his head was
at an angle. His sick, villainous eyes slid in her
direction. “Oh, no, I ain’t,” he snarled.
“Oh, yes, you are. You’re goin’ right up home.
You can have that bed on the back verandah.”
“Oh, no, I ain’t.”
“Oh, yes, you are,” she repeated.
Before Ocker knew what was happening Mrs. Hills
with the aid of the boys had bundled him into an
overcoat and heaved b ™ up on the sulky, where
he sat on some old sacks spitting oaths and abuse,
Mrs Hills smiled to herself as she eraekeH the whin
am? the off iLv
Bedlam awaited him at th h v at un .
u t d TIf d , b f I * h S^ ack ‘ . , Mrs ‘ Hllls s
• ra !f W< f e a ha " dfu at any time > but Wlth a stranger
be bouse tbey Y ere un S overnab l e - Before and
att ® r hot)1 they swirled and eddied around Ocker’s
bed * Hls tongue was bls on, y defence, and that proved
useless - Even when Mrs. Hills dashed frenziedly from
her kltchen they would merely scatter and reassemble
llke fow]s -
During the day things were a bit better. It was not
at ab unpleasant sitting up in bed, smoking, reading
tbe papers or listening to Mrs. Hills’s wheezy radio,
Not that he ever admitted it.
“How’re you doin’?” the boys would greet him
when they came up.
“Upter,” Ocker would reply. “Just sweatin’ on
gettin’ back to the dump.”
But he never got back to the dump. The un-
employed organisation moved into smaller quarters,
There was no accommodation at the back and the
boys had nothing left but to hump the bluey again.
“Can’t you hang around somewheres till I’m on
me pins?” he complained when they came to say
good-bye.
But it was impossble. There was no place for
them to stay. Besides, they would be late for the fruit-
Picking as it was.
Mrs. Hills had the last word. “You won’t be jake
| er a month, she announced. “Much good you’d be
J ui ypio the lattler and sleepin’ on the ground. You’d
° v Z'Wol v’r feet” ” " 0t leaVi "’ ‘ hiS ioin ‘
JL y , . .
.• C ® r , sat UE m bed gnawing hls fingernails and
f! a . r ‘" g at her ’ Gees ’ you B lve me a P aln ” he sa > d
‘'ll- ~ . , . , . .
wait for him at Wattle Rr dne ""W • “ IT 1 ™ 6 ‘,°
8 r ° Und a C ° Uple
Poor old Bill, he tried to join up last Week!”
of days and I’ll be with you,” he said. “Y’re good fer
a few handouts there, and the Johns mind their own
business,”
They half-heartedly agreed. “That’s a date,” he
sang out after them.
Ocker didn’t keep that date. Mrs. Hills’s prediction
proved correct. When he crawled out of bed and
tried to pilot himself up the backyard a few days
later, he collapsed. Mrs. Hills had to drag him back
to his bed.
“Gees, I’m all washed up,” he panted. “I’m as
weak as a kitten.”
“Yeah,” agreed Mrs. Hills dourly. “YTe certainly
only skimmed milk now. Didn’t I tell y’ you’d be
no good on the track?”
Ocker groaned.
“Didn’t I tell y’ you’d be no good on the
track?” she insisted.
Ocker turned his back on her irritably and closed
his eyes. “Oh, go to hell,” he snapped.
U/HEN Ocker started to get up and about he took
W stock of his position. Now that the boys were
out of the picture his plans were a bit vague. He was
certain he wasn’t going to hang around this joint too
long. At least, so he told himself.
Actually he put up very little opposition to the
delaying tactics used by Mrs Just when t
tw y ,, , ' ±lllls \ Just when he
I V t* W °V ld ha ™ b 6 made ° n his
P , r ,’ ,^ rS ‘ Hl s remarked wistfully one morning
hlle they were havin § a cup of stewed tea: “If only I
had thought of it I could have got you to give these
walls a lick o’ kalsomine.”
Ocker took such a Jong pull at his cigarette that
the paper shrivelled back, leaving a length of glowing
red tobacco. “Yeah,” he agreed tentatively. “If you’d
only said so before I coulda done it fer you. Way
things are” He took another look at the smoke-
blackened walls while Mrs. Hills poured from the
white enamel teapot. “Them walls would want a
drop o’ size first,” he observed reflectively
That was enough for Mrs. Hills. Ten minutes
later she was off in the sulky to the ironmonger’s for
kalsomines, glues and brushes. At home Ocker heaved
the furniture out of the kitchen
Ocker knew how to use size and apply kalsomine
When the time came for the room to be reoccunied
the peerless beauty of its walls shamed Mrs Hills’s
poor sticks of furniture But now her blood was im
“Now y’re about it you might as well do me bed
room,” she declared. Then on a reckless afterthought
she decided to do the whole house inside and n,.i
“Roof v all » she proc laimed. “I’ve got a few bob
put away.”
So the weeks passed and the months that fol-
lowed. Mrs Hills, eager and unashamedj alw
found some excuse for him to stay, and Ocker with great
display of reluctance would search for a face-saving
formula which would allow it. As the weeks slioDed
by ' he idea ° f goin ® the track became Ls
a nd less attractive. After all, what did it have to offer?
Hard tack, hard roads, hard-faced Johns thumbing
you on your way. Now that he came to think of it
he was fed up with the track. The thought of soon
8 wandering ,he roads rootless and
UnWan,ed fllled hlm w,,h blmd tetror at
Meanwhile he was caught up into the domestic
rhythm of the house. Life was a lively business with
Mrs. Hills, her children, her animals and all their
problems. As well as this the primitive comforts and
conveniences that went with his life there began to
have their effect. He started to age. His figure fat-
tened, his face became greyer.
A change took place in his attitude. By a swift
and subtle process he became the boss. What Ock
said went. Mrs. Hills suddenly found herself doing
what she was told, and her children, in addition to
feeling the lash of his tongue, soon felt the weight of
his hand. This was something MrL Hills had not
bargained for. It enraged her, and one morning she
exploded. “Ocker Green, there’s one thing I won’t
stand you doin’, and that’s layin’ a hand to my kids,”
she bridled.
“Oh, yeah?” he sneered.
“Yeah,” she replied. “And wot’s more, if you
don’t lay off bossin’ people about, you better get y’r
swag and clear.”
Ocker opened his mouth to reply, then shut it
again. Mrs. Hills stared at him venomously from the
other side of the table She had him where she wanted
(Continued on next page.)


him. He wouldn’t have the guts to get out. She
knew that now.
“0.K.,” he said sourly. “If that’s the way you feel
about it I’ll clear out this minute. You’ve made a big
bloomer if you think I want to stick around here.
Mrs. Hills sat at the table with a deflated grin on
her face, drumming her fingers on the oilcloth. She
heard him packing his bag. Soon the front gate
creaked and she knew that he had gone.
For a while she went about her work washing
dishes, sweeping floors and making beds. “I’ll show
him who’s the boss,” she kept muttering indignantly.
Then quite suddenly she burst into tears. Leaving
everything she dashed out the front door and into the
street. She caught the pony, which was grazing as
usual with the sulky still attached, and, climbing up,
set off along the road. “The silly damn’ fool,” she
whimpered. “He can’t go off like that.
Panic seized her. She whipped up the pony to a
swift trot. The sulky rattled along the council’s new
tarred highway leading to the top of Flinders Hill.
She hoped to pick him out in the network of streets
which spread out across the flat. But there was no
sign of him. After a while she gave up and wearily
turned the horse’s head home.
She was crouched in front of the stove starting
the fire when she heard steps on the front verandah.
They stopped uncertainly. Mrs. Hills reared to her
feet listening, tense. “That you, Ock? she challenged.
There was a silence for a moment Then he spoke
“Yeah ... Just came back to get me coat . . .
Forgot to take it.”
Mrs. Hills smiled in spite of herself. Her hard
eyes softened. “Come and have a cup of tea, she
sang out.
Ocker stood in the doorway rolling a cigarette
to cover his embarrassment. He had tipped that she
wouldn’t be crook at him still. He didn’t want to
leave for some time yet . . .
Suddenly Mrs. Hills had thrown her arms around
his neck and was wildly embracing him. “Oh, Ocker,
Ocker, I knew you wouldn’t leave me. I knew youd
come back to me, Ocker.” She started to weep. “Kiss
me, Ocker. Kiss me,” she demanded.
Ocker blanched. But there was no time to think.
Like one hypnotised he slowly pressed his small lip-
less mouth against hers.
He sat back scared with the knowledge of
approaching doom. He had started something now.
He knew it.
Sure enough the first kiss in years had at last
made up Mrs. Hills’s mind for her. “Ocker Green,
what about you and me gettin’ married ? ’ she cried.
“I’ll lose me pension, but we needn’t go on the dole.
I got a few quid. I’ll buy a truck and you can put in
fer a job on the feeder road the council’s buildm’.”
Ocker was in a spot. He twisted and turned like
a snake in a pit. But it was useless. When Mrs. Hills
started to get a hard perplexed gleam in her eyes he
folded up. “0.K.,” he gasped.
'THREE days later a dazed Ocker Green and his
1 jubilant wife emerged from the Registry Office
and sailed off to buy a truck. Mrs. Green took good
care to buy the truck in her own name. “I can employ
you as me driver,” she explained hurriedly.
Ocker got a job with the council at once. Mrs.
Green used to go over in the sulky every day with his
lunch. . , ,
“Who’s the old sheilah wot brings yr lunch,
Ock?” a man asked one day.
Ocker threw a piece of ballast into the truck, then
stood up, brushing the grit off his hands. He seemed
To be calculating something. “She s me mum, he
said dryly.
SWORD
FOR THE MASTER
By CECIL MANN.
"NERVOUS?"
< i r— R —was there something I could show you,
f 0 madam?”
“You’re not Mr. Mason. They told
me”
“No, madam. No. Fleece. Mr. Mason sat
lunch. If there’s anything”
“I was told to see Mr. Mason. I’m from the
Crystal Order, Mr. Fleas”
That’s right. Be funny, dumpling. Silly old fuss-
pot. Dyes her wig. Crystal Order? What the hells
that ?
“Yes, certainly, of course, madam. I’m Mr.
Mason’s partner. I’m sure I . . . Did you say you’re
from the Crystal Order?”
“I want to purchase a sword. A sword for the
Master.”
A sword for the Master ? What the hell ? Swoid-
swallower ?
“Certainly, of course, madam. We have swords.
One moment and I’ll” ——
“Now, understand. Not an ordinary sword. I
must have a special sword. It’s to be for the Master.
For the Master, eh ? There’s that one Frogface
marked a quid. Make it thirty bob. She wouldn’t
know a sword from a boomerang.
“A special sword, madam. We have one very
special sword. You might say, pedigree. The Cru-
sades. Of course we haven’t been able to verify it,
but Mr. Mason”
“I have my own sword. Mr. Vartin bought it in
Castlereagh-street. He paid two Did you
say you have a pedigree with this sword?
Pedigree sword. That’s three guineas. Worth
more with a pedigree.
“I see. You have your own sword, madam?
You want this one” ——
“All of us have our swords. Except Mr. Vartin.
He hasn’t bought his own yet. I mustn’t forget when
I get home. He could get one here?”
Sword-swallowers. Must be a club of them.
“Thank you, madam. He must have his sword, of
course. I’m sure we’ll be able to fix him up
“But the one I want now is the special one. It s
for the Master. The Crystal Order is giving this one.
I mean the Order is giving the Master this one I’m
buying. We are all paying for it. You said with a
pedigree. You mean a history”
Rats. They fought the dogs and killed the cats.
Wonder if she’ll come at five ?
“Certainly, of course, that was only in a manner
of speaking. You’re quite right. It has a history. Mr.
Mason”
“It must be a fine-looking sword, Mr. Fleas. A
big sword. It must fit the Master”
Wear ’em, eh. Don’t eat ’em.
“I’ll show you this sword, madam. It’s a very
big sword”
“It will need to be, young man, to fit the Master.
The one Mr. Vartin bought me wouldn’t go near
Jiim. But it’s too long for me”
A dagger’d be too long for you, dumpling. Pedi-
gree. Fit the Master. Crystal Order. Address, Callan
Park. Wrap it in cellophane. Thank you. Don’t
mention it.
“Certainly, madam. Of course. It must fit. Very
necessary. Let me see, now. The Master s as tall
“Yes. They said the same height.”
Same height. You don’t say so. Same height as
what ?
“Mr. Mason’s a very big man, madam. This
special sword fits Mr. Mason. I remember now he
said something about keeping it for himself”
“But Mr. Mason is not a Crystalline”
Frogface a whatsit? ’Strewth. He’d look good
swallowing a sword.
“No, madam. No, I don’t think so. He thinks
the Japanese”
“This sword is not a Japanese sword?”
“Oh, no, madam. Not made in Japan. Very
early Spanish we think. Of course we can t verify
it exactly, but”
“They told me if it fitted Mr. Mason it would
fit the Master”
“Just the very thing then, madam. Mr. Mason
said he’d never known a sword that fitted him so well.
Would you come just along here, now. I feel sure
this is just what you’re looking for. Along this
way”
“We’re presenting it to the Master at tonight s
meeting. All of us are wearing our swords tonight
for the first time. The Master said ‘The sword is the
symbol of our strength.’ Isn’t that wonderful? So
we decided to give this sword to the Master as a fitting
gesture. Don’t you think so?”
Symbol of pigsfoot. She’ll cough up ten. Better
not make it too hot. Anyhow, there’s room to come
down. Try her with ten for a start.
“Very thoughtful, madam. Quite a chivalrous
gesture. I’m sure the Master”
“The Master will be most surprised, of course.
He said that we must all have swords to wear for
tonight’s ritual before the Crystal, but he would not
get his till later. He wants all the money contributed
to stay in the Order for the time being. So we decided
to give him a lovely surprise”
The rate must’ve gone up to two a minute. Ten
guineas ? Boloney. She’ll come at twelve, easy.
“I think that’s really marvellous, madam. And
so is this sword. You see how it draws from the
sheath. Clean. There’s a blade for you! If I may
say so, madam, fit even for the Master. . Feel the
spring in it for yourself. Finest old Castilian”
“You said the Spanish Crusades”
“Eh, Spanish, madam, yes. We haven’t yet been
able to verify the Crusades. Finest Spanish Cas-
tilian” —
“Is this rust?”
“Oh, no, not rust. Not rust, madam. Patina of
the centuries. It enhances its is, of course,
to those who like patina. I could have it polished if
you wish”
“And a belt?”
“No, madam. This is a special kind of sword.
It was carried without the belt. I could get you a belt
from another sword” — 1 —
“You would not have a purple belt?”
Purple. Strike a light. Cuckoo all right. Loud
sing cuckoo. Course she’ll come at twelve guineas.
“ No _ no? |’ m afraid we haven’t a purple belt.
You would want purple”
“To match the Master’s apron. The belt would
come around it.”
“Certainly, of course it would, madam. I should
have thought of that. I might possibly be able to
get you one made by this evening. If you gave me
your address I could .send it with the sword
“One six five The Point-road, Woolwich. Mrs.
L. Z. Vartin. They must be delivered without fail
before six o’clock. You had better make it five
o’clock.”
“Five o’clock for certain, madam. Let me see
now, I think—yes, I will, I’ll take it on myself to let
you have it without waiting to consult Mr. Mason.
With the belt, Mrs. Vartin, that will be thirteen
guineas. Will you”
“Yes, I’ll pay for it now. Thirteen guineas.
That’s thirteen pounds”
“Yes, thank you, Mrs. Vartin, thirteen pounds
thirteen shillings”
“A dark purple.”
“Certainly, Mrs. Vartin. • Dark purple. Thank
you, thank you very much. Good-bye, Mrs. Vartin.
m make it a point of honor to have it there by five.”
So long, puddin’. Ta-ta, Crystal.


yyyyy'-
m
m
■XwX'X'
&
Sir Herbert Barker.
“Benefit beyond com-
putation can be se-
cured by all who will
follow the directions
given in the Pchnan
Course. It is impos-
sible to speak too
highly of it.’’
Pelmanism is a scientific training,
ft substitutes good and faithful
habits of mind and memory for
slovenly and fearful ones. Thus it
promotes steadfastness, definiteness
and continuity of effort.
m.
£
Canon Hannay.
(G. A. Birmingham.)
“Pehnanism is valu-
able to all men and
women . . . the re-
sults endure. Habits
of mind are formed
which are of the very
highest value in life.”
Pelmanism is endorsed publicly by
more than 100 Prominent People.
Pelmanists are found in practically
every calling.
Pelmanism is permanent in its effect
on the Mind, Memory and Person-
ality.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so that we
are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us. We see
more, and we see it more quickly and accurately. In consequence, there
is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire exact knowledge,
remember it and recall it as required. We learn to trust our sense
perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is then open
and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and woman. The
more important of these qualities are
Observation Self-Confidence Concentration
Will-Power Judgment Initiative
Decision Organisation Social Ease
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices and
useful data of every kind.
The Exercises are pleasant and each has its special purpose. The Pelman
Course is a real training, its primary object being to create good habits
of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly ones, to train the
conscious and the subconscious so that every faculty will, when called
upon, contribute its share in making a good performance of anything
that has to be done.
From several thousands of letters received from men and women doing all
kinds of work in Australia and New Zealand we give the following of recent date:—
Aug. 14th, ’4O.
Since starting Pelmanism I have improved
immensely in various ways. This Lesson
(Concentration) was very informative. I was
always under the impression that concentration
was fixation of thought, —Printer {Vic.).
April 22nd, ’4O.
As an example of what Pelmanism has done
the following might be of interest. For the
past week I have been working on a subject
which for the past twelve months almost drove
me to despair. Today I succeeded in obtaining
the maximum percentage in an oral examination
which lasted over two hours. I had no fears,
felt perfectly confident and felt a tinge of regret
when it was over. I was thoroughly enjoying
myself. —Officer {merchant ship).
March sth, ’4O.
Enclosed you will find my work sheet for
Lesson 12.
I must enclose a few lines to express my
gratitude for the information and advice con-
tained in this Lesson 12. From it I have
obtained the solution to a problem which I’ve
tried to solve in various ways, but without pre-
vious success. Had this been the only benefit
derived, this Course would have been worth
while. —Clerk ( Vic. ),
March Bth, ’4O.
I forward my last work sheet with a. feeling
of regret. Tliis Course has been a great pleasure
for me, and I have enjoyed the reading and study
immensely. I complete it with a feeling of satis-
faction and enlightenment, and know that I have
received far more benefit than I had imagined
possible. —Lady Bookkeeper ( Q’land ).
Feb. 15th, ’4O.
My casual memory is almost infallible. 1 note
important details to be done at specified times,
but rarely need to rely on these written notes.
I seem now to have an automatic mental “remem-
bering” device. —Bank Officer (Vic.).
Feb. Ist, ’4O.
With the help and encouragement of Pelmanism
I realised that I possessed artistie-eunv-business
talent. Soon after completing the Pelinan Course
T found a place in Radio as cadet announcer.
Today, about six years later, I am the manager
(station named). Pelmanism is largely respon-
sible for all this.
You have my permission to show this letter to
anyone really interested in your splendid Course
of —The May to Live! —Manager ( Q’land).
Wc shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy of “The Efficient
Mind,” 76 pages, post free. Your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential
communication; we have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne
Telephone: MU23SS.
There are over half a million
Pelmanists, of whom more than
44,000 have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established
in Melbourne for over 33. years.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
I:.---:
? m* ■ ti
Dr. F. W. Norwood, D.D.
“Pelmanism is sound
and an
admirable system of
mind— training. A
proper grasp of it
would save any life
from futility. It teaches
that man has the ' key
to his own career
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
m
Dame Sybil
Thorndike.
‘•Pelmanism gives a.
mental clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees opportunities
and uses them rightly
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
134
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
For local office, address
see Page 5.
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
* 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
C Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-).
SEND “THE BULLETIN” TO
THE LADS OVERSEAS—
Special Concession Rates:
12 months 15/-
6 months .... 8/-
3 months . 4/-
post free.
0° n 6)
S«*
o x
**
. / ' f Ps°l
s %nC
ot %<*s■s&*
#•’
*\ #l\ #
- •jS* eft \o^
O


V
Established
1878
/}
>■
I
s 1 3
: ■
V
Assets
£11,000,000
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN N.S.W.)
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
PURELY MUTUAL ANNUAL BONUSES
THE SOCIETY OPERATES ONLY IN THE
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA AND
BELONGS TO ITS POLICYHOLDERS
WILLIAM BENNETT,
CHAIRMAN OF DIRECTORS & GENERAL MANAGER.
