

0
§
lf it is a matter of wireless apparatus for
naval, military or air force purposes; for marine or air
communications; for mobile or fixed aids to navigation;
for broadcasting; for any application whatever to practical
requirements . . . A.W.A. manufacture it.
To-day, as in the earliest days of wireless experiment,
A.W.A. are pioneers in design and leaders in technical
efficiency.
K 1
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
Buy War Savings Certificates
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin/ 7 VoL 62. —No. 3223.
Wednesday, November 19, 1941.
The Need for Men
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


Learn
Story
Writing
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send , without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. 341
The Red Page
APPRENTICE NOAH.
Setting out in a bulgy, cement-caulkec
old schooner to pick up at sundry West
African points of call a cargo of wild
animals and birds for Europe’s zoos,
Andre Demaison was soon in the thick
of adventure so fantastic that even a
special war correspondent might sniff at
it. Dent and Sons, publishers of the
English translation of M. Demaison’s The
New Noah’s Ark, allow that the book’s
contents are “recorded almost in the
form of fiction,” but vouch for the
“strange voyage” at large as “a true
adventure.” It reads like a cocktail of
Robinson Crusoe, the celebrated Baron
Munchausen and Frank Buck.
A former gay and gallant owner of
the old tub had called her Jouet des
Plots (Plaything of the Waves). M.
Demaison let it stand as fair comment,
but added, on a board outside the cabin
facing the mainmast, Noah’s Ark. For
crew, a black skipper and one or two
hands, also black, “their teeth filed to
points.” The first items of cargo, numer-
ous monkeys and a young hippopotamus,
this fellow to be secured from English
traders marooned on a trading station
that was strange and wonderful even for
that part of the world.
There were two of these trading
stations moored in shelter by the man-
groves just inside the river mouth at Old
Calabar—one English and one French,
and probably the stations themselves had
been in the battle of Trafalgar. They
were old three-deckers, splendid fighting
ships in their day, come to this end.
Their last voyage had been with cargoes
to the West African coast; here they
had been tied up, their cordage, sails and
fittings traded away, the hulks fitted out
as floating stations to carry on trade in
palm-oil and the like.
Ordering his crew to anchor by the one
flying the French flag, M. Demaison
speculated on its name, Neptune. There
were three Neptunes at Trafalgar—Eng-
lish, French and Spanish. “It was de-
pressing to find mementoes of past
defeats on the pathway to adventure.”
Monsieur was to find that he wasn’t the
only one thereabouts nursing memories
of that sort. He boarded the hulk under
the French flag, and had dinner with its
admiral. Across the water lay the Eng-
lish hulk, the Apollo. “Another prize
from the time of the First Empire,” as
the French hulk’s admiral ruefully com-
mented, admitting that it always upset
him a bit “to see the name of their ship.”
After all, Trafalgar had occurred only
a hundred-odd years back; and, as M.
Demaison was to learn, there were also
other matters besides Trafalgar.
Courtesies having been exchanged with
the English hulk, they were presently on
their way over —there, after considerable
palaver, to get down to the business of
the hippo. Price agreed on, a fiver ; then
the French party admitted as ex officio
members of the Palm Oil Club aboard ;
permanent membership list, the English
hulk’s admiral and his fighting strength
of two, one from Ramsgate and the other
from Leeds: “I know it because, after
the second glass of champagne, they
boasted of the fact as though it were a
virtue.” More of the hospitality of the
Palm Oil Club, and one of the English
remarked, apropos of the hippo.: “You're
lucky to get that beast. I wouldn’t have
sold him. Why, it’s giving him away.
Oh, well, I suppose it’s your revenge for
Fashoda.”
What on earth has Fashoda to do with
it, thought M. Demaison, apparently
overlooking his own earlier thoughts
touching on Trafalgar. Why, Fashoda,
which nearly brought France and Eng-
land to blows, had happened years ago.
He tried a little appeasement. “I see
you’re fond of history,” he said genially.
“I prefer seafaring and champagne.”
This, as is sometimes the way with ap-
peasement, passed for weakness. The
Englishman drank deep on it, and mut-
tered “Blasted frogs!” A cheerful ditty,
tossed in impromptu in his own language
by one of the French boarding party,
didn’t help. Unable to follow it, the Eng-
lish “drank brandy to keep themselves
in countenance.” Then one of them “got
up and sang an unpleasant chanty in
which we and the monarch of the period
were pretty roughly handled.”
At this, up stood the admiral of the
French hulk. “I shall withdraw,” he said
with dignity. “I thought this was a club
of gentlemen.” The member from Leeds
crashed his glass on the table and
shouted; “I won’t let you insult us on a
boat which fought in a battle you lost” ;
and the singing member of the French
boarding party broke into another ditty,
with the refrain “Declare la guerre /”
This brought the admiral of the English
hulk to his feet, announcing with great
solemnity, “I shall not permit you, sir
... I shall not permit you, sir!” One
of the English fighting strength swung at
the French songster, slipped, crashed into
the table and knocked out the lights on
it; only a hurricane-lamp still swung
above. Another of the English—still
nursing his grudge about the hippo., to
say nothing of history—bore down on
M. Demaison, roaring out: “This is the
hand that fed the beast, and I’ll knock
you out with it, you damned frog!”
The battle raged fiercely, enlivened
with cries of “That’s for Trafalgar!
That’s for Waterloo! That’s for
Fashoda!” M. Demaison is a bit vague
about the casualties, but implies a French
victory, though it can be inferred that he
himself was the only one conscious at
the end of hostilities. Back on Jouet des
Flats next morning, he found all his
dusky crew also unconscious, and
the monkeys likewise, all stretched out
on deck in tribute to the potency of
“Dutch gin manufactured at Hamburg.”
It may perhaps be inferred that the
worthy M. Demaison was not in the best
shape himself, for, unknown to him, the
enemy of the night before had somehow
got the hippo, on to his schooner, and
there it was, with a note of apology from
the admiral of the Apollo for “what hap-
pened at our Club last night.” There
was also “a bird with a large beak, which
does not say much, but will remind you
of the prisoners of Old Calabar. Believe
me, dear sir, sincerely yours, R. D.
Johnston”—an Englishman to the last!
And a Frenchman to the last, M.
Demaison, sending across in return a
present of wine and a pig, and a letter
to the effect that he had been “delighted
by the cheery evening at the Palm Oil
Club”! As the Jouet des Flats moved
seaward: “Guns were fired aboard the
Englishman. The French saluted us in
like fashion. I responded with a crackling
volley.” After all, Fashoda, Waterloo
and Trafalgar happened a long time ago.
In the end, M. Demaison lost the Jouet
des Flats, cargo and all. More and more
animals and birds were picked up at one
odd spot and another as they went on
up the coast, till they had aboard all
manner of creatures, including an
elephant, a panther, a buffalo, even a
lion. The ship was clustered with
monkeys, and birds of all sorts strutted
about. M. Demaison had been in other
spots as odd as Old Calabar. One ran
to two Emperors, one of them in control
of the empire during the day, the other
taking over and ruling at night. He had
met a black trader who had got his start
in business by arresting a militiaman who
had come to arrest him, donning the
militiaman’s outfit, and then taking him
and his camel into the interior and selling
them both, along with rifle and uniform.
M. Demaison made one call too many.
He and crew were feasted by the locals,
put out to sea and one by one collapsed,
till all were out to it—poisoned. Such
of them as revived found that their ship
had lived up to her name. The waves had
cast her ashore, and on the sand were
dozens of footprints, as if Noah himself
had landed there and let all his animals
walk off across the sand into the African
jungle.
Auden in America.
Nobody but Auden —unless one of his
numerous imitators among the younger
English poets were in particularly good
form —could have written it: such a plain
bare statement, still maintaining the dig-
nity of the poet’s language ; so modern
a statement, yet clearly in the high tradi-
tion of English poetry; arising out of
satire, yet recognisably poetry as well as
satire —not, like Pope’s satire, merely
verse: Auden on New York’s sky-
scrapers :
Modern in their impenitence,
Blond, naked, paralysed, alone,
Like rebel angels turned to stone
The secular cathedrals stand
Upon their valuable land
Frozen for ever in a lie.
Determined always to deny
That man is weak and has to die.
And nobody but Auden—unless one of
his imitators were in extraordinarily bad
form—could have written some of the
other lines in this same new poem, New
Year Letter (Faber):
How few pretend to like it: O,
Three-quarters of these people know
Instinctively what ought to be
The nature of society.
From which it should be obvious that
New Year Letter, like most of Auden’s
writing to date, is a mixture of the aston-
ishingly good and the incredibly bad. Its
trotting rhythm, an interesting but un-
fortunate attempt to streamline Pope’s
heroic couplet, tells against it as a whole,
though a series of sonnets, included as a
sort of commentary on the long poem,
is a compensation:
So here he was without maps or supplies
A hundred miles from any decent town;
The desert glared into his bloodshot eyes;
The silence roared displeasure:
looking down
He saw the shadow of an Average Man
Attempting the Exceptional, and ran.
“The book as a whole,” the publishers
not very enlighteningly explain, “consti-
tutes a complex poetical justification of
the position at which the author has
arrived.” It explains, therefore, at great
length, why Auden, who wrote in I
Believe that democracy must be defended
“perhaps even at the cost of our lives
and the lives of others,” finds himself in
this poem defending democracy with his
pen from the window of a skyscraper in
New York.
Pinched Sister.
This page thought it could take any-
thing from a travel writer. It accepts
that they have a license in leg-pulling,
and if they go beyond that and indulge
in a spot of plain and fancy fibbing what
of it? They’re not asked to provide gos-
pels, so long as what they’re relating
could be believed by a child, and so long
as they relate it in a straightforward
fashion.
George Sava, in 'The Valley of For-
gotten People (Faber), tugs on this
reasonably elastic leg just a bit too hard.
There’s no objection to his statement
that in the Caucasus there are something
in the region of two hundred different
races and some three hundred different
dialects and languages. It’s quite on the
cards that, as he says, in one valley there
you’ll come on folk with faces “as white
as a Scotsman’s” and then just round the
corner bump into some Tartars. There
may be Christians there, as he records,
who have never heard of Christ, and
others who announce themselves as citi-
zens of Rome’s long-lost empire.
There are probably languages there
without alphabets, and “men who have
come from distant parts of the globe,
from Germany, from France, from Italy,
from the Siberian steppes, from the
Garden of Eden itself, and who have set
up settlements and elect their princes and
have fought and loved in the hills for
thousands of years.”
This page is prepared to accept all this
without any question. Also that, round
about 1918, a “prince” from these parts
came down to the civilised plains and
abducted Mr. Sava’s sister. A flash soft
of customer, the prince, full of swagger
and heaven knows what else. But decent
withal. First he approached the young
lady’s father and the young lady herselt.
Both rejected him with disdain. So he
came again, stealthily, and nabbed her at
night.
Thereupon young Sava and an ultra-
learned aristocratic servant of their
family named Shota set out on horseback
to rescue the damsel and do in the prince.
Great stuff; great goings on. Credible?
Why, of course. It happened in the
Caucasus.
It’s • also credible that, after many
chapters—enough of them to make a
book they find the young lady, are
assured by her that the prince had
throughout conducted himself like a
gentleman, and wouldn’t even look side-
ways at her till he’d got the Sava family’s
permission to do the right thing. And
nobody will doubt for a moment that the
young lady—epitome of the eternal femi-
nine—has meanwhile fallen heavily for
the prince, what though his princedom
consists of a hut and a couple of goats.
Nobody will doubt, either, that, because
Caucasian custom commands it, young
Sava meets the prince in a duel to satisfy
honor, or that, in the circumstances, he
fires over the prince’s head, what time
the prince also fires and misses a passing
bird.
What gave this page’s leg an ache in all
its parts wasn’t any of these pleasant
facts and excitements. The aches and
pains came from Mr. Sava’s method of
narration. The great bulk of the infor-
mation he has to purvey comes out in his
endless remembered conversations with
the good Shota on the way. That’s over
the fence. After some 20-odd years Mr.
Sava can sit down and remember the
full details of all their conversations, just
as spoken in fact, just as if he was
making it all up, an impression not les-
sened by the fact that all who open th £ir
mouths not only speak exactly alike but
exactly like Mr. Sava.
This page can swallow a lot, but it
can’t swallow a memory as prodigious
as all that. And if it could, it would
still rule Mr. Sava out on the ground
that, of all the various ways of imparting:
information to a reader, the device of
having it come out in conversation must
be just about the world’s worst. The
good encyclopaedic Shota, gasbagging
away as they jog from valley to valley,
becomes a talkative old bore. God rest
his aged bones somewhere, and, for the
sake of peace in Paradise, gag him.
An Unsung Genius.
A modest 32-p. brochure published in
Brisbane in aid of patriotic funds out-
lines briefly the career and achievements
of a great Australian scientist.
Devon-born, Bertram Dillon Steele
had a brilliant student career in science
at Melbourne University and was selected
in 1900 for an 1851-Exhibition Research
Scholarship. So outstanding was his
work in London and Germany that it
was extended for three years, after which
he taught at McGill University in Mon-
treal, and in Edinburgh.
Returning to Australia in 1906 he be-
came Senior Lecturer in Chemistry at
Melbourne University, and in 1910 was
made Professor of Chemistry in the new
University of Queensland. He held the
post until his retirement in 1931, and was
Emeritus Professor until his death in
1934.
Steele’s scientific output was amazing.
His work on the theory of solutions is
still the basic matter on the subject. He
did more than any other man to secure
mastery over the prickly pear pest in
Queensland. With Prof. Kerr Grant,
now of Adelaide, he constructed the
world’s most delicate balance, made of
fused quartz and weighing to one 30-
millionth of a grain.
From 1915-18 he was co-opted by the
British Government as a war-inventor,
devised a new gasmask, perfected a de-
vice for capturing submarines, reduced
the cost of synthetic phenol for explo-
sives from £240 to £7O, and produced
the most deadly form of poison gas ever
made. The war ended before it could be
used, but there is good reason to believe
that the knowledge of its existence has
been a main factor in keeping Hitler to
his undertaking not to use gases.
He would not accept money-grants,
honors or public approbation for what
he considered to be his plain duty to his
country. Of highest probity and prin-
ciple, he was friendly and approachable,
kindly and just in all things. The bro-
chure, A Tribute to a Great Scientist,
was written by A. Hardman-Knight,
M.A.
League Post-mortem.
Viscount Cecil’s A Great Experiment
(Cape ; Angus and Robertson) is labelled
“An Autobiography.” If that’s right,
then- every Domain orator practises the
art of Sam Pepys. Still, when “protec-
tion” has come to mean “walk in and
butcher,” and “incident” means years of
war with millions of dead, and “Non-
Aggression Pact” means another lamb —
or it may be a bear or turkey—all ready
for slaughter, perhaps the dictionary, too,
has gone off its nut.
An introductory chapter has something
of the nature of autobiography, but little
more than a handful of hints —home life,
a paragraph or two ; Eton and Oxford,
ditto ; beginnings of a legal and political
career, a few more pars.; world travel,
a dozen lines or so: in all, less than 40
of the book’s 390 pages. Then, from
Chapter Two onwards, the story of the
League of Nations as interpreted by an
earnest supporter who can speak of its
doings from the inside.
Ardent Leagueites will pore over its
pages with the sad zeal of the late Charles
Garvice’s late readers, the League figur-
ing as a spotless heroine being assailed
and, alas! eventually ruined by rogues.
These —not the early defection of her first
worshipper, nor anything inherently weak
in her own character —brought about her
downfall. But there’s a happy ending.
The author conjures up the vision of a
new Authority to do all that the League
failed to do.
London Diary: Quentin Reynolds
(Angus and Robertson). Breezy record
of a couple of months of war-time Lon-
don in the style of the author’s tiptop
newsreel commentating. His oddities in-
clude the statement that the East End
home of Lord Haw-Haw’s mother was
destroyed by a bomb on the night
Lord Haw-Haw broadcast that German
bombers aimed at only military objec-
tives.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —business integrity
“THE SENIOR STORE
o° ic *
o )
m
cl' I*’ 1 *’
vice
ere
df
HEAT STORAGE
COOKERS
THE Esse Heat Storage Cooker enables you to
enjoy every city convenience in cooking and
hot water supply in the most distant country
home . . . and with inconceivable economy ... in
fact, a practical installation effecting 80 per cent,
economy over previous running costs.
ILLUSTRATED AT RIGHT
THE ESSE MINOR
The Esse Minor (Automatically Controlled) has two fires with one flue connec-
tion—each fire chamber designed to give the maximum efficiency for its
respective duty. The whole presents an attractive, self-contained unit which
not only cooks for a household of up to fifteen persons, but provides also an
adequate hot water supply for baths and all other domestic requirements.
As the entire unit is heavily insulated the fuel consumption in both fires is
exceptionally low, while additional surface for the warming of utensils is
provided by the water heater hot-plate.
,S ' '
mmm. — '
M
IS
■
ii
mmmm
m
mm
aassw •■■■'%
:S8
is*:*
■
iiiiil
-
s*ss
H
5:
VICTORIAN AGENCY:
T. S. NETTLEFOLD, LIMITED,
Collins Street,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
QUEENSLAND AGENCY:
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES LIMITED,
Bowen Street,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
$7
a
. i
; 5
SSW
■
•• •• ;
mmm
s
m
m: ?i
KSSSS!
mmM
■?sss
THE PREMIER
MODEL WITH HOT WATER UNIT
The three roomy extra high ovens are evenly heated and give
three different cooking temperatures, maintained automatically
by a thermostat. They provide healthy, fume-free cooking and
conserve the essential juices and flavour of the food. The Hot
Water Unit provides unlimited hot water day and night, and the
absence of heat radiation from the exterior of the "Esse" ensures
that the kitchen is able to remain at a nice cool temperature
during the hottest summer days.
With each model there is supplied a toaster, two shelves (in top
oven), baking compartment shelves in baking compartment or'
lower oven), deep roasting oven pan, shallow baking pan, fuel
hod, filling funnel, plug lifter, two flue rakes, clinker poker, ash
shovel, wire brush and complete set of utensils.
The whole of the body of the cookers is beautifully porcelain
enamelled in colour (Cream is standard). The top-plate is
enamelled Black, except the boiling hob, and in the case of the
Water Heater model, the plate over water heater. Bright fittings
are chromium-plated.
PRICES AND CATALOGUES WILL BE SENT ON APPLICATION.
• Esse Stores Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Delivered free only within our
delivery area.
Sole N.S.W. Agents for Esse Cookers:
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
'PHONE M 2401
(Day and Night]
FAMOUS
LOW
PRICES
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
Sydney


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
e/f C inell
Seppelt’s
SULGRAVE MANOR, HOME OF GEORGE WASHINGTON ’S ANCESTORS.
Close to the borders of Oxfordshire, but actually in Wiltshire, is one of the most world-famed buildings in England—Sul grave Manor, the
ancestral home of the founder of the United States. George Washington was the great-grandson of John Washington, an Englishman
who emigrated in 1657. The flag emblematic of the great Republic is a modification of the shield in the coat-of-arms of the Washington
family, who belonged to that section of the community which has figured so prominently in English history, and has been described
as “the smaller landed gentry.” It was a wonderful part of the country in which the Washington family resided. Within a comparatively
short distance Shakespeare was born, while almost close by was fought at Banbury in 1469 the first battle between Charles I and the
Parliamentary forces. Thus the Washington family was linked with a district rich in events marking important advancement in the progress
of constitutional government. Little surprise that the influences inherited from his forefathers in those stirring days should have “blazoned
forth” practically three centuries later when another struggle for the vindication of constitutional rights arose. There have been many
requests to “transplant” this homely manor house to the United States. It still remains in old England, and is likely to, possessing an
importance and significance with the “changing world scenes” which may not be gainsaid. The Stars and Stripes pendant from the staff
in front of Sulgrave Manor tell a story he who runs may read.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62.—N0. 3223.
Wednesday, November 19, 1941.
ANOTHER OFFER OF A HAT.
“No, thanks ; I'd rather have a Red Capstan.”
[With all necessary apologies.]


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings iopp. G.P.0. ),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign ) :
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
THE NEED FOR MEN.
One of the first jobs tackled by General Blarney on
his return from the fighting fronts of the Middle East
to “confer with the Federal Ministry” was to broad-
cast an appeal for more recruits for the A.I.F. The
General was “staggered to find that the young men
of Australia do not feel that their place is in the
ranks.” On behalf of the Diggers in the thick of it,
he said;
We feel it is up to the young men of this country
to reduce our task by coming over to help us. Our
backs are to the wall. If you stay in this country and
do not do your bit, then it is on your shoulders if this
country finally is invaded and overwhelmed.
With all respect due to the General Officer Com-
manding the A.I.F. in the Middle East and Deputy
Commander-in-Chief of all forces there. The Bulletin
cannot accept that argument for a moment. Not only
in peace-time but now in war a very large proportion
of the young men thus appealed to are not considered
mentally mature and responsible enough to have the
vote. They can have no say even in the quite unim-
portant matter of the electing of members to the quite
unimportant State Parliaments. They are considered
not to have arrived at a proper age of discretion.
Yet these same youngsters are expected to weigh
the pros and cons of the whole war situation, and
arrive (favorably) at a decision of the highest import-
ance both to themselves and to their country. They
can’t be credited with a sufficient sense of responsi-
bility to cast a vote for a choice of mediocrities con-
testing a seat in a superfluous Parliament; but it is
put to them that if “this country finally is invaded and
overwhelmed,” then the responsibility for that catas-
trophe must rest on their shoulders.
There is no misunderstanding here of General
Blarney’s position, nor any lack of sympathy for his
purpose. He is a soldier and a good one. But others
besides himself have made recruiting appeals in terms
that were successful up to about this stage and later
in the 1914-18 war. Even then they failed in the end,
and there had to be attempts to introduce conscrip-
tion. The Diggers of that day twice voted in favor
of this; but the country’s decision was that the
Diggers already there —many of them several times
wounded; most of them veterans of scores of severe
engagements, from Gallipoli onwards—would have to
go on with it. It was their affair, not Australia’s
responsibility. If reinforcements failed; if the
dwindling numbers already there had to go up the
line over and over without proper rest, to be wounded
and patched up and go in again—that was just too
bad, but, after all, they had volunteered.
In advocating conscription now The Bulletin is
opposing a repetition of that sorry business. It is con-
vinced that, failing the introduction of this one demo-
cratic —and necessary—method of raising an army for
total war and reinforcing it, a repetition there will be.
In fact, on the word of General Blarney, Lieut.-
General Iven Mackay and others who on this speak
with full authority, there is no waiting for a repeti-
tion ; it is here now. These authorities, returned from
the fighting fronts, are surprised at the falling off in
recruiting. The sum of their statements, in effect,
is that reinforcements are needed for the A.1.F., and
are not forthcoming in sufficient numbers even for
what is comparatively a quiet time in the fighting.
With heavy fighting—which they expect—the numbers
as now forthcoming would be hopelessly inadequate.
The Bulletin believes that the only answer to
this position is conscription. This is total war, and
Australia is pledged to see it through. In these cir-
cumstances, the taking of a fighting part in this war
should not be an individual but a collective responsi-
bility. It is a matter for the nation. On the shoulders
of Australia —not only Australians of a certain age,
including many not considered old enough for the re-
sponsibility of voting, but all Australians, separately,
collectively and, above all, their elected representatives
and Parliamentary leaders —must rest the responsibility
if “this country finally is invaded and overwhelmed.”
It is both wrong and futile to try to shift this respon-
sibility from this democracy as a whole to a small
number of its individuals.
As The Bulletin sees the position, it is most
unfair to separate a small part of the community from
the rest, saddle its individuals with a responsibility
that properly belongs to the whole community, and.
when they show reluctance to take on this unfair
burden of decision, abuse them and treat them as
scapegoats. Quite probably the natural reaction of
a good many of those thus segregated is: “They can’t
want us so much, or they’d take us.” They see the
example of Maoriland, and they can’t understand why
that should not go for Australia, too, if men are
wanted as urgently as the recruiters say. As far back
as June Maoriland’s Labor Government issued its
proclamation requiring all married men between 18
and 45 (inclusive) to enrol for military service. With
that near example, it is surely nothing remarkable if
Australians of military age —married or otherwise —
take the stand that if they were really urgently
wanted they, too, would be so informed by Govern-
ment proclamation.
That is only one of many underlying causes of
the general state of unreality still prevailing in Aus-
tralia in this third year of war. General Blarney was
astonished to find the young men of Australia “living
a carnival life.” Good ; but surely not the young men
only. He broadened the indictment: “I have been
astounded at the complacency with which people here
view the war.” If the General looks around he will
find that this complacency is a symptom of a curious
—but not inexplicable—atmosphere of unreality spread
over the Australian war-time scene. He will find, if
he has the time for analysis, that this unreality can
be tracked home to definite sources.
For example, shortly before General Blarney was
recalled by the Australian Labor Government for
consultation, the leader and other members of this
Government were to be heard issuing warnings of
impending dangers as dire as any mentioned by the
General. That, on the one hand. On the other, Mr.
Curtin could have been heard referring to the Digger
volunteers as serving “in a war in which, if they are
worsted, our country is lost and our liberty destroyed.”
Yet in the same speech Mr. Curtin was to be heard
reaffirming the determination to continue the volun-
tary system. If the Digger volunteers are worsted,
“our country is lost and our liberty destroyed.” The
Digger volunteers are in need of reinforcements and
may soon be in vital need of them ; yet the “volun-
tary system” must be maintained, though country and
liberty may be the price. With this as the stand of the
Prime Minister, of his Government and of the sup-
porters of both, is it any wonder that there should be
complacency bred of unreality?
Take another eminent Labor leader, Dr. Evatt.
On about the day General Blarney returned Dr. Evatt
gave out “four reasons why the war outlook is now
brighter”: (1) Heroic resistance of the British people
under Churchill; (2) America’s “alliance,” in fact if
not by treaty ; (3) China’s magnificent inspiration of
resistance for four years, although she had lost every
battle; (4) Russia’s determination to place its people
and liberty before property interests. Dr. Evatt
omitted to mention one significant fact —that every
one of these countries whose efforts provide his four
reasons why the war outlook is brighter has conscrip-
tion. Without that essential to their war effort they
could not thus be held up as examples, and the “four
reasons” would not exist. Dr. Evatt, along with Mr,
Curtin and the rest of the Labor Government, wor-
ships the corpse called the “voluntary system.”
These are only examples. This is not a hunt for
scapegoats; if it were it would be endless. But it is
no more than fair to mention an important non-Labor
voice in this context —that of ex-Prime Minister Men-
zies. Nobody in a responsible position has contri-
buted more than Mr. Menzies to the prevailing un-
reality regarding the part of fighting men in this war.
Mr. Menzies had the huge job of gearing Australia’s
industry to the war effort, and did it nobly. This
does not alter the fact that reiterated utterances of his
in that job were dangerous from a fighting man-power
standpoint, as was here pointed out at the time. In
London at the end of April Mr. Menzies said; “If
any of us are left who want to talk in terms of
numbers of men and divisions, let us abandon the
habit while there is still time.” Crossing to America,
Mr. Menzies said: “If we are realists, we will not
be thinking half so much in terms of man-power as
we will in terms of machine-power.” Over and over
the ex-P.M. elaborated on this comfortable theme.
No wonder, with that as the note struck by the
country’s Prime Minister, there is failure to change
overnight and regard the call for men as urgent.
Now all that sort of thinking has to be jettisoned
—as The Bulletin said at the time it would have to
be. General Blarney has said the latest word on it:
“We went to Greece well equipped ; it was numbers
we lacked,” President Roosevelt has also had a word
on it: “It is true in modern war that men without
machines are of little value. It is equally true that
machines without men are of no value at all.” It is
true, too, that numbers count; it is equally true that
freshness and fitness count. Mr. Curtin’s statement
that “Our fighting men are more than a match for
the enemy” will not hold good if they are outnumbered
by real fighters, and if they are not sufficiently rein-
forced to be rested and fresh for the job. To ensure
that is a national responsibility. It is grossly unfair
for the nation —while itself, collectively and through
its elected representatives, evading this national respon-
sibility—to saddle a special class of individuals with
the burden of decision.
All Eyes on Roosevelt.
Australia’s John Greig Latham is home again, after
ten months in Japan, for a period which will be deter-
mined by the course of events in the Near North and
by his own state of health, which obliged him to
become a hospital case in Singapore. “Looking pale
and thin,” he said at Darwin “I was treated very
courteously in Japan, where there is still a lot of real
goodwill towards Australia, though I am afraid this
goodwill can find no avenue of expression today.”
Of the outlook in the Near North the Chief Jus-
tice said that he would not “attempt to predict what
might happen,” but he regarded it as “not impossible”
that “wiser counsels will prevail.” i kcre were many
reasons why Japan should not incur the grave risk
of another adventure in war.”
Those reasons have limited, if they have not prevailed
over, the desires of reckless Japanese advocates of
expansion.
At Sydney he went further:
Many people think that war in the Pacific is inevit-
able. Although I recognise the danger of speaking about
the future, I find myself unable to share these most
gloomy apprehensions.
People who look for intelligent guidance in the
wilderness of foreign “news,” which is still mainly
views, derived some comfort from the sober observa-
tions of a shrewd and unbiased observer. They
appeared —inconspicuously—at the end of a week
given over to alarums and excursions. 800-boo boys
and bellicose editors had been letting themselves go
with more abandon than ever. Over the Pacific zone
stalk American correspondents whose little knowledge
of Oriental ways and Oriental politics is eked out by
reckless speculation ; Australian correspondents, inno-
cents abroad, who try to write just like the Americans,
and British correspondents who strive to maintain
Sunday-press standards ; and these gentlemen had a
thoroughly enjoyable week. If momentarily stuck for
additions to their pictures of the Pacific scene, they
and the noble band of armchair commentators and
swivel-chair strategists could turn to that unfailing
standby a Churchill speech.
Mr. Churchill spoke at the Lord Mayor’s dinner
in London, and spoke with his accustomed eloquence.
Not the least of his achievements as an Empire states-
man is that he has routed the Communists and
“famous” editors and commentators who clamored for
an immediate offensive in France, Flanders, Norway,
anywhere, but he did not dwell on the discomfiture of
these “two-front fire-eaters,” as Field-Marshal Bird-
wood aptly calls them. He addressed himself to the
situation in the North Pacific. Recalling that as a
young politician he had “fought for the Anglo-
Japanese Alliance,” and had since, as “a sentimental
well-wisher of the Japanese and an admirer of their
many gifts and qualities,” done his best “to promote
good relations with Japan,” he said he “would view
with keen sorrow the opening of a conflict between
Japan and the English-speaking world.”
I devoutly hope that peace in the Pacific will be
preserved in accordance with the known wishes of the
wisest Japanese statesman. But every preparation to
defend British interests in the Far East is being made.
And not only British interests, but the interests of the
peoples of Australia, Maoriland and India. To them
“we have stretched out the long arm of brotherhood
and motherhood.”
We now feel ourselves strong enough to provide
powerful naval forces of heavy ships, with essential
ancillary vessels, for service, if necessary, in the Indian
and Pacific Oceans.
There followed a panegyric on “the great Asiatic
hero Chiang Kai-shek,” and a reference to the U.S.A.’s
“time-honored interests in the Far East” and its
“well-known” efforts “to find a way of preserving
peace in the Pacific.” Then came the statement that
should failure attend these efforts, “should the United
States become involved in war against Japan, a
British declaration of war will follow in an hour.” Was
it wise to say on such an occasion and in such cir-
cumstances what can be taken for granted? Since
“face” counts for so much in Asia, wouldn’t it have
been better to convey the warning to the Japanese
Government through the ordinary channels of
diplomacy? Publicly-delivered gamings of British
Ministers to foreign Governments have had a sorry
history.
Japanese reactions to the speech, so much of
which was excellent from the British Common-
wealth point of view, were naturally bad. American
reactions seem to have been favorable only in quarters
favorable already—those in which all-in support for
Britain has become a fixed policy. This support is
precious, but the good friends of Britain, headed by
the President, cannot yet be said to have converted
the majority of the nation to their way of thinking.
The chances are that they have been embarrassed
by a declaration the like of which Mr. Roosevelt has
not himself seen fit to issue. It may not have had any
effect on feeling in the House of Representatives when
the Neutrality Act amendments came up for final con-
sideration ; the Democratic Congressmen who crossed
the floor seemed to have been influenced rather by
disgust at Washington’s kid-glove handling of strikes,
which again threaten to convulse the nation in a
critical hour and which are fraught with such danger
to democracy. At all events the clause authorising the
sending of armed U.S. merchantmen to British ports
was carried by a majority of 18 (212-194), and that
only after the President had issued a personal appeal
to his wavering party, in which he wrote that, if the
measure failed of a majority, “friends and enemies
would misinterpret our mind and purpose,” our
“domestic situation” would be weakened, and the
“three” Axis nations would rejoice and reiterate “the
claim that the United States is disunited, as they have
so often professed.”
Small as it is, the majority is sufficient for the
purpose on which the President has set his heart, but
it shows how much depends on the life of one resolute
and noble-hearted man.
In the last war President Wilson armed merchant-
men and sent them on their lawful occasions, with
orders to fire at U-boats on sight, without reference
to Congress, after he had been refused power to do
so by “filibusters” in the Senate. Six weeks later,
after U-boats had sunk three American ships without
warning, he appeared before a joint session of Con-
gress and asked for a declaration that these and other
proceedings of the German Government constituted
war against the United States. It was voted in the
Senate by 82 to 6, and in the House by 373 to 50.
President Wilson’s difficulties were small compared
with those which have confronted his Democratic
successor. He could —and did—invoke a crusading
spirit which, if it exists still, had not then to encountci


organised opposition to what the isolationists are
pleased to call “pulling the chestnuts out of the fire
again for England.” And he had no Japanese question
on his hands. With the meeting of the Japanese Diet
and the arrival of Mr. Kurusu in Washington, Mr.
Roosevelt will have to deal finally with his thorniest
problem. Being the man he is, he will doubtless con-
sider it with reference to the known past and the
probable future as well as the present. If he can
solve it without war, and without committing the
white race in the Pacific to lasting participation in
East Asian power politics, his name will be eternally
honored, and nowhere more than in these Dominions.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Moscow Example.
The U.A.P., which emerged from the second of the
two elections it lost in N. S. Wales looking as if it
needed half a dozen blood-transfusions, is, it seems,
to be “gingered up.” As part of the process
a lawyer-politician is to succeed a draper as boss and
a “revised constitution” has been prepared; and
there is, of course, to be another experiment in
nomenclature.
The party used to be called Liberal. Then it
changed to Nationalist. Then a section broke away
sporting the Progressive label. Then the Progressives
came back, and one of them became Premier as a
Nationalist. Then the Nationalists were licked, and
an All Australia party shot up, presently to blend
with what was left of the Nationalists and with a
Labor remnant to form the U.A.P. under Labor
leadership. The accident of events placed the U.A.P.
in power in association with the Country party, and,
once on the Treasury benches, it drifted into calm,
settled, drivelling complacency and inertia until it had
settled itself.
Now Youth is to be invited to lead a Glorious
Resurrection. To fill Youth with the will-to-win a
“new policy” has been devised, consisting in the main
of “a social-security scheme, a comprehensive scheme
of slum-clearance, Government supervision of monopo-
lies, uniform industrial laws and judicious use of
national credit for the construction of reproductive
public works of a national character.” A policy which
is about as inspiring as a dead dog.
Newspapers which have supported the U.A.P.
through all its changes of label have suddenly grown
sentimental about Stalin. Uncle Joe’s methods of win-
ning elections are worthy of study, if not of emula-
tion. He outlined them to the Eighteenth Congress
of the Communist party, and a full report appeared in
the Moscow “News” of March 16, 1939, which had a
brisk sale in Sydney, Introducing his account with a
few genial references to “spies, murderers and wreckers
who are possessed by a slavish instinct to grovel
before every foreign bigwig whose neck wears the
yoke of capitalistic slavery,” Uncle Joe explained his
methods in these simple and convincing words:
In 1937, Tukhachevsky, Yakir, Üborevich and other
fiends were sentenced to be shot. After that the elections
to the Supreme Soviet of the U.S.S.R. were held. , In these
elections 98.6 per cent, of the total vote was cast for the
Soviet power. At the beginning of 1938 Rosengoltz,
Rykov, Bukharin and other fiends were sentenced to be
shot. After that the elections to the Supreme Soviet
Republic were held. In these elections 99.4 per cent, of
the total vote wa§ cast for the Soviet power. Where are
the symptoms of “demoralisation,” we would like to
know, and why was this “demoralisation” not reflected
in the results of the elections?
Where and why indeed!
Uncle’s party, like the U.A.P., had a substantial
increase of membership in 1931 and subsequent years.
“It was,” he said, “joined not only by honest and
loyal people, but also by chance elements and career-
ists” ; but unlike the U.A.P. he did not welcome them
with “Come-all-ye’s.” On the contrary, he separated
the “chance, passive, careerist and directly hostile ele-
ments” from the “staunch and loyal elements” —to
such purpose that “the 1,874,488 party members repre-
sented at the Seventeenth Congress” had diminished
to “about 1,600,000” at the Eighteenth Congress. This
process lasted three years, off and on, and Uncle man-
fully admitted that it had been “accompanied by grave
mistakes.” Indeed “there were unfortunately more
grave mistakes than had been expected.” However,
the grave mistakes were attended to so effectually that
no objectors remained, and “results on the whole were
beneficial.”
The party strengthened itself by clearing its ranks
of dross. It is now somewhat smaller in membership,
but, on the other hand, it is better in quality. That is
a big achievement.
Forward, U.A.P., to the Glorious Revolution or the
Glorious Resurrection!
A Memorial Is Opened.
The Commonwealth National War Memorial was
dedicated on Armistice Day by the Governor-General,
Lord Gowrie, A huge, dignified, impressive building,
housing the trophies and records of the last war, it
stands on the slopes of Mt, Ainslie, near Canberra’s
front door, looking down over the whole sweep of the
Molonglo Valley. Just behind the shoulder of the
hill is Duntroon, home of modern Australian military
tradition, and General Bridges, the first A.I.F. com-
mander, sleeps above it.
Around it are grass and gum-trees. It is set
in a scene more typically Australian than any of the
city memorials.
The ceremony was as full of color as war-time
conditions would allow. Every branch of the services
was represented. General Blarney, C.-in-C. of the
A.I.F. in the Middle East, was there; so was General
Harry Chauvel. There were 15 veterans (as well as
the G.G.) wearing V.C. ribbons. Representatives of
foreign countries were present; and several hundred
schoolchildren, many of whom have fathers in the
new A.1.F., were given places of honor.
The bugles, sounding “Stand Fast” and “The Last
Post,” ushered in the Armistice hour, 23 years after
cease-fire in the last carnage. The chimes of the
Sydney G.P.O. clock echoed against the timbered hill
slopes and Lord Gowrie spoke a quiet and dignified
piece;
From the very moment when the last war started
until the close of hostilities Australia gave unsparingly
and ungrudgingly the best and bravest of her young
manhood, and the record of their heroic deeds, of
their heroic self-sacrifice and devotion to duty, furnishes
without doubt one of the most inspiring and romantic
chapters in the history of the British Empire Many
of these splendid men did not return. They gave their
lives for their King and country and to the everlasting
glory of the land from which they came. It is in their
honor that this memorial has been erected. The flower
of our young men are once more giving their lives
for our freedom... .showing the same indomitable spirit
that their fathers showed before them.
At sunset the colors were hauled down and
“Retreat” sounded before the memorial for the first
time. In a thousand Australian camps and ships and
stations the same ceremony was performed round
the world.
Ragshop and Recruiting Ads.
Appealing for loan subscriptions, Mr. Curtin
“regretted the inducements offered to the public to
spend lavishly on classes of commodities, and, indeed,
on service, which caused an absolute deprivation to
the men who needed equipment.”
He may have been reading in Australia’s oldest
daily an advertisement from one of Australia’s biggest
retail stores: — ■
You would cavil with Esquire over a trivial 25
guineas for a new suit. For shame!
Anyway, “the inducements” go on. In Sydney, at
least, recruiting advertising hasn’t a hope against retail
advertising. Every art of the window-dresser, every
wile of the advertisement copy-writer is lavished on
the joys of staying at home and spending money on
luxuries and revelling in them.
In one of the papers that carry huge retail adver-
tising, it has been denied that ragshops “expect any
serious loss of trade because of the appeal by the
Prime Minister for a reduction of luxury spending”—
denied by “an executive of a leading store”:
All spending appears to be directed to utility lines,
or essential smartness. The Government might call
the buying of fashionable swim-suits, slacks, new sports
clothes and so on “luxury spending.” These things
are vital to relaxation, peace of mind and morale, when
almost everyone is being steered into more work for
the war effort.
To some minds, no doubt, “essential smartness”
and “new sports clothes” are “vital to relaxation, peace
of mind and morale,” and perhaps “Venus” contests
and leg-shows: contribute ; but it would be interesting
to hear the views of a man of Tobruk. And General
Blarney, who was taken to task by the ragshop press
for having arrived in Sydney “without collar and tie
and with tunic buttons undone at the neck,” could
deal faithfully with the matter.
Big shops in big cities are busy with their summer
window displays. These are “gorgeous presentations”
of women’s apparel and beauty gadgets, and the male
is held spellbound by figures—complete with wife or
girl—showing how he will look on the beach, the
tennis court, the racecourse, at the theatre, at the dance
joint—anywhere but in the fighting services.
Mr. Curtin can’t expect either shops or people to
give up these things voluntarily. It’s dead against
human nature and will be against it so long as the
grim reality is kept thousands of miles away by our
defenders and by journalistic cushioning of the truth.
"National Morale" in Carloads.
Mr. Errol G. Knox, president of the Newspaper
Proprietors’ Association, which has had a conference
in Melbourne, has been badly let down. “National
morale,” Mr. Knox said, “is a powerful component of
victory. Newspapers are still the most potent factor
in national morale on what we have learned to call
the home front.”
Then what does Sydney “Sun” mean by limiting
to double-column headlines a dashing exploit on the
home front?
Ten carloads of dog punters left Orange and Cowra
to put between £3OO and £4OO on All Guess at Wollon-
gong. All Guess, supported from even money to
odds on, ran third.
Certainly the reporter was allowed to note that the
journey made by the 10 cars was round 500 miles ;
why wasn’t the story made front-page news? Small-
minded people, reading it, doubtless summed it up as
a dreadful reflection on the war taxation, from which
“the dogs” are excluded, and on the administration
of petrol rationing, but “national morale” must be pre-
served, whatever the cost. Besides, hasn’t a “Gallup
Poll” shown that, “torn between the need for relaxa-
tion and a desire for a maximum war effort, Austra-
lians are almost evenly divided on the question of
restricting professional sport in war-time”?
Voice from the Past.
“D.E.”: Writing in the impartial and neuter “S. M.
Herald” on the Sydney Law School affair (B.
12/11/’4l), “a fairly recent graduate” and vice-
president of the Students’ Law Society who has en-
listed got heavily home on “Honi Soit,” a publication
issued by students for students. “Honi Soit” brought
out “a special two-page edition supporting the appoint-
ments” and asserting that “law students were being
deprived of proper facilities for qualifying for their
profession.” It “complained” that “undue stress was
laid on military service,” and triumphantly quoted “a
petition containing 141 signatures of the law students
out of the 180 or so who were approached and out
of the 210 members of the Law School altogether.”
I don’t read “Honi Soit” often, but in the few
issues I have seen it went in a lot for free verse a
long way after Walt Whitman. Some of Walt’s lines
on the war in which he was concerned come back to
memory;
“Beat! beat! drums? Blow, bugles! blow!
Through the windows, through doors, burst like a force of
ruthless men,
Into the solemn church, and scatter the congregation;
Into the school where the scholar is studying;
Would the talkers be talking? Would the singer attempt to
sing?
Would the lawyer rise in the court to state his case before
the Judge?
Then rattle quicker, heavier, drums —you bugles, wilder blow.
Beat! beat! drums! Blow, bugles! blow!
Make no parley—stop for no expostulation;
Mind not the timid —mind not the weeper or prayer;
Mind not the old man beseeching the young man;
Let not the child’s voice be heard, nor the mother’s entreaties;
Make even the trestles to shake the dead, where they lie
awaiting the hearses,
So strong you thump, O terrible drums —so loud you bugles
blow!
Old Walt’s lines seem very pertinent to the present
state of the war and to this Sydney Law School busi-
ness. They could be read with profit by the McKell
Government, which combined with the 141 law
students and the professorial board to secure perma-
nent positions for two strangers, aged 34, over the
heads of two Australians on war service whose claims
were supported by two Supreme Court Justices, the
retiring Dean of the Faculty of Law, a former
Attorney-General and a K.C. —in fact, by all the
legal members of the Senate until Mr. Martin, the
Labor Attorney-General, got himself elected to the
Senate and championed the cause of the strangers,
“Honi Soit” didn’t quote them.
One Committee and Another.
“Nakhoda” vouches for it;
A Russian sympathiser told me the other day that Russia
must win because all the movements of its armies were subject
to the approval of the whole people working through the
Central Committee of the Communist party. When he said
this I couldn’t help thinking of the last meeting of our bush-
fire committee. A lady was in the chair.
Somebody proposed a resolution to the effect that all
bushfire brigade members should take a course in first aid.
Somebody else proposed an amendment that the course
should be as prescribed for the Red Cross. Thereupon a
man said Red Cross conditions were remote from the bush-
fire problem and offered an amendment making the course
coincide with A.R.P. regulations. Another man demurred,
saying he knew all about the A.R.P. business because he had
been in the Melbourne blackout; the A.R.P. dealt only with
gas contamination, bomb splinters and similar cases and he had
yet to know that these factors were attendant on bushfires.
After some debate on this point another amendment arrived.
It was to the effect that the resolution should read “simple first
aid.” An objector wanted to know how the previous speaker
defined “simple.” A man in the front row said that the A.R.P.
blokes called their first-aid course “simple” and claimed that
anybody could learn all about it simply by buying their
pamphlet for threepence.
This moved an elderly Scotch farmer to suggest an
amendment to the effect that all members be presented with
a copy of the pamphlet for nothing, the cost to be charged
up to the Dunstan Government, which had more money than
it knew what to do with and had nevertheless billed him for the
cost of removing a dead cow from the public highway. His
explanation of how the cow had got there was cut short by
a man who asked the chair whether it would be necessary
for every firefighter to take bandages and other first-aid
apparatus with him to a fire, because he was already loaded
up with his firefighting equipment like a camel. The chair-
woman said that this was a detail, and details always came
after resolutions, never before them; the gentleman was out of
order. “Well,” asked the overruled one, “if we don’t know
the details of the resolution how can we vote for or against the
resolution? When I buy a pig, I buy the details as well as
the pig, don’t I?” “That is one of the most important prob-
lems of philosophy,” interposed a pale young University
graduate who was holidaying in our district; “I should like
to hear it discussed.” “Another time,” said the chairwoman,
and put the resolution to the meeting. It was carried
enthusiastically.
The chairwoman decided to cash in on the heightened
emotion and asked for a show of hands of all those prepared
to take the course. Three hands went up, and the looks on
the faces of all the others suggested that they thought that
to take the course would disrupt their homes, destroy their
businesses and reduce their families to destitution. The chair-
woman decided to postpone the enrolment of volunteers to
the next meeting.
The secretary then asked permission to read out the names
of those who had been selected to apt as a committee of control
for the ensuing bushfire season. The first name read out was
that of the local baker, who is one of our lieutenants. “How
can I be expected to run off to a bushfire if it started
at four in the morning?” the baker said. “I might be in
the middle of making my dough.” “That would be all right,”
said an interjector; “you could take it to the fire and bake it.”
This sally restored the good humor of the assemblage, and
the secretary proceeded to read out the names of other
officials. The first one was again that of the baker, as
collector. “How can I be expected to collect subscriptions,”
he complained, “when I’m baking all night and out on my
rounds all day? I haven’t got time.” “You could collect
the subscriptions on your rounds,” said another interjector.
“How could I do that?” said the baker. “I find it hard
enough to collect my own money.” “Well,” said the chair-
woman, “you are a lieutenant and we have to have a lieutenant
as collector.”
The farmer who had been ruled out of order then said
that he didn’t want to bring aspersions against anybody,
least of all the chairwoman, who had served the brigade
loyally, but he had always been put down at every meeting
and he had been put down at this one, and there were certain
persons whose names he wouldn’t mention who had very good
reasons, best known to themselves, though they were known
to everyone present, for not wanting certain persons to
address the meeting. At that moment a dogfight broke out in
the middle of the hall, which once a fortnight is used for
moving pictures. Everybody in my district takes his dog to
the pictures, because the pictures may be bad, but there is
always the certainty of a dogfight, and there is no such
thing as a bad dogfight. They had all left their dogs at home
on this occasion out of consideration for the chairwoman, who
doesn’t like dogs, but the dogs couldn’t get out of a lifelong
habit and had surreptitiously followed their masters. So,
what with one thing and another, although the first-aid pro-
position hadn’t gone beyond being a pious resolution, and it
hadn’t been decided whether it should be simple or complex
or who was to do it, everybody went home feeling he had
had’ a good evening and full of determination to turn up at
the next meeting.
This is the spirit which gives my district the reputation of
being more alive to the bushfire menace than any other area
of the country; and I will say this, that it is noted for
the initiative and fortitude that individual members display in a
bushfire crisis. I could go on telling anecdotes about them
from now to doomsday. But their performances as a
collective body are different. The circulation of the comic
papers in my district is the lowest in Victoria. We don’t need
them while we have our bushfire committee.
If my Russian sympathiser friend is right and the
Russians are running their war on the committee basis, it is a
bad lookout for Russia.


Society
“AND IT’S PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS”
“Pitt-street”: It began in the agony
column of my morning paper like this:
“D. Please see me Monday night.
Promise to do as you ask. A.” Two
days passed, then came: “D. Please
write, ’phone or call. Your own terms.
A.” Three days later: “D. Meet me to-
night or tomorrow. Very important. A.”
There must have been a nibble, for two
days later A. is enthusiastic: “D. Re-
ceived letter. The sooner the better for
both of us. A.” But two days later the
tone is dampened: “D. Hoping to see
you soon. A.” Two more days and:
“D. Please collect letters at G.P.O.
What of our home? A.” Four days of
suspense, four baffled mornings, then:
“B. At old address. Please communi-
cate. A.” Then a deep silence closed
over the affairs of D., A. and B.
* * * *
“Hamer”: If Bracken’s M.L. national
song is remembered it is fortunate above
others. It has been a sly amusement of
mine to quote to the sort of person who
ought to know it:
Awake! Awake! The wings of dawn
Are beating on the gates of day.
In the 40 years of the habit only about
three people have identified the opening
lines of the effort of George Essex Evans
which won the Commonwealth Ode com-
petition.
» * * *
“Avon”: The first murder case to be
tried in M.L. since the death penalty
was abolished was, to put it mildly, not
calculated to make the abolitionists feel
pleased with themselves. Pipi Katene, a
stalwart Maori, aged 28, knew that old
Parkinson (79), storekeeper at Waito-
tara, used to go back to his shop at night
to make up his books. So one night Pipi,
armed with a heavy piece of wood, went
to the store and asked Parkinson to
supply a packet of cigarettes. As the
old man turned to get them a blow on
the head felled him. According to Pipi’s
own statement
The old man fell down in the corner and
looked up at me and said, “What are you
doing, boy?” He had fallen with his back
into the corner and I hit him several more
blows on the head with the piece of wood.
The old man was hard to kill, so Pipi
took an axe out of stock and finished
him with that. Then he took the keys
from his victim’s pockets and rifled till
and safe. Smith, J., in sentencing accused,
said; —-
In order to obtain a few pounds for
which you were not willing to work, you
committed a foul, brutal and determined
murder. Since you committed it the Legis-
lature has enacted that you and the likes
of you are not to be sentenced to forfeit
your own lives but are to be sentenced to
imprisonment with hard labor for life. The
sentence of the Court is that you be im-
prisoned with hard labor for life,
* * * ♦
“S.T.S.”: A thunderstorm has been
served up in an Adelaide court as suffi-
cient excuse for insulting words. The
culprit, a returned soldier, suffers from
“delayed action shell-shock,” with
thunder and lightning always upsetting
his nerves; and both had been going on
when he butted into a crowd round an
injured soldier and abused the police
j (who were waiting for an ambulance) for
not doing something. “I don’t know
what I said,” he told the Court; “it is all
a blank.” Conviction without penalty.
* * * »
“Adelaide”: This question of a recog-
nised Australian National Anthem keeps
being opened up again. If “Advance,
Australia Fair” doesn’t (B. 22/10/’4l)
satisfy even Sydney—and it is almost un-
known in S.A. —why not give a thorough
trial to S.A.’s “Song of Australia”? It
has filled the bill locally for over 70
years, and is literally as familiar as the
National Anthem (and without convey-
ing the impression that it is time to go
home). The tune is easily picked up, and
there is a great “Australi-a,” three times,
long-drawn-out, at the end of each verse
on which even the unmusical can let
themselves go.
• * * #
“Wodgil”: Some time last year a re-
turned exile rebuked The Bulletin for
calling native-born South Africans of
Dutch or Huguenot descent “Afrikanders.”
He said it should be “Afrikaners.” That
may be the accepted form in South
Africa nowadays, but the 1937 Webster
gives it as “Afrikander.” South African
spellings have a tendency to change ; for
instance, Rand used to be “Randt,” and
an old friend who was at the Cape in
the days of the Afrikander Bond still
spells it with a “t.” I don’t know whether
the returned exile is still in these parts;
if so he must have snorted at a Great
Daily which, reporting Blackwell, the
Australian-born Union M.P., twice
made him refer to the number of
“Afrikaans” in Smuts’s expeditionary
force. “Afrikaans” is, of course, the
tongue which these stout warriors speak ;
it is one of the two official South African
languages. The rough version current in
Boer-War days was known as “Taal.”
* * * *
“Tuart”: Apropos of that Sydney Uni-
versity rumpus and the demand of 141
law students for immediate appointments
to Law School chairs, I know one law
student who wouldn’t have signed any
such “petition.” A young fellow of rare
promise, he was about to qualify for the
Bar when the bugles sounded. Implored
to keep out of it for the few remaining
months of his qualifying period, he just
smiled and hurried off to the recruiting
depot. He made the Western Desert cam-
paign in the Sixth Division and then went
to Greece, where darkness fell on him.
His entry on the shining roll of heroes
reads; “Missing; badly wounded.” His
home town is Perth, where—as in the last
war —the cry “careers as usual” makes
no particular appeal.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Just in case no one has
anticipated me, “Bingen on the Rhine”
was not the work of Eliza Cook (B.
5/11/’4l) but of the Hon. Mrs. Norton
(1808-76), better known as the com-
poser of “Juanita.” Saintsbury writes
of the lady that she “enjoyed a consider-
able reputation as a poetess, chiefly in
the sentimental ballad style which pleased
the second quarter of the nineteenth cen-
tury,” and found “Bingen,” among other
pieces, “at least passable.”
„ * * *
“Bo”: The Admiralty’s bald though not
unconvincing narrative was that the 5270-
ton cruisers Aurora and Penelope, accom-
panied by the 1920-ton destroyers Lance
and Lively, had intercepted and sunk a
complete Italian convoy and some of its
escorts in the Mediterranean. But the
knight of the pencil simply to fill in
the corroborative detail. “With a tre-
mendous crash,” he burbled, “the British
ships opened fire, the flashes of the giant
guns splitting the darkness.” Personally,
I’d like to hear a broadside from any
warship that didn’t go off without a
tremendous crash ; and if it could be
made to fire at 1 a.m. without splitting
the darkness the Navy can do miracles,
As for the “giant” guns of cruisers
armed with six-inchers, it would be in-
teresting to know what adjective would
have been used if the gent, had had to
describe the 15in. guns of a battleship.
. . , . . .
“Zake”: Not only fiction is rich in
dual personalities of the Jekyll and Hyde
sort. Take the French General Hunt-
ziger, dead in an air crash. Whilst an
ardent pro-Nazi and one of the leading
Ministers in arranging increasing col-
laboration with Germany ( vide Sydney
“Daily Mirror”) he was such an opponent
of Laval’s efforts to hand over French
ports to Germany that the two nearly
came to blows; indeed, he was one of
the few who made any show of preserv-
“Let's invite them infor a cu p of tea. Mollie!”
“Well, bags on the one in the bowler hat!”
ing French honor, and he hoped to
revive the martial spirit in unoccupied
France ( vide Sydney “Sun,” same day),
I expect to hear any day now that
Goring is a humanitarian with a strong
pro-British bias and that General An-
tonescu spends his spare time potting
unwary Huns in some of Bucharest’s
darkest corners
“Loo”: Isn’t it amazing the number
of benefits that can be derived from eat-
ffi g Tcid I, Lteriu'deXSwn^ 61
leg-o -lamb was just that and rotting
mire ; in fact, mlny eminent mffhoritles
could tell you superior q
found in beef. But now you only have
to read your hoar ! pg s forward
wrong they were. Im looking forward
to the time when, having been k ofor
some reason or other, all the country s
pigs will be dragged, grunting, into the
limelight and so hedth-girag
properties discovered in their flesh that
you 11 sob with emo ion y
pass a ham-bone.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”; Touching the domestic
economy of brides (B. 5/11/’4l).
Premier Dunstan, of Victoria, remarked
the other day that a woman should be
one of the consumers’ representatives on
the price-fixing organisation, as it was
the housewife who controlled the spend-
ing on the home and who had a complete
knowledge of the cost of commodities
and its effect on the household budget,
Some do, some don’t. A Melbourne
bridegroom heard this dialogue between
his wife and the greengrocer at the back
door. “What fruit have you?” JT have
some nice oranges at twopence.” ‘ Oh,
good! I’ll take a dozen.” “Why on
earth did you buy those things?” asked
the husband after; the vegetable man had
departed. Why shouldn tI ■ sa
astonished missus. Didn t y 8
flrst-dass diploma in domestic science at
that <lollege you went to m the city?
asked f ! h ?„ h y sb ?" d ;.
do with it? said he bride. Only this ,
had that there are better oranges than thoe
hanging from the tree which nearly
ouches your head when you stand on
the doorstep. We d.dn t have to go
“j > nd J>uy lettuces when a
salad at the college, snapped his missus.
* • • *
Hamer : The discovery that water is
good to drink remains with me as one
of the great revelations of my life. The
morning was hot and I had been tree-
felling in the bush near my mountain
cottage ; the thirst that came upon me
was too imperative to wait for the mak-
ing of the tea that had been for years
my habitual thirst-quencher when beer
was unavailable. It seemed that a drink
of water, although unusual could do no
harm. The delight of that water, ice-
cold from the tank, is a memory that
will remain—l don t suppose I had drunic
water, straight, for at least a decade. 1
asked myself to have one, and returne
the shout, and we had a few just-one-
mores before I had satisfied my delight
in the new beverage. When next I en-
tered a bar m town I said No ; no beer,
thanks ; give me a mug of crystal-clear
water,” whilst my friends stared in aston-
ishment and the Hebe fainted. At least,
that was my intention—but, after all,
there’s something about beer
* * * *
Strict Veg. : I see that Mr. Curtin,
in criticising the Fadden Budget, said I
decline to regard beer and tobacco as
luxuries.” Well, what would he call
them? xhey can < t be called necessities,
*****
th^ m - n °* wTvs in
which mankind solaces itself. In the film
on Rembrandt thes painter shown going
would have understood and sympathised
, f h£ had gon£ off tQ a tavejm and rolled
home drunk. I suppose if all forms of
werg taken ™ from le th
d find Hf when it reaches its nadi
.
“Colbun”: Another taxation plaster on
grog and baccy! why can’t Chifley give
abstainers a chance to do then bit of
Drinking for Victory? Wowser tipple is
mainly composed of water, flavoring
agents and carbonic acid gas. Brought
under excise conditions of production and
sold under license only, it would yield
a huge revenue. Parents might be
appeased by a ration of fizzy stuff added
to the child-endowment money, thus
stimulating the birthrate. For smokes,
coupons should be issued with all retail
purchases of tobacco and credited against
a compulsory universal deduction of, say.
Is. 6d. weekly from all wages, salary or
other taxable income. Come along, Mr.
Chifley!
“MUST” (PICKWICKIAN SENSE).
“Our Army must be supported with all the re-
inforcements it needs. More men must volunteer to
servo with the A.I.F. There can be no more leaving
it to others.” —Army Minister Forde.
“Must” —to be obliged.— Johnson’s Dictionary.
These “musts” are frequent in your speeches,
Francis,
When military matters are discussed.
Yet, for a dominie turned politician,
’Tis strange you should ignore the definition
Which Johnson gives of “must.”
We “must” obey the laws goes without saying;
But more of us would break them, I’m
afraid,
On many a regrettable occasion,
If there were nothing beyond moral suasion
To keep these laws obeyed.
We “must” have soldiers, justly you remind us.
Recruits to reinforce our fighting men,
But if their love of country won’t unloose them
From other jobs, or burning words induce them
To shoulder arms—what then?
You jib at giving “must” its real meaning,
“Letting T dare not’ wait upon T would.’ ”
I wonder when ’twill soak into your feelings
That pious hopes and passionate appealings
Are precious little good.
It worries you that men should leave to others
The duty that themselves have left undone.
You —and your colleagues, too, no doubt —
lament it.
Still, there’s one way in which you- can pre-
vent it—
And it’s the only one!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Craiser”: Oscar Asche must have
turned in his grave during the passing
of the Allies’ Day procession in Mel-
bourne in support of the war loan. The
responsible authorities put on a show
which the producer of “Chu Chin Chow”
could have bettered with the aid of a
few stage props and a couple of dozen
supers. A young man in chain armor
on a horse, representing something or
other; a Joan of Arc; several
straggling bands of children wearing
alleged Norwegian, Dutch, Belgian,
French and Russian national costumes ;
three bandwagons bearing tableaux repre-
senting Palestine, Russia and Malta—the
last-named at least had some verisimilitude
inasmuch as it looked as if it had been
through an air-raid—and some balalaika
players constituted the spectacle which
was expected to convey an overwhelming
impression of the solidarity of the de-
mocracies. Effect on one spectator was
unexpected. “Look at that,” he said,
surveying a straggling procession of a
dozen children. “If that’s the way the
country’s being flooded with aliens it’s
time the Guvverment did something about
it!”
“Nakhoda”: The march of the
Amazons through Melbourne was re-
ceived by the crowd in silence for the
most part, though there was suppressed
amusement. If it had been a march of
nurses the attitude would have been
one of reverence. The nurses have
built up a tradition for themselves;
the W.A.A.Cs. and other alphabetical
battalions of the feminine persuasion'
haven’t. Nurses don’t have to write 1
to the papers saying how useful
they are and how hard their work is;
but that is what the new skirted
have been doing. For all the man-in-the-<
street knows about it they may be work-
ing just as hard as the nurses, doing just,
as useful things from the point of view 1
of the war effort and at more arduous
and dreary occupations ; but obviously
they haven’t convinced the public yet
that they have, so it was an incautious
action on their part to make an open
display. From the point of view of its
intentions the procession was wrecked
from the outset by the spectacle of girls
in naval, air force and military uniforms
propping up their little satchels against
the street railings and applying lipstick
“And, furthermore, Prendergasi, never ask me to go to the races
with you again!”
and powder. If you are going to parade
yourself in the service of Mars you must
behave accordingly.
* * # »
“Avon”: A Maoriland journalist, visit-
ing Northern Ireland lately, made a
pilgrimage to the little white-walled
thatched cottage where John Ballance
was born and found a nephew of that
statesman in residence. The Ulsterman
wanted to know “How high is my uncle’s
statue in the grounds of New Zealand’s
Parliament House?” and the visitor was
able to inform him that the effigy stood
as high as the questioner’s barn. It ought
to be a lot higher than that, for Ballance
was a unique figure in our politics. He
went into office on a non-borrowing
programme and kept the promise. Indeed
in the first of the three years of his Ad-
ministration (1891-92) the public debt of
Maoriland was reduced by £117,282.
Ballance died early in 1893 and the
phenomenon of a debt-reduction never
occurred again.
* % 5{C *
I “Whither?”: A bit of A.B.C. publicity: ,
“Twenty-five years ago Caruso was the
Smost popular male singer in the world.
the mantle has fallen on Bing
.Crosby.” But Noah Webster’s definition,
of crooning still stands: “To make a
[continuous noise in a low, hollow tone,'
Pas cattle do when in pain.”
L * ❖ * *
I “Jamwood”: The mists of 40 years
rolled away when I read a recent obitu-
ary notice, and in fancy I again found
myself in a ringside seat on the stage of
Kalgoorlie’s ramshackle Tivoli “Theatre,”
which was nailed on to a pub. The pugs
were Billy Williams and Peter Murphy
(still, I believe, on deck in Sydney,
though he began scrapping in Foley’s
gym.), and in the seat directly opposite
an actor was barracking for Billy That
elderly warrior was in the show business
himself with a bevy of pretty daughters ;
but, finding the going rough, had returned
to the ring to pick up a few pounds.
When the boxers were in their corners,
the actor, a good-looking fellow in the
late-thirties, started up with a fistful of
banknotes and offered to back his fancy,
who was already in distress. I thought
it strange, especially as the barnstorming
company in which the mummer was
heavy lead had notoriously gone broke ;
and I saw a detective, one of several
present, pencilling briskly in his note-
book. A few days later the actor was
arrested, and it all came out. The notes
had been stolen by a bank clerk with
whom, in his desperate need, he had
struck up a friendship, and he was get-
ting rid of them —taking gold and silver
for change wherever possible —as fast
as he could. At the trial the pair made
a clean breast of it, and were sentenced
to long stretches. The actor served his
term and made a fresh start on this side
of the continent in another calling, in
I which he was more successful than he
[had ever been on the stage. Though too
*old for active service, he did very useful
*war work in an official position in 1914-
'lB, and he made troops of friends. Some
i were not ignorant of the Kalgoorlie
, episode, but they never discussed it,
admiring the man for his good qualities
and, above all, for his pluck.
» * * *
“Chevroford”: During Melbourne’s
blackout R.A.A.F, ’planes went up on
reconnaissance and the observers reported
that they completely failed to find the
sources of the city’s coal and light supply
—Yallourn and Wonthaggi. But they
found Melbourne quite easily, though not
through sinners against the regulations.
There are fewer distinctive natural
features at Yallourn and Wonthaggi than
“Give 'im somethin else for lunch, Charlie — l'm geitin sick of lucerne!”
there are around
Melbourne, which
has Port Phillip and
the Yarra, the Mari-
byrnong and other
rivers. These sprang
out in higher relief
than ever the
moment the city
dimmed its lights.
Surrounded by bush,
Yalloum completely
vanished. Melbourne
would sleep easier if
the money spent on
future blackouts
were expended on
A.A. defences. But
it’s much easier to
push civilians around
than to get money
spent on military
measures of defence.
* *
“H aml e y B.”:
Back in 186 7,
Thomas Matthews, a
Coromandel Valley
(S.A.) man, left an
estate worth £5OOO,
and his will provided
that income from it
should be equally
divided among his
seven children, the
estate itself to be
shared among their
issue when testator’s
last surviving child
passed out. That happened last year.
All seven had married and done
their duty to their country ; so had some
of their children and their children s
children. Some of the generations had
died before the last of the original
seven. Meantime, the estate had grown
to be worth £82,000. In the Supreme
Court at Adelaide Justice Richards held
that “issue” meant simply testator’s
grandchildren and ordered division of the
estate into seven equal parts, then equal
division of each part to the surviving
issue of the seven. Against this an appeal
was launched in the High Court, one
poser being the position of three grand-
children whose parents, both dead, were
cousins. Were the children entitled to
double shares as inheritors on both the
father’s and mother’s side? The High
Court decided they were, allowed the
appeal and ordered distribution among
all surviving descendants of testator.
« * * •
“Blue P.”: Balbo has been killed
again, and again by an Italian hand.
Cairo now says a British surprise raid
caused enemy ack-ack batteries to open
fire and several Italian ’planes copped it,
among them Balbo’s; Balbo himself
stopped an Italian machine-gun bullet.
Anyway, since he’s been dead since June,
1940, what killed him doesn’t seem of
much importance.
* * * *
“V.C.’s” deposition:
One of the small buses city councils use to
transport their employees dropped him in front
of our shopping centre. Leisurely he reached
into the bus and withdrew a small stepladder,
a gladstone bag and a square toolbox. After
a desultory conversation with the interior of
the bus he drew back and the vehicle moved
off. He watched it carefully out of sight, turned
and somewhat austerely surveyed the line of
shops. He then picked up the ladder, thought,
and put it down again. Then he strolled
leisurely about 100 yards along, studying the
wares in the windows and absorbing what in-
formation he could from the usual handbills
and stickers. He popped into one shop and
popped out again. He paused on the kerb, in-
tently surveyed the other side of the street, de-
cided there was little of interest there and
strolled slowly back to his gear. He stood the
ladder against a ’phone booth, hastily went
round to the front, made sure there was no-
body in the booth, returned, took the ladder
off the booth and laid it down again. Then
he picked up the gladstone bag and stood,
evidently in a quandary, which he settled by
putting the bag down, standing the ladder up
and standing the bag on the top step of the
ladder. Then he walked over to a fruiterer’s
window, closely studied a pile of apples and
returned. He opened the bag and withdrew a
yellow overall coat. This he unrolled, looked at
closely, half-rolled again, hesitated, finally un-
rolled and hung over the ladder. He took
off his coat, held it by one hand and with the
other searched all the pockets twicd. Satisfied
there was nothing incriminating in them, he
rolled the coat carefully and went to put it in
the bag. It wouldn’t fit without squeezing,
so he unrolled it, draped it over one arm and
walked slowly right round the ’phone booth.
Back at the gladstone and with his equilibrium
restored, he again rolled his coat and this
time ruthlessly shoved it into the bag. Then
he undid his vest, made to slip it off, thought,
stepped out into the road, surveyed the flaw-
less blue of the sky minutely and with special
concentration on a flight of three pigeons,
stepped back on to the kerb, left the opened
vest on, and slipped over it the yellow overall.
Something in one of its pockets attracted his
attention and he pulled out a twisted news-
paper, which he unrolled and, putting one foot
on the step of the ladder, began to read. Be-
side him on the kerb the toolbox waited,
evidently used to this sort of thing. I, how-
ever, could wait no longer, since a full half-
hour had passed, and I had to leave, slightly
annoyed because I’d never know just what sort
of work he’d been sent to do.
UPON JULIA’S HOSE.
“Now for hare-leg beauty! Stockingless cream in
three ripping shades.” — Advt.
“Whenas in silks my Julia goes,
Then, then, methinks, how sweetly flows
The liquefaction of her clothes.”
Twas Herrick, as you doubtless know,
Who praised his Julia’s raiment so,
A good three centuries ago.
It filled the eye as piquantly
As dew upon a flower, maybe,
Or snow that clings about a tree. ■">
It draped—and yet it didn’t drape—
For through its folds you couldn’t escape
The rare allurement of her shape.
Such is the picture, I should say,
That “liquefaction” would convey
When used of clothes, in Herrick’s day.
But now—a simple coat of cream,
And silken hues on legs that gleam
May be no longer what they seem.
Latest of economic aids,
Now silk grows scarce, for shapely maids
Are ripless socks in ripping shades;
And Julia’s hose, that hardly hide
The light and lissome limbs inside,
Are literally liquefied.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


(<)
* \ <
I 1
Cfi
wt
a*
PENS
Every point
_ guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRAXOAOIX * CO, LU, BIUMLNOUAU. ENQ
STAMPS
100 New Zealand*, all different 8/-
100 Australians, all different 4/-
40 Pacific Islands, all different 4/-
We buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air Lists—Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z, (Est. 66 Years.)
Around 5 p.c. Annual Yield
with Safety
Your investment—even as little as £2o—in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
gives you an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies yielding, at
present prices, around 5 % per annum. Moreover, your investment is
definitely safeguarded by Custodian Trustees: Union Insurance Society
of Canton, Ltd.
Now is your opportunity to share in the increasing activity of Industrial
undertakings. Write for Booklet No. 1, post free, on request to the
Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney. .
Telephone; 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
YOU CAN STOP
THAT BACKACHE
But You Must First HELP YOUR KIDNEYS
to Flush Out Acid Poisons
Recognise backache as a signal that there
is something wrong with your kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
and filters. Every three minutes all the blood
in your body passes through these tubes to be
filtered of waste matter and acid poisons.
Unless your kidneys remove about 500 grains
of dangerous impurities, these tubes become
Clogged, causing backache, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
leyes, headaches, rheumatic pains and dlzzi-
bess. Frequent or scanty passages with
Smarting and burning also show there la
Something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay and don’t experiment. Go to
chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Use them faithfully
and give your kidneys the help they need
before it is too late. Millions of users tha
world over have had quick, satisfying relief.
Do as your neighbour does —take DOAN'S
BACKACHE SIDNEY tQ-dajr,
POLITICAL POINTS
Diggers of the 1914-18 war, who know
what fighting is, plumped for conscription
of wealth, man-power and industry at
their Federal Congress in Brisbane. Five
State branches submitted conscription
motions; the one actually adopted came
from Tasmania. That puts it up to the
Government, and, in a minor degree, to
the Sydney dailies, which couldn’t find
space for the resolution. One, the “D.T.,”
attacked S.A. members Cameron, Dun-
can-Hughes, Badman and Grenfell Price
for being conscriptionists.
Churchill, in his Lord-Mayor’s-dinner
speech:
We are told we must! soon ex-
pect a peace offensive from Berlin.
Whether we are supported or go alone, the
British nation, and his Majesty’s Govern-
ment, at the head of that nation, in inti-
mate concert with the Governments of the
great Dominions, will never enter into ne-
gotiations with Hitler or any party in
Germany representing the Nazi regime.
That was one version ; another made the
speaker say “the British Government and
the Dominions will never enter into nego-
tiations with Hitler,” etc. In either case,
the introduction of the Dominions is a
change.
Quite alone, and, of course, quite use-
lessly, this paper objected to the alliance
with Russia, holding that all the support
warranted by the exigencies of the mili-
tary situation could be given to Russia
on an associated-Power basis. That was
the basis on which the U.S.A. came into
the last war, and it will assuredly, be the
basis on which the U.S.A. will come into
this war, if the sending of armed mer-
chantmen to British Empire ports results
in an actual declaration. The Moscow
Government has asked Britain to declare
war on Rumania, Hungary and Finland.
It might have no important military dis-
advantages, but it would have real poli-
tical disadvantages, not only in Europe
but in the U.S.A.
Drummond, a farmer, having retired
from the Commonwealth Bank Board,
the Labor Government has appointed
W. C. Taylor, a young Sydney solicitor
who specialises in trade-union work and,
as an A.L.P. official, was “of great
assistance” to Mr. Curtin in the faction
fight with the Hu’ghes-Evans group. Some
nark inquired whether the gentleman had
been engag'ed in “agricultural, financial
or industrial activities,” qualifications
prescribed in Section 11 of the Act. That
sarcastic fellow Cameron wanted to know
“whether, in selecting men for important
posts, the Government proposes to act
on the principle that the man should
know nothing about the job.”
W. J. Smith, managing director of
A.C.1., and Director of Gun Ammunition
Production without pay, was savagely
attacked in the Sydney Assembly, and
his efforts to get a public inquiry failed,
protection of the privileged mudslinger
being a Sydney Assembly tradition. But
when Maxie Falstein asserted at Can-
berra that Smith had taken A.C.I. men
from Government war work to build a
horse float for his private use —he is a
breeder and owner of racehorses in a big
way —Curtin, a fair-minded man, asked
the Parliamentary Committee on War
Expenditure to go into the allegation.
Smith availed himself of the opportunity
to give Maxie the lie, and to put in 53
statutory declarations that men had not
been taken from war work to build the
float. More will be heard of the matter,
especially as newspapers reported Maxie
as having made a charge which did not
appear in “Hansard.” He denies having
erased the words imputed to him from
the “Hansard” proof.
Before tackling the A.C.I. Smith, Fal-
stein had a crack at Joe Abbott while the
man from New England was speaking
on the war outlook. “Your view seems
to be that in order to save democracy it
is necessary to become totalitarian,”
Maxie sneered ; but Joseph was ready for
that one.
My view is that we must be prepared
to fight. It will not be sufficient for us
to say we are afraid to fight.
Maxie came back with a feeble “That
story is worn out.” It is going to wear
Maxie out,
Sunday papers sneered at Blarney’s
references to the “carnival spirit” when
they “caught” him at Flemington races
last Saturday. But as the war effort on
the home front ceases between midday
Saturday and Monday morning, where
would the leader of the A.I.F. go if he
wanted to see anybody of importance?
Warning Japan, though not in the
starch-stiff sentences which Eden employs
on these occasions, Churchill recalled
that he had been a passionate supporter
of the Anglo-Japanese alliance. In the
crowded events of the last 17 months
“Russian girls of the ‘vamp’ type have been dropped by parachute behind the German
lines to take soldiers’ minds off the war.”
“Var news, you say, Adolf. Vor var”
he has had to throw overboard other
enthusiasms and at least one aversion;
witness Dakar, Rumania (he praised
Carol to the skies), the Russian alliance
and Finland. It seems certain that his
Government will declare war on the
Finns—in January, 1940, that “splendid
northern race,” which had “exposed for
all the world to see how Communism rots
the soul of a nation.”
In N. S. Wales, where politicians
babble unceasingly and uselessly, where
the one big city is thriving and country
towns are declining, a national tragedy is
being enacted. Thousands of children
are passing from the primary to the
secondary schools, but their places are
not being filled.
Australian Associated Press, which
was responsible for that report of Boss
Murdoch’s New York speech which the
Boss denied, after a fashion (B.
12/11 /’4l), had its annual meeting in
Melbourne last week. The chairman,
R. A. G. Henderson (g.m. of “S. M.
Herald”), brightened the proceedings by
saying that “in presenting the war news”
A.A.P. was “objective, unbiased and
authoritative” ; it “avoided both exag-
geration or understatement, pessimism or
wishful-thinking.” No, Mr. Henderson
wasn’t ragging his audience. Old jour-
nalists found his effort a source of
“innocent mer-ri-ment.”
People who take the war seriously are
getting very weary of reading about the
matrimonial affairs of two radio “pus-
sonalities” and of one’s repeated wrangles
with taxgatherers. The qualities exhibited
in these private wars might be useful in
a sterner field, especially as the parties
to them are young and apparently sound
in limb as well as wind. Both came from
countnes which have conscription. Here
they are in a reserved occupation,
' .... „
Tasmania, which possesses a Govern-
ment House, an Agent-General, two
Houses of Parliament and 11 members at
Canberra, is to have a State election on
December 13. For this reason, as Premier
Cosgrove stated it: “The Prime Minister
having foreshadowed important confer-
ences of Federal and State Ministers
early in 1942, the State Government con-
siders that Tasmanian Ministers at these
conferences should be at Canberra with
the full backing of the people”—the whole
243,057. In loans, grants, and taxes on
lottery tickets and prizes the Cos-
grove Government gets most of its spend-
ing money from the mainland, but its
annual loss (“funded”) amounted to
£181,600 last year, and it was down
£178,039 for the four months to October
31, 1941, so it feels it has to do some-
thing really desperate.
Victoria’s wonderful State coalmine —
the one where the workers are always
going on strike for better conditions—
added £121,548 to its deficit in 1940-41,
bringing the total to just £BO,OOO short of
a million since the thing was started in
1909. When the total reaches seven
figures Dunstan and his Labor heelers
ought to hold a celebration or something.
A State funeral would be too much to
hope for.
Victoria’s Government can’t do any-
thing simply. At the instance of 200
fishermen whose livelihood was alleged
to be jeopardised, it decided that 1000
seals at Phillip Island should be extermi-
nated. Chief Sec, Bailey drafted regu-
lations to provide for a humane execu-
tion, but made them so onerous that no
contractor will take the job on ; and il
the Government has to perform the mas-
sacre itself it will probably spend more
than the value of the fish the seals would
eat for a generation. When last seen the
seals were holding a slopwork meeting to
consider giving themselves up in order
to get Mr. Bailey out of his predicament.
Following the Sydney Government s
rotten example, S.A. is now to tax in-
come from other States. Said Playford,
introducing his latest income-tax measure,
“Income derived from other States by
persons practising a profession in this
State has escaped taxation in this State.
It will now be taxed if no tax has been
paid in the other State.” One more argu-
ment for one national income tax.
The cost of assessing and collecting the
crowd of income taxes has always been
high, but it will be higher than ever this
year. There have been massive additions
to staffs, and the bloated N.S.W. depart-
ment is now issuing “credit notes” to
“about 700,0Q0 wage-earners” for relief
tax deducted from July 1 to October 31.
Employers had to make the deductions
at their own expense. The waste of time,
paper and money involved in the idiotic
procedure is beyond computation.
Quoting the Commonwealth Bank
chairman’s statement that the response to
the £100,000,000 loan was “most unsatis-
factory and not worthy of Australia,”
“S. M. Herald” smugly observed that it
“should serve to jolt the country into
a sense of responsibility.” The “Herald’s”
way of jolting presumed non-subscribers
into a sense of responsibility was to pub-
lish in the same issue a full page of
horse- and dogracing stuff, chiefly the
weights and tips for Kensington and
Woodend, Newcastle “results” and pro-
grammes for four other horse- and four
dog-meetings, together with “results” of
three other tripehound affairs.
Dedman, now Minister . for War
Organisation of Industry, has given an
“assurance” th'at he won’t set up a large
staff that would “duplicate the work of
other departments.” “How green was
our valley!” How much greener is Mr.
Dedman!
Hollway, Parliamentary leader of
the Victorian U.A.P., and Austin, presi-
dent of the Victorian “United Australia
Organisation,” are in holts. In a Letter
to the Editor Austin claimed that “we”
had two disabilities:
First, widespread disapproval of the pro-
posal for a political alliance between the
U.A.P. and Labor; second, our complete
lack of knowledge of the reasons that have
so far prevented Mr. Hollway from joining
the Second A.I.F.
Hollway, who is 35, came back with:
I believe I can best serve my country in
my present capacity. The attack is pal-
pably because of the difference of opinion
regarding control of party funds. Mr.
Austin may make the fight as dirty as he
wishes, but my conscience is clear.
Whereupon the U.A.P. expressed “com-
plete confidence” in Hollway and refused
to accept his offer to resign.
, A controversy that has underlain
Maoriland politics ever since plough-
man Jock McKenzie first propounded his
views in Parliament in the early ’nineties
—the battle between freehold and lease-
hold tenure —seems to be settled at last
beyond all doubt by the decision of the
Fraser (Labor) Government to give re-
turned soldiers opportunities of acquir-
ing freeholds. “I could hardly believe
my ears,” said a prominent Oppositionist
just after Walter Nash made the state-
ment in the House. Possibly the Labor-
ites remember that the Great Liberal
Regime of Seddon and Ward melted
away like snow on the mountain brow
when Massey came out with a promise
to give the 999-years-lease holders the
freehold.


TIN HARES, MINUS THE TIN.
“Ten carloads of punters journeyed from Orange and Cowra (N.S.W.) to Wollongong—round trip, 500 miles—to put between £3OO and £4OO on a dog. It ran third.”


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders' Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
f
WATCHMAN OF THE
Mi
Hi
■
v a
m
; m
kS W.
r f
O'
Qantas Empire Airways has supplied flying
boats and crews for effective Pacific patrols, 5
and continues to service the machines at Rose Bay, Mascot
and Archerfield. New Catalina aircraft from U.S.A. to
Australia are delivered by Qantas personnel, and the mails
to and from our troops in the war areas are carried
efficiently and quickly by Empire Flying Boats.
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
Shell House, Margaret Street, Sydney. 14 Market Street, Melbourne.
43 Creek Street, Brisbane. Or at any recognised Travel Agency.
QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
Equal to the Finest
Imported
Sold only in BOTTLES
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Ply., Ltd.,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
PERSONAL ITEMS
PERSONAL ITEMS
When Premier Dunstan hoisted the
marble into position at the new Royal
Melbourne Hospital last week, Dr. Ber-
nard Traugott Zwar, Royal Melbourne’s
president, witnessed the culmination of
one of the biggest jobs of organisa-
tion in Victoria’s history. Though
the enormous sickbay will not be ready
for occupation until next October, its
towering shell of brick and concrete
already dominates Elizabeth-street. Dr.
Zwar was born at Stockwell, S.A., and
educated at Prince Alfred’s College,
Adelaide, and Adelaide and Melbourne
Universities. He Was medical superin-
tendent of the Austin, Melbourne, then
went to the Great War as a major. Since
then he has held more executive positions
than any medico in Melbourne. He was
one of the founders of the College of
Surgeons of Australasia. He is 65.
Seriously ill in Sydney at the begin-
ning of the week was John Christian
Watson, first Labor Prime Minister.
Born in Valparaiso 74 years ago, he
spent his earlier years in Maoriland (he
was a compositor by trade) and com-
menced his Parliamentary career as a
N. S. Wales M.L.A. He represented
Bland and South Sydney in the Federal
House 1901-10 and was Prime Minister
for five months in 1904. He has been
president of the N.R.M.A. since 1924, and
was re-elected to that office at a meeting
last Wednesday.
Mentioned for the third time in dis-
patches, Captain H. M. L. Waller. He
won the D.S.O. for courageous enterprise
and devotion to duty in 1940 when in
command of destroyers in the Mediter-
ranean and this year was mentioned for
his conduct of a squadron which assisted
the troops in Cyrenaica. His third award
is for good service in the Greek adven-
ture. He was born at Benalla (Vic.),
entered the R.A.N. College in 1913, was
lieutenant in 1921, commander in 1934
and captain soon after the present out-
break.
W. C. Taylor, new member of the Com-
monwealth Bank Board, was born at
Ryde (N.S.W.) 31 years ago. His father
W. C. TAYLOR.
was a shearer who worked the Rydal-
mere-Mudgee circuit. The son attended
Fort-street School, Sydney, and on
matriculating asked headmaster Kilgour’s
advice as to whether he should seek a
civil-service job or be articled to a soli-
citor. Kilgour said “If you get into the
civil service you’ll never get out.” So
young Taylor chose the law, was admitted
to the Bar at 22, and now, as a member
of the firm of Taylor and Scott, does a
lot of Arbitration Court work. He's a
large, pugilistic-looking person, but dis-
armingly modest and unassuming.
The Archibald Watson prize goes to
Miles Clarke, son of Maoriland-born
Edward de Courcy Clarke, Professor of
Geology at Perth Uni. Educated at Hale
School, Perth, Miles is taking his medical
course at St. Mark’s College, Adelaide.
Captured in Greece in April last, when
heard from recently a prisoner of war in
Germany, and cracking hardy, covers the
recent history of Maoriland journalist
John Hall. He’s 43, an M.A, of Otago
University, and has been 25 years on
the Inky Way. He was chief reporter
of “Southland Times” at 19, editor of
Christchurch “Sun” at 29, and of Wel-
lington “Dominion” at 35. In war-time
he was Deputy-Director of Publicity for
a while before going overseas as official
war correspondent with the N.Z.E.F.
“Filkoil”: John Curtin’s Prime Min-
istership induces memories. More than
30 years ago Curtin was always in the
company of Frank Hyett, Living in
Brunswick, both belonged to the same
sporting and political clubs, they read
the same books and were proteges of
Mann and Anstey, Though Curtin’s
cleverness was recognised, Hyett was
regarded as the chap with a future.
He became a forceful secretary of
the Victorian Railways Union, and
he and Laurie Cohen were the
main forces which moulded the Mel-
bourne Trades Hall and the Victorian
Labor party of the period. Then Fate,
shaped as the 1919 ’flu, took a hand and
stifled all speculations as to Hyett’s
future. His memory is still green in the
minds of thousands,
Lindsay Black, whose Burial Trees has
recently been published in Melbourne by
Robertson and Mullens, is that ram avis
a dendroglyphologist. As such, follow-
ing the trails blazed by Etheridge, Milne
and others, Black has in recent years
scoured the western parts of N. S. Wales
photographing and describing trees carved
by Binghi in the long ago. A prominent
figure in Leeton (N.S.W.), Black’s an
ologist of another kind when he chairs
the Riverina branch of the Royal Aus-
tralasian Ornithologists’ Union. A son,
Russell, is abroad with the R.A.A.F.
After 20 years of attempting to keep
the existence of Maoriland from being
forgotten by the U.K., Henry Thomas
Bertie Drew has given up his job in New
Zealand, House, London. He’s 63, and
was a newspaper man (lessee of the
Manawatu “Daily Times” for some years)
before he joined the public service. He
had a commission in the N.Z.E.F. during
the 1914-18 struggle, climbed to a cap-
taincy and wrote a volume of the Official
History of the War.
One of the most picturesque persons
in the heterogeneous collection of
nationalities fighting in the Middle East
is Commander Edouard Corniglion-
Molonie, who commands the lone Free
French bomber squadron. He has been
in turn movie actor, explorer, author
and airman. In 1934 he claimed to have
stumbled on the site of the Queen of
Sheba’s capital city in Arabia and wrote
a book on his discovery. He was Molli-
son’s companion on the London-Cape
flight and has some connections with
Australia. One of his great-uncles mar-
ried the daughter of a Mayor of Mel-
bourne, and this may have induced him
to start in the Melbourne Centenary Air
Race. He got as far as Bagdad.
Air Commodore William Hopton
Anderson, given the acting rank of Air
Vice-Marshal, is air member for organ-
isation and equipment on the Air Board
and is a native of Melbourne. He had
one of the finest records in the 1914-18
war, starting in the artillery and ending
in the A.F.C. with a D.F.C., Belgian
Croix de Guerre and mentions in dis-
patches. Since then he has been up to
the neck in military flying. He was Air
Board member for supply from 1929
to 1933, and was acting chief of air staff
in 1940. He was educated at Melbourne
Grammar.
Air Commodore R. V. Goddard, who
succeeds Air Commodore H. W. Saunders
as M.L.’s Chief of Air Staff, is an Eng-
lishman who has done a good deal of
8.8. C. broadcasting. Started his career
as a middy in 1914, took to special flying
duties in 1915, spent some years as an
instructor after the 1914-18 war and
commanded the R.A.F. forces in Iraq in
1930-31, when the British mandate was
relinquished. He has seen a lot of active
service in this war and was in charge
of co-ordination of air services at Dun-
kirk. Latterly he has been Director of
Military Co-operation.
J. J. Dedman, Minister for War Organ-
isation of Industry, is a Scot who still
carries the Galloway imprint. He was at
Edinburgh University, spent a year at
engineering, gave it up in 1915, served in
Gallipoli, Egypt and France, was then
transferred to the Indian Army as a
regular officer (captain) and saw action
J. J. DEDMAN.
on the Nor’-west Frontier, in Afghanis-
tan and during the Mespot. rebellion. He
resigned his commission in 1922 and
came to Australia, farmed for ten years
at Warburton (Vic.), then became a
forestry officer until his winning of the
Corio by-election landed him into the
Labor Parliamentary hierarchy. Dedman
married a Scotch lass ; their three children
were born in Australia.
Isaac Selby, who had an eightieth
birthday in Melbourne the other day, is
the author of The Old Pioneers’
Memorial History of Melbourne —a mine
of information on that city’s early days.
English-born, he spent his boyhood in
Maoriland, whence he came to Australia
in 1882. A prominent lecturer and de-
bater half a century ago, Selby took part
in a debate in Adelaide that lasted eight
days. He is secretary of the Vic. Old
Pioneers’ Memorial Association, and an
active member of the Vic. Historical
Society.
Wing-Commander Rolf Sanger Brown,
senior R.A.A.F. officer in S.A., is 47,
was born in Sydney and was a lieutenant
in the R.A.A. before he transferred to the
A.F.C. in 1915. He served in Egypt and
France as a lieutenant pilot with No. 1
Squadron, and came out of the 1914-18
WING-COMMANDER R. S. BROWN.
war a major. Before taking over at
Parafield a year ago he was president of
the officers’ selection board, stationed in
Melbourne. Between wars he’s managing
director of a hotel co. in Victoria, and
plays a keen game of golf.
Alfred Burton, whose Church Begin-
nings in Westralia has recently been pub-
lished in Perth, is Canon of St. George’s,
Perth. Born at Norwood (S.A.) in 1865,
Burton was ordained at the age of 30,
and was appointed rector of the Swan
four years lat£r. He became a canon
in 1923. Earlier volumes from his pen
are Hale School and The Swan District,
1843-1938.
Into the shadows:
In Melbourne, Norman Campbell, actor,
journalist, verse-writer and old Bulletin con-
tributor. He was with Nellie Stewart in her
early career and was Judge Jeffreys to her Sweet
Nell when she revived her most popular appear-
ance in Melbourne just before her death. He
“ghosted” her autobiography and nobody could
have done it better. He went on to the Inky
Way when he found he had a talent for grace-
ful and facile writing, and poured out matter,
largely drawn from his theatrical experience,
which flowed to dozens of newspapers in
Australia. When Melbourne “Herald” launched
“Punch” on the career that ended in an ex-
pensive funeral a year later, Campbell aban-
doned freelancing for a dramatic critic’s job
that didn’t suit him. Just before his last illness
he was editor of “Australian Life Digest.”
T. P. Gillen, at 73. He held almost every
possible local office at Clare (S.A.), and was
brother of P. P. Gillen, Crown Minister under
Kingston long ago; also brother of Frank, of
the Spencer and Gillen team, which learned
at first hand all about the abo. and his ways.
At 80, in Melbourne, Albert J. Harvey, one
of the best-known newspaper men of Gipps-
land. After some years at sea he settled at
Warragul, brought out the “West Gippsland
Gazette” in 1898 and produced it for 43 years.
At Caulfield, Victoria, Harold B. Daley, who
helped a lot to improve sheepbreeding in Aus-
tralia. He was wool manager for Dalgety’s
for a quarter of a century, and was judge
at all the big sheep and wool shows in north-
eastern Victoria and eastern N.S.W.
At 88, William Chisholm, one of the oldest
and best-known of Sydney medicoes. He was
born in N. S. Wales, educated at The King’s
School, Parramatta, graduated at Sydney Uni.,
and obtained his M.D. at London Uni. He
was an honorary surgeon of four great Sydney
hospitals and hon. medical officer of the Blind
Institute. In the 1914-18 war he had rank as
major and was at various times attached to the
R.A.M.C., A.A.M.C. and A.I.F. H.Q.
In Adelaide, at 78, Charles Bastard, who, as
lessee of the Adelaide City Baths for close on
60 years, taught 14,000 South Australians to
swim.
At 72, Brigadier Andrew Gray, after 40
years’ service with the Salvation Army in M.L.
He was born in Victoria, was a chaplain-cap-
tain in the 1914-18 war and was known all
over the Dominion.


THE BROKEN HILL ASSOCIATED SMELTERS
PTY. LTD.
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED
PRODUCERS OF:
LEAD: OUR BRAND IS WORLD FAMOUS
GRADES : soft pig, assay, corroding, super-refined, and tellurium
A
BHAS lead is used in storage batteries, in white lead paints, in cables for
telephone systems, in pipes and sheets for plumbing purposes, in antifriction
alloys, printers’ alloys, solders, antimonial lead, and other products too
numerous to mention.
ANTIMONIAL LEAD:
Produced at Port Kembla on behalf of BHAS Pty. Ltd. by the E. R. and
S. Co. of Aust., Ltd. This antimonial lead is of a high degree of purity;
it possesses first-class casting qualities and excellent physical strength.
SELLING AGENTS for Antimonial Lead:
Mr. H. B. MARKER, c/o BHAS Pty. Ltd., 360 Collins Street, Melbourne. M. 4381.
AUSTRAL BRONZE CO. PTY. LTD., O’Riordan Street, Alexandria. MX, 1091.
SILVER: Refined (bar and granulated)
THE COMPANY PURCHASES SILVER-LEAD ORES, LEAD DROSSES, ETC
ON SPECIALLY FAVOURABLE TARIFFS.
Head Office: 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Smelting Works: PORT PIRIE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
LONDON:
The Australian Ore and Metal Co. Pty., Ltd.
95 Gresham Street, E.C.2.
ADELAIDE:
C. S. Stokes,
62 Brookman Building.
SYDNEY:
R. N. Kirk & Co.,
25 O’Connell Street.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING
COMPANY OF AUST. LTD.
BLUESTONE: “ESA” Brand
for Spray Mixtures for Fruit Trees and Vines,
for Treatment of Footrot in Sheep,
for Wheat Pickling.
Our booklet, “Better Yields by Spraying,” has been
of great assistance to Farmers and Orchardists.
Copies will be sent gladly on request.
Agents in all States:
ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD.
BEARING METALS: “Graphine” Brand
Highest Grade Cadmium-Base, Tin-Base and Lead-
Base Alloys for all Engineering Purposes.
Our Antifriction Bearing Alloy Booklet is a practical
manual for Engineers. It says clearly and concisely
how to select the right alloy and how to run it up. It
also gives an account of the principles underlying the
use of bearing alloys. Copies of this useful book will
be sent gladly on request.
The Company’s technical experts will be glad to
advise customers on bearing metal problems.
PRINTERS’ ALLOYS
BEST QUALITY
Agents for Bearing Metals and Printers’
Alloys:
Melbourne:
Mr. H. B. Marker,
c/o The Electrolytic Refining & Smelting Co.
of Aust., Ltd.,
360 Collins Street. M 4381.
Sydney:
Austral Bronze Co. Pty., Ltd.,
O’Riordan Street, Alexandria. MX 1091.
Adelaide:
A. Noble & Son, Ltd.,
79 Grenfell Street. C 2231.
Brisbane:
Bell’s Asbestos & Engineering (Aust.), Ltd.,
156 Edward Street. 85025.
Perth:
Bell’s Asbestos & Engineering (Aust.), Ltd.,
336-340 Murray Street. 89791.
FOR AGENTS SEE PANEL ON LEFT.
We Purchase; GOLD BULLION,
ORES of Copper and Precious Metals
We Settle Promptly at the Best Available Rates
Write to our
Registered Office: 25 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY. 86371.
Melbourne Office: 360 COLLINS ST. M43si.
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
'Phone Port Kembla 72.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Old Jimmy had lived in
his shack in the Murray bend so many
years that few people took any notice of
him until one of those inevitable persons
suffering from misplaced sympathy de-
cided that it was a shame for the poor
old man to be living alone, without care.
She worked up a few others, so that the
police were convinced that it would be
better for Jimmy if he were taken away
to a home. He didn’t seem too sure of
what they intended until the car started
off with him; then he woke up. Some-
where along the road he slipped into the
scrub, and next morning was back at his
shack. This, of course, spurred the
powers on, but when they returned to
Jimmy’s shack it was empty, while across
the river Jimmy could be seen busily
running up a humpy of bark and boughs.
“Hey,” yelled the trooper, nearing
Jimmy in the boat he’d borrowed ; “it’s
no good, ol’ chap, you’ll have t’ come
with us.” Jimmy looked at him. “Like
hell,” he snorted. “I’m livin’ in Victoria
now an’ your authority ain’t worth a
dump ’ere.” The trooper was forced to
admit it, and, since the nearest Victorian
policeman was 60-odd miles away and
unlikely to bother himself about Jimmy,
the crusade suddenly ended.
* * * *
Bamekaw”: The Sunday morning
peace on my island was disturbed when
the natives from a smaller neighboring
Torres Strait reserve came hastily over
in a cutter. A woman was dying in child-
birth and would I please hurry back with
“white-pfeller med’sin”? Wind and tide
were against me, and I arrived too late,
but there was a forlorn newcomer there.
I took her back with me, as there was no
suitable wet nurse, and handed her over
to one of my natives to rear. A fort-
night later I inquired as to progress. “She
all right; only she cry every night,” said
the foster father. “But all babies do that,”
I replied. “No, not that way. This one
cry because mother come to see her.
When they bury her other place, they do
him night-time, and no dig grave deep
enough. So mother worry about picca-
ninny, and come out every night to see
her, so she fright and cry.” He was so
obviously sincere I didn’t bother to
point out any illogicalities. Left to him-
self, the Straits abo. can find an explana-
tion for anything, however improbable
the linking of cause and effect.
* * ♦ «
“Zend Avesta”: The street in which
we live is cursed by the presence of two
Alsatian dogs, and, as both appeared to
be of the aggressive type and hated each
other like poison, I often wondered what
would happen if they ever met in the
street. Although their respective gardens
adjoin, the dividing fence is too high for
them to hurdle. So they content them-
selves with barking and growling at each
“We oughter join up , Isabel. Mr. Spender said the fightin boys need OUR softenin' influence .”
other through the fence. All day and
half the night this fence “war” goes on,
and finally the street was stirred into
counter-action. “We’ll fix the swine!”
said a neighbor to me one night, “You
open one garden gate, I’ll open the other,
and we’ll let those crimson animals tear
each other to death in the street.” No
sooner said than done, and both dogs
bounded out into the street. They met
each other face-on, smirked at each
other, wagged their tails and then sneaked
back into their respective gardens. And
for the rest of the night they barked and
growled at each other through the hedge.
Marvellous things, dogs they’ve got
more in common with humans than even
horses have.
* * * •
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat was enjoying a
quiet little holiday up in the Victorian
north-east. He hadn’t much cash and
was taking it easy, just a drink or two
every morning, another couple in the
afternoon and three or four before bunk,
putting in the time yarning to the store-
keeper and anybody else with the time
and inclination. “Not,” in his own
words, “doin’ any harm at all.” One
morning he noticed the hamlet’s solitary
policeman eyeing him off, and further
observed that no matter where he went
the John was close behind. About 2 p.m.
Mat got sick of it and said, “Listen, you
think y’ got anythin’ on me?” “Come up
t’ the station,” said the John affably.
Mat went, but as soon as h.e arrived was
shot in. He was too astounded to say
much, and by the time he got his breath
there was nobody to say it to. About
two hours later the policeman appeared
with several bottles and said, “Look,
mate, I did the dirty on y’, but I had t’.
Y’ see, the district inspector was cornin’
through. He’s a tough bird, an’ if y’ve got
somebody in the peter he reckons y’re
keepin’ the law in order, see?” It took
a lot more to make Mat see fully, but
that night he and the policeman had a
royal spree. “It was the first time,” said
Mat, “I ever made me alley good with
the coppers be gettin’ shot in.”
* * * *
“Plankton”: Matilda, according to my
dictionary of names, means “mighty
battle-maid,” surely an apt sobriquet for
the travelling companion of so many
Aussie battlers. But, apropos, it would
fall to an English concern, to wit, the Tea-
market Expansion Bureau, to rush in
where the angels are windy about tread-
ing. Among brief comments appearing
on a large colored map of the Empire
there is one printed over western N.S.W.,
which states that “Men outback drink
tea made in a billycan called a matilda,
thus inspiring the famous song ‘Waltzing
Matilda,’ ” After that I rolled up my
portable hut, hoisted the straw-and-saw-
dust palliasse I sleep on and, putting the
pup in the kerosene-tin I make the post-
and-rail in, mooched off for Wobbegong
Bend.
* * * *
“Trey C.”: Had the to myself
after sunset, when I heard a faint though
clear “Elp-help, elp-help!” It was com-
ing from a paddock every yard of which
had just been ridden over. I put the
call for assistance down at about a mile
away and sent forth a coo-ee that brought
the dogs at the double. “Elp-help!” The
dogs paid it no attention, though they
sparked to my second coo-ee. Behind
that paddock was rough, desolate coun-
try over which hatters poked every now
and then, and at the repeated “elp-help!”
I set out on foot. Gradually the call
changed. “Alp-halp!” and “Arlp-harlp!”
with the dogs utterly indifferent to it.
“A’p-hap,” “arp-harp”—it was losing its
human tone, and after I had crossed a
creek and skirted a belt of timber I
picked it for what it was —“Ark-hark,
ark-kark!” I sat down then and rolled
a smoke and found, in a paddock I’ve
known for 15 years, that I was not where
I expected to find myself. I walked home
thoughtfully pondering that it isn’t so
strange that sometimes old people wander
away and get lost.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The decision of Chief Sec.
Bailey, of Victoria, to order the destruc-
tion of 1000 seals off Phillip Island has
raised a rumpus, and Mr. Bailey ought
to pause before he sets out too arro-
gantly to be a restorer of the balance of
nature. The seals are alleged by the pro-
fessional fishermen to have upset it by
eating fish, but the fish they mainly prey
on are said to be the barracouta, which
are themselves the terror of smaller fishes.
So if Mr. Bailey destroys the seals he
may be removing the natural enemy of
the barracouta, and hence he may be
upsetting the balance, not restoring it.
Anyhow, how does he know, or the
fishermen either, what has upset the
balance? The ocean is bigger than the
land, and nobody knows one-millionth
part of what is going on in it. We know
a bit more about what goes on on terra
firma, but our endeavors to restore the
balance by destroying one pest gener-
ally produce a worse one. Personally I
think the fishermen have upset the bal-
ance with their motors. When they used
sail alone there were fish in plenty, but
they were so anxious to speed up their
business that they took to petrol, and the
noise of their machines has probably
scared more fish than they have netted.
That is certainly what happened in the
estuary of the Swan, at Mandurah and
other onetime fish paradises in Westralia.
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: The new storekeeper
was a flash little bloke who got around
under a big straw sombrero. One day
we had a mob of ewes to crutch out at
the Coona-Coona yards, and Horace
went along as tarboy. Dashing from one
blasphemous crutcher to another, over
and under sheep, through the green wool
and maggots, he soon found that the
floppy straw cady was a decided liability,
so he hung it on a rail and forgot it. At
lunchtime the hat was still on the outer
fence, but the mob started in to enlarge
on the folly of wearing such headgear.
Scotty and Ken, Mick and the boss all
had several words to say in favor of their
own fancies in Akubras, and soon the
argument was flourishing. Horace spirit-
edly defended his choice. “There’s no-
thing better than a straw,” he sang out.
“They’re good hats. I can prove it”
“No flamin’ need for it,” cut in Old
Tom, who was the audience. “01’ Lapa-
long’s doin’ that already.” He jerked his
head, and we saw the old brown stallion,
who, having led his harem up to the
yards, claimed the choicest titbit in sight
for himself. Horace’s next hat was good
fur-felt.
* ♦ * «
“D.R.H.”: Met a bloke the other day
peddling that yarn about cats being great
destroyers of native birdlife. Reckoned
they lived in rabbit burrows but didn’t
catch rabbits. All me eye, A goanna’ll
live in a burrow, and will he eat rabbits?
—just watch him when the kittens are
about! In two years our feline tribe’s
tally in the bird line has been two swal-
lows, but they’ve brought home enough
bunnies to supply a restaurant with roast
fowl for a month. There are half a
dozen wildcats in the cliffs round the
place. Go along on a windy night and
you’ll see ’em —waiting in the lee of a
rock outside a rabbit-hole.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: If one excepts the satin
bower-bird’s painting jobs—which are
done with the beak —Australia’s only
tool-using bird is that splendid lord of
Centralian skies the black-breasted buz-
zard. John Gould disbelieved the abo.
stories of how it uses stones, sometimes
carried from long distances, to knock
holes in the hard, strong shell of emu
eggs in order to devour the contents or
to provide talon-grips for carrying one
off to be emptied at leisure. Nor did
he believe that the big, handsome pirates
—third largest of our diurnal birds of
prey—make savage power-dives at the
sitting emu to scare it off the nest. Both
performances have been fully verified.
The stone is not merely dropped on the
eggs, but the robber stands on the
ground, holds it in a talon and uses it
deliberately, hammer-fashion. At other
seasons they live on small animals, bush-
rats, bandicoots, paddymelons and their
kind, descending from great heights in
a lightning swoop to pick up the victim
in the great talons and come down again
to devour it on the ground. They never
perch, but do all their feeding and rest-
ing at ground level. In flight they are
easily identified by the window-like patch
under each long black wing formed by
the white bases of the main quills.
* # * *
“Narrin”; Working in an S.A. wine
cellar we were emptying samples of
export stuff. One quart bottle, bearing
the label of a standard sweet red which
was sold purely for blending purposes,
was seven years old. That wine had a
year-old Shiraz base; it had left the
cellars looking and tasting like a solution
of permanganate of potash. And yet the
sample bottle contained a quart of lique-
fied rubies, slightly and warmly brown
with age, milk-smooth, full of character
and bouquet—the kind of port men read
about. Wine is more fluky in perform-
ance than a mongrel racehorse; that
sample, for instance, had never been in
wood. At any time it is a liquid that
refuses to conform to rules and theories.
If bottled from the wood at precisely
the right time it will turn out well; but
that time has to be judged by nose and
palate alone. People who have the cheek
to growl at the price of wine have never
tried either making or drinking the din-
kum Hippocrene.
JAN.
His storied names along the Bight and round
to Cape Keer Weer
Proclaim an early link between Australia and
Mynheer;
His forebears sailed from Amsterdam three hun-
dred years ago
In stout big-bellied wooden ships, which bore
them, as we know,
Adown our western coastlands long before the
tale began
Of English pioneers who followed in the wake
of Jan.
His Eendracht and his Zee-wolf nosed a lone
Westralian shore;
The little Leeuwin led a way for Peter Nuyts,
who wore
The Golden Sea Horse down the Bight; in
quaint old script we read
Of Tasman, Vlaming, Hartog—all that gallant
Lowland breed
Who marked a trail we later trod. And so in
sooth we can
In this historic hour extend a hearty hand to
Jan.
Those names on our Australian charts were
written in the days
When our forerunners and his sires clashed on
the waterways;
They found Jan tough, but found him fair in
fight as well as trade,
A stubborn foe by land and sea, a friend when
peace was made.
And in the annals of the south, since settlement
began,
Good fellow has he proved to be, our near
Dutch neighbor, Jan.
And so an Anzac toast we’ll drink in Schiedam
or in beer —
Good luck to Jan, our nor’ward friend, good
luck to you, Mynheer!
Good luck to you, and Ivan too, and John and
Uncle Sam!
Soon may she walk abroad again, the Maid of
Amsterdam!
We will not quail, we shall not fail, to end as
we began,
And in the perils that we share let no one
fear for Jan.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“Hey, cut that out. This fleece is reserved for the army.”
“Strike-a-light”: When our head stock-
man was promoted to manager his wife
decided to change their name from
Waddle to the more aristocratic Waddel.
Shortly after that old Bill Barkem, the
fencer, rode his packhorse into town
with a borrowed saddle and bridle. While
he was away the creek came down a
banker, and in attempting to cross the
horse was washed from under him. Old
Bill scrambled on to the bank and trudged
back to town, stopping at the nearest
’phone to apprise the station of the acci-
dent. In answer to Bill’s “Mrs. Waddle?”
came the freezing retort: “Mrs. Wad del.”
“Ho!” said Bill irately. “Well, I jist
rang up ter tell yer that yer sad del and
bri del ’ave been washed ter hell,”
* * * *
“Naturala”: The most effective rat-
trap I ever struck was the tilting board,
water-drum and brick combination. The
board, a strip of galvanised iron, was
fixed on the horizontal with the outer
end just heavy enough to bring it back
to position after each tilt. Bait suspended
just beyond tilt end of board; leading
up to board a plank or pile of bricks,
and inside the drum enough water
to leave the end of a brick just
emerging. Running along board to
get at bait, rat tilts and falls. Swims,
finds brick, and for the moment safe.
Second rat arrives, swims to brick, but
finds room only for one on the island
of safety. Must push first rat off or
drown. One drowns. Third rat arrives
and the battle for the island is repeated,
ad infin. Sounds commonplace, but the
real bait is psychological—the rat is a
social animal, as full of curiosity regard-
ing the doings of its fellows as the subur-
ban housewife. One precaution only
is essential —the drum must be deep
enough to prevent the temporary occu-
pant of the brick from jumping out, and
it needs to be emptied fairly frequently.
For if a rat can get a solid footing he
can run up the inside of a 40-gallon
sheet-iron drum with ease.
“Tar Mack”: “Could yer spare us
somethin’ to eat?” pleaded Hungry Herb.
The woman vanished down the passage
and returned with a newspaper parcel in
her hands. “Here’s a loaf of bread. And
you’ll find the axe around near the back
door,” she added meaningly. “That’s all
right, lady,” answered the old battler
as he hoisted his knot; “if it’s as stale
as all that I’ll soak it in me billy o’ tea.”
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”; Contemplating a bunch
of bananas which the flying-foxes had
ruined and broken off, it occurred to
me what infernally durable beasts they
are. Sleeping all day in trees where a
single cartridge will kill or disable a
dozen, they seem the easiest of marks
for extermination, and many different
methods have been tried. Yet the
mobs which flap across this S.Q.
district at sunset are no smaller than
when their ancestors drove Uncle Jim
out of the place nearly 50 years ago.
Encouraged by the guileful exhortations
of a traveller in explosives, Uncle decided
that he would blow the big roost at
Googan’s Scrub to glory and end the
pest in one hit. For two days he had
the abos. fixing charges up the trees and
laying firing wires through the odorifer-
ous shades beneath. When all was ready
Uncle bellowed “Fire!” and we plunged
the pistons. With a roar a vast cloud of
smoke, leaves, twigs and screeching foxes
shot into the atmosphere, and we dashed
in gleefully to waddy the cripples. As
we drove triumphantly home old Comoy
came out to meet us at the gate. “Mas’r,”
he said, “my word you bin fritel that
pfeller flyin’-fo’ plenty. All ’im come
’long ’ome quick time!” We had killed
many hundreds, but thousands more were
noisily settling down in their new roost
less than a quarter-mile from the house.
When Uncle left for Tasmania two
months later he explained at the fare-
well that it was solely to seek a cooler
climate for his health’s benefit. But I
found a letter from the Museum inform-
ing him that Tasmania was the only part
of eastern Australia where there were
no flying-foxes—ever.
* * * *
“Yours etc.”: Old Tom and the truck-
driver were having a heated argument
when the boss came along. “Look here,”
said the driver. “I used to cart wool
round Cunnamulla and I’ve crossed the
Warrego River hundreds of times. Now
he says the Warrego isn’t in Queensland ;
it’s in New South Wales.” “Well,” said
the boss, “it’s in both States. You see
it runs from Queensland into New
South.” “It does, does it?” said the
truck-driver reflectively. “It’s a wonder
the Transport Board stands that!”
* * » •
“Zake”: Old Tom Graham calculated
that in the 40 years he had been “snob-
bing” in Wakkawalla the trilbies he had
made and mended would, if put toe to
heel, reach to Bourke and halfway back.
His new work, all hand-sewn, he would
“guarantee it’ll last yer a lifetime,”
and if the performance fell short of
that specification it was due more
to the disintegration of bovine hide
than to Tom’s lack of skill. But
his business methods were sketchy.
“Accounts” were jotted down on bends
of leather or odd bits of paper, which
would finish up respectively as some-
body’s soles or as his own pipe spills.
As time wore on his old sheepmen cus-
tomers, not rejoicing in that longevity
peculiar to cobblers, started to die off.
Into the estate of the first one to wriggle
out old Tom promptly shot his bill
for “making 2 prs. boots, £3,” As it had
been a tradition to order a couple of
pairs at a time from Tom, and with
casualness in the treatment of the
account on both sides taken for granted,
the claim was met by the executor, who
was the eldest son. Thereafter, on the
demise of each of his customers, mostly
well-to-do men, Tom’s claim for two
pairs invariably went in and was invari-
ably met. Then “Hard” Hanigan passed
into the shades. Promptly went in Tom s
claim, and as promptly the executors
knocked it back. Aggrieved, Old Tom
went to see Barney Grogan, the solicitor
who handled Hanigan’s affairs. Silently
Barney handed over the will and pointed
to the final clause. It read; “And I
further direct that the claim which old
Tom Graham will make be not met. I
do not owe him for two pairs of boots.”
* * * *
“Taylor Ville”; Tell “The 0.D.” (B.
29 /10/’4l) that somewhere between
Oodnadatta and Tobruk there’s a red-
haired ball of muscle called Ginger who
owes me eleven quid for a Winnecke
saddle. This bloke has a face tough
enough to warn off even that aggressive
Aboliar Big Mat, a curious habit of
whistling through his teeth as he
examines his knuckles after hitting any-
one, a most decided taste in silk necker-
chiefs and an ingrained and often un-
supported belief that he can ride any
flamin’ thing with hair on. And, though
bred and born to the outback, he’s scared
stiff of the curlews’ crying. The reason
may be that they wail for rather more
than “a few minutes” at a time in these
parts. But if he ever meets Ginger I’d
advise “The 0.D.” not to make hasty
references to the subject.
* * * ♦
“Pisces”: If “Nagheer” (B. 22/10/’4l)
wants to note the perfect discrimination
of the eel family, let him come to C.Q.
I’ll take him to the headwaters of the
Barcoo, above Tambo, to where it’s only
an ant-pad with holes at intervals. Less
than 50 yards away I’ll show him the
beginning of the Nogoa, which becomes
the Fitzroy. It also is only a possum
track with odd waterholes. But in the
Nogoa waters every hole has bubbles of
air rising—the infallible indication of
eels being at home. On the other side,
on the inland-flowing stream, no ancient
blackboy has any legend of an eel ever
having been sighted there.
* * * «
“Chink”: “Dungeness” proclaimed in
a recent par. that Kilkivan homestead,
70 miles west of Maryborough (Q.), and
lately destroyed by fire, was built in 1846
and was visited by Leichhardt. The Ger-
man wanderer’s long overland trek, in
which he discovered most of the rivers
and ranges of eastern Queensland, was
made in 1844-45. In 1846-47, when he
led another sortie as far as Peak Range
and then retreated in disorder, there was
still no settlement north of the Darling
Downs. Early in ’4B he went bush
again, and this time he slipped into eter-
nity. All things considered, I suggest
gently that Kilkivan homestead was not
built in ’46 and was not visited by Leich-
hardt.
* * * *
“Country Party”: Going to work one
morning through the bush Old Ira spied
a large black snake disappearing into an
old white-ants’ nest. Neither stick nor
stone being handy, he grabbed the
wriggler’s tail and hung on. So did Joe.
For a time the tug-o’-war continued,
whilst Ira dimly wondered what he would
do if the snake decided to come out and
fight. Fumbling around in his pocket
with his free hand, he discovered an old
safety razor blade. A less imaginative
soul would have attempted to cut the
snake in half. Not so Ira. Reaching
down as close to the ground as he could
he slit the snake lengthwise along the
belly practically to the tip of his tail.
Then picking up a dry twig he methodi-
cally scraped out “the works.” At this
juncture the snake gave up the fight.
* * * ♦
“Gab”; Jacky had been taking lessons
in letter-writing from the new school-
teacher, and was so pleased with his pro-
gress that he tried writing a letter to
his brother. Remembering his in-
structions, he started off by hoping
Freddie was well, but soon afterwards
got into difficulties, and when the boss
—who was passing—offered to write it
for him the offer was gratefully accepted.
After affording the boss much amuse-
ment by his long rigmarole, which the
boss transferred to paper in a way to
suit his own distorted view of what would
make funny reading, Jacky paused, and
appeared to be thinking deeply. The
boss, grinning, prompted him with,
“Well, any more?” Then light dawned
on Jacky. “Oh, yes, boss, tellem that
one pfeller Freddie excusem bad writ-
ing, eh?”
“ Gripes! Are we glad to get back from Greece !”
COMFORT THOUGHT.
“Sydney estate agents report distress among per-
sons on £l5OO a, year who, because of taxation, are
unable to keep on paying high rents for the class of
flats and homes they occupy.”
Wheatgrowers, hush, though beer be up
And smoking a costly thing,
’Tis all for the worthy cause we fight,
For the right of which we sing.
What though your credit fades away,
Why should your heads be bent?
Think of the chap on thirty quid
Who cannot pay the rent.
Dairymen, hush, you’ve not been hurt,
Though drought may have no end,
And if there’s a threat from margarine
You can still try “lease or lend.”
As Christmas comes in the midst of war
And the stores their bills present,
Think of the bloke on thirty quid
Who cannot pay the rent.
Gentlemen, hush, your money fights,
You should be glad today,
You’ve boards for every blessed thing
And more of ’em on the way.
If times seem tough and things seem dear,
And the old days you repent,
Think of the cove on thirty quid
Who cannot pay the rent.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


What are the
Duties of v\
Executor ?
a
*
a OUR Executor should assume control of your Estate imme-
diately and take measures to safeguard your assets. He
must manage the assets and deal with the problems of
claims, debts and taxes, including Estate Duties and
Income Taxes, and in general, substitute his business
judgment for yours. He must administer the Estate as the Will
directs and the law provides, and account for his acts to your
beneficiaries, and to the Court.
The foregoing is only a brief outlipe of his duties, but it suggests
the reason why those versed in affairs appoint an experienced
Trustee Company as Executor or Co-Executor with a friend or
relative rather than place the entire burden on a single
individual.
The services of The Trustees Executors & Agency Company
Limited with more than 63 years’ experience as a corporate
Executor and Trustee are available at a fixed and moderate
charge. Consult your Solicitor or call or write for further
information.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £958,760.
BOARD OP DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; John Fordyce;
Sir Claude Reading, K.0.M.G., Sir Lennon Raws, 0.8. E.; G. S. Colman,O.B.E,;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ; W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder,
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes,
The Federal Mutual Insurance Comnany
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
, Dividends x
Net Pref., To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, servos.
£> £> £> £> £
’36 194,702 —10 i 135,760 58,942 223,808
Share premiums, £54,000 .. .. 277,808
’37 218,179 14,207 10 p.c.= 143,200 60,772 338,680
Share premiums, £54,000 .. .. 392,680
’3B 240,055 55,477 10 p.c.= 159,000 25,578 418,158
Patent rights, £2821 .. .. .. 415,337
Development exes., £19,152 .. .. 396,185
’39 238,025 60,000 10.1 p.c.=162,000 16,025 412,210
’4O 273,925 60,000 10.7 „ „ 172,000 41,925 454,135
’4l 242,105 60,000 9.4 „,, 208,000 428,240
Australia’s paper and board position to-
day is vastly different from that of
1914-18, when only a fraction of local
requirements was turned out within the
country. Not only has the big and effi-
cient A.P.M., which welded the working
assets of the Australasian and Cumber-
land cos. in 1926, rendered itself nearly
80 p.c. independent of imported raw
materials, but since 1939 output has
expanded from 89,000 to 125,600 tons
of finished products. Thus the co. has
been able to meet heavy war-time require-
ments, including manufacture of special
substances for explosives, and main-
tain normal supplies at a figure only little
below peace-time levels. But taxation
and higher costs —imported pulps alone
have trebled in price—have prevented any
benefit accruing to profits after depreciat-
ing the working assets on the scale con-
sidered necessary.
Of the gross output about 40,000 tons
p.a. is now coming from the Botany
(N.S.W.) board miffs and 25,000 tons
(wrapping and imitation greaseproof)
from the modern, fast-running paper
machine located alongside the new Mary-
vale pulp mill, which started turning out
long-fibred pulps from Gippsland hard-
woods in October. The rest of the pro-
Auction is provided by the Melbourne
and Fairfield mills and the unit it was
intended to close down at Broadmeadows
(Vic.).
While everything is thus running
smoothly on the production side, manage-
ment isn’t satisfied with the level of raw-
material reserves, however. Output of
the Maryvale pulp mill and small utility
plant at Botany has reached 40,000 tons
p.a., but the co. stiff needs to import
32,000 tons of woodpulp annually, and
the North American market has become
rather like Dame Hubbard’s cupboard
since the elimination of Scandinavian
supplies. Also, the co. needs some 72,000
tons of waste-paper or suitable substi-
tutes, and, owing to newsprint rationing,
it isn’t getting them.
Last year’s greater activity and im-
proved efficiency are reflected in the up-
swing of £106,533 in gross profits, which
reached £837,490. Including £234,930
for depreciation and £200,677 for taxes,
etc., appropriations £54,261 and £75,677
higher respectively, exes. (£595,112) bit
off an additional £117,883, leaving £31,820
less at £242,105 to show to shareholders
after allowing for movements in intan-
gibles, not treated as assets herein. After
looking after the publicly-held 6 p.c.
prefs. that represented only 8.2 p.c. on the
two holding cos.’ ord. interest, despite all
the new money at work, as against 13.3
p.c. for the previous term. Ord. div. was
lowered from 10.7 to 9.4 p.c., and the
smaller distribution called for £25,895
more than the profit claimed. Including
£514,000 written off, £1,750,000 has found
its way into fixed assets over the past
three years, of which £250,000 was in
respect of the last term:
Paid capital— 1938. 1940. 1941.
Pref £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Ord £1,600,000 *2,028,891 2,200,000
Mortgages.. .. 20,269 16,319
Loans, etc. .. 33,937 164,422 152,984
Other creditors .. 119,199 384,621 427,717
Tax provision, etc. 113,197 171,453 200,000
Freehold and plant 1,708,127 2,928,929 2,943,973
Shares other cos... 23,242 23,242 23,242
Stock .. . . 990,950 943,603 1,002,012
Book debts . . 368,314 404,945 544,305
Cash, etc. ~ . . 302,302 45,071 45,727
* Including £428,891 application money in advance.
Book value of the total represents 30
p.c. less than cost and is obviously con-
servative. Last term saw an improvement
of £170,717 in the favorable surplus of
more or less liquids (£995,024, excluding
shareholdings), owing to final payments
on the last £600,000 ord. offer.
War has meant a shelving of the scheme
to distribute the operating co.’s ords. —
A.P. and P. owns 77.62 p.c. and Cumber-
land 22.38 p.c.—among those on the
holding cos.’ registers. Meantime, the
board hopes to pursue a policy to permit
Australasian Paper and Cumberland to
continue paying 8 p.c.—a procedure
which, with its own pref. div., will call
for net earnings of £257,884 p.a. On that
basis yield on Australasian ords. is 4.7
p.c. at 345.; Cumberland, 4.8 p.c. at
325. 9d. A.P.M.’s. own prefs., covered by
net tangibles of £3 12s. 6d., return 4.7
p.c. at 255. 9d.
Cellulose Australia, of South Aus., will
be on the market at the end of the year
with board, but there is room and to
spare for the new venture at the moment,
and A.P.M, is storing up valuable ex-
perience for later use in manufacture of
a wide range of paper products previously
imported.
Australia Hotel Co. (Sydney)
/ ; —Dividends ~ Nominal
Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.t
£ £ £ £
1931 .. 1,999 1980 Nil 166,860
Loss.
1932 .. 4,745 1733 t Nil 160,382
Profit.
1933 .. 15,789 1650 J 2} p.c. = 9,729 164,792
1934 . . 27,855 1980 6 „ „ 23,350 167,317
1935 . . 28,614 1980 6* „ „ 25,296 168,655
1936 . . 29,318 1980 6£ „ „ 25,296 170,697
Earmarked for depreciation, £19,650.. 151,047
1937 .. 29,548 1980 7 p.c. = 27,242 151,373
1938 .. 40,019 1980 8 „ „ 36,338 153,074
1939 .. 35,802 1980 7 „ ,\ 32,690 154,206
1940 . . 35,080 1980 7 „ „ 32,690 154,616
1941 .. 37,497 1980 7* „ „ 35,025 155,108
X 5 p.c. from Oct. 1, 1931. f Subject to goodwill,
£25,000.
Little over a decade ago this co., which
runs one of the largest and most fashion-
able hotels in the Commonwealth, was
looked upon as a steady ten-percenter.
Slump and the extension into Martin-
place—the co. went into debt for the
purpose—altered the outlook, and share-
holders averaged a shade over p.c. for
nine years to the close of last accounts.
The spring in the ’3B profit, raising
the ords.’ portion to 8.3 p.c, on their
capital, was due mainly to Sydney’s
sesquicentenary celebrations, which at-
tracted swarms of overseas and other visi-
tors to the city. Next term, international
and other developments thinned the
stream of visitors, and the rise in costs
became more definite. Still, the profit
(£35,802) was the best since 1930, thanks
largely to popular new features, such as
the wintergarden, banquet hall, new bar,
bevery and several new upper floors, all
of which had been added a couple of
years previously.
The flow of overseas visitors prac-
tically ceased with the outbreak of war.
Yet the Australia, to maintain its pres-
tige, has to continue to provide inter-
national standards of comfort and
service. And some of these services
yield little or no profit, while costs have
continued to mount. Maintenance is a
specially heavy item for this co.
It was not until the 12 months covered
by the latest accounts that the business
got much benefit from expanding war
expenditure and lengthening payrolls.
Declared profit, after meeting mainten-
ance charges, was £11,917 better at
£69,497. After setting aside £22,000 (up
£9500) for the taxgatherer and allowing
£lO,OOO (same as previous term) for de-
preciation, net amount available for
shareholders was £37,497 (up £2417), or
enough to pay pref. requirements and
show 7.6 p.c, on ord. capital as against
7, 7.2, 8.3, 7,7, 6.8 and 6.6 p.c. back
to 1934. Half a point was added to the
div., making it p.c.
Here is the business looked at from
another angle:
1936. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Stock.. ..£11,548 £8,499 £19,202 £23,172
Book debts, etc. 6,368 6,399 6,313 5,982
Cash, etc. .. 1,800 22,663 19,388 15,626
Liquid assets £19,716 £37,561 £44,903 £44,780
Mortgage ) o ;; , f 275,000 275,000 250,000
Creditors j 3&4 ’ 386 I 28,534 26,467 37,517
Excess
’ liabilities £334,670' £265,973 £265,564 £242,737
Property and
equipment .. 917,149 962,517 962,517 962,517
Paid capital .. 422,169 500,003 500,003 500,003
The floating debt was more than covered
by liquids, and £25,000 was lopped off
the mortgage. The net improvement in
the financial position was £12,827. Prop-
erty and equipment remain unchanged in
the books. Obviously much depends on
expenditure on maintenance.
Over the last two years the pound ords.
fluctuated between 16s. 3d. and 225. 6d.
in the market. At the current price of
20s. 6d. the return is 7.3 p.c. on a 7+ p.c.
distribution. The prefs. at 225. 6d. yield
5.3 p.c. Net tangible cover is £l9 Is. lid.
prefs. and 255. sd. ords.
Beau Monde, Ltd. (Melb.)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935 .. 24,024 25 p.c. = 19,130 4,894 68,797
1936 . . 30,034 25 ~ „ 22,956 7,378 76,170
1937 .. 30,610 25 „ „ 25,507 5,103 81.278
Special tax assessment, £2099 • • 79^,180
1938 . . 28,209 20 p.c. = 25,500 2,709 81,889
Unexplained addition, £1560 .. 83,449
1939 .. 12,810 10 p.c. = 12,750 60 83,509
Unexplained addition, £354 . ■ 83,863
1940 .. 15,466 10 p.c. = 12,750 2,716 86,579
Unexplained addition, £197 •• 86,7 <6
1941 .. 15,725 10 p.c. = 12,750 2,975 89,751
Assisted by a fat pile of reserves, and
with connections in each State, this co.,
which set up at Moreland (Vic.) as Pro-
gress Products in 1929, produced attrac-
tive results for four years after the public
came in in 1935. Then the cost of raw
silk shot up 50 p.c., and the div. cut in
two as the result of a price war such as
usually develops when aggregate plant
capacity of an industry runs too far
ahead of demand.
In 1939-40 Australian mills produced
10 p.c. more women’s hosiery than in
any other year, and the expansion in
lingerie—Beau Monde turns out both —
was even more marked. With traders
anxious to accumulate stocks against
price rises and the growing absorption
of women into industry, demand was
brisker still last term. But costs con-
tinued on their meteoric way, raw silk
was rationed, and the prudence of Beau
Monde’s board in accumulating reserve
supplies has now been nullified by the
Government action in commandeering
certain raw silk stocks following termina-
tion of trade relations with Japan. A
substitute has been found in a special
fine lisle yarn manufactured in England,
the reception accorded which has flooded
the order-book.
Taxation (£5004 bulkier at £9506) pre-
vented any benefit accruing from last
year’s extra work. Net profit showed
little variation at 12.1 p.c. on capital, as
against 10 p.c, in 1939 and 27 p.c. and
30 p.c. the two years before that. Div.
remained at 10 p.c., which returns 8.6
p.c. from the ss. shares at ss. lOd.
Finances, their usual trim self, in-
dicate something of the briskness of
trade:
1936. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £64,286 £127,764 £127,764 £127,764
Overdraft . . 21,322
Creditors . . 12,868 11,502 17,103 11,270
Tax provision 7,812 1,433 4,502 8,144
Freeholds . . 49,322 59,414 59,632 59,070
Plant, etc. .. 135,863 57,652 49,558 40,378
Stocks .. 59,810 83,478 113,708 103,607
Debtors . . 14,059 22,402 32,153 25,198
Cash, etc. .. 4,468 14,238 8,821 15,051
The decline in stocks was in wholly or
partly manufactured articles; raw
material supplies are reported well main-
tained. With depreciation allowances
(£10,783), the downswing enabled the
overdraft to be cleared, the surplus of
more or less liquids (£132,586) improving
£16,329.
Further price adjustments are inevit-
able, the chairman says ; considering the
size of reserves and the efficiency of the
plant, there is obviously slender margin
between costs and selling price at the
moment,
Cox Bros. (Aust.), Ltd.
1 Dividends Towards
Pref. Re- De-
July, Loss. 9 ,p.c. Ord. serves, ficit.
1931.. 12,025 Nil Nil 39,200
r~ Dividends
A Pref. B Pref.
Profit. 7 p.c. 7 p.c. Ord.
1932.. 511 Nil 38,689
1933.. 12,214 11,723 Nil Nil 38,198
Loss Launceston freehold, £2020 .. 40,218
1934.. 23,951 11,723 8,611 Nil 36,601
14 p.c.
1935.. 29,546 11,723 17,222 Nil 36,000
7 p.c.
1936.. 60,835 11,723 8,611 15 p.c. = 12,245 7,744
Reserves.*
1937.. 63,563 11,723 8,611 15 „ „ 12,245 23,240
Reserves capitalised, £8164 .. .. 15,076
1938.. 65,597 11,723 8,611 15 p.c. = 16,276 44,063
1939.. 60,567 11,723 8,611 15 „ ~ 27,782 56,514
Loss sale Perth business, £ll5O .. 55,364
1940.. 61,084 11,723 8,611 121 p.c.=30,813 65,301
1941.. 60,743 11,723 8,611 10 p.c. = 28,286 77,424
* Goodwill not treated as an asset herein.
It has been an extraordinary develop-
ment, The co, trades in clothing, drapery,
furnishing-drapery and furniture, largely
on a t.p. basis, and a lot of attention is
given to the mail-order section. Starting
at Fitzroy (Vic.), the business spread to
Adelaide and Launceston, and was split
into three separate cos. in 1925. Then,
to attract more capital, a holding co.
was formed. Slump interrupted a short
run of 20 p.c. divs. in 1931, when a loss
of £12,025 showed up, and for the next


SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated Dv
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
•THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors;
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ; Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.; Robert Vicars.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ABSOLUTELY
SAFE and
SILENT
I
LANE'S
GENUINE
NO PRICKING
NO PRIMING NO PUMPING
Hot instantly. Only one fuel
Kerosene. New long life
wool wick. No expensive burn-
ers to replace. See your local store.
'jffwtmil
BLUE FLAME
KEROSENE STOVE
four years the ords. went hungry. Mean-
while, in 1932, the four separate cos. were
amalgamated into the present one, the
outside debt was worked down, more
capital was gathered to help finance ex-
pansion, profits advanced as the business
grew and conditions improved, and a
steady 15 p.c. was paid for the four years
to the close of accounts in 1939, fol-
lowed by 12j p.c. and 10 p.c. for the last
term.
War conditions have bumped up costs,
and the taxgatherer continues to make
off with an increasingly large slice of the
takings, but payrolls have lengthened,
wage rates have been lifted, turnovers
have advanced and conditions have
become more propitious so far as the
debts question is concerned. Indeed, it is
symptomatic of the times that people are
more willing than usual to borrow to buy
the things they desire. Sales on a t.p.
basis have, therefore, flourished along
with ordinary short-term credit and cash
transactions.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, the co. opened no new
stores —it has 43 branches scattered over
all the Australian States, except Queens-
land —but turnover shot up to a record
figure. After allowing £27,557 (up £7829)
for taxation and £5536 (down £1957) for
depreciation, the board figured net earn-
ings only £341 lighter at £60,743. This
was enough to pay the pref. divs. and
show 13.9 p.c. on the £282,868 of ord.
capital, compared with 16.6, 21.7, 41.8, 53
and 49.6 p.c. back to 1936. The high
rates of earning suggest an abnormal
source of profit, such as the recovery of
debts previously written off or taken over
on a basis of less than 20s. in the pound.
Here is the business looked at from
another angle:
1937. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £372,126 £492,539 £573,358 £573,358
Overdraft .. 36,023 117,704 75,422 106,906
Mortgages, etc. 94,027 116,952 106,900 106,400
Other creditors 11,482 14,265 11,236 29,249
Premises, etc. 123,161 204,116 199,178 198,193
Plant, etc. . . 32,016 54,233 50,516 48,622
Stocks . . 71,916 103,494 132,135 198,724
Debtors . . 345,995 480,276 495,562 495,538
Cash, etc. . . 2,641 2,174 3,135 7,568
Outstanding feature last term was the
addition of £66,589 to stocks, usually
considered a sound investment these days.
To meet the outlay, £31,484 was added to
the overdraft and £18,013 to the amount
coming to sundry creditors. There was
little change in the large amount of
debtors’ balances, upon the soundness of
which future profits largely depend.
At 6s. 9d. (Bs. a couple of years ago)
the f.-p. ss. ords. return 7.4 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div, basis. The A and B 7 p.c.
pound prefs. fetch 235. 3d. and 225. 9d.,
at which prices the yield is 6 p.c. and 6.1
p.c. respectively. The net tangible cover
is As £3 17s. 9d., Bs £3 18s. 7d. and
ords. 6s. 4d.
Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd., the solely-
owned operating co. for Wiluna Gold
Corporation, London, hopes to have the
Mt. Charlotte group as a second string
to its Westralian golden bow. A two-
year option has been taken and a £lO,OOO
deposit has been paid. The purchase
price named by the vendor, Mt. Char-
lotte (Kalgoorlie) Gold Mines, London,
is said to be over £200,000. An official
cable states that the British Treasury has
given its consent to the deal.
Mt. Charlotte group comprises three
leases of an aggregate area of 60 acres,
and takes in Paddy Hannan’s Hill
Reward claim. The group is along-
side the Kalgoorlie-Boulder railway and
quite close to Kalgoorlie’s main busi-
ness centre. In the early days and for
some years later it was worked by a
London co. W, H. Corbould, now
advisory director of Mt. Isa, is a former
manager. It has been said before
here that, according to official reports,
diamond-drilling has indicated over
1,100,000 tons of 5.36dwt. ore in one
section, of which half a million tons,
averaging 5.9dwt., is reckoned to lie in
a 61ft. ore channel between the 150 ft.
and 750 ft. levels. For some time past
management at the Westralian end has
been vested in the Paringa co.
* * * *
Of recent developments in North Kal-
gurli (W.A.), three are billed as most
important. The first is east of the main
north drive at 1147 ft. north on the No.
14 level (1350 ft.) of the Kalgurli. At 45ft.
in a diamond-drill struck values up to
7dwt., which the management says can be
the Union Jack lode. About 200 ft.
further on phenomenal values were en-
countered, Two feet of the core assayed
662dwt., and the next 2ft. 78dwt. Value
of the following 2ft. dropped to a little
under 3dwt.; then two sections of about
2ft. each beyond assayed 60dwt. and
31dwt. respectively. The point of inter-
section is just 100 ft. north of the North
Kalgurli main shaft. To use the manage-
ment’s words, “this new find may prove
to be a new mine,” as the ground is quite
virgin. The second development is
further south, but also on the No. 14
level at 760 ft. north of the Kalgurli
shaft. Here from a crosscut extended
54ft. east the first 4ft. assayed by truck
sample 92dwt., and the next sft. 33dwt.
This development is considered to be of
great importance, especially as there is
a prospect of locating the lode in levels
above and below the No. 14. The third
development is the new east lode on the
962 ft. level of the North Kalgurli block.
Driving shows it to be a lode of lenses
each about 28ft. in length and Bft. in
width. They carry values sometimes up
to 72dwt. The workings are being con-
tinued further east to pick up the big
formation located by the drill last year.
Its width was 40ft. and assay value 34dwt.
* ♦ ♦ »
Federal Budget’s proposal to disallow
as a deduction, in arriving at taxable
income, calls paid on mining shares
hasn’t so far caused any roar of dis-
approval in Westralia. The fact is that
so many optimistic inaccuracies have
been told in the past about the prospects
of a number of call-seeking cos. that long-
suffering investors are sick of them and
jib at finding any more cash.
¥ * * *
Higher costs, plus British excess-profits
tax, are responsible for a fall in West-
ralian goldmining dividends. Those for
the nine months ended September, 1941,
amounted to £477,495, compared with
£766,636 for the corresponding period
of 1940. Some contributors hope to
maintain the present rate for the duration
of the war; others don’t.
* ¥ * ¥
“Hg”: The Queensland quicksilver-
mines at Kilkivan (C.Q.) seem to treat
only two or three tons of very rich
ore a month. What is wrong? Is
new blood needed to develop a strategic
mineral like mercury? Reports have
indicated that there is a belt of mercury-
bearing formations some miles wide at
Cinnabar. I see that Queensland Quick-
silver, Ltd., during a recent month treated
26971 b. of lode matter for 1991 b. of mer-
cury. This is fabulous grade compared
with ores worked in other parts of the
world. For instance, California would
expect to get only 51b. to 201 b. for each
26971 b. of ore. And it may never again
be worth £1 per pound, as at present, so
now is the time to strike.
¥ ¥ * ¥ -
Mt. Carbine (N.Q.) is an area that can
always be counted on for a supply of
tungsten ores. At present there’s a rift
in the lute amongst wolfram miners over
the price of ore. They are getting £3 per
unit of tungstic acid, and a tempter has
come forward to say a unit is worth
£AB in U.S.A. and probably worth £AS,
c.i.f., in Sydney. So are the miners going
to supply? They are up against the antici-
pated renewal of the Commonwealth-
British Government’s agreement for entire
purchase of Australian output. But if they
strike, like some of the munition workers,
for example, they may get the price lifted.
Meantime, there are some nice clean-cut
veins of quartz and wolfram showing
up, and 30 to 40 men are finding employ-
ment.
¥ ¥■ * *
From “Kosciusko”;
All goldfields have their pioneering person-
alities, like Frank Stubley and Fred Cuthbert,
of Croydon, and E. H. T. Plant and Joe Milli-
can, of Charters Towers. And so has Cracow,
youngest of all Queensland fields. Not yet
two decades have gone since Charlie Lambert,
discoverer of the richest spot on the Golden
Mile, held out his hand to the option-hunters
for £BO,OOO cold —to be turned down. Ran-
dolph Bedford, now passed on, was one of the
first outsiders to get on the field. Owing to his
dynamic energy crosscuts were thrust through
the Mile, only to find out that it was not an-
other Plateau. Mohr and his mate, on the
near-barren oasis of the Plateau crop, were re-
duced to wallaby and desperation by the time
they hit the first trail somewhere about 40ft.
But before that Gcrringe had studded his safe-
deposit with nuggets from a leader in rhyolite.
Between whiles, he dispensed the romanticism
of Greig and Brahms to the tall gums and the
early diggers around his model camp. Hubert
Jarvis, now a prosperous publican of Monto,
got his start on the field. He was in the Sun-
rise, which remains a standby for the Plateau,
with Danny O’Keefe, who had no pudd’n for
that first barren Christmas on the field. Little
Danny prospers now at the Anchor in
North Rockhampton, and is the sire of a her-
culean athlete son. Nothing could be more
evocative of the early dark days on Cracow
than Danny with his head slumped between
his shoulders after a particularly poor dish-
prospect from the Sunrise. But it turned good,
and Dan has an understanding twinkle in his
eye as he sips his cordial and thinks of the
dividends the Plateau is still going to pay.
Die Casters ’ Meeting
Ploughshares Into Swords
—And Good Ones, Too
The year 1940-41 has demonstrated the ability of the secondary industries
to an extent beyond anyone’s expectations to “turn their ploughshares into
swords,” and the swords have not been crude or ill-fashioned, but well-shaped
and finely tempered, the managing director of Die Casters, Ltd. (Mr. R. W.
Newton), said at the annual meeting on Friday, November 7.
“The company is proud of its contribution
to the ever-increasing stream of armaments
from aircraft to guns, from ammunition to pre-
cision-instrument work, all branded ‘Made in
Australia.’
“War-time effort of the company could not
have been achieved without the benefit of
highly organised teamwork and understanding
between executive staff and the men. Not one
production hour was lost, either in our Crom-
well-street or Adelaide works through labor
troubles or misunderstandings. We were able
to measure overtime worked above the normal
working year in tens of thousands of man-
hours.
“Apart from defence activities, manufacturing
divisions, particularly the collapsible-tube
division, where plant and equipment are not
suitable to swing directly behind the war effort,
all remained reasonably normal from the view-
point of turnover. Clients have readily under-
stood why occasionally we cannot keep to peace-
time delivery.
“Our entry into munition manufacturing has
brought us in touch with many fellow-Austra-
lians who are charged with the responsibility
of turning Budgets into war equipment. Few
realise the magnitude of the tasks of these
administrators. I want to record the manage-
ment’s appreciation of their co-operation.
“Quantity and value of goods delivered by
the company the past year—defence, indirect
defence and domestic —were a record.
“Although gross profit for the year reads at
a record ‘high,’ profits earned from contracts
coming under the heading of ‘defence’ can
best be described as ‘living profits’ only, which
is all that can be expected—or desired.”
America’s Effort.
Referring to his recent trip to America on
behalf of the Government, Mr. Newton said:
“Contrary to some reports, from America, I
want to assure you that the only discontent
existing among American engineers charged with
the problem of America’s rearmament is
born of the fact that there are only 24 hours
in a day; and, crisis or no crisis, an hour is
an hour, and men must sleep.
“America’s gigantic effort is being pursued
along well-planned lines. It has been worked
out that Hitler’s numerical strength in all arma-
ments must, first of all, be equalled; equalled
and then held; held and then outnumbered.
Then —and only then —can we all look forward
to the end of this war.
“The task that lay before America as I left
her in June of this year was the conversion of
25 billion man-hours into materials of war.
A Long Road.
“I returned to Australia to try and redouble
our company’s war efforts, because the road is
going to be a long one. Every tributary join-
ing the main stream of munitions from Eng-
land and U.S.A. will be required to build up
that volume which will be necessary to crush
the German plundered might.
“As the ranks of our manufacturing and
engineering armies swell, so does Australia’s
strength expand—a strength which will not
leave us, and must not be allowed to leave us,
even after this war is won. Never again
should Australia have to line itself up among
the other nations of this world in a war
forced upon her with only blueprints and
courage in the way of equipment to arm those
Australians who will always be prepared to
fight in a war which they know is right. We
now face our future with a knowledge that the
blueprint stage is past; production of first-class
fighting equipment is beginning to flow, and
I can assure you, on the part of our company,
it will flow in an ever-broadening stream.”


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
CHOICE FOR JAPAN.
[Condensed from an American “Foreign Affairs”
article by Eugene Staley, who analyses Japan’s awkward
role as a member of the Axis, and suggests alternative
lines or action for the democratic Powers, the one
lacmg Japan with stiller resistances, especially economic,
the other a plan of settlement which will recognise
Japan s needs and try to meet them in return for a
drastic change in Japanese policy.]
It is becoming more and more apparent that
Japan made a bad choice in joining the Axis. What
can she look forward to as a partner of Germany'?
It the Nazis win in Europe, Japan’s role will be at first
that ot a jackal, later that of a vassal and puppet. If
Germany loses in Europe, Japan will have to make
terms with the anti-Axis Powers, who will be in undis-
puted control of all the important communication
routes and markets and sources of raw materials in
the world. Japan’s bargaining power would be nil.
The one possible hope of gain which Japanese
militarists can hold out to the Japanese people as a
result of a policy of alignment with the Axis is
based on the assumption of a German victory over
both Russia and Britain. Like Italy before the fall of
France, Japan is too weak to risk striking at any of
her more powerful neighbors unless Germany appears
meanwhile to have inflicted on them a mortal wound.
Like Italy, Japan is nevertheless able to be of great
nuisance value to Germany. She can immobilise,
through threats and bluster, considerable land, sea and
air forces which might otherwise be resisting the Nazis,
But’ a g & in like Italy, in case of an Axis triumph Japan
is likely to find herself, not in the role of equal part-
ner, but in the subordinate relationship of servant to
master.
Of course, Japan is a long way from Germany.
But consider the strategic situation on the hypothesis
of a complete Axis victory in Europe. Japan would
have a new neighbor in Siberia. This new neighbor,
unlike the former Soviet Union, would not be
restrained by the operation of any European “balance
of power.” Japan would find it totally impossible,
by either military or economic measures, to make
any serious threat against the centres of Hitler’s power ;
while Hitler, regardless of Japanese objections, would
be free to push his advanced bases far into Asia and
to establish Luftwaffe outposts within bombing range
of Japan’s tinderbox cities. In the hands of experi-
enced terrorists like the Nazis—unrestrained, as the
Soviet Union has been, by the presence of rival Powers
in Europe—this alone would be enough to force Japan
to yield on every issue which Hitler might choose to
regard as vital.
Furthermore, there would be nothing further to
restrain Hitler from turning the immense industrial
power of the new German Empire in the direction of
naval building. Hitler might at first permit Japan to
take over former British and Dutch naval bases off
south-eastern Asia. But in the end he would force
her to share them with him. The German Navy
ensconced in south-east Asia would be a much more
active threat to Japan than the British Navy has been,
both because Hitler is an aggressive conqueror and
because, in this sphere of activity, too, he would not
be restrained by any European balance of power.
The Japanese must know about Nazi racial
theories. What could they expect but contemptuous
overlordship from a Germany thus endowed with
unfettered power? Today Hitler wants Japan’s help.
How long would it take Hitler to rediscover the racial
inferiority of the Japanese after Japan had helped
him to victory?
The role of Japan in an Axis-dominated world,
then, would be far from an enviable one. On the
other hand, the news of Russian resistance, of Ameri-
can production, of British fortitude, makes the odds
increasingly strong that the end of this war will not
see the Axis dominant in the world. The role of
Japan as an exhausted and defeated Axis partner would
not be an enviable one either. Japan’s one chance —
and many intelligent Japanese must be reflecting
along this line —is to enter negotiations for a general
settlement with the anti-Axis Governments ana to do
it now while she still has some bargaining power.
We, on our side, while prepared to meet any aggres-
sive Japanese moves by force, should also be willing
to offer Japan terms of settlement which take account
of the legitimate aspirations of the Japanese people,
particularly their need for assurance of economic
opportunities abroad in the form of market outlets
and raw material supplies.
The United States, acting with the British nations,
China, the Netherlands East Indies, and the Soviet
Union, should adopt a programme as its policy in
the Pacific, the first part consisting of pressure on
Japan, the second opening a gate for Japan to pass
through peacefully—a way out which is compatible
both with the legitimate, long-run interests of the
Japanese people and with the interests of other peoples
in the Pacific.
The programme of pressure on Japan would in-
clude: (1) continued and increased aid to China, in
order to immobilise as many Japanese troops as pos-
sible in the Chinese theatre of war; (2) close col-
laboration with the British and the Dutch in continu-
ing to build up the already strong defences of Manila,
Singapore and the Netherlands East Indies, plus aid
in strengthening the Soviet forces in Eastern Siberia
in any way feasible ; (3) economic blockade of Japan,
or the threat of it, to be enforced by total non-inter-
course between members of the coalition and Japan,
by refusal of fuel and other facilities to Japanese ships
anywhere in the world, and by inducements and pres-
sures calculated to persuade all the other countries
with which Japan might hope to trade (mainly the
Latin-American countries) to follow similar policies.
The consequences for Japan of the economic iso-
lation which such a coalition would be able to enforce
without the moving of a single warship or ’plane into
Japanese-controlled waters would be devastating. The
effects would not be immediate, but they would be
inexorable. Japan is peculiarly dependent upon un-
interrupted economic relations with areas outside the
range of her own naval power for the materials neces-
sary to sustain her military efforts and to maintain the
living standards and the employment of her people.
If Japan were subjected to a total economic
blockade the area to which she would have access
contains insignificant or very inadequate sources of
petroleum, nickel, mercury, platinum, magnesite, mica
and asbestos. Serious deficiencies would be felt in
iron, copper, aluminium, manganese, lead, zinc and
the ferro-alloys such as tungsten and molybdenum,
Japanese facilities for turning out machine tools,
specialised precision instruments, automotive products,
aircraft and many other strategically important items
are inadequate. There would be a great lack of wool,
fertilisers, lumber, wood pulp and vegetable fibres.
Japan has stocks of oil and other strategic
materials on hand which would probably last for a
good many months, and she would find it possible to
make adaptations and adjustments in view of the
emergency. The fact remains that she is extremely
vulnerable to pressures of an economic character, and
that these can be applied against her at a long dis-
tance from her own sphere of political and military
influence. This is the central reason why today one
is able to characterise Japan’s position as one of
weakness.
Japan is also weak in other ways. Suppose her
leaders decide to fight rather than yield. Suppose they
set out to break the economic blockade by military
force. Where can they attack? Japan has a large
and modern navy. But the needs of a modern battle
fleet for fuel and repairs restrict its field of opera-
tions to a limited radius from its own or friendly
naval bases. This means that the Japanese Navy can
—New York “Daily News.”
FAR FROM HOME.
exercise dominant power in its home waters. But it
also means —and this is a crucial point—that, unless
and until new bases are conquered much farther afield,
Japan is not in a position to launch any serious attack
against the real centres of power of the coalition
which would be arrayed against her.
The best Japan can do is to attack their outposts
in eastern or south-eastern Asia. But while she was
doing this she would continue to suffer from the
attrition of the long-distance economic blockade. She
would use up precious supplies. She would expose
her navy and merchant marine to the risk of serious
losses. And her own vital centres of power would be
exposed to attack by long-range bombers, particularly
if Siberia is available as a base for such attacks. The
latter threat is not something the Japanese can ignore.
Japanese industries and transportation lines are rela-
tively concentrated, and great sections of Japanese
cities —almost literally “made of wood and paper”—
are highly inflammable. The distance from Vladi-
vostok to Tokyo, Osaka and Yokohama is some 600
miles—roughly the same as from English airfields to
Berlin.
There is a further point which Japanese military
leaders must take into consideration. If they choose
the desperate gamble and try to break the economic
blockade by force there is no assurance that the places
attacked can actually be captured without crippling
losses, or that once a new piece of territory has been
captured they will be able to get out of it the resources
that Japan needs, and to get them out quickly enough
to stave off utter exhaustion at home. Meantime,
there would be the problem of maintaining communi-
cation lines against flank attacks by the strong Powers
with which Japan would be at war.
A venture into Siberia would be costly. And
even when Siberia had been conquered, it would not
solve Japan’s supply problem any more than occu-
pied China has solved it. There may be rich resources
in Siberia, but a period of years would be required
to develop them.
Suppose Japan decides to break the blockade
towards the south. The Philippines are now strongly
enough defended so that Japan could seize them only
by a major effort and at the risk of considerable losses.
Once conquered, the Philippines would make an im-
portant contribution to the Japanese economy in iron
ore and vegetable fibres and in a few other respects.
But this would merely begin to ease the pressures of
the economic blockade.
Farther south, the Netherlands East Indies, rich
in raw materials, have a not inconsiderable defence
force, including ’planes and small naval units. But the
greatest bulwark of their defence is the heavily garri-
soned naval base at Singapore. It would be risky
for the Japanese to launch an attack in this area with-
out having first reduced Hong Kong and the Philip-
pines, so that the defences of these places, too, help
to protect the Netherlands Indies, Finally, if Japan
did succeed in conquering the Netherlands Indies or
important parts of them without having suffered a
major disaster, her problems would still not be solved.
Oilwells and refineries would probably be blown up,
and it would take a considerable time to get produc-
tion going again—especially since much of the neces-
sary technical equipment would not be available to
Japan. Sea communications might be under constant
harassing attack.
The foregoing analysis has been based on the
assumption that the main naval units of the United
States and Great Britain are occupied elsewhere, with
the result that the forces with which Japan would
have to contend would be composed mainly of ’planes,
submarines, small warships, coast defence units and
land forces. But could the Japanese admirals be sure
that after they had extended their lines of communi-
cation far to the south, and while they were engaged
in the hazardous operation of invading a defended
coast, it might not suddenly prove possible for the
two greatest navies in the world to spare a
major battle fleet for the area? [ln London
on November 10 Mr. Churchill said that
Britain would declare war on Japan within an
hour of America becoming involved in war
with Japan, and that powerful British warships
could be sent to the Pacific.]
With our adoption of the firm front should
go a sensible and fair appreciation of Japan’s
needs and the offer of a plan of settlement
which will give her a way out —not just a “face-
saving” way out, but a real and lasting solu-
tion of her basic problems. The Japanese
people, crowded on a few islands though they
are, can maintain and increase their living
standards if they are able to engage in large-
scale processing of raw materials. These must
come in considerable part from abroad. And
the Japanese must be able to sell abroad a
substantial proportion of their produce, thus
earning foreign exchange with which to pay
for imports. Unless they can do this they
cannot live—at least, not at an acceptable
standard of consumption. If conditions for
the Japanese people are not “livable” there can
be no long-run stability in the Pacific. Upon
this fact our offer to Japan should be based.
Such an offer ought to lessen the likelihood
that Japan will choose a contest of force. If
Japan does choose force, our offer would pro-
vide a basis on which the war might more
quickly be brought to an end in the very prob-
able event that the Japanese people found their
situation becoming progressively hopeless.
In proposing a plan of settlement we
could afford to offer Japan very generous eco-
nomic terms. In fact, under them the Japanese
people would actually receive many of the
economic benefits and opportunities which their
militarists have vainly sought to produce by
conquest. Further, under those terms Japan would be
helped over the difficult economic transition involved
for her in turning her war industries back to a peace-
time basis.
In return, the political terms which we might
require Japan to accept would be such as to reverse
present Japanese policy and to secure the Far East
from the menace of aggression. We should insist on
acceptance of a free and independent China as the
basis of all future relations in the Far East. This
would, of course, include the withdrawal of Japanese
troops, the abandonment of all Japanese pressure for
political domination over China, and the adoption
instead of a policy of peaceful co-operation with that
country. A condition of settlement would also be
abandonment or demilitarisation of all those advanced
bases to the south from which the Japanese Navy
is now able to threaten Singapore, the Philippine
Islands, the Netherlands Indies and the vital com-
munication lines to these places and Australia.
Why Uncle Sam Should Act.
[Condensed from a three-column letter featured in
New York “Times”; the writer, Leonard W. Cronkhite,
“is a trustee of World Peace Foundation.”]
There are people who, were their child to be kid-
napped and murdered, would expect their community
to act; there are sincere people who, were their imme-
diate neighbor’s child to be kidnapped and murdered,
would expect to join the posse ; but there are too many
supposedly sincere people who, when the same act on
a colossal scale takes place over a political or racial
or oceanic boundary, suddenly find their avowed prin-
ciples vanish into mists of distance.
These are the people on whom Hitler counts, for
it is the double-standard people who serve his pur-
pose. Hitler’s whole appeal has been to double-
standard bearers everywhere. One standard for me at
home, another for me abroad. He has had some
morsel to hold out to the supposed self-interest of all
factions. To us Americans the appeal has been to


AVOID HOSPITALS!
KEEP
($\ XctfUl'G’
BRANDY
IN EVERY HOME
our so-called self-interest in living our own life with-
out being concerned over his ravagings elsewhere.
Were it in fact true that Americans as a nation,
once the conflicting representations are resolved into
a simple issue, would do nothing about this holocaust
of injustice spread over half the earth unless and
until they themselves are in danger, democracy would
be approaching its death. There would be little dif-
ference between us and the Nazis, in that the cardinal
principle of Nazism—withal its political mummeries
and holy and sacrificial wrappings—is clearly to
regard, to fatten and to save only one’s Nazi-German,
State-bound, leader-hypnotised self.
The truth is that the American, victim of that
new weapon—the psychological and ideological arm
of warfare—has been confused, rendered unable to
simplify the issue, induced to postpone the decision.
Both Hitler and a clique of Japanese profiteers have
counted on an indefinite postponement of that decision.
Yet we Americans, when once we are clear on the
issues, tend ultimately to follow our instincts ; these
instincts are at bottom inclusive rather than exclusive,
sympathetic rather than callous, fraternal rather than
“superior” or oppressive, sacrificial rather than selfish,
when the need is seen.
Walls of our making, around us and between us,
have at times blinded the moral insight and torn the
resolve of our people. But at last it appears that we
begin to see the light. A massed set of facts, no
longer controvertible, confronts every free American
whose life was founded on the proposition that all
men are endowed with certain inalienable rights.
Those facts are: (a) the most crafty, and quanti-
tatively the most powerful, jungle daemon in history
has overrun more than half a score of peaceful coun-
tries, adding to fire and sword methods of torture as a
political instrument never before employed on such
a scale ; (b) the last vestiges of free thinking and act-
ing of millions are spied upon and summarily pun-
ished by over half a million underlings who constitute
another new weapon of conquest; (c) the property and
the very food of scores of millions of innocent people
have been taken from them under the most shameless
pretences ; (d) the rest of the civilised world is card-
catalogued with a view to further pillaging, enchain-
ing and murder ; (<?) all of this has been accompanied
by the basest deceptions, miscalled “protection,” “recti-
fying injustices,” “a united Europe,” “the new order
in Asia” and a “new order of peace for the world.”
In the face of these things, with which nothing in
history compares, it is pitiful to hear an American
repeat over and over that this is the war “that Eng-
land declared on Germany.” It is pitiful to hear an
American—with a fine sense of historical inaccuracy
and no sense of time dimension—excuse all this
terror on the ground that “the most successful mili-
tary aggressor the world has ever known has been
Great Britain through the past three centuries.”
It is pitiful to see among us men who, under the
license to differ, use this crisis to settle personal scores,
to lift themselves for a little greatness into notorious
opposition, to stir internal strife, to waste breath in
condemning a past now more than expiated in a brave
and liberal-tending present, men who spend, however,
little breath over the miseries of millions in Europe
and China, or against the creatures who have caused
those miseries.
Do we Americans need more violence to the prin-
ciples on which our life is founded? By trustworthy
count, a majority now say we do not.
Any nation may well shrink from the actuality,
but our nation may well shrink more from the tragedy
of living with a shrivelled soul in a tortured world.
That we must secure our gravely menaced safety
goes without saying ; that we must preserve our heri-
tage of self-respect and concern for a world in distress
is a harder but a not less high obligation. When at last
comes the march abreast of all nations and peoples,
liberated, restored to their own again, facing the
horizons of a new world, it is our basic faiths we trust
to lead us—having fought the good fight—to be there
in our appointed place.
Chivalry Today.
(From a Manchester “Guardian’'’ article .)
If it is sadly true that there has never been more
brutality in Europe than there is today, it is also true
that the spirit of chivalry has never been stronger.
Consider what is happening in Greece. When
the Nazis tried to humiliate their prisoners of war by
making them sweep the streets of Athens, Greek
women pressed flowers and fruit on the scavengers
and upset all the Nazi plans. British soldiers who
have eluded capture, hiding in the mountains, are
fed by Greeks who are themselves on the verge of
starvation. Large rewards are offered to anybody
who will betray these soldiers and those who shield
them are threatened with death, but they know that
they are in no danger, though their liberty hangs on
the honor of peasants who are among the poorest in
Europe.
If we cross Europe we find that the people of
Oslo crowd the streets and housetops to welcome
British aircraft in the sky and that their lavish gifts
to two injured airmen compelled the Nazis to put a
cordon round the hospital where they were in bed
and to forbid any civilian to enter. Oslo has since
been punished with an emergency order, a thousand
arrests, and some brutal sentences.
In every country men and women are being put
to death for helping prisoners ; we hear from time
to time of cases in Belgium, Holland and France.
Even in Germany women are punished for giving
cigarettes and bread to prisoners.
Roosevelt Against Hitler.
(Condensed from an “Allantic Monthly” article by
Gerald W. Johnson .)
There was a period of approximately 24 hours
in 1933 more fateful for the destiny of mankind than
any other one day in the century. A little after noon
on March 4, 1933, Franklin D, Roosevelt was in-
augurated as President of the United States. Before
midnight on March 5, 1933, the German Reichstag
had passed the Enabling Act, putting absolute power
into the hands of Chancellor Adolf Hitler.
Eight years later these two men faced each other
as the champions of two ways of life so antagonistic
that the world is not wide enough for them to exist
together in peace. In 1941 not many doubt that one
of these men is destined to destroy the other, and it is
not beyond the bounds of credibility that they may
destroy each other. Hitler has said that the outcome
of the duel between the systems they represent will fix
the destiny of mankind for a thousand years, and it
is by no means certain that his assertion is extravagant.
If Mr. Roosevelt is described as the chief pro-
tagonist of the way of life preferred by the democ-
racies it is not by his own choice, nor by reason of
—New York “World-Telegram.”
“ BILL HOLDS MORE THAN HIS BELLICAN!”
his personal superiority to other democratic leaders,
The man who saved Britain in her desperate hour has
attributes of mind and character that make it prepos-
terous to rate him as inferior to any man alive. Mr.
Roosevelt’s resources give him the central position,
Mr. Churchill does not have available 25 million men
of military age, nor a national income of 70 billion
dollars, nor the incomparable industrial plant of the
United States, nor 359 million acres under the plough.
In March, 1933, the positions of Roosevelt and
Hitler were strangely similar. Both had risen to power
on the crest of a wave of protest set in motion by
the same sort of grievances. Both took over countries
economically in a state of collapse and visibly dis-
integrating socially. Both faced the problem of put-
ting millions of idle men back to work immediately,
and the even more urgent problem of putting some
spirit into an apathetic and despairing people.
There were other similarities. In Germany, as
in America, the people were not so much aflame with
enthusiasm for the new leader as inflamed with wrath
against the old ones. In Germany, as in America, the
indictment of the old leaders included a multitude of
counts, but there as here they may all be summed up
as failure to obey the injunction “to provide for the
general welfare.”
The protest that brought both Hitler and Roose-
velt to power has been described as “the Wave of the
Future.” No doubt it is, but it is also the same old
wave that has surged up in the past under the same
stimulus. In modern times, especially since the be-
ginning of the Industrial Revolution, the ordinary man
has had less reason to fear human robbers with tan-
gible weapons than the impersonal, intangible opera-
tions of the economic system. Yet death by starvation
is still death by starvation, whether the proximate
cause is a band of men-at-arms who have ravaged a
peasant’s farm and taken away all his food or an eco-
nomic collapse that has deprived a workman of any
chance to earn a living. A Government not clever
enough to prevent starvation through economic wreck-
age cannot command the faith and loyalty of its
citizens today.
In 1933, in Germany and in the United States,
millions of men were threatened with death by starva-
tion because the Government did not know how, or
did not dare, to protect them from the economic
forces that were destroying them ; so, in both coun-
tries, the people revolted against the Government. But
this was certainly nothing new, nothing without pre-
cedent ; on the contrary, it has been the common
fate of every Government guilty of a similar failure.
In this crisis the American people turned to a
man of their own blood, steeped in their traditions,
a sincere believer in their way of life. The Germans
turned to a foreigner, little acquainted with the true
greatness of Germany, and contemptuous of what he
did know.
Once in power the two leaders began to diverge
at once. Perhaps the essential difference in their
philosophies is that Roosevelt
believed that the wreckage with
which he was surrounded was
due, for the most part, to stu-
pidity, whereas Hitler believed
that the wreckage of Germany
was due to crime. Roosevelt
realised that the wealth of
America had been dissipated
and lost. Hitler believed that
the wealth of Germany had
been stolen. Roosevelt’s aim
was recovery ; Hitler’s aim was
recapture. One leader said to
his ruined countrymen “Let us
make.” The other said to his
“Let us take.”
Neither hesitated to spend
enormous sums to establish
national safety. But Roosevelt
spent the bulk of his money
on such matters as roads,
bridges, dams, powerhouses,
irrigation projects, school-
houses, land reclamation and
reforestation. Hitler spent the
bulk of his on arms. This was
the natural result of the dif-
ference in the two men’s aims.
Roosevelt proposed to restore
the prosperity of the American
people by creating new wealth.
Hitler proposed to restore the
prosperity of the Germans by
taking other people’s wealth
away from them.
In the end Hitler forced
his scheme on all the world.
Under modern conditions no
one nation can afford to devote
the major part of its energies
to planning for peace while
another large nation is furi-
ously preparing for war.
People are always referring to
this as one of the inherent
weaknesses of democracy, but
it is hard to see where there is
anything in it peculiar to
democracy. It is rather the
weakness of every nation,
democratic or not, that cher-
ishes the concept of the citizen-State as opposed to the
concept of the bandit-State.
The moment Hitler marched into Poland it made
little difference what Roosevelt regarded as the wise
course through which to repair the damage of the
economic and social collapse. At that moment the
threat of barbarism did become plain. From that
moment the thought and energy as well as the money
of the country had to be applied in ever-increasing
proportion to the problem of national defence. The
New Deal is a peace-time programme. The moment
the threat of war overshadowed the land it had to be
held in abeyance.
It is undeniably true, therefore, that of the two
great antagonists who came to power in 1933 Hitler
was the winner, up to the summer of 1941, not on
the field of battle only, but in the field of govern-
mental theory as well. He had forced Roosevelt to
abandon his own course and follow that of Hitlerian
Germany —that is, the diversion of the national
energies from the problems of peace to the single
task of creating as rapidly as possible the most for-
midable military power possible.
It is important to eliminate Hitler’s armed forces
as menaces to our peace and safety ; it is vastly more
important to eliminate Hitler’s ideas if we are to
enjoy peace for any considerable length of time. But
an idea is impervious to bayonets and bullets. It can
be killed only by another idea. Now Roosevelt has
given a majority of the American people the idea that
democracy can be made to work to the satisfaction


of the average man, and this idea, whether true Or
false, is a powerful prophylaxis against infection with
that the only hope for common people is
embodied in the “leadership principle,” the “master
race, ’ the “protection of the blood,” and all the other
fantasies of which Germany has been so fearfully
productive in recent years.
In that sense, the U.S.A. was being well armed
during those six years when more money was going
into bridges and schoolhouses than into tanks and
battleships. Without those six years, most of the
people might not have been so confident that theirs
is a Government worth shedding their blood to
preserve.
Judging the future by the light of the past, what
can now be reasonably expected of Mr. Roosevelt,
not as the leader of the New Deal, but as President of
the United States, charged with the duty of assuring
the safety of the nation against the threat of physical
force?
Well, we can expect the first and most essential
quality of courage. Whatever else may happen to the
man who represents our side in this clash between two
worlds, he will not be appalled. Infantile paralysis is
a more terrifying devil than Hitler, but Roosevelt
faced it. Economic collapse is more terrifying than
a bombing raid, but Roosevelt faced it. Whoever may
blench, whoever may quail, as we plunge into the fog
and smoke, we may rest assured that the man at the
top is not afraid, for he has seen worse than this,
yet came through all right.
By the same token, we may expect resolution.
His enemies call him the stubbornest man alive. If
he could battle seven long years to reach the point
where he can walk limpingly, and could battle seven
years more to bring the country to the point where it
could get about without crutches, is there any doubt
that he will fight quite as stubbornly to prevent the
enslavement of the American people? No, another
thing that is certain is that the man at the top will
not quit.
In addition to courage and resolution, we may
expect inflexibility. This will be denied. The idea is
firmly embedded in many minds that Mr. Roosevelt is
a master of sinuosity and deviousness ; but words he
never spoke have been put into his mouth. Isolation-
ists have denounced the President for breaking his
promise to keep the U.S.A. out of war. He never
made any such promise. He said that he hoped to
keep us [America] out of war. He said he would do
all that lay in his power to keep us out of war. He
said he would never send an American soldier to fight
in a foreign war. But no man not an utter fool
would make a flat promise to prevent war, and Mr.
Roosevelt is no fool. Neither did he say that he
would never send an American soldier to fight on
foreign soil. No man not a fool would make that
promise either. On the contrary, any man not a fool
knows that if we must fight we are lucky indeed if
we can fight on foreign soil instead of on our own.
Mr. Roosevelt has declared that the U.S.A., while
he directs its foreign policy, will not submit to
domination of the world by Hitlerism. That’s that.
Whatever else happens, we may rest assured that the
man at the top is not going to flatten us with a
sudden announcement that he has made a non-
aggression pact with Hitler.
Corns. Try a Comeback.
(From a New York “Post” article.)
The Communist party of America is again at work
on a “united front” policy. We should not assume
too easily that real liberals and progressives, once
burned, have now become twice shy. For the Com-
munists have many crafty tricks up their sleeves and
they pursue their stratagems with the conspirator’s
true zeal.
Some of the old Communist devices still work.
The “Free Browder” appeal has caught several non-
Communists off their guard simply because it is dis-
guised as a civil liberties case. So have the party-
dominated committees for aid to Britain and the
Soviet Union. One of the most shameless of these is
the campaign by the Furriers Joint Council to raise
$250,000 for “the fight against Hitler” ; $lOO,OOO is to
go to the British and Russians, $lOO,OOO to the union’s
treasury and $50,000 to “charitable institutions.” Of
course, the Furriers don’t tell the order in which the
beneficiaries rank, or who will get paid in case the
collection falls short of its goal.
New Communist-dominated committees, made
palatable by a sprinkling of respected liberal names,
are cropping up. The “New Masses” is buzzing about,
trying to solicit contributions from those liberals
whom it previously vilified as “capitalist warmongers.”
The American Communists cannot help men and
women who are working sincerely against Hitler,
against racial discrimination, for civil liberties, for
better housing or for any other social goal. The
Communists’ embrace, as so many organisations have
found, ends in strangulation. Communist “co-opera-
tion” only serves to jeopardise the project or the idea.
The Communists cannot provide even temporary
assistance ; in the long run they will surely turn to
deliberate sabotage. For the Communists are only
pro-union through expediency. They care nothing
for working men and women ; they are indifferent to
Britain’s fate (see the Communist sabotage of defence
production immediately before Hitler’s attack on the
Soviet Union); civil liberty bores them (look at the
Soviet Union): they fight for civil liberties merely
for self-protection.
British Women in War.
(From an article in “Life,” U.S.A., by Mary Welsh.)
All the war effort that Germany forced upon its
women in eight years Britain has achieved in two
by her spontaneous will to victory.
Thousands of British women hold pneumatic
riveters to the spars of Spitfire skeletons. They wind
and cut long gelatinous strands of raw, but dangerous,
explosive. In camouflaged hangars they push bullets
into machine-gun ammunition belts. They milk cows
and pitch hay. They build boats, fight fires and drive
ambulances.
Until last March women’s war service was volun-
tary. When compulsory registration was inaugurated
the registrars discovered that most women were already
doing something in the war. This rising of women to
a determined prosecution of the war is one of the
spectacular events in war-time Britain.
Three organisations of British women work
directly with the fighting services, serving not only as
clerks and telephone operators but also doing work
in radio, signalling and decoding, and even more
hazardous activities. About 30,000 W.R.E.N.S. are in
the Women’s Royal Naval Service; 150,000 A.T.S.
(Auxiliary Territorial Service) are attached to the
army ; 200,000 W.A.A.Fs. make up the Women’s
Auxiliary Air Force. All three services maintain stiff
discipline, work the women so hard they have no
time to worry and not infrequently are killed in the
line of duty.
About 110,000 women are in various nursing,
ambulance and charitable organisations, 100,000 are
paid Air Raid Precaution workers. And 1,000,000
women in the Women’s Voluntary Service do the thou-
sands of relief jobs. Finally there are 400,000 women
in factory trade-unions and 13,000 members of the
Land Army on the farms. Some 14,000 more work
on railways and buses. Very few of all these women
will ever do any shooting. But they release 2,000,000
men for actual fighting.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
Harry Bridges may be at liberty to carry on his
labor-union activities in America for many years in
spite of the finding by Judge Charles B. Sears that he
is a deportable alien and should be sent back to Aus-
—Nashville “Tennessean,” U.S.A.
OUT OF THE MUCK.
tralia. He is allowed, under the law, to carry this
finding to the Board of Immigration Appeals and the
Attorney-General. If a deportation order is finally
issued he can appeal to the Federal Courts. His case
might easily take two years or so, while he remained
at liberty under the $3OOO bail already deposited. And
Australia has said more or less officially that she will
refuse to accept Mr. Bridges, and deportations cannot
legally be made unless the country of origin agrees
to accept the alien. — New York “World-Telegram”
special correspondent.
* * * * *
A year ago the Axis propagandists said these
silly things;
“General famine will turn against Britain during
the coming winter.” (Zeesen broadcast to Africa.)
“The timetable for Italian attacks and conquests
is not decided by England, but solely by Marshal
Graziani.” (Italian newspaper comment.)
“England needs speedy help unless she is to
renounce all resistance. But this speedy help will not
come from the United States. Now less than ever.”
(Zeesen broadcast to England.)— New York “Post.”
* * * *
Much bitterness has been generated, by the break-
down in negotiations for exchange of crippled British
and German prisoners. War Secretary Margesson gave
Parliament a summary of events leading up to the
breakdown, but made no mention of the fact that,
while the Calais radio and a Welsh station were being
used for exchange of Governmental messages, the Ger-
mans filled in the gaps with musical records, while
the 8.8. C. took the opportunity to direct British views
on the war to the Germans. The Germans naturally
objected to this, and there were many Britons who
thought it was in bad taste. The Germans retaliated
by broadcasting in English a full list of names of the
1200 British wounded who had arrived in Dieppe for
repatriation. This was the first time anybody here
had any idea who were the persons expected to come
home. Many families learned of sons or husbands,
supposedly about to sail for England, only a few
minutes before Margesson announced that the whole
scheme had been abandoned. — New York “Post”
London correspondent.
*****
Speaking in the House of Commons after Mr.
Churchill had reported on his Atlantic meeting with
Mr. Roosevelt, Mr. H. Strauss (Norwich, U.) said it
would be the greatest mistake if it was thought that
the Atlantic Charter commanded general approval.
There were good things in it, but how far did it indi-
cate that we, America, and our Allies were likely to
win? We should be more likely to win if certain
Powers at present neutral came in on our side and less
likely to win if certain Powers at present neutral came
in against us. The Charter made it clear that no advan-
tage would be gained by helping the cause of Britain
and her Allies and that no disadvantage or disability
would be incurred by any nation which preferred to
join our enemies. Was that likely to cause any neutral
Power to come in on our side rather than on the side
of the enemy? It was obvious that the Charter was
predominantly an American document. Most hon.
members would do a great deal for Anglo-American
friendship, but one of the things they ought not to
do was too readily to express agreement with mag-
niloquent declarations of principles which had not been
carefully examined and which were put forward by a
nation which made very profound mistakes as regards
Europe at the end of the last war and showed every
sign of making similar mistakes at the present time. —
London “Times” Parliamentary reports.
* * * * #
Nothing can be taken away from the poor Italians
without bringing them to the verge of starvation.
When the main bread diet is lowered pellagra appears
in the southern mountains, in Corsica and Sicily.
Three years ago the Italians used to laugh bitterly at
the decree which ordered them to mix corn with
wheat for bread. “What is the difference between an
Italian and a pullet?” they used to ask. “A pullet is
fed on corn first and plucked later. An Italian is
plucked first and fed on corn later.” Things have
gone much farther since. Olive oil, cheese, spaghetti
have been strictly rationed. Coffee is nothing but a
faint memory. Dreams of glory have been scattered
by British guns. Abyssinia is lost, Libya is in peril.
And today the ghost of hunger, which has already
gripped Spain, Greece, Belgium and France, is appear-
ing at Italy’s doorstep.— New York “Herald Tribune.”
As Britain wanted bacon and lard at short notice
the American farmer produced 20 p.c. more tonnage
of hogs than last year in a year which, because
of its place in the “hog cycle,” should have pro-
duced 7 p.c. less. That feat could not have been
done by extended breeding—breeding takes time.
The United States Department of Agriculture did
it by bidding up the price for fat bacon. The
farmer began to produce a 2751b. instead of a
2001b. hog; Britain got more bacon, and the
American consumer has less bacon, fatter bacon
and dearer bacon. Americans will also have less
dairy products and will pay more for them be-
cause Britain is taking the total previous annual
output of evaporated milk, more than that of
dried milk and perhaps a thousand times more
than that of dried eggs. Britain cannot take as
much tobacco and cotton as the United States
would like to send and most of Britain’s wheat
comes from Canada. The United States, there-
fore, has to alter a whole system of agriculture
which had been based on narrowing markets for
dairy stuffs and meat and a relatively stable
market for cotton and tobacco. — Manchester
“Guardian.”
*****
If in referring to an attack on a United
States destroyer as “piracy—legally and morally
an act of piracy which the Nazi Govern-
ment has committed against the American flag,”
President Roosevelt used the word “legally” to
enunciate a principle of international law —
namely, that a State can be piratical—then he
has considerably extended the generally accepted
view of piracy. According to Hall’s International
Law,
piracy includes acts differing much from each other
in kind and moral value, but one thing they all have m
common, they are done under conditions which render
it impossible or unfair to hold a State responsible
for their commission.
Professor Brierly, in his book The Law of
Nations, while admitting that there is no authoritative
definition of international piracy, says: —
It is of the essence of a piratical act to be an act....
committed by persons not acting under proper
authority.
According to these authorities it would appear
that an act done by a ship of war, such as a German
submarine, would not be treated as piratical unless
the ship had thrown off its allegiance to or been
declared a pirate by the German Government. — Man-
chester “Guardian” letter.
*****
THREE EGGS EACH THIS MONTH.
—Feature headline in London “Times.”
*****
At the risk of appearing ungrateful, we must
tell Americans our view that the declaration of total
war at this juncture by America against Germany
would accomplish more for victory than the delivery
of 3000 American tanks every month to Russia and
ourselves can hope to do. The idea that this titanic
struggle can be won without any shedding of Ameri-
can blood may be dismissed by every American as
insane. The sooner the Americans are in with the
Russians and ourselves, mingling their blood, sweat
and tears, the sooner the war will be won. — London
“Daily Sketch” editorial quoted in New York “Journal-
American.”
*****
Mr. Hoover tries to persuade his audiences that
Hitler will fall of his own weight, and a similar argu-
ment is heard from pacifists in Britain. What his-
torical ground can be found for this pleasant theory?
Why should Hitler collapse? Mr. Hoover says that
the hate of the occupied countries “will be more
terrible even than the blizzard was to Napoleon. What
are the facts about Napoleon? He became Consul
in 1799. He fell in 1815. He fell not by the power of
that hatred, but by the strength of great military
States. There is no natural law that condemns dic-
tators to a short life. Napoleon the Third seized
power in 1852. He ruled till 1870, and if he had
avoided the war with Prussia he would have died on
the throne. Mussolini has ruled Italy for nearly 20
years.— Manchester “Guardian.”


;
Wm
m mm
5* vS|||jj£
■ >i a csscu'.vi*^^
broth! RS. li
Well, if that’s how you feel!
Worry, worry, worry—Overseas News, bills, rates, taxes,
the weather even if it’s the whole accumulation of
these troubles, a Clayton’s Kola Tonic will banish them.
It’s a grand stimulant is Clayton’s, and thoroughly enjoy-
able. Try Clayton s Kola Tonic as a long drink with
minerals —as a liquor or as a cocktail base. You’ll never
name a better beverage.
CLAYTON'S
A KOLA TONIC
Product of Clayton Bros., LONDON.
W
m
m
ĥ df
juaucrutoddy X.q
'Woodfoy?
v ' Hats
Distinctive
New Styles
from England
The few shillings extra you pay for
an English Woodrow are returned to
you over and over again as dividends
in the extra months of satisfactory wear
that are assured to every wearer.
These high quality Woodrows keep
their smart shape and color under
trying climatic conditions. See the
latest shipment at your Hatters.
AT ALL FIRST-CLASS HATTERS AND STORES.
FSF.
% csv Of
CONTINUITY
“Success in breedingsaid the IVoolgroWer, “demands
continual effort towards a definite objective—in my case
the most profitable merino. I find the continual introduction
of good sires from a reputed stud pays best , provided the
supply is assured. Like so many successful breeders I make
certain of a continual supply by getting my rams from
Falkiner and Sons the largest merino stud breeders in
the World.
BOONOKE
and.
WANGANELLA ESTATE
Merino Rams for Continual Improvement.
F. S. FALKINER & SONS PTY., LTD.,
Boonoke, Boonoke North,
Conargo, N.S.W. ’Phone Urana 15. Widgiewa, N.S.W.
s£££*s
pvSs
Whatever Your Walk
in Life ...
TNDER modern condi-
tions, no member—or
section —of the community,
can be independent of
others. It is because of this
inter - dependence that
directly or indirectly
everyone in New South
Wales benefits from the
services of the Rural Bank,
from its home building,
its financing of primary
production, and its assist-
ance to various other forms
of public service. These
progressive and construc-
tive activities contribute
greatly to the growth of
the State, and accordingly
improve the welfare of the
individual in every walk of
life.
The facilities of the Rural
Bank enable any member of
the general public to open
a cheque account or invest
money on interest-bearing
fixed deposit.
Use the Bank’s Service Department to
obtain general information and statistics.
Rest and writing facilities are provided for
country visitors. The Service Department
is situated on the Ground Floor of the
Head Office Building.
BUBAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Commissioners:
C, R. McKERIHAN (President) —H. ROGERS —P. KEARNS
“Serving You .... Serving the State”


MINERALS FOR YOUNG STOCK
Tri-cal: I agree that young stock are an
investment for future production and deserve
all the care that can be given to them, which
must include attention to the balanced ration —
and the mineral ration is as important as the
Protein-Carbohydrate one. I’m giving Tri-cal-os
Bone Flour to supply the calcium and phos-
phorus insufficient in much of our pastures,
and my young stock have strong bones and
teeth, suppleness and vitality and good all-
round condition. Tri-cal-os is the most reliable
and economical mineral supplement I’ve used;
it contains a guaranteed minimum of 33%
phosphoric acid and 40% lime and is specially
processed to ensure maximum digestibility. I
know all the stock will benefit, for I’m feeding
it while the dry weather continues.
vSi
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, or G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne.
Old Farmer.
Egelabra Merino Stud
H. E. KATER & SON,
Warren, N.S.W.
Established 62 years.
Four times winners of
Stonehaven Cup.
Grand Champion Ram and Ewe
Sydney Show, 1940.
Rams for Sale.
gd
f
gdf
gd
Tel., Warren 10.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
" DON ’ T WOŔY. I ’ M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
Cornedale Character.
“Granova”: Lecturing at the Temora
experiment farm field day Riverina
sheep and wool expert Daley described
the Corriedale as “the foolproof sheep
for the mixed farmer.” The demand for
well-grown types of 56’s-58’s wool has
been constant, he said. The lambs grow
into good suckers and in dry years sell
well to fatteners. Fat-lamb raisers are
willing to pay high prices for the ewes as
breeders.
Farmers must concentrate on quality
rather than numbers. Six hundred well-
bred, well-fed ewes will give a higher
cash return than 1000 poorly-fed nonde-
scripts. Some men regularly have lamb-
ings of 100 p.c. and over and cut 111 b.
and 121 b. of wool from their ewes.
Best way is to buy the top rams from
the same stud each year and class maiden
ewes carefully. When selecting rams
choose those with strong, well-charactered
wool of broad staple. Length of carcass
must be made up of shoulders and hind-
quarters —not barrel. Nostrils should be
wide and full, end of nose straight, teeth
wide and square on, jaws deep and not
too long, head not too bare but not wool-
blind, legs short and well set, body deep
and wide.
A.I.S. History.
“Strawb’s Side”: George Grey, the
Kiama (N.S.W.) A.I.S. veteran, has pub-
lished the history of the Greyleigh Gems,
one of the most famous A.I.S. lines.
It began by chance. A little over 50
years ago the late Tom Hindmarsh held
a clearing sale at Alne Bank, and among
the herd of 70 cows, mostly Illawarras
or, as they were then called, Milking
Shorthorns, were some good big red
cows. Grey bought a few for his Mt.
Salem herd, among them a nice cow
with a white spot behind the shoulder
and white splashes on the flanks. She
had “crumpled horns, prominent eyes and
a strong jaw.” When she freshened her
udder and teats were seen to be ideally
adjusted, but she was a three-teater. Grey
called her Redman.
About the same time a bank manager,
after a good house cow, bought a blood-
red heifer called Bloomer from the
Dudgeon stud. At her new home in
Sydney she threw a blood-red bull calf,
which was sent back to Dudgeon by
boat. Grey spotted the calf when it was
landed at Kiama and bought it. It was
named Rupert, and when put to Redman
in due time got a fine heifer, Princess.
Princess, mated to Ranji, threw Red
Prince of Greyleigh, one of the first bulls
in the old I.D.C. herd book. He sired
Greyleigh Empress, dam of Rufus of
Greyleigh, and Gentle, dam of the
famous Foch of Greyleigh. Princess
2nd, by Rupert from Redman, was
mated to Commodore and produced
Gipsy, which was mated to Togo of
Mayfield, and bore the great Gem.
From Gem came Gem 2nd, a cham-
pion who stood at Kiama Show for the
14 years of her life. The latest is Gem
57th of Greyleigh. A reserve champion
at the recent Brisbane Show, she is the
fifth generation. All of the present
Greyleigh herd except five are descended
from the first Gem, and Gem bulls are
scattered throughout the dairy country
tbe easter n States.
t Whey as Pig Feed,
H.C.”: Ten years ago most of Maori-
land s whey went down the drain. To-
d&y cheese factories ration it back to
su PP hers - using their own whey
i S ’ T 01 *? Pl§
P er cow. Whey has about three-quarters
the feedi va / ue of s|dmmed J lk and
each 100 gallons o£ milk returns bout
75 gallons of whey.
Whey gives good results when protein
concentrates like meatmeal are added.
Meatmeal prevents scours—likely to occur
through whey feeding and one small
handful of ground limestone added to
every 40 gallons of whey prevents acidity.
Access to grass provides the pigs with
roughage and minerals, but grass cannot
replace meatmeal. Mineral requirements
of pigs depend on the type of feed. On
good grazing ground limestone fills the
bill. When pigs are confined to sties
whey should be fed in smaller quantities
but more often.
M.L. farmers feed whey to in-pig sows
as follows: With plenty of grass, 2gal.
of whey and lib. of meal; in absence of
grass, 6gal. whey and 21b. mainly
meatmeal; before farrowing, lOgal.
whey and 31b. meatmeal; after farrow-
ing, lOgal. to 20gal. whey and 31b. meat-
meal. Suckers starting to forage should
first be fed about a pint whey and 2oz.
to 3oz. of meal each. By weaning quan-
tities should be 2gal. to 3gal. whey and
|lb. to |lb. meal. For porkers between
1001 b. and 2001 b. the whey ration can be
increased to Bgal., plus 11b. of meal.
“Peapod”; The M.L. pig industry has
published results of 19 trials to test value
of copra and whey in Taranaki and
Auckland. Pigs were Tamworth-Berk-
shire cross, the average number in each
trial being seven. Length of trials varied
from 43 to 170 days. Meals and other
supplementary feed were taken at actual
prices paid. Pig meat was valued at 6d.
per pound. Actual feed used per pound
of carcass gain varied from 3.831 b. to
8.71 b., and the cost of meal used per
pound gain from 0.40 d. to 6.44 d.
Best net returns were from mixtures of
whey and meatmeal, viz.: Trial 9, daily
ration ylb. meatmeal, jib. barley, 1| rising
to seven (average 4f) gallons whey for
170 days; trial 10, ilb. meatmeal, ?lb.
barley, 1| to (average 4.9) gallons
whey for 170 days; trial 14, o.Bolb.
meatmeal, 4|-6 (average 5.5) gallons
whey for 130 days. Average gain per
pig carcass was respectively 1331 b., 1301 b.
and 1161 b. at a net return of 465. Bd.,
465. 3d. and 455. 9d. per pig.
Bore-water for Plants.
“Wester”: Care is all that is necessary
to grow vegetables with bore-water.
Most bore-water contains some propor-
tion of salts in solution, and every drop
put on the ground leaves a residue of
salts, which accumulates with successive
waterings. After sowing the vegetable
seeds cover the bed with a good mulch of
grass or leaves. If you can, use rain-water
until the plants are big enough to flood.
If you can’t, use bore-water and then
rain-water to wash the bore-water off the
“Go an tell ’ tell 'tler I wanna shpeak to him.”
plant leaves. Left on, those salts will burn
up tender leaves and shoots.
Plant thickly so that the foliage will
shade the ground and give it a chance to
stay moist. Little and often should be
the rule for watering, and it helps to
have the beds below ground level so that
there is no run-off.
Grow the veges in clumps rather than
rows. Try a wide variety ; after a bit
you’ll discover that some will do better
on the bore-water than others. Remem-
ber, too, that soil in the bore country is
likely to get plant-sick pretty quick, so
don’t stick to the one bed all the time.
Locate the bed, if possible, where it
will be sheltered from dry west winds yet
get the morning sun. A hopbush or
mallee breakwind is easily made.
A Water Filter.
“DB9-7”; A home-made filter for the
water supply will prove its worth in any
dry summer.
Cut a slot in the top of a wooden box
large enough to hold a big flowerpot—
one that will hold a couple of gallons of
water is best. Place a layer of pebbles
and broken stones about an inch thick
in the bottom of the pot, then a layer of
fine river sand about l|in. thick, then a
layer of granulated charcoal about 2in.
thick, then a final layer of fine sand, a
thickness or two of hessian between each
layer. Make sure the sand isn’t too fine
or it will sift into the charcoal and
rubble and stop the flow.
Sift the charcoal to get rid of dust and
purify it by heating to a red heat. Char-
coal is not only a strainer, but will also
remove doubtful elements from decaying
animal and vegetable matter in the water.
Animal charcoal-made from calcined
bones —is the best as it has a stronger
action, though wood charcoal is usually
good enough. Boil the sand a couple of
times before putting it into the layers
and put a layer of hessian over the top
so that water poured in won’t wash the
sand about.
Stand a clean billy under the filter-pot,
pour your water in and you’ll have a
cool and pure drinking supply. Periodi-
cally, the pot and the filtering elements
will need cleaning as deposits and impuri-
ties increase,
A Weed Pest.
“Brecko”: Caltrop weed, a summer
annual with flat branching stems carry-
ing burrs with pairs of spines, noxious
in N.S.W., Queensland and S.A., has
turned up in the Waikerie irrigation area,
South Australia.
The weed can cause a sheep disease
(known in South Africa as “Geeldik-
kop”); swollen ears, eyelids, lips and jaws,
a watery discharge from the swellings
and complete blindness are the symptoms.
Mortality sometimes exceeds 90 p.c., and
merinos are more susceptible than others.
In Australia the burrs affect feet of sheep
and injure the mouth, making entry of
disease organisms easy. Spines are cap-
able of puncturing the stomach lining of
sheep or cattle. In S. Aus., where the
weed shows up in summer-maturing
crops under irrigation, Caltrop will likely
make harvesting more costly.
Hoeing or cultivation, repeated several
times, prevents irregular germination of
burrs. Deep ploughing should be avoided,
as buried burrs retain their fertility.
Where cultivation is not practicable seed-
lings should be sprayed with a solution
of 11b. of sodium chlorate in 2gal, of
water at the rate of lOOgal. per acre. In
California an emulsion of Diesel oil and
water mixed in equal quantities and with
11b. of caustic soda added to lOOgal. of
mixture, applied at the rate of lOOgal.
to 300 gal. per acre, is used to spray grow-
ing burr plants. Two sprayings are usual.
Wimmera rye grass will combat the
pest.
Bamboo Is Useful.
“H.C.”: The S.A. Department of Agri-
culture is asking why bamboo is not
more generally grown. In the drought
of 1915 bamboo proved high in fodder
value, and in S.A. it is used for fodder,
as windbreaks or to control sand-drift
and water-wash. Green bamboo reed
possesses the same moisture percentage
as oats, barley and wheat, equals oats
and is higher than barley and wheat in
protein content.
Bamboo flourishes in any soil, is not
affected by salinity, does well in shallow
water or wet soils, yet is noted for
drought-resistance. It is easily grown
from cuttings or dump roots planted
between April and May, though the
October-November period gives good
results when water is available. It is
attractive to all grazing stock, pigs and
poultry.
To prevent sand-drift, variegated bam-
boo, which produces more stems and
has greater leafage nearer the ground, is
best. To stop water-washes roots may
be anchored between pegs and covered
with brush or straw to break any force
of water. In the N.S.W. Murrumbidgee
irrigation area, where seepage has re-
sulted in concentrations of salt so heavy
that weeds refuse to grow, bamboo roots
and grows quickly,
“Canbelego”: Since the start of 1941
W. H. Kendall, Miarb, The Rock
(N.S.W.), has sown 1200 acres with a
mixture of sub. clover, ball clover and
Wimmera rye. The pasture went in with
a cover crop of oats, and several areas
have been grazed. Kendall has 700 acres
of lucerne, some of which was established
14 years ago. He grows 600 acres of
wheat. Lucerne is topdressed with 901 b.
of super, per acre annually, and is re-
novated every second year. Pastures are


For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd., King St., Sydney
fg
TIMBER KILLER !
Kills largest trees in FIFTEEN
DAYS from roots to top. New
method. NO BING-BARKING!
Prevents suckering! Eradicates
BLACKBERRIES! 5/6 tin, posted.
AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO <lsft.).
BEAKS HEAVILY FOB A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 20011) s. Sow NOW. 2/6 packet.
N.S.W. SEED CO., 693 George St., SYDNEY
STRIKE IN
SHEEP
Now Easily Prevented
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
SYDNEY OFFICE MANAGER: A. M. MURDOCH.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE. BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
OHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES', LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH ‘WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
c
ST j
■ - -
- '
Australian Radiotron Valves,
fitted In your set, is your assurance
that replacements are available
when necessary.
RfIDIOTROR VALVES
will give full tone realism to your radio
AAIALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD,,
93 Clarence Street. Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
“ BILL ABONG ”
TROUGHING
dan
Stable Door
asr-
Cattle
O'A'N K'S
VJ CK,T N? 2'76
Pig
Sheep
A GOOD SUPPLY OF PURE WATER IS
ESSENTIAL FOR YOUR STOCK.
Write for Prices and Particulars to
mANKm,
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
And at 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
3L
III
rP*
ft
W
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals ala Carte. —■ Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
topdressed every year for three years and
then every second year. There are 6500
sheep on Miarb’s 6400 acres.
“Murrawong”: A summary by
Grazcos., Ltd., of 218 sheds in N.S.W.
and Victoria gives the following compari-
sons: Sheep shorn, 1940, 3,085,949 ; 1941,
2,784,759; weight of clips. 1940,
25,536,5601 b.; 1941, 23,837,8561 b. The
figures represent decreases this year of
9.76 p.c. sheep and 6.65 p.c. wool weight.
Outback Occasions.
No. 10.
THE WORKING BEE.
The occasion of the working bee at
our place stirred things up. Father had
drunk some horse liniment in mistake
for cough cure right in the middle of
hay-cutting, and Mr. Fleming, our neigh-
bor, said that farmers had to stick to each
other and he got up a working bee.
Father, who was a funny green color,
was in bed on the front verandah. He
suddenly screamed out, and Mother and
the rest of us rushed out. Father had
turned red, though with some green spots
showing through it, and he was sitting
up in bed making peculiar noises and
pointing at the road gate.
We looked and saw a procession com-
ing in at the gate. There were several
binders, two drawn by tractors and the
rest by horses, three cars full of men,
women and boys, a spring cart full of
men and two horsemen. They had the
gate open and were beginning to pour
through. Father wanted to know what
it was in aid of, and Mother said it was
a pleasant surprise. All the district, she
said, had formed a working bee to get
his hay off.
Father swore and said he didn’t want
that mob rampaging through his hay,
and Mother said he ought to be ashamed
of himself because they were only trying
to help.
“Help, me foot!” Father snorted.
“Gimme me pants! Get me up! I know
these blokes an’ their flamin’ workin’
bees!”
By this time the procession was head-
ing for the house, and our dogs rushed
Latest veterinary research has discovered that
effective strike in sheep can only occur when
bacteria are present. The fly may deposit its
eggs and the eggs may hatch, but unless food
in the form of bacteria is present the maggot
quickly dies. Destroy bacteria and you prevent
strike.
Way-Bio strike preventive is the most powerful
anti-bacteria preparation known to science. It
is the result of scientific treatment of many
different species of Eucalypts in a specially-
designed plant wherein the compounding of their
active principles has produced the most positive
of all blowfly strike preventives. Unlike ordi-
nary remedies which may rapidly evaporate,
Way-Bio gives lasting protection because its
viscous components prevent evaporation and
preserve its highly antiseptic properties for long
periods. Order supplies from your regular
wool-house or station supplier, or write to the
Manufacturers, W. K. Burnside Pty., Ltd., Mel-
bourne and Sydney.
out to welcome it. There were some
dogs with that working bee, and they
must have thought our dogs had the
same opinion as Father about working
bees, because all of them rushed up to
our dogs and strutted with their legs stiff
and their tails up, and swore at our dogs
in low voices. Then a little yellow and
white working-bee dog took after a
swallow. Our dogs reckoned they had
sole rights in any swallows on our place,
and they took after the yellow and white
dog. Then all the working-bee dogs took
after our dogs, and they raced round the
paddock yelling at one another and got
worked up and forgot about the swallow
and started talking fight.
The leading binder had a wild-eyed
chestnut filly in the team, and she wanted
to go and play with the dogs or some-
thing, and before anybody could do any-
thing that binder team bolted.
All the dogs stopped arguing and took
after the binder, and two of the men in
cars took after the dogs. Our three red
steers were in the house paddock that
day and they roared and stuck their tails
in the air and went gallivanting and
prancing and bellowing among the dogs.
The dogs hailed their advent with en-
thusiasm.
The man on the bolting binder lost
his offside rein, but he pulled twice as
hard on the near-side one, so the three
horses ran round in a circle, with the
dogs and the steers among them. Some
of the women screamed, and two little
boys fell out of the spring cart and ran
all the way home.
Father lost all his color and sat up in
bed and pointed and shrieked with
laughter. He had a great sense of humor,
had Father. Mother thought he had a
convulsion, and was frightened, and
thumped him on the back and cried to
our brother to go and call off the dogs.
Our dogs refused to be called off. It
wasn’t every day, they yelped at our
brother, that working bees came to the
place, and they were out to make the
most of it. In this attitude they were
strongly supported by the working-bee
dogs. vSo our brother went and got the
buggy whip and talked to them with that,
and most of them rushed off behind the
stable and howled.
The steers had got tired, and the binder
team slowed down and stopped. The
driver fell off the seat and lay in the dust
and panted while everybody gathered
round him expectantly. But he didn’t die
or even faint, and presently Mr. Fleming
recalled what they’d come for.
Then all the ladies got out of the cars
with bundles of tucker and charged into
our kitchen and started cutting sand-
wiches. The binders made for our oats
and in no time had started to cut hay
where Father had left off when the horse
liniment hit him. Father must have been
feeling the effects of all the excitement,
for he started yelling and shrieking again,
but Mother was busy with the ladies, and
we were helping the working bee, and
one way and another nobody took any
notice of Father. So he wrapped the
blankets round him and got out of bed
and started over to the oat paddock, but
was too weak. He hung on to a veran-
dah post for a while glaring across the
paddock, then he sank down on the edge
of the verandah and wept.
Well, all those binders ripped through
that 50 acres of oats in no time, and the
stookers had competitions and stood the
sheaves up as quickly as the machines
chucked them out. Then they all crowded
into our place and gobbled sandwiches
and tea and skited about their driving or
stocking.
Mr. Fleming went round to talk to
Father and “cheer the poor ol’ bloke up.”
But he came back almost at once and
knocked on the table and said in a low
voice, “Men, our neighbor has just told
me he’d cut all the hay he needed before
he took crook. He’d sold the rest of
the oats as grain at a premium price.”
So all the working bee and their women
and their dogs got up silently and
wouldn’t look at each other and got
their cars and binders and things and
went away. And we boys went and sat
on the woodheap and looked at the
stocks in the sunset, while Mother did
what she could for Father.


REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
THE OTHER FELLOWS MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of per line; all others at
2£d. per line.
First place for a South Australian, who achieves the feat of defending cost-plus
with force.
Cost-plus
There’s a lot of loose talk about the
cost -plus system. With industries regu-
larly established for the production of
materials of war there may be an alter-
native, but to expect the innumerable
industries suddenly drawn in to contract
for a set price is sheer nonsense. A ticket
in Tatt.’s would be a sounder'investment.
Few of them had the vaguest idea of the
difficulties ahead. If they had never reck-
oned with all that has been learned by
trial and error through centuries of war
and preparation for war, they have begun
to do so now.
Ordnance is not simply a thing of to-
day ; it has evolved from before Crecy.
It has a history of caprice. Reaction of
particles in a new environment may mean
a deadly thing. Research has sprung
from the blood of mangled men. Each
component is subject to the severest test;
accuracy is virtually a fetish. Nothing
deleterious must enter into the make-up.
Somebody is personally responsible that
it will function correctly today or ten
years hence. Each single part is not
just one of an assembly, it has become
an entity. The average industry has
handled nothing like it.
Generally it means experiment upon
experiment, often enough with make-
shift appliances and labor only partly
skilled. Effort after effort may be dis-
carded. Yet to the credit of those con-
cerned they box on. No living soul, let
alone themselves, could possibly have
gauged the cost of arriving at the satis-
factory sample under the conditions at
hand. But from a national point of view
it just had to be done.
All in all, Australia should be proud of
its industrial achievement under these
new stresses. And the time has arrived
when a reasonable check can be put
upon cost of production. For more
reasons than money no single production
can safely be left to one firm or locality.
The cost -plus system provides for depart-
mental auditing, and excess profits are
not easily hidden these days. So let’s
stop heckling and get the goods—the real
goods, not something slapped up near
enough to meet a competitive market. —
Jae (S.A.).
Award Hours?
Every morning when I catch the tram
to work I find it crowded with soldiers
of home-service units going to the vari-
ous barracks in the city. They are of all
ranks. Most carry the same kind of
handbag that their civilian passengers
carry. In the afternoon I meet them
again on their way home. On Saturday
they knock off at noon, and on Sundays
they rest. Many of them are elderly and
obviously occupy clerical and adminis-
trative positions ; but others are young,
and from their colors apparently belong
to combatant units. Apart from their
uniform, it is hard to discern any differ-
ence between them and the other passen-
gers.
No disparagement of these soldiers is
intended. They are doing valuable and
necessary work —far more valuable and
important than I and the other civilian
passengers are doing—and for a wage
that would make a union boss shudder,
but if it is true that Australia is in deadly
peril of attack, as we are so often told,
it is astonishing to find so many of the
home-defence force still working award
hours. — Smilax (Q.).
Lost?
Lost, stolen, strayed or perhaps burnt
at the stake, a National Register, com-
piled about September, 1939. Forms
were sent to all Commonwealth citizens
requesting them to fill in full particulars
of many subjects. Paragraphs eight, nine
and 11 particularly asked for information
as to occupation and what other skilled
calling the recipient could do justice to.
Penalties were provided should this in-
formation not be forthcoming.
What has happened to this mass of
varied information? It is obvious that
it cannot have been used. If it had
been there would be no need for a series
of costly advertisements calling for
volunteers for this and that “war-effort”
job. Each citizen’s capabilities would be
known at a central co-ordinating point,
and plans would be set up to fill in the
blank spaces systematically with the right
individual.
Hitler has been called many names,
but no one could accuse him of not
knowing where he is bound for and
whether he has the facilities to get there
if he starts. It’s time we took a look
round and copied some of his methods
and improved on them.—A. T. S. (Tas.).
A Domestic Crisis
High sassiety in Melbourne is gravely
agitated over a war-time crisis. There
is a dearth of good housemaids in Toorak
and the situation is serious. The subject
was debated as solemnly as if it were
a matter of world-wide importance that
hostesses couldn’t hostess with equanimity
at whist drives for charity and similar
activities because of the incompetence or
absence of their cooks and housemaids.
It was suggested that a movement should
be started to make the teaching of domes-
tic science, presumably of the menial
variety, compulsory in State schools.
Why can’t the hostesses do their own
chores? Isn’t making a house look nice
and cooking a good meal an honorable
activity? Dutch housewives regard it,
or used to regard it, as an artistic avoca-
tion, and one of the reasons why we like
the old Flemish paintings is because their
domestic subject matter showed in a
thousand details the pride the housewife
took in what the hostesses of Toorak
evidently regard as beneath them.
Good food was considered by Shak-
speare as worthy of frequent mention,
and Rabelais wrote reams about it. Why
do the Toorak hostesses have to pay
other people to have all the pleasure of
doing their cooking for them? Is it
because their leisure is so important to
the nation?— Lord LuvUs (Vic.).
Poetry, People and the War
As one who has read a great deal of
poetry and written a little may I express
in sonnet form the views of a poet about
the recent controversy?
When Shakspeare wrote his audience was fit
To understand his theme and to assess
His worth. Men chewed no sordid mess
Of s.p. betting, movies (where we sit
In huddled darkness, watching our favorite),
And cheap sensations in the daily press.
No mass production with its harsh duress
Degraded grace and quality and wit.
True poetry is never so encased
In verbal forests that the meaning’s lost:
But for those who spurn the richness of our
tongue
By choosing but a few weak words debased
By too much wear; for those who are not
tossed
On waves of feeling—poets have not sung!
It will be seen that I agree with “Meta”
(B. 24/9/’4l) that poetry should not be
so involved that it is quite unintelligible to
the average man and not perfectly com-
prehended, I suspect, by a “so-called
brainy little clique”—or even by the
author himself (cf. Robert Browning’s
remark: “When it was written only two
persons understood it —God and myself.
Now God alone knows!”). But I also
cannot help agreeing with other contri-
butors that many people are incapable,
emotionally and intellectually, of appre-
ciating poetry. The correct word may
not be used as frequently as middle C
on the piano; but would a musician
appeal to the public if he never touched
the sharps and flats?
Betting, the cinema and the press are
not intrinsically evil; but it seems to me
that so little moderation is practised in
these things that their use has become an
abuse. They leave no time to too many
people for anything else, and their essen-
tially ephemeral nature precludes them
from aiding in an understanding of the
poet and of many other beauties in life,
not to be found by scratching its surface.
As regards “the poets and the war,” I
cannot, of course, speak for any other
writer except myself, but my own faith
in the establishment of a better and more
Christian world after our victory is un-
shakable. With all due deference to
editors, since this may be published by
one, idealists are not smiled upon by
them. Any expression of such a theme
is liable to provoke a caustic snort about
President Wilson and the League of
Nations, or a mocking reference, tinged
with sadness, about the men who fought
in the last war “to make the world safe
for democracy.”
Perhaps all editors are forced by cir-
cumstances to be cynical and very, very
realist: I would submit that many a poet
can face facts without possessing either
of these traits, and that if enough people
are determined to do so their ideals may
be transmuted into reality.— Wallaby
(Vic.).
Behind the Lines
I agree with “N.H.’s” strictures on
fatuously optimistic headlines in the
papers (B. 22/10/’4l), but must point
out that the discerning reader never ex-
pects to find the real news there. That
precious stuff is to be found in small
print in the unobtrusive corner. Where,
for instance, could one find a better
epitome of the war as seen from the
Home Front than in these random clip-
pings from a single issue of Brisbane’s
morning press?
Release of Hunger Strikers: Commenting
on the release of Ratliff and Thomas, Mr.
Forde said that the Government was
satisfied that the determined and gallant
stand by Russia had completely altered
the attitude of the two men.
Secret Fund Inquiry: Mr. Nelson: I
would say that it has cost the colliery
owners and the Government more than £1
million as a result of my activity on behalf
of the miners.
Police Court: Joseph , shipyard
manager, said that the defendant earned
£8 15s. to £9 a week, and sometimes up
to £l5 a week with overtime.
Australian Soviet Association: The secre-
tary said that the National Anthem and
“Internationale” played at the opening of
Congress would be followed by a prayer
specially prepared by a minister.
Military Hospital “Black”: Carpenters,
painters and laborers today declared a mili-
tary hospital “black.”
—w. K. D. (Q.).
Women in War
One of the first acts of the Curtin
Government has been to suspend much
of the activity of the multitudinous
women’s organisations that are taking
part in war work, and to frown on the
varieties of uniforms that spring up at
a moment’s notice. And we males, rather
intolerantly perhaps, are loud in our
approval. But although it pleases our
ego to see the women being officially
snubbed, and though their mock parades
and lieutenant-admirals amuse us, we
cannot deny that women in war are a
necessary part of an all-in effort.
Nobody these days questions women’s
ability in business. Munitions plants
depend on them ; so do factories, offices
and stores. In England and Europe they
are releasing men in every walk of life
for active service. As nurses they are
universally respected. From Poland and
Finland came the stories of their fighting
side by side with the men in defence of
their country. They shot as straight.
Now, in Australia, women are seeking
to play a larger part in the actual com-
bat itself. Every scrap of reason and
logic is with them, and Plato’s idea (“Why
should we waste half our fighting force?”)
holds good. We do not expect them, yet,
to fight beside the men, but they can
fill all those necessary jobs as clerks,
wireless operators, typists, record-
keepers, cooks, librarians, mess-women
and canteen assistants that are a very
necessary part of the army. In fact, they
can do any of the jobs that do not come
directly into action. They want to, and
should be given their chance.
At present their ridiculous number of
organisations, each with its own expen-
sive uniform, is a farcical waste of time
and a tragic waste of money. War ser-
vice isn’t a social pastime. If those
organisations are reduced to one or two,
and properly co-ordinated by the De-
fence Department with the three male
fighting forces, we shall have a very wel-
come addition to our scheme for national
defence. Women in war can soon be
changed from candy soldiers to a vital
force. — Pip (Vic.),
After the War
That A.LF. man from abroad (B.
1 /10/’4l) has something to learn if he
thinks returned soldiers will necessarily
be allowed to muscle in and have a lot
to say in the political and economic life
of Australia after the war.
Here in Victoria most of our depart-
ments, boards and business houses are
controlled by non-soldiers. Whilst some
permanent public servants have enlisted,
most are sticking to their jobs and losing
no opportunity to advance and dig in.
Their ostensible reasons for not enlisting
could have been advanced by many of
those overseas.
Anyone interested in the statistical
position in Victoria can examine the
register of public servants published in
the “Gazette,” on which returned sol-
diers are clearly indicated although not
all heads of departments are listed.
Very few ex-soldiers are at the top in
public life, and that is why those others
with experience know that they have only
to sit tight and wait until the usual
clamor subsides. The brass badge is a
disqualification in an organisation con-
trolled by men with a bad conscience or
no conscience. Enlistment is voluntary,
and anti-soldier politicians will see to it
that the men who stayed behind do not
lose any of their promotion rights.
The man who wants more than a bare
subsistence must return prepared for
another man-sized fight, first to make up
for the years he has lost, then against
the hostility which is not all due to the
voluntary system of enlistment.
I will admit that if returned men from
this and the last war stuck together and
refused to be split on political or religious
grounds they could exercise a big in-
fluence, but most of those who returned
from the last have not found progress
easy.— Legoff (Vic.),
Immigration
Many new schemes are being put for-
ward for post-war immigration, but why
not avoid the mistakes of the past by
leaving the matter to nature? If our
capital and organisation do become suffi-
cient to support a larger population the
result would be higher wages and plenti-
tiful employment for the existing popu-
lation, and immigrants would be attracted
by this prosperity.
As many as the improved conditions
would allow could be absorbed without
a consequent lowering of the standard
of living. This would permit immigrants
to be selected from special trades and
professions and undesirable foreigners to
be eliminated. — Beer Esses (N.S.W.).
The Lost Sense of Proportion
A sense of proportion doesn’t appear
to be a strong attribute of the Austra-
lian character. Our women seem to have
lost their sense of what is reasonable
because of the tremendous attraction of
flaunting a new uniform ; our newspapers
lose their heads in the competition to
secure and hold large circulations ; hun-
dreds of thousands spend hundreds of
thousands upon a horserace, but begrudge
a tithe of the same amount to help keep
their own homes from ruin and their
families from a worse fate.
The hub of the world is streaming with
the blood of massacre. We ourselves live
precariously on the verge of this mael-
strom, and still we must indulge to the
full our extravagant fancies and childish
whims about horses and garments, smokes
and cocktails, votes and parties and all
the pathetic little side issues of a people
blind to the stern realities that surround
them.
Such phrases as “equality of effort”
and “equality of sacrifice” fall glibly
from lips and pens, but only too often
on barren ground: even the all-embracing
thing that the national Budget should be
is infected with this prevalent disease.
Trade-unions, whose chief aim is to
strive for a reasonable standard of living
for all, go to extremes of utter selfish-
ness in their “grab-all-you-can” policy,
while shutting their eyes to the very real
sacrifices made by the few men now in
uniform.
Prices of commodities shoot up, and
when someone in authority unexpectedly
finds courage to put the brake on, what
a howl goes up ; one would imagine that
the injured were being stripped naked and
left to starve in the gutters. That’s only
some of the evidence that we need to
regain our sense of proportion. —P. R. T.
(N.S.W.).
Strikes, etc.
Why can’t we have leaders with enough
gumption to take command of us and
teach us to have faith in them because of
what we see them accomplish, not be-
cause of what we hear them promise?
It’s a Government’s job to know what
wages and hours for all its workers will
combine to the benefit of the entire
country, and then to see that those wages


and hours are accepted by the working
community without argument. Help can
always be given to those willing to work
for it. Dole, for instance, should be
given to the workers who are on low
wages as well as to the out-of-works. A
Government which is slack about both
settling hours and wages and putting a
stpp to strikes is no background for our
continual argument that we are happy,
freedom-enjoying people.
There will always be a rebellious ele-
ment in any community, but the majority
of people can be made to work together
to pull themselves gradually out of
financial pits.
To hear us talk of our “freedom” and
to see our thousands of strikers continu-
ally bobbing up you’d swear we had
always lived, and were living, in the very
lap of prosperity and had some excuse
for expecting big wages and little work.
If that were so we wouldn’t have dole and
slums and unemployed—and the stupid
spectacle of thousands of strikers, after
having confused the war-effort tem-
porarily, returning to work at very-little-
improved pay or hours.
Until we do away with blots such as
slums and unemployment, why can’t we
have a Government which, having proved
to us that our working conditions are
right, will then tell us what to do if we
aren’t sensible enough to do so without
argument?—E. (N.S.W.).
Food Storage
The three months’ normal supply of
foodstuffs stored now in country dis-
tricts for use in case of emergency would
not be sufficient to meet the demand if
the usual transport broke down. Like
most others in this Murray district, I
would have several relations from the
city here if there were danger of bomb-
ing in Adelaide. Our normal consump-
tion would be trebled.
The way to cope with this inevitable
situation seems obvious, but so far no
one has seen the need for it. Each
householder should provide the store with
a list of goods necessary for three months
and guarantee payment. The stores
should organise for immediate dispersal
of those goods, if necessity arose, to
make room for a duplicate supply,
already on order, to refill their ware-
houses. This would not only secure
plenty but also a supply sufficient for six
months.— Woman (S.A.).
In Malaya
I disagree that the A.I.F. in Malaya
will “continue to suffer mental inertia
and depression till the order to go into
action” (B. 24/9/’4l), and deny that tropi-
cal ennui has any particular application
to our troops. Ennui may be the bug-
bear of civilians in the tropics, since
often enough they are isolated from all
but a modicum of white associations and
apparently have not the Diggers’ enter-
prise and resourcefulness to fall back
upon. Diggers in Malaya or elsewhere
overseas have too full a day and are too
surrounded by cobbers of common pur-
pose for there to be time or reason for
boredom.
Certainly “quaint fashions” have their
day, and are often enough eagerly sought
out for public exhibition before a mysti-
fied or hilarious audience sufficiently in-
trigued by someone’s inexplicable actions
to stop and pay tribute to a good piece
of showmanship. Make-believe and
dumb show certainly have been exploited,
but often enough have produced im-
promptu slapdash items worthy of vaude-
ville at its best rather than merely being
“infantile reactions.” We’ve had our
imaginary horses and dogs and the in-
spired feeding and responses of a whole
imaginary farmyard. But the balance
artist who so entertainingly rode a bicycle
of separate wheels on the Tivoli stage
some few years ago had nothing on the
temporary poise and aplomb of the
Digger who, mounted on a rolling cask,
urged on his four in hand in true Regency
manner, whip, saluted in approved style
as he passed the C.O.’s tent, and but for
his neglect to inspect the brakes might
never have uncontrollably disappeared
into the camp creek. —M. D. (Abroad).
“Aid to Russia”
Aid-to-Russia persons sneaked in
the dark in the early stages of this war
and sabotaged our war effort on every
occasion. They have now come into the
open to tell us that Stalin and Timo-
shenko are jolly good fellows because
by some unforeseen chance they are now
fighting on our side. They urge us to
send men, munitions and food to Russia
when a short time back they endeavored
to stop the same things going to our
A.I.F. Even now, if their cries were
heeded, it would menace the security of the
A.I.F. and Britain also, because our indus-
tries are overwhelmed with vital orders
for Britain, India and the A.I.F.
I freely applaud the gallant struggle
of the Russian armies, and I applaud the
return of our Reds to co-operation with
Australia’s war effort, but they are still
both Red in their ultimate aims. Our
first duty is to our own, and our best
gesture to the valiant Russians is to
strengthen ourselves here in Australia
and reinforce our overseas fighting ser-
vices so strongly as to help to make the
pressure on Hitler too great for him
to retain his hold on the conquered
countries. — Margin (Q.).
Compulsory Health
No one would suggest that the Com-
monwealth Government is taking other
than a tremendous step forward in test-
ing members of all branches of the fight-
ing services for t.b. But, to my mind, it
is not tackling the problem fully. I'm
not a doctor, but I’m in a position to
know a little of the medical aspect of
the problem.
In the first place, t.b., once discovered,
is a disease that requires sanatorium
treatment. No medicines are called for.
All that is necessary is regular hours,
plenty of good food, plenty of rest and
freedom from worry. There is no pain,
and the obvious reaction of the patient
when he first learns that he has it is one
of distinct disbelief, even in face of X-ray
photographs and sputum tests. For these
reasons ordinary home treatment is obvi-
ously impossible. The patient will not
observe the necessary routine.
Unless the Government has intentions
of dealing with the treatment aspect that
it has not disclosed, the first step it is
taking will be useless. I have not
had access to official figures, but I know
from personal observation that the X-ray
examinations of men in the R.A.A.F.
alone have disclosed a number of suf-
ferers that has surprised and alarmed the
Air Force authorities. These are airmen
who have a year’s service or more. Those
found by X-ray to be victims of t.b. on
enlistment are handed over to the State
authorities.
Another point is that these young men,
who, incidentally, would never have been
discovered except for the war, have
almost completely filled both repatriation
and State sanatoriums. And it is this
point that brings us to the crux of the
question. Should the X-ray dragnet
bring in the same proportion from the
militia and universal trainees where are
they to go? They cannot be treated at
home, and no room can be found for
them in either sanatoriums or public hos-
pitals.
1 can’t answer these questions. But
they must be answered. It is useless
to discover sufferers from a certain dis-
ease if means are not found for curing
them.— Teleco (Vic.).
Progress in Melbourne
I have just been looking over the
enormous new Royal Melbourne Hos-
pital, which is nearing completion on the
old Pig Market site. It is largely an
empty shell at present, but soon it will
have its operating theatres,
its biology section, its
serum department, its
radiological laboratories
and all the other develop-
ments of modern medical
science, and. in due course
the immense amount of
suffering at present located
in the old-fashioned pile
of buildings in Swanston-
street will be transferred
there. I pass the old sick
bay twice daily, and I
always look at it and
think: “What an immense
amount of suffering there
is in there and what an
immense amount of suffer-
ing has passed through its
portals of which the
public, except for a few
individuals, never thinks.’’
Then I think: “Soon all
this suffering will be trans-
ferred to the ornate new
building and there will be
the usual congratulatory
speeches, as if a great
social triumph were being
celebrated. And soon fresh
sufferers will come along
and the new hospital will be found too
small for the demands that will be made
upon it.”
And then I wonder if after all we are
going in the right direction. When we
give money to hospitals we endow sick-
ness with importance, so we get sickness.
If we give money to make beautiful
buildings or works of art we endow
beauty with importance. What is most
likely to keep us healthy—hospitals or
beauty? In the Middle Ages they didn’t
bother much about sociological prob-
lems or disease, but put most of their
energy into building beautiful cathedrals.
The emphasis was put on art, not on
sociological problems. And there is no
evidence to show that they led less
healthy lives than we do, though their
lives may have been shorter and they had
frightful epidemics.
Nowadays the emphasis is put on
sociological problems and scarcely any
on beauty, so we get modern art, ugly
buildings, hideous workers’ flats, huge
hydro-electric works and a vast Com-
munistic experiment which is ending in
frightful slaughter in which the hydro-
electric works are being blown to bits by
their owners, and which will be followed
by epidemics and famines just as frightful
as in the Middle Ages— Pawang (Vic.).
Tests for Politicians
Perhaps the role most difficult of ful-
filment today is that of the successful
statesman. The task of governing any
democracy at the present day is a hazard-
ous one and demands a fair degree of
integrity and wisdom on the part of the
legislators. Upon their capabilities rest
the destinies of the population, collec-
tively and individually, and the path of
the unborn generation is prepared by their
labors.
One might suppose that a task of such
magnitude would be essayed by the few,
that the very qualifications would limit
the aspirants for office and that the elec-
tors on polling day would be faced with
choosing a Government from men who
had shown themselves in one way or an-
other to be worthy of selection.
So apathetic are we in affairs of State,
however, that we are content to let almost
anyone stand as candidate for Parliament.
Given a little financial backing to aid a
plausible address, the greatest humbug
can get his inconsequent utterings into
“Hansard.” Many of the States have
regulations which prohibit incompetent
persons from practising as electricians,
plumbers or machinery operators on the
ground that the public must be pro-
tected. Surely it would only be logical
to extend that protection by imposing
similar conditions upon those who aspire
to become our rulers. — Seahawk (Q.).
Marriage Loans
Haven’t we sufficient charity stunts in
Australia? The country is already top-
heavy in debt and yet marriage loans are
suggested. Some go further and advocate
marriage bonuses!
Enough to make our forefathers turn
in their graves. They never required any
“sops” to encourage them to settle down.
A stout heart and a pair of hands were
their portion! People who expect pay-
ment to fulfil their natural obligations
are not worth their salt.
It is a grave enough wrong for parents
to pamper their children ; it is even more
culpable for the State to coddle them.
—A. D. (S.A.),
Education
Something is not as it should be with
the mass of younger people today.
Despite all the magnificent school equip-
ment there is a very disappointing arro-
gance and ignorance in the rank and file.
We are tempted to conclude that the
educational system is, after all, a com-
parative failure.
It isn’t that the schools do not achieve
results. But the nature of the results is
where the disappointment comes in.
Masses of facts are crowded upon the
memory. Piles of knowledge are shov-
elled into the mind and recorded in the
brain. Hundreds of systems are mastered
like so many clever tricks taught a mon-
key, all to be used for a certain definite
purpose. So examinations are brilliantly
passed, and the school is acclaimed as
having well performed its work and ful-
filled its purpose.
And so it has. It has done what
present-day life demands. But it has
worked the brain so hard that it has
taken away from the mind the time and
energy to think. So strenuous has been
the cramming that the moment school
hours are over the mind swings violently
to light and frivolous relaxation—it has
to do so for its very protection. We may
well remember the words of a wise man
of ancient days who said, “With all thy
getting, get understanding.” —G. A B
(A.C.T.).
“For the People”
Has anyone noticed during the past
year or so that when Labor leaders, from
Prime Minister Curtin down, have some-
thing to criticise, from a Peanut Board
to a radio station, they always take care
to assert that what they propose to do
or are about to do will be “for the
benefit of the people.”
One must conclude from all this that
nothing that has come from the hands
of their opponents has brought benefits
to the people or public. Labor at this
date represents at best only p.c. of
the people, but as it has promised a
fair go we must defer judgment of the
benefits conferred for a few months, at
any rate. The term people is wide, and we
may all be served with agreeable largesse
before we are done. —D. Inkum (W.A.).
Publicity
A young man named Owen has in-
vented a sub-machine-gun with an ex-
tremely simple mechanism, and it has
been accepted for the Army. But why
has it been given so much publicity? I
have seen photographs of it in the illus-
trated papers, and a movie of it being
tested has been shown on the newsreel
films. Everyone knows where it is going
to be manufactured, and if that isn’t
enough to draw the attention of every
enemy agent within reach I’ll apply for
admission to a mental home.
What should be done with a weapon
of this kind is to keep everything con-
nected with it a close secret, to allow
only trusted men to manufacture and
assemble it, to wait until a big stunt
comes off before allowing the troops to
go into action with it, and then to give
the enemy hell with it.
But after the publicity given the thing
we may as well post a blueprint of the
mechanism straight to Hitler and be done
with it. — Tompion (S.A.).
“ Blime, wer ’ re stiff! It says ‘ Not to before Chuistmas. ’”


Tes! Spark Pings can
Increase jonr
car's SAFETY!
The car that is lively and respon-
sive can move more quickly out
of normal driving hazards. Keep
your car alert. New Champion
Spark Plugs provide strong,
hot sparks that ensure
speed, power and quick
acceleration. They will
soon pay for themselves
in the fuel they save.
F actories, F eltham, Eng.
Windsor, Can. Toledo,
USA.
I
CONTAINS SILLMENT
THE MIRACLE MINERAL
Sillment seals Champions against troublesome
leakage, at the shoulder and past the center
electrode, common to ordinary spark plugs. This
patented feature corrects rough, uneven and
wasteful engine operation caused by leaky,
overheated spark plugs.
V
7
*>
Install new
Champion Spark Pings!
TIME WORKS CHANGES IN FAMILIES.
Time works changes in family circumstances. It creates problems that only the experi-
enced may be able to foresee. For that reason it is wise to appoint in your Will an
experienced and level-headed Executor and Trustee, one upon whose integrity, mental
vigour, and good judgment you can rely ; one who will never die.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited, offers you the permanence of a Company, the
collective judgment of many trained minds and an understanding of family financial and
business problems born of 56 years’ experience with thousands of Estates.
That you may understand the Company’s service, ask that we send you a copy of a
book, “Your Executor and Trustee.” It explains the service in detail, and tells what it
costs. Write now while you think of it.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS *
T. H. Kelly (Chairman) ; Brigadier the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.;
E. R. Knox; H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others,
Administrator, etc.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Our Servia Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Air Force sgt. instructor urgently requires
for instructional purposes a projector capable
of throwing a 6ft. x 4ft. picture from a 35mm.
slide. Also any old German, English, French
or American respirators. —2816.
Welder wants repetition work, contract. —
2787
~ Small wage and good home offered to pen-
sioner in return for light work about guest-
house 26 miles from town. —2880.
Sharefarmer wanted for dairy farm in Dande-
nong, Victoria, district. —2878.
Agistment for mare in or about Liverpool-
Bankstown district. Suitable country for
grazing for three to four months. Weekly fee
arranged.—2830.
To buy Nicholl’s Concise Guide, Vol. I.—
2829. . , . „
To buy, new or second-hand, Germany,
Prepare for War, by Prof. Ewald Banse.—2823.
To buy The Tractor Field Book, with Power
Farm Equipment Specifications, 1939 or later.
—2879.
To buy 16mm. films, short subjects.—2881.
To buy complete Encyclopcedia Britannica,
good condition. State price and edition. —2877.
To buy back numbers of “Connoisseur”
magazine.—2815.
Words of poem “When Are You Going
Away?” (1914-18 war). —2847.
Information Sought.
Recently I made a statement about the age
of the Macrozamia palm found on Mount
Tambourine, near Brisbane, some few years
ago, and was laughed at. Could you give
some particulars ? —2831.
The tree was found by Dr. A. O. Flerbert,
who estimated its age at from 500 to 1000
years. A reporter sent the story to a Brisbane
paper, mentioning only the higher figure, and
a typographical error sent this up to 10,000
years. Another paper gave the tree 15,000
summers. That elevated it to the status of
international news, and Ripley, among others,
recorded the phenomenon. Actually about the
oldest tree known is the Adonsonia digitata,
which has been growing for 5000 years or so
at the mouth of the Senegal River in Africa.
Other veterans are the American sequoia, 4000
to 5000 years, and numerous Cypress religiosa
that were saplings 3000 years ago.
* * * *
What is the finish of the first verse of A. L.
Gordon's “Hunting Song,” which begins “Here’s
a health to every sportsman” ? —2883.
Here’s a health to every sportsman, be he stableman
or lord;
If his heart be true, I care not what his pocket may
afford;
And may he ever pleasantly each gallant sport
pursue,
If he takes his liquor fairly, and his fences fairly,
too.
x * * »
What movement (if any) has the constellation
Great Bear with respect to the north star ?—
2636.
The north star, Polaris, is apparently almost
fixed in the heavens while the constellation of
the Great Bear appears to revolve around it
once each day. Actually there is no relative
movement among these stars, the apparent
motion being due to the rotation of the earth
on its axis.
* * * *
Supply opening date, name of theatre and
length of appearance in Sydney of the follow-
ing jugglers, magicians and illusionists : (1)
Robert Heller, (2) Charles Morritt, (3) Paul
Cinquevalli, (4) Dante, (5) Charles Bertram,
(6) Eugene Powell, (7) Chung Ling Soo, (8)
Harry Houdini, (9) Nicola (first Australian
appearance), (10) Gustave Fasola, (11) Horace
Goldin, (12) Arthur Prince, (13) Oswald
Williams, (14) Carter the Great? —2367.
(1) September 20, 1869, four weeks at the
School of Arts, Pitt-street. (2) November 6,
1897, three weeks, Tivoli. (3) June 24, 1899,
nine weeks at the Tivoli; July 19, 1902, nine
weeks at the Tivoli. (4) October 8, 1899, 12
weeks at the Palace Theatre. (5) July 13, 1901,
three weeks at the Palace. (6) No record. (7)
April 10, 1909, six weeks at the Tivoli. (8)
March 28, 1910, five weeks at th£ Tivoli. (9)
December 2, 1911, three weeks at the Palace.
(10) February 25, 1911, four weeks and three
nights at the Tivoli. (11) July 8, 1916, six weeks
at the Tivoli. (12) May 31, 1924, four weeks at
the Tivoli. (13) December 26, 1924, three
weeks at the Tivoli. (14) August 11, 1934, three
weeks at the Criterion.
* * * *
What is the amount paid to the widow of a
member of the forces whose death is due to war
service ? Are reductions made if widow has
income from investments ? —2892.
Depends upon the rate of pay of the soldier.
In the case of a private whose pay was 7s. a
day and whose widow has no dependent
children, the minimum statutory rate would be
£2 7s. a fortnight. The widow’s circumstances
would be immediately reviewed and, if war-
ranted, pension increased to £4 4s. a fortnight.
Where the widow has dependent children the
rate of £4 4s. a fortnight would be operative
as from the date of claim, and, if the death of
the soldier is due to war service, pension at the
rate of £1 a fortnight is payable in respect of
the first child and 15s. a fortnight to each
subsequent child. These pensions are paid to
the 16th birthday. Income from investments
is taken into consideration in assessing the war
pension of a widow without dependent children,
but is not considered in cases where there are
dependent children.
* * * •
(1) What is considered to be the best district
in N. S. Wales for rabbit skins? (2) Would
Stanthorpe (Q.) be profitable ? (3) Do skins from
the cold districts bring the best prices? (4)
Do skin prices fall in summer months ? (5)
Are skins likely to maintain their present prices
for some time? (6) Best method of catching
rabbits ? —2882.
(1) The New England districts —Armidale,
Glen Innes, Walcha, Uralla, etc.; Bathurst,
Oberon, Rockley and Cooma. (2) The quality
from Stanthorpe is only ordinary. (3) Yes,
the colder the district the better the quality.
(4) Normally the prices during the summer
months are very much below those during the
autumn, winter and early spring. (5) It seems
that prices will for quite some time be on a
level which will pay the trapper well, provided
he is in a district where rabbits are reasonably
plentiful. (6) Poisoning and trapping are the
chief methods, and which it will be better to
use is governed by surrounding circumstances.
It is advisable for a trapper to have a good
mate with him, and thus divide the work, which
extends over long hours and is very strenuous.
Go out with an experienced trapper for at least
some weeks to gain the necessary experience.
* * « «
(1) What regulations govern the registration
of steam cars in N.S.W. ? (2) Is there scope
in Australia for a well-designed, cheap and
efficient steam unit for road vehicles, burning
either coke or charcoal? —2572.
(1) A steam-driven car, like any other motor-
car, must comply with the requirements of
the Motor Traffic Regulations. Registration
fees and tax are payable on a similar basis to
other vehicles. In addition, it is necessary for
the owner to furnish a boiler-inspector’s certifi-
cate to the effect that the boiler and its fittings,
together with all pressure piping, comply with
the requirements of the Department of Labor
and Industry for steam plants. (2) In view
of the present shortage of petrol, there is scope
for steam-driven vehicles, or other vehicles
using substitute fuels. It must be borne in
mind, however, that any substitute units must
be produced in large numbers in a short time
to be of any substantial benefit to the country.
In this respect steam engines are likely to be at
a disadvantage. Another disadvantage is that
the use of steam usually involves replacement
of the petrol engine, so that any vehicle con-
verted cannot be changed back to petrol opera-
tion readily. There are other troubles associ-
ated with the use of steam-driven vehicles, so
that anyone contemplating the adoption of a
steam engine for road vehicle should set out
fully details of the work proposed and submit
his case to an engineer familiar with the opera-
tion of steam plant.
* * * *
(1) How can I raise brown boronia from
seed? (2) How long before the shrubs will
have blooms sufficient for market purposes?
(3) Where will I find a market for the flowers
in Sydney? —2B9o.
(1) In August sow seed in boxes or shallow
pans; the soil should be two parts loam and
one part each of pulverised charcoal and coarse
sand; finally cover with sieved soil. Keep the
soil damp and cover the containers with glass
to assist germination. When plants are sturdy
shift them to pots or tins. They will be ready
to set in the open garden the following year.
(2) In the third year after planting out. It
will pay you to purchase a dozen potted shrubs
(sold at 2s. each) from nurserymen, which will
provide flowers the following year while waiting
for stock to grow. A warm (not hot) position
is most suitable for boronia. (3) When you
can guarantee supplies get in touch with flower-
shops or chain stores.
* w * *
I have a .22-calibre single-shot rifle which
is shooting high and to one side. How can
this condition be corrected? —2621.
If your rifle is shooting too high and no
means are available for further lowering the
rear sight, the simplest course is to replace the
existing front sight with a slightly higher one,
which, of course, will have the effect of lowering
the point of impact of the bullet. To correct
the lateral error two alternatives are open,
assuming that both front and rear sights are
fitted by means of the conventional transverse
dovetail slots cut in the barrel: Either move
the front sight in its slot in the direction of the
error or move the rear sight in the direction
in which you desire to move the shot. To do
this, secure the barrel firmly between two pieces
of hardwood, plywood or sheet lead (to avoid
mutilation) in the jaws of a fairly heavy vice.
The sight to be moved should be as close as
possible to the jaws of the vice. Against the
base of the sight hold a short length of brass
or copper rod (about 3in. x fin. will serve the
purpose) and using this as a punch tap lightly
with a suitable hammer and drive the sight
in the required direction. Do not attempt
to strike the base of sight with the hammer
direct; by so doing you will at least mark if
not actually damage either barrel or sight, or
both. A lead-pencil line scribed on the barrel
and contacting with the base of the sight will serve
as a register mark and clearly indicate the dis-
tance the sight has moved. This will save
much backing and filling. Test by actual shoot-
ing. The most satisfactory aiming mark for
this purpose is a short vertical black line about
Jin. wide drawn on a piece of white card and
placed about 25 yards distant. If your rifle
is chambered for .22 short, long and long-rifle
ammunition you will need to use the long-
rifle cartridges if real accuracy is desired.
♦ * * *
When describing rifle ammunition such as
.25-20, .32-20, .38-55, .30-30, .250-3000, etc.,
what do the figures represent? —26s9.
Where rifle calibres are expresed in hyphen-
ated groups of figures such as .25-20, .38-55,
etc., the first figure, preceded by a decimal
point, indicates the nominal diameter of the
bullet in inches. Thus .25-20 implies a bullet
of 25/100ths of an inch, or quarter-inch; .38-55,
38/100ths inch, and so on. The second figure
indicates the nominal charge of black powder
contained in the cartridge. Thus the .25-20 is
propelled by a charge of 20 grains, and the
.38-55 by 55 grains of the same type of powder.
Sometimes three hyphenated figures are seen;
for example, .32-20-115; .38-40-180, and so on.
In such cases the third figure denotes the
weight of the bullet in grains, and the three are
read in order as cailibre, weight of powder
charge, weight of bullet. In the case of
cartridges loaded with smokeless powder the in-
termediate figure is purely nominal. American
calibres are usually expressed in the second
decimal place: for example, .25, .30, .45, etc.
English practice generally includes the
third decimal: .220, .303, .455, and so on.
Of late years, however, exceptions have been
made in American nomenclature of ammuni-
tion, notably in the case of the .220 Swift,
.250-3000 Savage, .270 Winchester, etc. In the
case of the justly popular .250-3000 Savage the
second figure indicates the approximate muzzle
velocity of the bullet —3000 feet per second.
The American service rifle which preceded the
recently-adopted Garand semi-automatic was
officially known as the Springfield .30-’O6. In
this instance the second figure indicated the
year (1906) in which the spitzer-pointed .30-
calibre bullet was adopted by the United States
Government.
* * * *
(1) How many times did Les Darcy meet
Eddie McGoorty? (2) Where and when did
the contests take place, and how did they re-
sult?— 2767.
(1) Twice. (2) At Sydney Stadium on July
31 and December 27, 1915. Darcy won both
contests on a knockout, the first in 15 rounds
and the second in eight.
Brief Answers
Emerald: For particulars of Edison’s electro-
motograph, refer to The Life and Inventions
of Edison, by Dickson (1894), where the inven-
tions are described in considerable detail....
A. 8.: The value of such a set of Hogarth
prints in good condition would be about £5.
E.T. : Can’t say till legislation determining
the rates of tax has been enacted... .H.S.Y.:
Donations to the “Sun” Cigarette Fund and
the “Daily Telegraph” Hamper Fund are allow-
able as deductions for income-tax purposes.
. ...R.H. : The allowance made to taxpayers
mother is not allowable as a deduction for
income-tax purposes, nor is taxpayer entitled
to claim the deduction of £5O in respect of
his mother, as .she is in receipt of a separate
income... .G.W.C.: The N.S.W- Department of
Agriculture says the highest yield of maize
officially recorded in Australia is 145 bushels
per acre. Several junior farmers with 1 / 10th-
acre plots have been credited with estimated
yields of as high as 185 bushels per acre....
N.A.S.: Harrington’s, Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne, are posting you a pamphlet... .P.A.C.:
Would seem, on facts stated, that you are
still liable to the solicitors, unless when they
accepted the order they gave you a discharge.
T.R.M.: Stockholm tar alone is a very
satisfactory dressing. In the majority of cases
the wound is treated with some mild disinfec-
tant and the cow turned out. Further infor-
mation is contained in a pamphlet on speying
which can be obtained by writing to the De-
partment of Agriculture, Farrer-place, Sydney.
862; Know of none in Sydney.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
A.G. (on the Union Jack):
Adolf Hitler’s burning eyes,
Madness in their bitter gaze,
Ravages all Europe over,
Sees a flag he’ll never raze.
T.D.W. (England) sees a convoy: “Our
answer to history’s champion liar. If only
it were possible to project a photograph of it
on every screen in the world! If only I could
have sat next to Hitler while he looked at it!
I visualised tears of bitter anguish rolling down
a pallid, drawn face; the gnashing of calcium-
deficient teeth”... .G.R.8.: They just miss....
K.E.C.: End’s obscure W.L.8.: Go it again.
H.P.; Not neat enough for an epigram.
F.T.: Somewhat less abominable than
most rhymed alphabets... .T.W.E.: Just a trifle.
A.E.F.: We never “deem” 8.R.:
Might score elsewhere.. . .E.W.R.: Anybody
who rhymes “Malta” with “falter” should
be hanged with a halta... .T.L.S.: Under the
Editors’ Defence Regulations (1973) it will at
long last be forbidden for any poet to describe
(a) any mountain or ( b ) any gum-tree (deceased)
as a “sentinel” T.G.: Can you really bring
yourself to pronounce “century” as “cent’ry”?
. ...G.C.G.: Granting, for the sake of argu-
ment, that the morning breeze does greet the
dew with a “humid kiss” leading to “saucy
bliss,” how in nature or in grammar does this
“all lovesome things embue”? P.C.C.:
Still too frisky H.W.: Miles away T.G.:
Raw E.S.: Send it to the yodeller. It’ll
cure him N.L.R.; Both have a certain
something... .H.G.8.; You’ve a long way to
g 0... .M.L. (15): Not yet... .P.McG.: No-
body ploughs with honey H.P.M.: They
sound very young... .C.G.R.; A point all
right; but you wouldn’t want ’em not to lend,
would you? Aotea: Very pathetic; also very
trite F.L.: Taro’s experience calls for rather
more delicate handling... .J.R.: Not for us.
....E.M.: Incredible and not very funny....
D. : Darlinghurst isn’t that sensitive
E. : The “lean, tall, sunburnt bushman”
killed it Mombil: Steele Rudd ploughed
that field completely D.E.: If it had any
point it might make a six-line par.... .Avian
Dee: One murder; one suicide; nothing much
else R.C.G.: Too much conversation
K.T.: Mechanical melodrama A.D.M.:
Don’t like your bottle-oh. He talks too much.
J.S.E.: Both artificial A.C.: Very
slight. Not worth 13 words, let alone 1300
N. 8.: Not for us H. 8.; Inconsistent psy-
chology D.D.M.: Pleasantly written, but too
diffuse.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.H.A.: Fair linework, but the set-out is
poor E.H.: The blurred gent, floating just
below the ceiling seems to be wearing corru-
gated-iron pants and size-one boots... .D.M.:
Drawing stiff and overcrowded, and that wash-
work doesn’t throw the impressions up sharply
enough W.M.L.: Lost beneath a maze of
signposts, inscribed balloons, labels and lattice-
work K.N.D.; Gent, with simian features
mounted on extreme end of unidentifiable
animal is holding the reins by a hand slightly
larger than his mount’s head L.H.; Scraggy
lines revealing a total ignorance of perspective
and anatomy Bert C.: We wondered at the
surprised look on the sheep; then we sighted
what you intended to represent as a sheep-
dog M.G.: The first time we’ve struck a
sketch in which all eight figures were suffering
from gumboils W.CJ.: A special place in
our Chamber of Horrors has been reserved for
your cartoon depicting the dachshund with a
small moustache gnawing a sausage labelled
“Europe.”


DEVELOP YOUR MENTAL
AND PERSONAL POWERS
and succeed in Business
ToDAY is a challenge to your ability to
take fullest advantage of the opportunities
that offer ... to be able to turn the force
of human relationship to greatest, account
... to be a competent leader in the quality
demanded of a rising executive; and the
power to control and direct wisely depends
upon a thorough knowledge of human
beings. You can develop all the qualities
of good leadership through H. & R. training
in Psychology.
The New H.&R. applied Psychology Course
and Training Service, written and prepared
by one of Australia's foremost Psycholo-
gists in collaboration with the Editorial
Faculty of H. & R., is the accredited course
truly teaching the Art of Human Relations.
Scientific and academically correct, yet so
simple to study and easy to apply that it
is of practical daily use to every adult;
develops your mental powers and gives
you the knowledge that will enable you
to make a greater success of your life . . .
in business and in the social world.
Post the coupon for free literature.
Department of Distribution
Hemingway & Robertson
Founders of Commercial Education In Australasia
38a Barrack House, 16 Barrack St., Sydney.
38a Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne.
Offices in all Capital Cities, Newcastle & L’nceston.
To HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON,
Please send me FREE details of the H.& R.
applied Psychology Course and Training Service.
Name Age
Address
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ; F. E. Loxton. Esq.:
Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., 0.M.G.; E. E. D. White, Esq.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
LADIES' FITTED
DRESSING CASES
from KITCHINGS’
w
m
In beautiful chrome tanned cowhide.
FITTED WITH mirror, comb, and hair
brush on lid and glass containers for
powder, toothpaste, scent, etc., on body
of case. Enamel and chrome fittings.
PRICES:
20 inches, £lO 22 inches, £ll.
Free Delivery to all Suburbs.
C E. KUCHING !S::
319 George Street, Sydney.
Near Wynyard Station. 8W7133.
SMOKE-OH!
“Each of the Gallon sons, Reg, Henry and
David, is an accountant.”—' “S. M. Herald.
Every Gallon counts.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“StiH, dames were funny anyway. They
screamed at the sight of a mouse and went
through childbirth like soldiers.”
—“New Idea.”
Obstetric cases in the A.I.F. gratefully
acknowledge the tribute.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Full might of the R.A.F. was hurled against
Germany on Sunday night m chattering raids.”
+ u ■ m y l ' r °u r.u
°” e of *°f r . are occasions on which
words speak louder than actions.
“Owning the block of flats, they live in one
on the top floor.” — “Sun.”
Living above their income, as it were.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Then he looked in his pockets and quietly
handed her a case containing a jewelled brace-
let. The row was forgotten for the moment,
and Virginia was all apologetic.”
— Woman’s paper.
For the present.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Waltzes way to New York.” — “Sun.”
Naturally there were some reverses.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Violin and Case Lost; O’Connor inside.
Reward.” — “S.M.H.”
That would get on anybody’s G string!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“After an excellent duet, Speedy Wonder
won narrowly.”— “Sun” greyhound report.
Music would brighten the tin-hare
rumbling.
“I made no attempt to retaliate when the
defendant punched me. He is a much bigger
man than I.” — Plaintiff in assault case.
He didn’t feel up to the knocker.
4* 4* 4*
“For years he lived in an old shark near
the shores of Jervis Bay.”— “Sun.”
And yet some people won’t believe the
Jonah story!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Musicians replace bakehouse strikers.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Drummers will naturally produce the
best rolls.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wanted, smallware pottery-thrower.”
— “S.M.H.”
If speed and accuracy count for any-
thing, the missus is a moral for this job.
“Mussolini today is a universally-loved man
as well as a towering figure.”— Rome Radio.
A simile which well describes
Benito. Plainly he’s a
Most towering figure, rather like
The Leaning Tower of Pisa!
Doug.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Apat fom having poved himself a most
popula boy on the milk ound, he has sound
business sense, can convese well, and has a
pleasant disposition.”— “Sun.”
But the “Sun” couldn’t get the prodigy
to roll his “R’s.”
a
“Martha Lacey was a woman of very few
words. ‘lt’s a fact,’ she admitted tartly.”
—Short story.
Nevertheless, it sounds like fiction.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“This live-wire executive produced record
profits for his concern in 1940. He repeated
it in 1939. Self-confidence is the keynote of his
success.” — Financial paper.
He’s certainly never forward in com-
ing backward.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The vessel itself was filled with a famous
Maryland punch. Then, quite as if nothing
wash amiss, the hostess nonchalantly went forth
to receive her guests.”— “World's News.”
Nothing wrong with the punch, at any
rate.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Tried to Bite Her 68-year-old Mother.’’
—“Daily Telegraph.”
But unfortunately the landlord had got
in first.
Vanity.
“Suppose some tyrant was going to cut your
head off tomorrow unless you could find a
batsman who would score a century for you on
a good wicket against the best bowling in the
world. For my own part I would not hesitate
a minute. I’d send a prepaid urgent telgram
to Bradman and then I’d rest easy.”
—Neville Cardus, in “A.B.C. Weekly.”
O wizard of the flowery phrases,
You liken, say, a punch to cover
To some exotic bloom that sways
On branch or, p’raps, a winging plover,
Off bowlers tossing up long hops
You score a journalistic sixer:
Square cuts and fugues, drives, double-
stops —
No one can say you’re not a mixer.
Bradman, of course, might grab a bat
And flay them like the very devil.
But aren’t you presupposing that
He’d want to see your neck saved,
Neville ?
K.
The Curse of Humanity.
Maria showed! an almost intelligent
interest when I mentioned that I had had
lunch with Squizzle.
“I wish you’d find out from him about
his sister Julia —you know, the one who
calls herself Mrs. Bobbles,” she said.
“Find out what?” I asked.
“Why, whether she is really married to
Bobbles or whether he intends to divorce
his first wife. And if he really makes
fifteen hundred a year. They said he had
made over that block of flats in Blither-
street to her; but I made it my business
to find out, and they’re in her mother’s
name. Still you might discover whether
her mother really owns them. And I’d
like to know”
“But why do you want to know?” I
asked.
“I wish,” said Maria sharply, “that
people would mind their own business!
What has it got to do with you why I
want to know? People’s curiosity about
other people is the curse of this world!”
H. M.
Strategist.
By ’flu immobilised, you lie
Immersed in blues.
Too sick to even cast an eye
Upon the news.
No more those maps, your pride and bliss,
You gaze upon;
Yet, strange to say, in spite of this
The war goes on!
T. W. NATHAN.
“I Meet a Dowager Duchess!”
{Cabled from Bayjove Towers, Bucks „
country seat of the Dowager Duchess of
Dillwater, by Queenie Whackett, famous
editor of Australia’s own ‘‘Flappers’
Gazette,” who is now touring the Empire
on vital war work .)
Today was a landmark, a milestone in
my life.
I met a real dowager duchess. Yes,
girls, a real one!
Hers is a vital, vivid personality. When
Lord Bordstiff introduced me in his inimi-
tably charming manner and I curtsied,
her Grace drew herself up to her full height
and said in her unutterably sweet, deep
bass voice, “Welcome to Bayjove Towers.”
Just like that!
Really, I must confess, girls, that the
utter warmth of that spontaneous greet-
ing, which obviously welled up from a
full heart, coming as it did from a scion
of one of England’s oldest and most
aristocratic families, literally swept me
off my feet.
The Duchess was wearing an off-black
one-piece neck-to-ankle frock with no
waistline or shirred godets, but with a re-
versible bustle, odd cuffs, leg-o’-mutton
sleeves with accordion pleats at the
elbows, whalebone supports for her neck
net, petersham belting, elastic-side boots
and a poke bonnet of dyed soogee-bag
sitting on top of her bun.
It was the sweetest ensemble.
During an interruption—while the
Duchess was giving instructions to the
fifth under-gardener to cease polishing
the Rolls phaeton and get on with the
nickel work of the Daimler landaulette
(her private secretary told me later that
owing to war taxation the Duchess had
had to dispense with the services of the
under-butler, two footmen and the sixth
and seventh under-gardeners)—l re-
marked to his lordship how impressed I
was with her Grace’s mobile face.
The 76-year-old Lord Bordstiff, whose
dynamic powers are said to have been
responsible for the boosting of England’s
production of boiled lollies to 75 per cent,
of her pre-war output, and who is recog-
nised as one of the real key men of pro-
duction, was looking wistfully at a spring
onion that was under a glass case on
which the ducal arms were etched, and he
said, “Oh, quite so. It does get about a
lot, really!”
I thought it such a strange thing for a
lord to say.
But he is recognised as a genius, and
one gets to make allowances for their
unorthodoxy of thought. I felt quite a
thrill at the thought that here I was con-
versing quite naturally with one who
has the reputation of never having written
a letter to the “Times.”
One of the greatest moments of the
interview came when the Duchess asked
me if the people in the colony ever re-
gretted making Canberra the capital of
Queensland instead of Sydney, which
they were talking about when she was a
girl. She has never been out to Aus-
tralia, but she follows everything that
happens there with the keenest interest.
I told her, of course, that we were all
very proud of our capital city.
Then I got a great surprise, and a
pleasant one. Putting her ivory lorgnette
up to her bright eyes the Duchess
suddenly said, “Aren’t you the famous
editor of the ‘Flappers’ Gazette’?”
I modestly admitted it,
“And how did Thrombosis, the Thrice
Mage, come out of that adventure with
the horned dragon of Fu Chang?” she
asked. “I haven’t seen a copy for the
last few weeks.
I gasped. “Do you really follow that
strip adventure in my paper, your Grace?”
I managed to ask.
“Of course!” the Duchess replied, just
as naturally as if she were speaking to
another dowager duchess. “We read it
at Bayjove Towers even before we do
the ‘Tatler.’ ”
I hadn’t noticed until then the look of
deep intelligence shining in the eyes
behind the lorgnette.
For a memorable hour we talked of
the Thrice Mage’s thrilling adventures,
and the Duchess said that the women
of Australia must find it a wonderful
comfort to turn to them after rounds of
cocktail parties, charity dances and other
strenuous war work. For hex-self, she
found them particularly soothing after a
nerve-racking day of ordering under-
gardeners about or dictating a list of
guests for the next Bucks Hunt dinner
party.
As I rose to go she extended her hand
with gracious bonhomie. It was a hand
famous for its flawless beauty when its
owner attended her coming-out ball at
the Duke of Duckport’s town house in
Berkeley Square in 1863. It is truly as
beautiful now, girls, as it was then.
“Tell them in the colony,” said the
Duchess, again drawing herself up to her
full height, “that at least one member
of England’s peerage”—and here she tried
to get up a little higher—“will follow
with absorbing interest Australia’s part
in the life-and-death struggle in which
we are all engaged. I once met one of
your most famous geperals—Sir George
Reid —a truly remarkable soldier. He
will be an inspiration to you”—and as she
tried to swallow the lump that rose in
her throat it got caught in her neck net.
As I left with Lord Bordstiff I felt
impelled to burst out with a little confi-
dence. “Isn’t the Duchess so very natural,
so very simple?” I said.
Lord Bordstiff sniffed the hollyhock in
his morning coat. “Gad, yes, she is a
bit simple,” he agreed.
BO.


m
% f 31Q
■7, T
n
i
'(iwoft/auM'
INDIVIDUAL
BEAUTY
IN
DIAMOND RINGS
FROM
PROUDS
CHOOSE CAREFULLY . . . Whether you like simplicity
or rich decoration in a Diamond Ring, PROUDS
have a ring which reflects your choice ... a delight to wear
. . . a lifetime treasure . . . arrestingly lovely in design.
PROUDS present from their exclusive collection twelve
individual rings, representing exceptional value at the
prices. The exquisite settings are of pure platinum and
in keeping with the high quality of the Diamonds.
All Rings are executed with fine craftsmanship and
flawless finish, in 18 carat yellow or white gold.
Single-Stone Diamond
Ring £25
Single-Stone Diamond
Ring £3O
Two-Stone Diamond
Ring £4O
Single-Stone Diamond
Ring. £ 12/10/-
Three-Stone Diamond
Ring £25
Single-Stone Diamond
Ring £3O
Two-Stone Diamond
Ring £ 2 5
Single-Stone Diamond
Ring, £lO/ 10/-
Two-Stone Diamond
Ring £l5
Single-Stone Diamond
Ring, £ 10/10/*
*fTT»c=awr tv
Single-Stone Diamond
Ring. £27/10/-
Single-Stone Diamond
Ring ........ £lO
Country readers please write tor
new finely - illustrated catalogue.
v W ~
* 3 f Silversmiths >
~ Watchmakers Y
jewellers CENTRE °* sY oHtt
■ I :iS '>”■ *#*
Business, Rollery, Etc
The Lag in the Loan
The slow response to Australia’s largest
loan since the depression conversion
brought shrill cries of surprise and con-
cern from a number of political gentle-
men. It brought remarks of concern,
without the surprise, from others. Aus-
tralians were not enthusiastic about the
loan, though it required only about
£3O million of new cash provided all the
maturing loan was converted, and did
not in itself involve any departure from
recognised methods of finance.
Support from the rank and file was
singularly poor in view of the fact that
the r. and f. have had a gracious let-
off by Curtin of Fadden’s proposed “post-
war credits.” The wage-earner was to
be asked by Fadden for something less
than £lO million this year on a compul-
sory-loan basis. It is palpably evident
from the figures published that support
for the £lOO million loan came less
from the wage-earner than it did from the
people already carrying direct war-time
taxation. The number of subscribers was
small alongside the legion of Australians
earning £8 a week or under. Yet in
Canada lower - income - earners figured
eloquently in the 850,000 contributors to
Canada’s great loan. And Australia has
a Labor Federal Government that has
removed compulsion from the mass of
voters in the matter of direct war taxes,
though it has not thought fit to treat other
classes the same way. It looks as though
the favored class in Australia was not
grateful for its Parliamentary represen-
tatives’ concern in the matter of taxation
or sympathetic in its representatives’
war-time financial difficulties. Possibly
the members of this class were not even
pleased with the unnatural concern shown
for them, imputing, as it does, that cer-
tain Australians “can’t take it.”
Away from the person who doesn't
usually put money into loans but who
might have been expected to do much
in the present urgent circumstances,
the investor who makes a practice of put-
ting his savings in Consols has had reason
to hesitate on this occasion. At the last
meeting of the Loan Council, for in-
stance, Mr. McKell, Premier of N. S.
Wales, “fought like a tiger” for a bigger
non-war loan programme and a bigger
whack for N. S. Wales. He went so far
as to state that “certain features of his
social programme paralleled the war
effort”! The same gentleman opposed
Federal control of taxation for the dura-
tion of the war and thereby contributed
to the prevailing chaos in this sphere. He
brought forward a Budget of humbug and
petty tyranny that slugged the heavily-
taxed more heavily and increased the
scope of double taxation, and at the same
time removed the exemption of Consols
interest from taxation in cases where the
interest is passed on to shareholders in
dividends. This last in spite of a provi-
sion in the prospectus of the new loan
that “interest will not be subject to any
income tax under the laws of a State.”
His Budget began a decline in share
prices in every State (which has not yet
ceased) at a time when wages and nearly
all other prices are rising.
When the Federal Budget was brought
down by Labor, Mr. McKell’s contribu-
tion to the “stability” of the market for
Consols was a remark that “the fact that
income derived from Commonwealth
bonds issued before this war is still not
subject to the same tax as other forms
of income will cause some surprise and
disappointment.” Surely the political
head of N. S. Wales is not so dull-
witted as to imagine that the suggested
repudiation of past contracts might not be
taken as an indication that present con-
tracts will be similarly repudiated as soon
as it suits the Government. Mr. McKell
should be reminded that there is a defi-
nite undertaking that the loans to which
he refers shall not be taxed by the Com-
monwealth at rates above those ruling
in 1930, and that no such undertaking
has been given in respect of any other
income on which taxes have been in-
creased. Mr. McKell, being a lawyer,
should know that contracts are not made
merely to be broken.
Curtin Labor, for its part, did nothing
to encourage the “professional investor”
to contribute to the loan. Many “profes-
sional” investors have no other revenue,
some being widows, retired people, etc.,
whose entire income is governed by the
returns available from stocks and bonds.
Investors up to the present in very few
cases have increased their incomes since
war began, though living costs have
risen, and so has the basic wage. Taxa-
tion, especially where their income is
from companies, has increased unbear-
ably, and the capital value of their secu-
rities on ’Change has recently fallen
heavily. Governments have scorched the
earth in front of the investor. In these
circumstances he is probably justified in
feeling that, while the Government is very
solicitous about the welfare of those who
pay little or no taxation, it has handed
him a particularly rough deal, and he’d
better look after himself, because no one
else seems to care a hoot. Therefore, he
is inclined to leave his money safely in
the bank, and the loan loses another
supporter.
Two Labor Budgets have done much
to kill the goose that in the past laid
the loan eggs. The lightly-taxed people
to whom an appeal has been made for
voluntary assistance have not filled the
gap —this voluntary assistance which has
not come forward was vital to the suc-
cess of the Curtin Budget. The lack of
appreciation of the effort of the heavily-
taxed was best demonstrated in the case
of J. Maloney, M.L.C. and president of
the N.S.W. Labor Council. He was dis-
appointed in the Budget because it “put
the trade-union in no better position than
the Menzies Budget,” “There can be no
equality of sacrifice until the whole of
the people are on one level and on the
same standard of living,” he said. On
top of it all came Mr. Chifley’s inter-
ference with the private banks. Few
things destroy confidence more quickly
than Labor meddling in banking matters.
Even Labor voters don’t like it.
First on the list of Labor appointees
to the Parliamentary committee on war
expenditure appears Senator T. C. Arthur.
Senator Arthur should know a good deal
about expenditure, though the most war-
like thing he has ever encountered must
have been the meeting of shareholders in
Producers’ Oilwell Supplies in Sydney on
February 10. Arthur acted as a director
of this astounding enterprise, but it
was stated that only two directors
had actually paid for their shares.
Though about £30,000 put up by some
2000 shareholders went down the sink
in a manner not adequately recorded,
three of the “oilwells” mentioned in the
prospectus were not owned by the co.
Arthur and others stumped N. S. Wales
making speeches, but at the meeting he
admitted that the co.’s capital was raised
without permission under the National
Security Regulations. The co. ran five
cars during its noisy life, and Arthur
was voluble about its affairs in Parlia-
ment and elsewhere, especially in regard
to the Government’s attitude toward Max
Steinbuchel, an imported “oil-producer”
who accepted 1,250,000 shares in the co.
—partly for “agencies” never delivered.
The directors fell out with each
other in the finish, and much of the three
hours taken up by the February meeting
was given over to slanging and black-
guarding. The co.’s books and affairs
generally finished up in an awful mess,
but Arthur suggested that “shareholders
might throw in a little more —we could
put our heads together and create a trust.”
Shareholders, however, weren’t having
any more.
* * * »
Bradford Cotton ords. have weakened
with the general reaction in the share-
market following McKell’s Budget, the
alarm over the “Pacific situation” and
the shock of Federal Labor’s Budget
terms. Bradford has subsidiaries in
Victoria as well as in N. S. Wales,
and it will bear increased taxation
during the current year. But it may
find itself able to do so. Though the
co. pays 10 p.c, nowadays (down from
12y p.c. in pre-war years), and is thus
less remunerative to shareholders even
without taking into account the increased
cost of living that is looked after in
wages rates, the business is expanding at
a great pace, and, though a major pro-
portion of the output is at present being
commandeered by the defence authori-
ties, there is none of the plant that can’t
be used as readily in peace as in war.
Thus, while possibly very little increase
in returns can be expected by share-
holders so long as the new plant being
installed is not fully productive, at some
later date, when conditions revert to
“normal” or as near to it as possible,
the well-conceived nature of the business
should begin to make itself noticeable
in shareholders’ income. Only a frac-
tion of Australia’s cotton goods require-
ments even now is being turned out in
the Commonwealth, and Bradford knows
the trade particularly well. The tariff
protection granted to the industry for the
most part dates back to May, 1935. Under
similar protection and without the tran-
sient conditions brought about by war
the co. and its fellows in the industry
should have little difficulty in carrying
on as usual in peace-time. Bradford has
a special advantage in not being over-
capitalised, Cotton textile manufac-
turers are in a position altogether dif-
ferent from the woollen mills.
* * * *
The 1940-41 year finished with a cash
carryover of £2,000,000 in the Federal
finances, compared with £28,000,000 in
the preceding term. Going by this one
might assume that 1940-41 war produc-
tion had caught up with the financial
programme arranged to carry it through.
This, if a true interpretation of the posi-
tion, would have been interesting, because
everywhere in the “anti-Axis countries
it has so far been difficult to get pro-
duction of war materials going at the
rate for which payment had been
arranged. In the U.S.A. this has been
depressingly noticeable, and in Aus-
tralia, too, there has been consider-
able talk on the subject. Analysis of last
year’s £2,000,000 surplus, however, may
show another side to the picture. In
1940-41 the taxation yield was almost
exactly the figure of the Budget estimate
£150,000,000. But there are many
people in Australia who have not yet
paid their income tax based on the year
ended June 30, 1940. Some are inclined
to estimate the uncollected tax in N. S.
Wales alone at several millions, with
possibly a similar state of affairs in other
States. In the circumstances it appears
as though collection of tax has been
deferred as a matter of policy dating
right back to the presentation of the
1940-41 Budget. It so happens that
deferring collection of the tax will make
the taxpayer lose his right of deducting
State taxation from next year’s Federal


BANISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man*
hood. Price 10/6.
b2i^h
CLAUD
TQM 1C
T.JONES £ CO.
WRITE
TO-OAY
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
THE ARMIDALE SCHOOL.
3400 feet above sea level.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL situated
in the country.
Spacious buildings and grounds—4o acres of
playing fields.
Well-equipped Junior House separate, from the
rest of the School with its own playing fields
and tennis courts.
Matrons are trained nurses.
School prepares boys for the various Public
Examinations.
Boys are trained for Professional, Commercial
or Pastoral careers. A Special Agricultural
Science Course is offered.
Arrangements may be made for boys during
the short holidays.
Illustrated Prospectus on application to the
Bursar.
G. A. Fisher, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
CONSISTENT
are always first favourites,
and consistently high
quality is No. 1 reason
why 333’s remain No. I
cigarette with smart
smokers, “The Secret’s
in the hlend.”
PERFORMERS
m
m;
m
■
tm ■
-■ ■
: :
i
VJ&
>
gd
assessment. That may not have been
part of the original design, but it is
working out that way in practice. In
any case it looks as though Fadden is
handing on to Curtin a sleeveful of
uncollected revenue that may not have
appeared in the estimates for 1941-42.
* * * *
A rush of loan subscriptions and con-
versions at the week-end put the “dis-
appointed” Federal Cabinet in a better
frame of mind. There was talk of over-
subscription in Canberra. Until the con-
tributions of the underwriters are revealed
the real public response won’t be known.
* * * *
The trading banks have accepted,
“without public protest,” the National
Security Regulations to be introduced to
license and control the banks. The banks
took the view, however, that the licensing
was unnecessary, that compulsion was
being used to take something already
voluntarily given, and that their ultimate
acceptance of the regulations in no way
implied the banks’ endorsement of them.
The Prime Minister later expressed his
indebtedness to the banks “for the frank-
ness and fullness and the manner of the
consultations.” It was announced early
that Labor’s action was of a war-time
order only, and that “nationalisation”
would not be attempted by any such
back-door method. Full details of the
plan to take over “excess investible
funds” have not yet been worked out,
but low interest only will be paid by the
Commonwealth Bank.
♦ * * •
At a meeting at Camberwell (Vic.) last
week Mr. Menzies said the borrowing of
£7O million or £BO million from the Com-
monwealth Bank was going to mean “very
gross inflation in Australia,” and inflation
was “the worst and most unjust and dis-
honest of all taxes.” He added that indi-
vidual members of Parliament were being
subjected to a new kind of “pressure poli-
tics” in the form of circular letters
threatening them they were “goners” if
they didn’t advocate certain financial
policies. This was the Douglas Credit
and monetary-crank movement in its
latest form. Honest people were being
deluded by other people with clever
tongues. The ex-Prime Minister con-
cluded by saying that “my belief is that
the people should not be better off be-
cause there is a war on. There are two
million people today earning more than
they were before this war began, and
who, for all practical purposes, are pay-
ing nothing at all. I prophesy that this
Government will make them pay taxes
before it is six months old, because, with-
out this taxation, the job can’t be done.”
* * * *
After going to the lowest recent level
early last week, Australian sharemarkets
took a turn for the better soon after-
wards. Tooth scrip, which had been
below 505., lifted to 51s. 9d., and Aus-
tralasian Paper, which had receded to
under 335., recovered to 345. 6d. B.H.P.
issues also showed a little improvement,
but Bradford Cotton, though up slightly
at 375. 9d., was still amongst the particu-
larly depressed concerns. On an ex div.
basis the fully-paids were recently as high
as 425. 6d. Woolworths shares kept at a
low level because of the drastic company
tax proposed by the Chifley Budget, and
G, J. Coles scrip dipped to 58s. 6d., a
much lower quote. The Budgetary posi-
tion of the Commonwealth has had much
to do with the crash in most share values.
Dunlop Rubber, Drug Houses, cement
cos. and woollen textile concerns have
been among the steadiest of stocks of
recent weeks.
♦ * * *
A heavy fall in the price of Emperor
(Fiji) shares last Friday was followed by
rumors that a large shareholder was dis-
posing of his scrip—for the reason that
income from this source was no longer
to be free of Federal income tax. The
N.S.W. taxation position has already
affected the price of shares in Placer
Development, but Emperor’s case is still
more acute by reason of its previous ex-
ceptional freedom. Whatever the reason
for the selling, Emperor 10s. shares fell by
Is. Bd. in Sydney in one day. In Mel-
bourne the slump was just as severe.
Mr. A. W. Coles, the chain-store
authority who helped vote the Fadden
Government out of office, has “urged”
the Curtin Government to “reconsider”
its company-tax proposals. He may
“urge” it to do other things before its
career is over. In the same debate Mr.
Chifley said that the workers had “borne
the privations of peace,” and were now
“asked to bear the privations of war.”
Mr, Calwell asked for the greater use of
the National Security Regulations to side-
track a possibly hostile Senate, He added
that he would nationalise banking. It
was part of Labor’s platform.
* * * #
Australia’s Minister to the U.S.A.,
R. G. Casey, has checked up on the
qualifications of Leo Ranney and Charles
Fairbanks, the two American oil experts
who investigated the Lakes Entrance
(Vic.) field and suggested horizontal drill-
ing radially from a central shaft, and has
reported that “no one is likely to be in a
better position to make a successful
attempt to apply this method than Mr.
Ranney.” Ranney regarded Lakes
Entrance as a source not of petrol but
of good-quality lubricating oil.
* * * *
The original Capital Issues Advisory
Board has been abolished by Labor and
a new “departmental advisory com-
mittee,” in which no businessmen will
figure, has been set up in its stead. It
will comprise H. McConaghy, of the
Tariff Board ; G. M. Shain, of the Com-
monwealth Bank; A. A. Fitzgerald,
accountancy lecturer at Melbourne ’Var-
sity; W. C. Balmford, Commonwealth
Actuary ; and H. Magee, of the Board of
Referees (War-time Company Tax).
* * * *
With the appointment of W. C. Taylor,
a Sydney solicitor, to the Commonwealth
Bank Board, the directorate now consists
of knight Claude Reading (chairman),
H. T. Armitage (governor), M. B. Duffy,
J. H. Ashton, Professor Giblin, S. G.
McFarlane, knight Clive McPherson and
the new appointee.
» t •
Features of the recommendations of
the Federal inquiry into cash-order cos.
are suggestions that husband and wife
together should not be allowed to hold
more than £6-worth of cash orders, that
a husband should not be held liable
for any cash-order debts of his wife
unless his “duly authenticated” consent
was obtained beforehand, that premiums
(interest) paid by the borrower should
not be in excess of Is. in the £, and that
discount charged by cash-order traders
to retailers should not exceed 10 p.c. Mr.
Chifley, in a minority report, expressed
the opinion that cash orders, other than
those issued by retailers themselves, were
an economic excrescence, and should be
abolished. “It is considered unlikely that
early action will be taken to carry out
the recommendations of the commis-
sion.”
* * * *
The Sydney gas cos. are faced with a
bleak outlook, it seems, as far as McKell
and co. are concerned. There is little
likelihood of an increased price being
allowed, though almost all other com-
modities have been granted increases,
last week’s sudden lift in matches and
tea being cases in point. Gas has cer-
tainly become the plaything of Sydney
politicians.


THE SRVICE MAN
On the “Fit Front.”
“Ek Dum”: General Wavell’s admis-
sion about his “miscalculation” in Libya
(“I did not expect the enemy to attack
before the end of April, and he attacked
a month before I expected it possible”)
seems to have been received very warily
in Berlin. German Radio comments
might have been summed up in the
words “What’s he up to?” The Germans
and Italians have learnt from painful
experience that Wavell and his coadjutor
generals are always “up to” something.
Wavell himself once wrote of the Rus-
sians that “they make no secret of the
value they attach to propaganda as a
substitute for armed force.” Wavell
himself has a nasty habit of using it as
an adjunct to armed force.
Certain things are noticeable about
Wavell’s “miscalculation.” Small as was
his force, it was the right kind of force
and in the right places, and there was
sufficient transport to move it back. And
when it did move back, even if there
was some seeming confusion, it over-
came the elements of surprise and was
able to establish a defence line at the best
possible point. Hence we have had the
abscess of Tobruk boring into the heart
of the enemy’s line, and the R.N. and
Imperial air forces clawing his naked
flesh from toe to poll, and keeping his
alimentary canal in constant need of
sticking-plaster.
From Egypt comes news that Rommel,
the Axis C.-in-C. in North Africa, has
2| armored divisions at his disposal,
plus ten divisions of infantry, mainly
Italian but well stiffened with Germans.
That is a bigger force than the Germans
apparently used against Odessa with its
naval support, war factories and heavy
artillery defence.
The whole Mediterranean Fleet had
to be risked to save the men of Crete —
a gesture of gallant sacrifice which only
the “mad” British would have made. And
while that operation was in progress the
skeleton Libyan army, deprived of
naval and of much air support, held
back the enemy, sometimes ten to one in
superiority. It does not leave much doubt
about what the outcome will be when the
chance comes to tackle Hitler’s legions
on anything like equal terms.
If any foreign nation had conquered
Libya or held the Libyan border as the
handful of British, A.I.F. and Indian
troops did, or overrun the mountainous
terrain of Eritrea and northern Abys-
sinia as did the two Indian divisions —
Wavell said that it was “an astonishing
achievement” —or made the swift descent
through Somaliland which stands to the
credit of Smuts’s South Africans, the
whole English-writing press would have
rocked with a hysteria of admiration.
Actually, there has been much more
fuss over Britain’s losses and injuries
than over the glorious achievements of
the fighting services in the Mediterranean
zone.
To the Axis Powers the Suez Canal is
probably the major primary objective of
the war. Its possession is an absolute pre-
requisite to conquest of the British
Empire. It can be taken for granted that
they plotted to the limit to secure it.
The net result of two years’ attempts
may be summed up:
The Germans have Greece, which is
of little use to any conqueror, and saddles
them with the responsibility of discip-
lining 6,000,000 bitter haters.
Malta, from a defensive post, has been
turned into an offensive thorn in the Axis
side. Early in the war it was merely a
target. Now scarcely two days go by
without its sending heavy bombers to
blast Italian ports and cities. And the
whole might of Italy, only 60 miles away,
even when reinforced heavily by the Ger-
mans, has been unable to invade Malta.
The Libyan border is firmly held. So
is Tobruk. Libya and Tripoli, from
being an Axis asset, have become a
liability and an anxiety.
Not only have the vital points in ques-
tion been held, but the time was gained
to garrison the whole Middle East so
strongly that the only way in which the
Suez area can conceivably be attacked
effectively is by direct major military
operations by land through Russia.
If he does try this, Hitler will have
to use the whole of his available offen-
sive resources in a long campaign or
series of campaigns to have any real
chance of success. The Commonwealth
should be straining every muscle to help
build up the strength of the Middle
Eastern forces against the time when the
clash may come.
In the air four enemy ’planes have been
brought down in the Mediterranean zone
for every British ’plane.
At sea the position has been over-'
whelmingly in our favor. The Italian
Navy has been crippled as a major fight-
ing force. Its losses, according to Mr.
Churchill, have been three eight-inch- arid
two six-inch-gun cruisers, 23 destroyers,
10 torpedo-boats and up to 40 sub-
marines. It cannot guarantee that a
major military convoy can sneak across
a couple of hundred miles of sea under
the heaviest guard providable.
Characteristics of British propaganda
are its promptness and truthfulness; its
baldness and its hatred of excuses. This
is apt to have the effect of magnifying
the appearance of disasters and depre-
ciating successes. Last week’s naval news
was a good illustration of this. First, the
loss of H.M.S. Cossack was announced
with 50 or 60 of the crew. She was
sunk by an explosion. At the end of the
week came the sinking of the aircraft-
carrier Ark Royal, a great ship which
had been in action almost since war broke
out.
When the Bismarck left her home port,
that flower of the German Navy lasted
only as long as it took to find and catch
her ; a matter of days. Scharnhorst and
Gneisenau rust in a French port and have
to take whatever the R.A.F. cares to dish
out to them. They exist only by grace
of their owners’ power of land defence.
Rusting in Italian ports are their Italian
sisters.
But the “mad” British take their chances
day in and day out, and if an accident
happens well, there are plenty more
ships and men. The balance sheet still
shows the German and Italian account
with a large entry in red and the bailiff
knocking at the door.
Even viewed in terms of the past week,
the balance shows a substantial credit on
the British side, leaving out Atlantic
operations. It is only a fortnight since
Admiral Andrew Cunningham remarked
that he “hoped that the Mediterranean
would soon be clear of enemy shipping.”
In three days to the end of Nov. 12,
24 enemy vessels were sunk. The bag
of mercantile marine in Musso.’s private
sea has been 111 since June —eight liners,
32 other merchantmen, four troopships,
30 supply ships, one transport, nine
tankers, 15 schooners among them. Of
46 of these, the tonnage is unknown.
The remainder totalled 283,000 tons.
Last week’s catch included 10 supply
ships and three destroyers sunk and
another destroyer damaged on the morn-
ing of Nov. 9, another destroyer sunk
and another damaged the same afternoon.
On Monday, Nov. 10, four supply- (or
troop-) ships were sunk and two armed
merchant cruisers and two supply ships
seriously damaged. There were said to
be thousands of reinforcements for
General Rommel’s armies in these two
armadas.
The time is fast approaching when
inclusion in Axis reinforcements for
Africa will be equivalent to sentence of
death. The coasts of Libya are strewn
with wreckage. Its ports are full of
sunken Axis ships. There is now no
chance that Rommel can expect any
large reinforcements of his troops. And
though he has a powerful striking force
it cannot beat the Royal Navy. Neither
can the skulking Italian ships. Neither
can the U-boats.
The essential fact about the U-boat
campaign is that the Germans will have
to thank their choice of that weapon for
the worst of the troubles which are
descending upon the Reich. Had it not
been for submarine murder there would
have been no chance of United States
opinion being swung to favor the arming
of ships and their dispatch to British
ports to which the House in Washington
agreed by a majority of 18 —small, but
sufficient for the immediate purpose.
The effect which the U-boat has
achieved for Hitler is that there has
been brought in against Germany such
an access of sea carrying power as may
turn the scales definitely, especially since
British and Allied shipping is being built
on an enormous scale, while the Axis
building is negligible and its losses
immense—1,000,000 tons destroyed or
damaged in the four months ended Oct.
31, against 750,000 tons of British ship-
ping in the same period, says Mr.
Churchill, despite a large increase in Ü-
boats.
British losses were reduced from
2,000,000 tons in the four months
ended June 30. The monthly aver-
age is only a third of what it was,
though the Germans claimed to have
destroyed 180,000 tons last week. Hitler’s
hope of starving Britain has gone. British
naval strength grows each week.
The results of the sea warfare will
have a far more potent effect on the
outcome of the war than anything likely
to happen in Russia. The strangling
Allied sea-power will still be there and
growing if the last Russian surrenders.
Viewed in terms of world war, the
Russian front is a secondary front. The
first front is manned by victorious British
sea-power.
Vale, Ark Royal!
“Nobby II”: She had a proud ances-
try'. The first of her line sailed the seas
in company with the Royal Harry and
the Mary Rose and other pioneers of
pre-Armada days, when seamen still knew
what a bonaventure was and the two
mizzen lateens had not yet become a
single square tops’l.
She was large (22,000 tons, 800 ft. long),
expensive (she cost £3,429,000), and
very skittish and modern.
She claimed the right, indeed, to the
name of the first British purely all-merino
capital aircraft-carrier in history. Furi-
ous and Courageous, there were —now
somewhere at the bottom of the North
Sea, sunk by Scharnhorst and Gneisenau
—but they were “made-overs” : cruisers
built with an eye on the Baltic, and so
unstable that one of them —peace to her
ashes! —was known to her admirers as
H.M.S. Blancmange.
Ark Royal was a different, very Eliza-
bethan brand. They put the whalebone
into her ribs without stint. She and her
six young sisters had the speed of a fast
cruiser—32 knots; their annament was
purely aircraft and anti-aircraft they
carry 70 ’planes against the 33 with which
Courageous and Furious were blessed.
They have no bigger guns than 4.5 A.As.
Continental naval strategists were a bit
scornful of these big ships. They present
a glorious target, standing out of the sea
like Musso.’s Pantellaria Island and look-
ing like a wall to anybody behind a
torpedo—if he should happen to get close
enough for a pot-shot. From the air
Ark Royal presented a target of nearly
8300 sq. yards.
It was obvious from the first that ships
like Ark Royal would lead precarious
lives, and each of the three —the other
two are Illustrious and Formidable —
caught it hot as they came into the war
zones. Illustrious was chewed up some-
what in the Sicilian Straits battle in which
the Stukas made their first appearance.
Formidable, carrying the flag pf the hard-
jawed and grimly humorous Denis Boyd,
whaled it into the middle of the muck-
up in the Aigean during the evacuation
of Crete; and Ark Royal, the eldest
sister, has been in the thick of trouble
since the war began.
Ark Royal’s completion in 1938 had
several effects and marked an epoch. To
prepare for her coming sea air-services
were reorganised and the transfer of
complete control of the F.A.A. to the
Admiralty was put in hand.
From the moment she was commis-
sioned in November, 1938, under the flag
of Rear-Admiral Royle, now the Com-
monwealth’s First Sea Lord, the devil
seemed to be in her. Foreign gentlemen
who wrote about naval matters and
usually agreed like babes with sugar sticks
nearly tore each other’s eyes out on the
question of whether a lumbering-looking
aircraft dock could be worth anything
except as a target.
Even the solemn First Lord Stanhope
when he went aboard to wet her head
on April 5, 1939, failed to remember that
he belonged to the tactful family of
Chesterfields and blurted out that “others
are not here tonight because shortly be-
fore I left the Admiralty it was necessary
to give orders to man the Fleet A.A.
guns in order to be ready for anything
that might happen.” He added that “long
before our guests came on board the Ark
Royal’s 16 A.A. guns could have given
a warm welcome to anyone who hap-
pened this way.”
The disturbance which followed upset
every chancellery in Western Europe, and
German eyes fixed themselves firmly on
Ark Royal.
When war broke out, the Reichmarine
burned to sink her, if for nothing else than
to vindicate German naval policy, which
had eschewed the building of large air-
craft-carriers until it was too late. What
a different war at sea it would have been
if Admiral Raeder had laid down half
a dozen big aircraft-carriers in 1934-36,
with a few flotillas of super-fast de-
stroyers instead of the now imprisoned
battleships! As it was, he belatedly laid
keels of two a.-cs. only well on in 1938.
Admiral Raeder’s subordinates, how-
ever, soon disposed of Ark Royal in the
most final manner: every time there was a
naval battle they sank her. The first two
or three assurances to that effect were
half-hearted, and Dr. Goebbels did not
make a firm affidavit until March 28,
1940. Berlin Radio said she was with
Davy Jones for keeps that time.
A day or two afterwards coastguards
off an English port saw something like
a 32-knot mountain making the heads.
It was the Ark Royal, a bit bearded
below the water line from a 75,000-mile
voyage of several months which had
reached as far as the Cape of Good Hope
and during which her ’planes had recon-
noitred over 5,000,000 square miles of
sea. Her captain’s report rather suggested
that it had been a somewhat dull time,
though a Heinkel had dropped a 1000-
ton bomb beside her and her escorting
destroyers had killed off a U-boat after
it had tried to present her with a couple
of tinfish.
The German Navy sank her again
within a few weeks in the North Sea-
some spectacular pictures exist of their
attempt —but, corklike, she floated to the
surface in the Mediterranean as the eyes
and wings of Sir James Somerville s
Western Fleet based on Gibraltar. Flee-
ing Italians soon became familiar with
her bows, and the number of members of
the Regia Aeronautica who destroyed
her could have provided a new garrison
for Libya. It was a poor month in the
throes of the Italian naval war in which
Musso.’s war birds failed to sink Ark
Royal.
The lively lady was so fast and so
heavy on top that she used to bank like
a Hurricane when turning, and this gave
her gratified enemies, as they glimpsed
her under their rudders through a thick
hail of flack, a satisfied feeling that she
was keeling over. Some of the novice
members of her crew felt the same way
in their first experience. Being an Ark
Royal man was great training for an
18-footer crew.
What fleets were picked up, what mer-
chant ships and U-boats owe their de-
struction to Ark Royal during her two-
odd years of war life is yet a secret of
the Admiralty and of her pilots with their
15,000,000-odd square miles of sea recon-
naissance behind them. The toll must
have amounted to many times her own
value. In the air alone she cost the
enemy over 100 ’planes.
She had been on many Mediterranean
sweeps. She had been in the foxhunt
for Bismarck. And even in death she had
the laugh on her enemy and put him in
an awkward box.
Italian propaganda on August 4 had
reported her heavily damaged during an
attack by 416 ’planes on a British con-
voy. In September she was “seriously
damaged” again. Then she was reported
by Berlin in Gibraltar Harbor, too
seriously knocked about to travel under
her own power or to be repaired at
Gibraltar.
Just to show them up for the liars
they were, Ark Royal was out on the
hunt more than once again. She was
returning from a successful sweep with
Somerville’s squadrons when a U-boat
got her on November 13 almost in sight
of the Rock. It was, probably, the
luckiest torpedo ever fired —so lucky that
the man who fired it did not think it
worth while to make any claim until the
British Admiralty had reported the loss.
The shot apparently came from three or
four miles away, outside the destroyer
cordon.
Even then Germany for a time knew
so little about the matter that some of the
earliest propagandists believed Ark Royal
had been sunk while being towed in a
damaged condition out of Gibraltar.
The sinking took place in the after-
noon-tea hour. There was a crash. Some-
body remarked to the wardroom at large:
“The man who fired that torpedo could
win the Calcutta Sweep.”
There was the usual naval wreck scene.
Captain Maund walked up and down the
flight deck calmly giving orders. The
bugles rang out and there was the patter
of bare feet as the divisions went to their
stations at the double in proper Navy
style. The horizon was filled with the
smoke of hurrying destroyers, and the
air with the thump of depth charges. The
ship was slowed down, drifted. The
pumps were got working, but it was soon
seen that the water would in time beat
them. Rafts, boats, everything that would
hold a man afloat finally went into the
sea as it was seen that even the effort to
tow would fail.
A destroyer came alongside. Officers,
ratings, the ship’s cat began to go over-
board in good order, heartened the
news that the paymaster commander “had
had time to pack.”
The destroyer, and others after it, went
off wagging a thunderous trail of depth


Missing Friend.
WILL MRS. EMMA BLYTHEN or her
daughter, LYNETTE BLYTHEN, last heard
of in New South Wales, or any person knowing
of their whereabouts, please communicate with
the PERPETUAL EXECUTORS, TRUSTEES
& AGENCY CO. (W.A.), LTD., 93 St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A.?,
charges, while many of Ark Royal’s com-
plement who had inhabited her through-
out her adventurous life watched her fade
into the shadows of the eastern dusk.
At 4.30 a.m. on Friday she went down
in sight of the Rock, but only 18 out of
her gallant 1600 failed to obey the order
given on Gibraltar’s well-worn jetty:
“Fall in survivors of Ark Royal.” A
later count showed only one man missing.
Trained naval crews, especially those ex-
perienced on aircraft-carriers, are worth
more than ships.
Berlin and Rome, in view of their
former recent assurances that the ship
Was hors de combat, already were some-
what embarrassed as to how best to
break the news to their public.
They turned for aid to their Ftihrer,
whose headquarters, invoking trumpets,
announced that Ark Royal’s sinking had
been effected through the valor of Cap-
tains Reschke and Guggenberger, who
had not been satisfied merely to destroy
Ark Royal, but who also had so seriously
damaged H.M.S. Malaya that she had
had to be towed to port.
Great stress was laid on the fate of
the Malaya. It was claimed that other
British ships received torpedo hits.
From Rome came not even “a sound
too loud for the lark,”
Mr. Alexander, First Lord of the
Admiralty, called the loss of Ark Royal
a sad blow, but Britain still has more
modern aircraft-carriers than when war
broke out; twice as many as the rest of
Europe put together. And the city of
Leeds at once pledged itself to replace
Ark Royal,
Calm Before Storm.
“Ek Dum”; Last week the Russian
front was more static than in any previous
week of the war which began on June 22.
The weather along most of it has been
vile. It snowed even in the Crimea at
the week-end.
Nevertheless, snow and rain did not
prevent the Luftwaffe from attacking
Moscow and Leningrad every day, nor
from pounding Black Sea docks, trains
and railway stations in crucial centres
and rearward communications, especially
on three sides of Moscow. Nor has it
inhibited the incessant move forward of
German munition trains on the rear of
the long Moscow assault sector, nor the
gradual closing in of the linkage of the
Finns with the east-thrusting skirts of
Leningrad’s besieging armies towards the
Svir River region and Lake Onega.
Losovsky, from Volga’s banks, declared
on Nov. 13 that the German advance
had now been definitely stopped ; indeed,
the Germans, at the most important points
of the central zone, were unable to hold
their own. A Stockholm report supported
this account the Germans had been
driven out of districts south of Kalinin.
Below the capital they had been
hammered back and battered round
Maloyaroslavets to the south-west. There
the Russians had wiped out 30,000 and
“were pursuing the rest beyond the town.”
Unfortunately, till the defenders can
wipe out the claws above Tula and
below Kalinin and threaten the Lenin-
grad-Moscow or Moscow-Ukraine front
linkages, these Russian successes merely
achieve the same effect as Timoshenko’s
successes of September from Yelnia to
Yartsevo in front of Smolensk they
place the winning Russian forces more
deeply in a German bag in the Germans’
own strongest sector.
Moscow Radio told of another victory
over the Germans and Finns in the Far
North which cost the enemy 5000 men.
The Germans and Finns, for their part,
declare that they have pushed on to the
Murmansk railway in new sectors. At
sea, the Russians claim to have sunk
36,000 tons of enemy shipping in two
days. But it transpired that the enemy
had cut the Vologda-Ladoga line at
Tikhvin, 124 miles east of Leningrad,
which was already isolated as to railway
communication.
Berlin speaks of “dogged unspectacular
fighting in which gains can be measured
in yards instead of miles,” But not in
the Crimea. There the peninsula has
virtually been overrun. Following the
capture of Yalta, on the south coast, at
the beginning of the week, Sevastopol
was closely invested, and an unofficial
spokesman in Berlin declared on Nov.
16 that it had been taken. It would not
be easy to take. The ghosts of Raglan
and Canrobert could bear witness to
that.
The Germans claim to have pushed
along the Kertch Peninsula, at the eastern
end of the Crimea, till the town and the
strait, which joins the Black Sea to the
Sea of Azov, are under fire. The average-
width of the strait is about nine miles,
though at one point it is only about
tSLQ miles. For much of its length it
could be commanded even by field-gun
fire for its whole width.
Hitler is said to be using about 129,000
men, including two armored divisions, to
crack Kertch open, but this is probably
more than the strength of Kertch itself
justifies. The capture of the strait’s
bridgeheads and the crossing of a force
strong enough to sever the Russians from
their Caucasian and trans-Caucasian oil
supplies, and to turn Azov into a German
Sea by investing its eastern coast, would
have reflections in every section of the
front, both as regards supplies and
strategy. Timoshenko might easily find
a new spearhead curling round behind
his new defences on the Don line.
It is early to be optimistic about the
central front. The chances are that the
Germans told the truth when they spoke
of beginning a new offensive against
Moscow immediately. But every week
of delay counts in the Allies’ favor, if
not on the Russian front, at least on other
fronts.
How the Enemy Prepared.
“Ek Dum”; Said General Tom
Blarney to the Australians he found lead-
ing “the carnival life”:
Many Australians do not seem to under-
stand that one of the greatest personalities
history has produced has been working for
10 years to bring about the conquest of
the world, and has gone a long way towards
achieving it.
An exaggeration? Perhaps, but it is
nearer the truth than the flapper-press
picture of Hitler as a “carpet-biter,”
a raving maniac, who has been taken by
surprise by the resistance he has en-
countered in Russia and whose armies are
now so reduced in strength that they
could not cope with a few divisions flung
against them at some point on the French
coast, preferably a wrecked port.
It is time some war-wise man shattered
this conception. The German Command
knew exactly what the Russian position
was when it attacked Russia. It had had
German officers by the dozen with Rus-
sian headquarters up to 1936 and assisted
to design the Russian defence system.
As far back as 1936, the official
Wehrtechnische Monatshefte reported
that the Soviet armies had 1500 heavy
tanks, M and M 2 models, 30 and 33 tons
respectively, and fitted with 76mm. guns
—the equivalent of the French 75. The
German War Office then described the
Russian TG-5/T 100-ton model. General
Guderian, who has had the contract of
breaking through the crucial central
points of the Russian lines, was a student
for a decade of Russian materiel and
strategy, and the German war magazines
of previous years are full of his exposi-
tions.
At the end of 1937 German generals
estimated that the U.S.S.R. had 15,000
to 20,000 tanks and 10,000 ’planes. They
knew, too, what the Russian plan of
defence was, since it was in the Russian
Field Service Regulations (1936) —any-
body can read it in the available litera-
ture of 1938-39 —and in the attack on
France and on the U.S.S.R. itself they
improved upon it.
Up to the end of 1934 the Germans
had only the army allowed them by Ver-
sailles —100,000 men. In March, 1935,
when Russia had, according to German
reports, 260,000 military vehicles and,
according to Voroshilov, a greater num-
ber with a 60 p.c. mechanised personnel,
Hitler introduced conscription, which
called for the creation of 12 army corps;
total force, all arms, 600,000 men. On
Nov. 1, 1935, the German army was
placed at 488,000 men. In the following
August the conscription-service term was
increased from one year to two years. In
1937 the 12 army corps were increased
to 14, by October, 1938, to 18 (nomi-
nally about 1,000,000 men under actual
arms against Russia’s strength of
1,300,000); and there were five heavy- and
four light-tank divisions and about 200,000
vehicles, ranging from heavy tanks to
armed cycles. In effect, 2,000,000 trained
men and a yearly class of 500,000 coming
in for two years’ training. This apart
from the building up of sea and air
strength.
To achieve this programme the whole
potential of Germany, short of providing
bare civil necessities, must have been
devoted, and if the last three years had
no more than kept up the pace of the
previous three, even allowing for wastage
in the Russian war, Hitler must have at
least 20 tank divisions always available
for front-line operation and ample
reserves.
In the last war, the Central Powers mobi-
lised 22,850,000 men—nearly 19,000,000
without the Bulgarians and Turks. They
suffered 15,404,000 casualties 3,386,000
killed, 8,388,000 wounded, the rest
prisoners—before they were beaten, even
with the U.S.A., Japan, Rumania and
other countries actually in the war against
them and with France able to fight on
a grand scale to the end. Allied mobil-
isations in the last war were 42,200,000 —
nearly twice the strength of the enemy.
The disproportion cannot be nearly so
great this time.
Yet there is still an almost unanimous
belief among the boo-boo boys and
radio uncles who are allowed to guide
public opinion that the war can be won
on a voluntary basis; also that Get.
many is steadily losing and that we have
such a great surplus of man-power that
some of it can be conserved for the pro-
fessional football field.
In Russia, of course, even boo-boo
boys long ago have been called up unless
they are under 16 or over 65. But the
people who most admire Russian methods
when applied in Russia would yell
loudest against any attempt at the adop-
tion of Russian methods in Australia.
Canadians in Hong Kong.
“Fong Tsz”: To the astonishment of
the peahen press, the opening of the
Japanese Diet on Saturday, Nov, 15, was
a routine affair, and the Emperor’s mes-
sage was the shortest on record. General
Tojo’s references to war dealt with
China only.
That same day Australia’s Minister to
Tokyo arrived in Sydney and said that
“though many people thought that war in
the Pacific was inevitable, he found him-
self unable to share these gloomy appre-
hensions.” And Mr. Kurusu, the Japanese
envoy, arriving in the U.S.A. after the
Clipper bearing him had been delayed for
days by storms, declared that he had a?
fighting chance of making a success of
his mission.
He is a trained diplomat who knows
America and speaks English like a native.
President Roosevelt was asked at his
press conference on Saturday whether
war could be avoided in the Far East.
He replied carefully:
If I say “no,” the answer would be sub-
ject to widespread interpretation. If I
answer “yes,” it would be pure guesswork.
No interpreter of the international scene
knows the answer.
Mr. Kurusu was a little less wary about
the actual chances:
In the history of diplomacy there have
been very few completely irreconcilable
situations.
All the same, no chances are being
taken on either side. During the week
Japanese nationals were evacuated from
Manila, and there arrived in Hong Kong
Harbor several large transports laden
with Canadian troops who had been
borne across the Pacific from their
homeland without anybody knowing a
word of what was going on. The Cana-
dian Prime Minister said they had been
sent to Hong Kong “for defence against
aggression and threatened aggression in
any part of the world where they might
be needed.”
News from the Near North on Mon-
day suggested that the turning-point in
affairs might come in Tokyo today—
Nov. 19. By a singular coincidence, the
suggestion was linked with another one
that on Nov. 20 Hitler might produce
his peace programme.
Russia had been somewhat out of the
Far Eastern picture, but the Russian
Ambassador in Tokyo on Nov. 14 re-
jected all the claims of Japan regarding
the sinking of the Kehi Manx in the
Japan Sea by a mine, declaring that no
mines had been laid by the U.S.S.R.
within 700 miles of the scene of the
wreck, and canvassing the possibility that
a “third Power” was attempting to em-
broil Japan and Russia.
Weather held up aerial attacks over
northern Europe last week, but previous
blasts were still fresh in German memories,
Germans claimed to have brought down
129 British machines, against six of their
own lost, in the 10 days ended Nov, 15.
They added that 62 British airmen had
baled out and were prisoners of war.
Among them were Australians and Maori-
landers —P, R. Searcy (St. Peters, S.A.),
E. Houghton (Palmerston, N.Z.), Sergt.
W. Fraser (Ascot, Brisbane), Sergt.
Ronald Stuart (Sydney), Laurence Hope
and Lionel Dennis.
The R.A.F.’s main air attacks on
enemy territory were a two-hour blast
by 100 aircraft on Hamburg (Nov. 9 ;
two machines missing); raids from Malta,
which cut a trail of destruction across
Sicily and into the heart of Naples (Nov.
11); a heavy raid on Emden and sur-
rounding industrial centres and a wide
offensive sweep over the Channel coast
(Noy. 15). Rome announced that a
British air raid on Brindisi had killed
127 people and wounded a large number.
Four German bombers were shot down
over Britain during the week in light
raids, mostly made at widely separated
points by single aircraft. The Germans
asserted that they had “heavily bombed
Dover, Falmouth, and Margate, and sunk
41,000 tons of shipping round the British
coasts.”
♦ * * *
All remains quiet on the Libyan front
save for daily and nightly bombing, but
there is plenty of evidence that troops
are massing on both sides. Rome propa-
gandists show increasing nervousness.
They have cause to remember the fateful
second week in December, 1940, which
proved so disastrous for them. Tripoli,
Benghazi and Derna were all bombed
during the week. The enemy also was
active. One of his raids was on Fayoum,
60 miles from Cairo, where there was not
even a ghost of a military objective. The
bombers flew low and machine-gunned
streets and a mosque, killing 64 civilians
and wounding 95.
* * ♦ «
Official accounts of Australian casualty
totals never tally. The P.M. said a few
days ago that Australian casualties in
the Middle East were 9937, excluding the
missing. Army Minister Forde had said
a few days previously that total all-
service casualties were 13,143, which left
3000 men unaccounted for.' Mr, Curtin
in his list gave A.I.F. casualties as 1631
killed, 5015 wounded and 3714 prisoners.
Mr. Forde has weighed in with a de-
tailed casualty list which places A.I.F.
losses at 12,850—641 officers and 12,209
other ranks. The date of this reckoning
is not given, but with 165 naval and 412
R.A.A.F. casualties mentioned by the
P.M. it brings total losses to 13,427. Yet
against the 1631 killed in the A.I.F. men-
tioned by Mr. Curtin, Mr. Forde can
discover 102 officers and 1471 other ranks
killed and died of wounds, though
there are 93 officers and men “missing,
believed killed.” Prisoners of war are
listed at 3035, against Mr, Curtin’s esti-
mate of 3714, but there are “93 officers
and 985 men missing, believed prisoners
of war,” which brings the total to 4063.
And against Mr. Curtin’s 5015 Mr. Forde
can find only 4913 wounded —4563 in
action, 126 “wounded and missing” and
224 “wounded and prisoners.” Surely
there must be some orderly method which
will make the lists a bit less like a Chinese
puzzle.
* * * «
From the London “Sphere”:
Laval is vermin. Compared with him,
Marat was a Galahad. Vermin is only
fit for extermination; but for human
vermin the method of liquidation should
be left to God. Nothing will ever persuade
me that, however vile the victim, assassina-
tion can ever be justified on any grounds
whatsoever, of morality or of justice or of
political sense... .Every assassin is a cretin,
or at best an ignorant and egotistical fool.
Such were Charlotte Corday and Felton.
So there are still papers that hold fast
to the orderly old British tradition.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Returned home. Commander
S. H. K. Spurgeon, the first Australian to
win the D.S.O. in this war. Spurgeon is
second-generation R.A.N.—his father
was a paymaster-commander. He joined
in 1916, served in a number of ships, and
when this war broke out was attached
for experience to the R.N. in command
of H.M.S. Echo, 1375 tons. Echo sank
a U-boat in the Atlantic and rescued
hundreds of passengers and seamen from
sunken vessels, but the ship in which Com-
mander Spurgeon was returning to Aus-
tralia (in convoy with another, in which
his wife travelled) was sunk. After six
days in an open boat, the only ration
served a little biscuit and water once .
a day, he was picked up by a Spanish
liner and “provisionally interned” for
four months.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: Latest pictures of Churchill
show him in the uniform of an air com-
modore —he is honorary commodore of
a citizen station—complete with three
rows of ribbons and a cigar even larger
than usual. Thus goes a long-standing
tradition of British Prime Ministers, who
have always been careful to dissociate the
idea of military power from the Govern-
ment. Certainly no Prime Minister has
appeared publicly in military uniform
since the Duke of Wellington, and the
occasions on which the old Duke did
while in office must have been very rare.
Anyway, he was a permanent regular,
and it was hard enough to get the old
boy into a uniform even for a battle.
He shocked the soldiery of the Peninsula
by knocking round most of the time
either in a sober grey hunting costume
or in civvies, though it is not on record
that he went as far in this line as the
old admiral —Tacky Fisher fought under
him —who directed a fierce naval-landing
fight on the Yangtze in a white top-hat
and with a large white brolly for a
weapon.


s
m*
■
m
■ ,
m
W'
—... A
m
m
mm
I
mm.
Fights for Lihertg
A MERICA aids Britain, Australia assists
1,000,000 bales of Austra-
lian Wool ( approximately 300,000,000 lb.),
supplied to U.S.A. last year.
This Wool not only provides uniforms,
clothing and equipment, etc. for the
fighting forces, but establishes dollar
credits for the Empire and, therefore,
aids in adjusting the trade balance.
MPJB*
AUSTRALIA’S WOOL PROVIDES MONEy FOR OVERSEAS PAYMENTS
SUNDRY SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES
“All That Money Can Buy”
To the Pure: Here, at Sydney Century,
is an Awful Warning. It’s the sombre
story of an American farmer in the way-
back who, suffering all kinds of vicissi-
tudes, sold his soul to the Devil in re-
turn for seven years of plenty. He waxed
fat and prosperous for the seven years,
but ran to evil ways and gave up his wife
and good friends for a mistress and
friends as evil as himself. Then, when
his time was up, the Devil returned to
claim his price and the evil one became
fearful and sought his wife and old
friends for protection. And one, a states-
man with a golden tongue, pleaded for
his friend’s soul before a jury of the dead
summoned from Hades, and they were
moved to release the farmer from his
contract.
To the Sinful: Here, friends, is a top-
notch comedy about a farmer who met
Old Nick in the enticing form of a happy
old tramp and contracted to hand over
his soul in seven years if his Nibs would,
in the meantime, take care of the farmer’s
bank balance and other important mat-
ters. Nick lived up to his part of the
bargain to the letter, but when the time
was up the farmer dingoed on his side of
the contract and tore back to his missus
and the local M.P. to be rescued. The
M.P., like most politicians, could talk the
leg off a chair, and ran true to form by
convincing a jury summoned from hell by
Nick that it would be unconstitutional
and everything else if the farmer were
made to pay up.
To the Pure and the Sinful: At any
rate, it’s a jolly good film, based on the
short story “The Devil and Daniel
Webster,” excellently presented and
directed, and even better acted by a string
of good players headed by Walter
Huston, Edward Arnold, James Craig,
Anne Shirley and Jane Darwell. Huston,
who spends most of his time on the stage
and rarely figures in films, plays Old Nick,
and his acting is of a quality that’s rarely
seen on the screen.
* * * *
Judged on their output of late, film-
smiths have been either devoid of new
ideas or slowly working a few stock
themes to exhaustion. It’s a good break,
therefore, to strike a show that can be
consumed without tasting like a thin re-
hash of something that’s been dished
up umpteen times already. That’s the
least that can be said for the latest at
Sydney Mayfair, “My Life with Caro-
line,” a tip-top comedy, with Ronald
Colman and newcomer Anna Lee.
STAGE AND CONCERT
Sydney, driven by importation difficul-
ties to explore its own musical resources,
had a shot at a home-grown pianoforte
recital on Friday night. The event pro-
duced Isador Goodman, well known in
real musical circles, of course, but never
hitherto in any danger of being regarded
as a celebrity. He delighted an audience
that filled the Conservatorium Hall and
that quite obviously knew why it was
applauding. The most outstanding
feature was a performance of Chopin’s
Third (B Minor) Sonata. Mr. Goodman
recognises and insists on the lyrical
character of all four sections of this very
characteristic Chopin work, and his read-
ing showed good and independent judg-
ment as well as more-than-adequate
technique. For fireworks and dynamics
there were the Tausig setting of Bach’s
D Minor Toccata and Fugue, Liszt’s
tremendous version of the Rakoczy
March, and, of course, the flight of
Rimsky-Korsakov’s bumble bee. In
addition to his nice singing tone Mr.
Goodman has cultivated that rare thing
a real “feathery” touch, which he uses
very prettily in Debussy and Ravel as
well as in Chopin. Two very clever works
of the pianist’s own composition, “In
Blues Tempo” and “Etude Dynamique,”
met with full appreciation.
* * * *
That musical colossus Beethoven’s
“Ninth” came off much better than might
have been expected at the final flourish
of the celebrity-concert season at Mel-
bourne Town Hall, considering the
present disjointed conductor system.
Size and complexity of the giant are
enough to intimidate most conductors,
but Prof. Heinze steered his forces with
great adroitness, bringing out the robust-
ness of the opening movement, taking the
second at a swift tempo and extracting
much of the sweetness from the
melodious adagio. Baritone Raymond
Beatty, in A.I.F. uniform, made a
perfect entrance with the opening
phrases of the “Hymn to Joy” ; trusted
Thea Phillips, soprano, Frances Forbes,
a young untried contralto, and Wil-
liam Herbert, a 19-year-old tenor, fol-
lowed, and all were caught up in the
gigantic final chorus, the Philharmonics
singing like angels and the orchestrions
playing like the devil. It was an inspiring
finish to the scheduled season.
* * * *
The final chamber music concert of
the 1941 season at Sydney Conserva-
torium was one of the most interesting
of the series. The E Minor Pianoforte
Quartet of Faure (Laurence Godfrey
Smith at the piano) was beautiful music,
beautifully performed. Mozarts E Flat
Divertimento was played ™ h taste and
grace, and a sonata by Milhaud gave
volmist Hugh McClean opportunities
which he used ve ry f ecHvely W. ham
Krasmk s viola and Gladstone Bell s cello
were enjoyable throughout.
* * * *
Musically, “Yeomen of the Guard,”
current at Sydney Royal, is one of the
strongest in the Gilsullivan series, and a
well-balanced cast and chorus do it full
justice. Much of its success depends on
the part of Wilfred Shadbolt, the head
gaoler; as that elephantine lover and
lugubrious “humorist” Richard Watson
turned in a slashing performance, using
his rich basso to good effect. Ivan Men-
zies in cap-and-bells was as agile on
his feet as in his patter-singing, and his
final relinquishing of his Elsie to the
gallant Colonel Fairfax was a gem. John
Fullard’s tenor was under excellent con-
trol; Bernard Manning and Gregory
Stroud were sound ; Viola Wilson sang
and acted spiritedly in the chief soprano
role ; Peggy Shea and Evelyn Gardiner
also good ; and conductor Leo Packer can
pat himself on the back for the snap with
which his double chorus rendered the
lively “Tower Warders Under Orders.”
One of the best-dressed “Yeomen” seen
in Sydney.
ARTBURSTS
Any doubt as to whether the method
of painting originated and developed by
Max Meldrum has a right to so grandiose
a title as “school” is dispelled by the
Meldrum Group’s current show in Syd-
ney, at Farmer’s Gallery. So distinctive
is the style that one might come to the
conclusion that all the exhibits are from
one brush. Whatever may be the aim of the
method, the result is to depict things seen
as if they were projected on to a camera
screen by an out-of-focus lens. That
cuts out a lot of niggling detail,
and, provided values are accurately
observed, the result, seen at some
distance, is a remarkably vivid im-
pression. As every commentator must
admit, and as most have admitted,
accuracy of values is the great virtue
of the Meldrumites. That the method
is not an answer to all problems of
technique would seem to be proved by
the great similarity of the landscapes, the
interior scenes and the still-life studies
the Meldrumites produce. But, as Mel-
drum himself and his disciples W. Hay-
ward Veal, Albert L. Rydge and A. D.
Colquhoun demonstrate, some very excel-
lent portraits can be produced by the out-
of-focus formula. Still an all-Meldrum-
school show is a mistake. It is better to
let such work leaven canvases ny the
non-elect.


Sporting
Nortons
SPRUSO
GIVES VOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Throttle did all that to backers when,
starting at 33 to 1, she defeated El Golea
and Tranquil Star in a muddling-run race
for the Williamstown Cup, run at Flem-
ington on Saturday. The time was the
slowest since Second Wind won 10 years
ago.
Lou Robertson presides over a heavy-
betting stable, and seemingly a golden
opportunity was missed with Throttle,
who is little more than a pony in stature,
and whose lack of size contributed largely
to her success. According to Unkovich,
who rode her, a bigger horse could not
have wedged its way between Tranquil
Star and El Golea at a critical stage of
the race. Throttle, however, battled her
way through after having come from
second-last at the half-mile, and her
gameness, combined with her feather-
weight of 6.11, did the rest.
As her starting price indicated, form
said very little for Throttle’s chance. She
had finished second-last in the Moonee
Valley Cup at her previous appearance,
and even the knowledge that a drop of
81b. would favor such a lightly-framed
mare was insufficient to cause backers to
give her a second thought. She won the
Williamstown Easter Cup with 7.2, but
Saturday’s field was much stronger. A
four-year-old by Windbag from Little
Valve, the latter a winner in pony com-
pany, Throttle is raced in partnership by
G. R, Nicholas and her breeder, A. G.
Hunter, both V.R.C. committeemen.
Hunter, who is recovering from a serious
illness and was not present to see Throttle
win, also bred the Derby and Melbourne
Cup winner Skipton, the Oaks winner
Primavera, and the Cantala Stakes
winner Burrabil
Throttle was a first acceptor for the
Eclipse Stakes, to be run next Satur-
day, but at the time of writing her
trainer was indefinite whether she would
be a runner. He also has High Road in
that race, and it has been decided that
the colt shall fulfil his engagement. Tak-
ing a line through the Melbourne Cup
performances of Skipton and Laureate,
to whom he finished third in the Victoria
Derby, High Road should win, but he
will not be at “Throttle odds.”
El Golea and Tranquil Star had every
chance, but Evergreen, favorite at 5 to 2,
was definitely unlucky. Incidentally, his
rider, W. Cook, did not earn any bou-
quets from backers for his handling of
the horse. Evergreen had the box seat
behind England’s Glory and Fort Belve-
dere to the bend, and critics contend that
the result might have been different had
Cook switched him to the outside before
other horses ran round and hemmed him
alongside the rails. As it was, Ever-
green suffered a series of checks, and met
serious interference when he and Saint
Warden dived for an opening simul-
taneously about a furlong from home.
In the circumstances, his fifth was a good
performance.
Regency, a bargain at his yearling cost
of 300 guineas, took his record to four
starts for two wins, two seconds and £BOO
in stakes when he defeated Register and
William the Conqueror in the Rawdon
Stakes. Favorite at 9 to 4, Regency had
the race won a long way from home, and
wound up with 3£ lengths to spare.
Register, who, like the winner, is raced
by W. R. Kemball, and is also by The
Buzzard, ran on well, and later on should
shine over a bit of distance. An amaz-
ing betting drift from 5 to 4 to 4 to 1
preceded Prince Danilo’s failure. He
looked somewhat above himself in con-
dition, but showed pace for about half
a mile, and may be worth the lOOOgns.
he cost as a yearling. Silver Crown,
backed from sevens to 7 to 2, appeared
to jump sideways at the start, and was
never really dangerous.
Delicately-constitutioned, and apt to
go off his feed if anything very serious
is asked of him on the training tracks,
Togo won the first division of the Verdon
Trial in rather good style from Deliberate
and Clare County. A lucky rails-mn
assisted in h|s success, but, provided
glucose and other body-building sub-
stances continue to improve his robust-
ness, it will not be long before he is suc-
cessful in better company. He is a clean-
winded four-year-old gelding by Spear-
felt from Amberline, and recorded an
overdue win for owner G. L. Scott, who
paid 625 guineas for him as a yearling.
Clare County, an Irish-bred horse, is
still a bit green, and should repay follow-
ing.
Early backers of Home Secretary
accepted 5 to 2 about him for the second
division of the Verdon Trial, but could
have obtained 5 to 1 at barrier-rise. The
drift was not a true reflection of Home
Secretary’s chance. Always handy, he
finished too strongly for Iridium, and won
decisively from that gelding and Mercury
Bay. Home Secretary has been a good
winner for owner A. Crofts, who refused
an offer of 325 guineas for him at auction
in August. Crofts declined 700 guineas
for El Golea at the same sale, and has
had no cause to regret having retained
either horse. El Golea’s second in the
Williamstown Cup on Saturday was
worth £5OO.
H. Badger, who had the winning
mounts on Togo and Home Secretary,
completed a treble on All Veil in the
Strand Handicap, All Veil, winner of
the last Newmarket, has run most of his
best races up the straight-six, and invari-
ably goes well for Badger. He was well
backed on Saturday, and, clearing away
in the last furlong, won easily from Cro-
jick and Kanuri. Crojick made up a fair
amount of ground, but was not doing as
well as the winner at the finish. Kanuri,
now in his twelfth year, refuses to show
his age, and can generally be depended
upon to give a good account of himself
up the Newmarket course. Reception and
Orcadian shaped well enough to indicate
that each may win a race shortly, but
the favorite, Warbird, who finished sixth,
was fractious at the start and, by order
of the stewards, has been barred from
racing in the suburban area.
Penaton, winner of the Seddon Handi-
cap (for three-year-olds), must be Aus-
tralia’s busiest horse of his age. He raced
26 times last season, and his race on
Saturday was the thirty-fourth of his
career. He thrives on hard work and
racing, however, and, always well placed,
outstayed Kelos after the latter had held
a clear lead a furlong from home. Law
Student shaped well enough in third
place to suggest a near-future win, and
Morvi did well to finish fifth after losing
three or fourth lengths at the start. Silver
Light, although only a moderate fourth,
is almost certain to derive benefit from
the race, which was her first since July.
Penaton, a colt by Pennant from Cavan-
ton, is owned and trained in Adelaide,
and is engaged in important races to be
run in that city next month. He was
runner-up in the S.A.J.C. Derby last
month.
• •••••
Strategy, in the same ownership as the
star ’chaser Winterset, recorded a re-
markable performance to win the first
division of the Ozone Highweight. Tailed-
off at the half-mile, where he was any-
thing up to 25 lengths behind the leader.
and second-last entering the straight, he
unwound a devastating finish to win run-
ning away from the pacemaker, Devon,
with Prairiedale third. Strategy was
backed from sixes to favoritism at 4 to 1,
and, at the age of five, may be about to
live right up to his juvenile promise.
Backed from fours to favoritism at 5
to 2 for the second Ozone Highweight,
Sir Romeo gave his backers plenty of
anxiety before he defeated Pannade and
Mollie Con by half a head and a head.
He was wide out and a long way out of
his ground entering the straight, but he
has always appreciated the long run-in at
Flemington, and just made the grade. No
excuse was possible for Pannade or
Mollie Con, and, although Dark Felt
(fourth) might have done better had he
not been shut-in in the straight, the fact
remains that he has many “convictions,”
and is still a maiden,
* * * *
The Rosehill programme was not
specially attractive, and the attendance
did not appear as large as at the two
previous meetings at that track. Well-
backed horses won most of the races,
and it was only the success of Mom-
bassa that saved many of the books from
a bad day.
Dewar’s form of last season pointed to
him more as a stayer than a sprinter, and
many backers were waiting on him for
one of the longer handicaps at the
summer meetings at Randwick. How-
ever, his trainer reckoned his chance in
the Rosehill sprint, the Clyde Handicap,
was a winning one, and his judgment was
excellent. Dewar was responsible for a
remarkable performance. Second-last and
many lengths from the leaders —Brazandt,
Samurai and Winnipeg—there did not
seem any hope for him three furlongs
from home, but with an amazing burst
of speed in the straight he made his
opponents look cheap.
Winnipeg and Rodrigo dead-heated
for second, with Brazandt and Asnazu
nearest them. The favorite' Merrimba,
could not have looked better, but owing
to stumbling at the start he did not get
in it at any part, nor did Dawn Mary.
With ordinary luck Rodrigo should win
shortly, but, though Sedunum was one of
a bunch fairly close to the leaders at the
turn, he could not raise his customary
dash in the straight.
Dewar, who had not raced since last
June owing to a breakdown, has fur-
nished into a fine-looking horse, but
though he is up to weight his run of
Saturday will probably cause him to get
all he can manage in important races at
Randwick in December and January.
Turning for home in the November
Handicap Mustapha, who made all the
running, had sufficient lead from Solo-
gram and Cable Boy to make him look a
sure winner. Under pressure he swerved
out, losing quite a lot of ground, with
the result that John Dory, who caught
him inside the last 100 yards, beat him,
but by onlv a head, Mustapha hanging
on well. There was little reason for the
protest entered on behalf of the latter,
and that it cost trainer L. O’Rourke £5
because it was frivolous did not cause
any surprise.
Modulation’s only start prior to Satur-
day was in the Canonbury Stakes, but his
well-publicised track work—not specially
by the press caused him to open an
even-money favorite for the Two-year-
old Stakes, though at the close of busi-
ness he was at 6 to 4. He won easily
after Coomrith (Pentheus-Bonnie Mar-
jorie) led him to the turn, and then ran
out. Radio Star, though second, did not
have the slightest chance against the
winner, and Antelope, in third place, was
too far away for there to be much merit
in his effort. Bedford (by Double
Remove) was fourth, but of the unplaced
lot Lance Corporal (Beau Pere-La
Caporale) finished best. P. Miller gave
300gns. for Modulation. He is by Mani-
toba from Vocal, who, with a foal at foot
by Manitoba, and again in foal to that
horse—she threw a colt —was later bought
by Miller for 800gns. Vocal is by
Thracian (Heroic’s brother) from Gar-
rulity, by Magpie.
Tartanus had the Hurdle Race in his
keeping all the way over the last mile,
improving greatly on his form at Canter-
bury a fortnight earlier. Apart from
Glittering Flame and Punarua nothing
looked like giving him any trouble, and
they filled the minor places,. Last Gold
and Fiery Cross were next, but a long
way back.
• *••••
Plimsol and King’s Park were the pace-
makers in the Encourage Stakes, but
dropped out after leading into the
straight, and Response, who was nicely
placed throughout, won comfortably
from Christopher Milne and Frantic,
both of whom did well in the run home.
Take Care, Irak and Thunderclap were
nearest the place-getters, and it may not
be long before the last-named does some-
thing towards fulfilling the promise he
gave earlier in his career. Patrician,
though backed, is not improving, and
Qui Va La was not greatly fancied.
Response, who is by El Cacique from
Secret Wedding, won two races early in
the 1939-40 season, but from then until
Saturday was out of the winning list. The
interval will not be so long before he
scores again.
Hunting Tower, Lar Bart and Buland
(a Bulandshar filly) showed out soon
after barrier-rise in the first division of
the Maiden Highweight Handicap, but
Mombassa, who was nearly last at one
stage, ran to the front from Hunting
Tower and Buland at the straight
entrance, and won decisively from Cape
Hero and Adulation. Fire Leaf and
Nemesis (favorite) were next, and the
latter was unlucky, running into a lot
of trouble. Mombassa is by Madagascar
from Skiff.
The second division of the Maiden
went to the heavily-backed Ron Rico,
who was not prominent in the early part
of the race, but finished strongly to beat
Panurge, who also did well from the
turn. Padalong was an indifferent third,
with Pall Mall next, and in leading to
the top of the straight Lordship and
Confiscator showed pace. Neither Sweet
Speech nor Sir Tennyson did as well as
their respective positions in the betting
market suggested was likely, but the
latter did not get a good run. Ron Rico
is by Tippler from Mardora, by Marconi-
gram from Isadora, by Top Gallant, and
is prepared by W. H. McLachlan, jun.,
who temporarily dropped out as a
trainer.
* * • *
The sale of Lucrative shortly before
the Williamstown Cup was a surprise.
He appeared to have a fair chance of
landing the £1750 first money attached
to that race, and A. Higgins’s agent must
have paid a high price to secure him.
Higgins’s team includes some of the
best horses in India, one being Baq-
lava, winner of the last Viceroy’s Cup
and King-Emperor’s Cup. Baqlava is
rising seven, and that probably influenced
Higgins in looking for a younger horse.
Lucrative will not commence his racing
career in India until late next year, but
as he is only rising five there will be
plenty of time for him to distinguish him-
self over there. Winner of a Caulfield
Guineas, the Victoria Derby, A,J.C. St.
Leger, Sydney Cup, and second in a
Metropolitan, it is a long time since a
horse nearly as well-credentialled as
Lucrative left Australia. Difficulties con-
nected with getting horses from England
have again turned the attention of
Indian buyers to the Australian market,
and if we can supply horses up to the
required standard high prices will be
freely paid. It has been announced that
Lucrative is to run in the Eclipse Stakes
next Saturday.
* * * *
Evergreen has won two races, but he
must be accounted one of this season’s
unlucky horses. In the Epsom he was
stopped a couple of times when attempt-
ing a run. Then came his thirds in the
Caulfield Cup and Cantala Stakes and
his failure in the Williamstown Cup, in
which, according to all accounts, he got
into a hopeless position near the rails in
the run down the straight. Evergreen
will improve, but, though unsuccessful
in big races, he has done sufficiently well
to dispose of the possibility of the handi-
cappers being at all lenient to him in the
future. Followers of B. Payten’s team
did not fare well in Melbourne. Hesione
won three races, but at prices that were
not remunerative, and, in addition to Ever-
green, Silver Crown failed twice when
heavily backed.
* * * *
Neither Son of Aurous nor Velocity
ran up to previous form in the Williams-
town Cup. A few hard races over a dis-
tance in quick succession took toll of
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(Before acceptances.)
(Our Melbourne Representative.)
Ormond Handicap: Crojick, 1 ;
Sir Richard, 2; Home Secretary, 3.
Stansmore Two-year-old (handi-
cap) : Regency, 1 ; East End, 2;
Leahero, 3.
Eclipse Stakes: High Road, 1;
Evergreen, 2 ; Primavera, 3 .
Tara Steeplechase: Giant Killer,
1 ; Campaspe, 2 ; Sachem, 3.
Maiden Two-year-old (handi-
cap) : Register, 1 ; Malcrest, 2;
Portsmouth, 3..
Rosstown Plate: Manrico, 1 ; All
Veil, 2 ; Kanuri, 3.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By "PILOT.”
Maiden Handicap; Gold Rush, 1 ;
Nemesis, 2 ; Condignity or Panurge,
3.
Horsley Handicap: Kingsdale, 1 ;
Henchman, 2 ; Happy Bay, 3.
Warwick November Handicap:
Aristocrat, 1; Sedunum, 2; Breeze, 3.
Farm Novice Handicap; Soho, 1 ;
Barrenjoey, 2; Rapture or Ronde-
val, 3.
Leumeah Handicap: Rodrigo, 1 ;
Santa, 2; Christopher Milne, 3.
Hoxton Park Juvenile Stakes:
Riverton, 1 ; Modulation, 2 ; Hall
Stand, 3.


OFFICER TYPE MILITARY
OFFICIAL PATTERN
• Abbey quality and Abbey
value are combined in this sturdy
boot. Features include high
military leg, heavy double sole
and stout upper of genuine ooze
calf with calf lining throughout
and waterproof tongue.
The same boot in Zebu Leather, 52/6
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street,
224 Pitt Street.
wc
Wm
A 33
BOOT—
-47/6
OOZE CALF
Divorce Notice*.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1886 of 1941.
BETWEEN WALTER DEV ANY Petitioner and
MILDRED MAY DEVANY Respondent.
TO MILDRED MAY DEVANY late of Leich-
hardt. ___
TAKE NOTICE that the said WALTER
DEVANY has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance to
the said suit at the proper office of this Honor-
able Court on or before the Sixth day of
February One thousand nine hundred and forty-
two and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Sixth day of November, 1941.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
MADDOCKS, COHEN AND MAGUIRE,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 38 Martin Place,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
(Divorce.)
TO IDA BLANCHE PATMORE last heard
of at Hobart in Tasmania.
LAKE NOTICE that a petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a notice
to you to appear and answer the charges in
the petition of CYRIL HORACE PATMORE
praying for dissolution of marriage In default
of your so appearing you will not be allowed
to address the Court and the Court will proceed
to hear the petition proved and pronounce
judgment in respect thereto AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid within Thirty days after the date of
this publication an appearance must be entered
at the Registry of the Supreme Court of Tas-
mania Macquarie Street Hobart.
(1.5.) S. R. BINGHAM,
Principal Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1422 of 1941.
BETWEEN THOMAS KELLY Petitioner
DAISY MARGARET KELLY Respondent and
JIM (or G.) GORDON Co-respondent.
TO the abovenamed Co-respondent JIM (or
G.) GORDON.
TAKE NOTICE that THOMAS KELLY has
commenced a suit in this Honorable Court
praying for a divorce from his wife DAISY
MARGARET KELLY on the grounds of her
adultery with you. He alleges that she com-
mitted adultery with you between the first day
of July One thousand nine hundred and forty-
one and the seventh day of August One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-one (the latter
date being the time of the signing of the
petition herein) at Alexandria Park Alexandria
and at divers other times and places in the
State of New South Wales. AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit in the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before the
Tenth day of February One thousand nine hun-
dred and forty-two and in the event of your
not doing s p within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed Solicitor free of all charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of November,
1941.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ADRIAN C. R. TWIGG & KENNY, Solici-
tor for the Petitioner, 160 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
them, and though, as Velocity is only
four years old, further wins in big handi-
caps may be possible for him, Son of
Aurous may not repeat his Melbourne
Cup form. The fact of being a gelding
is something in his favor, but the chances
are that, at seven years, he will not make
improvement in keeping with the addi-
tional weight he is now bound to re-
ceive. However, the £2200 he earned at
the Melbourne Cup meeting should keep
him on the credit side for some time.
* * * *
Occasionally buyers of yearlings have to
wait a long time for a return, and some-
times never get any. This merely empha-
sises the luck attaching to the purchase of
youngsters. Men who have proved them-
selves sound judges of horseflesh can be
as far astray as the veriest novice when it
comes to selecting a potential champion.
It is doubtful whether many trainers
of prominence have missed counselling
the purchase at a fairly high figure of
some yearling that, if it won at all, never
got higher than moderate suburban form.
On breeding most yearlings catalogued
at the sales should be able to gallop, but
it does not follow that they will. For
instance, some of the best blood in Aus-
tralia was represented in the acceptors
for the two divisions of the Maiden
Highweight at Rosehill on Saturday, and
19 had reached four years or over with-
out giving much promise. Their sires
included Pantheon, Chatham, Gaine Car-
rington, Grand Boy, Denis Boy, Constant
Son, Andrea, Bullhead, Windbag,
Tippler and Silverado. Among the three-
year-olds were runners by Spearfelt,
Beau Pere, Harinero, Bulandshar, Picca-
dilly, Peter Pan, Chatham and The Buz-
zard. Some of these may win, but the
odds are against several ever doing so.
• * * «
F. McGrath expects to have Beau Vite
back at the end of December, and, chat-
ting about his recent form, said he
thought he was a shade better than last
spring. After the L. K. S. Mackinnon
Stakes he did not credit any of the older
horses with a particularly good chance of
beating him in the Melbourne Cup, and
he did not lose sight of lightly-weighted
Son of Aurous. He reckoned the princi-
pal danger would be Skipton, if he were
a really good three-year-old—which he
happened to be. If High Road had been
engaged the Sydney man would have
given him preference, as he reckoned he
did better at the finish of the Derby than
either Skipton or Laureate. Since then
High Road has won the Batman Stakes,
and if he is as good as Beau Vite’s trainer
believes he will take a deal of beating in
the Eclipse with 7.9, which is exactly
weight for age.
* * * ♦
It would not be surprising if High
Caste finished his racing next year. In
a measure he has been unlucky this
season. His attack of colic told against
his Epsom chance, and though he finished
some distance back in the Cantala some
good judges are of opinion that if he
had escaped getting into a very awk-
ward position in the straight he would
have made a good winning bid. Great
weight-carrier as he has shown himself
he will now get sufficient to make handi-
cap wins difficult. The Caulfield Futurity
Stakes may give him his best chance of
another really valuable win before his
retirement. He won last year with 10.6,
and the previous year was second to
Ajax. For such a heavy-bodied horse
the way he has stood up to racing is re-
markable.
* * * *
Compared with a few seasons ago the
A.J.C. has greatly reduced its lists of
licensed trainers and those with permits
to train. Nevertheless, a glance over the
names suggests that there are still many
individuals who find a trainer’s license or
permit more useful as an adjunct to tale-
telling or touting other people’s horses
than anything else. This is emphasised
when a horse with nothing apart from
track work to recommend it opens at
a short price for some minor race. No
matter how greatly results with his own
horses may be against his judgment,
almost any trainer can get someone to
listen to his “information,” and remember
him financially if it should prove correct.
At one time those members of the press
who reported track work were blamed for
the booming of horses, but now many
trainers are fully seized of the fact that
they have more to fear from some fellow-
trainers than anyone else.
* * * *
Amiable was one of the Sydney-trained
horses that did not shine at Flemington,
and, though another win may not be
beyond her, a return to the form that
enabled her to make the Australian
record of 1.34 j for a mile with 8.12 is
improbable. She is seven years old, and
at that age most mares of class have
passed their prime. Melbourne Cup
winners include one aged mare, Acrasia,
and she carried only 7.6.
He * * sk
High Caste has been a profitable horse
for his rider, E. Bartle. Fees provided
for by the rules would alone have re-
turned Bartle a big sum, but owners of
winners of valuable races rarely confine
themselves to bare fees. Bartle’s asso-
ciation with High Caste commenced in
1939, and since then that horse has prob-
ably returned him an income that has,
at least, worked out at four figures annu-
ally. As McMenamin is credited with
saying that his two months’ suspension,
which lost him the riding of Beau Vite,
among others, cost him £3OOO, it will be
gathered there is more in being a suc-
cessful jockey than a capable trainer.
* * sH *
It is a long time since a filly won the
A.J.C. Sires’. Produce Stakes, the last
being Cyden in 1926. On that occasion
Rampion was a 5-to-4 favorite, but a bad
getaway disposed of him. Last year All
Love was second to Yaralla, but this year
Hesione or East End may go one better.
Hesione’s form has been much superior
to everything she has met, while East
End created such a good impression when
she won at Flemington that it is thought
she may prove a tough opponent for
Hesione. The chances are, though, their
relative merits will be decided in either
the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes or Ascot
Vale Stakes, which are run before the
A.J.C. meeting. So far the Sydney colts
have not shown themselves exceptional,
but some will improve, and Riverton,
who was generally credited with being the
best of the lot prior to the A.J.C. spring
meeting, was too badly left in the
Breeders’ Plate to have any chance of
showing whether he was as good as sup-
posed. However, Hesione did not give
the Melbourne colts a look-in for the
Maribyrnong Plate, and at present she
stands out from the opposite sex as an
A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes probability.
m * * *
Rivette has finished racing, and it is
regrettable that she is debarred from the
Stud Book. In consequence her progeny
will be ineligible for Derbies and St.
Legers. Her omission is due to non-
registration within a certain period and
not to there being anything amiss with
her breeding. Her dam, Riv, is in the
Stud Book, and the progeny of her
daughters since Rivette will be able to
run in classic races, while those of Rivette
(a Caulfield and Melbourne Cup winner)
are barred. It is a pity if there is no
way out, as, while it is only right Stud
Book regulations should be observed, the
position in this case is anomalous —in
fact, rather absurd.
* * * *
When Fenelon won the New York
Handicap at Belmont Park last month
he ran the two and a quarter miles in
3.47, which was a record for the track,
and a quarter-second faster than
Marauder’s Australian best in an Austra-
lian Cup with 7.4. Fenelon, who is a
four-year-old, carried 8.7, and beat the
three-year-old Market Wise (8.6) two
lengths. Fenelon’s share of the $58,000
attached to the race was $40,500 (approxi-
mately £A 12,650). It was a day of heavy
betting on the tote, as, though the attend-
ance was slightly less than 23,000, the
turnover for the afternoon was
$1,451,630 (about £A453,600).
* * * *
Three-year-olds High Road and Prima-
vera should have a lot to say in the
decision of the Eclipse Stakes. They
were third and fourth respectively in the
Victoria Derby, and that form was suffi-
ciently good to make them preferable to
the older horses next Saturday. True
Flight won the Eclipse Stakes with 8.3
last year, but has 71b. more this time.
Evergreen was unlucky in the Williams-
town Handicap, but in addition to
extra weight he may be getting a little
tired, and Historian and Lucrative may
stand a better chance than anything else
of beating the three-year-olds,
* * * *
The A.J.C. Derby did not do anything
towards boosting N.S.W. three-year-olds
as stayers, and Melbourne running
emphasised they were lacking in that
respect. They did not show up in the
Derby or Cup, and in the autumn they
are unlikely to furnish formidable oppo-
sition to the Melbourne division. The
trainer of Galliard is said to still look
forward to that colt developing into a
high-class stayer, though on what he
bases his hopes is hard to say. Galliard
ran second in the A.J.C. Derby, but
since then has not acted up to that form.
Chatham’s Choice and It’s Funny did
not improve upon anything they had
shown in Sydney, and there now appears
little hope of Prince proving as good as
he promised last autumn. Yaralla is still
the best of our three-year-olds, but though
breeding is not against him he has yet
to prove himself really good beyond a
mile.
♦ * * *
The prices recently realised by blood-
stock in Melbourne might tend to
optimism concerning the next annual
yearling sales, but, without being unduly
pessimistic, it seems to me that the out-
look for breeders is not really bright.
The latest taxation will cut so deeply
into the incomes of men who bought
yearlings in the past that they may not
be among next year’s buyers. In the cir-
cumstances, the odds will be against high
prices, and an all-round falling-off in
Melbourne and Sydney averages is more
than a possibility. So far, youngsters
which realised high prices in Melbourne
and Sydney last autumn have not given
their owners cause for special gratifica-
tion, and, as happened so often in other
seasons, the chances are some never will.
« * * *
In N.S.W. the State’s revenue from
horseracing and greyhound racing for
the year ending June, 1941, was £349,402
Is. 4d., against £320,436 17s. 4d. for the
previous year. As compared with 1939-40
there was an increase in the amount
received from bookmakers’ betting taxes,
racecourse admission tax, greyhound rac-
ing and totalisator, and a falling-off in
revenue from racing clubs and associa-
tions and bookmakers’ licenses. One
thing naturally productive of comment is
that the totalisator should have returned
£121,770 15s. lid. and the bookmakers
only £98,873 13s. in direct betting taxa-
tion. Of course, licenses paid by book-
makers to the Government and their
share of licenses paid to the clubs would
swell their contribution to the State, but
as their turnover at metropolitan meet-
ings is, at a moderate computation, at
least five times as much the amount
put through the totalisator, the differ-
ence in favor of the latter on actual bet-
ting taxation is remarkable. No one
interested in racing would like a depar-
ture from the present dual system on
our racecourses of books and totalisator,
but the foregoing figures suggest that
some day a Government keen on in-
creased revenue from all sources will
move for the totalisator as the sole bet-
ting medium on racecourses.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Bennell v. Elliott
No wild fireworks to speak of in the
meeting of Hockey Bennell and George
Elliott at Leichhardt last week ; even so
it was the best scrap witnessed in Sydney
for many moons.
George, who was extra smart when he
fought as a fedder, looked well with the
welter poundage on him, and had lost
little of his speed. He provided, in fact,
the answer to the stoush-addict’s prayer,
being fast enough and aggressive enough
to keep Hockey continuously boxing, and
there’s no doubt that, when thus gin-
I gered up, North Sydney’s ambulating re-
frigerator is a dandy boxer.
Save for a bit of holding at one stage
by Hockey, both boxed cleanly and with
serious intent. Early it looked as if
George might land the money. In the
fast exchanges he was getting in some
heavy rights below the ribs, and now and
then a peach of a hook. Up to the fifth
round it was anybody’s fight. This was
a clinking round, packed with every-
thing a pair of good boxers can let
loose and just as good as an exhibition
of the art of defence on both sides. Evi-
dently it took most out of George.
From here on Hockey had a slight edge
on him, all but outing him when, in the
seventh, George catapulted from the
ropes on to the end of a long right.
George seemed dazed, and, as he
when he’s going well on points, Ho y
showed mercy. , .
Over the last few rounds, thougn
George was trying as gamely as .^ ve L
Hockey took pretty well all of it on
gloves, arms or elbows, what time ne
cut George about a bit with straign
lefts. Hockey nicely on points ; the bes
performance present onlooker has ever
seen him put up in a non-title engage-
ment.
* * * *
N. S. Wales welter Jimmy Dundee
thoroughly trounced the Queensland
lightweight champion, Lisle Law, at
Brisbane Stadium last week. Dundee
(10.0 H was actually lighter than Law,
who went 10.2|. That was the Queens-
lander’s only advantage. Without calling
on his devastating right cross, Dundee
boxed to a points win that tallied out at
11 rounds his way out of the 12 fought.
A bad cold was held to account for Law’s
poor showing. He had previously put a
string of visitors from the south through
the hoop, including such pretty good
ones as A 1 Kimber and George Elliott.
Law won that string of bouts per k.o. or
technical k. 0., but against Dundee he
couldn’t raise a punch.
O’Reilly’s bowling has been the
feature of Sydney’s grade cricket this
season. In five matches he has taken 45
wickets at 7.5. He got his team,
St. George, out of a very nasty
mess against West. West led by 10 runs
on the first innings, with only an after-
noon left for play. St. George closed
at 7 for 145, leaving West with 135 to
get in 120 minutes. In an hour or so
it was all over: West, 66; O’Reilly, six
for 28.
St. George leads in the competition.
Mosman and Paddington are together
next.


GILLETTE
SHOULDERED
Only Gillette machines
can make this long-life blade
Only Gillette’s own machines, with their micro-
sensitive adjustments, can give three angles in the
formation of the cutting edge. And only those
three angles, forming a sort of shoulder or buttress
behind the cutting edge, are strong enough to give
a really long shaving life. Mind you, no edge is
strong enough to stand rough handling, but if you
will remember never to touch the edges (especially
when unwrapping the blade) and always to lather
richly, you will get even longer shaving comfort
per blade.
USE
GILLETTE
AND SAVE STEEL
Gillette sets 2/8} to 48/6. Blue Gillette Blades 5 for 1/7 i
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (TTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
BUY
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
%0\
CRAVEN A
nem vatie*- tbetfte,,
always smcttt+faslr!
mMf
o
m
A
E 1867
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT
TOTH
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
“K.P.”: Brisbane Children’s Hospital
claims one of the lowest-known mortality
rates —a drop from 3.16 p.c. to 1.94 p.c.
of admissions in the last 10 years.
Analysis of reasons shows a marked fall
in pneumonia deaths since the introduc-
tion of sulphopyridin treatment in 1938,
particularly amongst older children, and
a steady decrease in diphtheria since the
establishment of the immunisation cam-
paign—all deaths which now occur are
amongst the non-immunised. Moreover,
it is contended that 10 fatalities from
whooping-cough would have been pre-
vented had the victims been immunised
against that disease also, a simple and
painless procedure. Gastro-enteritis deaths
lessen steadily as mothercraft and home
conditions improve, largely the work of
baby clinics. Blood transfusions in acute
illnesses have given valuable results. But
even yet a substantial proportion of
deaths are due to parents taking sick
children to hospital too late for medical
aid to save their lives.
* * * *
“Poi-poi”: There is no more active
booster for his district than the Bowen
correspondent of “N.Q. Register.” In a
recent issue, after booming Bowen toma-
toes and sympathising with local growers
over the poor prices for the same, he
asked:
Are our farmers aware of the fact that
in N.S.W. alone there are at least 275 towns
with a population of about 1000, 46 with
a population of over 10,000 and 29 with
a population of over 20,000? Why not
make a direct canvass of these towns and
cities and supply their retailers direct?
The enthusiast must be counting Sydney
suburbs in his estimate of populated
towns. Apart from that, he’s forgotten
both the Queensland and N.S.W. Trans-
port Strangulation Acts, both States’
marketing boards and the inflexible
determination of State Governments to
stop the free trading of products inter-
state. Most of N.S.W. would gladly
gobble up Bowen’s tomatoes ; but how
to get them, brother, how to get them!
* * * •
“Norther”: Travellers on the outskirts
of Townsville (Q.) were demoralised when
a hive of bees fell off a lorry. Eight
people were taken to hospital, seven with
stings and a woman with stings and
an arm badly bitten by a maddened
horse —she gamely tried to free it as the
bees swarmed round—and all along the
road bikes, cars, lorries and sulkies were
left abandoned as their owners fled from
the angry insects. It suggests that ’planes
dropping hives on attacking troops might
be one way of winning this war.
* * * «
“Sherlock’s Offsider”: The pyjama-girl
case is in the news again, a Sydney
doctor having claimed that he has “scien-
tific evidence” that the body found on
the Howlong-road (N.S.W.) about seven
years ago was that of Anna Philomena
Morgan, N.S.W. police won’t entertain
the theory, holding that Anna Philomena
was traced to Queensland and that she is
still alive. Queensland police, for their
part, are convinced that Anna Philomena
is identical with Jean Morris, found mur-
dered at Ayr (Q.) in 1932 and whose
killer is still at large. The double mys-
tery would make a plot for a detective
thriller.
♦ ♦ ♦ •
“T.D.”: A Cockle Bay man recently
strode into the office of Rockhampton
“Bulletin” and, pushing a box under the
editorial nose, whipped the lid off. The
editorial eye took one look at the con-
tents and went over backwards in a
natural spasmodic backmove from the
vicinity of the largest barking spider ever
seen in captivity. The thing was fully
three inches across, black and with white
marks on the joints of its legs. Hur-
riedly shooing the Cockle Creek man and
his specimen off the premises, the
editorial pen then wrote vigorously that
though “we have no record of the venom
of these spiders, all earth-living spiders
are equipped with strong fangs and
poison glands, and should be handled
with care.”
* * * *
“23-4”: Killed in the Middle East,
Sergeant-Pilot Hugh McMaster, who
represented Queensland at Rugby Union
and was conspicuous in surf life-saving
activities. He played for the G.P.S. and
R.A.A.F. clubs, was 26 and the son of a
Hamilton family.
* * sp *
“Koler”; Reserved occupations won’t
stop the right sort. In the control room
of H.M, Aurora when the enemy con-
voy was shattered in the big British blow
in the Mediterranean on 9/11 /’4l was
John W. Markwell, able seaman. He
was taking the medical course at Queens-
land University—he had passed his third
exam. —when war came. He tried to join
the A.I.F. and was knocked back because
he was in a reserved occupation. With
12 other students he enlisted in the
R.A.N., and last February got to England
and joined the R.N. He is the son of a
Brisbane doctor.
* * * *
“Dret W.”; The imagination of a
neurotic woman had an appalling
sequel in Queensland. The body of a
single man, 45 years old, who had held
a good job, was taken from the Albert
River four days after the beginning of
a maintenance action by the woman
against her husband. At the inquest she
said she had told her husband that she
had committed adultery with the dead
man, but confessed that her story was
moonshine, that she had been reading
a “True Story” magazine and that her
“lover” was a figment of the imagination.
The dead man had insisted on her pub-
lishing an apology and she had done so.
But she admitted to the coroner that she
believed the poor devil had taken his life
because he could not face his family
after the maintenance case.
♦ * ♦ »
“Cincture 2”: The rat plague has
practically vanished from the Pent-
land (Q.) grape country and a good
yield is expected; but the native
field mice are doing a lot of dam-
age among fodder crops. As one
outraged vigneron declared, “These blanky
animals can smell the flamin’ seeds a
man sows, even though there’s a spread
of lime and sulphur over the top of the
ground.” Melon and pumpkin seeds are
their favorites; so is maize, the trouble
with the last being that bags of corn
brought in from the paddock often carry
a few mice, and then there’s a rodents’
picnic in the shed. The local cat isn’t
impressed by lectures about its duty, and
continues to ignore the beasties with a
superciliousness that maddens.
* * * *
“Kolgar”: The passing of kings these
days is scarcely noticed in the rush of
events, since it is not monarchy against
monarchy but political creed versus its
opposite today. In 1914-18 thrones
toppled one after another, and since then
there have been abdications, voluntary
and compulsory. Wherever the dead
kings meet, there will now come among
them Woolgar, commonly known as Sam,
whose death occurred in his Flinders
River (Q.) palace last week. His last official
appearance was at the Richmond races,
when he wore his royal insignia, the in-
scribed plate of office presented to him
by a station manager over 40 years ago.
He was proud of it to the end, and went
to the bourne of majesty the last of his
tribe and wearing his insignia, a feat that
plenty of once-more-powerful kings did
not achieve.


Women ’ s Letters
From Melbourne
Toorak’s massed infantry made a
frontal attack on the victuals provided
on Saturday by Mrs. Clive Baillieu and
daughter Mary at the garden party they
staged on the grassy slopes and under the
flowering shrubs of the family demesne
in St. George’s-road, by name Kamil-
laroi. Party was to aid local efforts,
including Northcote Kindergarten and
Berry-street Foundling Home, and the big
idea was to give youngsters a nursery-
tea instead of the sticky sweets and ice-
creams with which they usually regale
themselves at these shows while mothers
take afternoon tea. In these maidless
days Toorak appreciated the notion, and
the rows of the best babies at a really-
truly tea was a sight for the gods and a
cause for thought, for no doubt those
who get best fed in youth look very well
on it, and the place was full of raging
beauties of one and two years. They
went off home after the “do” mostly in
prams and go-carts, which are more
prominent on Toorak roads than cars just
now.
Mrs. Abbott, wife of Northern Terri-
tory’s Administrator, has been down on
private and Red Cross business, and has
been striking a blow, and a sturdy one,
for the beloved Territory. Thinks we
are overdoing our plaints of the desola-
tion and uncomfortableness that travel-
lers among us have found up there, and
says “Now look at our hotels!” Natu-
rally most of us have to take her word
for them, but she insists that they are
superb. Mrs. Abbott’s stay here at G.H.
coincided with the Duff Coopers’, and
there was quite a gathering of Empire
about the place when the Barclay Harvey
dame and family arrived by the Adelaide
express. When Mrs. Abbott had told all
about Red Cross up above all were
amazed, and then slightly ashamed of
their own efforts, which seemed puny
compared with the big ones of this little
corner of the continent.
The Duff Cooper pair got full marks
for sociability. They have just thawed
the old hearts of the boys—and girls—
who were young when they were merry
youngsters. Seeing them at the Mel-
bourne Town Hall getting together with
the Lord Mayoral lady (her better-half,
being on a visit to another State, left his
part of the job to Cr. Campbell) the
thought rose unbidden that sooner or
later they would make excellent vice-
regals. One of the most alluring virtues
of the feminine half of this team of two
is her capacity for giving the women a
start with her clothes fancies. You never
know when it’s to be stockings or no
stockings. At the Town Hall party it
was stockings, but the day before it had
been none, and the effect was just as
good. At Royal Melbourne Hospital
Lady Diana had a crack with a couple
of probationers who were having a
quickie (milk and biscuits), and at an-
other show, the R.A.A.F. welfare centre,
she lifted up and dusted with little pats
a young man who was not quite at the
age to appreciate his luck.
Mrs. J. Ewing and Mrs. Abe Harris
are holding a little private thanksgiving
service, all on account of the results of
the bridge party and garden fair at
Umina, where the Isaac Isaacs duo have
pitched their tent. It was the old Bayles
home, and its trees are mellow with age
and good living, and after the double-
barrelled event of the afternoon a late-
afternoon party was also staged. Every-
one said it just could not be done ; times
were too hard. But the fact of about
£350 net faces the energetic committee,
and that, even when divided by two and
distributed between the Travellers’ Aid
and the Free Kindergarten, is not to be
sniffed at. Beauteous damsels, it is true,
wandered about the grounds collecting
cash gifts, but that a threefold function,
for such it truly was to those who spent
their money there and played bridge,
should so succeed suggests that the
Federal Treasurer should take note of
the qualities of Mrs. Ewing and Mrs.
Harris as shekel-gatherers.
Women in these parts are taking recon-
struction very seriously, and after-the-
war planning occupies half of the com-
munity’s more heavily grey-mattered
minds. Latest to be called in to help is
Ruth Hoban, how of the Housing Com-
mission’s staff, who from February next
will be field officer to Social Studies
students. Ruth knows all the answers to
national-insurance schemes and housing
of the under-privileged. She tramped
over hundreds of acres of housing estates
in the North of England, and took an
eyeful of national insurance in London
and elsewhere. So, when there is a tidying
up of the old Melbourne hearth, and a
letting of something more than air into the
dismal dwellings of Fitzroy and Colling-
wood and South Melbourne, it will be
students of Ruth’s who will be doing the
housing officer and almoner and other
jobs for a better and brighter world, in-
cluding, of course, directive community
creches and playgrounds and medical
clinics.
Happiest girl in Melbourne these days
is pretty May Clifford (yes, she’s pretty,
lovely skin, deep brown hair and clear
blue eyes), who is clever, too, and has
won from her seven competitors the first
prize in the piano concerto festival con-
ducted at our local Town Hall. Prize,
which is two appearances with A.B.C.
Orchestra, will begin on December 11,
when she will play the whole of the
Beethoven concerto of which she played
one movement at the festival. May is a
wonderful reader of music at sight and
a first-rate accompanist, and perhaps this
is the beginning of a career of wider
than Australian importance. The runner-
up in the festival, Dallas Haslam, is also
a musical prodigy, belonging to a family
which has three musicians in it, all under
20. They play as a trio, and Dallas
plays the ’cello as well as the piano. One
disappointing incident in the festival was
that Mary MacLeod, from Ballarat, who
was much fancied for a place, could not
play because there was no printed score.
But she was game and sat in the audi-
ence and cheered her mates On to victory.
Quite a bright party at Union House,
University, was that given by the B. T.
Zwars—he is president of Royal Mel-
bourne Hospital, and just too, too proud
of the lovely new building which has
literally sprung up on Sydney-road where
Flemington-road branches off. The party
was to refresh a few important people
who had witnessed the laying of the
foundation stone of the new hospital.
Time was when foundation stones were
what their name implies, but Royal Mel-
bourne doesn’t lean too heavily on its
stone, the building being quite ready for
the guests to inspect. Specially fine are
the nurses’ quarters, and many an old
nurse, mindful of the sort of place in
which nurses used to be housed, will rub
her eyes as she surveys its manifold
beauties and utilities. At the Union
House party Mrs. G. G. Henderson, Mrs.
“Bung” Wilmot and “Bung,” Jessie Bage
and Mrs. Sidney Myer were among the
tea-drinkers.
This is Heather Parker, who will play
Eliza Doolittle in the Un-named Players'
production of “Pygmalion” in Central
Hall on November 26. Fran?ois photo-
graph.
Always fresh faces, and old ones missed
for a while, when one strolls on Collins-
street these afternoons. A new one is
Ada Weinman, from Malaya, who is on
a busman’s holiday from her conserva-
toire at Kuala Lumpur. She has many
a tale to tell of the value put on certifi-
cates for proficiency in music by Malayan
husbands, who hang wifey’s bits of paste-
board up in the conjugal residence to
show what a pearl of price they have
acquired. Also seen in our most atmo-
spheric street these days is Reta Findlay,
back from America and the Bahamas.
Reta has seen much of the Windsors
during her stay in Nassau, and, like many
who have had a close-up, she’s an en-
thusiast for the Duchess. Reta got about
plenty in the States, and, what with
lunching with La Guardia and hearing
Eleanor Roosevelt and hobnobbing with
the film colony’s best and brightest, she
has seen quite a bit.
To catch them young and give them
evenings of relaxation in the arts or
drama is one of the aims in connection
with new members of the Pilgrim Theatre
Group. The newly-formed group, an
offshoot of the Un-named Players, meets
every fourth Tuesday for music, play-
readings, literary discussions, etc., at
Mrs. Maie Hoban’s studio. Early in the
new year the Pilgrims will put on their
first play, “The Women” (owing to the
dearth of men). Times have changed.
From Sydney
Last week, valiant about the cenotaph
blew the poppy. In wreaths interlaced
with laurel, in cross arid in posy, it had
been placed there by the loving living
who will not forget the brave dead.
Once again Sydney had stood in silence
for the two minutes when the past be-
comes the present and memory holds the
door. Recent memory it was, obviously,
for some slim girls who stood a little
blanched of cheek and lip, but steadfast
of eye. Names that were something
rattled off in schooldays as part of a
geography lesson are now the urns of
their immortal dead.
Martin-place could scarcely hold the
thousands who thronged it for the Armis-
tice Service when the flags came to half-
mast for “The Last Post” and flew out
again bright with courage at the reveille.
Among the poppies and the laurels the
Governor, who was at the ceremony
of remembrance, placed his wreath. A
tribute to be noticed was that from the
Free French. Here, framed in laurel, were
white rose and blue delphinium, and
against this background a cross of dark-
red roses. Three great creamy magnolias
drew the gaze: “Ah!” said a girl to the
elderly woman with her, “I wonder what
dreams they hold!” “They might be
dreams for the future. They might be a
symbol,” her companion said musingly,
“for Faith and Hope and Charity!”
The lead in “Balalaika” calls for good
looks, good voice and the ability to act.
Mollie Grouse, who took the part of
Lydia Marakov, is the lucky possessor
of all three qualifications, and so she in
no small way helped to make a success
of the three-night season put on by the
Mosman Musical Society. Mollie had
also appeared in the society’s recent
presentation of “No, No, Nanette.”
Before that she had played lead with the
Petersham Musical Society for over a
year. Raymond Sawyer photograph.
Against the grim background of the
Tower of London the tragic story of Jack
Point and his Merry Maid was told once
again at Sydney Royal last Saturday. As
gallant a company of yeomen of the
guard as this, city has seen was assembled,
halberds and . all, on the stage ; as varied
an audience as the old theatre has held
packed the stalls and circles. Here were
elderly couples, teen-old girls with their
soldiers, sailors and airmen. Here was
middle-age initiating small daughter and
son into the Gilbert and Sullivan Asso-
ciation, Unlimited, whose members are
to be found in every corner of the globe,
and on whom, even as on the Empire, the
sun never sets,
Sydney is seeing something of the Duff
Coopers this week. Yesterday Mayor
Stanley Crick and his Mayoress gave a
late-afternoon party in their honor. To-
morrow they are to eat luncheon with the
Red Cross Society and friends to benefit
Prisoners of War Fund. In the late
afternoon, Government House is hand-
ing out cocktails.
Doors for the C.U.S.A. fete at the Town
Hall did not officially open till 2.30,
and even then some mysterious bits of
carpentering were causing the hammer
to sound. Fortunately it did not fall
near the stall where Mrs. Toby Browne
was unpacking blonde and brunette eggs
direct from Binalong. Here, too, the
Snowden lady and other helpers were
plucking sixpences in exchange for tickets
in raffles of sheepskin vests, silk pyjamas
and ornate cakes.
Mrs. M. J. O’Neil, president of
C.U.S.A., was not at the opening, because
of a family bereavement, but daughter
Willa ably held the fort. Mary Kath-
leen Woods, too, looked after her bureau
of information (run in conjunction with
the Prisoners of War Stall), handed
orchids to the Mayoress, who accom-
panied Sydney’s Mayor, and handed out
messages from mother, now convalescing
at Manly. Another mother whose
daughter is taking a hand is Mrs. Geof-
frey Hughes. Her stall, with its frieze
of R.A.A.F. poster and picture, held
quite a display of glass jars and cards
whose designs had been painted by
daughter Constance.
Dr. George Duncan’s pretty wife was
busy at a stall stocked with everything
necessary to baby’s wardrobe and toilet.
The C.U.S.A. hut, near St. Mary’s, was
represented by a glittering stall. The
Navy unit, too, had its colors flying.
“Tales of Hoffmann” went tunefully
on its way for four nights last week —
proof that the Con. Opera School has
made a definite place for itself in the
life of the city. Sydney de Vries was
the villain throughout. Isolde Hill as
the delicate Antonia and Dorothy D’Orn
as Giulietta had the right voices and act-
ing for the company they kept, and here
it might be said that the Venetian setting
by scenic artist Anne Kingston was strik-
ingly effective. Reginald Willoughby was
the young man who embellished his un-
lucky love affairs with rich notes.
Attractive 19-year-old radio star Jean
Hatton made her first appearance in
opera as Olympia, the doll. Here her
high sweet voice and the mechanical but
dainty actions were a winning double.
The old-established opera firm of Hoog-
stoel, Mulligan and Foster was respon-
sible for the presentation. It is probably
one of the best offerings of the Con.
Opera School.
In compliment to his calling in life,
a ship in full sail was at each end of the
dais when Commodore Muirhead-Gould
declared the 1941 Arts and Crafts Show
open, and what a wedding of ideas to
have a man of the sea launch it! Be-
fore going further, it is to be stated
that his wife’s hat was among things
admired and desired. Other items under
that title are the toys —lovable, cuddle-
some platypus, teddy-bear and baby Too
among them. How easily the gentle
animals of this kindly land lend them-
selves to be modelled as baby’s pets!
There was also a dashing horse whose
style the A.J.C. might copy. He was
dappled with confetti spots and had a
yellow-and-crimson mane. Nance Mac-
Kenzie’s linens and fabrics had caught
pine cones and golden ears of wheat and
gulls and feathers in their folds. Nancy
Davidson’s posies and necklaces of
natural nuts bring the bushland to the
boudoir. Isabel Mackenzie’s Limerick-
lace fan and the peacock-feather one
by Olive Nock might have been inspired
by Austin Dobson.
The china and the pottery are even
better than usual, and there are reason-
ably priced pieces of Ada Newman blue,
Vi Eyre’s inlaid pottery and Nell
Holden’s blue-and-white slip decorations,
as well as exquisite bowls, vases, coffee
and tea sets by a small army of artistic
workers. Among the exhibitors of fine
stitchery is Rosalie Wilson. Loud praise
goes to Mrs. Sterling Levis for her
arrangements of a comprehensive exhibit
of the arts and crafts of Britain’s allies.
If the National Gallery is looking for
treasure let it gaze on Queenslander Mrs.
Pederson’s hand-lettered and illuminated
“Jackdaw of Rheims.”
News has been received by Ivy Mac-
donald, of Neutral Bay, that niece Joan
Marie Macdonald was married to Con-
rad Terkelsen at Boston on September 20.
Joan’s father is the son of Neil Mac-
donald, of Wycombe-road. He served in
the 1914-18 war, and on his return prac-
tised for some years in Mosman. Later
he and his wife (she is an American)
settled in Boston (U.S.A.).
There was a big roll-up of the Fel-
lowship of Australian Writers to greet
Katharine Susannah Prichard when she
passed through Sydney on her way West
from Brisbane. To meet the applause,
Katharine Susannah wore grey beige
laces and a spray of red roses. Novelist
Dalby Davison voiced the welcome of
the Fellowship and gave a resume of the
guest’s work.
The Red Cross Headquarters Younger
Set will hold its “Melody Fair” at Fair-
water on Saturday. The names of the
stalls suit the goods. Aprons and pinnies
are to be bought from H.M.S. Pinafore,
bathroom requisites from “I’m Forever
Blowing Bubbles,” ice-cream from “Roll
Out the Barrel” and so on.


THE CRAFTSMAN
By J. C. SHELLEY.
EY the door of the toolshed was a massive heap
. of bullock horns, hundreds of them gathered
J over the years from a thousand different sources.
The old man stood and surveyed them for a
long time before he put his hand on the wall and
painfully eased himself down on to a protesting knee.
For some time he knelt there on one knee fossicking
through the heap of horns. But it was a waste of
time and he knew it, though it killed time and he had
a while to wait before the mail coach came along.
He had been through the heap a hundred times
the way he was going through it now, culling, sorting,
appraising, changing till at long last he was satisfied,
and that had been a month or more ago. He got
to his feet unsteadily, walked into the toolshed.
It was a big square room with a hard-packed earthen
floor, dim with the early morning, dimmer by reason
of the blaze of light that cut a brilliant square across
the floor from the door. He propped out a wooden
shutter so that light awoke sharply all over the place,
showing up the forge with the long handle of the
bellows halfway across the room ; the water cask ;
the anvil on its block ; the old foot lathe like a sewing
machine; the hand drilling-machine on its post; the
shelves of gear and all the tools arranged neatly on
nails on a board at the back of the bench.
On a nail driven into the centre post between
the shutters was the new-plaited thong of a fourteen-
foot stockwhip. He took it down, fondling it, eyeing
it critically as he had done a hundred times in the
months since he had plaited it. There was not one
blemish in the whole of it; it was the work of a
craftsman right down to the nine-inch horsehair lash
on the end. He was proud of the job, immensely
proud. It was thirty years since he’d plaited his last
whip, and here, after all that time, he’d done a job to
be proud of. He’d lost none of his skill, none of his
cunning; a bit slower perhaps, fingers a bit awkward
and stiff, but, for all that, he had done the job.
He was prouder perhaps than he had been over
any single whip he’d ever made before, and he
had made a lot in his time. Back in the old days he
had been noted for his craft. It had been nothing to
get an order from a man in the stock country up in
Queensland, and once there had been an order from
The Centre. Those had been men who appreciated
a good whip. Provided they enclosed proper instruc-
tions he’d made them whips, any length, any thickness
of fall, depending entirely on what any particular man
considered was right. The handles he had put on some
of those whips had been legend. Carved and embossed
wood, selected wood —wood sometimes sent over many
thousands of miles for him to carve or just to attach
a thong to. Handles of plaited hide around a spring
steel centre he had made; handles of bullock horns
with their brass or silver rings* the old man’s specialty.
Fondling this new thong in the warm sunlight
that streamed in the open shutter, he let his thoughts
stray a bit, brought them gradually back to the present.
This whip was for no drover or cattleman; it was to
be a curio for his son to hang on his lounge-room
wall down there in the city.
He hung the thong back on its nail, stared
through the angle of the shutter where he could
glimpse the road, but there was no coach in sight as
yet. His hand strayed and fondled the eighteen pieces
of horn that lay near the vice on the bench, and in-
wardly he grieved that he couldn’t get on with the job.
Everything except the long square centre bolt
lay there on the bench. He had been waiting a week
or more, so that every day it was torture waiting for
the coach to heave in sight along the dusty road. He
admired the little pieces of horn critically, knew them
to be perfect, for he’d spent the best part of a week
selecting them. Sitting on a little box alongside the
heap outside he’d taken his time, carefully selecting
each horn for its color, its taper, its soundness ; there’d
be no plaster of paris used in this handle to build up
the hollows. It had been a job that —hours, days even,
spent choosing them. Sometimes he’d jettison the lot
and start again. He’d been like a chess-player carefully
selecting his moves ; looking at a long row of horns
for long minutes at a time to move at last one from
here to there; after a while take one out and try it
somewhere else or put it aside and try another till, in
the end, he had been satisfied. After that, very carefully
and with much peering through his glasses,
he’d sawn off a little less than an inch piece
from each of those eighteen horns so that
the whole of the pieces laid end to end with
the silver rings between measured an exact
eighteen inches, coming up from an inch
and a half at the butt to a half-inch at the
top, a perfect taper that justified the hours
spent culling through the stack outside.
After that he had set up each piece of
horn in the drilling-machine and run a
quarter-inch drill true through the centre
of it. That had been ticklish work, causing
him some worry with his dim old eyes, but
he had done it and done it properly. Then
he had lit the forge, pumping slowly and
laboriously on the long handle that worked the bellows,
his old eyes peering into the hot coals where the bit
of quarter-inch square steel glowed hot. Methodically
he had clamped each piece of horn in the vice, thrust
the red-hot iron down through the drill hole, thus
making the round hole square, the pungent, bitter tang
of the sizzling horn wafting up around him, stinging
his nostrils, drifting out the open shutter and across
the yard.
I—l IS wife’s voice calling from the kitchen door
* * arrested his attention, and he went grumbling to
himself across the yard to the kitchen, where tea and
scones were waiting. While he drank his tea his eyes
wandered up to the clock ; it was almost ten. He swal-
lowed his tea quickly, spluttering with the heat of it,
got up noisily from his chair; it was strange how
time flew if you didn’t keep an eye on it. He went
down the hall and out the front door, peered anxiously
over the front gate to catch a glimpse of the coming
coach.
His wife followed him slowly down the hall,
peeped apprehensively round the sitting-room curtains.
There was something wrong with Silas these last few
days, and she couldn’t imagine what it could be. It
was worrying her so that her old face seemed more
lined than usual. In a minute or two she saw through
the gap that was the gate in the hedge the mail coach
draw up and Silas open the gate and go across. In
a few moments he was back with a long thin parcel
under his arm, and there was a grin all over his face.
The strained, worried look on her own face lifted
like a cloud that is blown away from the face of the
sun ; she smiled, smoothed down her thin white hair
contentedly. Of course, that parcel. It was the centre
bolt of that whip handle that Silas had told her about.
She went back to her work in the house feeling
rhappy and contented. He’d be his old self again now.
Not straightway perhaps, but tomorrow. Today he
would be absorbed, wrapped up in his work of finish-
ing the job, and late in the afternoon he’d bring the
whip over to her and she’d admire it, handle it, com-
ment on it, and he’d be like a starving kitten at a
saucer of milk.
'T'HE old man unrolled the paper from around his
*■ parcel, carefully examined the long square bolt, a
smile of satisfaction breaking round his lips and
spreading upwards to his eyes. It was just how he
wanted it. With slightly shaking hands her picked up
a round silver piece, fitted it. The silver piece had
already been drilled and tapped so that it screwed,
like a nut, on the end of the long square bolt; when
it was tight the end of the bolt, silver-plated, was
flush and part of the silver piece, its presence only
being detected by a faint dark ring and a centre-
punched dot in the very centre. The old man was
very proud of that fit, holding it up to the light to
see the better. He had spent hours fitting up that
handle in the first place, and after fitting it all he had
dismantled the lot and sent the bolt off to the city to
have the ends nickel-plated, so that the whole finished
job would be perfect. There had been a long delay
before it came back, but the waiting had been worth
while, he thought now.
He fitted the first piece of horn over the top of
the bolt, eased it down the whole length till it sat
firm and square on the silver piece, fitted another piece
of silver, another piece of horn, another piece of silver.
Like the pieces of horn, all those silver pieces had
had to be drilled, the hole filed out to an exact square.
Now not one piece of all those thirty-seven pieces
had so much as the slightest rock round the centre
bolt; they were a perfect fit, a tradesman’s job.
He screwed the last piece of silver on top, tight-
ened it down till he was satisfied, stood with the
handle balanced aeross his hand. He took it across
to the lathe, set it up between the centres. When the
handle ran true between the lathe centres he sat down
on the high stool, adjusted his glasses more firmly on
his nose, peering through them at the point of the
tool, following its traverse from the keeper end down,
a mere thin scraping of horn twirling away under the
machine. /
Satisfied with his lathing at last he ran the cut-
ting edge out of the way, took up a strip of fine emery
cloth and, putting it round the handle, held an end
in each hand while he treadled away with his old legs,
not minding the ache that was growing in his thighs.
After the emery he followed up with a bit of soft
flannel, holding it the same as he had held the emery
cloth. When he took the rag away the handle glistened
with a polish like old ivory and the colors came up
as highlights, the whole soft as satin to the palm of
the hand, each band of silver sparkling when he held
the handle up to the light.
He put the handle back in the lathe and set the
cutting edge, ran down two inches from the small
end backwards and forwards till he was satisfied that
the depth was right. Here in this break that he cut
he placed the keeper, binding it down tight and firm
and smooth with silver wire.
When the keeper was bound he could run his
hand up and down the whole length of the handle and
feel no ridge, no ripple—just a mere variation, so slight
as to be unnoticeable, where the horn gave way to
the binding. He was very proud of the job, very
pleased with it, even though he always reckoned that
the binding spoilt the whole set-up. But there was no
other way that he knew of putting that keeper on. In
the old days he had always made it a point that the
man who wanted the whip must stipulate whether the
keeper was to be bound with silver wire or waxed twine.
For himself he would never give an opinion on which
was the better, and for years he had tried devising
some other means of fixing the keeper in place.
Fixing the thong to the handle he took the com-
pleted whip outside into the brilliant sunlight, examined
it inch by inch and nodded his head in approval. He
felt good, exalted, proud of his achievement. He
swung the whip, trying its fall, the balance, the feel
of it; but it was useless, he was too stiff in the arm,
too awkward to test it properly. Slightly disappointed
but not depressed he wiped the length of it over with
a cloth, coiled the thong tidily and stalked proudly
across the yard to show it to his wife and bask awhile
in her praise.
The House Is Empty.
The house is empty . .. one by one the guests
Have said good-bye and gone their several
ways;
Slowly their figures dwindle down the lane,
Each with its silence and averted gaze.
Perspective .takes them, and the final shadows;
And none looks back, though after some a
shout
Speeding, a moment halts their step ... but then
They move again, afraid to turn about.
So ends each holiday. Would I could lose
This lonely house the senses build for me.
The too-familiar shape and hue of things
Inside and out, and poignant memory
Of friends who stay awhile and then depart.
I wait if you should come and brave its cold
Unfriendliness with constancy, to leave
Your hand in mine when we are grown too old.
N.S.W.
W. HART SMITH.
“ You'll have to duck off now, Bella, We're going to submerge.”


FOURTH GENERATION
By ESTHER ROLAND.
THE big photograph of Old Bill, with its carved,
massive frame, used to hang over the mantel-
piece in the dining-room at Boolawogan. The
photograph was so enormous that, looking back,
you remembered those Sunday dinners at Boolawogan
as being presided over by Old Bill himself, complete
with baleful eyebrows and streaked dark beard.
You seemed to have known always that this was
Old Bill, though when you first discovered that he
was your grandfather’s father the relationship seemed
preposterous. After a while it seemed natural enough
that even Grandfather should have had a father, and
you found out other things about Old Bill. He’d been
a cruel old devil. Grown-ups told you that rather
admiringly, and added that most of ’em were cruel in
those days. Even Grandfather would talk sometimes
of the thrashings he used to get and the work he’d
been made to do as a boy—not pampered like kids
were nowadays.
But Grandma told you most. She’d ask you to
fetch a cushion for her, or something like that, and
keep you there afterwards while she talked about old
times, and you’d be twitching with resentful im-
patience, aching to be off to play with the others. But
somehow the things she talked about stuck in your
mind, even though you were only half-listening most
of the time. About the early settlers and how they’d
come up from the coast to squat along the banks of
the rivers. Old Bill had done that, with his wife and
your grandfather, aged three, and Great-uncle George,
who was a little baby, and a few bagfuls of sugar and
flour and things like that. They’d stopped right there
on the river, and built a bit of a place to shelter
them. And, remembering, you’d think of Boola-
wogan’s twenty brick rooms, and all the sheds about
it so that it looked like a little town, and you’d wonder
you hadn’t begun earlier to feel proud.
You were nine when your grandfather died, and
you could still remember the shock of it. You’d always
been afraid of Grandfather. He was so tall and so
bent and his legs were so bandy, and he’d roar at
you or your father alike, swearing with a variety of
oaths that you’d never heard equalled since. And then
he was dead. You still went over to Boolawogan on
Sundays, but there was a manager there, and things
were so changed that you weren’t much surprised
when Grandma died, too, a year or two later.
You learned one thing from Grandfather’s death.
You learned that he had been a wealthy man. Your
father, too, was well-off, but nothing like Grand-
father. You ski ted about it a bit to the manager’s
son, and though you liked him and had fun together
you never forgot that Boolawogan belonged to your
father and your uncles, while his father was just paid
to look after it.
Then you were sent away to school. It was the
school your father had gone to, and his name was
carved deep in a desk in 4A. You carved your own
beneath it, and cheerfully took the wigging it earned
—you were thinking that if ever you had a son you
hoped he’d carve his name beneath your own on
that same desk.
You survived the torments meted out to new
boys, and began to enjoy school. But the holidays
were better. Not just because of the freedom from
discipline, but because the country was so much
better than the city. You spent a lot of your time at
home rabbiting, and it was when you were making
the round of the traps at daybreak that you began
to think, for the first time, of the place you’d own
yourself one day.
And then suddenly it was the depression. Your
father wrote you a long letter, and you left school and
came home to start work. But it wasn’t enough. You
found out that your father had had city investments,
and that they were hardly worth a penny now. And
then one day the place was sold, land and stock and
house and electric-light plant and the truck and tractor
and the furniture —none of it was yours any longer.
You drove your mother the five miles to Boolawogan,
and she cried all the way; but she bucked up when
she got there.
After that your father managed Boolawogan, on
a salary, and you helped about the place. You didn’t
mind. Old Bill frowned down at you from the mantel-
piece, and in a way you felt that Boolawogan was
more your home than any other place could be.
When you were nineteen your father had a long
talk with you. He said there wasn’t much in it for
you at Boolawogan. He wished he could give you a
decent start, as Grandfather had given him, but he
couldn’t now. Stick to the land, he said, it was the
only thing. As though you needed telling! Anyway,
he offered you a block of pretty rough country in
Queensland which he’d bought years before. It wasn’t
much, and you’d find it tough going, but you might
be able to make something of it.
/"''ERTAINLY the Queensland block wasn’t much,
coming from Boolawogan’s carefully tended, un-
dulating pastures. It was flat and mostly scrub, and
the grass grew in tall, sparse clumps.
You bought a tent and a few head of cattle, and
settled down beside the most likely-looking waterhole.
It would have been lonely if you’d had time to think
about it, but you were busy with the axe all day,
clearing a horse paddock, and at night you went grub-
bing seedlings by lantern-light.
You’d fixed up with an agent in town to find
you a jackeroo, but it was four months before you
got one, and then you didn’t like the look of him
much. His name was Tom Willis, a weedy, pimply-
faced youth, a couple of years younger than yourself,
with “city job” written all over him. You were
further put off by his assertion, when you were driving
him out in the old Boolawogan truck your father had
cadged for you, that he’d always loved the country.
His father worked in a shipping office, and he’d have
gone there, too, only he’d wanted to try the bush. You
wondered how long he’d like the bush after he’d
tasted some work.
But he surprised you. In a week he sported a
crop of blisters that would have been enough to make
an invalid of anyone, and in addition his fair skin
was burnt a brilliant and painful scarlet. He eyed
the hard black beef which was your ration three times
a day rather doubtfully at first, confessing that he’d
never eaten corned meat at home. But it didn’t take
him long to work up an appetite. He was clumsy at
his work, too, even after his hands had hardened up ;
but he stuck to it.
Together you put a fence round the horse-
paddock, and installed a cow there. You had milk in
your tea now. You mortgaged the place and put a
gang of fencers on to make a dingo-proof boundary,
and you and Tom cut and carted the posts to them.
You hired some ringbarkers, too, and went at it your-
self with Tom, in between fencing.
At Christmas you gave your dog and the horses
and cow to a neighbor to look after and went home
to Boolawogan for a fortnight. You came back on
the same train as Tom, and realised with quite a
shock what a difference the six months’ work had
made to him. He looked brown and hard, and you
could see the muscles under his coat. He was eager to
start the grind again, too.
Good old Tom. He stuck it five years, working
at every sort of job from digging postholes to dosing
sheep, from building a woolshed to draining a swamp.
When he came he’d never so much as sat on a horse ;
when he left, he could gallop after cattle through thick
scrub without turning a hair. He never lost his enthu-
siasm for the bush. In all those years, working from
daybreak through gruelling hours till the sun had set
at last, going into town four or five times a year, living
on corned beef and potatoes and tea, he kept his first
eager belief that this was the life worth living.
In those last two years before Tom left you could
look around and feel a bit pleased with yourself.
You’d done a lot, you and Tom. You’d built a place
to live in, half-shed, half-cottage, and you had tank
water to drink ; but it was the land itself you liked to
look at. Some of it was beginning to look like the
Boolawogan paddocks—acres of long, pale-yellow
grass, with shade trees here and there, and sheep mov-
ing steadily into the wind.
Every mail there was a sheaf of stuff for Tom,
all from agents and all boosting properties which they
were sure would suit his requirements. You’d talk
over their respective merits interminably, with real
interest, for you were fond of old Tom. You wished
he could come in with you as a partner, but unless
his old man parted up with some dough there wasn’t
any hope of it; and, besides, the place really wasn’t
big enough or good enough to provide a decent living
for two. Tom used to write dozens of letters to his
father, extolling the virtues of one property or another,
and begging an advance so he could snap it up ; but
Willis, senior, wasn’t too keen on the land. There
was an insurance job he wanted Tom to take. Tom
used to laugh about it at first, and enter for yet
another land ballot, so confident of winning that he
would be depressed for days when he lost.
In the end he took the insurance job. There was
nothing else to do. He couldn’t stay on indefinitely at
thirty bob a week, and you couldn’t afford more.
I T was wretchedly lonely without him at first. Then
*■ you went to a local show and met Betty Ellis.
You’d often seen her before, but this was the first time
you’d ever spoken to her; and you took her to the
pictures that night.
You spent more time than you should have then
up at the big Ellis homestead, fifty or so miles north
of your place. You told her father your plans for
the place, and you knew he liked you and thought
you’d get on. You asked Betty to marry you rather
apologetically, explaining that it would mean being
pretty poor for a start—but at least you would build
her a decent house, and with this year’s wool
cheque
But the wool cheque wasn’t what you’d counted
on. There was a real snorter of a drought, and you
got pretty sick of dragging sheep out of the bogs that
used to be waterholes. The wedding was put off, and
when you did get married you had to put up with a
few improvements to the old house, instead of build-
ing a new one. Both sets of parents were pretty
generous though, and the wedding cheques would have
given you a decent sort of start if the drought the
following year hadn’t turned out worse than ever.
Things were so bad you had to borrow a plant
and do the shearing yourself, and your father came
up from Boolhwogan to help, while Betty did most
of the mustering. When you got your cheque it just
about paid the interest and the year’s tucker ; and
Betty was going to have a baby.
Tom Willis came out of his way to see you just
about then. He drove up in a big black car —not his
own, of course—but though he looked and sounded
prosperous he was still wistful about living in the
bush. He thought it was quite like old times when
Betty explained that the muddy taste of the potatoes
was due to the creek water they’d been cooked in—
the kitchen tank was very low. And then he’d sighed,
and said he didn’t think his wife’d like the land, even
if he got a chance.
It was funny to think of Tom being married.
But then Tom probably thought it was funnier that
you should have married Betty Ellis. Betty Ellis,
smart and fresh from a city school, had seemed pretty
distant when Tom was there. You went out and
carted more water for the green vegetables, thinking
that Betty hadn’t lost her smile, and that it was a
wonder she hadn’t. But the green vegetables wouldn’t
grow, and the cows went dry, and there was no more
water in the kitchen tank. It was a rotten go for
Betty, and all you could send her to when the time
came was the second-rate local hospital.
War broke out then. You couldn’t go, of course,
with Betty’s time so close ; and anyway there was so
much work to be done. You’d been knocking suckers
off the ringbarked trees all the winter, and you felt
run-down sometimes, in need of a holiday. But the
day you brought your wife and son back home again
you didn’t feel too bad. Heat and dust and blowflies
there might be, and a haze of smoke from threatening
bushfires, while a part of you worried over the hos-
pital bill, but you had a son, and you’d called him
Bill, Drought and war were bad things, but they
passed, and some day you’d be proud to hand the
place you’d made with so much labor to Bill, who
would carry on.
There weren’t many sheep left to shear, and the
cheque that time didn’t meet the interest bill. Betty’s
father and your own came to your rescue, but neither
of them was too well off himself now, and you just
didn’t see how you were going to buy more sheep.
You got a letter from Tom. He’d joined the
Air Force, and wondered whether you’d like to get
on the ground staff like he was. His wife and Betty
could share a flat
Well, you thought about it a lot, and wrote and
asked your father’s advice. He said if you liked he’d
come up and look after the place, and someone else
could manage Boolawogan. Betty wasn’t too keen on
the idea, she was at home in the bush same as you
were ; she reckoned that in spite of the knocks it gave
you the land was the best in the long run. But all
the reasoning in the world wouldn’t buy sheep, and
you couldn’t borrow any more. So you packed up
and came to the city.
'T' HE Air Force was all right. You liked to feel
* you were doing your bit, and the work was inter-
esting ; in fact, you found you had a knack for it, and
you were told naore than once that you wouldn’t lack
for a job when the war was over. Not that you wanted
any city job. Betty and Tom’s wife got on well
together, and young Bill never looked better, though
Betty still said that the city smelt stuffy, and she’d be
glad to get back to the bush.
The other day you got a letter from your father,
saying that there was a chap who wanted to buy the
place. You turned it all over in your mind a dozen
times. You weighed all your hopes and ambitions for
the place, and the sweat you’d put into it, and the
inescapable fact that the bush was where you wanted
to live and work. You thought that maybe things
would be different after the war. You thought of
Bill, and of how you wanted the place to be for him ;
and of Old Bill, too —that he’d made a go of things,
so why couldn’t you? But then you thought of mort-
gages and wool prices and freights and droughts, and
how there wasn’t a living on your sort of place now
and no one could say for certain that there would be
after the war. The money would come in very handy
for young Bill.
You told Betty all about it.
“But there’s Bill!” she said. “You wouldn’t like
to see Bill in a city job, would you?”
In the end you did the sensible thing and sold out.


ECONOMISE
■ by iakino
Dr. Morses Indian Root Pills
IN the present great need for economy an important point
is to realise that economy does not mean going without
necessities, but an avoidance of unnecessary expense.
In the latter category a frequently
heavy item is ill-health, which in
addition to medical expenses often
involves loss of wages and even
employment.
Hence it is essential to keep a
careful watch on one’s health, the
first and greatest precaution being
to see that the bowels operate
regularly—at least once a day. This
is one of Nature’s laws, and woe
betide those who defy it.
To maintain the bowels and other organs of digestion in a
regular condition Nature often requires some assistance. For
this purpose Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are specially suited,
and bear a world-wide reputation. They stir the Liver, act
on the Stomach, and stimulate the Bowels, thus opening
and toning the clogged-up system, and making it better able
to combat Life’s Little Daily Ills.
mmmM
When buying be sure and
get DR. MORSE'S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS ,
which are enclosed in this
familiar label printed in blue.
df
s*ss>n(
J|
*
Hiiiwiiwwwivmfe
A
IWWWWW
iTitmwuiufttwwiwminni
Qa rikdiver
PILLS
They Make You Look and Feel Better and
CRANKY
CHILDREN
Are Often the
Victims of Worms.
A child who is affected with Thread
Worms will often appear to the eye to
be n an indifferent state of health. It
becomes peevish and irritable in its
temper. Another point to which the
attention of mothers should be specially
directed is that the child is apt to start
in its sleep, its repose being in the way
of a disturbed nature.
Unfortunately many mothers fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones are
suffering intense pain and distress, and are
practically irresponsible for the outbursts
of temper, restlessness and peevishness,
and until some more serious symptoms
appear nothing is done to alleviate the
distress. The symptoms of this disease are
somewhat variable, but generally they are
so characteristic that no mother need have
any doubt. The best proof of worms is
worms, and if the general conduct of the
child is such as to give the slightest sus-
picion a careful watch will give ample
proof.
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents of
the bowels, generally occasion pain or un-
easiness in the abdomen, sometimes spas-
modic, sometimes gnawing and biting, and
not infrequently of a vague, indescribable
character, and yet very distressing. Sympa-
thetic with this is a sensation of itching
at the nostrils, producing a disposition to
pick the nose, which is characteristic of the
affection. The bowels are often disordered,
sometimes relaxed, as in dysentery. The
appetite is exceedingly variable; in some
cases natural, in others deficient, craving,
or depraved, one condition not infrequently
alternating with another. The abdomen is
often hard, swollen and tympanetic, the
breath heavy or foetid, and tongue furred,
with disagreeable taste, and a copious flow
of saliva; swelling of the upper lip, bleed-
ing of the nostrils, and disposition to grind
the teeth during sleep are other character-
istic symptoms. The effects, however,
often extend beyond the alimentary canal,
and various derangements of health are
experienced in consequence, either of the
direct irritation of the worms or of the
disordered digestion which they occasion.
Among the most common of these are ner-
vous affections, such as fretfulness, irrita-
tion of temper, wakefulness or disposition
to excessive sleep, disturbed sleep, sudden
starting out of sleep as if from fright,
dizziness, spasmodic movements of the
eyelids, temporary blindness and deafness.
General convulsions are not infrequent in
children, and have been ascribed to worms,
and ceased on their expulsion.
.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot" Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal prepara-
tion compounded on a scientific principle
for the eradication of worms which infest
the intestines. They contain specific proper-
ties which destroy the worms, but cause
no injury to the stomach or bowels, and
do not weaken the system. The pellets are
prepared in the form of a confection or
lolly, have no disagreeable taste or smell,
but on the contrary inspire children to
take them as they would an ordinary
sweet.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Parish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/1 per box (six boxes 12/-), post
fre "
If writing, please mention The
Bulletin. ’’
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
g
•For local office, address
see Page 3.
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
* 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-).
SEND “THE BULLETIN” TO
THE LADS OVERSEAS—
Special Concession Rates:
12 months 15/-
6 months .... 8/-
3 months . 47-
post free.
X<*\
(S e<s
c°^
(0-
*
0<
•vS«
.*** .•** A
••-■■ ..-••> s V>f
..-■•••
,•* ,* *‘v Cfc' AO^


There Is No Substitute
for QUALITY
nowN through the centuries the Imperial
Spirit has advanced with ever-increasing
strength, inspiring the pioneer and transform-
ing the wilderness.
As an all-Australian link in the Imperial chain
of industrial achievement stands the won-
derful success of WILLIAM ARNOTT PTY.,
LIMITED. An outstanding success, too, based
on the highest standards of integrity and
efficiency. . . National standards, unaltered
by time or distance.
It is therefore an inspiring thought to Aus-
tralians that the rich yield of their own fertile
«
countryside can be converted into a perfect
product with a world-wide demand, and that
the process of manufacture is unsurpassed in
efficiency and hygiene.
d
*5
11
I'Ai
■ r v
? ; ■
m
* ■-- ;, -
*■ ‘ !
isr^sss
U, *• # larr ** *• «*• - • - ■ i-’ ,
■
"V.
' :1
:>, - '. -f'-Ajp
-4
-*z;sa. 4 !>.-<.
■bBIv 1 i» * .”
feW>
rr^l
• <
4 i v*
■«• •** w «. ••»• *-• ( --jjj
*.~z ■*■*.*
V ‘' , j. T»V
M- 5
V'>
(■ :»»•■. rr-tr-
V.,
/>«ar s
f P
;' ..’ *
"\ N
Amo its Factor/
at Homebush, Mew South Wales
<¥*■'
«sß|
»•"« V
!> C44ffe«-«‘V-K
ARNOTTS FAMOUS BISCUITS
ALWAYS ASK
YOUR GROCER
FOR
ARNOTTS "THEY ARE BETTER
THAN EVER"
TTII
