

Mi
m
- :t
ft ft
mss
'
B.H.P. Steel in its many forms fills Australia's need
for the metal that gets things done. The great
tonnages of quality iron and steel produced at The
Broken Hill Proprietary’s Newcastle Steel Works
give Australia an assured supply of the essential
materials for the development and defence of the
Commonwealth.
The high quality of B.H.P. Steel and the fact that
it is available at the world’s lowest prices forms
convincing evidence of the industry s efficiency and
service to the nation.
■
The value of the B.H.P. enterprise in peace time
is only exceeded by its vital importance in the
extraordinary circumstances caused by war.
mm i
> v . A:.:,
mm
7*
\y>A-}
mmmm
JNMM^
1
jm,** 4k
1 o
) j
■ <Wtf;
mum-
As an avenue of employment the Australian iron and steel industry
must be ranked of major importance, as it gives direct employ-
ment to more than 33,000 persons, whose wages total yearly
nearly £10,000,000.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited not only produces
iron and steel, but owns and operates its own steamships and
coalmines, and most of the raw materials used in steel-making
are obtained from properties under the control of the company.
Above is shown section of the Newcastle Steel Works blast furnace
plant, which produces more than 15,000 tons of iron per week.
B.H.P. PRODUCTS
include
Pig Iron, Steel Ingots, Blooms,
Billets, Rails, Flats, Angles, Rounds,
Squares, Beams, Channels, Plates,
Reinforcing Bar, Tee and Bridge
Rails, Spring and Alloy Steel, Cold
Rolled Bright Strip and Box Strap-
ping, Octagons and Hexagons,
Wire Rods, Toluol, Solvent Naphtha,
Ammonium Sulphate, F oundry
Coke, Coals, Steam and Roasting
Coal Household, and Bunker Coal.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.
Iron and Steel Masters —Mine Owners —Colliery Proprietors —Ship Owners
Head Office: 422 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Iron and Steel Works: Newcastle, New South Wales.
Branches at: Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and London.
Iron Ore Workings; Iron Knob, South Australia.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.- No. 3212.
Two Voices
Wednesday, September 3, 1941.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Bandung
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE .
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 141
The Red Pagce
DR.ANGUS ON THE
"NEW ORDER."
Australia is in this war, as Hipplewhite
says, for the one great purpose of de-
fending its existence; defending, as
Zombroski elaborates it, the Australian
people’s physical ownership of this con-
tinent and the existing way of life of the
Australian people. “We fight”—in Mac-
Gregor’s brilliant phrase “not for the
moon but for what we have.”
It is the illusion of the Left {vide
Marcel Guggenheim’s penetrating analysis
in The Left 1 Left Behind Me) that the
various democratic peoples of the Empire
bribed themselves into the war by the
promise of a New Order. “The Left,”
sagaciously observes Miss Sophy Enl-
whistle, “is a fair cow.”
Not that a New Order (with a 20-hour
week and doubled wages for all jour-
nalists and professors) wouldn’t be very
nice ; and not that there won’t be changes
in Australia after the war, perhaps vaster
changes than the apostles of the New
Order foresee. But the fact that the
New Order has never been part of the
bargain (that, indeed, there has never
been any bargain ; only the grim neces-
sity of fighting for the existence of the
nation) is something that should be stated
in the first paragraph of all arguments on
the subject. “Let us,” says Prtzzov, “have
the facts,”
Who, one may interrupt, are Messrs.
Hipplewhite, Zombroski, Guggenheim,
Prtzzov and Miss Sophy Entwhistle?
Nobody in particular. They are intro-
duced to give weight to the argument,
for, on the model of Professor Angus’s
Man and the New Order, anything one
wants to say sounds twice as impressive
if someone else says it. Speaking up for
Professor Angus in a riot of unnecessary
quotation are Homer, Isaiah, Henley,
Clough, Plato, Tennyson, Dr. Johnson,
Bryce, President Nicholas Murray Butler,
Aristotle, Zeller, Lord Balfour, Goethe,
Carlyle, Canon Barry, Mazzini, Niebuhr,
Bacon, Bridges, Sir William Dampier,
C. E. Scott Wood, Clutton-Brock, Dr.
H. W. Dodds, of Princeton all those
and more in the first 40 pages of a 75-
page booklet. There aren’t so many
quotations as to make it unreadable, but
they do clutter it.
Although Professor Angus fails to
point out that the New Order, if regarded
as some definite plan or promise, is
simply a confidence trick which people
who wish to be deluded are playing on
themselves, he’s far from being a blind
dreamer or a “wishful thinker” who
imagines that all is suddenly going to
be well with the world after the war. The
bulk of his book (which follows Brian
Fenton’s Think —or Be Damned in what
Angus and Robertson are now calling
the “Think or Be Damned” series) is a
scholarly, tolerant, humorous and wise
debunjdng of all hopes of, as Ezra Pound
put it (that’s one the professor didn’t
think of), “getting through hell in a
hurry.”
We want democracy in the New Order,
do we? asks the professor. Very good ;
but remember that Carlyle said that the
ballot-box system is one under which
“St. Paul and Judas Iscariot would have
each an equal vote and one would have
as much power as the other” ; and re-
member that the Germans democratically
chose to be ruled by Hitler.
We want security, do we? Very good.
But —
We have witnessed nearly 400 million
human beings, of like passions and needs
as ourselves, in Nazi Germany, in Italy,
in Russia and Japan barter their liberties
of thought and speech and personal rights
for security.
We want the ordinary man’s paradise,
do we? Very good ; but, by all European
standards, Australia already is paradise.
We want perpetual peace, do we? Very
good indeed ; but —
So incalculable a creature is man that
his health keeps better when he is eating
the bread of affliction and drinking the
water of affliction than when he fares
sumptuously every day- Something is lack-
mg in his constitution to withstand comfort
and ease without deterioration of fibre and
Joss of values.
In Australia, as elsewhere, the political
system is moving steadily, and it seems
inevitably, towards greater Government
control, possibly to socialism ; and that
will be the great day, will it? Very
good ; but socialism means, in practice,
bureaucracy, and —
It presently appears as if on entry into
the new order the first object we shall
encounter will be a bureau with a bureau-
minded inspector to examine our creden-
tials and assign our places and tasks. I
fear there will be little room for the non-
conformists, not conveniently endowed
with stock-size minds, whose existence is
wholesome in every social scheme and in
every religion. And I am certain that
bureaucrats cannot even under new skies
change their skins, nor the Procrustean
levellers their spots.
The present trends in government, which
seem to disintegrate rather than re-create
democracy, and give opportunity to increas-
ing Cassarism, are so strong as to sweep
us like an irresistible torrent into another
order which may be better only relatively
to present confusions and self-inflicted dis-
iilusionments. The sanguine inhabitants of
that new order may even drag in with accla-
mations of victory the wooden horse with
its deadly enemies.
For this sort of realistic pessimism
Professor Angus’s book is valuable. But
it is a pity that at the end he declares
(with Taine), “I have no plan for saving
the world.” He has been hypnotised by
his own profundity, by his belief in the
everlastingness of the struggle between
good and evil on earth, into a spiritual
trance in which, clinging to his faith in
God and his hope for man, the only
advice he can offer is for men to try
to behave a little better: an attitude
which completely ignores practicalities.
But in any discussion about what’s
going to happen in Australia after the
war, there are two great practicalities
that cuf right across all moonshine about
a New Order: one is Japan, and the
other’s immigration. Professor Angus
mentions neither. But surely the answer
to his vague “What shall we do?” is
“Double or treble our population by
immigration or sooner or later lose Aus-
tralia, lovely New Order and all.”
O'Brien Short Stories.
The Best Short Stories, 1940: English
and American, edited by Edward J.
O’Brien (Cape; Moore’s Bookshop), add
up to a generally interesting lot, pretty
well all agreeable reading, and here and
there a gem, especially in comedy.
The English section includes several
good stories —Eric Knight’s “A Bit of a
Do,” a genuine human document; Frank
O’Connor’s “First Confession,” a very
human little comedy; V. S. Pritchett’s
“The Saint,” broader and more artificial
comedy, but good humor—but on the
whole the inclusions in this section are
mostly high-class— not to say highbrow—
magazine stories.
They have bright ideas ; the craftsman-
ship is smooth and mature ; they are the
last word in sophisticated story-telling.
But they ring hollow; they are so
palpably made up; superficialities cut
to a pattern, without any real basis of
life, or, at the best, dealing with phases
of life empty of any general significance.
There is something decadent about all
this smooth and competent story-telling,
as if life itself had become smooth, pat-
terned and sapless. That is strongly con-
tradicted by the few inclusions of the
quality of Eric Knight’s story, dealing
with a Geordie breaking the news to a
woman that her man has been killed at
the mine, and, before he’s through, tell-
ing her of his own ambitions to become
a farmer in Canada, and practically
getting her agreement to throw in her
savings with his and go along with him.
The overwhelming number of the other
sort of stories —the good magazine variety
—probably indicates nothing worse than
a prevailing literary fashion, though the
number of these stories that touch on
the supernatural might seem to support
the idea that the writers must be feeling
a lack of something in the life about
them. However, the notion that all this
merely represents a literary fashion is
probably nearest to truth: all these
stories are from magazines, and maybe
the,se magazines encourage this particular
sort. Perhaps the war will make a dif-
ference, and by the time O’Brien comes
to make his next collection there may be
more real feeling and fewer of these high-
falutin ghost stories.
With only a few exceptions, the in-
clusions in the American section are all
drawn straight from life. Unless it could
be taken that the English-section stories
really reflect a general truth about British
life incredible in view of what the
British in this war have shown themselves
to be—the American stories give a far
clearer and more impressive picture of
American life than those British magaziny
things manage for British life. A story
of Saroyan’s—a capital little comedy of
two boys bargaining to be paid for sing-
ing in a choir —makes a striking general
statement on average American religious
feeling. Erskine Caldwell’s “The People
v. Ave Lathan, Colored,” is a most im-
pressive comment on that particular
American problem. Faulkner’s “Hand
Upon the Waters” is a story he has told
before, but its characters and incidents
are real, with their roots in American
life.
The mixed-race character of America
is reflected by the inclusion of a Scan-
dinavian story by a writer with a Scan-
dinavian name ; ditto Italian and Spanish.
The Italian story is a curiosity —a long
comedic depiction of a Quixotely fear-
less Italian general who has amazing
luck, so much so that his total lack of
fear, coupled with his fantastic manner,
becomes ridiculous, while at the same
time earning for him the hatred of far
better soldiers. It falls down on a weak
conclusion ; otherwise it might have been
a masterpiece.
Probably the most vivid story is one
of Hemingway’s, with practically nothing
American in it except the author. It’s
another of his Spanish war glimpses, and
possibly has more of true lasting quality
than anything else in the book.
Clearing away a fair lot of hocus-pocus,
the book has a dozen or more authentic
stories with a direct basis in life and
human nature —a fair enough proportion
for any such collection. A distinct im-
pression gathered from reading these, as
well as having recently read a large num-
ber of Australian short stories of about
the same period, is that the Australian
stories have much more in common with
the American than with the inclusions
in the English section. On the whole
Australian stories, thought of in a mass,
lack the. full maturity of craftsmanship
of these English-section stories, but, on
the other hand, are anything but pale
and decadent. They may, on the whole,
have a certain rawness and crudity in
this comparison, but at least the best of
them have the compensating qualities of
vigor and life, as these Americans have.
Possibly the most striking difference
between the Australian and these other
stories is that the latter pretty well all
have a lively quality of lightness in the
telling. What Australia would seem to
be in need of is an outstanding writer
with real gusto in him ; one who can view
life and write of it without being de-
pressed by it. This does not mean a
humorist, but there would have to be a
strong comedic vein in him. It does not
mean, either, that first-rate short stories
are cot being written in Australia. In a
collection of Australian short stories that
will soon be on the market there are at
least two stories which would have given
O’Brien’s book two masterpieces, instead
of none, and half a dozen or more others
that could be fitted into O’Brien’s lot
without noticing the joins.
Notes on a Banner Bearer.
Bearing a banner with a strange device
—“Jindyworobak”-—Queenslander Victor
Kennedy in Flaunted Banners (Jindy-
worobak Club, Adelaide) buffets his way
through snowstorms of “obtuseness of
thought,” climbs manfully over imaginary
crags of “antagonism” and “actual resent-
ment” and, alone upon the mountain
top, waves his challenge at the sky.
In reality it is only at the heavens that
he can rage ; for, far from attacking or
ignoring the Jindyworobak movement in
Australian poetry, The Bulletin and
such other journals as pay any attention
to verse, because the movement is Aus-
tralian and because its writers are trying
hard to do something, have given it far
more serious attention than the quality
of the poems in its anthologies to date
have warranted.
“Movements” in poetry are judged not
by their theories, but by their fruits;
Milton makes good poetry out of a
sonorous Latinity, so that the “grand
manner” is a good theory; Wordsworth
makes good poetry out of the everyday
speech of the people, so that the humble
manner is a good theory; Tennyson be-
lieved in a marble smoothness, Brown-
ing in a bouncing roughness ; the Geor-
gians wrote some lovely lyrics, Spender
and Macneice, who repudiate the Geor-
gians, also write good poetry. Any theory
of poetry is good so long as it works ;
that is, if it produces good poetry.
It’s a good sign of life and vigor in
Australian poetry that a new theory is
being evolved, that the Jindyworobaks,
in their belligerent Australianism and in
their technical experiments, want to pro-
duce a kind of art that is, say, the direct
opposite of Hugh McCrae’s. But that
theory, as far as the anthologies have
indicated, has yet to work. It is not Mr.
Kennedy’s pamphlet that will be the
vindication of the Jindyworobak theory,
but one good poem written by a Jindy-
worobak: one poem as good in its own
way as a McCrae poem is in its own
way; one poem that in its own way
enriches the Australian tradition as much
as “The Man from Snowy River”
enriched the tradition in Paterson’s way.
Mr. Kennedy knows this, and more or
less says so. But no “movement” can
have any publicity or any fun unless it
has enemies, so Mr. Kennedy elects the
Red Page as the Jindyworobak’s Public
Enemy No. 1. The point on which he
finds the Red Page hostile or “obtuse”
or “destroying for destruction’s sake” is
this Page’s query in a review some time
ago as to whether when he said that the
abos. “despite all flesh were my people”
a Jindyworobak bard meant what he
said. Mr. Kennedy believes that the poet
meant something else. The point is of
no importance whatsoever, for the cold
critical truth is that this particular poem,
though a pleasant enough piece of verse
and though mentioned here for the sake
of giving the encouragement of publicity
to the Jindyworobak movement, is simply
not worth discussing, on its quality as
poetry, as an enrichment of the literature
of Australia.
That this last point is the only one
that matters Mr. Kennedy knows very
well. Here is his summing up on the
movement:
The main point is that they are all going
somewhere and in the development of
their new forms, so long as they, too, are
not mere external imitativeness of similar
overseas movements, they are both refresh-
ing and significant. Out of it all I pre-
dict that this movement will produce at
least one good, sound national poet for
Australia.
And here is what the Red Page also said
(B. 19/3/’4l) in a summing up of the
movement:
The Jindyworobak productions have let
loose some extraordinarily bad verse. But
that doesn’t say that the movement is
without significance. It is proof of a
desperate desire to write poetry—and to
write a valuable kind of poetry, based in
a pantheistic interpretation of the Australian
landscape—and it is more likely than not
that some genuine poet, in whom the
group’s feelings coalesce, will emerge.
Mr. Kennedy must have his fun ; and
to have the fun of regarding the Red
Page as his enemy-in-chief he has con-
veniently ignored the fact, obvious from
these two summings-up, that he and this
Page are in entire agreement on the one
great essential that while the move-
ment’s fireworks are a healthy sign of
life, it is works of art that will finally
vindicate it.
American Novel.
More fictionised American doctors —a
whole batch of them —in yet another
American small-town quasi-period setting,
are leading ingredients of Henry Bella-
mann’s strongly naturalistic novel King’s
Row (Cape ; Dymocks).
The period is more recent than usually
attracts American novelists from the
nineties on ; which allows the necessary
time for the central character to be first
met in school, followed on through his
early sex affairs, taken to Vienna to com-
plete his studies as a doctor, and returned
to King’s Row to go on the staff of the
lunatic asylum which stands near the
small town, subtly influencing the lives
of the general community.
A dozen more of the youngsters are
followed through to adulthood, or to as
near as they get to it before Fate smites
them, and, as well, there are several
dozen more characters, all admirably
portrayed. The author appears deliber-
ately to put the brake on his depiction
of one character who might easily have
overshadowed everything else in the novel
—a sadist doctor who gets his grim satis-
faction performing unnecessary opera-
tions in the most brutal possible way.
As it is, he is monstrous enough. A
criminal whose crimes are unavenged,
he being dead before others start to
get on his track, his hand can be seen
in pretty well every one of the town’s
personal tragedies.
The novel shows a strong influence
of Anthony Adverse what might be
classified as romanticised realism in
general conception, and in character and
scene depiction. It has none of the
enormous sweep of that novel, though
it ranges wider and goes deeper into
human character than the great bulk of
novelists ever approach. Some picturesque
figures of pure ’nineties vintage—Colonel
Skeffington, lawyer, with flaming red
beard; Madame von Eln, who has a
near-counterpart in G. B. Lancaster’s
Pageant; and Berdorff, the German
music-teacher —provide romance contrast
against the realistic depiction of the
growing generation. The same balance
of realism and romance holds in the de-
piction of the small town, at times
beautiful, in other moods crude and ugly.
Usually such novels soon fine down
to a story of one or two main charac-
ters. None of them really gets such
ascendancy over the author in this one.
He threads and plaits a dozen of their
personal stories together, to make, along
with the closely seen setting, a generally
convincing narrative with some power in
it.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —And in every act
A
CN
SNS-
J
ss
mi
w
tST-
%
U. (.-kiss
r.v
v
#
s
!
& <B6=
«SS>
V
<B*l
:
v
mm
WMMMm
iiiiiiii
■
D. “Woodrow" English
Fine quality English Hats in a medium width, snap
brim style. Greaseproof leathers. Light, medium and
dark Grey, Fawn and Brown. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price 40/6
E. “Henderson ” Australian
High grade hats in smart snap brim styles, medium
weight, comfortable fitting, silk lined, new season’s
tonings of Greys and Blue. At Anthony ' Horderns’.
Price 25/-
• Men’s Hats—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all
railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
A. 64 Battersby 99 London
Pure Fur Felt English Hat ... a light-
weight quality in dressy snap brim style,
2 or 2f in. brim. Light Grey, Blue Grey,
Navy, Green and Brown. At Anthony
Horderns’. Price 35/-
B. 44 Akuhra 99 Australia
Fine quality hats, in a smart range of snap
brim styles, featuring lower crowns and
narrow bands. Also a range of the more
conservative styles. New season’s tonings of
Gre' s, Blues, Fawns and Browns. Boomerang
Quality. At Anthony Horderns’. Price.. 19/6.
High Quality, silk lined. Price 25/-
C. 64 Fayrefield 99 Australia
Pure Fur Felt Hats, smartly styled in a
range of narrow or medium width brims.
Quality trimmings, silk lined. Colors, Pearl,
Mid Grey, Blue Grey, Blue and Brown.
Valiant quality. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price 21/-
Melolite quality. Price 25/-
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
’Phone; M 2401
.(Day or Night)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, C.P.O.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
jtfdhd c Mneof / id/ie mellmmeUmidJjmqud
Seppelt's
WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR GIVES A CHARTER TO LONDON.
Citizens of London have, from the earliest
recorded times, been famed for their bravery
in defending their city and its liberties. That
they still possessed this virtue, in a degree un-
excelled throughout the centuries which have
gone, the years 1940 and 1941 proved to the
world. In every country where Freedom
remained, the manner Londoners took the
new form of terrorism Nazism introduced into
warfare was the subject of glowing tributes.
Actually the men and women of London were
but living up to those traditions established by
their forebears. The expression “London can
take it” assumed an enlarged interpretation
when the trials the city had throughout its long
and distinguished career were remembered.
King Alfred in Anglo-Saxon times made
London a stronghold against the Danish
invaders. Perhaps one of the striking illustra-
tions of the military spirit of Londoners is
associated with the Norman Invasion of 1066.
After the Battle of Hastings, at which Harold
fell, William the Conqueror was the accepted
King of England, but with a slight reservation.
A minor historian of the city in dealing with
this period has correctly pointed out that
London was so strong and its citizens so inde-
pendent that William was obliged to negotiate
with them before they would recognise him.
When Harold died at Hastings, London had
proclaimed its loyalty to Edgar, grandson of
Edmund Ironside. Even the bold Conqueror
did not dare to try to force London to acknow-
ledge him. Consequently he withdrew his army
to Berkhampsted, 28 miles north-west of the
city, and from there sent messengers to the
civic rulers offering assurances and conces-
sions. Success crowned these negotiations, and
thus William secured the support of London
by promising to respect the rights of its citizens.
He granted a charter to London, in which are
these historic words:—•
“1 grant you to be all law-worthy as you
were in the days of King Edward. And
I will not suffer any person to do you
wrong. God keep you.”
This passage has been interpreted to mean that
although the Conqueror brought with him the
laws of Normandy, and the rest of England
was to be made subject to these laws, yet
London was promised it should keep its laws
and its rights as of old. How powerful must
the City of London have been to secure such
terms from a man of the character of William
the Conqueror. The late J. Seymour Lucas,
R.A., in a fresco, the subject of the illustration,
in the Royal Exchange, depicted William
granting a charter to the citizens.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62.—N0. 3212.
Wednesday, September 3, 1941.
IN UNCLE SAM’S BOARDINGHOUSE.
“Fill honorable plate at once or I start honorable crimson row!”


The Bulltin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland" 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathans Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly : 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6a.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To- members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign ) :
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth. New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire.
Id. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
TWO VOICES.
This war has its grim ironies as well as its terrible
tragedies. The Russo-British invasion of Iran can be
justified on the score of military necessity, since if the
Germans got control of Russian and Persian oil they
would not only have defeated the Russians but—to put
it mildly—could not be defeated by us. But what a
mockery it makes of a lot . of our propaganda and of
the contention of worthy souls that the war is a
crusade for the rights of small nations! And how
unhappy that it should have been launched while the
rhetoric of the British Prime Minister was rolling
round the world—while that eloquent gentleman was
warning the Japanese not to “stretch a greedy hand”
into Thailand, and bidding Norwegians, Czechs, Poles,
Dutch, Belgians, Serbs, Greeks, and even French and
Croats, to be of good cheer, for they would all be
“freed.”
Both parties to the invasion assured the Iranians
that the occupying forces would be withdrawn as soon
as the danger of Germanisation had been removed.
One can be trusted to make the promise good—“the
word of an Englishman” has not lost its mighty influ-
ence in Asia. When (or whether) the other party
will depart may depend on the view it takes of the
military situation or possibly on the degree to which
it may be influenced by the force of example. The
Iranians, a suspicious people, are sure to have their
doubts, especially if they consult Finns, Letts,
Estonians, Lithuanians, Rumanians and other peoples
who, as indignant spectators of Moscow imperialism
during the period when Moscow showed a merry con-
tempt for League covenants and non-aggression pacts,
expelled the Russian representatives from the now-
empty palace at Geneva, On the other hand, Iran
may be convinced by the terms of the Moscow Note,
which insisted that the Soviet has always been “guided
by feelings of friendship for Iranians and respect for
the sovereignty of Iran,” and adduced as evidence a
series of “important documents” beginning with a
Note addressed to Iran in 1918 and working up to the
Russo-Iranian Treaty of February 26, 1921.
The 1921 treaty was mentioned at length. By virtue
of that instrument, “Russia handed over to Iran a
number of enterprises established by Russians,” and
“also waived her rights in loans granted to Iran by
the Czarist Government, as well as Iran revenues
which guaranteed these loans.” As the Soviet had
previously repudiated the huge British, French and
American loans to Russia (some of the American
money was lent to the Kerensky Government) and had
confiscated British, French and American properties,
this was tantamount to reminding the Iranians that
they had been permitted to share in the fruits of a
general policy of plunder.
Under Article 6, the Note went on, “the Soviet
has the right to send troops to Iran if the Iranian
Government is unable to deal with an attempt at
armed intervention or an attempt to turn Iranian ter-
ritory into a military base for action against Russia” ;
and this position had arisen. Article 6 had been
written into the treaty because “both countries fore-
saw that elements hostile to both might attempt to
transform Iran into a base for an invasion of the
Soviet.” Choice and application of the term “ele-
ments” are really charming, for “the hostile ele-
ments” were not German but British.
In 1920-21 Germany was down, and apparently
out. So far from foreseeing or dreading a German in-
vasion of Russia by way of Iran (an actual impossibility
then and for many years afterwards) Moscow was on
excellent terms with the then German Government, so
much so that in 13 months seven Russo-German agree-
ments were signed. These culminated on April 16,
1922, in the Treaty of Rapallo, a virtual alliance
which enabled the “democratic” German Government
to begin training and rearming Germans on Russian
soil. Britain, on the other hand, had forces on two
sides of Iran and its attitude to Moscow was dis-
tinctly unfriendly. In 1919 Britons had fought Bol-
shevists in North and South Russia, and then and
afterwards their Government supported the Whites
against the Reds—backed them with money, arms and
supplies. These measures had the enthusiastic sup-
port of Mr. Churchill, then Secretary of War. In
private conversation his leader said then that he had
“Bolshevism on the brain,” and has written since that
he was “the most formidable and irrepressible pro-
tagonist of an anti-Bolshevik war.”
So we come to the extraordinary position that
Moscow invokes a treaty made in fear of a Churchillian
invasion of Russia to justify association with a
Churchillian invasion of Iran.
Apropos of Mr. Churchill, a collection of his
1938-40 speeches, made —very carefully—by his son
Randolph, was recently published in book form. In
one particular oration “old John Bright” is quoted
with approval. This is very curious, for no two men
could be more dissimilar than Mr. Churchill and John
Bright, and their foreign policies are poles apart.
Since he ceased to be a Little Navy man —he was
young then—Mr. Churchill has been an intervention-
ist to the marrow. Bright stood for non-intervention
throughout his long career. He lost his seat in Parlia-
ment for opposing the Crimean War, though his grave
and majestic speeches on that “terrible crime,” as he
called it, are imperishable treasures of British oratory.
When the declaration of war was announced in a
Royal Message to Parliament, Bright said:
I have sympathy with Turkey; I have sympathy with
the serfs of Russia; I have sympathy with the people
of Hungary—whose envoy Lord Palmerston refused to
see and the overthrow of whose struggle for freedom
by the armies of Russia he needlessly justified in this
House; I have sympathy with the Italians, subjects of
Austria, Naples- and the Pope; I have sympathy with
the 3,000,000 slaves of the United States. But it is not
on a question of sympathy that I dare involve this
country or any country in a war which must cost
an incalculable amount of treasure and of blood. It
is not my duty to make this country the knight-errant
of the human race, and to take upon herself the pro-
tection of the thousand millions of human beings
He was told, he proceeded, that the Russian war
was popular, and that “it was foolish and eccentric
to oppose it.” As to that, “what was more popular
than the American war?” He had known persons in
Manchester who had “seen the recruiting party going
through the principal streets of that city, accompanied
by the parochial clergy in full canonicals, exhorting
the people to enlist to put down the rebels in the
American colonies. Where is now the popularity of
that disastrous and disgraceful war, and who is the
man to defend it?” Again:
What war could be more popular than the French
war? Has not Lord John Russell said in this House
that peace was rendered difficult, if not impossible, by
the conduct of the English press in 1803? For myself,
I do not trouble myself whether my conduct in Parlia-
ment is popular or not. I care only that it shall be
wise and just as regards the permanent interests of my
country, and I despise from the bottom of my heart the
man who speaks a word in favor of this war, or of any
war which he believes might have been avoided, merely
because the press and a portion of the people urge the
Government to enter into it.
Then came this passage:
The past events of our history have taught me
that the intervention of this country in European wars is
not only unnecessary, but calamitous; that we have rarely
come out of such intervention having succeeded in the
objects we fought for; and that not debt alone has been
incurred, but that we have left Europe at least as much
in chains as before a single effort was made by us to
rescue her from tyranny.
It is now universally agreed that the Crimean
War was a blunder of the first magnitude. Lord Salis-
bury, leader of the Government in which Mr.
Churchill’s father was a very brief Chancellor of the
Exchequer, said of it, “We backed the wrong horse.”
Yet in spite of military disappointments and crimes
of disorganisation, it gave rise to what one of Bright’s
biographers describes as a “spirit of vainglory and
braggadocio.” Sitting in his comfortable country
home, with women fussing round him, Tennyson
babbled with vicarious enjoyment of “the blood-red
blossoms of war,” and urged the British soldier to
avenge the public law of Europe or something on “a
giant liar.” Lesser men were as enthusiastic:
They openly counselled the Government to persevere
in the war until the power of Russia was utterly
destroyed; until Poland and the Caucasian tribes
[Georgians, of course, among them] were free again and
the map of Europe was restored to the shape which it
presented before Russian aggrandisement had begun.
When the madness had lasted a year, peace pro-
posals were discussed at a Vienna conference. The
English Government insisted as an indispensable con-
dition that Russian fleets should be perpetually ex-
cluded from the Black Sea. Bright opposed this
preposterous demand. He said “the preponderance of
Russia in the Black Sea is a fact which all the nego-
tiations of the world cannot write off. I do not know
any case in which there is a commercial supremacy in
a sea like the Black Sea that is not followed by a pre-
ponderance of every other kind.”
When Russia suddenly cracked, as it has had a
way of doing in war, it agreed to the neutralisation of
the Black Sea, engaging, with Turkey, to keep neither
warships nor arsenals there. As soon as it felt strong
enough it cancelled this idiotic requirement of the
“winners,” and nobody in Britain suggested another
war to enforce it. By that time Britain’s only memories
of the Russian war were of what it cost in blood and
treasure and of how Florence Nightingale and her
nurses labored to save victims of silly old politicians
and brasshats; as for the soldiers who fell in stupid
battles or died like flies in frozen trenches or fever
camps they, as Bright said, were “forgotten, except
by their mothers.” It was reserved for a later his-
torian to discover that “the war rendered possible the
happy formation of a united Italy and a united
Germany! ”
One of Father’s speeches collected by son Ran-
dolph was delivered on January 20, 1940, when the
Russian invasion of Finland was in progress. It
contained these impassioned sentences:
Only Finland—superb, nay, sublime, in the jaws
of peril—Finland shows what free men can do. The
service rendered by Finland to mankind is magnificent.
They have exposed, for all the world to see, the military
incapacity of the Red Army and of the Red Air Force.
Many illusions about Soviet Russia have been dispelled
in these few fierce weeks of fighting in the Arctic Circle.
Everyone can see how Communism rots the soul of a
nation; how it makes it abject and hungry in peace,
and proves it base and abominable in war. We cannot
tell what the fate of Finland may be, but no more
mournful spectacle could be presented to what is left of
civilised mankind than that this splendid northern race
should be at last worn down and reduced to servitude
worse than death by the dull brutish force of over-
whelming numbers.
Now, of course, Finland has been declared enemy
territory by Mr. Churchill’s Government because the
“splendid northern race” is fighting Russia again ; and
“the dull brutish force” of the nation whose soul was
rotted by Communism has been transformed into an
army of “patriots,” who, with excellent equipment
and efficient military organisation, “fight with” such
“magnificent devotion” that “the aggressor is sur-
prised, startled and staggered.”
What would “old John Bright” have made of that
speech, and of the speaker’s complete somersault since
1919? Perhaps he would have said of Mr. Churchill,
as he said of Disraeli, that “the Prime Minister is a
man of brains, of genius, of a great capacity for
action, of a wonderful tenacity of purpose, and of a
rare courage,” who “would have been a statesman if
his powers had been directed by any ennobling prin-
ciple or idea.”
It is a pity that the politicians now in control
of our jdestinies, without the salutary checks which
the Dominion Governments could and should impose,
have such poor memories and are so little disposed to
profit by the teachings of history. Mr. Eden is another
bad case ; he never wearies of saying that “we” (mean-
ing Mr. Churchill and he) will never in any circum-
stances negotiate with any member of the Nazi gang.
It would be perfectly safe to wager that, when the
time for negotiation comes, the party of the other
part will be someone who is now a professed Nazi —
though the profession may be false and the person
obscure —and that steadygoing people will prefer such
a negotiator to the leader of a German Communist
party or a throne-warmer for one of the Hohenzollerns.
In 1793 the English went to war with the French
Republic because the French had killed their King.
After a peace which had lasted a year and six weeks,
the British Government resumed the war against
Napoleonic France because Napoleon, like Hitler, had
a mania for conquest and could not be trusted. In
1815, the provisional head of the French Government
who arranged the armistice- was an ex-terrorist who
had voted for the King’s death and had been one of
Napoleon’s Ministers for many years—who had, in
fact, been chiefly responsible for the bloody defeat
of that precursor of the Gallipoli and Greece adven-
tures the Walcheren expedition. Aristocrats as they
were, and ruffian as Fouche was, Wellington and
Castlereagh were not too proud to accept him as the
representative of his defeated nation, and the generous
peace, they made—their “great object,” as Wellington
said, being “the genuine tranquillity of the world” —
brought lasting benefits to both countries. Indeed, 135
years elapsed before Britons and Frenchmen met
again in battle.
"Will They Never Come?"
“The need for immediate and continuous A.I.F.
reinforcements is urgent.” So Lieut.-Colonel Whit-
field, now Director-General of A.I.F. Recruiting, was
told by Lieut-General Sturdee, Chief of the General
Staff, and Major-General Stantke, the Adjutant-
General ; and Lieut-General Miles, G.O.C. Eastern
Command, said “The men in the Middle East have
fought magnificently, but if we do not send them
reinforcements the A.I.F. abroad will be gradually
wiped out.”
The Director-General had just returned to his
N.S.W. headquarters from a visit to Victoria, South
Australia and Tasmania. He did not go to Westralia,
for recruiting in that State—as in the last war —has
been ample all along. Indeed, Minister Spender has
said that, if the same proportion of enlistments were
maintained in the other States, there would be no
occasion for worry.
Too many young men of this generation have
been brought up in ignorance of what lack of re-
inforcements may mean to the men who have done
the fighting for them in Libya, Greece, Crete and
Syria. Old Diggers are only too well informed. From
their own experience they can realise bitterly what
lies behind the bald statement that one division —the
Sixth —has been engaged in Libya, Greece, Crete and
Syria, and what may befall the men of Tobruk if
homekeeping Australians never come over to help
them.
“What happened in 1918?” James Cornell, Chair-
man of Committees in the Westralian Leg. Council,
put this question in the House on August 13, and
answered it with knowledge gained as an Old Digger
and as a representative of the Diggers’ League at inter-
national conferences of servicemen, at which he met
Haig and the leaders of the Canadian and South
African forces, and had access to records.
On August 8 Australian and Canadian divisions made
a momentous advance. What did we find? Australian
battalions that should have been 1000 to 1100 strong
were only 300 to 400 strong. The Canadian battalions
were over strength. Consequently, in the middle of
October the Australians were withdrawn from the line.
Because our men had no reinforcements, brigades were
abolished and battalion was merged into battalion.
The Canadians guaranteed Britain five divisions —four
in the field and one in reserve all the time. The stipu-
lation was made that the whole Canadian Corps was
to be commanded throughout by a Canadian. The Aus-
tralian Corps was never under an Australian commander
until April, 1918. when General Monash took over.
Who chased Fritz out of France and Belgium? The
only corps that had kept up its strength—the Canadian
Corps. Canada sent 600,000 men overseas and had
fewer casualties than the Australian forces, which
numbered only 320,000.
If we allow men to go away and fight for our
country, the obligation is on us to do one of two things.
Either we must adequately reinforce them so as not
to decimate them or we must withdraw them from the
field of battle.
That is the position. And, since it is inconceivable
that public opinion would permit the A.I.F. to be
wasted away or Australia to be endangered and dis-
graced by recalling what was left of it, the adequate
reinforcements must be got in one way or another—
if not by voluntary enlistment, then by compulsion.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Minor Operation at Canberra.
Australia has another Prime Minister —the thirteenth.
Refused Labor co-operation in a Ministry of all the
talents —or, at any rate, all the parties—Mr. Menzies
asked the coalitionists to choose another leader, and
they “unanimously” chose Mr. Fadden. Thereupon
Mr. Menzies returned his commission to the Governor-
General, with the advice that his Excellency should
send for Mr. Fadden ; and his Excellency did. Dr.
Evatt has with good warrant questioned whether the
advice was sound.
A smaller man who had laid down so high an
office in such circumstances would have put the blame
on others. Mr. Menzies blamed nobody. He might
have said, with justice, that he had been persistently
sniped at by some of the U.A.P. members —egged on
by little editors who think they can run the Common-
wealth from their own offices —and had had to carry
several of his colleagues ; but he concealed what he
must have felt and, to outward seeming, remained his
imperturbable self. He even presented, with philoso-
phical detachment, what “a frank discussion with my
colleagues” had “shown.”
While they have personal goodwill towards me,
many of them feel that I am unpopular with large
sections of the press and the people, that this unpopu-
larity handicaps the effectiveness of the Government
by giving rise to misrepresentation and misunderstanding
of its activities, and that there are divisions of opinion
in the Government parties themselves which would not
or might not exist under another leader. It is not for
me to be the judge of these matters, except to this
extent: that I do believe that my relinquishing of the
leadership will offer a real prospect of unity in the ranks
of the Government parties.
Some of these worthies who were so concerned
at their leader’s unpopularity “with large sections of
the press and the people” are themselves neither
popular nor unpopular. They are too insignificant to
be either. They are merely negligible. One of the
things that made Mr. Menzies’s period of office so
uncomfortable was that he chose Ministers who were
square pegs in round holes and was too loyal to them.
These are faults he will have to correct when he
comes again, and come again he should, unless he
goes to England and stays there (he says he won’t go
at all at least for the present); his unpopularity, so
much of which was manufactured by two or three
little editors and two or three disgruntled politicians
of no consequence, is not likely to last.
Mr. Fadden is popular enough, if to be popular
in a jovial way is to be statesmanlike. Newspaper-
men have done their best to make him popular, and
he for his part has tried to please everybody—press,
public, fellow-Ministerialists, Independents and Oppo-
sition. Running true to form, he has made no changes
in the Ministry, except that he is No. 1 and Mr.
Menzies (still Minister of Defence Co-ordination)
No. 2. Before Mr. Menzies resigned, Mr. Cameron
pointed out, unanswerably, that the fatal step towards
the position in which the Menzies Government
found itself without a rag of authority was taken
when the Budget was altered to suit the Opposition.
To that deadly compromise Mr. Fadden was a willing
party. It is now dismally suggested that, when the
House meets again on September 17, it will find him
ready to alter the Budget on which he is now work-
ing, if the Labor party can be placated again.
But the Labor party is no longer in an accom-
modating mood. Mr. Curtin has described the opera-
tion performed on the Ministry as “face-lifting.” He
contends that as the leader of the largest party in the
House—a party equal in numbers to both Ministerial
groups—he could, “with the same measure of co-
operation in respect to the prosecution of the war
as the Labor party has unswervingly given, secure
political stability and a workable Parliament.” And
in the pass to which the other people have brought
themselves by their yielding and their brawling, most
Australians would prefer to see him get the chance.
Above all things, they want a Government that will
govern, whatever its party label or labels, and the
Fadden makeshift doesn’t look that sort of Govern-
ment.
Britain, U.S.A. and Japan.
As usual, Mr. Churchill’s broadcast account of his
forgathering with Mr. Roosevelt, heard in Australia
on August 25, sounded magnificent over the air.
Cablegrams mentioned that British newspapers had
summed up its message as (1) “Britain and America
will fight together if there is war” with Japan; (2)
“Full aid without barriers” will be given to Russia;
(3) “To the conquered nations: Have faith and hope.
Deliverance is sure.”
Examination of the speech will show the first of
these summaries to be an oversimplification, Mr.
Churchill said, among other things, that the Japanese
stretch a grasping hand into Southern Chinese seas,
they snatch Indo-China from the wretched Vichy
French, their movements menace Thailand and Singa-
pore—the British link with Australia and New Zealand
—also the Philippines. This has got to stop.
He mentioned efforts being made by the United States
to secure a peaceful settlement; then he showed a nice
touch of adroitness. If these efforts fail “Britain, of
course, will range herself unhesitatingly beside the
United States.” That is what Americans would —
probably did —call passing the buck. It made the
stopping of Japan Uncle Sam’s special pigeon, with
Britain pledged to come in and help. Hitherto it has
been accepted that Britain must always be first to
take the plunge, with Uncle Sam helping, though
without coming in.
On the evidence of a wide range of American
piess utterances, the U.S.A. would seem to be cool—
down to freezing point—on the question of any parti-
cipation on the European side ; but there is nothing
like that feeling noticeable in regard to the idea of
war with Japan. It might even be said on that evidence
that this is the one sort of entry that would have a
united backing. So Mr. Churchill was probably on
safe enough ground in speaking on behalf of, and in
advance of. Uncle Sam on this particular point. That
can hardly be said with confidence of another similar
point of the speech.
The United States and Britain do not now assume
that there will be no more war. On the contrary, we
intend to take ample precautions to prevent its renewal,
in any period we can foresee, by, effectively disarming
the guilty nations and remaining suitably protected our-
selves.
That seems to be assuming something on behalf of
Uncle Sam which Clio, for one, might suggest is most
unlikely to be realised. After the last war the one
thing Americans flatly refused to have anything to
do with was just such a job of policing the world.
In the light of that experience it is difficult to believe
that, if America does get into this war, the American
people will accept any Churchill interpretation of their
present President’s hopes as binding.
Meanwhile, we have the concrete Roosevelt
pledge, the continually increasing American supplies
to Britain, the important difference between American
national feeling regarding European involvement and
Pacific involvement, Prince Konoye’s personal mes-
sage to the President and Mr. Roosevelt’s discussions
with Admiral Nomura. Even if these amount to
merely “explanatory talks” they afford ground for
hope.
The Tale of a Duck.
“Miss Harris”: I’m sure I don’t know why those
men at Canberra can’t agree, but I do hope they won’t
do anything to harm that darling Mr, Spender, because
he seems to be the only one who really understands
how a girl feels about this war and doing one’s bit
and all that sort of thing, really he is. If they do
have one of those bothersome elections I know an
awful lot of girls who’ll vote for him, so it’s really
not a bit of use that Mr, Cameron making nasty
remarks —really it isn’t.
Just think, it isn’t a year since Mr. Spender was
made Secretary of the Army, or whatever it is, and
look at all the girls in uniforms! Some are a bit
dowdy, I know, but then one can’t have everything
just perfect, can one? Not in war-time, I mean. And he
did try to get some of us away with the dear, brave
lads. To use our “softening influence,” I think he
said. I heard one beast of a man —whose wife isn’t
in uniform, by the way—-say that Mr. Spender was a
softening influence on the War Chest or Cabinet or
something silly like that. It’s a shame the things some
people will say.
Then there was that dreadful business about dear
Lady Blarney. Poor Mr. Spender got all the blame,
but Lady Blarney is still there, though some awful
person literally ordered her to come back. Now she’s
in the Red Cross and they can’t touch her —really
they can’t.
I’ll always think of Mr, Spender when I think of
our first parade. My other uniform was new then, I
had it made at a really fascinating price, only £7 7s.
What I mean, anybody who isn’t willing to spend that
much to keep Australia out of the spoils of that Hitler
person isn’t patriotic, besides I know I looked nice in
it. What I’d like to know, has anybody ever seen a
German woman in a military, naval or aerial uniform?
The Hitler creature won’t have it. He seems to think
war is a man’s business and women should be occu-
pied in nasty old factories or homes or having babies
and all that.
What I mean. Hitler might think the money we
spend on uniforms might be better spent on bullets
and those horrid bayonets and things, but thank
heavens Mr. Spender knows more about it than any
old German, really he does, because he’s a lieutenant-
colonel himself, really he is.
At first some of us were awfully disappointed
with Mr. Spender. That was last December when he
said he’d enlist V.A.Ds. and have them on one rank
and pay them 4s. a day and give them £2O each for
their things. We W.A.N.S. felt terribly neglected, but
our Commandant said not to worry as Mr. Spender
wouldn’t forget us and we really ought to be terribly
bucked because it showed Mr. Spender wasn’t going
to be deflated, or something, from the path of beauty,
I mean duty, of course, how silly of me.
And we had our march through Sydney and the
reporters said we marched better than the Coldstream
Guards. Wasn’t that thrilling? And Mr. Spender
gave permission for a lady war correspondent from
the “Women’s Weekly” to fly to Bali, or one of those
romantic jungle places, and tell how our brave boys
were getting on. And the stories she sent back! I’ll
say they were thrilling, really they were. All about
the lads enjoying themselves in Singapore with the
dancing girls and everything—the naughty boys. The
lads loved the stories so much that when the editor
of the firm that printed the paper went up there they
gathered round and nearly pulled his —well, his things
off, to show that what they really wanted was the lady
reporter.
What I mean is, where would we be without our
women’s papers and Mr. Spender? They say what
ought to be done and he does it. We W.A.N.S. had
another march and he decided to send hundreds of
V.A.Ds. abroad, only this time with higher pay and
£37 10s. each for things. Then he reproached a dread-
ful crowd of sporting people and said “We are play-
ing in the sunshine while the clouds of destiny gather
around us.” It was a very brave thing to say, what I
mean, and he proved it because it was just after that
he said he’d make a Women’s Home Army, with
lieutenant-colonels and everything, and officers would
get 10s. to 20s. a day and £2O each for a uniform and
I’m sure I could pass to be an officer, really I could.
We were awfully, awfully thrilled because it
meant he could see how earnest we were and we just
adore him for it because, what I mean, finding all that
money in spite of that grumbling old Mr. Fadden and
his talk about the cost of the war, £250,000,000 I
think he said, but I never was much at figures. My
boy friend is a sergeant in the A.I.F. and I said he
ought to be glad to have Mr. Spender for a Minister
because he’s so understanding and ducky about every-
thing. And my boy-friend said “Yair. Just too, too
ducky—too blasted ducky to be the political head of
a fighting army masculine to its backbone.” Isn’t
my boy-friend thrillingly crude?
Murder of the Race.
An unnamed Sydney doctor got off a bit of that
straight-from-the-shoulder stuff of which this country
doesn’t get enough when addressing a committee for
the reduction of maternal and infant mortality.
“I have,” he said, “more respect for the unmar-
ried mother than for some of these married women
who shirk their responsibilities.” He added that the
sale of contraceptives should be controlled by legis-
lation and that their indiscriminate use was fraught
with “tremendous” danger to younger people and irre-
sponsibles “on moral and psychological grounds.”
To which was added the evidence of Dr. Grace
Cuthbert, director of maternal and baby welfare:
The rising percentage of criminal interference is so
spectacular that no emphasis is needed. Most of the
women who die from interference are married, and three
per cent, of women between 15 and 45, the child-
bearing years, die from it.
A lot has been written and said on the right of
parents to please themselves about having children, and
the more that is written and said the less likely is the
debate to end. But the progress of the nation tran-
scends all this, and Governments charged with main-
taining that progress and fully aware of the perilous .
falling-off in Australia’s population have a plain duty
in the matter.
The exercise of that duty, though it entails many
things, could well begin by first prohibiting under
severe penalty the sale or purchase of any contracep-
tive except under doctor’s orders.
Wanted—a Prophylactic.
Something will have to be done about Mr. Heffron,
Minister for N.E.S. (N. stands for “National”) in the
Sydney Government, who is suffering from blackout
fever in a bad form.
Mr. Heffron developed the symptoms immediately
after a State election last June. He had Sydney suburbs
blacked-out, issued orders and proclamations galore,
got some slightly bewildered citizens fined a tenner
each and costs, and hour after hour issued statements
to the press. This performance either dazzled or
scared sundry politicians, who joined with him in
demanding that the Australian Government should
provide sums running into millions for the patient
to indulge his whims. The Australian Government,
however, had other uses for the people’s money and
said so.
In London, as secretary of the Sydney Govern-
ment’s office there —why it should have a London
office is a mystery too deep to be gone into here —
was a Mr. H. A. Bland. Mr. Bland was ordered to
“study” the battered old city’s A.R.P. and report in
person to Sydney. Nothing if not dutiful, Mr. Bland
duly arrived, only to be infected with the phobia.
There followed an entire blackout of the city area,
“800 square miles,” as Mr. Heffron joyfully exclaimed.
No provincial politician with a phobia ever
quietens down. This provincial politician is now
threatening “surprise mid-week blackouts, at different
times and of longer duration, of which the public
will receive short notice,” and “we will work up to a
mid-week blackout of the whole metropolitan area.”
And there is talk of wardens being authorised to
“smash windows” and perhaps householders if they
object.
Heaven knows what the outbreak is costing the
country. But Mr. Bland has stated that it would cost
£1,000,000 for ordinary domestic methods of blacking-
out ordinary N.S.W. homes. Added to that is the
expense of public transport holdups, alterations to
necessary signal and navigation lights, pay for men
kept on duty, petrol used by spotting ’planes, substitute
lighting in necessary places like hospitals, insertion of
master switches in power- and sub-stations and so on.
For what? To indulge the fad of officials playing
at war in a city far removed from danger, which can
fear only as a remote possibility a minor raid by sea-
borne aircraft.
Nature has set its canon against blackouts in
Sydney. When the moon is up a hundred thousand
Heffrons could not blackout the 22 square miles of
harbor waters.
Mr. Bland could have told the Heffrons that
blackout has not saved English and German cities from
terrible damage. He could have told them that modern
bombing aircraft carry a navigator and most precise
navigational instruments that can put a ’plane over
a pin-point on the ground, that the features of every
important city in the world are known to everybody
who wants to know them, and that blackout stuck in
the military mind as an inheritance of the 1914-18
war, when it was necessary for a pilot to see what he
was after. He could have suggested that for Austra-
lian cities, with their luminous skies and enormous
open areas about them, a better plan would be to
string electric lights all over the bush to confuse pos-
sible raiders.
But, above all, he could have pointed out that,
since Sydney had only to fear raids from seaborne
aircraft, the money being wasted by this indulgence of
Mr. Heffron’s fancy would be far better spent on war-
ships and long-range bombers and fighters to meet
the menace at sea or, better still, on equipment to
enable the A.I.F. to keep potential enemies north of
the Equator.


Society
"AND IT'S PRONTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“C.R.”: I’m still pondering a joke
made at the annual meeting of the Royal
Melbourne Hospital by a retired doctor
who has rejoined the staff to take- the
place of younger men called away on
active service. Replying to a complimen-
tary reference, he said he was glad Royal
Melbourne had followed the example of
the Admiralty in “bringing back the old
destroyers.”
*'* * *
“Cauboy”: Have ever children had a
more fantastic babyhood than the Dionne
quins? Taken from their parents and
put into the hands of a Governmental
trust in order to prevent their notoriety
being exploited by vaudeville impresarios,
and educated by Dr. Dafoe, their initial
savior, they have had made for them
among them over a million dollars. Now
the Canadian Minister of Education has
decided that, having reached the age of
seven, they should live with their parents,
brothers and sisters so that they can have
normal conditions. How can abnormal
individuals have normal conditions?
From the point of view of mental de-
velopment the quins are probably no
different from millions of other children,
but they can’t help realising their extra-
ordinary importance and the prestige with
which an accident of birth has endowed
them-
* * * •
“Smilax”: Newspaper men who regard
themselves and their occupation as
“tough” will probably be surprised to
learn what insurance actuaries think of
them. Workers’ compensation premium
rates, based upon accident statistics,
class the newspaperman’s occupation as
npt nearly so dangerous as that of a
temperance hotel employee or Y.M.C.A.
secretary, who pay respectively ss. 6d.
and 12s. 6d. per £lOO. The only occu-
pation considered less dangerous than the
newspaperman’s is the draper’s. For
some reason an undertaker is considered
as being engaged in a comparatively
hazardous occupation, with a premium
rate of from 20s. to 355. per £lOO.
♦ * * ♦
“Strict Veg.”: Asked whether he would
deny that accused was drunk —accused
had told counsel that he had spliced the
main brace with two port wines and a
brandy and had had 25 drinks during
the day—a Geelong constable replied:
“I have no knowledge of his capacity for
drink. I would not deny that he had
been drinking.” The John Hop showed
much better judgment than most authori-
ties and medical experts. The capacity
for drink is a remarkably variable quality.
A man of my acquaintance drinks two
bottles of whisky a day and I have never
seen him inked yet. He may eventually
get cirrhosis of the liver, but if so he
has taken a long time over it, for he
has been absorbing his daily couple for
30 years. A couple of nobblers is
sufficient to make another man of my
acquaintance show all the symptoms of
intoxication.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: I don’t know the M.H.R. in
question, but I like his way of announc-
“And now I'll show you how io deal with an incendiary bomb!”
ing “It does not matter to me if Marr
goes out of politics.” I thought that this
sententious way of alluding to one’s self
had gone out with the nineteenth cen-
tury—which loved it. “If my wishes are
not complied with, then you will lose the
company of John Henry Jones,” the said
J.H.J. would thunder. And there was a
famous case in the days when politics
were just a matter of personal popu-
larity. An old man who had nomi-
nated was pressed to retire in favor of
a younger rival who looked a moral cer-
tainty. “When John Henry Smith has
put his hand to the plough he does not
look back,” was the solemn (and only)
reply. So he pursued his lonely furrow
and got the father and the mother of a
licking.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Baldy, the P.M.G. lines-
man, made a fine art of malingering
and a finer art of inventing plausible
excuses. Also he reduced the drinking
of beer to an exact science. Sent back
to the depot (some 300 yards distant and
past a pub) for a coil of No. 8 wire,
Baldy returned in nice time for lunch
and smelling suspiciously of hops. Later
in the day the foreman sent Jones on a
similar mission and timed him. Jones
was back in 12 minutes. Again dispatch-
ing Baldy for another coil of No. 8 wire,
the foreman timed him too. Baldy com-
pleted the errand in just 40 seconds under
the hour. “Where the devil have you
been?” the foreman demanded, flourish-
ing his watch menacingly. “Jones went
to the depot and back in 12 minutes —
you’ve taken a crimson hour! ” Baldy
eyed his accuser with surprise. “Gripes!”
he exclaimed. “Why didn’t y’ tell me
you ’ad a clock on me? I could’ve beat
Jonesy’s record easy!”
* * * *
“Spasebo”: Melbourne “Argus’s” mili-
tary expert, in an article on St. Peters-
burg, now Leningrad, said, “Here the
Czars lived in almost personal relations
with their people, mingling with them
and talking to them in the streets and
gardens even.” Quite so. When I was
there I observed with astonishment that
the royal palace in the Nevsky Prospekt
didn’t have a front fence. I was even
more amazed when, as I was fishing in
my pocket for a rouble to pay for a
glass of vodka in a tavern, I felt
a slap on the back and heard a
bearded young moujik in a typical Rus-
sian jumper and topboots invite me to
have one. “It’s on the house! he
shouted, observing some hesitation on my
part. “He means the House of Roman-
off,” whispered the publican. “You re
talking to the Little Father.’ In his
robust democratic fashion the Czar soon
put me at my ease, took me round the
town and showed me all the sights. We
ended up on the banks of the Neva,
slightly elevated, with a half-emptied
bottle of vodka and a bag of perooshkis.
Then he asked me up to the Summer
Palace to meet the wife and have a
seance with Rasputin ; but, unfortunately,
I had to catch the boat to Finland. Nicky
told me he had always wanted to meet
an Australian, as he had heard that we
were not as stiff as the Russians. It was
then about the time the milk-oh makes
his rounds in St. Petersburg, and I asked
him if he wasn’t afraid to be wandering
around unprotected with all those Bol-
sheviks about. “Pouf!” he said in Rus-
sion. “I’d sooner meet Marx, Lenin and
Trotsky all boiled into one than the
Tsarina when I get home to Tsarskoe
Selo.”
* * * *
“Adelaide”: S.A. finds it hard to
believe that Sydney is threatened with
a water shortage through haying no
domestic tanks. Here, a galvanised-iron
tank, holding so-many-hundred gallons
according to the size of the house, is
simply a matter of course at every subur-
ban back door, collecting and storing
every drop of rain from the roof. My
own home has two: the one from which
the washhouse tubs draw their rainwater
direct has been about dry only twice, in
special droughts; the other, in reserve, is
never even half-empty. All this is, of
course, in addition to a fine water service
from the mains. Strange that one city
should agree to do without a comfort
which the other would consider a builder
criminal for not providing.
* * * *
“T.P.”: Reference to 400 Sydneyites
revelling in a drunk mauling a policeman
(B. 13/8/’4l) reminds me of Archdeacon
Julius long ago in Ballarat East aiding
a constable in a battle with a couple
of mad hooligans. “Help! In the name
of the Queen!” appealed the battered cop
to a gaping multitude. The Venerable
was the sole responder, and that with a
vengeance. After the whirlwind the
Archdeacon, later to become Primate of
M.L., took one brawler to gaol while the
grateful policeman hauled the other.
“Which of you was arrested by the Arch-
deacon?” queried the P.M. “Me, yer
Wash up,” replied a thing of shreds,
patches and sticking plaster.
* * * *
“4 x 2”: “Clooter” (B. 27/8/’4l) was
too right about the double profit the
French pubkeeper made over the cham-
pagne from Melba’s bath. In fact, he
sold two bottles more than he put in.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: Now that the “black-
out” mania is getting a hold on Aus-
tralia night-strolling citizens meet with
the peremptory order “Put out that cigar-
ette!” But from high up would the
glowing tip of a cigarette be visible? I
question whether a lighted match would
be visible from 500 feet up. When shaft-
sinking one uses candles. Watching from
the surface day by day one notes the
shaft going down. At 50 feet the man
on top can see such candles burning ; at
100 feet these lights fade ; past 100 feet
darkness closes in, so that the observer
looking down a 200-foot shaft sees pitch-
darkness. There may be some theory of
the candle’s rays being absorbed into the
sides of the narrow shaft, but it looks
to me that the fifth columnist who got
out with even a shilling electric torch
with the object of guiding enemy ’planes
to the capital would be merely wasting
his batteries.
* * * *
"Colonel Bungstarter”; The British
Army is thrilled to its back teeth
by a rumor that the Army Council
is considering a scheme to replace
orderlies, cooks and batmen with
A.T.S. girls. Thrills of a different
kind are experienced by sweethearts
and wives, particularly in commissioned-
rank circles, where the idea of batwomen
is not regarded with favor. An ominous
note was sounded by Adam
(an unreassuring name in such matters)
when he mentioned at a War Office cock-
tail party which welcomed him to his
new office of Adjutant-General that
nowadays it is not the mothers who
worry about their daughters when A.T.S.
girls are put alongside men on the A.A.
guns, but the wives who worry about
their husbands.
* * * *
“M.6.W.”; Touching the authorship
of “Waltzing Matilda” let me point out
that it was Paterson’s habit to use the
tunes of old songs to put his ballads to.
An example is the set of verses “There’s
another bl —dy ’orse gorn down.” These
he wrote aboard a transport going to
the Boer War. The tune used was “The
place where the old horse died” ; the
verses appeared, I think, in The
Bulletin.
* * * *
“Bo”: Press reports of the Federal
conference of barbers assayed a grin and
a half to the inch. One delegate gave a
personal demonstration in support of his
contention that “a man’s hair should be
cut to suit his face.” If his thesis is
correct, large chunks of the citizenry
would need to be shorn with a blowlamp.
The same speaker said that “in cutting
men’s hair it is essential to look for the
crown or crowns.” The .spectacle of a
barber on a busy Saturday morning
searching frantically through an egg-
headed customer’s coconut fibre for
the elusive crown is one which defies
imagination. But the part I liked best
was conference’s expressed determination
to raise the hairdressing craft “to the
status of a profession, complete with a
code of ethics.” I visualise the scene
when some barber, talking at 240 w.p.m.
on Pussfodder’s prospects at Ascot, is
forced to rebuke his colleague operating
at the next chair for chipping in with his
opinion of the moke’s chances. Un-
doubtedly one of the ethics to be strictly
observed will be “Talk only at your own
customer.”
« * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”; It isn’t only the con-
quered peoples of Europe (B. 13 /8 / ’4l)
who enjoy a dirty crack at the Nazis.
Portugal is making a lot of money out
of the great army of refugees who shelter
under her neutrality whilst awaiting the
opportunity to escape from war-ravaged
Europe. At a movie show in Oporto a
newsreel showing German mechanised
divisions in action was received with
complete silence by the cosmopolitan
audience. The next reel depicted the
sinking of the Graf Spee. For a minute
the silence continued ; then a man sprang
to his feet with a shout of what meant
“Three cheers for the Oporto Football
Club!” In an instant the whole crowd
was yelling fervent hurrahs, which con-
tinued up to the very last glimpse of
Germany’s scuttled raider taking her dying
plunge to the bottom off Montevideo.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: There is always some-
thing impressive in the spectacle of a
speaker talking to an audience of which
he is completely oblivious. That appears
to have been the position of Errol G.
Knox, one of the press pilgrims to the
N.E.1., when he spoke a farewell
piece over the air from Java. There
are a bare 200,000 Dutchmen in the
archipelago, and these include persons ot
mixed parentage, for the Dutch make
no distinction between the white Euro-
pean and the man of mixed race. Thv.
relatively small Dutch population is set
in an immense sea of 70 million natives,
without whose goodwill it could not sub-
sist for a week. It seems ungrateful ot
Mr. Knox not to have given his
70,000,000 hosts at least a mention,
unless, of course, he was unaware ot
their existence.
THE TERRORS OF PUBLICITY.
“Men generally are vainer than women. If hair-
dressers had cubicles for male customers, many would
gladly have permanent waves.” —Speaker at Hair-
dressers’ Conference.
The female of the species termed humanity
Is deadlier (vide Kipling) than the male,
But when it comes to their respective vanity,
That’s obviously quite another tale.
To be a bit like Venus, one may own, is
Her firm desire —why shouldn’t it be so?
He’s just as wishful to recall Adonis
As in the days of bucks and macaronis.
The barbers know.
The hair, of course, is woman’s crowning glory,
But man is still expected to refrain,
A trifle diffidently suo more
From artificial adjuncts to his mane.
With sheer embarrassment a chap would tingle
Who had to march into a shaving shop.
Where racing tips with racy wisecracks mingle,
And coram publico request a shingle
To deck his mop.
The brand of “sissy” would be his requital,
Yet one might fairly, I submit, protest
Against acquiring that invidious title
Merely because he seeks to look his best.
What reasons could they give, the cynic scoffers
Who human frailties like these attack?
If Jill may revel in alluring coiffures
And all the joys that topknot-tending offers,
Why shouldn’t Jack?
Ah, if tonsorial artists would but try to
See that from observation we’re withdrawn,
Like those considerate uncles we apply to
With any little things we want to pawn,
Then you or 1 —or any beau whose tresses
Are long enough to justify the term —
Might sink into some curtained-off recesses
Where no dislike of being seen oppresses
And have a “perm.”
N s w
T .THE R.


“May I show my friends round the ship, sir ?”
SEARCH ME!
“Asked when there was, likely to be an end of
the present Parliamentary proceedings, Mr. Menzies
replied ‘Search me!’” — “S.M.H.”
“These fight like husbands, but like lovers
those;
These fain would keep, but those more fain
enjoy”—
A couplet many a painful student knows
It took a Poet Laureate to compose;
Withal a fitting figure to employ
To illustrate the combats fierce and hot
That in our Parliaments we’ve made a habit,
When those a hold on office who have got,
To keep it, must repel a rival lot,
Keener to grab it.
And when a vote, a single vote or so,
May clinch the business and turn the scale,
And there is little definite to show
Which way or either it is like to go
(There’s always someone roosting on the rail),
The problem harder grows. Why not confess
It leaves the wisest of us in the lurch, me
And you and all the prophets of the press?
So no reply is possible, I guess,
Excepting “Search me!”
n.s.w. Pipards.
“Atrax”: Ido not know the name of
the genius who selected the emu and
kangaroo as supporters for our national
coat of arms and added as a motto
“Advance Australia,” but I take my hat
off to his eminently sound knowledge of
Australian natural history. Neither of
them can do anything but advance be-
cause Nature has denied to both any
ability to go voluntarily backward. Unlike
the ’roo, the emu can deliver a particu-
larly effective kick in that direction as
well as forward, but that is its limit in
reverse action. Judging from the per-
formances of the A.I.F. in Libya, Greece
and Crete, they have evolved the capacity
to kick in all directions whilst retaining
the views of their national emblems con-
cerning retrogression.
“Colbun”: As a verse-smith it must
be admitted that Barron Field, Australia’s
first-published poet (B. 20/8/’4l), out-
moded even the most inspired efforts
of The Bulletin’s own “Bellerive.”
Consider:
THE KANGAROO.
She had made the squirrel fragile,
She had made the bounding hart;
But a thing so strong and agile
Was beyond e’en Nature’s art,
So she joined the former two
In thee—Kangaroo!
But his prose compared well with that of
the best writers of his day, and his
memoir to his friend Charles Lamb ranks
as a classic.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: A Melbourne dentist
who is also a painter and had just held
an exhibition got his revenge on an art
critic who had taken a jaundiced view
of his show. The a.c. called to complain
of a new set of false teeth. “Nobody
likes the look of me now I’ve got these
teeth of yours,” he protested. “I clean
them and scrub them but they become
all discolored a few hours after I have
put them back.” “Can’t do anything for
you,” said the dentist. “There must be
some chemical ingredient in your body
that does the damage.” “Never heard of
such a thing,” retorted the a.c. indig-
nantly. “What ingredient could it be?”
“Critic’s venom,” suggested the dentist.
* * * *
“Zake”: The appearance of the female
strike-picket threatens to plunge the Lor
into deep gloom. Sydney police were
summoned to disperse 50 girl textile
strikers who were picketing a spinning
mill. Perhaps H.Q., adopting the
obvious tactics, sent the handsomest
policemen available, for there was no
trouble. But that won’t always work.
Every company chairman presiding at
the annual general meeting dreads the
persistent woman shareholder who keeps
putting her bib in and won’t shut up. A
man he can deal with, but not a woman.
He’s got to take her tirade on the chin
and hope she’ll get a sore throat before
the meeting finishes. A cop would rather
have the job of snapping the bracelets on
Joe the Thug than face the combined
vocal efforts of half a hundred incensed
and determined females.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: Every morning in my daily
paper it is confidently stated that the
Russian winter is only a few weeks off
and presto! that will be the end of the
German invasion. I wonder where these
papers get their information. In the
Ukraine snow doesn’t come till December,
and the Crimea is a resort where the
winter climate is not unlike the Riviera’s.
In the most daring thing ever published
in Stead’s “Review of Reviews” (edited in
Australia by the Rev. Fitchett), it was
related that Russian Court ladies used
to go there in wintertime “to have im-
proper relations with handsome Tartar
shepherds.” Moreover, rivers are easier
to cross when frozen over, and incendiary
bombs are more to be feared when there’s
no unfrozen water to put out fires.
# $ ¥
“Chevroford”; A decision of Justice
O’Bryan, upheld by the Court,
in a car accident case in *' Melbourne,
ought to cause a revision of the laws
governing speedsters. A car driven at
60 m.p.h. on the Calder Highway be-
tween Geelong and Melbourne struck
a bit of wire, had a blowout and
overturned. A passenger made a claim
for £lOOO damages against the driver.
After inspecting the scene and get-
ting a taste of the speed, ’Sonah came to
the conclusion that a modern car could
travel at a speed of 50 to 60 m.p.h. on a
level road without involving legal liability.
There is no general speed limit in Vic-
toria, each case being judged on its
merits.
* * * »
“C.Q.”: London has been slow in
adopting the Dutch penny-in-the-slot
device for saving a householder opening
the door to unwanted callers (B.
27 /8 / ’4l). A Melbourne citizen installed
one in his villa in Kew several
years ago. One day a rich aunt,
with a station in the country
where she had lived for 50 years
and entertained innumerable
“travellers,” paid a sudden call
and was confronted with the
device. She forked out a penny,
put it in the slot and waited
while her nephew and his wife
went through the ritual of in-
specting her in the mirror before
they opened the door. “Humpf! ”
she said, responding coldly
to their effusive welcome. “Is
this how you treat callers? I’m
afraid you’d find Bookalooka-
booka a very uncongenial place
to live in, my dears.” And she went back
home and changed her will.
“Pawang”: The latest wonder from
America is a machine that measures brain
waves. Pleasure, anger, hope and dis-
couragement all give different wave-
lengths, and it is the opinion of the
learned professors who have made this
easily predictable discovery that when
more data have been accumulated it may
be possible to devise some system by
which the entire personality of a human
being can be determined by brain-wave
variations. But who is to assess the
significance of the brain waves? Shak-
speare had no electro-encephalograph to
measure the feelings of other individuals,
but he seems to have got along quite well
with blushes, stammers, coughs, blenches,
stumbles and similar old-fashioned mani-
festations of the emotions.
* * * *
“K.”: The Neville Gardus fashion is
not dead. Cable editors have displaced
cricket scribes in the search for romantic
parallels and fruity metaphors. It was,
therefore, inevitable that the war would
throw up a Scarlet Pimpernel, a Free
French officer whose deeds have made
him a legend—which is probably all that
he is. Robin Hood also has bobbed up.
Robin is a Greek general who, according
to an anonymous traveller’s solemnly-
told tale to some popeyed correspondent,
is leading 300 Anzacs in Crete. The
probability is that, if he did exist, he’d
finish up as cook for ’em. I confidently
look forward to a dashing D’Artagnan
coming to light. We haven’t had one
since Bradman.
* * * *
“T. McN.”: The usual burbling Amur-
rican has arrived in Sydney, this time
from Turkey. A lady, she told the
flapper press that she was teaching in
Istambul and that “Turkish children
refuse to play with German children at
school.” They must differ from any
other kids in the world, for if there is
any human section which refuses to
recognise color or race bars it is children.
And they’re only snobbish when some
fatheaded mother has got to work on
them. The lady added that “I felt
that Turkey would weaken under Ger-
man pressure because in the last 17 years
she has put all her money into civil im-
provements and made little preparation
for war.” Strange words to appear in
the journal that, before the German fell
on Greece, was assuring the world that
“2,000,000 Turkish bayonets bar the
way.”
♦ * * •
“Captain Pintle”: The second mate,
interested in windjammer history, found
an old telescope in a junk shop. An
inspription on the brass slide ran, “Pre-
sented by his grateful passengers to Cap-
tain Anthony Enright, commanding the
ship Lightning, September, 1856.” “Ever
hear of him, sir?” he asked. As it hap-
pened, I had—even seen the slim, upright,
whiskered old shore captain of Grade,
Beazley and Co., of Liverpool, who lived
to nearly a century —from 1815 to 1912.
The Lightning was that famous Aus-
tralian clipper of the 1850’s; but before
Enright had her he had made sea
reputation in the Chrysolite, 471 tons,
built —in 1851 —to oust the American
clippers from their monopoly of fast
tea-carrying from China to England. Put
in command, at 36, on her maiden voyage,
he drove her to Hong Kong in 102 days,
with a record time of 80 days to Anjer.
They loaded in three days at Whampoa,
but six of his forecastle complement of
22 deserted. Undeterred, he persuaded
the crew to sail, took a daring short cut
through Macclesfield Strait with a touch
of coral on both sides and Discovery
Rock missed by a miracle, made a wild
race of it across the Indian Ocean round
the Cape and northabout, to lose all three
t’gall’n’ masts off the Western Islands and
yet reach Liverpool 103 days out and
three days ahead of his nearest rival. The
tea was on sale in the shops next day,
and the owners gave him a £5O bonus.
Next year he beat his own firm’s Storn-
away and became the crack China skipper
of his day.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Until it gets to the front
an army can’t hit back, so I am not
surprised to hear that our army now
has an Education Directorate, which is
elaborating “psychology” tests designed
to avoid enlistment of “misfits” and to
discover natural talent. One of its “tests”
is to ask potential recruits what “vale-
tudinarian” means. When that very un-
conventional pedagogue Professor Wood-
Jones used to examine intending anatomy
students at Melbourne University he
didn’t bother much with long words.
“What route do you take from the rail-
way station to the University?” was the
question to an aspirant. “From Flinders-
street, up Swanston-street,” replied the
student. “What pubs do you pass?”
asked the professor. “I’m afraid I can’t
remember any of them,” replied the
student. Wood-Jones remarked after-
wards that if the young man was so un-
observant as not to have recorded in his
mind a simple thing like that he would
never be a good anatomist.
♦ * » *
“Nuthery”; Mention by “Snarker”
(B. 20/8/’4l) of the “time-honored
‘Cumanavwun’ ” raises a point. Why is
it that most of us rarely frame this most-
friendly-of-all invitations in any other
than the most roundabout phraseology?
We invariably say “Time for a quickie?”
or “Can you keep one down?” or merely
“Got time?” My dad used to disguise
it even further. With one eye on Mum
he’d look innocently at me and say,
“Cornin’ f’r a walk?”
*** ■ *
“V. Cluse”: About the only feasible
explanation seems to be that our drunk,
having stood in the rain with other less-
elevated persons and listened to the
speaker’s plea to “stand by the gallant
boys now defending our homeland,”
withdrew and spent some time in the
darkness of the little park near by. There,
communing with himself, he must have
concluded that it was up to him. How
else can it be accounted that an hour
later he was found shivering in the rain,
standing firm by the small statue of a
Digger on the local 1914-18 war mem-
orial, having draped his own overcoat
round the effigy. Not all sacrifices are
made with a fanfare of press trumpets.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Is J. H. M. Abbott quite sure
that (as stated B. 6/8/’4l) “the very name
of the profession” (bushranger) “was
coined in honor” of John Ctesar —as early
as 1796? When the Commonwealth re-
printed in great volumes the early dis-
patches of colonial Governors, it fell to
me to review them ; and I well remem-
ber commenting on the frequent use of
the Italian word “banditti” instead of our
own word of later growth, the only one
that today seems possible. The Oxford
Dictionary has no citation earlier than
1817, and even then the “Sydney Gazette”
seems to have been only feeling its way
with “the banditti of bushrangers.”
“I’m on'y collectin' Bundles for Britain!”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised ..
Capital Issued
. £1,250,000
. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund ..
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..
£1,250,000
1,000.000
1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E. 0.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE KEYNES PLAN OF POST-WAR CREDITS.
THE COAL CONTROL REGULATIONS.
September Issue on Sale Saturday.
PRICE 21- PER COPY or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 202 George Street, Sydney,
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE ... MARINE ...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
POLITICAL POINTS
“I was born on the 13th day of April,
began work on the 13th day of January,
and the number allotted to me when I
passed my accountancy examination was
13.” Thus the 13th Prime Minister in
an “exclusive” article in a Sunday paper.
And every astrologer in the land will cry
“What a pal! ”
Curtin to Menzies before the Govern-
ment “had its face lifted”:
You are the leader of a party of only
24 members in the House, by arrangement
with the Country party consisting of 12
members.
Bob protested that Jack was wrong:
“The U.A.P. consists of twenty-five mem-
bers.” But Coles, who was U.A.P. for
two whole months, immediately whirled
himself out of the party-room and the
25 became 24. Next the president of
the Queensland Country party disowned
Fadden,. saying that Artie had “auto-
matically excluded himself from the
party when he formed the Country-
National organisation,” and describing
that manoeuvre as an “intrigue” against
Menzies which “emerged from Stygian
darkness when he was not in Australia to
defend his position.” Foil, who is U.A.P.
or something, said the C.P. president was
another; but it is a pretty kettle of fish
altogether.
“Shakspeare, Jane Austen and Brian
Penton” are, it seems, “among the
authors of books selected by Army edu-
cational officers for use in the discussion
classes being formed in the Army.”
Shakspeare, Jane Austen and Brian
Penton!
N.S.W. Lands Minister Tully has
announced that more than 50 p.c. of
the blocks to be thrown open for settle-
ment in the resumed areas of his State’s
western division “will be reserved exclu-
sively for returned soldiers.” Potential
settlers now in the Tobruk area should
at least be familiar with the conditions
when they come back.
Asked if the report (American) that
Anzacs were in Iran was true, Menzies
replied: “So far as the Commonwealth
Government knows, no Australian troops
are at present fighting in Iran. We have
no information which would suggest that
Australians are in the Iran theatre of war.
Further, there is every reason to believe
that none are in fact in that region.”
This, presumably, is the type of answer
commonly described as of a negative
character.
The Sydney U.A.P., anxious to reform
itself after the doing it got at the State
election, has advised its members that
“it is better to drop the dead past, with
its omissions and mistakes, and to con-
centrate on the future.” It will need also
to drop a few of its dead heads and
shake off some of its dead hands before
it gets anywhere.
For years and years all the Left Wing
writing boys, American, Jewish, British
and Australian, proclaimed the superiority
of everything made in Moscow. Now,
when things are going badly with the
Red Army (“the mightiest force the world
has ever seen”), they are so frantic with
apprehension that they are hysterically
calling upon the poor damned English and
Australians to speed to the rescue. A
“roving reporter” from Sydney Tele-
graph” has discovered that “it is essential
that Australia should have a representative
at the Moscow conference” with power
“to offer Russia sufficient Australian air-
men and crews” —taken from a popula-
tion of 7,000,000—“ to maintain 500
modern American bombers and fighters”
—produce of a population of 130,000,000
—at Vladivostok. The insolence of the
yelping whelp!
Victoria’s Mr, Dunstan, sending on to
Canberra a Victorian farmers’ demand
for conscription of labor for food and
munitions production, said it would be
“disastrous if essential industries were
allowed to suffer while non-essential
activities continued on a full-time basis.”
Mr. Dunstan is head of a non-essential
activity which doesn’t even work on a
“full-time basis.”
Westralia has joined S.A. in a 25 p.c.
reduction in motor registration fees con-
sequent upon petrol rationing. Asked
what he intended to do, Victoria’s Mr.
Dunstan sourly declared that those who
“clamor for a reduction are doing a dis-
service to the State.” Yes; “a disservice
to the State”!
In Paris last week a Communist pumped
bullets into the bodies of Laval, the editor
of “L’CEuvre” and an army major, and
British and Australian newspapers were
delighted. This exultation would have
seemed very strange to sober generations
in which newspapers were not so “ad-
“You might need this, Artie.”
vanced.” In a sonnet on Russian politics
Swinburne wrote the line “Night has one
red star, Tyrannicide” ; and it was made
very plain to him that he had gone too
far. In remoter times Napoleon roused
the English to fury by alleging that Eng-
lish Ministers had hired French refugees
to assassinate him. Then and afterwards
it was held to be one of the glories of
Britain that assassination was not a
political weapon. The fashionable Left-
ism-and-lubricity journalism has other
notions.
Another Federal Labor member—
Lazzarini this time —had a crack at
B.H.P. While he Was performing, Fraser,
Maoriland’s Labor P.M., reached the
U.S.A. and was asked some questions
about Australia. He said- “Australia has
done wonders”:
Australia’s steel industry is the most
efficient in the world. Australia is produc-
ing steel more cheaply than Britain.
Which means that B.H.P. is. Neverthe-
less, Forde, M.H.R., started snarling
again, moved by the statement of B.H.P.’s
chairman that net profit on shareholders’
funds was 5.62 p.c. in 1940-41, compared
with 9.1 p.c. in 1939. “The £1 shares
are listed at more than £1 18s.” Forde
sneered. A.C.I. £1 shares are listed
at more than 505.” ; but A.C.I. never
arouses Forde’s curiosity or criticism.
Bishop Burgmann’s latest: “As soon
as possible we must bring the great people
of China into a working and closely
allied partnership.” Does that mean un-
restricted Chinese immigration? The
Bishop’s Bolshie friends are for throwing
the gates wide open to all races.
Melbourne’s City Council’s Hall and
Baths Committee persists in refusing to
place the Town Hall at the disposal of
the Soviet Friendship League. How about
offering it a bath?
What a treasure N.S.W. has in Maxie
Falstein! His latest is that Hobart Pre-
mier Cosgrove voted against Sydney Pre-
mier McKell at the Loan Council meet-
ing because Fadden offered Cosgrove a
Tasmanian nomination to the chairman-
ship of the Grants Commission. Fadden
denied it—unnecessarily, because nobody
except Maxie takes any notice of Maxie.
Mr. Wilson, M.H.R., sent a goodwill
message to the Soviet Friendship con-
ference at Melbourne. Then he said:
“The attitude followed by the metro-
politan press regarding the relations of
Australia and Japan is not conducive to
settlement of any difficulties between that
country and ourselves.” Mr. Wilson is
the Independent who has everybody
guessing and for whom everybody wants
to buy drinks,
Fadden had hardly taken his seat as
P.M. before he was called upon to reply
to McKell, of Sydney, who is still narked
because the Loan Council repulsed his
“tigerish” fight for huge supplies of loan
money to “honor” his “election pledges.”
McKell blamed Fadden for the dreadful
position of hospital finance in N.S.W.
Fadden’s answer was that though the
L.C. had cut McKell by 25 p.c. McKell
had cut his hospital programme by 40
p.c.—to £150,000. Fadden, on points.
From “0.P.H.”:
April and August are fateful months for
Prime Ministers. Deakin’s first Ministry came
to an end in April, 1904. Watson’s, which
succeeded it, lasted only from April 27 to
August 17. Reid’s, sworn in on August 18, was
out of office in ten and a half months.
Deakin’s third Government was smashed at
the polls on April 13, 1910, and gave way to
Fisher’s second on April 29. Lyons, elected to
the Tas. Parliament in April, 1909, and named
Treasurer in April, 1914, became Premier in
August, 1927, and Acting Commonwealth Trea-
surer in August, 1930. He died on April 7,
1939. Page in that month was Treasurer tor
19 days. Menzies, P.M. from April 26, 1939,
resigned on August 29, 1941. Fadden, born
on April 13, 1895, was sworn in as P.M. on
August 29. The indications are that he will
last quite as long as Page did.
A favorite excuse for blundering legis-
lation by these State “Governments" is
that they have a “mandate from the
people.” Forgan Smith is using the excuse
to defend his Public Safety Act in
Queensland. Sydney’s Minister for Lands
Tully used it as excuse for a doubtful
lands measure; and it crops up else-
where. The Sydney crowd got their
“mandate” largely on the strength of their
promise to cut out the wages tax. There’s
no sign of the axe.
Letter from a Waterford, Pennsylvania,
man in the U.S. journal “Time”:
I would like to propose that if the
Administration wishes to aid the U.S.S.R.
against the Germans, the ’planes that were
not produced through Communistic strikes
in the American plants be sent to Russia
in the ships that were not built in the West
Coast yards that were tied up through Red
efforts.
Australia, no doubt, could help this laud-
able object by sending Communists who
wouldn’t fight to man either the ships
or ’planes.
A north-west N.S.W. farmer swears
that he has been informed by the State
Transport Department that, if he wishes
to pull a plough, harrow or other imple-
ment behind a tractor along a road from
one paddock to another, the implements
will have to be registered as trailers. But
what did he expect from a department
which not only charges a registration fee
for owning a motor vehicle but charges
another fee for the right to drive it?
Premier McKell has the N.S.W. hos-
pitals’ administration and finance problem
well in hand. Everybody can stop worry-
ing, even tradespeople who fear they may
never see their money. Mr. McKell has
fixed everything by taking the original,
unusual, astounding step of appointing
an expert committee to inquire into the
whole business.
Though taxpayers may not see the
joke, newspapermen are getting some fun
out of the press jaunt to the Near North,
personally conducted by Foil. Foil him-
self came back fuming because one of
the pilgrims had reported him as sitting
on golden thrones and studying the move-
ments of dancing virgins, munching
peanuts the while. Another pilgrim turned
off an article, sprinkled with “Ts” and
“musts,” in which he kindly decided for
Australia what Australia should do. A
third gleefully related that the integrity
of a fourth’s clothing had been imperilled
by a band of Diggers, incensed because
a lady war correspondent from his office
had pictured them as leading a glamorous
life with. Chinese taxi-girls. No. 4 ex-
panded himself in a narrative which
contradicted the lady’s version. The
painful experience attributed to him he
didn’t mention.
Things you can read any Monday in
the London cables:
Newspapers clamor for action to assist the
Russians. John Gordon writes in the “Sunday
Express”: “I hear all sorts of excuses why we
cannot strike a blow with which to take the
pressure from Russia, but can you believe that
the Empire is in such a condition?” The
“Sunday Times” says: “Are we satisfied that
the utmost Has been done to assist Russia?”
“Reynolds’s” calls for “a readjustment of
strategy to open up a second front against
Germany.” According to the “Sunday
Chronicle,” “Everybody throughout Britain
should be asking ‘What can 1 do to help the
Russians?’ ”
And F. Ehrenfried Baume always swells
the chorus. The ink was scarcely dry on
the rags in which the quoted extracts
appeared when it came out that seven
ships, bound from England to Gibraltar,
had been sunk by the enemy, who
claimed 25 merchantmen, a destroyer and
two smaller warships. Apparently nothing
but keelhauling will quench the ardor
of cocksure newspaper strategists who
would send better men to their death.


STOP-WAR MEETING.
“Though it is not 12 months since servicemen and nurses overseas voted at the general, election, newspapers and politicians—especially Premier MctCell-
are demanding another.”
“Whatever you do, you mustn’t interrupt us today. Our men have got to vote—they’ll be fined two pounds if they don’t.”


V*-
• " • ■
Ss»v‘
:*\\v
VV-’
Only
a scrap of paper
. . . . but in the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared—Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE,
AND GENERAL INSURANCE COUP. A
Head Office; 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
fi. V. PEKKINS, General Manager.
Insure with, the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 409-413 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
"THE ARIZONA"
COWBOY SADDLE
£l2/7/6
If made with Double
Rigging* with Two-cord
j (Jinchas, 17/6 extra.
N.S. IK. Freight on Saddles
Paid for Cash with Order.
WALTHER & STEVEKSOHI
395 CEORCE ST. SYPHEYI
fd
PERSONAL ITEMS
At 46 Arthur William (“Call Me
Artie”) Fadden becomes Australia’s thir-
teenth P.M. and the first native-born
Queenslander to reach the office. He was
born at Ingham on April 13, 1895, and
on April 13, 1910, he waited in a Mackay
street to see the posting of the election
returns that ensured the Prime Minister-
ship for a Queenslander by adoption—
Andrew Fisher from Kilmarnock. Fadden
has a rugged physique, an engaging grin,
a fund of racy bush stories and a good
head for figures, and at Canberra he has
had a lot of luck. He will need it all
and more in the uncomfortable seat to
which he has been elevated.
Passed over in Melbourne, George A.
Fielding, one of Melbourne’s best-known
lawyers. He was born in the city,
son of a maltster. He learnt pothooks at
Camberwell Grammar, where he was dux
and captain, and served with the R.A.A.
in 1914-18. He was an ex-president of
Melbourne Athenaeum and a member of
the Melbourne Hospital committee.
Robert Ward Hamilton, Acting Deputy-
Director of Posts and Telegraphs, N. S.
R.W.HAMILTON.
Wales, was born in Victoria in 1880. He
joined the State Railways as a junior clerk
at 17, transferring to the P.M.G.’s Depart-
ment at 33. He has for many years been
a Treasury official; before his appoint-
ment last year to the present job he was
accountant'in the Sub-Treasury, N.S.W.
branch. He is deputising at present for
John Duncan, who is acting as official
secretary to Australia’s High Commis-
sioner in London. Hamilton is a past
vice-president of the Federal Institute of
Accountants and a member of the. in-
stitute’s N.S.W. council. An all-the-year-
round morning swimmer ; also addicted
to golf.
Command of the Alexandra Military
Hospital, Singapore, claimed to be the
most up-to-date in the world, has
been given to a Maorilander, Lt.-Col.
J. W. Craven, R.A.M.C., who before the
outbreak of war was medical superin-
tendent of Auckland Hospital, a position
he had held since 1932. Dr. Craven
saw service in the 1914-18 war as a
captain with the Ist Northumberland
Field Ambulance. He commanded the
unit later and retired from military ser-
vice in 1919 with his present rank.
N. S. Wales Justice Tom Bavin,
dead in Sydney, had been painfully ill
for a- very long time, but had carried
on with the tenacity characteristic of the
man. A Maorilander, he went to
school at Newington, took a first-class
degree at Sydney Uni. and was pulled
into politics by the Federal movement
in the ’nineties. He was Barton’s first
private secretary when the latter became
Prime Minister, and did the same job
for Deakin for a time before going into
practice at the N. S. Wales Bar. He
came into State politics during the 1914-
18 war and in ten years had pushed him-
self to the leadership of the Government
by sheer hard work. He was not naturally
a politician ; somewhat austere outwardly,
though gentle and kindly within, he could
not be hail-fellow-well-met with the
crowd, and he found difficulty in trim-
ming his sails to the breezes. And he
was often in agony ; more than once he
looked at the point of death. But he
never shirked an issue, and his repu-
tation was never touched by any breath
of scandal. Bavin went to the Supreme
Court Bench in 1935, but found time to
give to international affairs and to his
great hobby, trout fishing.
“El V.” sees a friend off:
Poor Charles Hardy, cut off in his early
forties in a ’plane accident near Coen (Q.),
was a man against whom all the political
fates ranged themselves. He went into politics
as leader of the 1931 Riverina movement with
all the attributes which make for political pro-,
motion except experience. He had youth, a
fine presence, a war record —he had gone over-
seas at 18 straight from college—and was an
attractive speaker. His vogue was such that
the U.A.P.-C.P. organisations had to give him
a nomination, but they carefully drafted the
dangerous fellow into the Senate. It was the
wrong place for him. In that depressing
environment all his enthusiasm oozed out of him,
and though he led the C.P. bunch for a time
he was denied office. Then he failed of re-
election and retired disgusted and politically
soured to his native Wagga. The tale might
have been different had he gone to the Reps.
Bad health and bad luck pursued him, but
the moment war broke out he was on the
Government doorstep with an offer to do any
war job at any sacrifice to himself ; and doing
that job, as co-ordinator of works to the
R. he was killed. He left two sons;
one is a young giant.
A young bank officer who has made
good use of the classes at Perth Uni. is
J. S. G. Wilson. He leaves his job as
teller at the Mosman Park branch of the
Commonwealth Savings Bank to become
lecturer in economics at Tas. Uni. The
B.A. and Dip. Comm, of Perth Uni.
buttress his qualifications.
Vivian Gordon Bowden, named “Aus-
tralian representative” at Singapore, with
“authority in political, commercial and
administrative matters,” was born in Syd-
ney 57 years ago and educated in Aus-
tralia, England, Germany and France.
At 21 he became a silk inspector at
Canton, He saw service in the 1914-
18 war, emerging as a major, R.E.,
and was from 1921 to 1935 managing
director of A. Cameron and Co., Shang-
hai. He resigns the post of Australian
Trade Commissioner in China to under-
take his new duties. Bowden has a
literary bent and has published two
novels,
Keith Angas, a young member of
South Australia’s most ancient pastoral
clan, is enlisting and has resigned the
S. J.C. chairmanship, which he has held
since W. B. Carr retired. It was handed
over to Stanley Murray, a lawyer and a
member of an equally famous family of
stockbreeders. The Murray and Angas
clans are closely connected by marriage.
In the office of the “Otago Daily
Times,” Dunedin, M.L., men live long.
Editor James Hutchison, who has been
in the chair for 32 years, is just living
down a tendency to regard him as a
newcomer. The other day general man-
ager Bill Easton said good-bye to the
staff on the eve of retirement. He has
been there for over 50 years —manager
since 1919 and general manager since
George Fenwick died. Fenwick, in part-
nership with Reed, bought the “0.D.T.”
in 1877 and remained its owner to the
end. Easton hails from Glasgow.
Reported a prisoner of war in Italy,
Lieut. John Mair, son of the ex-Premier.
Lieut. Mail - , who is 22, and who was
educated in Melbourne, was posted miss-
ing in May last. Another son of Alex-
ander Mair, Capt. Alec Mair, has been
through the Libya, Greece and Crete
campaigns without serious mishap.
Brigadier Sydney Fairbairn Rowell,
who returns to Australia, after service
abroad, as Deputy Chief of the General
Staff, is a son of Col. J. R. Rowell, was
born at Lockleys, S.A., 46 years ago, and
educated at Adelaide and at Duntroon,
where he graduated on August 14, 1914.
He saw service in Egypt and Gallipoli
as an officer of Light Horse, and was
invalided in 1916. His career since has
been a steady climb through high ad-
ministrative positions.
In his way, Andrew McCord Chaffey,
dead, at 67, in Los Angeles, was as
distinguished as his father George, co-
founder of Mildura. The father intro-
duced American systems of irrigation into
Australia; the son introduced the Aus-
tralian branch banking system into the
U.S.A. He was educated at Prince’s Col-
lege, Adelaide, started banking in Mildura
and ended up as chairman of one of the
biggest banks in California and president
of a score of concerns concerned With
agricultural development in that State. It
was he who introduced Kingsford Smith
and Ulm to Allan Hancock, the million-
aire patron of aviation, which resulted in
the first flight across the Pacific. As a
minor matter Chaffey brought a Geelong
footballer to Los Angeles to coach the
University of South California’s football
team in Australian methods. Andrew
was a brother of the late Ben Chaffey,
pastoralist and racing man.
Frederick James Shea, one of the three
members of the Aircraft Production
Commission, has since he started as an
apprentice in the Victorian Railways been
through every phase of modern trans-
port, from the steam locomotive to the
huge electrics, the first of which was
largely of his designing, and the latest
in war-time fliers. From the job of Chief
Mechanical Engineer to the S.A. Railways,
whose workshops he put on a modern
F.J. SHEA.
footing, he was transferred to organise air-
craft production in Australia. In 1940
he visited England and the U.S.A. to
investigate resources. While Counihan
was making his sketch there was
a whirr of wings outside and the first
Australian Beaufort glided back to its
hangar. Shea was born in Melbourne,
was educated at Melb. High and Tech.,
is 50 and has his job for a hobby.
Hermann Morris, dead at 78 in Mel-
bourne, was known to hundreds of
Wesley College boys of a former genera-
tion. He was music master at that
seminary for upwards of 30 years, but
was just as well known on the tennis
court, where he played six sets daily up
till a year ago.
Stanley McGregor Reid, appointed
manager of munitions factories in S.A.,
was born there 56 years ago. He is an
Adelaide accountant, and Adelaide has
no busier man, A past president of both
the Adelaide Chamber of Commerce
and the Associated C. of C, Reid is
on the boards of Bank of Adelaide, S.A.
s. MCGREGOR REID.
Gas Co., S.A. Brewing Co., Onkaparinga
Woollen Co. and other financial and in-
dustrial concerns.
Dead at 96, Mrs. I. Whitney, the
bright old soul who fan the Coombing
Park Shorthorn stud at Carcoar (N.S.W.)
for many years and was last seen in
Sydney about three years ago, when
one of her bulls won the R.A.S. cham-
pionship. She could talk cattle with the
next man, and had a sensible outlook on
life, gained through nearly 70 years of
the back-country from the time she and
the late Frank Whitney went to Buckin-
guy, on the Bogan, where he was to
manage the run and nearly 100,000 head
of cattle. Frank Whitney had been
interested in Cobb and Co., but .changed
to cattle, and about 1890 went to
Coombing Park and established the stud.
Later, Claverton (Q.) was acquired, and
the Coombing stock became famous all
over the country. Mrs. Whitney was
the matriarch type ; she regarded as her
subjects everyone on the station from the
manager down to the cattle-pup owned
by the cook’s offsider, but hers was a
gentle rule and nobody who encountered
her personality failed to be charmed by it.
Dead in M.L. at 87, one of the last of
the whalers, George Howe Cook. He
was first officer to Frank Bullen, author
of The Cruise of the Cachalot, and knew
Bully Hayes, Cook was a contributor
to the “N.Z. Herald,” Auckland, for
many.years under the pen-name “Lone-
hander.”
From a man who should know:
Tell the fellow who wrote that Pilot-Officer
Brian Duigan, D.F.C., was associated with his
uncle in constructing one of the lirst ’planes
made in Australia that Such association was
an impossibility, since the pilot-officer is only
25. Uncle’s partner in the enterprise was
Brian’s father.


s*ooB oooos
Angus & Robertson’s
BOOK SALE!
a Counters of new books HISTORY,
w BIOGRAPHY, TRAVEL, GENERAL
LITERATURE, BOOKS FOR BOYS
AND GIRLS, etc. including surplus
stock just purchased from leading
publishers, will be offered at bargain
prices.
# Thousands of NEW NOVELS will be
offered at 1/6, 2/6 and 2/11 per
volume.
0 Thousands of secondhand books in all
departments' of literature, including
books withdrawn from the Sydney
Book Club, will be’ offered.
£ Additions to the books on bargain
counters will be made every day until
the end of the Sale.
COUNTRY CLIENTS ; If you are not satis-
fied with these books when you receive them
return them within 10 days and your money
will be refunded.
f
' ' /
mm
MM
w
Two Handsome Books for
Boys and Girls.
Size of Volumes 9y 2 x 714
inches, 448 pages. 9/6 for
5/11 each.
THE TREASURE
BOOK OF YOUTH
Here, at last, is the book that
all boys have looked for in
vain. It is fine reading,
also practical articles on
arts and crafts for the
young handyman.
Well illustrated, including
coloured plates.
THE TREASURE
BOOK FOR GIRLS
This volume will prove
Indeed a treasure-chest
for a girl. The colour
plates, the black and
white drawings, and
eight half-tone illustra-
tions complete a lovely
book.
df
16
“EXILES”
By
WARWICK DEEPING.
A Splendid Novel. By the author of “Sorrell and Son.”
New copies, 7/6 for 1/6 each (post 5d.).
Deeping’s novels are genuine and sincere. “Exiles” is
very readable.
BIOGRAPHY of
EDGAR WALLACE
d
fd
fd
SENSATIONAL OFFER,
13/6 for 5/-.
An extraordinary character,
newsboy in London, soldier-
poet in South Africa, war
correspondent, racing tipster,
short-story writer, novelist
and playwright.
f
A large handsome
volume of 435 pages
(size 8? x 6 inches)
with 50 illustrations.
As exciting and en-
tertaining as an
Edgar Wallace
novel, at less than
the cost of an
ordinary novel.
df
VOts
Os]
17 0
ft
T mt s
/
fA
MODERN
LIBRARY
A collection of the most significant, interesting and thought-
provoking books in modern literature. Handy, compact and
authoritative volumes (size 6£ x 41 inches), beautifully
printed on good paper in large clear tyr»s, handsomely bound
in cloth, gold stamped. Check over partial list of titles below.
V’N
AN ANTHOLOGY OF LIGHT VERSE.
MODERN AMERICAN POETRY.
AN ANTHOLOGY OP AMERICAN NEGRO
LITERATURE.
BEST AMERICAN HUMOROUS SHORT STORIES.
BEST GHOST STORIES.
BEST RUSSIAN SHORT STORIES.
FOURTEEN GREAT DETECTIVE STORIES.
GREAT GERMAN SHORT NOVELS AND
STORIES.
AN OUTLINE OF ABNORMAL PSYCHOLOGY.
AN OUTLINE OP PSYCHOANALYSIS.
BALZAC. Droll Stories. Complete and unabridged.
BURTON, RICHARD. The Arabian Nights.
CASANOVA. The
Memories of Casanova.
CERVANTES: Don
Quixote.
CONFUCIUS. The Wisdom of Confucius.
CORNEILLE AND RACINE. Six plays.
CORVO. A history of the Borgias.
DANTE. The Divine Comedy. Complete and un-
abridged in one volume.
DAUDET, ALPHONSE. Sapho. Prevost’s “Manon
Lescaut.”
DEFOE. DANIEL. Moll Flanders.
DEWEY, JOHN. Human Nature and Conduct.
DOSTOYEVSKY. The Brothers Karamazov.
DOSTOYEVSKY. The Possessed.
im
-
DUMAS. Camille.
DUMAS. The Three
Musketeers.
mm
m®
m
EDMONDS, WALTER D. Rome Haul.
FLAUBERT, GUSTAVE. Madame Bovary.
GAUTIER, THEOPHILE. Mile, de Maupin, and
One of Cleopatra’s Nights.
GEORGE, HENRY, Progress and Poverty.
GOETHE. Faust.
GOGOL, NIKOLAI. Dead Souls.
HORACE. Complete Works.
LOUYS. PIERRE. Aphrodite.
MARX, KARL. Capital and Other Writings.
MAUPASSANT. GUY DE. Best Stories.
MELVILLE, HERMAN. Moby Dick.
MEREJKOW SK I, DMITRI. Romance or
Leonardo da Vinci. 647 Pages.
MORLEY, CHRISTOPHER. Parnassus on Wheels.
NIETZSCHE, FRIEDRICH. Thus Spake Zara-
thustra.
PEARSON, EDMUND. Studies in Murder.
PEPYS. SAMUEL. Pepys’ Diary.
PETRONIUS, ARBITER. The Satyricon.
POLO, MARCO. Travels of Marco Polo.
RABELAIS. Gargantua and Pantagruel.
READE, CHARLES. Cloister and the Hearth.
RENAN, ERNEST. The Life of Jesus.
ROSTAND, EDMOND. Cyrano de Bergerac.
SCHOPENHAUER. Philosophy.
SMOLLETT, TOBIAS. Humphry Clinker.
SPINOZA. Philosophy.
STERNE, LAURENCE. Tristram Shandy.
SUETONIUS. Lives of the Twelve Caesars.
SUDERMANN, HERMANN. The Song of Songs.
THUCYDIDES. Complete Writings.
TOLSTOY. Anna Karenina (complete and un-
abridged in one volume).
TURGENEV, IVAN. Fathers and Sons.
VOLTAIRE. Candide.
WHITMAN, WALT. Leaves of Grass.
WILDE. OSCAR. Poems and Fairy Tales.
WILDE, OSCAR. Dorian Gray and De Profundis
YOUNG, G. P. The Medici.
ZOLA, EMILE. Nana.
m
The Famous MENTAL
EFFICIENCY LIBRARY
IN 10 VOLUMES (Size of Set is 10 x 7
inches)
25/- for 7/6 the Set.
The Volumes Comprise:
COMMONSENSE: HOW TO EXERCISE
IT.
SPEECH: HOW TO USE IT EPFEC-
TIVELY
PRACTICABILITY: HOW TO AC-
QUIRE IT.
CHARACTER: HOW TO STRENG-
THEN IT
OPPORTUNITIES: HOW TO
MAKE THE MOST OP
THEM.
PERSONALITY: HOW TO AT-
TAIN IT.
POISE; HOW TO ATTAIN IT.
TIMIDITY; HOW TO OVER-
COME XT
INFLUENCE; HOW TO EXERT IT
PERSEVERANCE: HOW TO DEVELOP IT.
d
(I’ost 3/-.)
MAN'S OTHER SOOK VALUES
ANGUS a ROBERTSON LTD.
89 CASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEV®
MORE AMAZING
MODERN LIBRARY
BARGAINS
ADAMS (HENRY). The Education of
Henry Adams. A remarkable Ameri-
can work of life and character.
ANDERSON (SHERWOOD). Wiues-
burg, Ohio. A group of clever tales
of Ohio small-town life.
EIGHT FAMOUS ELIZABETHAN
PEAYS. Incl u ding Marlowe’s
“Faustus,” Dekker’s “Shoemaker’s
Holiday,” Hey wood’s “A Woman
Killed with Kindness,” Jonson’s “Vol-
pone," Webster’s “Duchess of Malli”
and others.
fd
f
df
df
I
DEERE (W.). Jungle Peace. Science and
Paring Adventure.
CALVERXON (V. F.), Editor. The Making
of Man. An Outline of Anthropology.
CHAUCER. The Canterbury Tales.
CORNEIEEE AND RACINE. Six Plays.
The Cid, Ciuna, Pluedre, Andromache,
Brltannicus and Athaliah.
FRANCE (ANATOhE). Crime of Silvestre
Bonnard.
FRANKLIN (BENJAMIN). Auto-
biography and Selections from bis
other writings.
CIDE (ANDRE). The Counterfeiters.
The translation from the French is
complete and unexpurgated.
IBSEN (HENRIK). A Doll’s House,
Ghosts, etc.
JEFFERS (ROBINSON). Roan Stal-
lion, Tamar and Other Poems. Robin-
son Jeffers’ position as a writer of
the most challenging poetry of our
time is now generally conceded.
'-.V
mm.
mm
mmm
jasft -/M
,
8W
LUNDBERG (FERDINAND). Imperial
Hearst. The first exhaustive analysis of
Hearst’s political, financial and journal-
istic career.
MCDERMOTT (.1. F.), Editor. The Sex
Problem in Modern Society.
MOLIERE’S PEATS. Tartuffe, The Mis-
anthrope, The Highbrow Ladies, The
School for Wives, The Physician, and
The Miser (in one volume).
PEARSON (EDMUND). Studies in Murder.
PETRONIUS (ARBITER). The Satyricou.
SCHREINER (OLIVE). The Story of
an African Ji'arm.
SWIFT (JONATHAN). Gulliver’s
Travels, A Tale of a Tub, and The
Battle of the Books (in one volume).
TCHEKOV (ANTON). Plays; Sea Gull;
Cherry Orchard; The Sisters, etc.
TCHEKOV (IVAN). Short Stories.
VAN LOON (H. AV.). Ancient Man.
WALTON (IZAAK). The Compleai
Angler. A book to be treasured by
readers of every age.
WHITMAN (WALT). Leaves of Grass.’
< A*
>s '
Remarkable Bargains
GOYA. An Intimate Portrait of a Brilliant Artist. By
Manfred Schneider. 7/6 for 3/11. , .
In addition to the brilliant historical sidelights which
illuminate the story of Goya, Mr. Schneider has pre-
served the intimate and varicoloured career of an
artist, courtier, bullfighter, cavalier, swordsman,
humanitarian, rakehell, and philanderer extra-
ordinary, adding spice to a life story as absorbing
and incredible as the memoirs of Casanova or Cellini.
CONQUEST OE THE SEAS. The History and Adventure
of Sea and Ships. By Frank C. Bowen. Beautifully
illustrated volume, size 301 x 7| inches. 25/- for 14/-.
This Superb Volume is the Epic Story of Sea Adven-
ture and Conquest in the Four Corners of the Globe.
A Standard Work. ,
SIX BRITISH OFFICERS. By the Hon. Sir John
Fortesque. illustrated with Portraits. 12/6 for 4/11.
The Historian of the British Army takes six typical
British soldiers; Cromwell, Marlborough, Wellington,
Moore, Abercromby and Stuart.
WIEEIAM BJLIGH OF THE “BOUNTY.” In Fact and
Fable. By H. S. Montgomerie. 15/- for 4/11.
The story of the mutiny of the “Bounty” has been
told many times.
There emerges from these pages a convincing portrait
of a man—not a sadistic bully, or even an unimagi-
native martinet, but a trusted officer of Captain Cook
and one of Nelson's captains.
ELIZABETHAN SEAMEN'. The amazing story of the
voyages of Drake, Frobisher, Raleigh and many
others. By Douglas Bell. Maps and illustrations.
15/- for 7/6.
CROSS ROADS OF THE BUCCANEERS, in the Car-
ibbean Sea area. A Fascinating Book by Hendrik
de Leeuw. Large handsome volume of 414 pages.
Illustrated. 21/- for 6/-.
POSTAGE EXTRA: Average Id. in the 1/-.
ORDER FORM
Angus & Robertson, Ltd.,
89 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Please send me the following books from
your BOOK SALE OFFERS.
Titles
NAME . .
ADDRESS
8.5.1.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”; Old Jerry was bushed.
He wouldn’t believe it at first, having
long claimed that nobody could lose him
in the Mallee, but as night came and
another day and another night he was
convinced at last. Then he began to
think. Since fie lived alone nobody but
his horses and dogs would miss him for
a week, so it was no good camping on
his tracks. He couldn’t track himself
back with any certainty of success. He
knew that the Murray was north and
the Murrayville line south, but each was
too far away. So he decided to make an
attempt to strike a line for his hut.
Mallee country is deadly monotonous and
level, and by afternoon of his third day
out he hadn’t any idea how he was doing.
Then he came out on a flat. Somebody
had dug a tank and there was an old
shed full of chaff. Jerry got a drink and
then weakness took him. He couldn’t
go on and he knew he could starve at
the tank for all that anyone might come
in time. So he set fire to the chaff-shed.
Within the hour he was rescued, but the
cocky was wrath. “Burnin’ down me
flamin’ chaff-shed!” he roared. • “Wasn’t
there any other way t’ bring help?”
“No,” said Jerry, weak but game, “the
only other thing E do was eat the bloom-
in’ chaff, and what difference does it
make whether it’s ett or burnt? It’s
gone.”
* * * *
“Billy See”: Though the butcher-bird
perched on top of my 50ft. wireless
mast was doing nothing other than sing
and enjoy himself there came to inter-
rupt and attack him a willie wagtail. The
feathered thug waited not on the order
of his going, even though his attacker
was only a fraction of his weight. After
the rout Willie returned to the big flower-
ing gum where I strongly suspect he and
his missus are starting a home. Appar-
ently W.W. reserves his aggression in
the bird world for those he knows would
have the deadwood on his menage, for
residing at perfect peace with him in the
leafy block of flats are myriads of tiny
green-eyes.
* * * *
“Arev”: Joe Higgins was trying to sell
his farm, and he was putting on the high-
pressure talk to his prospect, a city man
who didn’t seem to have a profound
knowledge of rural life. He appeared to
be impressed, but, looking down towards
the thick undergrowth of the creek, asked,
with obvious nervousness, if Joe was
ever troubled with snakes. “Never see
one in the 17 years I bin here,” asserted
Joe. As he led the way to the sliprails
young Jack was trying to keep his
balance on a barrel that he was revolving
along the ground. “Get off that,” Joe
told the boy. “You’ll be tumblin’ and
hurtin’ y’rself.” Then he turned his
attention again to the prospective buyer.
“Now, look at them cows. The best
and biggest in Brigalow. And see that
field o’ snowflakes? I’ll git ten bags
more to the acre than any other cove in
the district. It’s the soil—volcahic, grow
anything. Now look at them pumpkins.
Ironbarks. See the size of ’em! All y’
got to do is sling the seeds in an’ y’
simply can’t miss! Y’ couldn’t see bigger
an’ better pumpkins at the Sydney
Show! ” Joe relapsed into silence, allowing
his arguments to sink in. It was then that
young Jack added his persuasions. Rolling
the barrel into full view, he prodded off
the lid. “Look what I got down the creek
flat,” he said. “Bigger an’ better than
anywhere else. An’ there’s plenty more
just f’r the catchin’. No other farm in
Brigalow’s got as good.” He poked into
the barrel and out slithered an outsize in
black snakes.
* * * *
“Inside Out”: In his Flynn of the
Inland * lon Idriess mentions children “to
whom the great ‘Outside’ is merely a
name.” Recently on arrival at Birds-
ville (Q.) the policeman, questioning me
about the war news, asked, “And what do
they think about it on the Inside?” Other
outbackers, talking of the price of sheep
or cattle, will estimate their worth at the
time that they arrive “Inside.” Invariably
I found that, contrary to Idriess’s state-
ment, to the people of the Centre the
more'settled areas around the cities appear
as inside civilisation; thus the term.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: About the only books
I ever saw Mat read with any concentra-
tion were those you buy on racecourses,
yet he used to come out with some of
the most telling remarks and use words
that are generally in the speech of better-
educated men. Take the time he and
Germany Jim had the argument up on
the Balranald (N.S.W.) line over the
origin of the pair of aces in Mat’s hand
and the trio of aces in Germany’s. We
made a ring out on the grass, and they
got to it. Every time Mat landed a
Dinny Hayser Jim went down, and before
long he was going down whether the
“Who is His Nibs?"
“The only tobacconist in the place who's never out of stock.”
punch got there or not. On Jim’s tenth
visit to the ground Mat looked at him a
moment, then reached for his coat. Jim
hopped up, full of skite. “What, turnin’
it up?” “Yair,” said Mat disgustedly,
“y’ spend too much time frolickin’ among
the dandelions. I got somethin’ else t’
do besides muckin’ about with botanical
experiments.” And he stalked back to
his tent.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: For years the only lawn
in Mt. Isa has been the pride of the
mines’ sports ground, but grubs got in
some fell underground work, and the
grass began to wilt and die. Spraying
failed to control the pests, and a “hurry”
call for help was sent to Brisbane. It
came by ’plane in the shape of two hefty
magpies, and within half an hour from
landing they had plunged enthusiastically
into the job. Local betting is heavily in
their favor, but pessimistic takers of odds
reckon that they will bust if not re-
inforced.
* * * *
: At tea Mum told Dad all
about the contents of a letter she had
got from their married ■ daughter, the
most important item being extra-
ordinary number of pounds Kate’s baby
had put on. Dad, always on the lookout
for an argument, doubted whether there
was anything in this stuffing kids as if
they were suckers for the market. In
fact, from what he’d read in the paper
lately he reckoned it was all a lot of tom-
foolery. From babies he switched on to
grown-ups, and wanted to know what
about him. He’d lost pounds and pounds
lately, and he never felt better in his
life. It was usually almost impossible
to stop Dad when he got going, but that
night the new hand managed it easily.
“Yes, mister,” he said, “but it’s different
in the first childhood.”
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: A photo, from Java
showing bamboo stakes sharpened at the
end and set up in the padangs where
paratroops are likely to attempt a land-
ing is not a new use of the vegetable for
which the Malay claims to have 175 uses.
The Dutchmen had to overcome bamboo
calthrops when they conquered Java, Bali
and the Celebes, and they were more
effective than the modern barbed wire
entanglement. The giant bamboo in Java
is used split in half as gutters and roof
tiles, with the joints knocked out as pipes
for conveying water, squashed flat as walls
and fences, and as buckets, gongs and
weapons. They grow in enormous clus-
ters high up on the mountains, and their
overarching crests linking up with one
another form magnificent Gothic cloisters
whose clean floor and interminable vistas
suggest a monastery in Europe. This
impression is heightened when the sunlight
falls through the green and crimson
leaves with an effect of stained-glass
windows. In an expedition to the top
of a volcano on one occasion our coolies
stopped at the last stream before we
entered the cinders belt, chopped down
two of the monsters, deftly severed them
at the joints, filled them with water, made
a cork of the leaves, lashed them with
the fibre into cradles, and had a three-
days’ water supply for the convoy ready
in 15 minutes.
♦ * * *
“Old-timer”: My boss hadn’t the time
to spare that they apparently have where
“Zend Avesta” (B. 27/8/’4l) works,
Fancy mustering horse-teams or starting
up tractors to haul up lengths of piping,
after they’d been unscrewed, to get at
a foot-valve, then lowering them one by
one after they’re screwed up again. The
old boss simply went down the 60ft. shaft
with a fnntnrint wrench did his stuff
wfift a lootpnm wrencn, aia ms siuu,
and was hauled Up again, a matter oi
minutes. I’d like “Z.A.” to have SUg-
gested his method and then heard the
old boss’s opinion of it.
♦** * ' .
“L.W.8.”: Driving down Bullock Hill
in the Huon (Tas.) recently, I gave a lift
to a cocky. The evergreen topic of the
weather and its vagaries held particular
interest, as the surrounding hills, right
down to their lower slopes, were thickly
covered with snow. “Yes,” observed my
passenger, “these frosts cause the trouble.
They won’t let the snow melt, and things
have been like this for over a week.” He
sucked thoughtfully for a few moments
and then continued, “I went to the sale
at Huonville on Monday and bought a
cow. It was dark before I got home,
and as I was turning off the main road
at my gate a blasted lorry came tearing
along and skittled her. She cost me six
quid too'” I offered suitable expres-
sions of sympathy. “The worst of it
is,” he remarked mournfully, “she’s in
me roadway and I can’t bum her off till
she flaming well thaws out!”
* * * ♦
“The 0.D.”: Says “B. A. Ker” (B.
27/8/ ’41): “The belief that a blue-
tongued lizard’s bite leaves a periodically
recurring sore is pretty universal.” Where?
Nobody I know ever feared a bluey’s
bite, but most of them believe a goanna’s
nip will break out again and again. And
a go. can bite.
« ♦ • »
“Doubting Tummas”: Can’t have it
that “Zake’s” Old Bill (B. 6/8/’4l) ex-
pected to catch an old-man snapper with
a No. 8 gut line; the No. B’s in my
fishing-box wouldn’t suffice for the land-
ing of a 51b. fish. They might, doubt-
fully, stand the strain, but my hands
wouldn’t. A No. 8 is only for light
fishing ; one needs to get up around the
12’s and 14’s to reach the strain resist-
ance for even a 101 b. snapper. Person-
ally I prefer cord, not less than an eighth
of an inch in diameter, thicker even if
obtainable. It isn’t so much the matter
of absolute strength—a No. 14 gut will
stand the strain all right—as of grip and
spring. Wet gut is slippery stuff, and on
wet hands will cut like a knife. But with
cord the grip is good, and it has just the
same resilience as have the manila springs,
hemp rope which the captain of an
anchored but storm-driven ship some-
times links with his chain cables or steel
wires in order to take the fierce gusts
which would snap a non-elastic connection
like thread. The elasticity of a cord line
not only saves the hands, but the spring
prevents a powerful fish throwing the
hook, a thing that often happens with
non-elastic gut.
Hi * * *
“Flatfoot Floogy”: I hereby register
gratitude to an American magazine for
clearing up a mystery for me. Passing
a hole in the ground out from Blowfly
Bend some time ago I was intrigued at
seeing the bloke on the windlass handle
lean on it as he fingered the pages of a
bulky tome, write something on a slip
of paper and roar out to his mate below
“Invest hackle jury mantle turnip type
illaps turnip blot, ’Erb.” Yesterday,
browsing through the Yank magazine, 1
read:
Mining prospectors in Australia have
developed a simple method of sending out
secret messages. The two parties to the
code use identical editions of a dictionary.
Sender and receiver agree that, for example,
the eighth word in the dictionary following
the word in the code message is the word
meant to be conveyed.
Now I know. The windlass winder was
telling his cobber in the secret lingo that
he’d just made a billyful of tea. We
Aussies are always learning something
abo ut our native land,
* * * *
“Dungeness”: A good feat of skin-
diving was put up by a Maryborough
(Q.) man when a steamer lost a 17cwt.
anchor in 30ft. of water through the
chain breaking while she was swinging in
the Mary River. After four good
swimmers had failed to get the heavy
lifting hawser into position, R. Baynes,
a former holder of the local long-dive
record, followed the buoy-line down with
it, and at his third attempt made the
hawser fast round the stock. The free
end was buoyed and the anchor picked
up by the ship’s winch on its next visit
to the port.
BANJO SONG.
Our banjos ain’t like fiddles
Nor shaped like mandolins
With nothing in their middles.
Nor made of petrol tins;
They’re shovels of true metal
That ring and sing and cry
When navvies in good fettle
Make rock and gravel fly.
Jackhammer Joe commences
With his pewmatic drill
To sap the rock’s defences
For gelignite to spill.
And then the Mad Micks enter
The chorus —them’s the. picks—
While, swinging from the centre.
The banjos’ wild notes mix.
Musicians of the shovel
Is what we might be called;
And, though you own a hovel
Or palace marble-hailed,
The music of our banjos
Will reach you through the land
When our jackhammer man Joe’s
The leader of the band.
The Mad Micks’ clink and clatter
Beat time for Joseph’s drills
To lay the valleys flatter
And alter all the hills.
When loud their happy chorus
The banjos lift all day,
High mountains fade before us,
The gullies pass away.
They have no silver mountings,
These banjos that we swing;
They ain’t among the countings
Of instruments which sing;
Yet life’s accounts I settle
In music wild and free,
A-shovelling blue metal
With my banjo on my knee.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“How on earth did you manage to get into that mess , Murphy?”
“Devotion to duty, sir.”
“In Re”; He was the sole response
to my three days’ advertising for a useful
farmhand; dishevelled, with a sleepy red
face, bulging waist and hillbilly shirt, and
he sucked the butt of an odoriferous
cigar. He knew all about award wages,
keep and economics in general, and an-
nounced that he “liked to go to the
pitchers a night or two a week.” Yairs,
he knew all about cows —milked his 30
before goin’ to school as a kid. Perforce,
being desperate for a hand, I put him on.
Coming back the next afternoon from
two days of family business in town, I
was startled to find the cows with udders
almost bursting with milk —they had not
seen the bails for 36 hours! In answer
to my angry “What’s up here?” my new
hand snorted back: “Well, you see, the
empty cans didn’t come back from the
factory, so I reckoned the milk would
keep fresher in the cows’ works than in
them dirty, leaky tubs about this blasted
place.”
* * * *
“Propalong”: When Hitler exits I’m
going to start a dude ranch. A bit of
country I know out on the Strzelecki
would do. The main attractions will be
low prices and the opportunity to do
real “ranch” work. Guests will be per-
mited to ride singing behind ewes and
lambs, to -drive rams, crutch ewes, mark
lambs, draft ’em, drove ’em and shepherd
’em for weeks. They’ll be free to ride
the “ranch’s” outlaws and to endure 40-
mile-at-a-walk rides on genuine, jig-jog-
ging crocks. Tailing bullocks'll be an
attraction, and punching cows and calves
on dry stages. They’ll be encouraged to
;work on damper and salt junk, to ride
their stages on brackish well-water in
summer, and to sleep beneath frozen
campsheets in winter. They’ll be given
a generous share of digging out sanded-
over troughs and netting fences, and re-
erecting flood-buried wire. And driving
around in motor-cars, sleeping in air-
conditioned caravans, feeding on eggs and
bacon and beer, just giving advice’ll be
me and Stan and Brigham, Methodist
Mick, Sawney Bob, Ginger, Scotty and
Winnecke Bill, Smiler and all the rest of
the starved, scorched, frozen, perished,
sand-blinded, saddle-galled crew. Intend-
ing guests, please apply early. Preference
given to Wild West addicts.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”; My grandma told me never
to trust a mare; dear old Aunt Amelia
warned me always to beware of chestnut
horses; and now “The 0.D.” (B.
13/8/’4l) says ponies are “like wimmen
—y’ never know.” And that’s just why
both women and ponies are interesting.
The little horse, when he’s pony-bred
and not merely stunted, is doubly intel-
ligent, game and tough. Once he is
broken in you can make a cobber of
him ; he’ll carry you all day and sleep by
your bed at night if you let him. He
makes a better mate than any dog; if he
can’t sing grand opera it’s about the only
thing he won’t learn to do. But to get
the best out of him you want to break
him yourself, ride him yourself, give him
plenty of your company out of working
hours, sympathise with his inborn desire
to show off, and never give him cause
for jealousy. You may find his habit of
lying across the kitchen door a nuisance,
but he’ll turn out “reliable,” with just
enough fireworks to be interesting. Any-
way, the only consistently
unreliable horses I know
are black. Bays are the best
workers, and chestnuts, es-
pecially mares, the best hacks.
♦ * *
“Wippegong”: Go back
to where you grew up
and, besides meeting mostly
strangers, you’ll miss old
homes, old trees, old fences,
while the new roads,
bridges, houses and hedges
seem to have brought a
people different from those
you knew. Natural enough;
but have you noticed how
the changes affected the bird
population too? Before the
’93 depression our wide
valley was a swamp thick
with waterfowl; then came
an army with shovels and
barrows, and by the time we
nippers trudged to school
all the coot and bitterns
and emu-wrens had slipped
away, though grey wedges
of wild geese still sped
above the clouds of teal
which came in from the bay
to revel in the frequent
floods. As the peat dried
fires swept across it, then
over the blackened ti-tree
stumps flitted tufts of glossier jet-hooded
robins, but they have all gone; so, too.
have the king
quail, the bush-
larks and the
white - browed
wood - swallows,
once so regular in
their visits. Yet
habitations
brought sparrows,
ploughed land
brought starlings
and berries
brought black-
birds; English
skylarks spread
across grasslands
and the rufous
whistler moved in
from the hills,
and now those
cursed Indian
mynas squabble
on the telephone
wires and add to
a chorus vastly
different from the
one we knew. Still,
a few of the natives
have held on.
One golden voice
still transcends all
others at day-
break, for the
magpies have
merely shifted
house from gums
into pines; and
as a black-and-
white rocket
snaps past my ear
I know there’s one fowl which, having'
once pegged out his territory, reckons
it’s his for keeps.
* * * *
“Propalong”: Abo. horseman, eh (B.
30/7/’41)? Tommy, a full-blood, with
the usual flourbag seat, had quite an
opinion of his sticking ability, an opinion
produced by a few easy wins over pig-
jumping stuff at the outstation. He was
therefore disgusted when called into the
head station to act temporarily as a
rouseabout. The first time the boss was
out of the way he chose our racehorse,
a blood filly, just broken, to ride bare-
back after the horses. All went well till
the little mare shied and Tommy grabbed
her head. She promptly reared. Tommy
let go. The filly came down and bolted.
Again he grabbed. This time she nearly
came over. The boy tried the end of the
i;eins on her ribs. She bolted, kicking
up. Tommy had another shot at the
brakes. Same result. By now the fear
of an uncontrolled horse had entered the
boong. He lost his head and, too scared
to jump off, dropped the reins and
grabbed double holts of mane. *The filly
made for the horses, and they all swept
off in a mad, hilarious gallop for the
yards, kicking and playing. Tommy well
in the middle. He was nearer a white
man than a black when he got to the
yards. And he was another color in
spots when the boss came home that
night.
* * * *
“Russ”: Long Mick, down from the
mulga on a holiday, was bending down
and peering between the hurrying feet
of the crowd in a busy city street. After
a few minutes an old gent, came up and
“ Don't get out, miss — I'll fix it for the blackout !”
asked if he had lost anything. “Yairs;
me roll,” was the reply. “Oh, too bad,”
said the 0.g., and forthwith bent down to
help him in the search. After a while a
couple more joined in, and then a cop
came up to see what the trouble was, and
he, too, helped. After some time of
fruitless search the man from the Never-
Never straightened up and said, “Aw,
well, never mind. I’ll have to eat me
frankfurt without it,” and wandered on.
• * * *
“Surfboat Bill”: “We’re sittin’ on the
beach yarnin’ when we see a queer-look-
in’ boat come round the headland,” re-
lated Joe the bowhand. “It sneaks on
to a small shoot and comes into the
beach, jumpin’, skippin’ and slitherin’ all
over the joint, while her crew’s doin’ their
best to keep her straight with a coupla
paddles under the quarter bar. Then we
recognise the mob from Saltwater with
their new model boat that’s got a flat
bottom and is supposed to be unswamp-
able. After we sling off at ’em a bit
about makin’ ’em out uv balsa wood and
tissue next, the Saltwater jokers say that
just t’ show us they’re goin’ t’ take her
out where the big ’uns are breakin’ up
the beach. They don’t look too cocky,
but can’t back out now, so they shove
off. On the first bit uv broken water the
tub bounces up like a cork, and the bow-
hand goes fer a ride with a bit uv ply-
wood bulwark in his hand. The next
big ’un smacks fair down on ’em and
sends all the oars fer six. Next thing
we know that tub’s being belted from one
breaker t’ the other, with the mob yellin’
an’ hangin’ on fer all they’re worth. She’s
loopin’ the loop, doin’ hula-hulas and
generally beatin’ the tripe out uv her crew.
They can’t make a break fer it because
they’d cop a crack on the nut. We just
stand there too astonished t’ do any-
thing, with old Sam the sweephand howl-
in’ with laughter. ‘What’s the trouble
with her, Sam?’ I says. He looks at me,
wipes away a tear an’ gets his breath.
‘She can’t swamp; she hasn’t enough
keel t’ beach; the waves are playin’
ping-pong with her, an’ the score’s only
five love,’ he says.”
* # * ♦
“B. A. Ker”; En route to surprise an
old cobber, I arrived by train at a little
hamlet after sundown. Not knowing the
locality, I was preparing to put up at the
pub for the night when an old codger
draped on the bar informed me that he
was a rouseabout on the holding I was
heading for, and if I’d wait while he
had one more I could ride out with him.
After the fourth “last one” I succeeded
in getting the old chap aboard the sulky.
At first the driver was inclined to be
peevish, then, mellowing somewhat, he
made the night hideous with vocal efforts,
finishing up by relating his life story.
He’d just won the Boer War and was
training to fight Darcy when Morpheus
claimed him. All of my efforts to wake
the slumbcrer being vain, I decided to
trust to the pony. On the prad jogged,
stopping only at gates to be opened, until
we reached our destination. To my
astonishment the mate was amazed at
the moke’s feat. “Why,” I said, “don’t
tell me you’ve never heard of a horse
finding his way home before!” “No,”
retorted the animal’s owner; “but that
pony is as blind as a bat.”
SERGEANTS’ ROW.
Seek and saunter what way you will,
Nowhere now shall your eyes behold
Sergeants’ Row that on Gallows Hill
Sheltered of old the brave and the bold.
Side by side on the heights together,
Terraced homes of the Past, they ranged;
Storms they weathered but could not weather
Time that leaves not a scene unchanged.
Yet, if with mind on the Past you ponder,
Stayed and swayed by a dreamful mood,
You may vision those dwellings yonder,
Standing now where of old they stood.
Moonlight-silvered or sunset-gilded,
Or when lustrous the noontide falls,
You may gaze on them, stoutly budded,
Doors of cedar and sandstone walls.
Black-beamed attics and rock-hewn cellars,
Rooms above them and rooms below,
You may enter and meet the dwellers,
Meet and greet them in Sergeants’ Row.
There, whde the world speeds by unnoted,
You, in a mist of dream, may meet
Bearded soldiers of old red-coated,
Back from their rounds of square and street.
Meet them, and with them a moment dwelling
Back in the years, with muted breath
Hearken in wonder the tales they’re telling,
Tales of battle and love and death.
Only for those who musing go,
Dreaming the Past is present still,
Quaint and misty looms Sergeants’ Row
Housing the Red Coats on Gallows Hill.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Devoted to a
Single Purpose
F
OR more than 63 years The Trustees Executors & Agency
Company Ltd., whose foundation marked the inception of
corporate trusteeship in Australia, has devoted itself to
one single purpose the care and management of the
properly of its clients.
Throughout the period of its operation, it has provided the
impartial advice and assistance of a permanent corporation as
Executor, Trustee, Attorney, Agent and in other capacities of a
fiduciary nature.
The appointment of the Company as Executor or Co-Executor
of your Will ensures continuity in the execution of the trust.
Service is prompt, sympathetic and efficient. Ample security is
provided and fees are fixed and moderate. Consult your
Solicitor or write or call for further information.
os
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
lttL.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BIIGH ST.. SYDNEY, and a* 401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £958,760.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; John Fordyce;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E. ; G. S'. Column, 0.8. E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS’:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ; W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager; J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
THE ELECTROLYTIC SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY,
M 4383. 863 7 L
The WILDAT COUMN
Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re- Re-
June. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves,
£ & S. S.
Contingency reserve included, £40,973.. 133,973
1932.. 21,365 7 p.c. = 20,920 445 134,418
1933.. 20,924 7 „ „ 20,920 4 134,422
1934.. 22,406 7 ~ „ 20,920 1,486 135,908
Pref. Ord.
54 p.c. 7 p.c.
1935.. 30,265 8,613 20,920 732 136,640
1936.. 33,326 10,957 20,920 1,449 138,089
1937.. 48,417 10,957 36,973 487 138,576
1938.. 53,889 10,957 41,309 1,623 140,199
1939.. 69,792 10,957 55,856 2,979 143,178
1940.. 79,500 10,957 67,511 1,032 144,210
1941.. 84,461 10,957 73,321 183 144,393
tAdded to contingency reserve.
Both the co.’s scrip and its product find
a market in N.S.W. as well as Queens-
land, where, with Castlemaine Perkins,
it provides most of the beer consumed,
especially in the thirsty western and
southern portions of the State. The tide
of earnings has been on the flood now
since the end of 1933, and the obliging
manner in which disclosed earnings keep
just one jump ahead of the 7 p.c. div.
suggests there might be more head on the
profit figures than the board admits.
In an endeavor to widen and tie up
the outlet for Bulimba beers in com-
petition with the Castlemai ne-Perkins
organisation, the co. embarked on a
vigorous policy of property acquisition a
half-dozen years or so back, thereby
obtaining an income from rents as well
as brewing. Since 1933 net expenditure
on fixed assets, partly in enlarging -the
brewery and extending the range and
appeal of the co.’s products, has come
to £1,332,981, of which £947,815 has been
put up by shareholders at par and another
£410,169 gathered from outsiders:
Paid 1932. 1937. 1940. 1941.
capital. . £298,851 £747,700 £1,246,666 £1,246,666
Liabilities 97,379 514,478 352,183 513,628
Fixed assets 286,433 1,181,013 1,528,512 1,641,595
Stocks . . 77,055 104,567 129,813 157,947
Book debts 167,862 127,261 114,020 125,166
Cash, etc. 8,265 12,586 12,853 22,118
War has slowed up the reaching-out
process. Additions last year of £113,083
were partly in connection with new Bris-
bane offices and wine and spirit store.
The course of business also necessitated
additions of £28,134 and £11,146 to
stocks and debtors’ balances respectively,
and, owing to war-time control of capital
issues, the board went outside for the
money. Up £161,445, the debt, of which
£433,586 is secured, now exceeds more
or less liquids by £208,397, an unfavor-
able movement over the year of £112,900.
Last term the new money recently in-
troduced got more of a chance to show
what it could do, and, with the northern
State benefiting in growing measure from
defence spending, primary producers
prosperous, and army demand, the co.
brewed more beer than ever, notwith-
standing excise of 2s. 9d. a gallon, which,
in the case of bottled stuff, now repre-
sents a third of the selling price. In-
creased outgoings and taxation fell £4961
short of extra revenue, leaving the de-
clared result that much better at £84,461 ;
all but £lB3 was absorbed by the p.c.
pref. and 7 p.c. ord. divs. Depreciation
openly struck off was £21,109 (up £1553);
expenditure charged to earnings in con-
nection with maintenance, renewals and
renovations, a considerable item usually
with these brewers, isn’t mentioned.
At 245. 3d., compared with 21s. 9d.
a year ago, the pound ords. give an
immediate return of 5.8 p.c. The prefs.,
which participate in new issues and
account for £199,234 of capital, yield
4.9 p.c. at 225. 6d. Backing is £6 19s. Bd.
prefs., 225. 9d. ords. Difficulties confront-
ing the export trade, on which Queensland
prosperity largely depends, and the grow-
ing cost of war portend some tightening
of belts generally; still, war is a hard-
drinking period. Costs, including taxation,
and delivery worries will be brewers’ chief
problems.
Consolidated Press (Sydney)
( Dividends
Pref., Re-
Mar., Profits. 6ip.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Goodwill, rights, etc., £390,000 .. 390,000
Estab. and prelim, exes., £82,232 .. 472,232
1937.. 11,950 5958 Nil 5,992 466,240
1938.. 34,307 6500 Nil 27,807 438,433
1939.. 57,017 6500 Nil 50,517 387,916
Establishment account, £lB,OOO .. 405,916
1940.. 25,427 6500 2| p.c.= 14,375 4,642 401,374
1941.. 43,347 6500 7 „ „ 40,250 404,777
It is now six years since this Theodore-
Packer co. gave 265,000 f.-p. ords. to
Sydney Newspapers for the goodwill of
the “Women’s Weekly” and another
160.000 to Associated News, including
125.000 for the goodwill of the “Tele-
graph” and 35,000 for the old “Evening
News” plant. From the public, £lOO,OOO
of pref. money was gathered ; the rest of
the £250,000 of cash-paid capital was
subscribed in ords. by Sydney News-
papers and its owners, E. G. Theodore
and D. F. H. Packer. The prefs. have
had regular dividends from the begin-
ning ; ords. are now also receiving a little
nourishment.
Increased spending power has had its
effect on most businesses, newspapers not
excepted. Though a 35 p.c. or heavier
cut in newsprint operated most of last
term, since February, 1940, Consolidated
has had the benefit of a lift in the
price of its morning publication, and ad-
vertising rates were adjusted. Also,
its Sunday venture, which in its initial
4i months proved a sink for £56,058, be-
came less of a drag, though not yet earn-
ing profits, while the plant of the “Daily
News,” administered an anaesthetic after
a month in its new stable, “more than
justified” purchase as a jobbing establish-
ment.
Claimed average net circulations be-
haved this way:
f Half-year N June,
Mar.,’4o. Mar.,’4l. 1941.
“Daily Telegraph” .. 194,828 207,046 213,891
“Sunday Telegraph” .. 163,459 199,791 227,690
“Women’s Weekly” .. 445,000 450,000 500,000
After providing an extra £23,500 for
taxation (£30,500) and allowing £14,623
for depreciation, profits £17,920 higher are
shown at £43,347—allowing for the prefs.,
6.4 p.c. on the £575,000 of ord. capital
as against 3.2 p.c. in 1940. Ord. div.
was lifted from 2\ p.c. to 7 p.c., the
total distribution calling for £3403 more
than the profit claimed and increasing the
amount of ord. capital not represented
by tangibles in the sheet to £404,777.
Prominence of the debt (up another
£82,186) has been a feature all along:
1937. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £675,000 £675,000 £675,000 £675,000
Liabilities* .. 335,409 236,846 294,240 376,426
Freeholds .. 104,275 110,103 111,281 121,386
Plant, etc. .. 183,641 170,015 173,522 184,411
Stocks .. 169,532 138,241 167,981 185,240
Debtors .. 77,385 87,877 111,580 144,057
Cash, investments,
etc. .. 9,337 17,693 17,886 28,813
* Including taxation.
The extra money last term was used to
carry another £32,477 of debtors, add
£17,259 to newsprint stocks, etc., and
spend £20,994 more than written off on
fixed assets. When the books closed lia-
bilities exceeded more or less liquids by
£18,316, an adverse movement over the
year of £21,523.
Snce July 1 Consolidated’s paper sup-
plies have been further restricted to 45
p.c. to 65 p.c, of pre-war tonnages and
increased rates won’t compensate for the
loss of advertising involved, the co.
asserts, while an employees’ benefit
scheme will add £lO,OOO p.a. to costs.
From the 6i p.c. prefs. at 175., the market
looks for a 7.6 p.c. return. Book value
of the cover is £2 14s.
Melbourne Steamship Co., Ltd.
Nominal
, Dividends N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 9,127 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 18,560 405,422
1932.. 33,922 6 „ 5„ 18,560 15,362 420,784
1933.. 46,320 6 „ 6 „ 21,960 24,360 445,144
1934.. 46,150 6 „ 6 „ 21,960 24,190 469,334
Unexplained additions, £28.731* .. 498,065
1935.. 35,732 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 21,960 13,772 611,837
Net unexplained reduction, £27,008.. 484,829
1936.. 20,244 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 21,960 483,113
To staff fund, £24,260 .. • • 458,853
Unexplained additions, £47,903 .. 506,756
1937.. 34,180 6 p.c. 6J p.c. 23,660 10,520 517,276
Unexplained additions, £30,598 .. 547,874
1938.. 33,037 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 25,360 7,677 555,551
Unexplained additions, £49,208 .. 604,759
1939.. 34,320 6 p.c. 8 p.c. 28,760 5,560 610,319
Melbourne Steam and Subsidiary.
1939.. 34,524 6 p.c. 8 p.c. 28,760 5,764 635,590
Added reserves, £41,128 .. .. 676,718
1940.. 22,139 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 25,360 673,360
Added reserves, £39,337 .. .. 712,697
1941.. 17,777 6 p.c, 6 p.c. 21,960 708,651
*lncludes profit on sale of Consols.
Since the close of accounts control of
inter-State shipping, which had been
under strict supervision since out-
break of war, has passed to the
Federal Government on time-charter
rates which have not been disclosed.
It assures these shipping cos. of a
steady but probably moderate source
of income, and passes the barnacle-
encrusted problem of war-time operating
costs to the Commonwealth, for which
the cos. continue as managing agents.
It is this sharp climb in running exes.,
combined with interruption to passenger
takings, that has pulled back earnings in
what, since 1939, has been one of the
busiest periods yet for shippers. Last
term a freight adjustment came too late
to make much impression on the Mel-
bourne Steam’s result, and net earnings
of the fleet (gross tonnage 23,073) shrank
£7812 to £5063. That includes whatever
was picked up on the co.’s lighterage,
etc., business and coke and coal
and other agency connections as well.
For reasons that aren’t clear, investment
income (£2857) contracted £3665, too. In
contrast, the subsidiary, Hobson’s Bay
Dock, where naval activity no doubt
helped, came good with profits £7060
higher at £12,967.
Deducting directors’ fees of £3llO, that
left the final result £4362 lighter at
£17,777 —allowing for the prefs., 4.7 p.c.
on ord. capital, as against 6 p.c. in 40
and 9.7 p.c. in ’39—and ord. div. was
reduced to 6 p.c., calling for £4183 more
than the profit claimed. Depreciation
charged was £40,000 (down £2155). It is
a liberal allowance, and dispels some of
the wanness attaching to the p. and 1.
balance alone. The total now included
with reserves under this head bulks
£440,000.
Finances, as ever, are easy:
Melbourne Steam and Subsidiary.
1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital .. .. £366,000 £366,000 £366,000
Sundry creditors .. 81,213 98,821 117,205
Suspense account* .. 1,573 4,595 ?,019
Taxation, etc. . . 32,227 22,711 24,668
Ship property and plant 833,986 841,119 844,782
Freeholds . . • • 50,032 50,032 50,032
Stores 40,008 35,902 42,499
Sundry debtors . . 79,657 102,606 166,282
Investments, cash, etc... 129,000 148,645 129,228
* Due to variation in balance dates.
Briskness on the waterfront is apparent
in the growth of £63,676 in debtors.
Fixed assets appear at cost. Thanks to
depreciation allowances, when the books
closed the more or less liquid surplus
was £30,048 stronger at £213,785 —11s.
Bd. per pound of capital.
Over the past year market for the
pound ords. has dipped from 30s. to 255.,
at which a 6 p.c. div. returns just under
5 p.c. It is a sound price for holding,
despite war-time restriction on the profit-
earning ability of the chief earning asset.
Net tangible backing is 605., of which 235.
6d. is represented by depreciation reserve.
The handful of prefs. (there are only
26,000) are seldom traded.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves,
£ £ £ £
1931.. 7,771 21p.c.= 5,250 2,521 62,676
1932.. 8,805 3 „ „ 6,300 2,505 65,181
1933.. 13,522 5 „ „ 10,500 3,022 68,203
1934.. 18,757 7J „ ~15,750 3,007 71,210
Reserves capitalised, £42,001 .. 29,209
Unexplained addition, £750 .. 29,959
1935.. 22,152 7J p.c. =18,901 3,251 33,210
1936.. 25,143 8 „ ~20,161 4,982 38,192
1937.. 33,496 10 „ ~25,201 8,295 46,487
1938.. 31,732 10 ~ „ 25,201 6,531 53,018
1939.. 25,875 9 „ „ 22,681 3,194 56,212
1940.. 21,920 8 „ ~ 20,161 1,759 57,971
1941.. 20,738 8 ~ ~ 20,160 578 58,549
The Metropole is one of the Meccas of
the man on the land when in Sydney.
Its earnings are therefore conditioned by
rural conditions as well as by the length
of city payrolls. A couple of years or
so back it looked as though the 10 p.c.
(coated with cash bonuses aggregating
£67,500 and other benefits) sent out over
a long period to 1929 was to become the
regular thing again. But first reduced
export income and now war conditions
have put a damper on those hopes for
the time being, though the div. (8 p.c.)
is still the best of the Sydney pubs.
After doubts as to whether it would
eventuate, the Show was held again last
year, and, despite dry conditions over a
large part of the State, there were fewer
blanks in the guest-book. Bar takings
also attained a higher level. But the
extra receipts proved insufficient to meet
the higher call of the taxgatherer and
cover the sharp (and still-growing)
advance in the cost of running and pro-
visioning the bed, board and beer busi-
ness. After writing £2OOO (down £1000)
off the co.’s Bent-street property, profits
were shown £llB2 lighter at 8.2 p.c. on
the £252,010 of share capital (£117,001
of it gift scrip), compared with 8.7, 10.2,
12.2 and 13.3 p.c. back to 1937, boom
days for primary producers and indus-
trialists alike.
For years now the practice appears to
have been to charge all renewals, renova-
tions, etc., a heavy item in this class of
business, direct to earnings, as these
figures, when taken into conjunction with
depreciation allowances, bear out:
1931. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £210,007 £252,010 £252,010 £252,010
Liabilities . . 30,331 9,510 6,506 6,818
Fixed assets.. 311,317 285,317 282,317 280,317
Stock.. .. 3,770 2,608 5,736 6,546
Book debts, cash,
etc 1,927 53,608 51,672 52,379
Stated profits can therefore be taken as
well earned. Sound finance is evident in
the nominal amount of debt, which means
that, there is no heavy interest bill with a
first call on earnings, and in the last line
of that table, all but £2319 of which
represents cash or its equivalent.
“During the continuance of war,
further increase in costs must be ex-
pected, and present adverse conditions


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * v
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
oversea* Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt,
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE £ HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United’' is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. O. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Oen. Manager,
DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should be expected to become your
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence
The Symbol of
Security!
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY 01
(.Incorporated in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, SIDNEY.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE; Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman) ;
(Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; A.
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J.
AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
Colin A. Sinclair
E. Heath, C.M.G.;
G. H. Shipway.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD. *
A thorough, comprehensive and efficient service—founded on
traditions of more than a century of sound banking—combined with
a progressive policy and extensive organisation, enables THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
to offer every facility for the transaction of all classes of Banking
business.
DIRECTORS:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend; Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
C. Darvall, General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE; 343 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
London Office;
18 BIRCHIN LANE. LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.;
Barclays Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia.
And at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
hitlbr
o h0 0L
Sf *
•Hasten i/ictoiu
inWest
IN THE NEXT
WAR LOAN,
urn
The next war loan need not be re-
garded as an opportunity for invest-
ment at some future date still to be
announced, but as a ready and patriotic
channel in which to invest your money now. Sub-
scriptions for the next loan are now being received,
and interest will accrue from the date of your sub-
scription. Application form gives full details.
APPLY TO ANY BANK OR STOCKBROKER
will be aggravated,” the board says. How-
ever, the management is an able one, and
the market pays 235. 6d. for the scrip,
immediate yield being 6.8 p.c. Backing
is 245. Bd. in net tangibles.
Mick Simmons, Ltd. (Sydney)
Written To Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1931.. 10,642 4 p.c. = 6,625 3023 994 21,803
Loss.
1932.. 549 Nil 3056 18,198
1933.. 6,304 Nil 3002 8,892
Profit.
1934.. 3,060 Nil 2727 333 9,225
1935.. 13,504 4 p.c. = 6,625 3031 3,848 13,073
1936.. 15,613 5 „ „ 8,281 8365 3,967 17,040
1937.. 18,903 6 „ „ 9,938 3714 5,251 22,291
1938.. 19,704 7J„ „ 12,422 3752 3,530 25,821
1939.. 19,027 7J „ „ 12,422 4048 2,557 28,378
Unexplained reduction, £3260 .. .. 25,118
1940.. 13,153 5 p.c. = 8,281 3898 974 26,092
1941.. 16,309 6 „ „ 9,938 4742 1,629 27,721
A very satisfactory showing, all things
considered. The co. specialises in the
sale of sporting goods of every descrip-
tion, and does a large turnover in tobacco,
radios, haircuts, etc., as well. It runs a
chain of shops throughout the city, and
has strong connections among suburban
retailers and sporting bodies.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts there was plenty of money
about, unemployment was reduced to a
negligible figure, more sporting goods
were sold and more tobacco and
cigarettes were bought for the navy, army
and air force. So, although price-cutting
again developed in some lines and the
sale of firearms and ammunition came
almost to a standstill, turnover
got a nice lift. The improvement in
gross earnings (£164,327) was £12,038.
Exes. (£152,760, including allowance for
depreciation, shown as written off in the
table) took £9726 of the increase. That
left the net result £2312 better at £11,567,
equal to 6.9 p.c. on capital as against
5.5, 9, 9.6, 9.4, 7.3 and 6.3 p.c. back to
1935. A point was added to the div.,
making it 6 p.c., the final being at the
rate of 7 p.c. p.a. The £1629 put On the
shelf lifted the tangible support for
capital to £27,721, or 3s. 4d. per pound
of paid capital—goodwill (£22,110) is not
treated as an asset herein.
To guard against further rises in whole-
sale prices and delivery difficulties, the
co. increased its wide range of stocks by
£19,765:
1936. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £166,008 £166,008 £166,008 £166,004
Mortgage . . 131,211 130,207 118,664 118,664
Other liabilities 115,306 102,981 100,434 110,949
Freeholds .. 212,183 212,915 191,212 191,212
Plant, etc. .. 19,286 19,288 16,174 14,481
Stocks. . . . 99,383 102,433 105,862 125,627
Book debts .. 103,194 105,517 110,103 107,431
Cash, etc. .. 487 543 403 1,408
To meet the outlay and reduce the
amount coming to trade creditors (now
£63,321) by £4598, debtors’ balances
were reduced by £2672 and £15,113 was
added to the overdraft (£47,628). When
the books closed, more or less liquids
exceeded outside liabilities by £4853, an
improvement of £7583. Finances are
now in better trim than for many years,
thanks partly to sale of the Brisbane free-
hold in the 1940 term.
Mindful of keen competition in most
of the co.’s lines, of tobacco-rationing
and the upward sweep of taxation and
costs, the market prices the f,-p. pound
shares at 13s. 3d., at which the return
is 9.2 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. On the
same basis the contribs. paid to 10s. each
return 10 p.c. at 6s.
Mt. Chalmers (Q.) has gone to work,
presumably with Mt. Morgan, which for
a start has secured a Commonwealth
advance of £lO,OOO, in control. Produc-
tion will take some four or five months
to attain. This long-idle mine should add
1840 tons of badly-needed copper and
63000 z. of gold to Australian output on
annual production of 75,000 tons of ore.
A conservative estimate of available
tonnage above 350 ft. is 530,000, averaging
2.73 p.c. copper and 2.27dwt. gold.
Present metal prices should be remunera-
tive.
* * * *
Raub’s second distribution in respect
of the current term is again 3d. stg. Three
payments of 4d. went out in the year to
March, when profits £39,173 lower at
£37,729 were shown before allowing for
then-uncertain F.M.S. and Straits war-
time taxation. The sharp contraction
mirrors depletion of the rich shoots used
to keep up the grade of mill-feed:
f Battery v Sands
1940.* 1941. 1940.* 1941.
Treated, tons .. 71,646 90,254 121,446 130,736
Head value, dwt. 6.2 3.69 2.02 1.78
Gold yield, oz. .. 17,948 11,672 9',146 7,594
Dwt., ton .. 5.01 2.59 1.51 1.16
Extraction, p.c. 77.2 69.1 69.5 65.4
Net real’n, oz. .. £7/17/- £B/7/6i £7/17/- £B/7/6*
Costs, ton .. 26/6£ 20/2i 3/10 3/11^
Mine profit, ton .. 12/7| 1/3 8/0J 5/81
* 57 weeks.
Practically the whole of the ’4l surplus
came from the re-treatment plant, now
running at 120 p.c. of rated capacity and
thoroughly justifying its outlay. Techni-
cally, the mine has never been in better
shape nor more efficient, and the rapid
transition from high- to low-grade pro-
ducer has been carried out (until last
year, when special adverse circumstances
obtained) without jolt to earnings. At
152,700 (up 48,900) tons—BB,7so labelled
“probable,” the rest “prospective”—re-
serve ore has never been higher, and some
let-up in costly development outlay
(£177,500 since 1935) in maintaining that
figure is anticipated. Values aren’t indi-
cated, but “bedrock grade” of crushings
is claimed to have been reached. Rebor-
ing has indicated eight years’ supply
(402,000 tons) of I.7dwt. material for
re-treatment along with current tailings.
Taking a long view, the market places a
value of £440,000 Aust. on the mine at
11s. per share. Justification of the figure
depends on behavior, which now appears
to be improving, of ore values; most of
that accomplishable by the management,
particularly in regard to costs, has been
achieved.
* * * s
Paringa (W.A.) reports exposure in
crosscut, drives and rise of a new
ore-shoot at and above the 520 ft.
level of its north-end Golden Mile mine.
Assays for a length of 33ft. on the level
averaged nearly 3oz. a ton over a width
of about sft., and a bulk sample went
4oz. 13dwt. The shoot is in calc-schist,
the mere mention of which at one time
used to send a shiver down the back of
the market. Calc-schist first appeared
on the Kalgoorlie field in the deeper
workings of mines on the east side of
the Mile, and, until proved otherwise,
was believed to be the beginning of the
end of payable values.
• * * *
Blue Spec, operating near Marble Bar
(W.A.), informs shareholders that the
“highly satisfactory” yield of 120 oz. of
gold from 162 tons has been obtained,
that all construction work on the new
plant has been completed, that the water
supply is now sufficient for treatment of
200 tons monthly, and that improved ex-
traction indicates that production of gold
bullion on the spot will meet all operat-
ing costs, leaving the antimonial and
pyritic concentrates, which will be dis-
posed of as in the past, as profits. Early
prospects of increased earnings are men-
tioned.
* * * m
Yellowdine Gold Areas (W.A.) has
crushed nearly the whole of visible ore
in sight. It has the best part of a shil-
ling a share in hand and prospects at
depth, the drill having proved continu-
ance of values some way below present
workings. Three sixpenny dividends have
been paid. Shares of ss. paid to 3s. have
buyers at Bd.
* * * *
Latest monthly report from Sons of
Gwalia (W.A.) is the poorest as regards
values for a long time. Still, it should
not be looked upon as a straw showing
the way the golden wind is blowing, as,
so far as intrinsic worth and prospects
are concerned, the mine is among the
best of the big ones in the State. Gwalia,
like most other mines in the West, is
being hampered by a shortage of efficient
underground labor, and this may
adversely affect both tonnage and pro-
duction for a while.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Evanston (B. 20/8/’4l) has a
big, flat auriferous deposit, not a lode.
This deposit is about 80ft, wide and
mostly 12ft. deep. Western Mining Corp.
hasn’t taken an option yet, but is nibbling
and appears likely to bite.
* * * «
J. S. Foxall, assistant State Mining
Engineer, after inspection of the Hamers-
ley Range blue-asbestos deposits inland
from Roebourne (W.A.); “I am more
than ever impressed with the possibility
of establishing one of the most profitable
industries in Australia, and am firmly
convinced that Roebourne must even-
tually be one of the principal asbestos-
distributing centres in the world. There
are large areas that can be cheaply mined
by opencutting, stripping and salvaging
before actual underground mining need
be undertaken. There is a possibility of
hundreds of square miles of productive
country, and, I believe of the value
of blue-asbestos production eventually
eclipsing gold in Westralia.” There are
understood to be American buyers for
blue asbestos, and inquiries have been
made through Australia’s Trade Com-
missioner in New York for confirmation.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
UNCLE SAM AND NIPPON.
[Japan’s move into Indo-China, the joint American-
British-Dutch economic action in response, and, arising
from these and other activities, the prospect of war in
the Pacific, produced in the U.S.A. a variety of mixed
views, typical examples of which are here condensed.
A fair general summary of such views would be that
they give overwhelming support to American moves
to halt Japanese Pacific aggression.]
(>Samuel Grafton, in New York “Post”)
We are not going to sell Japan some kinds of
gasoline and oil. What a bold stroke for the defence
of democracy! Two or three more such and democ-
racy will die of them.
Add it to our current vigorous refusal to disband
our army by sending the boys home, and we have
the total of our recent hammer-blows for freedom.
The hammer is made of putty.
If Japan wants to kill more Chinese from the
air from now on, she must do it on her own gasoline.
This is our solemn and dreadful word to the world
in its dark hour. And if Japan kills more Chinese
for a year or two on her own gasoline, she will use
up part of her gasoline reserves (bought from us) and
will then, in 1942, have less gasoline than she has
now. We are, in a word, hitting Japan right between
the statistics.
What might have been a truly memorable action
four years ago at the start of the Chinese war is
warmed-over heroics today. The maiden is drowning
and we highly resolve not to spit into the ocean to
increase her difficulties. Four years ago a total gaso-
line embargo against Japan would have been creative
democracy in action. Three years ago it would have
been simple Christian ethics. Two years ago it would
have been a stop to a scandal. Today it is pedestrian,
belated, a dusty answer.
London cables gleefully that a total embargo
could cripple Japan in six months. Our embargo
is not total, and one would be a fool to trust our
new partial embargo after having observed the State
Department’s handling of the supposed embargo on
“aviation gasoline” of a year ago.
But if a total embargo could cripple Japan in
six months what did the appropriate American and
English officials mean by giving Japan a six-month
lease on life? And what policy do they offer now
to take effect at once, since the world is quite obvi-
ously in no condition to wait six months, having
become so weak waiting for us to make up our minds?
The plain truth is that we can wait as long as
we want to save freedom, but the price keeps going
up all the time.
Four years ago embargo would have been effec-
tive. Not now. We wistfully offer the old price that
once was good, but the market has changed. We
shall be able to buy what we need now only at the
cost of men and blood and treasure. Tpiere are no
bargains any more and prices are raised without
notice. _ , ,
We have done nothing to help England create
a second front against the Axis. Now we are doing
next to nothing to keep the Axis from creating a
second front against Russia.
We believe firmly that we are involved, that the
world is falling apart, that the whole future of man-
kind is being shaped. Believing so and saying so, we
choose the height of crisis to attempt a delicate opera-
tion, the application of pressure to a Japanese nerve
to see whether maybe she will respond. Someone
told us four years ago that she was sensitive, and we
have just remembered. We might as well try to put
salt on the tail of an explosion.
£ * * * *
(New York “Post” editorial comment .)
We need more than a partial oil embargo to curb
Japan. The day has passed when a single economic
step could decisively shape the future of East Asia.
We need, at the minimum, a full-scale alliance
with Great Britain and China in the Pacific, with the
formal enunciation of joint, democratic aims for the
future of that area of the earth. Anything less wnl
be too small. We must answer Japan’s conception ot
the “greater East Asia co-prosperity sphere” with as
good as it gives, and, preferably, better.
Isolated economic actions by the United Mates,
undocumented by a full-scale plan for the future of
the Pacific, can be presented to the Japanese people
by their misleaders as simple acts of spite and hostility.
We want nothing for the Pacific but democratic
self-rule, freed of the terror of aggression. If Japanese
students and merchants want to give up their way
of life to fight this modest goal, let them do so, but
let them know what they are doing, and let them not
be persuaded by the military that they are fighting in
defence of Japan.
The Japanese reaction shows that Japan now
expects to receive little more goods from America.
It ought to be made to understand in addition that
we are not merely washing our hands of a dirty trade ;
that we have positive aspirations for peace and order
in Asia. .
A formal American-English-Chmese alliance, but-
tressed by promises of mutual help, will make our posi-
tion clear. It will) show that we are not “anti-Orien-
tal” but pro-democracy. Such an alliance would
make our isolated acts glow with new meaning. Japan
would not have to guess as to our intentions, nor
as to the quality of our resolution; she would know
where we stand.
* * * * *
[From the strongly isolationist New York “Daily
News.” Though the “Daily News” lets off in these
terms and worse whenever war for Uncle Sam is men-
tioned, it is not widely representative of U.S. feeling
in regard to Japan.]
For quite a while we’ve been hearing that Japan
would be a pushover if we would only get up the
will-power to clap a full embargo on shipments to
Japan and back up this action with fighting ships and
’planes.
We hope this picture is accurate. If it isn’t, and
a full U.S.-British embargo is clapped down on Japan,
there may be some unhappy consequences.
It is true that Japan has been having a long,
tough time of it in China. Its casualties are estimated
at more than 1,250,000 in the four years of that fight.
But it is also true that the Japanese Navy is undented
by the China war. Japan has 10 battleships (we have
17), plus aircraft-carriers, cruisers, submarines and
destroyers to an estimated total of 275 ships of war.
Japan’s combat ’planes are thought to number about
3000.
The Japanese Navy men are as cocky as ever,
and presumably more anxious than ever to pull off
some brilliant actions by sea for the greater glory of
Japan and the further humiliation of the army. It
seems possible if not probable that an all-out U.S.-
British embargo on Japan might goad Japan into some
all-out sea push, on the theory that they might as
well be dead as the way they are.
Suppose this push was aimed at the Philippines.
Well, the Philippines have long been considered our
glass chin stuck far out in the Pacific, We’ve been
strengthening our forces there in recent months; but
are they strong enough? Gen. Douglas MacArthur’s
native Philippine Army has about 180,000 trained
men, but less than half of these are equipped. Our
Asiatic fleet by latest report consists of three cruisers,
18 submarines, 13 destroyers and auxiliaries. Our
Pacific fleet, based on Hawaii, 4800 miles east of
Manila, would have to go a long way from base to
fight, while the Japs would fight close to their bases;
and our Pacific fleet has been contributing units of
late to the Atlantic fleet.
If the Japanese should stab, not at the Philippines
but at Singapore or the Dutch East Indies or both.
—Los Angeles “Times.”
HON. SUNSTROKE.
we think Americans would be nominated by the
British and Dutch to do most of the fighting. And
it looks as if our Administration would accept the
nomination. The British are heavily engaged in the
Atlantic and the Mediterranean ; the Dutch East Indies
defence forces have no battleships, though they have
three cruisers, a few destroyers, quite a few sub-
marines and an estimated 300 ’planes.
These facts and figures do not seem to us to add
up to a picnic in the Pacific if we prod the Japanese
into lashing out in desperation from the cramped little
islands to which our Government insists they must
always be confined.
*****
[More typical of American outlook than the fore-
going article are these comments by Kent Hunter in
the New York _ “Journal-American,’ which is also
strongly isolationist.]
Authoritative sources in Washington do not believe
Japan dares provoke war in the Far East, or that, if
Japan does dare war, she can possibly win.
Towards Russia these facts are given to show the
Japanese hazards. The Japanese Army is composed
of 57 divisions, and cannot expand to more than 66
divisions, lacking either the economic or the indus-
trial equipment building facilities to exceed niim-
ber. Her total man-power cannot go beyond 1,800,000
for Army, Navy and Air Force fighting. Japan s dis-
persion of her forces is extremely thin. She has 37
divisions actively committed in China. One division
is on Sakhalin Island to the north, four are on the
home islands, one is at Canton and on Hainan Island,
one is on Formosa and four divisions in Manchukuo.
The Russians in the Far East have 26 divisions,
10 cavalry and four tank divisions. These Rus-
sian troops have beaten the Japanese man for man
in previous border clashes. To attack in the north
Japan needs no fewer than 25 divisions, and she
cannot get more than six above her present nine in
that area without weakening her China, home or Indo-
China forces to such an extent as to be vulnerable to
counter-attack. . , , „
To the south the vastness of the war theatre han-
dicaps Japan. Japan’s Air Force-not over 3800
’planes at the most, equally divided between
and Navy —is composed of 1939 models. They cann
range to Borneo, Java, Sumatra and the other Dutch
East Indian islands, even from her newly-seized bases
at Saigon and Camranh Bay in Indo-China.
Japan’s Navy, third most powerful in the world,
heading southward, faces British sea-power from
Singapore and British bombing air-power, and Dutch
and British submarine and mine defence in the entire
island-dotted zone.
Constantly growing tension between Japan ana
the United States makes the American Pacific fleet,
now at sea west of Hawaii and possibly moving toward
a base at Manila, a flanking threat to Japanese naval
power in the Dutch East Indies that cannot be ignored.
Japan’s military and air forces, fighting in China,
have conducted only a third-class war. But now that
Japan threatens British, Russian and American in-
terests in the Far East, supplies are bound to go to
China over the Burma Road in vast quantities.
Contrary to general belief, (Japan’s immediate
need is not oil or petroleum. Japan, for five years, has
forced every oil company in Japanese-controlled terri-
tory to double its storage tanks. Japan’s oil supply
will last her army and navy for a period of from six
months to a year.
Japan is listed as the third most war-weary nation
in the world, with Spain and Italy as the nations more
sick of war. On the other hand, there is believed to
be small chance of a Japanese internal upheaval.
Japan realises she must continue fighting even though
she has little with which to carry on.
* * * * *
{Raymond Clapper, in New York “World-Telegram. )
Japan has been well treated. Beginning with
the Washington Arms Conference, the United States
and Great Britain tried to work out a joint community
of interest with Japan. We were in a position to wage
a naval race but we held to a 5-3 ratio, and did not
even try to build our quota. We agreed not to fortify
positions in the western Pacific which could menace
Japan. Only two years ago Congress voted down a
navy request for strengthening Guam because we did
not wish to offend Japan. Later we were compelled
to change our position and go ahead.
Tokyo has no complaint. Japan started this ram-
page of aggression by her attack on Manchukuo. She
was allowed to get away with it. Then Italy and
Germany decided they, too, could undertake aggres-
sion with impunity. The trail of this whole series or
conquests leads back to Japanese initiative.
In view of this history, it must be recognised that
sooner or later the day of reckoning will come.
* ♦ ♦
(.From New York “Post.”)
‘We must write down again “too little and too
late.” Too late in Indo-China. And where do the
Japanese go from there? Glance at the and
figure it out. Japan will be much closer to both Singa-
pore and the Burma Road.
A certain Oriental mystery still overhangs. But
there are certain facts that we do know.
We know that Japan moved south on the motive
power of American oil. We know that the Japanese
ships were built largely of American scrap iron and
by American machinery. More than 1,000,000 barrels
of oil in July from the U.S.A. to Japan! And we know
that Vichy, which rolled over to accept Japan as a
bedfellow, has just supplied its South Atlantic base
of Dakar with American oil which the U.S. State
Department pressed through the British blockade.
We see before our eyes the overripe fruits ot
appeasement. We taste that bitter fruit today in the
undeniable fact of America’s position in the world
even less secure, more acutely menaced! Thats
appeasement! Now certainly both British and Ameri-
cans can realise the purely secondary advantages ot
waiting to take counter-moves against the Axis!
Take the sternest counter-moves conceivable, of course,
at once. But henceforth the only safety must be seen
as choosing the course of bold and positive action
for ourselves.
*****
([From New York “Journal of Commerce. )
Japan has been importing approximately
30.000. barrels of oil annually during the past five
years, the bulk of which has come from the United
States and the Dutch East Indies. Production trom
all sources that will be available for Japan, should
shipments cease from the Netherlands Indies and the
United States, would furnish only about 7,000,000
barrels a year, which would almost certainly be inade-
quate for military operations. Hence, Japan would
have to fall back upon reserve supplies, should she
attempt to fight a war with the Western Powers
It is probable that a considerable part ot oil
imports since 1936 has gone into storage. Experts
in the U.S.A. estimate that upward of S,OUU,UJU
barrels may have been added to storage annually over
the past five years. This would provide a reserve ot,
perhaps, 25,000,000 barrels to supplement current
domestic Japanese production. , .
Such reserves might well suffice for a short war,
even with the major Western Powers. They would be
quite inadequate for a protracted conflict, particularly
because Japan would have to carry on hostilities at
great distances from her own territory. Thus, me
Dutch East Indies are some 3000 miles distant from
the main Japanese islands, and sea communications
for a large force would involve heavy fuel oil con-
SUm The countries that stand opposed to Japanese
expansion, on the other hand possess well-nigh un-
limited petroleum resources. The Dutch East Indies
alone produce more than 60,000,000 barrels of oil
annually, while the British have access to annual pro-
duction of about 90,000,000 barrels m the Middle
East and India. California’s production exceeds
200.000. barrels a year.
Unless the Japanese Government expects a very


— Photo, by courtesy oj “The AeroplaneEngland.
THE R.A.F. USES EXIDE
'Planes of the Royal Air Force have proved themselves to
be the best in the world. They are being fitted with Exide
Batteries. You, too, can depend on Exide for your car, radio
or home lighting plant.
df
df
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED.
......
:■ - '
quick victory, therefore, a war with the great Powers
in the Far East could only produce disaster.
* # V V *
(Major George Fielding Eliot, in New York “Herald
Tribune.”)
It is quite possible to exaggerate the military
importance of a Japanese occupation of southern Indo-
China bases.
Considering that Japan could not hope to station
in Indo-China air forces capable of dealing with the
combined air strength in the South China Sea of
Britain, the Netherlands and the United States; con-
sidering further that the submarines and torpedo craft
of these Powers, supported by land-based aircraft and
by a few cruisers, would be actively assailing the
Japanese transports and supply, ships which did succeed
in getting past the guardian fortresses in the north, and
considering that the necessities of the expeditionary
forces might very well require the Japanese fleet to
give battle to a superior force under unfavorable con-
ditions (a fact which the American Commander-in-
chief would have every means of exploiting) the
Japanese high command has a serious problem to deal
with in attempting any further offensive from Indo-
China. Should these difficulties become further com-
plicated by the need for dealing with Soviet aircraft
and submarines in the Sea of Japan itself, they would
become insoluble, if they were not so already.
The safest of the possible offensives seems to be
a land attack on Thailand. Here much would depend
on the character of the Thai resistance, if any, and the
vigor of the steps taken by the associated Western
Powers to cut off the Japanese communications. That
is, after all, the crucial point. Indo-China itself can-
not support a great offensive of any kind; if the
three Western Powers (with or without Soviet aid)
stick firmly together and determine to resist with armed
force any further Japanese aggression, they still have
every means of doing so, and the Japanese move into
Indo-China does not greatly improve Japan’s position.
It can be dangerous to our interests in the Far East
only if we permit it to become so.
•i*
(From New York “Herald Tribune.”)
The United States must earnestly hope that
councils of caution will prevail in Tokyo. At the
same time it cannot neglect the possibility that they
may not. In either event it will defend its vital interests
with the firmness which is required.
sfc * H* ♦
( New York “Times” editorial comment.)
Foremost among the parallels between Japan’s
slogan, “Asia for the Asiatics,” and Hitler’s arrogant
assumption that he speaks for Europe is the fact that
the Asiatics don’t want the Japanese order. In Europe
the Nazis maintain their rule by force ; in Asia not a
single Oriental nation rallies behind Japan. On the
contrary, in four years of war to subdue China the
Japanese have lost any support they once enjoyed
among the oppressed peoples of Asia. Without excep-
tion, all prefer the rulers they have to “liberation” on
Japanese terms. Their ruthlessness in China has made
the Nipponese as thoroughly hated in Malaya as the
Nazis are in Europe, We see a striking example of
this change of attitude in the Philippines, and in Indo-
China, the Netherlands Indies, Burma and India, a
few years ago fertile fields for propaganda to drive
the European Powers out of Asia.
No Malay people is willing to exchange the worst
master for Japanese domination. Thanks to her mili-
tary leaders, the Land of the Rising Sun is today as
bankrupt politically as she is economically. They have
robbed her of every friend except Nazi Germany ; her
dependence on a faithless and unscrupulous European
gambler that makes allies only to break them adds the
final touch to her isolation in Asia. .
* * # * *
(New York “World Telegram.”)
The fact is that Mr. Roosevelt has long been
under heavy public pressure to clamp down on the
exportation of oil and other war materials to Japan.
Many people have been unable to understand a policy
which, while with one hand extending aid to China,
with the other keeps Japan’s war machine oiled and
otherwise munitioned.
President Roosevelt has been patient, remarkably
patient for a man who has acted so boldly in other
quarters. But his patience has been tried too far.
Tokyo is on the verge of discovery, if it did not
already know, that the American people are sick and
tired of appeasement that does not appease.
U.S. “Axis Warehouse.”
(From a Milwaukee, U.S.A., “Post” editorial.)
Spain bought no toluene (one of the constituents
of TNT) from the U.S.A. in 1939. But in 1940 the
U.S.A, shipped 1,574,0001 b. to Spain. And Spain’s
Franco owes Hitler a lot of gratitude. So also tinplate
and taggers’ tin, which have many military uses.
Shipments of these to Spain totalled 6,105,0001 b. in
1939. But in 1940 the total was 20,436,0001 b. On
these Portugal is helping out too. In 1938 it received
1,911,0001 b. and in 1940 it bought 34,976,0001 b.
Spanish imports of American cotton linters and
pulp also made a remarkable showing. Last year
Spain imported 2,337,0001 b. of that. The year before
it imported none at all. Spain under Franco has not
so prospered as to need such a new and large import.
But cotton linters and pulp are also used in explosives.
Still, Spain hasn’t enlarged its army and store of
munitions as to need such a supply. Spanish imports
of lubricating grease are even more interesting. In
1938 the total purchase from the United States of
that item was 577,0001 b. and in 1940 it was 3,931,0001 b.
And Spain’s imports of petroleum from the United
States also jumped from 2,571,000 42-gallon barrels
in 1938 to 4,456,000 of those barrels in 1940. Finland
has been helping with American lard. In 1938 Finland
imported 122,0001 b.; in 1939 it increased its imports
to 732,0001 b.; in 1940 it received 17,602,0001 b.
It is hardly likely that our State department,
seeing these figures, can be so naive as to believe that
these nations in the Axis or in the Axis orbit have
suddenly become enriched to the point of buying
extra large quantities where they bought only moderate
amounts before. The type of the exports themselves
should be a severe indication of their purpose.
American businessmen refuse to take the situation
seriously, and they are nullifying a good deal of the
—New York "Herald Tribune.”
CLOSING HONORABLE PANTRY WINDOW.
work that the country in the main is trying to do.
We are trying to be an arsenal for democracy. They
are making of us also a warehouse for the Axis.
The German Paratroops.
[No better all-round account of the German para-
chute troops has so far been published than that given
by W. B. Courtney in August 9 “Collier’s,” here con-
densed.]
You hear a ’plane and look up to see a tri-motor
Junkers 52 brushing along. Neither an unusual sight
nor sound in Germany these days. But just- before
you look away—so low, so close, you can see every
detail —seven boys come tumbling out of the ’plane’s
door, each with a travelling kit of some description:
one an old-fashioned portmanteau, another a family
carpetbag of the Bismarck era, a third a snappy
modernistic one.
Although the soldiers oscillate severely, they steer,
manipulate and time their ’chutes so deftly that they
reach the ground close together. As you drive in upon
the airfield the parachutists are walking toward their
barracks. You might think they had just stepped
from a bus. The colonel says: “It’s Tuesday. They’re
just back from Easter leave.” You learn it is a custom
at all paraschools every week-end, or at least when-
ever enough men are going on leave to justify it, to
disperse the soldiers all over the nation to their homes
by parachutes. ’Planes —those customarily employed
by the schools for training—fly regular schedules. Each
’plane-load is grouped for convenience according to
area. Each boy is dropped as near to his home as
possible. Actual instances have been recorded of sol-
diers landing in their own backyards.
For return journeys, groups assemble at airports
nearest to their homes. Inasmuch as Germany, for
military purposes, has more than a thousand airfields,
big and little, this means a short walk for many sol-
diers ; a bus, tram or bike ride for the others. While
at home the soldiers have repacked their ’chutes,
because arrival back at the schools must be made by
jump.
The colonel talked frankly of the German para-
troop background:
“The lesson of 1914-18 was that defence by
trenches and other positional measures backed by
machine-guns had immobilised the old-style warfare
of mass movement and manoeuvre. Such war could
only result in total waste of men, national resources
and time without possibility of decision —in a military
sense. Air warfare promised a loophole ; but how to
employ it?
“Traditionalists insisted that the ’plane was just
a new addition to war’s arms —that air force was
merely auxiliary to either naval or land force. The
enthusiasts, as always, made the mistake of claiming
everything for air power. Imperialistic growth was
predicated on sea power. And veteran seamen insisted
that only sea power could control water lines of com-
munication. While army men said that air power could
never win wars alone, because you must actually
occupy a country in order to conquer it.
“The Italians and the Russians foolishly put most
of their military eggs in the aviation basket. Both
made a too-belated swing to a more balanced concept.
“We looked for a middle way; presently we
believed we had worked out the answer to the
main contentions of the traditionalists: First,
our medium-range bombers to co-operate with
submarines in the harassment of enemy sea lanes.
Our High Command statistics for this war show that
one-fourth of the total enemy tonnage sunk by us has
fallen to the Luftwaffe; 60 p.c. to the submarines ; the
rest to surface raiders. Second, air power through
paratroops can occupy a country —thus conquer it.
By complete independence of each command, yet per-
fect co-operation and timing by all concerned, we
think we have co-ordinated into one arm a combina-
tion of the facilities and effectiveness of three arms
—that is, land, sea and air!”
All paratroops are strictly volunteers. It is
obvious that for psychological and morale reasons they
must be. In no other way could be obtained the
audacity, freshness, mental and physical initiative re-
quired for the split-second timetabling of ’chute
offence. The safety of every man, the success of every
battle, requires the lack of hesitation which can only
be expected in very carefully hand-picked volunteers,
whether in the German army or any other army. So
great has become the prestige of the corps that it has
a waiting list wholly in excess of its apparent require-
ments.
Propaganda effort to attract volunteers was con-
centrated upon making it the more elite and cocky
branch of the service. Distinction was granted in
special privileges, in diet, in extra pay, in all the little
ways of army pampering.
Paratroops must pass psychological, educational
and physical tests which in principle and severity are
the same as for pilots. Tests to detect inclination to
giddiness are especially stern. It was found that men
who excel in active sports were most suitable. The
paratroops include virtually the whole roster of Ger-
many’s 1932 and 1936 Olympic teams. All prize-
fighters who can qualify mentally are in the para-
troops, likewise bright, middle and dim lights of
basketball, fencing, hockey, swimming, diving and
track. Practically, without exception, professional
and amatuer jockeys are paratroops. The boys who
mount the ponies at Ruhleben, Berlin’s race track,
each Sunday morning are nearly all on week-end leave
from a. paraschool. Horsemanship seems to give
special aptitude.
A soldier to begin with, the paratrooper gets a
special training course of eight weeks at Stendal or
one of the other schools before going into a division.
He is taught to pack, unpack his ’chute until he can
do it in his sleep. He receives indoctrination in initia-
tive ; in the qualities of “rugged individualism.” Expert,
and thorough instruction in automatic-pistol marks-
manship at moving targets, to simulate firing in a
drop. He practises from the ground, while suspended
in harness, from the top of a speeding automobile
and lastly while making actual descents.
It is the medical experience at paraschools that
trainees —even professional athletes already in tiptop
condition —lose weight. But they develop an extra-
ordinary catlike quickness.
Training also includes suspension above the
ground or floor in parachutelike harness of specially
designed machines, in front of great blower fans. The
recruit learns how to get in the direction of the wind
by movements of his legs and oscillations of his body.
He makes practice jumps—without a ’chute, of course
—from roofs of automobiles moving at moderate
speed. Lastly comes unbelievably intensive drilling
on the ground and aloft in the two fundamental prin-
ciples of paratroop fighting.
The entire squad of 12 must be out of the ’plane
within eight seconds after the buzzer horn sounds.
It means the man farthest from the ’plane door must
exit at high running speed!
Landing must be made, the men disengaged from
their ’chutes (which are abandoned for later salvage,
if possible) and the entire squad must be gathered
into battle formation and be ready to fight within two
minutes after the buzzer went off. The position each
squad assumes is called the “porcupine formation,”
because it forms back to back, facing outward in a
small circle, like 12 quills.
The paratroops —and this is a fact not generally
known abroad —are not part of the German army.
They are officially known as “air infantry,” and they


are an integral part of the independent Luftwaffe or
“air arm.” The chief of air infantry is General
Students, who leaped with his men at Rotterdam,
broke both legs, recovered and is now back in active
combat service.
There are approximately 12,000 men to each air-
infantry division, including supply, medical and other
service units. This requires for each division a basic
’plane force of 1000 tri-motor Junkers 52 transports,
from which all seats and other normal fittings have
been cleared and one bench installed, parallel to each
cabin wall, together with the large spring hook near
the door —the paratroops call it a “carbine bucket” —
to which their parachute ropes must be snapped before
jumping.
Germany has at least 10 divisions of paratroops
with full replacement depot facilities.
Paratroops get double the regular army pay ; and
in combat service, double again. They also get extra
cigarettes and cigars, which to all German army, navy
and air personnel are a free daily ration. The para-
troops non-coms, and officers are proportionately
higher paid than other branches. They wear thick,
high-laced leather boots to give ankle protection, and
a special flat-round steel “dive” or crash helmet.
The paratrooper is not the target he would seem
while hanging in the sky. He is oscillating, falling
rapidly, shooting defensively, and is only in sight for
an average of 15 seconds. Combat jumps are made as
low as possible—from altitudes of 150 feet to a maxi-
mum of 1000 feet. Conditions requiring jumps from
above 1000 feet would not be, considered favorable
to attack.
Each pafasoldier is additionally equipped with a
gas mask, automatic pistol, a supply of hand grenades
in a rubber sack, emergency rations, which include
unspoilable bread and vitamin-energy pills called “Per-
vitin,” which keep him wakeful by increasing blood
pressure.
A German paracommander said: “Military effort
has always been to ‘lengthen muzzles.’ Basically, the
battleship is a lengthening of the range of coastal bat-
teries ; the tank a lengthening of army artillery ; the
pursuit ’plane a lengthening of machine-gun, and the
bomber of cannon muzzles. Thus the paratrooper is
a lengthening of the striking power of infantry. And
whatever the outcome of this experiment, whether the
’plan s-Panzer design is successful or not —bear in mind
that the military science is a highly experimental one
—this much is certain: We have just come to the
threshold of air power’s use in the art of warfare!”
False and True Peace.
(Condensed extract from an “Atlantic Monthly” article
by Herbert Agar.)
We cannot understand the history of our time if
we think of today’s agony as just another stage in
“the same old war.” A world revolution is taking
place. Nobody can stay out of a world revolution.
The revolution can be resisted or accepted ; it cannot
be ignored. War today is a sign that the more dan-
gerous revolutionary weapons have failed to do their
full work. These weapons include threats and bribes and
. blackmail, as in the Low Countries and the Balkans ;
they include economic pressure and treason, as in
South America ; they include soft promises of friend-
ship for whatever nations the revolution is not yet
prepared to murder ; above all they include an appeal
to the dissatisfactions, the confusions and the guilt
which infest our world because we have too long been
untrue to ourselves. The revolution against civilisa-
tion could not have started but for the sins of civili-
sation.
In our upside-down world it is almost a sign of
health when war occurs; because war means that
men are somewhere still willing to resist the revolu-
tion, still confident enough to try to earn for our civi-
lisation a second chance. When there are iio more
such men the Decline of the West will be complete ;
we shall have what many pacifists call “peace.”
If we are to know the meaning of the revolution
we must first know the true meaning of peace. Peace
is not the absence of war ; peace is the presence of
justice. Peace —domestic or foreign—is what men get
when they have built a world which deserves to sur-
vive. It is not what men get when they refuse to
fight, or when they have been so badly beaten that
fighting is impossible.
There are three kinds of false peace. The first
is the peace of the grave—the peace of Poland, There
is an absence of war in Poland today. There is also
an increasing absence of Poles. • The ancient Polish
problem is being solved by the destruction of the men
who might lead Poland to revolt. If the Axis has its
way for another decade the solution will be complete.
There are no problems in the quiet grave.
The second false peace is the peace of the gaol-
house—the peace of France. Partly because America
must still be lulled into inaction, it is not yet expedient
to “solve” the French problem. The blueprints for
the solution have been prepared. They have been
announced repeatedly. But for the time being, since
news still leaks out of Western Europe fairly fast, the
solution must be postponed. So France waits discon-
solately in the gaolhouse, until other men liberate her
or until the hour of destruction is at hand.
The third false peace is the peace of the
United States. This is the peace of the men who
cannot make up their minds. It is the best prelude to
the peace of France or of Poland.
All three of the false forms of peace are charac-
terised by an absence of war ; yet none of them is a
peace which a patriot would wish for his own country.
Nothing less than the peace of justice is worth attempt-
ing ; and there can be no justice until the revolution
is destroyed.
The roots of the revolution are in the cynicism,
the disbelief and the despair which for years have been
spreading across the world. These were in turn the
fruits of our bad conduct, our betrayal of a great
cause.
The soldiers and the sailors of the last war were
scarcely demobilised before the U.S.A. had turned its
back on every obligation we [Americans] had
assumed. We pledged our sacred honor in the
Armistice that we would help to build a world insti-
tution whereby the status quo could be altered pro-,
gressively by negotiation, instead of convulsively by
force. We then broke our word, after careful debate
and after ratifying the dishonor in a national election.
The other rich and powerful “free nations” were
behaving as blindly as the United States. For increas-
ing millions in America and Western Europe, freedom
and democracy became fake words ; the promises of
politicians became a synonym for fraud. But injustice
was real. And unemployment. And the need of
simple men to have something to believe.
Out of the hunger and the unemployment, which
were at their worst in Central Europe, and out of the
cynicism which was the moral climate of the whole
Western world, came the chance for revolution. A
world where too many people cannot earn their way,
and where too few people believe in anything, has
small survival value.
Hitler was a necessity. Unless the great betrayal
had led to a collapse of values and a revival of
savagery, modern history would be a tale told by an
idiot. “Something has come to an end,” wrote Hitler.
He thinks that the “something” which has ended is the
brief period of modern democracy, beginning with the
invention of the steam engine and ending with the
invention of the dive-bomber. He thinks that modern
technology, plus the decline of faith in our civilisation,
has made it possible for a few ambitious leaders to
return the plain man to his traditional place as a
slave. This was the message of Oswald Spengler, the
John the Baptist of Nazism. This is the purpose of
the buccaneers who lead the revolution of nihilism.
Hitler may be right. But there is another answer
to the statement that “something has come to an end.”
The “something” may be defined, not as the period
—New York “Journal-American.”
IF THEY SHOULD TEAM UP.
when men are so foolish as to strive for democracy,
but as the period when men are so slack as to betray
it. Democracy as a cheap and boastful creed that
demands no sacrifice is dead. Hitler has murdered it.
But democracy as a code of conduct, as the struggle to
make institutions which will bring man nearer to his
ancient need for “equal rights and no special privi-
leges,” is not necessarily dead. The punishment which
our sins have brought upon us may teach us to live
better, for a time at least —if we have a second chance.
The one thing certain is that there will be no second
chance unless the revolution is beaten.
Shaping Things to Come.
(From a New York “Herald Tribune” article by Walter
Lipptnann .)
Today the greater part of the world—in popu-
lation, in area, in the potentialities of power is
aligned against the Axis. There is no new order in
Europe to which any of the peoples of Europe con-
sent, against which they will not rebel at the very
first opportunity. There are no neutrals. Hitler, who
started to conquer the world, has raised the world
against him. He has brought into being the force
which alone can, in the end, defeat a conqueror —
the great coalition of all his intended victims. In
the darkest days of the war those who had faith and
courage prophesied that this would happen, and that
prophecy is now being fulfilled.
For that reason, because this great coalition has
to be mobilised and organised for effective action,
not only the beginnings of a plan of peace and recon-
struction but the instruments of such a plan are now
in actual existence. The Economic Defence Board,
over which Vice-President Wallace will preside, is
at once a weapon of war and an instrument of peace.
This board, in collaboration with the corresponding
British and Allied agencies, will control the shipping
and the international commerce of the non-totalitarian
world. The immediate purpose of this control is, of
course, to blockade the Axis, to drive Axis commerce
from the non-totalitarian world, and to mobilise the
resources of the non-totalitarian world.
But this control, which will be world-wide, is
not only necessary and vital to the defeat of the
aggressor nations. It will be no less necessary and
vital to the reconstruction of the world after the
Axis Powers are defeated. For with shipping scarce,
with surpluses piling up in one place and grave short-
ages appearing in others, the post-war world will be
chaos unless the transition to peace is made under
firm regulation. Therefore, for some time to come—
probably for at least as many years as it took to
mobilise the world for war—-it will be necessary to use
priorities and rationing in order to ensure a successful
demobilisation. The world has had to wind itself up
to a war economy, and there will surely be catastrophe,
as there was after the other war, if the unwinding
from war to real peace is not carefully planned and
strongly controlled.
We may say, quite soberly and without indulging
in any flight of fancy, that the new American Economic
Defence Board and its British and Allied equiva-
lents constitute the nucleus of the organisation
of the post-war world. They are compelled now to
organise the economic world, outside of Axis territory,
to bring about the defeat of the Axis. In this conflict
there are no economic neutrals. For the defeat of the
Axis will in the end be achieved by a world-wide
coalition of nations in various degrees of belligerency
but all of them united in an economic front against
the Axis.
In this economic order which is being formed
under the necessity of war there will be a place for
any nation which recovers its freedom. There will
be not a place only but there will be also available
immediately stocks of food and raw materials lor
relief and reconstruction. For the American nations
and the Allies will control the shipping and the sur-
pluses of most of the world: to those who are able
to join them they will be able to offer not only freedom
and honor but the necessities of life.
So the new order, the real new order and not
Hitler’s cruel fraud, will, if we continue resolutely, be
shaped in the necessities of the war and tested in the
trials through which we are passing. In this new order
there will surely be an honorable place some day for
the Italians and the Germans and the Japanese—once
they have chosen for their governors men with whom
it is possible to make an honest agreement.
Consuls Report on Europe.
(Condensed from New York “Hercdd Tribune.”)
American consular and diplomatic agents expelled
from Axis-controlled portions of Europe returned to
the United States on August 1 with voluminous re-
ports on internal conditions in Germany and Italy
and in subject countries under the shadow of the
Fasces and Swastika. State Department officials
cautioned them against revealing any political infor-
mation until their reports have been studied in
Washington; nevertheless, interviews made possible
the following summary of the economic and political
situation;
The war against Russia is not nearly as popular
as Adolf Hitler thought it would be. Germans for
the first time since the Nazi legions started to march
are filled with anxiety over the slow progress of the
drive on Moscow.
There is no hunger in Germany as yet, but the
rations are drab and poorly balanced, and malnutrition
is increasing.
The Germans feel that a “shooting war” with
America is imminent. Unlike the situation in 1917,
when Berlin awaited Washington’s intervention with
something like contempt, the Germans fear that
America’s striking power would turn the tide.
Immense damage has been done in the cities of
north-west Germany by the R.A.F., not as much as
London says, but far more serious than Berlin admits.
Of the big cities Hamburg and Cologne were the
hardest hit. Cologne’s great cathedral is untouched,
but many historic shrines as well as industrial plants
have been shattered, including the Gurzenich, with
its fifteenth-century pinnacles and minarets.
Black hatred against Germany swells in Belgium,
Holland, Denmark and Norway, There is near-famine
in Brussels, but Amsterdam and Copenhagen have
sufficient food. Norwegians are subsisting on fish and
potatoes. Natives of Oslo are permitted 24 coffee
beans a week, sufficient for two cups of weak coffee.
Italians are eating better than the Germans, but
the people are apathetic. There is widespread dis-
content but no immediate prospect of revolution.
Passive resistance is increasing in occupied France
but there is still no general sabotage or agitation.
Of all conquered countries Norway comes closest
to open revolt, and only the presence of 250,000 Ger-
man troops prevents an uprising.
“Germans Last to Starve.”
[Former “Christian Science Monitor” Berlin corres-
pondent Joseph C. Harsch on a topic on which much
more will be heard presently, when winter comes again
to Europe.]
When a Frenchman, or anyone else, can see his
German conqueror in uniform with his own eyes
every day, he blames the German for his hardships
and food shortages. American food sent to those
areas would not change the attitude of the people.
Nor would it change their physical condition.
Every ounce sent in would merely release that same
amount of food for German consumption It would be
all loss with no compensation. The writer has discussed
the situation with people in several Occupied Coun-
tries and they themselves say that sending food to
them would only help the Germans and do almost
nothing to relieve their own actual sufferings.
Where they are starving it is German policy to let
them starve. No starvation is necessary anywhere inside
the German-controlled area. Shortage is inevitable,
but not starvation. As a correspondent who has
worked in Berlin through most of the war and who
knows personally the sources of information which
are the basis for the campaigns to send food into
occupied countries, particularly Belgium, I know that
submitting to such pressure would only aid Germany.
There is no real justification for it. Germany can
feed the occupied people as well as it feeds its own
people. If Germany lets anyone starve in Belgium
it is either because of a deliberate policy to let Bel-
gians starve or because, as German Minister of Agri-
culture Walther Darre has publicly stated, “Germans
will be the last people in Europe to starve.” They
are not starving now, and no one behind the German
lines is starving, unless it is German policy to let
them starve as punishment for resistance to German
conquest.


/
y
*
%
AVu
-TV
\
X Wy
/
I
,V
>
t
WO
s
I
. . I'
'■ *..
I. 11l
k\
m
as
I
r
«a
iU"
NH
m
ii n
• i
SUN RIPENED OATS
BRING HEALTH TO YOUR GLASS /
'J'OOHEYS Oatmeal Stout is brewed from the
rich, ripe oats of our own sunny country
brewed for Australian conditions and climate. It
is the national tonic food.
Tooheys
OATMEAL STOUT
TOOHEYS, LTD.,
STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents:
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co.,
Melbourne.
Ltd.,
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA*
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Ply., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Laun*
ceston.
LEND to DEFEND-BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES’


HTS
LYS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
m
mmmmm
.jar
m
■ ”
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
■LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"D ON'T WORRY. I’ M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
The New Wool.
“Murrawong”: Early clips reflect the
varied season. In N. S. Wales it began
with extreme drought, and flocks were
lucky to battle through. The result is
seen in shorter wool, about half of it
thin and hungerfine. The drought broke
at the end of 1940, and in parts a flush
season replaced it. Its effects are shown
in better-nourished, bolder fleeces, but
there is a break in the wool and much
of it is tender.
Average weights of early clips are as
much as 31b. a head lighter than last
year. Summer rains and floods brought
abundant burrs, another problem for
classers.
Where it is mostly tender the clip may
be classed out in the usual lines, but
where tenderness is occasional it will be
necessary to duplicate lines, keeping
sound and tender, wools apart. Where
only part of the fleece is unsound it
will be in the backs. Dusty backs are
removed on principle, but where they
are merely thin, wasty and tender they
are apt to be ignored so long as the
shoulder wool is fairly sound.
Use of a Classer.
“J.R.D.”; Far too often the classer
has so many other jobs to do —bossing
the board, woolrolling or exporting —that
he has only time to test a fleece’s shoulder
before bundling it into the bin. It is
false economy to engage a specialist and
then to try to save rouseabouts’ wages
by using him on other jobs.
The classer must have time for close
examination of wool that needs it and
time to supervise woolrollers and piece-
pickers. A look into the piece bins at
the end of the run is not sufficient. He
should be free to walk down the board
occasionally to watch the lock baskets
or packs.
The presence of burr complicates
skirting. The bigger burrs will be gener-
ously scattered all over the fleece and
defy all efforts to skirt them free. The
classer should look over woolly sheep
in the pens and the first fleeces on the
tables to decide on the best way to handle
them. Much could be done to improve
the preparation of skirtings, but until
piecepicking skill is recognised by higher
pay little can be hoped for. This year
good piecepickers will be scarce. If you
can’t get reliable pickers, remove stains
and dags and send the skirtings to a
reclassing firm.
Dipping Sheep.
“T. A. Talia”: The mixture should be
weaker for merinos than for crossbreds,
because merino hide is more liable to
scald, and weaker for lambs than for
grown sheep. Work out the capacity of
the dip to the gallon and put a guage in
so that you’ll know how much it holds
at any level. Keep the mixture well
stirred after each long pause between
runs or when new dip and/or water is
added. Skim off the surface occasion-
ally to avoid dip stain.
Maks sure the sheep aren’t thirsty when
being dipped. If the weather looks bad
postpone the job. Heavy rain on dipped
sheep causes scald and sometimes deaths
—so does heat or humidity. Give the
sheep protection from sun or wind while
they drain. Don’t have any dogs near
and see that the men on the dip are quiet
workers.
Watch the sheep coming out and see
they are thoroughly wetted. This will
give a guide as to the time each animal
should stay in the dip. When pushing
them under, don’t overdo it or they’ll be
exhausted. Old and weak sheep may
have to be assisted, and rams have to be
watched all the way. Don’t dip rams in
extra-good condition.
Start with the killers, then wethers,
stores, ewes, rams, lambs in that order.
The less valuable sheep will take the chill
out of it and the lambs will go into a
diluted bath. Overcrowded draining pens
mean scalding and perhaps suffocation.
Never forget that sheep dip is poisonous.
Another Blowfly Destroyer.
“Pigge”: Latest recruit to the ranks
of the blowfly’s enemies, and taking its
“And what mileage do you get with your gas-producer?"
"Well, I got fifty miles out o’ the sideboard an I think I'll do about forty
on the kitchen table!”
place alongside crutching, swabbing,
jetting and tailing, is the electric fly ex-
terminator. The outfit comprises a four-
stroke petrol motor, generator, “killer”
or cage round which high-voltage wires
run, and a special lure or bait placed
inside the killer and covered by gauze.
The flies are attracted in droves.
A. R. Withers, of Nalpa Station, near
Tailem Bend (S.A.), has given it high
praise. Edmund Brooks, of Buckland
Park (S.A.), uses it when yarding his
sheep. L. W. Buddie, of Ashford (S.A.),
who turns the machine out under patent,
is confident that with a light as lure it
would prove effective also against codlin
and lucerne moths and other night-flying
fruit and vegetable pests. In the south
of France a machine consisting of a
bright light backed by a suction fan
has long been in use to deal with insect
pests.
Stud Merino Export.
“Geneticist” returns to the charge:
The gentlemen of the jury will not, 1
submit, be so much impressed by the
word “monopoly” as is ‘ Ovis (B.
6/8/ ’4l). . ,
Australia has not—and never has had
—any monopoly in merino sheep. If she
enjoys any monopoly it is of the climate,
the soil, the open spaces, the grasses—
and the skilled breeders—essential to the
development of great rams. She is never
likely to be challenged in this specific
field. .
Choice fat-lamb production would be
virtually impossible without the English
Southdowns, Dorsets, Shropshires and the
rest of the troupe, but England could
not have retained a monopoly of the
world’s lamb market by prohibiting their
export. She would have deprived herself
of a grand trade in stud sheep by that
means.
Lime and Phosphorus.
“R. Ney”: Animal health depends
largely on the mineral content of the
feed, which in turn depends on the soil
and the type and amount of fertiliser
put into it. Lime and phosphoric acid,
for instance, are important elements, and
generally protein-rich fodder contains a
large proportion of phosphoric acid,
though the protein content has nothing
to do with the lime content.
Green pasture grasses and growing
cereals or hay made from either generally
have about equal proportions of lime and
p.a.—sufficient to meet normal animal
needs. Legumes have more lime, which
probably makes them such good animal
foods. The same applies to hay made
from them; it is valuable for making
up the lime deficiency in other hand-fed
fodders.
Milk and milk products and meatmeal
usually have ample lime and phosphoric
acid, and stock fed on them or legumes
will not require anything more in the
way of minerals except, perhaps, a com-
mon salt lick.
Where pastures are on poor or worn-
out country, or on swampy or acid
ground, they’ll likely be short of the two
elements. Cattle and horses grazing on
such pastures will need additional cal-
cium phosphate by mixing bone flour,
bonemeal or dicalcic phosphate with
common salt in a proportion ranging
from 1 to 2 to 1 to 4. Breeding or young
horses should have a calcium phosphate
lick. .
Cereal grain, seeds and fruits, potatoes,
bran, pollard, peanut, linseed and coco-
nut meal, barley and oat bran, and flesh
and blood meal are generally rich in
phosphatic acid and poor in lime. They
are mainly pig and poultry foods. Poultry
get their lime from shell-grit, and it can
be made up to pigs in ground limestone,
chalk or slaked lime. Lucerne dust or
lucerne hay is a valuable help.
A. C. T. Hewitt, a Victorian animal
nutritionist, suggests the following lime
rations: For pigs, four parts lime mixed
with one part common salt, 31b. of the
mixture to 1001 b. of grain or concen-
trate. This, or equal parts of lime and
salt in the concentrate rations of horses,
cattle and sheep. Or, for horses and
cattle fed individually, a heaped table-
spoonful in the daily feed; heavily-fed
milking cows half as much again. This
lime-salt supplement is also good for
sour silage, to counteract the acidity.
Don’t forget that the good old habit
of topdressing pasture with superphos-
phate increases the phosphoric-acid con-
tent without affecting the lime, while
potassic fertiliser may reduce the lime.
Dry Weather in Queensland.
“Molecule”: Some of us up north are
beginning to think that the drought is
permanent, with very occasional spells of
good weather to give growth of pastures.
Last year we had it very dry right up
till December —feed went to fancy prices
and many lines sold out. Good rains
early in 1941 ensured a good winter, as
we thought, but it didn’t work that way
save for those who looked well ahead and
stored fodder. Early grass largely went
to waste. Many graziers and farmers are
now hand-feeding, though fortunately
most feeds are cheap and fairly abun-
dant. , . ,
The thing that many can t grasp is that
pastures can never be depended on to
carry us right over the winter, and until
every stockowner stores grain and silage
during the summer to tide him over June-
October all attempts to conserve fodder
to meet man-size droughts are foredoomed
to failure.
The improvident usually turn to salt-
licks .and molasses and expect miracles.
Salt is an all-year-round need —not just
something given in dry spells to stimulate
appetite. Molasses has a limited feed value,
but makes unpalatable roughage tasty.
Molasses has risen in price, because of
demand for power alcohol and high cost
of drums and containers. Anybody who
pays between £7 and £8 a ton for
molasses when maize can be bought for
less wants his bumps read.
The roughest hay supplemented by
maize or molasses, a good lick and a high
protein concentrate, such as blood- or
meatmeal, will enable the jumbuck to
carry on with the good work of fleece-
growing during much drier weather than
we are experiencing now.
Hints for the Farm.
“Goulburn”: When feed value of pas-
tures is low, a ram needs special feed-
ing. Give him about 21b. of oats, 11b. of
bran and |lb. of meal daily, with a lick
of three parts of salt and one part of
sterilised bonemeal.
“O. W. Waireki”: If you haven’t a
tub large enough to do the scalding
when killing a pig, dig a hole in the
ground and line it with a tarpaulin. The
boiling water won’t damage the tarp.
“M urramac”: When introducing
strange pigs try smearing sweet oil on
their backs to prevent fighting. It kills
the individual smell of the pig.
“T. Mcßerk”; Growing pigs on 2gal.
or more of skim milk a day will get all
the lime and phosphate they need. But
when the milk supply gets low and their
feed is made up with cereals they’ll feel
the lime shortage. That’s the time to


Does everything for which you previously
needed a Grader AND a Ditcher, and DOES
IT BETTER. Makes drains over 4' deep, and
banks over 4' high. Good for maintaining,
also station roads, shifting drift, etc. Over
10,000 Grader Ditchers in use in America.
Hundreds already sold in Australia. Your
money refunded if you agree to part with
it after 2-days' trial. Write to-day for free
illustrated leaflet.
Procurable from . . .
E.S.C.A. Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland
British Standard Machy. Co. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
British Standard Machy. Co. Ltd., Melbourne
Victoria a
William Adams & Co. Ltd., Adelaide, S.A.
William Adams & Co. Ltd., Perth, W.A.
Egelabra Merino Stud
H. E. KATER & SON,
Warren, N.S.W.
Established 62 years.
Four times winners of
Stonehaven Cup.
Grand Champion Ram and Ewe
Sydney Show, 1940.
Rams for Sale.
3
Tel., Warren 10.
■■
And Other ProjP^V
Hughes Pty-- Li^
KS, iy
■
!M
*
*
m
P
* w w " liplP
o*%
1
■
Manufactured by. . Elliotts & Australian Drug Pty., Ltd., 35 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Vic. Distributors. . D. G. Officer Pty., Ltd., 90 William Street, Melbourne.
Qld, Distributors.. Taylor si, Elliotts Pty., Ltd!., 154 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
S.A. Distributors. . A. M. Bickford & Sons, Ltd., 42 Currie Street, Adelaide.
+
Another reason why the
RED CROSS
needs your help!
Red, Cross Convalescent Homes mast be maintained
in all States
Throughout Australia, 18 conva-
lescent homes have been estab-
lished by the Red Cross for re-
turned Sailors, Soldiers, Airmen
and Nurses, who are sick or
wounded, and for sick men from
camps and depots while in Aus-
tralia. Throughout Australia to-
day, the Red Cross is still caring
for many hundreds of men from
the war of 1914-18, scores of
whom have been in the Red Cross
Homes since their return to Aus-
tralia. Though staffed by volun-
tary workers (a large home re-
quires as many as 40 daily
workers and 400 on its roster)
maintenance costs are heavy and
money is needed urgently. This
service .must go on!
Give HELP give
. . . IT’S URGENT
Authorised by the Central Council of the Australian Red Cross Society.
give them an ounce each of a mixture
of four parts of ground limestone to one
part of salt. Sows with litters need 2oz.
of it.
“Clyde”; Phenothiazine gets rid of red-
worms and large roundworms in horses,
but is no good for tapeworms or bots.
You have to be dead careful giving it to
horses. It might knock poor ones over,
and for them the dose should be cut to
half. Dose rates suggested by Govern-
ment vets, in Victoria are: Large
draughts, 20z.; light to medium draughts,
lioz. ; thoroughbreds, loz.; ponies, joz.
to |oz. It can be mixed with the feed,
but large amounts of bran should be
given as a laxative before and after the
drug. Some touchy horses may have to
be starved up to 16 hours to make them
take the drugged feed,
“Nardoo”; Queensland’s wool cheque
is estimated at £10,656,000 for the
600,000 bales appraised. Return for
butter at £7,517,172 dropped from
£8,862,037 in 1939-40 because of drought.
The State’s cattle population, totalling
6,300,000, is the highest for 15 years.
Sheep numbers are given at 24,000,000,
only slightly fewer than a year ago. Pigs
have increased from 391,333 to 450,000
in 12 months.
“Huxave”; There have been experi-
ments with ramie on the N.S.W. North
Coast rivers and the Lower Herbert (Q.).
First woven into mummy cloth for the
Pharaohs, ramie fibre now makes tex-
tiles, from serviettes to aeroplane cloth.
Ramie is a stingless nettle, a hardy peren-
nial practically resistant to disease. For
biggest returns about 5000 plants are
needed per acre. Initial cost runs out
at about £6. The crop reaches maturity
within three years. Given a year of
averages in humidity and rainfall, the
farmer gets four to five crops a year,
making an annual rake-off of about 60
tons of green stuff an acre. From this
at least 5 p.c, of true fibre is obtained.
Net annual return varies from £l2 to
£lB an acre. When Australia can pro-
duce 15,000 to 20,000 tons of ramie per
annum it will represent well over
£1,000,000 a year.
“K. Pella”: Tests with irrigated
pastures in the Goulburn Valley (Vic.)
placed white clover, perennial rye and
cocksfoot as favorites and super, on its
own—two bags an acre annually—as the
best dressing. Nothing was to be gained
by splitting the fertiliser into two dress-
ings. Stock shouldn’t be allowed to graze
the pasture close and it should get a
month’s rest between grazings.
Outback Occupations.
No. LXXXV.
The missus draws your attention to
the fact that hanging to the underside of
the verandah roof are about 20 nests,
each looking like a bit of honeycomb
without the honey and each guarded by
about four dark-red, capable-looking
hornets. You see their eyes watching you
as you move about below them. “Don’t
wave your arm or put up a hand,” you
warn the missus anxiously.
“Well?” she asks.
“All right, I’ll get ’em out o’ that,”
you promise.
You go inside and do a bit of thinking.
You’ve never stopped a wasp sting, but
you’ve seen others stop them, and you
have to keep your imagination under
control. You decide to attack with fire.
You tie bundles of rag to the tines of
three pitchforks. Then you tuck your
trousers inside your socks, button your
shirt close round neck and wrists, hang
thick muslin round your face, pull your
hat down over it and glove your hands.
Then, warning young Tom and the missus
not to come, out and to keep the wire
door closed, you walk boldly on to the
verandah with your three pitchforks,
some matches and a pint of kerosene in
a bucket.
You dab the first torch into the kero.,
light it and thrust it up. Wasps and nests
vanish, a billow of black smoke rolls
along under the verandah, bits of burn-
ing rag fall to the floor. You stamp them
out, noting the blackened insects and bits
of nests that have fallen.
“That’s fixed that lot,” you mutter,
blinking up through your face screen.
A high, angry hum bursts in your right
ear and something hits your hat. Even
as you spring aside and slap at the spot
wildly with your gloved hand you realise
that the thing can’t get at you. Some-
how you control yourself.
“Did he get y’, Dad?” young Tom
calls, a note of eager anticipation in his
voice.
“Did he get me!” you answer scorn-
fully, and dip your second torch in the
kerosene.
You thrust upwards again. There is
more black smoke, burning remnants
flutter about and wasps die. You spot
one nest in a corner where two joists
meet and you reach back with the torch,
extending the pitchfork its full length.
You see bits of burning rag fall towards
you and duck from under. The verandah
reeks with the stench of kerosene and
burnt rag; your eyes are running and
your nose stings. You step back to get
a good look at the verandah roof, and
something bites you on the back.
Always prompt in your actions, you
drop the pitchfork and dash inside yelling
“One got me. One got me. Get the
bluebag, quick!”
Instead of the bluebag the missus gives
you a mighty swipe on the back. “A bit
of burning rag,” she says. “It set your
shirt alight. You might have caught fire,
rushing about like that. Fancy anyone
being afraid of wasps! ”
“Ho,” you say, “who wanted the things
got rid of?”
“Yes, but I wouldn’t let my imagina-
tion run away with me.”
“Is me shirt out?”
“Yes.”
“It felt just like a sting.”
“It’s a burn no bigger than a pin's
head.”
You sally forth for the final assault.
By this time you’re dashed uncomfort-
able in your getup, and feel the bush-
man’s strong desire for freedom. Forc-
ing yourself not to rip open your sleeves
and collar, you dip''the third torch in
the kero, and light it. The last wasp
nests vanish in flame and smoke, and,
just to make sure, you shove the torch
up against a dark corner. There is a
burst of flame, a startled sparrow lights
out for Alice Springs at full speed, burn-
ing grass, straw and rag fly out and flame
licks along the Oregon joist.
“Water, Tom!” you yell, and jump
back. Your foot knocks over the tin,
about a cupful of kero, flies across the
floor and bursts into flame all round
your feet. You tear off your hat and
start beating it out. Tom arrives with
a bucket of water and heaves it upwards.
It hits the burning corner and rebounds
on to you. The missus arrives with an-
other bucket and you grab that and slosh
it across the floor. Tom is back with his
bucket by this time and hurls it aloft
with joyous abandon. You and the
missus get most of it on the rebound.
You run across to the shed, grab the
ladder and race back. The dogs join in
the festivities —you can’t keep dogs out
of these things—and you howl at them
as you race up the ladder and on to the
ro °f-
Satisfied there is no danger there you
descend. The missus, half-drenched and
somewhat blackened, sits on the edge of
the verandah. Tom pokes curiously
among the debris on the floor, assisted
by the dogs. Suddenly tired, you sit by
the missus and say “Well, anyway, that’s
settled the wasps. How about a cup of
—yeeow, och, ooh!” You spring erect.
certain Tom has run a pitchfork tine
into your back. Your hand comes away
from the snot, in it the dying gladiator
who, with his last sting, had found the
small hole burnt in your shirt,
Gritting your teeth in agony you creep
inside.


GETŢING RID OF WASPS.
THE OTHER FELLOWS MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
2ld. per line.
For setting down profound truths—unpalatable as they may be to those who
imagine that everyone will be happy under “a new order” with “social security”—
a South Australian is placed first this week.
Paradox
Thoughtful people have been disturbed
since the outbreak by the unwelcome para-
dox that it takes a cataclysm to get the
best out of us. It is a paradox that has dis-
turbed the religious sensibilities of many.
They are not soothed by the fact that
such great nobleness, such sublime cour-
age, has been revealed in such volume.
They want to know why the mass atavism
of war as only moderns can organise
it should be needed to call forth the
virtues of their kind. Before the horror
started one of the prime charges against
Mussolini was his acceptance of the con-
structive effect of militarism as a tenet
of his political philosophy. “Dangerous,
misleading, vile, primitive,” was the ver-
dict of the peacemakers,
f Yet we have ourselves, out of the
nettles of hard campaigning, tragedy and
catastrophic events, plucked the flowers
of courage that beggars words. The soft-
ness, slackness, fatty degeneracy with
which we have been taunted, and which
did at least on the surface exist, have
been shed away. “Silken dalliance in
the wardrobe lies,” thrust there, as it
was a generation ago, by the only agency
that seems to have power to make us
doff it —war.
In this paradox of good got out of
horrible and needless evil there is an
implied criticism of civilisation, or a
pointer to some of its imperfections.
Man hungers more than he knows for
deep experiences, challenges, exploits
worthy of his origins or his destiny or
both. “Blood, toil, tears and sweat” have
been the meat and drink on which the
race has grown, and in the evolution of
both his body and his mind that harsh
and salty diet has satisfied man better
than the syrups and fleshpots that he
foolishly turns to in his periods of warm
suns, lush pastures and soft breezes.
Daily life as it is known in peace-time,
at any rate in big cities (where too many
of him live), offers in too many cases
only futile employments and worthless
pastimes. Strong men earn a wage doing
jobs that are unworthy of their hands
and brains. There are too many ameni-
ties, all to be bought by the gentlest of
“easy terms” ; life holds too much pad-
ding, too few thorns, too many shelters
to break the healthy lash of the wind.
There has been hardly a thing that
civilised man could not call for and have
served to him on a platter by the genii
of scientific civilisation, in return for
coin. It is becoming a world of magic
gadgets, push-buttons, effort-saving de-
vices, Arabian Nights robots, tawdry
amusements, trivial employments. And
war came —and we saved our souls alive
—maybe.
I’m not trying to glorify war or mili-
tarism. The battlefield will always be a
place of beastliness and horror, and the
white flame of valor will never take away
its stench, nor will the mass emotions
of chastened peoples wash out the count-
less private tragedies and agonies. But
I am wondering if, out of the welter and
sorrow, mankind will gain some sort of
antidote to his civilisation and see
through the old stultifying paltry futilities
which were both the products and the
causes of much of our malaise. —
Vouvray (S.A.).
The New Order
When Westralia’s Minister for Indus-
trial Development spoke at a recent lunch
he raised a point which has scarcely been
mentioned by the majority of new-order
advocates. “It might be heaps better for
the future peace and happiness of man-
kind,” he said, “if educational systems
paid less attention to developing the brain
and much more attention to developing
the heart, conscience, spirit and soul of
children.”
Ultimately, of course, the making or
marring of the New Order will rest with
the generation now mastering the three
R’s. Theirs will be a world still groan-
ing under the greatest physical and moral
battering suffered in history, so it is essen-
tial that their spiritual make-up be equal
to the reconstruction job before them.
The present world has ample brains,
but they are of. little consequence with-
out the solid backing of homely virtues.
A change in heart, not scientific plan-
ning, will solve most of the present
problems.—l9th Man (W.A.).
Photographs
Our town is situated on the shores of
a large lake formed by the building of a
weir across the River Murray. A young
tourist who attempted to photograph the
weir, using a cheap, small box camera,
had to hand over his film to an official,
who informed him that it was an offence
to photograph that area during war-time.
The youth thus lost a number of snap-
shots taken on an earlier part of the
tour.
But if he cared to take a four-minute
walk to the shopping centre of this town
he could buy from any newsagent excel-
lent professional photographs of the weir
taken from a variety of angles. One
view also shows the railway bridge which
crosses the lake only a short distance
below the weir wall. This railway line
connects with the N. S. Wales gauge,
which, in turn, joins the main Melbourne-
Sydney line not far north of Albury.
Should trouble occur on the main line
between Benalla and Albury, this line
would be of vital importance.— Yello
(Vic.).
To the Last Penny
I returned from the 1914 preliminary
with a souvenir pair of German binocu-
lars and a host of lurid experiences.
The latter were recounted at suitable
“ Well , Joe , We'll be back into harness next Week!"
moments to a very junior business col-
league with such good effect that the start
of the present round found him already
a captain, and posted to a tricky head-
quarters job in a division subsequently
to stand guard in the Near'North. Mean-
while, I had emigrated to Maoriland.
Before the embarkation of his unit the
captain appealed urgently to me for the
loan of one pair of binoculars, and the
glasses went forward by first post to his
address in aN. S. Wales camp. To
avoid Customs troubles the package was
labelled “Binoculars, donated for use by
the A.1.F.”
From Malaya I learn that the gift
arrived just as camp was being broken,
but that*the recipient had to disgorge
17s. 6d. for sales tax before delivery
could be taken.
It is dogmatically asserted by many
that war will never come to the shores of
Australia, but my pal is positive in his
assurances that one vast scrap will start
right there if ever he returns to his home-
land—A. S. O. (M.L.).
Petrol Rationing
In my western Queensland district a
grazier nearly 40 miles from the railway
is allowed 13 gallons a month for his
utility and three essential engines. He
didn’t complain until a few days ago
when an insurance agent drove into this
district alone in a high-powered car,
visited several stations, did no business,
then departed. He was a self-invited,
unwelcome guest, overnight at some
places, and added insult to injury when
he told the people that he is allowed 50
gallons a month. —N, J. B. (Q.).
All-in War Effort?
My dentist’s window looks from the
third floor over one of the chief streets
of this capital city, so when one morn-
ing this week the strains of martial music
drew me to it I had a bird’s-eye view of
affairs. First came a khaki-clad band of
about a dozen instruments, then a mili-
tary car and, reduced to foot pace by
the band, a long string of commercial
vehicles, unable to pass the band because
the street was a busy one. Arrived at
an open space, the band wheeled into
it, the military car drew up, the com-
mercial vehicles at last got moving, while
an officer from the car began to broad-
cast a recruiting speech, pinning his
appeal on his own experiences overseas,
whence he had but recently returned.
Hot with shame, I listened while the
gallant fellow, to whom a public speech
was obviously an ordeal, called on such
hearers as cared to listen to rally to the
call of humanity.
I remembered, too, what a friend, a
contractor, had told me of his experi-
ences. Working on a large munitions
construction job some miles out of the
city, he found that the only trains avail-
able got his men there a quarter of an
hour late and gave them a mile walk in
all weathers, while the departing train
at night went ten minutes too early. He
therefore covered his lorry and drove
his own men to and fro, saving each man
half an hour a day. Then the Stale
authorities stepped in and told him that
as he was competing with their railway
he must cut out the lorry and stick to
the train. So, for the sake of the State
railway, a dozen men on a vital war job
must lose a daily half-hour. Multiply
such instances, as we fear they must be
multiplied, and what a mighty all-in 100
p.c. effort we have! — Upagum (S.A.).
The One Thing Equitable
Why will the authorities continue to
send recruiting trains to the country?
Take Queensland as a case in point.
There isn’t a district in the State that isn’t
complaining of shortage of labor
shearers, musterers, shedhands, station
workers, farmhands and all other classes
of country labor. Any man over military
age, with any pastoral experience at all,
can get a job as manager or overseer —
all the young ’uns have gone. There
isn’t an old pastoral family that I know
of which hasn’t representatives in the
fighting forces.
In Brisbane it is different. The city
young man knows the enlistment adver-
tisements aren’t meant for him. Each
section of the community blames the
other. The factory hand is indispensable ;
the clerk props up the State; those
who maintain racing are necessary for
the improvement of our military horses.
Why not cut out the farce? There is
only one equitable distribution of re-
sponsibilities. Cameron, M.H.R., and
Yeates, M.L.A., know it—conscription.—
J. (Q.).
Bank Loans and Deposits
“No. 2 Teller” (B. 20/8/’4l) appears
to draw unwarranted conclusions from
McKenna’s well-known statement re-
garding bank loans and deposits. It
is not very difficult to reconcile this state-
ment with the orthodox view of the
banker’s function. I suggest that the
simplest way of doing so is to consider
what happens when a customer draws a
cheque to avail himself of an advance
limit.
Until the cheque has been charged to
his account the loan does not become
effective. In the meantime one of the
three following things may happen. The
cheque may be (1) cashed by his own
bank ; (2) paid into another account with
Poets and' the War
Several statements by “C.H.S.” in his
criticism of poets and the war (B.
20/8/’4l) are difficult to reconcile. He
says “disillusion and futility have no
place in the Australian concept” ; then
further ventures, “one begins to wonder
if our poets have read too much from
books rather than from the Australian
scene ; buried themselves too deeply in
big cities rather than tramped the roads.”
If “C.H.S.” really wants to know where
to contract a man-size dose of “dis-
illusion and futility,” I suggest that he
tramp the roads for a month or so. I
tried it for six months in 1937, and,
though I went 1000 miles afield, I smelt
only dead romance at its worst in a
setting of squalid poverty. There is plenty
of “drama and life” for poets in the big
cities.
When “C.H.S.” talks about “the aver-
age man, to whom, after all, poetry
should make an instant appeal,” to my
mind he is attempting to enlist the aver-
age man’s sympathies with his arguments.
The average man, from choice, does not
read poetry. So why should poets write
for him? If a poet wishes to write some-
thing that will appeal to the average
man, what must he do but resort to the
ballad style, allegedly one of the more
primitive forms for expression in his art.
Although “C.H.S.” and some people
won’t believe it, there is excellent verse
being written in Australia and Maori-
land. Scoffers would do well to buy some
of the best of it, read it, and then write
their criticisms, quoting freely from the
more important writers. They would find
it contained not as much of “disillusion
and futility” as the old Australian bush-
ballad verse. In fact, they, would dis-
cover that the best of the present-day
Australasian verse is intense in thought
and rich in imagery, and owes little to the
verse “written more than 20 years ago
in Europe.” It does not forsake rhyme,
rhythm or reason, and compares more
than favorably with contemporary Eng-
lish verse.
As regards our poets and the war, and
the inspiration “C.H.S.” thinks they
ought to derive from it, a poet’s work
grows like a plant, and it is only when
he endeavors to force that growth to
some specific purpose that he produces
the bizarre and artificial performances
which “C.H.S.” insists our poets are
imitating. It should be realised that,
whatever else it is humanly possible to
conscript or drive, it is impossible to
impose on art successfully.
Unfortunately “C.H.S.” has not tackled
the criticism of our present-day poets
on open ground, but superficially has
taken a pot-shot at them from behind
cover of the war effort. Everybody knows
that the war is the most important con-
sideration today, but its priority does
not afford any critic support for other-
wise unsubstantiated criticism.
F.J.B.
(Q.).


the same bank; (3) paid into an account
with, or cashed by, another bank.
In case (1) there can be no difference
of opinion. The bank makes its advance
good by paying out cash. In case (2) the
bank incurs a liability to the customer
who deposits the cheque. It therefore
owes the sum to that depositor. Case
(3) is the one which occurs most fre-
quently, In this event the lending bank
becomes indebted, not to a customer, but
to another bank. This debt is ultimately
settled in cash.
When, therefore, a bank makes a loan
it either pays out cash or goes into debt
by borrowing from its own depositors or
from other banks. This is the meaning
of McKenna’s statement, and it should
be noted that both the lending and
borrowing sides of the transaction take
place simultaneously. It is therefore un-
fortunate that the term “creates” should
have been used. Neither the loan nor
the deposit creates the other ; both are
created together by the demands of in-
dustry, and the initiative comes from
industry, not from the banks.
“No. 2 Teller” overlooks the fact that
when a depositor pays in another per-
son’s cheque the bank owes him just as
much as if he had paid in cash. The
practice of keeping only a percentage
cash reserve makes no difference to the
fact demonstrated above namely, that
no bank can lend more than its depositors
choose to lodge with it unless it can find
the difference in hard cash. No. 3
Teller (N.S.WO.
“No. 2 Teller” should also study his
banking. Banks do lend money, that is,
create credit, in ratio to the deposits they
accept from the public. To assert that
they expand credit in proportion to their
holdings of cash is absurd. If this were
so banks would strive to increase their
cash balances. Anyone with the veriest
notion of practical banking knows that
banks carry only sufficient cash for ordi-
nary business transactions over the
counter, mostly wages and salaries drawn
by their customers in addition to draw-
ings for personal spending. In fact, banks
try to keep their cash holdings to a mini-
mum because cash in itself is a dead
commodity—it doesn’t earn anything.
“No. 2 Teller’s” ratio of 10 to 1 be-
tween advances and cash is due only to
the fact that only about 10 p.c. of the
total value of bank transactions consists
of cash. Where “No. 2 Teller” errs is
that he fails to see that cash is only a
medium whereby one article may be
exchanged for another. Banks take in
money in the form of profits, interest and
savings from the public and lend the
deposits so obtained back to the public
at a higher rate; only a small propor-
tion of these deposits is received by the
banks in the form of cash.
When McKenna said that “every bank
10an... .creates a deposit” he was refer-
ring to the English banking practice of
opening a fixed loan account when an
advance was made and then transferring
the sum to a credit account upon which
the borrower operates as upon an ordi-
nary current account. This explanation
has been reiterated in many financial
papers for years.—W. M. C. (N.S.W.).
la Queensland—Now
Believe it or not, in Queensland there
is a Canary Seed Board. It has been
functioning for years and, anyway, only
canaries are the sufferers. But what
beats the band is the newly-formed
committee administering the Second-
hand Fruit Cases Act. Yes, it’s gospel.
And now it is a legal offence to chop up
a fruit case to light the fire; indeed, to
dispose of a fruit case in any other man-
ner than to a dealer duly licensed to buy
fruit cases within the area in which the
unhappy possessor of a fruit case may
be. — Sarah (Q.).
Education Limited
Three years ago I entered Adelaide
Teachers’ College. After one year of
hard grinding, with 20 other students, I
was turned out as a qualified teacher —
qualified to take charge of a school of up
to 20 pupils in seven grades.
In that one year I had learned, pre-
sumably, what? Some of the philosophy
of education; sufficient teaching theory
and practice to instruct children of from
five to fourteen years—that is, to be able
to handle any situation from the child’s
first introduction to the association of
ciphers and meanings to the beginnings
of observation, deduction and reasoning
in the abstract; sufficient knowledge of
child psychology to teach, train and dis-
cipline a school; to refresh my know-
ledge of all school subjects, and learn
how much of each is taught, and how, to
each grade ; to organise the co-ordinated
timetable of a one-teacher school; again
presumably, to appreciate literature, art
and music ; to teach physical culture and
elementary drill; to qualify in first-aid
and lifesaving ; to know the regulations
governing the department’s schools; to
“I hope nobody pinches me hat.”
keep all necessary—and unnecessary—
school records; to fill in an interesting
supply of forms; to behave correctly to
inspectors, school committees, parents,
parsons and whatnot; to organise con-
certs and other fund-raising bees —for my
school must depend for much of its
equipment on its own earning power. '
One crowded year of inglorious life.
Then, in charge of a school of seven
grades, promotion depending on three
things—my assessed skill as a teacher;
my time of service and the number of
exams. I might pass. The latter meant
that —teaching seven grades, remember,
in unaided charge of a school —I must
work at night at books and lecture notes
in order to graduate in Arts, and obtain
promotion. Now, if anyone wants a
station hand, a fair sheep man, young,
married and still reasonably intelligent,
please let me know. And let me know,
too, when Australia can expect one sane
and comprehensive Government to
attend, among other things, to education.
—Prop (S.A.).
Commonwealth Building Regulations
Six months ago a soldier friend of
mine—l9l4-18 vintage—bought a house
which he proposed to convert into a
home for self and family. Being a gener-
ous individual, he allowed the tenant to
take his own time in finding another
house, which takes about four months.
Then he finds himself blocked by the
regulations. Application to Common-
wealth for permission to spend more
than £250 met with a cold refusal.
The most annoying part of the regu-
lations is that he cannot spend more
than £250 on the existing structure, but
be can have it demolished and proceed
to build a house on the vacant site to
the value of not more than £3OOO with-
out even consulting the powers that be.
— lnko (S.A.).
Newspapers
It is rather hard to obtain casual copies
of any Australian publication over here
in Maoriland since war began, but
recently, in a Gisborne newsagent’s, I
came across a Sydney Sunday paper. Lift-
ing it from the counter, I was under the
impression that I had picked up half a
dozen copies of the issue, but the shop-
man assured me it was “all one paper,”
and that its ML. price was fivepence.
Date of the publication was June 29, and
it had 64 big pages, including color maga-
zine and a “comic.”
Home I went with my prize, thinking I
would have a good evening’s “read,” but
“great was the fall thereof!”
What a wicked waste of newsprint ! At
least 11 full-page ads., most of them
drapers’ “bargains”; many other half-
page displays; big, wasteful headlines
and other linotype “frills,” and a 12-page
women’s section. All that I found of
interest in the paper, apart from news
cables, could have been condensed into
a couple of pages. Even the humor was
disappointing and lacked the crisp, typical
Australian freshness. —O. W, Wadham
(MX.).
It is difficult to reconcile the increase
permitted in the price of Victorian news-
papers with the sharp decrease in reading
content. Even if advertising revenue has
been lost, savings have been made in
other directions.
To a Melbourne paper with a circula-
tion round 200,000 a day, the extra
halfpenny means another £2500 a week.
However, the tragic angle is the loss of
income suffered by the local contributor
who provides fiction and articles apart
from news. The Saturday-morning maga-
zine section alone has been cut from four
to five pages down to one. Pictures have
been cut by half. Of course overseas
“news” and “experts,” together with im-
ported comic strips, still appear in usual
quantities.— lago (Vic.).
Insurance and Child Endowment
A valuable job of work has been done
by the National Health and Medical
Research Council in pointing out authori-
tatively to the Federal Government cer-
tain very grave defects in the National
Health and Pensions Insurance Act. The
council describes this measure as “not
a Health Insurance but a Sickness Insur-
ance Act,” and enumerates its chief
faults. They include the total exclusion
of wives and children from its benefits,
the absence of any integral relationship
with clinical treatment, hospital services
or essential health services, the omission
of any provision for domiciliary advice
or specialist services of vital importance
in such diseases as cancer or consump-
tion, the exclusion of unemployed or self-
employed workers and of small-scale
employers, and the absence of anyjpower
for ensuring medical services in places
which are not economically attractive.
The inevitable outcome must be a
regional medical service on the general
lines of that in England. The council’s
opinion is that “insurance practice in
England is not proper medical practice
as we know it in Australia —it would
satisfy neither doctor nor patient. Rapid
diagnosis and treatment accelerated
almost to slot-machine standard is almost
a necessity under large panel-practice
conditions. The more time the doctor
devotes to his panel patients the smaller
his income. This would not be tolerated
in any other trade or profession.” What
the doctor could give, even with the best
intentions, under a contract to supply a
24-hour service for the sum of twopence
halfpenny a week per panel patient—
which is what the Australian Act offers
—would certainly not be tolerated by
the patient for long. And once that
patient goes into hospital he ceases to
benefit at all from the insurance provi-
sions for which he pays, as far as medi-
cal aspects are concerned.
The Child Endowment Act, rushed
through in time to catch the last train
from Canberra, is described by the
council as incomplete by reason of lack-
ing any provision for home advice to
mothers, pre-school health supervision
and follow-up medical services at school
ages to ensure adequate safeguarding of
child health. “The growing child,” it
points out, “is in our present need the
national asset most worth preserving.”
To rectify these and many other grave
defects in our whole system of social wel-
fare and community-health, the council
outlines a Health and Hospital District
Service throughout the Commonwealth,
operated preferably by the Common-
wealth after transfer to it of State Health
Departments and allied services, together
with systematised education in health
protection and conservation. It is a wise
scheme, but wisdom doesn’t seem to
appear on the Australian political map
at present. But there should be no delay
in patching up some of the worst holes
in the Health and Pensions Insur-
ance Act before it is proclaimed, and
making sure that “the national asset most
worth preserving” gets as much, benefit
as possible from the millions expended
on the - child endowment scheme. —
Puyyaka (Q.).
Drought Relief
Towards the end of last year earnest
assurances were given by our State Gov-
ernment that adequate drought relief
would be available for wheatgrowers who
suffered in the worst drought in the white
man’s history of W.A.
When we inquired as to the terms of
the assistance we could glean little in-
formation except that old 1.A.8. forms
were being used for the applications.
Having had experience of the 1.A.8., we
hesitated. Then it was explained over
the radio that these old forms would
obviate delay and expense, but still the
terms of repayment were not clearly
stated.
In February we applied for aid from
the Commonwealth Drought Relief. We
asked our inspector about conditions of
repayment. He was unable to tell us. We
asked our branch manager. He thought
we would have to pay the same rate of
interest for the money as the State was
paying the Commonwealth. We asked
him if the Agricultural Bank would
collect future wheat dividends as partial
repayment. He said that where settlers
had not paid up their interest the bank
would certainly collect future wheat divi-
dends ; as for cases such as ours where
the interest had been paid up till the
end of last December he could not say.
On July 10 the dividend on the No. 4
Pool was paid. Our share came to £2l-
- Some days before we had received
a letter from the bank stating that “the
condition of agreeing to assist you for
the ’4l-’42 season is that you transfer
your wheat scrip to the Agricultural
Bank, so that further dividends when
payable may be credited to your
account.”
The receipt showed that the amount
of that No. 4 Pool dividend had been paid
off our Commonwealth drought-relief
account, although the drought here is
not yet over.
The first drought-relief payment for
sustenance was made to us on 12/3/’4l,
and four months later the bank is claim-
ing and collecting a wheat dividend in
reduction of such advances. Seems like
lending with one hand and grabbing it
back with the other. — Opal Lynn (W.A.).
Electric Prodders
Perhaps I can enlighten “Beefo” (B.
13 /8 / ’4l) on the use of what he terms
barbarous instruments of torture —electric
prodders. They were brought in a few
years ago for the purpose of loading
pigs, which are very susceptible to bruis-
ing from being struck with whips or
sticks when being loaded. When this
was realised it was decided to use them
on cattle, and thus bruised carcasses were
eliminated.
Nearly all the bacon factories and
meat-exporting companies and meatworks
use e.ps., which proves they do not dis-
color the meat or bruise it in any way.
Otherwise they would have been pro-
hibited when they first came into use.
Also the electric fence charger would
have to be done away with, as both
things work on the same principle.—
T. M. (Q.).


THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
An automatic self-contained sanitary system
which can be installed by any handyman.
No water supply required.
• NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Gives modern sani-
tation at small cost.
s?,
m
m
Efficiency, mechanism and long
life fully guaranteed.
Price, £lB/8/- f.o.r. Sydney.
Including sales tax and crating.
Plus 30/- war surcharge.
Write Dept. B for illustrated pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
A pproved by the
Board of Health.
SslsS
■■■
mS
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors—W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman); M ■ R^ n > w J‘ E - ox on> ’
Wm - a -o.™aP S m*S.-i> s E >oeSs ' .. ..
With once. at London, C.uberr. Melbourne Sjdne, «5 Brenete
Offices in Queensland and Northern River *, New Wld, this
&J«S7 the tmwotion ol .11 J.n.r.l MK,
OurServiceDepartment
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers •
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover or last
Bulletin to hand. . .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. ... .
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Collector of handwritings (not autographs)
wishes to get interesting samples. 2299.
To make the acquaintance of a Spamsn-
speaking family or individual— 2281).
To buy book containing stump speeches un
Mosquitoes,” “On Bachelors and
Mountebank.” —2251. „
To exchange ‘‘Australian Woman’s Mirrors,
old issues, also other fashion and film books,
for old stamps, coins or medals, etc.—zzoo-
Information Sought.
What is the Keynes plan? How does it
work? Is it in operation anywhere ?—2l, i-
The Keynes plan is a system for making
weekly deductions, in the form of compulsory
loans, from wages under a certain amount.
The money is used for war purposes, and the
loans are repayable after the war. The Keynes
method is used in lieu of extra taxation, and
is in operation in Great Britain.
« * * *
(1) In what district was George Lambert’s
victure “Across the Black Soil Plains, m
Sydney Art Gallery, painted? (2) Was Lambert
an Australian? —2240.
(1) The painting represents a scene m me
north-west of N. S. Wales, near Boggabn, and
was painted in 1899. (2) George Washington
Lambert was born in Russia of an American
father and English mother. His father was a
road engineer in Russia for an American co.
when George was born.
j|; * H*
Please give particulars of pensions granted
recently to widows, whether granted irrespective
of age, health or circumstances ? From whom
can application forms be obtained ?—2U)4.
No scheme has been introduced recently
whereby pensions are paid to widows irrespec-
tive of the conditions mentioned. Perhaps you
refer to the Commonwealth child endowment
scheme, which came into operation from July 1
and makes provision for the payment of endow-
ment to families with more than one child under
16 years of age. There is a form of pensions
payable to some widows in N.S.W., and appli-
cation forms are obtainable from the Widows
Pensions Office, Box 3905, G.P.0., Sydney.
* * * *
What is the largest hydro-electric scheme in
Queensland ? Particulars A—1982.
The scheme at Barron Falls (Barron River),
operated by the Barron Falls Hydro Electricity
Board. Operations were commenced in Novem-
ber, 1935, and the board n9W seiwes 23,458
square miles, embracing the city of Cairns and
the shires of Mulgrave, Woothakata, Tinaroo,
Herberton and Eacham, with a total P°P
of 46,625. For the year ended June 30, 1940,
consumers connected to the system numbered
5987, the installed capacity was 5250 kw., and
maximum demand 2425 kw. Units sold in the
year numbered 8,462,456, and cost per unit
sold was 1.83 Id.
* Hi * *
(1) If a private in the A.LF. is taken prisoner,
does his pay stop? (2) Does his deferred pay
continue ? (3) If a prisoner receives pay from
the enemy country in which he is interned, is
that amount deducted from the pay owing to
him when he is released and returns home? —
21 (f) No; he is entitled to pay and allowances
during detention as a prisoner of war ; pro-
vided that, if a Court of Inquiry finds that
the member was taken prisoner through mis-
conduct on his part, or if he is convicted by
court-martial of voluntarily serving with, or
aiding, the enemy, he forfeits all pay and allow-
ances accruing to him during his period ot de-
tention. (2) Yes, except in the circumstances
in the proviso to (1). (3) No.
* * * *
What is the difference between commissioned
and n.c. officers ? How and on what merits
are the ranks obtained, and what are the
qualifications necessary for each?— 2loB.
In the Australian army a commissioned officer
holds a commission signed by the Governor-
General. The ranks of commissioned officers
are from lieutenant upwards. Their appoint-
ments are promulgated in the Commonwealth
Gazette. Non-commissioned officers are
appointed by promulgation in unit routine
orders and consist of those holding ranks be-
tween lance corporal and company quartermaster
sergeant. The qualifications required for both
are a capacity for leadership, suitable character
and temperament and the professional know-
ledge necessary for the rank or appointment
held.
* * ♦ •
Recipe for a dressing for cord fishing lines,
using Stockholm tar as a base?— 2l74.
The ingredients for the preservation of fish-
ing lines consist of 50oz. coal tar, lOoz. tar base
oil, 30oz. benzol and lOoz. kerosene. The coal
tar is heated and the tar base oil added to
reduce the body of the same. When cold the
benzol is added and then finally the kerosen .
The addition of 10 p.c. copper oleate or rest-
ate improves the preserving properties. A more
recent formula comprises the following; JUoz.
copper naphthenate, 50oz. benzol, 20oz. mineral
spirits and 4oz. antioxidant. The copper napn-
thenate is dissolved in benzol and then tne
mineral spirtis added with stirring. The antioxi-
dant is dissolved in a small portion ot tne
above solution and this mixture added to tne
whole. The antioxidant is a complex amine
and increases the life of the lines.
* * * *
(1) Names of goldmines between Peak Hill
and Nanomine ( N.S.W.)? (2) When were they
worked? (3) How much gold recovered? W
Who owned the mines? (5) Are the sands
there being treated? —2160.
(1) Myall’s mine, McPhail goldmine and/or
Myall and Peak Hill Gold Mines, Ltd., situated
at McPhail, also the Gold Hill Co. s mine.
(2) They were worked for several years prior
to 1910. (3) Total production figures are not
available, but the following may be ot some
use: Myall’s mines—lBB3 to 1894, approxi-
mately 11,500 tons ore mined for average
yield of loz. to the ton; 1894 to 1902, 169,-312
tons for return of approximately sdwt. gold to
the ton; 1906, 3215 tons obtained for yield ot
15300 z. gold. Subsequently, for a few years,
3000-4000 tons a year was recovered by tnbu-
tors. (4) Various lessees of different properties,
including McPhail mine (Myall and Peak Hill
G.M., Ltd.) and Gold Hill Co.’s mine and
leases, held by Crowhurst and Sons, (5) les,
by S. B. Hill.
* * * •
Method of recharging dry-cell batteries?
2096. , . , , .
Dry cells are recharged by making a hole in
the sealing-wax at the top of the cell and pour-
ing in a concentrated solution of potassium per-
manganate and hydrogen peroxide. After this a
solution of ammonium chloride is then poured
into the cell. Alternatively, the cardboard
cover may be removed and two or three dozen
holes punched in the zinc covering. The cell
is then placed in a jar containing a solution of
potassium permanganate, hydrogen peroxide
and ammonium chloride and operated as a wet
cell.
* * * *
Particulars of an art competition promoted
by the trustees of the Queensland National
Gallery to be held some time this year? —2l32.
The competition, to be held during Novem-
ber, is for oils or water-colors, which must
be suitably framed. Entries must be the work
of an Australian artist. Prize will be not less
than £BO, and the winning entry shall become
the property of the trustees for presentation to
the Gallery; sales to the general public will
be sought, and the trustees will have first option
on any work other than the prize-winner; a
commission of 15 p.c. will be charged on all
sales. Entries may be delivered through Cham-
berlain and Dann, 137 Ann-street, Brisbane,
not later than October 31.
* * ■ # *
(1) When was the Sabbath changed from
the end of the week to the beginning? (2)
By whom? (3) Why? —2o67.
(1) and (2) Early Christian churches spon-
taneously observed religious cerempnies on the
first day and abandoned the Jewish Sabbath,
but it was not until a decree of Constantine in
321 made the first day a public holiday that
it became official. The first commandment of
the Church was made at the Council of Lao-
dicea in 363, when the faithful were ordered
to observe Sunday on the first day of the week,
according to the practice of the Apostolic
Church. (3) Usual reason given is that it com-
memorates the resurrection of Jesus from the
dead on the first day of the week and also to
show the break between the old Judaic law
and the new dispensation introduced by Jesus.
Another theory is that the first day was
already being observed throughout the Graeco-
Roman world as the sacred day of Mithraism,
or the day of the Sun.
* * * *
(1) Any theory in explanation of the fact that
two marsupials, the Tasmanian devil and Tas-
manian wolf, are found only in Tasmania, though
Tasmania is alleged to have once been a penin-
sula of the mainland? (2) Brief description
of both? —2313.
(1) A theory has it that both creatures were
driven to the peninsula by the advent of the
dingo and that Tasmania became completely
isolated before the dingo could kill them out
in this last stronghold. (2) The devil, though
allied to the wolf, is much smaller and in
general shape more like a native cat than a
wolf, but thicker and broader than the cat.
Length of head and body is about 28in., and
tail 12in., muzzle is short and broad, eyes small,
ears broad and rounded. Limbs are planti-
grade (the weight resting on the soles as in
native cats), and the r are nearly equal, with
strong curved claws. The thick, close fur ot
the head and body is black or blackish-brown
throughout except for a variable number ot
white patches, of which the only constant one
is a half-ring on the front of the chest. The
wolf, on the other hand, roughly resembles a
dog. Head and body measure about 44m. and
tail about 21in. Fur is short, close and rather
harsh, of a general grey-brown color with a
faint yellowish or tawny tinge, and the back,
in the region behind the shoulders, is marked
with a number of transverse, blackish-brown
bands. The head is particularly doglike, but
with the eyes rather larger than a dog’s, the
mouth-opening extending farther back. The
tail is shorter than the trunk, thick at the base
and scantily furred, while the limbs resemble
those of a mastiff or a collie, but are shorter
in proportion to the size of the body. Also,
the limbs correspond to those of a dog in
that they are digitigrade — i.e., the lower sur-
faces of the digits, not the palms or soles, rest
on the ground.
* * *
Provisions of the station hands’ award in
N. S. Wales ? —l9Ol.
No State award. For copy of Federal award,
apply to Deputy Industrial Registrar, Common-
wealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration,
119 Phillip-street, Sydney.
Brief Answers.
A.F.C.: The theory that great men originate
and control historical developments, as against
the more commonly-held view that events create
the leaders. Carlyle deals with the subject
interestingly in Heroes and Hero-worship. ...
J. 8.: An agent who has handled Australian
matter is Curtis Brown, 347 Madison-avenue,
New York F.J.M.: (1) When leading the
joker in no trumps he may call for any suit he
pleases. (2) He is not compelled to regard
joker as a trump, and may discard if unable
to follow suit. (3) Question obscure. Consult
Hoyle Up to Date, obtainable any city book-
seller, 2s. 6d E.C.: A Commonwealth
war pension of £1 Is. a week would
not in itself prevent the grant of an
old-age pension. You may apply for
old-age pension in the prescribed forms
obtainable at any post office. The Act pro-
vides that a pensioner’s income (including pen-
sion) must not exceed £BB Bs. a year. A person
who receives a service pension, however, is not
eligible to receive an old-age pension except
where the service pension is paid in respect of
pulmonary tuberculosis... .W.F.P.; Insufficient
information. Soldiers are entitled to wear the
ribbons of such medals as have been awarded
to them. Send your regimental number, name
in full, rank and unit to the Officer-in-Charge,
Base Records, Canberra, for further informa-
tion... .X.Y.Z.: Dymock’s Book Arcade, Syd-
ney, can supply Canoes, Dinghies and Sailing
Punts, 2s. 6d 8.Y.: (1) The firm should be
addressed simply “Jane Smith” without any pre-
fix. No authority except custom. (2) Try
Angus and Robertson, Sydney... .C.M.R.; You
are beneficially entitled to the whole estate, and
after 12 months from the date of your hus-
band’s death you can call on the trustees to
transfer it to you... .J.McK.: A. M. Clubbe,
76 Clarence-street, Sydney, sells attachments
for home recording and will supply the infor-
mation you require... .W.E.W.: Most authori-
ties recommend a structural and roof paint lor
metal surfaces, such as Berger’s Hemacote,
Silverglo or anti-corrosive....J.M.S.: (1) You
are supposed to be neutral, and at meetings of
the trustees, unless you are yourself a trustee,
you would not be entitled to move resolutions.
You may of course offer suggestions. (2)
You are to account to the treasurer for all
moneys received by you and generally assist
him in his duties. (3) Minute book, cash and
receipt books... .R.S.: If it is not the subject
of a patent or copyright, yes P.T.: You
may apply to the proper Court for an injunc-
tion to restrain the nuisance. See a solicitor.
J.B.: (1) Yes, after 20 years the mort-
gagee cannot enforce payment or exercise his
rights under the mortgage. Apply to the mort-
gagee to discharge the mortgage. If he de-
clines you will have to go to the Court for
redemption. (2), (3) and (4) The existence of a
mortgage does not affect ownership for rating
purposes... .J.A.S.: Write to the Prime Minis-
ter’s Department, Canberra... .J.D.: Wool-
classers up to 30 are eligible for military ser-
vice D.V.: Write to the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Air, Melbourne J.F.F.F.: Values
for the latent heat of vaporisation of fuel oils
are very fragmentary. The following list gives
representative values in cals, per gm.: Gasolines
71-81, kerosenes 60, light crude 75.6, heavy
crude 86, gas oil 69, light “vaseline” 63, heavy
“vaseline” 54, cleaning oil 66.5... .W.C.: Best
plan would be to write to John Masefield, care
Heinemann, publisher, London, stating what
you wish to do and enclosing a note to Coul-
thard in the hope that Mr. Masefield might be
able to forward it.... Mrs. G.: For informa-
tion regarding the estate of the late Charles
Campbell, write to the Trustees, Executors and
Agency, Melbourne J.V.R.: (1) James
Joyce’s Ulysses is obtainable from Angus and
Robertson, Sydney, 10s. 6d. The same firm
could import Thomas Mann’s Joseph in Egypt
(two vols.) if you wish. Delivery would take
four or five months and the price would be
about 28s. 6d. (2) Questions are numbered
as they are received and the inquirer’s name
and address entered in a reference book under
his particular number. Answers are published
as soon as possible... .D. 8.: (1) Morant’s book
was called Bushman or Buccaneer and is practi-
cally unobtainable. (2) “Beguine” means a
member of the lay sisterhood founded by
Lambert Le Begue J.F.: Know of no
engine, other than petrol-driven, that could be
used in a 16ft. launch.—V.G.: Atoma parts
are Government approved—approval certificate
No. 410. (1) Yes. (2) Hopper holds li bags,
sufficient for 120 miles, though greater range
can be obtained by increasing size of generator.
(3) Yes, about 1£ to three minutes; has idling
vent for frequent stops. (4) Set of parts weighs
561 b. packed; freight £1 7s. lid P.B.D. ; The
words you want are “porter” and “shot”
E.N.G.: Empty beer bottles the produce or
manufacture of the U.K. and imported direct
therefrom are admissible free of duty under
Tariff Item 250 (A). Such goods are, however,
subject to 5 p.c. primage duty and special war
duty of 10 p.c. of the primage duty. Empty
beer bottles imported for use in marketing
goods which are exempt from sales tax, e.g.,
beer, are not subject to tax, but if imported
for other purposes such empty bottles are sub-
ject to 10 p.c. sales tax C.J.T.: Plans and
specifications of a steam car may be obtained
from the Dunlop Rubber Co., Melbourne, at
a cost of £1 Is. S. Clements, motor mechanic,
Wentworth-avenue, Sydney, might also be able
to give some information E.J.K.: See reply
to 2174 A.A.C.: She would be eligible for
the old-age pension only after 20 years’ resi-
dence, but she is eligible for invalid pension,
which is the same amount H.F.D.: Write
to the manager of each of the plants mentioned.
E.K.C.: (1) The set is worth about Is. a
volume. (2) No. (3) Can’t say. (4) None
Mrs. T.: There is no insect which will kill
gorse, but a small beetle ( Apion ulicis) has
recently been introduced into Tasmania to pre-
vent the rapid spread of this weed. The grubs
of the beetles feed on the seeds, but do not
injure any other plants. Inquiries about the
beetles should be sent to the Department of
Agriculture, Hobart... .J.M.D.: Write to the
Officer-in-Charge, Base Records Office, Can-
berra L. 8.: Suggest you get in touch with
Angus and Robertson, Sydney A.R.;
Plenty of books on polishing in the Public
Library, Sydney. You might also try Angus
and Robertson, Sydney C.A.McG.; No-
thing remarkable about that set of figures—
if you take the year a man was born and
add his age you must get 1941; if you add
the year he came into office to his years m
office you must also get 1941. For instance,
Mr. Menzies was born in 1894, he will be .jl
this year, he took office as Prime Minister in
1939, and has been, in office two years; add
those together and you get 3882, divide by two
and the answer’s 1941. Incidentally, Churchill
was born in 1874 A.H.; Information con-
tained in your letter is not sufficient to permit
of advice being given... .Aquarius: Too big
an order. You can copy the figures for your-
self at the Meteorological Bureau, Observatory
Park, Sydney, or obtain it from Australian
Rainfall in District Averages, 1913 to 1936,
Is , or Results of Rainfall Observations Made in
New South Wales During 1909 to 1914 (includ-
ing yearly totals at 167 stations and complete
monthly totals at 2067 stations for all years
or record), 10s. 6d., both obtainable from the
bureau.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused: —
£ .
Would run by F. M. Forde,
Be other than a crimson purple fraud ?
L.IJ.: , • ,
Confound these withered old thews of mine I
I would march with the Anzac breed.
G.B. (England): A daily would have liked
it... .M.W.: Why winter’s icy “thumb”?....
J.K. (Scotland); Slight... .E.J.R.: Ever heard
of the “pathetic fallacy”? M.E.A.: Me-
thought I was an artist." Verily, thou hast
much to learn... .M.M.: The last line s poetry.
M.H.: “There’s part of the soul of me
bottled up tight.” Better swap the typewriter
for a corkscrew... .P.S.: Sounds youthful..
P.C.: Thin this time R.G.: Too personal.
H.S.K.: Thanks; but we don’t reprint....
J.S.McD.: Remove its “fascinated feet” and
try elsewhere... .F.J.W.: Some rocky rhymes
there S.W.: You’ve done better T.McC. :
Pleasant, but pale... .B.B.: Try a womans
paper Blue: It might be an idea to write
legibly,.. .C.E.8.: Tut... .J.X.C.: That theme s
got whiskers... .E.A.F.: A little hard labor
would improve “The Gaoler’s Muse”....
P.D. and 8.M.G.: Had seen the “Reply.
It’s not up to the “Ode” T.L.S.: Third
time still unlucky... .J.J.P.: “Murdering Dore
duly committed to the flames W.A.W.:
Strange that such stark thoughts should be so
mildly expressed J.K.: Falls away in the
second stanza... .A.R.D.: Should score else-
where... .P.S. and M.F.W.: Misfires....
R.T.C.; It was with deepest regret that we
gently booted your “brain child” down the
stairs G.H.L.; “Thoughts” are still your
own 8.T.5.: Please don’t bring that orphan
and her dog in here again P.T.H.: “The
Nut Brown Foal” is in much the same cart
as the Old Grey Mare... .S.E.W.: We departed
when the abo. rouseabout said “dat dere
ribber” 8.L.W.: Stand within a safe dis-
tance of the exit and read it at the next meet-
ing of your literary socity.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.T.: Reminded us of some of the artistic
horrors we used to see in grand-aunt’s auto-
graph album....S.M.N.: “Ah ain’t gwme to
gaw up dere, bawss, Ah says”; we expect in
your next abo. drawing to see a couple 9!
bucks singing a plantation song with banjo
obbligato A.E.V.: It needs a more prac-
tised hand to use that medium successfully....
C.O’B.: Engulfed by the w.p.b Bert C.;
Sketch apparently fell beneath a wagon wheel
somewhere on the black-soil plains on its way
to U5....FA.L.: Returning the towing wagon
for much-needed repairs... .J.C.P.: Passion
for high cheekbones and walrus moustaches is
leading you up a blind alley... .J.H.R.: In-
digent actor’s retort to importunate landlady
made Edwardian Poverty Pointers rock with
laughter... .1.5. G.: If that’s how you fill in a
wet Sunday afternoon there are worse things
than droughts E.T.: Carelessness in details
kept it out S.G.N.: A bunch of feeble
scratchings allied to a feebler joke... .T.D..
It had one shining virtue—there wasn t much
of it W.P.K.; Look again, and you 11 see
how much out of proportion is the lady
S.M.: Away with your Cubist tripe!


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Vt
eg
*BB
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Dance Music For Nazi Airmen Is 8.8.C.’s
New Propaganda Stunt!”
—“Music Maker.”
Trying to swing ’em over to our side?
•J* *s*
“With a wave of his hand Gerald started the
roadster’s engine.” —Short story.
Such prestidigitation laughs at such
things as flat batteries.
•p •£■
“Trying to trap a swindler who prays on
widows, Jane has taken the place of Mrs.
Macy.” —Serial strip.
What peculiar devotional habits some
crooks have!
3>
“My bride-to-be’s people have shown con-
sistent hostility to me. I don’t want them at
the wedding but my fiancee insists that they
shall all be there. 1 want the ceremony to go
without a itch. What shall I do?”
—Letter to Dorothy Dix.
Scratch from it.
“Man charged with assaulting a woman, who
appeared in court with two black eyes and
other injuries, pleaded that all he did was lean
against her.” —Court report.
It is thought that she got her cauli-
flower ear when he breathed heavily.
■3*
“An interesting letter has been received from
Bill Uddy, now serving his Majesty, some-
where abroad, and one often hears his name
mentioned in district conversation.”
— Q. country correspondent.
Nation-wide, rather.
“You couldn’t use your jaws at all if you
eliminated calcium from your diet.”
—Cheese advt.
Then why not eliminate calcium from
the diet at Canberra?
“There’s something about a redhead.”
— “World’s News.’.’
Usually all the men in the room.
*£• •£• •!- *l*
“Are you afraid to open your mouth?”
—Toothpaste advt.
It all depends what sort of mood the
wife is in.
4* 4* 4*
“An open roadster was climbing the rutty
road with a woman at the wheel and a man
beside her. This one had a bird’s sight, and
she could make out the man, but what was
he doing in the car?” — “S.M.H.”
Hanging on tight and saying his
prayers, most likely.
“I broke a hundred yesterday.”
"What, clubs?"
“Wanted, experienced Dragger.”— “S.M.H.”
It needs plenty of pull to get a job
like this,
4* 4* 4*
“Boxer marries for ninth time.”—News item.
Unconscious when he took the count.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Hollywood’s genuine blondes have been
asked by the United States Army to sacrifice
locks of their hair for use in the manufacture
of a weather-measuring instrument.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Later reports state that plans for the
production of the instrument have been
permanently shelved.
“Wanted, good General Butcher, used to cut-
ting quality.”— “S.M.H.”
But don’t the “quality” usually cut the
butcher?
“Even at the age of 17 she had no illusions
about life, but considered that all men were
unscrupulous, and that there was very little
good to be found in anybody.”
—Biographical item.
Sweet 17 can be very bitter.
“Man sentenced for breaking bottle of beer
on railway official’s head.” —Daily paper.
He will probably take an opener with
him next time he travels.
4* 4* *l* 4*
“During the first half of the novel the hero
embraces the heroine at least 20 times.”
—Book review.
A gripping story?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Trees for State schools.” —News item.
But not birches.
Overtime.
“Most women imagine that a woman can
finish her household tasks by 10 a.m.”
— Woman’s paper.
’Twould seem that husbands take the
view
That wives have little else to do
But sluice the dishes, sweep the floors
And shake the mats and dust the doors
And hang the washing in the sun.
But don’t enrol me with the men
Who think their better-halves, by ten,
Should have their bit of housework
done.
No, my astonishment is great
Why mine can’t finish hers by eight!
P.M.
We’d As Lief Leave Them.
“A claim to have made a discovery which
should prevent leaves from falling from trees
in autumn is made by two Swedish scientists.”
— “World’s News.”
Thus is joyful news exploded on the
gardener who, goaded, has in autumn’s
season loaded tons of leaves from the
ground on to a barrow. Autumn chills
him to the marrow, but his wife’s voice
is an arrow, so he grieves. Loading
barrows makes him worried; pushing
barrows makes him flurried ; tipping bar-
rows, though not hurried, makes him
mad. Though he btirns the leaves it’s
galling to observe a sight appalling . . .
while he burns them, more are falling.
Ain’t life sad?
So this Swedish scheme is cheering.
But, though gard’ners are hear-hearing,
there are some folk who’ll start sneering.
Worse than that. There’ll be wailing
protestations from the poets of all
nations—for their “falling leaf” narra-
tions will fall flat!
Eve.
Imparshal.
“Here we have another of the many ‘V for
Victory’ numbers enforced upon the paying
public. This, like the others, is written in the
marshal idiom.” — “Tempo.”
To Victory songs in manner marshal
’Twould seem the public isn’t parshal.
Such tunes the critics think are farshal,
And should be vetoed, part and parshal.
GEE.
Relativity.
He gazed out of the window to where
his son was seated on the lawn, and his
eyes filled with pride. What a fine little
lad he was! Well built, with an intelli-
gent head. Fate had indeed been kind
to give him such a promising successor.
His thoughts went meandering into the
future. Some day that little boy would
be a great man, a leader among men.
cheering the declining years of his father,
and raising the family honor to an even
higher plane. Some day
He was jerked out of his reverie when
a passing playmate poked his head over
the fence, waved a welcome, and shouted
“G’day, Stinker!”
T.W.N.
Domestic Economy.
“Don’t forget that the smart woman’s make-
up must be selected with an eye to her frock
and accessories.” — Woman’s paper.
“This new cyclone-red lipstick they’ve
been advertising,” said Millicent as she
gazed unhappily in the mirror, “simply
shrieks at this dusty-pink frock.”
“Then why,” I asked, “didn’t you get
a dusty-pink lipstick?”
Millicent gazed at me pityingly.
“Idiot!” she said, “Still,” she mused,
“it should go well with that blue hand-
bag.”
Next day I noticed that her nails were
lacquered in the cyclone red, and the
day after she came back from town with
a “splitting” headache after searching
shopdom for a rouge to go with them.
After that a pair of gloves appeared to
go with the handbag, followed by hat
and shoes. Then one day she came home
with aching feet but shining eyes. “I’ve
got the very shade of material I’ve been
after, darling,” she burst out excitedly.
“It’s an off-teal. The girl in the cosmetic
bar said it will go beautifully with that
cyclone-red lipstick. And I was so lucky
—I got it dirt cheap—happened to see it
at McFowl’s for only 12s. lid. a yard,
and I saw exactly the same stuff at
Bones’s for 13s. 3d. Isn’t it gorgeous?
it’s a crepe mignonette, the very latest,
and it’ll only take 4\ yards to make an
ensemble! ”
“Dirt cheap” is the phrase. I worked
it out that that shilling tube of lipstick
cost me £9 15s. 6d.!
K.
Song of the Qwert Yuiop.
“Typewriter Mechanics Threaten to Strike.”
—“Daily Mirror.’
We alphabetic blokes eschew
The boss’s soothing, skilful yap.
Unless we get a rise in screw.
We just won’t do another tap !
BACK-SPACER.
Make No Mistake!
“Anybody can make a mistake.”
— Woman’s paper.
Then, according to your popularity or
influence, people refer to your mistakes
as;
“Just a natural miscalculation.”
“A very slight error.”
“A mistake,”
“A glaring mistake.”
“A deliberate lie.”
“A fraud.”
“Criminal negligence.”
Your wife, of course, regards your mis-
takes more leniently. She just says
slowly, before the storm breaks, “An-
other mistake, eh? Can’t you ever stop
being your natural self?”
E.
Penitentiary Blues.
“A radio has been installed in each cell at the
State Prison at San Quentin, which houses 4000
of America’s toughest convicts. The warden,
who originated the scheme, said after they had
listened to a programme which featured an all-
girls’ orchestra that he ‘felt squashy inside over
the great happiness these radios have created.’ ”
—“Daily Telegrapn.”
A 1 Basherstein threw his baseball glove
into the corner of the cell that he shared
with Butch Piccolomini. “Nice woik,
Butch,” he said. “We sure learned that
bunch o’ bump-offs a lesson in de ball
game. Four home runs an’ den dere
pitcher gits de glass arm! I got a bet o’
four ‘grand’ we gum up de standover
men’s team in de prison final.”
Al’s pride in the achievement of his
Garrotters’ team in beating the powerful
Lifers’ combination was justified, for
the latter boasted among its number Pug
Ginsberg, Sol Zeclecki, Angel Gazelli,
Popeye Organbaum and Flag Stiletto —
names that were once on the lips of every
American ball-fan.
Butch pulled on his dressing-gown and
slippers, stood up, reached for the iced-
water decanter and frowned. “Say, what
sort of an outfit’s this?” he growled. “A
guy’s treated here like he was a no-
account bum! Hi, buddy!” he bawled
out to a warder passing along the corri-
dor. As the warder stopped Butch thrust
the decanter angrily through the bars.
“Fill it up, pronto!” he ordered.
The warder grinned. “You must have
raised a big thirst doing all that rooting
from the sidelines after getting struck out
in three straight today, eh, Butch?”
Butch looked savage. “Wise guy, eh?”
he snarled. “G’wan, git goin’!” Then,
turning to Al, “Swing the knob, pal. I
want to git the sound o’ that ‘screw’s’
voice out of me lug. We’re just about
due for the Charm Hour programme,
anyway.”
As Al tuned in a feminine voice came
over the air.
“Hello, hello, calling the San Quentin
folks. Howdy, pals—doing fine, eh? All
back in your comfy liT cells, I hope, and
waiting impatiently for this session,
sponsored by Hozhnisker’s Hot Dogs —
the Food that Defies the Gastric Juices!
Now, here’s Mamie, Connie and Del,
California’s Crooning Trio of Curves, in
the new theme song, composed especially
for you by Dinks Kolorski and Pinky
Schwinghammer. Let her go, girls!”
In their cells the convicts gathered
around their sets as the nasal yawpings
merged into the “San Quentin Hotcha!”
We greet you, fellers, bozos from the Rockies
or the Bronx,
Whether you’re handsome or have sloping brows
or busted conks.
You might have slugged a cop or merely hocked
some drummer’s bus,
Or busted up your dame —it doesn’t mean a
thing to us.
One thing you’ve got on us, a thing that don’t
disturb your slumbers.
The “screws” won’t call you names, because
you’re only known by numbers.
Forget the skilly and the bars, the oakum and
the flax.
Imagine that you’re with us, guys, and see that
you relax!
“Now all join in the chorus, boys! ”
Rah! Rah! Rah! For the toughest of yeggs
and their “screws.”
Rah! Rah! Rah! Toon in fer the “swing”
and the noos.
On this you can bet, son, and paste in your
Stetson —
“Hozhnisker’s Go Better With Booze!”
“And now here’s Maudie Dope and
her brassiere-and-scantie band playing
the Tallahassee Rhumba!”
But the opening discords of the num-
ber were drowned by a terrific din as
from all parts of the gaol enraged con-
victs went amuck in their cells, stamping,
yelling, booing and banging on anything
that would add to the row. After 10
minutes of it the warden had them
assembled in the yard.
“Waal, boys,” he began sadly. “I’m
ashamed of yer, dad-burn me if I ain’t.
I get a radio set installed in every cell,
you’ve got pretty well all the comforts
of home, I leave you to enjoy yourselves
in the privacy of your cells and you
repay me by bustin’ up every set. I’ve
arranged for a series of dance pro-
grammes and even had y’ taught dancin’
and”
It was Al who stepped forward. “Yes,
bawss,’’ he said, “dat’s just de trouble.
Wouldn’t it burn you up when you’re
sittin’ dere plumb loco f’r a bit o’ jitter-
buggin’ and dey goes and puts over de
rhumba?”
BO.


AGA FACTS
for the
MODERN HOSTESS
Smiling, unruffled, confident . . . an AGA owner
gives table talk a sparkling lead, knowing that
each course is AGA-cooked . . . tender . . •
delicious. The AGA Cooker burns continuously.
Hot plates and ovens are instantly ready for fast
or slow cooking by STORED heat, the most
efficient, scientific method of cooking ever invented.
How much for fuel? Fuel cost of the AGA model
illustrated is guaranteed to be less than £3 in a
whole year (with coke at 30/- per ton in the city.
Freight increases price in country, but annual
consumption is so low that amazing economy is
possible anywhere in Australia). 40,000 AGA
owners in the British Empire have proved it.
Every one of them is proud to show guests the
insulated, streamlined AGA No. I unit in a
MODERN kitchen.
| ; i
%*lj
JL
1
" !; a
jbJ
r.
■ ■
•' -s . •
> J
U 5i
1
(reoo trade mark)
7ke(ki.diifl HeatSimmt
COOKER .
. MADE IN BRITAIN
Amazingly economical.
Keeps. kitchen warm in
Winter, cool in Summer.
Simple to use, always ready.
Clean as a china plate.
Food cooks better, looks
better, tastes better.
Suitable for city and country
homes.
Let us show you an AGA, or write
to-day for AGA Catalogue R 9.
LEVIN & CO.. LTD..
Est. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.).
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
and at Wellington, N.Z.
S.A. Agents: Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart.
ADELAIDE.
FINE CITY PREMISES
FOR SALE
Offering an Exceptional Opportunity for
BANKS . ~ . INSURANCE
SHIPPING and
PASTORAL COMPANIES
*
to secure large and particularly fine premises
IN ONE OF THE BEST POSITIONS IN ADELAIDE.
SAVINGS BANK BUILDING
CURRIE STREET... ADELAIDE
Adelaide Steamship Co., Ltd.
m nr s a ip bv private treaty under instructions from the Board of
ESS
in an excellent state of preservation. ff accommodation, and-m the
fine executive offices and board room, e : roo ms There is also ample accommo-
basement —excellent strongrooms and
dation for a resident caretaker. c^° l let separa t e ly if desired, having direct
access^from^Currie^Stre’et^^Tbe building could be suitably adapted for multiple
occupation.
Moderate Price . . . Liberal Terms
Illustrated Circulars on Application to Joint Agents
F. W. BULLOCK & CO. & KEITH WILKINSON,
16 PIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
MATTERS & GO., 12 WAYMOUTH STREET, ADELAIDE.
Business,Rolleuy.,Etc.
Sharemarkets and Prices
Shares and other industrial and finan-
cial investments aren’t “news” to the
extent they were in pre-war days. While
making money on the Stock Exchange —
when it is possible to maker it seems
rather a parasitical and useless occupation
in the present stress of conflict, there is
also the matter of supporting war loans
rather than dabbling in existing stocks.
The Treasury itself has done a great
deal, under the National Security Regu-
lations, to prevent any romantic glow to
radiate from the direction of the Stock
Exchanges; it is supposed to be prevent-
ing the raising of capital by non-essential
industries, and in the main its activities
are achieving that end. There is also
the matter of excess-profits tax, and, with
an uncertain political and Budgetary posi-
tion at Canberra, the taxation question is
altogether a very big one so far as pricing
shares is concerned. The abolition of
rebates took away a lot of the advantages
as investments formerly held by shares.
There is the additional uncertainty as to
how much of the present prosperity of
many industries is due to war. Nowhere
is the issue clear-cut.
Yet lately Australian sharemarkets
have been moving more actively upward.
This climbing movement almost coincides
with the publication of many June 30
balance sheets. On the whole, these
balance sheets show that industry has
been able to cope with war transport
difficulties, war taxes and war economics
and still maintain dividends. B.H.P.
figures, made up to May 31, were dis-
couraging ; but soon afterwards G. J.
Coles presented accounts that pleaded
shareholders, chain-store cos. being re-
garded as test cases so far as excess-
profits tax is concerned. More evidence
of maintenance of earning power has
come from cos. not specially affected by
war conditions.
Mere maintenance of divs. doesn’t mean
that shareholders are as well off as they
were last year. There has been a rise of
10 p.c. or more in living costs and a
corresponding fall in the value of money.
But while this aspect of the matter is of
political moment basic-wage-earners
being protected by the Arbitration Court,
while shareholders suffer an invisible tax
—it does not enter into the immediate
question of share prices, since shares are
paid for, and divs. received, in the same
kind of money. There is the question,
however, of how much further living
costs are going to rise, and of whether
particular cos. will be able to increase
their divs. in proportion. Some people
are preferring to put their funds into
house property as a protection against
inflation. And at the moment, owing to
war-time industrial activity in the Big
Cities, they are finding cottages easy to
let, which means a profitable income—
so long as the war and its peculiar condi-
tions last. There has been very little
actual increase in the Commonwealth’s
population over the past couple of years,
and swelling employment in Sydney and
Melbourne has been largely at , the
expense of country districts and the small
States. Unless this extraordinary activity
in the cities continues after the war on
production for domestic purposes, then
city property values may receive a setback.
The investor in sound ordinary shares
will find many matters to interest him
in the present market. The main thing
is to look ahead. Immediate incomes may
turn out to be delusive, especially where
munitions contracts are substantial con-
tributors to a co.’s profits. On the other
hand, businesses of an essentially sound
type, which, during the war, are bearing
specially heavy burdens, may turn out
far better later on than their present
appearance would suggest. Take B.H.P.
as an example. Because it has not raised
the prices of its products during the war,
and because it has made adequate pro-
vision for depreciation on its much-
enlarged plant—a good deal of the en-
largement a result of the war—as well
as setting aside enough to satisfy the
taxgatherer, B.H.P.’s earnings have fallen
below pre-war level. But the undertaking
is essentially a solid one, and the great
activity it has experienced as a result of
the war will mean widened outlook and
capacity when the fight is over. Foun-
dations of new forms of production are
being laid, in subsidiary ventures as well
as in the main Newcastle works. In
short, though B.H.P. has not shown big
profits since war began, it has been ex-
panding at a time when its enlarged out-
put is assured of sale, and the new plant
is being run in in favorable circumstances.
We will be wanting more production
for domestic purposes after the’ war is
over than we were when it started.
Whether we shall get the extra produc-
tion we desire will depend principally on
how our finances are managed now and
immediately after the war, and on how
world trade shapes. It is certain that in
this country there will be a deferred
demand for many things, and in Europe
the position will be even more pro-
nounced. On the face of it, there
will be plenty of wants calling for
attention, but it isn’t so certain that
we will be able to go straightforwardly
ahead in attending to those wants. If we
don’t pay for the war as the bills come
along we may have topheavy finances
when the show is over. There may be
some violent readjustments in the type
of activity we will be engaged in ; it will
require skilful finance and politics to
weather us through the onslaught of
peace. Ideas about a “new order” may
bring labor disturbances of an unreason-
able kind. But if we deal sanely with
the position, acknowledging now that war
expenses are losses and later on that it
will take some years to straighten out the
confusion that a colossal war effort has
brought about, then there are few good
reasons to fear that Australian industries
will not be allowed to cater for the en-
larged post-war demand that will surely
exist.
What we have to realise most is that we
can upset our own applecart very easily
by interfering adventurously with the
financial mechanism and by toying with
abstract ideas when we would do better
to get on with the job in hand. Some-
thing will depend on how the overseas
market for wool shapes. Though we
won’t be quite so dependent on this as
we have been in the past, Australia will
still be a large importer, and, apart from
the matter of the livelihood of our large
wool industry, there is the question of
overseas funds to be considered. These
funds depend greatly on wool.
Buyers were eager in last week’s share-
market. Many stocks other than the
most prominent leaders, such as B.H.P.
and A.C.1., put on weight quickly. C.S.R.
scrip was strong at £5O 10s., the highest
price since early in 1940, and Tooth
shares, after their recent reaction, moved
up to 535. 3d, Australian Cement was
well supported in Melbourne, and
Kandos shares were unobtainable in
Sydney. Following the recent rise in
Mort’s Dock, which produced much
improved accounts, another heavy indus-
try, A. Goninan, was bought into at the
record price of 19s. 6d. Koitaki Rubber
stepped up to 245. 3d. —the war-time price
of rubber and an improving asset back-
ing are influences here. Olympic Tyres,
both rights and old shares, were favored,
and Dunlop-Perdriau ords. were bought
at prices up to 225. 9d. Textile scrip was
either steady or higher, though there was
an inclination to relax in the case of Felt
and Textiles, which had a big lift prior
to announcement of the new share issue.
Retailer shares, especially chain-store
issues, are in better humor now follow-
ing publication of G. J. Coles’s accounts.
A strong rise in Adelaide Steam has
been the principal movement among
shipping issues. This scrip was hard to
get at 295. 6d. last week, compared with
275. a few weeks back. As a long-term
proposition shipping cos. are of outstand-
ing interest. They are depressed at
present because of Government incur-
sions into the industry. Adelaide and
Huddart Parker have particular attrac-
tions. '
* * * *
Australian Gas, with its smaller
Sydney associates, is trying its luck with
the McKell Government, asking for an
increase in the price of gas in order to
pay its “statutory” 6 p.c. div. instead of
the 4 p.c. that is now its physical limit.
Mair refused to allow a lift in the price,
though wages and most other costs have
risen onerously. The gas cos. are agree-
able to having their case put before the
Federal Prices Commissioner. The gas
employees’ unions figure in the picture;
they want their wages raised but the
price of gas kept down.
* * * *
A. G. Healing, Ltd., is now turning out
capstan lathes under the patents of the
British Albert Herbert works at the rate
of one a day. Healing’s works manager,
Percy Frye, served for a long period
in the Herbert plant, and his son
more recently spent some years in the
same workshop. Both having had
acquaintance with precision-tool making,
the job wasn’t as hard as it might have
been. But Healings had to install £lO,OOO-
- of extra jigs, tools and fixtures,
place five foundries in commission for
castings, and requisition 700 blueprints
for that number of parts in the Herbert
lathe. Lathes are the basic machines in
practically all Australia’s war production,
and are probably the most precise tool in
modern manufacturing. Healing’s are
now turning to the manufacture of larger
lathes. They are also putting out a great
quantity of small tools for the defence
industries.
* * * *
Mr. Nash, Maoriland’s Treasurer, has
“stabilised” 38 essential commodities for
the duration, from September 1. The
items include all staple foods, M.L.-made
clothing and footwear, electric light and
gas, and train fares.


c,
/'HE
SEND FOR THIS BOOK
"T he T ask 'That Tew Men 'Want”
Whether you have already made your Will, or whether you have postponed the
matter, it is suggested that you write for a copy of the book, " The Task That
Few Men Want." It will be sent to you free of charge. It is a book which
outlines a practical plan for ensuring the protection and security of your interests,
and the faithful execution of the wishes your Will expresses—without risk and
without placing any 'burden on others.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
TELEPHONE : B 7901. . Box 543 B. G.P.0., Sydney.
Id
STRENGTH IN RESERVE!
Just as Australia's great bridges have
been built to withstand far greater
burdens than those ever likely to be
imposed upon them, so has Australia's
banking system been constructed with
strength in reserve to meet every
emergency... And so. to-day, despite
the unusually heavy burdens of war.
the Bank of New South Wales is
adding still further to its long record
of financial service to industry.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
THE FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
fdf
x*sa
df
d
m im*li
xnoother
are
mo
f
df
MADE
SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE
THROATS
Beasley, has brought up in
Parliament the question, first raised by
The Bulletin, of how the lease-lend
scheme is likely to affect Australian in-
dustries. He wanted to know whether
goods other than war materials and
petrol, etc., would be allowed into Aus-
tralia on a lease-lend basis. Mr. Men-
zies replied that the questions were im-
portant, but that he was not yet in a
position to answer them. Some little
while ago Dr. Page said that as a direct
effect of the Lease-Lend Act the Com-
monwealth would have to revise its re-
striction policy on imports. In his
opinion, lease-lend “will enable us to im-
port much equipment, and will permit
our industries to devote themselves to
direct munitions production. It will pro-
vide us with raw materials of war —
especially petrol—and will accelerate our
war programme by bringing in finished
products.” Later on the Minister for
Customs announced that “the Govern-
ment hopes to obtain a comprehensive
range of civilian requirements” under
the scheme. So long as British textiles,
plum puddings, shoes and blankets con-
tinue to come into Australia,’and so long
as Australian woollen cloths, yarns,
blankets, socks, boots and sole leather
are wanted wholly or largely for export
or for the services, then so long will
Australians debate the soundness or
otherwise of our extremely complicated
external trade arrangements. Shipping
space is more than precious, but two-
way trips and unnecessary cargo travel
haven’t yet been entirely done away with.
In outline, Empire war trading policy
seems to be to concentrate Australian
manufacturing activity on rough work
for the fighting services while Britain
maintains, as much as possible, its trading
connections with other parts of the world
so far as the finer civil goods are con-
cerned. An export trade in manufac-
tured goods is undoubtedly more vital
to Britain than it is to Australia, and a
large-minded view of the whole matter
is necessary; but there comes a time
when we should at least be told a little
about the grand plan in operation. That
there does seems to be some such plan
is suggested by the fact that exports of
woollen manufactures from this country
have to bear a tax of 25 p.c. on their
woollen content because “the Australian
user is buying at considerably below the
U.K. flat-rate parity.” Where such fine
points are taken into consideration there
may be other arrangements of a more
integral kind. If there are, they are being
kept more secret than the progress of the
war effort. That is why the silence about
lease-lend sounds so loud.
* * * *
At B.H.P.’s annual meeting last week
shareholders (there are 20,000 of them on
the share register) were told that the co.
was supplying the cheapest steel in the
world, a fact acknowledged by Maori-
land’s Prime Minister when speaking in
New York. It hasn’t lifted its prices since
war broke out. Export markets, except
M.L., have now been left alone, the
much enlarged output being devoted prin-
cipally to Australia. Munition steel,
though of the greatest importance, does
not represent a large percentage of .the
B.H.P. output.
* ❖ % %
Associated Pulp and Paper (Burnie)
turned out more than 35,000 tons of
paper between the outbreak of war and
the end of July. Value was £1,500,000 ;
if the stuff had been imported it would
have cost double, the co.’s chairman
says. Shortage of supplies from Britain
may cause the co. to turn to the manufac-
ture of lines outside its present scope.
*** ■ *
What was first spoken of in many
places as an “Australian-built Bristol-
Beaufort torpedo-bomber” is now care-
fully referred to as an “Australian-
assembled” machine. What is the strength
of this part of Canberra’s war effort?
Last week Senator Leckie, in rej.»iy to a
question, said that the first Beaufort “had
been made from fabricated parts. The
second bomber, just produced, was made
from material fabricated in Australia,
though not every part was made here.”
Each additional bomber made will have a
greater proportion of Australian work in
it, he added, until “95 p.c. or 96 p.c. of
each bomber” is Australian-made. The
percentage in the first much-publicised
Beaufort, however, remains a mystery.
* * * *
Cotton-co. scrip is very firm. Davies,
Coop shares have been selling in Mel-
bourne at 355., compared with 335. 6d.
in July. Scrip in H. B. Dickie,
the towel manufacturer, has leapt
to 38s. buyer, 425. seller. A month ago
the price was 355. Bradford Cotton, one
of the solidest amongst this type of con-
cern, has firmed to 41s, 9d. ex rights—
also a sharp rise. Stirling Henry ss. ords.
have been a little weaker at 11s. 2d.
lately. Bond’s Industries old shares have
been strong at 295., and the debentures
are moving up. The cotton-textile in-
dustry in this country is to some extent
a war baby, but the extent varies in
different cases. Bradford and H. B.
Dickie were doing well before the war,
and Davies, Coop seems to be fairly web
entrenched.
* * * *
Yarra Falls, the biggest yarn and
worsted concern in the Commonwealth,
has kept its ord. div. at 10 p.c. It has
its own mills in Melbourne, and a sub-
sidiary operates- in Sydney. Onkaparinga
Woollen, of South Aus., has raised its
div. from 5 p.c. to 6 p.c.-, and there has
been a string of sales in the co.’s con-
tributing shares at rising prices. Valley
Worsted, of Victoria, showed a profit of
£44,739 for the year to June 30, after
providing £44,738 (up £21,321) for taxa-
tion and £25,450 (up £6635) for deprecia-
tion. Div. stays at 10 p.c.
* * * *
Lately there has been more activity
than usual in Zinc Corp. shares. The
cloud of British taxation rates hangs over
this co.’s affairs, otherwise its shares
would be far higher in price than they
are now. There was once a rule-of-
thumb method of valuing Barriers ; this
was the basis: North shares half as much
again as Souths, and Zinc ords. twice as
much as Norths. At the moment South
shares are priced at 275., North shares
at 425. and Zincs at 625. The old
relationship between Souths and Norths
remains, but Britain’s heavier war
taxation, plus double taxation in some
respects, has taken a lot out of the
immediate outlook for Zinc shares.
Again, the shareholding in New Broken
Hill Consolidated hasn’t come quite up
to former expectations. But the big thing
is taxation. Those who don’t mind wait-
ing a few years for their benefits will
find Zinc Corp. shares well worth the
holding. Production, though figures
aren’t available, is now very close to
that of North, and should eventually out-
strip North’s. Potentially the greatest mine
at Broken Hill, the market values Zinc
Corp. at three-fifths the figure it chooses
to put on North’s undertaking.
* * * *
George Farmer, the Ballarat bacon co.,
has returned to the div. list with a 5 p.c..
distribution. Average div. over the previ-
ous five years was 0.5 p.c. The present
div. takes £4500 out of profits of £5182.
The bacon-curing business has been in a
severely competitive state for a number
of years.
• * * *
N.S.W. beer consumption in 1940 was
a record. Compared with 1939, 2,525,000
more gallons was consumed, while wine
drunk rose by 125,000 gallons. The
liquor bill for 1940 was £18,230,000 —up
£1,610,000. In September, 1939, excise
on beer was raised by 3d. a gallon to 25.,
and by 9d. to 2s. 9d. in November, 1940.


THE SERVICE MAN
The Battle Moves North.
“Ek Dum”: The Russian situation is
deteriorating quickly. By August 28 even
8.8. C. announcers,’who never give bad
news without plenty ot sugar, felt that
there was “grave concern in British mili-
tarv circles ”
It had dawned on the tardy minds of
the •■experts” that there was fierce fighting
,*f G° mel area and tha ‘
2? /8/ i‘ IT, S ' p 7 ; j “
feared that large Russian forces were
encircled’ in this area. A mulga wire
had been received from Stockholm that
General Koniev had recaptured Gomel,
after the Germans had occupied it for
eight days, but this was not confirmed,
Next morning Losovsky admitted that
the Dnieperstroy dam had been blown
up by Budenny’s men.
The German High Command reported
the taking of Dnepropetrovsk, the big-
gest city in the dam region (population
over 500,000); of Zaporozhe (population
190,000), which sits on the eastern bank
of the Dnieper at the dam itself, and
of Berislav, 54 miles from the Dnieper
mouth “without the use of armored
divisions.” All this would bring the
whole of southern industrial Ukraine
west of the Dnieper under German con-
trol, “together with a wide strip on the
eastern bank.” The High Command said
that Marshal Budenny had issued an-
other appeal to the citizens of eastern
Ukraine and to the Red Army telling
them that the situation was desperate.
So far from the Russians having re-
taken Gomel, the Germans declared that
they were “still pursuing the fleeing
Soviet troops in this region” and had
added 2000 prisoners and further large
quantities of equipment to their bag.
They had previously recorded the cap-
ture of 88,000 prisoners round Gomel,
Moscow said Gomel had cost the Ger-
mans terrible losses.
The German estimate of Russian
casualties in south-western Ukraine in-
eluded 103,000 prisoners, and there was
word in Berlin of the sinking of trans-
ports and motor-boats in the Black Sea,
and of a Soviet destroyer and two trans-
ports in the Baltic. Moscow heard of
about equal German losses.
According to Moscow Odessa was still
holding out. Life there was normal, all the
factories were working, and two armored
trains had penetrated deep into the Ger-
man lines. Indeed, the city- which holds
over 600,000 people -had become another
Tobruk.
There is unfortunately no chance or
that. Cities holding large numbers of
civilians cannot become Tobruks. In
any case, Tobruks are possible only when
there is a British Navy and mercantile
marine to back the scheme. The
U.S.S.R. has no fleet worth the name in
the Black Sea, and the whole of its mer-
cantile marine on July 1, 1939, including
ships in the Baltic and the Far East,
amounted to 716 vessels of 1,3 ,
gross tons. .
The chances are that the main
se Germans have not attempted to
assault Kiev and Odessa is that the first
snowfalls are only a month
every day reduces their
The big guns of Jack Frost may do most
of the nefarious job without unnecessary
A°fSe° n o? the’ enemy’s plans in
„ . , , Lm.rum;
mUUary Carpentry‘and’ m
building the structure of the war. Some-
times it has seemed as it there have been
holdups, but hopes of them have always
been disappointed. The reason always
reveals itself; the delay proves to be
part of the pattern of the war.
First, the Germans removed the threats
of the huge armies numbering well on
towards a million which the U.S.S.R.
had rtiassed on the Bialystock front
threatening the Warsaw approaches. They
took Latvia and Lithuania to secure the
northern railway communications, to put
the northern approaches in a safe position
and give themselves command of the
important Dvinsk crossings. Estonia they
did not worry about. They merely locked
it in with its Tallinn and other garrisons
and left it on the shoulders of the
U.S.S.R. Navy.
Then they drove their blunt wedge
halfway to Moscow beyond Smolensk,
This gave them a foothold on the first
hills over which Moscow lies. It gave
them command of a fine spot in which
to establish a base from which the capi-
tal could be attacked along age-old mili-
tary routes. Also it placed the crossings
of the Dnieper and Beresina, which it was
vital for any invader to hold, firmly in
their clutches, and rendered it unsafe for
any Russian forces of note to remain
behind those rivers on the south-west,
lest they should be jammed inextricably
into or against the Pripet Marshes. The
Smolensk front was then widened by
making one Panzer cut after another
north and south of Smolensk and Vitebsk
until there was a reasonable evenness of
penetration, and lateral communication
was possible.
This method is vital to German tactics.
The High Command needs to be in a
position to shift huge mechanised forces
freely left and right along the line. Like
a vast, ironclad mob of bullies the Ger-
man Panzers wander hammering at enemy
doors up and down the street, so to
speak, until a lock or a panel gives way
and they are inside.
Meanwhile, fighting had been proceed-
ing in the south. Here the terrain was
more difficult, the weather in the early
part of the campaign more fickle; the
Carpathians were behind, the wriggling
Dniester and meandering Bug in front.
But the tempo was kept slower than in
the centre, though there were great
battles.
The enemy could wait to strike de-
cisive blows here till the moment when,
by inhibiting active operations on the
drive towards Leningrad, he had been
able to divert to the central sector forces
whose arrival would compel an urgent
call by the Red Army command for help
from the Ukraine.
Then the Germans struck at the
Dniester. They closed their offensive
in the centre and drove through the
south-west Ukraine.
Having torn industrial Ukraine to
pieces and isolated armies in Kiev and
Odessa, they also had cut Moscow off
from the Black Sea by direct routes and
robbed 16,000,000 industrial people —the
second-greatest source of armaments in
Russia —of the hydro-electric power
which was their lifeblood. And they had
hammered their front into something
like that of France —the line above the
Dnieper bend north of Kiev, much in the
position of the Somme line ; the Estonian
pocket, like the Belgian pocket at the last
stages of the campaign on the western
front; the broad-flowing Dnieper in the
Ukraine sector, with its fortified east bank
cliffs a veritable Maginot Line, joined
to the north by a joint near Gomel,
where Maubeuge tactics could be used.
The Germans already were across the
Dnieper in the unfortified zone. They
merely had to open the Gomel gate and
they were inside the Russian garden on
Budenny’s flank. He must fall back from
the river on the south or find the enemy
rolling up his flank or charging round to
his rear.
This move evidently worked —as the
Maubeuge move worked in France. The
hurried abandonment of Dnepropetrovsk
and the destruction of the dam adver-
tised its immediate success. If the
German statement is true that a strip
of country on the east of the Dnieper
was captured, Budenny had been forced
to fall back from his Dnieper line
defences as the French fell back from the
Maginot after the joint was broken, thus
allowing a crossing of the Dnieper, as the
French parallel operation allowed the
crossing of the Rhine. Attack on
Crimean roads and railways became
possible.
So exactly do the German successive
operations mesh that the next northern
move against Leningrad and Estonia syn-
chronised almost exactly with the last
phases of the Ukraine campaign west of
the Dnieper in the south.
The phase of which this is the kernel
—it may be the crucial phase of the
war in Russia —was summed up by one
Sydney paper under the heading “Red
Army Offensive Still Rolls ON.”
General Koniev was said to be pushing
back the Germans on the central front
and to have killed 3000 Germans
and destroyed 130 tanks, 100 motorised
units and many guns, besides capturing
several more villages. Berlin Radio, for
its part, declared that the Moscow-Lenin-
grad railway had been cut. Moscow
denied it. The Germans claimed a further
advance north-west of Moscow on a
transverse branch line feeding towards
Kalinin on the main northern rail. They
averred on Thursday that troops were
within 30 miles of Lenin’s city on the
southern side.
The Finns, who had moved slowly
early in the campaign, apparently waiting
for the prearranged moment for them to
assume their full role, lighted up their
whole front with battle.
On August 31 it was announced that
Hitler had sent a telegram of congratu-
lation to Field-Marshal Mannerheim on
his capture of Viborg—the most sacred
city of Finland, annexed by U.S.S.R. after
the last war —and had invested him with
a No. 1 Iron Cross. A Helsinki review
of the situation said that the campaign
“within Finnish borders” on the Karelian
fronts had been brought to a victorious
conclusion. It was claimed both by Ger-
mans and Finns that two Soviet divisions
had been surrounded in the Karelian
sector. Helsinki Radio said that, north
of Ladoga, the Finnish armies had crossed
the old Russian border, and in the Viborg
sector had reached the 1939 border and
were within 46 miles of Leningrad, hav-
ing occupied the old Mannerheim Line.
Nothing was said of the Soviet-occupied
naval enclave of Hango.
From several sources came suggestions
that Finland had begun negotiations for
a separate peace. Possible; it might be
politically advantageous to Hitler; and,
with the return of the old territory assured,
the hardy Finn might feel it sensible to get
down to the work of restoration before
the winter. There will be a lot to do.
Viborg, among other cities, was devas-
tated in the 1939-40 campaign.
Tallinn (population 145,000), capital of
Estonia and its last great Soviet fortress,
fell on August 29, its shipping scrambling
desperately out of the harbor of the
flaming city, Baltiski, on its west, fol-
lowed it into German hands. The Ger-
man Admiralty on Sunday reported the
final phases of “a great naval victory”
in which over 100 naval, transport and
mercantile ships making out of Estonian
ports for Kronstadt and Leningrad were
savagely attacked by German naval and
air units.
The Germans asserted that they had
sunk the Russian cruiser Kirov —pride of
the Russian Navy, built in Fascist Italy
in 1937 —five destroyers and nine mine-
sweepers, and damaged several other
naval vessels. They declared that 21
transports had been sunk by mines, 28 de-
stroyed by the navy and bombers and
another 39 severely damaged, their fate
being then unknown. According to the
London “D.T.’s” Stockholm man, 50,000
troops were evacuated from Tallinn to
Leningrad, and the German losses dur-
ing the capture of the city were 30,000.
Moscow said nothing.
Sections of the press and official
sources announced on Aug. 31 and Sep-
tember 1 that General Koniev’s drive in
the central sector had broken through
the German centre to some depth on a
wide front. Both Germans and Russians
reported torrential rain, and the Germans
admitted that they were meeting, in spots,
with tenacious resistance from heavily-
fortified posts in a difficult terrain scored
with gullies and ravines in places—which
suggested that they were still east of
Smolensk.
It was admitted by Berlin that Rus-
sians had attempted to recross the
Dnieper, south of Kiev, in boats, and
that some troops succeeded, though only
to be wiped out. Moscow did' not sup-
port Sunday-press estimates of the vast
importance of the new battles on the
central front. Losovsky said that the
fighting there was “not a major counter-
attack but a series of local battles inflict-
ing severe losses on the enemy.”
Though Odessa can be saved only by
a miracle, what happens round Leningrad
and on the northern sector is of the
greatest immediate moment.
Already the Germans seem to be in
control of the Finnish Bight, which the
Reichmarine and Luftwaffe were said to
be mining intensively on August 31.
There must be large forces inside
Leningrad, but mobile war from their side
will be difficult. Rather does it look that
they must settle down to a static defence,
leaving mobility to the attackers, who
possess the further advantage of not
having the responsibility of a couple of
million or so non-combatants on their
hands. In short, the position looks bad,
but the capture of so huge a city must
be attended with risks.
All Over in Iran.
“Ek Dum”: The Anglo-Russian
operations in Iran were' quickly over,
though unfortunately not without blood-
shed.
British and Indian troops were landed
at the oil c&ntre of Abadan on August 25.
Another force marched out of Iraq to
Qasr-i-shirin, the age-old jumping-off
place for the crossing of the Alvand
Range and now the Iranian customs post.
A third force penetrated from Baluchi-
stan into the heart of s.-e. Iran.
The Russians came down from the
north and raided Tabriz, just across the
Caucasian border. Iran’s second-largest
city, they quickly captured it without
much loss of life.
There was a foray in the Persian Gulf
in which a few small Iranian vessels were
sunk by the R.N; and a Persian admiral
was killed. He was game, for he attacked
without having the ghost of a chance.
At first it looked as if the Iranian
Government would be moved to carry on
a campaign which could only end in
wholesale slaughter of its poorly-armed
troops. The Premier, Ali Mansur, said
that “all necessary measures had been
taken to face the attack.” Nothing was
heard of the attitude of Reza Shah
Pahlevi, but be is a man of common-
sense, friendly to the Russians and not
unmindful of the fact that without Rus-
sian and British trade —a fairly substan-
tial German trade having been inhibited
by the war —Iran would go back to semi-
barbarism.
By Thursday Ali Mansur was out of
office and Ali Feranghi was in with a
new Ministry working against time to
reach an agreement before the Russians
should capture Tehran, the capital. They
had poured down the great north British-
built road almost to the Alvand Range
and the Iraq border, linking with the
British.
The terms of the agreement eventually
come to were said by Moscow to include
the general occupation of Iran by Anglo-
Russian forces, the independence of the
country, however, to be recognised and
its internal government not to be inter-
fered with. Compensation was to be paid
to Iran for loss of life and property and
Germans were to be handed over to the
occupying forces.
The “Red Star” declared that a “huge
German arsenal” was found at Julfa; just
inside the Iranian border. Persian officers,
it was asserted, told the Russians that
“a German tank column” had “recently
arrived at Tabriz” and that for months
the roads to Tabriz had been “choked
with German lorries loaded with arms,
ammunition and dismantled ’planes.”
But the only route by which these
things could have reached Iran was
through Russia.
Prince to President.
“Fong Tsz”: The Near North diplo-
matic weather underwent a sudden
change late last week. Almost every day
for some time the typhoon flag had
flown constantly, and the diplomatic sea
seemed to be assuming the oily and
ominous calm which comes before a big
blow.
It was reported that the U.S.S.R. had
told Japan that stoppage of U.S. aviation
spirit bound for Vladivostok would be
considered an unfriendly act. U.S. papers
interpreted this to mean that “Stalin will
fight.” .
All through, both Russians and
Japanese insisted officially that their
mutual relations were sound. This atti-
tude was maintained, despite active
operations by the Japanese against Com-
munist armies and politicians in North
China.
There were further British troop move-
ments, and during the week it was an-
nounced that the A.I.F. in Malaya had
taken up new positions and assumed re-
sponsibility for the defence of a special
sector of strategic importance. The
shifting of material and plant was a big
job, but it was carried through smoothly.
The news was evidence of the strength
of the A.I.F. in Malaya. It means that
the Australian forces, if they have to
fight, will fight as a cohesive organisa-
tion under Australian command.
Mr. Fraser, Prime Minister of Maon-
land, was in Washington. On Thursday
he expressed the belief that the danger in
the Pacific was “very grave,” but he hoped
reason would prevail. Japan, he said,
was not threatened with aggression and
there was no possibility of such aggres-
sion. He made it clear that, in the event
of trouble, Maoriland bases would be
made available to the U.S. Navy as a
matter of course;
I cannot imagine for a moment, if the
hour of danger and destruction to the demo-
cratic countries arrives in the Pacific, mat
the United States will stand idly and com-
placently by.
The presence in Australia on leave ot
the commander of the Singapore fortress,
Major-General F. K. Simmons, did not
suggest that danger was imminent.
On August 28 the Thai Radio was
heard appealing for world peace on be-
half of the Thai Government; but on
Friday it was announced that the Thai
National Assembly had adopted bills
defining the war-time duties of the Thai
people and providing for the punishment
of rebellion carried on outside the king-
dom. The Yokohama Specie Bank agreed
to allow Thailand to buy 25,000,000 heals


Obituary Notice.
LOST at sea through enemy action August
31, 1940, CAPTAIN JOHN N. BEIGHTON,
R.N.R., only son of the late John Beighton,
Roxburgh, Otago, New Zealand, and loved
brother of the late A. M. Beighton, also of
Mesdames M. L. Jeffery, Roxburgh, and C. A.
Henderson, Hataitai, Wellington, New Zealand.
“Died in the service of his country.”
Personal and Missing Friends.
Edith Mangin or Mangan (formerly Wells)
IF abovenamed, formerly of Sebastapol,
Ballarat, last heard of married Mangan or
Mangin (?), who had fruit barrow Sydney,
communicates with her son undersigned she will
hear something to her advantage.
STANLEY LAWRENCE WELLS DAVIS,
Box 1068, Broken Hill.
TO HARRY VALLENDER, formerly of 122
Page Street, Albert Park, Victoria, but
now of parts unknown, Land Salesman.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife, ELLA MAY
VALLENDER, has instituted proceedings
against you for divorce on the ground of deser-
tion. Unless you enter an appearance in the
Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court,
Melbourne, by the 25th day of September, 1941,
and file an answer in the said office by the
6th day of October, 1941, the case may proceed
in your absence and you may be ordered to
pay costs.
DOYLE & KERR, 108 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
ILLIES.—JOHN HENRY ILLIES, born in
Germany about 1813. He emigrated to
America about 1840. His heirs or relatives,
advantage. . Write MR- TELFER, 16 Pirie
Street, Adelaide.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1338 of 1941.
BETWEEN ETHEL FRANCES PAYNE (for-
merly Ethel Frances Faulkner) Petitioner and
ARTHUR BENJAMIN PAYNE Respondent.
TO ARTHUR BENJAMIN PAYNE late of
Stromberg Road Southend England.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ETHEL
FRANCES PAYNE has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to this suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Nineteenth day of December One thousand
nine hundred and forty-one and in the event
of your not so doing within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit will be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-fifth day of August,
1941.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
M. B. GILES, Solicitor for the Petitioner, 10
O’Connell Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND —WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
(Wellington Registry.)
In Divorce.
No. 439.
TO VERNON CLAUD CARD formerly of the
City of Wellington New Zealand tramway
motorman but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand at Wellington citing you to appear and
answer the petition of PHOEBE CARD of the
City of Wellington married woman wherein
she prays for a divorce on the grounds that
you and she are parties to a verbal agreement
for separation and such citation intimates that
in default of your so doing the Court will
proceed to hear the said petition and to pro-
nounce sentence therein notwithstanding your
absence Now therefore take notice that for
the purpose aforesaid you are within 40 days
after the date of this publication to attend
in person or by your solicitor at the Supreme
Court Office at Wellington and thereto enter an
appearance and file an answer without which
you will not be allowed to address the Court
at any stage of the proceedings. A copy of
the said citation and petition will be supplied
to you on your applying for the same at the
Supreme Court Office at Wellington.
DATED this 25th day of August, 1941.
(L.S.) G. R. HOLDER,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement.
CORNELIUS JAMES O’REGAN is the
solicitor for the petitioner, whose address for
service is at the office of the said Cornelius
James O’Regan, 324 Lambton Quay, Welling-
ton, New Zealand.
Notice to Next-of-kin.
Advertisement for creditors, claimants and next-
of-kin of JAMES LIDDY, late of Stone Hall,
Newmarket-on-Fergus, Co. Clare, Eire, and in
particular for the children and grandchildren
of MICHAEL and JOSEPH McINERNEY, of
Tiermaclane, Co. Clare, who emigrated to Aus-
tralia.
EIRE.
CIRCUIT COURT OF JUSTICE.
SOUTH-WESTERN CIRCUIT.
County of Clare.
Equity 1239.
BETWEEN MICHAEL McINERNEY, of
Rathbeg, Sixmilebridge, in the County of
Clare, Farmer, Plaintiff, and
THE ATTORNEY-GENERAL OF EIRE and
JOHN MURNANE, of Stonehall, Newmarket-
on-Fergus, in the County of Clare, Farmer,
Defendants,
PURSUANT to a decree of His Lordship the
Circuit Court Judge for the County of Clare,
made in the above suit on the 12th day of
October, 1937, all persons claiming to be
Creditors, Claimants or Next-of-kin of JAMES
LIDDY, deceased, late of Stonehall, New-
market-on-Fergus, in the County of Clare, Eire,
farmer, who died on the 28th day of May,
1931, and particularly the children and grand-
children of MICHAEL McINERNEY and
JOSEPH McINERNEY, who at one time lived’
at Tiermaclane, Ennis, in the County of Clare,
Eire, and were sons of Mclnerney
and Bridget Hanlon, the said Michael and
Joseph Mclnerney having emigrated to Aus-
tralia many years ago, and it is believed that the
said Michael Mclnerney lived at one time in
Sydney and had three daughters, are on or
before the 16th day of December, 1941, to
lodge with the County Registrar for the County
of Clare a statement in writing of their claims,
with full particulars of debts and claims, and
any claimant claiming to be a child or grand-
child of the said Michael Mclnerney or Joseph
Mclnerney already referred to should lodge
proof of their relationship to the said Michael
Mclnerney or Joseph Mclnerney with the
County Registrar for the County of Clare at
the Courthouse, Ennis, by themselves or their
Solicitors on the 22nd day of December, 1941,
with all necessary proofs and documentary and
other evidence in support of their claims, other-
wise they will be peremptorily excluded from
the benefit of said order.
DATED this 24th day of June, 1941.
MICHAEL KILLEEN,
County Registrar for the County of Clare,
Courthouse, Ennis.
F. F. CULLINAN & CO., Solicitors, having
carriage of this suit, Bindon Street, Ennis.
of gold—worth about £2,272,000 sterling.
That night the whole tone of the
Japanese radio and press changed. The
new (and uniform) note struck was that no
chance should be lost to make peace with
the democracies, and that, while ship-
ments of oil to Vladivostok gave “room
for grave concern,” they were not in
themselves important since they were only
in quantities which would scarcely supply
a large fighting army for more than a
day.
On August 29 an emergency meeting
of the Japanese Cabinet discussed the
“delicate situation” produced by the
approach of the Vladivostok shipments.
Almost simultaneously it was discovered
in Washington that Admiral Nomura, the
Ambassador in Washington, had delivered
a pei'sonal note from Prince Konoye, the
Prime Minister, to Mr. Roosevelt. Mr.
Cordell Hull said that the President was
undertaking personal negotiations with
the Admiral. Mr. Churchill had stated
in his world broadcast, while premising
that the Japanese southward movement
had “got to stop,” that the U.S.A. was
“laboring with infinite patience to arrive
at a fair and amicable settlement which
will give Japan the utmost reassurance
for her legitimate interests,”
There were vague propaganda whisper-
ings at the week-end directed to en-
couraging Japan’s withdrawal from the
Axis. That sort of talk is unhelpful at
the present stage.
The only thing clear is that there is
better hope of agreement. Sober
Japanese, with a devastating shortage of
materials and shipping and with one
large-scale war on their country’s hands,
cannot want another war. And if there
is any country less likely to want war
than Japan, especially with the Russian
problem splitting public opinion, it is
the U.S.A.
Aerial and Naval Operations.
“Aileron”; Though last week’s weather
in northern Europe was mostly bad,
R.A.F. arid R.A.A.F. squadrons con-
tinued their raids and sweeps over the
north of France, the Low Countries, the
Ruhr and the Rhineland. The highlight
was an attack on Rotterdam docks by
low-flying Blenheims, escorted by Spit-
fires. The machines came down to within
20ft. of their objectives, using delayed-
action bombs. It was a daring affair, and
the Germans alleged that practically none
of them returned home, but the Air
Ministry placed the loss at seven bombers
and five fighters. The same day nine
machines were lost in heavy raids on
western Germany, mainly round Duis-
berg and Ostend. German raids over
Britain were next to nothing.
An R.A.A.F. squadron operating over
the Channel on Wednesday found itself
in the middle of a melee with 100 Messer-
schmitts, which attacked in sections of
20. The Australians fought their way
through, coming home with only a few
bullet holes and three Mes. added to their
score. The combined bag of the R.A.F.
and R.A.A.F. was 10 enemy machines.
It is reported that enemy formations are
being built up in strength because the
new explosive cannon shell used by the
R.A.F.—a 37mm. job—is doing so much
damage that only a much superior
numerical force now has any chance of
dealing with British formations.
Fifteen British ships fought a three-
day battle with U-boats and bombers
off the Spanish and Portuguese
coast. Seven were sunk, totalling 10,000
tons —though German Radio placed the
number at anything up to 26 ships of
148,000 tons.
One skipper said it was the first time
a ship had been sunk in 16 convoy trips
in which he had shared, and declared
that no ship would have been lost if
the air escort had been sufficient.
The Germans claimed to have sunk a
9000-ton Norwegian ship in the Atlantic,
and the Admiralty admitted the loss of
the naval trawler Thorbryn (305 tons).
In the Mediterranean a British sub
torpedoed an Italian cruiser (“believed
sunk”) in a formation of nine ships.
Another sub. sank a 4000-ton Italian
tanker in an escorted convoy.
Main activity in the Middle East has
been in the air. An Italian attempt at a
heavy raid on Malta was staved off, and
there was desultory German and Italian
action up and down both sides of Mare
Nostrum. The R.A.F. gave Tripoli a
couple of heavy batterings and plastered
Benghazi dumps, concentrations and
harbor facilities. The F.A.A. bagged two
ships in the central Mediterranean, and
there were other operations over Gondar
(by the S.A.A.F.), Cyprus, where a few
vessels were damaged, Bardia, where
ships were directly hit and fires started
in petrol dumps, and Sicily. The Ger-
mans reported a raid on Ismailia on the
Suez Canal.
At the week-end the R.A.F., S.A.A.F.
and F.A.A. celebrated the destruction
of the thousandth ’plane brought down
by the R.N. and its auxiliaries by a series
of butchers’ picnics over the whole of the
Mediterranean zone. The last remaining
Abyssinian outposts were again bombed.
Sicily collected a few more packets.
Tripoli received 25 tons of bombs, which
set the Spanish Mole blazing in flames
hundreds of feet high, which spread to a
petrol dump. A 5000-ton ship was blown
up and observers next morning found an
8000-tonner still blazing outside the
breakwater and two others belching
smoke inside. Benghazi had a low-level
attack specially aimed at the Juliana Mole,
and sulphur and brimstone was served
out in large helpings round Benghazi.
About 30 tons of bombs were dropped
in Greece and Crete.
Napoleon and Moscow.
“Tovarish”: With the anniversary of
the burning of Moscow in 1812 coming
round in a fortnight, the air will be full
of Russian-war parallels, mainly directed
to prove that the scorched-earth policy
will destroy Hitler as it did Bonaparte.
I hope the protagonists of this idea
don’t study the authentic official docu-
ments of the French campaign; if they
do they will be severely disillusioned. The
earth of Moscow in 1812 was scorched
not by the citizenry, which frothed at
the mouth as it saw its houses and
churches go up in flames, but by 3000
felons released for the purpose by a
Governor and a vindictive policeman.
The Russian Army of the day condemned
the whole measure indignantly, as well
it might, since 30,000 of its own sick
and wounded were burnt alive, the venge-
ful Governor having taken away the
city’s fire engines.
The earth was not so seriously scorched
that the fires reached the city’s great
storage cellars. The French official bulle-
tin of September 17, 1812, recorded the
collection of necessaries, and noted that
at that stage the army had “abundance
of bread, potatoes, cabbages and other
vegetables, meat, salt, wine, brandy,
sugar and coffee —in short, provisions of
all sorts,”
Foragers also found, after the- fire,
enough ammunition to complete “sup-
plies for two campaigns.” They found
150 cannon and 60,000 muskets. But a
“population of 200,000 was left wander-
ing in the woods dying of hunger,” It
was proposed that everything for 20
leagues round Moscow should then be
burned —“if they burn a house or a vil-
lage we must burn 100 to teach them
to make war according to rule, and not
like Tartars.” But Napoleon “refused to
aggravate the misfortunes of the popu-
lation. It would have left without re-
sources 200,000 poor boors, innocent of
everything.”
Napoleon entered Moscow on Septem-
ber 14, finding the Russians preparing to
celebrate Te Deums for their “glorious
victories” at Polotsk, Riga, Ostronovo,
Smolensk and other battles, including
Borodino:
According to their accounts, they were
everywhere conquerors, and drove the
French to a great distance from the field
of battle.
At once the villainous Governor,
Rostopchin, set fire to the Exchange,
bazaar and hospital. On Sept. 16 a great
wind came up and, as five-sixths of the
houses were wood, the whole city was
soon an ocean of flames in which 1600
churches and 1000 palaces and superior
houses were consumed. The Kremlin
was blown up.
On October 23 it was recorded that “the
inhabitants of Russia do not recollect
such a fine season as we have had for
the last 20 days. It is the sun and fine
days of a journey from Fontainebleau.
The army is in extremely rich country ;
it may be compared to the best in France
and Germany.” The weather remained
fine till Nov. 6, after the battle of
Maloyaslavitz; then it snowed.
Prolongation of the occupation of
Moscow gave the Russians time to re-
collect a force. Had the French not
underestimated the enemy the tale might
have been different. The tragedy of the
march to the Dvina was due largely to
early losses of horse transport. In the
first four days of snowy weather 3000
transport horses and 100 caissons
were lost; a few days afterwards 30,000
horses had gone west, and “thousands
perished every night, chiefly French and
German horses.” A French bulletin dated
Dec. 3 declared:
This army, so fine on Nov. 6, was very
different on Nov. 14—almost without
cavalry, without artillery and without trans-
ports. Without cavalry we could not recon-
noitre a quarter of a league’s distance •
without artillery we could not risk a battle
and firmly await it; it was requisite to
march so as not to be constrained into
a battle, which the want of ammunition
constrained us from desiring.
The Russians, with their hardier live-
stock, saw what was happening and
concentrated on transport trains and
stragglers. Presently Napoleon —luckier
than the greater part of his troops, who
died by the wayside— went home to Paris
for Christmas, “travelling incognito in a
single sledge, with and under the name
of the Duke of Vicenza.”
Unfortunately Hitler’s iron cavalry and
transport mokes are not likely to die of
cold.
“Ek D.”: There have been more
changes in the Middle Eastern Com-
mands. The Iranian affair was supervised
by General Wavell from Indian head-
quarters, the field commander being
Major-General E. P. Quinan, G.O.C.
Waziristan, the obvious man for the job.
At the same time, it was announced that
Lieut.-General Alan Cunningham, having
completed his Ethiopian campaign, had
been transferred to the Middle Eastern
Command. But in all the changes there
has been no mention of our Thomas
Blarney, who was appointed Deputy
C.-in-C,, Middle East, after the Greek
retreat. Nobody seems to know whether
he is still Deputy C.-in-C. or what he
is doing.
* * * »
Asked in Canberra when he was still
P.M., Menzies said his Government had
“no information to suggest that Aus-
tralian troops were taking part in the
Iran campaign.” “I have, in fact, every
reason to believe,” he proceeded, “that
there are none in that region.” If he had
been positive about it some M.H.R. might
have died of heart failure.
* * * *
“Aileron”: Australia has seen its first
Hawker Hurricane, named after one of
its greatest flying pioneers. How Harry
Hawker would have thrilled at its
“leisurely” 500-mile trip from Laverton
(Vic.) to Sydney in a couple of hours!
And how he must have enjoyed in
Elysium the news that the torch of the
Atlantic air had been so well carried on
from the beginning which he and Mac-
kenzie Grieve made that a British Libera-
tor bomber, under “zero” weather con-
ditions, had made a delivery flight across
the herring pond in 7 % hours!
* * * «
“Ek D.”: One of my treasures is a
a cutting from the American weekly
“Look” (April 25, 1939) which serves to
remind me that “famous” correspondents
are not infallible. The oracles in this case
are Pearson and Allen, on whose words
editors of Sydney flapper-newspapers
hang as on those of a sibyl. The article
is headed “How Italy and Germany
Can Win the Next War,” and is illus-
trated with a map which “charts the war
as European high commands have
worked it out”: (1) Mussolini moves
against Djibuti and (2) Tunisia. (3) France
finds it difficult to send troops to or from
North Africa, because of “submarine
bases on the Balearics” (Spanish) and
other islands. (4) Britain is compelled to
keep her fleet at home to prevent sub-
marine blockade.
What ships do go to aid France find that
Gibraltar, once impregnable, no longer
commands the straits. Behind it, in Spain,
the Germans have hidden giant artillery. In
North Africa, the Fascists have one base at
Ceuta, another at Melilla.
So the French-Italian border becomes
the main European battleground. Six
motorised German divisions waiting in
the Austrian Tyrol turn the tide against
France. The Netherlands become the
battleground of a western front because
“France and Belgium are too well forti-
fied.” And the Netherlands having been
acquired by the Fascist Powers as air-
raid and submarine bases, the doom of
effete Britain is, of course, sealed.


The British tradition of
reliability is exemplified
There is no other razor
quite like the Yalet. The
self-stropping device aut-
omatically re - sets the
blade. One blade lasts for
weeks! He is indeed fortu-
nate whose birthday gifs;
is a Yalet Autostrop Razor
with a lifetime service.
A splash under the tap
cleanses it instantly.
Nothing to take to pieces
rinse it and wipe it dry
—that’s all. The daily rit-
ual of the morning shave
b ecomes a j oyous rite with
a Valet Autostrop Razor.
Nothing to take to pieces
—nothing to unscrew. It
strops itself in 10 seconds
with a perfect edge for
every shave.
Valet
AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR
Managing Agents for Australia;
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
HOW TO INCREASE
YOUR HEIGHT!
df
6FEET
5 FEET
4 FEET
3FEKT
2 FEET
I FOOT
Which One Represents You?
YOU CAN BE TALLER
IN JUST 14 DAYS
FROM NOW !
IN your own home you can increase your
‘ height by a Simple, Natural method.
There are no drugs, nothing to get out or
order; there is no risk, everything is simpl.
and straightforward.
This wonderful new method will add to
your stature, improve your health and appea
ance. „ „ __
500 TREATISES TO BE
GIVEN FREE!
THIS remarkable literature will amaze you:
it will show you the short cut to a talk
commanding personality. Though r adn „
this wonderful literature hundiedsi him
already increased their height, bundle s am
doing so at this moment, hor a short "
you can get one of these Treatises frce-d
you SEND AT ONCE. Get this coupon in
the post NOW! -
SEND NO MONEY/
SYDNEY PHYSICAL INSTITUTE,
Dept. 94, Wayne House,
CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NAME
address •••••• ••
Enclose Stamp for Postage.
3/9/’4l
SUNDRY SHOWS
AT THE TALKIE
“Citizen Kane”
, . , ... f nco
Among other things, the display ot mass
hysteria in America caused by a too-
realistic broadcast of a Martian invasion
suggested the work of a high-class
dramatist. Orson Welles was the
chap who dramatised that scare-piece
and put it over the air, and, judged
by his work as author, director
and leading player in “Citizen Kane,”
showing at Sydney Plaza, he is
a dramatist out of the box. The film is
a character study of an outstanding
person—a fabulously wealthy citizen with
Midas fingers in every pie, directing the
policy of a huge chain of newspapers. In
America the film caused a rumpus rather
above the customary publicity stunts be-
cause of the alleged resemblance of the
fictitious Kane to American newspaper
magnate Hearst.
“Citizen Kane” is presented in the form
c £ flash-back memories as given by
Kane’s friends to a newshound seeking
to throw some light on the man’s dying
words. This method of presentation has
frequently misfired when used to tell a
story, but here, with everything concen-
trated on the character impression, it is
highly successful.
Best contribution to the film, however,
is a cast which hasn’t previously appeared
in films—members of a theatrical corn-
pany, the Mercury Players. Welles him-
self plays Kane and, apart frorn the
effect of downright good acting, he is
easy to believe in the part because the
audience doesn’t have to try to swallow
Welles as a newspaper magnate with fairly
recent visions in the back of its mind of
Welles as a great lover or a great scientist
or a mauve grasshopper. The same
applies to the rest of the cast-good act-
ing and fresh people.
Photography, special effects and other
departments are of the same high
standard.
STAGE AND CONCERT
Like “celebrity concert,” “guest con-
ductor” is in danger of becoming a cant
phrase in Melbourne, whose Symphony
Orchestra experiences almost nothing
but conducting by outsiders these days.
In fact, it is rather like a crew with a
succession of captains or an army with
visitor-generals. It was, ordered into
battle on Saturday night with some pietty
tough musical propositions. That it
made a hit with one of the biggest houses
that have rolled up during the present
season isn’t necessarily an argument for
the “guest conductor” system but rather
suggests how much better the orchestra
might do with more continuity of direc-
tion. The latest conductor was Percy
Code, born at Middle Park, Melbourne,
but now of Sydney, who has seen the
A.B.C.’s Melbourne orchestra grow
from 12 to &5 persons, and whose broad
back has often been presented to Town
Hall audiences. He got earnest attention
for the stately Handel-Harty concerto
which had the services of Frederick Earle
at the organ. He and Friedman divided
the generous applause that went to the
Chopin concerto. The piano laughed and
chuckled and wove vivid patterns on an
orchestral backcloth of uncommonly fine
finish. Elgar’s enormous First Symphony
concluded the proceedings.
* * * *
Good music, pictures, the elegant en-
vironment of the Stawell and a free seat
continue to lure the public to the chamber
music concerts at the Victorian National
Gallery. A large audience listened
respectfully last week to the Victorian
String Quartet’s and Carl Bartling’s
rendering of Dohnanyi’s quintet for
pianoforte and strings, Op. 26, and en-
thusiastically to the quartet in E Flat
Major of C. Von Dittersdorf, with its
crisp and lively melody. Etta Bernard
got a vigorous hand for her singing of a
panel of national songs collected from
Haydn’s works. The pictures came in
for prolonged inspection, the trustees
having extended the interval.
# * * *
Old Gilsullivan addicts and Gilsullivan
addicts in the making continue to storm
His Majesty’s, Melbourne, where “The
Mikado” is the business under discussion.
Some of the actors, particularly Ivan
Ko-Ko Menzies, take but a languid in-
terest in the proceedings, having been
mixed up in them before so often. In fact,
the languor of Lord High Executioner
Menzies is almost excessive, even when
he is hopping and jumping about like a
flea. Being comparatively new to the
business, Peggy Shea and Marie Bremner
look a trifle anxious and eager not to
offend against the timeworn Gilsullivan
conventions, but others look as easy
and assured and bored with what they
are doing as a Governor-General inspect-
ing a guard of honor. But that isn’t in-
effective. In fact, it has a certain cere-
monial impressiveness, like a church
service, and leaves Sullivan’s music more
or less free to make its appeal to the
eardrums, John Fullard, however, should
make Nanki-Poo’s attempt at suicide a
little less lethargic if only to match his
animated singing.
ARTBURSTS
Unless it is meant jocularly the title
“ ‘Sunday Telegraph’ Children’s Art Show”
given to a display of paintings by juveniles
of primary school age at David Jones’s
Market-street store, Sydney, is misleading.
Art, according to all the lexicographers,
is skill acquired by experience. The
official catalogue indulges in such phrases
as “the child’s natural gift for expres-
sion” and “the particular qualities of
child art —spontaneity of design, exuber-
ant color sense and freshness of outlook
rather than an unfeeling acquired com-
petence.” If these recommendations mean
anything they postulate that the highest
art is a product of instinct rather than
of training, which is absurd, and that
training in drawing and painting is de-
structive of the artistic sense.
• * . • • •
How the N.S.W. Education Depart-
ment’s Supervisor of Art, who was one
of the judges, regarded these views is not
known, but if he shared them he has
nothing to reproach himself with. With
a few prize-winning exceptions that dis-
played more art than instinct, the 9000
exhibits proved that the kids concerned
had never had even ten minutes’ worth-
while instruction in the rudiments of
drawing and laying on color. And there
was nothing spontaneous and fresh about
their efforts. Children used conventional
symbols in picture-making long before the
symbolists, the cubists, the vorticists and
the other gagaists made the practice
fashionable, and all children of all races,
when untaught, use the same symbols.
They produce, sometimes, by luck or
instinct, excellent color patterns, and
there’s a lot of unconscious humor in
some of their productions. But it shouldn't
be pretended by presumably intelligent
adults that these drawings are high art.
sjc * * *
In an upper chamber of the Roycroft
Book Shop in Rowe-street, Sydney, hang
water-color drawings and woodcuts made
by an Alsatian artist, Wolfgang Wolff,
in Tahiti. There is a tremendous vigor
and gusto about these glimpses of Poly-
nesian people, and, in the woodcuts
especially, an irresistible good humor.
The most unconventional and refreshing
art show of the year and well worth the
bob the Red Cross collects from the
patron.
* * * *
The walls of the Melbourne Athenaeum
are at present crowded with works of
three young artists, Tom Bell, C. L. Cope-
land and Eric Milan. Their subject matter
is sensational and varied, ranging from
posterlike pictures of charging Anzacs,
fire-blitzed cities, portraits, still life and
landscapes. But subject matter isn t
everything in a picture.
The Australian stage has lost Gregan
McMahon, on whom the curtain has
fallen in Melbourne at 67. He was born
in Sydney and was a graduate of Sydney
Uni. He at first intended to become a
lawyer, but his talents seemed to him
better suited to the stage. His first impor-
tant engagement was with the Robert
Brough Comedy Co., which toured Aus-
tralia, China and India m 1900.
McMahon, a first-rate character-actor,
was from then onward frequently seen
on Australasian stages till 1911, when he
founded the Melbourne Repertory
Theatre. In 1920 he founded the Sydney
Repertory Theatre. In recent years he
had been back in Melbourne. During his
30 years as a repertory producer he
staged 340 plays, including many by Aus-
tralian authors.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Good horses always attract, and at
Randwick on Saturday there was an
attendance of nearly 34,000 and a totali-
sator turnover of £47,243. With AJ.C.
profits going to war funds such strong
support is gratifying.
Last season High Caste won at his first
start after an absence from racing of
nearly five months. Bright and even
burlier than ever, he repeated that form
in the Warwick Stakes. Freckles set a
solid pace to the turn, where Kingsdale
went up to him, and Lucrative and High
Caste were next. Then High Caste made
a fast forward move, and, tackling
Freckles a furlong from home, beat him
a neck. It was said that High Caste
loafed after catching Freckles. Perhaps,
but his rider, Bartle, did not.
Kindergarten, who appeared to run a
trifle unkindly nearing the half-mile,
dropped back to fifth. Wiggins made an
attempt to get him through on the rails
after entering the straight, but was not
afforded that opportunity, being fairly
shut in behind Freckles and High Caste,
with Lucrative outside him. Even with
better luck in the straight it is improbable
he could have beaten High Caste. As it
was, he dead-heated Lucrative for third,
and they were two lengths from the
winner. Kingsdale did even better than
expected, and should pick up a handicap
in the near future.
The principal surprise in connection
with the Hobartville Stakes was that Beau
Son should have been favorite. His win
when in receipt of 281 b. from Yaralla did
not warrant it. Last season’s form made
All Love and Yaralla stand out. Before
going half a mile it was evident nothing
had any hope of beating them. At one
stage All Love led Yaralla by three
lengths, but, though the latter got within
a neck of the filly at the winning-post, he
never quite looked like defeating her.
Recent form pointed to It’s Funny being
next best to AH Love and Yaralla, and
he ran third, though without ever having
the slightest chance against those two.
Chatham’s Choice, Laureate and Beau
Son were nearest the place-getters, and,
while the fact of meeting with interference
early in the race was some excuse for the
failure of the last-named to do better, his
showing was disappointing. Laureate, a
well-grown brother to Lucrative, is an
improver and, no matter how he fares
at the coming spring meetings, should be
heard from in the autumn. The Cham-
pion and Prince were outpaced through-
out, which was not surprising, as All Love
ran the first half-mile in very fast time.
•••••<
When Flying Knight got away from
Session turning for home, and led oppo-
site the leger, a win for him in the Camp-
belltown Handicap seemed possible, but
Panchio then fairly ran over him, while
Amiable, in third place, also finished
well. Panchio’s Queensland trip has done
a lot for him, and despite his recent wins
he will run in the Epsom without a
penalty, Rimveil and Evergreen looked
as if they would be all the better for a
race, but the former, though conspicuous
at the rear of the field after going two
furlongs, ran fifth, with Evergreen a
couple of horses further back. Evergreen
did not show any dash.
Session died out some distance from
the winning-post, as did Valve after
making a forward move approaching the
turn. Two of the “rough division” in
Beauregard and Kama were always in the
first flight, and both are well worth keep-
ing in mind. Owner Triggs has never had
many horses, but Gilltown and Panchio
have given him a good return.
In the Spring Handicap Triggerman
emphasised the occasional difficulty of
following form. He met Gundagai 121 b.
worse than when the former defeated him
at Rosebery a fortnight earlier, but, hold-
ing him off in the last furlong, was a
neck to the good at the winning-post.
No excuse was possible for Gundagai.
Gilltown, who is on the way to a return
to form, led most of the trip from Trig-
german and Yours Truly, who lost a little
ground entering the straight, but made
another dash half a furlong from home.
However, he weakened before reaching
the winning-post. Connette was in a
good position to the turn, but failed to
stay. Triggerman is a Metropolitan
runner.
Sir Hugh and Windjammer made the
early running in the Hurdles, but from
the time the former fell at the seven fur-
longs and brought down the lattei the
race resolved itself into a match between
Panama and Berrima. Although Berrima
was nicely handled by Hynes, Panarua’s
advantage in weight told, and he was a
sure winner from the time he led into the
straight. Tea Denis was a poor third,
and, apart from the winner, Windjammer
is the only runner worth considering in
the near future.
In most of his races Indian Emperor
has generally been a long way back in
the early part, but Munro had him well
placed from barrier-rise in the first divi-
sion of the Farm Novice, and he out-
stayed the three-year-old Dark Warbler,
who improved considerably on his pre-
vious efforts, and is now worth follow-
ing. Dundalk dropped back third-last
between the seven and six furlongs, and,
though after that he never looked a win-
ner, plugged on well to run a good third.
Gold Rush displayed a lot of pace, lead-
ing into the straight from Charlotte
Greenwood, Cadger and Rondeval, and
his fourth was good enough to make him
worth backing when he runs in a six fur-
longs race of similar class. By Harinero
from La Bergeronnette (Poor Boy-Strath-
glass), Indian Emperor was a 450gns.
yearling. Angus never got in it, nor did
El Kenny.
Lo Dokes, the best-looking horse in
the second division of the Farm Novice,
did not run well at his previous start at
Rosehill, but he demonstrated what an
interval of three weeks will do for a
horse. Backed down to favoritism he led
throughout, and was not in danger from
the top of the straight, winning in a half-
second faster time than Indian Emperor
recorded in his division. Generous Ges-
ture again ran well, and of the remainder
only Panabil, Pan Pipe and Pickpocket
showed form of any account.
*•••••
When Munro’s name went up as Veiled
Threat’s rider in the Gienlee Handicap
there was strong support for him, and,
though one of the whippers-in after going
a furlong and tenth or eleventh into the
straight, he won in brilliant fashion from
Bel Oiseau, who was prominent through-
out. Willie Green, who was the early
leader and was still in charge from Final
Victory, Early Bird and Levraut turning
into the straight, was third—form that puts
him in line for another win at one of
the mid-week meetings. Levraut hung on
well to finish fifth, but was not so im-
pressive as Chatoona, who came from
some distance back at the top of the
straight to finish fifth. John Dory never
flattered his backers, and, though Epsom
and Metropolitan doubles were com-
menced with Haridelle last week, her
form was not of any account. Sedunum
was not sighted, nor was Overbold, and
Early Bird tired over a furlong from
home, as did John Halifax.
Sun Valley, a bad traveller, and there-
fore unlikely to be sent to Sydney for
the Epsom Handicap, enhanced his Caul-
field Cup prospects by his impressive
defeat of Tranquil Star and Tea Cake in
the Underwood Stakes, first w.f.a. race of
the season, at Moonee Valley on Satur-
day. He won by 2i lengths, carried 41b.
more than his Caulfield Cup weight, and
met Tranquil Star 51b. worse than Cup
terms.
A small section of the crowd voiced
its disapproval of Sun Valley’s form as
compared with his failure at Mentone a
week earlier. Conditions of the two
races, however, were altogether different,
and Sun Valley’s race at Mentone was his
first since a let-up. Well backed again
on Saturday, he moved into second place
behind Tranquil Star near the half-mile,
raced past her entering the straight, and
gave Badger his fourth successive win in
the corresponding race. His three pre-
vious wins had been on Ajax. Badger
completed a double on Palencia in the
August Handicap, but later was sus-
pended for one month for interference
in the Underwood Stakes.
Some keen judges doubt whether Sun
Valley will appreciate a mile and a half,
and they are not overlooking the fact
that he finished third to Pandect and
Lucrative in the A.J.C. Derby. That race
was run at a muddling pace, and the
only other occasion on which Sun Valley
has tackled a distance beyond a mile was
when he finished third to the dead-
heaters Mabson and Evergreen over 10
furlongs at Flemington in the autumn.
He looks a bigger and stronger horse
than this time last year, and, judged by
Saturday’s performance, is also a better
galloper. More should be known of his
Cup chance if he contests the Memsie
Stakes, nine furlongs, at Flemington next
Saturday.
Tranquil Star, though beaten, was not
disgraced. She was racing for the first
time since the autumn and made her own
pace. Unless there is any serious de-
velopment of her splint trouble, Tranquil
Star must still be considered a definite
Caulfield Cup danger. Tea Cake, a geld-
ing, and therefore ineligible for Derbies
or St. Legers, shaped well enough in third
place to indicate that he may be a Caul-
field Guineas possibility. He finished a
fair way ahead of Lugano, whose chance,
however, was prejudiced by interference
early in the race. Lugano’s form was to
have determined for or against a trip to
Sydney for the A.J.C. Derby, but a de-
cision has been deferred pending his race
at Flemington next Saturday. Zonda
weakened toward the finish, but looked
as if she would be all the better for the
race, while True Flight, who made up
ground to finish sixth, will be more at
home in a handicap.
All Veil, who would have gone to
Sydney for the Epsom had he run at all
well in the Underwood Stakes, was never
a possibility. His trainer, H. Wolters,
stated after the race that the Sydney trip
is off, and this means that Cloudy Bay,
from the same stable, might remain at
home also. It was to have been a case
of “one go, both go,” but Cloudy Bay, a
candidate for the A.J.C. Derby, won the
Manor Handicap in such good style that,
at the time of writing, it was indefinite
whether original plans would be adhered
to.
Cloudy Bay has always given staying
promise, and, although he had no All
Loves or Yarallas to beat in the Manor
Handicap, his convincing defeat of Alc-
mena and Wallace James at a mile left
little to be desired. He received a rails
run when the pacemaker, Alcmena,
veered out entering the straight, and, fin-
ishing truly, wound up with a length and
a half to spare. Cloudy Bay, a Maori-
land-bred son of Phaleron Bay and
Cherry Pie, is owned by G. J. Barton,
who was not present to see him win.
Alcmena, who conceded Cloudy Bay 81b.,
may be hard to defeat in the important
races for fillies this spring. Liege, fourth,
though hardly up to Derby standard, can
be placed to advantage, and the run will
improve Foxhow, who ran on well in
fifth position.
• • • • •
Distance and middle-distance form in
Melbourne continues to perplex punters.
Palencia, a mile and a half winner at
Flemington three starts back, subse-
quently weakened to finish ninth in the
10 furlongs Mentone race won by Rivette,
but, back to \\ mile again on Saturday,
he outstayed Snow White in the August
Handicap, His win was some compensa-
tion for the defeat of Lucrative, also
from the Freedman stable, in the War-
wick Stakes at Randwick the same after-
noon. Palencia, who is engaged in both
Cups with light weights, obviously is an
improved stayer. Throttle ran on well in
third place, but Pargoon, favorite, tired
after hitting the front at the half-mile.
Adelaide-owned Chatasan, who had
failed at Flemington at his previous start,
won the Truganina Handicap in good
style from Orteli and Con Naru. Start-
ing at 12 to 1, he dashed to the front on
the turn, but his winning margin of 24-
lengths would have been less had Orteli
not been forced wide entering the straight.
Aurie’s Star let his backers down again.
He could not wrest the lead from
Waihine, was one of the first horses
beaten and finished tenth. Beaufiler
shaped fairly in fourth position, but
neither Operatic nor Warbird raised the
hopes of his supporters.
Winterset, purchased comparatively
recently by “H. J. Ascot” for 360gns.,
was untroubled to carry 12.0 to success
in the Paisley Hurdle. His two wins and
a second for his new owner have returned
£590 in stakes alone. Usually a tearaway
customer, Winterset was restrained behind
the leaders early, but he headed off the
pacemaker. Amnesty, about five furlongs
from home, and, never in danger of
defeat subsequently, won by eight lengths
from Amnesty, with Ken third. Winter-
set is so fit that the handicappers might
not yet have his measure, and he looks
the type likely to shine over fences later.
Backed from 15 to 1 to sevens, Ric-
carton made one act of the August
Steeplechase. Quickly establishing a use-
ful lead, he never looked like stopping,
and won by 10 lengths from West Haran,
with the favorite, Bunnegal, third; Ric-
carton is a five-year-old gelding by Ver-
bius from Cavil, and his win was a wel-
come change of luck for trainer L. Duff.
He has not had a great deal of fencing
experience, and should improve.
* * * *
A month permits of a wonderful
change in the form of some horses. If
it were not so supporters of various can-
didates for the Epsom or Metropolitan
could, on last Saturday’s form, regard
their money as lost. Evergreen, for one,
did nothing to please his Epsom backers,
nor did Session. Each goes up 41b. in
the Epsom as compared with the Camp-
belltown Handicap, while Panchio drops
31b., and he won well. That means an
advantage of 71b, for Panchio, and as
he beat Session and Evergreen at least
another 71b. that leaves them with a
lot of leeway to make up. The difference
certainly lends itself to the idea that it
is merely a matter of Panchio running
a mile nearly as well as he does six fur-
longs to beat both again.
Before the Campbelltown Handicap,
however. Evergreen’s appearance sug-
gested to me that he might be all the
better for a little more racing, but it is
questionable whether Amiable’s condition
can be improved to any extent. Rimveil’s
price did not give the impression that he
had been showing anything in his work
to make his trainer at all optimistic on
Saturday. Still, Rimveil made a good
showing, and as another race or two will
not do him any harm he is among those
sure to improve before the commence-
ment of the A.J.C. spring meeting. He
will again carry 9.2, but he will have to
improve upon Queensland form to dispose
of High Rank, whom he will meet only
21b. better than in the Doomben New-
market, and the latter has shown he can
get a mile.
Valve, who was among those mentioned
in the betting lists last week, can seem-
ingly be wiped off for the Epsom, and
on their form of last Saturday there
does not now seem much hope for such
as John Dory, John Halifax, Overbold
and Willie Green.
Freckles put himself in a good light,
and the chances are that if the A.J.C.
handicapper had the opportunity of re-
vising his Epsom figures he would in-
crease that gelding’s weight a few pounds.
In the Warwick Stakes Freckles carried
131 b. more than his Epsom impost, and
will meet High Caste 231 b. better. Of
course, the extra furlong has to be taken
into account, but Freckles’s light weight
should give him a good chance of run-
ning it, especially when it is remembered
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Trial Stakes: Beauregard, 1 ;
Plimsol, 2; Southerly or Winooka
Girl, 3.
Canterbury Stakes: High Caste,
1 ; Amiable, 2 ; Cassar, 3.
Flying Handicap: Kama, 1 ; Fly-
ing Knight, 2 ; Brazandt, 3.
Canterbury Guineas: Yaralla, 1 ;
It’s Funny, 2 ; Beau Son, 3.
Turf Club Handicap: Red Sails,
1 ; Aristocrat, 2; Yours Truly, 3.
Campsie Handicap: Bel Oiseau,
1 ; Dyne, 2 ; John Dory, 3.
FOR V.A.T.C. MEETING.
(At Flemington.)
(Before acceptances.)
Doona Trial: Chamberlain, 1 ;
Salmon, 2; Tolaga, 3.
Whittier Handicap: High Title,
1 ; Orteli, 2; Mans tar, 3.
'Warriston Handicap: Foxhow,
1 ; Cloudy Bay, 2 ; Skipton, 3.
Memsie Stakes: Tranquil Star, 1 ;
Zonda, 2; Sun Valley, 3.
Sandringham Steeple; Solecism,
1 ; Riccarton, 2 ; Gracstello, 3.
Heatherlie Handicap; Sir Cocket,
1; Throttle, 2; Contact, 3.


With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
nremature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 1321 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Write
NOW for this amazing new
treatment.
t.jones &. CO.,
CHEMISTS.
319 George St., Sydney.
d
his wins include a mile and a quarter
at Randwick. After the way Brazandt
beat him at Victoria Park I was inclined
to discount his Epsom prospects, but he
shaped so well on Saturday that success
in that race cannot be put beyond him.
Another thing is that, though Freckles is
recoghised as a “front runner,” it might
be worth the risk of using him less freely
in the early part than in his recent races.
High Caste will undoubtedly be better
suited by a mile than Freckles, but it
will be surprising if that difference of
231 b. does not tell, notwithstanding that
the Epsom may see High Caste better
than at any previous time. Furthermore,
track conditions will have to be favor-
able with his big weight, while Freckles’s
7.5 should be nothing to him if he is an
average galloper on a soft track.
Last week’s form at Randwick said
most for Freckles, High Caste, Amiable,
Panchio and Rimveil, but three more
days at Randwick, as well as one at Rose-
hill and another at Canterbury, before
the A.J.C. spring meeting may put quite
a different complexion on affairs.
As Gundagai could not win the Spring
Handicap with 7.5 it was to be expected
he would ease for the Metropolitan, in
which he has only 21b. less weight. He
had every chance on Saturday, but went
down to Triggerman, whom he met 91b.
worse than Metropolitan terms. Though
he is likely to beat the latter if they
should meet in that race, his prospects of
winning do not appear nearly so bright
now as prior to his latest effort. There
is very little room for improvement in
his condition. It is different With his
stable companion, Veiled Threat, who,
though he won the Glenlee Handicap so
easily, should benefit from that race.
Veiled Threat made light of 9.9 in the
Glenlee Handicap, and, though he failed
badly with 7.12 in the Sydney Cup, for
which he was favorite, he previously
downed a good field in the Warwick
Farm Autumn Cup, H mile, in which
he carried 7.7. Possibly the Metropolitan
distance will suit him better than two
miles. Compared with Lucrative he will
be 81b. better off than in the Cup. For
a proved stayer Lucrative’s form in a
sprint race, the Warwick Stakes, was
excellent, and he looks a weight-carrier.
Yours Truly’s third in the Spring Han-
dicap with 7.9 did not recommend him
for the Metropolitan, and only Veiled
Threat and Lucrative did sufficiently well
to find them additional support for that
race. One disappointing run does not
put a horse out of court, but unless in
one of the middle-distance handicaps to
be run during the next three weeks Gun-
dagai proves himself better than last
week his Metropolitan price will not be
cramped.
* * * *
The distance of the Hobartville Stakes
is too short to be valuable in the way of
a Derby trial, and perhaps some of those
beaten on Saturday may do much better
over the longer distance. Beau Son
looks the part of a Derby colt, but he
did not show it in the Hobartville. The
interference he experienced early in the
race may have unbalanced him, but it
should not have completely deprived him
of dash or finishing ability. He dis-
played neither quality, and his showing
was so far below the expectations of
those associated with him that it might
be wise to overlook it.
All Love’s win did not suggest she
would add to the fillies successful in the
A.J.C, Derby, and neither her owner
nor trainer may deem it advisable to
make the attempt. She was very tired
when she reached the winning-post in
the Hobartville Stakes, though, for that
matter, so was everything behind her. The
Caulfield Guineas will give her more
chance of another good win than a
Derby, but the fact of that race being
run at Caulfield will be nothing in her
favor. Still, seven furlongs in the V.R.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes did not stop her.
Yaralla did not do quite as well in the
last half-furlong of the Hobartville as
his admirers expected, and, if anything,
It’s Funny in third place may have been
doing slightly better at the end. Never-
theless, the latter finished a long way
behind Yaralla, who in the Derby is
unlikely to be set the task of chasing
such a flier as All Love from start to
finish. I am assuming that All Love will
not be a Derby runner. Prince did not
act up to his autumn form, and he does
not appear to have developed to any
extent.
The Canterbury Guineas and Rosehill
Guineas may cause a revision of ideas,
but at present Yaralla seems to me as
good a Derby prospect as any of those
which finished behind him last week.
* * * *
On Monday the combination of
Freckles and Lucrative was in strong
demand for the Epsom and Metropoli-
tan, though High Caste still retained his
position of favorite for the mile. The
order of the most-fancied horses was as
follows:
Epsom Handicap.
High Caste.
Freckles.
Rimveil.
Evergreen.
Amiable, Session, High Rank.
Panchio, Sun Valley.
Metropolitan.
Lucrative.
Veiled Threat.
Pandect.
Gundagai.
Remarc.
Beau Vite, Reading, Binnia Hero.
* * * *
In view of the support accorded Gal-
liard for the Melbourne Cup earlier in the
week his withdrawal from the Glenlee
Handicap at Randwick last week dis-
appointed many racegoers. His backers
for the Melbourne Cup cannot have
much to go upon. In receipt of 61b. he
ran well against Connette in a race of a
little over a mile at Rosehill, but the
latter, with only 6.10, was unplaced in
the Warwick Farm Spring Handicap on
Saturday last. Galliard is by The Buz-
zard, a sire of stayers, but, though some
distance back on the maternal side Gal-
liard’s pedigree includes some useful
stayers, the nearer removes favor short
more than long distances.
* * * *
E. McMenamin was suspended for
two months by the A.I.C. stipendiary
stewards on Saturday for allegedly cut-
ting across too sharply on Yaralla soon
after the start of the Hobartville Stakes.
As a result Chatham’s Choice was forced
on to Henchman, and he in turn inter-
fered with Beau Son. Soon after the
decision was announced McMenamin
said he had no intention of appealing,
but later he changed his mind. On Mon-
day he lodged an appeal at the A.I.C.
office. In Melbourne H. Badger, who
was engaged to ride Pandect and Mur-
muring in Sydney, was suspended for a
month for crowding, but his term will
expire before the commencement of the
A.I.C. spring meeting.
* * * *
It would be unwise to attempt to pass
judgment on Kindergarten because of his
failure in the Warwick Stakes, He was
strange to the course, and luck in running
was against him. Although shapely he
is not outstanding in appearance, and,
notwithstanding his trainer believes he
will be seen to much greater advantage
at a longer distance than last Saturday’s
seven furlongs, he will find High Caste a
tough opponent up to a mile and a
quarter at least. Beyond that Beau Vite
and Lucrative will add to his formidable
opponents, and, though Kindergarten is
good, there is unlikely to be any “easy
money” for him in w.f.a. races in Aus-
tralia. Incidentally, if there was sound
foundation in that reported offer of
£25,000 for Kindergarten, his owner may
now be inclined to accept it.
* * * *
Owner R. Stewart wishes Beau Vite’s
attendants to be armed while that horse
is in Melbourne. Last year El Golea was
shot in mistake for Beau Vite. However,
it is stated by the Melbourne police that,
while no definite undertaking could be
given to arm Beau Vite’s regular attend-
ants, the employment of some former
member of the police force as a guard
for that horse would probably cause the
application to be granted. At one time
we used to be shocked by occurrences in
America in connection with racing, but,
what with shooting, doping and demands
for armed guards, racing in Australia
must be gaining an unenviable reputation
everywhere.
He IS * *
Can anyone imagine an Australian
breeder getting up at the yearling sales
to say his horses were selling for more
than they were worth? Yet many years
ago in America, when yearlings were sold
at auction at the studs where they were
bred, and such a price as £5OO bordered
on the sensational, one of that country’s
breeders. General Harding, stopped a sale
at his place to make a speech to that
effect. One of his colts had reached a
higher figure than he thought fair, and
he addressed the bidders as follows:
“Gentlemen, there is no untried colt
worth that much money, and I don’t like
to see men under excitement bid more
than a horse is worth at one of my sales.”
In Australia if a breeder did anything
like that his sanity would be questioned
by his fellow-breeders. It may be added
that nothing of that sort happens nowa-
days in America, and there is something
of an outcry against prices of yearlings
being forced up by dummy bids.
* * * *
The A.I.C. Derby is a race that
backers generally approach with consider-
able confidence, but the last two results
have been costly for them. In 1939 the
5-to-4-on favorite, Beau Vite, was fourth
and the 5-to-2 favorite, Tidal Wave, was
similarly placed last year. Beau Vite has
compensated for his failure, but Tidal
Wave has yet to do so, his best efforts
since last year’s Derby being his third
in the Melbourne Cup and dead-heat
with Velocity for that position in the
Australian Cup. However, Tidal Wave,
who is now a gelding, may yet win a
good long-distance handicap.
* * * *
As Ascot (Sydney) last week a woman
had the remarkable experience of twice
holding the only winning ticket on the
double tote. She received £124 17s. 6d.
for ss. from the combination of Inquisi-
tive and Arena, and £ll5 17s. from Arena
and Grand Billy. The return was not
surprising in the case of Inquisitive and
Arena, their respective starting prices
being 33 to 1 and 20 to 1.
Touching on big double tote dividends,
it is mentioned by an American exchange
that at Delaware Park in July seven
people selected the daily double, and
each received approximately £A1674 for
two dollars. America’s record, however,
was made at Washington Park (Chicago)
in August, 1939, with a payout of 10,722
dollars —about £3636 at present rate of
exchange with Australia —for two dollars.
England’s best is the £4679 11s. for 10s.
at Manchester in November, 1937.
* * * *
At Gosford last week it was further
proved that it occasionally pays to give
a horse two races in an afternoon. Beaten
at his first start at five furlongs, Airdrie
won at six furlongs at his second run.
With a couple of hours intervening it is
not too much to ask a well-conditioned
horse to race twice in a day over short
courses. Airdrie was bred in Maoriland
and was a 400gns. yearling. He is by
Foxbridge from Ithica, by Lysander from
Leta, who was a winner at Randwick
and, on the maternal side, was related
to Melodrama, winner of two Epsom
Handicaps. N
* * * *
Horses bred in Maoriland did not make
a clean sweep of Sydney’s w.f.a. races last
season but they went close to it, win-
ning 11 of the 14 decided. Seven favorites
were beaten, three failing at the A.J.C.
autumn meeting. The season’s w.f.a.
winners were as under: —■
Warwick Stakes.-—Beaulivre, 2 to 1 on.
Canterbury Stakes. —Beaulivre, 5 to 4 on.
Chelmsford Stakes—Beaulivre, 6 to 4.
Clarendon Stakes, —High Caste, 3 to 1 on.
Hill Stakes—Beau Vite, 5 to 1; High Caste,
2 to 1, second.
Colin Stephen Stakes.—Beau Vite, 5 to 4 on.
Craven Plate. —Beau Vite, 5 to 4 on.
Randwick Plate—Dashing Cavalier, 9 to 4;
Mosaic, 13 to 8, third.
Rawson Stakes. —Beau Vite, 7 to 4; High
Caste, 10 to 9 on, second.
Chipping Norton Plate.— Tranquil Star, 20
to 1; Beau Vite, 6 to 4 on, third.
Autumn Plate. —Beau Vite, 4 to 1 on.
, All-Aged Plate—Gold Salute, 5 to 1; High
Caste, 5 to 4, third.
Cumberland Plate.—Tranquil Star, 5 to 2;
Lucrative, 13 to 8 on, second.
A.J.C. Plate—Beau Vite, 5 to 2; Tranquil
Star, 9 to 4, unplaced.
* * * *
Maoriland-bred horses have done well
in the Epsom Handicap in the last 11
years. In that period their winners have
been Nightmarch, Autopay, Silver Ring,
Synagogue, Gold Rod and High Caste.
In the last few years their successful
Metropolitan runners were Waikare, Sir
Regent, Royal Chief and Beau Vite,
Accepting the betting market as a guide
they will again be heard from in Sydney
and Melbourne this year.
* * * *
The Barb’s 11.7 in 1869 is the most
ever allotted any horse in a Melbourne
Cup, and the minimum was then 5.7.
The Barb did not start. Carbine won
with 10.5 in 1890, but was a non-starter
with 10.12 the following year; while
Wakeful, second with 10.0 in 1903, had
10.5 a year later. Poitrel had top weight,
10.0, in 1920, and won, but, though Phar
Lap was favorite at 3 to 1 with 10.10 in
1931, he did not finish among the first
half-dozen. Peter Pan headed the list
with 9.10 in 1934, and won, but was
not a runner with 10.6 the following year.
In last year’s Cup Mosaic had pride of
place with 9.6 when the weights were
issued, but a penalty took Beau Vite up
to 9.7. Backed down to 9 to 4, he ran
fourth, followed by Beaulivre, who was
rehandicapped at 9.6 for his Caulfield
Cup win.
M.Q. and Rafferty
The N. S. Wales North Coast scrapper
Ritchie Sands, who has had good wins
at Newcastle, ran into a snag when he
shaped up to the Victorian middleweight
A 1 Basten at West Melbourne Stadium
on Saturday night. Basten was in great
fighting form, and in eight rounds of
battering had Sands so near pulp that
the ref. stepped in and saved Sands from
further damage. Sands is still on the
crude side, and, like most of the current
crop of stoush artists, has overlooked
the elementary matter of defence. That
was his undoing. But he’s a promising
scrapper, and anyone who recalls how
greatly Ron Richards improved from his
early greenness will not rule out Sands
altogether.
Footbrawl
Shocking kicking by the Melbourne for-
wards, hustled off their feet by the Carl-
ton backs, gave Carlton the game at
Prince’s Oval on Saturday. Melbourne’s
ruck was as good as ever, and its men
shaded Carlton in the opening stages, but,
well fed as they were, the forwards were
as a rabble. At three-quarter time Carl-
ton led 13.14 to 6.19. Melbourne opened
up in the last, largely through La Fon-
taine’s encouragement, but it was too
late: Carlton, 16.17; Melbourne, 11.22.
Carlton will get a great fillip out of the
win. The side has played consistently
well this season, and is not only in “the
four,” but with a great chance for the
premiership.
Essendon and Richmond are to meet
in the first semi-final next Saturday. At
their previous meeting Richmond broke
away with an eight-goal lead, but the
’Dons came with a great rush at the
finish and just failed to get there by nine
points. Then Richmond was belted by
Fitzroy, 14.15-12.10, and Fitzroy was
licked by Essendon on Saturday,
18.14- If form is any guide the
’Dons should win, but they’ll earn every
point they score against the terrific Rich-
mond ruck.
Hawthorn got a win on Saturday! Yes,
against “Sowth.” In “Sowth’s” own
backyard, too. The Haw-Haws led all
the way to 11.17-7.12. It saved them
from the wooden spoon, which is equally
divided among Haw-Haws, Geelong —
stoushed by Richmond, 20.12-12.11—and
Saints, who provided a Footscray holiday,
16.14-
• ••••*
At North Melbourne the locals put up
a strong effort against Collingwood.
which had just failed to make “the four.”
The lead went from one to the other
until the last quarter, when ’Wood settled
the issue with 13.20 to 12.8,
Melbourne, Richmond, Carlton finished
with 14 wins each ; Essendon had 13, Col-
lingwood 12, Footscray 10, Fitzroy eight.
Sowths seven, norths six, the rest three
apiece. About halfway it looked as
though both ’Scray and ’Roy would be
in the hunt, but both faded.
“Follower”: What looks like a record
for Australian football was put up by
Port Melbourne on Saturday in a Vic.
Association game against Sandringham.
Port kicked 43.29 to 7.9. That’s better
than a score every two minutes.
* * * •
Manly is out of the Sydney Rugby
Union “four.” East goes into the
“grand” final, and University plays Rand-
wick to decide which East will meet.
Saturday’s games provided some ster-
ling football. East and Uni. battled
solidly the whole time. It was 11-10 in
East’s favor at the interval; another try
made it three to two—l 4-10, and there
was no further scoring.
East is proving the value of sound text-
book Rugby. Randwick and Manly both
favor fast-moving, quick-passing methods
—it’s “go ahead ;go ahead” all the time.
When the full-time bell rang on Saturday
Randwick had scored three tries, all con-
verted, and Manly three tries and two
penalty goals—ls all. They played 10
minutes more each way. A converted try
gave ’Wick a lead of five points, and
this it held to the end.
* * * *
Dashing football has given St. George
the Sydney Rugby League premiership for
the first time. At the Cricket Ground on
Saturday the Dragon-killers made an exhi-
bition of Eastern Suburbs, some of whose
players are a bit stricken in years, scoring
seven tries to four; in points, 31 to 14.
There must be something in the St.
George air. Bill O’Reilly took last
season’s cricket honors for the district
with a team of youngsters.
Diver Dave Norris, a springboard
champion who repped for Australia at
the 1938 Empire Games, is reported
“missing, believed prisoner of war.” He
was through the lot in Libya and Greece
and was last seen on a beach in Crete.


WOMEN'S lETTES
From Sydney
At Randwick, spring hats and frocks
did not experiment with the weather
to any extent. Clusters of daffodils,
snowdrops and violets pinned to the
lapel of suit or topcoat were most
frequent indications of the change
in the calendar. Mayoress Crick’s
hat had a jocund look in keeping
with the season. It was small, had a
beflowered crown, and was swathed in
veiling. Lesley Turner’s head was smart
in caramel shades. Her straw hat was
light in tone ; the quills that slanted across
the crown were deep brown.
The lion of the week is Mabel Barling’s
modelled beauty. It is in a tawny pot-
tery, made of all Australian clay. Mabel
specialises in animal studies.
Down at the Troc. there was Spring-in-the-Air
Midway through last week when it might
have seemed winter,
When silk-clad legs shivered, and woman might
swear
The breath on her lips turned to one icy
splinter.
But, defying the month and the day’s frosty
stare,
“The Universal Provider” put Spring-in-the-Air.
In other words, Anthony Horderns’,
the old beau of Brickfield Hill, was re-
sponsible for the fashion parade at the
Trocadero last week to help the Scots
College fund originally intended to buy
a Spitfire but now become a R.A.A.F.
equipment supplier. The fashions were
supple, suave and silken, and featured the
dot-and-dash motif (spots and stripes).
There was a frock in petunia and white
spots that kept company with a hat in
white coarse straw which looked the
right thing for any female of the species
under 40, hips and summers.
Blues in all the deeper tones and the
beiges brought the “how would I look
in that?” reflection into every woman’s
eye. And there were a thousand women
there. One woman sighed with satis-
faction and a twinkle in her eye, “It
takes us Presbyterians! ” But as a matter
of fact there seemed to be members of
every religion feverishly buying raffle
tickets for the Scots College iced cake or
rushing eagerly to buy bunches of white
heather. Dick McLaughlin’s rich bari-
tone made a great hit, and Jean Hatton’s
voice went waltzing around among the
clouds. Bert Harrow and George Brown
of radio acquaintance sang a new “V
for Victory” song. The Brunton Gibbs
couple added another notch to their popu-
larity totem. Mrs. Frank Wright proved
a beguiling saleswoman though not be-
hind one of the stalls. Violets as big as
pansies, and with the dawn still in their
eyes, were the prize exhibit of the flower
sellers. President Catherine Anderson
Stuart and secretary Jane Bernays had
a busy day.
There was an all-in effort for the
Crown-street Women’s Hospital last Wed-
nesday at Killara. Mrs. A. C. Cameron
was the afternoon’s hostess, and she had
the happy thought to have the tea spread
in the lounge leading on to the balconies.
These were flooded in sunshine, and
overlooked lawns clean and green from
the rains. Mrs. McDowell brought along
a dress length of fine black woollen
cloth, and every woman present simply
rushed the lucky number competition of
which it was the prize. All, however,
cried three cheers when the hostess won
it, for it was her birthday. Mrs. Harold
Bott, the secretary of the branch, went
along laden with flowers. Kathleen Coni-
grave, who sang, did so in her V.A.
uniform between Red Cross duties out
Willoughby way. Gwen Aldis Caro was
the day’s pianist. The wife of China’s
Consul-General Pao gave a lecturette on
China. All told, the hospital gains £4O
by the afternoon. Mrs. Norman McLeod
and niece Jocelyn Targett were among
the guests.
There’s a link between Samarkand and
Botany. It is paper. Listening to Herbert
Gepp the other day it was easy to under-
stand why the poets used to sing the
golden road to Samarkand. For in
Samarkand was the first paper mill; and
of course the minstrels hymned the place
that supplied them with the material for
their ages-shaking epics. At Botany new
paper from old is being made daily under
the guidance of the Australian Paper
Manufacturers. So let Australian bards
rise up and sing the shining road to
Botany. The paper knight was telling the
story at a home-salvage lunch and he
made it sound as colorful as a Persian
illumination.
From China of 2000 years ago, where
a watcher got the idea from the brainy
wasp that lines its nest with the cellulose
from the bark of certain trees, through
Egypt, where the thin reeds of its banks,
the Nile and cheap labor helped turn
out the papyrus. One wondered if an in-
sisted-on part of the dowry of Pharaoh’s
daughter when she married Solomon
were so many hundred strips of papyrus
suitable for the writing of songs.
The lunch was part of the “save the
waste paper and help the nation” crusade
led by Mrs. M. Metcalfe. Eating the
cutlets served at the Carlton were 120
women, standard-bearers in the cause,
and all working for love of their respec-
tive suburban collecting branches. Inci-
dentally, Mrs. Metcalfe tells that there are
57 of these groups, inclusive of Norfolk
Island, which is included in the electorate
of East Sydney. During the last year
£10,900 had been handed back to hospi-
tals and Comforts Funds as a result of
the soiled paper, stray cardboard, old
bills and love-letters given to the cause.
President of the Cumberland Branch
of the C.W.A., and one of its best
speakers, is Mrs. H. J. Brady. There is
not one detail of the business of the
branch that she has not a complete know-
ledge of. Before being elected to her
present office she was for two years
Cumberland’s secretary. One of her inno-
vations at branch meetings is the introduc-
tion of a music programme or a celebrated
speaker. The next big effort of the
Metropolitan C.W.A. will be the Market
Day to be held in the grounds of Elaine,
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax’s Bellevue Hill
home, on October 18. Next to the
C.W.A. in Mrs. Brady’s love comes the
theatre. She and her husband are first-
nighters at the Minerva and the Royal.
They are both Gilbert and Sullivan en-
thusiasts. Dorothy Welding photograph.
In Young-street, close to the Quay,
the C.U.S.A. sign is being hung out for
boys in navy-blue. The new home from
home was formerly an old wool ware-
house, Here a perfectly enormous games
room is under construction. There will
be rest rooms, writing rooms, books,
magazines. These are on the first and
second floors; on the ground floor
C.U.S.A. will have a restaurant. There
was a half-crown preview last Thursday
afternoon. There was tea, and helping to
hostess and count the spoils were such
good C.U.S.A. workers as Mrs. Guiney,
Mrs. Nolan, Mrs. Harry Daley, Mrs.
Hamilton Kirkland and Mrs. Grey.
The C. P. Johnsons, of Karoola, Edge-
cliff, with the committee of the Day
Nursery Association, are issuing invita-
tions for a late afternoon party on
October 11 next, 5.30 to 7.30.
The gardens of Everglades, the Leura
home of the Van de Veldes, will display
their charm to the public for three days
in the interests of the wool trade’s war
effort and the King George Fund for
Sailors, As well as the springy sward,
the beds of velvet-like pansies, the carpets
of freesias and suchlike blooms that
spring has flung under the graceful and
stately trees, there will be stalls where
fairings of beauty and of usefulness can
be bought. The Eight-hour Day week-
end is the time.
Boys’ Town, Engadine, has had its
second birthday. The 60 boys (among
whom are two aborigines and one
Chinese) are already the proud possessors
of a £2O war-saving certificate. They also
have, much to their delight, a real cow,
which, fortunately, one of their number
can milk, so they will not be depending
on the Milk Board. A new dormitory
and a dining-room are just finished, 25
builders having given their week-ends
free of charge.
News of tenor Kenneth Neate’s suc-
cess in America (he has his foot in the
doorway of fame and the Metropolitan
Opera House) is particularly pleasing to
Lute Drummond. Lute was Kenneth’s
teacher, and from the word go she saw
his possibilities as an opera singer. Joan
Hammond, making a dent even on war-
time London, was another of Lute’s
pupils.
From Melbourne
In the 14 months since its inception
the Red Cross Waste Products Depot has
turned the rubbish that’s entered its doors
by lorry, horse and cart, by hand and
by plutocratic private car, into £18,231.
Last week’s little gathering over the
presentation of a cheque for £2OOO
brought up the receipts to this total.
Bottle-ohs and old-clothes dealers com-
plain of slackening in business since the
drive at making the gen. public scrap-
minded, but other “professionals” in the
line haven’t suffered much, and the
garbage man has a lighter load to carry.
In addition to the Red Cross, half a
dozen other societies deal effectively in
scrap and report satisfactory prices, which
depend a lot upon initiative in finding
markets. None, for instance, would think
of selling clean newsprint to the paper
mills for very little when worth-while
prices arise from the need of wrappings
for the homely cabbage and Popeye’s
spinach.
Worthy of a small ceremony with
decor of roses and cyclamens (the latter
borrowed from the Fitzroy Gardens) was
the achievement of net proceeds from
the recent Radio Party Drive for the
A.C.F., to the tune of £11,500. At the
instigation of the Lord Mayoral pair the
gathering took place around a hospitably
arrayed table in the Council Chamber.
There were a couple of speeches, and in-
terest was keen upon Kitty McEwan’s
report, no dull treatise, but running to
newsy items in every par. of parties in
large towns or microscopic hamlets.
Among those present and looking pleased
generally were the M. R. Cuthbertsons
(he cutting it fine for catching the
“Spirit” to Sydney that evening through
doing early propaganda for the Carry-
On Ball) and Mrs. A. E. Kimpton (who
could feel the laurel wreaths of the pre-
vious day still upon her brow —when at
the annual meeting of the Women’s Hos-
pital the new Gertrude Kumm Wing was
opened, wherein the wards will be known
as the Mabel Kimpton, Lillias Skene and
Ella Boyland). Also at the mayoral
party were the Ray Maclellans, she in
black-and-white hat successfully con-
cocted on the bandeau principle. Also
in black, Mrs. Archie Crofts wore iden-
tification discs of diamente initials upon
her lapel.
Recently engaged, Lorelle Sample
(Maxwell Porteus photograph) and Pilot-
Officer Hugh Moore. No plans have yet
been made for the wedding, but if all
goes well Hugh will be in Melbourne for
the marriage on October 5 of Sadie
Stokes and Garry Feely, A.I.F. Lorelle,
who takes part regularly in shows and
gymkhanas, will ride her fiance’s horse in
several events at the Royal Agricultural
Society’s horse show at Moonee Valley
next Friday and Saturday (for the Royal
Show is being split into its component
parts this year, stock here, produce there,
etc.).
She has enjoyed training her mount,
but isn’t optimistic about his chances,
for he’s as strange to show rings as he
is to his newly-bestowed name of Wings.
His native heath is Tooloonook, Yarram,
South Gippsland, the property of Hugh’s
parents, the Arthur Moores. Lorelle,
who is the only daughter of the George
Samples of Bruce-street, has histrionic as
well as equestrian interests. She’s presi-
dent of the Old Lauristonians’ Dramatic
Club and has a part in “Ladies in Wait-
ing,” the club’s October effort in Christ
Church Hall for the Lauriston Scholar-
ship Fund and the Baby Health Fund.
Accommodation for W.A.A.A.Fs. from
other States will be available at the end
of the month at what was formerly the
home of Mrs. H. V. McKay, in Lansell-
road, Toorak. The project has been made
possible through the offices of the
Y.W.C.A. and members of Mrs. McKay’s
family. When certain alterations are
. completed the mansion will become a
hospitable domicile for about 30 girls
who are to work at Victoria Barracks.
Certain furnishings are needed, and gifts
of equipment or of money will be wel-
comed. During the school holidays
M.L.C. will provide accommodation for
30 W.A.A.A.Fs., particularly competent
girls from all States who have been
selected to do an officers’ course, which
they commenced last Saturday.
Lady Royle, wife of the First Naval
Member, must have felt like Cinderella
reversed when invited to tea by the cen-
tral council of Royal Melbourne Hos-
pital. She imagined an inspection of a
new_ building with all its most modern
trappings and instead found herself
within the gloomy portals of the old in-
stitution —and expected to make a speech.
She rose to the occasion, buoyed up by
flowers in the boardroom and in her
bouquet, which she carried around the
wards later, by tea, and by introductions
under the wing of Mrs. Constance
Hughes. Lady Royle spoke fluently of
life in London and the reconstruction
that is being effected in the midst of raids.
She has a direct mode of address, an
agreeably modulated speaking voice and
a firm handclasp. She says she likes
Australia. Australians should like her.
People in search of a party in the Uni-
versity Union building had various
adventures. Some got lost and arrived
by way of the kitchen (and going home
much later were caught up in the mael-
strom of youth and beauty, flowers-and-
sweets-for-sale in the foyer of the Clyde
Old Girls’ “She Stoops to Conquer’ ).
Others, women, pressed their noses
against the windows of a downstairs
dining-room filled with men, beat a re-
treat, further on met up with the Tin
Alleys and an arrow on the wall, con-
tinued up a stairway and finally arrived
at their rightful destination —a farewell,
in high-ceilinged and generally-attractive
surroundings, to Mrs. Leith Gillespie by
her fellow-workers in voluntary muni-
tions.
The do downstairs was where husband
Leith was entertaining some 80 of his
men-friends. Later he, Leo Dibble and
Frank Downes, the three musketeers,
arrived upstairs —Captain Dibble is Area
Officer of Area Six and confrere Downes
is Leith’s successor, sec. of the Univer-
sity Appointments Board, for some time
on the staff of the Commerce School, who
has now given up his accountancy con-
nection in town. Only other men. present
were Prof. Burstall, J. D. G. Medley,
Registrar John Foster, Mr. Shaw and
Mr. Campbell. Votes of thanks went to
the Professor and to Mr. Campbell for
the encouragement and help he has given
to the amateur women workers, includ-
ing the sacrifice of a succession of pre-
cious Sunday mornings. The Gillespies’
new address is 71 Shell Cove-road,
Neutral Bay, Sydney. •
Savant, lecturer of moment, showman,
Prof. E. J. Hartung, possessing all these
qualities, was a sure draw in his “Experi-
mental Demonstration of Color” in aid
of the W.U.P.F., which took place in the
chem. school lecture theatre. The event
was given good publicity, the place was
packed to literally the ceiling, for this
lecture-room in the new chem. school of
which the University is justly proud
really gives the boys and girls in the back
rows the chance to see what’s happening,
though almost from overhead.
Barricades separated the five-bob
seats (some of the occupants of
which were in evening kit —moral
support for Lady Dugan’s long white
gloves) from the hoi polloi at
half a crown. There students predomi-
nated, and judging by their intensity of
expression they knew more of what the
prof, was talking about than their
brethren for’ard. The latter could, how-
ever, enjoy the colors the prof, produced
without worrying their heads about
whether mercury or sodium lights were
turning human faces into nightmares.
The prof, also blew bubbles as large as
footballs, complete with colors and ex-
planations of such. He says his method
is foolproof, given the right apparatus.
Though wedding receptions are smaller
and quieter than in the ostentatious days
of old, presents are still lavish, and many
brides still have sentimental longings for
traditional gowns and veils. Among the
week’s weddings where the leading ladies
were so attired were the linking of
beauteous Myra Ley and Robert Jordon,
R.A.A.F., at Christ Church, with recep-
tion at Menzies; the marriage of Ursula
Syme and Noel M<ison, also at Christ
Church, and aftermath at the Lyceum
Club ; and the nuptials of Irma Kathleen
Mitchell and Lieut. J. A. Harper, R.N.
(the ’groom being the only son of Vice-
Admiral Harper, of Hawkhurst, Kent).
The wedding was at All Saints’ and the
rejoicings at Grosvenor.


Want to reduce the
cost of you motoring?
True economy comes only when your
spark plugs are giving strong, hot
sparks. When fuel is burned
completely you get full value
in speed, power and brisk ac-
celeration. Let new Champion
Spark Plugs bring this true
omy to your car’s op
eration. They actu-
ally pay for
themselves in
fuel savings.
Factories,
Feltham,Eng.
Windsor, Can.
Toledo, USA.
\(!rx
econ
mt/p
m
mt
m
vm
m
m
m
m
m
Install new
Champion Spark Pings!
CONTAINS SILLMENT
THE MIRACLE MINERAL
Sillment seals Cham-
pions against trouble-
some leakage, at the
shoulder and past the
center electrode, com-
mon to ordinary spark
plugs. This patented
feature corrects rough,
uneven and wasteful
engine operation
caused by leaky, over-
heated spark plugs.
STAMPS
100 New Zealands, all different 8/-
100 Australians, all different */-
40 Pacific Islands, all different */-
We buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air Lists —Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Est. 56 Years.)
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
750 FREE BOOKS ON
DANCING!
TO ALL READERS!
FOU a limited time
Professor Bolot,
Australia’s Beading
Ballroom Dancing
Instructor and
Authority,is offering *
absolutely FREE
all readers of “The ..
Bulletin” a copy nfS|i
his brand-new book,
“DANCING AS A
FINK ART.” This book
will show you how to
learn dancing at home
in the privacy of your
own room, without
Music or Partner.
Dancing is the short-
cut to good
time.s non-
dancers and
bad dancers
miss all the
fun in life.
Now is the
time to start
learning.
Post the coupon for your Free Book
%
. - - TEAR COUPON—POST NOW! - -
PROFESSOR J. BOLOT, F.A.R.,
French Dancing Academy,
Studio 47, 62-04-(16 Oxford St., Sydney.
Dear Sir, —Please send me by return
mail a copy of your FREE book,
“Dancing as a Fine Art.” X enclose
stamp for postage.
NAME ...
ADDRESS
8/9/M1
BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE DANGER SIGN
Of Tire 3 Kidneys
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don’t just complain and do noth-
ing about them. Nature may be warning you
that your kidneys need attention.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out or
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
In the blood, causing nagging backaches,
rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
energy, getting up nights, swelling, pumness
under the eyes, headaches and dizziness, fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting ana
burning show there is something' wrong with
your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait 1 Ask your chemist or store tor
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the iv
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
waste from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
A C TT K KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
that will make you well and keep you well.
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
“Lopsided and Absurd”
“Tuiop”: Mr. Cooper has been at it
again. As Treasurer of Queensland he
informed his “Parliament” that the pro-
posal for uniform taxation of incomes
throughout the ■ Commonwealth was
“lopsided and absurd.” It was also
absurd to say that Queensland could be
governed efficiently with the same taxation
as a pocket-handkerchief State like Vic-
toria.
How, where or by what means Mr.
Cooper arrived at this latter conclusion
he didn’t say, but the closer it is examined
the more “absurd” it becomes. As for
tax uniformity, the day is not far off
when this country will either enforce it
or abolish both the States and their
“rights.” Probably the only thing hold-
ing Canberra back is that it lacks a
Cabinet with backbone. How long the
Australian people will be held back is
another matter.
The suggestion has been made that the
existing War Council be abolished and
a permanent War Convention of the
States and Commonwealth substituted to
consider, among other things, taxation
and the eventual abolition of State
Parliaments.
The further Mr. Cooper and his ilk
go, and the more they say, the more
convinced every Australian whose mind
isn’t bound by a State border becomes
that they are what H. L. Anthony said
they are, “the real bottlenecks of Aus-
tralia.” Anyone who examines our more
important national obstructions to the
war effort and progress invariably finds
himself coming back to the State Gov-
ernments and their alleged “rights.” The
plain truth is that seven Governments
for seven millions of people is “lopsided
and absurd.”
“Mac Fergus”: Herbert Yeates, M.L.A.
for East Toowoomba (Q.), has the cham-
pion thirst for statistics in the State talk-
ing shop. He hankers after such stimu-
lants as the number of square yards of
paint spread oven the gate-house at Dead
Horse Creek in the year 1932. All the
same he shows out pretty well in the
statistics of family enlistments. He has
five sons, and they are all in the war.
* * * *
“Onto”: To the A.T.F. in May, ’4O,
ca*me Pte. S. A. (Bob) Lazarus, from the
Melbourne Bar, and he was soon a
platoon sergeant. Some of the boys got
in holds with the civil law and Lazarus
appeared for them. Then his unit moved
north to Darwin, and Police and Criminal
Court appearances for the services
became more frequent; the civil authori-
ties were coming down hard on the
soldiers. Six Supreme Court appeals were
lodged by the lawyer-sergeant and five
of them succeeded. Said Judge Wells:
“Punishment of every accused man must
be according to his crime.” The ser-
geant is a son of Louis S. Lazarus, an old
Melbourne practitioner. Sister Pauline
" That’s a rough idea of what sort of a cattle dorg he is.
follows the family bent, and brother Leo
is' doing a law course at Melbourne
University.
* * * *
“C.T.”; Who is which in this war?
A Queensland paper publishes a picture
of a “perfect scale model of a schooner
barque” and says it is being raffled by
the Finnish community in Brisbane for
patriotic funds. But isn’t Finland at war
with Russia?
*'* * *
“Simon Crusher”: Misfortune has
always attended the search for oil
at Roma (Q.), and there has been
a grim issue lately. In the course
of three months three Americans, the
brothers Evans, who were associated with
the drilling—one long ago—have died,
one at Roma, the others in America;
and the company’s accountant, who took
the Roma brother’s place, followed him
into the shades. But, defying the apparent
hoodoo, the co. talks of putting down a
new bore.
* * * *
“23-4”: Passed the 103rd milestone,
Ed Troughton, of Mareeba. A Parra-
matta (N.S.W.) native, he was the
youngest of 17 and came to Bananaland
as a lad ; after years as a teamster around
Port Douglas he moved td Mareeba.
Ed expects to live long enough to see
Hitler “stoushed.” No, he hasn’t any
theories about Leichhardt.
« * * *
“Jack Point”; There are some poor
psychologists about. During the coldest
weather we have had for nearly quarter
of a century Brisbane dough-punchers
were ordered to get busy at 5 a.m. in-
stead of 7 a.m. Many of the d.p. objected
strongly, pleading lack of conveyances
and other things, though it was the start-
ing at 5 a.m. with the thermometer well
below 40 that was the real trouble. If
the change had been introduced a few
months later, when starting at 5 a.m.
meant finishing the day’s work before the
heat of the day really commenced, the
bakers would have considered themselves
favored.
* * * •
“N.Q. Register,” after listening-in at
the opening of the Forgan Smith “Par-
liament”: —
The [Governor’s] Speech proudly asserts
that for three successive years the Queens-
land Government has emerged with a
surplus, that for this year being £28,437.
Perhaps, later on, it may be possible to
arrange that the Governor’s Speech arid the
report of the Auditor-General be read
simultaneously, and that the same protec-
tive legislation which insists upon a full
disclosure of the financial position of
private companies will be extended to the
financial announcements of State Govern-
ments.
This, as any Premier could inform the
writer of the article, is a shocking ex-
ample of wishful thinking.
* * * *
“Big End”: A chap I know who
reckons the internal-combustion engine
the greatest curse of the age would be
delighted to ‘see what petrol rationing
has done to Queensland motorists. In
the year to July 31 car registrations
dropped 3130 to 72,375. In July, when
petrol was really rationed, cars went off
the road at the rate of 40 a day. Still,
any Queensland motorist who read that
in his morning news only had to look to
the next column for consolation and see
that the R.A.A.F. had bagged £U million
worth of enemy ’planes in eight months.
“Lord Luvus”: My once wholehearted
confidence in Mr. Churchill has been
sadly shaken. I was listening the other
evening to a recording of a broadcast
address he made to the French nation.
“Tonight,” he said, “1 speak to you at
your firesides.” Frenchmen don’t sit by
firesides. They have none. They have
stoves or central heating, and they don’t
sit much even by them, preferring the
boulevards and cafes. Sitting by the
fireside is an essentially English custom.
* * * *
“Nakh”: I doubt if 1 have ever read
a lamer apology from any individual, let
alone a philosopher, than Prof. John
Anderson’s reply to the charge that he
had made a disloyal utterance when he
allegedly told the conference of the Aus-
tralian Association of Psychology and
Philosophy in Melbourne that he did not
believe in standing up for “God Save
the King.” He was trying, he explained.
to make the point
that the sense of duty
of the individual was
not always in con-
formity with the
public sense of duty.
Well, that is exactly
the charge that the
Empire Union in
Sydney brought
against him—that he
didn’t believe as they
do about the
National Anthem. A
philosophical train-
ing doesn’t teach
people common or
garden astuteness,
apparently. The pro-
fessor could have
taken the war into
the Empire Union’s
camp if he had asked
it whether it recon-
ciled its private and
public sense of duty
with the necessity of
standing up for both
the National Anthem and the Red “In-
ternationale.” That necessity has been
presented to a lot of true-blue Empire
patriots lately.


A GREAT AUATRALIAN BITE
From OLIVER FILTER.
DEAR Bulletin,- —As a regular reader and
| staunch supporter of your paper for as long
* as I can remember, I feel sure you will have
the patience to hear me out in the following
remarkable story, to, I hope, our mutual benefit.
It begins some six months ago about 50 miles
from Meekawhither on the Murchison goldfields in
Westralia, where I was in partnership with old Sam
Bailey in the Red Herring mine—a wild-cat show which
just about returned us our tucker, Sam was a little,
wrinkled, dried-out old cove who’d been prospecting
since before Kalgoorlie was discovered. He’d never
made more than his tucker, but he was dead certain
he’d eventually discover another Golden Mile and
spend the last years of his life living in luxury in
flash city pubs. I don’t think that, even in his
wildest dreams, he ever imagined the enormity of the
fortune that was to come his way on the day the
storm swept across the Murchison.
Sam and I saw the storm clouds heaping up like
a black wall in the west just after midday, and we
set about lashing the tent and tying down everything
that didn’t weigh more than a hundredweight or so.
Before we had properly finished the job the wind and
sand hit us, cutting and stinging like a thousand
points of fire. Sam dived into the tent and I sheltered
behind the truck. In ten minutes the sky was black
and the rain came in slow, heavy drops, sending up
little fountains of dust that were chopped off short by
the wind ; then the thunder crashed out like a hundred
heavy guns and the lightning struck down, lighting up
a weird scene of twisted, threshing mulga trying to
wrench itself out of the ground.
In the middle of it all, when the noise and wind
and rain were at their worst, a long, fiery streak of
lightning seemed to reach down, twisting, forking
away, then branching back again as though its set
purpose were to strike us. And strike it did, like an
evil, fiery snake, right on the ridge of the tent where
Sam was sheltering. I shut my eyes quickly and
clenched my teeth, then looked again. The canvas
had disappeared, leaving only a couple of bare poles,
and there was old Sam silhouetted in queer blue light
and dancing about like a mad scarecrow in the flames
of hell. The lightning was playing on the top of his
head and bright yellow sparks were streaming out of
his waving hands and from his feet to the ground
every time he leaped into the air.
Suddenly it was all over and the noise of the
wind and rain seemed very quiet. Presently they, too,
eased off, and soon a break in the clouds appeared
and, in the light of the late afternoon, I crept over to
see what remained of old Sam. I expected to find what
was left of him burned to a cinder, so I stood and
stared in amazement when I saw him. He was lying
on the ground, naked as an egg, his body glistening
with rain, pink and white and cleaner than it had
ever been. His eyes were staring straight up at the
sky, but as I came up they flickered towards me and
we stared at each other in a disbelieving sort of way
for fully a minute without moving. Then Sam sat
up and I started to laugh, he looked so funny sitting
there, part angry, part puzzled and part stunned, like
a pup that’s bitten itself by mistake.
“Y’ stupid flamin’ idjit,” he yelled. “Stop cacklin’
an’ tell me what ’appened.”
“Sam,” I said, “you’re the luckiest man alive;
you’re the only man I know of that’s ever been struck
by lightning and lived to ask what happened.” And
then I started laughing again. “And you look so
funny that I’d charge sixpence a time to look at you
if there was anyone here to see.”
“Well, fer Gawd’s sake quit laughin’,” Sam
shouted, “an’ get me some clothes.” He stretched his
arms and legs to make sure they were still intact, then
reached over and grabbed the tent pole to pull him-
self to his feet.
Sam let go of that tent pole as though it was
another bolt of lightning come, to strike him ; in fact,
for a moment, I thought that that was what had hap-
pened —there was a quick hissing sound and a little
puff of blue smoke ran up the pole and drifted away
on the wind. But Sam and I could only stare at that
pole. There it was, Mr. Editor, just an ordinary pole
in shape and size with a fork at the top, but instead
of a piece of grey, weather-stained mulga it was
bright, gleaming gold.
Sam sat down. “My Gawd, Ollie,” he whispered,
“what’s ’appened?”
Before I could answer I had to jump clear of
the pole—it had turned to gold all right and had
become so heavy that the small hole which had been
sufficient to support its weight in wood could no
longer hold it. It toppled slowly and then fell heavily
and with a resounding crash on to a kerosene-tin,
buckling it almost flat.
Sam was whimpering now like a frightened kid.
“Gawd, Ollie! Gawd, what’s ’appened?”
I was thinking fast about those yellow sparks
shooting from Sam’s fingers when the lightning struck
him and trying to remember something about some-
one I’d read about at school. Suddenly it all came
back to me. “Sam,” I yelled, “you’re the richest man
on earth. You’ve got the gold touch. Anything you
touch will turn to gold. We can buy the earth. We
can live like kings. We’re made, Sam, Shake on it,
shake on it!”
I stepped over to shake Sam’s hand and pull him
to his feet. Then I remembered something else I’d
read about that chap in the school books and I leaped
back like a new spring.
It had slowly dawned on Sam what had happened
t 0 him and he Was gazing wonderin B l y at bis hands.
bent and stretched his fingers, looked at the backs
D f them and then trickled some pebbles through his
fingers. They fell to the ground in a stream of little
gleaming nueeets Then he nicked nn a small Ipafpd
f • r ennC P , , Up t Sma , ed
twig and held it up for me to look at. It was gleam-
j ng h ke one those fancv poIH hrnnches in a
• g >, , 01 ? e ot m ° se lancy B °{ d brooches in a
jeweller’s window. Sam giggled like a woman, then
he laughed and iumned to his feet and kent on lamffi
• Li r *iT T l mS 1661 j „ pl ° n Ja , ugh ’
ing until I thought he’d gone mad. He ran about
w hat was left of the camp stark naked nickinp nn
t • was 1611 OI me . rK [ aK: d ’. picking up
knives and spoons and throwing them into the air
and laughing as thev fell solid sold nlate until a
f * Bng as l . cy rei / 801 If gold plat ® until a
fortune was littered about the place. Then he rushed
towards me to throw his arms around mv neck or
• T > 7 around my neck oi
something. I yelled to him to stop, and when he
didn’t seem likely to I bolted for my life with him
behind me. I led him for a hundred yards and then back
*.i_, e j . ,
to camp until he was too fagged out to run any more.
«wh Q tv th* u * . ££ L, ■,*
afraid^f * * ° he panted - Y a,n *
‘ JL ..’ . yo . u * _, , „ ,
u ■ blan^ y r ' ght lm afraid of y ° d ’” 1 told
him ' L y °i U toUdh y° u J 1 have a golden statue
° n y « b L hai ? ds ’ T and lbat , B not exactly my ambition.”
~. rutb .’ T ndver tbod Sht of that, Sam said,
toiiched n him!:clf Tnfh^ 11 h> Cn r) 110^ 6
touched himself nothing happened—the gold current
“ * as ™ ’k f T B . h ‘ S fingerS
i| ,n T ° ,L S „ ? y -V ?L dec ’
f f £ s . aid -. . F we , gd any
fdr h db L dnd ,° Ut J ust gold touch
df y ° t * Y ’ Y ° U V? f
• P . Q , T d ’u ° Y ° Ur CC °f t n WOr L
* at . box were s.thng on dldn t
Qf - v 8 ’ band a ° ■° U 18 3 ng ' ty e ac s
‘ y c Ur , nt S ,‘ , , . , , . ,
, Sa ? dowd and tddche ? S ° me j to L eB W f
... ~ 8 , 18 an B ’. 0 , mg appene •_ cn be
. again , not f hing happeded - Jhen he
hls arn J s ’ his legs his face and the rest of his
™ Tu n T\
httle bumps on the tips of his fingers that had
e said that Nnw vnil , H hpttpr
. 8 da • y° u d better
get 80me clothes on - 1 got him some from the truck.
fists tight, • I told him, and helped him
0 “ ° h ? ° pan san s lr an pu a palr of boots
The j . f .. w h o i e business heuan to show
Q , b V BI ss begmi to show
Ave y got a Sm ° ke ’
1 passed him my tobacco pouch and he opened
“ to take °. ut some !° bacco - The « thal
lssin B soun aga J d WI and 61 P u ff of blue smoke,
Sa "] 7° re and T th f a handful of
gold shavin 8 s that had been tobacco. “ ’Struth, this
aw f u j » be sa j d
„ ,’ T ,, ... . ... , . ,
. , f ut Id + n ° tlC f d something Although the tobacco
bad turn ® d t0 K g ° ld J h . e P T cb badn t . » was . one of
those rubber-bag affairs that close with a twist, and
* kn fY then that I’d found an insulator for Sam. I
dlV f ed mt .° * f h ° X u } n th f back '° f 3be trudk and fished
out a palr of rubber gloves that I d used when I was
workmg on the c y a ™ d e pkmt at the Meekawhither
battery. “Put these on,” I told him, “And then you’ll
be back to normal again.”
Sam pulled the gloves on and then picked up a
handful of stones and ran them through his fingers,
They remained stones.
“Well, now you’re immunised,” I said, “we’d
better do something about this small change that’s
lying about ”
We „ Mr Fditor what would von have done
•t. ’ Ml ‘. Editor, what would you have done
with a fortune in the shape of a golden tent pole, sundry
„ nld nlatp „ and knivp „ and Wp P L llldn i t i.,/i
g ° , plates and knives and spoons. We couldn t just
pac k lt up and take it to the Mint, because that
wou i d ha v e meant exnlainine evervthine and with
would nave meant explaining everything and, with
unlimited gold available, the metal would have become
wort hless Similarly had we melted it down and run
w o ™. B, similarly, had we melted it down and run
d mto ingo ts, we would have had to explain more
thfm we wanted to to the Government So there was
1° WC Ttf- d to , to tbe Government. there was
only one thing to do, we reckoned—cut up the golden
tent nole with a cold chise] break nn the other stuff
C 1 pdie “ a cold chisel, break up the other stutt,
. me j t lt a ]j down and pour lt mto roU gh moulds in
fbp sand to make it lnnk a „ miirh ‘ nr .cci b T P like
small nu Jets h “ **
\ ” B ®f w ' , ~ . ~ ,
It took us over 3, week to melt cill thcit gold 3.nd
..-.„ , . . ,
run ll off mto small nuggets ranging up to 20oz. each,
and when we’d finished we had just under half a ton
of gold worth something more than £lOO,OOO. We
P acked into the back °f the truck in a tool chest,
loaded the rest of our gear and started off.
“Here we go,” I told Sam. “Off to Perth and its
bright lights and fair women and cold beer.”
It; took us three days t 0 make Geraldton on the
coastj where
we took one of the smaller nuggets to
the bank and got £BO for it. But we stayed only long
enough to taste Geraldton beer and then we made for
Perth. There we parked the truck at a garage and
Sam stQod
guard over it while I went round to the
Metropost Hotel and booked a room. Then I went
out and bought the strongest suitcase I could find, took
it back t 0 the , rack and Joaded ;t wjth about one
hundredweight of the nuggets. I took a taxi back to
the hotel and stacked the gold among some shirts
id the bottom of a drawer. Then I went back to the
truck while Sam shifted another hundredweight. It
tQok u§ oyer an hour tQ get the lot of it hidden among
our clothes then we straightened ourselves up a bit
went downstairs for a drink,
\\/ELL, Mr. Editor, to cut this rather long letter a
yy shorter we staved about six weeks at the
.. . 011 , ; !e y
2 “he TovSv LislaS
fingers over tiepins, studs, etc., had worn off, he was
9 uite satisfied to wear the m all the time. We cashed
more nueeets verv cautiouslv bought new
clothTs Z lived like §
. , Perhaps we’d still be living like lords if Sam
chv'hadworn'off'Tmhtm betook to mZne
, ,« d d i• • tb t b P
abd^ the pub "i he’d sav
bappy. 1 don t know what it is, Olhe, hed say,
“but there’s somethin’ missin’ out of my life.”
££ . , ~ T , ~ , . ££ „ 7 , ~
Aw, cheer up I told him. Whatve you got to
& OW } lm u thl ? what , y ? U f VC I I* uV
You re a multi-millionaire. We 11 stay here for a while
longer and then move on somewhere else.” _
Sam wasn,t to be chee re d - He took to sitting in
the bar and talking to the barmaid about the Mur-
chison and the Red Herring mine. She was a sensible
“What’s Gyppo for beer, George?”


“I know it’s an old gag, Blue, but it
always makes me laugh. "
kind of girl, so 1 tackled her on the subject of Sam.
“What do you reckon’s wrong with my cobber?” I
asked her one day when Sam wasn’t around.
“There’s nothing wrong with him,” she told me
quickly. “He’s very nice.”
“No,” I said. “I mean, do you think he’s sick
or something? What’s making him so miserable?”
“He’s just a lonely old man,” she said. He s
spent all his life out in that terrible desert country
and come to the city for a holiday. Why don’t you
take him out more?”
“He won’t come,” I told her.
“Well, why don’t you bring more people to meet
him and make him feel he’s got some friends, instead
of letting him mope here in the bar all day?”
That seemed a pretty good idea, so I took to
bringing a few chaps around to meet Sam. He bright-
ened up a good deal and, as he spent freely, made
plenty of friends. In fact, he made so many and
did so much for them in the way of free dinners and
little gifts that, in a couple of weeks, he had more
friends than he knew what to do with. And then,
one night, it happened. Sam was in the bar yarning
to about twenty cobbers when I left to call on a little
lady I’d met out at Nedlands. It seemed to be a
pretty willing session, but I reckoned Sam could drink
any man under the table, so I didn’t worry.
Well, Mr. Editor, I got back to the hotel about
3 a.m. and sneaked upstairs to our room. Sam was
stretched out flat on his bed and snoring like a jack-
hammer. I piled into bed and dozed off, until about
five o’clock the telephone bell woke me up. I picked
it up and said “Hullo?”
It was Jackson, the proprietor of the hotel. “For
heaven’s sake, Mr. Filter, can you come down here
and deal with all these people?” he yelled.
“What people?” I asked.
“What people?” he said. “What people do you
think? Reporters, photographers, autograph-hunters,
salesmen, curiosity seekers and heaven knows what.”
“But what the devil do they want with me?”
“What do they want with you! ” he shouted back.
“What d’you think they’d want with you after what
your friend did last night?”
“I don’t get it at all,” I s a id. “What’d he do?”
Jackson said “Oh, hell. Have a look at your
morning paper and see. But for heaven’s sake hurry.
I can’t hold this mob much longer.”
I jumped out of bed and over to the door and
picked up the “Morning News.” On the mam news
page in large black type was:
PROSPECTOR GIVES AWAY £50,000.
And underneath it:
Last night, in the Metropost Hotel, a wealthy miner
gave to various institutions donations totalling more
than £50,000 in pure gold. He was Mr. Samuel Bailey,
part-owner of the famous Red Herring mine in the
Murchison district in the north-west. The gold was in
the form of nuggets which Mr. Bailey had hidden in
his bedroom at the hotel; he remarked that “there’s
plenty more where that came from”....
There was a lot more about how someone had
started the ball rolling by putting sixpence in one of
those collection-boxes on the bar counter, then some-
one else had made it a shilling, then two shillings,
then 10s., and then Sam had beaten them all with
£l. Then someone else had gone one better and
given a fiver, which must have peeved Sam, because
he rushed upstairs and brought down a couple of
nuggets worth two or three hundred quid. The sen-
sation that caused had evidently delighted Sam so
much that he had*started in properly, running upstairs
for more and more gold until he had given "away
over £50,000. The institutions had been notified by
’phone and cars with police guards had called to
collect. And so forth. But I didn’t read any further.
I rushed over and shook Sam.
“Wake up, you blanky fool,” I shouted, and
almost dragged him out of bed.
He rubbed his eyes and looked at me. “Whassa-
matter, Ollie, whassamatter?”
“What’s the matter?” I almost screamed at him.
“Last night’s the matter. Look at this.” And I shoved
the paper under his nose.
Sam rubbed his eyes again, peered at the paper
vaguely for a moment and then suddenly became in-
terested. “ ’Struth,” he said. “ ‘Samuel Bailey,’ that’s
me. ‘Wealthy miner,’ eh?” Then he grinned. “Gripes,
it must’ve been a good night. Fancy the old Red
Herring bein’ ‘famous.’ An’t’ think I don’t remember
a blanky thing.”
“For heaven’s sake wake up, man,” I said. “Don’t
you realise what you’ve done? There’s half a hundred
reporters downstairs. The warden at Meekawhither
knows the Red Herring is hardly worth tucker. When
the cops hear of it they’ll call, too. And what’s going
to happen when they want an explanation? Man, if
we don’t leave here in something under sixty seconds
we’re as good as ruined.
Sam began to see daylight and started to wail.
“ ’Struth, Ollie, I didn’t mean no harm. I didn’t know
what I was doin’.”
“Well, I know what you’re going to do now,” I
told him. “Get your clothes on while I pack. There s
a train leaving for the Eastern States this morning and
we’re as good as on it.”
I threw as many clothes as I could into a suit-
case, slammed it shut and grabbed Sam by the arm.
We sneaked through the door, along the passage to
the fire escape and down into a lane at the back of
the hotel. It took five minutes to get from there to
the railway station, where we sat in the waiting-room
hiding behind a couple of newspapers. In an hour
the train was in, and before midday Perth was a
couple of hundred miles behind us.
Sam looked out the window at the dry desert
country that was flashing past and smiled. Y know,
he said, “I don’t feel too bad now. That”—waving
at the scenery —“makes me feel better, Y’know, I
wouldn’t mind goin’ back t’ the bush.
“Aw, don’t be silly, Sam,” I said. “What d’you
want to go back to corned-beef and damper for?
We’ll rest up in Sydney for a while, then we’ll go to
America or somewhere. There’ll be nothing to hold
us back.”
“I suppose so,” said Sam. “Still, I wouldn’t
m j n d” — an d his voice trailed away as he leaned back
in his seat watching the dry brown earth and dusty
scrub flash by. I looked at him for a minute and
then went on reading a magazine.
WELL, Mr. Editor, we got to Sydney without mis-
hap and booked in at a quiet little pub in Pitt-
street. We had a few quid left and when that ran out
we bought a few cigarette-cases and cheap vases from
Woolworths for Sam to run his hands over. Then I
took them to the nearest hock shop. In that way we
went along pleasantly enough trying to think up some
way of unloading a big parcel of gold. But we weren t
in any hurry. There was plenty to see in Sydney and
we enjoyed ourselves until Sam got the miseries again.
One day he sat up in his chair and said to me Ollie,
let’s go prospectin’.”
I laughed. “What? Prospecting, when we’ve got
all the gold we’ll ever need right at our fingertips.”
“Yes, I know,” Sam said. “But all the same I’d
like to go—just for the fun of it. I’d like to feel a
dish in my hands again and dolly a bit of stone.”
“Oh, all right,” I said. “You find out where to
go—not too far —and we’ll take a run out for a week
or so.”
Sam did a bit of detective work in the bar and
heard of a few spots where businessmen sometimes
went during their holidays to do a bit of amateur fos-
sicking. We bought a bit of gear and put in a week
or two at a spot about 100 miles from Sydney. When
Sam found a trace of color in the dish he was almost
as excited as when he found he had the gold touch ;
and when he scraped out a couple of specks he chucked
his hat in the air and jumped on it. “Ollie, we’re
rich,” he yelled. Then he remembered and quietened
down.
We went prospecting two or three times and
Sam seemed happy again. If only I’d known it was
the happiness of a drug addict. I had to run up to
Brisbane for a week to see a chap about a horse I
was thinking of buying, and when I got back to the
hotel the girl at the desk handed me an envelope.
“Mr. Bailey left this for you,” she said.
I tore it open and read the letter and then, Mr.
Editor, I had to sit down before I fell down. “Dear
Ollie,” it ran, “I’m sorry to bolt like this without
seeing you, but there was no time to waste. A bloke
I met in the bar told me he knew of a good field
that’s hardly been scratched. I can’t tell you where
it is until we get settled there in case this letter falls
into the wrong hands. Will write in a couple of
weeks. —Yours sincerely, Sam.”
Well, Mr. Editor, you can imagine how I felt.
Somewhere in Australia the richest man on earth was
gallivanting about and I didn’t know where he was.
I waited on a letter for a month, barely able to sleep
or eat or anything. Then I got it: “Dear Ollie, we re
about 50 miles from Tennant Creek and we’ve got a
promising” That was all I needed. I grabbed my
bags, lit out for Central station, got a train to Adel-
aide, thence to Alice Springs and from there by mail
truck to Tennant Creek. I went straight to the
warden’s office and asked for Sam.
“I think,” said • the warden, “there was an old
chap called Sam Bailey in here a fortnight ago, but
I’m pretty sure he moved on. There was some talk
of a new strike up at Pine Creek, although”
That was enough. Sam was a true prospector
and I knew it only needed a few scraps of idle gossip
about a strike to move him three or four hundred
miles to a new field. My funds were low, but I man-
aged to get a ride on the mail-truck to Birdum and
get the train from there to Pine Creek. But I was too
late again. The warden told me Sam had stayed only
a few days to look around ; “there had been some
talk of a strike out near” But it was no use, Mr.
Editor ; my funds had run out and nothing short of
a ’plane would have caught up with old Sam once
the gold bug bit him properly. I went down to the
pub to think.
And that’s about all there is to it, Mr. Editor,
and that’s why I’m writing to you as one business-
man to another. Here I am, stuck in Pine Creek
without a bean, although I, and only I, know that
there is wealth unlimited to be had if I can catch up
with Sam. And I can catch up with him, Mr. Editor,
if you will advance me by the next mail £lOO to
charter a ’plane, in return for which I will let you
in, at any reasonable terms you care to name, on the
greatest money-making proposition the world has ever
known. But whatever you do, for hell’s sake keep it
dark. Thanking you in anticipation,
Yours faithfully.
OLIVER FILTER.
TO MY BROTHER IN THE NAVY.
I remember now, as the storm wind from the bay
awakens the weeping chorus of the pines,
how proudly I led you off to your first long day
at the small bush school below dark Mowbullan.
I remember how soon your baby figure turned
to virile muscle, how the gay French blood
of our mother danced in your eyes, and how I learned,
tall as I was, to respect your hard brown fists.
I remember how the two of us loved the sea
we were born with the quenchless sea-lust, you and
and how we laughed through youth light-heartedly,
glad comrades of the ocean and the sun.
I remember you best on a swift white skiff, home-
racing,
your hare legs poised on her gunwale to leap ashore,
a sea-drenched jersey loose about your shoulders
and an old pipe jauntily held between your teeth.
All this was long ago, ere the great cloud hung,
blood-crimson, flame-shot, in the western sky,
before the age-old battle-runes had sung
wildly within boys’ hearts, bidding them die,
bidding you send this note to let me know
that the war-drums of the west call you to sail
further than all our boyhood ships could go,
out beyond Moreton, beyond the cliffs of home.
How it hurts to bid good-bye, aware that after
such unsurpassed delight has come this ending,
that I may never listen to your laughter
ringing from where the little ships are beached,
nor see again the white skiff racing homeward,
you lithely poised on her gunwale to leap ashore,
with the sea-drenched jersey loose about your
shoulders
and the old pipe jauntily held between your teeth.
Good sailing, brother; may the great grey waters
send you, as ever, safely, swiftly home.
VICTORIA.
GARRY LYLE.


Mainly Mail-OrcU
fd
CYPRUS
15-jewel. The ideal
watch for active service.
With military strap.
Guaranteed 60/-
f
Military Colour Patch
Brooches 3/6
Also K.A.A.F. and R.A.N.
Brooches, from .... 3/6
DIAMOND
&• WATCH
SPECIALISTS
df
112 MARKETS!
I SYDNEY.
OPR OAVIDJONES
TYPEWRITERS
of every description
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
d
FROM £5 UPWARDS.
Each machine guarantee J.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd
All States—See ’Phone Book.
p
elmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
The Pelman System develops per-
sonal attributes and qualities such as;
Self-confidence Decision
Concentration Will Tower
Judgment Social Ease
and a Reliable Memory.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, describ-
ing Pelmanism, are posted free on request.
The Pelman Institute,
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr.
Market St.), Melbourne. Telephone: MU2SSS.
E COMMON SENS?
uHA"*
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL, APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
LATEST RADIO SETS
£2O Below Retail Price.
You can buy direct from factory if
no Century Agent in your District,
and thus save up to £2O on retail
prices. Marvellous tone, sensitivity
and economy; world-wide reception
brings overseas news direct to your
home. Absolute satisfaction is
guaranteed by FREE TEN DAY
TRIAD TO INTENDING PUR-
CHASERS, Illustrated catalogue of
Battery and All-electric sets post
free on request.
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 13-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
y
2.
OILSKINS
for hard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of our
oilskins are our
best advertisement.
Hughes’ Tropical
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Write for Tree Catalogue and Samples.
A. J. HUGHES
(Established 1893),
12IB REGENT STREET. SYDNEY.
fd
AHP-L1
PORTABLE UNITS
By
Briggs & Stratton.
A small, compact
Petrol Electric
Generator, with
everything a car
engine has.
SOO WATTS 12 VOLTS
Running cost 1/- per
week.
Details gladly posted.
JMPLION Ptu.UdJ
fd
• For Home Lighting.
• Battery Charging.
• Will operate twelve
25-watt lamps.
• Runs 12 hours on
Igal. of petrol.
Also available—loo—watt
and 400-watt models.
382 Kent Street,
Sydney, jST.S.W.
SERVICE FOR
THE DEAF!!
Mr. R. A. Noedl, L.1.8.5.T., wishes to announce
that he is abJe to render a most efficient service
to all afflicted with Deafness, no matter what
type or style of Hearing they may be using.
"ELECTRAVOX" SUPREME
The sensational Hearing and small, compact and
of amazing clearness. Batteries used in the
Electravox are obtainable anywhere.
R. A. NOEDL L.i.8.5.T.,
The Block, 428 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone: MA3774.
You may be a
future
TEX
MORTON!
Learn the
HILLBILLY
GUITAR,
Hawaiian Guitar,
f
Spanish Guitar or L’kulele in 30 MINL'TKS!
Let Norm. Scotty the singing stockman,
teacli you!
His simple but complete Postal Instruc-
tion course costs only 3/6 a week.
Write today for complete details.
NORM. SCOTT, Hawaiian Club,
Dept. B, 396 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Tune in to 2UB every Sunday 9.45 a.in.
The Mend is the Strongest Spot in the Pot
POTMEND
Cement of a thousand uses.
Sticks where it is put. Couldn’t
be simpler. Just mix powder
and fluid into a putty and fill r ,
the hole. It hardens like iron. It is fire-
proof, waterproof, will not chip, burn, boil
or bake out. Mends leaky pots, pans,
kettles, tanks, radiators, boiler joints, stoves,
tubs, buckets, etc. Many articles discarded
may be made useful again by using Pot-
mend. Used cold—no heat necessary. Price,
One Shilling, posted. Obtainable only from
THE UNION MFC. & AGENCY CO.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
1
i
df
d
THE “ABERDEEN” (Regd.)
“Adjusta” Patent Com-
bined Leg and Surcingle
HORSE RUG
Can be put on and
fastened up in i a
minute. Impossible
for rug to come oft.
The animal has per-
fect freedom, as the
fitting- is self-adjust-
ing. Heavy check
lined, IJ-inch plated
breast-strap and lea-
ther on wither. All
sizes and qualities
from 25/- to 51/-.
fd
Write
for
Price
List.
From all leading stores and saddlers.
SMITH COPELAND & CO. PTY., LTD,.
SYDNEY.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
J. P. TALTY
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4-Jin. knee pads. Bin. thigh
pads. 44in. to Sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth aid surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
f
CONFECTIONERY
ONE GUINEA (21/-) will bring you
21 Selected Recipes.
Each one of the following list can be manu-
factured at under (id. per pound.
Caramels
Batter Scotch
Cocoanut Roughs
Marzipans
Ucorice Allsorts
Cocoanut Ice
Kougat
Ju Julies
Honey Chews
Cocoa-nut Jacks
'Xoltee (Assorted)
Fondants
Barley Sugar
Honeycomb
Milk Chews
KU-.
Retail, all the above lines are 2/- per pound
and upwards, thus showing 300% profit.
Every recipe guaranteed.
COM MONWEAI/ni CON FECXIONERY,
47 High iSt.j Northcotc, Nl(>, Victoria.
, Get rid of
HomsBEFORE
they start!
One application of
HAYES CHEMICAL,
DEHOKNER
Dehorns without bleeding
any calf up to two months.
Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from
its mother for 30 minutes. An easy, cheap, humane
method. Price per pot sufficient for 35 to 50 calves,
6/6. .Large size for 210 to 300 calves, 30/-.
HAYES VETERINARY Post Free.
COMPANY, 351 Queen St., Brisbane,
m
f
Are you
watching
his health?
If your dog's
coat Is dull,
loose or ragged
—if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts —
start him now on
a course of
df
df
BABKO Condition Powders. He will soon be
lively ;md eating with his old healthy appetite.
BABKO tones up a dog’s whole system.
BARKO
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists.
FINE TOBACCO!
Whitelaw’s Famous Import
Blend Number One.
A fine quality leaf which could not be purchased
anywhere at loss than 24/- per pound. Despite
new duties, Will TELA W’S SPECIAL POLICY TO
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS enables us to offer this
tobacco at the lowest price consistent with its fine
quality. Save yourself the middleman’s profit-
buy direct and enjoy an extra fine quality smoke,
expertly blended, fragrant, cool,- and satisfying,
lour money back if not satisfied. Send crossed
cheque or money order. (If cheque add exchange.)
Available in Ready Rubbed Fine Cut or Ready
Rubbed for Pipe, -Jib. 9/3 delivered; 11b. 17/6
delivered. James Whitelaw and Co., Factors,
Importers and Blenders of Fine Tobaccos, 160
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. (Note new address.)
Bankers: Bank of N.S.W., Head Office.
CIIMiBWG
TOTM'ATO
18J FEET
Amazing New Imported
CLIMBING TOMATO!
BEAKS FOR A WHOLE YEARI
Yields 2001 b. per plant. Large,
red, smooth tomatoes. Climbs
12-20 feet. 2/6 packet posted.
PURE WHITE HEALTH
TOMATO!
For Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
etc. (100 per cent.
NON-ACID!) Sup-
□
erb flavor! Disease free! Drought proof!
MAKES DELICIOUS JAM. 2/6 Packet, posted.
d
15-DAY TIMBER KILLER!
Kills all trees, roots to top, large
or small, in 15 DAYS! New method.
NO RINGBARKING NECESSARY!
Prevents Suckering. Will not in-
jure the soil. 5/6 Tin, Post Free.
N.S.W. SEED CO., 693 George St., Sydney.
HALF PRICE FOR NEW
BATTERIES.
Buy your battery direct from the
manufacturer at half the usual retail
price. All Marshall Batteries are
fully guaranteed. All types of
batteries for cars, trucks, cycles,
radio, home and theatre lighting
direct to the public at factory
prices. Write at once for 16-page
catalogue on how to choose and look
after batteries.
The Marshall Battery Mfg. Co.,
38-42 Harbour Street, Sydney.
tfo
■ -
BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCE
CHARGER.
Standard Model, £6/12/6. Battery Extra.
l>e Luxe Model, £B/14/6. Battery Extra.
The new Be Luxe Model gives greater
efficiency in low rainfall areas.
Send for FREE illustrated leaflet.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE CO.,
207 George Street, SYDNEY.
FAT, FLABBY
STOMACH
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The GO VERNA BELT supports
correctly the delicate organs,
and, by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes waistline
tat and bulge with every move
you make.
7 WAVS’ TRIAL OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will
be Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of
bulge and strain gone . . .
OR NO COST! Write for full
illustrated details of 7 DAYS’
TRIAL OFFER.
GO VERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
>7
WINCHESTER
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
2- 750 ft. range, each .... 17/6
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 19/-
Complete with Batteries.
Postage Extra Outside N.S.W.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET. SYDNEY.
•It
f
LEARN VENTRILOQUISM
quickly —my new method
teaches it thoroughly in very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the VENTRILO you can imitate many kinds of
birds, animals, etc. Everything for ONE
SHILLING, including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw your voice.
FREE
Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
Tricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
373 Pitt St., Sydney. 52 Swanston St., Melb.
TILLEY LAMPS
df
For the Farm, Camping
or Fishing.
British-made Kerosene Lamps
providing a steady 300 c.p. light
without flickering and without
smoke or smell.
Model EXIOO (illustrated)
can be used as a Storm
Lantern, Table Lamp or Hanging
Lamp. Reflector slips off when
not required. Burns for 10
hours on 1} pint.
Price, 70/- complete.
Write for catalogue of Radiators
and all types of lamps.
Obtainable from your local agent or
AV. Kopson & Co. Pty., Ltd ,
370-382 Kent Street, Sydney.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
*252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
tor one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(i Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
*For local office
address, see Page 8.
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
3/9/’4l (See Page 26)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with year “Wants” to The Bulletin Service Department.
For local office address, see Page 8.


d
Never was so much owed by
SO MANY TO SO FEW"- how
true of that gallant band of men who
boldly carry the might of our Empire right
into the territory of the enemy. But let
us pay tribute to the planes they fly,
triumphs of research and design, unbeliev-
ably dependable, with performance with-
out peer. And pay tribute to that vast
army of skilled engineers and workers
toiling endlessly to make these planes the
finest in the world.
In this country, the work and organisation
that has enabled us to produce completely
Australian-made aircraft in such a short
space of time, has been little short of
miraculous. Trainers, fighters, bombers—
coming off the line in ever increasing
numbers. Only the complete co-operation
of many branches of industry could have
made this possible, and Imperial Chemical
Industries is proud to contribute.
Such products as Perspex, the transparent
unbreakable material used in gun turrets
and landing light covers, and Neoprene,
a synthetic rubber which is unaffected by
action of oil and petrol, and Elektron
alloy, the amazing light, tough metal that
saves valuable weight in aeroplane con-
struction—these and many other products
of the Imperial Chemical
Industries’ laboratories
are on active Service at
the Empire’s fighting front.
9
“Behind the Empire Throughout the Empire 1}
■r r-(-&
RALIA AND
CIANZ
fd
Subsidiary Companies :
BRUNNER MONO & CO. (A/ASIA) PTY. LTD.
NOBEL (A/ASIA) PTY. LTD.
I.CI. ALKALI (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS PTY. LTD,
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES (N.Z.) LTD.
LEATHERCLOTH PTY. LTD.
