

X
1
X
m
■sa
i
*
the Nation 1
" reB „«ce.
The manufactun g tireless, 88
w “ifta «»A b »* * n * tto ”“' ch “‘ cter ‘
engage i; a ’s oversea
. -ipcg comna un ft nuiP ment ’
wireless e ire less equ P
srr *“
effort.
4$
„jrT oF
ake mahvfac tU s
A , , FSS AP p ARA
w iRE I E b
FOR
fflE AVlf
tub ' B ' n
TH * ' lf >T DE»TS.
peB UC «T.UT«S
, , V .l
S »IP
AIBIINES
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS
(A'SIA) LID.
ORGANISATION
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin, 99
Vol. 62.—N0. 3218.
Wednesday, October 15, 1941.
At the Gates of Moscow (Page 3.0)
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transnussion by Post as a Newspaper.


UmJ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “'Bulletin.’’
My Name
lily Address
S.B. 341
The Red Page
Englishmen and the Devil .
There is something angelic rather than
devilish, it must be admitted, in the spec-
tacle of one of England’s most distin-
guished scientific literary men, the brother
of Aldous Huxley, a Master of Arts, a
Doctor of Science and secretary of the
Zoological Society of London, crouching
happily upon the coast of Wales to
observe the courting habits of the red-
shank ; but bird-and-bug-watching has
led Julian Huxley to record some pretty
devilish goings-on as well as the charming
pranks of the redshank. For instance —
about the oddest of odS facts of Nature
ever recorded:
Everyone is familiar with the rigidity of
instinct in insects. Worker ants emerge
from their pupal case equipped not with
the instincts to care for ant grubs in
general, but solely with those suitable to
ant grubs of their own species. They will
attempt to Care lor the grubs of other
species, but appear incapable of learning
new methods if their instincts kill their
foster children. Or again, a worker wasp,
without food for a hungry grub, has been
known to bite off its charge’s tail and pre-
sent it to its head.
. Huxley’s new book, a collection of
essays under the title The Uniqueness of
Man (Chatto and Windus; Moore’s
Bookshop) is one of four recent books
grouped here because of their outstand-
ing quality as belles let ties and because
they have an affinity in the typical Eng-
lishness of the minds that made them—
a common background in the long Eng-
lish tradition, and a common passion for
inspecting against that background all
that, including their own departures from
the English norm, is different or devilish.
Sacheverell Sitwell observes Poltergeists
(Faber); Leonard Russell’s essayists
observe The English Wits (Hutchinson);
and Arthur Bryant observes the English
Saga (Collins and Eyre and Spottiswoode ;
Angus and Robertson), all with the high
standards of style and mind with which
Huxley watches his redshanks.
All four books, as is inevitable these
days in works on any subject from boll-
weevils to philately, have occasional refer-
ences to Hitler, but Adolf —for a change
-is not the devil with whom any of them
is chiefly concerned. As an authority on
the manifestations of genuine devils,
Sitwell puts the Fiihrer specifically in the
place to which the others by implication
commit him;
The two most remarkable mediums of
modern times, the brothers Willi and Rudi
Schneider, came from Braunau, an old
town which was the birthplace, too, of
Adolf Hitler, the perfect type of medium
if ever there was one, who is described in
the newspapers upon every dramatic or
terrible occasion as “walking like one in a
trance,” or “stepping from his aeroplane
like a person absorbed,” and giving vent,
alternatively, to the hysterical climaxes of
the true poltergeist. We could readily be-
lieve that this remarkable person, did he
feel so inclined, could displace objects and
move them about in oblique and curving
flight; could rap out equivocal answers; or
cause lighted xnatches to drop down from
the ceiling.
Franker than most poets who take to
prose, Sitwell once said that he chooses
his prose themes not for their intrinsic
interest cr drama but for their suitability
as vehicles to carry the kind of writing
he likes to do, skeletons appropriate to
be clothed in the airs and graces of his
prose style. One is to read him on
baroque art, say, not because one is
particularly interested in the niceties of
floridity in architecture, but because one
is interested in Sitwell’s style on that or
any other subject. Poltergeists, therefore,
is not “the” book on poltergeists.
Around his ten fully documented
devils, Sitwell spins too many words;
finely cadenced, gleaming with quiet
wit and sometimes flashing with
poetry though ’ the words are. But his
poltergeists are noble monsters all the
same. There’s the “Epworth Phenomena,”
a family devil testified to by no less an
authority than John Wesley—the Thing
that knocked and stamped and gobbled
like a turkey-cock about the Wesley
household at night, rapping so remorse-
lessly on the children’s beds that the
father shouted at it in fury “Thou deaf
and dumb devil! ”; the Thing that
seemed to know that the Wesley father
and his Jacobite wife had once quarrelled
bitterly about King George, for It always
rapped most furiously when the husband
mentioned the King at family prayers.
How does one recognise a poltergeist
as distinct from all the other ghosts,
devils, witches, mediums, fantods and
bunyips commonly to be met at or after
Sydney Artists’ Ball? Sitwell knows the
answer, for poltergeists conform very
much to a pattern.
If stones are thrown mysteriously on
the roof, or are hurled at the persons
of a household and, strangely, do not
hurt when they hit, that is a poltergeist.
If, as happened in a carpenter’s shop at
Hull in 1849, small pieces of wood lift
themselves up in the air and proceed
to pelt you, that is the same sort of devil.
Said Mr. Bristow, the carpenter:
I saw a small piece of wood, two fingers
thick, hop forward on a plank and, with a
final bound of two feet, pass close to my
ear. Dumbfounded, I said, “This is no-
thing to laugh at. There is something super-
natural. What do you say?” One of my
companions agreed with me, the other still
maintained that somebody was making fun
of us. During this little dispute a bit of
wood from the entrance end of the work-
shop flew and hit him on his hat. I shall
never forget the sheepish look on his face.
From time to time, a piece of wood, just
cut, and fallen upon the floor, jumped up
on the benches and started a dance amidst
the tools. And it is remarkable that in
spite of innumerable attempts we could
never catch a piece in movement, for it
cleverly eluded all our stratagems. They
seemed animated and intelligent.
Then again, if a turnip should fall from
the ceiling while the family is at dinner,
or something picks up the spoons, bends
them double and throws them at the
diners, as is reported to have happened
at the table of the Rev. Eliakim Phelps,
of Connecticut, there is clearly a polter-
geist at work. If the maid breaks the
dishes, that is normal; but when the
dishes break themselves before the horri-
fied eyes of maid and mistress it is time
to call in Mr. Sitwell to lay the polter-
geist. Freud would say that any maid
who “accidentally” breaks the dishes does
so as a protest against her servitude, but
it takes Sitwell and some scientist learned
in ectoplasm as well as Freud to explain
what was witnessed by Mrs. Golding and
her servant Ann Robinson :
About eight o’clock in the evening a fresh
scene began; the first thing that happened
was a whole row of pewter dishes, except
one, fell from off a shelf to the middle
of the floor, rolled about a little while,
then settled; and, what is almost beyond
belief, as soon as they were quiet, turned
upside down; next fell a whole row of
pewter plates from the second shelf; being
taken up and put on the dresser, one in
another, they were thrown down again.
Next, an egg that was on one of the shelves
flew off, crossed the kitchen, struck a cat
on the head and then broke in pieces. A
glass tumbler that was put on the floor
jumped about two feet and then broke.
The cause of such impish goings-on?
Look for a malicious child, about the
age of puberty:— /
The theory is that such manifestations
have their centre of energy in the person
of a child, who performs them, both con-
sciously and unconsciously, being gifted,
for the time being, with something
approaching a criminal cunning. After a
time the power passes from them, with the
quieting, as it might be, of their sensual
or animal psyche.
One thought that immediately occurs
on reading these stories is that poltergeist
phenomena would be sufficient to
account for all the gnomes and elves
and pixies of fairytales and ancient
superstition. What else but a pixie, or
the devil himself, could any primitive
community have supposed responsible
for the persecution of the unhappy Pro-
fessor Schuppart of Giessen? “He was
persecuted with slaps on the face by day
and by night, so that he could get no
rest; and when two persons were
appointed by the authority to set by his
bed to watch him, they got the slaps also.”
If, as is probable, this was the polter-
geist again and the professor’s small
daughter, in some invisible emanation
controlled by the unconscious, was taking
a magnificent revenge on him by slapping
his face, the case becomes one degree less
mysterious, but it remains most satisfy-
ingly diabolical; the child’s unconscious
moves in ways quite as remote from ordi-
nary human behavior as any of Huxley’s
birds and bugs.
In The Uniqueness of Man, Huxley is
really setting out to do the opposite from
Sitwell ; not to show how the devil still
lurks in man, but how man —Hitler’s
Germany excepted—is conquering the
devil of his atavistic nature. The drama
of the evolution of mankind, the hope of
further progress, the necessity for con-
tinual care to guide and caolral man’s
destiny on the earth—these are the themes
that hold his essays together. Huxley’s
mind is lively as always: an essay on
eugenics leads him into a biological
examination of the members of the British
Cabinet; problems of lood and soi
evoke the observation New Zealand s
a country that lives almost entirely from
grass’’: the fact that crows will brood
golf balls provides, by an obvious parallel,
an explanation for the popularity of lap-
dogs. An essay on plagues of mice,
grasshoppers, etc., has special interest for
Australia.
Julian Huxley’s ideas on most subjects
are pretty familiar by now, but he’s
always coming to light with odd facts
that keep his essays entertaining. For
instance •
In the northern seas, specimens of the
jellyfish Cyanea arctica have been found
with a disc over seven feet across and ‘
eighteen inches thick, and great bulky ten-
tacles five feet long hanging down below.
A nd .
x , .. , ~
Birds live at temperatures which would
be the extremes of fever for us; it is this
extremely high temperature, 105 degrees or
over, combined with the agility that comes .
of flight, which gives birds their fascinating
quality of seeming always so intensely
alive They have raised emotion to the
highest pitch found in animals; the line
of mammals has done the same thing for
intelligence.
, ..
Ana-
The small size of most insects is at
first hearing barely credible. If you bought
an ounce of fleas you would have the
pleasure of receiving over eighty thousand
of them.
“Eighty Thousand Fleas,” as j t
happens, wouldn’t make at all a bad
mio. r 1 n id 11 .. ~
title foi Leonard Russell s collection Ol
essays on the English wits, for what
strikes the reader most strongly when
quip after famous quip is quoted is that
wit—great wit and memorable—always
bites and always stings. Russell, in his
fatuously jolly introduction, evades any
definition of wit; and, having no defini-
tion, he is able to include James Agate’s
much too whimsical essay on Mary
Russell Mitford, too gentle a lady and
too mild a humorist to be classed
with Pope and Wilde and the rest
as a wit. Trying to define wit
in one precise sentence is as hopeless as
trying to define poetry; but if the editor
of The English Wits had studied his con-
tributors’ quotations he’d have found that
one essential characteristic of wit, con-
tributing towards a definition, is easily
recognisable: wit is an outbreak of the
T-i" . 1 ,
Ihe psychologists know that, of
t j .1 , -7
co 4 rBe ’ eud bas demonstrated that wit
satisfies the demons of the unconscious
in much the same way as the slapping of
Professor Schuppart’s face must have
sD=ech d too S Popular
from the devil: “devilry ” and “beS”
are terms that can be applied both to
the stinging and dazzling of wit and to
the practical joking of such diabolical
fellows as Theodore Hook, whose pranks
A. J. A. Symons, one of Russell’s con-
tributors submits as a kind of wit
uiuuiois, suom is as a Kind ot wit.
Hook s practical jokes— Wit and malice
dramatised in action—are on a par with
the pranks of the nnlteroeist ■ it was thp
malSo.,f ‘ n .
malicious child in him that walked on to
the stage at Drury Lane, where he had
no right to be, arid “gravely handed a
menningless note lo the embarrissecl prin-
cipal , the malicious child that, during
shouted' ‘Kheririarf l fnr tdl . c , a * moment
nrnmnfpr’s *
entSed n 3d rash ! y be^ n
it l, im ’ To be anywhere in
SssiL « aIW f7 S as en^ bar *
• f th s Tb be Wltb f a P oltei Soist, boat-
mg on the Thames, for instance:—
Rowing to Richmond in company with
bv a CO nnt e ii a ?n n™’ 7 C H Wa f in K fl ir ed
an unauthorised landings Of n C ourse thf
cronies disembarked; and, converting their
fishing line into a surveyor’s tape, paced
the lawn solemnly, measuring and noting
distances. When interrogated, Theodore
proclaimed himself an agent of the Carial
Company, come to determine the direction
of a new cut—which, he calculated, would
pass direct beneath the alderman’s window
and straight through his greenhouse.
Hook had wit in speech as well as in
action; not a great wit, for it was too
kindly and too playful, but a genuine,
diabolical wit all the same:—
Once he spent the whole afternoon With
an American bon vivant, drinking expen-
mental gin and maraschino cocktails by the
pint —and then dined, calm and sober, at
Lord Canterbury’s, where he ascribed his
poor appetite to “a biscuit and a glass of
sherry rashly taken at luncheon.”
Hook’s practical jokes appeal to the
normal devil of wit, the demon that feeds
on malice. The pleasure one feels is
aroused in much the same way as pleasure
is aroused by a couplet of Pope’s; “the
core of enjoyment,” Dilys Powell notes,
“is in the spectacle of the remorseless,
heautifuLprecisjon with which Pope tiaos-
fixes his opponents.” Dr. Johnson could
do it, too:
There is the comment on the Quaker
lady’s preaching, “like a dog’s walking on
his hinder legs. It is not done well, but
you are surprised to find it done at all.”
Again when he slays Boswell for asking
him silly questions about wearing a night-
cap : —•
"I asked him if he had ever been accus-
tomed to wear a nightcap. He said No. I
asked if it were not best to wear one.
Johnson: Sir, I had this custom by chance,
and perhaps no man shall ever know
whether it is best to sleep with or with-
out a nightcap.”
Wilde, of course, was the undisputed
master of malice:
“Meredith” (he was defending Meredith’s
elliptic mannerisms) “is a prose Browning—
and so is Browning.”
Again, more subtly;
There are two ways of disliking art.
One is to dislike it, and the other is to
like it rationally.
Whistler (whose duels with Wilde are
recalled in a good essay by D. B. Wynd-
ham Lewis) murdering a dissatisfied
client:
“Do you call that a good piece of art?”
grumbled the client.
“Well, do you call yourself a good piece
of Nature?”
A gem of Lamb’s on Coleridge:
Leigh Hunt tells of a meeting at High-
gate at which Coleridge pontificated at
length on the eternal verities. When he
had gone, Hunt asked Lamb irritably
“What makes Coleridge talk in that way
about heavenly grace, and the holy church
and that sort of thing?” “Ah,” replied
Lamb with his stammer, “there is a g-good
deal of fun in Coleridge.”
An oddment of malice recalled by Olga
Venn in her notes on John Wilkes;
Lord Irnham, that amusing old scoundrel
who had once challenged his beastly son
Luttrell to a duel and had had his chal-
lenge refused on the grounds that he was
not a gentleman
All these are certainly outbreaks of
the devil, just as certainly as are the
humors of the poltergeist or the “re-
morseless but beautiful precision” with
which Huxley’s 80,000 fleas would trans-
fix their victims. It is a devil of another
sort, but nonetheless a demon —for he
thinks it is funny to get drunk—who is
pleased by Hook’s quip about the sherry
and a biscuit. And it is yet another sort
of devil—but again genuine, for he thinks
it is funny that a man should boast—
that applauds the wit of Bernard Shaw:
''“With the single exception of Homer,
there is no eminent writer, not even Sir
Walter Scott, whom I despise so entirely
as I despise Shakspeare when I measure
my mind against his.”
But Shaw can tickle the normal devil
of malice on occasion, too;
' At a performance by an Italian string
quartet, his companion remarked approv-
ingly, “These men have been playing
together for 12 years.” “Surely,” replied
Shaw, *‘we have been here longer than
that?”
What sort of devil is it that responds
to Sheridan’s quip when Drury Lane
Theatre, on which his whole existence was
centred, was burning down—possibly the
most magnificent example of wit in the
whole English tradition?:
The sands were running out. Then one
night in 1809, while Sheridan was attending
a debate on the Peninsular War, a red glare
told that Drury Lane was on fire. M.Ps.,
sympathetic and perhaps not unwilling to
, see the spectacle, wanted to adjourn.
Sheridan would not hear of it. Watching
his hopes go up in flames, through a
window in Covent Garden, he was rebuked
by some solemn owl for calmly drinking.
“Surely,” he protested, “a man may be
allowed to drink a glass of wine by his own
fireside.”
That, it may be, is the Englishman’s
final and peculiar devilishness: the ability
to mock at, and so survive, his own
failures and disasters. And that, essen-
tially, is the theme of The English Saga,
a book so wide and deep in its scope that
the other three reviewed here are all
directly or by implication compressed
within its covers; all the oddities of the
English character and as many curiosi-
ties of the life of the people in the last
hundred years as Bryant can cram in-
here are the equivalent of Sitwell’s polter-
geists ; quip after quip from “Punch’
the national character as illustrated by
English wit; the social and political his-
tory of the industrial revolution, strikes,
turmoil, the fight for the vote, colonial
expansion and foreign wars, and the
people somehow keeping their good
temper and their sense of humor through
it all—a living picture of the evolution
of a nation.
It is all, Bryant stresses again and
again, laissez-faire evolution, and he
agrees with Huxley that the time for that
has finished ; deliberate control, conscious
evolution is their programme for the
future. But Bryant, like Huxley and
unlike most of the contemporary writers
on politics, remains an apostle of gradual-
ness ; he knows that the devil isn’t to be
undone in a day and, because the English
have always had a lot of fun out of their
particular demons, he wants to be quite
sure that the devil is the devil before he
liquidates him.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —the salt of business.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
Well on the way . . Summer and
£•*
,V.VAV.v/AV.v.%v.v/^M<v><vW4oCMgo«flMw
IJ
«
’4
■■■•
a
r *Ss M
& $
I
*
l
i
i !
i 3
\y.
* SSSS •
SSM
;vy
;> W- , | '
E k T“
IHiiiiif h
& •■• && _ ?
ri
n i
:
ii
v .
Ky'
Hiii
I
5s 4
k
M'
> ..-/-:v
"SB3BS
'jlf Keep out all Disease Carrying Pests from Your
Home . . . with Fly Proof Screens and Doors
FLIES
Be wise and protect your home early this
summer against the incessant, irritating buzz
of flies, and the sickness they may bring. Flies
are known as direct germ carriers. So keep
them outside with thoroughly efficient Fly Proof
Doors and Screens. These Fly Proof Gauze
Doors and Screens are constructed from well-
seasoned redwood.
Thoroughly Reliable Window Screens
77 i
FULL SCREENS. Strongly
constructed. Prices
2ft. 4in, x 4ft. Oin. 12/6
2ft. 6in. x 4ft. Sin. 13/9
2ft. Sin. x sft. 4in. 14/6
2ft. lOin. x 6ft. Oin. 15/9
HALF SCREENS. Prices
2ft. Oin. x 2ft. 4in. 8/6
2ft. Oin. x 2ft. 9in. 9/3
2ft. 4in. x 2ft. Oin. 9/9
2ft. 4in. x 3ft. Oin. 10/6
2ft. Sin. x 3ft. Oin. 11/-
2ft. lOin. x 3ft. Oin. 11/6
2ft. lOin. x ,3ft. Sin. 12/3
DOOR AND SCREEN FITTINGS
DOOR FITTINGS: Butt Hinges, 3d. pair. Spiral Springs, lOd.
each. Spring Hinges, 7d. each. Stop Beads, lOd. each.
Pneumatic Door Closer, 7/- set. Handles, 3d. each.
SCREEN FITTINGS: Butt Hinges, 3d. pair. Buttons and Pins,
6d. set. Bolts, 9d. each.
DOORS AND
VARNISHED.
SCREENS ARE PAINTED, STAINED OR
FURTHER PRICES ON APPLICATION.
VICTORY'
NO. 1 DESIGN Prices
2ft. 6in. x 6ft. 6in. 16/9
2ft. Sin. x 6ft. Sin. 17/3
2ft. lOin. x 6ft. lOin. 17/9
3ft. Oin. x 7ft. Oin. 18/3
iff
NO. 2 DESIGN. Prices
2ft. 6in. x 6ft. 6in. 19/3
2ft. Sin. x 6ft. Sin. 19/9
2ft. lOin. x 6ft. lOin. 21/6
3ft. Oin. x 7ft. Oin. 22/-
w
ŵ
ẁ
, *■ .'I
NO. 12 DESIGN. Prices
2ft. 6in. x 6ft. Sin. 33/-
2ft. Sin. x 6ft. Sin. 34/6
2ft. lOin. x 6ft. lOin. 35/9
3ft. Oin. x 7ft. Oin. 36/6
ANTHONY
HORDERNS 9
■B
NO 14 DESIGN Prices
2ft. 6in. x 6ft. 6in. *3/3
2ft. Sin. x 6ft. Sin. 31/-
2ft. lOin. x 6ft. lOin. 32/-
3ft. Oin. x 7ft. Oin. 33/-
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'PHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
'tfffxfd 'Mheefwie mellowness rnuUmu/tuel
Tennelt's
MAPLEDURHAM.
It will be recalled that soon after Nazi aerial bombing reached its almost limit of destructive power in the vain attempt to make London “one
with Nineveh and Tyre,” and subdue the unconquered and unconquerable spirit of its citizens, writers claimed a new London would arise.
However the extent of this probability, there is no question as to the number of famous “landmarks” which were “victims” of “the hellish
urge for destruction” that marked German technique when “the control of the air belonged to the Luftwaffe .” But not all the desire for
evil could obliterate many of the spots of historic fame and beauty found in that area which for convenience sake may be referred to as
“outer London.” How rich the Thames, which traverses this terrain, is in these, most visitors to the Metropolis are aware. Three and a
half miles N.W. of the thriving but ancient town of Reading is Mapiedurham, and lovers of the river declare there exists no sweeter spot from
source to sea. Sixty years ago renovation was necessary to one of the overfalls, and an element of change was introduced, but the lock, weir
and lasher, the bay of swirling water by them formed when supply is ample, the backwater, brook and shallows were not interfered with.
The whispering trees overhang the swift current, the “lazy lilies” wave in the tranquil backwater, and the old mill, illustrated, remains.
Mapiedurham is likewise famed for Mapiedurham House, a genuine example of Elizabethan architecture, built in 1581 by Sir Michael
Blount, who was Lieutenant of the Tower of London. In the Blount family it has ever since remained. <The name Mapiedurham is a
corruption of Mapulder-ham, Mapulder being the ancient English designation of the Maple-tree. The Church, an old and curious
structure, though some time ago subjected to not-too-successful “restoration efforts,” is a centre of peculiar interest. The south side of
the sacred edifice is claimed by the Blount family as a private mortuary chapel, so here the very unusual custom is allowed of performing
the Roman Catholic burial service over the corpses of persons who have died in that communion. The custom arises from the family of
the Blounts, who are the owners of the manor, having always remained in the “old faith,” to which the greater part of the parishioners
also adhere.


FROM THE WELL DEFILED.
“Polluted? Well, what’s biting you? Didn’t Napoleon say imagination ruled the world?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney: Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0. ),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly : 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6a.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire ): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign ) ;
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth. New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire.
Id. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places. 4d.
IN BERLIN, MOSCOW AND
CANBERRA.
The speech of Adolf Hitler at the Sportspalast in
Berlin on October 3 was his first since the beginning
of the attack on Soviet Russia, and it deserved more
attention from the world’s press than it got.
Less than two years ago Hitler declared that the
German and Russian people had common aims and
that their “friendship” had been “cemented by blood.”
Now, “having asked not God’s help but His
blessing” on the bloody enterprise, he makes it clear
that he is bent upon the extirpation of not only
the Russian Government but the Russian nation.
Because they had dared to defend their homes,
he finds this tortured race, noted (whatever their leaders
and their system of government may be) for their
simplicity and carefree generosity, to be “not men
but wild beasts.... the cruellest people the brain can
conceive, fighting for greed under the cudgels of their
commissars.”
He has, he says, “not the slightest sympathy for
them.” In his narrative of the destruction which he
has wrought among them, there was nothing but savage
elation. He boasted that he had taken 2,500,000
prisoners, most of them citizen soldiers, who were
driven to fight only because their little stake in the
world was threatened by his savagery.
He found satisfaction in the fact that his legions
had killed hundreds of thousands more and had taken
away from its rightful owners territory “as large as
the Germany of which I became the ruler in 1933.”
There was no pity in his words for the hundreds
of thousands of widows he has created, or regret for
the corpses of peasants trodden into the bloodstained
mud, for the lovely towns of the Ukraine reduced to
ashheaps, for the orphans, the maimed, the demented.
He cares nothing for the millions of innocents who,
if they escape his bombs and shells, may be destroyed
by famine or pestilence. Neither does he reckon the
vast price his own people must pay for his “triumphs”
in blood and agony, nor the hatreds he is engendering,
which must poison world-relations with Germany for
a century.
Russia must be destroyed! So even as he spoke
there was in progress a new and dreadful offensive
designed to spread desolation even more horrible than
that for which he and his commanders already had
been responsible, since it would be achieved on the
threshold of winter.
Unfortunately for the safety of civilisation, Hitler
must be taken with the same grim seriousness with
which he takes himself. The world must come to
realise that, if Russia falls, the people of the British
Empire will be the next to be rated as “wild beasts.”
Mr. Churchill last week wrote to the Indian
Defence Council: “During 1942 the Armies of India
with their British comrades will be fighting from the
Caspian to the Nile... .keeping the Nazi invasion from
their homeland.”
There is no doubt that if it is Hitler’s choice the
warning will prove true. With the seas closed to
him, the Middle East would be his best bet
if he could hold Russia completely subjugated by
the spring or secure a passage for his troops through
Turkey. A leap of a few hundred miles from the
Caucasus would give him control of the Persian oil-
fields and threaten the rear of all the armies guarding
Suez, apart from India. Distances in those regions,
once the ranges are passed, would be nothing to divi-
sions which have covered, in October this year, 1845
miles “since the spring.”
Possessed of Suez, the enemy would hold the
key to the Mediterranean and to the conquest of
Africa, with an all-the-way land approach from Ger-
many. And if he could invade India it would be a
small step to Malaya. And Malaya, partly garrisoned
by our troops, is on the doorstep of the Common-
wealth itself.
In the circumstances, it is obvious that the
British Empire must be ready to make a life-or-death
stand at the most advantageous point, which is also
the most immediately crucial point, since loss of it
means loss of Anglo-Iranian oil supplies. That point
is the Caspian-Suez line, and it is as much Australia’s
gateway as it is India’s. Large seasoned forces of the
A.I.F. already are there. Larger ones —with reinforce-
ments —will have to be sent with every scrap of
material, equipment, armament and necessities which
factories can build and ships can carry.
The new Australian Prime Minister has said that
the Commonwealth is called upon to “play its part in
the greatest crisis that has ever come to free men in any
period of human history.” According to his own
account, he is perfectly aware that “what has hap-
pened leaves Australia open to danger of attack.” But
there is no evidence that he has convinced himself,
much less his party, that gigantic onslaughts by the
method which in four months has killed and maimed
more Russians than there are Australians altogether
cannot be warded off by voluntary enlistment.
Of course, the Russians are not defeated yet.
The great thing about them is that they do not appear
to know what defeat means. After four months of
struggle, in which they have consistently been com-
pelled to retreat, sometimes with losses which might
have proved disastrous to the morale of any army,
vicissitude seems to spur them only to fresh efforts
and to sustain them to fresh confidence in their ulti-
mate triumph.
There is no telling to what heights such courage
may rise. But even in Moscow the position is
described as “critical,” and the substantial help which
Lord Beaverbrook says Britain and the U.S.A. are
attempting to give may be cut off by the winter and
the German advances on the northern central front.
The times demand a stern and swift change to
realism in the attitude of all parties in our Parliament.
The method needed for recruiting is the one which
will give the A.I.F, authorities a choice of all the
men of military age in the quickest possible time, and
no man should be in a position to refuse service any-
where if it is demanded of him by the country which
protects his home.
Method in finance should be based also on the
need for swift, regular and mandatory collections and
pay-as-you-go principles and the spreading of the
burden so that it will fit the capacity of all classes.
And a drastic change is needed in the outlook
on war-time employment. Last week, while the new
Federal Labor Minister, Mr. Ward, was discuss-
ing with Mr. Thornton, of the Ironworkers, the ques-
tion of scrapping or altering the arbitration system,
and while his mind was occupied also with a local
dispute in Darwin, 4000 men were on strike at the
Lithgow Small Arms Factory because of “the refusal
of members of the Amalgamated Engineering Union
to work with a member of the Australian Society of
Engineers who had been fined £5 for having carried
on during a stop-work meeting.”
Wars against ruthless men like Hitler are not won
by allowing that sort of thing to hold up munitions
production.
In January, 1940, when scarcely a boo-boo boy
believed that Hitler was anything but an empty brag-
gart, helpless against the might of Britain and France,
General Blarney warned the Australian Government
and people what was in store for them. “This war,”
he said, “is going to be no walkover. On the contrary,
it will be the most terrible thing the world has ever
seen. New methods have created a terrific mass of
fire. I pray we can stave off the attack till we are
prepared.” Event after event has justified the A.I.F.
commander, and none more than the Russian horror.
"Social Security."
The interim report of the Parliamentary Joint Com-
mittee on Social Security, though hailed as “a new
charter of widespread social reform,” offers nothing
more than palliatives with which Australia is all
too familiar. It is concerned with post-war
employment, pensions for everybody, vocational
training, housing and slum clearance. The chief
recommendations seem to be more and bigger social-
service departments, “immediate setting up” of a
Commonwealth house-planning authority and a unity
between Commonwealth and States in a “courageous
slum-clearing policy.”
All little things when set against the enormous
problem of Australia’s future, and none suggests any
appreciation of or determination to remove the
causes of these and other evils. Since it is an
“interim” report, the committee may have something
better up its sleeve. It will need to have, for so far
there is no hint of that vision which must direct
national policy if Australia is ever going to be any-
thing more than 3,000,000 square miles of compara-
tively uninhabited country with a couple of over-
populated spots on its south-east coast. Indeed the
report is little more than a study of conditions in the
cities and a re-issue of shortsighted political expedi-
ents that have always failed to cope with current evils.
Airy plans for slum clearance and pension pay-
ments won’t cure our social evils, whether put into
effect or not. The very payment of pensions in itself
implies a social failure, and to condemn and pull
down the foetid little houses in Richmond or Redfern
won’t destroy the slum mind. That mind is clearly
evident in the willingness of people to crowd into flats
—flats, in a country where every man could be given
an acre for himself! The reason, of course, is that
the people’s work is centralised and they naturally
centralise themselves about it.
Nothing short of an uncompromising decentralisa-
tion policy will get rid of the devastating pull and
pressure of the Huge Wens. Such a policy would
meet with ruthless opposition from the interests that
fatten on the close-packed herd. But it should be
possible to break up the Big City into four or five
smaller cities, to push industries out to places 25
or 30 miles away from existing centres and so cause
new centres. The workers would follow the work, and
heaven knows there is plenty of room for factories
and homes in the outer metropolitan areas.
A committee on social reform should have been
aware of the effect of a closely-packed Big City, not
only on the rural population, but also on the politics
of the nation, and it is from politics that social evils
arise. The falling birthrate and the hitherto steady
but now flooding drainage of population from the vast
hinterland to the cities spring from the same root.
No plan for saving Australia can ignore them nor fail
not only to halt them but set them flowing the other
way.
Race depletion and urban congestion are encour-
aged by other things. Perhaps the more important are
the intrusion of the female into industry, the common
pattern of education, rampant commercialism. Gov-
ernmental paternalism, the growth of bureaucracy,
failure to encourage the family unit, multiple and
overlapping legislation and administration and the
incredible lack of vision in Australian politics.
It was characteristic that politicians should recom-
mend more pensions, which means nothing but in-
creased taxation and extravagance. The Parliamentary
committee entirely ignores the existence of insurance
or the necessity to teach the young to provide for the
rainy day. It assumes that Australian workers —and
few Australians are not workers —are so poorly paid
that there is nothing they can put aside, though a
veritable horde of people live exceedingly well on
what the population is prepared to lavish each week
on bets, lottery tickets, booze, commercialised sport
and other vanities.
To look at the next 25 years in Australia in the
light of the past 25 years and hope to cope with the
inevitable by “courageous slum clearance” and in-
creased pensions is the sort of puerility to be expected
from the minds that dominate our Parliaments. Out
of all the “schemes” brought forward since the last
war by Australian Governments, of whatever party, to
meet unemployment, to promote “development,” to
encourage population, not one has proved to be more
than temporary. Premier after Premier, Prime
Minister after Prime Minister, has spoken glowingly
of this, that or the other measure. Few of them
remain active. What do remain are boards, commis-
sions, departments, throttling forms of “control” of
industries and the leaping public debt.
Leaping beside the debt is the burden of costs, as
tax mounts on tax and employer after employer finds
himself forced to act as a Government collector. Prices
keep two jumps ahead of rising wages despite all the
“control” that seven Governments can exercise, or
perhaps because of it.
No Australian with pride in his country and
ambitions for it can survey the nation’s political face
and be pleased with it. Nor can he think of the
coming years with equanimity. For the national Par-
liament, as constituted these last few years, has neither
the will nor the prescience to prepare for the future,
and the useless minor Parliaments have become col-
lections of highly-paid chatterers, whose loquacity —as
we have seen in the newly-elected N.S.W. Assembly—
is apt to take a very ugly turn.
Yet for men with courage and vision no greater
opportunity ever existed. Here is the world’s largest
island, its resources barely scratched, its productive
capacity not even vaguely assessed. It has a blessed
climate and a population drawn from the most
vigorous and resourceful stock in the world ; and for all
that is said about slums and malnutrition each suc-
ceeding generation is of better physique and lives
longer than the preceding one. When our men go
abroad in massbs, as in 1914-18 and now, their size
and bearing are the envy and admiration of other
races. From out of our seven millions come men
and women who hold their own with the best the Old
World can produce in all fields of achievement. Yet
we fail to produce statesmen. Here, surely, is a
matter for examination by a committee on social
problems.
To the crowded isles of Britain arid the weary
old warring nations of Europe a land like ours, thou-
sands of miles away in seas of peace and sunshine,
must look like a paradise. And a paradise it is, wait-
ing to become the home of 20,000,000 and more white
people, waiting for the flame that will sweep the little
men and their little laws out of its path.
If the passionate dreams of patriots mean any-
thing it will not wait in vain. Especially if their
experiences abroad clear the minds and fire the brains
of our fighting men so that they will come back deter-
mined to have done with all the old evils and futilities,
among them Parliamentary committees that can offer
nothing better than more pensions and “courageous
slum-clearance” policies for crowded cities.
Recruits are needed for the fighting services. They
must measure up to certain physical and mental
standards. Recruits are also needed for the nation’s
Parliament, and they, too, must measure up to certain
standards. Men with the requisite qualities must be
somewhere in the community, wandering in the vitiat-
ing air of State Parliaments, giving all their talents to
business, to professions, to occupations in which they
are wasted. There is a call for such men, just as there
is a call for fighting men. The country needs political
leadership as never before.
OLD-TIMER.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
All Should Pay, Mr. Curtin.
“I know what the people want,” said Mr. Curtin in
his first speech as Prime Minister. “They want me
to act. They want the Government to get to work.”
He was quite right. Action and leadership of an
unillusioned kind are wanted. Money must be raised
for the war effort on prompt, sensible and fair lines,
and the people are desirous of being put to their
appropriate tasks.
Canada is taxing much more heavily than Mr.
Fadden proposed to do, and war work is moving very
smoothly there. Mr. Curtin mentioned that there was
"no occasion in Australia to resort to compulsion to
raise money from the people,” and as he was speak-
ing on the occasion of the opening of the £100,000,000
cash and conversion loan he may have been referring
in particular to the job in hand, and not in a general
way to the terms of the Fadden Budget, of which the
big loan was a portion. A compulsory saving plan in
lieu of a wider taxation field was an integral part of
the Budget, which was largely the conception, one
may assume, of Treasury experts. This “post-war
credits” plan figured in Labor’s objection to the
Budget, as it touched —very lightly—incomes as low
as £lOl. It also affected most higher incomes, the
“middle” class particularly, though in heavily-taxed
States it had compensatory provisions.
It is no use Mr. Curtin toying with the impracti-
cable “voluntary” idea if revenue is wanted from the
lower income ranges. Compulsion exists on higher
incomes in the form of heavy taxation—some-
times double or treble —and post-war credits on
lower incomes should be regarded as “sweetened”
taxation rather than compulsory borrowing. A
workable Budget in which taxation figured substan-
tially but not necessarily sufficiently was put
to Parliament, and though Parliament rejected it there
is no evidence that Parliament had anything better in
mind, nor, indeed, that the Budget was really the
cause of Mr. Fadden’s downfall. Mr, Coles, the man
who precipitated things, said he “had very little objec-
tion to the Budget.”
This is an all-in war, and all should have to con-
tribute without the option. The £100,000,000 loan
will be filled, largely by the custodians of people’s
savings and by investors. But the more that is con-
tributed to war funds out of current earnings the
better. The typist on three pounds a week and the
single man on wages that are rapidly mounting would
each have a healthier conscience if they had to pay a
little towards the cost of war to Australia. The con-
tribution need not be large, but it should certainly be
something. As it is, those who are not paying directly
towards running the war often don’t realise that it is
costing anybody anything. War expenditure is a tax the
country is compelled to meet; the people as a whole
should accept it as a tax.
A Job for Dr. Evott.
With the advent of the Curtin Government the Aus-
tralian Labor party may look up some of its old stock-
in-trade to see what can be furbished up and put
into use. There are some useful Labor tenets that
have got a bit dusty through being put away so long,
and one of them is Unification.
This item could very well be handed over to
Dr. Evatt, the new Attorney-General, who would
probably find that the borers had got into it through
the long period of storage. These destructive agents
belong to one main species, popularly called State
Governments, which spawn a variety of active para-
sites, the more familiar of which are known as depart-
ments, boards, commissions, etc. They feed chiefly
on the Commonwealth Constitution, thus checking
the growth of the national desire for unification
expressed freely as “One People, One Parliament,
One Destiny.”
Their titbit of that Constitution is Section 92,
which says: “On the imposition of uniform duties
of customs, trade, commerce and intercourse among
the States, whether by means of internal carriage or
ocean navigation, shall be absolutely free.” The
various State instrumentalities have been through,
over and around it so often that they now arrogate
to themselves rights which the founders of the Com-
monwealth never intended they should have.
The effect is felt to some extent in the capital
cities and places far from the borders; on the borders
the effect is tremendous. Foodstuffs are prevented
from passing from one State to another by marketing
laws, farmers and businessmen daren’t drive their
vehicles beyond limits fixed by the little masters, any
State apparently can bar anything from spuds to
human beings without consulting anybody, the word
“border” constantly looms in newspapers, gazettes,
proclamations, though Australia has no real internal
borders of any kind. Trade, commerce and inter-
course, far from “absolutely free,” are restricted at
every turn.
Dr. Evatt has had plenty of political and judicial
experience. On a recent tour of northern Victoria
he saw stagnating towns and was horrified. He could
have seen them 20 years ago, for the concentration
of war industries around Melbourne has only
accelerated a process that will not be checked until
the States, except as purely geographical areas, cease
to exist. A close examination of all these “border”
hindrances with a view to their removal and a restora-
tion to the people of their constitutional right to
“absolutely free” trade, commerce and intercourse
would be a splendid beginning.
A Killer Who Couldn't Be Hanged.
Maoriland’s Labor Government, which, while putting
up a very fair war effort, has been taking advantage
of the war-time preoccupation of the people to sneak
some highly debatable propositions into the Statute
Book, is not having much luck with these little enter-
prises. An attempt to socialise the practice of medi-
cine raised such a storm of protest and defiance that
the legislation, scarcely a month old, is already in
process of amendment. And the decision to abolish
the death penalty and flogging for crimes of violence,
arrived at barely a month ago, has already been sub-
jected to criticism of the most cutting kind —the
criticism of events.
In an isolated district in Westland the police
attempted to serve a summons on a 40-year-old
farmer, Stanley Graham. Graham shot a sergeant
and two constables dead and took to the bush. He
was still at large five days later, and he had killed
three more men. The district was like an armed
camp. Hundreds of soldiers, as well as police and
civilians, were out night and day with rifles in their
hands searching for the killer. ’Planes were used in
the attempt to track him down; trenches were dug
near his home to hide ambushed men should he
return ; there was even talk of using military tanks
to cope with this one man who defied the law.
As that law stands, no matter how this man’s
crimes might be multiplied, he could not suffer the
loss of his own life. The police will not like that.
They have lost four of their comrades, and, as a
Labor Government found out in Westralia years ago
when two detectives on the track of gold-stealers were
murdered, police morale is a difficult thing to main-
tain if policemen can be killed without the obvious
sort of reprisal. The Westralian Government hanged
the murderers ; and it was a Labor Government.
The Death of Cock Robert.
[“S.M.H.” devoted its main leader on 8 /10/ ’4l to reasons
why Mr. Menzies should not be leader of the Opposition.
Mr. Menzies protested that he was tired of being exhumed.]
“T.McN.”: The evidence concerning the demise of
Cock Robert has never been properly examined, nor
have the claims put forward by various participants
in the festivities been subjected to close scrutiny.
First there is Sparrow. Normally regarded as an
unassuming member of a numerous, slightly quarrel-
some family whose only achievement seems to be the
capacity to live anywhere and bathe in dust, this
fellow at once pushes forward and declares “I killed
Cock Robert with my little arrow.” Instantly he is
accepted. No inquiries concerning either his previous
veracity or his marksmanship are made, nor does it
occur to anyone that his suspicious haste to confess
argues a desire to reach the headlines. There is no
attempt at cross-examination ; the world is convinced.
Next comes Fly. A still lowlier person than
Sparrow, he is the only apparent eyewitness. “I,” he
deposes, “saw him die, with my little eye I saw it.”
Aside from the scientific aspects of the capacity of
this witness’s vision there is again the suspicious eager-
ness to be first with the news.
The evidence of Fish is in a' different category.
He not only swears to having caught Cock Robert’s
blood, but produces a dish as the alleged catch-
ment area. Further, he comes forward with no
ulterior motive, for while a popular belief in the
death of Cock Robert could be beneficial to both the
previous witnesses there is no way in which it could
benefit Fish. We must accept Fish’s evidence about
the blood, but whether the mere catching of some
blood warrants an assumption of death is another
matter.
These are the three main witnesses. Bull’s offer
to toll the bell because he is good at pulling
ropes is unimportant—it is a mere boast of strength—
and the claims of the remaining witnesses amount to
little more than desires for prominence.
Lastly, there is evidence that “all the birds of the
air fell a-sighing and a-sobbing” when they heard
the news. But where is the proof? Anyone who
knows the kind of birds we are dealing with is fully
aware that they seldom feel any emotion of sorrow
or sympathy for the death of another bird. Emotions
of another kind, yes, but not the kind to set them
sighing and sobbing.
Lastly, we have the remarkable attitude of the
corpse itself. It is frequently heard complaining that
it doesn’t want to be resurrected, that being repeatedly
exhumed is a very tiring business. This, whatever else
it is, is not death.
Plainly, both the claim that Cock Robert is dead
and the widespread belief in it are based on the most
illogical and unsound premises. It seems to have been
put out by someone who, failing the actual death, is
anxious to persuade both Cock Robert and everybody
else that he is dead. Whether this arises from
jealousy, fear or spite is open for decision, but since
Cock Robert is noted for his frankness, his
ability in debate and his total disregard for the
opinions of lesser birds there is ground for suspecting
all three sources.
The Interned Communists.
The new Federal Cabinet has referred to Mr. Forde,
Army Minister, and to Dr. Evatt, Attorney-General,
the “question of the detention” of the Communists
Thomas and Ratliff, and the Ministers are to report
back to a Cabinet meeting.
Thomas and Ratliff were proven guilty of active
subversion in a variety of forms. They are self-
confessed colleagues of the gentlemen who shouted
at a recent “Aid to Russia” rally that the Empire is
“decaying and rotten to the core.” They are also
the darlings of the various “Australia-Russia Friend-
ship” leagues against which Mr, Curtin’s party has
turned a resolute face, even to the extent of banning
any of its members who associate with them. Among
documents seized at their secret lair was one alleging
that Australian Labor leaders had “led the people into
the bloody mire of war and Fascism.”
Given a light term of imprisonment, they were
interned on their release from gaol, not as a punishment,
but because Authority was satisfied they intended more
mischief. After Germany attacked Russia they
graciously announced their willingness to support the
war, at least so long as the U.S.S.R. was involved.
Their fellow-Communists and the usual “militant”
union bosses began an agitation for their release. The
Menzies Government yielded to the extent of grant-
ing them right of appeal to a tribunal of which Mr.
Justice Pike was chairman.
After a judicial hearing, the tribunal found that
“both the objectors up to the time of their arrest
were actively engaged... .in deliberately hindering by
every means in their power the war effort of this
country, and this was admitted by their solicitor.” It
recommended against their release. The men had mean-
time been on a hunger-strike and attained a promi-
nence in the daily press out of all proportion to their
importance. Threats of “nation-wide” one-day strikes
and general upheaval were made on their behalf. The
Menzies Government refrained from clapping the
authors of the threats into internment, but it stood
firm and Australian workers made their attitude clear
by staying away from “mighty” demonstrations and
refusing to strike, except in a few instances where
it was too late to draw out.
Dr. Evatt took it upon himself to attack the
Government during the hubbub. Eventually the noise
died down.
Who started it again would be interesting to know.
In any event, if Mr. Forde consults the service chiefs —
or the Army rank and file for that matter —he’ll get
his answer.
There is only one excuse which could be offered
for a reversal of the decision of Mr, Justice Pike’s
tribunal—that it would placate a lot of people who
would be better interned with Ratliff and Thomas than
at large as at present.
The Tipsters.
“P.D,” reviews them:
Always eager to show how good they are at picking
teams, whether for football, cricket or political Tests, and per-
haps guided by those rising journalists recruited from Randwick
and Warwick Farm, Sydney’s Great Dailies rushed in with
characteristic self-assurance to tip the Curtin team before the
selectors had chosen it. Any political punter who had bet on
their tips would have gone home without his shirt.
Curtin for Prime Minister and Evatt for Attorney-General
they got; the “Daily Telegraph” and “S. M. Herald” also
awarded Evatt External Affairs, but they and the “Sun”
piled on him Navy as well —that went to Makin. Beasley —
a moral for Supply and Development—was appointed to
Munitions by the “D.T.,” and to Supply and Munitions
(“if united”) by the “Sun” and “S.M.H.” Drakeford,
correctly tipped by the “D.T.” and “S.M.H.” for Air and Civil
Aviation, was appointed to Transport by the “Sun.”
A blind man with a pin could have done better on the
rest of the Cabinet posts. The “Sun” was “certain that
Forde will be either Treasurer or Minister for Defence Co-
ordination”; the “D.T.” and “S.M.H.” appointed him
Treasurer, and the “Herald’s” staff correspondent had “little
doubt” that Customs would be “one of his portfolios.” Forde
is Minister for the Army, a job which all three had reserved
for Dedman, who became Minister for War Organisation of
Industry and in charge of the C.S.I.R.
They named Chifley Minister for Defence Co-ordination,
Frost Minister for Commerce and Makin P.M.G. —although,
playing safe, the “Sun” and “S.M.H.” offered Makin the
alternatives of External Affairs and Social Services respectively.
Curtin made Chifley Treasurer, Frost Minister for Repat. and
War Service Homes, and Makin Minister for the Navy and
Munitions. The “D.T.” and “Sun” appointed Lazzarini
to Health and Social Services, but “S.M.H.” couldn’t find a
post for him. He is Minister for Home Security and Assistant
Treasurer.
Senator Ceilings, the “D.T.’s” Minister for Home Security
and “S.M.H.’s” Vice-President of the Executive Council, is
Minister for the Interior. Senator Keane was given Trade and
Customs (“D.T.”), War Organisation of Industry or Social
Services (“Sun”) and not placed by “S.M.H.” Minister for
Trade and Customs he is, as well as V.-P. of the Executive
Council. Senator Fraser was posted to Information and
Interior by the “D.T.,” not started by “S.M.H.” and started
without colors by the “Sun” when half the others were home.
He has External Territories and is Assistant for Commerce.
Scully also was not started by the “Sun” until half the
numbers were up, but the “D.T.” and “S.M.H.” gave him as
an alternative to Frost for Commerce. He got that post. All
three tipped Holloway for Labor and National Services. He
got Social Services and Health.
Of the four remaining, Ashley was awarded Aircraft
Production by the “D.T.,” mentioned at the last moment by the
“Sun” and not picked by “S.M.H.” He is P.M.G. and
Minister for Information. The “D.T.” tipped Lawson cor-
rectly for Transport (he is also assistant P.M.G.), but the
“Sun” didn’t start him and “S.M.H.” recorded that he “may
be content to hold his present position (party Whip).” Ward
was given a chance by “5.M.H.,” but the “D.T.” didn’t
mention him, and the “Sun” had it that “personal grounds
will probably cost Mr. Ward a portfolio.” Ward now has
the laugh and Labor and National Services. Senator Cameron
was not nominated —maybe they didn’t like his name —and he
is now Minister for Aircraft Production.
The result evidently put “S. M. Herald” in such a dither
that, after remarking (4/10/ ’4l) that “Mr. Scullin is not
likely to accept a portfolio” and (6 /10 / ’4l) that “Mr. Scullin
will not be a candidate for Cabinet election,” it recorded
(7/10/’4l) that “there are several surprises in the Cabinet,
the most notable being the exclusion of Mr. Scullin.”
Labor and War.
“J.H.D.”; During the 1914-18 war, as in this, volun-
tary enlistments failed to maintain the strength of bat-
talions overseas. Labor and other interests uncom-
promisingly opposed conscription, and the result was
that battalions, reduced to less than one-third of their
proper fighting strength, were forced to keep men in
the front trenches often for three weeks at a stretch,
whereas six or seven days was regarded as the limit
of human endurance. Our military hospitals contain
mute evidence of all too many shattered frames and
minds that might have been saved by forcing others
to bear a share of the strain.
In subsequent years of peace when statesmen
took steps to provide that we should not again enter
war unprepared as in 1914, Labor once again opposed
it, and by repealing the compulsory training provision
stripped our nation of defence. But for that measure
we should have had at the outbreak of this war at
least a million men partially trained in arms.
The seat of the present war is now pregnant with
dangerous possibilities; our battalions overseas are
in need of reinforcements; our voluntary enlistment
scheme is a failure. Conscription of manhood
is now, as in 1916, absolutely necessary if
we are to give our fighting men some relief from the
terrific strain that they have to bear. It’s up to
Mr. Curtin.


SOCIETY
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Keep your eye on the ruddy road or you’ll have us in the gutter.”
“Oliver Filter”; Whenever some mili-
tant female tells me that her sex should
be governing this country, that they
would have unity, progressiveness, deter-
mination, etc., I always agree with her
and smile (to myself) and think of the
various housewives’ organisations in Syd-
ney. There are four of them, two, I
understand, having formed themselves
after clefts in the other two, and their
disputes and squabbles are aired in the
daily press'almost as frequently and as
prominently as political bickerings. The
latest storm in a teacup, which got as
far as the N. S. Wales Parliament and
Chief Secretary’s Department, is over a
link-up between the “Housewives’ Asso-
ciation” and a margarine co.: the com-
pany sponsors a radio session during
which the president of the association
chats on housewifely matters and puts
over a bit of publicity for the co.’s mar-
garine, the co, paying the H.A. £lOO a year
for the services of the lady during the
session. The co. also pays four supervisors
who organise canvassers, employed by the
association to collect subscriptions and
also put in a word for the co.’s mar-
garine. Quite a good business arrange-
ment, but what worries the Chief Sec-
retary is “whether the association, which
is a charity by legal definition and regis-
tered under the Charitable Collections
Act, should lend itself to commercial
enterprise.” The ladies were terribly,
terribly indignant and have applied for
the withdrawal of their registration under
the Charitable Collections Act. What
really amuses me, however, is the slogan
of a rival housewives’ organisation; “No
substitute for butter.”
* * * *
“K.”; “London Dances, Russians Die,”
is the heading to a lurid dispatch to a
Sydney paper by I-Lived-These-Years
Baume, master newspaper strategist. And
the accompanying sneers at England’s war
effort might have sounded quite con-
vincing, too, but Frederick Ehrenfried
quite overlooked the dispatches which
came from Moscow correspondents two
days previously and after the great Blitz
for Moscow had been launched. They
described the sporting activities of 15,000
of Russia’s crack athletes and of 15
theatres opening to record-sized and
fashionable crowds.
* * * *
“Nakh”: Artistic Melbourne is laugh-
ing at a little discovery that was made
when a number of old pictures which
had been written down by Director Mac-
Donald were offered to the public by
auction at the National Gallery. It turned
out that, having had its label attached
on the wrong end of the frame, one opus
has been hanging upside down during the
whole of its tenancy at the Gallery.
Local “modernists” are considering
whether they should take proceedings
against the trustees for stealing their
thunder.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Hundreds of Australian artists
will see red at the remark of Izetta Winter
Robb, of the Washington “Daily News.”
Criticising the exhibition of Australian
painting she said “There is no modern
art in Australia,” If she meant that there
are no copyists of the latest London,
Paris and New York styles of art in Aus-
tralia she is entirely wrong. As one who
has seen most of them, I would unhesi-
tatingly say that there have been dozens
of exhibitions in Australia which were in-
distinguishable from those European
shows which Americans would call
“modern.” But this is not modern art;
it is fashionable art. There is no such
thing as modern and non-modern art.
A picture is a statement about some-
thing, and the statement is either true or
false. If it is a false statement it isn’t
art, and if it is a true statement it is
just as true today as it was in the Middle
Ages or as it will be 100 years hence.
* * # *
“Snarker”: Some of these women who
speak from the security of “Mrs.”
should be gagged. One, pointing an
admonitory finger at her younger
sisters, declared, “During the last five
years in N.S.W. there have been many
more births in the seventh month of mar-
riage, which can only mean that more
girls are immoral.” It means nothing of
the sort, but rather that more girls are
moral and prefer to bring young Aus-
tralians into the world sooner than submit
to the easily-reached abortionist.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: A particularly
idiotic flapper-press yarn now going the
rounds is that of a Japanese treasure
hunt after the Shogunate’s war chest,
2,300,000,000 yen in gold, alleged to have
been buried in anticipation of the Meiji
restoration of 1868. Oguri, then Finance
Minister, is accused of having killed the
1471 masons, carpenters and coolies who
helped in the job in order to make sure
that nobody blew the gaff. Following
obscure directions in his bloodthirsty
ancestor’s will, and chanting to the gods
in order to placate the spirits of the scup-
pered toilers, a grandson of the unscrupu-
lous financier is claimed to have struck
human bones and a family sword at
220 ft. and to be expecting to bottom at
250 ft. on six cabinets containing the
boodle. They will need to be sizable
cabinets, weighing approximately 130 tons
each. The catch is that the Shogunate
was not a corporation but a feudal sys-
tem, and never had nor could have had
a collective war chest.
* ♦ ♦ *
“C.R.”: A correspondent of Mel-
bourne “Sun” suggests that that paper’s
artist, Alex. Gurney, creator of the Bluey
and Curley strip, should be selected as
an official war artist to visit the troops
overseas. Not a bad suggestion. Car-
toonist Will Dyson was the most success-
ful choice in the last war. In his char-
coal drawings of Diggers in the trenches
and dugouts he gave a much more truth-
ful picture of the boredom and monotony
and weariness and mud of the Flanders
fighting and the Somme than the more
solemn drawing-room painters. They
trieci to paint pretty pictures of shellholes
behind the lines and make them artist c.
At least, Gurney wouldn’t be solemn.
He was born in Portsmouth (Eng.) and
worked with the Hydro-Electric Depart-
ment in Tassie for ten years before The
Bulletin gave him, as it did Dyson, an
opening in the caricaturing business.
* =H * *
“Oxmead”: The par. about the word
“onto” (B. 8/10/’4l) recalls another
form of speech that reads queerly to me,
although it seems to have almost uni-
versal acceptance. The phrase is “every
so often,” which I encountered first in
American magazines, then in English
ones, and finally in The Bulletin (R.P.)
only a few weeks ago. What have the
grammarians to say about this? In my
remote younger days “ever so often” was
a frequently-used expression—l fancy
there is something framed on the same
principle in the Bible itself—but what
authority is there for making the “ever”
into “every”?
* * * *
“Avon”: Even in war-time Maoriland’s
conscience can be troubled about its dead
poets. Over a year ago an article about
Tom Bracken appeared in one of the city
newspapers. It stated that the poet lay
in a “lonely, unkempt grave” in a
Dunedin cemetery. This started a spate
of indignant remonstrances and of remi-
niscences. It was recalled that Tom wrote
“Not Understood,” which all the world
knows, and “God Defend New Zealand,”
which hardly anyone, even in the
Dominion, knows, though there is a
theory that it is the official national
anthem. However that may be, the
accusation which brought the poet
back to memory has at long last been
proved to be ill-founded. Bracken’s bones
repose beneath a large concrete monu-
ment in Dunedin’s Western Cemetery,
and it is an adjoining grave whose weeds
offended someone’s eye. Dunedin’s mayor
has promised that in future even that
neighboring headstoneless grave will be
looked after.
* * * *
“Youanmi”: All the poetic licenses
available shouldn’t have permitted Ron
McCuaig to get away with a line like
“Or a tender steak from her ribs to fry”
(B. 1/10/’4l). If he had said “chop from
her ribs,” or, perhaps, “steak from her
rump,” he would have been near the
mark.
* * * *
“Hayer”; I am now satisfied that
women have the faculty of patience.
Entered a tram in which the only spare
seat was occupied by a small parcel and
a lady. I gently requested her to remove
the parcel. She refused. I picked the
parcel up, placed it on her lap and sat
down. She bent a black look on me,
then resolutely stared out the window.
Thus we travelled six miles to her slop.
She rose to get out, I moved sideways
to make room and she drove down hard
on my foot with a high and spiky heel.
As she left the car she gave me the finest
example of a triumphant leer I’ve ever
seen.
* * * *
“C.Q.”; A firm which produces some
of the key metals for the munitions in-
dustry is building a factory in Melbourne
at a cost of £150,000, but it can’t get a
sewerage system for it because the Board
of Works is short of 700 men for its
general projects. The manager of the
metal firm rents a house in one of the
outer suburbs with a perfectly satisfac-
tory septic-tank system, but his landlord
has been served with an order to con-
nect his property up to the board’s sys-
tem because the local council demands
it Neither the tenant nor the landlord
wants the board’s system, but they can’t
do anything about it. So out goes the
septic tank in the suburb and in goes a
septic tank to the metal factory. Yet
Melbourne is full of directors and super-
directors and co-ordinating directors of
the directors of the war effort.
* * * *
“Yosemite”: Trying to hunt up a pic-
ture of a fairly recent Australian Prime
Minister the other day, I wondered why
some method of perpetuating these
blokes’ physogs wasn’t followed. In
America they’ve taken to carving whole
mountainsides into representations of
past Presidents, an idea that might take
on here, seeing that we have plenty of
upthrust outcrops suitable for the job.
What, for instance, could be more suit-
able for carving into a model of our late
Minister for the Army than one of the
Three Sisters?
* * H= *
“S.T.S.”: It is pleasant to find still
that a big gold-dredging concern as far
away as M.L. is “Adelaide-controlled”
(B. 17/9/’4l). Remarkable how this
quiet and religious city has always been
ready for a gamble, occasionally mis-
guided but generally profitable. One
likes to remember that when Broken Hill
was at its top 50 years ago, pouring out
dividends every month, Adelaide owned
more than half of it —more than Sydney
and Melbourne and London put to-
gether. Mark Twain, visiting Aus-
tralia about 1896, wrote in his travel
book More Tramps Abroad, “Providence,
desiring to show especial regard to
N.S.W., recognition of its conspicuous
righteousness and distinguished well-
deserving, conferred upon it that treasury
of inconceivable riches, Broken Hill; and
£.A. went over the border and took it,
giving thanks.” And a little later he
used exactly the same words about West-
ralia and Kalgoorlie—and again S.A.
* * * *
“The Nineteenth”: The A.I.F. returnee
from Malaya who signed himself “Yam
Seng” (B. 1/10/’4l) probably learnt the
phrase from the hospitable Chinese there.
It’s an old Chinese drinking custom.
When the “man in the chair” says “Yam
Seng! ” you swallow your drink in a gulp,
slam the glass down bottom-up and line
up for another round.
* * * *
“Morimoto”: David Rivett, chief of
the C.5.1.R., recently referred to “the
tide of resentment that was rising among
scientists as a result of the mishandling
of affairs.” It is nothing to the tide of
resentment that may arise amongst the
public against the scientists as the result
of the application of science to affairs.
The latest development is the employ-
ment of women in Britain to handle A.A.
guns. Before the age of science war was
a man’s game requiring strength as well
as skill, and even the Dyaks of Borneo,
with whom war was endemic, kept their
females on a non-combatant basis. With
the progressive application of science to
lethal weapons, however, it will soon be
possible for nations to double the size
of their armies by including a female
quota as well as the men. If it is done
where are the future generations to come
from?
CAVIARE TO THE GENERAL.
“To enjoy this sort of poetry to the full you must
be a bit of a poet yourself.”
—Arnold Wall in a R.P. review (8/10/’4l).
You may tackle a porterhouse steak or a pie
Or anything else that you’re tempted to trv
With no knowledge at all of the methods
whereby
To its ultimate form it was got.
With the art of the butcher, to kill and to dress,
You have but the faintest acquaintance, I
guess.
With the science of cooking, if possible, less,
But you’ll know if you like it or not.
You may head for a tavern and bury your snout
In a foam-crested tankard of ale or of stout,
And enter your verdict, as free from a doubt
As if you’d been sworn on a jury.
You may rate it Al, and there’s no one will ask
If you’ve ever assisted at filling a cask
To qualify you for an arbiter’s task,
Or seen the inside of a brewery.
You may purchase a new suit of clothes for
your kit
And own yourself pleased with the cut and the
fit,
And it really won’t matter a threepenny bit
Though you handle a needle so poorly
That you couldn’t be trusted to doctor a crack
Or fix up a rent in a bag or a sack,
And never have managed to master the knack
Of sewing on buttons securely.
But if verse —the new model —you think to
enjoy,
Here’s something to get in your brainbox, my
boy,
Or else ’twill be wasted, the time you employ
In digging it out from its shelf.
In vain with its riddles you’ll struggle and spar,
The door to its treasures you’ll never unbar
Unless you’re—-what ever so few of us are!
A bit of a poet yourself.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Looby”; They say that any man who
loves his work can see some good in the
worst of it. Our local butcher must be
just such a cove. Last Saturday morn-
ing he held up an insignificant leg of
lamb and a lady from the second row
fought her way to the front as she in-
quired suspiciously “Is it a good one?”
Indignant but sad, the butcher held the
leg of lamb at arm’s length, gazed lov-
ingly at it and said soulfully, “Is it a
good one? Why—it’s a poem!”
* * * *
“Cheesed Off” (Singapore): English
officers of an R.A.F. squadron here say
that the word “gen.” (B. 30/7/’4l) came
into the new R.A.F. vocabulary soon
after the war began. So many furphies
had proved unfounded that when fresh
rumors of enemy flying strength went
the rounds it became customary to ask
“Is it genuine?” Soon this was con-
tracted to “gen.,” and exclusive infor-
mation became “pukka gen.” Other Eng-
lish expressions strange to Australians are
“get a flap on” or “go into a flat spin,”
meaning scare or mild panic ; “on the
peg,” up on a charge, and “guffing,”
bragging. Phrases such as “C.O. will
tear a strip off him” and “thumbing
down” speak for themselves.
* * * *
“Arbeep”; “Sigsie’s” moan (B.
1 /10 / ’4l) about his residential reminds
me that 22 years ago at Cowra (N.S.W.)
I and five others got tired of boarding-
houses, formed a syndicate and ran our
own boarding-house. Each man fur-
nished his own room, and we shared the
cost of furnishing a living-room. When
a man left he could sell his share at any
figure he liked, provided the incomer
was approved by unanimous vote. Other-
wise we sold the share and sent the
money on. We had a cook-housekeeper
at £2 and keep. We paid 255. rent,
shared household expenses and the cost
of a maid one day a week to help “Mum.”
One of us, a budding accountant, audited
the books. We got our board, washing,
mending and did what we liked on 275.
6d. a week, with an occasional 2s. levy.
“Mum” slept at her own home, which was
just as well on Sunday and Thursday
nights, which were “open” nights. On
any other nights no visitors were allowed
after 10.30 p.m., and
noise was barred because
of studies. Each incomer
signed the rules and
lodged a deposit of £l,
which could be forfeited
for any infringement by
vote of all those not con-
cerned in the breach. I
heard six or seven years
ago that the institution
was still going, though all
the originals had long
since left.
* ♦
“Pitt St.”: Going bald-
headed for locally-pro-
duced magazines which
“use woman and her
body to increase sales by
feeding sensationalism
and morbid curiosity,”
a W.C.T.U. lady declared
it was lowering the stand-
ard of womanhood in
the eyes of men. So it
is, but it’s my guess that
fully 50 p.c. of the things
are bought by women of
all ages, woman always
being dead keen to find
out what makes man buy
jokes about woman. The
lady’s outburst got its biggest headline
in a paper which publishes one of the
worst of the magazines referred to and
which is seen in more feminine hands
than masculine.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Proof of the
complete sincerity of English democracy
is now provided. Eton boys are allowed
to wear dickeys over colored shirts, and
all new boys must buy their school
clothes second-hand from a garments
pool run by Eton tailors. The 90-odd
who left at the end of last term handed
in their clothes to the pool, as did most
of the lower-school boys who were due to
become seniors in their next term. The
tailors pay for them on a two-grade'
quality-basis and resell at fixed prices.
Small-sized tailcoats are particularly in
demand. The buzzing sound produced
by distinguished ancestors revolving in
family vaults is reported to be of much
less intensity than had been anticipated.
* * * *
“Plum”: I would break a lance with
“Colonel Bungstarter” (B. 1 /10/’4l) over
the question of trouser cuffs, which he
claims are a useless infliction. Has the
valiant “Col.” ever had a zack slip from
his grasp in a crowd and given it up for
lost, only to find it tumble joyously from
the cuff as he takes his trousers off that
night? Has “Col. 8.,” gulled by the
superstition that dry-cleaning never makes
them shrink, ever sent his second-worst
pair of pants to the cleaner’s and got
them back in the half-mast position?
The skill with which an experienced
trouser-letter-downer can squeeze an
extra couple of inches of leg out of a
good wide cuff is equalled only by the
facility with which he usually manages
to burn the cuff off when pressing them
into shape again. There is a legend
among tailors that cuffs were invented by
a Scotch immigrant to England who put
his growing son into the Sassenach breeks
and made a wee bit proveesion for the
future. On the other hand, if they really
do contain 32 sq. in. of material, maybe
both the tale and the cuffs were invented
by the tailors themselves. Now, if “Col.
Bungstarter” really wants to hunt some
wastage of material, the open season for
waistcoats grows nearer with the rising
mercury.
* * * *
“L.H.P.”: Bicentenary of Handel’s
“Messiah” leads me to ponder why the
work is so universally accepted as a
supreme act of piety and worship. I
remember a lecture I heard years ago
by Sir Frederick Bridge. He said that
the airs of four of the great choruses
were originally Italianate love duets. The
part beginning “O Death, where is thy
sting?” was plainly adapted in this way.
That also was the origin of the chorus
“For unto us a child is born,” which was
borrowed from a duet bearing the title
“No, I will not trust myself to you, blind
love.” The not-less-famous number “All
we like sheep have gone astray” is taken
from another duet —on the subject of an
unfaithful heart.
* * * *
“Q.A.Z.”: I see by the papers that a
lecturer in social studies at Sydney Uni-
versity has thought it worth recording
that American psychologists have dis-
covered that “a university girl is the best
choice as a wife.” That’s typical of
American psychologists, who like to
theorise on what can only be found out
by personal experience. The Sydney
lecturer also added that “affection, con-
sideration, truthfulness and mutual agree-
ment on money matters, the bringing up
of children and religion” are “important
factors” in a happy marriage. I haven’t
the slightest doubt that his great-great-
grandfather, who had probably never
heard of social studies or psychology,
knew that. The learned gentleman also
found unhappy marriages generally
showed “emotional tendencies, an in-
feriority complex disguised by a dicta-
torial attitude, overanxiety to succeed
in social life, distorted political and re-
ligious views, a tendency to seek
romance” in the wife ; and “moodiness,
blustering aggressiveness, irregularity in
habits and work, illness at ease in the
presence of others, and a tendency to
“ They're lonely boys from Westralia, John-you must help me make
them feel at home!”
seek romance” in
the husband. His
great-great-grand-
father would have
said “If the
woman’s a nagger
and flighty and the
man’s bad-tempered
and a flirt, the
marriage’ll be no
good.”
* *
“Fi. fa.”: An
apparent anomaly
in Commonwealth
law is the pro-
hibition of the Red
Cross as a protec-
tive marking for
civil hospitals
against enemy
action. A woman
who was puzzled by
the painting of red
Maltese crosses on
the roofs of Tas-
manian hospitals
wrote to the State
Health Department
pointing out that
they seemed to
have made a mis-
take in the shape
of the cross. They
explained that the
plain red cross
could not be used,
as it was a symbol
belonging exclusively to the Red
Cross Society. Not satisfied, she wrote
to the Minister for the Army, and
to her surprise, as well as that of the
Health Department, was informed that
the only hospitals entitled under inter-
national agreement to immunity from
hostile action are medical establishments
of the" army. The Geneva Convention
requires a red cross of specified design
on a white ground to be hoisted over
these, and the use of such a symbol with-
out the authority of the Minister has
been prohibited under Commonwealth
law since 1938. Such authority would
not be granted for civil medical estab-
lishments, as it would be contrary to the
terms of the Convention and might be
used by an enemy as an excuse for dis-
regarding the immunity to which military
hospitals are technically entitled.
* * * >s
“F.S.”: Melbourne is afflicted with
people who are perpetually writing to
the newspapers complaining about the
verbal errors of A.B.C. announcers and
other public speakers, and quoting dic-
tionaries and university professors against
them. They have got it all topsy-turvy.
Universities don’t make the language,
they embalm it. The language is made
by the man-in-the-street. Shakspeare
knew this. It was by mixing with people
that he got his vocabulary, not by study-
ing dictionaries, and that is why his
poetry still sounds so fresh and virile.
Words like “Quisling” are being used
freely in the pubs and on the pavements
at present, and a lot of others that uni-
versity professors would shudder to use.
In 100 years they will have become
polite usage, and the learned will
expatiate upon their origin. It’s the same
with clobber. The colored shirts and
soft collars which businessmen now wear
to their offices were being worn only by
larrikins 30 years ago.
* * * *
“Simon Crusher”: Those frogs which,
according to “Forester” (B. 1 /10/ ’4l),
were silenced by the blackout and re-
newed their chorus as soon as the lights
were turned on again must have been
abnormal beasties. The surest way to
silence a croaker is to shine a light on
him, and the surest way to start him
croaking again is to turn the light off.
In support of that biological fact, let me
quote the case of a film producer who
was making some outdoor night shots.
The croaking of frogs inhabiting a near-
by swamp was ruining the sound effects,
and after many experiments only one
way was found to silence them. That
was to direct the beams of a battery of
floodlights across the swamp.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Eye tests have been in-
stituted in the Air Force on the assump-
tion that some people are naturally
capable of seeing better in the dark than
others. A Melbourne oculist of long ex-
perience says that he has never found an
abnormal faculty for being catlike in any
human being, differences in night-sighted-
ness being easily explained by the state
of health of the patient, some physical
defect or special training. The inference
therefore is that differences in norma
persons, if they exist, are psychologically,
not physically, conditioned, and the
phenomenon could be observed just as
well in the daytime as the night-time.
THE DEMONSTRATIVE WORD.
“Acquitting a private of insubordination for em-
ploying the word ‘bloody,’ in some verbal exchanges
with a sergeant, the president of an English court-
martial said that the demonstrative word was used
a lot in the army. He had even heard it referring
to himself.”
Our troops, ’tis said, “swore terribly in
Flanders,”
Rapped out explosive oaths two centuries
back,
When anything occurred to make their danders
Rise and their none-too-gentle tempers crack.
And long before, we know, they felt the pull of
Such stuff as Shakspeare limned his soldier
“full of.”
The habit still persists, but Time will soften
The most tempestuous imprecation’s sting,
Particularly if it’s tacked too often
To every- or anyone—or thing.
And here’s a swear-word that’s beyond survival,
Either adverbial or adjectival.
Today it merely ranks as the intensive
Touch that will give a statement added weight,
Not markedly insulting or offensive
Or even flatly insubordinate.
A choleric word, but hardly worth a mention
As warranting official reprehension.
Its punch has gone. The former racy rapture
That clung about it, to offend the Law
And nark the “unco guid,” is past recapture
Since it was humanised by Bernard Shaw.
Now, even in the military tally,
It counts no more than “blanky” or than
“bally.”
n.s.w.
PIPARDS.


HELP
KIDNEYS PASS
3 LBS, A DAY
Doctors say your kidneys contain 15 Snllea
or tiny tubes or filters which help to purify
the blood and keep you healthy. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds
or waste.
An excess of acids or fcoisons !h your blood
are the cause of frequent or scanty passages
with smarting and burning, nagging back-
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swollen feet
hnd ankles, pufflness under the eyes, head-
aches and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
feet rid of more than 3 pounds of waste mat-
ter, your body will take up these poisons
Causing serious trouble. Don’t wait! Ask
jyour chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully
the world over by millions of people. They
five quick relief and will help to flush out the
5 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S
[BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS M Chemisfc
pr store,
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE £319,000,000 BUDGET REVIEWED
MT. MORGAN’S AFFAIRS ANALYSED
October Issue Now on Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
STAMPS
100 New Zealands, all different */*
100 Australians, all different 4/-
40 Pacific Islands, all different • 4/-
We buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air Lists—Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co.. 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Est. 56 Years.)
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Write
NOW for this amazing new
treatment.
T. JONES CO.,
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney.
POLITICAL POINTS
“S. M. Herald’s” determination to
oppose with tooth and claw any sugges-
tion that Menzies should get it was about
the only excitement attending the selec-
tion of the Opposition leader at Canberra.
Menzies himself decided that by turning
in the U.A.P. leadership and abstaining
from contesting the other ballot; and
Fadden duly got the job. Then came the
U.A.P. post. Spender was beaten hands
down by McDonald, who in turn lost to
Hughes. The election of this over-age
statesman is, perhaps, a fitting commen-
tary on present-day material in the
U.A.P., Menzies and Cameron excepted.
Attacked because he refused to exempt
members of the Oxford Group, though
the Archbishop of Canterbury had
“written to him three times,” the British
Minister for Labor gave an answer that
every Australian politician ought to pin
on his door:
Speaking as Minister and with the full
concurrence of my colleagues, we are not
prepared to abandon either our obligations
or our duties to archbishops or anyone else.
Sydney Water Board is bitterly com-
plaining that it is getting only £1,250,000
loan money for its moisture projects
while the Melbourne Board has been
authorised to build a dam on the Upper
Yarra costing £3,000,000. The Victorian
Premier retorted that only £lOO,OOO would
come out of loans, and that was £50,900
less than the amount recommended by
the Co-ordinator-General.
The Westralian Government’s new in-
come-tax bill provides for the same tax
as last year, though “better conditions”
are expected to step up tax revenue by
£165,000 to £2,040,000. No applause.
Westralians have a splendid record in
voluntary contributions of men and
money to the national war effort; their
Government might at least have used the
“better conditions” to free a little more
money for the Commonwealth.
Victoria’s Mr. Dunstan, harried of late
by the unquenchable Hollway, the
U.A.P. leader, got ready for action when
his tormentor asked that a Parliamen-
tary committee be set up to meet “the
special economic conditions” likely after
the war. But then Mr. Holland (Lab.)
jumped in to “hope the Government
would accede to the request,” and Mr.
Dunstan hurriedly pulled himself together
and promised to do so.
Washington “Star” on the changeover
at Canberra; “Anything which perturbs
Australian political life must react, to
some extent, on Pacific affairs.” It must
have been reading the newspapers. The
reaction was barely felt outside Parlia-
ment itself, and there are no Isolationists
in Canberra. We change our Prime Min-
isters with as little trouble as we change
our shirts.
While Hollway (U.A.P.) was urging
that the unemployment-relief tax should
be converted into a social-service tax
and Premier Dunstan was challenging
him about a no-confidence motion in
the Victorian Assembly, a member
snored through it all. A vote of no-
confidence in State Parliaments would
have roused him,
Mr. Curtin’s new Minister for Muni-
tions has begun by calling for a report
on the doubtful “cost -plus” system of
allotting war contracts. One aspect men-
tioned is the probability of firms charg-
ing the cost of special machinery which
they could claim would be useless after
the war. But under the cost -plus system
there appears nothing to stop a firm get-
ting back more than the machine’s value.
Mr. Makin could start by commandeering
such machines and then leasing them to
the people concerned.
Exit from the Caucus at Canberra,
Maurice McCrae Blackburn, M.H.R. for
Bourke. He still belongs to the Aus-
tralia-Soviet Friendship League; and
that’s the trouble. The Canberra A.L.P.
has offered him membership, but how a
Canberra ticket could get him the Bourke
nomination nobody seems to know,
“People won’t have to pay twice on
the one tax,” is the Sydney Premier’s
latest assurance. N.S.W, people have
been paying tax on State wages tax for
10 long years, and if Mr. McKell rights
that injustice he deserves to be remem-
bered with gratitude.
Sydney’s No-Water Board appears to
be horribly narked because the Mel-
bourne Water Board is about to build
a dam across the Upper Yarra calculated
to double the southern city’s existing sup-
ply within 30 years. “Melbourne,” de-
clared a raging Sydney man, “never has
had a water shortage like that in Sydney
“The Germans are cutting the vocal cords and piercing the eardrums of their horses
to prevent them panicking duting battle.”
“Joost in case, Benito.”
at present, yet we learn that sanction
has been given to a £3,000,000 scheme
to double its supply.” But then Mel-
bourne hasn’t Sydney’s No-Water Board.
The bickering between the Victorian
Premier, Mr. Dunstan, and the U.A.P.
leader, Mr. Hollway, goes on, raging
from Parliament to women’s gatherings.
It seems to have originated in Mr. Holl-
way’s threat that he’d tempt or bluff Labor
into joining with the U.A.P. to upset the
present Labor-C.P. “working agree-
ment.” A lot of Victorians wouldn’t
mind Mr. Hollway as Premier, but a lot
more would like to see the whole extra-
vagant caboodle scrapped altogether and
government go where it belongs— to
Canberra.
The Melbourne Premier is to seek the
“co-operation” of the P.M.G.’s Depart-
ment in enforcing the new anti-s.p. bet-
ting law that says no information con-
cerning betting can be sent from a course
until after the race. No doubt the
P.M.G. will agree to “co-operate,” but
there’s a vast difference between that and
the actual stoppage of information, s.p.
men and punters being what they are.
A statement by Mr. Luckins (C.N.0.)
in the Queensland Parliament almost
ruined the appetites of all who
heard it. He was urging family
exemption from the dreadful “develop-
ment tax,” which doesn’t develop any-
thing but irritation, when Mr. Collins
(Lab.) asked where money for develop-
ment would be found. Mr. Luckins’s
recipe;—
I should probably reduce the sum paid
to Ministers, and I should reduce their
expenses. Perhaps I should reduce the
number of Ministers, and if I found those
reductions were not sufficient I should con-
sider reducing the salaries paid to mem-
bers of this Assembly.
A bill to deal with dangerous doctrines
of this type is expected any day.
The Presbyterian Moderator of Vic-
toria, Dr. C. N. Button, “attacked B.H.P.
from the pulpit” on the housing condi-
tions at Whyalla (S.A.), according to
Sydney “D.T.” Another newspaper am-
plified the “attack”—“a speech in Bal-
larat” in this case. Dr. Button, it ap-
pears, said that “B.H.P. is doing its very
best, but is powerless to cope with the
situation.” Which would appear to
absolve B.H.P. from blame up to the
present. However, there was mention
of “a luxurious hotel and luxurious
houses for the bigger men of the 8.H.P.”
The steel co. hasn’t been engaged at
Whyalla for more than a couple of years,
but already the South Aus. Government
has put up 100 houses, and is about to
erect over 100 more.
Alleged in several quarters that Intelli-
gence-fund payments were made to “an
organisation with religious affiliations
which has taken a leading part in com-
bating Communism and subversive
activities in Australia” —an obvious refer-
ence to Catholic Action. On behalf of
the Government as well as Catholic
Action the allegation has been positively
denied, but the last has not been heard
of the political reactions.
The list of employees and their
salaries and titles which usually ac-
companies departmental estimates was
left out of Foil’s “Information” Depart-
ment budget. This called for a blank
cheque from Parliament for £BO,OOO in
salaries. If Parliament allowed that
precedent to be established, the end of
Ministerial responsibility would be in
sight.
Last week the flapper press enthused
about the luxury accommodation pro-
vided for a racehorse consigned from
Sydney to Melbourne. On Friday, when
seven Federal Ministers eager to get on
with their job dashed off to Melbourne,
harassed railway officials at Albury had
to find scratch seats for them in crowded
compartments among the crowds bound
for Flemington. Next week the Cabinet
proposes to “arrange priority for Minis-
ters and senior officials when travelling
on national business.” This is an all-in
war, right enough!
“Misery,” said Shakspeare in another
time, “acquaints a man with strange bed-
fellows.” Democracy can testify to the
truth of it.
The Canadian Trade Commissioner,
with natural and justified pride, told
a Melbourne audience that Canada would
this year spend 50 p.c. to 60 p.c. of its
national income on the war, and that
five times as many Canadians were pay-
ing taxation now as in 1938. He added
that Canada would make available to
Britain nearly £280,000,000-worth of
goods for which Britain could not pos-
sibly pay. Which just shows what a
national Government can do when it is
a national Government, unhampered by
“sovereign States” grabbing taxes, in all
directions and here and there taxing the
taxes.
“El V.”: I commend this extract from
a speech by Premier Forgan Smith in
Queensland Parliament on Oct. 2, not
because he used Bulletin cartoons as
illustrations, but because of its common-
sense realism:
Our admiration for the magnificent fight
that Russia is putting up does not absolve
us from fighting our own battles. No one
but ourselves can save us. In The Bulletin
is a cartoon by Norman Lindsay, one of
the greatest cartoonists of the age; I have
always enjoyed his work. The cartoons in
the Sydney Bulletin have been splendid
over a long period of years. The cartoon to
which I refer depicts a number of men all
idle with, I take it, Stalin asking them to
work, and in their mouths are put the
words
“Keep your wool on, Joe! You’ll get
what you want when we get our price.”
If anything is calculated to defeat a country
it is that damnable idea. More than a year
ago I said to an Australian Workers’ Union
conference —I am a member of the Aus-
tralian Workers’ Union and have been for
years—that we must work like hell and fight
like hell. There is no other way.
In the same issue of The Bulletin
appears a cartoon by Scorfield.... It de-
picts a number of men gatecrashing.
Some boodle is being distributed. Along-
side is an A.I.F. recruiting office, but there
is no crowd there. Is that a correct picture
of current events? It is an exaggeration of
current events, but I should like to see the
same zeal and interest in the prosecution
of the war as is displayed in other far less
essential directions. Those two cartoons
should be widely publicised and studied
because they contain a tremendous lesson
to us all.
“Scaler”: Though the widow of a rail-
way worker killed in the tunnel collapse on
N.S.W.’s Sandy Hollow-Maryvale railway
last January was awarded £3059 damages
by a jury, the amount has been reduced
to £2OOO under a clause in the Railway
Act which limits damages to that
amount. The clause was inserted after
passenger trains collided at Redfern, lead-
ing to a crop of damage claims, and it
was made applicable after 22/10/1896.
A lot of things have happened since then,
chief among them in this case being the
very large reduction in the value of the
Australian pound. The widow has four
young children. It may be necessary to
have some statutory limit on what may
be claimed from a Government instru-
mentality, but it is unjust to retain a
monetary basis for that limit fixed nearly
50 years ago.


GOOD-BYE TO ALL THAT?
"It is strongly hinted at Canberra that ex-Premier Stevens will be recalled from Delhi.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued . . ■ • 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up
.Reserve Fund
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..
£1,250,000
1,000,000
1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 26V Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C^7/ui„
7 m 7
&TI/ .
w
THE SKY-WAYS ARE TODAY’S HIGHWAYS
Pre-war standards of efficiency and comfort are being
maintained by Empire flying boats on the air route
between Sydney and Durban, via Singapore, Palestine
and Egypt. A new regular service between New Zealand
and Sydney is operated by Tasman Empire Airways.
Travel Interstate . . . Inter-Dominion . . . throughout
the Empire ... in shipboard comfort at Airways’
speed ... by Qantas Empire Airways.
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
(Incorporated in Queensland)
SHELL HOUSE, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY. 'PHONE: 8W4481.
Also at BRISBANE and MELBOURNE.
Bookings at any recognised Travel Agency throughout Australia.
BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £ 1/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
(Incorporated in New Zealand),
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Mudford, Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
PERSONAL ITEMS
Australia has a one-legged fighter pilot.
He is Flight-Lieutenant B. F. Rose, of
Melbourne. Twenty-three now, he en-
tered Point Cook in 1938, after having
been rejected four times for eye muscle
defects which he corrected by exercises.
He was an instructor at Wagga and was
transferred to England this year. Baling
out from a Blenheim bomber over Eng-
land he was struck by the propeller and
his leg had to be amputated. The other
day a medical board passed him as fit
for full flying duties with an R.A.F.
fighter squadron.
Reported missing in Crete and now,
on the strength of a personal letter,
known to be captured and practising the
healing art in a Cretan hospital, Dr.
Alan J. King, of Melbourne, onetime
Flying Doctor at Wyndham (W.A.).
In the hospital with him is Lieut.-Colonel
Leslie le Souef, a fellow-graduate of Mel-
bourne University and a member of the
family whose name is inseparable from
the history of Australian zoos.
Playwright-novelist-businessman Am-
brose Pratt, of Melbourne, is entitled to
wear on his breast the ribbon of the
Most Exalted Order of the White
Elephant of Thailand, the ruler of that
State having awarded him the highest
honor available to foreigners for his work
of fostering good relations between Aus-
tralia and Thailand. Pratt, who, with his
white beard and curled moustachios,
could easily be taken for a diplomat, has
tinmining connections with the Thailanders
and pioneered some of the present mining
methods. His output of 30 novels and a
dozen works on history, economics, etc.,
includes a very readable book on the last
small independent kingdom in Asia.
Initiator of South Australian A.I.F.
recruits into the ways of the Army is
Lt.-Col. Harold Susman, O.C. Wayville
Showgrounds Camp. Save for a brief
spell when he was opening up Wanadale
Camp he has been there for the war
period. Born in Victoria 57 years ago,
he had a commission in the A.S.C. at
21. He served with the 33rd Batt. A.I.F.
LT.-COL. H. SUSMAN.
in the 1914-18 war, and was severely
wounded at Messines in 1917. In private
life he is a warehouseman and addicted
to fishing. An only son is in the R.A.A.F.
Alexander Mitchell Duncan, Chief
Commissioner of Police in Victoria, has
been given a further five-year term of
office by the Dunstan Government. He
succeeded General Blarney in 1939, and
since his advent crime-prevention in the
metropolis has become a more and more
mechanised business. A psychological
department has been introduced, in
the old bluestone building in Russeli-
street every resident policeman’s bed has
a reading lamp over it, and radio and
patrol cars make the criminal’s lot an
increasingly unhappy one. Duncan was
born in Dufftown, Scotland, hasn’t lost
his native accent, and got his training
with the London Metropolitan Police
Force.
“Ek Dum” 'introduces a N’Yarker
turned Australian;
The occupant of Frith’s secret weapon—
armament removed by order of private office
censor —is J. L. Rena, formerly an electric
engineer, born in N’York, who was helping
Marconi to put up a wireless mast in Egypt at
the end of 1914 when he spotted the 2nd A.L.H.
Not long afterwards he was seen wearing emu
feathers near Maadi, one of the few men
EAGLE IN TANK.
allowed to join the A.I.F. overseas. He ex-
changed to sth Div. Artillery. By second Villers
Bret, he was a lieutenant in the 57th with
“Pompey” Elliott’s brigade, and his name
figures largely in the history of the fateful
Anzac Day, 1918, operations of the battle round
the old Roman road. He came back to Aus-
tralia with the troops, joined the Ist Battalion,
A.M.F., in 1922, was lieutenant-colonel com-
manding the 45th at the outbreak of war. Last
year he became G. 5.0., A.I.F. Training Depots,
and has commanded the A.I.F. Motor Battalion,
Ist Armored Brigade, since June last year.
George Lawson, the lean and wiry
M.H.R. for Brisbane, who has become
Curtin’s Transport Minister, served in
the South African War (so did Min-
isterial colleague Don Cameron) and
was mentioned in dispatches. He was
a live man in the Queensland trade-
union movement in the days when
Jack Barnes led the tramway strike,
and for many years no Labor Day
procession through the Brisbane streets
was complete without George at its head
on a white horse which he bestrode as
stylishly as any Guardsman. The trans-
port unions were his stamping-ground,
and he did not find his way into politics
till, in 1919, he became a member of
the “suicide club,” created to vote the
Queensland Legislative Council an eternal
rest. He was a delegate to the Geneva
International Labor Conference in 1925,
won the Brisbane seat in ’3l and has
been a popular Federal Labor Whip since
1934.
Flight-Lieut. Keith Truscott, of Mel-
bourne, is the first Empire Air Scheme
trainee to get a decoration in this war —
the D.F.C. “for sterling service in com-
bat against the Luftwaffe.” His score is
six Nazi aircraft shot down and two
destroyed. He was a well-known player
in League football in Melbourne, but
gave it up to enter the Air Force,
G. S. Browne, Professor of Education
at Melbourne University, put a feather in
the Speck’s cap when he made the sub-
ject of this year’s John Smyth Memorial
Lecture “The Area Schools of Tasmania
and Their Significance.” Browne, a pupil
of the Prof. Smyth to whose distin-
guished memory the lectures were dedi-
cated, served in the 1914-18 war, got a
mention in dispatches and won the M.C.
He first began to make himself heard in
Melbourne after a tour of American and
German educational institutions under
the terms of an Oxford scholarship. From
1922 to 1933 he was vice-principal of the
Melbourne Teachers’ College and in 1931
he was visiting professor to the Univer-
sity of California. He has published a
raft of books on the science of education
and is one of Melbourne’s most per-
suasive speakers.
Brigadier Arthur Mcllveen, of Mel-
bourne’s Salvation Army, has been named
among others as being
“the best-known man in
Tobruk.” He is padre,
welfare officer, doctor’s
assistant and general ser-
vant of the beleaguered
garrison and has had the
sad job of reading the
burial service over 150 men
who were his personal
friends and acquaintances.
He was born in Ireland,
served in the 1914-18 war
and founded two branches
of the Army in Victoria—
Thornbury and Camber-
well.
William Dargie, of Mel-
bourne, appointed an
official war artist, has
crowded more exhibitions,
the winning of big prizes
and the execution of com-
missioned portraits into
his span of 29 years than
most painters have into
twice as long. He won
the Woodward award at
Bendigo and the McPhillimy prize at
Geelong last year, and Canberra has his
portrait of George Pearce. He is Swin-
burne Technical College’s art instructor.
He goes to the Middle East.
“C.Q.”: I can remember when Senator
Donald Cameron, Minister for Aircraft
Production, did a bit of flying on his own
account. It was in Perth during the con-
scription referendum campaign in the last
war. He was addressing a crowd from a
soapbox on the Esplanade when his audi-
ence got unruly and tried to oust him. Don
was obliged to fly for his own safety up
Barrack-street and into the Weld Club,
the most conservative institution in Perth,
with a membership bitterly opposed to
all Don’s doctrines.
Geelong Art Gallery’s McPhillimy
prize of £75 goes this year to Daryl
Lindsay for one of his ballet pictures.
Daryl is brother of Norman and is
Keeper of the Prints at the Melbourne
National Gallery. Murray Griffin, of
Melbourne Tech., was the judge.
Archdeacon Robertson, of Canberra, is
a good mixer though he wears a back-to-
front collar. A stalwart chap with a big
voice, he speaks plainly on religious ques-
tions ; but few believed he knew v/hat
fists were made for until recently. The
fact that a man called him a liar a couple
of times urged him to lift his arms in
reply. Said the Arch.; “I hit him on
the chin, then I hit him with a left, then
a right, then a left, and I gave him an
uppercut which dropped him to the
floor.” Then there was a court case.
Acquitted.
The selection of William Patrick
Ashley, N. S. Wales Senator, as P.M.G.
and Information Minister, was one of the
surprises of the new Cabinet; but there
ASHLEY. P.M.G.
have been worse ones. A tobacconist in
the coalfields town of Lithgow, the new
P.M.G. began his public career as a local
alderman. One cannot imagine him
gracefully eating peanuts out of a golden
bowl like his romantic predecessor, but
he has qualitfes more suited than Foil’s
to the Information Department billet.
There is an earthy realism about his out-
look, and he has the kind of common-
sense and knowledge of human nature
which a man develops by rubbing shoul-
ders with the crowd. There is likely
to be less gilt and gaudiness about the
expensive excrescence which he has in-
herited after he has been at work on it
for a little while. He has been in the
Senate since 1937.
Into the sunset:
At 67, David Jones, of Wellington, M.L., who
Was Minister of Agriculture, 1931-32. A mid-
Canterbury farmer originally, he was a pillar of
the Farmers’ Union and successfully fought the
case against an Arbitration Court award for
farm laborers in 1907-08. Was a delegate to
the Ottawa Conference, and in 1934 represented
M.L. in London in meat negotiations.
In Melbourne, at 70, Father James Cheong,
assistant priest at St. Peter’s, Eastern Hill.
Melbourne-born, he was the son of a leading
lay member who founded the Chinese Church.
Father Cheong graduated at Melbourne Uni-
versity, went to Oxford, and if he had not
felt a call would have been a candidate for
the diplomatic service. A scholarly, gentle man,
he was known and esteemed all over Australia.
At 93, at Palmerston North, M.L., Major
Frank Garner, who as a lad of 19 fought
against Te Kooti and later took part in the
attack on Omaranui pa. He was a militia and
vounteer officer of many years’ standing.
In Hobart, J. W. Clinch, a grandson of the
captain of one of the first steamers to visit
Tasmania, and himself more than 50 years
a postal employee. Launceston-born, he had
become superintendent of mails at Hobart in
1909 and held the position to his retirement in
1931. Prominent bowler, Mason and Rotarian.
In Brisbane, at 70, John Mullan, member
of Queensland’s Parliament for 25 years,
Attorney-General for 18 of them, and Federal
Senator for another seven. Dublin-born, he
came to Q’land as a boy and started as a
clerk in the pre-Federation Post and Telegraph
Department, resigning to become a labor
organiser and found the Miners’ Union.
Loyal, sincere and kindly, “Johnnie” won and
kept friends of all shades of politics.
In Melbourne, at 82, J. M. Niall, V.R.C.
committeeman and formerly head of Golds-
brough Mort. He was a six-foot Crow-eater who
was a partner of Bob Barr Smith in Queensland
stations in the ’seventies, and went to G.Ms.
as manager in Rockhampton (C.Q.) in 1895,
becoming g.m. in 1900. His old associate chair-
man, R. G. Casey, who toiled with him during
the recovery from the ’nineties crash, passed
on in 1919, Niall then taking the chair.


1
IHHHi
■■■ IH HI S m
*x. .s ill
:
I
HHH
■
»
i
r »
888 a
:
:
■
a v 9
HHi
f ” “
v.m: ....
a
>—
■
t.. j?_j
n «
in
;,'t ;
: :■ : ';
! &
Hi
mm
,
■
- -*. iy-'
■
MBiP 1
B :
""' iilii
HHiMi
iii
Cx
■
■
■
US
'■
. ■ ■
The Kid and the Ice Cream
ks
a
H* *
■
■
mmsm
• —***
Typical Cabinet supplied
to shopkeepers.
Today Werner’s are proud indeed that its organization is playing an
rj> important part in the Australian war effort by manufacturing essential
equipment for the defence requirements of the nation.
lIFE’S grand for him on any day that he earns a penny he reaches his
ambition with a purchase at the confectioners.
Not for him to worry about keeping the ice cream at correct temperature, about
delivery over many miles on hot days, about manufacture to exact standards of
quality . . . those things are part of the great unknown the world of business
and industry which he hopes to enter some day.
In that world, the problems of ice cream manufacture and storage, like every other
matter of refrigeration and air conditioning, are expertly solved year in and year
out by a highly skilled organization of management, labour and machines that,
fortified by the experience of 40 years’ manufacture and service, is supplying and
installing plants and units to numerous Australian industries, institutions, and
recently to the Defence Departments of the Commonwealth.
INDUSTRIES SERVED BY WERNER REFRIGERATION
Ice Cream Factories Councils Abbatoirs Confectioners Grocers Fishmongers
Breweries Butter Factories Fruit Storages Bakers Dairy Produce Shops Cafes
Hospitals Ice Manufacturers Guest Houses Dairies Hotels Butchers
AUSTRALIA'S MOST COMPLETE REFRIGERATION SERVICE
R. WERNER
& CO.
PTY. LTD.
SHOWROOMS: 608 Lit. Collins St., Melbourne. MU 6275. WORKS: 54 Burnley St., Richmond
South Australia: R. WERNER & CO. PTY. LTD.,
56 Franklin Street, Adelaide
New South Wales: STUART WALKER & CO. PTY. LTD.,
174 Clarence Street, Sydney
West Australia: ATKINS (W.A.) LTD.,
894 Hay Street, Perth
Tasmania: NOYES BROS. (Melb.) LTD.,
36 Argyle Street, Hobart. 59 George Street, Launceston
W.J.H. 1342


ABORIGINALITES
“Taylor Ville”: Miss Edwards, the
Flat’s new schoolteacher fresh from the
city, boarded with the O’Lachlans next
door to the school. She was ladling out
slabs of wisdom one afternoon in a
geography lesson on cattle and cattle pro-
ducts when old O’Lachlan poked his
head in at the door to inquire whether
young Dan could be let off early to go
to a near-by farm and bring back a cow.
Permission was given, and Dan scooted
joyfully into the hot afternoon sunshine.
Two minutes after she had dismissed her
pupils at the end of the day’s teaching
she stampeded into the O’Lachlan
kitchen, skidded off a stray chair and fell
against the separator. To the anxious
inquiries of the whole family, which was
assembled round the teapot, Miss
Edwards gasped out her story. There
was a mad cow in the paddock between
the house and the school. Yes, mad, and
frothing at the mouth. The O’Lachlan
tribe tumbled over one another in their
eagerness to view this phenomenon. In
the paddock, her head lowered and blow-
ing still from the fast walk in the heat,
stood Daisy, the cow young Dan had
hurried across from the next farm. The
hot breeze was just sufficient to carry the
froth from her mouth in a long shining
stream to leeward. When the inspector
came to that school he commented on
the scantiness of the teaching of cattle
and cattle products.
* * * *
“Jacky Roo”: Mention of the A.I.F.
battling through “fly-infested forests” in
Malaya added alliterative color to a
recent press cable from thereabouts, but
it was pretty wide of the mark. The
A.I.F. has found a lot of pests in
Malaya—mosquitoes, ants, scorpions,
snakes and roving journalists—but flies
are practically non-existent, except for a
few in coastal areas. Savagest creatures
in the jungles are wasps, red ants and
leeches, which attack in close order.
* * * *
“Aratta”; Dad, digging postholes
alongside the road, was accosted by a
weedy young man carrying a diminutive
swag. “Hullo, Wirewhiskers,” cried the
youth breezily, “can you tell us where I
can get a job?” Dad was no snob, but
he disliked the weed’s manner intensely.
Semi-consciously stroking his maligned
beard, he said, “That’s not the way to
approach anybody ’bout a job. Y’ could,
at least, say ‘Sir’ or ‘Mister.’ ” “Struth!”
cried the other cheekily, “Got a title,
eh! Whatcher diggin’ for. Sir Wire-
whiskers?” Dad saw red. “F’r worms,”
he cried, “an’, be cripes, I’ve got one,”
and before he knew what was happening
the weed found himself grabbed and
thrust head first down a two-foot post-
hole. Dave, arriving on the scene, sur-
veyed the kicking youth with interest.
“What’s that bloke doin’ there, Dad?”
he asked. Dad gave him a wink and
replied loudly, “Him! Oh, he’s lookin’
f’r a job, I unnerstand. An’ I reckon
he’s got one down there, a real, good
long one, too, he’ll find, before he gets
back on top again,”
* * * *
“Komediak”; “Most intellergent chook
I ever seed was one I bought orf a bloke
up Wumbegong way,” said “Leghorn”
Charlie, busy marking eggs with a stump
of pencil, “Matter o’ fact, ’e wuz the
only talkin’ rooster I ever come across.
I useter go out inter the pens last thing
at night, and, strike me, there’d be ’is
nibs sittin’ up there yabbering’ away like
blazes ter the other chooks. That rooster
could say anythin’. A perfesser bloke
come up once specially to examine ’im,
and before ’e was there a coupla days ’e
had the cow recitin’ ‘The Man from
Snowy River.’ But the bloke I got ’im
from was a bit of a Commo, and all un-
beknowns ter me the rooster ’as the same
ideas. Agitates among the chooks till they
all goes on a egg-layin’ strike, an’ I ’as
ter git rid of ’im before ’e ruins me
flamin’ business,”
* * * *
“Waldi”: Aboliars have lately been
discussing juvenile abo. smokers and
sable ladies who don’t reserve the
maternal bowser exclusively for the use
of their offspring. I struck the com-
bination while camped on the banks of
the MacArthur below Borroloola. Salt-
water Kitty was my Bunjamin gin and
0.1. C. goat shepherds ; I came down to
the river in the morning to find the goats
still in the yard and the lady attending
to three pups and a piccaninny. The pic.
and one of the pups were being regaled
at opposite sides of the fountain, while
Kitty puffed clouds of smoke from a good
Barling that I had left on a tucker box
the previous night. I beefed out an order
in pidgin to give the nameless kid a fair
go; Kitty dropped a left shoulder and
inserted the pipe in the infant’s mouth.
The evident satisfaction of the kid and
the pup scotched all further criticism.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The old tin chimney col-
lapsed after 15 years of constant service,
and with characteristic lack of foresight
Bert butted in. “Put up a brick ’un,
boss,” he advised ; “make the first ex-
pense the last; a lifetime job,” etc. Only
when he’d talked his reluctant employer
into consenting did the garrulous one
realise he’d let himself in for a job. After
a profane fortnight, and at a cost of ten
sore fingers, the father of all backaches
and an everlastingly condemned soul, the
structure was complete—and what a
structure! The Leaning Tower of Pisa
was a model of perpendicularity by com-
parison, while any self-respecting moun-
tain goat would have scaled the allegedly
smooth wall with ease. But Bert was the
proudest of men. “You know, I’ve been
flunkin' a bit, boss,” he reflected modestly.
“Those Gyppo blokes couldn’t have been
too stoopid them there Pyramids
must’ve been a bit of a contract, too.”
* * * *
“First Blue”: After a fair bit of
trouble the boys at the timber camp
managed to persuade “Burgoo” Bill to
come along to the dance. Bill was a bit
shy on clobber, but one of the chaps lent
him a new pair of dungarees and another
a pair of trilbies which had a compara-
tively low content of hobnails. Then it
was discovered that nobody had a spare
tie. “Gripes, I’ll soon fix that,” said
“Burgoo,” and made tracks for the creek.
Ten minutes later he returned with a
messy tiger-snake skin. “Killed him up
there by the crick,” said “Burgoo,” “an’ if
y’ ask me y’ couldn’t git a better-lookin’
tie down in the city fer ’alf a dollar.”
“Burgoo” was one of the most popular
partners of the evening, but whether it
was his dancing ability or feminine
curiosity to inspect his speckled neck-
wear the mob still can’t decide.
* * * *
“Doubting T.”: Not being an angler
but merely a fisherman, I am fain to
admit that a 51b. fish on a No. 8 gut line
would cut my lily-white hands (B.
17/9/’4l). Does “Zake” really know the
size of a No. 8? The ones I buy (for
whiting) are little thicker than the wire
of a paper-fastener. And if that thin-
ness, with, say, a 51b. skipjack or trevally
plunging around on the end of 40 or 60
feet of it, won’t cut the hands—well, I’ll go
“he.” And dipping the line in the water
won’t help, since it only makes it more
slippery. As for playing a catch —don’t
make me laugh. In the rude sea com-
pany that I have kept anyone attempting
such a thing (I did the first time I went
out, having been nurtured on Zane Grey)
would be promptly told to get the adjec-
tival fish in board before it threw the
hook or tangled all the other fellows’
lines. Yes, we skulldrag them in, using a
cotton line that might have found ser-
vice in a laundry. As for 8/0 hooks and
similar ironmongery, I’ve been among
fish that straightened such sizes out as if
they had been bent pins. Our hooks
might have been forged from a 4in. nail,
as sometimes they were. And we hauled
our fish in hand over hand, by night just
about tired out, for even a 151 b. snapper
puts up a powerful pull-back. And we
didn’t unhook our fish —just cut hook
and fish off. Then on with a fresh hook
and over again. No rods or similar
gewgaws —we were just fishing.
* * * *
“Botano”: Sturt’s desert pea is now
doing well in suburban gardens under the
influence of fertiliser and liberal water.
Many W.A. wildflowers have shown a
similar response, the kangaroo paw and
the Geraldton wax plant being striking
examples. Which brings some regret that
our early botanists didn’t pay more atten-
tion to the various roots which served to
fill the primitive Binghi’s menu. W.A.
for certain had at least one yam that sent
a root more than a foot into the ground.
Cultivated and fertilised, that yam might
have been a valuable vegetable today.
It can be done. The progenitors of the
full-bodied parsnip and carrot still live in
wild form along almost every English
lane. Taken up and given cultivation
these wildlings after a few generations
fill out and become passable table vege-
tables. Conversely, the garden root vege-
tables abandoned to neglect soon return
to the tough stringy forms of their fore-
bears. It is a reproach to Australia that
she hasn’t given one new vegetable to
civilised man’s diet, so even today, if
Binghi’s old root foods could be identi-
fied and subjected to cultivation, it mignt
be possible to make that contribution.
* * ♦ *
“A. Perist”; I am well aware that the
bee, when plunging its sting into flesh,
gives its life for the assault (B. 17/9/’4l).
But Mother Nature didn’t intend that;
the sting was brought to its present form
long before man or other epidermis-
bearing creatures became troublesome to
bees. Actually the sting of the worker
bee is a modified ovipositor. The queen
bee has no sting, since she still uses the
organ for its original purpose. Nor has
the drone a sting, since he never laid
eggs. With its ovipositor no longer
needed for reproduction the worker bee
evolved it into a weapon of offence, or
defence, to be used against other bees
and other insects, mostly spiders. Plunged
into soft insect bodies the sting is with-
drawn without any ill effects to its owner
—and, when it was smooth, without much
injury to the victim. So Nature finally
fitted it with barbs, capable of inflicting
a lacerated wound. And so vital is the
sting that even when torn from the bee’s
body it still lives. Excite a bee to sting,
and knock it away so that the sting is
left in the flesh. Then watch how the
weapon will quiver as it works its way
into the skin until every barb is buried.
* * *
“M. U. Ray”; That old belief that the
tracery on a cod’s bladder is a picture
of its surroundings (B. 8/10/’4l) still
exists, though with variations. Most
popular on the 90-mile bend was that
the cod, hooked, cast a despairing eye
on the scene of its downfall and thus a
photographed impression was traced on
the film of the bladder. The biggest 1
ever caught, a twenty-pounder, was taken
just as a mighty flash of forked lightning
lit the sky. When we opened it up old
Jimmy pointed to the forked-lightning
design on the biadder-film and gasped,
“Cnpes, that’ll tell y’ how dinkum it is!”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: “The Gosling” (B.
8/10/’4l) needn’t believe the hunting
instinct has been trained out of his mate’s
kelpie. The reason why she wouldn’t
go for that hare is because she was work-
ing the sheep when it bobbed up, and no
kelpie worth its salt will turn aside from
the job in hand —that’s what makes them
so trustworthy. Had the hare bobbed
up when the bitch was off duty she’d
have let out a shriek and chased it off
the premises ; on duty, she merely stood,
apparently bewildered, waiting for a
sign that she was free to deal with the
intruder. No sign forthcoming, she went
on with her work. I’ll take a shade of
odds that later she went back and pros-
pected around the spot in the faint hope
the hare would try it again. I had a
black barb helping me take sheep through
Echuca (Vic.) and a couple of town
mongs took to him. He dodged them
as best he could till I shooed them off
and we got the jummies to the yards.
Thereupon Jack disappeared in the
general direction of those mongs, and
reappeared about an hour later with a
tremendously satisfied air, one ear slit
and a handful of hide off his ribs. Tm
dead certain he hadn’t gone to a prayer
meeting.
" ’Ere comes Bert with the morning-tea."
ROAD TO RIO.
Foggy at the Foreland, sunny by the Start,
Choppy in the Channel; never lose y’r ’eart.
Keep y’r wits about y’, clawin’ in the sheet,
Flangin’ on the footropes—earnin’ bread and
meat,
Clobber and terbaccer —grousin’ all the way,
On the road to Rio, Rio Grande away !
Salted like a herring, featherless and dry.
One of twenty blackbirds stewing in the pie;
One of twenty deckhands in a crazy barque
Built of rotten timber salvaged from the Ark —
Throat is like a limekiln and I’m grievin’ sore
For a bit of muslin that I left ashore.
Same as Jake and Sandy, same as Bill and Joe,
All the other angels which ’ave got to go
On the road to Rio with a lousy mate
Flazin’ of ’em early, hazin’ of ’em late,
While she strains and labors, leakin’ like a
sieve,
Send the scow will make it, send the bitch may
live! •
Otherwise may ’appen; Mister Mate an’ me
Might be found together floatin’ round the sea
On a ruddy hencoop—which the Lord forfend!
For I’d ’ave to eat ’im, maybe, in the end.
On the road to Rio—wot a ’orrid fate,
Chewin’ on the brisket of our bucko mate!
Pearls they come from raindrops, amber from
a bird;
Finns can change the weather —so the green-
horn ’card.
But the rum of Rio won’t be ’ard to take,
An’ the gals in Rio —so I gets from Jake —
Plays the banjo lovely; an’ a jug of juice
Can be ’ad for askin’ in the calaboose!
If you’d laid in Limehouse plucked of all
you ’ad.
You’d ’ave shipped as I did, blimey, an’ be
glad.
One of twenty blackbirds m a rotten scow,
Full of rats an’ weevils, steerin’ any’ow,
On the road to Rio, earnin’ grub an’ pay;
Roarin’ down to Rio, Rio Grande away !
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“You had better slay around. He may need another transfusion."
“Cripes! What do y' think I am —a bloomin' bowser?"
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow,
chequed-up, had put his gear in the pub
and was taking a stroll round the town.
Passing the police station, he looked
over the fence and saw a bloke cutting
wood. Mat eyed him a moment, then
drifted up to the pub, downed a thought-
ful drink or two, then wandered back.
The bloke was still whaling into the
wood. “Hey,” called Mat, “how long
you in for?” The toiler grinned, “I’m
not in,” he replied; “the bobby’s me
brother-in-law, an’ I’m up from the city
on a bit of a holiday.” “Aw, I se ®>
said Mat; he unleant himself off the
fence and returned to the place of re-
freshment. He was back shortly. “Hey,
he called, “could y’ do a beer?” “Too
right,” said the warm relative of the law.
Mat slipped over the fence and undid
his freight. After a bit he asked, You
like woodchoppin’?” The other con-
fessed that he didn’t, but was anxious to
harden himself and thought the axe
would do it. Mat eyed the woodheap
and came to the point. “Tell y’ what,
he said, “you stick to it for another three
days an’ y’ll have that heap stoushed.
I’d like t’ see y’ do it, mate, an’ it wm
harden y’ up. What’s more, I’ll drop
over an’ bring a few bottles every day
an’ give y’ a bit of a hand.” The city
man, a bit mystified, agreed. He and
Mat cleaned up the wood and then Mat
said, “Well, that’s a flamin’ Now
I can go on me bender at last, an’ when
the copper runs me in there’ll be no
flamin’ wood t’ cut an’ I can have me
recovery in peace.”
“Whiffer”; Can’t agree that the
budgerigar shuns water (B. 8 /10 / ’4l), at
least, not out in the wilds, where it is
better known as the shell parrot. On
Victorian Mallee tanks 1 have seen thou-
sands of shellies at the close of a hot
day going the water like a beerchewer
would if he found a tankiul of the stuff
he likes. And two we had caged liked
nothing better in summer than to have
the fine spray of the garden hose turned
on them. These were caged from a nest
in the Mallee; perhaps the cultivated
kind have become effete.
« * * *
“Te Aute”: Talk had been high and
handsome on the subject of the winter
rigors of Maoriland’s high-country mus-
tering camps. Taupo Bill had spoken
weightily of sheep flying around like chaff
during an old-man nor’-wester in the
Canterbury Ranges, and asserted that
“when the frosts are on a man wants a
kea’s beak and spikes on y’r pants to
hold on with.” “You Canterbury mus-
terers don’t know what frost is, sneered
Otago Jack. “Worst job I ever had was
when old Sunset Sammy died up at Lake
Wanaka. We had to bury the poor old
blankard, and the ground was frozen
solid. So was Sam, luckily. In the end
we got a big crowbar and made a crack
in the ground, about where the grave
should have been. After a lot of work
we gets old Sam’s feet into the crack,
and the rest was easy. We just took a
maul and drove him in like a wedge.
* * * *
“Oont”: Knocking a camel rotten with
a Winchester (B. 24/9/’4l) is no test for
a gun; it is the easiest animal of all to
bowl over. Once saw nine semi-wild
humps which were deemed a nuisance fall
to a rim-fire repeater .22 at close to 100
yards. They all bit the dust for keeps.
“Old-timer”: These days Queensland
and the Territory seem to have a mort-
gage on feats of horsemanship, but it
isn’t so long since western
Riverina had its centaurs,
and there are youngsters of
70 or so knocking about
Euston and Balranald who
talk with pride of old Harry
Leslie and his crowd, the
brumbies they caught, the
thirsts they knew and the
families they reared. Leslie’s
death some months ago
broke up a quartet that met
once a fortnight in Euston
and swapped yarns that
would have given a short-
story writer enough material
for the rest of his life. Their
combined ages amounted to
325 years —Harry Leslie 84,
his brother Jim 86, Billy
Russell 81 and Alf L’Hotel-
lier, a toddler of 74 and the
historian of the party in
verse and prose. Harry Leslie
was the premier brumby-
nabber of them all. His
method was to gallop be-
side the wild horse, get a
tail-grip, lift and swing,
throw the brumby, drop to
the ground and hobble the
flying forelegs, slip a halter
over the head and tie it to
the hobbles, leave the cap-
tive and set out after an-
other. His record was three
in one run. The so-called
wonders of Yankee bull-
doggers look like kinder-
garten feats compared with
this, which depended a lot for its
success on the bushman s mount. Harry s
best was Creamy, a long-dead gelding of
that color which knew as much about
brumby-hunting as its master.
* * * *
“Flight”: The wondrous beauty of a
flock of 10,000 galahs in flight is ex-
ceeded only by the screeching, squabbling
clamor as they all battle for possies when
they lob at a waterhole at sundown for
a drink. Most of them take their drink
in the air ; they hover, skim the water,
wash fluff from their breasts and scoop
up a beakful in the process. After a
big mob has made a habit of drinking
from a certain hole for any length of
time the whole of the lee bank of that
water will be inches deep in a chalky
froth which settles into a white sediment
—all from the breasts of the galahs,
* * * *
“ Narrin ”: An Oodnadatta-sider,
Whacker came down to Marree (S.A.)
with cattle and took his first job on a
sheep station as an extra hand at lamb-
marking. The mustering suited him, but
he reckoned driving ewes and lambs was
worse than handling cows and calves,
and, like the rest of us, he was glad when
we got the first mob to the yards. After
tea that night, late as it was, all the camp
except Whacker got out the shaving tackle
and began clearing operations on the five-
days’ growth. Whacker reckoned it was
a great joke, and said so. While we
grunted and tugged and swore till the
lather boiled he made remarks about the
softness of sheepmen. But no one said
anything. Next day we got the usual
daylight start. Working five catchers
and two earmarkers to one cutter, we
made the pace, and dust and blood flew
plentifully. By lunch-time every face was
lost deep beneath a mask of red dust
cemented with congealed blood. We
went across to the hut for our tucker,
had a wash, and then sat down to watch
Whacker trying to remove his facial top-
dressing. We’d finished our scran by the
time he had cleared the way to his mouth.
And for the rest of the marking he was
the first to dig out the razor after a day’s
muster.
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.”: The act of Michael Howe,
Van Diemen’s Land’s worst bushranger
(B. 24/9/’4l), in shooting the faithful
aboriginal girl who accompanied him so
as to facilitate his own escape from
pursuers is in striking contrast to the
attitude of another bushranger on the
mainland. Frederick Ward (better known
as “Thunderbolt”), shot by Trooper
Walker near Uralla (N.S.W.) in 1870,
also had a gin who stuck to him through
thick and thin. When she lay dying in
the ranges west of Muswellbrook
(N.S.W.) Ward risked everything to pro-
cure her medical assistance and shelter,
at a time when the Government was offer-
ing a large reward for his capture, dead
or alive. But Ward was always more or
less of a gentleman.
* * * *
“J. Henry”: One of the most curious
water supplies in the continent occurs
on the top of the Square Mountain in
the Upper Hunter district of N.S.W. This
massive lump of dirt and rock adjoins
Mount Murulla (4100 ft.), overlooking
Murrurundi to the north and Wingen
to the south, and about 100 ft. below its
summit gushes a spring of clear, cold
water which never varies in volume of
flow during the driest or the wettest
season. With the exception of Murulla
alongside, the only higher land in the
neighborhood is Mount Woollooma
(5200 ft.), overlooking Belltrees station,
about 40 miles to the south-east, and
there is no higher hill northward before
you arrive at the ranges in New Guinea.
Where does the water come from? One
theory I’ve heard is that it is magmatic
water, conveyed an immense distance
maybe from New Guinea along a
channel running through the very foun-
dations of the earth.
* * * *
“Naturala”: That overseer who re-
marked that a duck “always covers her
eggs when they’re gettin’ ready to hatch
displayed good observation. Starting with
a rounded hollow, which she makes
before laying, the duck may deposit from
10 to 20 eggs before settling down to
maternity. As the weeks go by she builds
a perfect cradle of feathers, every one
plucked from her own breast. As she sits
these fluff up around her, leaving no
openings wherein an unkindly wind might
enter. When, leaving the nest to drink
and feed she carefully spreads the
feathers all over the eggs with her bill.
Thus a duck may be off her nest up-
wards of an hour and yet the unhatched
fledglings suffer no injury. She cheats
possible marauders by turning back at
every step and laying reeds, twigs, leaves
in what she considers an undisturbed
aspect. But the remarkable thing about
the duck egg is the strength of its shell,
though the duck consumes less shell-grit
than the domestic fowl. So the consti-
tuents of the shell must be derived largely
from a built-up economy resident in the
bird. But oddest of all is the equip-
ment of the unhatched duckling. With
a bill so soft that it can be injured by
a fingernail, it would never break out ot
the shell had Nature not fitted right on
the tip a tiny knob, hard as a hammer.
Listening to the tapping of these ham-
mers, the mother knows that the new
brood has nearly arrived. She then
makes an extended sitting of it, seldom
leaving the nest while even the faintest
tap is to be heard. A week old, and the
duckling sheds the little hammer that
opened the way to light and life.
“ 'Tain't fair! Our dad's fightin' for freedom and we're shoved into a concentration camp."
RAILWAY HYMN.
We are like monks in orders
To some great god of speed.
Our parish knows no borders,
No distances we heed.
Our church knows what a curve is,
And, as she rolls and swings,
To start our morning service
The choir of rail-joints sings.
Our bishop is the driver.
The rector slings the coal;
By mountain peak and river
We let our old church roll.
Soft lights, like lamps in sconces,
Keep pew and lectern dim;
The echoes make responses
In litany and hymn.
The brake-shoes know the collect,
The text is “Do it right” ;
The whistle steam that frolicked
About her dome all night
Blows bell-like notes for matins—
Afar its call we send;
And, clad in silks and satins,
The sun anti winds attend.
Our altar is the furnace,
The altar boys the miles
That sing and lead and turn us
By plainlands and defiles.
Behind us, as we urge her,
The congregation wait
For Bob the guard, who’s verger,
To pass around the plate.
Our pulpit has no station,
It’s neither here nor there.
Excepting in relation
To distances and air.
Its high priests know what nerve is,
And never flinch or fail
In giving him fair service,
This speed-god of the rail.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


c, TH i 7 '
SEND FOR THIS BOOK
"T he T ask 'That Men 'Want”
Whether you have already made your Will, or whether you have postponed the
matter, it is suggested that you write for a copy of the book, " The Task That
Few Men Want." It will be sent to you free of charge. It is a book which
outlines a practical plan for ensuring the protection and security of your interests,
and the faithful execution of the wishes your Will expresses—without risk and
without placing any burden on others.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - Robert John Nosworfhy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
TELEPHONE : B 7901. Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
The WILDCAL COUMN
Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Co.
Nominal
Net , Dividends N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.!
1930.. 10 p.c. 6 p.c.= 318,939 1,761 150434
1931.. 319 10 „ 2J„„ 187,141 138,312
1932.. 340 10 „ 3 „ „ 206,970 1,370 139,682
1933.. 919 10 „ 4 „ „ 243,626 137,975
1934.. 929 10 „ 5 „ „ 281,283 6,646 144,621
Unexplained reductions, £37,392 .. 107,229
1935.. 120.016 10 p.c. Nil 93,000 27,016 134,245
1936.. 307.183 10 „ 5 p.c. = 281,283 25,900 160,145
1937.. 410.409 10 „ 7 „ „ 356,595 53,814 213,959
1938.. 414.702 10 „ 7 „ „ 356,596 58,106 272,065
1939.. 417.650 10 „ 7 „ „ 356,596 61,054 333,119
1940.. 450.505 10 „ 7 „ ~ 356,596 93,909 427,028
1941.. 439.644 10 „ 7 „ ~ 356,596 83.048 510,076
! Goodwill ( £354,377 in parent’s books) not treated
as an asset herein.
After making an unspecified provision
for taxation, allowing £128,250 (down
£28,404) for depreciation, and writing
£20,000 (down £7640) off the factory
rationalisation account, thus wiping it
out of the books, the profit claimed last-
term was £427,745 (down £11,853). The
difference between that figure and the one
shown in the table represents unex-
plained additions to reserves. Taking
into the reckoning a capital loss of
£44,649 on sale of fixed assets which was
charged against earnings in 1940, the con-
traction in last year’s net result was
£56,502. The £439,644 of profit shown
was sufficient to meet pref. requirements
and show 9.2 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 9.5, 8.6, 8.5 and 8.4 p.c. for the
four preceding years. The div. was kept
at 7 p.c.
The board figured combined net earn-
ings of Dunlop and its subsidiaries last
term at £440,547 as against £457,492 for
the preceding 12 months. But the £457,492
was written after charging earnings with
a loss of £77,649 on sale of fixed assets.
Considering the big changes that have
taken place in trading conditions the
result of the year’s operations is surpris-
ingly good. There was a contraction of
over 50 p.c. in the number of new motor
vehicles registered in Australia, owing to
restrictions on exchange, imports and
petrol consumption. Still, there was a
substantial amount of reshoeing busi-
ness to be done, as the following table,
which shows the number of motor
vehicles registered in the Commonwealth,
indicates:
Motor- Commercial Motor-
June 30, cars. Vehicles. cycles.
1936 .. 484,832 180,567 77,467
1937 . . 499,289 214,296 77,912
1938 • ■ 534,963 241,751 80,114
1939 . . 559,960 260,091 79,225
1940 • • 557,180 263,404 74,455
1941 . . 535,946 264,353 70,882
The co. has accepted large defence con-
tracts, including production of many new
lines, at a lower margin of profit than is
usual on domestic trade. However, in-
creased sales in the mechanical, shoe and
general departments helped to offset the
gap in tyre production. Wage-lifts, higher
prices for raw materials and heavier taxa-
tion bumped up costs, while shipping and
exchange difficulties and enemy activities
—many of the co.’s raw materials are
imported—helped to complicate the posi-
tion. However, the co.’s competitive
power has been greatly strengthened by
the factory rationalisation scheme under-
taken some half a dozen years ago. The
full effects of this scheme have been felt
only in the last couple of years —it aimed
at standardising a number of products
and eliminating much former overlap-
ping, and therefore waste, and the cost
has been entirely written off out of earn-
ings. Also, the association with the
English Dunlop co. has meant much on
the technical side.
Toward the close of accounts the co.
bought all the 200,000 £1 8 p.c. prefs. in
Barnet Glass for 30s. each. The Barnet
co. thus becomes a wholly-owned sub-
sidiary, Dunlop having taken the 550,000
£1 ords., or all but a handful of them,
at 325, apiece about 12 years back. For
the 12 months to June 30, 1940, this sub-
sidiary netted 12.1 p.c. on total capital
and paid an all-round 8 p.c. It has a
substantial holding in Bradford Cotton,
which took over Austral Silk and Cotton’s
business about three years ago, and later
bought from Barnet Glass —which lost
£33,000 on the deal—that co.’s land and
buildings at Footscray.
Consolidated balance-sheet figures of
the organisation compare this way:
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET.
Paid capital— 1939. 1940. 1941.
Dunlop interest £4,69'5,655 £4,' 695,655 £4,695,655
Outside interest 222,379 221,522 30,833
Reserves! .. .. 692,281 786,197 869,509
Liabilities.. .. 290,564 271,920 541,532
Tax reserve ... 112,270 196,278 300,914
Freeholds, etc. .. 1,216,009 1,067,039 1,048,621
Plant, etc... .. 1,054,565 928,218 869,100
Stocks .. .. 2,116,460 2,509,088 2,697,994
Debtors . . . . 916,925 999,024 1,065,823
Investments, etc... 6,265 143,939 178,095
Cash, etc. .. 217,977 58,510 31,321
Rationalisation acc. 46,137 20,000
Goodwill . . . . 630,830 633,058 727,217
* Includes share undistributed profits, t Subject to
goodwill and rationalisation account.
The reduction of £190,689 in outside
capital interest reflects the purchase of
Barnet Glass prefs. To meet the outlay,
carry an extra £188,906 of stocks (largely
well-bought raw materials), add £75,799
to debtors’ balances and £34,156 to in-
vestments the board went outside for
£269,612 net. The year’s contraction
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£3,253,606) was only £41,096.
The ords., which could be had for
as little as 15s. 2d. in 1940, now fetch
235. At the higher figure the return is
6.1 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div, basis. The 10
p.c. prefs. at 365. (33s a year ago) yield
5.5 p.c. The net tangible cover is
£5 4s, prefs. and 20s. 9d. ords.
Davies, Coop and Co.
r Dividends ■,
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ Sj £ £ £
1935.. 9,931 2,012 6 p.c. = 9,904 14,706
Share-issue exes., £2396 .. .. 12,310
1936.. 21,443 5,910 5 p.c. = 15,056 477 12,787
1937.. 35,898 6,000 6 „ „ 18,085 11,812 24,599
1938.. 58,024 6,000 7J „ „ 22,760 29,264 53,863
Assets revalued and bonus shares
issued, £70,000 .. .. . . 53,863
1939.. 63,197 8,133 7i p.c. = 27,982 27,082 80,945
1940.. 91,350 9,000 7| „ „ 32,191 50,159 131,104
1941.. 94,042 10,500 8 „ ~ 40,070 43,472 174,576
To contingencies, £25,000 .. .. 149,676
The table goes back to the beginning of
public interest—the co. was formed as a
proprietary 10 years earlier and the
figures tell their own story of the march
to industrial and investment importance
since. Of the £725,875 (£200,000 prefer-
ence) at which capital now stands,
£185,166 represents bonus scrip handed
out from asset revaluation —£115,166 just
before the public came in, the other
£70,000 in 1938 —so that nothing has been
strained in showing the profits claimed.
Headquarters are in Melbourne, with
subsidiaries operating complete spinning
and weaving mills in Adelaide (paid
capital £150,000) and Sydney (paid capi-
tal £200,000), in each of which the public
took £50,000 6 p.c. prefs. Another off-
shoot, Flax Industries, is preparing to
turn out flax canvas and firehose from
locally-grown fibre. Together, the pups
represent an investment by the parent
of £432,998 —£240,654 in shares and
£192,344 by way of advances, all in the
past two years.
Application of deferred duties and
quotas against imported cheap-labor
piece-goods about 1936 really started the
ball rolling. War created further oppor-
tunities, although recent expansion was
planned mostly before the outbreak along
essentially long-term lines. Apart from
cotton drills and denims, canvas, duck,
calicoes, shirtings and underwear, all in
heavy demand by the Defence Depart-
ment at the moment, yarns for towels,
tyre-cord, underwear and other weaving
purposes now bulk prominently on the
list of mill products. Since 1939 canvas,
duck and tyre-cord have enjoyed both a
duty and a bounty.
The last term was marked by the death
of D. T. M. Davies, chairman and man-
aging director and reported holder of
85,788 shares; his place has been taken
by Frank Coop. After writing £30,814
off plant liberal maintenance is also
charged—the parent showed gross earn-
ings £35,141 higher at £225,319. Taxation,
chiefly, kept the improvement in net down
to £2692. On average ord. capital the
£94,042 of profit (after pref. divs.) was
16.6 p.c. But div. was lifted only \ p.c.
to 8 p.c., and of the £43,472 remaining
£25,000 was whisked to inner reserves.
Including this, retained earnings over the
past half-dozen years have amounted to
£159,870.
Taking subsidiary earnings into account,
the position has even more glow, Davies,
Coop (S.A.) netted £22,391, and Davies,
Coop (N.S.W.), which didn’t reach full
production till the final quarter, £6016.
Total group profit thus amounted to
£122,449, of which the parent’s ord.
equity ran out at over 20 p.c. on capital
at work.
Here is another view of the record of
energetic growth and the method of
finance: —
r~ Davies, D.O. & Subsid.—,
Paid Capital— 1935. 1937. 1940. 1941.
Davies, Coop £341,821 £402,125 £625,875 £725,875
Held outside 100,000 114,346
Overdraft .. 97,548 32,415 55,319 277,367
Sundry cred... 65,786* 63,616* 272,877 445,695
Tax provision 42,499 82,300
Freeholds, etc. 101,322 109,272 297,242 368,147
Plant, etc. .. 207,661 197,909 557,941 744,631
Stock.. .. 163,279 142,148 227,630 502,973
Debtors, cash,
etc. .. 52,216 86,983 164,031 247,768
Intangibles .. 4,313 2,405
* Including tax provision.
The debt (up another £394,866) is the
most prominent feature of the combined
accounts. Half-million of it is against
stock (£275,343 higher), mostly raw
material and no doubt easily worked
down. Still, no harm would be done if
Treasury approval to issue more capital
were gained.
' At 355. 3d. Davies, Coop pound ords.
return an interesting 4.5 p.c. The prefs.
yield 4.8 p.c. at 255. Consolidated net
tangible backing is 265. 7d. ords.,
£4 13s. prefs. There is a wide local
market for cotton textiles, particularly
for the better grades, and though recent
expansion has been at high capital cost
the management isn’t one to bury its
head in the sand. The present affords
a great time for consolidating competitive
power.
Farmer and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends x
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 5 p.c. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1931.. 11,001 12,000 28,000 Nil 227,794
From inner reserves, £18,490 .. 246,284
' 1932.. 11,106 12,000 28,000 Nil 217,390
1933.. 33,891 12,000 28,000 Nil 211,281
5 p.c.
1934.. 70,339 12,000 28,000 20,000 221,620
6i p.c.
1935.. 77,424 12,000 28,000 25,000 234,044
7i p.c.
1936.. 90,187 12,000 28,000 30,000 1 9 , q
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. ) ’
8f p.c.
1937.. 101,462 12,000 28,000 35,000 ) 070 fioq
To staff fund, £5OOO . . •• f ’
1938.. 105,211 12,000 28,000 35,000 ) 2 95 904
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. J ’
1939.. 106,659 12,000 28,000 35,000 ) 092 563
To staff fund, £5OOO •. .. ) ’
10 p.c.*
1940.. 112,331 12,000 28,000 40,000 ) 040 004
To staff fund, £5OOO .. ..) d ’
8J p.c.
1941.. 110,044 12,000 28,000 35,000) 070000
To staff fund, £5OOO .. 6,1
* Including li p.c. centenary bonus.
Despite heavy taxation, rising costs and
other war-time difficulties, the big depart-
ment stores, and most other traders, have
been able to earn very satisfactory profits.
The £110,044 (down £2287) netted by
Farmer’s last term was the second-best
showing in the co.’s history. With plenty
of money about, owing to heavy Govern-
ment spending on war and other account
and good prices for surplus exports sold
to Britain, and with wages on the up-
grade and employment at an exceptionally
high level, because of enlistments in
the services and increased factory pro-
duction of war goods, Farmer’s turnover
bounded along. It was further assisted
by the attractive advertising and window
displays for which the co. is noted.
Although exchange and shipping dif-
ficulties and economic expediency brought
imports of high-grade fashion goods, in
which this co. used to specialise, prac-
tically to a standstill, many lines pre-
viously bought overseas are now made in
the co.’s own factory, where more atten-
tion is being given to style and design
and larger quantities of Australian-made
materials are being manufactured into
garments. Also, the clothing requirements
of officers in the Navy, Army and Air
Force created a new demand which has
kept the tailoring department unusually
busy, A line which has called for shrewd
buying, and will continue to do so, is
cotton goods.
However, the co. appears to have
readily adjusted itself to the shifts in
demand which war has brought about
and to the problems created by rising
costs and taxation, and by petrol ration-
ing on the delivery side, especially in
connection with goods on appro. It will
probably not be until arrival of the post-
war period that the co. will meet with
the toughest nuts it will have to crack.
The £110,044 of profit claimed was
enough to pay the pref. divs. and show
17.5 p.c. on ord. capital as against 18,
16.6, 16.3, 15.3, 12.5, 9.3 and 7.5 p.c.
back to 1934. The div. was kept at 8!
p.c., and, after sending £5OOO to the staff
fund, £30,044 was put on the shelf, lift-
ing the lay-by to £397,938.
The management has been able to
maintain the volume, if not the variety,
of its stocks:
1935. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Capital .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Debentures 500,000 f 600,000 1490,000 f 480,000
Creditors*.. 215,017 206,902 300,399 311,469
Freehold &
plant .. 1,403,636 1,467,511 1,441,523 1,406,829
Stock .. 326,959 373,644 473,286 473,930
Book debts 151,741 184,048 223,640 270,091
Cash and in-
vestments 91,725 29,263 26,844 40,557
* Including contingencies, f Mortgage.
There has been a marked increase in
credit sales of recent years. Last term
the growth in debtors’ balances was
£46,451. The mortgage debt was reduced
by £lO,OOO, and £11,070 was added to the
amount coming to trade creditors, which
includes something for contingencies. On
fixed assets £34,694 more was written off
than was spent. The year’s improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£473,109) was £49,738.
At 245. 6d. and 255. the 6 p.c. first and
7 p.c. second prefs. yield 4.9 p.c. and 5.6
p.c. respectively. The ords. at 265. 6d.
return 6.6 p.c. They are very satisfactory
returns, all things considered. The net
tangible backing is £6 18s. firsts, £2 18s.
lOd, seconds and 38s. lOd. ords.
Berlei, Ltd.
, Dividends v
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£t & £* £» £
1931.. 17,629 4000 7J p.c. = 9,361 4268 35,801
Unexplained additions to reserves. £2300.. 38,101
1932.. 15,650 4000 8 p.c. = 9.985 1665 39,766
Unexplained reductions, £2300 .. .. 37,466
1933.. 14,675 4000 8 p.c. =10,352 323 37,789
Unexplained additions to reserves, £1500.. 39,289
1934.. 19,645 4000 8 p.c. =11,005 4640 43,929
1935.. 19,245 4000 8 „ „ 11,005 4240 48,169
Bonus scrip M.L. subsidiary, £2560 .. 50,729
1936.. 25,182 4000 10 p.c. =13,756 7426 58,155
1937.. 25,463 4000 10 „ ~ 13,756 7707 65,862
1938.. 26,282 4000 10 „ ~13,756 8526 74,388
1939.. 21,278 4000 10 „ ~13,756 3522 77,910
1940.. 23,206 4000 10 „ ~13,756 5450 83,360
1941.. 28,052 4000 10 „ ~13,75610,296 93,656
A buxom showing that would have pre-
sented an even more comely appearance
but for war’s depletion one way and an-
other of the skilled staff, a situation the
management is gradually improving
through its training department. And the
pleasing feature is that, with the grow-
ing absorption of women into war-time
industry and restriction of imports, the
co.’s production is going mainly into
consumption, not just retailers’ stocks.
Making the most of opportunities pro-
vided by the tariff and exchange, the co.
dug itself in during the ’thirties, and the
excellence of its product and service has
won it most of the corset and brassiere
market in the Commonwealth and Maori-
land, catered for by an associate co.
Last term “Australian and New Zea-
land associated and subsidiary cos. all
operated successfully, earning average or
increased profits and maintaining regular
divs.” —again 17! p.c. out of a surplus
43.9 p.c. on its £50,000 of capital
in the case of the trans-Tasman venture.
Berlei (U.K.), besides doing good work
in keeping up basic materials to its An-
tipodean associates, also had a profit-
able year, Government contracts offsetting


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated ny
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney. Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
DAVIES & CO EDISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt,
PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE...
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Consult
Security
Economy
Service
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY ° LOn^ED LIA ’
(Incorporated in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman) ; Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.;
Robert C. Wilson. • Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
tF YOU GANT MUST ,
L E/VD/
If age, medical unfitness, or any other cause is compelling
you to stand aside—remember that there is another call
from which you cannot, must not, stand aside. Australians
must lend Australia £30,000,000 at once—and should, as
a patriotic duty, convert from maturing loans to new War
and Conversion Loan. Conversion of your Loan Holdings
now maturing will help keep war from our shores.
Apply at once, at any bank, money order post office, or stock-
broker. Interest is 21% for 4-5 years or 3} % for 9-16 years.
Subscriptions may be paid 10% deposit, balance in 6 instalments
to 2nd May, 1942.
CoAfl/EBr yom '
10AN fHUDWffS mwmn/xm
■■ 1
il
Since 1858 MDOWICI’S
have provided Australian Industry
with the finest leather belting.
★ power
TRANSMISSION
ENGINEERS
Ludowiei's engineering work-
shop — largest of its kind in
Australia —produces a com-
plete range of Transmission
Equipment.
The quality of Pioneer Leather Belting is the result of years of con-
tinuous specialisation in tanning and belt making. Constant chemical
control of raw materials and tanning processes, routine inspection of
every stage of manufacture, ensure that uniform quality essential for
long term dependability.
Not only out Tannery and Belt-making Factories, but our Engineering Plant is the
largest of its kind in Australia producing Pivot and Torque Drives, V Belt Drives,
Pulleys. Bearings. Shaftings, a complete line of Power Transmission Equipment.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
112 YORK STREET (NEAR MARKET STREET), SYDNEY
20-26 QUEENS BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
a declining call from ordinary trade
channels.
Deducting staff profit-sharing divs. of
£2424, the net result shown in this Syd-
ney co.’s books lifted £4846 to £28,052.
Allowing for the 50,000 prefs., that rep-
resented 17.2 p.c. on ord.-holders’ capital,
as against 13.7, 12.5, 15.9, 15.3, 15.1 and
11 p.c. back to 1935. But money was
wanted in the business, and the div.
stayed at 10 p.c.
The debt is now a more prominent
feature than it used to be, but there is
nothing unbusinesslike in the figures or
any suggestion that the £23,006 of con-
tributing capital that has stood at call
since 1933 is likely to be required-;
1935. 1939: 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £190,057 £190,057 £190,057 £190,057
Overdraft .. 32,133 49,461 43,023
Sundry creditors* 9,571 19,194 27,772 36,828
Freeholds .. 60,863 62,792 62,720 62,652
Plant .. 10,563 10,964 11,593 11,539
Investments!. . 80,383 89,854 89,854 92,367
Stocks .. 58,848 105,757 133,222 133,112
Book debts .. 34,680 54,507 59,877 70,517
Cash, etc. .. 9,961 4,297 2,260 2,254
* Including taxation, f Shares in associated cos.
With shipping uncertain, maintenance of
the stock position is a comforting feature.
Seekers after sound stocks offer 325. for
the f.-p. ords., at which the return would
be 6.2 p.c. On a paid-up capital basis,
net tangible backing is 335. 4d.
ords. and £5 13s. 6d. prefs., which
yield 5.7 p.c. at 28s, Demand for the
co.’s feminine creations should lose none
of its buoyancy ; but wages, an important
element of prime cost, and taxation are
stepping it out in a similar direction.
“Lex”: Petrol rationing is awakening
public interest hotly in Queensland's
oil-shale resources. A recent debate in
Parliament raised suggestions that these
might be more extensive and richer in
grade than those in the Ma State, where
oil is being produced at Capertee, and,
prompted by the need to do something,
the Government, by proclamation, has
secured for the Crown large shale deposits
in The Narrows, near Gladstone. It has
decided to bore the area, and private con-
cerns are thereby prevented from taking
up the leases and exploiting anything that
the Government finds: the next step
after drilling results are classified prob-
ably depends on the nature of the
deposits. Previous reports indicate con-
siderable widths of low to medium grade
oil-shales. Four-inch cores will be raised,
a proceeding which will enable real
samples of the stuff to be seen at a tithe
of the expense of shaft-sinking.
* * * •
Recoveries of Deborah (Vic.) have
fallen to an average s.Bdwt. in recent
weeks. It compares with 10.7dwt. (ex-
cluding development ore) for the half-
year to July and 17dwt. for the preceding
six months. A somewhat larger through-
put and a cost-cut from 51s. Id. to 425.
lid. a ton softened the blow, but latest
profits are cut in half at £21,630 —
£BB7O less than divs. of 10s. a share called
for. Development below 1400 ft. hasn’t
yet brought in the results anticipated, but
the management still has hopes, while
no exploration has been done at greater
depth, very productive on adjoining lines.
Present crushings are being mostly drawn
from the inner reef at 575 ft., the for-
mation South Deborah formed to test
and which now appears about to enter
a period of more consistent production
from the 220 ft. reef it chanced on in
sinking.
* * * *
Hill 50 (W.A.) is still hard to buy,
despite 50 p.c. increase in capital. With
the new plant, further step-up of 15,000
tons a year in throughput is looked for,
and adjustments may even better that
figure. Though grade will be lowered,
a saving of 11s. a ton in last term’s
455. cost experience is anticipated, so
that anything above recoveries
would represent profit. Estimated ore
grade is just shy of 6dwt. The new money
should enable profits, previously partly
put back into the mine, to be distributed
as earned. It will also effect some saving
of State taxation, at present biting a fifth
out of profits, because capital outlay,
where the money is found by share-
holders, is allowed to be recouped before
charging ordinary income tax. Co. has
increased its Mt. Magnet holding to 71
acres by acquisition of the Hill 50 South
leases.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Areas (W.A.) has
surplus liquids of £11,439. W. Clark
(director) says the auriferous area at
Evanston over which the co. has taken
an option appears to have the foun-
dations of a good mine, and that it
won’t cost much to prove how sound
those foundations were.
* * * *
Golden Horse Shoe (W.A.), owing to
war conditions, is changing its balance
date from Sept, to Dec., so next accounts
will cover 15 months. Re-treatment of
Gt. Boulder No. 3 dump from May to
August showed a loss of £4212 ster-
ling, and if results don’t improve by the
end of the month the plant will be dis-
mantled and removed to Gt. Boulder No.
2 dump, some distance away.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
IF MOSCOW FALLS
Middle East Battlegrounds.
(Condensed from a New York “Times” article by
Robert P. Post.)
Invade the Continent?
(From an article by Ben Robertson in New York “PM.”')
[What would be Russian reaction to the fall of Moscow?
Freda Utley, in this article condensed from “American
Mercury,” discusses the various possibilities, her most
interesting point being that guerrilla warfare on the
Chinese model—the chief hope of armchair warriors
who ignore the basic military and political facts of the
Soviet position—is unlikely to be of any real value.
As a postscript to her article, Mr. Churchill’s most
recent statement to the Indian Defence Council —“During
1942 the Armies of India, with their British comrades,
will be fighting from the Caspian Sea to the Nile”—is
worth keeping in mind, as are also the aspects of British
strategy in the Middle East discussed in the second
article on this page.]
Could the Soviet Government survive severe mili-
tary defeats and the loss of most of its European
territory? Would effective guerrilla warfare be waged
in conquered areas?
Inevitably, one turns to the experience of China
in seeking the answers. The loss of many battles
and capital cities and the retreat of Government and
army into the interior have not meant a Japanese
victory. Chiang Kai-shek moved his capital from
Nanking to Hankow in 1937, to Chunking a year later.
He could assert confidently, “Wherever I am, there
is the capital of China, and the centre of national
resistance.” Japan has occupied most of the fertile
and productive provinces and cut Free China off from
the sea. But her hold on the conquered territory
remains tenuous and does not extend far beyond the
towns, railways and main roads. Guerrilla forces
and the hostility of the peasant population have pre-
vented consolidation of the conquests or their eco-
nomic exploitation, while necessitating a large army
of occupation.
Most observers are assuming that Germany in
Russia will be confronted with the same hopeless task
as Japan in China. Russia, too, has a vast area, a
huge population, rich resources, a low standard of
living and could deny to the invader any profit from
his conquests by waging relentless guerrilla warfare.
Some optimists, like Edgar Snow, lacking first-hand
knowledge of the Soviet Union, even believe that
Russia “in terms of political morale” is “immeasur-
ably stronger” than China, and hence able to wage
guerrilla warfare even more successfully.
A closer examination of the Russian picture sug-
gests that such assumptions are likely to collapse along
with other examples of wishful thinking. The writer,
having lived and worked in Russia and spent a half-
year in China, cannot share the optimism. True,
Russia is so large that, like China, she ought to be able
to “trade space for time.” But whereas China has both
the advantages and disadvantages of being primitive in
her economy and administrative organisation, Russia
has lost the tactical advantages of being primitive with-
out gaining the benefits of modernisation. This basic
fact may easily annul the favorable strategic and
geographic factors which Russia shares with China.
In China, by and large, the people of each pro-
vince, even of each district, can live off the produce
of the locality. Chinese agriculture depends upon
human muscles. Handicraft industries in the interior
provinces have survived to supply the necessities of
life and are being extended by the Industrial Co-
operative movement. In Russia, on the other hand,
agriculture has been mechanised. It depends upon
supplies of gasoline and upon facilities for repairing
and replacing machinery. The Ukraine alone is re-
ported to have 90,000 tractors and 30,000 mowing
machines. Horses were largely liquidated together with
kulaks in the period of forced collectivisation.
Before the Revolution, handicraft industries sup-
plied a large part of the daily needs of the people. But
these industries have been destroyed. The artisan and
domestic textile industry died during the first Five Year
Plan, when it became a crime to operate hand looms,
and most of them were actually destroyed. Artisans
who produced shoes and utensils and other necessities
with tools of their own were classified as “petty bour-
geois” and duly liquidated. Local economic self-
sufficiency has been largely destroyed.
Soviet administration has been even more highly
centralised than economic life. Local initiative and
self-reliance—the essence of guerrilla warfare —have
been destroyed along with private enterprise. The
population has become as dependent upon orders from
Moscow as upon supplies from a few industrial centres.
Indeed, the Soviet Government is so thoroughly identi-
fied with Moscow that its mere removal elsewhere
would prove a great if not decisive shock to the popu-
lace. It is not impossible that Stalin in Kazan or
Sverdlovsk or Tomsk will lose the magic of Stalin in
his Moscow Kremlin.
While decentralisation has been a great debit to
China in other ways, it has helped her to maintain
isolated and self-sufficient islands of resistance through-
out the occupied regions. In Russia everything has
been so abnormally centralised that all action may be
paralysed when the main powerhouses of political
authority are put out of commission. Action is not
in the slightest dependent upon the local population
but upon local bureaucrats backed by the internal
G.P.U. forces.
This fact gives the U.S.S.R. a short-term advan-
tage as compared with other victims of Nazi aggres-
sion ; the advantage of a totalitarian set-up enforcing
an immense accumulation of war materials. In China,
lack of preparation and of arms made defeat in
pitched battles inevitable, but primitive ways made
guerrilla tactics thereafter easier. In Russia the situa-
tion is reversed. The advantages of the first stage of
the war, if they do not suffice to defeat the Germans,
are likely to turn into handicaps in later stages.
Both in industry and agriculture, Russia’s exces-
sive centralisation must work in Germany’s favor once
she has driven the Red Army back. The fact that the
Soviet Government has herded the peasants together to
work on large farms under the supervision of the police
would facilitate the task of the German conquerors.
Japan in China had to cope with millions of individual
peasant producers, so that coercing them to work and
deliver crops has been an impossible job. In the Soviet
Union the Government has already perfected a system
for controlling the agrarian population and forcing
it to hand over the products of its toil to a central
authority.
The Germans are politically more astute than the
Japanese. They know how to divide and conquer.
The deep discontents and hatreds stored up in the
peasant population of Russia are likely to be exploited
by the invaders.
The feelings of the Russian workers are more
difficult to estimate. The war is demonstrating that
there is latent patriotism among the soldiers and per-
haps among civilians. But can the fatalistic courage
of the Russians and their conditioning to hardship
and to terror make up for the condition of Russian
transport? For more than a decade Russia has
concentrated on piling up arms. The difficulties
of the Red forces Will be multiplied immeasurably
—New York “Daily Mirror.”
THE EMPIRE’S BRIGHTEST JEWEL.
when Russia gets down to utilising her current
production.
Above all, Russia today lacks the technicians
and managers, the industrial and administrative per-
sonnel, to maintain production and transport at a high
war-time level.
In the last war British statesmen and militarists
were sharply divided between schools of “Westerners”
and “Easterners,” depending upon whether or not
they backed Winston Churchill’s Dardanelles venture
or believed that that war would be won or lost in
France. In this war hard realities have settled the
question. All British leaders are Easterners by neces-
sity, not by choice. The immediate theatre of land
warfare, so far as the British are concerned, lies in
the Middle East or, to put it on a rather broader
base, the Mediterranean and near-by countries.
The only important land initiative taken by the
British in this war has been taken in this area. When
the British realised that there was a German coup in
Iraq they fought and won a campaign to nullify its
effects ; and when they and the Russians suspected
that the Germans were preparing another coup in
Iran they anticipated it and took over control of that
country, practically bloodlessly.
British strategy in this Mediterranean area has
two facets, offensive and defensive. It must be re-
membered that the British had to abandon entire
plans laid before last year because of the French
defalcation, which in some ways had worse effects in
the Mediterranean than almost anywhere else.
The old Allied war plans had always allotted the
Mediterranean to the French ; French warships were
to keep it open, French soldiers were to do most of
whatever fighting had to be done. If Italy came into
the war the French and British together were to sweep
into Libya and crush the Italians between the jaws of
a vice. When the French collapsed all those plans
had to be altered, and instead of finding themselves in
command over the Mediterranean the British found
themselves engaged in a desperate battle for survival
there. It was not a question any more of attacking
in the Middle East; it was a question of defending
the Suez Canal and British communications with the
Empire.
The “miracle of Dunkirk” has been written and
hymned for months. Nobody has really written the
story of the miracle of Egypt, where amazingly small
•forces, badly equipped, not only held their positions
but actually made sallies, captured new territory and
drove the Italians before them until a large part of
the Italian Empire had fallen and the Germans had
to come in to save the rest. .
Today the British are in a far stronger position
in the Mediterranean than they were, let us say, a
year ago. It is true that the Axis Powers have over-
run all the Balkans and have taken Crete and are
threatening Malta. But it is also true that the invasion
of Russia has given the Axis things to do in other
places and the prompt action by the British in Syria —
it should be remembered that Syria was one of the
strengths and not weaknesses of the British war effort
while the French still fought—lraq and Iran has at
least posed for the Nazis the problem of how to take
these countries.
The Axis threat is far less than it was a year ago
and appreciably less than it was after Crete was cap-
tured. The British have gained valuable time in which
to reinforce and re-equip their forces in the Middle
East and to start organising a service whereby United
States equipment can be sent to that area.
With control of Iran the British have
established a valuable link between them-
selves, the United States and Russia.
But there is the other part of the
Mediterranean problem that is not going
so well. North Africa—French North
Africa —is still a problem. The British
have long had hopes that General
Weygand, commanding there for the
French, was not wholly pro-Nazi and
that he would fight any Nazi attempts to
take over that area. Unfortunately, he
did nothing to prevent the Axis infiltra-
tion. The importance of North Africa
is that it represents a potential Axis
threat to British communications, not
only through the Mediterranean, but also
because it provides potential bases, such
as Dakar, for the Battle of the Atlantic.
But thus far all the British moves
in the Mediterranean area, and in the
countries contiguous to it, have been pri-
marily defensive. They have even been
defensive when they had an offensive
aspect, such as that possessed by the
troops marching into Syria, Iraq and
Iran. Essentially, all these moves were
made to prevent the Germans from get-
ting there first. That even the British
dashes into Libya, with the consequent
rout of the Italian troops, were really
defensive in nature would appear from
the fact that the British fell back before
the German counter-attack.
But all this defence is clearly only a
preparation for an offensive. The British
feel on the whole that their best chance
to come to actual grips with the Axis is
in the Middle East, either by an attack
on Italy or by one on the German flank
in the Balkans. Such a move would be
far more difficult for the Germans to
counter than a full-scale attack from the West.
It will probably be a long time before any full-
scale move forward can be made, and meantime the
British have to occupy themselves with strengthening
the defence of the countries from which a major attack
can be mounted. The problem of Turkey remains
unsolved.
* * * * *
(From a survey by “The General” in New York PM. )
Allied interest in the Trans-Iranian railway is a
sure indication of British recognition that the Russians
will be in there fighting next spring, and that even now
plans are being laid for heavy Soviet offensives six
months from now. This is a fair deduction, because
enough supplies to make any measurable difference on
the Russian front could not possibly be moved in
before spring. The occupation of Iran would not
make much sense if the occupiers were thinking only
in terms of the immediate present.
The move into Iran also, of course, carries one
step further consolidation of the British position in the
Middle East, on the vital land route to India. Eng-
land can hold her richest colony only so long as no
aggressive rival Power has access to the land route.
People ask time and again why the British don’t
invade the Continent now that the Germans are
engaged in the east against Russia. My answer to
that is the British don’t invade Europe at this season
for the same reason that we [U.S.] don’t take Dakar
—at this time: The British can’t invade the Continent;
they haven’t the armed strength to risk an invasion ;
they haven’t the armed equipment to spare.
England is in pretty much the same position as
the U.S.A.—the principal difference between their get-
ting ready for this war and our getting ready is that
we have been allowed to work day and night without
having bombs fall on us, while the British have had to
work under the strain of total war.
The British began really to get ready about a
year before we started. During that year, the so-
called phony year, the British concentrated a great


BM^MI
■ ■
13
* fma * u J
.
*
THE FLEETS of the DEMOCRACIES use
ŵ
ẁ
BATTERIES
Still keep going when the rest have stopped
AT L.EFT: American battleships in
formation with gun turrets raised.
AT RIGHT: One of Britain’s most for-
midable battleships patrolling the seas.
■ ■*»
■ - '
*'..l;
i
Employment Aspect of Disarmament
(From a New York "World-'Telegram” article by
John T. Flynn.)
Uncle Sam’s “Protectorates.”
(Condensed from an article by Upton Close in
“American Mercury.”)
The Unsinkables.
(Condensed from Captain Frank H. Shaw’s tribute to the
men of the British Merchant Marine in the New York
“Herald Tribune.”)
part of their energy on building ’planes. Those Hurri-
canes and Spitfires, built during that first year of the
war, since have saved England. This production has
continued until now the air force, augmented during
the last few weeks by really effective American aid,
is approaching parity with the German air force.
The British are strong now in the air and they are
attacking with this air force while the Germans are
fighting in the east. You should talk to some of the
British airmen who have been on those recent raids—
day after day and night after night they have gone
over from England ; sometimes they have gone over
to France and back in the afternoon and over to Ger-
many and back on the same night.
England lost almost everything at Dunkirk. They
got their army home in 9000 boats, but they did not
bring back the guns and the tanks and the cannon.
A year ago in June the British had the first corps
of the Canadian Army, fully equipped, and one British
corps, partially equipped, between London and the
English Channel—that was all. A year ago in England
the British were expecting the Germans from day to
day, and aside from their personal courage they had
virtually nothing. A year ago in England you used to
see soldiers march by with one man in four, with one
man in six, with a rifle. You should talk to the men
whom England sent to Narvik if you would know
why England at the present time doesn’t send another
invading army to the Continent. The men from
Narvik will tell you it doesn’t matter how much
courage you have if you must shoot at ’planes with
a rifle.
England during the last year has had to equip
the 2,000,000 in the regular army that are needed to
protect the island against invasion. It has had to
equip the 2,000,000 men in the Home Guard. It has
had to equip and ship the army to Egypt to its station.
It has had to make anti-aircraft guns for the protection
of every British city. It has had to arm its entire
merchant service with guns. It has had to make tanks
and field pieces.
This last year has been a desperate race against
time in England. The British have tried their best to
tell us this. They knew they could not win in Greece,
that they could not hold Crete ; they knew all along
that they would have to hang on anyhow through
1940 and 1941.
We can understand the difficulty of their position
if we consider ourselves. We have a smaller army
than England has —we have not been under attack,
and yet, I hear, we have not produced enough guns to
arm all of our men. The fact is that both England
and the U.S.A. are about two years behind Germany.
England could probably send an army to France
at this time, but what good would it do in the long
run to send 1,000,000 men to France? This is a
mechanical war. Where would England get guns and
tanks for this army at this time? Even now in
America we are producing less than 400 tanks a month.
The truth is that England is not going to be able
to invade Europe or Asia for a long time. It is going
to take everything England has and everything America
has to put the British into an attacking position. We
haven’t equipment.
England has a quality that we don’t understand in
the U.S.A. —England knows how to wait. But even
England knows that the British will never be able to
invade the continent of Europe without enormous
American aid.
Sumner Welles [U.S. Acting Secretary of State] is
again fooling with the idea of international disarma-
ment by agreement. We will whip Hitler, then civi-
lised Governments everywhere will put aside their
arms and all will be well with the world. No sane
man can be opposed to the principle involved in this
dream. But no sane man ought to omit from his cal-
culations certain factors which make the dream quite
impossible.
The thing that makes this dream unrealisable now
does not lie in the inherent wickedness of man or in
the accursed ambition of what might be called “fight-
ing men.” It lies deeper than that.
In 1910 Congress passed a resolution looking
toward international disarmament. It was defeated by
the Kaiser. When that proposal reached the German
Ministers they asked; “But what will become of
Krupp’s business if Germany disarms?” When the
proposal went to the Kaiser he wrote on the margin
(the document was found after the war): “How will
Krupp pay his men?”
The usual recorder of such facts sees in this a
wicked alliance between the Government and the
munition maker. But this is only a small part of the
truth. It was not so much that arms making had
become essential to Krupp as that Krupp had become
essential to German economy. It was not merely
Krupp. If Germany had then demobilised her one
million soldiers and sent them back looking for jobs
and had quit buying arms not merely from Krupp
but from innumerable other producers in Germany,
and all the material makers who supplied them had
sent their workers out looking for jobs, what would
have become of the economic system of Germany?
Since 1931 men have been saying that what
America needs is anew industry. Why did we not
produce it? Well, we now have one —but it is not a
new one. It is a very old one. We created an arma-
ment industry, and if we were tomorrow to send our
million and a half soldiers and all the workers in the
arms plants out into the world looking for jobs what
would become of this Administration and our
economy?
Every ruler in Europe will ask himself the ques-
tion which the Kaiser asked his Ministers and which
they asked themselves. In 1937 or 1938 America’s
President, talking to a group of church visitors, told
them to look at Germany, Italy, Russia —nobody idle.
Why? The great industry for national defence. Now
we are abolishing idleness that way here —for the
moment. The abolition of armaments is a problem in
political-economic organisation—the solution of the
profound problem which bedevils the capitalist system
now here and everywhere, the question we have tried
—New York “World Telegram."
BRINGING BACK THE UKRAINE HARVEST.
to solve by Government subsidies on peace-time pro-
jects and which Hitler has tried to solve with Gov-
ernment expenditures on war adventures.
What is coming out of this war—in every way
save one—is beyond the eye of man to see. But one
thing that is coming fast and inexorably is quite
obvious, if you will look now. And it is immense.
We Americans—though anti-imperialist in temper and
intention—are having an empire dumped in our laps.
It is an empire larger, richer in potentialities, than
all the realm bounded in Mein Kampf. The Empire
of the Pacific.
We were not asking for it. Yet here we are,
listening to the pleas of the contrite Dr. Moncado to
keep his Philippines for ever. We are going thousands
of miles beyond the Philippines into yet richer fields,
making ourselves responsible for the status quo of the
Dutch East Indies, the defence of Malaya and the
maintenance of the Burmese Open Door into China.
The great event must not be oversimplified. Its
significance is in the inevitability of the process. It
is real life rather than Realpolitik. America is not
taking over the British and Dutch Empires as such,
nor are we engaged in a positive and purposeful
empire-building effort. But we are doing something
equally historical. While pretty certain that Japan’s
New Order is not being built, we have failed to note
the extent to which our own order is being established.
We are saving the Pacific Basin from the cruder sort
of empire-building by others, and in doing it are
setting up an American Protectorate. Americans are
still largely unconscious of this, but the Japanese are
not—they have worried about it to the point of obses-
sion.
There were epochs when Rome took possession of
the Mediterranean, when Portugal, Spain, Holland,
Britain in turn assumed mastery of great oceans. But
the United States has moved faster than any of these
in their days of destiny. Two years ago we had not
even completed the charting of the Aleutian Island
waters, and they were still being patrolled by Japanese
deep-sea fishing boats which were auxiliaries of the
Imperial Japanese Navy. Today, that Aleutian chain
is the site of the world’s most secret naval construc-
tion operations, including underground aerodromes.
From that segment of the great circle we dominate the
North Pacific. A few years ago an appropriation for
harbor construction at Guam was stricken from the
Budget by Congress, Now we announce the imminent
completion of a chain of such installations: Midway.
Wake, Guam, Johnston and Palmyra, with the hint
of yet other island fortresses being built. These are
Gibraltars of the air age, police boxes on the longest
ocean beat, that will not be abandoned because they
cannot be abandoned.
Our expansion is not theoretical and not tem-
porary. We are building permanent works from
Behring Strait to the South Seas. We are lending money
—in the old days it would have been called subsidising
—to imperial dependencies. The com-
munications of modern empire are air-
borne ; our country, under the relent-
less pressures of the war, is building
an aviation industry second to none
and greater than Britain’s shipbuilding
industry.
This Pacific area is prophetically
marked out as the seat of history’s
greatest, and perhaps last, empire.
Europe is being turned into a charred
ruin. Greatness can spring from the
unharmed resources of the Pacific
Basin and its still vital populations.
Such is the looming Pacific Era, pro-
vided authority is established in the
vast area. Japan’s bid to furnish that
authority has failed. Almost automati-
cally, in response to forces too huge to
be compassed by political arguments
or open forums, that authority is being
provided by the United States of
America, and will soon be backed by
the greatest combination of sea- and
air-power of all time.
This is probably the most impor-
tant constructive event of current his-
tory. It does not follow that Britain
is through in the Pacific, although
British colonial relations in the region
are going to be vastly changed. But it
is inescapably clear that British
imperial policy and defence would be
very different without American sup-
port, American power is now the
bulwark of their resistance, and as a
result American authority must be-
come the recognised supreme factor
throughout the Pacific Basin, just as
British authority was the recognised
supreme factor in China in the pre-
war days when Americans relied
upon British gunboats to maintain the established
order.
The nearest approaches to world peace were the
Pax Romana and the Pax Britannica. Now we are on
the eve of a Pax Americana in the Pacific Basin.
We have established a protectorate over the
Pacific Basin: over Australia and New Zealand and
Malaya and the Dutch East Indies and Tahiti and
probably China. It will be extended over lapan after
Japan has got into real trouble and needs us ; maybe
even over Pacific Siberia, although 1 doubt that. We
have proclaimed it over South America, extended it to
Iceland.
Protectorate is the first step of empire. We, rather
than Germany or Japan or Russia or England, seem
likely to emerge from this war with the makings of
empire.
Can we invent a new kind of empire? Can we
combine an authoritative Protectorate of the Pacific
with a democratic Confederacy of the Pacific?
I call them the Unsinkables, those heroes of
Great Britain’s merchant navy who are torpedoed,
shot under, blasted to hell, but always—if life remains
—come back to sail again under the Red Duster.
You find them in every port nowadays. Men who
have been sunk three, four or half a dozen times.
Theoretically they should be dead; but they aren t.
There are ships, too, that belong to this Unsink-
able company. Recently in a west of England port
I saw a fine large freighter which had been torpedoed
and sunk in the North Sea early in the wai. Yet
there she was, ready to sail on her fourth voyage to
America for war supplies—her fourth voyage, that
is, since the Nazis sent her to Davy Jones s locker.
Unusual? In this war, deeds of human courage
and mechanical ingenuity are being performed that


Germany Lacked Bomber Pilots.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
will amaze future generations. And running through
the record will be the legend of British stubbornness
at sea; unsinkable ships that aren’t allowed to stay
at the bottom, men who unhesitatingly sail again no
matter what has happened to them.
Ships have been brought into port with their bows
blown off, their hulls ripped open, their engines
wrecked. Castaways have endured incredible hard-
ships, spending as long as 70 days adrift in lifeboats;
but they have generally signed on for new voyages
at the first opportunity. In the shallow waters around
the British Isles, other men have salvaged 1,250,000
tons of sunken shipping, a sorely-needed addition to
the merchant fleet. Not only ships, but in many cases
their cargoes have been reclaimed since the war began.
There’s the story of Captain Melville, an elderly
skipper who has had four ships sunk under him by
enemy action.
“In the Campion Head,” he wrote me, “I was,
I believe, the first shipmaster to be a victim of the
magnetic mine. The mine bobbed up from its hiding
place just under my stokehold ; and the explosion
blew up the boilers, gutting my ship. Ten of the
engine-room crowd were killed outright. The ship
itself folded up like a jackknife and sank in three
minutes.
“The second mate had been blown clean up
through a skylight, but, believe it or not, he wasn’t
so much as scratched! He wanted a Nazi scalp for
payment, so he switched to the R.N.R. when we
landed. Incidentally, he was lost in the Jervis Bay —
just the way he’d have wished to die,”
After drifting for 48 hours in an open boat, with-
out drinking water or supplies, Captain Melville and
the survivors were sighted by a British ’plane and
finally rescued. Ashore, he asked for another com-
mand and was assigned to the Lockerby Head, a
handsome vessel of 7000 tons, loaded for the Far
East. Off Portugal his convoy was attacked, but the
Lockerby Head successfully delivered her cargo and
loaded ore for England.
“A blasted surface raider spitchered that lovely
ship in the Pacific. The ship took fire fore and aft;
but a 15-year-old apprentice went down into the nitrate
hold with a hose to try to put it out. That’s the
Red Ensign spirit for you! He actually cried when
I ordered him to the life raft,”
Captain Melville and the survivors were taken
aboard the Nazi raider, where they were kept prisoner
until the raider was sunk by an Australian cruiser.
Battling the German crew, which tried to batten them
in the hold as the vessel sank, they escaped and were
rescued by the cruiser, which landed them in Aus-
tralia. There Captain Melville took command of a
decrepit merchantman, the Servitor, once more home-
ward-bound. Near the Panama Canal he picked up
a boatload of survivors from a Dutch vessel. Then
in the Atlantic his own ship was once more attacked.
“Two of their long-range Focke-Wulfs came for
the ship off the Burlings. There was something inevit-
able and pitiless in their screaming dive attacks. The
bombs began to drop. Splinters flashed across the
bridge like a hail shower, and there was death in
every fragment. The second mate was on the bridge
with me ; the top of his head was sliced off like an
egg. The columns of water that were hove up broke
in spray and washed down the decks as if we were
diving into a Western Ocean snorter. Down below,
the black squad—you can never praise them enough
—made smoke and still more smoke, by way of screen-
ing us ; but against that attack smoke was useless.
The Focke-Wulfs just went on attacking, and finally
they scored a direct hit.
“We were done for. I ordered Abandon Ship—
an order I am getting used to giving, worse luck!
and the boats were got over. As the crew worked
at them, the aircraft swooped and machine-gunned
them. One boat simply sank like a basket as it
reached the water. It wasn’t war: it was cold murder.
A boat crew spilled out and swam. A ’plane swooped
and shot at them even so ; two men. were killed.
“In the end 24 of us got away in one boat. We
were 14 days adrift that time. It was the young third
mate who heartened everyone. This boy was a live-
wire : he entertained us with songs and jokes; he
poured sea water over the men when thirst tortured
them; he was a host in himself —and only a lad, a
dogwatch at sea.”
Twelve men had died in, the lifeboat before the
survivors were rescued by anew British cruiser bound
for the Mediterranean. When at last Captain Melville
returned to England, he was given another ship, the
Persimmon, and made three successful voyages to the
United States for munitions. But on the fourth
voyage his vessel was sunk by a torpedo while in
convoy. However, the U-boat was destroyed. “The
escorting destroyers and corvettes fetched him up with
depth charges, and then shot him down again with
gunfire. He died like a harpooned whale,
“Of one thing I’m certain,” he finished, “even
though I’ve been sunk four times, each time by a
different method of frightfulness: Hitler isn’t winning,
and he can’t win. What makes me convinced of this
is not so much the ships as the men. Most of the
crews I’ve sailed with have been sunk at least as many
times as I have; yet they line up for further sea
service the moment they’ve got their clothes dried.
Stout chaps—though to see them ashore you’d think
them just rapscallions, wearing no uniform and slouch-
ing around as they do.”
I asked Captain Melville if he’d decided now that
the war-time sea was too much for him. “The owners
have found me another ship, and I’m sailing as soon
as she’s completed her lading,” he said cheerfully.
“She’s fast and not too big, and she carries anti-
aircraft armament. I might hit back, for once. That’s
my fervent hope.”
You cannot sink the Unsinkables —not while
they’re still able to walk a deck.
(Condensed from a New York “Herald Tribune Supple-
ment” article by Keith Dyling, author of “R.A.F.: The
Story of a British Fighter Pilot.”)
How was it that, with its vast numerical
superiority and with a practically undefended enemy
coast line to attack, Germany did not make total air
warfare against France and Britain in early Sep-
tember, 1939? Not for humane reasons, not for
shortage of gasoline. Indeed, Germany had planned
to send flights of 10,000 bombers over London and
thus end the war in a matter of hours —but she had
planned these tactics for 1942, not 1939.
The truth is that when France and England de-
clared war the German military machine was not
ready for the martial dinner party. It was caught
half-dressed. Germany found herself with a consider-
able number of bombers in reserve and a woeful short-
age of pilots capable of flying them. She is said to
have started the war with 3000 first-line pursuit-’plane
pilots and an equal number of reserves ; but she had
a great shortage of pilots able to undertake long-range
bombing. Recruiting pilots for bomber squadrons
in peace-time has always been difficult, even in the
regimented Reich. The pursuit-’plane fliers are the
elite of the Luftwaffe. With such an idea in every
youth’s mind, few were anxious to volunteer for any-
thing but the comparatively glamorous job of flying a
pursuit ’plane.
When Goring, who was a “scout” pilot of the
last war, boasted to the inhabitants of Berlin that no
—Kansas City “Star.”
SUSPENDED MOTION.
enemy bomber could cross the city defence lines he
expressed his contempt not only for British bombers,
but for all bombers, and emphasised his belief in the
invincibility of the pursuit ’plane. He openly en-
couraged the forming of a vast army of fighter pilots.
The pick of the Luftwaffe recruits went to the pursuit-
training units. Wrote Gdring’s assistant, General
Milch, to his squadron leaders: “You are the destiny
of the Fatherland. To the bomber squadrons you are
as the thoroughbred to the draught horse.”
Thus, when Chamberlain and Daladier surprised
Germany by casting off the mantle of appeasement,
the Reich found itself aeronautically in a colossally
muddled situation. While the German factories were
turning out nearly 3000 ’planes a month in a propor-
tion of four bombers of all types to one and a half
pursuit ’planes, Gdring’s Luftwaffe schools worked on
a proportion of four fighter pilots to one bomber.
War came. The High Command called for its
bombers. They were legion, but a bomber without a
pilot is as useless as a horse without a bridle. The
problem seemed merely a routine one of balancing the
pilot budget by transferring a desired number of
trained pursuit-’plane pilots to the bomber column in
the Luftwaffe ledger. This was done, resulting in a
number of disgruntled pilots wrenched from their
glory seats to be turned into aerial truck-drivers. Dif-
ficulties appeared immediately. The pursuit-trained
pilots had to undergo refresher courses in bomber
handling. The pilot conversion took longer than
anticipated. If Germany had been ready to undertake
mass raids after Dunkirk, the British Government
might now be accepting a German peace. Instead, in
German assembly plants thousands of bombers
awaited pilots.
Both in Britain and across the Atlantic the spec-
tacle of Europe organised by the best organisers in
the world for the single purpose of building up
German military power must be a stimulus to greater
effort. But that spectacle should not intimidate us.
The process by which this result is achieved puts a
severe and increasing strain both on the German system
and on the economic life of Europe. That strain
would be severe even if the man-power that the Nazis
direct were willing and active ; in fact, much of it is
hostile and obstinate. The tension will steadily
increase and in a long war it may be the decisive
factor. — Manchester “Guardian.”
* * * * *
A good many people, including some most unlikely
ones, found it pleasant to sit at Lord’s and dream
away a rare day of rest on the pretext of watching
the one-day university cricket match. There was little
in the cricket to distract the musing mind, for the
young gentlemen played some extremely amateurish
stuff, having, no doubt, been more usefully occupied
during the term. Such, at any rate, was the excuse
loftily put forward by Oxford men for their team’s
unfortunate tendency to get out to full pitches and
half-volleys. Nor did Oxford fail to comment acidly
on the fact that the Cambridge team were wearing
new caps specially designed for this one match. In
the Tavern this was regarded as a failure to take the
war seriously.— Manchester “Guardian”
* * * * *
A “semi-military steel helmet” made privately for
civilian use passed through so many hands and dif-
ferent companies that, whereas in the beginning its
cost was 4£d., it finally reached the retailer at 14s. 6d.,
and he “threw it away” to the public at 17s. 6d. “The
protective value of these helmets is perfectly com-
parable to that of a bowler hat. They dent easily on
impact with the kitchen tabl c”—President of the
Board of Trade in the House of Commons ; Man-
chester “Guardian” report.
* * * * *
The annual crop of military mechanisms at the
U.S. Patent Office is about 75,000, while the National
Inventors’ Council passes on probably 25,000 more.
This wealth of ideas still leaves the United States
lacking a long list of chemical and other improvements
which it believes would be valuable. Many of these
stress automatic or remotely controlled engines of
war, including machine-guns, torpedoes, ships, ’planes
and mines. In the same category would be practical
light armored clothing. An air-cooled light machine-
gun, weighing little more than a rifle, which could be
fired almost continuously without overheating, is
earnestly sought. An invention which would be as
novel as recent invading exploits of gliders and
’chutists is suggested by the quest for an oxygen helmet,
with which troops could land unseen from submarines
near land and march up a beach to form the spear-
head for a surprise attack. “Death rays” and beams
that will cause enemy ’planes to plunge from the skies,
about which a good deal was heard in the First World
War, are at present out of fashion, as they do not
seem nearer practical applicability now than they did
then. — New York “Herald Tribune.”
* * * * *
Though an estimated half of the U.S. fleet has
been transferred from the Pacific to the Atlantic, the
total fighting strength in the Pacific is greater than
before, largely because of increased air-power and
stronger bases in the South Pacific and Alaska, plus
the potential Russian bases close to Japan.— New
York “World-Telegram.”
*****
In certain Paris cafes Frenchmen had been leav-
ing suddenly whenever German officers appeared. So
the Germans, who have to make a rule about every-
thing, decreed that no one could leave a cafe for 15
minutes after a German officer entered it. The very
next day people brought alarm clocks to the cafes,
and at the end of 15 minutes all the alarm clocks rang
out loud and clear, and every French customer got
up, tucked his alarm clock under his arm, paid his bill
and departed.— New York “Herald Tribune.”
*****
“Think of it —83 per cent, of the American people
opposed to American entry into war. Eighty-three
per cent, of our people are against war —while 17 per
cent., aided and abetted by British and Communist
propagandists, seek to lead us into war.” — U.S. Senator
Burton K. Wheeler, reported in the “Journal
American.”
*****
Every day the 8.8. C. sends out a quarter of a
million words to foreign countries in 39 languages,
occupying altogether hours of broadcasting time.
On a recent Sunday the 8.8.C.’s North American ser-
vice gave hours’ continuous broadcasting (it does
this every day), the Pacific service 4*, the Eastern ser-
vice three, the African service five —all these in Eng-
lish —and there were multitudinous services in dif-
ferent foreign languages as well. The smallest of them
are those in Icelandic and the Luxembourg patois,
consisting of 15 minutes a week each. There are 4\
hours of broadcasting in French every day, including
seven news bulletins spaced out at intervals from
5.15 a.m. to 11.15 p.m. There is broadcasting in
German for just over four hours every day, which
includes nine news bulletins spaced out from 4 a.m.
to midnight. There are also three news bulletins in
Czech which do not coincide with the German ones,
so that a Czech can listen to 12 news bulletins a day
in one or other of the two languages he understands.
There are five news bulletins in Italian each day, four
in Norwegian, three in Dutch, three in Polish, three in
Greek. All the temporarily conquered countries are
catered for; there is even a daily five-minute news
bulletin in Albanian. — Manchester “Guardian.”


:
Combine
e
II
*
PROTECTION
INVESTMENT
m
fj-,%
22
•V *>.
£*Jw6g|
,
ft
•vf.
«a
5*
Vvyjf
s »Mr^i.'
With a ‘National Mutual’ Policy, you not
only have a GOOD INVESTMENT, but
also have GOOD PROPERTY - property
that will not depreciate - that will always
provide sure protection.
Your Wisest Investment in Uncertain Times
THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION o/AUSTRALASIA.LTD
(Inc. in Viet.)
ESTABLISHED 1869
350 George Street, Sydney.
NO SHAREHOLDERS - POLICYHOLDERS ALONE
SHARE NATIONAL MUTUAL BENEFITS
The Association has funds available for loans at current interest rales on municipal and public body debentures and
first mortgages of suitable City, Pastoral and Agricultural properties.


STs
LYS
k
proof
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ẃ
Forced Benefits.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
Ben C.”; In the long run the forcing
of some land out of wheatgrowing and
the current shortage of fertilisers may
not be a bad thing for Australian agri-
culture. There is solid logic behind the
notion that a drought very often does
good because it not only gives the soil
a rest but gets rid of a lot of pests. In the
same way a rest from wheatgrowing has
its points ; and if a fertiliser shortage com-
pels farmers to grow green manure crops
and save natural manure it will put some
check on erosion and the continuous
drain on fertility.
Except in orchards, vineyards and cane
farms, green manuring is rare in this
country. It could be extended with ad-
vantage. Though to sow 200 or 300 acres
of wheat land with a leguminous crop
and then plough it in might be too costly,
there is no reason why on fallow wild
oats and thistles should not be encour-
aged and then shoved under while they’re
still green. Field peas could be sown,
allowed to ripen, the grain harvested and
kept as stock food, and the trash turned
in as a humus-maker and soil-binder.
Too many men sheep their fallows in
a half-hearted manner, their main idea
being to keep the fallow clean under the
impression that every weed is robbing
them of a bushel of wheat. That would
be true if the weed were permitted to
mature. But putting on a few sheep and
letting them slowly starve themselves off
the fallow isn’t half as good as putting
in a mob of sheep and flogging it out in
a week or two. The gain from the extra
sheep manure alone is worth something,
and the paddock isn’t asked to expend
fertility in trying to keep the weeds up
against the sheep over a period of weeks.
A man I knew in the Mallee used to
make notes of the hungrier parts of his
paddocks. When they lay in fallow he’d
run up lightning fences around those
spots, and every night the sheep were con-
centrated there, the idea being to manure
the areas needing it most. It worked,
except for the minor nuisance of having
several thickets of stinging nettles in the
following crop.
A Flood Fence.
“G.Y.T.”: Sam Clayton, head of the
N.S.W. Soil Conservation Service, has
designed a fence for running across
gullies where storm water is likely to
come down.
The posts are 33ft. apart with two
droppers between them and one right at
each post. Posts are 6ft. long and stood
up to be 3ft. 6in. aboveground. Droppers
are 3ft. lOin. by 3in. by 2in. The
bottom hole in droppers is bored 4in.
above ground and a corresponding
hole in each post about in from
the downstream side. The bottom wire
runs through droppers and posts. The
droppers-are bored for the other wires,
five or six as the case may be, but not the
posts, which are bored only at the top.
Through this hole a bit of wire is passed
to fasten round the top of the dropper
at the post in such a way as to allow it
to give way under strain. The end
droppers are fastened to strainers on
either side of the gully in the same way.
Thus, between each strainer, when all
wires are strained up, you actually have
a sort of flyaway fence of droppers,
fastened firmly to the posts at bottom
but insecurely at top, the flyaway run-
ning on the lower side of the posts. When
the flood comes the fence goes down and
water and debris flow clear over it. All
you have to do afterwards is go and
stand it up again.
The theory is good enough, but when
I get mine up I’m going to slip around
ahead of the expected flood and undo
those top fastenings. That wire is apt to
hang on too strongly sometimes.
Tangier Pea and Tick Beans.
“Sandpatch”; These two legumes are
gradually coming into prominence in
W.A. They should be worth a trial in
the eastern States on country averaging
18 inches of rain or more a year.
The Tangier pea ( Lathyrus tingitanus
L.) is an annual indigenous to North
“ Git-up , Lizzie !”
Africa. The W.A. Agricultural Depart-
ment reports that, sown in winter, as
soon as the warm weather comes it
makes rapid growth, choking out all but
the strongest weeds. It is drought-resist-
ant, and will stand up to six degrees of
frost. It grows from 3ft. to 7ft. in height.
Soil drainage is essential, as is inocula-
tion of the seed with nitrogen-fixing
bacteria. Protein content of the green
crop is 17.94 p.c., and of the straw 6.42.
Cultivation is similar to oats, and
of super, per acre should be
applied when sowing. Average yield of
seed is one ton per acre.
The small seeded horse or tick bean
(Vida faba var. minor ) is also an annual
legume, but a winter-grower. It is best
sown in drills, 27in.-30in. apart, so that
weeds can be controlled during early
growth. Inoculation is essential, and
2cwt.-3cwt. of super, per acre is recom-
mended. The seeds arc valuable as
cow or pig feed, and are high in protein ;
W.A. Government analysis shows 25.41
p.c. Yields in 1938 went 60 bushels to
the acre. Plants must be cultivated till
6in. to 9in. high. After that they compete
successfully with weeds. The Bell
Windsor variety is recommended.
Asparagus.
“J.A.8925”: The N.S.W. trade in canned
asparagus is being boosted. The neces-
sity of conserving dollar exchange is one
reason; favorable comparison of the
Australian product with overseas brands
another. Leeton (N.S.W.) is prepared to
handle large quantities, and Sydney can-
neries are out for the trade. There should,
too, be a market here for the fresh vege-
table. In the U.S.A. it is marketed loose
at about six cents a pound. In N.S.W.
the practice of retailers repacking the
spears into small bunches puts the price
up.
U.S.A. grows its asparagus crop in
reclaimed peat swamps. The Australian
experience is that soils that are deep,
sandy, well supplied with organic matter
and possess good water-holding capacity
are best. Some of the heaviest Australian
yields of asparagus have been got at
Leeton, while the free-working soils of
the Murrumbidgee country do well.
Asparagus is a permanent crop that
produces profitable yields for anything
from eight to 12 years. Hence, expert soil
preparation at the outset is of the greatest
importance. No serious disease has
attacked the crop here.
Hints.for the Farm.
“Huxave”; Be careful when buying
stock on the open market. It’s one of
the surest channels for introducing in-
fection. Cattle may be carriers of pleuro-
pneumonia or contagious abortion ; out-
breaks of swine fever and necrotic enter-
itis often follow the buying of store pigs ;
sheep may introduce ticks and lice into
clean flocks. Before mixing with the
general stock, neW stuff should be isolated
and kept under observation for some
weeks. Blood-test suspects for pleuro
and Bang’s disease of cattle and brucel-
losis of pigs. Use the tuberculin test for
t.b. suspects. In addition to isolation, dis-
infection may be required. Vaccination
healthy stock is a proven safeguard.
H.C. : Potatoes as stock food are
both energising and fat-producing. Four
pounds of potatoes equal lib. of grain,
pollard or other concentrated food. But
caution is necessary with green potatoes
and potato sprouts, which can be poison-
ous. A complete maintenance ration for
sheep is 3|lb. of potatoes and ilb. of
linseed nuts daily, or 31b. of potatoes and
|lb. of lucerne. Multiply the amounts
by five for dry cattle. For milkers add
41b. meatmeal, 161 b. linseed meal or 501 b.
lucerne chaff to every 1001 b. of potatoes.
The quantities may be reduced when
green feed is available. Potatoes should
be sliced or crushed for cattle. For pigs,
crushed potatoes fed with meatmeal
or igal. separated milk and 21b. ground
grain or pollard per head daily, plus as
many boiled potatoes as they will eat.
As the pigs grow more potatoes should
be given.
“Wester”: Some idea of what can be
done with trees in a dry district comes
from Bogan Gate (N.S.W.). At its
best the district has about an 18in.
annual rainfall, at its worst none at
all. The remnants of an ancient moun-
tain range thrust up here and there, the
small hills usually well clothed with
native scrubs. Not far west lie the open
plains running out beyond Condobolin
to the Centre where a tree is a precious
thing, and where, on the cultivated
country, windbreaks would stop a
mighty lot of soil drift. Begin-
ning last November a number of
trees were planted in the school play-
ground. Wilgas, boomeralla {Myoporum
tenuifolium), a tamarisk grown from a
cutting, two of three silky oaks, a Wes-
tralian peppermint, kurrajongs, Acacia
spectabilis, four other wattle varieties,
lemon gums, bimble box, some West-
ralian dwarf gums, ghost gums and a
couple of olives were all successful,
Manna and candlebark gums, lucerne
trees, blackwood and yellow box failed,
Seeds are germinated in a bush-house,
then Put into burnt tins from which the
bottom has been almost cut away. They’re
hand-watered.
“Goulburn”: F. C. Clark, of Bonnie
Boon, Boorowa (N.S.W.), has sown prac-
tically the whole of his 620 acres property
with sub. clover and Wimmera rye grass
Wheat has been rotated back on old-
established pasture paddocks. To reclaim
eroded gullies, Clark stacked stones on
an apron of galvanised iron, using the
iron to prevent breaking away at the
overflow, and filled the chinks between
the stones with a mixture of one part
cement to four parts sand. As the silt
reaches the top of the checks, sub. clover
is sown. Willows have been planted
along the main gullies. Clark has planted
80 carob bean trees, and is planting box


Egelabra Merino Stud
H. E. KATER & SON,
Warren, N.S.W.
Established 62 years.
Four times winners of
Stonehaven Cup.
Grand Champion Ram and Ewe
Sydney Show, 1940.
Rdms for Sale.
Tel., Warren 10.
Form a Group!
Join a Group!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATS
On Sea .. Land .. in the Air .. in every
branch of Australia’s Fighting Services
there is a product of The Olympic Tvre
& Rubber Co. Ltd. “doing its bit.”
Answering the call for greater, and
still greater effort, 1,200 Olympic
craftsmen are justly proud of their
enhanced output of war-time equip-
ment for their comrades in the
fighting forces.
OUmtpi
TYRES
THE HYGEIA DISSOL VENATOR
Gives the comfort and safety of modern sanitation.
No water supply required.
•NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
f;«!saa:;
Approved by Board of Health.
Over 1550 satisfied users.
Efficiency, mechanism and life
fully guaranteed.
Price, £lB/8/- f.o.r. Sydney.
including sales tax and crating.
Plus 20/- war surcharge.
Write Dept. B for illustrated pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
- ..
BLUE
FLAME 9
LANE'S
KEROSENE STOVE
'Vo
zz
LIGHTS
Stove
NO Aiming
Gas
WVe
wmm
f ONLY ONE FUEL
V —Kerosene
NO PUMPING
NO
E* p £NS/ V£
p.Lt^> S
O oo^
urners
Rep/oc
\eteW
ComP
No
X.e*'
o/„
e PI
° c e
ABSOLUTELY SAFE and SILENT
SEE YOUR LOCAL STORE
gum and pine along fence lines and in
groups on rocky knobs. All trees are
fenced off as a protection from stock.
Bonnie Doon has carried 1500 grown
sheep, 19 head of cattle and 20 horses
for the past 12 months.
“Jesmond”: Phillip Island (Vic.) has
just finished harvesting the heaviest crop
of chicory on record. There seems to be
no logical reason why land which never
yielded more than 15cwt. to the acre
should suddenly give two tons and over,
but it has, and good land well farmed
which in a good year would give two tons
has yielded over four tons.
“H.C.” In England fertilisers are being
replaced by liquid manure. It is esti-
mated that liquid manure from a dairy
of 40 cows would in 25 weeks reach a
total value of £4O. Tests showed that
tons of potash salts, 2\ tons of sulphate
of ammonia, and half-ton of superphos-
phate were necessary to make a dressing
of the same value.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How to identify eetworm scab in potatoes
and how to combat this trouble? —2553.
Tubers affected show a large number of small
pimple-like outgrowths on the surface, with a
slight depression round each pimple. Just
below the pimple there is a darkened ring in
the flesh which can be seen when the tuber is
cut. In the centre of the discolored area a
small glistening body about the size of a pin-
point may sometimes be observed. This is the
female eelworm. In severe cases of infection
the tubers become warty, roughened and dis-
colored, necessitating considerable wastage in
peeling. Avoid the use of affected tubers for
seed and boil them before feeding to stock.
Practise rotation of crops and avoid growing
susceptible plants continuously on the same
land. Crops resistant to eelworm include
the cereals and grasses, certain American varie-
ties of cowpeas and velvet beans. Onions and
peanuts are also fairly resistant. Cultivate clean
areas before proceeding to areas which are
known to be infested. Drying out the soil or
flooding is usually fatal to young eelworms in
a comparatively short time, and fallowing two
years usually kills off the pest.
* * * *
How is Black Leaf 40 garden spray prepared ?
—2560,
Take 21b. waste tobacco (dust), three gallons
cold water and 7oz. quicklime. The quicklime
is slaked with a small quantity of the water
in a kerosene-tin. The tobacco is then
added, the whole well stirred and the sub-
stance allowed to react for 36 hours, the ma-
ture being well stirred from time to time. At
the end of this time the product is strained
through a piece of coarse sacking (chaff bag).
The residue retained on the sacking is washed
with water and the washings added to the
liquor which had originally passed through until
the total volume of washings measures three
gallons. This three gallons of liquor is trans-
ferred to a glass vessel if possible to allow
sediment to settle, leaving a clear light-colored
product, very much the color of beer. Before
using dilute with an equal quantity of water.
* ♦ *
Would it he profitable to run a While
Leghorn poultry farm in central Q’land; if
not, which Stale would be most suitable .'
Is it overdone in any State? —2479.
In the coastal regions of central Q’land
many persons are raising poultry with a good
deal of success. In the central west it cannot
be recommended as a profitable undertaking
owing to the added costs of feeding brought
about by transport. In most portions of the
State in the spring months there is a surplus
beyond local requirements, necessitating export
overseas or other means of disposal. Any
curtailment of export would affect the industry
most seriously.
Outback Occasions.
No. 5.
THE NEW ARRIVALS.
The occasion of the arrival of the first
pigs ever to infest the farm was not with-
out interest. Father, it appears, had met
a very progressive chap in the town and
had suddenly decided that he was losing
money by not providing a living for some
pigs. Mother, who had grown up in the
Victorian Western District, distinctly
shuddered when Father expounded his
new theories and visibly blanched the
day Father announced that all hands
were required to help him construct
accommodation for the pigs.
We spent a week on the job, building
four little square pens, each with a trough
and a shed, and Father got in a lot of
pollard and crushed maize and other
stuff. The fowls got it into their fool
heads that it was a Bush Week picnic or
something, and they assaulted that tucker
with gusto, until Father flew screeching
among them flanked by our five dogs and
three that happened to be visiting. After
that the fowls always regarded Father
as unworthy of notice, and would stalk
by him in lofty disdain, though with the
starboard or port eye alert for the move-
ment of whichever foot Father happened
to have free at the moment.
One old Leghorn hen whose comb
used to drop over one eye, causing her to
throw it back like a swimmer shaking
his head, stopped Father’s boot once
when the comb dimmed her vision. She
nursed her grievance for three weeks and
two days and then got even. She caught
Father asleep on his back in the shade
of the lucerne stack, lightly mounted on
to his chest, there deposited an egg and
discreetly withdrew. In that stack there
lived an old carpet snake who doted on
eggs. He was just getting this egg down
when Father awoke. The resultant yells
and acrobatics pleased the old hen im-
mensely, and Mother swears to this day
that that hen always leered at Father
whenever he passed.
Well, the pigs arrived. There were a
dozen of ’em, all round and young and
eager to be up and doing. They came
in a netted cart, and it was backed into
the pens and the tailboard dropped. The
cascade of pork had no sooner hit the
ground than portion of it found an open
gate, and before the gate was shut nine
little pigs were out in the big world, foot-
loose and fancy-free.
Father summoned all hands to the
muster. We ran those piglets round the
yard, behind the house, across the night
paddock, over the verandah, in and out
of the stables, but we lost every time. The
dogs joined in enthusiastically. Father
yelled curses, instructions, injunctions,
warnings, threats and cajolery impar-
tially, no doubt hoping that the human
and canine force circulating furiously in,
around and among the galloping pigs
would sort out his words and accept or
reject them according to taste.
Then Mother appeared, and with her
usual capable administration in such
crises ordered us to call off the dogs.
This was done without much trouble,
because the dogs were as tired as any-
body else. She then got a bucket of milk,
rattled it, made noises which sounded
like “Sooey, sooey, come on, sooey,
sooey,” and the nine pigs ambled trust-
fully out of their hiding places right up
to her, while the three caught in the pen
tried to climb over the fence to join in.
She showed the pigs the bucket, then
walked slowly towards the new pens, the
pigs dribbling along after her. With our
tongues out and panting, we and the dogs
watched her. Father, lost in admiration
and respect, crept softly along behind the
little procession. Mother opened the pen
gate and passed in. The pigs began to
follow. Two of them stopped to see what
kind of posts the pens were built of or
something and Father’s impetuosity broke
loose. “Hoosh!” he shouted and dived
at the gate. One pig went in, the other
about-faced scuttled between Father’s
boots and bolted under the tankstand.
boots ana boitea unue heaV ens ”
X° U a a’ the and
Mothei said, roppe . , , himself up
flounced inside. Father picked hmsekip
and turned slowly towards us M kn w
Father so we retireda F;ather
got a chaff-bag and.adv ■on tiwlone
nrhriit knelt and said “Flooey,
otey.^pooey He SSe om ot that. ?'
little rtpvil
“Yoink ” replied the pig, and watched
Father carefully Father got a stick and
poked Se pig The pig shot out the
other end of tanked and bolted
across the yard. The dogs shot out of
our grip after it. The leading dog was
just about to grab the pig when the pig
went under the tractor. The dog bumped
his nose on the tractor, stopped, thought
hard and flew into another dog. Three
more dogs flew into the first two. Father
danced and sang> We drifted off up the
ddock Jhere was wire t 0 be str ained
P and we t would be
strain
When we got back Mother said, “How,
don’t you. nfake any _ noise. Your father
18 resting in the front room. All the pigs
are shut up.” Then she looked wistfully
across at the new pig-pen and said,
“Somehow I feel our lives must change
from this day. When I was a gtr I saw
a lot of pigs. I wish „ Don stand
there, go and wash for tea.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4j£d. per line: all others at
2|d. per line.
First place this week for a writer who stresses the “personal touch” in awakening
interest in the war effort, and leads up to conscription as the incentive now lacking
in this country.
The Personal Touch
I once knew a man who was a typical
Australian. He lived a quiet suburban
life, went to the office every morning and
came home sober every night. He’d lose
a few bob regularly on Saturday after-
noon, put himself on the outside of a
few jugs of beer, then take the missus
to the pictures. On Sundays he’d dig the
garden. War broke out. He was thrilled
for a month or two, admiring of the
German army, caustic of the French.
Dunkirk academically dismayed him, but
his way of life went on unchanged. The
Allies suffered reverse upon reverse, his
newspaper proved that each of these
defeats was a glorious victory, the hoard-
ing screamed for money and the radio
bleated pathetic enlistment propaganda.
But he was a typical Australian, and so
entirely unmoved by any of it.
Then his son enlisted. He was worried
for weeks, started reading the news
columns instead of the headlines. Rather
shamefacedly he invested in a few quids’
worth of war savings certificates. His
wife joined the Red Cross workers and
he good-humoredly called her a fool. He
attended A.R.P. lectures. That started it.
Soon both he and his wife came to regard
the war not as something happening over
there, but as a personal issue here in
Australia. Now they put more money
than they can afford in war loans, billet
soldiers of a week-end, are proficient at
first-aid and A.R.P. They can discuss
happenings overseas with the keen, in-
telligent knowledge of a student. To
them the war has the personal touch.
Give any Australian that personal
touch and he’ll be the replica of that
man. It’s waste of time scolding the
people for a lack of interest in happen-
ings 10,000 miles away. My defunct
great-grandfather was very closely related
to me, but he doesn’t interest me at all.
He seems so mythically vague, so lack-
ing in the personal touch. It’s ridiculous,
I know, to compare him with the war in
Europe, but the analogy is one of dis-
tance. But where my lack of interest in
him is probably a grave defection from
great-grand-filial affection it hurts nobody.
Our national lack of interest in
the scrap 10,000 miles away is going to
destroy us. All our commonsense tells
us that our lives are bound up in victory
over there, but still we seem nationally
incapable of getting the personal touch.
Two and a bit years of the most gruelling
struggle in history have proved that, and
so that vital interest must be enforced.
Heavy taxes and compulsory loans are
only irritants. There is only one real
remedy—conscription.
That would achieve two things: Firstly,
you are enabled to relieve the weary
garrisons in the deserts, to have an army
of fighting men permanently under arms
and trained for defence. Wars are won
by men. And, secondly, you’ll get the
personal touch. Not a family in Australia
will be unaffected in some way. You
won’t have to beg parents for money for
the munitions their sons need. It will
pour in. You won’t have Governments
squabbling over petty taxes and insig-
nificant Budgets, scared of losing the sup-
port of the taxpayers who give them
their jobs. In its place you’ll have enthu-
siasm, the desire to get the war over and
done with. You’ll have the will to win,
the determination to conquer.
We’ll have to conscript some time, so
for heaven’s sake let us do it now before
the cream of our manhood is killed and
maimed because, so few, so poorly armed,
they faced an overwhelming enemy until
sheer weight crushed them into the soil.
—Pip (Vic.).
Britain and Europe
If the small European democracies
with whom “Upagum” (B. 1/10/’4l) con-
siders Britain should ally herself as a
matter of permanent policy are Belgium,
Holland and the Scandinavian countries
—and they are the only States on the
Mad Continent with any genuine claim
to that appellation—they would be of
little value as allies, even if they could
be induced to play that role. No doubt
they would accept British guarantees, but
they would have to be like that given
to Greece before the present war, involv-
ing no corresponding obligation. None
of them fought in this war until attacked
by Hitler, and those that suffered that
fate were quickly disposed of. In any
future line-up they would in all prob-
ability act similarly.
There is nothing contemptible in this
attitude. Modern conditions of warfare
render protracted resistance by a State
to one much stronger out of the ques-
tion. These small nations have nothing
to gain by letting themselves be drawn
into war with powerful neighbors, and,
whatever the ultimate issue of the con-
flict, would be certain to suffer devasta-
tion of their territory. Hence they natu-
rally choose to give no offence to the
strong States contiguous to them, hoping
thus to avoid embroilment in the latter's
quarrels.
If England is to pursue a policy of
European alliance, she will have to col-
laborate with one or more of that con-
tinent’s four great Powers—Germany,
Russia, France and Italy—and I doubt
if any of these States has any great love
for England.
Admittedly Britain cannot remain in-
different to the situation in Europe, and
there are certain contingencies when she
would be obliged to fight a European
Power—an unprovoked attack on Hol-
land or Belgium, whose independence is
vital to her security, for instance. That,
however, is very different from entering
into commitments that might plunge her
into hostilities from which no benefit could
be reaped, and which might imperil the
very existence of the Empire.
Britain is more than a European Power.
She is the head of a world empire. The
only foreign policy that will work to
the advantage of the whole Empire is
the policy of freedom from definite Euro-
pean entanglements that was followed
from the time of Castlereagh to 1914,
and was so successful that Britain in that
period of just 100 years was only once
involved in a European (Crimean) war.
Association with any States whose main
concern would be the strengthening or
preservation of their position in Europe
will simply mean that the Dominions will
always be liable to be called on to waste
their blood and treasure in contests from
which neither they nor Britain would
gain.— Lyle (N.S.W.).
“Settlement in the Saltbush”
As one born in the N.S.W. Western
Division and with practical experience
as a grazier there, it seems to me that
those who say the division is unsuitable
for closer settlement are inexperienced
or misinformed.
Closer settlement hasn’t failed when
some of the original 1885 selections —
whose area was in the vicinity of 10,000
acres, then considered a home-mainten-
ance area —were being payably worked
prior to the passing of an amendment to
the Western Lands Act under which addi-
tional areas were granted to settlers.
Incidentally some of these “starving”
settlers had a bank balance of several
thousand pounds.
True, there are many abandoned selec-
tions in the division, but most of them
were taken up in the name of persons
who were “dummies” for the stations
from which the areas were resumed. This
aspect of settlement in the west is well-
known history.
It would be difficult to find a case
where a genuine selector abandoned what
was considered a home-maintenance area
because it was not a paying proposition.
And some of those who are large land-
holders in the west today got their start
from a home-maintenance area. What
one can do another can, given similar
country and similar conditions.
An area of from 10,000 to 15,000 acres
in the more favored part of the division,
provided it has sufficient water, and
assuming wool prices remain anywhere
near the present level, is ample for a man
to support a wife and family in comfort
and make provision for his retirement.
In the west unfavorable seasons and
the prevalence of this and the lack of
that have often been used as an argument
against closer settlement, but in reality
it is more often extravagance or lack of
industry on the part of those who fail. —
T. P. M. (N.S.W.).
“Cow Time” (B. 24/9/’4l) is right up
to a point regarding closer settlement in
the Western Division, but his argument
does not apply to what might be de-
scribed as the lower half of it. There
is very little country there that any prac-
tical back-country sheepman could not
make a comfortable living on, from
about 25,000 to 50,000 acres, according
to location and class of soil.
Little of the W.D. is suitable for irri-
gation, and is not likely to be put to
that use, unless in very small areas close
to rivers. A stock and domestic supply
would be a boon, and there is no reason
why this could not be gradually put into
effect. But if closer settlement is the aim,
what about the huge freehold areas that
lie between the Lachlan, the Murrum-
bidgee and the Murray and are in the
hands of comparatively few? Surely it
is time this area was divided more equit-
ably among land-hungry men. If these
large properties, or big portions of them,
could be bought by the Government
at their proper value, and not have a
repetition of what happened when land
was being acquired for soldier settle-
ment after the last war, much difficulty
regarding settlement would be overcome.
State and Commonwealth would benefit
considerably by increased population in
these areas.
The old claim that many of these huge
sheepwalks must be kept intact to pre-
serve the proper breeding of the merino
has been exploded so often by success-
ful small breeders that it no longer
holds except in the minds of big owners
themselves—H. W. J. (N.S.W.).
Petrol for Fire-fighting
Within a few weeks fires have destroyed
more than 200,000 acres of pasture in
the Roma and St. George (S.Q.) dis-
tricts, and millions of acres more, dry as
tinder, merely await a spark to go up
in flames. Constant patrol is neces-
sary to ensure any effective control. With-
out fuel to mobilise fire-fighters and keep
them supplied with food and water while
in action heavy losses of stock, fencing
and grass must continue to occur as long
as present weather conditions prevail.
There is no prospect of change.
The need is not merely one of increas-
ing supplies at fuel depots or of extend-
ing police authority for additional issues.
A grass fire before a strong breeze on an
outback run gives no time for going into
town before making a beginning on it.
Many graziers have used up all their
reserves, and, anyhow, one wide-fronted
blaze will exhaust several months of
ration supplies in a few days. The essen-
tial factor is to have adequate emergency
supplies actually at hand, with means of
replenishing them as occasion requires.—
Bull-ant Bill (Q.).
Unions and Immigration
“W.D.K.” (B. 17/9/’4l) is wide of the
mark when he blames the unions for
Australia’s lack of population. The in-
discriminate immigration of the early
nineteen-twenties is still remembered in
England if not in Australia, and to have
attempted to bring thousands of new-
comers to sample the delights of Aus-
tralian relief work during the depression
would have done nothing toward solving
our population problem.
For the last decade before this war
the flow of passenger traffic was away
from this country because the story that
Australia was a land of promise had
ceased to impress anyone. I was in Eng-
land during the depression and know
only too well the difficulty of explaining
the inability of this large country to feed
adequately its (then) six million inhabi-
tants.
The goodwill of all the unions in the
country would not have persuaded any
Englishman to exchange his position,
however parlous, for one probably worse
11,000 miles away.— Seahawk (Q.).
People and Poetry
The assertion that poets are culpable
because they do not write for the people
is based on a complete lack of under-
standing of all that is implied by
“poetry.” The average man, on the con-
trary, is blameworthy. The poet, simply
because he writes poetry, is compelled
to use a language which many people
have not learned and will not trouble to
learn.
Poetry is the expression in rhythmic
words of some individual’s experience.
It is “good” poetry if it enables the
reader to share that experience. To help
it towards this end two aids am em-
ployed—sound and imagery. The former
is a complex pattern whose basic motif
is rhythm, a device which acts through
perception on the senses. Imagery is
limited in richness and clarity only, by
the resources of either the poet or his
reader.
A simple test will demonstrate one
reason why many people can see—or
hear—nothing in poetry. Take a class
of schoolchildren and ask individuals to
read any simple poem. The reading will
be marked by mispronunciations and
flounderings due simply to failure to
realise the rhythm. Obviously, if a child
cannot perceive the rhythm he will not
experience the emotional effects it is de-
signed to produce. And, failing in this
perception, he will have lost the key to
a whole system of beauty. It is safe
to say that many adults would not pass
this test.
A person cannot imagine a thing which
he has never heard, read or thought of.
And, therefore, he cannot get a complete
picture from a verse in which the poet
is talking of things and scenes utterly
beyond his experience. In this respect
" May I speak to Flight-Corporal Muriel Stoggins, please ?”


appreciation is dependent on education
—not necessarily the school brand.
It is not essential for the poet to turn
himself into a retail tradesman, but for
the ordinary man to look to his own
education. However, until more teachers
are taught real appreciation of art, and
taught to an extent where they will really
be able to pass on that appreciation, and
to teach children to read verse not
merely to recognise the words in a poem
—the poet will be at a discount.
Poetry is simply a form of self-expres-
sion, of a most unselfish kind, and, there-
fore, the poet can no more write for a
market than a diver can bring up pearls
made to order. — Prop (S.A.).
Decentralisation
What town-planners, decentralisers and
housing reformers will have to recog-
nise first is that Sydney (or Melbourne,
if you like) already exists as an over-
populated spot in a country of 3,OOU,UUU
square miles. To depopulate such a
spot, to force the existing population to
go and live somewhere else, would need
a dictator and a bottomless purse.
But has anybody thought of decen-
tralising the centralisation? In other
words, why not first recognise the big
city as such, then proceed to break it
up into (say) four cities? It might be
done at comparatively low cost and com-
paratively quickly.
At present, everybody in Sydney tries
to get as close to Martin-place, the city’s
centre, as possible, whether he is build-
ing a home or a new factory. The
recent sudden erection of war factories
and factories that have arisen because of
the war has been in areas jammed right
on the city boundaries. And the people
working in those factories naturally try
to live as close as they can both to the
job and their pleasure haunts like the
beaches
The inevitable result is jamming and
the flat evil. Australian children, though
there is more than enough land in their
country to give each man a homestead
allotment of an acre, have to play in the
narrow streets of slum suburbs.
Since State Governments are mostly
big-city Governments, why hasn’t it
occurred to the one in Sydney to set up
a self-contained city on Pittwater, another
at Cronulla and another at Penrith, leav-
ing the existing one as it stands? Then,
by a policy of reduced freights from
wharves to factories, a more tolerant
road-transport policy and other measures,
industrialists could be persuaded —forced,
if necessary —to build their new factories
at the new centres.
Each of them is close enough to make
the getting of power, light, water and
other facilities easy, each of them has its
own places for pleasure, and each of
them has enough waste land about to
provide adequate space for both factories
and homes, as well as shopping centres.
Given a Martin-place, chain stores, pic-
ture shows, pubs and the other things
now enjoyed by the one, each of the
four would rapidly develop in its own
way and the kids would no longer be
forced to play in the streets or the house-
planner to tear his hair.— Redfern Riley
(N.S.W.).
No Strikes There
Turning from newspaper rubbish
“glamorising” striking girl textile-
workers, I was interested by a report
cabled from London of an interview with
an Australian girl volunteer in an aero-
plane factory. A former Melbourne girl of
the “leisured” class, she is now employed
as an electric precision driller, preparing
parts for Spitfires and Hurricanes. Work-
ing hours are 64 per week alternate
fortnights of 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. and 6 p.m.
to 8 a.m., under conditions far removed
from those enjoyed by our workers.
Week-ends off occur only when the
workers show signs of staleness. The
girl in question is married and looks after
her home. She supervises some 200 girls.
The pay must be good? One shilling an
hour covers it —under £2 15s. a week. —
Burra (N.S.W.).
“The Enemy Listens”
I have an Australian aunt who, while
teaching in Germany, married a German.
They both came to Australia. I live at
a hotel in a country town (N.S.W.) and
every afternoon and night for months
past I have sat at a public wireless and
listened intently to the Morse messages
coming through. Sometimes they have
been in English, sometimes in figure and
letter code, and sometimes in German.
Not infrequently I have taken fast Morse
in a shorthand that only I can under-
During those months seldom a day
passed but that some of the public came
to watch and wonder at the operation.
Not one of them understood the Morse
or the German, much less the shorthand.
Scattered about my room have been Ger-
man magazines, German books and
letters from Germany. My own home-
made wireless, a strange-looking affair
that attracts the attention of everyone
who sees it, will receive nothing but over-
seas Morse.
It so happens that I have never
met my aunt or her German hus-
band. I have learned Morse with the
idea of joining the R.A.A.F. The wire-
less was made for the same purpose. The
shorthand is my own invention. The
German language I learned at a time
when I had hopes of becoming a jour-
nalist. The German letters, books and
magazines are pre-war, the letters relating
mainly to the books and magazines. But
I shudder to think what a spy could
do under the eyes of unsuspecting Aus-
tralians. —A. N. S. (N.S.W.).
Higher Education
Vice-Chancellor Medley, of Melbourne
University, upended himself at the usual
luncheon and made the statement that,
though Australian universities were per-
fectly efficient in producing a techno-
logical and professional elite, they had
failed to produce a higher type of
citizen. His proposed machinery for the
higher education was the use of inter-
mediate institutions which would pre-
pare those fit for higher knowledge and
eliminate those who were not.
Very pretty, but how are the educa-
tors to recognise the type fit for higher
knowledge? They have never done so
in the past. The accepted educators of Jeru-
“ I d' always carry bit o' candle, lads—can't trust nobody in tunnel."
salem did not select Jesus; the acknow-
ledged educators of the youth of Athens
didn’t recognise Socrates; the educators
of Italy didn’t recognise Galileo ; and the
University of Oxford kicked out Shelley,
one of England’s greatest thinkers.
Higher knowledge comes from the in-
dividual, from the rare genius who has
seen further than his times and hence
violates the prejudices of his contem-
poraries. It never comes from institu-
tions. Can Mr. Medley give one new
idea that has come out of the University
of Melbourne, except, perhaps, in the
realm of the sciences? Universities teach
their students to memorise what has
already been found out, but that is not
the higher knowledge. Although thinkers,
as distinct from reiterators, sometimes
come out of universities, that is not
because of their professors. And if Mr.
Medley got his new machinery going so
that intermediate institutions could do
the eliminating process, he would be help-
ing to deprive his university of even these
few rare individuals. —F. S. (Vic.).
Slums and Reformers
The solidly respectable city of North-
cote (Vic.) includes within its municipal
boundaries a racecourse of uncertain age
which was recently put up for sale for
building purposes. Whereupon the Hous-
ing Commission, exercising its powers of
compulsory purchase, acquired the lot for
the ourpose of building thereon houses
for that class known as “slum-dwellers.”
Although Northcote has supported two
Labor members of Parliament for a suffi-
cient time to give the impression that its
working-class population is saturated with
notions of liberalism, this action by the
Housing Commission was greeted with
open hostility, culminating in a monster
meeting on the racecourse where resolu-
tions couched in strong terms were vigor-
ously passed. In their favor it seems tha
similar ventures by the Housing Com-
mission have met with only mixed sue
cess. Word was carried from the neign-
boring city of Preston that a commission
settlement in that city has led to a j a j™"
ingly increased activity in the Chilcir n
Courts and increased settlement of griev-
ances on the public highways.
That poverty breeds crime is the con-
tention of Oswald Barnett, a member ot
the commission. The theory is not
peculiar to him, but in a survey o
Children’s Court cases and of inmates
of various institutions he finds that pro-
portionately to the population the inner
metropolitan areas produce five youthful
delinquents to every one from the outer
metropolitan areas. From every 20 delin-
quents, three are in trades, three in dead-
end” jobs and 14 unemployed. Out of
those released from gaol or reformatory,
60 p.c. from the inner areas return, as
against 40 p.c. from the outer.
The conclusions of Mr. Barnett are
that if poverty is abolished delinquency
cases will be cut by half or more. It
is a laudable object, but it ignores the
psychology of poverty. If a person lives
the best part of his life in a district that
has to be seen to be believed, he will
inevitably become inured to it. If his
children grow up in these conditions the
children, more often than not, take such
conditions for granted.
The commission builds homes only tor
neoole whose homes have been con-
demned, and the trouble arises because
to the average occupant of a condemned
house it is his home, and he violently
objects to being ejected from it. The
gauderies of a brick veneer residence may
be very pleasant, but the habits of a life"
time are difficult to lose, and such
luxuries as a bath take some getting used
to. Further, he is placed in a settlement
of folk with similar ideas and upbringing
to his own. The result is that slum
pockets are not eradicated but are merely
transferred and given a more showy
exterior. A “slum-dweller is not merely
a person who lives in a slum. He is a
person with a particular state of mind.
Ideas which have operated with suc-
cess in England and Wales and have been
applied on a small scale here could be
given more consideration. Organisations
with far less power and authority than
the Housing Commission have been un-
able to do such outwardly impressive
work. So they started on the children.
In schools, creches and kindergartens they
teach the next generation the art of
cleanliness and community spirit. They
sublimate soap by making it fun to have
a bath, and they carefully impress on
the infant mind the mechanics of a tooth-
brush and the utility of a tablecloth. The
theory behind that approach is that the
children can teach the parents better than
any officialdom can, and that even if
the children fail something will in a
practical way have been done for them.
Scattered around Victoria and the
whole country are similar institutions
where children can be imbued with the
right ideas. Like many other things it
is a gamble, but the dice is loaded more
in favor of these reformers than those
who simply eject families from their
homes and stick them into brick veneer
residences which may improve the neigh-
borhood but don’t go far in improving
the occupants thereof.— Taurus (Vic.).
Misdirected Energy
I watched the staff of an Adelaide
business firm at A.R.P. drill. Clad in
overall suits, men and girls hauled fire-
hoses to the top of the building, dealt
with “incendiary bombs” made from red
paper, rendered first-aid to supposed
casualties, and so on, giving up an hour
of their own time to the job.
Adelaide suburbs are dotted with
A.R.P. posts, and the appeal is going out
for more wardens and for boys with
bicycles to act as dispatch But
what on earth is it all in aid of? I’m not
one of those who have ever suffered from
the “it can’t happen here” fallacy; the
world has had many tragic lessons on
that point. But for the life of me 1
cannot see why we should concentrate
upon A.R.P. work here, with not the
remotest possibility of air-raids save from
aircraft-carriers —whose ’planes would go
for nerve centres like power stations
or from an enemy who would have to
give us good warning by seizing adjacent
islands and establishing bases on them
as an indispensable preliminary.
After discussing the matter with scores
of enthusiasts 1 have concluded that they
want to do something useful but can’t
think of anything better than going
through A.R.P. drill.
Fire-fighting and ambulance drill arc
good things, war or no war, but we
should concentrate on things which are
needed here and now. You don’t have
to look far for practical examples of the
right type —I know some elderly
people who are going their hardest
on making camouflage netting;
railway fitters at Port Lincoln have
offered to devote their spare time
to munition work and the neces-
sary machines are being sent to
them ; and fishermen and yachts-
men are forming an auxiliary naval
patrol with the full support of the
R.A.N. . r
Surely it would be possible for
the Army, Navy, Air Force, Red
Cross and Ministry of Munitions
to make out a list of jobs for en-
thusiastic volunteers. As things are
now, one old chap devoting his
time to the making of camouflage
netting, or one party of school
kids collecting stuff like scrap brass
and aluminium, are doing far more
towards the war effort than all the.
blackouts and A.R.P. exercises.—
Tompion (S.A.).
Another Board?
The Westralian Teachers’ Union,
as reported in the S.A. “Teachers’
Journal,” intends to present a pro-
i posal for an Australian Board of
Education to the 1942 annual con-
ference of the A.T.F.
The union, it seems, while it
considers that the Commonwealth
Government is in duty bound to
assist the States financially, is
opposed to Federal control of
education, on the ground that any fur-
ther centralisation would be unhealthy.
It therefore proposes that a Common-
wealth Board be established under the
responsibility of a Minister. The board s
duties would be to distribute Federal
grants, and to “stimulate spending on
education by the States.” The spoil is to
be divided “on a basis to be determined
partly by the State distribution of popu-
lation and partly by a uniform percent-
age calculated on the annual expenditure
per head on education of each State Edu-
cational Department.”
Further duties of the board are the
auditing of State accounts and the sub-
mitting of a report to Parliament; to
appoint educational advisers to dissemi-
nate ideas of progress and to act as “in-
spirational guides” to advise all State
Departments on modern accommodation
and equipment, and to “issue periodical
summaries of educational thought and
experience for the guidance of State De-
partments,” maintaining a “qualified re-
search staff” for the purpose.
All very learned and progressive.
Actually the State Departments are to
carry on much as usual, slightly ham-
pered by the board’s demands. The pro-
vision of free advice and inspiration
would be as useful as the provision of
hot air, because the State Departments,
although required to “provide and main-
tain an efficient standard of education”
and to “render all needful assistance to
the Board of Education’s education ad-
visers,” are not bound to accept or to act
on any of the advice. The whole idea
sounds very much like “you provide the
cash and we’ll spend it.”
Australia already has too many boards
and too many Governments. Education
must be brought under unified control, at
best, under the control of one Govern-
ment instead of seven. Propalong
(S.A.).


THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
Write or call for free
Booklet.
14 Castlereagh St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872,
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman); M. J. Ryan, Esq.; F. E. Boston, Esq.;
Wm. A, Jolly, Esq., O.M.G. ; E. E. D. White, Esq.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
ALTHER* STEVENSON ZZZ
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
£9/13/6
(MOUNTED)
This saddle is
very good
value. It has
Kemp pads,
deep seat,
good long
pads and
short pane
with leather
points.
PIGSKIN SEAT 10/-
EXTRA.
N.S. IV. freight on saddles
paid for cash with order.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Conchologist, collecting on the Great Barrier
Reef islands, would like to hear from collectors
in other parts with a view to making exchanges.
—2641.
To buy The “Times” History of the 1914-18
War. —2608.
Words of verse “The Single Hair.”—2639.
Copy of verse “Sailor Bill Blows His Cheque.”
—2642.
Information Supplied.
There is a judgment of Jordan, C.J. (N. S.
Wales), bearing on the validity of loose-leaf
minute books. He holds that Section 100 of the
Companies Act, 1936, means what it says:
“The proceedings are to be entered in a book,
ic., to be entered in that which is already
a book at the time when the entry is made,
not upon something which is not then a book
which is subsequently turned into a book or
into something which has some resemblance
to a book.” —B.
Information Sought.
Explanation of means by which an airscrew
obtains its tractor power ? Which is the more
important factor —partial vacuum on the face
of the screw, or air pressure on the rear of the
blades ? —2451.
(1) The airscrew may be regarded as being
built up of a number of aerofoils placed end
to end of varying chord and camber as well as
of varying angles of incidence, these aerofoils
rotating in a plane at right angles to the crank-
shaft. As in the case of aeroplane wings
(aerofoils) these are the components of the re-
action of the lift and the drag due to movement
through the air; but, owing to the variation
in camber, chord and lineal speeds, the lift and
drag components increase or decrease from
section to section. The airscrew may be likened
to a screw in action, there being, of course,
a certain percentage of slip. (2) The camber
or forward side in the case of a tractor air-
screw as against the “flat” surface constitutes
about 65 p.c. to 70 p.c. of the useful effort.
* * * *
What is the rate of arrival of energy from
the sun to the earth’s surface ? —2552.
Energy is arriving at the earth’s surface at the
rate of 0.75 watts per sq. in. normal to the
direction of the sun’s rays.
>1= * * «
(1) What speed does a man attain in falling
through air ? (2) What speed can a man stand
in a fall or power dive? (3) At what speed does
a metal object fall, such as an aerial bomb ?
(4) Does increase of weight increase the rate
of fall?— 2517.
(1) The limiting speed is generally reckoned
to be about 250 m.p.h. (2) So long as the man
is enclosed, enabling him to breathe freely, he
may fall in a straight line at any speed with-
out feeling any ill-effects. The trouble starts
when the aeroplane is regaining a horizontal
flight. The curving course of the aeroplane
then introduces a centrifugal force on the man’s
body, of which the most obvious effect is that
the blood tends to be forced into the parts of
the body on the outer side of the curve of
flight.-. This usually means the lower parts
of the body, so that the brain suffers a momen-
tary deficiency of blood, resulting in the well-
known “black spot.” It is generally accepted
that the upper limit of this centrifugal force
which a man can withstand without being ren-
dered unconscious is about nine times the
force of gravity, usually spoken of as “9g.” (3)
The same factors apply here as to the case
of a man falling. Generally an aerial bomb
is more nearly streamlined than a man’s body
and does not tumble in falling. Thus the
weight-resistance ratio is greater" for a bomb,
which probably reaches a limiting speed of
500 to 600 m.p.h. (4) Both factors affect the
falling velocity. Comparing two bodies of
identical shape and dimensions, the body made
of more dense material will fall faster than
that of less dense material. Again, comparing
bodies of equal weight, it is probable that the
body having the smaller surface area will fall
faster than that of greater surface area.
* » * *
From where I live to the nearest city is about
12 miles good bitumen road and mostly slightly
downhill. I drive a V 8 utility and “coast”
about eight miles on the trip. Does this do the
engine any harm, and is it a saving of petrol?
I have been told the saving is very little. —2473.
You are definitely saving petrol with no
harmful effects to your engine. After coasting
switch on the ignition and select top gear;
starting the engine by this method, i.e., by
avoiding the use of the self-starter, the maxi-
mum saving is accomplished. Restart the
motor at about 20-25 m.p.h. Be careful not
to the accelerator.
9 * * *
Number of motor-cars sold in Australia for
1936, 1937, 1938, and in the classes up to
10 h.p., from 10-15 h.p., from 16 h.p. and
over ? —2485.
Number of new cars sold was: 1936, 48,793 ;
1937, 58,064; 1938, 58,201. Cannot divide
the cars into different horse-power groups, as
in some States the horse-power of the vehicles
is not recorded in the registration office.
* * * *
(1) List of instruments used in the military
band conducted by Stephen Yorke? (2) De-
scription of the woodwind and oboe, and their
use in band or orchestra ? —2538.
(1) Instrumentation is one flute (doubling on
piccolo), one E b clarinet, one oboe, ten B b
clarinets (four solo, two repiano, two second,
two third), two bassoons, one alto saxophone,
one tenor saxophone, four cornets, three trom-
bones, two horns, one euphonium, one double
B b bass, one E b bass, one percussion. (2)
The E b clarinet supplements the range of the
clarinets and sometimes plays melody with the
flute. The B b clarinets are used in the same
manner as the violins and violas in an or-
chestra, solo clarinets taking the first violin
parts, repiano any divisi parts of the first violin,
second clarinets the second violin parts and
third clarinets the viola parts; saxophones,
bassoons and euphonium, similar to the ’cello
parts in orchestra. All the instruments men-
tioned can be used as solo instruments when
necessary to the scoring.
o o «
What is the action of a rifle bullet on leaving
the barrel of the rifle? Some say that it stops
on meeting the air and then goes on. Is this
true ? —2340.
A convenient way of stating what happens
when a bullet leaves the barrel of a rifle
would be to follow the history of the bullet
from the moment of firing in a British Army
rifle (S.M.L.E.). The barrel of that rifle is about
25in. long. When the bullet has gone 24-in.
from the base of the barrel its velocity is 1200 ft.
a second; when it has gone Sin. its velocity is
1750 ft. a second; at 10in., 2100 ft.; at 15in.,
2300 ft.; at 20in„ 2400 ft.; at 25in., 2440 ft.—
i.e., the muzzle velocity is 2440 ft./sec. Rifling
causes the bullet to rotate at upwards of 175,680
revolutions per minute at the muzzle. Directly
it leaves the barrel the velocity of the bullet
begins to decrease. By the time it has gone
500 yards its velocity is 1500 ft. a second; at
1000 yards, 1000 ft.; at 2000 yards 600 ft.; and
at 3000 yards, 300 ft. a second. The curve of
rate of drop of velocity changes shape appreci-
ably when the velocity of sound, 1100 ft. per
second, is reached. This is due to the fact that
the resistance of. air to a body passing through
it shows a very pronounced increase when the
velocity exceeds that of sound. Hence, a rifle
bullet when travelling above the velocity of
sound in the initial part of its flight is subject
to a very high air resistance, but when its
velocity drops below that of sound this resist-
ance is to a large extent relieved, and con-
sequently the speed of the bullet does not
then fall off so rapidly. A full account of
the behavior of a rifle and of the bullet is
given in “The Engineer” of May 10, 1941.
* * * *
Any place in Sydney to learn chess? Cost of
tuition and material ? —2500.
A beginner who joins the Metropolitan Social
Chess Club (membership fee 55.) will receive
elementary tuition from G. Koshnitsky, Aus-
tralian champion, who is in charge of the club.
Cost of chessmen varies from about 12s. to
£2. It is possible to learn from a book (cost
from Is. 9d.). Further particulars can be
obtained at the club.
* * * *
(1) Opportunities in commercial art for a
youth with talent in Melbourne? (2) Any
advice as to tuition? (3) Is it a well-paid
profession ? —2638.
(1) Fair but not as good as they were be-
fore paper rationing. (2) Try to get into one
of the advertising firms which have an art de-
partment like Paton’s. The Myer store also
has one. The Art Training Institute, 80
Swanston-street, and Stott’s, 100 Russell-street,
provide correspondence courses. Melbourne
Tech. College and most of the suburban col-
leges have schools. (3) A youth might start at
50s. to £3 a week. Average of qualified artists
is about £B. The best get much more.
* * * *
(1) What rivers in N.S.W. do water-rats
inhabit and in what numbers? (2) Why are
water-rats in demand ? (3) How are they
caught ? (4) Is there good money to be
made out of them? —2533.
(1) They inhabit the banks of all continu-
ously flowing streams, but they are nowhere
plentiful enough to provide a continuous
supply of skins for market. (2) The market-
able value of the skins is due partly to the
seal-like quality of fur resulting from the semi-
aquatic habitat of the rats, to the falling-off
in K production of the muskrat or musquash
abroad, and to restriction on the importation
of furs. (3) Both the marketing and supply
of animals are suffering because the rats are
usually caught with breakback traps, result-
ing m the killing of unusable young and market-
's of undersized skins. The best method
of trapping would be by home-made box-
traps, or wire ones obtainable at animal
dealers, which allow for releasing the young.
A close season for summer-breeding months
has had to be declared in Victoria because
of wastage. (4) Prices average 7s. per skin,
or about 84s. a dozen, but the rats are no-
where plentiful enough to warrant special out-
lay as a full-time proposition.
* * * *
What is the commercial value of the cascara
bean ? —2507.
The cascara employed medicinally as a laxa-
tive is extracted from the dried bark of the
buckthorn Rhamnus purshianus. The berries
of this shrub are of no value, but berries of
the common buckthorn may be used as a
purgative.
***!!•
How to treat a crepe-myrtle shrub for mildew
and prevent the disease attacking other shrubs
or vines? —242s.
Spray the shrub with colloidal sulphur (loz.
to two gallons of water), getting it well on the
limbs and under the leaves. Four treatments
at three-day intervals will check the mildew.
Should the trouble spread to other plants they
must be treated in the same way.
•1= * * *
Composition of Leathersoftener, Coacholine
and Cavalry Compound, leather dressings ?
What is a good home-made mixture for leather?
—2305.
Manufacture of those lines is a trade secret;
vaseline is usually the base for goods of that
description. An excellent composition for
leather-dressing is made thus: Into an old
saucepan or tin put one pint neatsfoot oil, one
cup raw linseed oil and beef tallow (clari-
fied). Melt over low heat, stirring thoroughly,
and when fluid add 4-cup castor oil and 4oz.
lampblack; strain and put into jars. Clean
leather, allow to dry, and give two dressings,
rubbing well in. The black may be omitted if
brown leather is being treated.
5> * * J<«
(I) Recipe for barley water? (2) Recipe for
grafting wax ? —2509.
(1) Put into a saucepan one tablespoon
pearl barley and one pint water; bring to the
boil and strain. Add another pint of fresh
cold water, bring to the boil and simmer for
half-hour. Strain into a jug, add juice of one
lemon and sugar to taste. (2) Melt 11b. resin
over gentle fire, add 11b. beef tallow and stir.
Mix in one tablespoon of turps, add half-cup
methylated spirits and heat carefully (vapor is
inflammable). Keep in well-corked wide-
mouthed bottle. Apply with a brush. Will
keep six months. Plain paraffin wax is as good
and less trouble to make.
Brief Answers.
L.H.H.: The courses at Sydney Uni. leading
to the LL.B. degree extend over four years.
Fees to Uni. are £27 Us. a year. Cost of text-
books averages £5 or £6 a year. This amount
might be reduced if the student took full ad-
vantage of the facilities afforded by the Univer-
sity Law Library... .P.C.: Can’t undertake to
arbitrate between makers’ conflicting claims.
It is claimed that modern electric types are
efficiently shielded against radio interference....
K.F.: (1) Address of secretary is Box 3448 R,
G.P.0., Sydney. (2) Not yet decided... .Argu-
ment : Varies with industries, but the norm is
44 hours per week in both N. S. Wales and
Victoria... .V.M.H.: An invalid pension is not
legally payable to any person under the age of
16. Inquiries regarding widows’ pension should
be directed to the Registrar of Widows’ Pension,
Box 3905, G.P.0., Sydney... .M.W.: There is
insufficient to enable a definite answer to be
given in this case. Claimants should submit
claims in the prescribed forms G. 0.8.: On
the figures disclosed you are entitled to an
Exemption Certificate for Federal purposes for
the year ended June 30, 1941. If an Exemption
Certificate has not been received, you should
communicate with the Taxation Department,
setting out particulars of gross income as
returned and the deductions claimed, together
with a written request that an Exemption Certifi-
cate be issued... .S.R.; M.L. private’s pay
from day of enlistment until day prior to em-
barkation is 7s. a day. From day of embarka-
tion, 7s. 6d. a day....8.M.: Grazcos, Ltd.,
46 Young-street, Sydney, can supply pheno-
thiazine. You’ll need 2,0 z. per head for adult
cattle and slightly less for youngsters. Cost is
6s. Bd. per pound, plus freight R.T.T.:
Consult a legal practitioner and ascertain if
you have grounds for action against the council
or the individual... .W.H.D.: Eight merchant
ships of 9000 tons are to be built by private
firms under Government supervision and with
Government assistance. The first keel was laid
in July. It is not yet decided whether they
will be worked under charter or by the Gov-
ernment. Regarding employment and for further
particulars, write to the Chairman, Australian
Shipbuilding Board, Department of Munitions,
83 William-street, Melbourne H.S.; The
old term “blood and bone” is a misnomer, the
fertiliser today consisting of blood, bone and
offal and being commonly known as “meat-
works fertiliser.” Bonedust, of course, is
simply ground bones. The difference between
its action and that of meatworks fertiliser is
only in time, the fertilising agencies in bone-
dust taking longer to get through the soil than
those of meatworks fertiliser F.C.: Physic
and constitutional balls for horses are really
pills and may be given for a variety of ills
and derangements. Can’t advise on dosage
and method of administering without know-
ing what is wrong with horse R.B.H. :
Illustrations and literature on septic tanks posted.
Impracticable to try making fibro cement, which
is manufactured in large works, and distributed
through the usual commercial channels
S.J.L.: A refractory cement would be better
than one of the ordinary types. Two suppliers
of these materials are Messrs. McKinlay Fletcher,
Ltd., 277 Clarence-street, and the Newbold-
Silica Fire-Brick Cos., 77 York-street, Syd-
ney ... .J.K.S.: Cost of the Hobart Bridge,
Derwent River, Tasmania, is £330,000.
Ihe work was commenced in April, 1938,
and it is expected that the job will be com-
pleted in August, 1942 P. 8.: The pro-
ceeds of a life-assurance policy are gener-
ally liable for inclusion in a deceased policy-
holder’s estate for probate purposes. The
usua| exemptions from payment of duty as
provided for in the New South Wales Stamp
Duties and the Commonwealth Estate Duty
Acts would apply.. . .C.J. and several others
who are still chewing over the old puzzle:
“Sisters and brothers have I none, but that
man’s father is my father’s son.” That extra-
ordinarily patient individual is still staring
Fixedly at a picture of his 50n.... F.H.W. :
Ihe name “Bulolo” was applied before the
Australian Administration of the Mandated
Territory, as the name appears on old German
charts. Meaning of name is unknown,...
R.J.McC.: Not available in Sydney. Try the
Cunard head office in Liverpool W.H.A. :
Rum is the liquor produced by fermentation of
molasses and distillation. There is a brief
outline of its manufacture in the Encyclopaedia
Britannica. Rum itself could not be made from
bananas, though some form of alcoholic bever-
age probably could. In any case the produc-
tion of such liquors is strictly controlled by the
excise authorities.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
M.F.:
There’s a beast of .Nazi fame
On the prowl for mighty game.
He lias made II Dime dance,
Uc has bit a lump off France.
V.L.W.:
Come, boys, we arc marching on, we’re marching from
our homes.
And we’ll say good-bye to you, dears, in most
cheerful tones.
And when we hear -your ringing cheers conic wafting
from the shore,
Vou’ll hear our cheers resounding, dears, for you
that we go for.
F. :
Children of this school, do you know?
O’er the seas, where’er we go
There are boys and girls today
Who will wave our flag and your flag, hurray!
. ...H.V.8.: Not here... .G.T.H.: Glad to
know that the birds, the beasts and the butter-
dies are on our side... .J.P.: Just doggerel....
F.N.F.: If it means what we think it means
it’s a good job it’s too bad a job for anyone
to publish... .Tablis: That makes one fir,
two pines, six poplars and nine rinebarked
gums whose resemblance to “sentinels” has
been recorded this spring... .G.R.; Flad you
been born with a beard, of course, the problem
would not have arisen... .M.W.: What’s a
“memorium”? ... .8.W.: Sounds youthful....
1.W.: Lightweights... .W.J.C.: Keep at it....
8.C.: All a long way 0ff.... Jimmy Dux:
Sorry, but when we consider the wheat posi-
tion we don’t feel like singing... .A.J.A.; An
idea, but you’ve got no life in it E.R.M.:
Fry it without so much of the “when,” “and,”
“as” and “until” T.J.P.: Not for us.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G. : What! Is that shapeless old reprobate
still clinging to that telegraph pole and still
defying the same cop? .... E.T.L.: Most pleas-
ing feature of the drawing was the outsize beer
mug... .D.S.G.: Wash-work too muddy....
H.S.A.: Illustrated riddles are off our beat.
....Bert C.: Your misshapen cat borne in
sorrow to the lethal chamber A.N.: The
stork has legs like a well-nourished Highlander
and a beak like a wedgetail eagle.. .‘.Harry L.:
Away with that brace of skinny flappers drivel-
ling nothing while suspended over a beach!
M.W.: Drawing went into a galloping decline
and gag expired of pernicious anaemia....
L.J.C.: Ancient pantomime wheezes aren’t wel-
come... .R.M.P.: Still a long way to go yet—
try a life class... .M.K.: Excellent except that
everything is out of proportion... .D.M.: New-
chums have been perpetrating that bucolic
bloomer since Henry Parkes played with a
rattle M.R.V.; Your sozzled mariner casts
no hook in this roadstead.


ŵ
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
[Manager W. G. Bulfm
SMOKE-OH!
“Walter went down the winding walk into
the sun-drenched garden. It was spring in all
its riotous profusion of blossom. Gay
bloomers flaunted their beauty, but he had eyes
only for Edith’s face.” — Serial.
Walter, at least, was a gentleman.
4* v 4* 4*
“All publicity matter for ‘Love on the Dole’
must carry the words ‘Suitable for adults
only.’ ” — News item.
Sounds like a warning to married dole-
ites not to have a family.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Actress looks at Hollywood.”— News item.
She must have felt out of place there.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Jilts girl who saved him from firing squad.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
She got the bullet instead.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Sell Jersey cow, carved 2 weeks, 5 gallons.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser.”
But do they milk it with a knife and
fork?
“Blasted Italians in Big Sea Fights.”
—“Sunday Sun” heading.
Come! Come! Where’s this vaunted
journalistic dignity?
4* 4*
“Defendant was fined £5 or 14 jays.”— “D.T.”
So after he sparred up there were 15
beaks in the court.
* 4* 4* 4*
“Lady —- arrived with her two schoolgirl
daughters. Her sun Aubrey will come later.”
— Woman’s paper.
They call him Orb for short.
4* 4 1
“Petrol good as gold to thief.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
“As good as gold” he heard them say.
So, with determined frown.
He stole some petrol yesterday —
But soon in hospital he lay.
For, wondering what it might assay.
He tried to melt it down.
Elm.
«J» 4* 4* 4' .
“Wasted —a cook at Mrs. , Katanning.’
—Advt. in W.A. paper.
We often feel like that about ours, too.
4* 4* 4* 4*
They thought he was a quiet man, but
then they met his wife and realised he
was only quietened.
“Listen, lassie, Ah’ll nae stan' for-r-r any lovemakin', ye ken!”
“Defendant was a woman who worked hard
at a factory. She was strictly sober except on
her day off, when she drank ‘pinkie.’ ” — “D.T.”
So paradoxical is she
When wassail flows and she would
quaff;
For she is off it when she’s on
And then goes on it when she’s off.
H.M.
4* 4. 4* 4 1
“ ‘You’ll have your £5OOO by Monday week
then,’ snarled Horace Loder. ‘You can take
my ford for that! ’ ’’—Short story.
Even Henry would modestly admit that
the security was slightly overvalued.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Although the pianola was being played at
its loudest the landlord in the flat below did
not object until one drunken reveller started to
singe.”— “D.T."
Then he put him out.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Her bosom heaving with the stress of her
emotion, Barbara listened with partly-opened
lips.” — Short story.
These new hair-dos do interfere with
free hearing.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The escapee was wearing a blue check skirt
with matching collar and a spotted tie.”
—Brisbane paper.
Nothing in between?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Have you tried battering scones?”
— Woman’s paper.
Yes, against everything—but they still
defy all efforts.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Modestly Gerald indicated to her the silver
trophy he had won for golfing on his dressing-
table years ago.”— Serial story.
But then the miniature golf craze got
everybody.
“Boot Profiteers.” — Daily paper heading.
That would be treating them too gently.
The Illogical Sex.
“And then a little lipstick.”—,Bea«o' talk.
In days of old ’neath tropic shade
The Hottentot of dusky skin
Chewed betelnut because it made
Him satisfied within.
Now one effect of betelnut.
As all its many addicts find,
Is seen in lips vermilioned, but
The savage doesn’t mind.
Why cultured maidens should employ
What merely is the outward show
Of benefits they don’t enjoy
I really do not know.
X.
Hops No Handicap.
“A colt who trains on a bottle of beer a day
won a champagne race at Randwick yesterday.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Start your nag’s training by teaching
him to blow the top off thistle flowers.
When he has mastered this, show him a
glass of beer and, after he blows the froth
off for you, drink the beer slowly in front
of him. He’ll soon wake up to the fact
that he’s doing all the work while you
have all the pleasure. A few days after
this discovery he’ll have the bottle
whipped out of your hip pocket, the
top bitten off and the contents gulped
down while you’re still groping in your
vest pocket for the opener.
Next step is to introduce him to the
bottle-oh’s nag, but keep the cart out
of his sight until race day, when you
will arrange to have it in a prominent
place on the flat. As the field thunders
into the straight get the bottle-oh’s horse
to neigh ; this will attract your moke’s
attention, and, seeing the attached cart
filled with empties, he will come home
with a spurt in the anxious belief that
there might be a few drops left in some
of them.
E.
Poverty Point.
“Few people realise the difficulties that can
confront the first-born who suddenly loses the
position of juvenile lead to become ‘noises
off.’ ” — “Women’s Weekly.”
In short, the new member of the cast
gums up the juvenile’s act properly.
There is a sudden falling-off of applause,
and even his star turn is ruined. Reflect-
ing bitterly how his artistic swinging on
to the tail of the spitting, carpet-clawing
cat invariably brought the house down
in the old days, he learns that the crawl-
ing newcomer has stolen his thunder by
poking the feline in the eye and giving
a superb toe-sucking exhibition.
Next, the juvenile realises that his love
scenes aren’t going over. Climbing into
his leading lady’s lap, he croons “I loves
’oo, darling,” only to court a smart slap
in the pants and be told to go outside
while mumsie curls the bawling ingenue’s
hair and a half.
“Noises off” is a thankless part, any-
way. Throwing stones at kerosene-dins
before breakfast on Sunday mornings
irritates the gallery, and hammering the
bottom out of the largest saucepan riles
the management. Sticking pins into the
ingenue when the leading lady isn’t look-
ing raises a delightful rumpus, but the
reward is painfully inadequate. Even-
tually, discouraged by his increasingly
poor notices, he chucks the profession,
joins the local outlaws and robs Murphy’s
orchard and his own pantry as often as
possible.
PERCIVAL.
In Extremis.
/ feel that my fate has o’ercome me at
last;
I am filled with unspeakable sorrow !
I can see only horrible gloom in the past
And dismal despair in the morrow.
Still, mine is the fault that I happen to be
In this soul-searing state of depression.
For I wilfully listened — ah, misery me !
To a humorous radio session !
T. W. N.
Comic-opera Revival Season.
“In a new flare-up of the war in China, the
Japanese admitted, after the Chinese had
claimed a big success, that their forces had
evacuated the city of Changsa ‘after dispersing
the defenders.’ The army spokesman said that
the withdrawal had been effected to avoid
subjecting the innocent masses to the ravages of
warfare during the harvest season.”
General Sohkupsake Okedoke, com-
mander of the Japanese Bungchow army,
had just finished writing a theme song
for his forces. It went like this;
It’s not exactly what you’d call a war ;
An “incident” that’s all, just an
“affair."
We often wonder what we’re in it for
And why the flying round of skin and
hair.
It just goes on and on, with stratagem
And tactic, back and forth, with little
fuss.
We’ve killed two hundred millions of
them
And they claim eighty millions of us.
As he was singing it through an orderly
came in with dispatches. One was from
the War Office spokesman requesting him
to withdraw his forces from Bungchow
province and join up down south with
the armies of General Ogowan Watawow
for an offensive against the 1789th Route
Army under General Sum Kow Pong.
Also, the Commissariat Department
wanted urgently a return showing the
number of umbrella handles and ribs
(parts, spare, army pattern) in excess of
immediate requirements.
A frown gathered on the general s
brow as he read. Who were these War
Office fellows to dictate to a commander
in the field? Anyway, he couldn’t leave
now. He had just arranged an immense
memorial service for the four million
oysters and 175 million rice plants which
had sacrificed their lives so that the
armies of the New Order might sustain
themselves. Also, he had worked out
details for an offensive against General
Un Hung Lia, who had been called the
Red Napoleon of Bungchow. As for any
spare umbrella handles and ribs, the last
of his reserves had been drawn on after
the disastrous typhoon which had sud-
denly struck his army on the forced
march to Bangbump. His chief umbrella
artificer had reported that unless he could
get adequate spare parts quickly he could
not guarantee that the troops’ umbrellas
would not leak and perhaps ruin their
spare kimonos and slippers.
Pulling towards him the latest-type
American dictaphone the general took a
deep breath and let himself go. “Most
profound regrets to honorable War Office
spokesman. General Okedoke abases
himself humbly and grovels at honorable
gentleman’s feet for mercy and forbear-
ance, but feels compelled, with lowly
verecundity and diminished head, and'
with utter submissiveness, to point out
that pending military and other operations
in Bungchow province, of which you will
be apprised in due course, preclude the
possibility of general’s army moving to
join up with honorable General Watawow
of revered memory. The general hastens
with humility and mortification to assure
honorable spokesman always of resigned
and timid obedience to all orders from
higher-up. Banzai! ”
Later, as his orderly was patching up
the general’s face with sticking-plaster
and being roared up for having been
such an idiot as to supply him with a
safety-razor blade that had been made in
Yokohama, one of his intelligence officers
entered and announced that a Chinese
soldier who had been found in the camp
trying to sell pak-a-pu tickets to the
Japanese troops had been arrested by the
guard. Persuaded to talk, he had imme-
diately disclosed valuable information. A
big column from General Un Hung Lia’s
army was assembling in the cemetery
outside Singsong for a grand assault on
General Okedoke’s forces.
Giving the informant a bottle of ersatz
sake and the promise of the pak-a-pu
concession for all Japanese armies in
North China if he brought back more
vital information, General Okedoke
quickly made his dispositions to scotch
the incipient offensive of the enem—er,
the misguided Chinese, who still un-
accountably fostered anti-Japanese senti-
ments, He ordered his artillery to lay
down a ceaseless barrage on the cemetery.
The whole of the stock of 17,292 shells
was fired, but by some accident the big-
gest proportion of them were of the
smoke-screen type. Thus it was that when
General Okedoke sent in his infantry to
mop up they got lost in the black fog.
Unfortunately the general couldn’t wait
to send a search party out for them, for
the arrival out of a paddyfield on his left
flank of the column which was supposed
to be awaiting zero hour in the bone
orchard caused him hurriedly to effect
a strategic withdrawal to the far-distant
province of Bingcroon.
The world first learned of this striking
Japanese success from Domei. “Our
troops,” said the semi-official agency,
“having achieved all their objectives, and
not wishing to mar the beauty of the
landscape by trampling unnecessarily on
the pretty flowering docks and dande-
lions, have evacuated Bungchow province.
Before leaving our forces inflicted a
crushing defeat on the 2833rd Route
Army under General Un Hung Lia, which
left 280,000 dead on the field, pur
casualties were one man (sleeping sick-
ness) and a mule, which had to be
destroyed.”
BO.


55 Years’ Experience as Execu'ors
lu these swift, moving times it is a good plan to read over your Will now
and again. Be sure that it includes provision for an Executor with long
experience and sound judgment (born of that experience) to deal with any
difficult situation that may arise. “Your Executor and Trustee,” a book that
explains the Company’s service and charges, will gladly be sent to you on
request. It will be helpful.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS:
T. H. Kelly, (Chairman) ; Brigadier the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.;
E. R. Knox; H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
11. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others.
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £59,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ; Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend; Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
10 for 10d. 30 for 18
E 1865
It’s their extra touch of quality
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
:
MADE
SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
Business, Rollery, Etc.
What Now?
Labor’s ascent to control in Canberra
was so sudden that sharemarkets were
taken by surprise, though in the case of
B.H.P. there had been a nervous market
for c , . j f
Z fhlr \ I \ S J d 1 ey mdex f
w h n h ? ad k ee^„ UP c t !!
, kff° re Premier McKell had
brought down his Budget and in the
process imposed double taxation on
spar ?!? o lders in companies, fell from
ir j j °y i . ct ; *° 127.05 on Oct. 7.
Had dealings been more active the fall
would probably have been more notice-
able But on Oct 1 the index, still suffer-
! n 8 McKeli-shock, had been down
to 1-6.96. B.H.P. scrip, fully-paid, had
been, up to 395. 4d. in IVlelbourne cl few
days before Fadden’s downfall on Oct. 3,
but slumped down to 375. 9d. at one stage
last week This at a time when the
s^are m oex had recovered to
127.92.
When Mr. Forde was in the Opposi-
lion he was frequent in his attacks on
B.H.P. Now that he is in the Govern-
ment as Minister for the Army the share-
market has taken further fright. Though
what Forde was generally spoken of as
desirous of doing was “nationalising”
8.H.P., he more often spoke of putting
the big and vital undertaking under Gov-
eminent control for the duration of the
war. That would be bad enough from
a national viewpoint when efficient pro-
duction is at a premium. But from a
shareholder’s angle it mightn’t be so bad
as 1° warrant any idea of sacrificing
shares at low P rices - If an Y fair motive
p . rom P the “ c ?, ntr J o l l ” u arran S emcn 1 t
shareholders could hardly be paid much
less than the 7+ p.c. now being distn-
but«i- Shipping is controlled by the
Government at the present time, and divs.
on iy slightly reduced are still being paid
by the big inter-State lines. But the
whole idea of “controlling” B.H.P. has
a “political” sound about it. No useful
e nd would be served thereby. One Bul-
letin contributor has suggested that,
rather than the Government taking over
8.H.P., B.H.P. should take over the Gov-
eminent. A more entertaining than prac-
fical idea, perhaps, but every bit as good
Forde , s su§§estion.
In the steamship section, though appar-
ently the terms of the charter rates under
the scheme of Government control have
y e t to be finalised, prices were as firm as
ever. Adelaide Steam sold up to 31s. 3d.,
the best price seen for several months,
The improvement in the affairs of J. and
A. Brown Collieries has helped in this
case. Coal shares were a little weaker
all round, the political situation at Can-
berra being of increasing importance
here in view of the regulations now gov-
erning the industry and Labor’s industrial
record while its representatives have been
in office. If the war effort is to go for-
ward, however, King Coal, who has been
a sick man for many years, will have to
be kept busy, and as very little is being
made out of the industry as a whole
Labor will find it difficult to raise grounds
for interference with such profit-earning
as now goes on on the coalfields.
Bank shares weakened almost in a
body, but there was little actual fall.
Scrip in these institutions has been under
a political cloud for years, and present
prices should be almost shockproof. The
recent agreement between the Common-
wealth Government and the trading
banks, which Mr. Curtin alleged was “not
worth the paper it was printed on,” pro-
vided that the trading banks would make
no new advances except in conformity
with Commonwealth Bank policy, that
they would subscribe to Government
loans only with the concurrence of the
central bank, and that they would lend
their surplus funds to the central bank
at a low rate of interest —to be fixed
by the Commonwealth Bank. These
deposits will be put into a special war-
time account, will be for a term
of six months, and will be renewed as
they mature unless, in the opinion of the
central bank, they are needed by the trad-
ing banks for ordinary commercial pur-
poses. The banks have also agreed to
supply the Commonwealth institution
with their taxation assessments to show
that they are not making excess profits.
The thing many people are asking is,
what is going to happen to the national
finances now? Will the Fadden Budget
be adhered to in substance or in essence,
or will some more revolutionary, “easy”
method of war finance be introduced,
with the “easy” more in emphasis on
the lower than the higher incomes?
The whole field of values and property
and income security is opened up again
with the advent of Labor to the Treasury
benches. Labor in the wilderness has
been breathing fire and brimstone on the
matter of what it would do to the
“economic system” if returned to power,
and it threw away an election by bringing
up the bogey of nationalising the banks
at a time when the depression was being
left behind and jobs were becoming freely
available again. Whether it proposes to
experiment in matters it knows very little
about at this critical stage of the war
no one can say. But it can be accepted
that if entirely new principles are to be
brought into operation to finance the war
a great strain will be put on all the war-
time economic mechanism, which has
functioned well up to the present time,
has reduced unemployment to 3.6 p.c.,
has kept the cost of living within 10 p.c.
of pre-war levels and has lifted the
national income to within sight of £lOOO
million.
It may be that the Treasury will take
a stand here. In co-operation with the
Commonwealth Bank Board, Treasury
experts have worked industriously and
intelligently on the job of vital war
economic management. The Budget as
presented by Fadden must have entailed
a great deal of work and care, and it
remains to be seen whether structural
alterations will be a possibility from the
Treasury’s point of view. The whole
matter of war finance, involving as it
does price control and industrial regula-
tion, is built up on a foundation of many
interdependent parts,
Australian Newsprint Mills, Boyer,
Tasmania, opened its mills in January,
and has since been turning out newsprint
of fair quality, considering the difficulties
associated with such a new venture. Most
of the dailies interested in the proposition
publish an issue every week or so on
Tasmanian paper, while some of the
afternoon sheets use it in their cable
editions, where extreme speed isn’t neces-
sary. Output at present is about 26,000
tons annually, and this production is so
helpful in the present poverty of paper
supplies that it is proposed to spend
£2,000,000 on a kraft pulp mill and a
three Troll paper-making machine to bring
production of paper up to 65,000 tons
a year. Sydney “Herald,” “Sun” and
the Melbourne “Herald” group are
largely interested in Australian Newsprint
Mills.
* * * *
There has been talk of continuing price
control and some other types of war legis-
lation after the war is over. To the extent
that the war hasn’t been paid for at the
termination of hostilities it will continue
to be waged from a financial point of
view. Unless we break contracts, we
shall find the increase in the national debt
a very heavy burden if trade takes a set-
back in the post-war readjustment.
Already we have added over £130,000,000
to our war debt since Sept. 3, 1939. The
interest on that is £4,000,000, which actu-
ally represents a low rate, but which is
about 9 p.c. of the total pre-war interest
bill. Commonwealth income-tax revenue
for 1940-41 was about £39,000,000,
and in the last pre-war year the
figure was under £12,000,000. Total
pre-war taxation was £77,000,000 a year,
and the interest bill about £45,000,000.
All kinds of taxation in 1940-41, includ-
ing postages, etc. (£20,000,000), pro-
duced £150,000,000. This year taxation
of £170,000,000 and post- war credits
of £25,000,000 may be levied. If
we are to avoid sudden shocks when the
struggle finishes we shall probably need
some form of strong economic control to
continue for a year or two at the least.
We have built up a very elaborate system
of managed finances on the occasion of
this particular war, and, though few
people will like the idea of fostering
political interference in industry and eco-
nomics, a gradual relaxation of National
Emergency Regulations, even if it takes
two or three years, will be preferable to
throwing our hats in the air and de-
manding a “new order” or something
immediately. For instance, once the
Empire exchanges are freed it will take
at least a year or two to determine where
our currency stands in relation to gold
and the dollar. We do not want to make
the mistake of persevering with an over-
valued currency after this war. The
Bank of England’s policy after 1914-18
brought stagnation to British trade. But
we don’t want “reflation” to be turned
into inflation either.
* * * *
The war helped to put Carpet Manu-
facturers, of Sydney, on its feet. Pro-
tection of an adequate kind came when
it was most handy. But the usefulness
of the industry assisted too ; it was able
to supply materials that were wanted at
a time when they were difficult or im-
possible to get. Profit for the year to
June 30 was £12,066, up £2107 compared
with 1940-41. The showing was equal to
11.2 p.c. on capital, but the div. was
wisely kept down to 5 p.c., the balance
of preliminary exes. (£3814) being written
off and taxes provided for. The shares
are at 245. The co. hasn’t a monopoly
of carpet-making in Australia. A Felt
and Textiles subsidiary is in a similar
field.
* * * *
Mayne Nickless, Ltd., is a Melbourne
carrying concern that combines an
armored-car payroll service with its other
activities. It carries on this payroll ser-
vice both in Sydney and Melbourne, and
petrol-rationing appears to have driven
more clients its way. After setting aside
£7470 for depreciation last year (£5623
previous term), net profit to June 30
was £8023, down £479, but still equal
to 21.3 p.c. on the £37,600 of capital
employed. A 15 p.c. div. was again paid,
making an average of 14 p.c. over the
past five years.
*** • *
Total amount advanced by the Com-
monwealth Government to National Oil
Pty., George Davis’s Newnes venture, is
£559,000. Advances have been bigger
than expected partly because of trouble
with the retorts. The co. is now selling
its petrol in western N. S. Wales.


© An ever-faithful friend in civil life —a tenacious warrior
of almost unbelievable stamina in war . . . IT'S THE
IDEAL POWER UNIT FOR TODAY AND TOMORROW!
In 1931 Ford Motor Companies of
America and the British Empire first
tjoled up for the production of V-8
engines. Today, more than 9 million
Ford car and truck owners have
proved that under all kinds of condi-
tions there is practically no limit to
the ability of the V-8 to “take it.”
A choice of V-8 90 and 100 b.h.p.
motors gives power to spare for the
toughest and biggest jobs. On Pro-
ducer Gas V-8 engines give amazing
performance. There’s no other motor
we know of which can be adapted to
so many uses.
As in civil life —so it is in WAR.
V-8 engines furnish power for 4 wheel
drive gun tractors drawing anti-aircraft
and anti-tank guns. They turn the
tracks of armoured gun carriers. They
pull supply trucks, wind the cable of
balloon barrage units, generate power
for searchlight units and drive naval
and air force speed craft. On almost
every front they have won the whole-
hearted admiration of the highest
military authorities.
A Digger in the front line writes:
“I have never known the V-8 trucks ,
despite their enormous loads, to fail
us. I have frequently seen them un-
hook their load and rescue bogged
vehicles which otherwise would have
had to be abandoned. Their mechani-
cal condition after months of constant
heavy work was a miracle consider-
ing the excessive work done by them
with little maintenance
Searching tests on the battle-fields of
Europe and North Africa have demon-
strated that the V-8 engine design is
without parallel in efficiency and
Ford engineers will be aided in their
future development of this remark-
able achievement in automotive
engineering by the lessons learned
under gruelling active service con-
ditions. The V-8 motor must win
success after success in years to come
because it has the inbuilt efficiency
that gives longer and
better service!
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria). FACTORIES AT GEELONG, SYDNEY, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
9 The world’s most searching
testing grounds the battle-
fields of Europe and North
,Africa have proved V-8
ability to “take it.”
Commonwealth war expenditure dur-
ing the three months to Sept. 30 was
£56.2 million, compared with £29.5 mil-
lion in the corresponding quarter of last
year. The latest expenditure was financed,
as to £12.5 million, from consolidated
revenue, and, as to £43.7 million, from
loan funds. Outgo is at the rate of about
£225 million a year, which is above the
appropriation of the Fadden Budget, and
lends color to the theory that Fadden’s
final defence estimate was a sawn-off
affair. Hitherto it has been found physi-
cally difficult to spend appropriations
owing to a production lag.
* * * *
Value of Australian factory output in
1939-40 was £553 million, compared with
£5OO million in the preceding year. Value
of production, representing the amount
added to the value of raw materials pro-
cessed, was £221 million, up £17.7 million
(8.7 p.c.). Factory employment in 1939-40
was 587,663, up 22,557. For 1940-41 the
estimate is 645,000, up 57,337. Those rep-
resent average employment figures for the
year. But the June-to-June increase was
much greater ; the lift between June, 1940,
and June, 1941, is officially estimated at
87,000, there being about 684,000 people
in factory jobs on June 30 last. Aus-
tralia’s factories have never been busier.
Unemployment among all trade-unionists
is now down to 3.6 p.c., compared with
30 p.c. during the depression.
% * '<* *
London “Times” three months ago
“believed” that Britain’s steel capacity
was 14.7 million tons a year. It men-
tioned that the U.S.A.’s output for 1941
would be about 87 million ingot tons.
Combined, the outputs of the two coun-
tries are estimated at more than twice
that of Germany and occupied countries.
The “Times” adds that “Great Britain’s
productive capacity is not sufficient to
support all the demands made for steel
by the Services and essential industry,
and the Control has been importing
finished and semi-finished steel in con-
siderable quantities for some time. This
imported steel has to a great extent been
put aside here as a reserve against emer-
gency, and on that score the position is
extremely satisfactory.”
Early in August W. M. Hale, of the
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco,
and special adviser on defence contracts,
spoke of estimates of Germany’s
output of war materials ranging from
$30,000,000,000 to $50,000,000,000 a year.
From the start of the war to the present
time, Germany had raised its domestic
war production from $1,000,000,000 a
month to $2,000,000,000 a month, be-
sides capturing nearly all the arms output
on the Continent. Estimates of British
production, said Hale, stand today at
$12,000,000,000 to $15,000,000,000 a year.
“By nerving herself to a tremendous
effort,” he added, “Britain has attained
a production slightly higher than that of
Germany at the beginning of the war,
but it probably will not rise much
higher.” Therefore a $35,000,000,000 U.S.
programme was essential to beat Ger-
many. U.S. war contracts are up to half
this figure, but Hale wants output
doubled.
* * * *
Bradford Cotton has, besides its spin-
ning mills in Camperdown and weaving
mills in Newtown, two subsidiary busi-
nesses in Sydney —those of C. and D.
Mills (canvas and duck) and Sanforising
Services of Australia (a pre-shrinking
concern). In Victoria there are three sub-
sidiaries. Austral Silk and Cotton Mills
was originally a spinning concern, but r
new weaving plant is on hand and partly
in production. The Victorian Sanforising
plant is to be housed in these premises.
A piece-dyeing plant is also operating
here. Bradford Cotton Spinning Mills
(Vic.) is turning out yarn suitable for
tyre cord and duck at its Footscray plant.
Bradford Cotton Weaving (Vic.) is still
receiving plant, half of which is in pro-
duction. Canvas and smallware fabrics
are made, and there is a waterproofing
plant for the treatment of heavy canvas.
At the parent’s annual meeting it was
said that the plant additions were de-
signed to turn out goods as much in
demand in peace-time as in war, though
present outputs are largely taken by the
Government. The careful management
doesn’t appear to have overstretched
itself in its programme of rapid expan-
sion. Much of the capital raised in the
last year or so has yet to start earning.
But there is a great demand for all the
mills can turn out.
* * * *
Bond’s Industries, Sydney, continues to
make a good thing out of its cotton-
spinning and -knitting activities. It pro-
duces towels as well as underwear,
and sells yarn. Tor the half-year
to June 30 last net profit was £29.814,
compared with £54,606 in the pre-
ceding full year. Depreciation allowed
was £17,581 for the six months, against
£26,473 for the whole of 1940. Ordi-
nary taxation has been provided for
each year, but owing to doubt about
character (in the commissioner’s eyes) of
the debenture debt no allowance has been
made for war-time profits tax. In the last
half, before profit was struck, £7OOO was
set aside against fluctuations in the
value of stock, so that in every respect
trading conditions seem to be improving.
Dividend remains at 10 p.c. There has
been no official mention so far of the
possibility of compensating debenture-
holders for the reduced rate of interest
they have been receiving over a long
period, but hopes are held in some
quarters that recognition of the part they
played will come eventually, possibly
when the position with the taxation com-
missioner is cleared up. Though the
smallness of capital in relation to the
funds at work gives a swollen appearance
to profits, the Bond’s business isn’t such
a big thing as some other Australian
COtt ° n * * *
, .
Timbrol, Ltd., is a Sydney con
that reached the Stock Exchange lists m
time to catch the public eye in the war-
time demand for its products. Becoming
a public co. in May, the shares were
listed in July. The co, started making
wood-preserving oils in 1925, developed
processes for treating coal-tar products,
and later on turned to the manufacture
of synthetic chemicals, output of all de-
partments being helped along by war-time
importing difficulties. Paid capital has
grown from £69,974 in 1938 to £205,795
at present, part of the growth being due
to a bonus issue of £55,795 prior to list-
ing. In the term to June 30 last net profit
ran out at £12,680, from which a 10 p.c.
div. took £10,438. Formulas and patent
rights figure at £30,825, against reserves
of £7025. In offering 395, for the co.’s
shares the market sees more in prospect
than is visible in the accounts themselves,
The Dixson family are largely interested
in the co. *
British Tube Mills (Aust.) Pty. is to
start manufacture of non-tubular cycle
fittings as well as the tubular parts it is
a ] read y making. The British Government
a vvhile ago was proposing to prohibit
export of bicycle parts, but Senator
McLeay, on becoming Supply Minister,
persuaded it not to. However, English
interests evidently saw the writing on
th £ wall. Birmingham firms associated
with the present South Aus. scheme aie
J- A. Phillips and Co., Walton and
Brown, Ltd., and Brampton Fittings, Ltd.
* * * *
Adelaide Cement is one of the most
affluent concerns of its type in the Com-
monwealth. Between cement earnings
and investment income it scraped up
enough to show 26.24 p.c. on ord. capital
in the term to May 31 last. It maintained
its 25 p.c. ord. div. The co. has liquid
assets and investments equal to paid
capital. The £1 shares are above 655.
in their home city.


At Moscow's Gates.
THE SERVICE MAN
“Ek Dum”: From September 30 on-
wards a new phase began to develop on
the Russian front. Hitler was “knocking
at the Soviet fortress gate and trying
to pull down the portcullis” (B. 8 /10/’4l).
The whole of the Don and Donetz basins,
the Caucasian communications and the
Crimea, as well as Leningrad, Odessa and
Murmansk, were in jeopardy.
As far back as 24/9/’4l it was
suggested that from Velikiye Luki
south to Bryansk the Germans might
be baiting a trap; that they might
attempt to break through on the flanks
in two thrusts, before completing the
Ukraine operations, and then try to curl
round suddenly to cut off all Timo-
shenko’s armies from Moscow.
The crucial factor was the position in
the Gomel-Bryansk area. If the northern
flank of Budenny’s Ukraine armies were
pushed back or destroyed. Marshal
Timoshenko must withdraw unless he
had an overwhelming force at his disposal
backed with perfect communications.
Withdrawal would bring the battle to
the western gates of Moscow. It would
either create a German-held bulge like
that west of Sedan which proved the
ruin of France, or involve the extension
of the flanks of the central Russian
armies at an inconceivable speed, if the
drives in the Bryansk (southern) and
Valdai Hills (northern) regions were not
to fling arms round Moscow itself.
On October 2, in combination with the
continued drive against the eastern
Ukraine, the Germans struck along the
southern flank of the central armies in
a double lightninglike flick.
Its southern branch could be used to
link with pushes from Poltava and Azov
to encircle the Donetz area. It could
drive through to the Kursk ironfields and
up at the back of Moscow. It could also
link with another drive a little further
north and encircle Bryansk.
Seven railway lines meet at Bryansk.
Its encirclement meant the paralys-
ing of the whole rail communication
system of the Kaluga and Orel and
Kursk provinces, and opened the way to
Orel, population 91,300, 72 miles east of
Bryansk; Tula, population 200,000, 130
miles n.-e. of Bryansk, 100 miles due
south of Moscow; and Kaluga, 60,500,
to which the Russians retired in 1812
when Napoleon took Moscow. Kaluga
is 80 miles from the capital itself and
only 20 miles from the Moscow plain.
Orel was the weakest point. It was aban-
doned by the Russians on October 8.
Every mile thereonwards must further
disorganise Russian communications, cut
off more resources from both Moscow
and the Ukraine armies, throw back more
starving and panicked civilians to cause
confusion, imperil more deeply the safety
of the Soviet armies in the Smolensk
area.
The northern flank drive aimed to push
through the Valdai Hills to Kalinin
(formerly Tver), population 145,000, 100
miles n.-w, of Moscow on the Leningrad
line.
The joint between Timoshenko’s armies
and those of Voroshilov on the north
was to be broken. The railway junction
at Rshev, controlling the north-south
communications of the linked Soviet
armies, was an immediate objective.
A push from Kalinin eastward would
place a German spearhead behind Mos-
cow, dowered with an infinity of choices
—to bend southward to join the Bryansk-
area drive to corral Moscow, at the same
time cutting the Archangel railway
(which now carries the main supplies from
Britain) and, 50 miles further on, the
railway to Nijni-Novgorod and Kazan,
the “reserve” capital. A turn northwards
would endanger the rear of Voroshilov’s
armies between Vologda and Novgorod,
which have been harassing the curtain
of German troops below Leningrad and
keeping the pressure on that city from
becoming fatal.
The Germans made no secret about
the fact that their objective now was to
crush the main Red Army in a single
blow. They asserted that “vast armies”
had been thrown into the central-front
battles. They declared that their drives
would proceed continuously and without
interruption, and that neither men nor
material would be spared to keep up the
momentum of their spearheads. They
emphasised that they had no timetable
and that their purpose might take weeks
to attain; that primarily, however, their
aims were to “engage, hold, encircle and
annihilate the enemy,” and “not to gain
prestige by taking any particular point
or city within a predetermined time.”
They proposed, they said, not to allow
any preoccupation with the central front
to interfere with their operations in the
Ukraine.
As an earnest of this, they announced
that their spearhead on Azov had taken
Berdyansk, a port midway along the
Azov Sea which they had bypassed some
days ago, and Mariupol, which they had
reached a fortnight before. From
Mariupol their exploratory mechanised
drive had turned north to Stalino, near
the end of the Caucasian pipeline. Ber-
dyansk is an important seashore foot-
hold, opposite the mouth of the Azov
Sea ; Mariupol is a busy industrial city
of 150,000 people.
The almost complete military silence
which enveloped operations in the centre
testified to the deadliness of the struggle.
Moscow Radio announced on October
6 that life in the capital was normal. The
musical season had opened, the theatres
and shops were full and 15,000 athletes
had been taking part in cross-country
events. Losovsky said that “Hitler
apparently has several hundred thousand
more men he wants buried. He will cer-
tainly achieve his objective in this.” But
neither the Red Army Command nor
British military leaders tried to minimise
the danger.
The “Red Star” declared:
The Germans have thrown into the offen-
sive every resource they have got. We
must not underestimate the gravity of
their move.
Claims of local successes—a German
division driven back here, a battalion
annihilated there loomed very small
against the vast curtain of bombs which
fell in what Berlin called a “terrific air
onslaught from Leningrad to the Black
Sea.” This furious attack is a modern
equivalent of the artillery preparation of
the last war, the screen of destruction
which blasts the way for armored forces
and infantry.
The first real news of the fate of the
central drive came on Wednesday morn-
ing, and not from one of the pincer ends
on the flanks, but from the dead centre
on the road to Moscow,
In three days the Germans had re-
covered all the ground which Timoshenko
had filched back from them behind
Smolensk in six weeks of hard fighting.
They had then pushed on another 50
miles along the broad, poplar-lined main
Warsaw-Minsk-Moscow highway, which
Russians affectionately call “The Big
Fellow,” and were at Vyazma, 90 miles
by crow-fly, 100 miles by rail from
Smolensk and only 120 miles from
Moscow. On October 8, they had ad-
vanced another 10 miles.
At Vyazma is the last rail junction on
the way to Moscow.
Here the main line from Moscow to
Warsaw splits into an arrowhead. One
branch runs s.-e., 90 miles, to Kaluga ;
another runs almost due north, 90 miles,
to Rshev. If the Germans could drive
down these two lines from Vyazma with
the speed which they showed on their
direct advance, Timoshenko’s frontal
forces would be split squarely down the
core and pocketed into two paddocks
north and south of the main road by
the (southern) Bryansk-Kaluga-Vyazma
and the (northern) Velikiye Luka-Rzhev-
Vyazma advances.
The northern armies of Voroshilov
would be in two compartments one
locked up in Leningrad, the other deep
in the wrong end of a 120-mile-wide
corridor between the Finns on the north
and Von Bock’s central German army.
The southern sections of Timoshenko’s
force and the northern part of Budenny’s
were in a nasty enclave in which seven
of their divisions were trapped.
By October 8 there was scarcely a
bright spot, strategical or tactical, in the
picture save the unfailing devotion and
courage of the Russian soldiery, living up
to a glorious tradition which in this, as
in the last war, made them prefer to die
to the last man rather than surrender.
All the evidence suggested that Russian
cities for the first time were suffering the
pangs which London, Coventry, Plymouth
and Bristol knew. The Germans
announced grimly and brutally that they
were within easy bombing range of
Moscow and Kharkov and that “full
advantage was being taken of the position
against military objectives.”
By the week-end the situation had
regularised itself and a series of well-
defined operations were in progress, in
all of which, except for local heavy
counter-attacks in one or two central
regions, the Germans still held the initia-
tive.
In the outskirts of Leningrad the lines
swayed backward and forward. On the
headwaters of the Volga, below Lake
Ilmen, the Germans had advanced across
the Valdai Hills to the vicinity of Rshev,
thus bringing the northern tip of their
central front level with Vyazma, to the
south. This placed Voroshilov’s armies,
hammering at Von Leeb’s curtain line
south of Leningrad, in a difficult position.
From here, round an arc sweeping its
perimeter towards Moscow, solid fighting
was going on all the way to Bryansk
and Orel sectors.
The position of the lines in the south
of this great scoop was not clear. The
enemy declared (and the Russians denied)
that Marshal Timoshenko’s front-line
armies were already surrounded and that
200,000 prisoners had been taken. At
the Bryansk end of the line there had
been a junction of the German central
and southern armies. Orel was in enemy
hands. So was Bryansk. Germans were
at the gates of Kursk. French and New
York sources said on October 11 that Tula
had been taken—meaning, among other
things, that there had been an advance
of 100 miles from scorched Orel in two
days. Moscow denied the capture of Tula,
but disclosed that advanced Panzers with
supporting infantry had been beaten back
from the city and from Kaluga.
To the south the battle for Kharkov,
though temporarily obscured, was as im-
portant in the general operations as the
effort on the central front.
The German line had suddenly shot
out like a sword thrust from the
Zaporosche region, by the Dnieperstroy
Dam, towards Melitopol, 30 miles from
the Azov coast, and there had joined
with the Azov armies to lock several
Russian divisions in the Dnieper pocket.
The Russians denied that there had
been encirclement in this region, but
up to Oct. 12 the Germans claimed to
have taken 109,000 prisoners with large
quantities of material.
Further east, along the Azov shore,
the encircling cordon was sending out
lightning strokes from its outer points
at Mariupol in an effort to reach Lugansk
and stick a claw round the Donetz region
from the south-east.
The timing of the Kharkov and
Moscow operations and the depth of
their advances were governed by inter-
locking necessities. While no operation
was complete, it was impossible for the
Russians to guess for what purpose, for
instance, the thrust near Kursk or Orel
was made—whether it would turn south
to a vast Donetz encirclement or north
to get behind Moscow, or merely sweep
narrowly in and paddock the southern
portions of Timoshenko’s old Smolensk
armies.
The same applied in the north. Till
the Germans reach the Moscow-Lenin-
grad railway near Kalinin there can be
no telling whether they will make a
northward sweep to pocket Voroshilov’s
men, above Ilmen, or go south round
Moscow, or run out a great pendulum
arm straight to Gorki (formerly Nijni-
Novgorod) and the Volga—an arm which
could swing westward on an axis near
Kalinin and crush the whole of the
country east of the present front from
above Moscow between the legs of a
great pair of dividers. They might, in-
deed, try to do all these things at once.
On Monday morning Lord Beaver-
brook enumerated a long list of materials
with which Britain is already supplying
Russia, “under lease-lend methods with-
out monetary limit,” and said the Rus-
sians were “pleased with what is being
done.” But the war is moving far too
quickly for any assistance which is not
local to help. The “Red Star” declared
that “Moscow’s critical day had come.”
Moscow itself was heroically confident.
Children and unneeded civilians were
being evacuated in orderly fashion to
save them the horrors of bombardment
and bomb shock. Moscow Radio had
gone silent. But the idea of surrender,
of a forced peace or even of the evacua-
tion of the capital was scornfully dis-
missed by Moscow spokesmen.
The voice of the Kremlin said:
The Germans may advance some tens of
miles on the central front, but they will
not achieve their aim. We will fight on
until we destroy all the Hitlerian bandits
on Soviet territory.
A spirit which the world will remember
in the troublous months to come.
When this was written, the German
advance had been slowed up by the huge
masses of new troops and materials
which Stalin, who had himself visited the
central front during the week, had flung
into the battle.
The Middle East.
Ek Dum”: British, Indian and Im-
perial armies thrown across the Middle
East find themselves faced with a defen-
sive task without parallel.
Mr. Churchill told the Indians that
their men were ranged 1000 miles from
their borders for the defence of their
homeland.
The danger affects a front far longer
than the Russian eastern front. It runs
2800 miles from India’s northern border
to Tobruk. The western part alone, which
covers Suez, is about 1300 miles long—
further than crow-fly distance from
Leningrad to Odessa. It is the easiest
part to defend. To get at it west of the
Caspian, the Germans must fight their
way down over the Caucasus. They must
establish vast bases there 2000 miles from
their own factories, 1000 from the
Ukraine.
Then they must fight their way across
the Elburz ranges into Iran, through
narrow, high passes deep in snow for
much of the year. The Elburz is a for-
midable defence line.
On the other hand, the defenders from
the Iranian side have vast transport diffi-
culties to face. Their materials for the
Caucasian front would have to come
either by sea from munitions centres thou-
sands of miles away, in Britain, Australia,
u.S., or overland from India. Australia
already is to send railway engines for
the Iran line.
The barrier of the Baluch Mountains
in the east with their saltbush wastes, not
unlike the sand country of northern S.
Australia, towards the Iranian border,
makes land transport difficult. Some of
the passes from the Indian plains liter-
ally have been carved out of sides of
precipices reminiscent of the Blue Moun-
tain downfalls into Burragorang Valley,
only much higher.
Through Sheik Wazil Pass and across
the sandy hill and plain country a mili-
tary railway runs south, and in sight
of the Afghan border, 480 miles from
Quetta into Iran. Its terminus is Duz-
dap, a busy cross-road, where the Ispahan
road from the west and the Meshed high-
way from the north come in.
From there, no more railways are met
till the Caspian line from the Iraq coast,
only recently completed, 1000 miles away.
It is, therefore, 1500 miles to Quetta
from the railway which will be the core
of Caspian defence. And Quetta itself
is another 2000 miles or so from the
heart of manufacturing India, which is
only beginning to get its wheels turning
for large-scale armament production.
The Germans are not likely to attack
Iran by the Caucasus route till after the
winter. If they succeed in their present
drive against the heart of Moscow, they
can afford to sit down, consolidate, edge
their bases nearest to the point at which
they most need them for the next spring
campaign. In the meantime, they may
try to cajole or threaten Turkey or prepare
to make that country suffer the horrors
of invasion.
For an effective campaign, striking
directly by the shortest route at Suez,
control of Turkey and of the Dardanelles
is vital to the German High Command.
It would enable the landing of troops
and materials brought from German fac-
tories over the Balkan railway systems
at points on the south-eastern Black Sea
coast, only 400 to 500 miles from the
Iraqi and Syrian borders. It would also
enable the High Command to use the
Turkish end of the Berlin-Bagdad rail-
way and the many interior lines for mili-
tary transport purposes, and the com-
paratively easy plateau roads across Asia
Minor.
The approaches to the Eastern Medi-'
terranean over the Taurus Mountains,
which form a solid wall along the whole
of southern Asia Minor, are not more
promising for roving armies than those
of the Caucasus and the Elburz. The roads
climb thousands of feet. The main route
comes down through the Cilician Gate
into Cilicia, above St. Paul’s birthplace.
Tarsus, threading a gorge with sheer walls
1000 ft. high. The roadway is just wide
enough for a single vehicle, and not
always that, as the remains of several
German lorries of last-war vintage which
had gone over the bank into Cleopatra’s
river Cydnus used to testify.
There is then a winding, well-enfiladed
descent to Adana. The Adana country
is flat and rich, with a line of mounds
which once were Roman watchtowers
streaking across it, but before Syria can,
be reached there is another winding climb
across the Amanus Range into the wild,
rough hills of Islahiye where Syria begins.
This is very strong country for old-style
defence, well served from Aleppo and the
south by magnificent French military
roads. But the whole of Cilicia, which
is only 150 miles by air from Aleppo,
could be turned by the Hun into a vast
aerodrome, and the southern shores of
Asia Minor are pitted with harbors which


Missing Friend.
WILL MARIA MARTHA COFFIN, at one
time of Port Douglas, N.Q., who left there
over 30 years ago, or IDA MARGARET ROY,
who resided at St. Clair, St. Kilda, Melbourne,
about 10 years ago, please communicate with
the PUBLIC CURATOR OF QUEENSLAND,
Brisbane, relative to the interest of the said
MARIA MARTHA COFFIN in the estate of
the late JUSTINA BERZINSKI, of Craiglea,
near Port Douglas?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1552 of 1941.
BETWEEN DAPHNE MAUDE CORRIANE
LEWIS Petitioner and
TREVOR JOHN LEWIS Respondent.
TO TREVOR JOHN LEWIS late of Sydney
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DAPHNE
MAUDE CORRIANE LEWIS has commenced
a suit against you in this Honorable Court
and is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the ground of your desertion for three years
and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honor-
able Court on or before the Eighth day of
January One thousand nine hundred and forty-
two and in the event of your not doing so
within the limited time or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Thirteenth day of October, 1941.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
G. M. STAFFORD, Solicitor for Petitioner,
79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN
AUSTRALIA.
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes.
No. 137 of 1941.
BETWEEN ETHEL DORRITT MASON Peti-
tioner and
CLEVELAND JOHN LA VALLE MASON Re-
spondent.
TO CLEVELAND JOHN LA VALLE MASON
late of Safety Bay and North Fremantle
in the State of Western Australia Motor
Mechanic.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been
issued in the Supreme Court of the said State
citing you to appear and answer the Petition
of ETHEL DORRITT MASON of Safety Bay
in the said State Married Woman praying for
a dissolution of marriage IN DEFAULT of
your so appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will proceed
to hear the said petition proved and pronounce
sentence in respect thereto AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid you are within Thirty days after the
date of this publication to attend in person or
by your solicitor at the Central Office of this
Honorable Court at Perth and there to enter
an appearance in a book provided for that
purpose.
G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar.
This abstract citation is taken out by
CHARLES R. HOPKINS, of 249 Murray
Street, Perth, the Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
IN the matter of the Estate of FREDERICK
PERCIVAL WILKINSON late of Hobart
in Tasmania Chemist Deceased.
BETWEEN ARTHUR LESLIE WILKINSON
of Brisbane in the State of Queensland
Chemist and
WILLIAM EDWARD MASTERS of Hobart
in the State of Tasmania Solicitor Plain-
tiffs and
WINIFRED LOUISA BETTS of Hobart in
DOUGLAS JAMES WILKINSON of Epping
in New South Wales and
ELLEN BLANCHE WILKINSON of Sand-
ringham in Victoria Defendants.
PURSUANT to an order of the Supreme Court
of Tasmania dated the Twelfth day of Sep-
tember One thousand nine hundred and forty-
one and made in the matter of the estate of
FREDERICK PERCIVAL WILKINSON de-
ceased (late of Hobart in Tasmania who died
on or about the Twenty-eighth day of February
One thousand nine hundred and forty) whereby
the following inquiries were directed viz:
THAT an enquiry be directed for the purpose
of ascertaining what daughters there were pf
John Norton Wilkinson deceased in the will
of the testator mentioned and when they were
respectively born and whether any of them were
ever and if ever when married and to whom and
whether they are all living and if any of them
are dead when they respectively died and if
dead who are their respective legal prsonal rep-
resentatives,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all per-
sons claiming to be entitled under the said
inquiries are on or before the Twenty-fourth
day of November One thousand nine hundred
and forty-one to send by post prepaid to “THE
REGISTRAR the Supreme Court of Tasmania
Macquarie Street Hobart Tasmania” their full
Christian and surnames addresses and descrip-
tions and full particulars of their claims or in
default thereof they will be excluded from the
benefit of the said order unless the Court or
Judge on application otherwise orders Claim-
ants are to attend personally or by their
Solicitor before His Honor the Judge at the
Court House Franklin Square Hobart on
Monday the First day of December One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-one at 10.30
o’clock in the forenoon being the time appointed
for adjudicating upon the claims A claimant
not residing in the State of Tasmania must
send with particulars of his claim the name and
address of a person in the State of Tasmania
to whom notices for the claimant can be sent.
DATED this 3rd day of October 1941.
(L.s.) H. R. DOBBIE,
Deputy-Registrar.
Note: This advertisement is particularly but
not exclusively directed to the following persons
or their personal representatives or next-of-kin:
RUTH EDITH BLACK (formerly Wilkinson),
CHARLES ARTHUR WILKINSON.
John Norton Wilkinson died on or about the
Twenty-third day of August One thousand eight
hundred and seventy-six. He was married twice.
By his first marriage he had three children,
namely, Douglas James Wilkinson, Alice Naomi
Maud Wilkinson and Minnie Dowling Wilkin-
son. By his second marriage he is believed to
have had one son and one daughter, namely,
the said Ruth Edith Black (formerly Wilkin-
son) and Charles Arthur Wilkinson. The last
known address of the said Ruth Edith Black
(formerly Wilkinson) is Mildura, in the State of
Victoria, and of the said Charles Arthur Wilkin-
son is Unley, in the State of South Australia.
TINNING, PROPSTING, MASTERS AND
SOLOMON, of 158 Collins Street, Hobart, in
Tasmania, Solicitors for the Plaintiffs.
could be used as lairs from which U-boats
and seaplanes could harry the unceasing
line of mercantile convoys carrying arms
and munitions into Haifa and Beirut.
With Cilicia in German hands, Cyprus
might be made another Crete. But before
these things could happen Hitler would
first have to catch the wily Turk, who,
though he has agreed to supply Germany
with chrome—in 1943, if Germany still
has need of it! —and signed a new general
trade treaty, is likely to take a stern view
of any attempt to menace his control of
the Dardanelles.
The 1300-mile Caucasian-Egyptian
front, unfortunately, is only half the
danger-line. The greatest risks to India,
Egypt and the Red Sea routes may lie
east of the Caspian. Here opposite Baku
is a huge, open plain, nearly 1000 miles
wide, with scarcely a height in it that a
grasshopper could not jump over, till it
suddenly leaps for the sky for 24,000
feet on the Pamir edges of the Uzbek
and Tadzjak republics of the U.S.S.R.,
near the northern Indian border.
The south-eastern portion of this plain
and the Khirghiz foothills form a sort
of second industrial Russia, which, occu-
pied intact, would provide the Germans
with a great Asian supply centre.
A heavy-type railway feeds directly
to it across the Volga from the main
centres of the Don and Donetz. Tash-
kent is 1500 miles from Kharkov. It has
a population of about 600,000. Another
line from Krasnovodosk, on the East
Caspian shore, opposite the Baku oilfield,
links Tashkent to the Caucasian oil sup-
plies. This railway runs along the Iranian
border only a few miles from Meshed, in
the n.-e. corner of Iran.
Meshed is the halfway house of the
Iranian highway between Tehran and
Duzdab, railhead of the Quetta line. This
great pilgrim road now will be screened
in the dust clouds thrown up by mile
upon mile of Indian army lorries.
Slightly east of Meshed, a branch line
from the Caspian-Tashkent connection
goes to the Afghan border to meet the
Herat-Kabul-Peshawar highway. The
Germans on the Azov Sea already are
closer to this point than are the great
metal and manufacturing centres of India.
The Tashkent region is joined to the
Trans-Siberian railway by a north-south
connection which feeds in and out of
the busy Omsk-Novosibirsk districts.
Should the German hordes reach the
Afghan border close to Meshed they
would be only 500 miles from the gates
of the Indian North-west Province. And,
as the crow flies, though across high
ranges, the Tadzjakistan country is only
300 miles by air from the Indian pass
into Afghanistan. Soviet Russia, a little
further east among the ranges, meets
India itself.
In the Tadzjak-Uzbek country the Ger-
mans would find all the resources for
war, apart from disposing finally of the
Soviet Union by robbing it of its last
industrial centres of any size.
They would find splendid approaches
into Iran on the age-old Samarkand-
Meshed routes, down which they could
try to pour by a short cut.
This the British Government must
know the Hun may try to do if he over-
runs European Russia.
This, too, the A.I.F. and the R.A.A.F.,
with the R.A.N. co-operating at sea,
will be putting forward every nerve to
prevent Hitler doing, with every resource
the Empire can put behind them.
R.A.F. and Luftwaffe.
“Aileron”: The capable Moore-Braba-
zon has explained some of the reasons
for Mr. Churchill’s remark that Ger-
many’s only shortage of equipment was
in the air and that that “was a very
serious shortage.” The R.A.F.’s bomb-
load capacity and striking power have
been doubled in a year, a great achieve-
ment in view of the incessant bombing
attacks which aircraft manufacturing
centres suffered from October last year to
May.
The Germans claim that the Luft-
waffe’s losses in the Russian war do not
represent a month’s German production ;
but Moore-Brabazon declares that Britain
is rapidly approaching parity with Ger-
many in total numbers and strength ; for
Germany is “eating up its capital on the
Russian front.”
United States factories turned out 1900
machines of all types last month. Good ;
but Colonel Moore-Brabazon declares that
we “must not build too much on U.S.
output... .American production lines are
not yet complete, but when mass pro-
duction is in full swing the flow of ’planes
to Britain will become tremendous.”
British factories are now concentrating
on heavy types “with two and half times
the capacity of any other machine.” These
still are on the secret list.
There also are several improved marks
of the best fighters in production at
which the Germans have not yet had a
look. Production of light types is being
kept up but not expanded. The United
States, when in full blast, will do the
expanding of both fighter and medium
bomber numbers.
The important fact about the present
British policy is that its staple has
changed from defence to offence.
This is not altogether due to increased
striking power. The G.O.C. of Britain’s
A.A. organisation, Lieut.-General Fred
Pile, says that radio location has been a
“marvellous success”:
If we represent the rounds required to
destroy a raider in September, 1940, by a
token number of 30, that figure fell to 18
in November, and to slightly less than
two last January. In recent heavy raids
on a north-east town, the figure was less
than one. This was all against unseen
targets.
And several new devices still await test
against the next raiders. The time is in
sight when bombing of cities, except from
great heights by very fast and defensible
heavy machines, will be a suicidal pas-
time. Thus some British fighter squadrons,
which before were absolutely essential
for defence of cities, can turn their task
over to the ground defence, and rove
over the Channel in search of prey.
There is no reason for misgiving about
British air policy. Throughout it has
aimed at conservation and building up
of resources. There have been mistakes,
as in France, when machines were lost
through blunders, and in Greece, where
some were unaccountably abandoned to
the enemy.
There has been no futile effort, how-
ever, in operations on the Continent, and
an amazingly light loss of both men and
machines compared with the Luftwaffe.
Lack of trained men has been a factor
in slowing down R.A.F. development.
There is no longer any shortage.
“E.D.”: There is intense preparatory
activity along the North African lines
as well as in the Palestine-Iran sector,
for the campaign season approaches. A
new East African army command, em-
bracing all defences between the Sudan
and Aden, has been constituted.
Tobruk celebrated a half-year of
travail with sorties. Heavy naval units
have been on manoeuvre in the Mediter-
ranean, and several Italian ships have
been damaged. A 6000-tonner was sunk
on Thursday night.
* * * ♦
Except that Hull was raided one night,
Britain had a respite from bombers last
week. The R.A.F. Coastal Command
harassed shipping and ports along the
Channel and North Sea as far as Nor-
way, but there was a lull in R.A.F. bomb-
ings of Germany for nine days before
October 10, when the Rhineland and the
Ruhr were attacked. On October 12 one
of the new Hurricane squadrons tried its
power on a Germany convoy in full sight
of Ramsgate. A ship blew up, another
was set on fire by a mass assault and dis-
tributed in fragments.
♦ * » ♦
The fierce Chinese-Japanese battle near
Changsha, capital of Hunan, was still in
progress after more than a fortnight, with
the Chinese on the offensive. A military
spokesman at Chungking reported on
Saturday that three squadrons of Japanese
bombers had made the first large-scale
gas attack of the war on Chinese troops
near Ichang, and had killed 2000. The
Japanese had withdrawn from Ichang,
which lies due west of Hankow, on the
way to Chungking—they said “because
of superior Chinese numbers.”
* * * *
On Oct. 12 the R.A.A.F. Spitfire squad-
ron was in the thick of a heavy day’s
work over the Channel. In a sense it
was celebrating the award of the D.S.O.
to its Irish “guest pilot,” “Paddy”
Finucane, who had shot down 21 Ger-
man machines before his 21st birthday.
The squadron had been in a dogfight with
50 Messerschmitts, of which at least two
were brought down. At night the Bomber
Command made the heaviest attack for
months on the French coast, lighting up
the shore from Dunkirk to Boulogne.
* * * *
President Roosevelt has sent a message
to Congress urging the revision of the
Neutrality Act. He declared that “it
was time for the United States to stop
playing into Hitler’s hands and to un-
shackle its own,” and that the arming of
U.S. merchant ships had become a matter
of extreme urgency. Congress is pushing
forward the debate.
• * * ♦
The U.S. Navy Department announced
the “capture and disposal of a German
Arctic outpost operating a radio station
in Greenland.” Twenty prisoners were
taken, including a Gestapo agent and a
group of Norwegians friendly to Ger-
many The incident, the first in which
U.S. armed forces acted in Greenland,
, , , , . T . r
took place last month. It may have been
linked in some way with the German
attempt to torpedo the destroyer Greer
rm ito wav tn Cirepnlnnd with mail
on its way to Greenland witn man.
t , , A „
Among 48 decorations issued to AUS-
tralians who took part in the Greek and
Crete campaigns and for gallantry at
rp , „ i „ t c n fnr
Tobiuk were a bar to the D.S.O. I
Brigadier G. A. Vasey ; D.S.Os. tor
Brigadier C. S. Steele, Lieut.-Col. H. W.
Strutt and Lieut.-Col. R. H. Russell,
o r' • u* ncu. oo
Seven M.Cs., eight and 2
M.Ms. were given out. Brigadier Vasey,
after fighting through the whole of the
Greek campaign, organised and com-
manded the 7000 A.I.F. men in Crete,
and Brig. Steele, under heavy fire, cleared
the road south of Larissa when it was
blocked by craters and saved large forces
from capture. Many of the deeds
chronicled in the citations would have
won vrs in earlier wars
; ‘ * va * ts ‘ *
On October 9 Britain, the U.S.A. and
Dutch East Indies agreed to cut off
Japan’s oil supply completely. Wash-
ington states that the U.S.-Japanese talks
had been resumed, though arrangements
have been made for the mutual repatria-
tion of Japanese and U.S. nationals.
* * * *
“Ekmek Bey”: Turkey throughout
kept Britain informed of the progress of
trade negotiations with Germany. The
Germans demanded 50 p.c. of Turkey’s
chrome output straightway, but Turkey
decided to adhere to the agreement which
gives Britain the metal—lBo,ooo tons a
year—till 1943, when 90,000 tons may
go to Hitler if he is still there to need it.
This reported bargain, however, is not
mentioned in the trade agreement, which
seems pretty innocuous.
« * * *
“Zedo” describes a German breach of
faith: —
The broken deal for the exchange of
wounded war prisoners was an unpleasant affair.
Two British hospital ships well stocked with
comforts waited at Newhaven to take the Ger-
mans across, the British Government having
accepted an offer by the Germans through the
Swiss Legation for mutual repatriation. A
similar exchange had been refused by Berlin
months ago. On Sept. 9 the U.S. Embassy
conveyed a message that there were 1200 British
i? .£f ri " any approved for repatriation The
British Government fixed repatriation dates as
between October 4-7. The Germans declared
that if the exchange were made as soon after
October 1 as possible they might be able to
include over-age and sick British civilians,
About 150 Germans were selected on the British
side. This was in accord with the convention.
which requires belligerents to repatriate seri-
ously-ill and wounded prisoners “irrespective
of rank or numbers.” The Germans laid back
the date to October 7, and then stated, after
their nationals for repatriation had been
assembled at Newhaven, that they would agree
only to a limited exchange on a basis of equal
numbers Meanwhile Berlin had taken the cruel
step of broadcasting the names of the Britons
w h o were read y f or shipment. The British Gov-
eminent cancelled the whole arrangement
“owing to a flagrant breach of faith'on the
P art of the German Government.”
T , * v -„ u * _ T o ,* ,
T .J^ e n King awarded a D.S.O. to
ut.-Commander A. H. Ca laway,
B radu f te ° f „ the Sydney anti-submarine
Cal laway, commandmg a 472-
Jon trawler, the Lady Shirley, spotted a
U-boat, which dived. He forced her to
the surface with depth charges, and after
a spirited engagement, in which the
trawler suffered casualties, the U-boat
sank. Forty-four survivors were taken
to Gibraltar,
* * * * (
Aileron ; Sydney has seen its first
Hurricane in action. Nothing has been
seen like it in the Commonwealth either
in speed or manoeuvrability. But it made
the sky look a very large affair and
pointed the difficulties of the air defence
of large cities against fast bombers,
especially those of the stratospheric
varieties.
* * * *
“S.J.D.”; On April 21, 1941, my boy
was killed in Greece. On June 3, 1941,
I had official advice, but no letter of con-
firmation. I waited a month, then wrote
direct to Minister Spender. In a forl-
night came a letter from the Military
Records Office tersely stating that he died
of wounds 2/3rd Casualty Clearing
Station, Greece. In two months I have
h d nothing more . Surely the original
f olcn mn nlv
source of information could also supp /
detail as to how he died and where he
j s buried, etc. I admit the living soldier
ca jj s f or fi rs t care, but the dead and
. .....
their relatives deserve a little thought.


STYLE SMAR
+
SUMMER COOLNESS
' ■ S
VJSB&aSL
: : '■
m
1 11 |||
ill
■
m
C>Z k- ; ;5 B*rfSE:!Sw
YOU’LL feel fresh as a
daisy, even on the hottest
day, if you’re wearing a
Soltine Suit. The secret
of Soltine’s comfortable
coolness is in its unique
weave that lets the fabric
"breathe.” Extra twisting
of each thread accounts
for Soltine’s long-wearing
toughness, and produces
a springy, firm texture
that makes a suit of Sol-
tine Cloth hold its shape
without sagging or creas-
ing. The smart Cluster
stripe pattern above is one
of the many fine new Sol-
tine Cloths now available
from your tailor or store.
See them—they’re the best
suitings money can buy!
Born, Shorn, Woven and Worn :n Australia
BAS
m
0.
Established 1808 in Reign of George m.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.B.W.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensla; d Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
ARTBURSTS
The sixty-second annual show of that
very venerable institution the Royal Art
Society of N. S. Wales at the Education
Department’s Gallery, Sydney, contains
little that is new in style or startling in
subject, but there are many excellently
painted and pleasant-mannered pictures
on exhibition. Syd Long puts in half a
dozen landscapes as graceful and as
eloquent as Austin Dobson sonnets;
Norman Lindsay’s unrepressed ladies are
as luscious as ever; Howard Ashton dis-
covers unsuspected mosaics in all sorts
of countrysides ; Jack Salvana, painting
in a new and conciser manner, gets the
spirit of spacious scenes; Albert Sher-
man’s realistic and beautiful flower
pieces almost seem to carry the scent
of his subjects, and Erik Langker
demonstrates ever-growing powers as a
landscapist. Lyall Tindall’s “Nature’s
Reflections” and “Camellias” improve on
even his high standard in such matters,
and such sturdy painters as Lister Lister,
Robert Johnson, James R. Jackson and
John Allcot show that they are still alive
and kicking.
Howard Barron, in addition to a well-
limned Australian scene, shows devas-
tation in his home town, Coventry—one
of the few marks war has laid on the
show. Mary Edwards’s big figure com-
position “Oceania” dominates the bigger
gallery.
Water-colorists G. K. Townshend and
Margaret Coen show delightful work.
Interesting in this section are some old
drawings by Julian Ashton, models of
water-color technique and full of life,
Tom Garret’s monotypes, Douglas Pratt’s
pencil sketches and Cedric Emanuel’s
beautiful pen drawings round out a most
respectable show.
» V * *
If the auction of old purchases of the
National Gallery of Victoria, held last
week in Melbourne, does nothing else
it will have been a good deed if it makes
present trustees more humble. Pictures
in expensive frames, which went under
the cold and indifferent hammer for a
trifle, once cost a pretty penny and were
doubtless regarded by all and sundry,
including the then custodians of the
people’s taste, as acquisitions to the
culture of the city. Now they are
as dead and unpalatable to the taste of
the public as last week’s dish of boarding-
house mutton. The only person who
seemed to want them was a little priest
from the New Norcia (W.A.) mission,
who bought them by the dozen. The
battered casts and statues were in little
more demand, one eight-foot giant going
for 2s. The owner subsequently left
his purchase behind for lack of transport.
* * * *
C. P. Mountford, whose color-movie
of the Musgrave Range abos. won the
Sherlock Gold Cup, has a show of mono-
chrome stills at the Kodak Co.’s gallery,
Sydney a very complete record of
topography, ethnology, mythology,
geology and any other ologies lying
about in those regions. Like the cinema
film, most of these pictures rub it in
that the Pakeozoic-Age abo,, unworried
by civilisation, is a merry soul, immune
from boredom and on the best of terms
with his (and her) environment. These
people have life and liberty and the right
to pursue happiness, which is a darned
sight more than millions of civilised folk
can say today.
* * * *
An unusual show in Adelaide is a
collection called “England Through the
Centuries,” arranged by the Friends of
the Public Library war charities to
benefit. The library itself has produced
many of its treasures not usually seen,
and private collectors, with Government
House giving a lead, have rallied round
with exhibits. In a historical show of
this kind everything goes, from horn-
books and samplers to Baxter prints and
illuminated missals. Miss Kilmeny Symon
presides over it—a daughter of the noted
K.C. of the past generation.
* * * *
Roland Wakelin’s exhibition at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, is, for this
painter, a static rather than a dynamic
display. His Cezannelike style lends itself
to the effective portrayal of movement,
but in these latest pictures there is little
movement. “Storm in the City” is an
exception. “Moonlight,” despite its de-
liberate clumsiness, testifies truthfully.
“Macquarie Street” realises a certain
aspect of Sydney. “Judith in Blue” is a
fair portrait of its sort, but the hands
obtrude.
* * * ♦
E. Alsop, Yvonne Atkinson, Clothilde
Atyeo, George Bell, Rupert Bunny, Nutter
Buzacott, C. Russell Drysdale and others
are holding a first show at Melbourne
Athenaeum under the name of the Mel-
bourne Contemporary Artists. They
appear to be a schism or secession from
the Contemporary Art Society, but, if
so, it is a distinction without a difference.
Breakaways are in no way inferior
to the parent body in the arts of dis-
tortion, malformation, attenuation and
perverse perspective. Rupert Bunny has
a huge soft study of some figures, and
George Bell mixes his early style with his
new method in some flowers. The sculp-
ture is on all fours with the painting.
* * * *
Max Ragless’s show of oils and
water-colors at the Velasquez, Mel-
bourne, has interest for his faithful
preservation of the picturesque old
architecture of South Australia’s rural
beginnings. Mannum, Noarlunga, Gum-
meracha and the old German settlers’
townships with their old stone houses
could no more be mistaken for the
raw Victorian country than could Java.
Ragless has also indulged his taste for
the picturesque in the Ma State and
Victoria,
STAGE AND CONCERT
At A.B.C.’s Thursday-night concert at
Sydney Town Hall, Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, under Bernard Heinze, went
through Siloti’s reorchestration of a
Vivaldi violin concerto acceptably. Also
an extract from De Falla’s “Three-
cornered Hat” suite. The more seri-
ous business of the evening was the
Saint-Saens Pianoforte Concerto in G
Minor with Friedman as soloist —a work
that always recalls an insipid doll clothed
in gorgeous vestments —and Walton’s
Symphony. The last-named work is
nebulous in outline, obscure in idiom
and, to most listeners, devoid of mean-
“ Pac k up your troubles in your old
kitbag
And smile , smile, smile!”
ing, but it is good manners to applaud
that sort of thing, and Sydney audiences
are nothing if not good-mannered.
* * * *
Anderson Tyrer, who was once assist-
ant conductor to Sir Thomas Beecham,
is the A.B.C.’s latest conductor, and at
last week’s orchestral concert at Mel-
bourne Town Hall he seemed to know
what he was doing. The orchestra was
as alert as usual, and the programme
was a good one. The Schubert-Liszt
“Wanderer” Fantasia, with Vera Brad-
ford doing elegant solo work at the
piano ; the Richard Strauss tone poem
“Don Juan,” and the Bach Fantasia and
Fugue in G Minor occupied the first
half of the evening, the last-named
having been rearranged for the modern
orchestra by the conductor so that Bach’s
clear line only occasionally emerged from
Mr. Tyrer’s paletteful of color. There
were some nice passages of playing in
the long Vaughan Williams “London”
symphony, with its medley of city sights,
sounds, smells, populai tunes and street
calls.
* * * *
Victorian National Gallery trustees
provided one of the best free concerts of
the season at the Stawell last week, and
it was heavily attended. It would be
difficult to imagine a bit of better music
than the “Trout” quintet of Schubert or
more spirited playing than Frank Thorne
(violin), Mischa Kogan (viola), Mederic
Fraillon (’cello), G. Fraillon (double
bass) and Carl Bartling (piano) gave it.
The scherzo was especially delightful. A
second pleasant item was the oboe play-
ing of Charles McFee in the Mozart
quartet for oboe and strings. Arnold
Matters sang a group of Schubert lieder
and rippled easily through the final
number. In a modern group a song by
Peter Warlock was the most attractive.
* * * *
A long and successful season of Gil-
sullivan opera at Melbourne His Majesty’s
finishes on October 30, closing items
being “Gondoliers” and “Yeomen.” On
the following evening “Susan and God”
will establish a new Australasian record
across the way at the Comedy with its
180th performance. Previous record-
holder is “Sally,” under Josie Melville
auspices nine years ago in Sydney. De-
spite slopwork meetings of employees
and dollar-exchange bans, legit., though
small, is remarkably healthy in Mel-
bourne.
AT THE TALKIES
The theme of Noel Coward’s “Bitter
Sweet” being more substantial than most
of its kind, it requires some moderate
acting to back it up. In the technicolor
screen version at Sydney St. James the
singing of Nelson Eddy and Jeanette
MacDonald calls for no comment (though
at times they seem a little stale in
combination), but their acting borders
on the infantile. When it comes to
Eddy doing a juicy and particularly
dramatic death scene proceedings simply
fold up. The musical side of the show
is, however, up to standard, and color
photography is becoming recognised as
a universal balm and mend-all.
ffi 9K Jit
Reasons for inspecting the current bill
at Wynyard Newsreel Theatrette include
a Gaumont-British reel containing ex-
tracts from a captured German propa-
ganda film. It’s a pretty gruesome docu-
ment of ruined cities and mangled bodies
and a sharp statement on what war means
to the country in which it is fought. An-
other war film of a different nature, but
one which should have the same arrest-
ing effect as the Nazi piece, is a British
Ministry of Information release. Made
up of excellently photographed English
scenes its commentary consists of appro-
priate lines from Milton, Blake, Brown-
ing, Kipling and Lincoln, finely spoken
by Laurence Olivier.
* * * *
“The Face Behind the Mask” is a poor
title for the current offering at Sydney
Capitol—it gives a penny-dreadful im-
pression which the film doesn’t deserve.
At times, and particularly in the ending,
it lapses into fruity melodrama, but it
has redeeming features. One is Peter
Lorre, who always does a good job, and
is here given something a bit better than
he has had for some time ; another is
George E. Stone as a likeable and rather
commendable underworld rat who be-
friends Lorre; and there are some
moments of well-handled pathos in
the story of a man badly disfigured in
an accident and his friendship with a girl
blind from childhood. Part of an enter-
taining bill, other dishes being a frothy
comedy, “Angels with Broken Wings,”
and a good bunch of shorts.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Preconceived ideas concerning Aus-
tralia’s champion three-year-old were
shattered when Tea Cake, a gelding, and
therefore ineligible for the Victoria
Derby, defeated the best colts and fillies
of his age in the Caulfield Guineas, run
at Flemington on Saturday. Firming
from twelves to sevens, he won a close
finish from the outsiders, The Trapper
and Gay Revelry.
Honors of the race were with Tea
Cake, who took the field up to the tear-
away All Love, and then battled on
gamely to win, but it might be unwise
to take too much notice of Guineas
form. All Love, streaking away to an
eight-lengths lead near the half-mile, ran
some of the less brilliant runners right
off their legs, and, in their efforts to keep
in reasonable touch with her, they were
left without anything in reserve for the
finish. This applied particularly to the
A.J.C. Derby winner Laureate, who
finished fifth after looking the winner
for a stride or two in the straight. Three
horses passed Laureate over the last fur-
long and a half, but in view of the
manner in which the race was run it will
not surprise if he reverses positions with
them in the Derby.
Skipton and High Road, who started
equal favorites with Laureate at 3 to 1,
also let their backers down badly. High
Road was never a possibility and finished
nearly last, but Skipton made up con-
siderable ground to run fourth, about
three lengths behind the winner. He ran
on better than Laureate, but, whereas the
latter was forced along early, Skipton
was allowed to take his time. Chatham’s
Choice, third in the A.J.C. Derby, lugged
out badly all the way and was never dan-
gerous, while It’s Funny, who finished
fourth in the Randwick classic, was un-
impressive.
• •••*•
The Trapper, always a good track gal-
loper, showed the best form of his career,
and, according to his rider, V. Hartney,
was unlucky to lose. His long run
finished just before the post, but Hartney
considers that he may have won had he
not been jammed inside Laureate at the
half-mile. Gay Revelry, a 75gns. year-
ling, battled on particularly well, and his
good form seemingly emphasised the mis-
fortune experienced by connections of
Millais. Millais defeated Gay Revelry
in decisive style at Mentone recently, and
would have been a Guineas and Derby
runner had he not injured himself while
galloping last week.
Doubts existed early last week whether
Tea Cake would be able to take his place
in the Guineas field. He fell on the roads
subsequent to running second to Skipton
in the Moonee Valley Stakes, and the re-
sultant injury to his off foreleg necessi-
tated frequent applications of hot foments
and salt-water packs. To be on the safe
side his trainer, P. B. Quinlan, requested
the club’s veterinary surgeon to inspect
him on the course before Saturday’s race,
and it was agreed that the gelding was
fit to run.
With five wins, three seconds and three
thirds. Tea Cake has been a splendid pro-
position at the 210 guineas he cost Mr.
and Mrs. E. G. Brook as a yearling. He
is a smallish gelding by Manitoba from
Avert, but carries weight well, and is
game. His dam is a half-sister to Metel-
lus. The Tyrant and Taisho, the last-
named of whom won races for Quinlan
and influenced him in his choice of Tea
Cake at the yearling sales. Tea Cake
was not entered for either of the Cups,
and it is unlikely he will race again until
the second day of the V.R.C. spring
meeting.
Historian renewed fading Caulfield Cup
hopes by a decisive win from Rainbar
and Sir Richard in the Herbert Power
Handicap. He had to survive a protest,
but, although his rider, Breasley, was
severely reprimanded for causing inter-
ference to Sir Richard and, to a lesser
extent, Rainbar near the finish, stewards
took the view that Historian had the race
won at the time. Historian, carrying 41b.
more than his Cup weight, drew right
away on the post and wound up with two
lengths to spare. Obviously he is improv-
ing with racing, and must now be con-
ceded a fair chance of improving on his
third in last year’s Caulfield Cup. His
owner, Darcy Eccles, won both Cups with
The Trump in 1937.
Although he weakened to finish seventh
after chasing the pacemaker, Rainbar,
for a good part of the trip, Velocity lost
none of his Caulfield Cup admirers. He
carried 131 b. more than his Cup weight,
and, in addition, appeared to be used
too freely. He ran his race “upside down,”
but, if ridden more quietly next Satur-
day, when his weight drops from 9.2 to
8.3, is certain to be hard to beat.
Palencia’s fourth was a creditable per-
formance with 171 b. more than his Cup
weight of 6.9, but Carpentier, Sir Locket
and Sun Belle disappointed.
Toorak Handicap winners and place-
getters have won four Caulfield Cups in
the last 13 years, and Sun Valley drew
attention to his Cup chance by a strik-
ing even though narrow win from War-
bird and Panka in the mile race on Satur-
day. Backed to favoritism, he looked to
be hopelessly shut in a furlong from
home, but Badger was able to extricate
him about 50 yards from the post and
Sun Valley, with a remarkable burst,
won by a neck and a head. He carried
8.12, or 21b. more than his Cup weight,
and cannot be rehandicapped. Sun Valley
ran third to Pandect and Lucrative in
the A.J.C. Derby, but that race was run
at a muddling pace, and some doubts
exist concerning his ability to get li mile.
He has raced beyond a mile only three
times, however, and on Saturday’s per-
formance is better now than ever. Like
the Guineas winner Tea Cake, he is by
Manitoba.
Panka looked like adding to his win-
ning sequence when he received a run
between the pacemaker, Warbird, and
the rails about a furlong and a half from
home, but he was somewhat crowded for
room toward the finish, and his defeat
does not discount his chance in the Can-
tala Stakes. Amiable and Carlton ran
considerably below expectations, but
Crojick’s fourth was an encouraging per-
formance, and the Adelaide mare, Miss
Wolta, shaped fairly in fifth position. All
Veil ran last and apparently has lost
form.
Regarded as two of the best bets of the
day on the strength of their wins in the
divisions of the Maribyrnong Trial
Stakes, Great Britain, 6 to 4 on, and
Lady Valiant, even money, cost backers
collective fortunes in the Debutant and
Debutante Stakes respectively. Each was
beaten into second place.
Missing the jump slightly. Great
Britain did not show the brilliance ex-
pected of him, and, although he ran on
fairly, never quite looked like overtaking
the Adelaide gelding Ducal, who was one
of the leaders throughout. Ducal won
rather well in time a second faster than that
registered by Abound in the Debutante
Stakes, but he will have his work cut
out to defeat Hesione in the Maribyrnong
Plate. Win or lose that race, however,
he has already been a good proposition
for joint-owners R. Hope, J. Netter and
W. Lapthorne, two races in Adelaide
before his arrival in Melbourne having
yielded a first and a second. By Duke
John from Oudh, he was bred by Hope,
and is trained by J. M. Brett, who has
made previous successful trips to Victoria
with Indignity and Apostrophe. Bal-
crest, a 310-guineas Shakuni colt, shaped
well in third place, but Haros was un-
lucky. Chopped right out at the start,
he did well to finish fourth.
Luck of the race was against Lady
Valiant in the Debutante Stakes, and
Abound, who received an uninterrupted
run throughout, defeated her by a length.
Abound (Gay Lothario-Enough) cost
A. G. Newman only 180 guineas as a
yearling, and, as Saturday’s win was worth
£7OO in stakes alone, she is already a
splendid bargain. No excuse was pos-
sible for Miss Understood, who finished
third, and Busybody also weakened over
the last half-furlong.
Frill King, a brother to the Moonee
Valley Cup winner Frill Prince, and
raced in the same interests, earned a
Caulfield Cup start when he outstayed
Veiled Promise and Triton in the 1010
Trial Handicap, mile. He carried 8.2,
as against his Cup weight of 6.12, but
the jump from restricted to Cup company
may be too difficult an obstacle for him
to surmount. A four-year-old entire by
Frilford from Soporific, Frill King im-
presses as sure to improve, but he is still
somewhat green, and his habit of drop-
ping a long way out of his ground early
will not help him in a large Cup field.
He comes from a good family, as, in
addition to Frill Prince, his dam has pro-
duced Yarramba (Williamstown Cup
winner and runner-up to Peter Pan in
the 1932 Melbourne Cup) and other
winners. Feature of the betting on the
1010 Trial was a plunge on Shanghai.
He firmed from 12 to 1 to favoritism at
fours, but was never a likely winner.
The A.J.C.’s spring meeting was a
success from start to finish. It was
favored by fine weather, the racing was
excellent, the attendance for the four
days approximated 204,500 against
164,220 last year, and the tote turnover
advanced to £272,131 from £222,107. All
of which makes good reading, in view
of the club’s profits going to war funds.
Furthermore, two of the principal races
went to F. W. Hughes, who is similarly
donating 20 per cent, of all his horses’
winnings,
E. J. Watt started off with two wins
on Saturday, the first being in the Canon-
bury Stakes, His successful represen-
tative was the compactly-built Buland-
shar-Cereza colt Baroda, one of his own
breeding. There was nothing out of the
ordinary in Brinawa’s showing in the
Breeders’ Plate, but the fact of Munro
being his rider caused him to open and
close favorite. He ran third, but, as in
the Breeders’ Plate, finished behind the
Beau Pere colt Yarrawonga, owned by
American film magnate L. B. Mayer.
Neither had a chance against Baroda,
who went to the front entering the
straight, and from that out had matters all
his own way. Queensland filly Good In-
tentions again missed the jump-out, but
ran fourth. Fort Worth, a Fanfare colt,
was the early leader, but, though actually
first into the straight, finished last.
Mildura’§ run in the Craven Plate
improved him to the extent of enabling
him to win the Waverley Handicap,
though it was by only a head he de-
feated Goose Boy, who led into the
straight from Yours Truly and Santa.
Munro rode Mildura very patiently,
being content to let him run along in
a backward position for the first seven
furlongs. It was Mildura’s second race
since he was third in the Canterbury
Park Cup last May. Prior to that race
he won the Doncaster with 9.3, and then
missed a place in the C. W. Cropper
Plate. Gundagai was a moderate third,
followed by Santa, who should win at
one of the minor meetings. Binnia Hero
was last, and temporarily appears to have
lost all form.
Flying Knight, improved by his recent
hard runs, accounted for the Chester
Handicap, in which he was behind Happy
Bay, Fly and Soho turning for home.
Happy Bay fought it out gamely, but,
though Flying Knight does not look a
welter horse, and carried 10.0, he lasted
a little too long for the mare. Flying
Knight has raced so consistently of late
in filling minor places that his owner
deserved the win. Winnipeg in third
place was very little ahead of Fly and
Soho, while Rodborough, who was
nearest them, is on his way to a return
to the winning list. High-priced Beau
Port ran fairly, though without his chance
ever being a winning one, and he may
shortly be operated on for respiratory
trouble.
Veiled Threat, who was never dan-
gerous in the Metropolitan with 8.5 and
was harshly treated when weighted within
51b. of Mildura in the Waverley Handi-
cap, was withdrawn from that race in
order to tackle the Randwick Plate, in
which, at least, second money of £l6O
was a certainty. Hurdler Mag Mort and
old Hope—his second run of the day—
helped to make up a disappointing field
for a £lOOO w.f.a. race. Each of the last-
mentioned two had a turn in the lead,
but Dashing Cavalier was in charge six
furlongs from home, and won at his
ease from Veiled Threat, who tried hard
to get on terms at the top of the straight.
The pace was fast enough throughout
to enable Dashing Cavalier to get Bsec.
inside the time limit of 3.35.
Yaralla may not stay, but he is an
undeniably good miler. He really looked
better on Saturday than on Derby day.
After permitting Linemond to make the
early running in the Grantham Stakes
Yaralla settled him at the top of the
straight, and had no difficulty in stalling
off Thrax, notwithstanding that the latter
finished ahead of him in the Derby.
There was no merit in Beau Son’s third.
He was unable to come on after being
fairly placed at the bend, and Dick Whit-
tington and Linemond can be dismissed
as being of moderate handicap class. As
Yaralla carried 8.7, and easily ran the
mile in 1.35| —half a second outside the
Randwick record —it was a really good
performance from a time-making stand-
point.
The Final Handicap saw Katanga bring
his earnings in a month up to £ll60 —
three wins and a second —and as such
a record at Randwick is unusual that
horse’s owner should have a kindly feel-
ing towards the handicapper for not over-
rating him. Grand Fils’s backers reckoned
he was unlucky to be beaten, and if he
had got a clear run after entering the
straight instead of being shut in the
result might have been different. How-
ever, Katanga came from a long way
back at the five furlongs to win by a
head, and right at the post was doing
better than Grand Fils. Lord Valentine
was one of the whippers-in for six fur-
longs, but though his run in the straight
appeared to give him a chance half a
furlong from home he was well beaten
by the first two. Breeze, attended by
Omapo, made most of the running, but
both tired in the straight, and behind the
place-getters Salivant was the only runner
doing even fairly at the finish.
* * * *
The weight-for-age honors of the
A.J.C. meeting were with Beau Vite, who
in the Craven Plate made an Australian
record of 2.1| for a mile and three-
quarters. He is the best horse at a mile
and a quarter that has raced in Australia
for some time, but, good as he is, suc-
cess in either the Caulfield Cup or Mel-
bourne Cup is going to be a stiff task.
With 9.12 in one and 9.10 in the other
he cannot afford to have the least bad
luck, and there may be some difficulty
in avoiding that, particularly in the Caul-
field Cup.
Dashing Cavalier’s second to Beau Vite
in the Colin Stephen Stakes and his win
in the Randwick Plate placed him second
in the w.f.a. class. There was nothing
fluky in his defeat of Lucrative for
second in the Colin Stephen Stakes, and
ir was only the doubt as to his being in
the same humor that caused him to be
at a liberal price for the Metropolitan.
Owner Hughes expressed regret that Dash-
ing Cavalier was not opposed by Beau Vite
in the Randwick Plate. Probably it was
as well for him that it was so, as there
was no reason for supposing the result
would have differed from their meeting
on the first day.
...•*•
Excuses were made for High Caste s
moderate showing in the Craven Plate, the
hard going allegedly troubling him, but the
real reason probably was that his Epsom
effort took more out of him than sup-
posed. He beat Mildura for third in the
Craven Plate, but the chances are he
would not have done so if Mildura had
CAULFIELD CUP SELECTIONS.
By “ PILOT .”
TRIGGERMAN .. .. 1
BEAU VITE 2
LUCRATIVE 3
(Our Melbourne Representative .)
LUCRATIVE 1
BEAU VITE 2
VELOCITY or EL GOLEA 3
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT .”
Two-year-old Stakes (colts and
geldings): Mardevon, 1 ; Brinawa,
2 ; Marwin, 3.
Two-year-old Stakes (fillies):
Oriole or Easy Mark, 1 ; Flying
Shuttle, 2 ; Corroboree, 3.
Quality Handicap: Tuhitarata,
1 ; Session, 2 ; Hydra, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Hench-
man, 1 ; Condignity, 2 ; Kimbell, 3.
Hawkesbury Grand Handicap:
Santa, 1 ; Sedunum, 2; Lord Valen-
tine, 3.
Rowley Handicap: Rodborough,
1 ; Merrimba, 2; Rhythmic, 3.


been as good in that race as on Saturday.
High Caste has done a lot of hard racing,
and he is such a heavy-bodied horse that
it would not be surprising if it was com-
mencing to tell upon him.
Reading’s good second to Beau Vite
in die Craven Plate proved that he was
nearly as good as at any previous time,
and he should be worth the 2000gns. at
which he was sold to “Mr. Aries” at
auction on Friday. I am writing prior
to Caulfield Cup acceptances, but pre-
sumably he will remain in, and, meeting
Beau Vite 121 b. better than Craven Plate
terms, it would be impossible to deny
him a chance of beating the latter. The
trouble is that Reading now scarcely
appears to stay as well as when, with 9.0,
he ran second to Beau Vite (9.4) in last
year’s Metropolitan. In a Caulfield Cup
connection it must also be remembered
that in the recent Metropolitan Reading,
with 8.12, finished well behind Lucrative
and Triggerman, and will respectively
meet them 11b. and 81b. worse.
* * * *
Katanga never showed better form
than in the two handicaps he won at
Randwick last week. Weighted at 8.2
for the Metropolitan, it is probable the
handicapper would now rate him quite
the equal of Reading. For the Waverley
Handicap on Saturday Reading was
allotted 9.9, Mildura 9.5, Katanga 9.4
and Evergreen 9.3. Katanga was with-
drawn in favor of the Final Handicap,
and his win in that would send him up
a few pounds. Katanga, sixth in last
year’s Caulfield Cup with 8.7, had 8.2
this time, but was not an acceptor.
Neither Freckles nor Evergreen ran again
after the Epsom, and the former, who has
since been bought by a patron of F.
Dalton’s stable, is unlikely to race again
until the autumn.
* He * *
Caulfield Guineas form raised further
doubt as to whether any of the three-
year-olds that ran in the A.J.C. Derby
were out of the ordinary. The pace set
by All Love in the Guineas seemingly
took most of her opponents off their
legs, but it was disappointing to read
that Laureate, after gaining the lead in
the straight, was unequal to running on.
However, he again finished ahead of
Chatham’s Choice, It’s Funny and Mur-
muring, who were behind him in the
A.J.C. Derby. I am confident Laureate
will do better at a mile and a half than
at a shorter distance, but he was not
more impressive in the Guineas than
Skipton, and probabilities now favor the
latter starting favorite for the Victoria
Derby. If Galliard runs well in the Caul-
field Cup he will enter into calculations,
but at present there seems little likelihood
of anything touching the 11 to 8 at
which Lucrative won last year’s Victoria
Derby.
* ♦ * *
D. Munro was in top form at the
A.J.C. meeting, winning seven races,
worth a total of £4660. If he received
only the 5 per cent, provided for by the
rules that would mean £230, but it is
certain his reward was much greater.
It is easy to praise success, but when
one of Munro’s mounts fails it is most
unusual to hear it alleged that its defeat
was due to being checked in running or
pocketed. Munro has the happy knack
of avoiding those troubles. J. Thompson
was second in the winning list with three
wins, and E. Bartle and F. Shean were
next with two each. Of the trainers B.
Payten had most wins, but his four car-
ried considerably less in prize-money
than J. W. McCurley’s three wins and
two seconds. The latter’s total was
£5340, and that of Payten, with the addi-
tion of two seconds, £2395. H. Freed-
man, with one first, a second and a third,
put together £4700.
* * * *
Hall Stand’s good second in the
Breeders’ Plate caused the Gimcrack
Stakes to be reckoned a certainty for his
stable-companion Hesione, the better of
the two on track form. Hesione, a half-
sister, by Brueghel, to Ajax, won at her
ease in 1.1, the same time Bangster
recorded in the Breeders’ Plate, The
assumed name of “T. Seven” represents
the number of people interested in
Hesione. At a little social gathering one
night one of the party jokingly remarked
to breeder A. E. Thompson “Put us on
to a good horse.” “Right,” was the
reply, “you can all have an interest in
Hesione.” The offer was immediately
closed with, and the filly is raced by that
breeder and six friends.
* * # «
Thanks to Dashing Cavalier, Constant
Son was an easy first in prize-money in
the winning sires’ list at the A.J.C. spring
meeting, his total being £4BOO for two
wins, a first and a second. The Buzzard
and Beau Pere each had three wins. One
Maoriland and three Australian-bred
sires had a winner each—Veilmond (Rim-
veil), Peter Pan (Red Pete), Pentheus
and Manfred (Mildura).
In Sydney on Monday the horses prin-
cipally fancied for the Caulfield and
Melbourne Cups were;
CAULFIELD CUP.
Beau Vite.
Lucrative.
Rimveil.
High Caste, Velocity.
Historian.
El Golea, Evergreen, Sun Valley, Triggerman.
Galliard, Rivette, Reading, Tranquil Star.
MELBOURNE CUP.
Beau Vite.
Lucrative.
Laureate.
Saul.
Galliard, Skipton, Velocity.
Dashing Cavalier.
Pandect.
♦ * * ♦
In a recent issue, when writing of three-
year-old winners of the Melbourne Cup
since Peter Pan, I overlooked Hall Mark,
who scored in 1933. Nuffield, second
favorite in 1938, was unplaced, and
Pandect and Lucrative —A.J.C. and Vic-
toria Derby winner respectively fared
similarly last year with 7.6.
» * * *
In his weights for the Moonee Valley
Cup, 1 mile 5 furlongs, handicapper
G. A. Davis gives a tip that he thinks
Beau Vite is going to find Historian a
tough opponent in the Caulfield Cup. In
the latter Historian receives 161 b. from
Beau Vite, but in his Moonee Valley
Cup weights, issued after last Saturday’s
racing at Flemington, Davis put only
101 b. between them. Historian has 8.10
in the Caulfield Cup, against 8.4 when
third last year,
* * * *
At the top of the straight in the
Metropolitan not more than half a dozen
horses were possibilities as place-getters
—Triggerman, Gundagai, Goose Boy,
Chatoona and Dashing Cavalier. Gun-
dagai and Triggerman assisted to settle
each other, Chatoona and Goose Boy
weakened over the final furlong, and
Lucrative was carried out by Triggerman
and Chatoona at the straight entrance.
Photographs show that Dashing Cavalier
was behind Lucrative at that stage, but
a clear run near the rails over the last
furlong greatly contributed to Dashing
Cavalier’s success. However, the result
went towards confirming the correctness
of Colin Stephen Stakes form. In that
race Dashing Cavalier was behind Lucra-
tive turning for home, beat him for second
in the last few strides, and met him 71b.
better in the Metropolitan. Early in the day
at Randwick Lucrative was at 5 to 2 for
the Metrop. and Dashing Cavalier at
14 to 1. I met several backers who,
taking Colin Stephen Stakes running as a
guide, reckoned the latter better value at
those odds than the favorite, and bene-
fited accordingly.
* * * *
Rimveil’s light rehandicap for the
Caulfield Cup surprised many racing men,
but Clem Hill could not well have given
more, seeing that, with his additional 41b.,
Rimveil will meet High Caste 61b. worse
than when only a head divided them at
the finish of the Epsom. If High Caste
had missed a place Rimveil might have
received another pound or two, but 61b.
is a substantial difference when it is
remembered that, though he has finished
as if he would get a distance, Rimveil
is not the possessor of as good staying
credentials as High Caste. The latter has
won at a mile and three-quarters at
weight-for-age, and with 9.7 ran second
in the Wilfiamstown Cup at a mile and
a half, that race being run at Flemington.
Nevertheless, as, bearing on High
Caste’s Caulfield Cup chance, Craven
Plate form did not put it in a good light.
With Reading making the running from
Beau Vite, that race was run to suit High
Caste, but he died away after making a
short-lived effort that took him up close
to Beau Vite entering the straight, and
he only narrowly beat Mildura for third.
As High Caste had no chance against
Beau Vite at level weights at a mile and
a quarter, his prospects of beating him
at an extra quarter-mile, even though
he will be in receipt of 51b., do not appear
bright. A well-known trainer, in com-
menting on High Caste’s Caulfield Cup
chance after his Craven Plate run, re-
marked : “I think a mile-and-a-half
handicap in good company will always
bother High Caste, even though he was
second in the Williamstown Cup. He
will run well, no doubt, but the chances
are the last bit will stop him in the Caul-
field Cup. How is he going to beat Read-
ing if the latter is in the same humor as
on Wednesday? He will meet him 91b.
worse.”
A little while ago Beau Vite’s owner
was credited with saying his ambition
was to win a Melbourne Cup with that
horse, but he subsequently wisely decided
that the Caulfield Cup, with its £5OOO
and a trophy of £l5O for first, was worth
considering. The Melbourne Cup winner
receives £5250 and a £2OO trophy, and
Beau Vite can still tackle that race with
9.10 if he fails in the Caulfield Cup, in
which he has 9.12. Should he win, it is
improbable he will be heavily penalised
for the Melbourne Cup, though handi-
capper Davis may give him sufficient —
a little over 10.0 —to enter the ranks of
the “truly great” in the event of success.
Carbine won with 10.5, Archer 10.2 and
Poitrel 10.0. Seconds were Mormon 10.1,
Carbine (beaten by Bravo) 10.0 and
Wakeful 10.0. Commotion was third
with 10.1. What the owner and trainer
think of Beau Vite’s Caulfield Cup chance
is summarised in the fact that, in order
to avoid any delay in sending him to
Melbourne, they passed the £760 that
appeared easy money for him in last
Saturday’s Randwick Plate.
Beau Vite gave Lucrative 51b. and a
beating in the Colin Stephen Stakes, and
101 b. separates them in the Caulfield Cup
and 91b. in the Melbourne Cup. On
those figures Beau Vite again reads the
better of the two, and though Lucrative
made such a great bid for the Metropoli-
tan it must not be overlooked that in
the Caulfield Cup he will meet Trigger-
man (third) 71b. worse. He may have
beaten the latter that much, but the fur-
long-shorter distance will be in Trigger-
man’s favor. It was thought there would
be difficulty in securing a capable rider
at 6.9 for the latter. Percival was at
first mentioned, but with him a little
overweight would have been unavoidable,
and Podmore has now been definitely
engaged. In giving Triggerman 7.6 in
the Melbourne Cup the V.R.C. handi-
capper expressed a higher opinion of him
than either the A.J.C. or V.A.T.C. handi-
capper.
* * * *
The “Sydney Morning Herald's” Stal-
lion Register for 1941 was recently issued,
and not only contains the breeding of
most stallions doing stud duty in N.S.W.
but the photographs of nearly all. The
Register represents a lot of hard work,
and does credit to the compiler,, C. A.
McQuillan.
• ♦ « «
The opinion that 80,000 on the recent
occasion was a record attendance for
Randwick on Derby Day is erroneous.
The greatest Derby Day crowd was
85,049 in 1926, that being the year Ram-
pion beat Limerick, favorite for the
Derby. It was the same afternoon that
Windbag (5 to 2 on) was beaten by
Spearfelt (10 to 1) in the Spring Stakes.
In the spring of 1922, when Beauford
beat Gloaming in the Spring Stakes,
and Rivoli won the A.J.C. Derby
81,396 were present, and 80,050 in 1924
when Gloaming defeated David and
Ballymena in the Spring Stakes. In 1923,
when Ballymena won the Derby, there
was an attendance of 79,476.
Randwick’s record crowd, however,
was 92,287 on St. Leger day, 1922. The
attraction was the meeting of Beauford
and Eurythmic in the Autumn Stakes.
Eurythmic, who was believed by his
Melbourne admirers to be invincible, was
a 2-to-l-on favorite, Beauford being 2
to 1 against. The latter won by four
lengths from Sister Olive, with Eurythmic
third, two lengths further back.
* * # *
The four-year-old Czadas (Bahram-
Premiere Danseuse, by Phalaris), jointly
purchased by H. S. Thompson, P. C.
Basche and R. C. Allen, started six or
seven times in England last year and
won once, a mile-and-a-quarter race at
Thirsk. His best subsequent effort was
his fifth, with 7.12, in a big field in
the Manchester November Handicap, \\
mile, that run pointing to him as a
stayer. His sire Bahrain, who was sold
for £40,000 to an American syndicate,
did not do well after arriving in that
country, and though advertised for stud
duty at the commencement of this year
was withdrawn. Since then Bahrain has
made satisfactory progress, and he is to
have his first American season next year.
%l Jfc #
Pentheus, who has proved a greater
stud success than many other stallions
who are at a much higher fee than the
40gns. he commands, was a good miler,
his wins including the Caulfield Guineas
and Yan Yean Stakes, while among his
minor placings were second in the Craven
Plate and thirds in the Epsom, Villiers
Stakes and Cantala Stakes. His son
Bangster, winner of the A.J.C. Breeders’
Plate, and who is better than he looks,
is not very fashionably bred on the
maternal side, being by Wedge from Miss
Dixie, by Eaton Lad from Little Dixie.
Bangster cost Mrs. J. Sterling only 70gns.
as a yearling, and is game, as well as
speedy. Hall Stand (second), who is
raced by his breeder, H. S. Thompson,
is by Hall Mark from Trasina, by
Woorak from Rosina, by The Welkin ;
and High Flight (third) is by Melfort
from Queen Balak (dam of Prince Ariel
and Milanja), by Moabite from Sita, by
Comedy King. His yearling price was
210gns.
* * * *
Australian racing men who wish to
keep in touch with Maoriland form can
easily do so by subscribing £2 ss. yearly
to “N.Z. Raceform,” published by Organ
Bros., Manners-street, Wellington.
* * * m
It may interest Australian sellers of
horses to know that before their annual
sales of yearlings at Saratoga in August
the Fasig-Tipton Co. sent out a notice to
all consignors drawing attention to the
portion of the laws of the State of New
York covering auctions horses and
everything else. It read as follows:
Where notice has not been given that a
sale by auction is subject to a right to bid
on behalf of the seller, it shall not be lawful
for the seller to bid himself or to employ
or induce any person to bid at such sale
on his behalf, or for the auctioneer to
employ or induce any person to bid at such
sale on behalf of the seller or knowingly
to take any bid from the seller or any
person employed by him. Any sale contra-
vening this rule may be treated as fraudu-
lent by the buyer.
The penalty for infringement of the
law is imprisonment for 30 days, or a
fine not exceeding $lOO. The notice from
the auctioneers was due to owners either
employing agents to raise the prices on
genuine bidders or to buy in their horses
if they did not reach what they regarded
as satisfactory prices. Such practices
are not entirely unknown in Australia.
* * * *
The cabled announcement of the sale
at auction at Newmarket of the 11-year-
old mare Carpet Slipper (Phalaris-Simon’s
Shoes) for 14,000gns. to the Brownston
Stud, Ireland, points to remarkable
optimism prevailing as to the future of
breeding and racing in England. For
Ireland and its racing alone no brood
mare would be worth nearly the price
mentioned. Carpet Slipper’s daughter
Godiva won the One Thousand Guineas
and Oaks, but met with an accident, and
was destroyed. As a yearling Carpet
Slipper was sold for 400gns., and three
years ago with a filly foal at foot by
Hyperion for 2000gns.
Carpet Slipper’s price does not con-
stitute an English record for a brood
mare. Straightlace'was sold at auction
for 17,000gns. to the French breeder,
E. Esmond. She was not a stud success.
The Australian record is the 5100gns.
paid by A. T. Creswick for Chersonese
(dam of Heroic) at the Arrowfield Stud
sale.
* * * V
An American manager struck a new
idea in connection with admission charge.
On the opening day at Rockingham Park
(Salem) on July 21—the day the Govern-
ment’s defence aluminium drive began—
he decided that the price of admission
should be a piece of aluminium. At the
close of the day he collected 8127 pieces
of aluminium, ranging from thimbles to
boilers, and there were many racing plates
in the collection. It is difficult to
imagine a similar idea appealing to any
Australian club —especially of the pro-
prietary class.
* * * *
G. Price is not going to Melbourne or
Brisbane this year for spring racing. Mil-
dura was not entered for anything at
Flemington, and though The Champion
was in the Brisbane Derby it was decided
that a rest would probably benefit him
more than a trip north. The trainer
is thinking, too, of giving himself a fort-
night’s spell away from Sydney.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Mickey Miller has lost his Australian
featherweight title at last —to “Kid”
Young at Melbourne Stadium. Both men
came in under the featherweight limit,
and there was very little between them,
but that little was to the advantage of
Young, He’s in camp as a compulsory
trainee, and military life seems to be
agreeing with him.
* * * ♦
Tommy Johns (9.6) and “Young” Gildo
(9.9) ambled along for 12 rounds at
Leichhardt, and Johns got the decision,
mainly because he was busier than the
no-longer juvenile Filipino, who fought
his fight in patches. One or other may
be matched with Patrick.
Miscellaneous
“Ad.”; Norwood’s S.A. football pre-
miership win was full of incident. In
the first final Sturt stoushed it by 77
points, but it beat West Adelaide and
then turned round and belted Sturt by
100 to 71.
* * * *
“Ex-Vic.”; Melburnians are the most
confirmed football followers on earth.
Over 75,000 of them rolled up to the
V. League final and, with League
games, no fewer than 36,289 paid £2333
to see Port Melbourne beat Coburg by
15.18 to 11.23 in the Association final.
There’s a proposal afoot for a match
between Melbourne (League premiers)
and Port for patriotic funds, but it’s
hardly likely to draw because it would be
a one-horse race. A better scheme would
be a game between Melbourne and the
winner of a match between the SA. and
W. premiers.


Divorce Notice.
IN ' THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1666 of 1941.
BETWEEN JOHN REGINALD McVILLY,
Petitioner and
ANNIE MAY McVILLY Respondent.
TO ANNIE MAY McVILLY late of Hobart
in the State of Tasmania.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JOHN
REGINALD McVILLY has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Seventh day of January One thousand nine
hundred and forty-two and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Eighth day of October One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. C. PAYNTER, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
St James Buildings, 109 Elizabeth Street, Syd-
ney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1033 of 1941.
BETWEEN EVELYN LOUISA SARAH
HOWE Petitioner and
ERNEST NUNN HOWE Respondent.
TO ERNEST NUNN HOWE.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EVELYN
LOUISA SARAH HOWE has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground that you have without just cause or ex-
cuse wilfully deserted her and without any such
cause or excuse left her continuously so deserted
during three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the Second
day of January One thousand nine hundred and
forty-two and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED the Eighth day of October, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
. Registrar.
F. J. DOWNING, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
39-41 Martin Place, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
- Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1253 of a.d. 1941.
BETWEEN PHYLLIS HUGHES Petitioner and
JOHN WILLIAM HUGHES Respondent.
TO JOHN WILLIAM HUGHES formerly of
Charles Street Petersham in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said PHYLLIS
HUGHES has commenced a suit against you
in this Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse. AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Thirtieth day of Janu-
ary a.d. One thousand nine hundred and forty-
two and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further time
the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eighth day of October, a.d.
1941.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
GILBERT C. MURDOCH, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1021 of 1941.
BETWEEN JEAN FRANKLIN Petitioner and
EDWARD THOMAS FRANKLIN Respondent.
TO EDWARD THOMAS FRANKLIN late
of Bendigo in the State of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JEAN
FRANKLIN has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
tion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court on
or before the Second day of January One
thousand nine hundred and forty-two and in
the event of you not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
Dated this Eighth day of October One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
Sydney H. Moray.
McCAW, MORAY & JOHNSON, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 75-77 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TO HAROLD STANFORD formerly of
Bendigo in the State of Victoria but now
of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife MABEL
EMILY STANFORD has issued divorce pro-
ceedings against you on the ground of desertion
during three years and upwards UNLESS you
enter an appearance in the office of the Pro-
thonotary of the Supreme Court William
Street Melbourne on or before the 27th day
of October 1941 the case may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs
AND if you intend to defend the said suit you
must also file an answer in the said office on
or before the Sixth day of November 1941.
THIS ADVERTISEMENT is inserted by
C. M. S. POWER, 283 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, Public Solicitor, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1584 of 1941.
BETWEEN ANNIE DOROTHY DENNING
(formerly Annie Dorothy Gardiner) Peti-
JOHN WILLIAM DENNING Re-
to john Charles william denning
late of 18 Nairn Street Wellington New
Zealand. .. . KtIC
TAKE NOTICE that the said ANNIE
DOROTHY DENNING has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying lor
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years and upwards witmmt just
cause and/or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court at King Street Sydney in the State afore-
said on or before the 22nd day of December
1941 and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further time
the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
md determined your absence notwithstanding
AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that it you
Jesire to enter an appearance such appearance
must state an address within two miles of the
General Post Office at Sydney at which all
'uture notices may be left for you. A copy
if the petition filed herein may be had on appli-
:ation to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 23rd day of September, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
NORMAN GEORGE RUDD, Solicitor for
die Petitioner, 195 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1681 of 1941
ETWEEN DOREEN CECILIA MORIARTY
ANIEL°(o e r r DAVID) MORIARTY Respon-
G DANIEL (or DAVID) MORIARTY late
of Sydney in the State of New Soiith Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said dOREEIN
ECILIA MORIARTY has commenced a suit
;ainst you in this Court and is ap P lyi^f H ‘
ssolution of marriage on the grounds of deser
3 n for three years and upwards without just
iuse or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
m are required to enter an appearance o the
id suit at the proper office of this Court on
• before the Second day of February
ousand nine hundred and forty-two and in the
rent of your not doing so within the time
nited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
ill proceed and the suit be heard and deter
ined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
' the petition filed herein may be had on
Dplication to the undersigned Solicitor free ot
'dATED this Third day of October One thou-
ind nine hundred and forg-one. bqdY>
L ' ' ’ Registrar.
MERVYN FINLAY, SoKdtM for jh s Peti-
oner, Newlands House, 141 Elizabeth >
ydney.
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
Make Them One
“P.D.”: The Territory of New Guinea
was entrusted to Australia under a
mandate from the League of Nations
dated December 17, 1920. The League
is now a vanished dream, and the
financial, administrative and defence re-
sponsibility for the Territory rests with
the Commonwealth. This year, accord-
ing to the ex-Prime Minister’s Budget,
Australia was to contribute £58,140 to
the Territory, £50,000 of it towards the
cost of moving the capital from Rabaul
to Lae.
That move, estimated three years ago
as costing £500,000, will mean that a total
area of 183,540 sq. miles, with a white popu-
lation of 5933 (1938) and native popu-
lation of 966,000, will have two admin-
istrative capitals less than 200 miles from
each other —an arrangement as patently
absurd as Australia’s seven Parliaments.
It is not too late for Mr. Curtin to
save a good portion of that £500,000 and
definitely settle the
question of New
Guinea. His Govern-
ment is committed to
the defence of Aus-
tralia. New Guinea,
being under mandate
from the League, can-
not be fortified
for defence —Nauru
is a Mandate, and
what a German raider
did to installations
there would not have
been done had there
been a couple of use-
ful guns on shore.
The more realistic
lapanese have occu-
pied their so-called
Mandates, made them
part of their empire
and have taken steps
for their defence. The
nearest of them is
only 300 miles from
outlying N.G. terri-
tory.
The obvious, safest
and most economical
thing is for Australia
formally to annex New
Guinea, link it with
Papua and centre the
Administration at Port
Moresby, the centre of defence of both
territories and within a few hours’ reach
of all of their towns by ’plane.
“Poi-poi”: The dreadful effect of
tropical Australia on the human frame is
well evidenced by the fate that has
befallen one Grahamslaw, a Scot of Edin-
burgh, who came to North Queensland
as a youth, did a bit of work round
Croydon, then joined the gold rush to
Sudeste in 1889, remaining in Papua
about 10 years. After another spell on
the mainland he went back and opened
a business in Port Moresby in 1901. He
was just beginning to think he’d beaten
the climate, but has now been forced to
take a holiday, the first in 32 years,
otherwise he might not live to a ripe old
age, being a mere 81 at present.
“Cacio B.”: Queensland Minister for
Lands told the House that his Govern-
ment didn’t favor expansion of land
settlement during the war, believing it
would be folly to increase production
while export markets were limited. Then
he had to go and spoil it by saying there
“would be ample time to embark on a
comprehensive and sound land settlement
policy when post-war plans are being
made.” No State ever had a “compre-
hensive and sound” settlement policy, and
seeing that these minor Parliaments have
little to do now they could, if they can,
put in the time by designing land schemes
to be ready for the day of peace. Heaven
knows, there is plenty of room for them.
He * *
“Whacko”: The Forgan Smiths have
decided to change Queensland liquor-
trading hours from 8 a.m. till 8 p.m. to
10 a.m. till 10 p.m. The decision was
forced by “strong country representa-
tion,” probably by fellows with painful
memories of racing 20 or 30 miles into
“Leave the saws t' be sharpened, then drop the seed spuds at the store;
and no jumpin' fences!"
town for a drink only to find the doors
shut. Most interesting reaction will be
on the southern border at places like
Hungerford, Thallon, Goondiwindi, Texas,
Stanthorpe and Coolangatta, where the
thirsty foreigners from across the line
can now invade us at their leisure instead
of with their usual Blitzkrieg rush after
6 p.m.
X * * *
“8.H.N.”: There is to be none of this
dreadful sex business in the Queensland
Bowling Association, which, on discover-
ing the shocking fact that a winner of
an open order in a bowls contest had
used it to buy feminine slips and pyjamas,
hurriedly issued the ukase that such
er —things do not come under the head-
ing of competition prizes. The rule states
that “a trophy shall be of a durable
nature and capable of being engraved or
indelibly inscribed with the initials or
name of the winner, event and date.’
Indelibly inscribing such articles wouldn’t
be difficult, though their durability is
another matter. Probably the Q.B.A. had
a mental vision of some gossamer article
festooning a suburban clothesline and
flaunting to the breeze and the curious
its own initials. That would be too
embarrassing.
* * * *
“Norther”; Part of a recent A.R.P.
test in Brisbane was a practice evacua-
tion of the railway buildings. the
whistle went firemen raced along a lane
with an extension ladder to a spot pre-
selected for the job and found somebody s
car blocking the way. Police, firemen,
A.R.P. wardens and ordinary folk tried
in vain to open the car’s locked doors,
so a message was broadcast that unless
the car-owner turned up pretty quick a
demolition squad would take to it. There-
upon there arrived Railway Commis-
sioner Wills, who bashfully acknowledged
ownership and went to unlock the cat,
only to find that some enthusiast had
broken the lock. All hands then man-
handled the obstruction out of the way
and “evacuation” duly proceeded.
* * * *
“23-4”: Queensland Parliamentarians
are annoyed with the press for publish-
ing only the “frothy” incidents that
occur in the State House, claiming that
unless a speech can be described as sen-
sational it will not appear in the press,
no matter how constructive or statesman-
like it may be. Two suggestions were
made: (1) employment of a writer to
prepare Parliamentary reports for circu-
lation in the electorate, or (2) Parliament
to print its own newspaper. Neither
received much support. If the politicians
are really anxious to impress the people
they should have the debates broadcast
by radio, but perhaps the effect would
be too drastic.
* * * *
“Tweeder”: Southport’s Robert Long,
dead at 68, was good at anything in the
athletic line. He was a Mayor of South
Brisbane in the old days and was six
years in the Greater Brisbane Council.
A noted amateur boxer, he was president
for many years of the State Amateur
Boxing and Wrestling Union and was
largely responsible for South Brisbane’s
Memorial Park.
* * * *
“Kol.”: Either R. S. Griffiths, a Bris-
bane alderman, or the “Courier-Mail”
has made a discovery of tremendous
scientific importance—one that should be
looked into by the Board of War Inven-
tions without further delay. The paper
reports Mr. Griffiths as telling Brisbane
City Council that the odor from tannery
drainage at Ithaca Creek is turning cut-
lery and doorknobs in the vicinity black
and is “also affecting” paint on houses.
If only that statement is true, all we have
to do is send shipments of the drainage
to Europe, wait for a favorable breeze
and turn it loose on the Nazi war
machine.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
White and the pastel tones were at
one with the spring sunshine that flooded
Randwick last Wednesday. Ladies’ Day
was well named this year, for the women
outnumbered the men about five to one.
From the very large AJ.C. in pansies
on the lawn to the bright sky above all
seemed well with the world we are privi-
leged to live in. Even the Hurricane
showing its form overhead, brushing off
the horizon at the rate of about 400
miles per hour, seemed to add to the
sense of peace. The lunch given by Mrs.
George Main, wife of the A.J.C. chair-
man, was the social event of the day.
Table decorations were mostly a cloud of
pink azaleas.
Mollie Hollingdale, very trig in navy,
saw one half of her double come home
with Beau Vite’s win. Mrs. Lionel Dare’s
black frock ruffled in white lawn at neck-
line and short sleeves. Navy was Mrs.
Roy Buckland’s choice. Her navy hat
was topdressed with currant-red veiling.
Miss Ella O’Shea wore with her grey
patterned sheers a deep cape of seal. Her
handbag was large and of white shark-
skin. Cool-looking in jade-greens was
Mrs. W. Parsons. Pat McGirr’s yellow
hat trimmed with sprays of wattle was
one of the week’s admired. The Hon.
Henrietta Loder was a fairly consistent
attender during the week. Roslyn Bow-
man was one of the many attractive
V.As. to be seen. (Roslyn is among
V.As. chosen for service abroad.) Sea-
greens and Pat Murray’s coloring proved
good allies.
Randwick last Saturday gave another
airing to red, white and blue not in
unison but in separate and individual
doses. The all-white outfits seem to suit
our bright atmosphere best of all. But
the season’s color tip is blue in its deli-
cate tonings. Incidentally, one man
dressed in coster finery, pearlies and all,
found his way out to the meeting. The
notable after-the-races cocktail party was
that given by the C. P. Johnsons at their
Edged iff home. Over 300 guests supped
and made merry in the interests of the
Sydney Day Nurseries, which have no
truer friends than the Johnsons.
Under the delphinium of its skies Syd-
ney last Friday looked the flowering of a
land good to live in and, if need be, to die
for. Three thousand boys in the uniforms
of their schools’ cadet corps marched
through the city. The boys came from
all the G.P.S., and the march was part
of the demonstration that showed that
Youth was standing by the £100,000,000
conversion and war loan. The streets
were lined by thousands watching the
splendid youngsters step along. Lieut.-
General Miles took the salute at Hyde
Park. Finally the forces, with detach-
ments of Sea Scouts and Air Leaguers,
mustered in Martin-place for the war
loan rally.
The millions came rolling in at the
War Loan premiere last week. For those
of us who have to toss up between buy-
ing an aluminium saucepan or a spring
hat the sound of those lovely round
figures was as good as a tonic. Helen
of Troy may have had the face that
launched a thousand ships, but in these
days of battle-cruisers and Hurri-
canes a cheque of good face value is
probably more effective. Everything in
Sydney has to be done to music, so the
organ sounded and Gladys Moncrieff,
Heather Kinnaird, Heddle Nash and
Peter Dawson lifted the voice of song.
Priminister Curtin stirred with his fighting
speech, and ex-Priminister Fadden was
in good trim, too. The 30-odd millions
that set the war loan going must have
proved a good aperitif for the party
given later on by Mayor Crick and his
Mayoress. Effective was the “Rule
Britannia” tableau. Vera Wright sang
against a background of flags, nursing
sisters in their grey uniforms flushed with
a scarlet cape, Boy Scouts and men of
the fighting services.
Romance of the pastures was sug-
gested by the lamb with the rose behind
his ear gracing one of the stalls at the
“Down Argentine Way” party. Stalls,
their pillars dressed in the blue-green of
cacti and fringed with paparikas, did
good business in competition numbers.
When lucky numbers palled you could
turn to the rum punch into which twenty
dozen eggs had been poured by Mrs.
Cyril Ruwald. The fun began at six and
by seven was warmed up ; by eight it had
reached Argentine warmth. But there
were no guitars and no serenades. There
were a gramophone and a Gaucho with
his accordion player dashing out tunes
pulsing with velvet nights and moonlight
over the Andes. At least it sounded that
way after the rum punch.
A lot of people kept rendezvous
with a girl called Esmeralda. Jimmy
Bancks in a tan Gaucho outfit was a
pretty good croupier. If all hostesses
down Argentine way look like Mrs. Roy
Buckland, with her clear-cut profile, in
her slinky black frock, visiting must
be the favorite occupation. Husband
Roy was a gallant caballero, and
would have been signed up by any
Hollywood scout. John Brunton, who
served a very good counter lunch at
his inn, twinkling under his sombrero like
the good sheriff in a Mexican border film,
had a passenger he didn’t expect home
with him in his car. His wife won the
sheep (or maybe lamb). The Buchanan
home at Pokataroo will be still further
adorned by the luxurious make-up and
beauty box that went its way from the
cactus-entangled Loteria.
Special award to Mrs. C. Scott Waine
for slim erectness, to Mrs. Harry Meeks
for flowers for which gardens for many
miles must have been ravished there
were lilac, tulips and pink hedge blossom
among them. Carma Nathan, June
Bracken, June Chamberlain and Diana
Massie were among the gay. The dance
presented by Nuttie Mackellar was as
colorful as a ballet of jungle butterflies.
This was the floor show of the dance
session which started about nine o’clock.
Official guests included the Premier and
Mrs. McKell. These happenings took
place at the Trocadero last Thursday
night. The Industrial Blind Institution
will benefit by about £5OO.
An ardent committee is working to
make the A.I.F. Ball on October 23 one
of the year’s outstanding moneymakers.
The cause is a good one. It is to help
the Distress Fund of the Returned
Soldiers, Sailors and Airmen’s League,
Furlough House and the Anzac Buffet.
One of the tributaries to the gold stream
will be the moonlight picnic on the Show-
boat tomorrow night. Pat Hunt, pictured
here by Falk, is shouldering the treasury
duties for that night.
Pleasant to see at the opening of the
exhibition of the Royal Art Society,
standing side by side on the dais, Lister
Lister and Julian Ashton. These two
veterans have proved over many years
that not only can they tell what good art
is, they can also create it. Julian’s picture
showing the visit of the American Fleet
in 1908 is on the walls of this exhibition.
Mary Edwards shows in a forest of gay
and fluttering streamers the reaction to
the visit of America’s Fleet in this year
of grace. The Erik Langkers were at
the opening, which was done against
a background of rosy Watsonia by Minis-
ter for Education Clive Evatt in the
galleries of his own department in
Loftus-street. Mrs, Erik was being con-
gratulated on her husband’s return to
good health and on his large canvas
“Tranquillity.” Every woman commented
on John Banks’s “Japanese Decoration”
in blue and red.
Interested visitor from Melbourne, both
at the private view and at the opening,
was Mrs. Keith Karmel. She is a pupil
of Meldrum. In the afternoon light
her silk frock shimmered blue-green like
lagoon waters. Jean Bolton was there
and the Albert Shermans; also Mrs.
Gerald Masson, who has brought her
two children here to go to school. Hus-
band is a South Australian, and is Assis-
tant Director of Agriculture at Jerusalem.
Mrs. Norman Lowe and Noela were
among the art-minded. Noela’s small
black hat was enriched by a large posy
of anemones, centre-front. Fred Leist’s
portrait of Dr. Dora McMahon was
admired.
From Melbourne
The Carry On Club Ball started with
vim and carried on with vigor till lights
out. As usual the Carry On men (who
work for ex-servicemen’s dependants)
pulled together as an excellent team. A
new and successful idea was an early
evening warm-up with sherry in the foyer
(donations from a well-known wine firm,
with Charlie Fox doing the liaison work).
G. A. Winwood, L. R. Miller, W. L.
Sinclair, M. R. Cuthbertson, T. H. Dutton
(the wizard with the filing-system brain
who knows where every ticket is and
every sixpence goes) and a dozen more
stalwarts did the brunt of the work, with
assistance from a women’s committee.
Mrs. W. L. Sinclair and her helpers
spent the day doing the decorations,
achieving good effect with young poplars,
potted flamboyance (borrowed from
public gardens) and flowers of their own
finding. Mrs. O. R. Flecker, Mrs. R.
Bennett and Mrs. Harold Lilly ran a
wheel, A young thing celebrating her
nineteenth birthday with a party was
Peggy Shepherd. Papa M. L. Shepherd
felt spryer than ever when one of the
waiters greeted him by name and “the
last time I saw you was at the Wembley
Exhibition” (1925). Several farewells
were said to the doyen of St. Kilda
Town Hall, Mr. Dear, on his last night
of duty before going into munitions.
Inset from Athol Shmith, Noela
Adams, whose dramatic attributes will
assist Clyde Old Girls’ production of
The Distaff Side” at the Union Theatre
on October 31 and November 1 in aid
of the A.I.F.W.A. and the Y.W. For
the first time the very youthful Noel a
will play a mature role, a Sybil Thorn-
dike part in this snappy Van Druten play.
(It might be too snappy for the Y.W.,
but the committee had a bad time find-
ing something suitable.) Mollie Officer
is in the cast, and so is Margaret Beveridge
—she is to be the sister who has been liv-
ing on the Continent for 10 years with-
out inhibitions. The girls are coming
good over their clothes even if it is the
last time they have a lot of new things
at once, and Reg Riddell is doing the
decor.
In the agreeable atmosphere of mellow
wine and old prints silver-coin collections
for good causes occurred on four after-
noons in Matthew Lang’s cellars (the
name also is no youngster—Mr. Lang
smacked his lips over his first vintage
some 90 years ago). Wine, warming
the cockles of the heart, induced intro-
spection upon the prints of early Mel-
bourne, of the days when the Yarra was
a creek, when men wore sideboards and
women were all bosom and bustle and
doll’s-size parasols. To be seen also was
a Wanted notice printed 98 years ago
for two “felons,” unlucky and uncomely,
possessing “small eyes, low foreheads,
ginger whiskers, meagre stature and large
feet.” The four beneficiaries for the re-
spective dates were R.A.N. Relief,
R.A.A.F. Welfare, the F.F.F. and the
2/23rd Battalion.
Organisers for the battalion’s comforts
were Mrs, J. Corby, Mrs. Mephan Fer-
guson, Mrs. R. Bierworth and Mrs. F. W.
Wright, the last-named assisted by her
three attractive daughters. (In the week-
end Colonel and Mrs. Wright gave a re-
ception of generous size in honor of the
new arrivals of the N.E.1.) Doing the
honors on all four days were the Leo
Burings, over from Sydney for the occa-
sion, and the Bowen Pains. For those
who cherish Rhinegold bottles, Mrs.
Buring has a useful tip. They can
easily be made into lamps with shot for
the sake of extra weight and a frame
ordered from a wireworker. And there’s
no need for boring holes in the base.
The cord doesn’t look untidy outside the
bottle.
The Army’s was the first thermometer
to burst at the table-decoration com-
petition, the gauge being votes for the
various exhibits. The Army’s table
specialised in red tulips and red candles ;
the Navy’s in irises and tulips as a massive
but well-balanced centrepiece. The Air
Force produced romance with a wedding
cake, a sword for cutting it and the
bridesmaids’ posies. For the Red Cross
table Mrs. H. F. Creswick and daughter
Mrs. Stephen Kimpton drew upon family
plate, George 111 silver and modern
Venetian glass. Like a marshmallow was
the offering of Mrs. Chester Guest and
Mrs. John Grimwade, a fragile table
upon a white rug against a background
of a white satin screen, the table topped
with a mirror and frilled with lace.
Wraiths in crinolines and satin breeches
might toy with the mother-of-pearl plates
—no human being would dare eat from
them.
A generous slice of Australian bush
(including china parrots) was submitted
by Mrs. Alex. Russell. The children
were remembered with two party tables,
one from Mrs. J. D. Laverack and Mrs.
W. W. Johnson of white carnations, white
swans floating upon a mirror and more
gaiety in red and white. The other offer-
ing from The Silver Door had merry-go-
rounds in action. A sunporch cocktail
party was attractively handled by Mrs.
Officer Brown and Mrs. Douglas Graham.
After several masterpieces of opulence
and period quality a change to simplicity
was effected by Mrs. Gordon Coulter
and Lois Green with their lobster supper.
If the Air Force Auxiliaries’ maternity-
glorified raffle doesn’t increase the birth-
rate, nothing will. It provides all the
pretty part of having a baby, just stop-
ping short of filling the bassinet (which
is the second prize) with the infant itself.
For the first prize there’s everything a
choosy baby wants, including layette,
pram, high chair, bunny rug and doll,
and for Mamma, flowers while in hos-
pital. Third prize is a hamper for Dad.
Tickets are sixpence, and may be tricky
but never monotonous selling. Psychology
should do the deed if romance fails, and
ticket sellers will probably adapt their
tactics for the spry young bachelor (whose
comeback is that he couldn’t stand the
embarrassment of winning such posses-
sions). For other cagey people there’s
the inducement of a first prize item, a
handsome suitcase intended to carry
Mamma’s neglige and cosmetics to the
maternity home. Failing, the suitcase (it
is white) there remains Pop’s hamper.
Hon. secs, of the raffle are Mrs. E.
Knox Knight and Mrs. E. A. Daley, both
directresses at the R.A.A.F. Welfare
Bureau. In addition Mrs. Daley is keeper
of the wardrobe (and a very fine one —
clothes are distributed in necessitous
cases), general factotum of the type-
writer, chief stamp-licker, etc. Last week
the Bureau’s nursery in Howey Court
was opened to the gen. public for a
silver coin—this week, the paint being
dry, the children are being admitted, for
the present, on Monday, Wednesday and
Friday afternoons only. Compliments
tied with blue ribbon were handed to
Esther and Betty Paterson, Barbara New-
man and Barbara Henderson for the big
job of the light-hearted murals, which will
delight the kids. The two Barbaras are
Gallery students, the last-named being
the wife of Flight-Lieut. J. A. Henderson,
abroad. Present also at the informal
opening was Elaine Knox Knight with
her small niece, daughter of brother
Mick, a wing-commander abroad.
Not content with its new nursery and
its all-enveloping raffle, the same com-
mittee is going flat out on its State-wide
doll-dressing, toy, Christmas card and
needlework competition, closing date De-
cember 1. Mrs. Eric Harrison is the
dynamo behind the drive, which is in
touch with some 2600 schools. Hon.
secretary is Mrs. Dugald McDougall
(who last week brought back from Adel-
aide a sheaf of kangaroo-paws for the
auxiliary rooms). The Lord Mayor’s
treasurer and assistant treasurer is Cap-
tain Ernest Jones, who seems to do every-
thing efficiently, even to getting around
the country on a newly-acquired motor-
cycle.
This week Navy House had its first
birthday. This well-run institution has
caught the interest of Lady Royle, who
calls in often (accompanied by Susan,
an amiable enough little animal much
admired by those who like Pekes) and
helps at clerical jobs, and who will prob-
ably be seen behind the canteen counter
before long. The Friendly Union of
Sailors’ Wives and Mothers does the
making of the space-saving beds every
morning; all but the emergencies are
now double-deckers. These women, no
matter what their age, are agile and
spring to the job with the ease with which
their husbands and sons at sea swarm
up a rigging.


THE TOWNSHIP
By MYRA MORRIS.
IN the hazy summer afternoon the township lay
soft and somnolent. The very air caught in the
valley between the pale, wooded hills seemed
drugged and heavy. There was no movement on
the lush, green flats behind the station yard. The
cows were motionless like painted animals on painted
pastures, and along the meandering river the heads
of pollarded willows, ash-gold, ash-silver, floated like
tethered clouds. In the station yard, where grass grew
green and thick as moss between the rails, trucks
waited in idleness, piled with long, sawn-off lengths
of timber. The two straggling streets of the township,
one higher than the other, were emptied of life. The
shiny benches on the pub verandah stood empty in
the sun.
The pub was in Freddie Taylor’s mind as he
toiled along the last lap of the dusty main road into
the township. He was a short man with fat legs that
tapered to ludicrously small feet. His face, with its
little full-lipped mouth and merry blue eyes that
looked as if they would stay open under water, was
red, round and good-natured. He wore a shiny blue
serge suit that seemed as if it had been put on damp,
and tight tan shoes. He carried an imitation leather
case. It was a well-used case, but in the city he had
had his name stamped in gold letters on the lid —F.
Taylor. He was conscious of the gold letters as he
walked smartly on through the dust-whitened grass
that edged the patches of scrub. They were classy
ali right—like the new patterned tie he was wearing
and the red-striped pyjamas in his case. Lil would
be tickled to death with the lot of them.
Coming to the outskirts of the town that pre-
sented a vista of mean backyards and leaning, un-
painted fences, Freddie paused. It would be decent
to go straight home, but Lil would be out at the hop-
gardens picking, and why go home to an empty
house? Brightening, he turned sharp left and walked
down towards Gleeson’s pub, peering this way and
that with the tolerant contempt of a man who, com-
ing back to his own town after being away, is amused
to find eacti stick and stone unchanged.
In the bar the barman heaved himself up. “Hell,
Freddie! I thought you was gone for good.”
“I was!”
“You wasn’t on the midday?”
“I wasn’t.” Freddie coughed fatly. “Got a lift
right through with a bloke. Dropped me a bit back
near Nixon’s and I walked the rest. Well, here’s how,
Gus! Have one yourself.”
“Here’s how, Freddie! Thanks.”
“That’s orl right.” Freddie carried his drink into
the parlor across from the bar, and sat with his podgy
legs crossed, nodding benevolently to the company —-
young Gregg from the pieshop, a couple of mill-
hands, Buck Jones the tractor-driver, Blackberry Joe.
He listened to their talk with a polite condescension.
The same old talk that had gone on in Gleeson’s bar
for five, ten, twenty years, that would go on through
tomorrow, and a thousand tomorrows after that. Talk
of trout and blackfish, of fire and flood and cows, of
old days on the mountain when the coaches crawled
perilously down the rough road to the coast, of spuds
and onions.
Freddie felt lifted above the conversation, look-
ing at them all with a compassionate regard, his eyes
twinkling. Poor coves, never been away most of
them, never been away from Gleeson’s parlor with its
dark corners and smell of wet dogs, and the stuff like
birds’ nests that protruded from the holes in the
horsehair furniture. Content to rot in a hole like
Musk Valley, thinking it the world! He snickered
quietly to himself. They thought he was back for
good again—“ Young Freddie back to live on Lil like
he done before . . . out of work . . . well, 1 told you,
didn’t I?” —and he was only back for a few days, a
week, perhaps, till Ern got going on that new building
job down the line. Ern would send for him then,
like he said he would.
“Make it another small,” said Freddie. “All
round.”
He sat there slapping his fat thighs encased in
their sheath-tight trousers, listening to the shuffle of
feet and the sound of laughter from the bar. He
thought of Lil. She was a good girl, Lil. She’d had
a lot to put up with one way and another. But all
that was different now . . .
I IE had married Lil young because of the farm
* ' over by Beech Forest and the old woman. But
things hadn’t gone quite the way he had intended
they should go. The farm had failed with corky
scab on the potatoes, and the old woman had not died
soon enough. They had drifted across to Musk
Valley, and the old lady’s money had bought the
little house with its unpainted walls and strip of sodden
garden. There’d always be jobs at Musk Valley they
had thought, with the timber mills close and a rail-
way station. But the mills had moved deeper into
the forest, and only Slaney’s mill a few miles out was
left to give employment to the local men.
At Slaney’s, Freddie was always the first man to
be paid off in slack times. He was always looking
about him, getting up to monkey tricks. He didn’t
like work. He liked loafing about the house, boiling
up the kettle for Lil, hanging over the gate with a fag
in his mouth. Finally the casual jobs at Slaney’s had
come to an end. He had contracted bronchitis, which
left him with a loose, phlegmy cough, and the doctor
had advised against any continuance of work in such
a damp, oozy place as the mill. From then on
Freddie had made capital of his chest. “It’s me
chubes, Lil! Stuffed up like a dirty downpipe. I
got to take care.”
Lil’s jobs kept them. She took in washing and
cleaned out the school. She did not mind a great
deal. She accepted the fact of a husband who rarely
worked stolidly, for many of the men at Musk Valley
were permanently out of work. They hung about
waiting for .something to turn up. Young men, old
men watching the road that wound from the forest,
watching the tourist cars, the trains, watching with
bemused empty eyes, never doing anything about it,
never contemplating the possibility of work away
from the valley. When Freddie’s brother-in-law Ern,
a small suburban builder, offered to take him on as a
casual workman with the chance of learning the trade
it was regarded as something of a miracle, and Freddie
accepted the offer thankfully. Lil’s heart sang. She
walked with a new step. She began to realise that all
along she had been in a dim, secret way ashamed of
Freddie. Now she talked of him incessantly, boasted
of him to the other women in the hop-gardens.
She was glad to have a bin this season. She was
picking with old Mrs. Morgan and her daughter-in-
law Rose. The hop-gardens lay a couple of miles out
of the township, cradled in the arm of the river. The
little flat was lovely here, ringed by bracken-covered
hills that were lapped in the silvery waves of musk,
and studded with ancient, lichen-tufted fruit-trees,
quinces and apples and plums. The tall curtains of
the vines hung visible from the road, seeming as if
they floated in air, without roots, without support.
On the day of Freddie’s return Lil was picking
steadily, beating her tiredness down. She was a sturdy
young woman, broad-hipped and big-breasted, with-
“She’s been acting like a muscovy ever since Russia came into the War.”
coarse black hair and bright slitty black eyes under
little cushions of flesh. She worked easily, shredding
off the pale blossoms of the hops with a quick milk-
ing movement. It was hot and steamy in the gardens
with the sun shooting between the vine-poles and
down on to the bent backs of the pickers. The heat
subdued the women, laying a heaviness on their
tongues. There was no sound but the rasping of
leaves and the creak of a wagon moving at the far
end of the field with the filled sacks that would be
taken up to the kiln at Kronk’s up past the curve.
Lil was peacefully happy in spite of her tiredness.
She had been up since five so that she could have the
house cleaned and ready for her return. When she got
home she would do out the school. On Saturdays
and Sundays she did her laundry work. She had to
have ready cash in hand because the hop cheques
were never paid till the end of the season, and Freddie,
who had been away since long before Christmas,
could send her only a little money.
She thought now of Freddie as she stood over the
bin, inhaling the queer rotten-sweet scent of the
blossoms that clung to hands and hair and every part
of her clothing. He had sent her a pound in his last
letter and had sounded pleased with himself, writing
that Ern was a good sort, and that he was getting the
hang of things now and would in time make a smart
carpenter and painter, able to find jobs in the larger
towns of the district. She felt all of a sudden young
and full of hope, throwing her plucked vine down in
the row behind her, and tugging down a fresh vine
that garlanded her for a moment in a tangle of pale-
green leaves and papery blossoms. The bin was nearly
full. Two bins for the day and a bit over perhaps,
That would be more than a pound between therm iwo
more months and she’d be getting a nice fat cheque,
Things could be done then. The house painted pei-
haps, a new side put in the crumbling kitchen stove
and her teeth seen to. Everything fresh and decent
for Freddie against his return. She smiled with her
hands lying idle on the canvas edge of the bin, aware
in a dreamy way of old Mrs. Morgan’s grumbling
voice. “You pick more careful, Rose! All them
leaves and twigs! We don't want old Bandy Legs say-
ing we’ve got a dirty bin.
"Oh, dry up, mum, said the girl with a quiet
sort of fury. “I’m sick of picking. If Dave was in
work I’d chuck it! Crool on the back and me five
months gone.’ She turned heavy sullen eyes in Lil s
direction. “Freddie still working down town?
“He’s doing fine, Lil nodded, hei lace glowing
with pride.
Rose dipped her gloved hands into the pale-green
foam of the hops and the blossoms rubbed togethei
with the sound of tiny rustling wings. Well, I nevet
thought he d stick it,” she said sourly,
“Me either, ’ said Lil without rancor. But he s
making good, Freddie is. He s a good worker really
—and keen.”
Work over, the women straggled in threes and
fours up the long winding road to the township. Lil,
shapeless in her old fawn coat, walked a little ahead
of the Morgans, her eyes staring ahead, her bare legs
striding out strongly. It was cool now, with a purplish
mistlike grape-bloom on the mountain. A small wind
blew the cloudy willows by the river, and fluttered the
rosy tips of the bluegums that fringed the road,
Near the petrol pump at the entrance to the
township, Blackberry Joe was dodging about with an
odd contraption on his back.
“Weed-killer,” said Mrs. Morgan. “To kill the
blackberries with. He hates them like as if they were
people. He’s mad.”
Blackberry Joe stared at Lil. Freddie s home,^
he said. “Been sitting in Gleeson’s all the afternoon.”
Lil felt something move inside her. She edged
away from the Morgans, feeling their probing eyes,
They would know. Everybody would know now. She
walked on with her underlip thrust out. It was too
bad of him coming home just when he was in a good
job and all! Home like a bad penny. And all her
boasting. She felt heavy and ashamed,
LJ E was in the house when she got there, playing
in the living-room with the cat. She tugged off
her hat and looked at him silently,
“Hullo, Lil, old girl. He kissed her and she
smelled the familiar smell of beer. Her heart leaped
out to him, but she hung back sullenly, waiting to be
placated.
“You never told me you were coming. Chucked
your job, I suppose and”
He stopped laughing, and a look of injury settled
on his face. That was a nice way to greet a husband,
“I’m only home for a day or so while Ern gets that
building job going down the line! Of course, I can
go back” 7
He was teasing her. She laughed with reliel,
her black eyes snapping. It was only a little break,
His job was still there. “You got the fire lit in the
kitchen?” she asked.
He was instantly apologetic. “Gripes! I’ll do it
now, ’ but his voice was unconvincing and he made
no move.
In the kitchen, clean as a new box, Lil made a
wry mouth breaking little sticks across her knee. But


"I've seen 'em do it like this in the pictures, Alf."
what did it matter? He was home —and he hadn’t lost
his job. She’d leave the school go this evening.
I T was easier on her now of a morning ; now she
* could leave a man behind her to see to things. And
Freddie liked it falling back into the old easy ways.
With a tea-towel tied over his slacks he dawdled over
his work in the kitchen. Near noon he would call in
at the pub and go jauntily down to the station to
watch the midday train arrive. All the dogs of the
town would be there, sniffing round each other’s heels.
He would sit among them, his fat legs stretched out,
fingering a pimple on his neck, staring across to the
streets, the church, the school, his own house set
high among a muddle of grim backyards with broken
fences and leaning outhouses that looked as if they
had been brought there in a gale and deposited.
Before the end of the first week he was looking
eagerly for the letter from Ern. But the letter didn’t
come, and he knew a slight feeling of panic. Ern
had been so definite about writing. “I’ll let you know,”
he had said in his slow, downright way. A good
sort, Ern ; one of the best. At the end of the second
week Freddie had stopped worrying. He still inquired
at mail time, but never with any expectation of seeing
Trood, the station-master, handing it to him across
the counter. And there was a night when, sitting in
Gleeson’s pub, he felt that the letter no longer mat-
tered at all.
It was the night after payday at the mill, and the
whole pub, with its littered passages and beer-stained
floors, had a shoddy, disreputable look. The bar-
parlor was hazy with a thick blue smoke. The smoke
hurt Freddie’s eyes that had already become a little
bloodshot under the hard light from the lamp, but
he grinned happily over his drink, slapping his fat,
rounded thighs. Outside a cool wind was blowing up
the valley, and it was cold enough for a fire.
“It’s nice here,” thought Freddie, glowing. “I know
them all and they all know me. Here we sit friendly-
like, talking good honest man’s talk and drinking
beer. For why should I want to leave Musk Valley
again? Musk Valley’ll do me! It’ll do me fine! I
been here half my life!” He blinked his eyes and
stretched. Someone was talking of the need for snag-
ging the river. Over in the corner they were baiting
Blackberry Joe. “Hear you’re growin* fine blackberries
up at your place, Joe.”
“Leave the poor old blighter alone,” said Freddie,
getting to his feet. He stood rocking on his toes, a
fat, little, merry man with whitish dust in the seams
of his blue suit that had commenced to look shabby,
and nicotine stains on his podgy fingers. “It’s his
own business, ain’t it?”
“He’s crazy,” said the schoolmaster, a little grey
man with hollow cheeks. “The blackberries have got
hold of him. When something gets a man it holds
fast. May be anything.”
“That’s right,” agreed Freddie vaguely.
“This place, in fact,” went on the schoolmaster
in his dry, bitter voice. “Musk Valley. It can get
you all if you let it. It can hold you until you’re
incapable of. making any effort at all.”
“That’s right,” said Freddie. He went out into
the dark, silent street with a cheerful good night all
round, followed by the schoolmaster, who had a
thought of catching trout.
T" ROUT were thick in the river if you knew where
* to find them. They lurked under the rocks in
the shadow, waving their tails. Freddie, who had
never bothered much about fishing before, began to
follow the trout, catching them when and however he
could, on borrowed lines with cast-off flies, at night-
with frogs that he found in Lil’s damp little bit
of garden. The secret life of the tiny river fascinated
him. He would sit for hours watching the silver-
beaded cushions of cress that floated just below the
surface of the water, and the ferns that sprayed out
from the crevices of half-drowned logs. Sometimes
he took a pot shot at rabbits, using the gun that Buck
Jones kept behind his door at Gleeson’s. “There,” he
would say proudly. “The husband keeping the family
pot boiling! A fat trout, pink inside as a salmon—
and the father of all rabbits.”
There was a night when Lil wanted to throw his
spoils back in his face. She reached home tired and
dirty after scrubbing the school to find Freddie in
the kitchen whittling aimlessly at a stick, his face
absorbed and happy. His shoes were muddied. He
had stood in cow-manure, and there were greenish
stains on his pants. He looked up smiling.
“A rabbit for the pot,” he said. “I’ve hung it in
the safe.”
Lil sank wearily into a chair, dropping her elbows
on the table. It had been a trying day. She sat
slumped down, her knees well apart, her red, swollen
hands spread out like two grotesque fans. “You’ve
got to write to Ern,” she said.
Freddie made the grimace of a spoilt child.
“Why?” he asked mildly. /‘That son of a gun told
me”
“You write it,” she said.
After the meal she got down a penny bottle of
ink from the mantelpiece and a cheap writing-pad
and stood over him.
“Dear Ern”
“It don’t seem sense,” he protested. He sprawled
over the table, covering the page with his hand like a
child who does not want his school work to be copied.
She stood over him. He had his tongue lolling in his
cheek as he wrote with difficulty. He was only a boy
still—her boy.
When the letter was finished she put it into an
envelope and licked the flap down. “You’ve got to
look out for yourself,” she said sharply. “You got
to make the effort. You got to let Ern see you’re
kind of keen.”
His blue eyes danced at her. “Bossy, ain’t you,
Lil?”
She stood there silent. She couldn’t tell him that
she wanted him to make good, that she wanted to be
proud of him again. He was bone-lazy. He had to
be pushed—and she must push him. Lazy he might
be, but he still knew how to hold her tight. He still
knew how to love her.
KJ EXT day it began to rain. A steady, soaking rain
* that slanted in from the sea and started runnels
on every roadside bank. Picking in the hop gardens
was at a standstill.. Stuck inside, Lil was constantly
up against Freddie. Wherever she walked there he
was padding around in shoes with a flappy sole, cough-
ing his loose, phlegmy cough. And there was always
a blackish cigarette hanging out of his mouth. She
began to worry. The rain would hang the hops over,
make them late. She wanted money. She found
herself using from the little secret store that she had
in the blue canister on the kitchen mantel-piece.
The rain was over in a couple of days and pick-
ing started again in the steamy gardens. A letter
came from Ern. He was sorry, he had written in his
thin, careful handwriting, but just now when he was
ready to take on Freddie the heavy rain had dished
things. That was the worst of a painting-and-repairs
job. As soon as he was ready he’d let Freddie know
and he’d want him straight off the mark.
“Sounds disrespectful,” said Freddie in an
aggrieved voice.
“He knows you,” said Lil, laughing. She was
relieved again, able to talk, of Freddie’s idleness with-
out shame, t
Freddie looked on the letter as a sort of reprieve.
It let him off blame. But it was the lack of cash that
mattered. He went to the blue canister and helped
himself. Lil found some of her savings gone and
stormed. “You tell me what you want,” she said
stolidly, “and I’ll see. But if it’s only for beer and
fags”
It was mostly for beer and fags, but they were
things that a man had to have. Freddie told himself
that he would manage somehow. He dug in the
garden, fished, went for jaunts up to the mill in the
snorting tractor, and lay a good deal of his time on
the couch at the end of the kitchen. It was a good-
enough life for anyone. He thought of,Ern, and it
was like thinking of someone who had existed only
in his imagination.
The letter when it arrived one morning left him
dazed.
“Dear Freddie,
Going down to the job Saturday in the truck.
Meet me at Geelong, Prince’s corner, eleven-
thirty. If you are not there up to time I’ll take
on young Bates instead. ...”
Freddie folded the letter neatly, ambled away to
the gums behind the station building, lay on his back
and stared at the sky. A cloud of parrots passed
over, the sun striking their brilliant feathers. It was
easier, Freddie found, to think of the parrots than to
make a decision. Tomorrow was Saturday. That
meant he’d have to leave early in the morning and
take Smith’s service car so as to get to Geelong in
time. His mind recoiled in horror. Ern was a bully
and a slave-driver. He had never really liked Ern.
Anyhow what was better than life in Musk Valley?
He thought of the beer in Gleeson’s parlor, trout
gliding over the smooth flat rocks in the river, the
smell of wet gum-leaves stealing through the kitchen
door after rain. With a furtive movement he thrust
the letter in his trousers pocket. There was no sense
in telling Lil.
1 IL found the letter in the pocket of his trousers
*—' when she washed them. The letter was wet and
stuck together, but she was able to decipher it after
a little trouble. Stolidly she went on with her washing,
keeping down the hungry, sick feeling that rose inside
her. It was like that, was it? He would never be
any different. To the end of her days she would have
him by her, covering up his shortcomings as a mother
covers the shortcomings of a naughty child, knowing
him weak and lazy, unwilling to build his own life,
incapable of making an effort. Her mind groped
about, searching. There was something the school-
master had said to her one day while he hacked out
a little stunted apple-tree that was mouldy with
whiskered moss and lichen. “Feel the rot in it! The
decay! The damp rot of Musk Valley. It stays on
everything it touches. It’s on all of you, though you
don’t see it.”
Lil rubbed her bruised-looking eyes. She was
beginning to understand a little of what the school-
master had meant.
She went down through the fading dock-leaves to
the lines, walking heavily with her washing-basket
full. Freddie was coming through a hole in the fence,
his fat hams bursting through their seams. There
was a soggy parcel under his arm, and she knew that
he had been down to the butcher’s, buying two penny-
worth of meat for the cat. She looked at him, opened
her mouth, then shut it. No, she would never let him
know about that letter. She would be dumb while
she watched his silly little pretences of waiting for it.
He waved his hand at her and went into the house
whistling. The whistling comforted her. It grew
louder and louder like the song of a bird filling her
ears and brimming over.
Anzacs.
There, where Achilles stormed, Ulysses wan-
dered,
And Hector ranted, in the morn of time.
And Homer, drunken with the theme sublime,
Before great kings his mighty measures thun-
dered,
Or in deep woods by nymph and dryad haunted
To his lone soul the immortal verses chanted;
Where Greek with Persian, Roman with Phoe-
nician,
Warred through long ages for the mastery
Of that august and isle-bejewelled sea;
Where first the sage, the poet, the physician,
Aspired to summits worthy of men’s winning;
Where infant crafts and science had their birth
While yet the bloom of youth was on the earth,
And every noble art had her beginning;
Where all are holy lands, and to this day
Each grove and cape, each hill and pass and
stream.
Immortalises some illustrious name
Of demigods or men as great as they—
There, in their thousands, resolute and bold,
Returning from a young world to the old.
Journeying from the utmost Austral lands,
From farm and station, shop, office and mine,
From the new sunny realms below the Line,
Changing the humdrum groove, the stale
routine,
For bivouacs in the dark Egyptian sands—
The long, sardonic Diggers, hard and lean,
Come thronging, singing, in the crowded ships,
With cheery oaths and slang upon their lips.
There comes the Maori, terrible in war, '
When he, with spear and mere by his side,
With lolling tongue and uprolled eye defied
His foe within the palisaded pa;
There the young eagles, gathering in the sky,
Swoop in their desperate courses to pursue
The Heinkel fugitive in the blinding blue,
In their own world beyond the reach of eye;
Their war is with a monster far more fell
Than hydra, gorgon, or dread minotaur,
Chimasra, or the Calydonian Boar
Of whom the ancient legends darkly tell.
O God of battles, have them in thy keeping,
Hallow the sands where lie the heroes sleeping
Beyond the crash of bomb or boom of gun,
And, lest their shining fame should not surpass
The lustre of Priam or Leonidas,
Send them their Homer when the fight is done.
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.


ŵ
ẁ
CYPRUS
DE LUXE
The ideal natch for
the Service Man.
Waterproof, Shock-
proof, Dustproof,
Anti - m a g n e t i c,
Stainless steel case,
£7.
Fully Guaranteed.
Regimental Colour
Patch Brooches,
2/6 each.
OIAMbND
S- WATCH
SPECIALISTS
112 MARKET SI
SYDNEY.
OPR DAVIDJONEJ
TYPEWRITERS
of every description
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
ẃ
AT ATTRACTIVE PRICES
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States—See ’Phone Book.
FLEXITRfICK
Flex-I-Track for “0” gauge Mechanical and
Electrical Trains. Will fit any make of track
—switches —crossovers. Make any curve,
gradient—a new layout every time.
• No track sections to
connect —just roll.it
out—roll it up.
• Strongly bui 1 t —
won’t bend or buckle.
• 10ft. (one 6ft. and
one 4ft. section) for
12/6, Plus Postage.
Nett weight when
packed, Sib.
AMPLION (A/siaj
Pty., Ltd.,
382 Kent St., Sydney.
NATURAL
WOOD TIES
FLEXIBLE IN '
ANY DIRECTION
TRACK
FITS OTHER
EQUIPMENT
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
Ant*
I Discard the old type
mK KB steel Truss. Try the
'ppk amazing l new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE BOUSSEIi APPLIAKCIi CO.,
(Dept. 27), 81 Pitt Street, Sydney.
vAficA&iAOrui
WAY IS TO jrlcvtf
AS YOU 'Jbtf/
m
f>TY
LTD
3*\ £i/tA,yZAimp fyit-utXcoL^
41 *r CtOH C I STRUT, SYDNEY
GUITARS HUM 3/- WEEKLY.
(SAXOPHONES 3/6 weekly
PIANO ACCORDIONS., 3/6 WEtKIY.
TRUMPETS. 3/- weekly.
- BANJO MANDOLINS „ 3/- WEEKLY.
UKULELES 10/6 each
Write for free catalogue
of instrument you prefer.
TRY "CENTURY" RADIO
—and save 40 p.c.
(up to £2O).
It costs you nothing; to try the
“Century” Radio. You can have
FREE TRIAJL in your own home.
Century Kadio Sets embody the
latest scientific improvements . . .
wonderful reception assured from
all over the world on Battery and
All-electric sets. Write at once for
Catalogue. If no “Century” Agent
in your district you can buy at
wholesale prices (10% discount).
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Pixon Street, Sydney.
Ventriloquism
ẅ
IiEABN VENTIIULOQUISM
quickly —my new method
teaches It thoroughly in very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the VENTRILO you can imitate many kinds cf
birds, animals, etc. Everything for ONE
SHILLING, including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw your voice.
FfiFF Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
IUI/ls Tricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
173 Pitt St., Sydney. 52 Swanston St., Melb.
SERVICE FOR
THE DEAF!!
Mr. R. A. Nocdl, L.1.8.5.T., wishes to announce
that he is able to render a most efficient service
to all afflicted with Deafness, no matter what
type or style of Hearing they may be using.
"ELECTRAVOX" SUPREME
The sensational Hearing and small, compact and
of amazing clearness. Batteries used in the
Electravox are obtainable anywhere.
R. A. NOEDL 1.i.b.5.t.,
The Block, 428 George Street, Sydney.
'Phone: MA3774.
w
ŵ
If your dog’s coat is dull,
loose or ragged if he is listless, won’t
eat or is out of sorts—start him now
on a course of BARKO Condition
Powders. He will soon be lively and
eating with his old healthy appetite.
BARKO tones up a dog’s whole
system and benefits his coat.
ẁ
CONDITION
J'OWDKHS
1/6 All Chemists
CHAMPION POLEY
ẃ
Jl P. TALTY
„ _ LT
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
-flaps and skirts.
4£in. knee pads. Sin. thigh
pads. 4Jin. to Sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
p
elmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
The Pelman Syste.m develops per-
sonal attributes and qualities such as:
Self-confidence Decision
Concentration Will Power
Judgment Social Ease
and a Reliable Memory.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, describ-
ing Pelmanism, are posted free on request.
The Pelman Institute,
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr.
Market St.), Melbourne. Telephone: MU2355.
“Aberdeen” Cow Rugs
SPECIAL OFFER,
No. 22—Heavy Twill Jute, unlined, 7/8 ea.
No. 22P—Heavy Twill Jute, waterproof,
unlined, 9/8 each.
From all leading: stores and saddlers,
SMITH COI'EEAND & CO. PTY., LTD,,
SYDNEY.
TRULY AMAZING!
31 YEARS WITHOUT COUGHS, COEDS
OR INITT’ENZA.
Now Sixty and Ervins Quite a Careless Life,
Never Worrying- About Draughts, Hail, Rain,
Wind, Snow or Anything that Produces
Coughs, Colds or Influenza.
Brief Truthful History of My Own Case.
U,p till I was 29 I hail Cohls and Flu in plenty and
spent many a day in bed. During 1910 I made a
keen study of cause, cure and prevention of these
wretched complaints and finally made up a COM-
POUND which put me on the road to COMPLETE
IMMUNITY, as I have not had an attack since nor
have I taken any of the medicine in all those
years, now 31. No fussing, coddling, boring exer-
cises, drastic dieting or extreme dosing. A short course
and simple system fortified me; why not you also?
Give yourself a, chance, WHITE NOW BERRY’S
COMPOUND, 84 Pitt St. (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
ẅ
VITALIZES
THE
HAIR
w
invigorates!
THE j
SCALP }
It makes the hair grow beautiful and healthy. Gives
that life, resilieance and color so attractive in a
well groomed head of hair. Harmless and quite simple
to use. For waving hair, there is a Wavy Comb
and for tonic purposes, a Straight Comb. Complete
with battery and full directions, the prices are as
follows;—WAVY COMB, 3/6 post free, STRAIGHT
COMB, 2/6 post free, extra batteries, ninepence each.
UNION MANUFACTURING & AGENCY CO
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Cl.
ŵ
BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCE
CHARGER.
Standard Model, £6/13/6- Battery Extra,
lie Euxe Model, £B/14/6. Battery Extra.
The new l>e Euxe Model gives greater
efficiency in low rainfall areas.
Send for FREE illustrated leaflet.
SINGEE WIRE FENCE CO.,
207 George Street, SYDNEY.
LAMBS SAVED
ẁ
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
> EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS.
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient —
Humane—Safe —and as quick as the fastest
knife. Lambs suffer no setback —fatten
weeks earlier. No risk of Infection —No
losses. Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small. £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
Also LAMB DB-TAILER, £3/5/-. Prom
all agents or the distributors: HAIN &
SEABIGHT, 19b O’Connell Street, Sydney.
You may be a
future
TEX
MORTON!
Learn the
HILLBILLY
GUITAR, [
Hawaiian Guitar,
Spanish Guitar or Ukulele in 30 MINUTES!
Let Norm. Scott, the singing Stockman,
teach you!
His simple but complete Postal Instruc-
tion course costs only 2/6 a week.
Write today for complete details.
NORM. SCOTT, Hawaiian Club,
Dept. B, 296 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Tune in to 2GB every Sunday 9.4.3 a.in.
FAT, FLABBY
STOMACH
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The GOVERNA BELT supports
correctly the delicate organs,
and, by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes waistline
fat and bulge with every move
you make,
7 DAYS' TRIAD OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will
be Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of
bulge and strain gone . . .
OR NO COST! Write for full
illustrated details of 7 DAYS’
TRIAL OFFER.
00VERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
3
BUY YOUR NEW BATTERY
from the Maker at Wholesale
Prices—Save £2.
Marshall Batteries are covered by a
watertight guarantee, and you can
buy them at a price which keeps
pounds in your pocket because all
the profits of the middleman are saved
for YOU. The Marshall catalogue is
packed with information about bat-
teries for cars, trucks, cycles, radio,
home and theatre lighting. It will be
sent to you free of cost. The Marshall
Battery Mfg. Co., 38-42 Harbour
Street, Sydney.
ẃ
Send for the new in-
genious toy—a battle-
ship that you can build
and blow up again and
again. Made in sec-
tions ; easy to assemble.
15 inches long. Strongly
made. Packed in an
attractive carton.
A genuine and instruc-
tive toy. An Australian
patent. Priced at 5/6.
Postage paid to any
part of Australia.
Write to John Sterling,
Fisher’s Chambers, 55i
George Street, opposite
St. Andrew’s, Sydney.
ẅ
pniORMIMG
ms
Get rid of
HomsBEFORE
they start !
One application of
HAYES CHEMICAL,
DEHORSEB
Dehorns without bleeding
any calf up to two months.
Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from
its mother for 30 minutes. An easy, cheap, humane
method. Price per pot sufficient for 35 to 50 calves,
6/6. Large size for 210 to 300 calves, 30/-.
HAYES VETERINARY Post Free.
COMPANY, 351 Queen St., Brisbane.
w
ŵ
For the Farm, Camping
or Fishing.
British-made Kerosene Lamps
providing a steady 300 c.p. light
without flickering and without
smoke or smell.
Model EX 100
be used
(illustrated)
as a Storm
Lantern, Table Lamp or
Lamp. Reflector slips off when
not required. Burns for 10
hours on 1] pint.
Price, 70/- complete.
Write for catalogue of Radiators
and all types of lamps.
Obtainable from your local agent or
W. Kopson & Co. Pty., !Ltd ,
370-382 Kent Street, Sydney.
m i
WINCHESTER
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
2- 750 ft. range, each ....
3- 1000 ft. range, each . . .
Complete with Batteries.
Postage Extra Outside N.S.W
17/6
19/-
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
<UI
_U.
2'o«
01--
Amazing New Imported
CLIMBING TOMATO!
BEARS FOB A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001 b. per plant. Large,
red, smooth tomatoes. Climbs
12-20 feet. 3/6 packet posted.
PUKE WHITE HEALTH
TOMATO!
For Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
etc. (100 per cent.
NON-ACID!) Snp-
avor! Disease free! Drought proof!
IS DELICIOUS JAM. 3/6 Packet, posted.
LJ
ẁ
ẃ
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
*252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy cf The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
C Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
*For local office
address, see Page 6.
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
IS/10I’41 (See Page 26)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Wants’' to The Bulletin Service Department.
For local office address , see Page 6.


-
»■
m
m
■
mm
\ :
-1...-
* '
i
i I
1
m /
m
■
m
mm
m
mm
OTHER EARTH is indeed a bountiful store-
house of mineral wealth on which mankind
rapaciously draws for his multitude of requirements
for peace or war, from tacks to tanks, safety-pins to
submarines. To win this wealth demands not only
the skilful and arduous toil of the miner below
ground, but the knowledge of the metallurgist above.
In countless ways science has helped to better the
strenuous working conditions of the man under-
ground, to lighten his labour, to increase his effici-
ency. Take for instance the “Ventubc” system of
ventilation, whereby fresh, cool air is supplied
through flexible tubing to confined and almost in-
accessible spaces underground. The research of
Imperial Chemical Industries has also provided ex-
plosives for various types of mining, for each class
of ore and rock encountered, explosives which lessen
the labour, minimise risk and increase the tonnage
of ore mined per shift.
Copper in industry, particularly in wartime, is of
paramount importance. In the manufacture of elec-
trical cables, electrical machinery, aircraft, munitions
and a thousand minor applications, copper, tough
and malleable, is essential both in its pure state
and its many alloys such as brass and bronze.
The extraction of copper concentrates from the ore
and their reduction to metal, calls for much chemical
and metallurgical skill.
Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and New
Zealand not only supply chemicals and flotation .re-
agents which extract the greatest amount of con-
centrates from ores of all grades, but maintain a
complete technical organisation and laboratories for
the service of the mining in-
dustry. Without such chemical
aid the winning of metal would
indeed be slow and tedious as
in former days.
w
“Behind the Empire Throughout the Empire n
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
- /
Subsidiary Companies :
, NOBEL (A/ASIA) PTY. LTD. 1.C.1. ALKALI (AUST.) PTY. LTD. IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES (N.Z.) LTD.
