

THE
For Your
LIFE ASSURANCE
#
The Mutual Life & Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
Founded 1886
Assets Exceed £33,000,000
Payments to policyholders exceed £41,000,000
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3222.
Wednesday, November 12, 1941.
Who’s for Conscription?
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Learn
' _ •'
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write ' for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Nome
My Address
S.B. 241
The Red Page
NEW T.S. ELIOT POEM.
When T. S. Eliot years ago borrowed a
rhyme about the Mrs. Porter who
washed her feet in soda-water, his in-
terest in Australia, as far as there is any
evidence, ceased. Therefore it couldn’t be
suggested that the striking resemblance
between passages of his new poem The
Dry Salvages (Faber) and passages of
Kenneth Slessor’s elegy “Five Bells” is
anything but accidental. The similarity,
not only in expression, but in the thought
behind the symbols of sea and bells, used
in both poems, remains astonishing.
Slessor (straining to hear the voice of
the drowned man whom his poem com-
memorates) :
But I hear nothing, nothing . .. only bells,
Five bells, the bumpkin calculus of Time.
Your echoes die, your voice is dowsed by Life,
There’s not a mouth can fly the pygmy strait —
Nothing except the memory of some bones
Long shoved away, and sucked away, in mud.
Eliot (using, as Slessor does later in his
poem, the sea as a symbol of that Time
in which all things are drowned):
The river is within us, the sea is all about us;
The sea is the land’s edge also, the granite
Into which it reaches, the beaches where it
tosses
Its hints of earlier and other creation:
The starfish, the hermit crab, the whale’s back-
bone ;
Tire shattered lobsterpot, the broken oar
And the gear of foreign dead men.
There, in both poems is the setting
established, the image of time as the sea.
Then both poets, exploring that watery
Waste Land, search for some fixed point
in it, some straw of eternity to cling to,
and both seize on the sound of a sea-
bell for the symbol of what they have
found. Slessor:
Where have you gone? The tide is over you,
The turn of midnight water’s over you,
As Time is over you, and mystery,
And memory, the flood that does not flow.
You have no suburb, like those easier dead
In private berths of dissolution laid —
The tide goes over, the waves ride over you
And let their shadows down like shining hair,
But they are Water; and the sea-pinks bend
Like lilies in your teeth, but they are Weed;
And you are only part of an Idea.
I felt the wet push its black thumb-balls in,
The night you died, I felt your eardrums crack,
And the short agony, the longer dream,
The Nothing that was neither long nor short.
I looked out of my window in the dark
At waves with diamond quills and combs of
light
1 hat arched their mackerel-backs and smacked
the sand
In the moon’s drench, that straight, enormous
glaze.
And ships far-off asleep, and harbor-buoys
Tossing their fireballs wearily each to each,
And tried to hear your voice, but all 1 heard
Was a boat’s whistle, and the scraping squeal
Of seabirds’ voices far away, and bells.
Five bells. Five bells coldly ringing out.
Five bells.
Eliot:
The salt is on the briar rose.
The, fog is in the fir-trees. The sea howl
And the sea yelp are different voices
Often together heard: the whine in the rigging,
The menace and caress of wave that breaks on
water,
The distant rote in the granite teeth.
And the wailing warning from the approaching
headland
Are all sea voices and the heaving groaner
Rounded homewards, and the seagull.
And under the oppression of the silent fog
The tolling bell
Measures lime not our time, rung by the un-
hurried
Ground swell, a time
Older than the time of chronometers, older
Than time counted by anxious worried women
Lying awake, calculating the future,
Trying to unweave, unwind, unravel
And piece together the past and the future,
Between midnight and dawn, when the past is
all deception,
The future futureless, before the morning watch
When time stops and time is never ending;
And the ground swell, that is and was from
the beginning,
Clangs
The bell.
Summoned by the bell into the flood
and flurry of life, the drowned man lost
in the dark, Slessor has finished his ex-
ploration of time. But the bell of The
Dry Salvages, because Eliot is not writing
an elegy but an essay on the time-theme
he has touched on in earlier poems (“The
still point of the turning world”), directs
the poem to an examination of timeless
moments within the flood of everyday
life.
Beginning by saying that he doesn’t
know what such moments mean—those
moments of exaltation in ordinary life
when time does indeed seem' to stand
still—
I do not know much about gods,
Eliot decides that not only the moments
of supreme happiness are eternal but
also the moments of supreme agony:
People change, and smile: but the agony abides.
Time the destroyer is time the preserver,
Like the river with its cargo of dead negroes,
cows and chicken coops,
And the ragged rock in the restless waters,
Waves wash over it, fogs conceal it;
On a halcyon day it is merely a monument,
In navigable weather it is always a seamark
To lay a course by: but in the sombre season
Or the sudden fury, it is what it always was.
And the meaning of these moments of
immortal joy or immortal agony—the
happiness that inspires an “Ode to a
Nightingale” or the grief that breaks into
a “Five Bells”? Eliot “does not know
much about gods”; he has only “hints
and guesses” to offer ; but his hint and
his guess are that in these peaks or
chasms of living the Divine becomes in-
carnate, eternity illuminates the tem-
poral ;
For most of us, there is only the unattended
Moment, the moment in and out of time,
The distraction tit, lost in a shaft of sunlight.
_ These are only hints and guesses.
Hints followed by guesses; and the rest
Is prayer, observance, discipline, thought and
action.
The hint half-guessed, the gift half-understood,
is Incarnation.
There are some flat passages in The
Diy Salvages . but it is a good poem.
And how good, too, when you put it
side by side with lines as fine as any
Eliot ever wrote, is the poetry of Slessor’s
“Five Bells.”
Passports to Bedlam .
One of the tales in John Collier’s
Presenting Moonshine (Macmillan) would
have been told by Scheherazade if she’d
thought of it, and wouldn’t have been
told by Collier if she hadn’t thought of
the ones that entertained and perhaps
enlightened the sultan, and have been
doing likewise tor untold numbers ever
since, though likely to be pounced on,
banned, confiscated and burnt by police
or Customs officials in countries that
enjoy such standard-bearers of culture.
This particular story of Collier’s could
be called a satire on the Arabian Nights
brand of fare if Collier could be credited
—or it may be debited —with enough
seriousness of mind to be classed as a
satirist. As it is, it is rather a burlesque.
“Franklin Fletcher dreamed of luxury in
the form of tiger-skins and beautiful
women. He was prepared, at a pinch, to
forgo the tiger-skins.” He doesn’t have
to. The proprietor of an old junk shop in
N’York, whose wares run to jinns and
other such items corked up in bottles,
lets Franklin have for five bucks a
bottled jinn guaranteed most efficient.
Let out, the jinn duly supplies Franklin
with a palace fairly littered with tiger
skins, with a lovely damsel, “not vulgarly
overdressed,” reclining on every one o ’
them. And so on, until, with an adroit-
ness that would do credit to Franklin D
Roosevelt himself, the ungrateful jinn
lures this other Franklin into willing
himself into the bottle, corks him up, anc
leaves him there to witness what Allah—
presumably—had decreed he should wit-
ness.
The adroitness does credit also to John
Collier. This, in fact, is one of his
strongest points as a story-teller, along
with an imagination tangled and giddy
with moonshine—not the bottled sort
but that which floods into craniums weak
enough to let it in, and strong enough
to stand it (for a while, at all events)
once it is there ; hence the poets, and so
forth. Collier’s stories have so much of
both adroitness and that sort of moonlit
imagining about them that they read as
if it were not Franklin but John who
bought the jinn in the bottle, uncorked
him and commanded him to conjure up
and uncork on demand several dozen
more bottles, each containing— properly
preserved in moonwash—one complete
passport to bedlam, in the form of an
original, eminently readable fantasy short
story by John Collier.
Result, a book of mostly brief stories
that read in places like Thorne Smith
put through a woolpress (as he needs to
be), Poe’s spine-chillers inoculated with
juice extracted from the brow of Mark
Twain, or Edward Lear given the job of
disposing in prose of Edgar Wallace’s ex-
tensive morgue of corpses. Comparisons
being invidious and literary hero-
worshippers ardent and revengeful, it
should perhaps be added that there is
here no intent to desecrate the shrines
of the Great. Here is nothing more ambi-
tious than an impression from scattered
resemblances.
Like Thorne Smith, Collier makes a
flippant and humorous approach to the
l iterary supernatural: he could be satiris-
ing all writers who seriously people
paper with the credibly uncanny; all
writers who drink of witches’ brew and
find it tastes good and makes writing
and royalties easy. Like Poe —used
purely as an example of your countless
sincere horror merchants —he has a fond-
ness for the stark macabre: in a literary
manner of speaking, he’d sit and look at
a bumpy, stained corn-bag for hours if
he fancied there were human heads in it;
and he would fancy there were, and
believe his fancy and make it reality,
though a committee of cockies examined
the contents and swore they were pump-
kins. Confident in his own belief, he’d
find it amusing, and laugh with the gusto
of Mark Twain—or any other approved
humorist, as preferred—go on chuckling
with the literary lunacy of Lear (Edward,
that is), and finally go off, still laughing,
with the bag, and, with the horsy non-
chalance of Wallace, empty the heads one
by one into the Thames, or any other
suitably oily and murky water.
In several of his stories he comes close
enough to identifiable satire to lure a
reader into looking for a like intent in
the rest. The bulk of them, however,
seem to have no more purpose to them
than that of providing unusual light en-
tertainment. One thing he positively has
a smack at is dilettantism in literature,
including the topsy-turvy dilettantism
which exalts primitiveness and makes a
literary virtue of an inability to write.
He’s as crushing on that as he is on the
pansied variety; in each of two stories
he manages to be crushing on both sorts
together. In one a prize pansy variety
dilettante author is spoken to by a gorilla
at a zoo. “This goddam place stifles me,”
says the gorilla, who declares that he,
too, is an author, though, as a matter of
fact, the unscrupulous ape had never
written a line in his life. The author is
surprised to hear a gorilla speak. “How-
ever, commonsense reminded him that he
was in a city in which many creatures
enjoyed that faculty, whom, at first sight,
or at any hearing, one would hardly
credit with sufficient intelligence to have
attained it.” He supplies clothes and a
file; takes the ape home, introduces him
as an author from Africa, a writer of the
raw primitive, and fits him up with room,
bed and writing materials. They converse.
Says the author:
“I imagine your work as being very close
to the mainsprings of life, the sultry pas-
sions, the crude lusts, the vital urges, the
stark, the raw, the dynamic, the essentially
fecund and primitive.”
“That’s it,” said the gorilla.
“The sentence,” continued the rhapsodist,
“short to the point of curtness, attuned by
a self-concealing art to the grunts, groans
and screams of women with great primeval
paps, and men”
“Sure,” said the gorilla.
“They knock each other down,” went on
his admirer. “As they taste the salt blood
flowing over their lips, or see the female
form suddenly grow tender under the in-
fluence of innumerable uppercuts, right
hooks, straight lefts, they become aware
of another emotion”
“Yes!” cried the gorilla with enthusiasm.
“And with a cry that is half a sob”
“Attaboy!” cried the gorilla.
The ape writes his opus to that pre-
scription. Meanwhile, they are visited by
a Famous Author, who discourses in the
evening upon style, to the bewilderment
and dismay of the gorilla. The ill-bred
anthropoid exchanges his own and the
dilettante author’s manuscripts before
posting them —where have we read this
plot before?—and has the final mortifi-
cation of seeing his primitive burblings
lavished with praise by the Great Critic,
whereupon the dilettante—“ That poor
fish! That ham writer! That bum artist!”
—joins the ranks of the Famous.
But mostly Collier is satisfied with
quips and digs at his particular Aunt
Sallys. All his stories are in a satirical
vein, rather than directly satire. All of
them are good as entertainment, nearly
all of them are good also as short stories,
and one or two are extra good. Wider in
scheme and stronger in theme than most
of them-—on the whole, they are on the
light side —the one called “Witch’s
Money” stands out, and would in most
company. It follows on the capital open-
ing story, “Evening Primrose,” and it
would need a pretty strong effort of will-
power to read either of them and not
read the rest.
Padre on the Burma Road .
As a young English churchman in
Burma and as a padre with the pre-war
British forces there, Robert Slater, set-
ting down a general-impression picture
of the place in his Guns Through Arcady
(Angus and Robertson), is largely inter-
ested in the country’s religions, shrines,
religious buildings and the like. That’s
all to the good. For one thing, it means
that he writes chiefly of what he knows
most about; therefore he writes easily
and well, and with authority. For an-
other, Buddhism is of such importance
in the life and architecture of the land
that his is as good an approach as could
be made to get down a clear picture of
the place and its people. To enliven it.
a plentiful leavening of the human under-
standing common to padres.
From his main viewpoint —and also
because of the associations its name con-
jures up on sight in the reader’s mind—-
the place called Pagan has a solid kick of
surprise in it. Pagan runs to “a tract o
land eight miles long and three miles m
breadth, wholly covered by the ruins o :
religious monuments built to enshrin
precious relics especially brought from
distant lands, monuments which repre
sent every school of architecture inspirec
by the religion to which they belong.
In the days of its glory the three-miles
wide belt running along the flat Irra
wady riverside was thus “covered b
churches, Saxon, Norman, early Engl is. i
Gothic, decorated, perpendicular, Renais
sance classical, with spires, domes anc
towers.”
For architectural variety, the palace
of former “right royal Oriental despots,
the old kings of Burma, who kept a lordly
style, befitting one who was “sovereign
of umbrella-holding kings of divers grea
kingdoms and countries, master of mine
of gold and silver, ruby, amber and al
other gems, builder? of the city and the
palace, lord of the hsaddan, king o
elephants, lord and master of white
elephants, lord of the universe and grea
captain of the law”—with some amend
ments and additions, a passable impres-
sion of a Randwick bookmaker.
Up there the padre meets quite
number of characters from this part of
the world—miners and other such adven-
turers, strayed into all sorts of odd spots
years before the war. One Sunday the
padre gathered that none of the loca
Australians could be expected to attenc
church: it was explained to him that
they’d been up all night listening to the
Test match. Also, the opening paragraph
of his book runs:
My friend at the silver mine read his
paper religiously. Next to the radio The
Bulletin was his principal touch with the
outside world. It travelled four thousand
miles to reach him in his remote outpost
beneath the China border.
In those uneasy pre-war days, the
padre himself, after the rush of church
engagements that took him “in the
trolley-car, screaming over the rails up
and round the hills,” found it a relief
to lie at ease in the cool, shaded room,
facing the quiet hillside across the narrow
valley, and, with lazy, leisured eye, study
(through the pages of The Bulletin) the
fevers and contortions of the big world
so many thousands of miles, so many nights
and days and months away.
He was moved by a statement by John
Masefield which appeared in “Uncabled
Additions,” in which the Poet Laureate
envisaged a time when, after recurrent
wars, “people will run away from com-
munities and nations as organised today,
forming small groups where quarrels as
they arise can be dealt with without
savagery and organised hate and destruc-
tion.” The padre wondered where they’d
escape to. If anywhere, this remote spot
was the place ; elsewhere, they’d “prob-
ably find Hollywood there before them.”
With the building of the Burma Road,
the trappings of war -Mvith great changes
now and greater to come —barge in here,
also. Described by a Chinese writer as
“the greatest engineering feat the Chinese
have ever achieved since the building of
the famous great wall,”
The Burma Road was certainly a stupen-
dous feat. In less than a year, without
any of the road-making machines used
by most engineers, the highway was carried
through, a distance of over 700 miles,
through some of the most difficult country
in the world: moving over ranges of
mountains, cutting through natural
swamps, spanning deep gorges and swift
rivers, curving round the, precipitous edges
of rocky hillsides.
At one time there were not fewer than
.a million coolies working on the road,
putting the wind up doctors, who feared
epidemics. When six hundred miles of
new road was finished, nearly three
hundred bridges and two thousand cul-
verts were counted. The padre doubts
whether bombing attacks can stop the
road traffic: the same vast armies of
coolie labor which built the road are
available to repair it. The traffic would
seem to be pretty extensive, vital to
China’s continued resistance ; therefore,
it would seem that to stop it if possible
must be a Japanese objective. Burma
borders on Thailand, which borders on
Indo-China.
The Land of the Rainbow: Violet
Mason (Minerva). A generalised depic-
tion of Poland, first published in 1933,
and now reprinted in an enlarged edition,
with a concluding chapter to deal with
Hitler. The book the work of an en-
thusiastic admirer, and written in a some-
what gushful style.
Common Joys and Other Poems:
W. H. Davies (Faber). Another of
Faber’s excellent “Sesame Books,” selec-
tions intended as an introduction to the
works of the poets included. This is a
fine selection, the pick of Davies ; and
Davies, like Wordsworth, is all the better
for pruning.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —the salt of business
“THE SENIOR STORE”
preserve
Good paint’ can do wonders in improving the outside appearance and
preserving the woodwork of a home. It is also an easy, practical, and
inexpensive way of transforming dull uninteresting rooms into ones that are
bright and fresh. Wait till you find how easy these well-known paints are to
apply! You will be making exciting changes right through the house!
TE=*sr
CALZIC
WH ITE
ROOF
COOLING
PAINT
aa
Reduces Temperature
of IRON ROOFS of
Farmhouses, Sheds, etc.
Ccdzic Roof Cooling Paint is in White only. It is in
powder form and ready for use after adding water
and mixing thoroughly. One 50-lb. tin is sufficient
to cover 100 square yards with two coats. We are
the sole agents for "Calzic." At Anthony Horderns'
Price, per 50-lb. tin 17/6
3J.IHM
SSOID
L*
a
[iVd
tra o
oih
c
MJI
J
Ml
j
i
m
j?
•j
n
%
TAUBMAN'S ROOF PAINT
Improves the Appearance of Your Roof
Taubman's Roof and Structural Paint is the most lasting
paint for galvanised iron roofs, gutterings, downpipes,
tanks, etc. It is harmless to tank water.
BORTHWICK'S A.B. PAINT
WEARS LIKE A ROCK
A coat of paint makes a world of difference, and at the
prices there's no excuse for dull drab paintwork. A.B. Pure
Ready-Mixed Paint is renowned for its lasting appearance.
1 Gall. \ Gall. 1 Ot. 1 Pint *Pt.
White and General Colours. Prices 26/5 13/11 7/6 4/1 2/3
Light, Medium and Dark Greens 27/9 14/7 7/11 4/3 2/4
Signal Red. Prices 31/- 16/2 8/9 4/8 2/6
PAINT Brings New Beauty and Freshness into Your Home
""
wHI T &
TAUBMAN'S DYNAMEL .... i-pint, 3T
You'll find it a most enjoyable and satisfying experience to change the
colour of your furniture . . . Dynamel is easy to apply, quick and hard
drying. Brilliant colours for freshness and modern appeal.
Quantities 1 Gall. % Gall. 1 Qt- 1 Pt- ~s Pt- % Pt-
At Anthony Horderns'. Prices ... 36/11 19/1 10/1 5/6 3/1
1/8
"PESCARINE" i-pint. 2'lo
The psychological effect of cleanliness figures prominently where food is
concerned . . . cupboards, drawers, ice chests, etc., look clean and attractive
if given a coat of 'Pescarine WRite Enamel-like paint. It s odourless and
non-poisonous. Quantities 1 Pint % P int
At Anthony Horderns'. Prices 5/2 2/10 1/6
SOLPAH PAVING PAINT . . . i-pint. I'lO
Solpah Paving Paint makes fascinating changes to your paths, steps, bath-
room and laundry floors. It comes in gleaming colours to offset sombre
events. Solpah also gives a marvellous colour finish to old lino, making it
look like new. Quantities 1 Gall. \ Gall. 1 Qt. 1 Pt. -f. Pt.
Red and Black. Prices 20/10 11/1 6/1 3/2 1/10
Grey, White, -Brown, Green, Blue, Cream 30/2 15/7 8/5 4/7 2/6
• Paints—Lower Ground Floor. Pitt Street. Delivered free only within our delivery area.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
'Phone M 2401 (Day and Night)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


r
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
)■■■*
' 4
:$m
:■;; Is
Mil
111
Bi
..
ii#®litaMS
-- • i ■ ’ :' ' --
■’
-W»\ i
WKSBBM
■
mm
m
% - .,
•«l«i#i»i|»^#S
■> "p SOPO
"' : rK -. . ■ MW
- IE x Bn .
HM
_ „JK
Hi “
- -
HHll -
guMyg
iiili#
il
| :;/
111111
llii
Mi
SKIPTON
By MARABOU—CUPIDITY. Three Years.
WINNER OF THE MELBOURNE CUP, 1941
MRS. J. J. KITSON, Owner
Trainer. J. FRYER
Jockey, W. COOK
Weight, 7st. 71b. (inc. lib. over). Time, 3min. 23
■t>|w


The Bulletin
Vol. 62.—N0. 3222.
Wednesday, November 12, 1941.
CURTIN SOUNDS HIS GONG.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
£ r . ior J * E * Webb
r. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
v ,. TnDII .. 2521 BB; Phone 87971.
Victoria. Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street.
~ Melbourne.
Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia. 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0. )
x , Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
wpJk/v- n ee to t u AN J, A P DRESS IN Australasia,
a n,Z; h J 2 7 mo /l ths ; £1 45.; 6 months. 12s. 6d.;
anT&Sme JgjJSf ** « C ° m "*
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
months i? ™o n ths. £1 10s.; 6 months. 165.;
s ei MEMBERs op ihe sbrvices *«<>«>!
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
WHO'S FOR CONSCRIPTION ?
To clear the deck-TuE Bulletin, for one, is most
emphatically in favor. To its way of thinking, the
voluntary system” to which Australia is “com-
mitted is out-of-date in these present days of total
all-in war. It puts on a small willing minority a national
burden that should be shared by all; it discriminates
against them in favor of the unwilling. Thus it is
undemocratic, and never was democratic. In all the
circumstances of the present war—this stark struggle
for survival, about the future of which there is nothing
certain except that it will be long and painful—
T O6 /°t Such a “ s y stem ” represents either gaping
moonstruck lunacy or just as pitiful weakness, P b
Australia s late political leaders made no move
conscription. It was Mr. Menzies who
said that Australia was “committed to the voluntary
system Moreover, the recent ex-Governments
belonged to a tint in the political spectrum that in the
past decade won election after election partly on re-
iterated specific promises never to reintroduce com-
pulsory service even for home defence. Therefore if
they are mentioned no further here, they are not
exonerated.
The best the present lot can manage in this
matter is to appeal to the electorate to give when it is
their right and duty to take. They threw out the pre-
ceding Government because—among other reasons—it
proposed small war loans, deductible from taxes This
said the present P.M., “introduced an element of com-
pulsion into Australian life.”
Mr. Curtin was not being jocular. He is a very
serious man. And a conveniently forgetful one. A
Labor leader, he could thus forget compulsory union-
ism, compulsory education, compulsory voting, com-
pulsory taxation and other forms of compulsion
without which democracy could not continue.
The purpose of the Australian people and Parlia-
ment, said Mr, Curtin on that occasion, was “to
prosecute the war to a successful conclusion.” War he
defined as “a physical thing, fought by fighting men,
supported by the economic strength of the civil popu-
lation. Further, there must be “equality of sacrifice,”
But, he went on to repeat, “The compulsion idea aims
at the very root of the Commonwealth. People would
say that if money were to be called up compulsorily,
would men not also be called up compulsorily for
service overseas?” The clatter of knees knocking
together on the other side of the House should have
told him that he had there gone to the roots, if not
of the Commonwealth, at least of one of the tenderest
sap-channels of political expediency.
What infallible hand is it that has divided Aus-
tralians into those two separate kinds of people: on
the one hand, the “fighting men” —a distinctive breed ;
as envisaged by Mr. Curtin, apparently some sort of
Australian samurai—on the other hand, the numerous
rest, tabbed and compartmented by Mr. Curtin as
the civilian population”? Thus in this democracy—
because, allegedly, “the compulsion idea aims at the
very root of the Commonwealth”—we have to set up,
and for our survival depend upon, a select and small
aristocracy.
The men in North Africa are none the less
that because they don’t happen to be an aristocracy
of lineage or of wealth, but one of patriotic sacrifice
and courage. While the war lasts, they hold their
status ; and they alone know exactly what that means
when —vide any recruiting authority, any day—they
are in pressing need of reinforcements, and therefore
have to stay in the line unrelieved and without rest,
running the hazard with death day after day night
after night.
Contrary to the myth that has been hatched out
since, the Diggers in the last war voted in favor of
conscription on both occasions. There is solid his-
reason for the belief that they would now do
so again. Apart from that past experience, the general
attitude towards war of large numbers of mankind has
undergone as great a change since that time as war
itself. They have become more aware and thoughtful.
That goes for Australians along with the rest.
The truth is to be heard from the recruiting plat-
forms. No doubt there are adventurous exceptions,
but generally it is true that those who have gone
abroad in this war have done so more thoughtfully
than was the case with the general run of Diggers in
the last war. This time they knew. It is all the greater
credit to every one of them. And all this is to The
point that, given the chance today, their vote for
conscription would be an emphatic one.
It should not be left to them, nor even put to
them. It is a matter for the nation. It will not come
from the present Government —at least, it will not
come yet. If the war should stay out of the Pacific,
it would be a safe bet that it would never come at
all. True, the Prime Minister has said that “we have
been inviting volunteers to serve in a war in which,
if they are worsted, our country is lost and our liberty
destroyed.” But the Prime Minister —so touchy on
the question that the mention of small compulsory loans
shocks and alarms him —would presumably do nothing
to save the day, even if those volunteers on distant
battlefields, through the thinning down of their ranks
and the greater numbers opposing them, looked like
being worsted. The “voluntary system” presumably
would have to be upheld, even if the price was the
country itself and its liberty.
That is taking Mr. Curtin’s political utterances
as final. Anybody who knows him knows that that is
not his character at all. But he is the slave of political
forces stronger than himself. He would fall on this
issue, tor few of his supporters would appear to have
his sense of responsibility. The new Minister for the
Army, Mr. Forde, has said: “We are pledged to main-
tain our army in the field.” Formerly the same “we”
opposed having an army abroad, or even compulsory
national service at home. Now they are “pledged”—
Mr. Curtin along with them—to “maintain our army
m the field” to the extent only that this can be done
by the voluntary system.” If that makes sense—let
alone statesmanship—then the sooner the P.M. loses
his senses and brings his supporters and the people
generally to theirs the better.
Others besides Mr. Curtin are filling the air with
appeals and suchlike politically expedient substitutes
for responsible government. Mr. Beasley is heard
declaiming: “This is just a temporary lull, and you
and I may soon have to face grim reality.” Mr.
chimes in: “We shall shirk none of the respon-
sibilities or problems of office”—none, that is, save
Forde proceeds: “There is no greater respon-
sibility than the one we bear to our army overseas.
I put it to you with all the force I can muster that
we have a duty to keep these men of ours strongly
supported with all they need”—with all, that is, except
a steady, sure and adequate supply of reinforcements,
raised by the one and only truly democratic method
for a democracy fighting for its survival, for its demo-
cratic liberty, for its democratic way of life.
That method is conscription. The other method
has failed. Efforts to make it succeed are succeeding
only in making Australia’s part so far seem weak and
cheap, though weak and cheap it is not. An A.I.F.
sergeant has stated at a Sydney Domain recruiting
rally that the recruiters had “tried to shame men into
going, but even that failed.” It makes shameful hear-
ing. Lieut.-General Iven Mackay told a Sydney audi-
ence; “The numbers of the A.I.F. are lessening. In
the depots there are very few men. Few are coming
forward.” He asked: “Are they to be left there to
fight on and on until they are unable to fight longer?”
When he had left the Middle East, the men there had
said to him, “Whatever you do, try to get us some
recruits.” The answer to this appeal by that authority?
“Of course, General, we are committed to the volun-
tary system.”
That fairly states the position as it is today. And
then there is tomorrow—not any distant tomorrow
when millennium will dawn and the sun shine on a
brave new world scarcely distinguishable from Aus-
tralia today; but this immediate tomorrow, full of
threat and menace, about which there have been
warnings plain and downright enough to disturb the
dead. Like his predecessor, the Prime Minister gives
out these warnings as a matter of urgency. Sundry
of his Ministers join him in driving them home. The
voices are new, but the words have been heard before.
The words speak of actual invasion, and of what
can be done to keep the war away from these shores.
There are the forces up around Malaya. If you rule
out conscription for reinforcing the overtried men of
Tobruk and of other far distant fields on the
unwarranted assumption that the distance would
shamefully influence Australia’s decision on it, what
then of the Nearer North? We now have—thanks to
nothing but the compulsion of inescapable events —
conscription for “home defence.” This is accepted
as a matter of course even by those who shudder at
small compulsory loans. Are the “home defence” boun-
daries the map outline of Australia? Or are Malaya
and other places in the line of invasion included?
Does the statement of Mr. Menzies when Prime
Minister, that on the holding of Singapore “the destiny
of Australia might depend if war came in the Pacific,”
have reference to our conscripted home defence forces,
or does that, too, depend on the “voluntary system”?
The Government is silent on these questions, as
its predecessor was before it. If some of the warnings
given out by Mr. Curtin and others are as true as they
were without doubt sincere, these questions might soon
have to be answered.
Mr. Curtin has now spoken several times of the
“cohesion” of the democracies in the Pacific. He has
said this represents an extraordinary advance on any-
thing that might have been thought possible even
one year ago. He spoke no names ; but he was, of
course, referring in part—in a very large part —to
America. The inference to be drawn from these repeti-
tions was that the U.S.A. would not stand aside and
see Britain and Australia and Maoriland defending
possessions and democracy in these parts without
coming in fighting. If that is a wrong inference the
P.M. should correct it —and accept the credit for
having set a new standard in hot air. The inference
looks the right one, even though the U.S. Congress
majority of one in favor of slightly extending the ser-"
vice time of its citizen forces and hot-and-cold accept-
ance of the Atlantic sinkings would not seem to sug-
gest a wildly eager Uncle Sam.
But if Uncle Sam did come in, how would he
come in? Trailing the bubble of voluntary service?
Uncle Sam, as keeper of one of the greatest democ-.
racies, accepts the only democratic principle for war
—that is, conscription. As one of his isolationists has
described it: “An inescapable obligation of every
citizen ; a universal obligation without which the life
of this or any other nation would not be possible.”
Little Maoriland, Labor Maoriland, has accepted the
inescapable and universal obligation.
The cold, hard realism of the matter is that if
the menace which Messrs. Curtin and co. have so
insistently described should break into war, then the
present Government would either have to flee the tart
shop or instantly forget its political shudderings and
admit that for the people of a democracy there are
duties above rights, and that the first of these duties
is that every available fit man who can be armed
must fight or work for his country’s survival, as
ordered.
That is conscription. And this being a war for
the survival of democracy in general—including this
democracy, Australia —it is the considered view of
this newspaper, for one, that the democratic prin-
ciple of war service should be introduced now, and
that it should apply to this country’s fighting part in
this war, whether this war extends to the Pacific or
not. By the democratic yardstick Tobruk and Singa-
pore are equally near to Australia.
No Serviceman Need Apply.
In the N.S.W. on October 16, Mr.
Abram Landa, self-described as “the sole represen-
tative” of his faith in his branch of the “legislature”
(Mr. Max Falstein, of the “frightened-to-enlist” mono-
logue, is in the House at Canberra), asserted that
plotters were trying to deprive “a young and brilliant”
co-religionist who had been “associated with the
Labor party in New Zealand” of a Sydney Law School
appointment for which he had been recommended by
“the professorial staff.” “Certain members of the
Senate,” Mr. Landa said, “have adopted the Nazi and
Fascist tactics of trying to get rid of a man for the
simple reason that he happens to be a Jew”; and “I
shall want to know their names before long.”
This thirst for information was slaked last week
in a most unexpected way. (justices Halse-Rogers and
Davidson, Professor John Peden and former Attorney-
General Manning resigned from the Senate as a pro-
test against that body’s deciding to appoint two 34-
year-old Maorilanders —one the gentleman championed
by Mr. Landa —to vacant chairs at the Law School in
reversal of a previous decision. Justice Halse-Rogers
was Chancellor of the University. Professor Peden,
who is President of the Legislative Council, was Dean
of the Faculty of Law, one of the positions in question.
In announcing his resignation as Chancellor and
Senator, Justice Halse-Rogers reviewed the circum-
stances which had led him to take this serious step.
He said there was no necessity for immediate appoint-
ments, which would necessarily be life appointments ;
he had made inquiries and was convinced that “satis-
factory arrangements could be made for carrying on
the work of the Law School” in 1942./”There was no
lawyer on the professorial board or its committee. It
“claimed to have selected the best men,” but since no
lawyer had been consulted, and no one had been called
before either board or committee to “speak of per-
sonal knowledge of Brown or Latham,” two Australian
applicants on war service in Britain, “the claim was
opejj to doubt.^l
L.The Australians, Brown and Latham, and the
two Maorilanders, Stone and Williams, were “four
outstanding candidates.” The two Maorilanders “came
before the board,” and “apparently made a great per-
sonal impression,” a fact which “emphasised the dis-
advantage under which Brown and Latham suffered.”
It was not possible to judge of the capabilities of
the candidates as teachers merely from published writings.
Personality in teachers is an important factor, and there
is little mhance of judging of personality except by
contact. J
Above all, it was necessary for the Senate to “have
regard to war conditions.” Postponement would not
mean the exclusion of Williams or Stone; it would
mean only that they would have their chance in equal
competition with other applicants when war service
ceased to be a bar to full and impartial consideration
of all applications for appointment.
C “These views,” the distinguished Judge proceeded,
were accepted by “every legal member of the Senate
at that time.” Then another legal member arrived on
the Senate as an eleventh-hour nominee of the House
to which Mr. Landa belongs; Mr. Martin, the Labor
Attorney-General, previously a rising hope of the Left
Book Club. Mr. Martin campaigned briskly for Mr.
Landa’s. protege. Beaten on the first Senate division
in which he voted, he ascertained that Mr. Landa’s
protege had twice tried to enlist, and made the most
of this fact before the final division was taken. While
very creditable to Mr. Stone, it in no way removes
the objection to turning down the two Australians on
war service without giving them the opportunity
granted to the two Maorilanders not on war service,
at the instance of gentlemen who are doubtless expert
vets., botanists, psychologists and so forth, but are
decidedly not authorities on law. This point was
emphasised by Justice Davidson, supporting his
learned brother:
In the selection of candidates for chairs in other
faculties, representatives of those faculties were present
at the deliberations of the professorial board. No
representatives of the faculty of law or members of
the legal profession were present when recommendations
for of its chairs were being considered by
the board. J
Other campaigning for the two gentlemen not on
war service was done by University students. It was
mentioned that “141 undergraduates at the Law
School” had signed a petition asking for the positions
to be filled forthwith. Before taking up a position
on the highest fence in the neighborhood, “S. M.
Herald” printed a sarcastic letter suggesting that some-
one had blundered: “surely there cannot be any-
thing like that number who are of non-military
age, physically unfit or unavailable for active service
on other sound grounds.” The Council of the Teachers’
Federation also concerned itself in the matter. A


students’ representative on the Senate, who had
voted for postponement, pleaded that “it is up to us
to safeguard the interests of men who have volun-
tarily undertaken to serve their country, disregarding
their own personal advancement and safety” ; but
“after a heated debate a [council] motion that the
appointments be made was carried by 28 votes to 26.”
Other things being equal, the gentlemen who have
resigned from the Senate are incapable of discriminat-
ing between Australians and Maorilanders or between
Christian and Jewish citizens of both Dominions. All
servicemen past and present will honor them for
giving up their active association with the University,
which has counted for so much in their lives, rather
than be parties to the refusal of a fair deal to brainy
Australians in their absence abroad in the King’s
service. The attitude of the McKell Government will
excite very different emotions. It leaves a very nasty
taste in the mouth. There used to be a Returned
Soldiers’ Preference Act, but it seems to be worn out,
like so many of the good fellows who were supposed
to get the benefit of it and never did. Like the too-
active Mr. Martin, who apparently worked the oracle
at the University, and his colleague Mr. Evatt (“Call
me Uncle”), Mr. McKell is himself a lawyer. Service-
men will have to ask themselves how much faith they
can put in the verbal promises of the McKell Gov-
ernment to servicemen, lavish as they have been,
when they see it going out of its way to override the
claims of two Australian servicemen in its leader’s
own profession.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Stand Up,Keith Murdoch!
At Canberra last week Mr. Curtin “criticised a state-
ment, attributed to Mr. Keith Murdoch, that Austra-
lian naval units had been withdrawn from the Medi-
terranean to operate in the north of Australia.” That
appeared in “S, M. Herald',” whose general manager
is chairman of Australian Associated Press, and the
“Herald” published the “criticism.”
I do not think any statement about the disposition
of naval ships, particularly movements of Australian
ships, should be made public by any private citizen. If
made, they should be censored.
Very mild indeed considering the nature of the offence
imputed to Mr. Murdoch. Mild in the extreme if it
is true, as stated in another paper, that “Mr. Curtin
did not mention Mr. Murdoch by name.” He certainly
mentioned 8.8. C., saying that clumsy concern had
“broadcast the statement that Australian naval ships
were in the northern waters of Australia,” and adding
that this was “utterly wrong,” that “naval intelligence”
had “consistently urged that movements of ships
should not be the subject of discussion” and that
“advice has been given to the whole community to
co-operate in that respect.”
On the following day “S. M. Herald” published
an A.A.P. cable in which Mr. Murdoch “denied that
he had made the statement attributed to him,” and
gave what “I said.” What “I said” was that “our own
navy guards our northern coastline,” and “I went on to
describe the well-known exploits of Australian war-
ships in the Mediterranean....”
I made no reference to the withdrawal of Australian
naval units from the Mediterranean, of which I knew
nothing.
“S. M. Herald’s” Own Correspondent at New York
then testified that Mr. Murdoch had “made no men-
tion of the withdrawal of the Australian Navy from
the Mediterranean” nor could such an inference be
drawn from what he said “without distorting his
words.” Own Correspondent made no mention of the
words that Mr. Murdoch admitted: “Our own navy
guards our northern coastline.”
There followed a statement from Canberra in
which “Mr. Curtin said he had received a long and
pleasant cable from Mr, Murdoch.” In the “long
and pleasant cable” Mr. Murdoch had “pointed out
that one sentence of his speech was ‘our navy guards
our northern coastline,’ ” and he had “then described
its successes in the Mediterranean,” but had “not used
the word ‘withdrawal.’ ” Mr. Curtin “still felt that
references to naval ships ought not to be made,” and
alluded to “the mistaken inference drawn from” Mr.
Murdoch’s “remarks” as showing “the danger of
general remarks being given a particular implication
not intended by the speaker.”
Not nearly good enough! As Mr. Curtin, him-
self an experienced journalist, must know, the state-
ment that “our own navy guards our northern coast-
line” was one that no Australian newspaper would
have dared to publish on its own initiative. No
censor worth his salt would pass it, and, since the
Curtin Government is responsible for seeing that “the
movements of ships should not be the subject of dis-
cussion,” it is its duty to ascertain whether any censor
did.
Mr. Murdoch knows very well that it is his duty
as a conductor of newspapers to keep his tongue well
under control. He is managing director of the Mel-
bourne “Herald,” and the injurious report, which
has had world-wide circulation, appeared in his own
“Herald” and in other papers which belong to his
string. Moreover, it was the work of the very A.A.P.
of which he is a director. In the course of his speech,
as reported by A.A.P., he was a very Sir Oracle about
the state of the British army (“there the position is
very serious”) and the possibility of a British offensive
(“if Mr. Churchill is not ready to take the offensive,
you may be sure it cannot be done—no one is more
eager for the offensive than Mr. Churchill”) and other
things which should not have been said in any com-
pany, least of all at “a press conference representing
the most important American newspapers and press
organisations” ; but worse followed:
Sir Keith said the Australian Navy had acquitted
itself admirably in the Mediterranean, but lately had
been functioning on the northern front of Australia.
That appeared also in the Brisbane “Courier-Mail”
and the Adelaide “Advertiser,” other publications in
which Mr. Murdoch is interested, except that “lately”
was changed into “latterly.”
If this Australian Government is worthy of the
name, and not just something dressed up to look like
a Government, it should refuse to let Mr. Murdoch
get away with a blazing indiscretion by sending
a “long and pleasant cable.” Like members of the
Menzies and Fadden Cabinets, Mr. Forde shows a
marked tendency to go at the knees when editors and
“specials” concentrate on him, but Mr. Curtin should
be above this weakness. If Mr. Curtin falters Parlia-
ment should take a hand.
There have been arrogant attempts at government
by newspaper. It must be brought home to newspaper
knights and the like that, where the safety of the fight-
ing and associated services is concerned, they have no
rights or privileges superior to those of the lowliest
person in the land.
Hero's Tale.
An Australian naval man returned from the hot spots
in the Mediterranean full of praise for the sea-
worthiness and manoeuvrability of the newer Austra-
lian-built warships. The one he had served upon had
withstood air and submarine attacks almost daily, and
though heavy bombs had dropped all round her and
even scraped her sides she hardly turned a hair. Her
record of service was a tribute both to her crew and
the men who built her.
“Undoubtedly,” he said newspapermen, “one
of the strongest factors in her achievements was the
strength and quality of her hot-water equipment.
Time after time it looked as though she was about to
take the knock —once she even got on her beam ends
—but fitted with equipment like that she simply
couldn’t go under. Of course, credit is due to the
commander and crew, and also some honor for the
straight-shooting gunners, but without that hot-water
equipment we’d never have seen it through.”
“But,” asked a puzzled reporter, “what on earth
difference did the hot-water equipment make?”
“I’m not sure,” confessed the naval man, “but
since coppersmiths, who are members of the
A.E.U., struck for two days because members of the
Plumbers’ Union did the job, the strikers holding that
A.E.U. men should do it, there must have been some-
thing special about that hot-water equipment. You
can’t tell me a union would hold up work on a war
vessel just for the sake of a petty prerogative. I’d
never believe that!”
And the reporters could never tell whether he
was innocent or just one of those leg-pulling fellows
they have in the R.A.N.
The Coming of Crawford.
One day last month the N.S.W. farmer went outside
and, before the astonished gaze of the chooks and
cows, took off his hat, raised his eyes to the blue
Australian sky and gave thanks. Farmers in other
States, hearing of this wonder, looked with envy on
their N.S.W. brothers and prayed that they, too,
might be sent a savior even as the one sent to N.S.W.
For there has arisen one J. G. Crawford, of the
tribe of the Economists. Out of the Palace of the
Rural Bank he cometh, and lo! there is a “Division
of Agricultural Economics, attached to the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture,” and Crawford is its
prophet. And Crawford hath spoken:
The prime objective of such work will be to deter-
mine as far as possible the factors which make for
success or failure of farming enterprises. To do this will
require consideration, not only of the natural or physical
factors —climate, soil, topography, etc—but farm man-
agement and “institutional” factors such as size of farm,
farm organisation and costs, economics of farm mechani-
sation, land tenure, rural credit needs and facilities.
Among other matters light will thus be thrown on the
capital requirements and costs and returns associated with
pasture improvement, fodder conservation and other
recommended farming practices. Only on the basis of
careful research of this kind can fully satisfactory
remedial measures and legislative assistance be prepared.
Thus spake Crawford, and if there be one who
saith that the factors of land success and failure have
long since been determined as quality of soil, climate,
the husbandman himself and availability of markets,
or that there hath existed these many years adequate
means of finding out these things, let him be thrown
to the wolves as a nark.
For, as can be seen, there is nothing that J.G.C.
doesn’t know, and, if he hasn’t ploughed a field of
merinos or shorn a herd of Nabawas, still is he an
Economist —and who shall say an Economist nay?
Especially when he is to have four assistant Econo-
mists and “it is intended ultimately so to enlarge this
new division as to make possible full investigation of
all the problems mentioned” and so on, world without
end, until a grand new department arises in the great
city.
And though farmers, absorbed in their work,
might say that if money can be found for this it could
be found for weirs and roads and more field in-
structors, and that one of the plagues of farming is
fatheaded attempts of Government theorists to inter-
fere with Nature and the law of supply and demand,
they should still their tongues and prepare their tables
and attend to th 6 manners of their younger sons. For
it is as certain as anything that in N.S.W. they’re
about to be infested with more hordes of inspectors,
to be ordered to fill in more questionnaires and to
become more than ever the sport of well-tailored
city chaps good at theoretical figures and sonorous
statements. Anyway, Economists have to live.
"Sensational Raid."
The Victorian Parliament recently passed a sort-of-a-
kind of Police Offences (Betting) Bill. The Govern-
ment had been implored to introduce a workable
measure by the Gaming Branch of the force, whose
Senior Constable Kerr-Taylor told it that betting in
unlicensed places was rampant and that its merchants
in all their varieties could —and did —laugh at the law.
Of street harpies he said “Many have made no attempt
to run away on the approach of the police ; they just
put the betting-book in their pockets and say, if ques-
tioned, ‘Keep away ; you can’t arrest me’ ”
By confession of Dr. Harris, who leads for the
Government in the Upper House, “the bill was spoilt
in ‘another place’ when the power to arrest a starting-
price bookmaker caught in the act was deleted
and the whole provision was watered down.” But
the powers of the police were strengthened in some
particulars, and they have exercised them to the best
of their ability. On the night before the Melbourne
Cup race they made their way into that holy of holies
the Victorian Club.
Then there was a mighty outburst of indignation
among the “sports.” Raid the Victorian Club, haunt
of Dashing Bookmakers and Colorful Punters! And
that when a Lord Mayor was among the “600 lead-
ing turf patrons present”! “An injustice to racing,”
roared a gentleman from Sydney, described as “a
committeeman of Tattersall’s Club.” “One of the
most extraordinary sensations in Australian turf his-
tory,” a newspaper description ran. If nasty looks
and muttered curses could have killed, the gaming
squad would have dropped down one after one, as
lifeless as the Ancient Mariner’s mates. As it was,
they walked out as bold as brass, and next morning
one of their number was heard to say, the sarcastic
brute, that the raid had “received almost as much
publicity as the war.”
There is nothing new in that sort of journalism.
In Sydney Sunday prints Wavell, Pound and the Cun-
ninghams are not in it with Colorful Punters and
Dashing Bookmakers. Some of these worthies even
lord it in the “society” columns. Of one young gentle-
man, who has made pots of money in Sydney betting
on Victorian races, a gossip writer proudly recorded
that “it was terribly rich” at his “birthday party at
Palm Beach hacienda last Sunday. Champagne, rare
vintage, and the fattest oysters. And, oh! how the
guests rolled in!” The caravans in which they rolled
in and rolled out were not specified; but petrol
rationing doesn’t seem to have had any terrors for
bookmakers and their friends.
A contributor to Melbourne “Age,” which is not
dazzled by the majesty of Dashing Bookmakers and
Colorful Punters, wrote indignantly that, travelling
to Melbourne in a charcoal-burning vehicle, he was
passed by “40 to 50 magnificent petrol-burning cars,
returning at not less than 60 miles an hour from the
Kyneton races.” During the petrol-rationing period,
the same scenes have been regularly witnessed this
side of the Murray on the roads leading to and from
Wyong, Gosford, Richmond, Menangle, Kembla
Grange and other racecourses with which N. S. Wales
is infested. For there is horseracing pretty well every
day and dogracing pretty well every night, and even
in “S. M, Herald” —though it was moved to protest
against “Cup fever,” possibly because the Cup race
was held in Melbourne —the war reports sometimes
run a bad second to the racing reports.
The mad epidemic of gambling is disgraceful to
Australia and thrice disgraceful to the Governments
and departments that encourage it. There is not the
slightest warrant or excuse for racing on any day (or
night) of the week except Saturday afternoon, and a
prohibition having that effect should be introduced
immediately and enforced until the war is over. And
there should be a stiff Commonwealth tax on book-
makers’ licenses, betting tickets and racecourse admis-
sion charges, together with a total embargo on racing
broadcasts and the telegraphing of wagers, and a
thorough review of the telephone book by a depart-
ment which has hitherto been permitted to grant known
and reputed bookmakers as many connections as they
applied for, and no questions asked. The times are
too serious to permit Government agencies to assist in
the feeding of an army of drones, the worst of whom
are tax-dodgers, with money needed for the war effort.
A £25.000.000 Scheme.
A body known as the Town and Country Planning
Institute of N.S.W. has come out with a “£25,000,000
post-war plan that would put new life into the western
districts of the State.”
“Kernel” of the plan is construction of weirs,
with locks, on the “Darling, Barwon and Lachlan
rivers” to make them navigable all year round and
to facilitate irrigation projects.
The T.C.P.I. president seems to be unaware that
the Barwon and Darling are the same river and that
most of it flows through country so level that a weir
would throw over the banks a wide, shallow flood with-
out holding much water for either barges or irrigation.
The Lachlan already has its Wyangala dam —if the
Institute could get that functioning as it should be
functioning it would have done a national service.
All the same, the mere fact that there is an organi-
sation planning for country development is a healthy
sign. If it can get hold of progressive outbackers it
shouldn’t be long getting hold of a feasible scheme-
making canals to transport goods isn’t feasible in
western N.S.W. —that might overcome the dreadful
centralisation of the present. But it needs a national
(not a State) outlook that would see western and central
Queensland, northern Victoria and north-east South
Australia as essential participants.
And it needs to be kept clear of State Govern-
ments. If the war doesn’t explode the State Govern-
ments, the peace and the inevitable reconstruction
period will. They should not even be asked to dabble
in national matters like interior development.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WINBLES INKS"
"And they turned him down for the A.1.F ., and him so fond of his bit of shootin , too."
“Loo”: The fruiterer opposite our flats
is excitable and restless. The only time
he stands still is for the split second in
which he’s deciding where he’ll move to
next. His mind jumps round similarly,
and through this he has lost a good cus-
tomer. His hobby, craze, downfall and
religion is horseracing, and he was walk-
ing up and down in front of the radio
at the back of the shop the other race-
day when in bowls an old tabby who
doesn’t know a horse from a goat (a
point, of course, which often confuses
punters, too). Anyway, she calls out,
“Hey, Joe, how much are tomatoes?”
This brings Joe’s body (but not his mind)
away from the radio, and he shouts back,
“Six to four and running dead!” The
lady gave one quick look at the tomatoes,
another look at Joe, then bolted and
hasn’t been seen since,
* * * *
“Beta”: “K.” (B. 22/10/’4l) suggests
that a stockingless summer will be a
boon only to those typists with shapely
and hairless legs. What difference can
a pair of sheer hose make to the shape
of the limbs? Legs may be thighs all the
way down or ankles all the way up, and
such they remain even encased in the
luxury of sheer silk. As for the “girls
sporting hairy shanks,” offending hairs
are not concealed by sheer silk. Dark
hairs not only show through but stick
through. The absence of these blemishes
among the sheer-clad typists and others
is not because of the predominance of
hairless legs but because the modern
miss knows how to cope with that sort
of thing.
* * * *
“E. 8.”: A shipload of invalided Dig-
gers was expected at our camp. Three
times we had been marched up to the
entrance gates to welcome the boys
home, only to be dismissed—it had been
a false alarm. At last it was announced
that the returnees would be arriving in
a very few minutes definitely. The gates
opened and a large motor-truck entered
loaded with oihdrums. “Gripes,” whis-
pered my right-hand cobber, “they're
bringing ’em home in tins!”
* * * *
“Gent. One”: Sydney divorce court
tangle in five acts:
Act. I : Three years after marriage petitioner’s
wife left with baby “to care for an illegitimate
child of whom petitioner was not the father.”
Act II: Petitioner employed a housekeeper,
who bore him two children; then she de-
camped with the bairns, for whom he had
since paid maintenance.
Act III: Original wife had four children by
another man.
Act IV: Because “people were gossiping about
them” petitioner and a lady friend decided
“they might as well provide some grounds
for the rumors.”
Act V: Decree nisi (on ground of desertion
by the wife), returnable in three months to
permit marriage to take place before the
birth of a child.
And there are folk who would ban
Ulysses !
* * * *
“Bo”: Motto for a playwright: Don’t
write an autobiography. Noel Coward
did, and he’ll have to churn out quite a
lot of songs and plays to pay for his
indiscretion. Two lines cost him £l6OO ;
they read: “Jack, having already wisely
invested a lot of my money in American
securities.... ” Treasury inquiries elicited
that the Jack referred to was Coward’s
American rep. and that he had bought
a 5000-dahlar U.S. Treasury bond with-
out having made a return of it to the
Bank of England. Only a few days
before Coward had been fined £2OO for
disposing of U.S. securities without first
having offered them to the British Treas-
ury. In the former case his counsel
pleaded in extenuation that Noel’s
business acumen and sense of financial
responsibility were not of the highest,
The Thespian favorite seems to be learn-
ing expensively. Already he pleads that
he is not a rich man.
* * * *
“Zake”: In past years the most cher-
ished belief of the average home gardener
was that unless his patch was kept under
almost constant drenching a virtually
bloomless season would result. Sydney’s
water restrictions—not even a watering-
can may now be used—have knocked that
notion cockeyed, for the present spring
is a glory of flowers. In no season within
memory have the roses been better. Also,
a return to old, tried and hardy favorites
which had been pushed aside for aristo-
cratic newcomers is evident. In nearly
every garden suburb of Sydney banked
masses of mauve testify to the beauty of
the humble pigface. Most annuals don’t
like their feet constantly in water —some
of them, such as stock and snapdragon,
turn up their toes at such treatment.
Moreover, continuously damp condi-
tions induced by either excessive rain or
inordinate watering make for the thriv-
ing of diseases such as black spot, mil-
dew, thrip, aphides and dozens of others
which will cause far greater ravages in
a garden than any drought. A feature
of a dry winter and spring is that lawns
of the buffalo or Kikuyu type look gener-
ally almost as well as in seasons of boun-
teous rainfall. Lawns of couch and the
fancy imported grasses aren’t so hot.
* * * *
“N.X.” (Middle East): There’s been
a good deal of betting here on the spring
meetings and several of the boys have
been laying the odds. One had rather
a setback the other day. He jokingly
asked a decrepit old Wog if he’d like an
Epsom-Metrop. double, and the Wog
came back like lightning with “What
price Reading-Lucrative?” He had just
arrived back after living 20 years in
Pyrmont, Sydney.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”; The wraith of Breadfruit
Bill Bligh must have emitted a sulphur-
ous chuckle when an Australian sub-
lieutenant brought a lifeboat of sur-
vivors from the raider-sunk Britannia
clear across 1535 lonely Atlantic miles
by Bill’s self-described methods. A
former Melbourne yachtsman, he had
read Bligh’s log of the boat-voyage after
the Bounty mutiny. Put in charge by
his senior officer on account of his boat-
sailing experience, he set a course for
South America rather than the nearer
African coast on account of the prevail-
ing winds and currents. He made all
hands wring out their clothing after every
shower of rain in order to conserve the
water ration of one eggcupful daily, later
increased to two by this Bligh-learned
dodge. One ship’s biscuit and a smear of
condensed milk on a hand provided the
rest of the day’s rations. Five whites
and 39 Indians died before the 38 sur-
vivors sighted Curuou Island off the
Brazilian coast at nightfall, with a dan-
gerous surf breaking. The young officer
lay off till morning and beached his craft
safely at low water —again Bligh-teaching.
* * * *
“Sumup”: The plea that a good hard
smack entitles a lady to leave her lord
and go home to mother has been rejected
in the Sydney Divorce Court. Judge
Bonney told an aggrieved woman “You
probably deserved the spanking you got
from your husband,” and “I do not
regard spanking as a serious affair.”
Restitution of conjugal rights was
ordered.
* * * *
“Pigmental”: There is trouble in the
artists’ camp in Melbourne, the Artists’
Models’ Association having demanded
3s. 6d. an hour, with a minimum engage-
ment of two hours and heating equip-
ment for models posing in the altogether.
Technical schools and the National Gal-
lery have agreed to these conditions, but
private schools and studios are alleged to
be undermining the arrangement by going
outside the association and seeking the
services of non-members. A Melbourne
newspaper says that most of the models
are art students who live in attics or
stables and pose in order to earn the
wherewithal to continue their studies,
and it makes a great point of the exces-
sive irksomeness of a model’s avocation.
Not so, in my experience. The person
who sits for the first time for a painter
usually suffers excruciating pains, es-
pecially if the sitter adopts what he or
she thinks is a comfortable position. The
professional model soon acquires the
capacity to maintain a pose for the re-
quired period without undue inconveni-
ence.
* * * *
“Jurumudi”: Touching unexpected
feminine answers in law courts (B.
29/10/’4l). A personable native woman
on a Bornean island not far from Sara-
wak was up before the district officer on
a charge of making away with a neigh-
bor’s chattels. District officers usually
know the local patois, but the majesty of
the law demands that they shall display
profound ignorance on the subject and
work through an interpreter. The day
was hot, the case was proceeding with
irritating slowness and the d.o. was young
and proud of his knowledge of the native
speech. Butting into a long disputation
between the interpreter and the accused
he snorted in the vernacular “Where is
your house?” “You know, sir!” was the
woman’s arch reply.
* * * «
“K.P.”: An old debate as to whether
people turn naturally to right or left has
come up again—this time amongst Bris-
bane’s City Fathers. The pay counters
on the right side of the entrance to the
City Hall have had so little to do that
the left-hand ones are closed down in
slack times to accustom the public to
their opposite numbers. The Ludmayor
had noticed the same thing with his shop-
display counters but could not explain
why most people favored left-turning. As
a matter of physiological fact all right-
handed people do so subconsciously,
partly because it makes it easier for them
to perform any mainly one-handed
action such as handling money or papers,
partly because the right eye is the govern-
ing one with them and can be focused
more swiftly and conveniently to the
left. Amongst the much smaller pro-
portion of left-handed people the con-
verse holds and they turn naturally to
the right. Try it.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: The hysteri-
cal squeals of the flapper press about
poor girls wanting to do their bit for
Victory and not even being able to get
a paltry £BO,OOO training depot would
have sounded very funny to some of their
predecessors of 1914-18. Early W.A.A.Fs.
got 28s. 4d. a week in pay and allow-
ances, paid for their own living accom-
modation and got no uniform. Later they
were issued with berets and cap badges,
also raincoats of particularly shapeless
cut when in camp. H.Q. offices were in
any available empty house and all drills
were done in the streets. The only in-
struction was in R.A.F. etiquette, and
they were told off to jobs for which they
had qualified in civil life. In camp, their
separate quarters and mess were no dif-
ferent from those of the men. One
W.A.A.F. officer controlled each camp
and trained her own n.c.os. And look
at the truly magnificent job they and the
no-better-treated W.A.A.Cs. did!
« * # #
“Pitt St.”; When petrol rationing be-
came severe enough to restrict their
operations, most taxi men put up their
hire rates. This seemed fair enough, since
their weekly mileage being cut meant
reduced revenue under the old rates.
Now, what once cost me ss. in Sydney
is 75., as I found out when rushing for
a country train on a recent morning.
Afterwards it came to my mind that the
taxi was running on charcoal gas, which is
a lot cheaper than petrol and isn’t
rationed. It’s still true about the ill wind.
* * * *
“Addlehead”: Melbourne’s Mayor
Beaurepaire is keen for a “green belt” to
encircle the city, and wants to give subur-
ban councils power to acquire a definite
percentage of land in all new subdivi-
sions. It is a fine forward-looking idea,
but in the present stage of Melbourne’s
finance it is likely to remain a beautiful
dream for generations. The only Aus-
tralian city with a really continuous
green belt is Adelaide, which got its
girdle in the same way that Europe got
some of its most magnificent architecture
—through pressure of military necessity.
Colonel Light, the founder, marked off a
circular band of gumtrees as a military
measure. It was a mile or so wide, and an
invader would have found it difficult to
bombard the city across it with the can-
non of those days. Though no longer of
much defensive value, Adelaide’s park-
lands are jealously preserved by popular
opinion for the same reason that Coun-
cillor Beaurepaire wants his belt in Mel-
bourne.
AN APT SUGGESTION.
“As an interested listener to Mr. Curtin’s appeals
to his countrymen for economies and self—sacrifice
to assist the war effort, can anyone tell me to what
extent the salaries of members of Parliament have
been reduced?” —Letter to “S. M. Herald.”
Like questions that you sometimes find in
“Hansard,”
Appeals for information none can give,
Here’s one that’s not expected to be answered
Excepting by a barren negative.
For wholesome admonitions there’s an ample
Field in such times as these we know, of
course;
Yet precept, unsupported by example,
Loses a large proportion of its force.
These patriots on Parliamentary stages.
Whose projects for our welfare never cease,
Have never missed a chance to raise their
wages,
’Tis certain, in the piping times of peace.
Now, when to all and sundry their advice is
To suffer hardships in the country’s need
And cheerfully submit to sacrifices,
Isn’t it up to them to give a lead?
Mentors of any sort invite aspersions,
However elegantly framed their speech,
Whose actions fail to square with their asser-
tions,
Who’re slow to practise what they’re quick
to preach.
A bottle gains additional allurance
When Boniface selects it from the shelf
If it’s accompanied by the assurance
That here’s the brand he always drinks him-
self.
You leaders among men whose constant pride is
To make a study of our just demands,
Here is a chance to show your bona fides
That 1 regard as right into your hands.
Your pleas for thrift would gain a readier
hearing,
Fresh vigor into them you might infuse;
There’d be no room for sniffing or for sneering
If you began by boldly volunteering
To suffer a reduction in your screws!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Bumpkin”: The glass case at the
Melbourne National Museum where
the stuffed integument of Phar Lap
stands in lonely grandeur attracted
fewer Cup-time devotees this year than
on previous occasions. The animal’s
magical performances, like the screen
roles of Rudolf Valentino, are re-
membered only by a faithful few, and
their romantic ending on a distant alien
shore which invested it with a halo does
not vastly impress a later generation,
more concerned with the points and per-
formance of Beaufort bombers and Lock-
heed - Hudsons. A small boy who
asked his dad what the creature was
there for got the extraordinary answer
that the authorities had evidently in-
cluded it to show the evolution of
modern transport.
“Lord Luvus”: Why have not inven-
tors and technicians bent their brains to
the improving of that great institution
the Melbourne Cup? I first saw it 30
years ago, and last week the procedure
had not changed a bit. There was the usual
brief parade in front of the stands ; then
the horses and their riders departed for
a remote part of the field where they
were as indistinguishable from one an-
other as a distant patch of wildflowers.
For most of their career after the barrier
went up they appeared to move with
irritating slowness, and the changes in
their relationships were the subject for a
great deal of highly contradictory specu-
lation on the part of my neighbors. Then
they suddenly flashed past in a confusing
muddle and the excitement was over.
This great national event should be
fought out on a revolving platform
placed in front of the most expensive en-
closure so that it would be in continuous
and close view of the most important
people. It would also simplify the task
of the judges and stewards, who could
instantly detect any attempt of one
jockey to fasten his teeth in the leg of
another. Bland Holt did this very effec-
tively in a small way with his racing
melodramas, and recent mechanical de-
velopments should make the production
of a full-size machine child’s play for the
munitions industry.
“Biyer”; The missus was reading an
astrologer’s burble in a Sunday news-
paper before the Cup and announced that
she would have her money on Skipton
because the seer, after studying the stars,
said that the Cup would be won by a
woman owner. With admirable logic
I convinced the missus that this was not
only foolish but sheer primitiveness, and
she switched to Lucrative, Help!
“Bumpkin”: I was working in my
kitchen garden on Cup Day when Spriggs
looked over the dividing fence and in-
formed me that the winner carried the
number 13 and was the 13th three-year-
old to win the Victoria Derby and Mel-
bourne Cup double. “That shows you,’
he commented, “how ridiculous these
superstitions are, yet I suppose a lot of
people who regard themselves as enlight-
ened didn’t back the beast on that
account.” “Quite so,” I answered. Then
he said; “Good heavens, man, what are
you doing? You’re not transplanting
parsley, are you?” “Yes, I am,” I said.
“Why not? It’s time for it, isn’t it?”
“If you do,” he said, “there’ll be a death
"If you get into difficulties. Dig, give us a yell and I'll Dunkirk yer."
in your family. An aunt of mine did it
twice, and the first time she lost a sister
and the second time her husband.” The
parsley hasn’t been transplanted yet.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A recent arrival from U.S.A.
says that the day she left she had occa-
sion to go into a New York chemist’s
with a doctor’s prescription. “I can’t
have this made up under four hours,
madam,” said the apothecary. “That
won’t do,” she said ; “I’m leaving in an
hour by aeroplane for Australia.” “Per-
haps you can get it made up in Aus-
tralia —if you can find a pharmacy
there,” replied the purveyor of pills and
potions.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: More wise men from the
East have been trying it on the sup-
posedly simple Adelaideans. They were
not very wise in this case, for the trick
was childishly simple and bound to be
found out. They paid a trifle to “Thrift
Girls” for 1000 empty cigarette boxes
collected, filled most of them with saw-
dust, and sold them, wrapped in cello-
phane, as the genuine thing per sample
exhibited. A few hundreds were disposed
of before the inevitable discovery came.
Eighteen months for one offender, 15
months for a second and six for a third
who, the Court thought, had been “made
a tool of.”
* * * •
“Si Anu”: The A.I.F. in Malaya has
lost its exclusive right to the slouch hat.
Troops are alleged to feel resentful at
being deprived of some of their indivi-
duality, although they recognise that the
slouch hat is more sensible than the
British topee. Why that abomination has
persisted so long is difficult to imagine.
As made in England, it is dangerously
heavy, it cuts a ring into your head
which increases blood pressure, it takes
up as much room in your luggage as a
grand piano, and it interferes with close
observation of snakes, leeches, red ants
and other menaces of the jungle. A bald-
headed doctor I knew told me it was
the cause of more sunstroke and heat
apoplexy than anything else ; he always
went bareheaded. The topee may be a
good protection from a falling coconut,
but as millions of nuts fall
annually in Malaya, and
I have never heard of one
hitting a man yet, this is
a dubious advantage. The
real reason for its popu-
larity is that it once
marked the white man off
from the lesser breeds, and
at one time it was an unwritten law that
they could not wear it. Now even the
lowly rickshaw coolie affects the fashion.
* * * *
“Chevroford”; Traffic authorities in
Victoria are puzzled because, although
petrol rationing has reduced road traffic
severely, prosecutions for offences are
increasing. In the six months ending
in June traffic police booked 8911 motor-
ists, as against 6571 in the preceding
semester. There is a simple explanation.
Owing to the munitions business, lots
of people, especially the young, have
money who didn’t have it before. But
they haven’t any more channels of ex-
pression than they had before the golden
shower descended on them, so they ex-
press themselves by tearing along the
public highways in a manner dangerous
to the public. They are like a lady of
my acquaintance who kept a lolly shop
and won £5OOO in a lottery. A couple of
weeks later she was in hospital with a
broken collarbone, having had an alter-
cation between her new car and a hydrant.
* * * *
“Bernard Hackshaw”: Premier Dun-
stan, of Victoria, gravely concerned at
disclosures about lipsticks, face creams,
hair dyes and many of the varieties of
woad with which the female of the species
decorates her frontispiece, proposes to
bring cosmetics under the Pure Foods
Act so that there will be some guarantee
of standards. Personally, I would bring
them under the jurisdiction of the Min-
istry of Fine Arts, if there was one, and
make it obligatory on girls who paint
their faces to demonstrate their ability
to paint a cup and saucer at least as well
as Rembrandt before they are permitted
to paint, so to speak, a self-portrait on their
fleshly canvases. They study printed in-
structions, look in a mirror and then dab
a slash of crude color on their lips, their
cheeks or under the lower eyelid. Then,
having destroyed the delicate contour of
their lips, the infinitely subtle variety of
planes of their cheeks and the healthy
sparkle of their eyes with violent con-
trasts, thev sail into the sunlight. A girl
I passed the other day in Collins-street
brought me up all standing, her lips and
powdered cheeks reminded me so much
of something. After reflection I got it.
I once saw a native laid out on a rail-
way station platform in Java. His face
was ash-pale and his lips were exactly
the hue of the girl I had just passed.
He was dying of cholera.
* * * *
“A Major”: An opportunity for com-
posers in patriotic vein that has been
sticking its neck out for upwards of 40
years is the provision of a really good
tune for Kipling’s “Recessional.” I’ve
heard it sung to three tunes in
the Anglican Hymns Ancient and Modern
—Mathias, Stella, and that well-known
air of J. B. Dykes to which “For
Those in Peril on the Sea” was set.
Kipling himself went to some trouble to
find a hymn-tune to fit, and his pick was
Dykes’s. Dykes, a parson (and an uncle,
by the way, of Melbourne’s Arch-
bishop Head), figures prominently in the
Anglican liturgy and hymnology, and
could, I am sure, have written a much
better setting of “Recessional” than the
maritime dirge with which it is mostly
associated. Since he died long before
Kipling was thought of as a poet it is up
to some other composer, preferably
British, to do the job—that is if the art
of inventing a really strong, dignified
tune didn’t expire with Elgar.
* * * *
“C.R.”: War has broken out between
Melbourne University and the technical
schools of Victoria. The technical
schools claim for their graduates the
right to carry bits of the alphabet after
their names, just like university gradu-
ates, but the uni. grads, shudder at the
idea, although the attainments of the
technical college grads, may be as good
as theirs. If the technical college folk
don’t win their point, they can at least
solace themselves with the thought that
Socrates wasn’t an M.A. of Athens Uni-
versity or Shakspeare a B.A. of Oxford,
and that many advances in science have
been made by men like Pasteur, who was
boycotted by the Sorbonne.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: P. H. Cook, a Travel-
ling Research Scholar of the University
of Melbourne, has been giving the results
of his study of German methods of psy-
chological warfare. Most of the details
have already been printed in the papers,
including the stirring-up of strikes in
neutral countries and paying of women
to weep at American railway stations as
draftees leave to do their military train-
ing. But Cook’s conclusions are his own,
and one of them is that we can take
comfort from the fact that much of this
German war psychology is so vitiated by
absurd racial and political ideas that it
is likely to fail in at least some of its
objectives. But does the absurdity of a
belief necessarily handicap its effective-
ness? The Japanese are allies of Hitler,
though Hitler believes in a ridiculous
theory of Aryan supremacy. There are
no Aryans in Japan. Hitler also hates
Jews, so the Japanese have obediently
started an anti-Semitic movement,
although most Japanese wouldn’t know a
Jew if they saw one.
* * « »
“Taniwha”: Support for those who
feel that most of the fruits of science
and invention are irrelevant to life, liberty
and the pursuit of happiness is to be
found in the domestic plan of a couple
of Maoriland landscape painters, Mr.
and Mrs. Mayclair. They decided that
all they wanted from life was a simple
living and the right to go on painting.
So they have cut out house-rent and
transport charges. They have a light
caravan in which they can sleep and
cook meals and they haul it themselves.
They have covered about 400 miles in the
country around Mount Egmont, and they
like the life.
"Ask him to add a pinch of mustard. Featherstonehaugh—I've got a deuce of a cold!"
ODE TO NECESSARIES.
(After Calverley.)
“Criticising the first Fadden Budget, Mr. Curtin
said that he declined to regard beer and tobacco as
luxuries.” — B. 5/10/’41.
Twin antidotes to care
That wowsers bid us ware,
Seeing in each a snare
Rankly injurious,
I’m glad that neither one,
When all is said and done,
The Labor lexicon
Labels luxurious.
Having a like for both
Of half a century’s growth,
Things to believe I’m loath
To their discredit.
They’d move, I fancy, laughs
Among the sturdy staffs
Who fashion paragraphs
And papers edit.
Confound these stale old gags
That bitter beers and fags
Engender garish jags
And razzle-dazzles!
Show me that either hurts
Or harms, much less perverts.
Our Bills and Bens and Berts,
Our Bobs and Basils.
Vain it would be to try
Such killjoy advocacy
On either me or my
Immediate neighbors.
Be sure their views and mine
On what we should define
Outside the luxury line
Are one with Labor’s.
On other points, maybe,
We clash materially,
But here we all agree
With you for certain.
Brown, have another wet!
Smithy, a cigarette?
And, prithee, don’t forget
Your dictum, Curtin!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Invest in Established Companies
Even if you wish to invest only about £2O of your Capital
you can obtain an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies
by investing in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
which provide security by “spread” of investment. Union
Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd., act as Custodian Trustees
of the securities backing the Trust Certificates.
Booklet No. 1 explains it all; your copy will be mailed free
on application to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
f I ic tat" dtvcj
' '^'KcrwCdrci
“y' xt Mr
Train In the modern way, with
H. & R. Printed texts, complete.
Illustrated and graded exercises,
modern methods of tuition, and the
most up-to-date training assure
success. Magnificent ticket artist’s
equipment supplied to each student.
Write for particulars.
Dept, of Distribution
Hemingway & Robertson
38a Barrack House, 16 Barrack St., Sydnej
38a Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourif
Offices in all capital cities, Newcastle & Launceston,
To HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON,
Please forward me your illustrated Brochure
on Modern Ticket & Show-Card Writing
'Name Age
Address
38AA/TSII.
POLITICAL POINTS
Curtin must have felt the prick of the
knife with which Menzies flayed Chif-
ley’s Budget—and he did the job thor-
oughly. Anyway, the P.M. protested that
“the speech came from a man who is at
odds with the organic parties of Aus-
tralia.” He could have paid the man no
higher compliment.
S.A. delegates to the Federal R.S.L.
congress are to submit a motion for con-
scription of men, wealth and material.
There is a dreadful impression in Caucus
that it will be carried.
Australian Minister Ward, at Sydney,
addressing “a conference of union repre-
sentatives convened by the Aid Russia
committee”:
If the Soviet were to fall there would be
very little hope for the rest of us.
British Minister Duff Cooper, at Mel-
bourne same day;
So long as sea supremacy is retained, no
big army can beat the Empire.
The second speaker served throughout
the 1914-18 war, was Secretary of War
(1935-37), First Lord of the Admiralty
(1937-38) and member of the Ministry
throughout the two years and two months
in which the fighting and merchant ser-
vices kept the Empire inviolate. So he
spoke with knowledge and authority. The
other gentleman, who has seen no fight-
ing—unless as a boy he witnessed the last
run of the Rocks Push—was wheezing
through his neck.
Ward was reported in his favorite
paper, “Terewth,” as having stated at a
Sydney municipal-election meeting that
“the indirect taxes” in his Government’s
Budget were “unfair.” “Terewth” has
a reputation for being careful in its
reports—it has had to be —but Ward
says he didn’t say it. Evidently he doesn’t
deny having asked the meeting to judge
the Government on the supplementary
Budget to be introduced early next year,
nor has it been denied in any quarter
that Supplementary will be a whopper.
Some of the things Finance Minister
Nash said in Australia :
Our war bill will cost £71,000,000 this
year. Less than £6,500,000 will be bor-
rowed. Everybody in N.Z. pays at least
Is. in the £1 income tax. We had a war-
and-conversion loan a short time ago. It
was oversubscribed. I think the trading
banks are doing a better job than we could
make of it. Conscription is accepted by the
great mass of the people because of its
underlying equality of service.
Australian politicians must be kicking
themselves for allowing this disturbing
fellow into the country.
According to “S. M. Herald’s” Wash-
ington correspondent, “Just as the Inter-
national Wheat Conference may well
come to be regarded in the future as a
milestone on the road of world post-war
reconstruction, it is anticipated here that
the International Labor Conference in
New York will further point the way.”
A year hence both conferences will be
entirely forgotten, except by those who
got a trip out of them.
Minister Ward has issued a warning
to employers in the engineering trades.
Some of them, says Minister Ward, have
not complied with “sub-regulations 3 and
5 of regulation 17 of the National Secu-
rity (Engineering Trades Dilution) regu-
lations,” which require them to furnish
personal particulars of men “elevated or
engaged” as added tradesmen and to
obtain permission before so “elevating”
or “adding” them. Minister Ward will
prosecute offenders in future. Minister
Ward has not issued a warning to mem-
bers of trade-unions who hold up
war work over such questions as to who
should or should not fit hot-water equip-
ment in naval ships. Minister Ward is
not that sort of Minister.
La Guardia v. O’Dwyer for the New
York mayoralty resulted in a win for
the Italian-American pro-Ally champion
by a hatful of points. At least, so it
would be judged by Australian standards,
but the New York view was that it was one
of the closest mayoral elections for many
years. With 2,250,000 voting, La Guardia
had a majority of 150,000 or so, and he
topped the poll in O’Dwyer’s own strong-
hold of Brooklyn.
“To relieve the plight of a friendly
ally’s nationals,” 50 Polish Jews are to
be admitted to Australia. They took
refuge in Japan, and “their demands for
succor” are, it seems, “complicating the
task of evacuating British and Americans
from that country,” so Australia is to be
the mug—a role which will be increas-
ingly assigned to it if some people have
their way. It is stipulated that “none of
“Let Britain undertake an offensive in the west and she will leave it faster than she
came.”— Hitler, bragging at Munich.
“Goot vork, beoples, und don’d led dot Churchill put you off.”
the men shall be eligible for service in
the Polish Army.” Perhaps they will all
get jobs in the Sydney University.
Exultant Sydney “D.T.” headline:
At Last We Begin To Fight.
First impressions were that the “Tele-
graph” editors were going forth in all
their martial pride and strategical genius
to show the effete British how to do it;
but it turned out to be another sort of
war-whoop altogether (though there were
more “wes” and “ours”) on the theme
that “at last British ’planes and crews are
on the Caucasian front.”
If British ’planes are in action, and our
armies are on the move, we can face the
flag we are flying for the Soviet’s 24th
anniversary with a bit more honesty.
Honesty! And this from the rag that
told “us” all that the Red Army was
“the greatest fighting machine history has
ever Known”!
There is still time for improvement,
but at the week-end subscriptions to the
£lOO million loan had been disappointing.
Claude Reading, chairman of the Com-
monwealth Bank Board, pointed out that
the number, 40,000, was sinfully poor
compared with the 850,000 contributors
to Canada’s recent loan—the equivalent
of 500,000 in Australia’s population. In
Canada 75 p.c. of all Government ex-
penditure this year is being paid out of
taxation, which reaches down into the
lower incomes as a “consumption tax.”
There seems to be something in the idea
that it takes the touch of taxation to
awa’ken a sense of responsibility in a war
effort. •
A flapper-press enthusiast discovered
that Lady Duff Cooper is fond of motor-
car speeding and “is looking forward to
burning up sections of the Australian
countryside.” The lady had better have
a look at the petrol-rationing regulations
first,
Lang, when rebuked by Landa and co.
for saying that unless the McKell in-
come tax was changed for the better the
Opposition would be justified in calling
the promised wage-tax abolition “a trick,”
must have felt like King Lear;
The little dogs and all,
Tray, Blanch and Sweetheart, see they bark
at me!
Still brooding over it, perhaps, the Big
Fellow had “a warm exchange” with
McKell, whom he accused of having
ignored a question put to him in explicit
terms. It looks like the beginning of
another “breakaway movement.”
Americans and Australians of the Mos-
cowphile breed can’t understand why the
English tolerate the twelfth Duke of
Bedford, who has been saying that, if
Russia is licked, “we will have to con-
sider the alternative of a negotiated peace
or our own defeat.” But this sort of
toleration has an old and honorable his-
tory, in which Ramsay MacDonald,
Lloyd George, Cobden, Bright, Charles
Fox, Burke and Chatham—to go no
further back—have figured. The fifth
Duke of Bedford was a faithful supporter
of Charles Fox, which means that he was
a steady opponent of the wars against the
French Republic and Napoleon.
Brooding on the “special trains put on
to haul racegoers to Melbourne” and
other symptoms of “Melbourne Cup
fever,” “S. M, Herald” said austerely
that “the picture of Flemington on Cup
Day cannot by any distortion of the im-
agination be reconciled to the realities
of the European and Far Eastern scenes.”
Neither can the space given over in the
“Herald” to horse- and dogracing. Sa
days before Granny had her fit ol
offended virtue she revived her form-at-
a-glance section, giving nearly half of a
full page (20in. x of print to the
programme and tips for Rosebery (Syd-
ney) and Kyneton (Vic.). She had an-
other form-at-a-glance page on the Satur-
day, another in the issue containing the
denunciation of “Cup fever” and another
next day. From Thursday to Wednesday
inclusive the outraged Old Girl reported
34 “meetings”—ls horse and 19 dog.
The s.p. army pays out on the moralist's
prices.
Spender’s successor Forde is toying
with the notion of putting prisoners of
war and internees to work. He is not
enthusiastic, but on one point he is pre-
cise: persons held under restraint “will
not be permitted to keep out of employ-
ment any Australian capable of and will-
ing to accept employment, and they will
be paid award rates.” Award rates!
Then it will be necessary to raise armies
to prevent them from staying on in this
good, easy country, and to prevent mil-
lions of their countrymen from flocking
to it.
Moved perhaps by a report showing
that retail sales in August showed a pro-
digious increase over the figures for
August, 1939 —45 p.c. in Melbourne, 25
p.c. in Sydney and 26 p.c. in Brisbane —
and employment in retail stores a rise
of 5 p.c., Curtin implored the nation in
a national broadcast to “spend less and
lend more.” Then came the Melbourne
Cup, and after it the proud announce-
ment that tote “investments” (£135,271)
were “an all-time record for Australia.”
Maxie Falstein (Watson, N.S.W.) in
the House on June 19:
It may be said that I am a young man
and that my place is in uniform While
the present Government remains in office
I shall not offer my services to Australia
because I fear that if I were to go abroad
the same kind of hopeless thing would
happen as is happening at present As
long as this Government remains in office
there will be a fight not only abroad but
also at home.
A Government supported by Maxie has
arrived. What’s detaining Maxie now?
How many Allies have we? The ques-
tion would baffle most of the competi-
tors in a radio quiz; but Peter Fraser,
who can speak with authority, named
them in an eloquent address when his
Parliament was closing down —Poland,
Norway, Belgium, the Netherlands, Free
France, Greece, Yugoslavia, Russia and
—yes —Czechoslovakia and Luxemburg.
No member of the Australian High
Commissioner’s staff in London —there
are 89, earning a total of £35,820 a year
—need fear any loss through working
overtime. Among the 95 regulations gov-
erning their employment gazetted at
Canberra last week is one that provides
that overtime shall be paid at the rate of
Annual salary over 313 multiplied by six
over the prescribed weekly hours, before
overtime is payable, multiplied by three over
two.
They are further guaranteed by the regu-
lation that “all officers shall acquaint
themselves with these regulations.”
Elaborate regulations have been drafted
in Victoria to obviate the danger of
bushfires being started by motorists with
gas-producer outfits and by charcoal-
burners. The success of these precautions
will depend largely on the individual.
Gas-producer users are no more reaction-
ary than State Government departments,
and a lot of people consider that much
of the bushfire menace comes from the
quarrels over questions of prestige among
forestry, lands, water supply authorities
and others in which the interests of the
State are apt to be forgotten.
“Boys on Farms,” a very worthy volun-
tary organisation in Sydney, has placed
more than 6000 youths on the land in the
past 10 years. Doubtless the State Gov-
ernment, on hearing this, will spare no
effort to get them off again.


CROWNING INSULT.
“Other Empire troops in Malaya may now, under a British Army order, wear the slouch hat that has always typified the A.1.F., and Diggers are resentful.”


r
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
14 Castlereagh St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
\ WO
FISHING TACKLE FOR EVERY NEED
s practical anglers, with complete stocks of tackle, we can supply everything
needed for beach, rock, deep-sea, harbour and river Ashing. Call or write
for tall particulars ... or for advice about specialised tackle. Prices are
moderate ... and all goods are GUARANTEED by us.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
‘■'(Viwf?
No. 125.
= GOONOI
SADDLE.
MADE IN ALL KIP
LEATHER.
★
£9/19/6
v
This saddle has
a deep seat, kip
flaps, with ex-
tended panel
points, wide
Victoria facing
and is fawn-serge
lined.
Our
Catalogue
is' Free !
Send for
one.
N.S.W. freight on saddles
paid for cash with order.
WALTHER & STEVEMSOM KS:
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
One of the romances of this war’s
inventions concerns an all-night piestall
in Melbourne. Its products are known
as “Pop’s Pies,” and they are good pies.
Their proprietor, John Pomeroy, achieved
fame in the 1914-18 war by inventing an
incendiary bullet which played havoc
with the Zeppelins, He has since evolved
a small calibre explosive bullet devised
to cause great destruction to aeroplanes,
tanks and the like. Rejected in Aus-
tralia, Pomeroy took
it to the U.S.A., where
trials were so success-
ful that the Winchester
Repeating Arms sec-
tion of the Western
Cartridge Co. has
signed an agreement
with Pomeroy Hold-
ings, Ltd., Melbourne,
for further develop-
ment of the missile,
and supplies have been
manufactured for the
British Government
for test under service
conditions. “Pop’s”
piecart still stands
nightly on Princes
Bridge and is the
resort of belated way
farers.
Those who came
within the orbit of
Sydney R.A.S. could
not visualise the thing
without S’Sam as
president, but it’s hap-
pened. He’d held the
job 27 years, and
would have gone on
only for ill-health.
Son of Samuel Hor-
dern, he was in the
great Anthony Hor-
dern concern as boss after his father’s
death until the present co. was
formed. He is chairman of the
A.M.P., was on the Commonwealth
Bank Board, has raced good horses
and has an inexhaustible fund of
stories, which has been drawn on to
entertain everybody from ring stewards
to royalty. He is to carry on as vice-
patron of the society. S’Sam’s only son
is on war service.
Toowoomba (Q.) has a link with Nel-
son in M. G. C. Pasco, grandson of
Rear-Admiral John Pasco, who was flag-
lieutenant in the Victory at Trafalgar
and who was responsible for the hoisting
of the immortal signal after he had sug-
gested substitution of “expects” for
“confides.” M.G.C., who passed some
historic paintings over to the Too-
woomba St. George Society this year, is
a retired bank manager, and at 81 is still
fit enough to take a stroll of 25 or 30
miles before lunch. He scorns cars.
Adelaide has an interest in Melbourne
University’s extension, the director of
which is Colin Robert Badger. Born at
Peterborough (S.A.) in 1906, Badger got
his schooling at State schools and Adel-
aide University, where he took his M.A.
in 1938. In 1934-35 he visited Italy to
study the reasons for the downfall of that
country’s Parliamentary system. Prior
to his appointment to the directorship in
1938, Badger had experience with W.E.A.
and other forms of adult education in
Adelaide and Perth. He’s a contributor
to many Australian periodicals.
An interesting and important visitor;
The somewhat cherubic subject of Frith’s
trowel looks more cheerful than when he
stepped out of a ’plane at Mascot (N.S.W.)
and found himself confronted by Senator
Keane, complete with an ominous ream of
closely-typed MS. readily recognised as an
Address of Welcome.” The heavyweight
DUFF COOPER.
(Modelled by Frith.)
Senator did his best with the thing, and no
doubt the Right Hon. Alfred Duff Cooper,
P.C., D. 5.0., sympathised with him. In support
were Senators Ashley and Cameron and N.S.W.
Premier McKell and a large floral offering—
m Senator Keane’s words, “Australian flowers,
grown in Australia’s capital by Australian gar-
deners.” The flowers went to Lady Duff
Cooper, who came from the ’plane as though
from a bandbox, though her husband looked
as though he’d slept in one. The visitor an-
nounced that he was a sort of personal envoy
ol the British P.M., looking over the Middle
hast and Pacific to see what could be done in
the way of co-ordinating them. He was not a
Minister of State and had found a lot of over-
lapping later, he reminded everybody that so
long as sea supremacy was retained no army
could beat the Empire. He displayed immense
reiiet when the press interview was over, having
said nothing that could be taken down and
used as evidence against him. Mr Duff
Cooper is Chancellor of the Duchy of Lan-
caster A product of Eton and New College,
Oxford, he served in 1914-18 with the Grenadier
Guards, entered Parliament in 1924, has held
important Parliamentary positions and resigned
th e Chamberlain Cabinet as First Lord
the t Admiralty after Munich. He was Mr
Churchill s Minister of Information for a time.
A. W. Jessep, who comes from the
headmastership of Burnley (Vic.) School
of Horticulture and Primary Agriculture
to be Victorian Government Botanist and
Director of Melbourne Botanic Gardens,
followed the late F. J. Rae in the Burn-
ley job and now follows him again.
Jessep did much to raise the Burnley
school to a high standard in its sphere,
and many of his old pupils are now hold-
ing down staff jobs in the Botanic Gar-
dens and on the parks and gardens side
of Melbourne City Council. Jessep’s
school is now a recognised training-
ground for people taking up horticulture
as a profession, and his enthusiasm for
floral culture will find a fitting opening
in the city’s gardens.
Maoriland’s new Public Service Com-
missioner (vice Tom Mark, who died in
June) is Mark s erstwhile colleague as
joint P.S.C., John Henry Boyes. Boyes,
born in Auckland 55 years ago, joined
the public service when he left school,
and for the last decade or so has always
been a commissioner of something or
other. He’s well
liked in the depart-
ments he has admin-
iste r e d, and has
already had five
years’ experience of
the job of grading
officers and award-
ing promotions.
When
just-dead Judge Fer-
guson was a copy-
holder for the chief
reader, Spruson, at
th e Government
Printing Office, Syd-
ney, at ten bob a
week, he practised
shorthand. When
reading was slack he
would burst into
song. Learning that he was a Congre-
gationalism the reader advised the lad
to plant himself behind the Fairfax family
in the Pitt-street Congregational Church
the following Sunday and let go in the
hymns. This he did, and he sang so well
that James Fairfax looked round—of
which Ferguson informed his boss on
the Monday. The latter’s advice was
“Go next Sunday and do the
same. He did, and after the service
the head of the “Herald” gave the youth
his card and told him to call round next
day, when, after he had been put through
a test by chief of staff Sam Cook, he was
engaged at thirty bob a week as a junior
reporter.
Still a stout pillar of Queensland
Methodism at 82 is the Rev. W. H. Har-
rison. He edits the “Methodist Times”
and is secretary, treasurer or friendly
adviser of many church organisations. A
few days ago he attended his 60th
annual district synod. He has in hand a
history of Methodism’s first hundred
years in Queensland.
Senator Donald Cameron, Minister for
Aircraft Production, used to be one of
Labor’s stormy petrels. Born in North
Melbourne in 1878, he studied economics
and Marxist philosophy, and was a
Rationalist when that cause was outcast;
then he went to fight the Boers. Returning,
he settled in Perth, where he became a
trade-union secretary and a leader in the
struggle against conscription. Back in
Victoria, he became secretary of the
Socialist party, and finally settled down
on Melbourne Trades Hall executive.
He has been president of the State A.L.P.
and president of the Trades Hall Council.
Recreation, arguing on politics and
DONAED CAMERON.
Minister for Aircraft Production.
economics, enthusiastically but without
malice ; of that he never had a trace.
Into the shadows:
In Sydney, at 72, “Bob” (Robert Menzies)
Kinross, one of Australia’s best Guernsey
cattle-breeders. A medico, he practised at In-
verell (N.S.W.) for many years, presiding over
several public bodies; at Sydney University
he had got blues for tennis and football.
He was a son of John Kinross, a former princi-
pal of St. Andrew’s College within the Uni-
versity.
In Melbourne, at 76, surgeon Wilfrid Kent
Hughes. He was born at Brighton, Victoria,
obtained his degrees at London University, and
specialised in diseases of the ear, nose and
throat. Among his publications were several
important contributions to the science and prac-
FRANCIS FORDE,
Minister for the Army.
tice of surgery. He took an active part in
Melbourne’s municipal politics and was a patron
of various sports. In the 1914-18 War he was
surgeon-in-chief of Anglo-Russian hospitals,
with rank as major, A.A.M.C. He was for 30
years hop. surgeon of Royal Melbourne Hos-
pital. His widow, a radiologist serving with the
R.A.M.C. in Britain, is at present on furlough
in Melbourne. His son and namesake has been
M. for Kew since 1927. Eldest of eight
daughters is a medico, practising at Armidale,
N.
At Coolangatta (S.Q.), aged 74, Captain
Francis Scaling Lowse, for half a century the
best-known man on the Tweed River. Victorian-
born, he spent part of his boyhood in Fiji help-
ing his father in a goldmining venture. Coming
to the Tweed at 19 he mined for gold on
the Cudgera Beach, joined Skinner Bros., of
Tumbulgum, as engineer on their river steamers,
qualified as skipper and became a partner.
The firm carried the mail between Tweed Heads
and Murwillumbah for 50 years.
At 76, at Koroit, Victoria, Dr. Foley, Roman
Catholic Bishop of Ballarat. Leaving May-
nooth, he was ordained in Dublin in 1889 and
almost immediately was called to the diocese
at Ballarat. After serving as parish priest he
succeeded Dr. Higgins as fourth bishop. A
leading theologian, with a keen interest in edu-
cation, he was a cousin of Dr. Mannix.
At 86, U.S.A.-born E. A. Loughry, who 62
years ago was sent to Sydney by Baldwins to
build steam-trams and teach drivers to handle
them—they ran first between Bent-street and
the International Exhibition. A little later
Loughry took a job with N.S.W. Railways,
retiring as divisional loco, superintendent,
stationed at Goulburn. He spent his declining
years at Manly.
In Sydney, at 77, Arthur Gilbert Friend,
senior partner of a big hardware firm and
owner of Bendenine, Binalong (N.S.W.). Syd-
ney-born, he was taught at The King’s School
and at an English college before joining the
firm which his grandfather founded. He had
been running it since 1896.
In Wellington (M.L.), Fred Matthews, known
to Parliamentarians of three generations as
p.s. to Seddon, Hall-Jones, Ward, Allen, Parr,
Cobbe and Downie Stewart. He saw active
service in the 1914-18 war and afterwards was
controller of customs and taxes in Samoa. He
retired nine years ago.
In Adelaide, at 65, M. J. McMahon, till
recently inspector in charge of the C. 1.8. He
won the King’s Police Medal in 1938. All
Adelaide knew him as “Big Mick.”
In Malaya, C. T. L. Goodchild, onetime
partner in the Melbourne firm of Doolan and
Goodchild, which did the surveying for Vic-
toria’s Shrine of Remembrance, where the ray
of sunshine falls through the roof on the
centre of the Rock of Remembrance at the
eleventh hour of the eleventh month every
year. Another survey job Goodchild did was
for the Regent Theatre, which has a second
theatre in its basement. He was a soldier in
the 1914-18 war and a foundation member of
Melbourne Legacy Club afterwards.
At Hawthorn, Victoria, aged 90, Robert
Henry Taverner, 40 years a railway servant.
He was born in Dublin and was a brother of
onetime Victorian M.L.A. and Agent-General
John Taverner. R.H. was a Presbyterian elder
and session clerk of 50 years’ standing.
Aged 82, Joshua Jennings Wignall, of
Hobart. He wore the city’s mayoral chain for
eight consecutive years, and was its first Lord
Mayor. A lifelong Methodist, he dropped
dead while unlocking the door of Newtown
Wesleyan Church for Sunday evening service.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS; HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
CO
CD
CD
C3>
CC
sz
CC
R
r 'J
%
EHW
fr
»
m
v v.
-/
Mil
M
i
OIEII
si
t*
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
SMIKE-OH!
“After Amy left him Roger began drinking
heavily. Entwhistle got a tremendous shock
when he saw him six months later. He was
a hanged man.” — Serial.
As the author confessed afterwards,
he knew he’d make Roger take a drop
too many in the end.
•F 4* *F
“Film comedian has divorced three wives.”
Perhaps there’s something funny about
him.
•F *F *F *F
“Though told by an uneducated miner, the
story shows remarkable powers of penetration.”
—Book review.
Of course, one would expect him to
get beneath the surface of things.
ŗ
“A woman in Cincinnati (U.S.A.) has been
granted a divorce on the grounds of mental
cruelty because of her husband’s hostility to her
pet miniature Pekinese.” —“ World’s News.”
It is understood that he advised her
to take it to an entymologist instead of
to a vet.
•I* ■s*
“There was far too much noise in the camp
at night. That was the general feeding.”
— "D.T.”
According to a mess orderly, they
never know in the cookhouse whether it’s
a passing train or the old boy gargling
his soup.
+ 4* 4*
“ ‘Randolph should have been a politician,’
observed the colonel drily. ‘One minute he
launches into a long diatribe in defence of
profits and in the same breath he demands
that they be curbed.’ ” —Short story.
Judging by his breathing capacity he’d
make a better under-water swimmer.
>|a
“Melbourne is a city of palms.”
—Gardening writer.
And too many of them are held out.
•s••}* *1•
“A middle-aged widow, experienced in
laundry work, needs ironing.”— Advt.
She’s one of those rough-dry women.
Deoch and Doris.
“It is not to the average young girl’s advan-
tage that she frequents lounge-bars and drinks
spirituous liquors like water.” — Woman’s paper.
Give a girl {it isn’t risky )
Claret, creme de menthe or brandy,
Bottled ale or rum or whisky,
And shell think you’re just too dandy.
Pour champagne or hock or porter.
Schnapps or gin and watch her sink it.
But when leading her to water
Don’t imagine she will drink it!
P.O.M.C.
Ladies on the Job.
The meeting of the
Ladies’ Home-lovers’ Club
was in full blast.
“Your’e a liar!”
screamed a shrill female
voice. A moment later a
vase whistled across the
hall and shattered on the
face of Madam Chair.
With a shriek of rage, her
sister seized an inkpot and
flung it at the head of the
offender. Soon chairs,
fur, feathers and females
were flying in all direc-
tions, Mrs. Rowdy rent
Mrs. Bullwig’s new air-
force-blue costume to tat-
ters, while Mrs. Battler
laid bare Mrs. Bigbee’s
foundation garments.
ř
T.W.NATHAN.
The Losing Winner.
“Fight for bus seats. Congestion at Wyn-
yard.”—“S. M. Herald.'''
You stand there on the pavement with
the war-glint in your eye. Tonight, you
yow* you’ll get a seat or know the reason
why. Behind you fifty other souls are
thinking just the same; but whereas you
don’t mind a fight you reckon they’re not
game. In comes a bus —you leap
aboard ; the mob is on your heels. They
thrust you forward. Elbows out, the whole
crowd swears and squeals. You grab a
seat, sit down and grin ; the bus is quickly
packed ; the unsuccessful stand and sway
while trodden on and racked. The bus
moves off and suddenly, with awful rage,
you cuss —it’s hopeless trying to get out.
You’re in the wrong damn’ bus!
6-15.
Giving It the Air.
“Counsel in a Brisbane case suggested that
substituted service of divorce papers should be
by wireless announcement instead of by news-
paper advertisement.”
“Hot news from the Law Courts, folks.
A petition was presented this morning
whereby Mr. Suffering-Long sought a
divorce from his wife Agnes. Are you
listening, Agnes? There’s a pretty little
citation all bound up with apple-green
ribbon waiting for you at the place of
business of Ack, Ack and Ack. Before
dropping in, use Sunset Rouge, obtain-
able everywhere at 2s. 6d. a tube
or 4s. for the larger tube, and definitely
non-injurious to the most sensitive skin?
“A call to the co-defendant. Is Willie
Glammerboy listening in? Now then,
Willie, what have you been up to? (A
prize of 2s. for the first listener
who sends in the correct solution.) By
the way, Willie, this is the third call we
have put through to you this year. What
a fan mail you must have! You are
entitled to a carbon copy of the citation
all for yourself. And would you please
mention to the solicitors that Cab-horse
carbon papers are quite definitely the
best and not by any means the most
expensive? So long, Willie.”
CA.RE.
Impossibility.
He stood outside Tim Regans pub
With mien of deepest woe,
As one to whom relentless Fate
Had dealt her heaviest blow.
A reveller, pausing, said, “Come in
And drown your trouble here.”
“I can’t,” said the dejected one,
“She learned to swim last year.”
N. A. EVANS.
Without Rhyme or Reason.
“Dissenting from his four brother Judges in
the House of Lords, in an appeal case, one
Lord Justice complained that his colleagues were
putting a strained construction on words and
added that the one authority for it was Humpty
Dumpty.”— “Sun” cable.
The Lord Chancellor (on the Wool-
sack) : “Admittedly Humpty Dumpty
must be considered to have been in a
uniquely authoritative position. Even
his —ah—undignified descent from the
wall does not detract from his uncanny
attribute of invariably selecting a word
to mean what he chose it to mean.”
Sir Thomas Tucker, K.C. (for the
appellant): “With submission, milord, I
respectfully question the authority.
Milord, the case of the Queen v. Alice
occurred in Wonderland. As case law
it is ipso facto inadmissible, that coun-
try having been outside the recognised
realms of his Majesty ; thus the question
of jurisprudence could nev”
Lord Snork: “The question of the in-
corporation or otherwise into the King s
realm of the land which Alice, appar-
ently with scant regard for the legal
rights of its inhabitants, entered appears
one for the discussion of a literary tribu-
nai rather than the highest Appeals Court
in the kingdom. One might as well argue.
Sir Thomas, that it would be possible
for a decision given by the Court of
King’s Bench to be influenced by a mock
turtle.”
Sir Thomas : “May it please your lord-
ships, that is the very thing I do claim.
In Hashhouses, Ltd., v. The Soup Supply
Co., the respondent company was bound
under contract to supply real turtle soup
to the plaintiff company. They tried to
palm off mock”
The Lord Chancellor: “I beg your
pardon, Sir Thomas!”
Sir Thomas: “I beg your lordships ’
pardon. Tried to substitute mock-turtle
soup. The Court of Appeal reversed the
judgment of the Lower Court in finding
for the plaintiff, and the respondent co.
finally appealed to your lordships’ House
16 H.L. (1813), page 229. The House
upheld the appeal (Lords Snooze and
Horsehair dissenting).”
Lord Fullbottom: “I see your point,
Sir Thomas. Dealing in foodstuffs, the
purity of which is of vital public interest,
was a common attribute of Alice’s friend
and the appellants for whom you are
appearing.”
Sir Thomas: “That is so, milord. And
in this regard, milord, I submit the point
for your lordships’ consideration. The
coagulated protein of milk, that is, the
curds, is the cheese portion. The whey
is, according to Webster, the ‘watery’
part. The plaintiffs alleged our milk was
too solid. Cannot water be made solid?”
Lord Snork: “ ‘Watery’ means com-
posed of water, a colorless liquid. Surely
your whey was not colorless!”
The Lord Chancellor: “What about
whey-faced? That is a term denoting a
face that is pale, or white through fright.”
Sir Thomas: “Milords, with great re-
spect, I submit that the case in re Miss
Muffett has a direct bearing on this case.
The young lady in question, sitting on
a tuffet, suffered a fright. She was eat-
ing curds and whey at the time. Eating,
you will note, milords, not drinking,
presupposing that her meal was solid.”
The Lord Chancellor: “Surely, Sir
Thomas, you have heard of people eat-
ing soup. It has never yet been argued
in this House that soup is a solid.”
Sir Thomas: “I am obliged to your
lordship for the interpolation. Eating
would, strictly according to Common
Law, mean masticating, which in turn
denotes a closing of the natural teeth
and/or all substitutes therefor on what
is eaten. No doubt your lordship has
had soup thick enough to eat.”
Lord Snork: “But what has soup to
do with Miss Muffett? She was engaged
in eating her curds and whey, if I recall.”
Sir Thomas: “That is my point, with
submission, milord. Eating it. Now the
basis of the claim for damages made by
plaintiff co. against the appellant com-
pany was that the milk was too solid.
From the experience of Miss Muffett it
is clear that solidity is not inconsistent
with excellent quality, in view of the
fact that it was another influence alto-
gether, to wit, a spider, that caused her
to abandon her enjoyment of it.”
Lord Foghorn: “You appear, Sir
Thomas, for a company which deals in
cows’ milk. How do you know that
Miss Muffett’s was not sheep’s milk?”
Sir Thomas: “With respect, milord, I
suggest that your lordship is confusing it
with the case of Little Bopeep.”
The Lord Chancellor: “Sir Thomas,
the reputation of that young lady
makes the reference inadmissible. It is
well known that she was accompanied by
a crook when she lost her sheep. She
appears to have been a rather contrary
female.”
Sir Thomas: “That, I think, milord,
was Mary, Mary’s weakness rather than
Bopeep’s.”
The Lord Chancellor: “Anyway, what
has the question of Mary’s horticultural
activities to do with Humpty Durnpty?’'
Sir Thomas: “With submission, my
lords, I request an adjournment. Presen-
tation of my case will be greatly strength-
ened by the bearing which Georgie
Porgie”
The Lord Chancellor: “He ate a pud-
deny pie, didn’t he?”
Sir Thomas: “Exactly, milord. Jack
and Jill and the Queen of Hearts must
have a bearing on this case also.”
The Lord Chancellor: “The Queen of
Hearts! Oh, boy, could she make tarts! ”
C Adjournment granted.)
BO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”; Dash and enterprise still
hide under the bushman’s veneer of
casualness. A young Digger introduced
himself to me as the son of an old mate,
and we set forth to see the sights of Syd-
ney. Presently we paused for a blow
on a busy corner, and I observed my
young friend’s interest in the girls. “Y’
know,” he said, “it’s pretty hard t’ hand-
draft ’em. You’d think they was all the
same stock be the clothes they wear an’
the way they shove the raddle on an’
the crimp in their wool; yet I got a feel-
in’ some’s better than others.” “Yair,”
I said, only half interested, since my
hobbies these days are mainly beer and
keeping sweet with the boss. Then I felt
him stiffen and saw him watching a girl
who had stopped to look in a window.
“Cripes,” he breathed, “she’d do me.”
A moment passed, then he stepped over,
gently took the girl’s arm and led her
into the shop, she trying to look down
at the back of her skirt, he talking
rapidly. I waited. Presently they
emerged, both smiling, and she went off.
He came over and we adjourned to a
bar. “It’s fixed,” he said. “I’m goin’
out t’ her place t’night. Lucky I spotted
that smear of white chalk all over her
dress. She was pleased as Punch, she
said, t’ meet a bloke with the courtesy
t’ take her away from the public gaze
while he brushed it off for her.” I
downed my pot, marvelling at the
triumph of the bush, for I’ll lay 1000
to 1 there wasn’t a spot on that skirt.
* * * *
“Metax”: Let some Aboliar explain
this phenomenon; Why is the 16-stoner
easier on trilbies than his leaner brethren?
Every heavyweight I have known gets
many more miles to the sole than I ever
could with little more than half the
weight to carry. My own pet theory is
that it has something to do with the hefty
one’s low centre of gravity. If some
scientific member of the Council will
confirm this I’ll consider, in view of the
current price of boot leather, yanking a
few housebricks around with me while
pounding the track.
* * * «
“Ophir”; If “Wang’s” Dan thought he
taught black snakes to sleep with their
tails in their mouths (B. 29/10/’4l) he
was tossing bouquets to himself. No
snake-cracker ever catches a red-belly by
the tail unless Joe is in action. If he's
coiled in grass, with head hidden, the
artist gives him the miss in baulk—the
black has a nasty old habit of going to
bunk with his head within striking dis-
tance of the tip of his rudder. No matter
how quick the catcher is, Joe is livelier
he only has to open his mouth and
peck and he’s home. The expert cracker
never draws the living whip back, other-
wise his leg might be grabbed in pass-
in S- The adept lifts up and swings round
overhead before he does the flick which
sends the head spinning in the dust. In
any case, most of those fellows who skite
about cracking off snakes’ heads do it
as I usually do the job—kill the snake
first and show how the crack is done
afterwards. It’s much safer.
* * * *
“Komediak”: “That there new bloke
they’ve got down at Blank’s store is a
bloomin’ dill-pot an’ no kiddin’,” opined
Fiddleback Joe. “The other day,.findin’
I’m short o’ spuds, I rings up an’ asks
him to send up a coupla bags of
Carmens.” “Well, what happened?” I
asked. “Did he send up the wrong sort?”
“Wrong sort be hanged! The alick sends
up a dozen records from some flamin’
opera! ”
* * * «
“First Blue”; Like most women out-
back Mum prided herself on her kitchen-
craft, and when the new parson, who
kidded himself on his knowledge of abo.
life, told her about Binghi’s method of
cooking fish in a coating of clay she
"I Want a bathing costume for a lady about thirty-six round the
uppah structuah
couldn’t try out the recipe quick enough.
No sooner had she plopped the messy-
looking objects in the oven than Bill
Jones came over from the next farm to
tell her she was wanted in connection
with an expected new arrival in his house-
hold. With a curt instruction to the men-
folk to get their own dinner out of the
oven when they wanted it, Mum promptly
made tracks across the paddock. When
she returned a few hours later, Dad was
standing on the verandah with a face
that sagged like a broken concertina.
“Good gracious, Dad, whatever’s wrong?”
she asked. “What’s wrong!” he gulped.
“Them there scones you left in the oven
—Joe broke three of his front teeth try-
ing to bite through the crust of the flamin’
things an’ I’ve got so many bones in me
throat I feel like a pincushion.”
* * * *
“Narrin”: Those lads who are just now
coming of military age should prove far
better shots than their brothers who
joined up 18 months ago. Give the
average youngster a pea-rifle and almost
invariably he’ll shoot at the rabbit —at the
whole lot of it. That was all right when
hollow-pointed ,22’s were still on the
market. Now, with only solid bullets
available, the lad who wants rabbits must
learn to aim for a specific point in the
head or chest. And that lesson, well
learned, promotes a man from the pri-
mary grade of rifleshots.
* * * *
“Jika”: Old Joe had been on the beer
the night before leaving Delegate with
a big mob of cattle for Bairnsdale
market and was feeling pretty rotten
when, after a hard 10 miles across the
ranges, the boss decided to camp
beside the Brodribb. The cattle had
settled down, and the men gathered
around the fire with Steve to enter-
tain them. The ex-shearing-shed poet
started reciting “The Face on the
Bar-room Floor.” Tears began to gather
in Joe’s eyes. Steve noticed them, and
his melodramatic voice paused, “Sorry,
Joe,” he said sympathetically. “Didn’t
think y’d feel it so much. Sad lines, ain’t
they?” The old cattleman gazed into the
fire. “Aw, it ain’t exactly that, Steve,”
he said. “Y* reminded me of a sheilah
I did me block on once ; she was a bar-
maid. B’fore leavin’ the North I went to
’ave me last look at her. I pokes me ’ead
inside, and there was pore Lil’s face
starin’ up at me from the bar-room
floor.” The recitalist’s face was a model
of compassion as he put a hand on the
stricken one’s arm. “Sorry, Joe,” he
whispered. “Dead, was she?” “No,”
replied Joe with a sigh. “She was
polishin’ the floor and ’ad put so much
elbow grease into it y’ could see ’er dile
shinin’ in it! ”
„*. * *
Edjudina : Since the motor-truck
has cast out the camel and the donk,
Australia s dry places have l a rgely
acquired a new wild fauna. And both
new species are likely to stay. All the
world over the donkey is proverbial as
being able to exist sumptuously on
barbed wire and thistles. Not much of
either in our really wild places, but plenty
of thorn bushes that act as good sub-
stitutes. Actually, the donk and the
camel find ample to eat in this continent’s
most arid spaces. Have often watched
the oonts out feeding where horses and
cattle would have perished. Their first
choice was the kurrajong, not to be met
with often, though generally around
on kopi country—soil that spells death
to most vegetation. After kurrajong
came mulga, then quandong. On the
ground was mustard bush —it smells like
mustard and is revolting to most grazing
animals, but the camel scoffs it vora-
ciously. But favorite above all is pig-
weed. This commonest weed of the sand,
a species of portulaca, is thick and
fleshy and therefore both food and water
when green. Even when dry and like
burnt paper the desert-dweller seems to
find it nourishing. But has any hardy
Aboliar yet started to eat the new wild
fauna? The Gyppos didn’t need much
coaxing along that line ; and I’ve heard
of Foreign Legionaires dining on wild
donkey.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Despite moans by old-
timers that “y’ don’t see the big sticks
felled these days like y’ useter,” one
can be got whenever it is wanted. Re-
cently erected on the south side of the
Tweed River, near Barney’s Bridge, is a
flawless single-stick ironbark electric-
power pole. Cut from a vegetable near
Samford, in the Blackail Range, the stick
weighed eight tons without fittings. The
original tree was well over 200 ft. high,
and its felling, barking, sapping and
trimming occupied six expert timber-
getters for two days. The height is re-
quired for clearance of the coastal
steamers which pass up the river to Mur-
willumbah and back.
* * * »
“Old Camp”: Most blokes introduced
to the bush can make some sort of a
fist at putting up a hut, even if it’s not
much better than a mia-mia, but the
chimney generally has them flummoxed.
At my first effort I found it dead easy
to build up the hearth and the fireplace
from flat stones mixed with clay from
a creek. But drawing in for the stalk
was a poser, so at 4ft. I compromised
with salmon-gum slabs well covered
with clay. For the stalk itself four kero.-
tins fitted one into the other served. The
only drawbacks to this masterpiece were
smoke and fire. Despite the invitation
of the kero.-tin stalk more smoke went
out the camp door than up the chimney,
while on a winter’s night, with a back-
log going strong, it was necessary to
keep a bucket of water handy, since
every now and then the bone-dry slabs
above were apt to catch alight. Other
coves, more aristocratic, built chimneys
of corrugated iron. A 10ft. sheet formed
the back and the backbone ; three sft.
sheets then finished the structure. But
this required a framework of wood,
erected on the outside so that the iron gave
protection from sparks and flame. I’ve
seen many a hardy digger put
his faith in a chimney built entirely of
wood. Quite satisfactory, too, though after
a long summer, when the mud that had
been plastered over the inside dropped
and re p a j rs were neglected, the first
co i d n jgbt was likely to see the chimney
adding t 0 the general il lum i na tion. But
was w b e n a fellow started installing
a plumber-built tin chimney you knew
t b a t the women and the goats would
shortly be arriving
* * * *
“Taylor Ville”: Spring in Australia is
a time of more plagues than Pharaoh’s
mummy ever knew. A man has to slave
to keep his sheep from dying of blow-
flies. If he tries to rest, a million flies
by day or a million mosquitoes by night
do their best to prevent him getting lazy,
If he gets up in exasperation to walk off
the annoyance he col-
lects samples of every
Australian and that
means prickly seed.
Surviving all these, and
hay fever added, he has
to submit to feeble
imitations of foreign
sentiment in alleged
verse about tra-la
daisies, cowslips and
larks. Unless some-
thing’s done about it
Australians as a race
will learn to hibernate
in spring. And that’d
be unnatural. Next
year’s spring poets,
please note!
* *
“Ho”; “B. A. Ker”
in his eulogy of the
forked stick or sapling
(B. 22/10/’4l) omits its
greatest use —in the
construction of the slide
that is to be found at
every farmhouse in our
N.S.W. tablelands dis-
trict. With a ring to
take the “spreader”
hooks through the butt, which curves
up like the prow of a boat, and a
spike on each fork to keep the load
from rolling off, this simple contraption
slips over the grass easily where a
wheeled vehicle would bog out of sight.
Only the other day I saw Mum and the
two youngest being transported to a
neighbor’s place thus. As Dad said, you
don’t need any coupons for that vehicle.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: Rewi was buying a
reducing remedy from the chemist. “One
reason I want to get off some weight is
to beat te fleas,” he explained. “Even in
te bath I can’t drown te brutes off, be-
cause they will find hide-outs in te
double-chins round my puku an’ chest.”
* * * *
“C. Heops”: We were flat out thresh-
ing the last stack of oats and trying to
finish in time for the sports when an
imminent stoppage through a shortage'
of bags and twine was discovered. The
boss sent the new hand to secure a fresh
supply from the homestead about two
miles away. Two hours later he returned
empty-handed. “Bleedin’ bag bales all
sewed oop,” he reported dejectedly, “and
there ain’t no binder-twine, but plenty o’
hayband.”
* * * *
“Cap’n Niloc Einnif”: As a Cape
Horner whose blood consists mainly of
Stockholm tar and whose every hair
(what’s left of ’em) is a rope yarn, I’ve
often enjoyed a pleasant watch below
browsing on E. J. Brady’s windjammer
verses, and have long regarded their
creator as a foundation member of
the Dinkum Shellbacks’ Association;
but I nearly swallowed the after-binnacle
on learning (B. 22/10/’4l) that the
crew pumped the good ship out with
the windlass. Blimey, after that some
land-lubber will be telling us blokes with
the Nelson touch that they hove up the
starboard pick on the poop with the
pump! Any more cracks like that from
E.J.B. and I propose retiring to me snug
harbor at the back of Croajingalong.
J.A., Crete, 1941.
Twelve months ago, old friend, we were
together,
The campfire crackled on the sandy beach.
It painted red the boles of rustling she-oaks,
And slashed the placid waters of the reach.
Behind us rose the dark Macquarie ranges,
The sombre bluff threw back the firelight
gleam,
The distant snore of water on the rapids
In monotone came faintly down the stream.
The steady cropping of the hobbled packhorse,
Soft swish of grasses as he moved along,
The jingling chains, the crying of the mopoke,
The poignant sadness of the curlews’ song.
The axe’s ring, the acrid smoke of driftwood,
The river’s silver ribbon in the dawn,
An eagle sailing slow above the gorges,
The ringbarked gums, the cold wind through
them drawn—
All this, old chap, no doubt you would remem-
ber—
The winding track we followed to its end
Down Hawkin’s Track into the Turon Valley,
Then round the Junction Hill to Johnson’s
Bend.
I see it all again here by my fireside,
Imagination brings it from the glow,
The coals take form, the leaping flames dis-
semble,
And shape again the scenes we used to know.
I see you as I saw you then, old fellow,
I feel again the handgrip firm and strong,
I hear again your quiet voice’s measure
In cadence as you hum a bushman’s song.
You sailed next day to keep a tryst with honor*
No hesitation stayed your purpose grand.
Through Libyan dust to Derna and Benghazi
We followed you in thought from Solium
sand.
Then, after that, a scribbled note from Corinth
Told how you crossed the blue yEgean Sea,
We read of how you held them at Olympus
And faced the Panzers at Thermopylae.
The blaze dies down, the shadows gather darker,
The Cretan olive groves before me lie.
Your outflung hand shows whitely in the moon-
light,
You lie at peace beneath an alien sky.
And yet, deep down, I think you’ll still remem-
ber
The comradeship by old Macquarie’s bend,
I’ll feel your unseen presence here beside me.
To blaze again the trails we knew, old friend.
For until then the years to come loom darkly,
No light can show the path ahead unless
I keep those memories of you to guide me
Beyond dim corridors of loneliness.
N.S.W.
HARRY HODGB.


"Pass the qsalt , please ."
“Mat’s Mate”; The mob were talking
about the buckjumpers they’d ridden, and
Long Thomson weighed in with a yarn
about one that he reckoned bucked a
full half-day. Big Mat was scornful.
“Strike me, that neddy must ’a’ bin half-
starved. They had one up on the War-
rego one time an’ put me up on it. That
blasted horse tucked in his both ends
and went at it hammer-and-tongs an’
never looked like stoppin’. When
sundown come the boss yelled t’ me t’
jump off; there was a A.W.U. organiser
there an’ he didn’t want t’ be charged
overtime, I reckon, but I wasn’t riskin’
me neck an’ I stayed on. About mid-
night the girths busted an’ the saddle
went, but that flamin’ horse was still full
of go, an’, though I had a bit of a job t’
keep awake, I stayed there. Gettin’
towards dawn I nearly fell asleep a coupla
times, but Bally here”—pointing at me —
“kept squirtin’ hot tea at me with a bike
pump, an’ when the dawn come I woke
up properly. Yair, that flamin’ horse
had bucked hisself t’ a shadder, an’ I
couldn’t see it till the sun rose.” Then
the mob arose and silently went to bed.
“Wester”; Jevver hear about Dick, a
jackeroo who came to the station all done
up in tailored riding gear, got on a horse
and was promptly pitched off? Well,
the boss picked him up and said, “Look,
I’m sorry we gave y’ that thing t’ ride.
What you want is somethin’ quiet t’ begin
with, then work y’r way up. Now you
come with me. I got a horse my kid
used t’ ride once; he’s pretty old, but
he’ll still go an’ he’s dead quiet.” The
innocent jacky followed him over to the
stable, where the boss dragged out from
a heap of old bags and things a battered
old rocking-horse. After the gales had
blown over and our faces were straight
again, the jacky said, “Very well, you
fellows. Now bring out the worst blanky
outlaw you’ve got and I’ll ride him if
it kills me.” Yes, he turned out a great
bloke, that jacky.
“The 0.D.”: These blokes with their
bucking horses (B. 5/11 /’41)! Old
Tommy, horse-of-all-work on Kulkyne,
never bothered to root, buck or rear
when he wanted to get rid of anyone. He
simply stood and shivered, quaking like
a jelly from stem to stern. The rider
invariably „ jumped off, fearing Tommy
was about to collapse, whereupon that
equine would give a sardonic nod of the
head and trot away.
* * ♦ ♦
“Excuse It”: If “Gumsucker” doesn’t
believe a man could sidestep a revolver
bullet (B. 5/11/’4l) already on its way,
will he tell the Council how a musk-
duck can beat a .22 rifle bullet, which
is a darned sight faster than a revolver
slug? And, talking of kicking guns, why
does he suppose a lead bullet will make
the thing kick more than steel balls?
Dope that I am, I always imagined it was
the explosive charge, not the missile, that
made the gun kick.
« * * *
“D.R.H.”: “The wondrous beauty” of
a large flock of galahs (B, 15/10/’4l)
won’t stand extensive acquaintance.
Camped one time at the old Pug Hut on
the Myrtle (S.A.), we never managed a
Sunday morning sleep-in while the horse-
paddock tank was full. Operations com-
menced just after daylight with an ap-
proaching roar that swelled in an awful
crescendo till it burst as a hurricane of
sound inside the hut and threatened to
lift the roof. That was a quarter of a
mile of galahs who had all been turning
cartwheels on the single-wire ’phone line,
and who, when sufficient oscillation had
been attained, let go simultaneously. Next
step was a line-up on the ridge of the
steep gable roof and a noise like ten
thousand cats being pursued by ten thou-
sand dogs up one iron fence. This simple
and pleasing effect was obtained by all
hands sitting on their claws and s-l-i-i-id-
ing down the roof. When tired of that
they removed all loose roofing screws with
their beaks and went off for another
swing on the wire. Then we got up to
repair the damage.
* * * *
“A.W.R.”: Old Dan, out fishing on
his own, was putting a new hook on his
line after “somethin’ pretty big” had
bitten him off, when the boat rolled and
the coil of line slid across the boards.
Almost before he realised it the line was
twirling round the open shaft and the
hook was tearing into his hand. It had
reached the bone before he was able to
reach over and stop the engine. He
started on the long-put-off job of cover-
ing the shaft then.
•j; ;£ ♦
“Yagan”: The W.A. blackboy-tree
served the primitive abo., among other
uses, as a matchbox. Green as a carrot
when sent up in the spring, the tall flower
stalk during the course of summer takes
on a dryness surpassing any other pro-
duct of the forest. Yet, still straight and
strong, it will stand so for the whole
year. Fire being needed, Binghi selected
a stalk and broke it into three parts. The
head, which had contained the seeds, he
crumbled to the finest tinder imaginable
—dry, fluffy, yet resinous. Half of the
stem he sharpened to a point. On the
other half he scraped a small, flat area in
which he made a light countersink- With
this held between his toes, the pointed
stalk operating as a fire-drill, he could
raise a fire in less than a minute, heap-
ing the dead-dry tinder around the
moment the drill began to smoke. Then,
with the tinder flaming, it needed only
a handful of the dry, reisin-saturated
laminations from the dead trunk to send
the flames leaping. And not the least of
virtues was the extreme lightness of the
blackboy stalk, for it could be carried
in the woman’s dillybag during rainy
weather without adding perceptibly to
her burdens, while even the proud buck
could carry it without inconvenience in
his waistbelt should a party of men be
travelling alone. Nature even made the
stem slightly corrugated so as to give
grip to the palms when twirling.
* * * *
“Blue”: One of the mob was reading
out “Fitzjay’s” par. (B. 5/11 /’4l) about
Old Ernie’s axe. Nifty maintained a
bored silence until directly appealed to.
“Well,” he said, “when I’m usin’ a really
good axe, I work in the shade all day,
the air’s so thick with flyin’ chips!”
* * * *
“Will Babylon”: “Dip’s” elbow-bender
(B. 22/10/’4l) wasn’t half smart or he
would have restored his “innards” as our
man did. He was the last of our mob
to be affected by the bad water, and
never let up with his jokes re our state
of health. When our turn came we
smuggled about a foot and a half of
rabbit innards into his bed and enjoyed
in anticipation his being told it was a
sure sign of death. Next time we looked
into his tent we all gathered round the
bed, to hear solemnly that “he had found
a long piece of his bowels in the bed,
but with the help of God and a handle
of a toothbrush he had put it back.”
* * * «
“Bull-ant Bill”: A new class-distinc-
tion is likely to disturb the loyalty of
Australia’s wage slaves in the primary
industries. For ten years past Jim Blod-
gett worked contentedly on Henry Mar-
tin’s farm, satisfied with his pay and
occasional bonuses, friendly with his em-
ployer, cheerfully lending a hand in the
house whenever Mrs. Martin was engaged
with her almost-annual contribution to
Australia’s Best Immigrants. In fact, Jim
and Henry formed the district’s bright
and shining example of true co-operation
between employed and employer. To-
day I overtook Jim trudging, port in
hand, towards the township and offered
a lift. “Off for a spell, Jim?” I asked
as the old mare jogged along. “Orf fer
good!” he said sourly. “Can’t stand
that cow no longer.” I expressed sur-
prise that so long and friendly an asso-
ciation should have ended. “Yaks,” he
admitted. “ ’Enery wus all right up t’ a
few months ago. Couldn’t want a better
bloke t’ work fer. Then them interferin’
politishuns starts thishyere kid-endow-
ment racket, an’ dreckly ’Enery takes a
tumble as ’e’s gointer get a dollar a week
fer each uv the nine oldest an’ the one
wot’s cornin’ along, too, the lazy cow
sits back an’ shoves all the ’ard yakka
onter me instead uv givin’ a ’and like ’e
useter. I ain’t wot y’d call stuck up,
but I’ve got me bit o’ self-respeck, an’ I
ain’t gointer be sweated by no purse-
proud baby-farmer!”
* * * *
“Propalong”: “Y’ never saw a dog like
ol’ Rusty, a red kelpie I had one time,”
said Denny. “Come down outa Queens-
land with 15,000 wethers when he wuz
only a youngster. We’d been on the
road five months by the time we got to
Marree (S.A.), and trucked 12,000 of ’em.
Then we pushed on down the line with
the rest, all hoggetts, waitin’ on the Adel-
aide market. The flamin’ horses, not
bein’ used t’ the hard feed on the gibbers,
wuz nea’ly knocked up. The dogs wuz
all footsore, with great patches o’
hide off their shoulders frum bumpin’
the sheep over —them wethers’d been too
long on the road t’ take notice uv any
barkin’. Well, we gets down into Leigh’s
Creek all dry channels and ol’-
man saltbush. Then the mob got sulky.
We struck a bit uv a dry stage an’ they
got worse. F’r three days we never heard
a baa out uv any uv ’em. An’ they were
stickin’ up somethin’ crook Dogs
couldn’t do a thing with ’em. Then one
night they bailed up between two
channels, only quarter uv a mile frum
the camp. We tried to cut ’em an’ string
’em, an’ they wouldn’t shift. Time after
time we tried in the blindin’ silt dust, an
me temper wuzn’t improved when I see
Rusty sneak off t’ camp an’ get a drink.
I wuz waitin’ for ’im when he come back,
but he didn’t give me a chance. He
limped up one side uv the mob where
they wuz all rung up. The sheep just
looked at ’im. He sits down. Then all
us a sudden he gives a helluva baa like
a darned ol’ ram. The mob wuz at the
break before they stopped running. Yair,
he wuz a good dog all right.
THE NIGHT RIDER.
When the moon is at its full,
Making noon of middle night,
Weird and mystic is the pull
Of its loveliness and light.
Wherefore, to her door drawn back,
I, of sleep and rest denied,
Gallop down a river track
Through a sleeping countryside.
On her door I knock and knock,
Though no sudden light I see,
Hear no sound of ticking clock,
Fall of foot or turn of key.
Cold the moon is, cold the earth,
And no longer bright and brave,
Warmth of heart and warmth of hearth
Welcome give, as once they gave.
Still I linger, though I know
That upon a night of fear.
Many moons and moons ago,
One she loved not entered here.
Pallid was that visitor
In the darkness of the night,
Strong to enter at her door,
Bolt and bar it as she might.
Stern of mien he gazed on her
And in stillness, chill and tense,
Void alike of sound or stir.
Bade her rise and haled her hence.
Knowing this still am I drawn
To her door each full of moon,
Homeward riding at the dawn
Half-awake and half-aswoon.
n.s.w.
REDERIC.


Devoted to a
Single Purpose
F
OR more than 63 years The Trustees Executors & Agency
Company Ltd., whose foundation marked the inception of
corporate trusteeship in Australia, has devoted itself to
one single purpose the care and management of the
property of its clients.
Throughout the period of its operation, it has provided the
impartial advice and assistance of a permanent corporation as
Executor, Trustee, Attorney, Agent and in other capacities of a
fiduciary nature.
The appointment of the Company as Executor or Co-Executor
of your Will ensures continuity in the execution of the trust.
Service is prompt, sympathetic and efficient. Ample security is
provided and fees are fixed and moderate. Consult your
Solicitor or write or call for further information.
os
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
jCtd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £958,760.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS;
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; John Fordyce •
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, 0.8. E.; G. S'. Cohnan.C.B.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS':
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
£ £, £,
1931 . . 80,421 7.5 p.c. = 60,000 1,605,599
1932 , . 152,803 10 „ „ 80,000 1,678,402
1933 . . 276,199 15 „ „ 120,000 1,834,601
1934 . . 260,884 25 ~ „ 200,000 1,895,485
1935 .. 355,302 30 „ „ 240,000 2,010,787
1936 . . 519,903 62.5„ „ 500,000 2,030,690
1937 . . 803,278 70 „ ~ 560,000 2,273,968
1938 . . 437,432 80 ~ ~ 640,000 2,071,400
1939 . . 383,138 40 „ ~ 320,000 2,134,538
Shares written up, £201,369 .. 2,335,907
1940 .. 455,244 40 p.c. = 320,000 2,471,151
1941 . . 326,803 40 „ „ 320,000 2,477,954
Affairs at the mine, from which two-
thirds of the revenue is drawn, on
the average, reached a static position
about eight years ago in production and
efficiency, and, with prices now either con-
trolled or restricted by contract for the
most part, there is little chance of the
co. being able to keep its nose in front
of increasing war taxation and other
additions to costs, chairman Colin
Fraser says. A continuance of divs. of
40 p.c. p.a. is not therefore guaranteed.
Last term, though production figures
are not available, a higher price for zinc
concentrate, a better price for silver (up
2d. an ounce on the previous term and
7d. better than pre-war), and some “up-
ward adjustment” in the price of lead
sold to Britain helped mining revenue,
which improved by £184,245 to £1,322,369.
The average wage, including lead bonus,
rose to £5 18s. a week, up 7s. 2d. Ex-
traction, treatment and freight costs lifted
by £63,930 to £793,040, and administra-
tive exes., taxes (£224,000, up £132,500),
royalty, contingencies, depreciation, etc.,
ran off with £101,503 more at £322,462.
The profit claimed from mining was thus
only £18,812 higher:
Declared profit— 1937. 1940. 1941.
Mining .. .. £664,803 £188,055 £206,867
Investments . . .. 103,513 141,449 134,184
£768,316 £329,504 £341,051
The net return from investments fell
away £7265, and net profit claimed by
the accounts was £11,547 better. The
difference between the claimed earnings
and those shown in the introductory table
is reconciled as follows:
Profit claimed £341,051
-4dd: Allowance for depreciation .. .. 33,000
Allowance for contingencies . . 25,000
Surplus on sale investments . . 3,419
Unexplained addition replacement
reserve 1,058
, Total £403,528
Less: Written off investments . . . . 5,229
Unexplained reduction special reserve 401
Unexplained reduction general reserve 1,095
Unexplained reduction contingency
reserve 70,000
Net profit per table . . . . £326,803
The unexplained reduction of £70,000 in
contingencies account suggests that a sub-
stantial part of this reserve has been
more specifically earmarked for taxation.
The co. had 11,066 tons of lead (up
2182 tons) and 485,4180 z. silver (up
101,7720 z.) on hand at balance day, the
lead valued at £l2 10s. and the silver at
Is. 3d. The growth in these stocks did not
help last year’s profit in view of the low
basis at which they are taken into
account.
At the outbreak of war the British
Government contracted with the smelters
to buy 13,875 tons of lead a
month at £AIB 16s. 7d. a ton,
f.0.b., subject to half-yearly adjust-
ments according to rises or falls in speci-
fied production costs. This contract has
been renewed to August 31, 1942, on the
basis of 90 p.c. of the original tonnage,
less any increase in domestic or export
sales. The Australian price has been fixed
at £22 a ton, but the Defence Depart-
ment is supplied at a lower figure. Ex-
ports to the U.S.A. are made on a c.i.f.
basis, and there is the gamble of trans-
port and insurance costs, as well as the
price received at U.S.A. ports. Though
the gross price received is not as high
as that paid for U.S. domestic production
—which, as has been pointed out in these
pages before, is partly due to import
duties —the net return to the Barrier
mines from this newly-developed market
is expected to be above the Australian
price. With the help of a growing Aus-
tralian demand, the whole Barrier output
of lead is assured of sale up to August
31 next. Production should not be less
at any of the mines than it was last term.
Zinc in 1941-42 should bring in as
much as it did in 1940-41. Australian
consumption here is on the increase also,
and a ready sale is assured of all produc-
tion. Subject to any movement in the
quality of ore available, B.H. South ex-
pects the current year’s mining profit, be-
fore providing for taxation, to compare
favorably with last year’s. Ore reserves
are put at 2,250,000 tons, down slightly,
but this does not include a substantial
tonnage of partly developed ore. It has
been suggested that the mine may live for
20 years, but if it does it will be due to
the discovery of ore as yet unknown.
South’s investment holding is of first-
rate importance. A little less than a third
of last year’s net profit came from this
source. For the most part the holding
represents affiliated metal enterprises,
B.H. Smelters (446,369 shares) in particu-
lar, but there is a substantial holding in
Associated Pulp and Commonwealth Air-
craft as well. Including investments of
all kinds (many of which are taken in at
below their market value), the more or
less liquid surplus was £11,693 lighter at
£1,888,957. There was a net expenditure
of £17,220 on fixed assets during the
year.
The market prices the ss. shares at
255. It would take 12} years at last
year’s rate of distribution to return that
figure. However, at a conservative valu-
ation there was slightly less than 12s. a
share in surplus liquids and investments
on balance day. And there is over six
years’ supply of ore proved.
Yarra Falls, Ltd. (Melbourne)
et To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 51,272 5 p.c. = 45,000 6,272 177,832
1932.. 66,625 6 „ „ 54,000 12,625 190,457
Stock appreciation, £20,000 210,457
3 933.. 98,693 9 p.c. = 81,000 17,693 228,150
1934.. 105,279 10 „ „ 90,000 15,279 243,429
Flood loss, £64,088 .. .. .. 179,341
1935.. 102,185 8 p.c. = 72,000 30,185 209,526
1936.. 107,124 10 „ „ 90,000 17,124 226,650
1937.. 109,466 10 „ „ 90,000 19,466 246,116
Share premiums, £49',168 .. .. 295,284
1938.. 105,271 10 p.c. = 96,146 9,125 304,409
1939.. 115,433 10 „ „ 99,834 15,599 320,008
Share premiums, £1826 .. .. 321,834
1940.. 117,975 10 p.c. = 100,000 17,975 339,809
1941.. 137,629 10 „ „ 100,000 37,629 377,438
Staff fund, £5OOO . . . . . . 372,438
Considering that output of yarn in the
past term lifted 48 p.c. over the last pre-
war year, that cloth rose 40 p.c. and wool
tops over 1,000,0001 b., the increase in
profits claimed has been moderate. The
mills at Abbotsford (Melbourne) and the
Globe Worsted Mills at Marrickville
(Sydney) have worked to capacity, with
turnover a record all round. Another off-
shoot, Byfas Pty., is busily engaged on
parachute silk. In addition to supplying
an increased Australian Government de-
mand, vast stores of clothing have been
moving to forces overseas, and the
co. has supplied growing quantities
of wool tops for export at prices fixed by
the Central Wool Committee. Govern-
ment demand has altogether created fears
of an Australian clothing shortage in
some connections and an actual shortage
in others. The co. warns shareholders
that present turnover is abnormal, and in
no way to be relied upon.
The “rush” war-time conditions have
meant the employment of less skilled
types of labor and more rapid deprecia-
tion of plant. After providing £61,407
(up £9245) for depreciation last term, the
co. and its subsidiaries showed a gross
profit of £325,657 —up £100,216. Exes.,
including £127,708 (an increase of
£68,392) for taxation, rose by £70,318 to
£170,804, and the net result was £29,898
better at £154,853. Outside shareholders
had an equity of only £3l in this. To a
staff fund £5OOO was passed, and £194
was written off the preliminary exes, of
Byfas.
Yarra Falls itself disclosed profits as
shown in the introductory table, includ-
ing revenue from its subsidiaries. After
providing for the staff fund, the result of
the co. and its subsidiaries was equal to
14.9 p.c. on capital, compared with 12.5
p.c. in the preceding term. The usual
10 p.c. div. by the parent was a comfort-
able matter. The position looks even
more comfortable when balance-sheet
figures are studied:
Yarra Falls and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital . . £998,342 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Outside interests* . . 2,493 5,040
Overdraft .. . . 14,275 63,679 93,434
Sundry creditors! . . 212,275 356,264 334,477
Staff fund .. .. 5,00'0 5,000 10,000
Freeholds .. .. 369,031 371,869 382,750
Plant, etc 420,447 438,762 394,662
Stocks .. . . 591,936 756,153 744,794
Debtors . . . . 170,327 224,559 303,915
Shares . . . . 60,174 33,916 32,114
Cash, etc. .. . I 26,841 21,221 62,655
* Including proportion reserves. f Including tax
provision.
Despite the great expansion in activity,
after providing for depreciation the book
value of plant dropped by £44,100,
though freeholds lifted £lO,BBl, partly
because of the purchase of land adjoining
the Abbotsford factory for the purpose
of erecting a barrier against floods
Yarra such as damaged the factory halt
a dozen years ago. Stocks, _ still
heavy, dropped £11,359, debtors rising
£79,356. The cash holding improved
£41,434, and the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£683,453) altogether was £91,463
greater. The co. in the previous term
acquired a holding in Bradford Cotton
in exchange for its former interest in
Austral Silk.
In a textile concern of this type a
great deal depends on the earning power
per spindle and per loom, also the value
at which looms figure in the books. These
details, of course, are not publicly known.
But the management has obviously done
well in building up the business to its
present strong position, and, though earn-
ing power is under strict war-time con-
trol, allowance for depreciation should
keep capital value of looms down to a
conservative level. Last term deprecia-
tion allowance was equal to 15.6 p.c. on
the book value of plant as it stood at
the end of the year; some, but not a
great deal, of the provision would also
apply to freeholds.
The co. is the strongest of its type in
Australia. It has a long experience be-
hind it, as well as a satisfactory div. record
and comfortable finances. The £1 shares
have a visible net tangible backing of
28s, 9d. The market pays a steady 445.
for the scrip, obtaining an immediate
return of £4 10s. per cent.
Wilcox, Mofflin, Ltd. (Sydney)
To 1\ c
June, Loss. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £>£,£>
1930.. 164,575 Nil 180,133
9s. a share ( £180,000) struck off capital.. 138
1931.. 19,705 Nil 19,843
Profit.
1932.. 1,447 Nil 1,447 18,396
Reserves.
1933.. 24,504 Nil 24,504 6,103
1934.. 39,276 9.1 p.c. = 20,000 19,276 25,384
1935.. 30,128 6.8 „ „ 15,000 15,128 40,512
1936.. 36,680 9.1 „ „ 20,000 15,680 56,192
Contingency reserve, £13,500 .. .. 69,692
1937.. 45,385 9.1 p.c. =: 20,000 25,385 95,077
Loss.
1938.. 91,391 Nil 3,686
Profit.
1939.. 4.120 Nil 4,120 7,806
1940.. 33,552 13.6 p.c. = 30,000 3,552 11,358
1941.. 45,610 13.6 „ „ 30,000 15,510 26,868
Most commodities handled by the co.
are now ultimately acquired by the
Federal Government, which means a cer-
tain market and an assured price. Pre-
viously the co., which normally buys
wool, hides, furred skins, etc., largely on
its own account and sells them overseas,
has never been assured of either of those
things, and the time factor has made
earnings subject to a wide range of
economic and other developments. Thus
the co.’s scrip has been one of the most
speculative industrial counters listed on
’Change, for, although good profits are
made on a rising market, whopping losses
show up on a falling one, as shareholders
wistfully found cause for reflection in
1930 and 1939.
With the stability imparted by Govern-
ment action, the latest trading period was
the most profitable since 1928. Also,
Continental supplies of furred skins being
cut off, America (a large buyer of rabbit-
and hare-skins) has turned to the Com-
monwealth for its requirements, which
are likely to be short-supplied because of
expanding English and local demand.
For Wilcox, Mofflin the result of this
combination of circumstances was a
profit £11,958 better at £45,510, or 20.7
p.c. on the £220,000 of capital, compared
with 15.2, 1.8 and a £91,391 loss for the
three years before. Shareholders were
again handed 13.6 p.c., making their
average for the past 13 years 4.7 p.c. In
the same period they have seen £lBO,OOO
(9s. per share) of their capital go over-
board to eliminate goodwill and other
intangibles.
Brisker trading was apparent right up
to balancing time:
1937. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £220,000 £220,000 £220,000 £220,000
Overdraft .. 119,462 162,088 145,842 202,207
Creditors .. 101,974 62,953 80,701 121,467
Fixed assets.. 175,294 183,812 162,252 161,403
Stocks . . 215,926 171,879 202,222 234,169
Book debts .. 150.849 78,630 107,100 178,218
Cash . . . . 1,592 1,555 1,475 1,665
Shares other cos. 12,851 12,851 14,851 25,087
Additions to stock and debtors’ balances
necessitated going outside for another
£97,131 net last year, raising the total
of outside money at risk to 265, 3d. for
each pound belonging to shareholders.
The 11s. shares, which have been up
and down between 11s. 6d. and 6s. lOd.
this year, now stand at 9s. 6d. Imme-
diate yield of 15.9 p.c. at that figure
reflects market estimation of the risks


INVENTORS.—Have vou an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and 'Griffith. Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * v
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Public Notice.
LAKE VIEW AND STAR LIMITED.
Dividend No. 49.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Board of
Directors have decided to recommend at the
Annual Meeting of the Company to be held on
the 25th November, 1941, payment of a final
dividend of 25 per cent. (1/- per share) in re-
spect of the year ended 30th June, 1941, less
United Kingdom income tax at 6/3.5 in the £
(3.775 d. per share), the net amount of dividend
being 8.225 d. per share sterling.
This dividend makes a total distribution of
50 per cent, for the year ended 30th June, 1941,
subject to confirmation by the shareholders. The
dividend will be payable on 23rd December next
to all persons registered as holders of shares
on the Australian register on Bth November,
1941. The transfer books will be closed from
lOtli November to 12th November (both days
inclusive).
For Lake View and Star, Limited,
WILLIAM THOMAS,
Local Secretary.
PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE...
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Consult
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY 01
(Incorporated in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman)
(Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; I
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J
AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
; Colin A. Sinclair
l. E. Heath, C.M.G.;
1. G. H. Shipway,
I3i
SI
Security
Economy
Service
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ; Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.; Robert Vicars.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T,
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
i g # 1/ #
Correct belt tension, the all important factoi
in power transmission with belting, can now
be automatically controlled by Ludowici
Pivot and Torque Drives a great step up
in belt drive efficiency.
The 23 different stock sizes and types of
Ludowici Pivot and Torque Drives cover
every possible application. Increase pro-
duction, eliminate belt slip, lengthen belt
and bearing life by installing an A.T.C.
drive in your plant.
Victorian Oiiice: 20 Queen's Bridge Street,
SOUTH MELBOURNE. Agents All States.
r
v
;
:
mm
m
%
%
m
VIA
involved, which, however, appear to have
been considerably reduced for the
present.
Early “expert” predictions that the
hematite Tennant lodes would peter out
in depth may be falsified. The Eldorado
at least is down to 230 ft., with pay-ore
still persisting and limonite present in
large quantity, indicating primary sul-
phides below. If the faith of W. J.
Turner is verified and a sulphide zone
does come in, bigger things are ahead
for Australia’s most central goldfield.
Meantime, in its three main ore-shoots,
which are interlaced by a lot of 3dwt.-
4dwt. stuff, the Eldorado has 15,000 tons
of 16dwt. ore measured up, with a simi-
lar quantity of unstated grade in pros-
pect. In the year to June the co. milled
7945 (up 1264) tons of ore and cyanided
4577 tons sands for 46320 z. gold—
11.6dwt. per ton of ore milled, against
lOdwt. in the previous period. That
should have shown a mine working
profit near £20,000. Since the close
of accounts 2711 tons of ore has yielded
9.sdwt. per ton, but that excludes tail-
ings. When the new all-slime treatment
plant and mine electrification are com-
plete in the new year, treatment should
go up to 800 tons of both ore and sands
monthly and all-in costs come down to
455., which would bring a lot more crush-
ing material within the scope of profit-
able milling. It’s been a conservatively-
run show in the present hands, and the
market is showing added interest.
* * * *
So as to avoid unbearable excess-profits
tax Gt. Boulder Proprietary decided to
change its domicile from London to Perth
and went into liquidation. Stopped by
the British Treasury, on Nov. 4, the direc-
tors and some supporting shareholders
petitioned in Chancery for a stay of
winding-up proceedings and restoration
of the co. to its pre-liquidation position.
The Court stood the matter over to fix
a date of hearing. Counsel for other
shareholders said he was going to ask that
Claude de Bernales, chairman of the co.,
be requested to attend for cross-exami-
nation. As the “Wild Cat” said before,
the special misfortune of Gt. Boulder
and, to a lesser extent, North Kalgurli
is that the base year was a year of low
profit, and one in which money which
might have been distributed in dividends
was devoted to improvement of the mine
and plant.
*
Empress and Groundlark, two of
Norseman’s optimistic set (W.A.), held
meetings in Adelaide the other day.
Empress shareholders were told that the
year’s development had proved satisfac-
tory and Groundlark’s that the reef had
lived down and that production would
now increase. A local Government in-
spector of mines said some time ago that
both these ventures had prospects.
* * * *
Latest half-yearly report of Consoli-
dated Gold Areas, which operates the
White Hope at Hampton Plains (W.A.),
is brimful of optimism. The plant is
giving greater efficiency, the mine has
responded to development, improved-
grade ore is being milled and values dis-
closed at No. 4 (bottom) level are, accord-
ing to consulting engineer M. R. Mc-
Keown, highly satisfactory. Winzes
ahead of shaft-sinking below No. 4 level
are stated to be continuing in good stuff.
In view of the “general improvement in
prospects,” the board is glad that Aus-
tralian Mining and Industrial Finance
(a De Bernales concern) didn’t exercise
its option. The purchase price was
£35,000, spread over a term. With regard
to the co.’s holding of 150,000 shares in
Blue Spec Mines, Marble Bar, on which
3d. application and 3d. call per share
have been paid, the board states that Blue
Spec’s future is promising provided suffi-
cient water can be obtained for extended
operations.
* * * *
Lake View and Star (W.A.) pays a
final dividend of Is. stg., less U.K. in-
come tax of 6s. 3.5 d. in the £, on Decem-
ber 23. This makes 2s. for the year.
Profit to June 30, 1941, was £5tg.465,293,
compared with £592,158 for the previous
12 months. Higher expenditure due to
war-time conditions was responsible for
the fall. Despite the extraction of over
600,000 tons over the 12 months, ore
reserves still keep six years ahead of the
mill.
• ♦ * *
A clamor for standardisation of gold-
mining terms is again raised in the West.
Periodical developmental news has long
been a source of complaint. On the
whole that from the big mines is satis-
factory, but in the case of numerous small
shows mention is frequently made of
“good gold,” “nice gold,” “valuable ore,”
etc., leaving shareholders to guess aver-
age values. Standardisation of references,
it is argued, would be some check on in-
competency, Stock Exchanges are urged
to compel controllers of listed cos, to
adopt them ; also to insist that mine man-
agers be only certificated technical men
and members of an Institute of Mining
and Metallurgy.
* * * •
Swan Bitter, at its annual roll-up in
Perth, empowered directors to borrow up
to £7500 upon such conditions as they
deem fit. It also agreed without demur
to increase total directors’ fees by £5O to
£450. Co.’s admirers reckon it has a
golden future, but the market’s view is
wait and see.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile cos, are cast-
ing apprehensive glances at cost-sheets.
At the Boulder Perseverance meeting
chairman C. F. Bell mentioned that de-
velopment outgo was slightly less and
ore-treatment, power and maintenance,
etc., some 5 p.c. more last year. This
comparatively small increase during a
year of towering costs reflects the cease-
less watching by mine officials, he added.
Still, even they were helpless in the face
of continuously mounting labor, fuel
and power charges, and further lifts in
costs were considered unavoidable.
* * * *
Mining operations at the Duffer, Pros-
erpine (N.Q.), are reported to be very
satisfactory, and over 100 men are em-
ployed by Kelsey Creek G.M. Pty. Not
much publicity is given to the output
of the mine, which probably ranks third
in Queensland after Mt. Morgan and
Golden Plateau. Output appears to run
around 600 or 700 fine oz. gold monthly.
The best news in latest mine reports is
that good values —that may mean soz.
or over —are being met with in both north
and south levels at No. s—i.e.,5 — i.e., the deep-
est drive. The small reef is of average
width there, something between sin. and
9in. In the adjoining Young Crusader
lease the same lode has been picked up
at a point still further north and is now
being actually prospected.
* * * *
Mount Oxide, Cloncurry (N.Q.), is
being developed to form the mainstay of
copper suppliers to the State Smelting
Works. For September it turned out 318
tons for the handsome return of 53 tons
of metal. More than two tons a day of
metallic copper is a useful contribution
if maintained. Now that Trekelano has
fallen off, the Mount has the greatest
volume of ore reserves in sight. There
are a lot of small suppliers, but all are
limited by the fact that it hardly pays to
touch under 10 per cent. ores.
, *. ..* * TT , * tj
Lode-tmmmmgonthe Herbertonfieid
Q4.Q.) has never been at a lower ebb
There has always been one o
producers at least to carry on n p ,
but the Bradlaugh, Canberra an “
man which have been pulling most dur-
mg the last year or two, are no longer
getting ore. A lot of prospecting has
been done on the trio recently, but none
of it turned out more than small makes
of ore. The prospectors are turning to
copper; there are a number of shows in
the district with prospects.
* * * *
Black Jack, one of the few public
Queensland goldmines and a leading
light at the Towers, handled rather more
ore (4271 tons) and sands (3942 tons) in
the year to June, but values and costs
weren’t quite so favorable, and the sur-
pi us before depreciation declined from
£16,088 to £12,376. Still, div. went up
from 2s. 6d. to 3s. 3d. per share, the
distribution of £12,545 being justified by
th e comfortable state of finances. Re-
sponse of the mine to development at
depth encourages the market to bid 15s.
f G r the ss. shares, of which only 77,000
are issued.
* * * *
There was an increase from 28 to 36 in
Bendigo (Vic.) operating mines in the
year to j une , but ore treatment was 2 p.c.
lighter at 99,126 tons, recovered grade
9 s dwt , against 97dwt still, divs .
bounded up from £2 i 0 ,061 to £265,380.
Figures of recent months haven’t been
ma j nta j ned? however, because of falling
outputs from producers like Deborah and
c J tral Nell & W ynne.
J
* 4 . * * . .
In contrast to its trans-Tasman neigh-
b°r, Maonfcnd Is gold production lifted
from 178,977 to an estimated 185,665
{me oz. in 1940. But just on half the
Dominion s output comes from dredging,
little known outside Victoria in the Corn-
monwealth. Lode mines are experiencing
man-power difficulties similar to their
Australian counterparts.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
AS EUROPE IS TODAY.
[London “Times” comment: “In the occupied terri-
tories millions of Germans are being made to feel that
they are, in Mr. Churchill’s phrase, ‘the moral outcasts
of mankind.’ ” The following detailed survey of con-
ditions today in those occupied countries is condensed
from a full-page article by Frederick T. Birchall in New
York “Times,” 5/10/’41.1
Germany has now conquered and is occupying
nine European countries: Poland, Norway, Denmark,
Holland, Belgium, France, Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia
and Greece. Nazism further dominates and controls
five more countries: Austria, already incorporated in
the Reich ; Italy, the Fascist ally whose independence
has become a myth; Hungary, which half-heartedly
tails along with the conqueror ; Bulgaria and Rumania,
which have been literally forced into partnership.
The 15 countries cover an area approximating
750,000 square miles containing roughly 150,000,000
people. They constitute a vast German prison camp
the greatest prison camp of all time.
In every part of this vast domain is now rising a
tide of unrest and disaffection expressed not merely
in passive resistance, but in active sabotage of the
German war plans—strikes, fires in warehouses, explo-
sions in factories, severance of communications, de-
railment of trains and attacks on German soldiers and
German outposts.
The German conquerors are meeting these
sporadic symptoms of revolt with a corresponding
wave of terrorism and repression. Arrests by the hun-
dreds, executions by the score are taking place wherever
the population shows signs of recalcitrancy. Gaols
and concentration camps are filled to overflowing and
emergency tribunals meet daily to pass new sentences,
yet the sabotage and resistance continue.
Alongside this situation and doubtless responsible
in part for its spread looms a veritably terrifying pros-
pect of penury and starvation for the subject popula-
tions this winter. Every country dominated by the
German armies has been looted of its reserves of
domestic supplies to meet German needs. Every
country is on strict rations, and the rations grow
slimmer as German demands increase.
Another terror threatens as winter approaches.
The epidemic diseases which are the product of in-
sufficient food and warmth menace the ill-fed and ill-
clad conquered peoples. Typhus is one of these
diseases. It killed off 12,000,000 Russians and one-
sixth of the Rumanian population in the last war.
Italy is already preparing for it by laying in stocks
of vaccines. For most of the other countries these are
unobtainable. Tuberculosis, another product of mal-
nutrition, is on the increase and there has been a
steady rise in infant mortality throughout Europe.
The summaries here presented represent a sifting
of information openly and covertly sent out from the
countries named regarding present conditions.
*****
Czechoslovakia
The Czechs have never accepted the servitude that
Germany imposed upon them. From the beginning the
Nazi forces have faced passive resistance and sabotage
and have countered it with savage reprisals.
When Hitler invaded Russia, Czech sabotage
began to increase enormously. A large explosion
wrecked the great chemical plant at Lutin, Moravia,
late in September, killing 95 persons, mostly Germans.
There were other serious explosions in a factory at
Vlasin, in an electricity plant at Tabenice, and fires of
mysterious origin in munitions shops, oil refineries
and other vital centres. One in the Skoda arms fac-
tory was particularly disastrous. Strikes became
general and continued despite arrests of the leaders.
Railway tracks were torn up, trains wrecked and tele-
graph wires cut.
When he replaced Baron von Neurath, Reinhard
Heydrich, the Gestapo terrorist, proclaimed a “state
of emergency” in the Protectorate, and his men began
to gather in prominent Czechs by the hundred. There
are now 150,000 German troops and 120,000 Gestapo
men in the Protectorate, but the Czechs show no more
inclination to be “co-ordinated” than before.
Czech unrest has spread to Slovakia, which at
the time of the partition deserted the Czech Republic
and accepted nominal independence under the Ger-
mans. The independence has proved to be fictitious,
and Slovak soldiers, released from the Eastern front
for work in the harvest, have been taking their rifles
with them and disappearing into the Tatra Moun-
tains, where they join Czech guerrilla bands.
The food situation has become steadily worse.
Butter has disappeared. Sugar, coffee and tea are ex-
tremely scarce, rice available only for the sick. Each
night in Prague lamp-posts are labelled “Reserved”
—meaning for traitors and their Gestapo friends, who
will be hanged there when the day of reckoning
comes.
*****
Yugoslavia
Yugoslavia has flamed into open revolt. German
censorship has kept back most of the details and is
letting out only news of the sending of three German
divisions (approximately 45,000 men) into the country
in addition to the troopis of occupation. German artil-
lery is wiping out whole mountain villages. A new
shelling of Belgrade is threatened and the population
of the city of Skoplje has been reduced from 60,000
to 20,000 by executions, imprisonments and the flight
of survivors to the mountains of Central Serbia.
The Italians have heavily reinforced their garri-
sons in Croatia, Montenegro and Dalmatia. Their
warships have shelled towns on the Dalmatian coast
and their ’planes are bombing villages in Bosnia, Cen-
tral Serbia and Montenegro.
Hundreds of Serbs and Croatians have perished
before firing squads.
Serbians face food shortages during the coming
winter, but their German conquerors will be far from
comfortable.
*****
France
Despite the co-operation extended by a complaisant
Government in Vichy, an underground movement of
resistance, involving sabotage and attacks upon Ger-
man soldiers has developed in the occupied sections.
The Germans attribute its activities to Communists
and it is probably of Communist inspiration. The
man who made an attempt on the lives of Pierre
Laval and Marcel Deat, however, turned out to be no
Communist, but a French patriot.
Not only France’s traitors, but German officers
and soldiers have been attacked. The Germans have
resorted to their usual form of reprisal by shooting a
number of hostages innocent of all connection with
the crimes. They began by executing accused persons,
including Communists already in prison for illegal
possession of arms or under suspicion of conspiracy,
but the German commander in Paris has announced
that hereafter the death penalty will be inflicted upon
hostages selected from the innocent population. There
has since been a halt in the assassinations and the re-
prisals, but there is no certainty that it will last.
For France, too, is becoming desperate. A fuel
shortage is certain in the coming winter. Rations are
slim and even these are being reduced. Luxuries are
entirely lacking. Yet German exactions show no
modifications. Financially, France is being bled white
by the large sums levied upon her in the guise of pay-
-Buffalo "Evening News," U.S.A.
HISTORY WRITTEN ON THE WALLS OF
EUROPE.
ment for the German army of occupation—
s3,3oß,ooo,ooo a year. Every nine and a half weeks the
Vichy Government has to pay to Germany a sum
equivalent to the entire total cost of the 12-year Allied
occupation of the Rhineland. Because of these exac-
tions once wealthy France faces total bankruptcy,
*****
Norway
Germany’s anxiety over her ability to hold Nor-
way is seen in the construction of the fortified “Falken-
horst line” from Kristiansand on the Skagerrak as far
north as Trondhjem. It was finished in August, and
Norway is now deemed invasion proof, although as
an additional precaution the line will be extended
still farther north to Kirkenes. Knowing the temper
of the Norwegians and the eagerness with which they
would welcome a British invasion to set them free, the
Germans even now are none too sure of their tenure.
Martial law is applied in a modified form to the
whole country. The prevailing sentiment among Nor-
wegians is hate for their German oppressors. The
Germans are now compelling them to surrender their
blankets for use of the armies in Russia. In view of
the German inability to supply fuel for homes and
the prolonged lack of fats and other foodstuffs of high
calorific value. Dr. Karl Evang, the Norwegian sur-
geon-general now in London, predicts that the effects
of this on Norwegian health will be catastrophic.
In spite of her own shortages, Norway is assessed
one-third of her pre-war income to pay for the Ger-
man army of occupation and is also compelled to
provide food for 300,000 Germans. The German army
of occupation actually numbers 250,000, but that does
not take into account the Gestapo and the civil func-
tionaries.
When labor is needed, the Germans commandeer
it, moving men and women from place to place to
meet their own needs. The Norwegians hate Ger-
mans with an intensity that will endure for generations.
*****
Denmark
Nazism is supposed to favor Denmark beyond the
rest of the countries under German occupation. The
Germans held Denmark up to the rest of Europe as
an example of peaceful compliance and proclaimed
that she would be the better, economically and politi-
cally, for it.
Before invasion, however, Denmark was pros-
perous. She had a virtual monopoly of the British
breakfast table and supplied half the rest of the world
with highly specialised agricultural products. Her
shipping and trade were extensive and flourishing.
That state of affairs has ended. Danish world trade
has been exchanged for complete economic depen-
dence on Germany. Sovereignty has become a fiction
and scarcity of all things has taken the place of plenty.
The goods available to Danes, including food, are
strictly rationed.
* * * * *
Netherlands
The rich Netherlands has been and is being
thoroughly looted. A land of good living and com-
fortable habits has become one of scarcity, slim
rations, high prices and constant harassment. Dutch
hatred of the German conquerors has become in con-
sequence deep-seated and implacable. It is not ex-
pressed in open violence, but the number of the
drowned in the Dutch canals has sharply risen and
the additional victims are mostly Germans.
Holland was one of the richest States in con-
tinental Europe. Her wealth came from shipping,
agriculture, industry, her excellently managed colonies
and substantial investments abroad. Today the de-
terioration in public finance is especially marked.
Holland has to finance not only her own defeat and
reconstruction, but also that part of German war pro-
duction which has been transferred to her factories.
Germany takes the bulk of her products and gives
practically nothing in return. Since the occupation
the Dutch debt has increased at the rate of $80,000,000
a month.
The Dutch annually manufactured 124,000 tons
of cheese and exported 58,000 tons of it; no cheese
is now available to the population. Meat is rationed,
400 grams (less than lib.) per person per week plus
100 grams of meat products. The weekly ration of
bread is about 4ilb. All cream goes to the Reich and
the sale of full-cream milk is prohibited. Clothing,
including second-hand clothing, is rationed. All leather
has been requisitioned and the use of wooden shoes is
encouraged. Vegetables (in a country famed for its
vegetables) are scarce, but the factories specialising
in the drying of vegetables work night and day. Their
product goes to Germany.
*****
Belgium
Belgium has a colonial empire 80 times the size of
her home territory. Her colonies, including the 900,000
square miles of Congoland, give their allegiance to
the Belgian Government established in London. Their
products go to Britain. The Congo has already sent
out 150,000 tons of copper, besides manganese, lead,
gold, cotton and sugar.
German-occupied Belgium is in a bad way. The
Belgian people are on thin rations, yet the country has
to provide three times as much food as is available
for itself to the occupying German army, besides pay-
ing the invaders more than $100,000,000 annually. In
peace-time Belgium never produced enough food for
her 8,000,000 population.
Unemployment is general, the heavy industries
being unable to operate for more than a third of
normal time because of the scarcity of raw materials.
Germany takes advantage of this to ship able-bodied
men by the trainload to work in Germany’s war fac-
tories.
Passive resistance, no more dealing with the in-
vader than necessity requires, patient waiting for the
day when the Allied cause will triumph and Belgium
will be free again. That is the rule in this land that
the Germans have twice overrun, but never have
reconciled.
*****
Poland
Of the countries Germany has brutally over-
whelmed Poland has suffered most. The avowed
characteristic of the German conquest has been a de-
termination to stamp out the Poles as a civilised
nation and to turn them into a herd of obedient serfs.
The invasion of Russia has left Germany in pos-
session of the whole of Poland, which at the begin-
ning of the war contained 35,000,000 people. More
than 2,000,000 died, were taken captive into Russia or
fled across the sea in the war. More than 3,000,000
have perished since in concentration camps, in Siberian
exile, and under German-made privation in their own
land.
The Polish rations under German occupation are
pitiable. One-half pound of bread, full of water with
an admixture of chestnuts, barley and potatoes, daily.
One-half pound of macaroni and one pound of jam
(made from turnips) monthly. Sugar, rarely available,
but nominally one pound monthly. Meat, about 3ioz.
every six or seven days. Barley groats, ilb. every
two or three weeks. Eggs, one a month. About loz.
of toilet soap and 11b. of household soap monthly. No
fats and no milk are included, and the issue of rations
depends on what is available. Butter, for instance,
costs the equivalent of $2 to $2.50 a pound. Fuel
is scarce, frequently unobtainable.
There is a Polish army training in Russia; a
Polish division is taking part in British defence and
waiting its chance to fight on the Continent. Polish
airmen are fighting the Germans in France and over
the North Sea, and Polish sailors are manning Polish
destroyers with the British Fleet. The hopes of the
Polish home folk, in their own deep misery, are centred
upon those who have escaped to fight again.
*****
Greece
So little has been heard from inside Greece since
her army was forced to capitulate to the Germans that
it is difficult to appraise the present situation in that


BRITISH NAVY’S TRIBUTE
“Submarines using your batteries
averaged 10,000 miles per month, ano
there is no recorded instance of your
batteries failing.”
This striking tribute was received from
the British Admiralty at the conclusion
of the World War, 1918. Needless to
say, Exide Batteries are again playing
their part in the present war. You,
too, can depend on Exide.
batteries
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE
STOPPED.
&
/
m
4*
country. It is known that the Greeks have not ac-
cepted German domination willingly and, although
disarmed, maintain as large a measure of resistance
to the occupying forces as circumstances permit.
It is known also that the food situation is
extremely precarious.
The only other definitely ascertainable fact is the
Greeks’ loyalty to their exiled King and Government
and their determination to hold out until an Allied
victory sets them free again.
* * * * *
Fear of Epidemics
o Condensed from a New York “World-Telegram”
report from Geneva.)
Fearing famine and epidemic may come to
Europe, the International Red Cross is preparing for
the worst. '
Although Europe has been surprisingly free from
epidemics in two years of warfare, officials express
fear for the winter and spring.
Two agencies at International Red Cross head-
quarters are jointly creating a stock of anti-epidemic
serums, to be kept ready in customs-free Geneva
depots and sent anywhere in Europe where an epi-
demic may break out.
As Europe’s rations go down to the absolute
minimum for bare existence, the health of Europe’s
populations is naturally affected. Infants and children
in France, both occupied and unoccupied, and in Bel-
gium in particular, are showing serious effects of mal-
nutrition, the Red Cross finds.
An almost total lack of fat is the thing which is
noticed most. Many people are suffering from skin
diseases caused by insufficient fats in their diet. Many
people died of cold last winter who, properly fed,
would have been expected to withstand the cold.
While the Red Cross realises that adequate food
rations are better than vitamin substitutes and medi-
cines, getting the food to the people who need it is
another problem. European stocks are dwindling
gradually, and there are fewer and fewer countries
where food can be bought by Red Cross money.
Portugal and Turkey remain the only real markets,
and large-scale transport problems impede food move-
ment from those countries to most of the occupied
countries of Europe. Disorganisation of rail facilities
in the Balkans has made it practically impossible to
bring wheat and other foodstuffs bought in Turkey to
Western Europe.
*****
Report to the Vatican
(Condensed from New York “Herald Tribune.’’)
After two years of German domination, the regime
of terrorism imposed on Poland has become so ruth-
less that the very survival of the Polish nation is in
danger, it is disclosed by a detailed report issued re-
cently in Vatican City. This report, compiled in
French from information brought from Poland to
Rome over a period of months by Catholic priests
and laymen, concludes that the Germans are methodi-
cally seeking to exterminate the Polish race.
Much has been done in two years to achieve this
aim, the report says. More than 40,000 Poles have
been shot. Some 60,000 Polish men and women are
in gaol and in concentration camps. One Warsaw
prison alone holds 11,000 persons. Polish workers
numbering 540,000 have been transferred to Germany
for forced labor, in addition to 640,000 Polish war
prisoners who have been kept in the Reich and are
working there.
The document is the first comprehensive report on
the status of Poland since January, 1940, when the
Vatican published information on the situation there
soon after the conquest.
“No basic right of man, not even the sacred right
of the Church,” the report states, “has escaped being
violated by the German regime.”
Twenty million Poles are now crowded into a
territory of 38,000 square miles, which is isolated and
cannot be self-sufficient. All property owned by
Poles in the part of Poland annexed by the Reich
and 60 p.c. of their property in the Government
General have been confiscated and handed over to
Germans. . .
The property of the Catholic church and or
Catholic associations has also been seized and con-
fiscated, according to the report.
Perhaps the worst plague fallen on the Polish
population, the report indicates, is the forced labor
imposed on the Poles. There are regular manhunts
in Polish towns and villages. Able-bodied men and
women are taken in the streets and from their homes
and deported to Germany. Boys from the age of 14
have been seized.
The fate of these serfs in Germany is said to be
pitiful. They are badly fed and clothed, they have
to wear on their breasts a yellow “P” sewn on mauve
background. Intellectuals, among whom there are
many priests and monks, are forced to do heavy labor
in mines and on farms. The German population is
not allowed to have any intercourse with them.
The Poles who stay at home live in a state of
constant terror, the report goes on. Collective respon-
sibility and the seizure of hostages have been insti-
tuted everywhere. Whole villages have been burned
and men and women mowed down by machine-guns.
No Pole—and Catholic priests are not excluded from
this rule—can ever feel secure. He may be arrested,
flogged or executed at any moment without judgmen .
Many Polish priests have been executed among the
40,000 Poles shot by the Germans. This latter figure
was correct at the end of 1940, but has grea y
increased since.
“In exposing all these facts, we have tried to be
moderate,” the report comments. “We need only reca
the words of Cardinal Mercier, of Belgium, in 1914:
‘When we speak of German warfare we try to attenu-
ate the impression, for we feel that the naked truth
exceeds the limits of what can be believed.
How the Germans Are Taking It.
[The article here condensed—supplementary to the
foregoing survey of present conditions in the
occupied countries of Europe—gives a P
of the corresponding state of affairs in Germany' y,
with a sound warning against over-wishful expectatio
of any early German collapse. It was written by
London “Times” correspondent.]
The German people enter upon the third war
winter at a time when the “final victory” promised by
Hitler for the year 1941 must seem remoter than ever
before.
Thanks to Hitler’s attack on Russia, the blockade,
already effective in the west, has been extended o
the eastern frontiers of German Europe, cutting o
the supplies which would have reached the Reic
not only from Russia but also from the Far Fas .
—London "Daily Mirror."
"DR. LIVINGSPACE,I PRESUME!"
The German transport system, already heavily over-
burdened and particularly susceptible to the strain
during the winter months, is faced with the added
tasks of supplying the armies in the east and serving
an area of occupied Russia equal in extent to the
Greater Reich of 1939. And at a time when hun-
dreds of thousands of German families are receiving
news of relations killed or wounded in the east, the
cities of Northern and Western Germany are feeling
the weight of the R.A.F. offensive with the ominous
addition of daylight and stratosphere attacks.
Wishful thinkers may be tempted to infer from
this catalogue of difficulties and hazards that Germany
is “on the point of cracking,” and that the combined
effect of bereavement, of bombardment and of dis-
appointed hopes will be a collapse in the morale of the
German people such as that which contributed to the
debacle of 1918. It would be even more tempting if
some light-minded prophets had not, during the past
eight years, foretold that, for one reason or another,
the Nazi regime could not survive “the coming winter.”
Any attempt to assess the temper of the German
people must take account of certain permanent ele-
ments. There is the fear of defeat and of a “second
Versailles” ; the absence of any apparent alternative to
National Socialism ; the continued belief in the mili-
tary success of German arms. There is also the hope
of almost unlimited plunder should Germany by her
victory inherit the world position of the British Empire.
Against these factors must be set the mounting war-
weariness of a people which lived under something
like war conditions for years before hostilities began ;
the progressive decline in spontaneity as Nazi appeals
for sacrifice were repeated over and over again ; the
tendency to react against the intrusion of politics into
every sphere of life ; and the growing apathy of the
mass of the German people. .
The most obvious support of the Hitler regime is
the fanaticism of the younger generation of Germans,
who have been moulded since Hitler took power in
1933. This fanaticism is backed by the fear shared by
party “bosses” and hangers-on in their many thou-
sands that they might lose the material advantages
which have rewarded their past loyalty to party and
Fiihrer. Hitler’s “old guard” would fight desperately
to maintain their positions and save themselves irom
the fate which would await them if the present system
were overthrown. Their personal future is bound up
with the survival of Hitler’s rule. They have been
trained to be utterly ruthless. They are expert in the
methods of intimidation and terror. To defy them
would require a degree of individual moral courage
which has not hitherto been markedly apparent in the
German character. ,
But it would be an error to suppose that the
Hitler regime is, or ever has been, sustained only by
the fanatics, the timeservers and the terror. No less
important is the anxiety felt by many who are criti-
cal of the excesses and follies of National Socialism
that the elimination of the present leadership would
mean for Germany chaos as well as disaster In IVIB
democratic institutions existed, at least m embryo, an
the political parties of the Centre and Left Provided
the nucleus of an alternative order to that ° m
Kaiser There is latent opposition today particularly
among the sorely tried working class. But the oppo-
sition is unorganised and unco-ordmated. Cne °
the main objects of Goebbels’s propaganda has been
to discredit every possible alternative to National
Socialism by dwelling constantly upon the mass un-
employment and the mass bankruptcies which pre-
ceded Hitler’s assumption of power. The efforts made
in the German press to discredit the Atlantic Chattel
may be explained by the fear that the offer of eco-
nomic opportunity to post-Hitler Germany might pio-
vide such an alternative.
The apparent
lack of an alterna-
tive form of govern-
ment for the Reich
is matched by the
German people’s
alarm over the
effects of defeat
upon their country’s
international posi-
tion. “Versailles” is
still a word to con-
jure with. The ordi-
nary German, after
nearly nine years of
totalitarian rule,
probably shares the
desire of the ordi-
nary Englishman or
American to “live
out his life in free-
dom from fear and
want.” But Nazi
propaganda has
sought, not without
success, to steel him
against any offers
emanating from the
West, regarding them
merely as a bait to
lure Germany into a
position of impotence, in which the country would
be at the mercy of its present enemies. Moreover
when he reflects what Germany has perpetrated in
all the lands which she has occupied, he cannot but
feel apprehensive about the attitude to the Herrenvolk,
in the event of their defeat, of the peoples whom they
have so foully wronged.
As against this picture of the consequences of
a defeat, Nazi propaganda has sought to persuade the
Germans that victory would bring with it a millennium.
The long years of sacrifice and strain would be tor-
gotten in the enjoyment of the fruits of victory With
the destruction of British and Russian military strength
it would no longer be necessary to devote their energies
to war preparations. With the natural wealth of
British Empire and the Soviet Union under German
control, standards of living would! rise. The iron
-age” of struggle would be succeeded by a Golden
Age” of perpetual plenty. Such is the reward held
out to the Germans, though some of them with past
experiences in mind, may wonder where the United
States comes into this rosy picture ; tor, despite the
attempts of Dr. Goebbels to persuade the Germans that
American assistance will come too late to save the
Allies, there is, in the background, the haunting dread
that the help derived from the United States will once
again prove as decisive as it did during the final stages
of the Four Years’ War.
Altogether, it is wise to discount the idea that the
German people will turn against its leaders until its
lot seems so intolerable that any alternative would be
preferred to the continuance of a bloody and fruitless
war.
Naval Strength in the Pacific.
(Condensed from cm article by the Manchester
“Guardian” naval correspondent.)
Naval strategy in the Pacific is governed by the
immense distances separating the land masses and
thus separating the available fuelling and supply sta-
tions Pearl Harbor, in Honolulu, may be taken as
the strategic centre of United States operations just


as Singapore is the strategic centre for the British
.vy. A tew of the ocean distances between these
points:
Honolulu to Hong Kong .. .. . _ 4860
Honolulu to Manila .. . _ 3330
Honolulu to Panama .. .. _ _ 5280
Singapore to Hong Kong .. .. .. 1440
Singapore to Shanghai .. .
Singapore to Batavia .. ’' ' ‘ “509
Hong Kong to Vladivostok '<4ls
Singapore to Manila .. ~ ’'
Singapore to Sydney .. . . 4380
These distances mean that Allied and associated war-
ships may have anything from three and a half to ten
days steaming from one supply base to another.
been pointed out on high naval authority
that the United States Pacific Fleet on a voyage from
Panama to the Philippines would have to stop twice
to refuel, and would then arrive at Manila with no
more than 10,000 tons left in the bunkers of all the
ships. In other words, if it encountered hostile forces
outside Manila it would barely be in a condition to
manoeuvre and fight an action. These physical factors
govern all plans by the Naval Staff for eventualities
?' ast ' The who,e Problem of naval war in
the Pacific is entirely different from that in European
waters ; fleets operating there are far more dependent
upon supply ships and tankers.
It is impossible to assess the probable influence
of the many small islands between the Philippines and
Hong Kong which might be under hostile control in
war-time. The Washington Treaty bound all the sig-
natories not to proceed with the fortification and
creation of naval bases in these islands, but the natural
configuration of many of them makes them rapidly
usable as sheltering places for submarines or
commerce-raiding craft or for the anchoring in shel-
tered bays of repair ships, mother ships and store ships.
Many of these islands lie right across the direct route
from Honolulu to the Philippines, and it is hardly
to be believed that any nation at war with the United
States would forgo the use of such valuable advance
points from which to harass the American lines of
communication.
Details of the actual naval strength of each nation
interested in the Pacific position may not be published
at the present time. The East Indian fleet of Holland
includes cruisers, destroyers and a large number of
patrol craft and minesweepers. The Russian Navy at
Vladivostok is believed to consist mainly of a large
number of submarines (many of them suited for
coastal operations only) and of motor torpedo craft,
whose cruising capacity is only sufficient to keep them
at sea for a couple of days. British Admiralty com-
muniques in recent months have disclosed that many
of the units forming the British China Squadron before
the war are now employed elsewhere, but it is to be
borne in mind that mention has been made publicly
of reinforcements for the services at Singapore, and
that the naval command in the Far East is still impor-
tant enough to have a vice-admiral at its head. The
Pacific Fleet of the United States has always been a
full fighting fleet. In it are concentrated all the main
units, and it is unlikely that the force has been weak-
ened to any extent by withdrawal of vessels for patrol
service in the Atlantic.
Britain Should Tell the Truth.”
(Condensed from a Manchester "Guardianarticle by
F. A. Voigt.)
That Britain’s propaganda to Germany has been
unsatisfactory since the beginning of the war and
shows no sign of improvement will be recognised by all
knowledgeable listeners.
It is difficult to tel! how many Germans listen to
foreign broadcasts in general and to Britain’s in par-
ticular. A great many, no doubt—a million, perhaps,
or even more (the dangers that threaten Germans who
listen to foreign broadcasts are almost certainly exag-
gerated). Germans who listen to foreign broadcasts
at all will, for the most part, listen to our news bulle-
tins as well as to those of other countries, including,
as far as possible, those of the Swiss short-wave station
at Beromiinster, which are by far the best in Europe.
The answer to what Britain should attempt to
achieve through the medium of news bulletins is,
clearly, a reputation for veracity. There is nothing
more difficult than to produce several daily news bulle-
tins that are severely truthful and yet interesting. But
it has got to be done. Beromiinster does it.
As for “talks” addressed to the enemy, they
should be informative, analytical, critical at times, and,
for the sake of variety, vivid or dramatic now and
then, though not often. There is no harm in an occa-
sional “feature,” though “features” should either be
first-rate or should be left alone. On no account
should they be polemical. “Talks” and “features”
should be, above all and beyond all, veracious—as
indeed all British propaganda should be. In a world
that is half-doped and half-crazy with propaganda
Britain should stand out as the one country that will
not engage in propaganda in the common and rather
derogatory acceptance of that term.
It is useless to “appeal to the German people,”
it is useless to promise anything except what we can
and shall give when the war is over (and what this is
we cannot tell at present, so that for the time being we
must refrain from making any definite promises). It
is useless to try to “drive wedges” between the “Nazis”
and the “masses.”
It is useless to ask German workers to revolt —
revolution is a very serious matter, and German
workers know more about it than anyone in Britain.
If they revolt at all they will do so for their own sake
and not for ours. It is worse than useless to attack
individual Germans. It must have been a great day
for Herr von Ribbentrop when the mighty British
Empire selected him as a special target for a salvo
of vituperation in the broadcast transmitted on August
3. In all likelihood he invited his friends to listen in
with him at his home on that evening. They may well
have congratulated him heartily when the performance
was over.
Britain must endeavor to achieve a moral as well
as a material ascendancy in Europe. She must stand
out amongst the nations for truthfulness and reliability.
Such an ascendancy will promote an ever-deepening
reluctance on the part of the Germans to fight Britain
a entrance. It will lend weight and authority to the
terms of peace which Britain will propose, even if
those terms are severe.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources .)
The arena in which Hitler’s long-range bombers,
U-boats, surface raiders and minelayers can now
operate against Britain’s supply lines without risking
attack by the U.S. Patrol has been reduced to an
area east of Iceland, shrunk now to about the size of
the Caribbean Sea. Britain’s Fleet can take up convoy
duty now just east of Iceland, as the merchant ships
go into what the grimy, bearded men of the British
Red Ensign call “the ’ot triangle.” Every inch of
that ‘triangle” is within easy range of interceptors
and bombers based in Britain.—New York “Daily
Mirror.”
*****
A second lieutenant’s pay in the British infantry is
only 11s. a day, plus 3s. extra should he be married,
irrespective of the number of his children. England
needs officers; but hundreds of qualified men are
refusing commissions today owing to their inability
to meet the expenses of an officers’ mess and general
standard of living and to send their wives and families
sufficient money to live on. —London “Times” letter.
*****
In winter in Russia the “going” for motorised
vehicles is actually much easier than in the
early spring and autumn, when the ground is saturated
and not frozen hard. This I found from experience
—Montreal "Gazette," Canada.
"OUR AIMS ARE PACIFIC."
as one of the earliest motorists in Russia. With track
vehicles such as tanks far greater areas of land, like
peat bogs and rivers with their marshy banks, are
opened out for the mechanised armies, allowing greater
freedom of movement. Especially does this apply to
the peat lands round Moscow, Vladimir and Tver. —
//. H. Charnock; Manchester “Guardian’’ letter.
* * * * *
Among a majority of our [American] citizens a
large hope remains that we can get out of this war
somehow without engaging in actual combat. So we
live emotionally on a sort of hand-to-mouth basis,
reacting to shifting events with few fundamental con-
victions to guide us. The marvel is that under such
conditions we have accomplished as much as we have.
And the question is, when are we going to wake up
to the unreality of our situation and demand: “What’s
all the non-shootin’ for?”— New York “Nation.”
*****
Hitler has in two years achieved one of his goals,
at least: the Germans are Europe’s warriors, whose
task is to fight and to die. The conquered rabble can
do the labor. While five million Germans are with
the colors, between three and four million foreign
laborers are working in Germany, on its farms and
its factories, on its roads and in its mines. It is an
international army of workers: Frenchmen, Poles,
Italians, Croats, Serbs, Czechs, Belgians and Nor-
wegians. It is thanks to them and to the German
women, who have been called away from the kitchen
and the home, that the German war machine can roll
on. New York “Herald Tribune” correspondent.
*****
So far, prospects are bright that the period fol-
lowing the present war will not be dominated by exces-
sive international debts. The debts arising out of the
last war have largely been wiped off the slate, for all
practical purposes. New international debts are not
being contracted on a monetary basis. Thus, lend-
lease aid to Britain provides for repayment in kind,
rather than money. It is obviously very doubtful,
furthermore, that the United States would consider
receiving goods in payment once the emergency is
over and we again face the problem of surplus pro-
duction and unemployment.— New York “Journal of
Commerce.”
* * * * *
In nylon, toughest of all the sheer fibres, the
Japanese are discovering they have an enemy more
terrible than battleships. Some Washington observers
suspect that Japan has already lost a never-fought
war to American laboratory research. By next spring
or summer, before all the silk stockings some women
recently bought have been worn out, the U.S. nylon
production will be sufficient to clothe all their legs.
From there on, silk won’t be needed. — New York
“World-Telegram.”
* * * * *
Where the Nazis have sowed their seeds, there
will be a harvest of hatred as terrible as any in the
history of the modern world. The Germans know this,
and they know, too, that Hitler has implicated them in
the crimes of the Nazis and what would be the conse-
quences. This fact, together with the efficient terror-
ism of the secret police, ties the Germans to the Nazi
regime.— Waller Lippmann; New York “Herald
Tribune.”
* * * * *
In our women’s institute we recently had a roll-
call on “What I miss most as a result of war-time
restrictions.” Sugar beat fruit by a very short head for
top place ; next, quite a long way behind, came cheese
and butter; and thereafter we had a sprinkling of
various things, down to a pathetic “a bathroom.”
Nobody mentioned meat at all. — London “Times”
letter.
*****
In early 1916, and even as late as the autumn of
1917, the Allies thought they had Germany on the
ropes. Beyond “token” troops, they didn’t want
American soldiers —only American dollars and sup-
plies. In March, 1918, with the eastern front eliminated
and the Germans knocking at the doors of the Eng-
lish Channel, they said their backs were to the wall
and begged America for “men in their undershirts.” —
Hugh S. Johnson; New York “World-Telegram.”
* * * * *
The American-built “Sea Otters” are flat steel
barges with a 10-foot draught—so shallow they are
almost impossible targets for submarines. Sub-
torpedoes would pass under them. Propelled by auto
engines, they can be turned out so rapidly they may
be the miracle bridge across the Atlantic. — New York
“Daily Mirror.”
*****
If there is one soil and one climate on earth that
are unsuited to the Leninist Marxian seed they are
English soil and climate. In England there is taking
place—has already taken place—a profound change,
but a change in character evolutionary, not revolu-
tionary, and one far removed from any connection
with Marxism in any form. It is evolutionary because
it is a continuation of a change that began half a
cenutry ago when “social” legislation started on its
long course, and because it has been accepted by
practically all political parties and social classes. The
last war quickened the tempo < of this change and the
present war is quickening it yet more. But there is
not the smallest sign of any departure from the tradi-
tion of centuries which is a tradition of ordered free-
dom. — Thomas F. Woodlock ; “Wall Street Journal.”
*****
Holland paid in eight days of agony for one
hundred years of self-satisfaction. — Walter Winched;
New York “Daily Mirror.”
*****
The public has a tendency to think of lease-lend
in terms of ’planes and tanks only. Actually this is a
mighty enterprise, taking many forms. For example,
there are such items as $78,000,000 for repairing of
naval vessels for the democracies, and equipment of
their bases ; large shipments of food ; shipments of
equipment and machinery, such as apparatus to keep
the Burma Road open for China ; material for the
fortification of the Dutch East Indies, and aid for
the exiled Governments of Norway, Greece, Holland,
Belgium, Yugoslavia. It would be frivolous to be
easily satisfied with what we are doing. “Enough”
means enough to beat Hitler ; nothing less will ever
be enough. But it is worse than frivolous to aid
German morale, and hurt British and American
morale, by undocumented criticism. — New York
“Post.”
*****
Official statistics give an average of one aircraft
shot down by gunfire for 2.75 destroyed by fighters.
The proportion of rounds expended on each aircraft
brought down has significantly decreased, and there
is the almost miraculous case of one aircraft having
been shot down with the first round at 14,000 ft. To
get a hit at all is aptly likened to shooting a pheasant
in the dark with a rifle. But with the advance of
radiolocation the tables are being steadily turned on
the bomber. — London “Times.”
*****
Despite two years of war in Europe, the insur-
ance business generally has suffered little in the
European countries. According to the latest available
reports claims are being paid without much delay,
business is continuing as usual, and in most cases
companies report an increased volume of business.
Managers of the European companies are more con-
cerned about conditions after the war’s end. The
lower living conditions, it is contended, in the war’s
wake may have a greater effect on life-insurance mor-
tality than warfare itself. Epidemics, too, often follow
a war. It is recalled that the influenza epidemic after
the World War killed 10,000,000 as against 8,500,000
war deaths in the actual fighting.— New York “Herald
Tribune” correspondent.
*****
The voice was Lindbergh’s—but the pattern, the
formula was Hitler’s. The voice was raised for
“America First”—but the poison he peddled put
America last. — New York “Daily Mirror,” on a Lind-
bergh speech.
* * * * «
Any time the fighting against Russia is finished,
whether by the establishment of a defensive front
there (which is now possible to the German High
Command) or by the elimination of Russia from the
war, there lie open to the Germans at least three
deadly lines of attack against the British position.
They can throw their forces into Spain and Portugal
for the attack on Gibraltar, which would effectively
close that end of the Mediterranean to Britain, whether
the rock fortress fell or not. They can pour troops
into Africa for a renewed drive on Egypt. They can
come through Turkey against the oilfields and the Per-
sian Gulf. Or they can try all three in quick succes-
sion.—Fletcher Pratt; New York “Post.”


a
2
r A
/a
2
Va
Va
mk
m
m
sir
i
%
3£
B?
iPa
i
f*S
Sk
s
0
a
i
was
s^?
A
♦VA
si
I
safe'
ase
m
m
m
m
2
5s
SS
?
m
/?
<o
CO
IN
keep
lf
&sti
*V3f
as
«5
■srr
m
i
iin»
trade
//^
«)
m
40
9TR a
*w
THE FIN6*J
and BOTTI-EO Si
fe
T °OTH
'EH &CO. L
Sydney austp
EEm
SS;
VllJ^
%
5k
s
**=>•*
mtL
...V vs . .
vv.
T,\v
Zjg^agg
& :p ■&
y£,o •••' / / 3
'* •••■; //' '*'l:A /
. - >, W
;' “-v ”- .. _
’^v-^ : ;-<>' f w
■ -■■ ■ _*>
y.y 7
:::::.. 67*
&r
'„V-.
•*■ / j y
J‘.~,
. t *;:.•»
... . ' m ’ m J.***** '
.. IV
K.199.FP
ALAN t> • BftKEK —■
•? ; -a


LYSACHTS
A~.
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
w
yj| j
Hgsgr
iCK
..VV
mi
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DONT WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS.
Animal Temperatures.
“J. Want”: It stands to reason that,
provided conformation can be made
satisfactory, zebu catttle should be more
suitable for tropical beef-raising than
European stock.
The functions of the body generate
heat. The quicker growing the animal
the more heat it produces and the less
its capacity to eliminate it. Natural
qualities of resistance against cold give
European animals greater capacity for
heat storage than Asian animals.
Hence, body temperature is inclined to
rise—mature cows normally run about
100-101 deg. Overheating means fever.
The zebu shows only a slight increase
in temperature during midday grazing,
and a quicker decline during the cooling-
off period than European animals.
At the same time, all breeds are not
equal in their resilience to heat. Obser-
vations in Kenya suggest that the Here-
ford stands heat better than the Aberdeen
Angus and the Friesian than the Ayr-
shire.
One of the difficulties in developing
crosses suitable in fleshing and type for
the British market and in adaptability
to the tropics is that, while the true
straight cross lies in temperature qualifica-
tion between the parents, the nearer the
animals are graded to European type the
more they partake of European-type heat-
storage characteristics.
Much of the trouble comes from the
nature of European cattle coats and
from the fact that zebus have twice as
many sweat glands per unit of skin area
as the average cold-climate stock. Ext
periments have shown that above normal
heat zebus get rid of from one and a half
to twice as much moisture through their
skins as their European relations. And
they also have slower respiration at high
temperatures than European cattle, which
may be seen panting in the shade in the
same paddock in which Asian stock are
feeding calmly in the sun.
There is much work to be done yet
before the ideal tropical animal will be
secured. When it has been, a lot of the
show attributes of the British breeds will
have been sacrificed—size, quick-growing
quality and luscious coats.
Wheat Poisoning.
“Clyde”: I’ve seen some weird and
wonderful methods of treating horses
that have got at wheat grain—from filling
the unfortunate prad with kerosene to
throwing buckets of cold water over it.
When the horse fills up on wheat—and
a good way to stop this is to have the
wheat in a place where horses can’t get
at it—the moisture in the grain itself
and the digestive juices of the horse
soon let the poison loose, causing sharp,
colicky pains. Gas swells the abdomen
and flanks, breathing is hard and there
is heavy sweating. The horse either dies
or gets laminitis.
If a horse could vomit it would be
easy, but he can’t, so the fermentation
has to be stopped and the wheat dis-
solved, while the bowel has to be en-
couraged to evacuate the mass. Don’t
give sedatives and avoid drastic things
like formalin, which can be used on
cattle but not on horses, because a horse’s
stomach and bowels are delicate
a drachm of pure caibohc acid
a *-° z - bicarbonate of soda in aha -
pmt ° f water there lsn t an Y carbolic
substitute up to , QZ of phenol or loz> of
biosol. An hour later give two drachms
0 f powdered nux vomica and \oz. of
carbonate of ammonia in a gruel or as a
ball. Alternate these till the horse has
had three doses of each, meantime giving
copious enemas of from four gallons to
eight gallons of warm, soapy water and
a Pplying hot foments or mustard plasters
to the abdomen. Four to six hours after
beginning the treatment there must be a
purge—a pint each of castor oil and hn-
£.e| oj , m^xed wil , d 0 . vary it according
tQ lhe size of the horse> but make sure
of a purge Give him about four hours *
respite from dosing but keep the enemas
"If anyone calls t'night, Ma , let's pretend We're not in."
going if necessary, and, again if neces-
sary, repeat the initial treatment but don’t
give any more purgative.
Fodder Conservation.
“Nabby’s Off”: Far too many people
still look on fodder conservation as a
temporary measure against drought. So
soon as the weather breaks and there is
green grass everywhere and the stock are
fat and the birds singing they forget all
about it.
Stored fodder should be a permanent
asset on the farm, and every year the
store should be added to. In the best
district there are lean months in every
year, months during which the fodder can
be drawn upon and the stock enabled to
go through the lean time without loss of
condition.
Under the old system of grazing pad-
docks all year round the pastures are
often flogged out by early spring. This
not only deprives the stock of feed, but
leaves the bared surface of the soil onen
to the ravages of wind and rain and
gives the noxious weed an open go.
With stored fodder, paddocks can be
spelled and allowed to restore their
natural cover, those that have got a belt-
ing in the past can be treated and man-
aged to bring them back to something like
their old fertility, improved pastures can
be nursed into establishment and the
farm made to carry at least half as many
stock again without any danger of over-
stocking.
Beans Wanted.
“Poler”: The Navy bean, of which a
lot is being heard lately, is one of the
400 varieties of dwarf French beans, only
about 50 of which are suitable for dried
beans and still fewer fit for canning.
Most Australians have eaten them as
canned beans, the Commonwealth get-
ting through about 2000 tons in this form
in 1937-38, though war, the inclusion of
beans in the services diet and a bigger
civilian demand have more than doubled
the yearly consumption since. Before
the war U.S.A. and Canada supplied most
of our canned beans —some of an inferior
type used to come from Japan. At the
moment, the import trade having gone,
there is a strong local demand that will
take at least 4000 acres of beans to
satisfy,
F. A. Maher and G. N. Hyam, of the
Victorian Department of Agriculture,
claim that the beans will yield better than
seed peas and that trials suggest average
yields of 30 bushels an acre, worth £1
a bushel when cleaned and graded and
of canning quality.
The beans like warm growing condi-
tions and will fall to frosts. If there is
no irrigation, a good summer rainfall is
necessary. Harvesting weather should be
warm and dry. Friable, well-drained
soils are required. They should have a
good mulch that will keep the moisture
in, though excessive moisture means rot.
Color is important in canning quality,
and it has been found that dark red and
black soils are apt to cause staining.
Tests have given good results in the
Western District, west Gippsland, east
Gippsland flats, the Bunyip swamps and
the irrigation districts.
Prepare with late autumn or winter
ploughing, followed by frequent work-
ings, a rolling before the last working
and again straight after planting. Seeding
to maturity takes 14 to 15 weeks. Late
September-October sowing in non-irriga-
tion districts, up to January in irrigation
districts; harvesting from January to
March. If a large area is to be sown
make the sowings at intervals of a week
to spread the harvest labor and offset
weather chances.
Seed can be hand-sown, but maize- and
pea-drills, fitted with special bean plates,
will do the job much easier, though they
shouldn’t be bought for anything under
10 acres. From lewt. to 2cwt. of super,
should go to the acre with the seeding,
up to of sulphate on poorer soils.
Seeds must be kept from contact with
the fertiliser. Put in windbreaks if pos-
sible, and keep weeds down by inter-row
cultivation. Rows should be 30in. apart.
Beans are ready for harvest when the
pods are brittle and the seeds hard, white
and glistening.
Millet in the North.
“Mackay”: In Queensland millet does
best on loam, well on most soils and is
payable on poor land where moisture is
present. White panicum and Japanese
both stand up well to dry conditions and
frequently give grazing within six weeks.
White panicum grows rapidly to 4ft. to
6ft., stools well and has the right color for
commercial uses. Japanese, a shorter
variety, grows even quicker, has heavier
stools and is best for grazing. Fair
weather and moderate grazing of well-
rooted plants assure good ratoon crops.
Millet makes good hay if cut before
seed heads are formed. In Queensland
it’s better to cut the crop early than too
late. Cowpeas with the millet give a
balance. With maize and sorghum the
millet makes excellent silage—up to 12
tons an acre.
Early sowing begins when frosts are
finished and continues up to January and
February. When broadcast and harrowed
in, 101 b. to 121 b. of seed per acre is
sufficient. For hay, or on rich soils, 151 b.
gives fine-stemmed crops ; over that is
too strong.
Turnips and Mangolds.
“J.L.0.”: Tests over three years on the
Hunter River country (N.S.W.) showed
that, under dry conditions, quick-matur-
ing white turnips gave better yields than
swedes, though the swedes were more
palatable to stock and kept longer in the
ground. At one farm Mammoth Purple


Egelabra Merino Stud
H. E. KATER & SON,
Warren, N.S.W.
Established 62 years.
Four times winners of
Stonehaven Cup.
Grand Champion Ram and Ewe
Sydney Show, 1940.
Rams for Sale.
Tel., Warren 10.
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
W. A. Rose & Co. Pty v Ltd. J J<infl_SU_Sydne^
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
for
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
for
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of residence
at St. John’s College and an allowance of up to £lO per annum, payable at the
discretion of the Trustees,
or
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE;
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £5O per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under the will
of the late James Murphy, of Como. , _ . .
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient
to enable their sons to study Agricultural Science and must satisfy the require-
ments for Matriculation at the University of Sydney, or of Entrance to the
Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later than
the 10th January, 1942, in the case of Bursaries tenable at the Hawkesbury
Agricultural College and not later than the 7th February, 1942, in the case of
those tenable at the University of Sydney) and further particulars may be
obtained from: —
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
BUILT WITH THE
PRECISION OF
A MICROSCOPE
im
m
isas*
MM
■m
Mm
M
rm
m
m
m:wz.
S|
m
wm
m
m
So fine and delicate—yet
lasts a lifetime, the Yalet
Autostrop Razor is con-
structed with the pre-
cision inseparable from
all fine instruments . . .
it is so ingeniously simple
nothing to unscrew
no pieces to fumble with.
It strops itself — in a few
seconds —one blade lasts
for weeks.
W •> Jfl*
a i
The Yalet Autostrop
Razor does its work
quickly thoroughly
cuts whiskers in tricky
places, and after shaving,
the Valet Autostrop
cleans easily. Just a rinse
and a wipe without
removing the blade
that’s all!
OF ALL DEALERS ...
BRITISH MADE
Valet
BUY
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top turnips yielded up to 50 tons 16cwt.
an acre ; Pomeranian White Globes also
did well, but in some parts copped out
heavily from disease. Among mangolds,
Tiptop and Long Red felt the dry con-
ditions, though in the disease areas man-
golds grew where turnips died. The
turnip seed was sown at the rate of 11b.
to Ulb. an acre in early autumn and
may have done better if sown earlier.
The M 22 fertiliser —equal parts bone dust
and super.—was applied at the rate of
lewt. an acre.
Farmers could do with a lot more in-
formation about the stock food value of
these plants. Their worth in European
countries where it is necessary to hand-
feed through the winter is well known,
but many an Australian farmer would
like some guidance as to whether the
land wouldn’t better serve him under
cereals or grass crops, especially since
his winter isn’t severe and plenty of
grasses can be made to carry stock
through it. It’s no use trying to grow
mangolds on poor soil.
At Tenterfield (N.S.W.) an English-
man, Helliwell, who took over a
blackberry-infested farm and turned
it into a nice Jersey proposition,
made great use of root crops a
few years ago. But he had come fresh
on to Australian land with English ideas ;
he still grows his root crops, but now has
plenty of grains and grasses as the main
bulk of his fodder.
Hints for the Farm.
“Yeno”: To save time draw the header
up in front of the shed and turn the
tractor round. Fasten the tractor hitch
on the header to the tractor drawbar.
By pushing the header in you have direct
steering and can guide the machine accu-
rately. If the header has a goose-necked
tractor pull and castor wheel, use a
similar method. Place a strong bar over
the hub of the wheel and under the
goose-neck. When the end of the bar
is raised and placed on the front of the
tractor it lifts the wheel of the header off
the ground and the machine can be
pushed into the shed.
“Bull-ant Bill”; In this season of husb-
and grassfires it is a good idea to give the
roof-gutters a regular and thorough look-
over in order to clear out any accumu-
lated leaves, twigs and grass as a safe-
guard against fire. Even where there
are no trees about the house it is sur-
prising how much inflammable material
can collect. With a wind-driven fire
smouldering leaves will travel for great
distances ahead ; a gutter fire started by
them will not take long to spread to
barge-boards and rafter-ends.
“Mullengah”: If rainfall is good and
the summer season long, grow arrowroot
for the pigs. Sow in the spring. Five
times as much arrowroot as grain is
required for a satisfactory ration, but
the yield per acre will be approximately
five limes greater than that of maize. Let
the pigs harvest the crop themselves.
Subdivide the paddock into small areas
for intensive grazing to avoid waste. As
it is not a complete food, arrowroot
should be fed with separated milk or
meatmeal.
Outback Occasions.
No.9.
THE DROUGHT RATION.
The occasion of the big drought is
chiefly remembered in our family be-
cause of the lack of mutton. Our sheep
were never in bad shape all through it
because we had the river and a bit of
rough food on hand, but the trouble was
we couldn’t get a killer, and though
Father bought a couple outside the price
was so hot he kept looking at us when
we ate and telling us not to be so greedy
because they were pound notes we were
chewing.
After that we tried to make a do of
it on tinned stuff, but after some weeks
Father said if he had any more salmon
he’d be scaly, and the tinned dog was so
frequent that every time he opened his
mouth he was afraid he might bark.
Father was full of funny sayings, but
Mother thought he was hinting at her,
and she said she’d been taught to cook
with raw material and wasn’t going to
be blamed for what happened every time
she used a tin-opener.
Then Father saw an advertisement in
the paper offering corned meat in any
quantity from 1001 b. upwards at cheap
prices. All we had to do was get a
barrel of brine to put the meat in when
it came, so Father wrote straightway for
1001 b. and then got a barrel and made
it ready.
A telegram was ’phoned out to say the
meat was at the station. Three hours
later the stationmaster rang up and said
he couldn’t hold the fort much longer
and we’d better come at once. So Father
and we hopped into the car and went in.
The meat was in 51b. rolls, packed in
heavy salted bagging and was stacked on
the platform. As far as we could see
there were 19 dogs from the town and
23 from the surrounding district gathered
round that platform, and the station-
master said he’d had word that more
were coming.
We got the meat in the car and set
off home. All the dogs began to follow,
but by clapping on the pace we left most
of them behind. There were two big,
hungry staghounds that took a lot of
shaking off, and when we got home a
little yellow and white dog with three good
legs and one and a half ears crawled
out of the back seat and wagged its tail.
Our dogs wanted to investigate their new
playmate, but it took one look at them
and departed hurriedly, suddenly finding
that it had four good legs after all. Our
dogs chased it out of sight, then came
whooping back, suddenly remembering
the smell they’d caught from the car, and
gathered round full of enthusiasm.
We plonked the rolls of corned beef
into the cask, and Father said it had
better stay there 24 hours to get over
the train journey. Mother said it was
an awful lot of meat and was the fun-
niest-looking corned beef she’d ever seen.
Father said she hadn’t seen much, and
should appreciate the fact that all she’d
have to do would be to boil it with a
few spuds and carrots and things and
not have to worry about meals any more.
Mother said that even if the four of
us ate each of the stuff it meant 50
meals each, and by that time she fully
expected somebody would be sick of it,
knowing this family. Father said “Don’t be
silly, woman,” and went out and looked
at the meat.
Next night when we came in from the
paddock Mother had a big red roll of
meat on the carving plate. There were
steaming mashed spuds, juicy carrots,
tomato sauce, butter and everything, and
Father’s eyes glistened as he sharpened
the carving knife and got to work.
Father got a grim look on him as he
worked on that meat. Mother looked at
us and smiled an “I told you so” smile,
and we looked at Father and then looked
away. After a bit he managed to get
some meat on to our plates and we
tackled it. Since the table knives just
bounced off it we held it down with the
knife and tore it with the fork. Then
we got some into our mouths and
chewed, but our teeth bounced off it like
the knives, so we spat it into our hands
and put it on the side of our plates and
looked at Father. Father said it wasn’t
cooked enough, and then he and Mother
had words, so we hastily ate our spuds
and carrots and filled up on bread.
Well, all that week we wrestled with
that meat. Mother boiled the first lot
again, but our teeth bounced more than
ever. So we cut it up with the axe and
gave it to the dogs, and Father selected
another roll from the cask. While
Mother was boiling this the dogs worried
themselves to shadows over their share
of the first roll. They tore at it, they
sat on it, fought over it, threw it around
and then let it lie in the sun. The meat-
ants lined up, thinking it was Christmas,
but after half a day’s work on that meat
they returned to their holes and weren’t
seen for a week. A crow took one bit
away but came back next day and cursed
us from the top of a dead tree.
When the second lot had been well
boiled Mother tried to put it through the
mincer, but the machine burst asunder.
Neither knife nor tooth would look at
it, so Father cut it up with the axe and
threw it to the dogs. They eyed it
morosely and retreated into the shade,
except Ruff, who got insulted and went
away for a week.
In the end, Father sold the rest of the
stuff to a piggery near the town for about
a tenth of what he gave for it, and the
piggery manager afterwards wrote him
a strong letter about the danger of false
pretences. So we went back to tinned
stuff until the weather broke.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND.
2Jd. per l i°" t " bUlor placed firSt is Paid a * lh « "*• » f Per line; all others at
is JZIZrMZ int " eS,inS BtUdy ° ( A”* 1 ™ 1 "” “ ldi -. * Queenslander
Bill Makes His Will
A lawyer’s work and the people he
works for are mostly dry as dust; the
only time anything like adventure enters
our lives is when we go out to the mili-
tary camps to help the men who are
going abroad make their wills, and give
them whatever assistance we can in the
free legal service the various law societies
conduct for the troops.
There’s romance and fun, and sadness,
too, in that job to touch the driest heart.
Every man going abroad must make his
will before embarking, so they line them
up on parade and send them to our hut
a dozen at a time. Most of the wills are
simple enough. It’s “Everything to Mum”
or “Everything to the old man” most of
the time, with an occasional lovesick
testator who wants to leave everything to
his girl. Then there’s the inevitable wag.
To the stock question “What property
have you?” he answers “Nothing at all,”
“Nothing?” you ask, “No money in the
bank, no insurance?” “No,” he says.
Then a slow smile spreads across his face.
“Hold on,” he says, and shoves his hand
down into his pocket. “It was payday
yesterday. I’ve still got 15 bob left, if
that’s any good to you! ”
Sometimes the will is not so simple.
It takes some time to get it out of the
Digger who looks like a tramp, but at
length he confesses that he has property
in the West, a wad in the bank and an
interest in the old granddad’s estate. His
will can’t be done in a few minutes, so
we note his instructions and take the will
away to prepare in peace and quietness
at home. Sometimes the testator has quite
a problem to decide to whom he should
will his estate. He has no wife, no
parents, no brothers or sisters, no rela-
tives and no friends. His loneliness
appals the lawyer, but it does not seem
to worry him. Eventually he decides to
leave everything to the little daughter of
the publican at the pub where he used to
board.
As we are writing the wills, we can
hear the pungent comments of those who
are waiting their turn. “You leave me
some and I’ll leave you some” and
“What the hell have you got to leave?”
are the most common, and nothing
amuses them more than having to wit-
ness a mate’s will. “I never thought I’d
sign old Bluey’s death-warrant,” they say.
Whatever else they may worry about,
I am sure fear of death does not worry
them. Whatever fate holds in store for
them, they rush forward eagerly to meet
it. Their contempt for death inspires me
with awe. They must be terribly hard to
beat. — Solicitor (Q.).
Good Old Australia!
As an immigrant who worked his pas-
sage I arrived in Newcastle (N.S.W.)
from Glasgow early in January, 1912.
Apart from 1914-18, which I spent on
the fringe of the Ottoman Empire and
Western France, I have lived in Australia
since, and although I’ve never picked up
gold in the streets, nor indeed as the re-
sult of hard graft, my experience has not
been one to regret. I have long ago over-
come my nostalgia for oak and pine, and
would feel homesick deprived of the
daily sight of gum-trees.
Moreover, I consider myself one of the
few possessing an Australian outlook and
a belief that we must build our civilisa-
tion in our own way. Let us have immi-
grants, as many as we can assimilate, but
let them be white—“ Nordic” white at
that. Northern Europeans have played a
notable part in Australia’s progress. I’ve
heard of bands of itinerant German
musicians who frequented Sydney streets.
After saving enough to buy land they
disappeared into the backblocks, where
they founded dairying and fruitgrowing
industries.
These men possessed the pioneering
spirit and the hunger for land, and that
spirit must still remain the foundation of
Australia’s progress. The rest will follow
—industry and commerce, and, as nearly
as possible, a self-contained Common-
wealth. We need to acquire again the
ability to live on, and by, the land. Our
nebulous “standard of living,” which
apparently means beer, baccy and sport,
must make way for a healthy realism,
a determination to live within our means
and create our own way of life without
ignoring what may be usefully embodied
from other, countries.
A nation bordering many miles of the
Pacific Ocean, we have problems which
cannot be settled for us by any European
nation, Democratic or Totalitarian. We
must have population and a self-con-
tained solidarity. Only then will our
voice be heard with respect. — Scotty
(Tas.).
War—and Peace
No realist can now believe that Russia’s
resources will give us a complete, decisive
victory over Germany and her allies in
a reasonably short time. Once more we
must realise that it will take years of
exhausting struggle to attain that end.
Is it then wise to refuse to consider
any possible outcome of the war other
than to smash Hitlerism? Let us remem-
ber that by resolutely proclaiming a
“total victory” policy we leave the
“Never ’card tell o ’ Moscow, load? Why,thas where ole Boneyparty
met his Waterloo
Germans no alternative but to support
their present leaders still more firmly.
Germany has had one taste of humilia-
tion, and the result was Hitler.
Whether Versailles was or was not a
vindictive peace is of little importance,
for it must not be forgotten that the
herd instinct does not deal in logic. This
is how Captain Liddell Hart explains the
position:
A peace gained by victory is apt to be
a bad security for the victors —since it
creates a desire for revenge. Even if they
are wise enough to impose moderate terms,
the blow to the defeated nation’s pride
in having to accept an imposed peace pro-
duces a desire to reverse it.
The war aim of a peace-loving nation,
continues Liddell Hart,
should be to convince the aggressors that
their pursuit of victory is likely to bring
them more loss than gain, and that they
can only regain peace on a basis of
common agreement.
Such an aim is the one best calcu-
lated to weaken both the will of the
aggressor’s troops and people. It is far
more easily attainable than a war-aim of
victory over the aggressor nation; for this
inevitably rallies the people behind their
leaders and hardens their resistance through
fear of the consequences of defeat.
This is not a plea for any weak com-
promise with Nazism. It is not suggested
that we should make friends with a
regime that can never appear to us as
other than infamous. But it is only self-
deception to ignore its immense strength,
and to believe that it can be overthrown
without great cost in slaughter and
destruction.
Surely then our pride will allow us at
least to state the minimum terms of peace
which will be acceptable to us. —A. R. C.
(N.S.W.).
What About Tobruk?
What is the full strength of this Tobruk
business? Why are these heroic men
cooped up under such terrible condi-
tions, details of which are coming to us
in the form of letters from the garrison
to their people here at home? Here in
Perth there is some “movement” to get
supplies of medical materials to the Rus-
sians. Britain is having a “Tank Week'’
in aid of the same cause.
What about a bit of practical help for
these boys in Tobruk? I don’t seem to
have heard of any “movement” to get
even medical supplies out to them. Why
on earth is it that our sympathies are
always so easy to arouse for some foreign
cause while remaining completely undis-
turbed by suffering closer home and
amongst our own kind? —R. H. G.
(W.A.).
When the Boys Come Home
At League meetings in several parts
of the country I have heard Diggers of
the last war speak as if taking it for
granted that the men who come back
from this one will join up and strengthen
the League and other Digger organisa-
tions. What is there to justify this belief?
We did not join up with Boer War
veterans, etc., when we came home.
Actually most of us were so glad to get
out of khaki that we wouldn’t go near a
returned soldiers’ club (they were usually
hotbeds of “nips”) until years after the
war ended, when we found the need for
organisation on non-political and non-
sectarian lines. The organisations set
up have done a tremendous amount o£
good and are still sticking to Diggers
“on the track” and representing pension
claims, besides other work of a non-
spectacular but serviceable type.
But although the Old Diggers regard
the new with a certain affection which
is the outcome of many years of sticking
together, there is little on which to base
an assumption that the New Digger re-
gards the matter in the same way. When
these boys come home they will go
through it all again, and eventually form
their own organisations, unless we who
have been carrying the torch realise that
we must get into it and use our experi-
ence and organisation to offer them some-
thing that will prove our value to them.
For instance, the Preference Act,
always as full of holes as a mosquito
net, administered in a milk-and-water
w’ay, is due for tight reform and clean-
cut administration. For many years there
have been cases of semi-public bodies
such as hospitals, P.P. Boards and muni-
cipal councils (to say nothing of private
individual employers) either placing their
own interpretations upon the Act or
ignoring it or flouting it with impunity
when making appointments. The Young
Diggers don’t know enough about it,
and probably won’t realise the need for
it till they are older; but we old hands
should realise that while a voluntary
system of enlistment is countenanced by
the community a Preference Act straight
from the shoulder is an indispensable
part of that system.— Arbeep (N.S.W.).
A.I.F. and Darwin
I do not want to be an armchair
strategist, but I was wondering about the
A.I.F. in Darwin. As I see it, the men all
want to go overseas —that’s what they
joined up for—but they are kept in Dar-
win and other places. Yet all the while
the militia are cooped up in training
camps. Why cannot the militia be put
on to this job?
When we were sworn into the militia
we were told that they could send us
anywhere in the Commonwealth or Man-
dated Territory. As I am in a reserved
occupation, I cannot join up, but I would
not say “No” to a free trip to New
Guinea or anywhere else as a militia-
man. — Pedro (S.A.).
Lamb and Mutton
Half-page Government advertisements
implore the public to eat more lamb!
Lamb, a delicacy for which there is
already a demand which has embar-
rassed both grower and butcher and
forced prices to the level now complained
of. There is nothing about mutton, a
wholesome and nourishing food which
can be bought for one-third the price.
The customer is very often to blame
because war-time or drought conditions
find her extravagant and incompetent,
not requiring and unable to cook any-
thing but the choicest cuts. Thus, though
I am often unable to supply the demand
for lamb at Is. a pound, I am unable to
sell corned breasts of mutton at 2d. a
pound.—A. N. S. (N.S.W.).
The New Education
Some of the more intelligent teachers
have broken away from tradition and
red-tape. A leading chocolate firm in
Britain established its own classes on its
own property with its own factory-trained
specialists as tutors. In Australia some
hospitals, such as the Perth Public, have
their own training schools for girls be-
fore they enter the wards as probationer
nurses, and a large W.A. timber concern
had for some years classes tutored by a
timber expert. No waste-time appren-
ticeship outside classes for these con-
cerns.
Our education requires a considerable
overhaul, to enable more cogent, utile
and beneficially practical education to be
installed.— Educator (W.A.).
The Budget
Being neither on a high income nor
on a low one, I can view Mr. Chifley’s
Budget more or less disinterestedly. The
chief impression it leaves on me is that
young men and women earning good
money have been, treated altogether too
leniently.
Take the table “Persons Without De-
pendants.” In my State the young fellow
earning £6 a week (after all allowable
deductions) with only himself to keep
pays a total tax, State and Federal, of
£24, or not 10s. a week; those on £7 a
week pay £33, or 12s. 6d. a week; and
those on £8 a week pay £44, or 17s. a
week. This class is one of the most num-
erous in the State. Thousands of them
are to be found in the public services
and commercial houses—in fact, every-
where in the city, especially in the “re-
served occupations,” though they are
pretty scarce in the country. They pay
10s. to 15s. tax, sling a quid or twenty-
five bob to Mum for board and have the
rest of their money, £4, £5, £6 and more,
for themselves to spend as they think fit.
And how they spend it! Flash clothes,
pictures (at four or five bob a seat on
Saturday), the horses and girls. Pass
round a hat in an office full of them for
the Red Cross or smokes for soldiers
or to give a Digger a send-off, and see
how many 10s. notes you get in it; see
how many put in ss. or 2s. or even a
humble bob. This class has been carried
on the backs of better men for too long.
It’s time they helped to shoulder- the
burden. —D. (Q.).
Pay It In Bonds!
The Government is calling for money.
Why not pass a short bill declaring that
all prize-money shall be paid either in
war certificates or war-loan bonds?
This to apply to all race meetings, sweep-
stakes, lotteries, bookmakers, betting
shops, etc.
It would not only get a large sum of
money for the Government, but would
better the position of the prizewinners,
who would have their winnings in
Government securities, and would thus
be less likely to spend the cash foolishly.
And think of the patriotic glow that
would fill the heart of the winner of
the lot’ry —any lot’ry.—N. McD. (S.A.).
Anti-Menzies Campaign
The daily press dubbed Menzies un-
popular (B. 22/10/’4l) because it suited
its policy of the moment of fawning to the
two extremes, the higher-income group
and the basic-wage earner, both sections
which Menzies considered should share
the burden of the war effort.
The middle class was strongly behind
this statesman whom London, New York,


REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
Ottawa and M.L. rated as one of the
finest of the Empire’s war leaders. Men-
zies is not unpopular, but, like many
other good men who have had the cour-
age to say and do that which they con-
sidered necessary for the country’s well-
being, he has been cast aside by erst-
while friends because they in their turn
have not had the courage to stand firm
by him in his vital hour. —N. H. S. (Vic.).
Another Nail
Although he probably didn’t mean it,
N. S. Wales Premier McKell drove an-
other nail into the coffin of State Parlia-
ments the other day when he told a meet-
ing of farmers at Cowra (N.S.W.) that his
Government regarded soil conservation
as a matter of national importance. It
was more than a State problem —it was
one for the whole Commonwealth—and
would have to be dealt with on a national
basis.
If Premier McKell makes many more
statements like that his State will begin
to think that he intends to put the unifi-
cation plank of his party’s platform into
operation. Soil conservation is not the
only national problem which useless
State Parliaments are fiddling about with.
Australia has arbitration courts, boards
and commissions giving varying awards
for workers engaged in similar work in
different parts of the Commonwealth.
The work of our seven public services is
continually overlapping, and there is no
real uniformity of political or economic
policy.
W© have seen the Federal Govern-
ment come in conflict with one or other
of the States on different occasions, and
the varying scales of taxation are ham-
pering the war effort because they are
making it difficult for the Federal Gov-
ernment to tackle the financial problem
as it should.
Wipe out the six State Parliaments and
let a strong national Government run the
country as it should be run and the
anomalies will disappear. Mr. Curtin will
have to take that action if the Common-
wealth is to fight this war as it should
be fought,— Sam Square (N.S.W.).
The Apple and Pear Board
The Apple and Pear Board (B.
5/11 /’4l) should be abolished before
it has a chance of bungling the
new season’s fruit crop. It is scandalous
that we have to pay 7d. a pound for
second-grade eating apples and be told
that apples are very scarce at the
moment, in view of the fact that cases
and cases were left to rot last season by
order of the board.
That apples are nature’s food and a
necessity to good health the board’s
advertising would have us believe, but
we are not as easily gulled as all that —
for we know now that, thanks to the
board, they are a man-made luxury. So
far the Government has overlooked in
them a luxury-tax possibility. Unless
the board is abolished this contingency
may arise at any moment. —O. H. (Vic.).
Compulsory Health
The proposed free-health scheme is a
step in the right direction, but it isn’t
enough. Health needs to be more than
free; it needs to be compulsory. Most
people reckon they’re thoroughly healthy
until they get sick when, actually, an
early examination would have revealed
symptoms of approaching trouble, and
immediate treatment would then have
either prevented the sickness or rendered
it less severe.
Cancer, t.b., ulcers and similar illnesses
can often be discovered by early X-ray,
so what is most needed is an annual com-
pulsory medical overhaul and X-ray for
every individual. An expensive business
probably, but if money can be collected
in thousands in a few hours when there’s
a war on, the same thing should be done
any old time, that is, if the Government-
provided funds need supplementing. Dis-
ease is as vicious as any enemy, but the
community hasn’t been educated to the
urgency of the need for victory.—E. M.
(N.S.W.).
Lotteries for Hospitals
Hospital Saturday and Sunday in Vic-
toria brought in a record collection. This
generous offering by the community was
flie culmination of a press campaign
bringing before the public the deplor-
able state of hospital finances.
Since I was a kid I’ve listened to these
appeals and have often wondered why.
That public hospitals must rely on the
generous support of citizens to carry on
is shameful. It’s the State’s duty wholly
to maintain them because it is the
responsible authority. Funds are found
for other purposes, and hospitals should
be treated in like manner. Failing its
ability to do so, other methods of obtain-
ing money than by annual appeals should
be considered. And in the opinion of
leading citizens a lottery is the best.
Opposition to such a scheme comes
mostly from persons whose religious
beliefs are against all forms of gambling.
But for a cause such as financing hos-
pitals they should waive their objections,
remembering that they could still give
voluntarily while not participating in a
projected lottery.— Jeff (Vic.).
Melbourne and Sydney
People who are not very old can re-
member when Melbourne had a bigger
population than Sydney. It lost its pre-
eminence in the early ’nineties, after the
land boom burst and so many banks
went bung, but it is visibly creeping up
again. An effect not of political pull, as
Sydney papers angrily assert, but of the
militant unionism and savage taxation
for which Sydney has become un-
pleasantly notorious. Sydney papers
have contributed by making public
characters of work-stoppers, and by sup-
porting Sydney Governments which sting
retired Victorians, who in ordinary cir-
cumstances would prefer to end their
days in N. S. Wales, for far more than
they pay in their own State, and that on
Victorian income. Retired Victorians
are, as a rule, hard-headed folk who want
full value for every pound they spend,
and they are not going to be any Sydney
Government’s mugs. —Sx. K. (Vic.).
Settlement in the Saltbush
All who have declared the Western
Division of N.S.W., or a goodly portion
of it, unsuitable for closer settlement
cannot be classed as “inexperienced or
misinformed” (B. 15/10/’4l). For in-
stance, one could hardly say that of Fred
Blakeley, brother of Arthur Blakeley, the
former Labor politician. Fred spent
most of his boyhood and early manhood
in the Broken Hill district, and knows a
large part of the division intimately. In
his book Hard Liberty (pages 79-82) he
has some hard things to say about the
type of politician who has advocated
closer settlement in that portion of N. S.
Wales—the “yabber men, who follow
politics as a trade.”
Blakeley says that about two-thirds of
a run here ought to be spelled all the
while, and that subdivision prevents this,
the smaller holder having to carry too
many stock to the acre. As a result:
Today dry seasons are called droughts,
the cry for Government assistance is set
up and newspapers make a feature of the
drought and the pitiable plight of the
settlers. No doubt it is true, but no one
shows the other side of the picture. None
of the big runs is in trouble, in fact they
have fat stock, everything proceeding
according to the law which governs that
part of Australia. They only call a
drought a dry spell. But all the while the
cocky squatters are going broke as fast as
the fly can take possession of their runs.
If they knew the operation of the law of
margins, they would realise that these places
are too small to work, and that they give
a living only when conditions are at their
best.
Well, what about the Government?
The Government must know that breaking
up the big runs was a dismal failure, and
the thing they broke was the poor devil
who listened to them and put his all into
the venture. They must know that it would
be the right thing to revert to the policy
of big runs, but also that to tell these
same voters that the big runs were the sal-
vation of the country would be bad election-
eering, and that such a reversion would
mean a Government defeat. So they dodge
the issue, and every two or three years an-
other batch of cocky squatters is finished
off. Nor does my observation show that
at the best of times a quarter of the people
get a living off these lands who used to do
so in the big-run days. Ultimately we must
go back to the big runs.
Sydney Upton, an English engineer who
wrote Australia's Empty Spaces, says
much the same thing of north-east South
Australia, adjacent to the southern part
of the N.S.W. Western Division.
This country is not “in anything like
the same condition as 25 years back,
and in many instances the depreciation
has to a large extent been due to the sub-
division of several old. station holdings
(pages 215-16).
Upton holds “ILWJ.’s” opinion that a
most promising region for closer settle-
ment in N.S.W. is the country between
the Lachlan, Murrumbidgee and Murray.
He points out that there is one block
here, 700 miles by 400 miles, with not
even a road through it — Lyle (N.S.W.).
Not Waited!
“Dunagain” (B. 22/10/’4l) is off the
track when he dismisses Westralia’s group-
settlement schemes as failures. True
£6,000,000 of the original outlay has been
written off, but the scheme is far from
being down and out.
There are dark spots on the adminis-
trative copybook, but in the Denmark-
Nornalup-Walpole groups, spread over
a 70-mile stretch of typical Gippsland
country west of the port of Albany, can
be found many contented settlers, battling
with heavily-timbered country to establish
dairy farms and mixed holdings for their
offspring. They admit that their portion
of the rake-off will be in the form of toil
only, but each season is bringing them to
a proper realisation that at least their
descendants will hold the deeds of some-
thing really worth while.
There are but few of the original immi-
grants left in this territory ; many headed
for the towns and cities as soon as the
£3-a-week early-stage allowance cut
out. Others of grittier build, however,
have followed the gleam, and many fight-
ing lads from these far-back farms will
take up the work carried on by parents.
Only land of the rich type at Denmark
and Nornalup could have triumphed over
the setbacks of recent years, such as
wasting disease, the overthrow of which
was a scientific triumph for those who
handled the problem, excessive interest
charges, faulty stocking of blocks in the
early periods, and many other minor dis-
abilities.
There is good evidence at close hand
that this district will well repay the origi-
nal outlay —plus interest charges—in the
years ahead, and become one of the great-
est dairying and pig-production areas in
Australia. That is very much more than
can be claimed for the marginal wheat
areas. — Ah Gee (W.A.).
Three Bills
Being a householder in one of the
outer suburban areas of Sydney, there
recently came to me three statements of
account: from the Metropolitan W. and
S. Board for water rates; from the
County Council for electric supply ser-
vice ; from the Australian Gas Co. for
gas consumed.
Nos. 1 and 2 are examples of the
absence of business courtesy so notice-
able in Government or “semi-Govern-
ment” institutions. Set in a jumble of type
which must have given the comp, a
large-sized headache in manipulating it,
the Water Board’s statement is chockful
of scoldings about what the recipient
must and must not do when making
payment. There’s not a word of regret
concerning the board’s failure to main-
tain a reliable and adequate supply.
The electric light account is accom-
panied by a circular informing the con-
sumer that if he fails to send the amount
of the account along by the due date and
a collector is sent along to his place of
residence after it a fine of 2s. 6d. will be
imposed.
The Australian Gas Co.’s approach is
strikingly different. Neither threats nor
musts or must nots are mentioned. In-
stead a possibility of further business is
encouraged by mentioning that gas will
be charged at a cheaper rate if used for
power or heating. The co. doesn’t say
it will refuse the cash if the consumer
omits to bring along the account —which
the Water Board does say in its blister.
The Gas Employees’ Union engineered
a strike recently, and in its publicity
for improved conditions yelled for Gov-
ernment control. Can you wonder I’m
agin anything of the sort? —L. Liss
(N.S.W.).
Season’s End
Since people started going to subscrip-
tion concerts and gawking at conduc-
tors and listening to the radio and gramo-
phone records, how many real musicians
have there been? How many Austra-
lians, unless they specialise, can burst
into a part-song in perfect time or as
well as they did in Purcell’s day? And
with all their radio-listening apparatus
and concertgoing, how many Austra-
lians are really musical—that is, love
music for its own sake? Listen to a
party in a railway carriage trying to sing
in chorus or at a party—as Nietzsche
said when he was asked to listen to Eng-
lishmen sing: “No, that is asking too
much!” And even when they try to do
it, in nine cases out of ten somebody will
start burlesquing, because there is no
real respect for music, only a respect for
important conductors and social concerts.
The conservatoria, the A.B.C. and simi-
lar institutions will be the death of music
in Australia, just as the academies have
been the death of art in England. Now
that we have an Australian Academy of
Art, how much notice do artists get who
are not A.A.As.? Who have got the
commissions to paint the politicians?
A.A.As. Who, for the most part, have got
the appointments of official war artists?
A.A.As.
It may sound ridiculous, but if there
were no universities, public libraries, gal-
leries, conservatoria and “celebrity” con-
cert seasons to be subscribed to there
would probably be a renaissance of
music, thinking and artistic expression
which would transform this country.
There has certainly been no musical re-
naissance as a result of the late concert
season —only a lot of people made bored
and blase or pretentious about music ;
and now that the season is over, like the
flies in winter, they don’t know where to
go.— Cauboy (Vic.).
“ Really, Mrs.Ramsbotham is more trouble than she's Worth.”


ABSOLUTELY
SAFE and
SILENT
r
NO PRICKING
NO PRIMING NO PUMPING
Hot instantly. Only one fuel
Kerosene. New long life
wool wick. No expensive burn-
ers to replace. See your local store.
LANE'S
GENUINE
'ffmmil
BLUE FLAME
KEROSENE STOVE
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.; F. E. Loxton, Esq.:
Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.; E. E. D. White, Esq.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
An automatic self-contained sanitary system
which can be installed by any handyman.
No water supply required.
• NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Efficiency, mechanism and long
life fully guaranteed.
Price, £lB/8/- f.o.r. Sydney.
Including sales tax and crating.
Plus 20/- war surcharge.
Write Dept. B for illustrated pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Gives modem sani-
tation at small cost.
Approved by the
Board of Health.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved,
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Dental surgeon, skilled operator, used large
practice, Australian and Continental experience,
open for engagement in Brisbane practice. —
2799.
Man used to farm work wanted to take
charge of farmlet handy to Brisbane on share
basis. References essential —one over military
age preferred.—2800.
Wanted, recent edition of Encyclopedia
Britannica. Inspection near Sydney.—2813.
To buy Secret Remedies Exposed, by British
Medical Association, More Secret Remedies and
an American production The Lightning Doctor.
—2111.
To know of books containing the poems
“Sandy’s Crossing” and “The Roughrider’s
Death.” —2776.
Information Sought.
(I) In W.A. there is a seasonal wind which,
springing up about sundown during the summer
months, blows strongly from the south-west.
It is known locally as the “Albany Doctor.”
How far inland does it travel; and, roughly,
what area of country does it cover ? (2) Is
there any other seasonal wind in Australia as
regular and consistent ? (3) Brief scientific ex-
planation of the tremendous force with which
this cool wind rushes inland from the sea ? —
2689.
(1) Unable to give definite figures, but it
covers most of the south-east and is felt at
Kellerberrin, 90 miles inland from Perth, where
it is known as the “Fremantle Doctor.” (2)
At Hobart, Tasmania, but that is not so con-
sistent. (3) It is simply a sea breeze caused
by the heating of large areas of land faster
than the ocean. The cooler wind flows in
from the sea, and at night, when the land
cools faster than the ocean, it flows in the
reverse direction. The explanation of its iorce
in W.A. is doubtless the large area of level
land.
* * * «
Why does not (or cannot ) the Law compel a
husband to give evidence against wife or wife
against husband ? —2609.
The rule is of great antiquity. An ancient
jurist gave the reason thus: “A husband and
wife are considered as one and the same person
in law, and have the same affections and inter-
ests ; from whence it has been established as
a general rule that the husband cannot be a
witness for or against the wife nor the wife be
a witness for or against the husband, by reason
of the implacable dissension which may be
caused by it and the great danger of perjury
from taking the oaths of persons under so
great a bias and the extreme hardship of the
case.” The general rule thus stated has been
relaxed to the extent that husband and wife
are now generally competent but not com-
pellable witnesses for or against each other.
* * * *
What is the order of engine-room ranking
in the R.A.N. ? —2766.
Commissioned rank: Engineer rear-admiral,
captain (E), commander (E), lieut.-comraander
(E), lieutenant (E), sub-lieutenant (E), midship-
man (E), lieutenant (E) (from warrant rank).
Warrant rank; Commissioned engineer, warrant
engineer. Ratings: Chief stoker, stoker petty
officer, leading stoker, stoker, stoker (2nd class).
* * * *
Method of making inks for use with air
brush, preferably those prepared from packet
household dyes and methylated spirits ? —2626.
Dissolve in suitable vessel over heat 6oz. pale
lac in half-pint of water; add 2oz. of liquid
ammonia when warm. This is the medium.
For black, add lampblack; for red, ammoniacal
solution of carmine; for blue, aqueous solu-
tion of fuchsine; for green, analine green. The
color is added while lac is boiling. An easier
method; Mix together loz. of pale gold size,
loz. of pale terebine, 6oz. of copal varnish and
2oz. of turpentine. With this medium any paste,
paint or dry pigment may be mixed. These
mixtures run well and dry quickly with a
brilliant gloss.
* * * *
(1) Names of chemicals and proportions to
add to gloss oil paint to cause it to dry out
//«/"? (I) Name of book on the chemistry of
painls ?_2596.
(1) Can’t be done by addition of pigments or
chemicals. If the gloss paint has settled the
liquid portion could be poured off the top, and
the heavy paste which is left may then be re-
duced with turpentine so as to produce a flat
finish, but no uniformity of results could be
expected from this procedure. (2) The Out-
lines of Paint Technology, by Noel Heaton, pub-
fished by Griffin.
* * * *
Treatment for a cat with incipient mange?
Is the disease infectious ?— 2616.
There is only sarcoptic and follicular mange.
To determine either requires microscopic ex-
animation of the parasite. Both are
The treatment consists of one part ot powderea
sulphur to eight parts of vegetable oil well
rubbed into the skin of the animal every three
days for four times and then washed off with
P.D.’s germicidal soap. If the case is eczema,
which may be strongly suspected, the treatment
ig - te d iff erent
1 ‘ # ,
~ , ,
into a iar
stir till dis ‘
solved, For exter al se y.
(I) What is the number of the laws in Aus-
tralia? (2) How are they recorded? (3) How
repealed ? (4) Are there any old laws still in
force having no reference to present-day con-
ditions?—2s7l.
(1) They are as the stars in the sky. Do not
know whether anybody has had the time or
patience to count them. (2) In the Statute
Books. (3) By Parliament. (4) There are many,
A number may be found in the Police Offences
Act. Some relics from the dim and distant past
are the following, which are still today offences;
Placing any flowerpot in an upper window
without sufficiently guarding the same from
being thrown down. Within a distance of 100
yards from any dwelling-house burning any
rags, bones, cork or other offensive substance.
It is an offence for any person who, being
a blacksmith, whitesmith, anchorsmith, nail-
maker or other person using a forge and
having a door, window or aperture fronting or
opening into or towards any street or passage
do es not close and darken such door or window
or aperture within one hour after sunset so
as effectually to prevent the light from show-
ffig through the same. A person driving or
having the charge of any cart drawn by a horse
or other animal and driven or guided by reins
must not allow such horse or animal to pro-
C eed out of a walking pace. No person may
in any street or public place blow any horn
(unless he is a guard or postman in H.M. Post
Office) or use any other noisy instrument for
announcing a show or entertainment, nor may
he wash any clothes at a public fountain or
pump. Except in places covered by Local Gov-
ernment Ordinances it is an offence to bathe
in any part of Sydney Cove or in any waters
exposed to view from any wharf, street, public
place or dwelling-house between the hours of
six in the morning and eight at night. _ Under
the Liquor Act a licensee whose hotel is more
than one mile from a dead-house or police
station shall at the request of any police
officer receive into his hotel any dead body that
may be brought there for the purpose of an
inquest unless it is in an offensive state of de-
composition or is the body of a person reason-
ably supposed to have died from an infectious
disease. A licensee shall also keep a lamp to
be fit with gas where practicable of at least
two candle-power and to be fixed oyer the door,
and must provide sufficient stabling for four
horses at least with a sufficient supply of whole-
some and usual provender for the same. Under
the Stage-Carriages Act, which is still law, if
any person sits on the luggage on the roof of
a stage-carriage the driver shall forfeit five
pounds. By the Dividing Fences Act, an
owner cannot contract for the completion of
his neighbor’s half of the fence until he has
used all the indigenous timber growing on his
neighbor’s land. These examples are but a few
of the large family of forgotten legal children
whose continued existence N. S. Wales Attorney-
General Martin has threatened.
* * * *
(1) What is the closing date for the Bread
and Cheese Club’s short-story competition ? (2)
Where should entries be sent? (3) What is the
prize ? (4) Any entry fee ? (5) Any particular
conditions ? —2814.
(1) January 15, 1942. (2) Bread and Cheese
Club, Box 1663, G.P.0., Melbourne. Endorse
envelope “Short Story.” (3) Three prizes, first
£5 55., second £2 2s. and third £1 Is. (4)
One shilling with every entry. (5) Length is
limited to 2000 words and story must have an
Australian setting. The competition is open to
all residents of Australia and is governed by
the usual literary competition rules.
* * * *
How is a goatskin tanned and where would I
get it done? —2567.
Any tanning firm would do it, but it isn’t
a difficult job. Stretch the skin tightly on a
board, hair side downwards, and tack it in
place round the edges. Scrape off surplus flesh
and fat with a blunt knife and work in ordi-
nary ground chalk freely with plenty of hard
rubbing. When the chalk begins to powder and
fall off, take the skin off the board and rub
in plenty of powdered alum. Then wrap it up
closely and keep in a dry place for a few days.
* * * *
Method of crystallising violets, rose petals
and wattle for use as cake decorations and on
sweets ? —2472.
To crystallise petals of violets, roses and
pansies (wattle bloom will not crystallise):
Boil one cupful of crystal sugar in half-cup
of water for four minutes after it begins to
bubble; allow syrup to cool to lukewarm, then
dip in each petal and cover well, using
tweezers. Drop petals on a board thickly
dusted with sifted, finely-crushed sugar, coat-
ing both sides; dry on wax paper and pack in
wax-paper-lined tins. Mint leaves are delicious
done this way.
m * * w
How can I dye a hat navy blue so that it
won’t get that shiny look that betrays the
amateur’s hand? —2513.
Provided hat is not a darker color already,
use Strawdi or similar hat dye. One of the
waterproof inks made by Winsor and Newton
makes a good job. Given two coats, a hat
looks like new.
* * * »
I painted anew inlaid lino, with a hard
church varnish to obtain a shiny surface, but
unfortunately it has gone streaky and sticky.
How can I remove it without injuring the lino. ?
—2331.
Inlaid linoleum should not be polished or
varnished; it has a matt surface, in which lies
its beauty, and as color and design go right
through it needs no polish of any kind. Con-
sult the retailers; meanwhile try kerosene and
follow with hot water and soda.
* * * »
Recipe for mixture which can be used to
make transfers —designs which can be imprinted
on material by applying a hot iron? —2377.
This paste will act in the same way as any
stamped transfer: Mix a knob of washing blue
with one teaspoonful of sugar and add water
to make a creamy ink. Be careful to prevent
transfer touching other parts of the linen.
* * * *
Recipe for tomato juice used as cocktails,
etc. f—2323.
Scald and skin 81b. of firm, ripe, dry tomatoes,
place in preserving pan, add two tablespoons
of salt, heat very slowly to boiling-point (if
necessary add a little water) and cook to pulp.
Ladle into clean, hot, dry lever-top tins (say
21b. syrup tins), filling over brim, and at once
hammer lids on and run melted paraffin wax
round edges. Store in cool place. When
needed, open tin, strain juice into glasses and
use pulp for soups or flavoring.
* * * *
(1) How are capers prepared for bottling, and
when are they right to pick for pickling? (2)
Recipe for making barley sugar? —2s47.
(1) Capers are ready to pickle when plump
and colored. Half-fill a bottle with the ripe
capers and pour over them cold boiled vinegar.
Cork tightly; ready in a month. (2) One cup
honey, one cup sugar, one cup barley water,
two dessertspoons glucose. Boil all in sauce-
pan for 10 minutes, lift off stove and stir till
lukewarm. Turn out on a sugared slab, cut
in strips and roll in twists.
# * * *
Who are the present boxing champions of
Great Britain, and have any of them defended
their titles lately ? —2640.
Flyweight, Jackie Paterson; bantamweight,
Jim Brady; featherweight, Nel Tarleton; light-
weight, Eric Boon; welterweight, Ernie
Roderick; middleweight, Freddie Mills; light-
heavyweight, Len Harvey; heavyweight, Len
Harvey. Harvey has not defended either of his
championships for some time. Champions of
all other divisions, however, fight almost regu-
larly, despite the war. Mills won the middle-
weight championship by defeating Jock Mc-
Avoy last July, while Roderick retained his
welterweight title by outpointing Arthur Dana-
har in 15 rounds at London on September 29
last.
Brief Answers.
R.8.P.: Communicate with the Egg Board,
Box 16, Pyrmont. It would not be practicable
to pulp or dry the eggs on the farm, and there
would be no advantage in storing them by such
methods as placing them in silicate of soda,
as they could only be sold as case eggs after
such storage... .J.W.V.; Best course is to
consult your solicitor, who will communicate
with his Scottish agents and have the inquiries
made W.E.J.: The name “Sugarloaf” is re-
corded in Major (Sir Thomas) Mitchell’s 18-9
map of the West Wallsend district, the earliest
reference that can be found. Probably “Sugar-
loaf” is a descriptive name... .F.R.W.: In the
1929 Melbourne Cup Phar Lap started at evens
and ran third. He won in 1930 at 11 to 8 on,
and, again starting favorite at 3 to 1, he ran
eighth in the 1931 Cup, won by White Nose at
8 to 1. Shadow King’s famous performance
was two seconds, two thirds and a fourth from
six starts in the Melbourne Cup... .M.C.T.:
The round trip of the two rivers could be
made if you struck the right season —in a dry
season you might find yourself humping the
canoe some of the way... .P.R.0.: A likely
cause of that sort of trouble is clogging of a
filter at the top of the feed line... .C.8.J.:
The total number of deaths recorded in N. S.
Wales in 1936 was 24,376, comprising 13,618
males and 10,758 females... .G.S.E.: R. Lewis,
who had his first Cup mount on Onward in
1895, rode in 33 Melbourne Cups. He scored
on The Victory, Patrobus, Artilleryman and
Trivalve and rode four seconds and a third.
W. H. McLachlan had three winners—Prince
Foote, Comedy King and Westport... .P.M.:
Cannot publish recipes for alcoholic beverages.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS,
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused: —
H.E.H.: —
Think, think again! Will your child prattle
Of deeds Daddy did to win the battle?
V.H.F.: —
The way they .speak of Adolf is really quite a shame,
Tis shocking the aspersions they cast upon his name.
He really was a gentle lad, his mother’s pride and
joy,
Adolf the adorable, the little black-haired boy!
... .H.E.R.: For a woman’s paper... .V.M.H.:
“Tuneful poem following the Grade Fields
type of humor” would make a tasty addition
to a Lancashire hotpot P.H.: Not quite.
... .J.R.: Might make a par O.M.B.: Have
yet to see crowds with “eyes of glass” at King’s
Cross... .E.K.P.: Mildly amusing... .M.H.I.:
Promising... .H.W.M.; Cheer up....N.C.:
Nothing there that hasn’t been said before....
J.C.; Have some trouble with the last line?....
M.F.C.: Not at that length... .A.J.S.: Light-
weight H.T.A.: “Have you ever been out
camping in the wild Australian bush?” Yes;
and we mercifully refrained from writing a
poem about it. P.F.B.: The scimitar slew it.
M.M.: What is it —a nature note or some-
thing about Hitler? J.L.O.: To persons who
advised you to forward that to us, please for-
ward one time-bomb... .W.P.: Not here....
G.H.F.: One among dozens... .F.W.L.: Ele-
mentary. .. J.W.B.: Say it in prose K.W.
(South Africa): Thanks. ♦
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.W.: If we judged on lettering alone you’d
ring the peter every week D.C.: Head studies
are harsh and heavy... .R.K.P.: You’ve put
winkers and a saddle on a horse in a sulky
with six spokes and no hub. Go to the country
before shooting in your next rural effort....
L.P.S.: The gag mentions Maud and Joan—
where have you hidden them? T.D.:
Thanks for the compliments, but not for the
batch of old jokes W.F.S.: Learn to
crawl with the simpler compositions; you can
gallop with the complicated things when your
style improves B.O’C.: If a Chinese puzzle
of labyrinthine lines constituted a good draw-
ing yours would have been snapped up....
A.W.M.: The postman will be calling on you,
but the enclosure won’t be endorsed “not
negotiable” F.P.: Drawn from memory,
eh? Your urgent need is a course of Pel-
manism G.C.: You depend too much on
a mechanical stipple. Learn to fill in the
gaps with a convincing background
Bert C.: We recognised it as a pig only by
the appendage peculiar to that animal
J.C.S.: You’ll never hear an editor say “Come
in” while you keep to that outlandish style
P.M.: Bunch of sedate little fashion-plates
saying something most unhumorous L.S.T.:
Which is the swaggie and which the fence
post?


*
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS' con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
uMSS
HIP
BXI
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
f
•4-
DAHy
OON
'S>
LNR 0
3 fcc-±
Cr£ir m ~~
The Best May
MONEY
BY FOLLOMtHG MOR££~S - *
HIGH SALARIES are paid to graduates of the Art Training
Institute for producing humorous Sporting Cartoons. The basic
wage” for such Cartoonists is roughly £lO a week; some earn
double this amount.
AND CARTOONING is only one of the many highly-paid branches
of Commercial Art. There is wide scope for both men and women
in this fascinating profession.
The ART TRAINING INSTITUTE makes available
first-class HOME-STUDY tuition at moderate cost.
Fifteen leading Artists co-operated in producing the
A.T.I. Course of Training.
CAN YOU DRAW?
We offer an expert opinion on your ability without
cost or obligation. For full details write for our
booklet including Art Ability Tests. Beautifully
illustrated and very informative, it is quite free. Send
4d. to defray postage and mention ‘ The Bulletin.
ART TRAINING INSTITUTE
80 SWANSTON STREET - - - MELBOURNE
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
* GALVANIZED IRON
for water catchment purposes ...
AUSTRALIA needs all the zinc that is
available for the making of munitions.
In order to meet this national emergency,
therefore, John Lysaght (Aust.) Ply. Ltd.
has found it necessary to restrict supplies
of Corrugated Galvanized Roofing Iron
to those who require this quality for the
catchment and storage of drinking water.
In all other cases, Terne-Coated Iron is
ncTw being supplied. Plain iron sheets
are also restricted, but to a lesser degree.
FOR ALL
OTHER USES
LYSAGHTS
OFFER
JjL LTHOUGH introduced to the public and
""the building trade lor the first time, Terne-
Coaled Iron is not new but has been widely
used throughout America and the Continent lor
many years past. It has also been used lor many
years by the metal trades ol Australia in the
manufacture ol petrol tanks, oil and paint drums,
etc. Its hard wearing tin and lead surface
possesses particularly good anti-corrosive
properties and can be painted without "weather-
ing." There is, of course, no loss of strength
or rigidity and all sizes and gauges ate available.
f
wi
B
LO
I
HO
f
UNO
TtV
John Lysaght (AUSTRALIA) Ply., Ltd.
MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE FREMANTLE
T 76 SYDNEY
A MIXED GRILL
“T. the R.”: Hugh Stone does me a
slight injustice when he charges me with
“roasting James Joyce in verse” (B.
29/10/’4l). I have never read Ulysses;
the only verses I wrote on the subject
were a mildly grilling—not roasting—of
ex-Minister Harrison for arrogating to
himself the role of censor morum and
seeking to ban the entrance into this
country of a book years after the con-
troversy which raged about it in England
and America had died down, and months
after the author was dead. If any books
are to be censored, the job should be
done by men with recognised qualifica-
tions, not raw amateurs.
* * * *
“Pawang”: A short time ago the
Federal Labor Department and the
Department of Munitions became inter-
ested in the problem of fatigue, having
been stimulated thereto by Dr. H. M.
L. Murray, medical officer for the Muni-
tions Department, who holds that 12-
hour shifts and 20-minute rests don’t
increase but actually diminish produc-
tion. Young Mr. Holt, the then Minister
for Labor, called for the usual report on
the subject. It seemed rather quaint that
a Minister for Labor should not know
what everybody with the least experience
of factories knew already ; but, then, Mr.
Holt’s preparation for his office didn’t
include a course of factory management.
Mr. Ward, the new Minister for Labor,
has had a different education ; but, then,
so had Bevin, the British Minister for
Labor, and he believed that the longer
the hours the more production. Before
facts proved him wrong a lot of damage
had been done.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Viscount Cecil, sadly contem-
plating the corpse of his League;
Mediatorial efforts without force behind
them are ineffective. And force is seldom
of use except negatively. You can force
a man not to do something easily enough
if you have sufficient power to do so. It is
very much more difficult to compel him to
do something, and impossible to make him
think anything.
But is it so easy to “force a man not
to do something if you have sufficient
power”? There should have been suffi-
cient power behind prohibition in U.S.A.,
but half the nation refused to give up
its alcohol, and before long it was joined
by flaming youth of both sexes, with
results which are still evident —and not
in America alone.
* * H= *
“Zake”: In a world in which neutrals
and even allies are wont to view one an-
other’s actions with deep suspicion, a spot
of faith is as rare as it is beautiful to
behold. In the Commons Anthony Eden
metaphorically raised his Homburg to
the Mexican Government when he an-
nounced resumption of diplomatic rela-
tions. “The British Government,” he
declared, “has followed with interest the
series of declarations and actions by
which the Mexican President and Gov-
ernment have shown their clear-sighted
appreciation of the issues raised by the
aggressive actions of the Axis Powers,”
finishing with an oratorical flourish about
the Mexicans’ “devotion to the principles
of democracy.” Yet the day before Tony
did his stuff the Mexicans set free, with-
out any tag to it, 600 Axis seamen whom
they had been holding in internment. It’s
a queer world, this is!
* * * *
“Gagaga”: I’d like to thank “F.S.”
(B. 15 /10/’4l) for his massive, cockle-
warming, all-embracing dictum on what
is Art and what ain’t —“A picture is a
statement if it is a false statement it
isn’t Art, and if it is a true statement
it is just as true today as it was in the
Middle Ages or as it will be 100 years
hence.” But I’m afraid “F.S.” will have
a hard time convincing us people who
practise what we call “contemporary”
Art of the validity of his definition. In
the first place we set ourselves against
“representationalism” (that means draw-
ing anything recognisable or identifiable).
Secondly it is not our aim to make true
statements or any sort of statements, but
to express our souls, which aren’t repre-
sentable by anything identifiable. If there
is any resemblance between anything
familiar to other people and what we
paint, then such resemblance is accidental
and we neither recognise nor take legal
responsibility for any consequences of
such resemblance. In the strictest of
our societies any member who produces
a picture that anybody else can interpret
is booted out. We are the sole arbiters
of the aim and significance of our own
works and any talk of the truth or falsity
of statements is to us meaningless.
* * * *
Ernest Brown, Britain’s Min-
ister of Health, is astonished that the
health of the people is so good, considering
all the abnormal circumstances of war.
It seems likely that the abnormal condi-
tions have produced the good health. A
catastrophe like a war brings people to-
gether and gives them a common pur-
pose in which they can forget themselves.
Peace and security tend to separate
them, and without something to lose
themselves in they become bored and
discouraged, and out of their discourage-
ment and boredom comes sickness, largely
neurotic.
» * * *•
“S.”: Coming out very belatedly for an
anti-congestion policy, Victorian Labor-
Leader Cain defined “contributing causes
to the fall in country population” as
decline in goldmining, intermittent rural
employment, trek of country industries to
the metropolis, higher wages and better
working conditions in the city, want of
co-ordinated rural organisation and lack
of scientific methods in rural industries.
Except for the first, these are effects, not
causes —effects of the long and tragic
policy of centralisation followed by State
Governments. Cain recommends free
Government railway transport for raw
materials and manufactured goods.
Wiping out of State transport strangula-
tion Acts to restore freedom of travel
and haulage on country roads and across
borders would be better.


GREAT LIFE. SOLDIER /
I HAVE A CA
ft
ipfc
Wmrnm
m
f \
&£&.:■
mm
THANKS. DIGGER
GLAD THEY'RE
"COLUMBINES"
mm
m
(OHM HIM
CARAMELS
PACKET - 6° EVERYWHERE
the
A BOOK
WORTH READING
Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd. will gladly forward, free of charge, an interesting
brochure setting out important aspects of executorship and the administration of
Estates. This publication is of particular interest to those whose Wills have
not already been made, or who may perceive the wisdom of making revisions
to accord with changed conditions.
It is not a simple matter to carry out the terms of a Will. Trusteeship demands
knowledge and capacity v/hich few laymen possess. Therein lies the hazard of
appointing a friend or relative as executor or trustee. The solution lies in
appointing Burns Philp Trust Company Limited. The Company will be influenced
only by its knowledge of business in ensuring the faithful interpretation of
your wishes.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
TELEPHONE : B 7901. Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Labor and the Banks
Labor had not been in office a month,
with the overseas position calling for
more attention every day, before it
•, ■ i i.
started on its social reloim policy,
It may find it difficult to conduct
a war and at the same time indulge in
ils pet phobias. Mr. Chifley says that the
Government is going to implement
certain recommendations of the banking
commission,” but there is evidence that
the proposals will go beyond those recom-
mendations. The Treasurer stated in
the past that “there is no possibility of
any well-ordered progress in the com-
munity under a system in which there are
privately-owned trading banks which
have been established for the purpose of
making profit,” and that “in my opinion
the best service to the community can
ce given only by a banking system from
which the profit motive is absent, and,
thus, in practice, only by a system en-
tirely under national control.” He has
found himself “unable to agree” with
the opinion of the majority of the mem-
bers of the banking commission that “a
system in which there is a Government-
owned central bank regulating the volume
of credit and currency, and, as an in-
tegral part of the system, privately-owned
banks, which distribute that volume, and
which may be advised generally by the
central bank as to the direction in which
the distribution should be made,” would
do the trick of putting banking practice
on the level of aimed-at efficiency.
In his Budget speech Mr. Chifley did not
propose all-out nationalisation of banks.
He said that “licenses will be issued to
trading banks subject to certain con-
ditions which will be set out in the regu-
lations.” The conditions include that
a licensed bank shall
(1) hold on deposit with the Commonwealth
Bank its excess investible funds on a basis to
be determined by the Treasurer after fully dis-
cussing the matter with the Commonwealth
Bank;
(2) publish accounts and balance sheets at
intervals and in forms prescribed by the Trea-
surer ;
(3) furnish to the Treasurer (through the Com-
monwealth Bank) such statements in respect of
the business as the Treasurer directs, and to
the Commonwealth Bank such statements as
the bank directs;
(4) enable the Auditor-General to investigate
and report upon the affairs of the bank periodi-
cally or as directed by the Treasurer.
In the recommendations of the banking
commission the words “excess investible
funds” do not occur. A percentage of
deposits, at a rate to be determined but
uniform in regard to each trading bank,
is what was thought desirable by the
majority of the commission. Nor in this
connection was the Treasurer given the
initiative, which in the commission’s
opinion should rest with the Common-
wealth Bank. Mr. Chifley’s wording of
paragraph (1) makes him, as Treasurer,
the final arbiter, a thing not recommended
by the commission. The Lyons Gov-
ernment proposed to introduce bank-
ing legislation similar to that advocated
by the commission, and Treasurer Casey
went to considerable lengths in this con-
nection, but eventually the thing died a
natural death. The overseas position and
the national credit became matters too
serious for experiments of this debatable
kind to be carried out.
With a fierce and tragic war to fight,
Australia finds its Government toying
with what amounts to class legislation and
experimental interference with a national
task that is already being well carried out
by private enterprise in close collabora-
tion with the Commonwealth Bank, Labor
is apparently relying on its victims “re-
maining gentlemen” and submitting to
any stupidity, injustice or interference
in view of the seriousness of the situa-
tion overseas. There is no evidence
in this war that the banks, Government or
private, have failed to provide all the
finance that it is in their power legiti-
mately to provide, or that they have in
any way hindered the Government of the
day from raising money at the lowest
possible rates of interest. It is only the
knowledge, experience and organisation
of the banks that have enabled public
borrowing to be carried out at 3| p.c. or
under. Governments alone could not
achieve this result. One obvious weak-
ness in Australia’s war effort has been
the failure of Governments to govern and
to tax all classes equitably and sensibly.
Until full details of Labor’s proposals
for dealing with the banks are known
it is impossible to criticise in detail.
But in the broad outline already given
there are grounds for resentment so far
as the trading banks —and the people—
are concerned. On the occasion of the
Lyons-Casey proposals, which also pro-
vided for minimum trading-bank de-
posits with the Commonwealth Bank,
A. C. Davidson, of the ’Wales, said:
To protect their depositors the banks must
find additional cash to meet the compulsory
minimum deposit requirements. Because private
banks have to keep an emergency reserve, ex-
isting liquid items could not provide the addi-
tional cash. The only way is to reduce
advances.
The whole theme of the proposed legislation
is to disturb the present development of the
Australian banking system from the lines of
the well-tried and flexible English system, and
to effect a revolutionary change, bringing un-
desirable rigidities which have proved so un-
satisfactory in other countries.
About the same time James Elder, of
the National of Australasia, remarked;
The contention of the trading banks is that
the present powers of the Commonwealth Bank
are ample for all reasonable purposes, and any
additions to them can only be effected by
means of irksome legislative restrictions on the
trading banks, which agree with the com-
mission’s view that “too much should not be
expected even from the most enlightened policy
of an all-powerful central bank.”
The road for us to travel is that clearly and
definitely stated by the commission, viz., co-
operation between the principal parties con-
cerned—the Governments, the Commonwealth
Bank and the trading banks. This road may
have its difficulties, but they are of much less
consequence than those which would eventuate
from legislation of the nature indicated. The
Australian banking system needs to hold fast
to its British moorings, and any attempt to
attach it to framework of a type which has
proved unavailing in America and elsewhere
should be opposed.
To give Treasurer Chifley his due, he
does not seem to be a believer in the
mumbo-jumbo of some other members of
his party who, in the vigor of their
ignorance, say that the war can be
financed without cost by a mere stroke
of the pen within the precincts of the
Commonwealth Bank. But in his easy
disposal of the profit motive as a neces-
sity to efficient enterprise he reveals him-
self as a theorist lost to the lessons
of Government failure in its monopolies,
and his means of finding finance for the
war effort, as shown in his Budget, dis-
close that politics rather than realities
are the basis of Labor’s war programme.
On the revenue-raising side—the vital
side —the only good features of Labor’s
Budget are those inherited from the
previous Government. Labor’s contribu-
tions so far are weakly, unintelligent and
inflationary.
The Curtin - Chifley Budget, on the
revenue side, is one of those feeble,
evasive things that bring such devastating
reactions with the passing of time. It is
distinctly a boom-and-depression breeder.
It aims at relieving the majority of the
people from any reasonable monetary
contribution to the war, at the same time
slugging a comparative few excessively
and unreasonably. But the Budget paints
a false picture in its apparent let-off of the
70 p.c. of the wage-earning population
who earn under £8 a week. From the
people must be taken enough production
to carry out the war programme, and by
far the greater proportion must be taken
from the great body of consumers, not
from the wealthy-but-small-in-number
consumers. What Labor’s Budget en-
visages is the taking of consumable goods
from the grasp of the wage-earner and
charging the cost of taking them partly
to the wealthier and partly to loans and
bank credit. In other words, “we must
take away your living standards, but we
won’t touch your wages.” Though, in
such a scheme of things, he still has
money in his pocket after he buys all
that is available for him, the wage-earner
is on a reduced living standard, and
he can only save or gamble away his sur-
plus earnings. Mr. Curtin proposes to
take care of his surplus earnings for
him—the Prime Minister is asking for
a voluntary reduction in spending and
for voluntary loans from workers for
the purpose of helping finance the war.
Rarely has a serious undertaking been
based on such unrealities, fallacies and
weaknesses. If the Prime Minister admits
that it is necessary to have contributions
from the wage-earner, he’d better forget
the “voluntary” part of it.
* * * *
Banking figures to Sept. 30 show a
rather tighter position than at June 30,
but that is a purely seasonal matter, June
30 always being a flush period, especially
under the present wool-purchase arrange-
ment. From Sept., 1940, to Sept., 1941,
there was an addition of £16.4 million to
deposits, compared with a rise of £29.4
million in the preceding year. In the
latest period advances to industry
dropped £4.8 million, but the Govern-
ment was a ready borrower of all the
increase in deposits and part of the reduc-
tion in advances besides; the lift in
Government indebtedness—Treasury bills
and other Government securities —
amounted to £17.9 million over the year.
Here is a comparison of figures going
back two years:
Sept., June, Sept., June, Sept.,
1939. 1940. 1940. 1941. 1941.
£Mjl. £Mil. £Mil. £Mil. £Mil.
Deposits—
Current .. 116.9 139.0 140.6 158.6 159.9
Fixed .. 199.7 212.5 205.4 207.7 202.5
Total .. 316.6 351.5 346.0 366.3 362.4
Cash .. .. 31.5 39.0 40.0 36.4 39.0
Treas. bills.. 19.1 41.7 34.3 41.1 34.0
Securities .. 22.6 42.5 44.3 62.0 62.5
Advances .. 295.6 287.8 287.5 283.9 282.7
Since the outbreak of war up to Sept. 30
last bank credit availed of by the Govern-
ments totalled £54.8 million. That was
apart from advances by the Common-
wealth Bank. There has been a reduction
of £6.6 million in this indebtedness since
June 30, mostly on account of Treasury
bills. Over the last twelve months the
Commonwealth Bank has lent £23.5
million to Governments. Only by
reason of the reduction in advances to
industry as a whole, the increased
national income and the previously sound
state of the banking position has this
assistance to the war effort been possible
without unduly risking the credit
structure.
• * * »
N.S.W. Premier McKell has said that
where a person is assessed under the new
schedules on 1940-41 income for the pur-
pose of paying tax in 194L42 he will
be able to apply to a relief board if his
1941-42 income shows a heavy drop on
that for 1940-41, on which one lot of tax
has already been paid. McKell speci-
fically used the words “cases of hardship”


2
Olympic
Active
Wherever the Australian Fighting Forces operate, an
Olympic product is “on the job”.
Twelve hundred Craftsmen of the Olympic Tyre
& Rubber Co. Ltd. are proud to be helping to keep
their comrades in the front line fully equipped.
Are "Worn Out" Spark Plugs
making your car
slow and noisy?
Incomplete combustion
due to faulty spark plugs
results in carbon deposits,
noisy “carbon knocks”
and general all around
poor performance. New
Champion Spark Plugs
provide complete com-
bustion and give you
the best in speed,
power and smooth
motoring. They
will pay for
themselves in
fuel savings.
Factories,
Feltham, Eng.
Windsor, Can.
Toledo, USA.
'Hit
m
7/>
s
ggfc=?((p
CONTAINS SILLMENT
THE MIRACLE MINERAL
Install new
Champion Spaik Pings!
Sillment seals Champions
against troublesome leak-
age, at the shoulder and
past the center electrode,
common to ordinary
spark plugs. This pat-
ented feature corrects
rough, uneven and waste-
ful engine operation
caused by. leaky, over-
heated spark plugs.
CRAVENA
are kinder . .
to the throat
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
/
m
m
wm
m
in mentioning this. It leads to the
conclusion that this “relief board” will
be like other so-called “relief boards”—
that one will have to plead hardship as
well as injustice in order to get anything
resembling a fair deal. The new McKell
tax that “abolishes” the wages tax blud-
geons people so unjustly in a great many
cases that where glaring injustice is done
there should be no necessity to plead
inability to pay in order to get relief. No
tax put into effect by J. T. Lang was as
unfair as the overlapping provisions of
McKell’s substitute wages tax. The un-
fairness could be overcome very simply
—by making the assessment on 1940-41
income simply an advance payment in
anticipation of the 1941-42 tax, with
adjustments in the succeeding assessment.
« * * *
McKell Labor and Curtin Labor have,
by their Budgets, “cruelled” the share-
markets, and in the process have taken
enthusiasm out of support for the
£100,000,000 loan. With share prices
declining because recent additions to
company taxation are excessive and with-
out just basis, it is difficult to persuade
the investor that his security is not being
assailed by the Governments he is asked
to help. Canberra has made an awful
blunder in its method of charging almost
all of war’s cost to one class and at the
same time trying to hand plums to the
other. The cost of war-time plums is
invariably terrific.
* * * *
Maxie Falstein, who missed
Labor Cabinet rank not because of any
inability to talk, apparently doesn’t know
as much about money matters as one
might assume. In Canberra last week, in
a sweeping attack on anything and every-
thing, Mr. Falstein asserted that it was
“time this Government nationalised life
assurance cos. These cos. have huge
revenues,” Mr. Falstein apparently over-
looked the fact that 99 p.c. of the net
revenue of all the Australian life assur-
ance societies combined belongs to the
policy-holders who pay in the money,
most of them desirous of keeping
their dependants off the dole or the
new 235. 6d. a week old-age pension. He
was more at home, however, in another
field. He didn’t think wage-earners should
be prevented by taxation from having
their little punt;
In my electorate there are more than
10,000 persons who earn their livelihood
through horseracing. It is an industry.
And therefore, of course, untouchable.
But “the supplementary Budget should
contain provision for the nationalisation
of the big war industries, including the
8.H.P.,” the member for Watson insisted.
Also, “the banks have foisted on the
people nothing more than a huge confi-
dence trick.” He rounded off his offen-
sive with an attack on departmental heads
and economists, making the charge that
Professor Copland “had wrecked the last
two Governments.” The time may come
when it will be in Mr. Falstein’s interest
to prevent him from attacking himself.
* * *
Addressing union secretaries at Sydney
Trades Hall last week, Mr. Nash, Maori-
land Minister for Finance, said that there
had been some talk in the M.L. Labor
party about taking over the trading
banks. “I think these banks are doing
a better job than we could make of It,”
he said.
m * ♦ «
Minister for Munitions Makin has
taken action to prevent a die-casting plant
owned by the Federal Government being
set up in an annexe of Australian Con-
solidated Industries. Mr. Makin said
that Die Casters, Ltd., a Melbourne firm,
had been engaged in defence work, but
its plant had not been fully employed.
He, therefore, saw no reason why AC.I.
should be allowed to compete with the
firm which originally started the trade.
Last year (to June 30) Die Casters earned
£22,725, after providing £14,000 for taxa-
tion, of which a 10 p.c. ord. took £15,000.
Pref. requirements totalled £3412. The
board says that “much research work”
has been undertaken to increase the scope
and extent of munitions activities.
* * * *
Australasian Petroleum Co., boring for
oil at Kariava, on the Vailala River,
Papua, is about to increase its subscribed
capital by £BO,OOO to £1,080,000 in order
to further its thorough and costly search
for oil. Control is in the hands of
D’Arcy Exploration Co., Vacuum Oil
Co. and Oil Search, Ltd., the last an Aus-
tralian co. which pioneered the area but
called in the other partners for financial
and expert technical assistance. Almost
a million has been spent since forces
were joined. Of the new issue of
80,000 £1 shares, Oil Search will be en-
titled to take up 16,000, and for this and
other purposes it is offering its own share-
holders 80,000 shares of ss. each. The
issue deserves full subscription in view
of the thoroughgoing manner in which
the job is being done in Papua.
* * * *
In shirking its duty of raising direct
taxes from those who must be taxed some
way or other, the Canberra Labor Gov-
ernment has imposed heavy taxation on
company earnings irrespective of whether
the co.’s shareholders are small people
or wealthy folk. There is no justice what-
ever in this form of tax; it is mostly an
impost on brain-power, enterprise and
thrift, with the victim paying in full on
his already-taxed div. income when it
arrives, and with no protection from in-
direct taxation such as the wage-earner
enjoys.
Like its predecessors, Labor has not
introduced anything resembling an excess-
profits tax. It has squibbed this issue,
too, but is levying a much-increased
“war-time company tax” that imposes
taxation additions on all cos. earning
more than 4 p.c. on capital. Again this
tax is unfair and utterly unjustifiable on
any grounds except that by its injustice
it allows a large body of voters to escape
their fair share of war’s cost. A co.
earning more than 4 p.c. on capital
pays (in addition to State taxation)
3s. in the £ company tax, 2s. in the £ on
undistributed profits, at least 6 p.c. on
any earnings over 4 p.c., and if anything
is left to be passed on to shareholders
the shareholder is taxed without remorse
or consideration for what he has already
been taxed in the company’s hands. In
cases where earnings rise to above 16 p.c.
on capital the war-time profits tax runs
to 78 p.c. of the excess —the rate starts
at 6 p.c. on 4 p.c. to 5 p.c. on capital
and rises in steps of 6 p.c. for each 1 p.c.
of earnings in excess of 4 p.c. Fadden’s
tax started at 4 p.c. on 9 p.c. on capital,
went to 8 p.c. on 10 p.c., 12 p.c. on 11
p.c. and eventually rose to 60 p.c. on
22 p.c. or over. Of course, where a busi-
ness is conducted by a partnership or
individual it escapes this “war” tax. So
does the wage-earner who is paid over-
time arising out of war work.
* * * *
The U.S.A., in its insistence on “cash
and carry” for everything supplied to
Britain for fighting the war prior to the
introduction of lease-lend, has drained
the Empire almost dry of its realisable
overseas securities. By reason of the
great use made by Britain of Canadian
holdings in U.S. stocks, plus its purchases
of Canadian war goods, Britain is now a
debtor to Canada. Some of Britain’s
holdings were badly and expensively
marketed, too; the American Viscose
(Courtaulds) transaction was a case in
point. The New York brokers got a
tremendous rake-off, and the price ob-
tained was regarded in London as silly.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Treasurer, in announc-
ing the development of the munitions
and newsprint industries in the Speck,
adds that the Ovaltine people are erecting
a factory at Devonport, and negotiations
are in train for the erection of a starch
and glucose factory on the north-west
coast, which will absorb surplus potatoes.
Other projected Tasmanian industries are
weaving mills, fish-canning factories and
aluminium works, interest in the last
being stimulated by the discovery of
bauxite deposits about 50 miles from
Hobart. Flax-growing and -milling are
going ahead, and war-time expansion in
other industries has made inroads into
unemployment, which has virtually dis-
appeared.


THE SERVICE MAN
Moscow, Berlin—and Munich.
“Ek Dum”; November 6 was the
anniversary of the first real snowfall of
Napoleon’s 1812 campaign in Russia and
of the beginning of the fortnight which
robbed him of his horse transport and
left his army to fall to pieces, mainly for
lack of commissariat. There is unluckily
no hope that Hitler’s forces will fade
before the snow. Napoleon had no
motor-trucks, nor had he given much
thought to winter communications. He
had not, as Hitler claims the Germans
have done, “built behind the lines nearly
2000 bridges, and put 15,000 miles of
railway line into functioning order again,
9000 miles having been changed to the
general European gauge.”
Moscow reported at the week-end that
sudden falls of snow and rain were
hampering the enemy on the central
sector and that his tanks were bogged
down. Hitler erupted at Munich on the
theme that Russia in Europe, particularly
Leningrad, was at the mercy of his
armies:
Why do we not march in? I answer,
perhaps because it is raining or snowing,
perhaps because we have not finished re-
conditioning railway communication and
gauges behind our lines, The speed of our
advance is not decided by those wonderful
British strategists, but entirely by ourselves.
There is, unluckily, no evidence that
the German advance has been stemmed.
The London “Times” on Sept. 5 reported
that “German propagandists have now
evolved a theory according to which the
German General Staff is applying against
Russia a plan attributed to Conrad von
Hotzendorf, Chief of the Austrian
General Staff during the last war.” The
Germans were “said to be carrying out
successive drives, pincer- or scissor-like,
operating in unexpected sectors of a huge
front and advancing gradually into the
interior... .The application of this won-
derful plan is said to require 13 or 14
weeks.”
In effect, the Germans apparently
hoped to settle matters finally not earlier
than Dec. 5 and not later than Dec. 12.
That there is such a plan is evidenced by
the operations described on this page last
week as “The Battles of the Vs.”
On Oct. 2 Hitler issued an order to
his troops in which he summed up the
campaign to that date:
Today begins the decisive battle of this
year.,. .Within a few weeks the enemy's
three most important industrial regions
will be completely in our hands.
Adolf, a champion unconscious
humorist, went on to say that “thus we
will free the German Reich and entire
Europe from a menace greater than any
since the time of the Huns /”
The position on the three fronts is at
an intermediate stage. Only one Ger-
man volcano out of four is really active,
and until the lava from that can over-
whelm the threatened sector there will
be no attempt on the others. The refer-
ence is to the invasion of the Crimea.
That peninsula has been almost com-
pletely occupied. At the week-end Sevas-
topol, at the western end, was under
artillery fire, and, still untaken, called for
attention and assistance from the Soviet
Black Sea Fleet. At the same time, at
the opposite and eastern end of the
Crimea, the Germans claimed to have
penetrated the narrow neck of the Kerch
Peninsula. Taking Kerch, they must
force the strait at the mouth of the
Azov Sea to form the southern side of
the scissor intended to engulf Rostov
and most of the industrial area of the
southern Don.
“Famous” correspondents who see the
chance of this happening seem convinced
that within a few days afterwards the
British forces in the Middle East will be
engaged in “defending the Caucasus.”
“Famous” correspondents are generally
very vague about their geography. There
is no evidence that any British troops
are within 1000 miles of the Rostov Line.
And two heavily snow-clad mountain
ranges twice as high as Kosciusko stand
between the Germans and the British
Middle Eastern armies. There are no
certainties about the German kind of
war, but the likelihood is that, unless
Germany is very short of oil or unless
the Russian defence falls to pieces and
gives the enemy an open road, he will
not yet venture even as far as Baku. And
if he gets there he will not attempt to
move further till spring.
Any attempt to give immediate assist-
ance to Russia from the Iranian side of
the Elburz Range could have only a
token or moral value and would be in
the nature of a forlorn hope. The best
that can be done is to stoke up the Rus-
sian armies with materials.
North from the northern Azov shore,
along a front nearly 700 miles long,
Germans have straightened their positions
into uniformity. This they have always
done in the present war after a series
of battles, the armies coming to rest in
such a way that the next set of pincers
will have a key city of the sector marked
down for engulfing as far inside the
“blades” of the advance as possible.
The line now runs along the eastern
Ukraine border country slightly n.-e. of
Rostov, east of Kharkov, to east of
Kursk —admittedly taken a few days ago
with most of the iron region of which
it is the pivot— east of Orel, into the
suburbs of Tula, and then into a wide-
open scissor with blades 120 miles long
on each side of an axis, sitting on the
Smolensk road, 50-60 miles behind
Moscow.
The southern “blade” point is slightly
south-east of Tula. The northern blade
point is n.-e. of Kalinin. Beyond that,
to the area south of Leningrad, is a
curtain of troops on each side. At
Leningrad neither side appears to have
been making any serious effort to alter
the status quo. Hitler asserts that the
besiegers are “on the defensive” the
“city is manacled and no one will ever
free it.”
From Kalinin to the Crimea the next
prospective scissors seem to be:
(1) The great Moscow pincer, which, if
its blades sweep inward east of the capital
on their present length, would close to a
convenient point for succeeding pincer
movements round Gorki (old Nijm Novgo-
rod) and Kazan. Gorki, a large industrial
area on the Volga (pop. 500,000), was twice
bombed during the week.
(2) Orel-Byelgorod, with Kursk as an
axis, to engulf Voronezh and the Don
bridgeheads in the central region of that
river. Marshal Voroshilov was at Voronezh
last week. He apparently is trying to estab-
lish a defence line on the Don, of which
the Germans claim to hold two bridgeheads
further south.
(3) The Kharkov region to Stalino, to
engulf Voroshilograd and adjacent cities and
pave the way for a pincer round Stalingrad
on the Volga. Italians and Hungarians are
involved there. Possibly their drive will
be incorporated with the operation against
Rostov.
(4) The pincer pushing forward on both
sides of the Azov Sea in the hope of en-
gulfing Rostov and paving the way to
Batoum, the oilfields north of the Caucasus,
Astrakhan and the Caspian.
Stalin spoke in Moscow’s Red Square
on the Day of the October Revolution.
He admitted that “Anglo-American assist-
ance was of great importance and grow-
ing continually.” He said that “nobody
doubted that Britain and U.S. would give
full support”:
Already since the Moscow conference we
have received tanks and aircraft, and
Britain has secured us supplies of such
materials as aluminium, tin, nickel and
rubber. The U.S.A. has promised to lend
us a milliard of dollars. The first tanks
are already pouring in. Our strength will
grow.
He declared that “though the Red
Army” was “performing miracles of
heroism the enemy did not stop,” but
undoubtedly “after four months of war
the enemy’s strength was failing, while
Red Army reserves were corhing in in
increasing numbers.” Thirty divisions
had been created already.
He mentioned “the very unfavorable
conditions under which we entered the
war”:
The Germans, considering their western
front safe, are able to hurl all their armies
and the armies of their allies against the
Red Army. There can be no doubt that
a second European front —and it must defi-
nitely appear in the immediate future —will
very considerably lighten our position.
Naturally, the whole flapper press rushed
to insist that a second front must imme-
diately be formed, whatever the cost in
British blood. Not a single voice was
raised to point out that Stalin had
“omitted” to establish a “second front”
in April-June, 1940.
Britain and her Allies are not likely
to refrain from helping the Russian
people, who, in the way of starvation and
bloodshed, have endured more in the last
quarter of a century than any other
nation in modern European history. But
British Empire interests are a first con-
sideration and must be the deciding
factor.
The explanation for the retreat of the
Red Army given by its C.-in-C. is that,
“while Russian tanks, aircraft and artil-
lery are better than those of the Ger-
mans, we have several times fewer tanks
than the Germans.” And the “only way
it is possible to neutralise the German
superiority in tanks is to increase several-
fold the production of tanks for the
Soviets and sharply increase the output
of dive-bombers, anti-tank rifles and
guns, grenades—every type of anti-tank
weapons.”
Stalin also gave an estimate of casual-
ties, which may be published along with
previous Russian official figures:
Aug. 23. Oct. 3. Nov. 5.
Killed 150,000 200,000 350,000
Wounded .. 440,000 580,000 1,020,000
Missing 110,000 178,000 378,000
Totals 700,000 958,000 1,748,000
It is not clear whether the “missing” in-
clude “prisoners of war.”
The last enemy casualty list, issued on
September 20, alleged that German losses
were 85,896 killed, 295,980 wounded and
20,299 missing—402,000 in alj.
Hitler asserted on October 2 that his
armies had taken 2,400,000 prisoners, de-
stroyed or captured more than 17,500
tanks and more than 21,600 pieces of
artillery, and brought down or destroyed
on the ground 14,200 ’planes.
He boasted at Munich on Nov, 8 that
the Soviets had “lost between 8,000,000
and 10,000,000 men, excluding the slightly
wounded, including 3,600,000 prisoners,
27,000 guns, 22,000 tanks and 15,000
’planes.”
For the second time in the past few
months he tauntingly invited the creation
of a second front in the West. He said
that he had made such preparations there
that his enemies could try it at any point
they liked, from Norway to France, and
would fail. He added that “during the
past few months he had increased Ger-
many’s gigantic arms potential to many
times its capacity since the outbreak of
war.”
He did not mention that he had found
a way to swim the Channel or to keep
British ’planes out of French and German
and Italian skies, or to save convoys in
the Mediterranean, In plain fact, there
is only one front on which Germany is
not on the defensive, and that is the
Russian front.
The R.A.F. diverted a lot of German
minds from what their dictator was say-
ing by a bold 48-hour offensive which,
in terrible weather, let 500 aircraft loose
on Friday night and another 500 on
Saturday. Meanwhile Hurricanes and
Spitfires in hundreds conducted attacks
on nearer objectives, and the Malta com-
mand plastered Brindisi and left heaps
of wrecked buildings, and toured Sicily
as usual, and made piecemeal of a little
more of Naples.
In Germany, Berlin, Mannheim and
Cologne were the main, but not the only,
targets. The price, 54 R.A.F. machines,
including 37 bombers on Friday, was
heavy. Eight more were lost when Essen
and other industrial towns were blasted
on Saturday night, along with the docks
at Dunkirk and Ostend.
On Friday night 200 highly-trained
men of the bomber crews were lost to
the Empire; some were captured or
interned.
The Navy also celebrated its Munich
putsch anniversary—it bagged two con-
voys bound from Italy to Africa, sank
an Italian destroyer and damaged an-
other.
These events and the announcement
from Alexandria that British ships and
bombers have sunk 80 Axis vessels total-
ling 339,000 tons and damaged 61 total-
ling 267,000 tons in the Mediterranean
campaign sent Berlin and Rome into
paroxisms of invention. Dr. Goebbels
went out and destroyed 118,000 tons of
mercantile shipping and two destroyers
as a showing for the past week.
But if many Germans and Italians have
better cause than usual to remember their
Bierhall Putsch anniversary this year, it
will not be because of anything in Goeb-
bels’s or Hitler’s boastings.
Up to Nov. 10 the British Government
had shown no signs of declaring war on
Finland, which had received a U.S, warn,
ing to cease fighting. Social Democrats
have asked for a secret session of the
Riksdag to discuss the position.
A Finnish settlement will not have been
made easier by the fact that the Rus-
sians, before they left historic Viborg,
razed it to the ground and applied the
scorched-earth policy to the parts of
Karelia which the Finns recaptured from
them. But U.S. opinion will be treated
with respect.
At Last!
“Ek D.”: Hear the boo-boo boys:
“At last we begin (!!) to fight... .At last
British ’planes and crews are on the
Caucasian front But there are only
100 of them; not nearly enough,”
The Russians admitted having lost
4500 aeroplanes in the first eight weeks
of fighting. They claimed themselves in
that period to have destroyed 7200
German ’planes. They reported having
destroyed 500 German machines in one
week late in August.
If these figures are only half correct
it shows the vast wastage in the air of
front-line war and the necessity for every
R.A.F. and R.A.A.F. ’plane to be hoarded
like gold against the time when the
British and A.I.F. forces in the Middle
East and elsewhere may have to take
part in the kind of fighting which has
broken the back of the Soviet’s forces.
Anybody who suggests depleting the
air cover of our own men would get a
poor reception from those who fought in
Flanders, Greece and Crete.
R.A.A.F.In England.
“Aileron”: It must have been a proud
moment for Acting Air Marshal Dick
Williams and Wing-Commander Tommy
White when they watched the beginnings
of development of the R.A.A.F. head-
quarters in Britain last week. The pair
were included among the first four trainee
officers to join the Australian Flying
Corps before the last war, and Williams
was the R.A.A.F.’s first commander after
the war.
A batch of R.A.A.F. graduates arrived
as a nucleus on Nov. 4—15 officers and
40 men, who came via Canada under
command of Wing-Commander A.
Richards.
They reached London in time to hear
that, after holding the record number of
kills across the Channel in August and
September, the Australian Spitfire Squad-
ron operating with the Coastal Com-
mand had been rated second to the U.S.
Eagle Squadron for October. The
Coastal Command credits the Australians
with bringing down eight machines
against nine downed by the Eagles,
though the Australian squadron’s own
records claim 11 victims.
R.A.A.F. men have been flowing over-
seas steadily under the Empire Training
Scheme, apart from the large numbers
already allotted to various squadrons of
the R.A.F. A building has been acquired
as a central London H.Q., and from this
the main organisation will be built up.
The pioneer Australian unit in Britain
is the Short Sunderland Squadron, which
changed its intended venue from Papuan
waters to the North Sea and Atlantic on
the outbreak of war. To keep this and
the Spitfire Squadron in the air there
must be hundreds of men employed on
ground staff and other duties apart from
pilots.
It can be seen, therefore, that the
equipment of even a few squadrons will
call for lavish inflow of R.A.A.F. per-
sonnel to Britain.
The Same Old R.N.
“Nobby II”: Helped by the R.A.F.,
the Royal Navy did a great week’s work.
On Nov. 2 it stopped a Vichy French
convoy of five ships off S. Africa, They
were guarded by a sloop. When
asked to proceed to the nearest port for
examination, in accordance with inter-
national law, three of the five captains
tried to scuttle their ships. They were
forestalled by boarding parties in classic
style.
The motley collection on board in-
cluded political prisoners, 26 Germans
and some Greeks from a vessel held by
the Vichy Government at a Madagascan
port. The cargoes are being examined.
An official report accuses the Vichy Gov-
ernment of having tried to run contra-
band from Indo-China.
On Nov. 3 fight British forces patrol-
ling the Channel almost bumped against
a large, opulent-looking Nazi supply ship
so heavily escorted as to write her own
references. One British ship attended to
the freighter with torpedoes which either
sank the quarry or forced her to beach
seriously damaged. The rest of the R.N.
pack dealt with the escorts, which they
sent home somewhat mauled at a cost
of an officer and four ratings wounded.
On Nov. 4 the Admiralty announced
the sinking by submarines of three enemy
ships in the central Mediterranean —in all
9500 tons. Two of the victims were in
convoy, but it availed them nothing.
On Nov. 6 Angus McDonald, the
Canadian Navy Minister, said that Ü-
boats were operating right up to the
Newfoundland coast, but that it was
believed that two had been attacked last
month and one probably sunk.
These attacks were diversified by the
ticklings of the R.A.F. and F.A.A., which
sent several ships in the North Sea scurry-
ing to port to shed bomb fragments.
The culmination was a brilliant action
in the central Mediterranean on Sunday
morning, Nov. 9.
On Saturday an American Maryland
scout-’plane sighted enemy supply ships,
escorted by a destroyer, south of
Taranto, apparently headed for Italy.
Aurora (Capt. W. G. Agnew) and


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1702 of 1941.
BETWEEN CATHERINE LILIAN ANDER-
SON Petitioner and „
THOMAS CLIFFORD ANDERSON Respon-
TO THOMAS CLIFFORD ANDERSON late
of Werris Creek.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CATHERINE
LILIAN ANDERSON has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying tor
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds that
you have been guilty of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Thirtieth
day of January One thousand nine hundred and
forty-two, and in the event of your n ot doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge. „ ,
DATED this Thirty-first day of October,
1941
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
E. H. TEBBUTT AND SONS, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1187 of 1941.
BETWEEN EMILY PENN KLEES Petitioner
and „ , x
JOSEPH DANIEL KLEES Respondent.
TO JOSEPH DANIEL KLEES late of Bel-
more in the State of New Souffi Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EMILY PENN
KLEES has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the ground ot de-
sertion for three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit on or before
the Thirtieth day of January One thousand nine
hundred and forty-two and in the event ot your
not so doing within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be obtained free of charge
on application to the undersigned solicitor.
DATED this 4th day of November, 1941.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ROBERT MAXWELL, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 90 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1710 of 1941.
BETWEEN EMILY JEAN COOK Petitioner
and
CLIFFORD WILLIAM COOK her Husband
Respondent.
TO CLIFFORD WILLIAM COOK late of 53
Petersham Road Marrickville.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EMILY JEAN
COOK has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired to enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Honorable Court on
or before the Thirtieth day of January 1942
and in the event of your not so doing within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Thirtieth day of October, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
N. V. MENLOVE, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 799 of 1941.
BETWEEN RETA EILEEN CULLEN Peti-
tioner and
LESLIE ERNEST CULLEN Respondent.
TO LESLIE ERNEST CULLEN formerly of
Goulburn in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said RETA
EILEEN CULLEN has commenced a suit
against you in this Court for dissolution of
her marriage with you on the grounds that
you have during three years and upwards been
an habitual drunkard and have habitually been
guilty of cruelty towards her and that during
three years you have been an habitual drunkard
and have habitually left her without the means
of support AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Fourth day of Febru-
ary One thousand nine hundred and forty-two
AND in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Sixth day of November One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
PHILIP GOLDMAN, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 18-20 Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1355 of 1941.
BETWEEN DAPHNE MAY McHUGH Peti-
tioner and
JOSEPH JOHN McHUGH Respondent.
TO JOSEPH JOHN McHUGH late of Como-
bella near Wellington in the State of New
South Wales. T „
TAKE NOTICE that the said DAPHNE
MAY McHUGH has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years and upwards without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Thirtieth day of January One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-two and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and de-
termined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Fourth day of November, 1941.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
FRANK WILKINS, Solicitor for Petitioner,
Barton Chambers, Swift Street, Wellington,
N.S.W. _
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1707 of 1941.
BETWEEN MELVA GRACE BRANNIGAN,
Petitioner and
JACK BRANNIGAN (otherwise known as
Jack Morgan) Respondent.
TO JACK BRANNIGAN late of Neath New
South Wales. A „ T ,., A
TAKE NOTICE that the said MELVA
GRACE BRANNIGAN has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of your adultery with Ruby
Bridget Mary Anderson AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appear-
ance to the said suit at the proper office of
this Court on or before the Sixth day of
February One thousand nine hundred and forty-
two and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge. „
DATED this Sixth day of November One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one-
(l.s.) C. K. BOUT,
Registrar.
WOODGATE & CLEAVES, Solicitors for
Petitioner, 97 Vincent Street, Cessnock; by their
City Agents, PIGOTT, STINSON, MAC-
GREGOR & PALMER, Solicitors, 2b Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
) THOMAS RICHARD NOBLE formerly of
33 Durham Street Richmond in the State
of Victoria Leather Dresser but now of
parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife RUBY
[OLET NOBLE has instituted proceedings
ainst you for a divorce on the ground of
■sertion for three years and upwards Unless
iu enter an appearance in the office or the
othonotary of the Supreme Court at Mel-
mrne in the State of Victoria within twenty-
le days from the date hereof and thereafter
e your answer within ten days of entering
ich appearance the suit will proceed in your
& KENNEDY, 291 Bridge
oad, Richmond, in the State of Victoria,
alicitors for the Petitioner.
Penelope (Capt. A. D. Nicholl), the two
senior sisters of the very saucy 5000-ton
Arethusa class, which carry six 6m. guns
as primary armament, with two 1920-ton
Laforey destroyers, Lance and Lively, on
which the paint is scarcely dry, headed
for the scene.
They picked up their prey m the early
hours, but it looked harder to digest than
the report had promised. Two large
Bin.-gun Trento-class cruisers hung like
walls on the horizon—they are opposite
numbers of Australia and Canberra—and
two more destroyers had appeared. The
main broadside of a Trento weighs
21001 b. or thereabouts against the 6001 b.
emitted by the peashooters of Penelope.
The R.N. broke into a hullabaloo of
shooting the moment it could draw a
bead. Musso.’s mariners for a few crucial
seconds seemed to think it was a fire-
works display in their honor. By the
time they had recovered their wits and
begun some very erratic shooting, which
did no harm to anything but the Mediter-
ranean, nine supply ships were disappear-
ing with a well-disintegrated destroyer for
company ; a 10,000-ton ammunition ship
was acting as torch —she was still burning
10 hours later another destroyer was
limping badly, and somebody was trying
to tow home the third. All that could
be seen of the two big cruisers, as
Aurora and Penelope pulled in Lance and
Lively and danced off home, were two
wakes glinting in the morning darkness.
The Regia Aeronautica tried to redeem
the reputation of the Italian Navy with
a few torpedoes, but all the British ships
made port unscathed.
The week-end brought a naval state-
ment from Alexandria that 80 Axis ships
of 339,000 tons had been sunk in the
Mediterranean during three months and
61 of 267,000 tons so severely damaged
that they may not have reached port.
In six months Axis ships lost in the
Mediterranean numbered 322.
Another Step Nearer.
“Nobby II”: By 50 votes to 37, the
Senate at Washington passed the bill to
amend the Neutrality Act and allow
United States ships to be armed and
enter combat zones. The bill, revised
on its way through Congress, has still to
face the House again, but is sure of a
passage.
The President let no grass grow under
his feet. He at once gave orders to
transfer supplies to the U.S.S.R. under
the Lease-Lend Act and has approved
of a non-interest-bearing loan of
£A312,000,000 to the U.S.S.R. to “obviate
financial difficulties.”
The new move infuriated Hitler, who
remarked at Munich that “the Ameri-
cans” were “making stupid efforts to
create nightmarish armament drives,” and
that he had ordered the captains of Ger-
man warships not to fire first on U.S.
ships attacking them, but to defend them-
selves when attacked.
He shouted: “I should court-martial
any officer who did not defend himself.”
It is a peculiar position. Uncle Sam
is taking every step which might go with
declaration of war, and President Roose-
velt shows no inclination to avoid taking
the initiative to fire on German warships
which are a menace to his plans for help-
ing Britain and her Allies. If U.S. papers
are correct, he has gone the length of
forming a naval base in Iceland and of
placing U.S. troops there —under the
supreme command of a British general.
The U.S. Iceland force is reported to
be headed by Major-General C. M. Bone-
steel, formerly G.O.C. sth Division, and
to be complete from infantry to artillery
and armed with everything from the new
Garand rifle to fighter ’planes. There
are also a brigade of U.S. Marines under
Brigadier John Marston and some Nor-
wegian units. But Major-General H. O.
Curtis, who served through the last war
at Salonika and in Palestine and France,
and who was G.O.C. in Palestine imme-
diately before General Wavell in ’34-36,
“still commands all Iceland troops, in-
cluding those from U.S.”
Hitler, for once, seems anxious to
avoid initiative. The full entry of Uncle
Sam into the war would have dreadfully
unpleasant reactions for the Nazi Govern-
ment inside Europe and Germany itself.
The full use of the U.S. Navy on the
side of Britain also would have a tre-
mendous effect on the naval and air
situations.
In those realms, the Reichsmarine and
the Luftwaffe already have their time
fully occupied.
Kurusu Goes to Washington.
“Fong Tsz”; The Japanese Govern-
ment has sent Mr. Saburo Kurusu, who
has held diplomatic posts in Belgium,
Germany, Manila and elsewhere, to the
United States in a hurry to help Admiral
Nomura “arrive at the earliest possible
settlement with the U.S. Government in
view of the prevailing international situa-
tion.” The Japanese press has since
adopted a more conciliatory tone, though
the position was complicated by the sink-
ing of the Kehi Maru, a 4522-ton ship,
87 miles out on its normal voyage be-
tween Seishin and Tsuruga in the Japan
Sea. The vessel struck a mine which was
said to have drifted from a field laid by
the Russians. Out of 429 on board, 169
are reported missing. The Japanese
Foreign Office lodged a protest —the
second—against the laying of mines in
the Sea of Japan. Berlin declares that
another Japanese vessel of 3275 tons has
been sunk.
The Diet meets at Tokyo on November
15, and Mr. Beasley, Minister for Supply,
remarked during the week that this might
be a critical day for Australia. Still,
while discussion is proceeding hope re-
mains, and it would be better to let Mr.
Roosevelt do such talking as needs to
be done. So far there have been no
triumphs in the diplomatic field. It would
be a great achievement to manoeuvre
Japan out of the Axis, and the President
can be depended upon to exhaust every
effort without sacrifice of principle.
"Invade Australia."
“Nobby II”; According to Admiral
Luetzow, it would be dead easy to
invade Australia. One flaw in the
scheme is that a Japanese war with
the Empire would certainly involve
the U.S.A. and the Dutch East Indies.
Then the Japanese Navy would need
about twice its present strength in
ships to defend even its main bases. It
would still have to keep the seaways
open to succor Japanese armies in
China. It would have to face added
responsibilities in Indo-China and in the
Sea of Japan. And it would have to do
this against enemies with powerful fleets,
abundant fuel and well-placed land bases.
Even if these responsibilities did not
fall on the Japanese Navy its operations
would still be limited by the fact that the
operating range of its heavy fleet is about
1500 miles short of the nearest “flat coast
of Australia.”
Japan is very short of cruisers (35)
by the end of this year Uncle Sam will
have nearly twice as many. Nippon,
however, is well served with aircraft-
carriers—ls in all, with a combined air-
craft capacity of 231 machines. No ship,
however, can carry more than 50 sea-
planes, and the bulk carry only 10 or 20.
In any case, the full number would be
needed for fleet guard and reconnais-
sance. The squadron of battleships which
ventures abroad these days without air-
craft-carriers usually wishes that it hadn’t.
The U.S. has ships which carry 80
machines apiece.
An aircraft-carrier captain who ven-
tured 4000 miles to make a landing in a
country well equipped with ’planes, pos-
sessed of several cruisers more power-
fully armed than most of the A.Cs., and
with an armored division and abundance
of mechanical transport, must be bent
on committing hara-kiri.
For Japan to make any effective raid
on Australia would be about as easy as
it would be for Germany to make a seri-
ous attack on the British West Indies or
on Brazil. Any attack could have only
a nuisance value. If it should be launched
the Japanese Navy should requisition the
services of Admiral Luetzow as leader.
He seems to be a man of great origi-
nality of mind and harebrained daring.
At least on the radio.
Most of the work over Libya is still
being done from the air, apart from
the regular local strafes and sorties of
Tobruk and Solium. Raids from Tripoli
to Gondar, with special attention to
Benghazi, Martuba and Bardia filled in
the R.A.F.’s week. Italian and German
raids have been few and unimportant,
though the Germans claimed to have
destroyed a large freighter near the Suez
Canal. A small formation of enemy
bombers essayed an attack on Malta on
Nov. 8. Three were shot down and two
sent home badly damaged. A few in-
cendiaries were dropped round Tobruk
Harbor during the week-end.
British G.H.Q. at Cairo reports that
“under cover of strong patrols enemy
working parties are evidently making
additions to their defences in the Tobruk
area.” And Berlin says it’s a siege!
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: If the Government wished
to give a sensational flavor to the visit
of General Tom Blarney, it could not
have bettered its performance. On Mon-
day of last week Mr. Curtin said that
“the Government” had “asked him to
return for purposes of consultation.”
Next morning Mr. Forde said the
general was “returning to Australia at
his own request.” On November 6 the
general himself said in Singapore: “All
I know about my visit is that the Govern-
ment wishes to confer with me.”
General Blarney in Singapore; “The
A.I.F. is still in Tobruk, where it has
been and is doing a magnificent job in
keeping the enemy hopping in a type of
warfare at which our troops are particu-
larly good.” That disposes of a yarn
which had gone the rounds in the Com-
monwealth that no A.I.F. men remained
in Tobruk, The Prime Minister has
denied in toto another yarn that the Gov-
ernment is considering the withdrawal of
the A.I.F. from the Middle East.
* * * *
Colonel R. G. H. Irving, of the A.1.F.,
as Deputy Director of Training in the
Middle East, is to take charge of the
training of all troops there, under the
Chief of the General Staff. Several Aus-
tralian staff officers will join him in the
work. They earned their places by work
in the front line.
« • ♦ •
Major-General Gordon Bennett, who
commands the A.I.F. in Malaya, is to
visit the Middle East to learn what first-
line conditions of modern warfare are like
from men who have been through it. So
it doesn’t look as if the Far Eastern
Command expects to hear shellfire for a
while.
An R.A.A.F. squadron flying Brewster
Buffaloes has been “infiltrated” into the
R.A.F. in Malaya. The whole squadron
personnel is Australian save for its com-
mander, a 24-year-old squadron-leader
with abundant fighting experience in Spit-
fires.
*** • *
The Prime Minister last week an-
nounced that Australian casualties, other
than those missing, were 9937:
Killed. Wounded. Prisoners.
RAN. .. 133 8 24
A IF. .. 1631 5015 3714
R.A.A.F. .. 349 20 43
The heavy toll of the R.A.A.F. is notice-
able in view of the fact that for more
than half the time it has been in action
only one squadron was operating in the
Middle East. It is not clear whether
casualties of the Short Sunderland Squad-
ron with the R.A.F. are included. The
Army Minister previously had announced
that total Australian losses to September
25 were 13,143 ; so that the fate of over
3000 men seems to be uncertain.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: An A.I.F. recruit who has
spent three years with the Chinese troops
has no use for the tommy-gun in war.
Excellent as it may be for blotting out a
few confused people at short range, it
runs hot and jams quickly, and for
general purposes is not worth its weight
when a good service rifle is available.
The Australian’s estimate of other
weapons is: American 75, a failure,
Bren, not in it with the older machine-
guns: it won’t “spray” and has to be
nursed. He plumps for the Lewis.


V
Made of a light olive English Twill Khaki Shirting that stands
up to all kinds of wear. Renowned for its fast colour and
wearing ability. This collar-attached style with its two military
pockets always looks smart. Roomy cut and perfect fitting.
It is with pride and confidence Pike Brothers recommend the
“SANTWILL” ... a shirt that carries the famous “ALBATROSS”
label . . . your assurance of good quality and superior workman-
ship.
READY-TO-WEAR
10/6
Please state collar size when ordering.
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
Queen Street BRISBANE
SANTWILL”
The Shirt that
revels in
hard work ...
IN SYDNEY—STAY AT THE WENTWORTH
The Wentworth Hotel, noted for kindly hospitality, combines a
full measure of courteous service with modern appointments that
make for your comfort. Bedrooms with telephones, private bathrooms
and toilets.
TARIFF: Room and Breakfast from 13/6, inclusive from 20/-. Our
tariff remains constant the year round; we do NOT follow the
policy of increasing tariff during Christmas, Easter or any other
season.
\
c.
MACLURCAN; Managing Director
SYDNEY
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
They’re Off!
Following on the Cup, Melbourne’s
musical punters had an opportunity of
backing their fancy at the pianoforte con-
certo festival on Saturday at the Town
Hall, and they rolled up in their thou-
sands. Of the original field of 35, all but
seven had been eliminated in the heats at
the University Conservatorium, and of
the seven Mary Macleod had to be dis-
qualified as the orchestral scores of her
selection could not be obtained in Mel-
bourne. Her place was taken at the
starting-post by runner-up Anne Akimo-
vitch, who rode Tschaikowsky’s B Flat
Minor to a splendid finish.
The result of the contest was a fore-
gone conclusion, May Clifford, mounted
on that world-famous stayer Beethoven’s
No. 4 in G Major, winning by a length
from Dallas Haslam, on Grieg’s A Minor.
Mack lost fought gamely for a place on
Rachmaninoff’s No. 3 in D Minor, but
his mount appeared to jump in the air
as the barrier rose, and this cost him
several lengths, enabling Cesar Franck’s
Symphonic Variations, with Lucy Seeker
on his back, to run into third place.
Liszt’s No. 1 in E Flat and Schumann’s
A Minor were unplaced, although they
were piloted skilfully by Leonard Hun-
gerford and Estejle Coady respectively.
* * * *
More Gilsullivan at Sydney Royal—•
“The Pirates of Penzance,” plus its cus-
tomary curtain-raiser, “Trial by Jury”—
seemingly as fresh as ever, with the only
shadow of disaster a possibility that one
of these days Ivan Menzies may rattle off
the Major-General song so fast that, like
an alleged new American ’plane, he may
flash along silently ahead of his own roar.
V * * W
“Tales of Hoffmann,” performed by
members of Sydney Con.’s School of
Opera at the Con. Hall on Saturday night,
did little to confute the arguments of
those stern purists who say that opera
is an unnecessary hybrid among the arts.
Orchestrally and vocally, the players were
adequate to a presentation of Offenbach s
clever, volatile music. Staging and cos-
tuming were, for a semi-amateur produc-
tion, first-class. But somebody must have
told the principals that no attempt at
acting is permitted on the operatic stage
—not even in opera bouffe. Save for this
little drawback, Jean Hatton, Isolde Hill,
Sydney de Vries and Reginald Wil-
loughby made a pleasing impression.
* * * *
Players associated with the late Gregan
McMahon presented Ivor Novello’s “I
Lived with You” at the Princess, Mel-
bourne last week. McMahon had been
engaged on its production, and Frederick
Blackman finished the preparation.
Acting was good to f.a.q. Marie Rendle
as the Cockney who picks up with an
Richard Watson as the Judge in “Trial by Jury” and Ivan Menzies
and Chief Pirate Bernard Manning in “The Pirates of Penzance,” at
Sydney Royal.
exiled Russian prince was excellent, and
Alexander Bennett would certainly have
given a good picture of an aristocrat if
Mr. Novello’s prince had been like an
aristocrat. H. N. Gregory was excellent
as the bibulous and amorous Cockney
husband, but Phoebe Marks overdid the
Cockney mother whose family is led into
evil courses by the latitudinarian ideas
on marriage of the Slav princeling. It
is not expected that any protest will be
lodged by the Australia-Soviet Friendship
League against this libel on a friendly
nation.
AT THE TALKIES
“Tom, Dick and Harry”
Ginger Rogers, along with George
Murphy, Alan Marshall and Burgess
Meredith, figures—if that’s not too inti-
mate a term —in “Tom, Dick and Harry”
at Sydney Regent.
Ginger, made up to look as if le bon
Dieu had specially constructed her out
of maple syrup, is proposed to by the
three in turn. After George proposes,
she goes to bed and dreams their future ;
ditto Burgess; and when she sights Alan
she again does likewise.
George is an ambitious car salesman,
heading for success in his line ; Burgess is
a garage mechanic, not worth a dollar ;
Alan is fabulously rich. All being
most personable young men, which would
you take, girls? Oh, you would! Well,
at least, you’re honest. Ginger doesn’t,
though. If it’s not breaking a confidence,
she takes the one that you know very
well she would take. And why? Because
he’s got a grin on him like a goat in a
cabbage patch? Because the other two
are the sort of guys you sometimes read
about in advertisements? Because he’s
a he-man and they ain’t?
Not at all, girls! So why? For heaven’s
sake, sir, end this horrible suspense! But
why shouldn’t there be suspense? The
film’s full of suspense. In fact, it’s entirely
composed of suspense. Take away the
suspense of waiting to learn why Ginger
picks the one you know she’ll pick, and
what else is there in it? Would it be
fair to give that away?
Never let it be said that the present
film addict stooped to anything so low.
He likes thrills, just as no doubt you
do yourselves; and he wouldn’t do you
out of this one for worlds. And, of
course, he has some more thrills in front
of him before this day’s out. Presently
he’s going along to the while-you-wait to
have new rubbers put on his boots ; then
perhaps a lemon-squash or a milk-shake ;
then there’ll be the thrill of waiting in
the bus queue ; then the lawn to be
cut; and after that there’s the good old
nosebag—whacko, sausages again to-
night!
Life’s fairly full of thrills like these
and “Tom, Dick and Harry.”
» * * *
“Chad Hanna,” at Sydney Plaza, is a
color film set in what professes to be a
circus of a century ago. It’s from a novel,
Red Wheels Rolling, and, as the change
of title presages, the film concentrates on
trying to make rather too much of the
character study of the rural inn stable
boy who takes refuge with a circus and
finds himself tangling with a couple of
bewchus equestriennes. Henry Fonda
plays Chad Hanna, and does a fair job
without managing to make the character
outstanding enough to carry the show. A
pity the filmsmiths didn’t try to make a
bit more of the circus setting—one or
two scenes suggest that an elaborate
circus opus would probably be the best
possible use that could be made of the
tinsel brilliance that color photography
gives a film. Others in it are Dorothy
Lamour and Linda Darnell as equestri-
ennes, Guy Kibbee as the circus pro-
prietor and John Carradine, for once in
a sympathetic part, as the circus’s advance
agent.
* * * »
Richard Arlen and Andy Devine have
been figuring in a bunch of adventure
films—usually to the formula of Richard
as the ’andsome, ’ard-’itting ’ero and
Andy as his bosom pal and offsider. Their
latest, “Men of the Timberland,” at Syd-
ney Capitol, has Richard as a forestry
ranger on the track of crooks who are
cutting out an illegal percentage of
timber. Andy Devine as a renowned
lumberjack foreman apparently knows so
much about his job that he doesn’t realise
that the work he is supervising is illegal.
Three or four murders, however, seem
to indicate that something shady is afoot,
and Andy and the inevitable goil take
sides with Richard, having probably been
to the pictures and learned that Richard
always comes out on top.
ARTBURSTS
When he was a militiaman at Mount
Martha, Wilfred McCulloch found time
to paint and draw the camp and its
environment, make himself so useful that
the High Command employed him as a
draughtsman, and also hold an ex-
hibition in Melbourne. He then enlisted
in the A.1.F., and has since found time
between his military duties to do the
same thing at Wangaratta, and a second
exhibition was opened last week at the
Athenreum by Brigadier Luxton, who
testified to McCulloch’s proficiency as a
soldier and left the pictures to testify
to his skill as a painter. McCulloch has
even found time to become more im-
pressionistic, and some of his riverscapes
and bush scenes, as well as his views of
camp life, justify more approving adjec-
tives than the work of many whole-time
city artists.


SPORTING MOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR A LOVELINESS THAT GAZZLRS!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
High Caste provided perhaps the great-
est sensation of the V.R.C. spring meet-
ing by his defeat of the 3-to-l-on favorite,
Beau Vite, in a controversial race for the
C. B. Fisher Plate on Saturday. A sec-
tion of the crowd in the flat reserve took
exception to Munro’s handling of Beau
Vite, and, although they were hardly in
a position to see exactly what happened,
general opinion favors the idea that the
favorite was unlucky to be beaten.
Circumstances were against Beau Vite
in that he had to make his own pace
from the nine furlongs. The pace was
very slow, however, and had Munro made
a little more use of his mount, or sat
down to ride his hardest when challenged
by Tranquil Star at the top of the straight,
the result might have been different.
Bartle, waiting for the last run with High
Caste, dashed to a half-length lead just
inside the last furlong, but Beau Vite
responded gamely when asked for an
extra effort, and ran him to half a head.
Beau Vite would have won in another
stride or two. F. McGrath does not
think his horse was feeling the effects of
his Melbourne Cup run under 9.10. He
expressed the opinion that anything is
likely to happen in a muddling-run race.
Excuses for Beau Vite notwithstand-
ing, High Caste deserved full marks for
his third successive Fisher Plate win and
his second successive defeat of Beau Vite
in the corresponding race. Recent form
suggested he was on the down-grade,
and there was talk of retiring him to the
stud had he not won the Linlithgow
Stakes on the third day of the meeting.
High Caste only partly rehabilitated
himself in that race, as he was all out
to beat Burrabil, but Saturday’s suc-
cess seemingly placed him back on his
former pedestal. He has the constitution
of an ox, and, all going well, will be on
hand again next autumn for, perhaps,
his last racing campaign. With winnings
of £33,515, High Caste is now tenth on
the list of leading Australian and Maori-
land stake-winners.
High Road, who may be a danger to
Skipton in the St. Legers next autumn,
proved his Derby form correct by an
easy win from Art Union and Reg in the
Batman Stakes. He ran third in the
classic on a public preparation of two
races, and some keen judges consider he
would have made the finish more interest-
ing had he escaped interference. Winner
of the Ascot Vale Stakes last autumn,
High Road is one of the most massive
three-year-olds racing, but he has a “bit
of a leg” and that might explain his few
appearances this spring. His trainer, L.
Robertson, says that the leg has never
troubled him seriously, but the colt is
such a heavy fellow that he has to be
handled carefully. He will not race again
until the autumn.
Maikai, eight years old and runner-
up in two Melbourne Cups, returned to
winning form by defeating Yours Truly
and Saul in the V.R.C. Handicap. Backed
down to equal favoritism at 4 to 1 with
Son of Aurous, he came from last at the
six furlongs, and, although the chances
of several runners were prejudiced in a
scrimmage at the top of the straight, it is
improbable Maikai would have been
beaten in any case. He met Son of
Aurous and Velocity on much better than
Melbourne Cup terms, and made the
most of it.
Maikai has made a definite comeback,
yet several months ago it was considered
likely that the last had been seen of him
on a racecourse. One of his legs gave a
lot of trouble, and former Westralian
trainer V. Egan, who took him over
after he left F. Godby’s stable, deserves
full credit for getting him through an-
other searching preparation. Maikai is
to be given an opportunity of winning
his second Williamstown Cup, in which
51b. penalty takes him up to 9.3.
Leahero, a 400-guinea colt by Helles-
pont from Mirambeek, created a favor-
able impression by his first-up win in
the Flemington Stakes. Starting at 14
to 1 after twenties had been laid, he led
practically all the way, and, although
inclined to run “greenly,” was able to
hold off Portsmouth and Register. His
task was made easier when the warm
favorite, Silver Crown, lost several
lengths at the start, and the second
favorite, Haros, also began slowly, but
Leahero looks like developing into a
really good colt. His win gave E. Preston
a lucky last-minute ride. Trainer P.
Burke expected O. Phillips to take the
mount, but the latter could not make the
weight.
In winning the Ottawa Stakes for
maiden fillies, East End recorded a second
faster time than Leahero. Backed from
9 to 4 to 6 to 4, she was never in danger
of defeat, and, racing to the front about
a furlong from home, ran out a very
easy winner from Philander and Refrac-
tive, East End was bred by her owner,
R. Turnbull, and represents the oldest
stock of her imported sire Enfield, also
sire of the Maribyrnong Trial Stakes
winner Great Britain. She has raced
only twice, and seems sure to improve.
Trainer E. Fisher and rider H. Badger,
who were associated with East End’s
win, completed a double when Carpentier
defeated Crojick and Sir Richard in the
Final Handicap. Crojick looked all over
a winner when he ran clear in the straight,
but Carpentier, who had lost ground at
the start and was a good way back at
the half-mile, finished brilliantly and won
decisively. He is held on lease by Fisher
for the duration of his racing career.
L. Meenan, leading Melbourne cross-
country rider, scooped the jumping pool
during the four days of the V.R.C. car-
nival. He scored the possible—doubles
on Isambard and Winterset —and notched
one more win than the most successful of
the flat riders, D. Munro. Winterset,
outstanding among Melbourne jumpers,
followed up his Cup Steeple success by
a very easy win from Campaspe and My
Blarney in the J. A. Macleod Steeple. He
jumped effortlessly, and has the distinc-
tion of having won his only two races
over fences, carrying maximum weight
of 12.7 in each. Winterset has won three
hurdle races, two steeplechases and £1960
in stakes since “H. J. Ascot” purchased
him for 350 guineas last autumn.
Emphasising that his defeat of Laureate
in the Victoria Derby was no fluke, Skip-
ton won the Melbourne Cup in a style
which stamped him one of the best staying
three-year-olds seen out for some seasons.
A scrimmage near the five furlongs pre-
judiced the chances of several runners,
but made no difference to the result.
Skipton, one of the last four at the mile,
won running away from Son of Aurous
and Beau Vite, thereby giving ex-Maori-,
land trainer J. Fryer his second success
in Australia’s greatest race. Fryer won
with Wotan in 1936, but, whereas the
latter was a 100-to-l chance, Skipton
started equal third favorite at 8 to 1.
Skipton has raced only nine times for
five wins and £9842 in stakes.
Skipton’s success disproved a general
idea that the three-year-olds this season
were just an average lot. It takes a good
horse of that age to win the Cup with
lib. above w.f.a. —W. Cook reduced 3|lb.
to ride Skipton at 7.7 —and further proof
of the three-year-old standard was pro-
vided by Laureate. Latter, carrying 2lb.
over w.f.a., weakened into fourth posi-
tion after momentarily looking the win-
ner about two furlongs from home, but
he may have done much better had he
not pulled so hard that he hit the front
before the turn.
Son of Aurous, laid at 250 to 1
early in September and starting second
favorite at 7 to 1, also prejudiced his
chance by pulling hard. He was first to
pass Laureate, but, even with his great
pull in weight, could not cope with Skip-
ton’s devastating finish. Success for Son
of Aurous would have yielded a fortune
for his bookmaker-owner, L. Sluice.
Velocity (fifth) did not run on quite as
well as expected, but old Maikai, runner-
up in the two previous Cups, showed by
his sixth with 9.6 that he was not a spent
force.
Beau Vite, favorite at 11 to 2, though
beaten into third place, ran one of his
greatest races. A check near the five
furlongs did not help him under his
steadier of 9.10, and, although he would
not have beaten the winner in any case,
he might have made the finish more in-
teresting. Owner Ralph Stewart thought
of retiring Beau Vite to the stud had he
won either the Caulfield or Melbourne
Cup, but intends now to give him another
chance in one or both of those races.
Beau Vite is only five years old, and, all
going well, will make a fourth attempt on
the Melbourne Cup.
A remarkable coincidence associated
with the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups
was that the winner of each race, Velocity
and Skipton, carried the supposedly un-
lucky No. 13 saddle cloth. More remark-
able, from a betting angle, was that a
leading Melbourne bookmaker quoted
10,000 to 1 against the winning combina-
tion in July. Nobody took him up at
that quote. Best price bet against Skip-
ton straight-out was 66 to 1, but only
for a moderate amount.
Primavera, 9-to-4-oii favorite for the
Oaks on the strength of her impressive
fourth in the Victoria Derby, was the
good thing the betting indicated. She
easily outstayed Wheat Sheaf and
Argenter, emphasising that a bargain
went begging when nobody would bid
for her at the yearling sales. By Wind-
bag from Flower of Egypt, she was leased
by her breeder to R. A. Stevens, and is
the first horse that has run in the latter’s
name. Primavera is a really good filly,
and more will be heard of her, but it is
a pity she does not possess greater size.
Hesione has finished her spring racing
as Australia’s champion two-year-old.
She dominates the colts just as All Love
did this time last year, and in all her
races has given the impression that a bit
of distance will not trouble her. The
half-sister to Ajax took her record to four
wins from as many runs when, starting at
8 to 1 on, she simply played with two
smart gallopers in Burgee and Lady
Valiant toward the finish of the Mimosa
Stakes. Three of Hesione’s wins have
been recorded in Melbourne, and they
were in the same races won several years
ago by Fidelity, also trained by B. R.
Payten.
* * * »
Attendances at race meetings are now
all that shareholders in various clubs
could wish. Moorefield was strongly
supported on Saturday, when, thanks to
the respective wins of Grand Boy and
Insignia, the betting balance favored the
books at the close of the day.
Grand Boy led from barrier-rise in
the Carlton Mile, his nearest followers
at the straight entrance being Tel Asur,
Sobersides and Mustapha. A few strides
from the winning-post Grand Boy and
Tel Asur were practically level. There
was very little in it, but from the official
stand there appeared no doubt as to the
correctness of the judge’s verdict in favor
of the former. However, it did not please
a large section in the paddock, and they
loudly voiced their dissatisfaction. Syd-
ney’s racegoers certainly include many
bad losers. Knox, rider of Tel Asur, is
alleged to have claimed he won by nearly
a neck, but in very close finishes the
opinions of riders of beaten horses are
rarely of much account.
Mustapha finished well to be a close
third, followed by Breeze, who did not
display her customary dash in the early
part. Sobersides was never really dan-
gerous, nor was Asnazu, though he was
fairly placed at the turn.
Served by his light weight, and nicely
handled by Terrill, Rhythmic scored a
comfortable win in the Moorefield Han-
dicap. Sethia and Rhythmic were close
together running along the back, but at
the half-mile the latter drew away, and
led into the straight from Aristocrat and
Magsman. In the run home he increased
his advantage to two lengths, and it was
by only a half-head that Magsman de-
feated Aristocrat for second. Wave
Length shaped fairly, while Geebung did
no better than at his previous appear-
ance, notwithstanding he was within
111 b. of the minimum.
In the Juvenile Stakes Angel did not
act up to her track reputation, and,
though favorite, never flattered her
backers. She jumped away smartly, but
quickly lost her position. Radio Star did
most of the pacemaking, but Santa Cruz,
who got a lucky run on the rails, was
with him turning for home, and was the
better over the last bit. Little Easy Mark,
who was always prominent, was a fair
third, succeeded by Ohaeawai, a Con-
stant Son filly. Santa Cruz is a thick-set
filly by Constant Son from Valaisanne
(Valais-Elton, by Pistol), and was sold
for 200gns. as a yearling. Valaisanne was
a good galloper, her numerous wins in
Adelaide including a Goodwood Handi-
cap. Santa Cruz was bred at Kia-ora.
Arahura was much too good for her
opponents in the Three-year-old Handi-
cap, justifying the odds laid on her. She
got to the front before going three fur-
longs, and, though at the top of the
straight St, Pancras looked like making
a race of it, Arahura left him over the
last furlong. Awake, who had not raced
for some time, and looked in need of the
run, is likely to do better at her next
appearance, as may Bruegalong. Kimbell
was outpaced early in the piece, but made
up some ground from the bend. Sil-
verelda is also worth keeping in mind.
Arahura, who is in the Adrian Knox
Stakes, is by Harinero from Counter, by
Magpie from Coupon, by Poseidon.
Coupon is a half-sister to Heroic Prince,
an Australian Cup winner. Arahura’s
time, 1.15, was within a quarter-second
of the Moorefield record.
The Chatham colt Barrenjoey, whose
showing in a race at Randwick caused
him to be made favorite for the Novice
Handicap, fell short of expectations. One
of the early leaders, he was third to
King’s Park and Warrah at the straight
entrance, and ran fourth. As he is a
good sort, he is sure to do better in the
near future. Always one of the leading
half-dozen Panel finished gamely to beat
Take Care, with Warrah a close third,
and Barrenjoey, King’s Park and Shunteh
heading the remainder. The last-named,
a recent winner at Wyong, ran into a lot
of trouble, or would have been much
closer. A little bad luck caused Havers
to drop back soon after the start, and
that settled her chance, while Celebration
did not run nearly as well as at Rosehill
a fortnight earlier. Panel’s sire, Monk
Monk, is by Grey Monk.
When John Halifax was running third
to Happy Bay and Brazandt going up
the hill in the first division of the Flying
Welter it was palpable he would take a
lot of beating. Things were made easier
for him when Happy Bay and Brazandt
swung out entering the straight, but,
though opposite the leger John Halifax
looked like winning easily, Tetreen ran
him to a neck. Tetreen has been a long
time in returning to anything approach-
ing his Melbourne form, but a win at a
mile at one of the mid-week meetings
should shortly be credited him. Hazaden
did well to the turn, but found the com-
pany too strong, and though Camsion
was a place possibility inside the last fur-
long he weakened, as did Happy Bay.
A. Stanton, who combines munition
work with race-riding, landed Insignia
winner of the second division of the Fly-
ing Welter. Always near the front
Insignia led halfway down the straight,
and squeezed home by a head from
Rodrigo, who is back to form. Meeneen,
after being the leader from the half-mile
to the turn, was a close third, while
Tyrannus, who was third into the straight,
weakened slightly. Pancerta struck inter-
ference, and as Stanton was considered
responsible he was suspended for two
months. None of the other runners did
well enough to be worthy of mention.
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances.)
BY "PILOT."
Hurdle Race: Last Gold, 1 ;
Glittering Flame, 2 ; Fiery Cross, 3.
Two-year-old Stakes: Radio Star,
1 ; Peach Pie, 2; Lance Corporal, 3.
Encourage Handicap: Haripur, 1 ;
Druce, 2 ; Real Gem, 3.
Clyde Handicap: Asnazu, 1 ;
Sedunum, 2 ; Henchman, 3.
November Handicap ; Mustapha,
1 ; Magsman, 2; Tetreen, 3.
Maiden Highweight: Condignity,
1 ; High Stepper, 2 ; Sir Tennyson, 3.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
(At Flemington.)
(Before Acceptances .)
(By Our Melbourne Representative.)
Verdon Trial: Veiled Promise, 1 ;
Wanganui, 2 ; Deliberate, 3.
Rawdon Stakes: Leahero, 1 ;
East End, 2 ; Bayard, 3.
Stand Handicap: Plana or Need-
ful, 1 ; Burrabil, 2 ; Orteli, 3.
Williamstown Cup: Evergreen,
1 ; Lucrative, 2 ; Son of Aurous, 3.
Seddon Handicap: Pyramus, 1 ;
Art Union, 2 ; Wheat Sheaf, 3.
Ozone Highweight: Sir Romeo,
1 ; Strategy, 2 ; Warbird, 3.


HOT NUMBERS
TO KEEP YOU COOL
W MM
w
HERE’S just one of the
new Soltine Cloths that
your tailor or store is dis-
playing with immense
pride. It has a Bowater
Brown ground with double
silk hair-line, featuring a
group of very subdued
brown cluster stripings.
And these handsome, style-
right Soltine suitings
actually "breathe” keep
you "air-conditioned,” cool
and comfortable always.
SOX
TI
m
Bora, Shorn, Woven and Worn in Australia
If unable to obtain, tvrite to P.O. Box
.hB9G, Melb., or 30i2NN, Syd., and we’ll
advise you where you can get Soltine Cloths.
'PATO^BB
Missing Friends.
FREDERICK WILLIAM FIELD, formerly of
Timaru, New Zealand, last heard of in Sydney
in December, 1939, is requested to communicate
with the undersigned to his advantage. Will
any person aware of Mr. Field’s present
address please supply same?
ALEX. BELL,
District Public Trustee for Timaru,
New Zealand.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1017 of 1941.
BETWEEN GEORGIA CONSTANDINE Peti-
tioner and
ARTHUR CONSTANDINE Respondent.
TO ARTHUR CONSTANDINE.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GEORGIA
CONSTANDINE has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of desertion
during three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court on
or before the Thirtieth day of January One
thousand nine hundred and forty-two and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and attorned
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Third day of November One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
G D. BONAMY, Solicitor for the Petition*?,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Insignia’s closing price with the books
was 12 to 1, but his tote dividend was at
the rate of sixpence less than 20 to 1.
sf-
D. Munro is so accustomed to the
plaudits of the crowd in Sydney that it
must have been a shock for him when
Melbourne racegoers demonstrated
against him because Beau Vite was beaten
in the C. B. Fisher Plate. Evidently
Melbourne racegoers “can’t take it” any
better than those of Sydney when they
lose. Munro can console himself with
the reflection that a jockey on a beaten
horse is certain of some criticism no
matter how well he may have ridden,
while others who have almost been
“carried home” by their mounts to a
win are praised for their riding. On
one occasion the owner of a winner, in
referring to its rider, remarked, “Well,
he did everything right,” to which I
could not help replying, “Yes, the horse
did.”
* Ht * *
Money was plentiful at the Melbourne
Cup meeting, the tote turnover for the
four days being £400,215, which was a
Flemington record, being £42,000 more
than last year. Tote betting, however,
would be light by comparison with what
the books held, and, assuming the latter’s
share was five times as great, which
would be on the light side, the total for
the meeting—books and machine —would
be well on the way to two and a half
million pounds. Perhaps it went well
beyond that.
♦ * ♦ •
The relative positions of our weight-
for-age horses were much the same at
the conclusion of the Melbourne Cup
meeting as a year ago. High Caste and
Beau Vite were again on top, and up
to a mile and a half Rimveil was the
only horse that might have made a dif-
ference. It is surprising he should have
been omitted from the Linlithgow Stakes
and C. B. Fisher Plate, though nominated
for the L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes, run
on the same day as the Cantala Stakes.
Dashing Cavalier’s second to Beau
Vite in the Colin Stephen Stakes and
his Randwick Plate win promoted him
in the w.f.a. class, while Lucrative has
not quite advanced in the fashion that
might have been expected of him after
his good form at three years. Nor has
Tranquil Star. Beaulivre, Gold Salute,
Rimveil and Mildura appear like being
the only additions of account to the
ranks of the older w.f.a. horses in the
autumn. If Kindergarten completely
recovers from his leg trouble he might
be given another chance of distinguish-
ing himself in Australia, but even if he
should return to his best Beau Vite and
High Caste will be stumbling-blocks in
the way of his success.
Three-year-olds Skipton and Laureate
will be very tough opponents for the
older horses in the w.f.a. races in the
autumn. In the Melbourne Cup Skipton
on 41b. better than w.f.a. terms beat Beau
Vite, and Laureate did well enough for
a mile and three-quarters to suggest that
up to that distance, at least, he is entitled
to be reckoned among the older horses’
dangerous opponents. At Randwick
Laureate and Skipton are in the St. Leger
on the opening day and will miss the
Autumn Plate, but the Cumberland Plate
and A.J.C. Plate will give their respective
owners opportunities of testing them in
the best weight-for-age company. High
Road is another three-year-old w.f.a.
possibility.
* * * #
M. McCarten, rider of Lucrative, had
no fault to find with the stipendiary
stewards for suspending him for a month
for interfering with Galliard in the Mel-
bourne Cup. He merely said the inter-
ference was unintentional, and that Gal-
liard, through hanging out, contributed
to it. As McCarten never complains, no
matter how much interference he experi-
ences, it was, in a measure, hard luck for
him that he should have been dropped
on by the stewards for such an offence,
especially as he claims it was accidental.
* * * *
Yaralla has done well since he won
the Clibborn Stakes, and, though it was
thought he would not be raced again until
the autumn, it is probable he will be
seen out at the summer meetings at Rand-
wick. The Villiers Stakes and Carring-
ton Stakes respectively carry £lOOO and
£750 first money, and that makes either
worth winning. He will not be thrown
into them, but summer races are, as a
rule, easier to win than those run in
the autumn,
* * * ♦
Beau Vite has proved profitable for
owner R. Stewart, and he may get a good
return from the two-year-old Dominate,
who is by Phaleron Bay from Martial
Lady, a half-sister, by Lord Quex, to
Beau Vite. Dominate, who cost 600gns.
as a yearling, won at the recent Welling-
ton meeting, easily beating Indian Sign in
the same ownership. Dominate is credited
with being one of the most-improved
youngsters that ran at the meeting. He
and Indian Sign are entrants for the
A.J.C. Derby.
* * * *
It has always been my opinion that
any owner who goes out of his way to
take the public into his confidence rela-
tive to a horse’s programme makes a
mistake. We have recently had a couple
of instances of this. An owner may act
in all good faith, but if he suggests that
his horse may not start and it does, and
wins, it would be hard to convince the
general public that he had not gone a
little out of his way to put them astray.
Even his immediate friends would have
doubts as to whether he had not tried to
“hold them out.” So much can happen
in a day that it is a wise owner who
avoids newspaper publicity as to his inten-
tions. He will not receive particular
credit if things work out as suggested,
but lots of harsh criticism if they do not.
He is on a “kick to nothing” all the
time.
# * ♦ •
Gladynev has recently struck better
form than anything shown by him in
Australia. He ran second in a Caulfield
Cup, but with only 6.7, whereas latest
form entitles him to be rated one of the
best handicap horses in Maoriland. When
he won the Wellington Handicap of
£lOOO, 11 furlongs, at the Wellington
meeting towards the end of last month
he had 8.13 (minimum 7st.) in a field of
13, and beat Lambourn a length. He
was only sixth favorite on the tote, so
his backers must have got a fair dividend.
Rehandicapped at 8.11, Gladynev was
beaten a head by Happy Ending in the
New Zealand Cup. Happy Ending is a
five-year-old gelding by Beau Pere.
* * * *
No matter how good a horse may be,
weight will beat it. Beau Vite acted up
to his best form in the Melbourne Cup,
but 51b. over weight-for-age was more
than he could manage. He really ran
much the same as last year, when, with
71b. in excess of w.f.a., he finished fourth.
The chances are that if he had run in the
Metropolitan he would have won it with
9.11, but his owner decided to miss that
race in order to have a cut-in for the
Caulfield Cup, which gave him the
chance of backing his horse at a price
which would not have been forthcoming
about him for the Metropolitan. How-
ever, though Beau Vite failed in both
Cups, the £750 for third in the Mel-
bourne Cup was useful in partly cover-
ing what his owner lost on him in that
race. Beau Vite is to be spelled at Sol
Green’s stud farm near Melbourne, and
even if he is unequal to winning one of
the principal handicaps in the autumn he
will at least pay expenses in w.f.a. races.
* * * «
Derby running left doubt as to whether
Skipton was superior to Laureate, but
the Melbourne Cup result settled the
question as to which was the better
stayer. Nevertheless, Laureate did so
well up to a mile and three-quarters that
interest will still attach to the meeting of
the two in the St. Legers. Skipton’s
3.23* was a Melbourne Cup record for
a three-year-old, the previous best for a
horse of that age being Trivalve’s 3.24.
Skipton met Australia’s and Maoriland’s
best older horse, Beau Vite, only 41b.
better than w.f.a., and beat him fully
that. After being adversely criticised for
his riding of Laureate in the Derby it was
excusable if M. McCarten was somewhat
pleased—l do not say he was —that the
result of the Cup proved the correctness
of form shown in the classic. Marabou
is the first winner of a Melbourne Cup
to be successfully represented in that race
as a sire since King Ingoda scored for
Comedy King in 1922. Artilleryman
also won for Comedy King in 1919.
* * * *
Queensland Cup winner Bucolic, a
half-brother to Rogilla, raced without
success in Sydney at two and three years,
and gave little promise that he would
ever greatly distinguish himself. Now
six years old, his stay in Queensland has
done a lot for him, and his two miles
in 3.23 was a good effort, even allowing
he carried only 7.1. His owner is credited
with having coupled him with Common
Sense (Brisbane Handicap winner) in
doubles for £lO,OOO. Bucolic will prob-
ably be racing in Sydney at Christmas.
* * * *
Evergreen ran such a great race in the
Caulfield Cup with 8.0 that he is bound
to make a good bid for the Williamstown
Cup with 8.1. He had no chance against
High Caste in the Linlithgow, but in
that he was in receipt of only 21b. from
the latter. The lighter scale will also
help Evergreen. Lucrative is nicely in
with 31b. less than when narrowly beaten
in the Metropolitan, and, though
McCarten is unable to ride him, he will
not suffer in the matter of horsemanship,
as he will be ridden by Victoria’s best—
Badger. Son of Aurous, with 91b. less
than he carried in .the V.R.C. Handicap,
is bound to find backing. However, as
he has had some hard racing during the
past fortnight, it would not be surprising
if it is now telling on him.
Yodvara on 7.2 must be counted
among the possibilities, notwithstanding
he did not do well in the Melbourne Cup.
His good second in the Hotham Handi-
cap must be counted in his favor, as in
that he had 51b. more than he carries
next Saturday, and was beaten only a
neck by Son of Aurous, who was giving
him 31b. On Saturday next 81b. divides
them. Saint Warden may have a
chance, but though on past deeds Gill-
town and Remarc are kindly treated,
neither has shown form in his recent
races. For the places I like Evergreen,
Yodvara and Lucrative.
* * * *
Alsab and Requested, two of America’s
best two-year-olds, met in a six-and-a-
half furlongs match at Belmont Park
(New York) on September 29. Each
carried 8.10. Requested was favorite, but
Alsab beat him four lengths in the great
time of 1.16, which was l|sec. better than
the previous record for the track. Alsab,
who was bought as a yearling for about
£225, is owned by Mrs. Albert Sabath,
and the result of this match brought his
earnings up to £27,150 —not dollars. In
America the ownership of a high-class
two-year-old or three-year-old means a
fortune in prize-money alone. Alsab
and Requested met again a few days
later, and the former, with 8.10, beat
Requested (8.4) by eight lengths over a
mile in 1.35 f, the fastest time for that
distance ever recorded in America by a
two-year-old.
* * * *
Constables raided the Victorian Club
during the time-honored “calling of the
card” on Melbourne Cup eve. Leading
bookmakers and punters, influential busi-
nessmen from all States and from Maori-
land, politicians and some of Australia’s
best-known owners and trainers were
among the 500 to 600 present when the
police swooped. Nobody was permitted
to enter or leave the premises until in-
quiries had finished about an hour later,
when the “call” was resumed. Explain-
ing the raid, police officials said that
“calling the card” constituted illegal bet-
ting, and that off-the-course betting had
never been legal in the Victorian Club
or elsewhere in Victoria. It was added
that only the names of the secretary and
members of the club committee had been
taken, and that they would be prosecuted
by summons on charges to be determined.
M. and Rafferty
Ron Richards had his first setback
since his comeback when Young Frisco
(11.4 i) gave him 4jlb. and beat him on
points in a 12-rounder at Brisbane
Stadium last Friday night. It was a sur-
prising result in that Young Frisco won
with counter-punching, which is Ron’s
specialty. With this and his other recent
fights under his belt, Ron should be in
fair trim for his coming scrap with Fred
Henneberry in Sydney, profits to go to
the Red Cross specially labelled for
Digger prisoners of war.
The advertised Australian welter title
fight between Hockey Bennell and Ron
McLaughlin in Melbourne on Cup eve
was a washout. Claiming that the coin
they’d been guaranteed wasn’t in sight,
the scrappers declined the engagement.
* * * *
The only thing wrong with the proposal
to appoint a body to control boxing in
N, S. Wales is that there’d first have to
be a search party to find anything in
that line to control. The only engage-
ment of any note in the State for some
time was the recent outbreak of hostili-
ties at a gathering of the Housewives'
Association, after which one contestant
accused another of leading witfi a bunch
of flowers without bothering to take them
out of their vase.
* * * *
Some of the U.S. stoush commissions
have a nice liberal hand with offenders.
The N’York body suspended Ray Carlen,
manager of Lou Nova, for six months
because Carlen counselled Nova to wait
till the sixth round before, as one scribe
put it, “risking the chance of getting his
head torn from his shoulders” any earlier
in his scrap with Louis. The N’York
body explained that it was there to “pro-
tect the public.” Having tasted blood,
the commissioners thirsted for more, and
presently one Gilzenberg, manager of
the welter champion, Freddie Cochrane,
was up on a similar charge. Gilzenberg,
according to the ruling body, advised
Cochrane to take things easy in the early
part of the bout, which Cochrane did,
taking care to knock his opponent down
only once in the second round and only
three times in the fourth. This the com-
missioners considered too slow altogether.
Gilzenberg out for six moons.
A 44-year-old Victor Trumper record
went when Fallowfield, opening batsman
for Northern District, made 135 against
Mosman. It was his fifth century —the
others were 109, 103, 109 and 129 —in
five matches this Sydney grade season.
Victor’s achievement was four in a row.
Fallowfield is not a patch on Trumper
to watch but his methods are effective.
O’Reilly (St. George) followed up his
13 for 21 against Manly with seven for
17 against West.


ECZEMA
Sensitive people feel eczema
acutely. The continued irritation,
the unsightly eruptions and the
uncertainty where the trouble will
next spread makes them feel almost
ashamed.
Eczema is not due to dirt, but to the fact
that certain skins react badly to various
forms of irritation (internal or external)
and poor general health increases the
liability.
Since there is a great tendency for eczema
to spread and to become chronic, early
local treatment is imperative, and the best
salve for this purpose is DOAN’S Oint-
ment. It penetrates to the true skin where
the inflammation lies, is antiseptic and
healing and quickly allays the irritation.
DOAN’S Ointment is also good for other
itching skin complaints and for the relief
of piles. Buy a tin to-day, but, be sure
you get DOAN’S.
n
LET
ATLAS )
CARRY THE
BURDEN j
W
J.,
m
£
Established 1808 in Kelgn of George HI.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager. N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
ptn*f
liiiiii
hmH
ijiii
mm
m
m
m
m
A
M
■ma
M
4
m
m
mm
zM>
m
A
j&m
A
MASS *4l
0 She has grown beyond the stage of sharing a room. Build
her a room of her own ... with Masonite. A partition of Masonite
Presdwood may be all that is required. Perhaps a room already
exists that merely needs a Masonite floor laid over an existing
worn wooden one or requires Masonite panelling over cracked or
broken walls. Then, so that your little "adult" may be properly
at home, give her a built-in table, cupboards and book
shelves also from Masonite. The low cost will surprise you;
and you can work Masonite with ordinary tools. Grainless,
splinterless, steel-strong Masonite boards can be left in their
natural colour or painted, enamelled or lacquered in any shade.
e * f *nZl oe ' nis °t'On ° p/ neW Qr ..
w 7 - *
,J e ' P '"»co '**'» o» T’l**'*
***«£/ """
MODERNISE WITH
1
MUiKtH
PRESDWOOD . . . TEMPERED PRESDWOOD
QUARTRBOARD D E-L UXE ...T E M P RTI L E
Masonite boards are made in Australia trom
Australian timbers hitherto thought commer-
cially useless. They possess the advantages
of wood without its disadvantages. Masonite
is used for both modernisation and new con-
struction! for floors, counter tops, for “tiling".
for partitioning in fact, for *'l,ooo uses",
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. {Building Materials Division) . . Sydney . . Melbourne . . Brisbane . . Adelaide . . Perth
NORTH OF TWENTY SIGHT
How “great oaks from little acorns
grow” when the acorn is a public loan
is shown by the Brisbane Council’s re-
demption of a loan of £1,000,000 it got
in London 20 years ago. Principal, in-
terest and exchange have cost the council
£2,700,000. You could build a small city
for that.
* * * *
“Balander”: Bundaberg’s member,
Barnes, is maintaining his reputation for
unusualness. He first bounded into the
limelight by launching prosecutions
against fellow-publicans for alleged
breaches of the Liquor Act. Then he got
in as an “Andrew Fisher Laborite.” It
has come out that the somewhat different
M.L.A. dons false whiskers and prowls
the streets seeking to catch the law-
breaking publican—he admitted as much
in the Assembly, Called upon to
apologise for an interjection, he fell on
his knees, clasped his hands in mock
supplication and said “I humbly apolo-
gise.” Andrew Fisher never did any-
thing like that.
* * sjc *
“Norther”: With the maddening
aplomb of his kind, Queensland’s State
superintendent of the Apple and Pear
Board, returned from a conference in
Melbourne, told us that a reduction of
supplies of these fruits will be neces-
sary, though the “supply of pears will
be maintained until the end of
November.” Then up rose the manager
of the Committee of Direction of
Fruit Marketing to declare the apple
shortage—yes, shortage—was “a result of
the phenomenal demand.” Phenomenal
demand there may have been, but getting
apples was and still is another matter un-
less you’re prepared to pay through the
nose for them.
* # * *
“Poi-poi”: Trouble in large quantities
invariably strikes Australian communi-
ties when some essential article of food
is “controlled.” Brisbane consumers de-
clare that milk is too dear, farmers swear
they aren’t getting enough for it, and
middlemen affirm that none of them is
making anything out of the spread in
prices. The Milk Board chairman is out
with the usual involved statement about
quotas, zones and percentages. A vendors'
association secretary says “producers
have only themselves to blame” for low
returns, and the daily press remedy seems
to be a zoning system like that operating
in Sydney and Melbourne, though Sydney
is a very bad example. The truth is that
the board system has failed in this as in
other things, and the remedy won’t be
found while boards operate.
* ♦ * *
“Balander”: Despite the frequent
plaints that Queensland isn’t getting a
fair share of war industries, the State is
doing pretty well. In his report on the
1940-41 year, the local tax commissioner
notes that number of taxpayers rose by
500 to 96,800 and taxable income by
£4,000,000 to £31,500,000. Amount of
tax assessed increased by more than
£500,000 to £3,600,000. Biggest taxpayers
were the merchant class, which paid
£813,000 on a taxable income of nearly
£4,000,000. Taxable manufacturers in-
creased from 900 to 1500 and tax payable
from £465,000 to £735,000 —southern
manufacturers with branches in the State
are included in this. Pastoralists and
public servants increased from a tax
viewpoint and paid more taxes, and the
number of assessed storekeepers jumped
to 2100 from 400, while their tax pay-
ments mounted nearly seven times to
£73,500. “Taxpayers of independent
means” dropped by 300, but their tax
payments were down only £2OOO to
£43,000. “Sundry traders” were down —
they include importers—and 800 of them
paid £35,000. Last year there were 3200
who paid £138,000.
* * * *
“Wirramac”: Rats and the Govern-
ment lifting of the ban on wax matches
in parts of the west are fierce topics out
Longreach way, there being plenty of
evidence that the recent outbreaks of
grassfires have been worse in parts where
wax matches are “free.” The Govern-
ment banned the waxies at first, but a
week later lifted the ban under, if you
please, “National Emergency Supplies
regulations.” Plenty of people hold that
rats start fires by chewing the matches.
The rats show signs of a disease which
causes loss of fur, sores and dropping-
off of parts of tails. The State Direc-
tor of Microbiology sees in this a
sign that the plague is on the wane.
Some alarmists think the disease looks
too much like leprosy, and it is
hinted that the C.S.I.R. has been asked
to look into it. After an experience with
big mice plagues in the southern wheat
country, I doubt the leprosy theory and
support that of the plague being on the
wane.
* * * *
“Yelgun”: Bambina, a 25-year-old
thoroughbred mare which had to be
destroyed at Lyndhurst (Q.), probably
held a record for breeding with her 18
surviving foals in 19 years at the stud.
Twelve of her progeny realised a total
of 5235 guineas as yearlings, and her
stock won over £12,000 in stakes. They
included Ragazzo, which brought 3000gns.
as a three-year-old, Belvoir (HOOgns. as
a yearling), Cerimon, Pamboona and
High Benia, all good performers.
* * * «
“Old A.W.U.”: For defying the Q.C.E.
ban on membership of the Australia-
Russia Friendship League, Taylor and
Marriott, Ms.L.A., have been placed
“outside” the A.L.P. Corns, and their
friends are rallying round them with
“protest” meetings. One, in which the
Curtin Government was ordered to lift
the ban on the Communist party, was
being held, appropriately enough, in the
Comedy Theatre, Brisbane, as this went
to the post. On the list of speakers
was Mr. Max Thomas, one of the two
hunger-striking gentlemen of whom Aus-
tralia has heard more than enough.
* * * *
“23-4”; The widow of C. H. Karius
has given to the nation the medal
awarded to him by the Royal Geographi-
cal Society for his exploratory work in
Papua. Karius was a resident magistrate
after being patrol officer, magistrate for
native affairs, mining registrar and other
things. In 1926, with I. F. Champion,
he failed in an attempt to cross Papua
into the Mandate via the Fly and Strick-
land rivers, but they succeeded in 1927,
when they located the sources of both
rivers and that of the Sepik, crossing the
Divide on a saddle west of Tabletop.
The trip took four months, and they ran
out of tucker over the last bit, subsisting
on sago. Hubert Murray called it “by
far the most important and most diffi-
cult feat of exploration” ever performed
in New Guinea or adjacent islands. The
Karius medal joins the nation’s historic
exhibits at Canberra.
* * * »
“Horatio”: At the first auction sale of
Brisbane allotments nearly a century ago,
blocks in Queen-street and Stanley-street,
South Brisbane, were bought. Since then
Queen-street has always counted for a
great deal in Brisbane business, but
Stanley-street has had a chequered his-
tory. About 50 years ago it challenged
Queen - street’s pre - eminence. Three
noted retail concerns laid the foun-
dations of their 1941 properties in
Stanley-street, but after the disas-
trous 1893 flood two of them trans-
ferred to the Valley and the other to
Queen-street. Stanley-street fell on evil
days. It has recently acquired very fine
manufacturing premises, and may have
a second innings.


WOMEN'S LETTERS
From Sydney
Sydney only glimpsed the Dull;'
Coopers. They flew in one night and
flew away almost at the crack of dawn
the next day for Canberra. Peter Lub-
bock was at Mascot to offer safe convoy
to Government House, where they stayed
the night. State Premier McKell stood
by whilst Senator Keane gave the Duff
Coopers the freedom of the continent, so
to speak, and handed over to Lady Diana
a huge armful of red and white roses
that had been flown down from Can-
berra for this event.
It was a sultry night, but Lady
Diana looked cool in her red and white
printed frock. With this she wore a light-
weight black woollen coat, a large black
leghorn hat and high, cork-heeled sandals.
By the way, she loves big hats. She says
she likes “to be hidden, for then I have
confidence.” She is tall and slim. Her
hair is the color of honey, she has large
deep blue eyes and the famed English
complexion.
Lady Diana spoke of a London with
whose women fashionable dress no
longer counts, and whose only idea is to
get on with the job of winning the war.
She worked at the Y.M.C.A. canteen
during the Blitz■ For three months before
she left England she ran a farfh near
Bognor. Here she kept cows and
chickens, pigs and bees, and made
Cheddar cheeses. And it is to this farm
she hopes to go back when the war is
over.
She wishes she could have a koala
bear, would have liked to have been in
Melbourne for the Cup, and doesn't
think it disgraceful that so many went to
it—for, as she says, all the money spent
is being circulated again in Australia.
During the 1914-18 war, Lady Diana
had as a co-worker in a hospital a lady
she best remembered by her nickname
“Lilywhite.” This girl got married and
came to Sydney to live. Lady Diana
doesn’t know her married name (a news-
paper says she’s Mrs. A. Clanman, of
Sydney), but hopes during this Australian
visit they will meet again.
No matter how often the Gilbert and
Sullivan banner is hoisted at the Royal,
old followers and new recruits rally to
the colors, Sydney men and women never
tire of the mixture. But there is a differ-
ence between the G. and S. first-nighters
and the first-night sippers of new cock-
tails of amusement. There is nothing
blase or bored about them. There is
nothing of the almost defiant air of
“Well, here we are, entertain us if you
can! ” Everybody turns up in the expec-
tation that the old-established partner-
ship will supply a night of laughter.
Last Saturday when “The Pirates of
Penzance” invaded the Royal with their
fun and games there was scarcely an
empty seat. Maybe Sydney folk are be-
coming more war-conscious and that is
the reason why evening clothes were spar-
ingly sported. Viola Wilson’s notes, crisp
and clear, made the boy pirate’s girl
friend popular at first sound. Sara
Gregory’s success in “Trial by Jury”
might be studied with advantage by all
young ladies hatching a breach-of-
promise suit.
The Women’s Auxiliary of the Legacy
Club formed a guard of honor for Lady
Wakehurst when she opened their Fair
at Mosman Town Hall. Their blue-and-
white-patterned uniforms and the sheaf
of red, white and blue flowers presented
by small wards of Legacy from this war
Keith and Ray Smith —their mother was
a ward from the last war —brought color
to the welcome of Legacy’s president,
Alan J. Williamson, and president of the
Women’s Auxiliary, Mrs. Z. Lazarus.
The Fair was a huge success, and member
for Mosman D. P. Macdonald and Mrs.
Macdonald and Mosman’s Mayor Geo.
Cowlishaw and Mrs. Cowlishaw were
among its patrons.
When the final count was taken there
were smiles from all—and especially
from publicity-officer Mrs. Evan Wil-
liams and hon. treasurer Mrs. Paul.
Arrived in Sydney last week Dr. S.
Gruyszka, the first Polish Minister Pleni-
potentiary to be appointed to Australia,
his wife and son John. Dr. Gruyszka
is a doctor of law of Cracow University,
and has been in the Polish diplomatic
service ever since Poland gained her in-
dependence in 1919. Mrs. Gruyszka is
fair-haired and hazel-eyed. She speaks
French and English as well as Polish.
To the Australian ear her English has
a slight American accent, no doubt
gained during her stay in New York,
where her husband was Consul-General
for Poland for six years. Mrs. de Nos-
kowski, wife of the Polish Consul-
General, has been showing the new-
comers the beauties of our city. Mrs.
Gruyszka finds the beaches particularly
fascinating, and is hoping that her hus-
band and she may be able to make their
home here, especially during the summer
months.
At the dinner given by the Polish Club
in the Minister’s honor, Mrs. Gruyszka
wore a dinner frock of soft black crepe.
Mrs. de Noskowski’s black frock had its
yoke and large square pockets made of
layers and layers of narrow cream lace
frills.
Every member of the R.A.A.F. and of
the R.A.N. going abroad takes with him
a sheepskin vest, and whether it is the
long, straight, thick fleece of the aristo-
cratic merino or the shorter and tightly-
curled fleece of the crossbred, it is as
white as that of Mary’s little lamb. In
the 18 months since the C.W.A. assumed
the responsibility of supplying these vests
13,000 have been made. The first 8000
were turned out by two Sydney furriers
and their staffs voluntarily, as a donation
to the war effort. But in May of this
year, when the call became too heavy,
the association’s Sheepskin Vest Com-
mittee shouldered the responsibility of
making up as well as of supplying the
pelts.
Mrs. Basil Foulds, the original of this
Norton Trevaire photograph, is in charge
of this committee, and every day from
9 until 4 she is on the job at Endeavor
House, Macquarie-place. Mrs. Foulds
started with one room and four helpers,
but so quickly did interest in the work
grow that now there are four rooms and
65 helpers, 14 of whom come every day
to do their bit. And a strenuous bit it
is. The only break is for lunch —a cup
of tea and a sandwich. The workers are
proud of the fact that they could turn
out 500 vests a week if they had the pelts.
An industrial engineer could not have
planned the work better. It flows from
drafter of patterns to cutters and from
cutters to machinists without break. The
patterns are of tin, as it was soon found
that not only did the paper patterns
slither about on the skin but the edges
got frayed, and they were then useless.
The vests are cut in three sizes, and to
avoid mistakes one size only is cut on any
one day. In addition to the vests the
R.A.A.F, and the Navy are supplied with
long gauntlet gloves. The airmen’s have
thumbs, those of the Navy have not (they
are called mittens). For both services the
gloves are stitched each to one end of a
long tape, so that they can be slung
around the neck. Here, too, are large-
size slippers for Red Cross hospitals, and
tiny ones ready to be sent to the bombed
children of Britain.
Bright and sparkling Viva Potts mar-
ried her Leslie Tabrett at St. James’s on
Saturday. Viva, who is the daughter of
C. V. Potts, of 8.H.P., and his wife,
wore an exquisite frock of Maltese
lace and taffeta. Her flowers were
orchids and lilies. ’Maids Elsie Saunders
and Roma Aria, in cream taffeta with
pink Dolly Varden hats, and flower girls
Naomi and Betty Potts, in their blue
crinoline frocks, added to the pictorial
effect. A feature of the reception at the
Australia was the singing of the bride and
Elsie Saunders of “I’ll Walk Beside You,”
Roma playing the accompaniment. The
three girls have given many concerts for
patriotic and charitable causes.
Desmond, a 10-year-old patient at
Weemala, the Ryde Home for Incurables,
did his bit towards making the annual
fete a success. He charged one penny
for a peep into a mysterious box con-
taining a seahorse, and his total for the
day was 10s. The patients had, as usual,
made most of the articles on the stalls,
and before the day’s business started
there was £950 in hand, and the day s
takings amounted to more than £540.
From Melbourne
Even those punters at the Oaks who
went awry with their betting didn’t go
far wrong over clothes. Out trotted the
winter suits and coats that have been
around for the last year, and they felt
comfortable enough in a coolish wind.
Many who hadn’t ruined their newer
lighter-weight suits in the Cup rainstorm
wore them and felt well turned out. Hats
were utility rather than perishable bits of
frivol, and there were veils in plenty to
whisk into mouths and get caught up in
eyelashes, but they were the veils which
had been in the stand on Cup day or
which had stayed at home. The tragedy
of damaged clothing was a blow to hun-
dreds of people who ruined everything
they had on from top to toe, but didn’t
lose their sporting spirit.
Differences of opinion and stations in
life were forgotten by the drowned rats
packed like sardines in Norman Harris’s
trains. Everybody sat on everybody else’s
knees, including the Navy, the Army and
the Air Force and perfect strangers of
both sexes and varying sizes.
The dance of Cup week was at Rippon-
lea, in the magnificent surroundings of
a mansion remodelled a few years ago,
on a plan of fulfilment for both owner
and architect. It was a cold, blowy night,
but it would have taken the winds of
Cape Horn to prevent the 350-odd
dancers from walking on the terrace be-
side the swimming pool, glimmering like
an enormous emerald and flanked by
trellises of roses in full bloom. Within
doors room after room, or rather salon
after salon, of such opulent furnishings
and vast height as to suggest the habitats
of the movie stars, provided strolling ter-
ritory between dances. On the lawn a
marquee with carpets on the grass (defi-
nitely necessary after much rain) shel-
tered a simple buffet supper. The com-
mittee turned thumbs down on the sort
of extravagant feed that eats up the
profits of the beneficiary—in this case the
Red Shield Units of Service.
Incidentals were spinning wheels
operated and spruiked for with per-
suasion by firemen. Our firemen are
good at this job and often help worthy
causes thus. No one seemed to want to
leave the party even after the Anthem
and three cheers for the chatelaine,
Mrs. Tim Jones, at about 4 a.m., and it
was six before the stragglers betook them-
selves home. On duty regarding tickets
were Mrs. Jim Fitzgerald, Mrs. Bryan
Foster and Mrs. John Ramsay. Also
present were the Harry Ramsays and the
newly-married Tom Ramsays. In charge
of the exchequer was Mrs. Geoffrey
Christian, who was doing addition sums
so late (or rather early) that she expected
to find her children on the mat to meet
her when she got home. Of dewy youth
there were Betty Jones, brunette Sue
Styles, Joan Stewart, Billy Ince, Heather
Fitzgerald and a heap more girls, none
of whom lacked plenty of attentive
partners.
Inset from Dickenson-Monteath, Mrs.
Dugald McDougall, who is hon. secretary
for the Doll-dressing, Toy, Christmas
Card and Needlework Competition being
piloted along at high speed by Air Force
Auxiliaries. There are open events and
specials for children and for returned
soldiers. Lady Dugan is giving a prize
for servicemen entrants. Interest at the
exhibition at Myer’s from December 5
(when the things will be sold) will be in-
creased by the addition of doll donations.
Vice-Admiral Royle’s wife has promised
a Navy doll, and the Army arid the Air
Force will also be on parade. Mrs. J.
D. G. Medley is sending along an under-
grad., and Mrs. Harry Creswick a Red
Cross worker. Police Commissioner
Duncan, after hearing the report of the
policewoman invited to the auxiliary
rooms in Howie Court to absorb parti-
culars, has promised to send along police-
men dolls to keep order.
Mary Kiernan, younger daughter of
the Esmond Kiernans, is the most musical
member of a musical family. She will
give her first recital at the British Music
Society on December 5 in aid of the Red
Cross. Young brother Peter chose the
’cello as a subject for Leaving ; neither is
John outdone, although he’s a lance-
corporal abroad. Recently Mary sent
him a copy of her forthcoming recital
programme. The Schumann Bunte
Blatter” suite intrigued him ; he prowled
round the shops of Cairo looking for a
copy, found one, then found a piano and
spent an evening experimenting with the
suite —which takes 40 minutes to perform
—so it will be a fine memory feat for
Mary.
Elder sister Marjorie Kiernan is study-
ing the flute and is interested in
piano compositions, which at the momenl
she’s playing with Biddy Allen. Recently
Marjorie became engaged to Dr. David
Buxton Pitt, younger son of librarian
E. L. Pitt and Mrs. Pitt, of Kew. David,
newly-fledged in medicine, is now at the
Children’s and leaves in a week or two
to become a resident at Perth General
Hospital.
At the Silver Wings dinner-dance, on
a whirl of a wheel operated by Mrs. Roy
Honeyman and Mrs. Ken Luke, Mrs. J.
McEwen won a Doulton teaset, a dona-
tion from Mrs. V. Mitchell, to whom
it was left by her mother, Mrs. G. Alex-
ander. Greta Harrison collected a cas-
serole from the same spinning-wheel
medium ; she, being a cook of artistry,
will no doubt find good use for it. Mrs.
Danny Reddan’s luck ran towards a
cocktail tray, which was just what she
wanted. In the same party as the J. F.
Bremners were the Benjamin Fullers,
who collected three limber-limbed rag
dolls, which is 0.K., considering their
family attachments of three small grand-
daughters. Present also at the party were
the Walter Lindrums. Though Walter
can do what he likes with a billiard ball
he can’t mesmerise a spinning wheel,
though his wife wins silk stockings occa-
sionally (in confidence, her biggest bil-
liards break is eight).
Chief adornment of the racing period
was the beauty of the young girls. Gone
and never to return are the days of osten-
tation and magnificence in eating, drink-
ing and decking out the human frame,
but youth will always be youth, dewy
and charming. Last week the girls came
out in flocks, blondes and brunettes, with
long hair sweeping their shoulders, soft
faces and soft smiles, all with poise and
opinions. They seem to do a bit more
thinking and less magpie chattering than
did their predecessors of a decade or so
ago. Such were the young girls who filled
the foyer of the old Princess for two nights
selling flowers and fal-lals for “I Lived
With You” and the Fund for Prisoners
of War. If the boys who are prisoners
could picture in their minds the girls
who are waiting for them it would renew
their leases of life and encouragement.
The play was the first job of the Mel-
bourne Rep. Society with Fred Black-
man as producer. In the cast were Marie
Rendle, good as the good girl, and Gwen
Izzard, equally satisfactory as the bad one
—what she did with her hair, up one
moment in a turban and down the next
in a bang, kept the audience on tiptoes
of expectancy. Betty Randall was the
“tart” and H. N. Gregory was father,
reliable as H.N. always is. Young Alfred
Goodliffe, now in long ’uns, was the
schoolboy, and Alexander Bennett played
Felix, the Novello-ish oddity from Russia,
a part that calls for all the experience and
sublety in the world. Felix’s progenitors
wore diamonds for breakfast, and now
he wears long hair and sandals and in-
vites Gladys of Fulham to come and
talk to him while he’s having his bath.
Best wishes for successful sales go to
Wilfred McCulloch, A.A.M.C., whose
show of paintings was opened at the
Athenaeum by Brigadier D. A. Luxton,
introduced by Captain W. Pook. The
work of Corporal Wilfred, hale and
handsome in his khaki shorts and shirt,
has improved enormously during the last
year or so ; general reactions were first
surprise, then commendation. Present was
pal Private Arnold Gardner, who says
his A.I.F. job is taking temperatures,
pulses and respirations twice a day for
37 cheeky convalescents. Wilfred s work
lies in the same ministering-angel direc-
tion. Present also was Nancy Gardner,
decorative as always in spite of a recent
battle with pneumonia. Val and Von
Cohen were there, just back from winter-
ing on their atoll in the Barrier Reef.
Owing to petrol shortage they have felt
like marooned islanders, living the simple
life in their bamboo house.


SLEEPER CHIPS
By H.A.LINDSAY.
Florrie lay in
bed, staring up
at the fly-
specked, sag-
ging calico ceiling
and listening to the voices in the next room. Mother
was going crook at Dad, but there was nothing new
about that; Florrie had grown so used to hearing it
that she now accepted it as part of her life. It was
always the same ; Mother complaining and Dad put-
ting in an occasional “Aw, leave a man alone” or
“Dry up at last, can’t you?”
This time it was firewood ; the cause of more
rows than anything else. Mother had complained
because there was none, and Dad had just said that
he would bring in an armful of sticks, but this had
only made Mother rouse more than ever. “Sticks,” she
said. “That’s typical—you’ll get an armful of sticks.
In half an hour’s time I’ll want more if I’m to get
any cooking done. Why I should always be living
from hand to mouth for wood I don’t know, when
there’s tons and tons of sleeper chips rotting out in
the scrub”
“All right, all right,” Dad put in, “I’ll get you a
load this morning. Two loads if I have time.”
Florrie decided she had better get up ; it was
Saturday and there was no school, but Mother would
be rousing at her if she lay there any longer. She
slipped out of bed and hurried with her dressing. By
the time she had washed her face and had combed
her hair the fire was roaring in the stove ; she went
down to feed the fowls and found the usual breakfast
of porridge and boiled eggs on the table when she
returned. Dad poked his pipe up on the mantelpiece
and began to lap up his porridge, making a loud
slurping noise with every spoonful.
“Can I go out with Dad when he gets the load
of chips, Mother?” the girl asked.
The woman nodded. “I suppose so,” she replied.
“It might make him do some work to have you with
him.” Dad said nothing.
J T took them two hours to find the horses and get
1 them home, and then some of the harness had to be
mended and the trolley-axles greased, but by eleven
they were off. Dad had one of his rare fits of energy
that morning; he tossed the slabs of wood up on to
the trolley with a will, and they were home with a full
load by dinner-time.
But Dad was more inclined to take things easy
when they went out again that afternoon, although
he had hurried away from the house as if he meant
to work hard all day. When they arrived at the first
heap he selected a broad, smooth chip for a seat,
leaned his back against the stump from which the
tree had been felled, and lit his pipe.
“You can pick a few flowers, Flo,” he said. “I’ll
have a bit of a smoke. No need to bust yourself
when you’ve got half a day to do a job in. Most
people don’t work Saturday afternoons, anyway.”
Florrie walked away ; there were no wildflowers
in the autumn and she headed for the little flat where
the sleeper-cutters’ camp had been, trying not to think
that there was no hope of finding them still there.
The spot looked more forlorn than ever when
she reached it, with the stringybark poles of the tent
frames rotting and sagging, and the dump of old tins
and bottles now overgrown with thistles. She sat on
the rough bench which one of the men had made and
looked around with a wistful expression on her brown
face.
That year when the sleeper-cutters had worked
over Dad’s place seemed to have been the happiest
time she had ever known. It was the only time when
Mother hadn’t always been rousing at Dad, and the
only time when Dad, if asked for money, would pull
what was required out of his pocket instead of saying
“You know I ain’t got any.” Mother had bought a
whole lot of new clothes for all three of them, Dad
had bought the wireless, and every Saturday night
they had gone to the town and had seen the talkies.
Then all at once everything seemed to end. The last
good tree had been felled and hewn into sleepers, the
big truck had made a last trip from the town to cart
them away, and then the cutters themselves had gone.
“When the timber goes, we go, too,” old Bob
Muirhead, the boss cutter, had told her when she
asked them why they didn’t stay there. And next day
the scrub had been silent. Never since then, as she
walked home from school, had she heard the crash
of a tree falling, or heard the clear, bell-like cling,
cling, cling of the broadaxes at work echoing along
the gullies.
And then Dad had received no more money from
the royalties, and so had to go back to getting bundles
of rabbitskins together or splitting a trolley-load of
fence-droppers before they could go to the town to
buy things, and once more there was never enough
money for all the things Mother wanted. It was
lonely, too, without those men to talk to after school,
or to just sit and watch them split the logs into billets,
lever the billets on to the skids and then turn the
rough billets into straight, smooth brown sleepers
with slow, steady blows of the big broadaxes.
She looked around the deserted camp-site again.
It was funny how she always thought of this spot as
still having the four tents standing in a row and the
men still coming home at night, to wash in a dish
made from an old kerosene-tin and then start peel-
ing potatoes and cutting chips for their tea. It didn’t
seem like the same spot now ; it seemed as though
somewhere on Dad’s place there must still be a camp
with those four men living in it. It was just like that
other house, with some nice girls to play with, which
she had once dreamed she had found up in that gully
where the blackwoods grew. She knew, of course,
that there wasn’t a house there ; that there was no
house nearer than Sullivan’s place, but she liked to
think it was there just as she liked to think that the
sleeper-cutters hadn’t really gone away.
Suddenly she rose to her feet and walked back
to the trolley. Dad raised his head with a start when
she trod on a stick near him, looked around for a
moment as if he didn’t know where he was, and then
picked up his pipe from the leaves by his side.
“Better get going again,” he remarked, and began
to throw the slabs of wood up on to the trolley,
DEFORE they had cleaned up that heap of chips
they heard a lorry coming, and Alec Pridmore
drove up in his truck. He jumped out of the cab
and spoke quickly ; he always seemed to be in a
hurry. “1 want four good poles. Can I cut them?”
he said.
When Dad told him he could, Pridmore jumped
back into the cab and drove away, and soon they
could hear his axe going and the trees falling. In
no time he was back again with four long poles on
the tray of his truck. He walked over, groping in
his pocket as he came, and held some money out to
Dad, who said he didn’t want it, but who took it all
the same when Pridmore still held it out.
For once Pridmore didn’t seem in a hurry to go
away again ; he kicked up the dirt with his heel, then
went to his truck, got the axe and dug a few little
holes with it. “Nine inches of heavy loam over good
red clay,” he said.
Dad nodded. “I’ve got six hundred acres of flats
like this one, Alec,” he said.
Pridmore took off his hat and scratched his head.
He stared at Dad and then looked around. “Why the
hell don’t you do something with it?” he said sud-
denly. “Burn up all these fallen heads, poison most
of the other trees, and grub these odd yaccas. You’ve
got a couple of horses to drag the logs together.
Dammit, if this was cleared, topdressed and sown
with clover, it would be five-quid-an-acre land and
you could carry two sheep to the acre in the second
year. If you only cleared Up that flat near the house
and put a bit of super, on it you could run five or
six cows.”
“That way of clearing land is last year’s,” Dad
told him. “I’m waiting until I get a bloke in with a
tractor. That’s the way to do the job.”
“Well, I cleared my first fifty acres by hand,”
Pridmore said. “And sowed the pasture on it with an
onion drill. I must’ve tramped a good hundred miles
“ They'll do anything for a stick of barley-sugar .”
doing it, and I topdressed it by hand, too, the first
year. But then the bank lent me enough to clear a
hundred acres on the security of what I’d done
already. Where do you suppose you’ll get the money
if you don’t make a start?”
“Aw, it’ll come my way one of these days,” Dad
replied, and Pridmore just looked at him in a funny
way, said “Well, s’long, Alf,” and drove away.
On the way home Dad nudged Florrie and said
“Don’t say anything to your Ma about that eight
bob he give me —I’ll use it to get the battery charged
and then we can have the wireless going again, eh?”
U/HEN they got home Uncle Ray, Mother’s brother,
* v was there. Dad always worked hard when Uncle
Ray was there ; he unloaded the wood, put the trolley
back into the shed,- and went down to dig in the
garden patch. Florrie
took some of the
papers which Uncle
Ray had brought
and went to lie down
on her bed. She could hear Mother talking to him
in the kitchen.
“He’s hopeless,” she heard Mother say. “He’s
always living for something in the future which never
comes along. He strung me on for years, but I don’t
listen now. At the start it was always. the timber.
We were going to be wealthy and have enough money
to build a stone house and do something with this
place when we sold the timber. But what happened?
All the big trees turned out to be rotten, and we only
got a hundred pounds for the little trees. But, of
course, Alf acted as if that money was going to come
in for ever”
Florrie felt like telling Mother that it wasn’t Dad’s
fault, .but decided that she had better not. She could
remember that day quite well when old Bob called to
see about the trees ; she had gone out with him and
Dad to look at them, but Bob shook his head as soon
as he saw the big ones. “Those big fellers are no
good to anyone,” he said, hitting them with his axe.
“Mudguts in every one. We can only take these
young, sound ones.”
Dad looked as if he couldn’t believe it, so old
Bob chopped a hole in two or three big trees to show
Dad that they were only thin shells filled with a kind
of clay left by the white-ants eating out the hearts,
and then Dad had said nothing, but had looked very
like the picture of Grandpa on the wall at home.
Afterwards Dad had told Mum that if all the
big bluegums had been sound they would have got a
thousand pounds in royalties, and that was why he
had bought the place with his share of the money
from the estate, but Mother had only roused at him
for being such a fool as not to sound the trees. But
there again, Florrie thought, it wasn’t fair to blame
Dad, as he knew nothing about hitting a tree to see
if it was solid until old Bob showed him how to do it.
Uncle Ray left after tea, and then she, Dad and
Mother sat around the fire reading the papers which
Uncle had brought. When more wood was wanted
she said “I’ll get it,” and walkefi out to the big new
heap. But she didn’t return at once ; she stood there
looking up at the cold, bright stars and thinking about
it all: why Dad didn’t have something which brought
him in money like other people had, and why Mother
was always rousing, and why Alec Pridmore had been
able to clear fifty acres of land the first year and why
Dad had never cleared any except just around the
house and the garden patch down by the soak. If
they only had money, like other people, they could
always live like they did when the sleeper-cutters were
on the place.
Old Mrs. Sullivan was always talking about what
a wonderful thing prayer was, but Mother only laughed
and asked her what was the use of prayer when you
were saddled with a husband that was past praying
for. But when Mrs. Sullivan was alone with Florrie
she often said “I hope you say your prayers every
night, dear.”
Perhaps, thought Florrie, she ought to pray for
the things they wanted, instead of just reciting those
prayers she had been taught. Perhaps there was some-
body beyond those bright stars who would hear it.
“I want the sleeper-cutters to come back again and
stop here always,” she said aloud, and then thought
that it was silly to ask for that, as all the big trees
were only hollow shells with mudguts in them, and
all the little ones that were any good had been cut.
The stars above seemed to blur and quiver as hot tears
found their way into her eyes; she blinked them away
and dried her cheeks with her skirt.


BTIGHT AND SHINING
“Wot about a bite of lunch after this shot, Charlie?”
By JAMES HACKSTON.
WE left very early in the morning, going
west this time instead of north; and there
was an urgency in father’s departure, a sug-
gestion that something was bound to turn up
this time.
“New country,” he said; “never tried it before.
Most promising ; nuggets have been found over this
way.”
He was so excited that he couldn’t walk at a fair
pace, but kept increasing his speed, and looked as if
at any moment he might break into a run, as if he
could hardly wait to get there. I couldn’t keep up
with the pace he had set; his legs were moving at
such a rate that the creases of his old, baggy pants
as he walked seemed to be running excitedly hither
and thither as if trying to get away from the restless
trousers.
It promised to be a great day for me, too. The
sky was coming up blue as a blue bag and the early
arms of the sun were bathing the tree-trunks and finger-
ing the green tresses of the scrub. I’d never been this
way before, and as we cut across the paddocks I felt
as keen as my father did, but for different reasons.
Ahead, he was tearing along like a threshing-
machine, head down and seeing nothing of what was
about him or in front of him. When he came to
fences he pulled up breasting them, and then, waking
up, got through them, unconscious of them. It was
not long before he had established such a lead on me
that a blue sleeve began to wave at me, and from
then on the blue sleeve worked like a train signal,
going up or down according to the distance 1
behind-. The signal kept working until we came on
to a new lie of the country where wedges of rock
began to shoot out of the ground. On reaching these,
the signal went down and stayed down, and 1 came
on the scene again. I knew father had something for
me to do the way he was standing waiting.
“We are now in gold-bearing country, my sonny,”
he said. “See.” And he pointed to the wedges.
“Once upon a time nuggets were picked up here-
abouts.” With a well-trained toe he shot a piece of
stone off its belly and examined it. “Nuggets were
lying right on the surface, and where nuggets have
once been found there are others. The only thing is
they haven’t been found yet.” Another stone fell foul
of his toe. “We must keep our eyes op^n.”
I was looking at a long strip of slate-blue that
had settled down on the far horizon. “A boy’s eyes
are keener than a grown-up’s,” he said. Behind the
slate-blue strip a fleet of clouds came sailing up.
“Never mind over there,” he said. “There’s nothing
there. Keep your eyes fixed on the ground.”
“On the ground,” I repeated.
“Yes,” he said, taking a look at the sun and rush-
ing off again. “Look as you go along for something
bright and shining.”
“Something bright and shining,” I echoed.
We set off again, father soon taking the lead, head
down, eyes staring at the ground. I kept my eyes
on the ground for a while until he’d got well ahead ;
then, being free, I took stock of everything that was
about me. I didn’t have to keep my eyes skinned,
either, to see things bright and shining. Coming to a
rise I struck a host of bluebells, and I went through
them, following the path father had mown down.
Where he had put his feet and had crushed them,
they were struggling to rise to rejoin their upright
army, the wind waving their blue banners. Evidently
father didn’t expect anything bright and shining here,
for his head was up and I could see that he was look-
ing ahead now, far beyond the bluebells.
Leaving this country we now came out on to an
old red track, a pebbly track where myriads of small
stones of many colors reflected the sun’s light. On
this track father again slowed dbwn and hung his
head to it, peering at every yard he covered, stop-
ping to pick up certain stones, examining them, throw-
ing them away and picking up others, and then doing
the same thing all over again. He’d make kicks at
the yellowest-looking of them, and at other times he’d
tear them out of their beds with his heel. During
these operations he kept talking, mostly to himself.
“Thought that was a slug that time. Fancy that, I’d
have sworn to that one.” When he came to the end
of the track he said “Well, we didn’t see anything
bright and shining there, did we?”
We now edged down a slope and climbed through
a belt of tangled, untidy bush where the trees were
festooned with garlands of blue and purple sarsaparilla,
as if dressed to welcome us. The white limbs and
trunks of the young gums were glistening in the light
of the' sun, which now was shooting shafts of golden
light over all things, sparks of gold into the purple
shadows, and turning the dead leaves of the gums
into scarlet gems. Here father’s hungry eyes again
fossicked the earth, while I watched the parrots go
flashing by and the young gum-tips come up against
the clear blue sky like rubies on fire. Away off vast
folds of color tumbled, curtains of changing light
hung in the distance, and farther out a great opal lay
stretched across the skyline, sparkling and glowing as
the sun’s rays combed its heights and ridges. And up
against all this, in the foreground, was my father,
head down, forging furiously onward.
We got to the old creek bed thAt was father’s
goal, and he got to work. A little trickle of purest
silver glazed along its narrow bed, pausing in cool
corners, lying in blue pools, with the sun here and
there turning it into a shimmering ribbon of gold. In
places its course was over sandy patches of ivory ;
other places it danced over pebbles of living colors —
glinting, shimmering pebbles like lights beneath the
water; pebbles of polished silver, bronze, copper;
grey, green, blue, purple,, orange and gold. The gold
of the sun lay asleep on the sand, danced on the
water, clung to the sides of rocks and stones, leapt
the little falls and rapids, flecked the shaded pools,
hung over old grey logs and dripped molten from
green hanging leaves.
As I wandered about collecting specimens, the
little bottle that father had brought to put the gold
in stood on the rock where he had put it, deserted.
Father was still talking to himself, “ Ton my soul,
if that didn’t look like a little nugget of gold in the
dish.” I could hear him raking the rough gravel out
of the dish with hasty hands. “You’d think that
among all this there’d be some gold, somewhere.” And
so the day went on, father panning off dish after
dish, with the little bottle still standing on the rock,
and still empty.
It had been the day of days for me. On our
way home the sun kept us company for a mile or so,
and before sinking changed the hill of tall dead trees
that lay ahead of us into columns of gold.
Tramping on through the quiet greyness of the
bush father said, “Well, it wasn’t much of a day for
us, was it?”
I didn’t say anything.
“Most uninteresting trip,” he said. “A washout.
Poor country, wasn’t it?”
I was silent.
“Oh, well, never mind, my sonny. We’ll have a
better day next time.” And putting his hand on my
shoulder he said sympathetically, “Fools, weren’t
we —looking for something bright and shining?”
THE PIG THAT FLEW
By OLIVER FILTER.
MY grandfather died a few years before I was
born, but from what I’ve heard I’ve managed
to build up a pretty complete picture of him —
a forceful, black-bearded Scot who married a
tame little Irish girl and tamed her still more with
his Scottish temper and with seven children. But
more illuminating than any descriptions are some of
the stories told about him —how he flogged his eldest
son with a horsewhip for forgetting to feed a dog,
how he strapped boards to the backs of his children
if their carriage was not sufficiently upright to please
him. And the story of the pig, a ridiculous business
that had its origin in a bar-room argument . . .
My grandmother was watering some plants she
had growing in tins and old boxes on the verandah
when she saw her husband drive up in his sulky at a
pace that was not kind to the horse. He put the
sulky away, unharnessed the horse and stamped on to
the verandah. His wife looked up anxiously, sensing
his temper. “I hope there’s nothing wrong, Edward,”
she said in mild interrogation.
He sat on a bench, frowning and drumming on
his knee with his finger's. “Those fools at the hotel,”
he snapped. “And pigs.”
“Pigs, Edward?” she asked him.
“Yes, pigs,” he said impatiently. “And Johnson
and Murray. They tried to argue down my throat
that a pig can fall from a height and land on its feet
.without hurting itself. Like cats.”
“I’m sure 1 don’t know,” she said doubtfully.
“Well, J do,” he told her. “Pigs are delicate. The
shock would kill them. Like cats! Johnson’s a fool.”
My grandmother murmured “It’s very strange,”
and looked at her husband, timidly inviting further
confidence, but he suddenly stood up and stamped
off the verandah. The children, who had been listen-
ing from inside trying to gauge their father’s temper,
came out, the girls through the door and the two
boys through a window. They scattered again when
a few minutes later their father came striding around
the corner of the house carrying a small, struggling,
grunting and squealing pig.
When he stepped on to the verandah and made
to enter the house with the protesting animal my
grandmother ventured as strong a protest as she had
made since her marriage.
“Edward, please,” she said. “Not in the house.”
“Quiet,” he commanded.
My grandmother followed him fearfully along
the passage to the stairs that led to the attic room.
The children peered from behind doors and from the
other end of the passage, wondering at their father as
he struggled up the narrow stairs, cursing the pig and
ordering it to hold its silence lest he cut its throat.
Safely in the room he carried it to the window that
overlooked the side of the house and, after much
arduous struggling, managed to hold it out through
the window. Then he dropped it.
The pig squealed horribly as it fell and landed
struggling on its feet in a bed of plants. Then it
scrambled up on to the path and made off squealing
to join its brethren near the sty.
My grandfather raced down the stairs and, ignor-
ing the protests of his wife, ran to the sty. He caught
the same pig again, seized it in his arms and marched
back to the house. Again his wife tried to protest,
but was abruptly told to “Hold your quiet” as her
husband shouldered past her and struggled up the
stairs. Again he leant through the window and let the
pig fall. Again it landed on its feet in the garden,
and again it ran squealing back to the sty.
It is legend that the determination in my grand-
father’s step as he clattered down the stairs and out
of the house again seemed to shake the building from
end to end. This time he had some trouble in catch-
ing the pig, which was justifiably alarmed and, from
the way it struggled and squealed in my grandfather’s
arms, fully aware of what he was about to do with it.
My grandfather stamped through the house this
time without meeting any objections—grandmother
had retired to a chair in the drawing-room and was
sitting there white and rigid ; the children were no
longer afraid of his temper and were openly and ex-
citedly curious, the two boys watching from outside
to see the pig fall.
My grandmother heard her husband struggle up
the stairs again, cursing the unfortunate, squealing
pig ; then she heard his heavy step overhead as he
crossed the room to the window. She 'heard him
curse again and the pig squeal louder than ever. Then
came a sudden clatter, the thump of something landing
on the garden outside, and then the grunt of the pig
as it scrambled away and scuttled squealing for the sty.
My grandmother had barely gasped “Surely not
again?” when her eldest son came running into the
sitting-room. “Quick, mother, quick,” he panted.
“Father’s fallen out of the window.”
• “Heavens above,” cried my grandmother and hur-
ried outside. Sure enough, her husband was struggling
to his feet, holding one arm with his hand. “Good
heavens, Edward, what have you done?” she asked him.
He told her crossly “Mind your own business,
woman ; I’m all right.”
But he wasn’t. The fall had broken his shoulder
and it took a Ibng time to mend. My grandmother
nursed him dutifully without ever referring to the
incident. Nobody outside the house ever heard the
real story of the pig or how grandfather came to fall
till after the old man had died.


-Order
ŕ
CYPRUS
DE LUXE
The ideal watch for
the Service Man.
Waterproof, Shock-
proof, Dustproof,
Anti - magnet! c.
Stainless steel case,
£7.
Fully Guaranteed.
Regimental Colour
Patch Brooches,
2/6 each.
DIAMOND
8- WATCH
SPECIALISTS
ŗ
112 MARKET SI
SYDNEY.
OPP. DAVIDJONES
FUXI-T&fICK
Flex-I-Track for “0” gauge Mechanical and
Electrical Trains. Will lit any make of'track
—switches- —crossovers. Make any curve,
gradient—a neio layout every time.
• No track sections to
connect —just roll it
out —roll it up.
• Strongly bui 1 t —
won’t bend or buckle.
• 10ft. (one 6ft. and
one 4ft. section) for
12/6, Plus Postage.
Nett weight when
packed, 51b.
AMPLION (A/sla )
Pty., Ltd.,
382 Kent St., Sydney.
NATURAL
WOOD TIES
FLEXIBLE IN '
ANY DIRECTION
FITS OTHER
EQUIPMENT
CK/!
TRACK
i TYPEWRITERS
| of every description
f Smiths, Coronas,
t Royals, Reming-
| tons, Underwoods
• and many others
for you to choose
i from.
AT ATTRACTIVE PRICES
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States—See ’Phone Book.
ř
.11l
Try the new Roussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and security. Definitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL, AIMMAAXCE CO.,
DEPT. 37, 84 PITT ST.. SYDNEY.
Pelmanism
Scientific training of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
Pelmanism trains the observation to
speed and accuracy, increases the
power of concentration and streng-
thens the will. It is a complete
mental training and it develops
personality.
The P elm an Institute
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders JLane,
Melbourne (Cnr. Market St.).
You may be a
future
TEX
MORTON!
Learn the
HILLBILLY
GUITAR,
Hawaiian Guitar,
Spanish Guitar or Ukulele in 30 MINUTES!
Uet Norm. Scott, the singing- stockman,
teach you!
His simple but complete Postal Instruc-
tion course costs only 3/6 a week.
Write today for complete details.
NORM. SCOTT, Hawaiian Club,
Dept. B, 296 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Tune in to 2GP. every Sunday 9.45 a.m.
r
ŕ
ŗ
ř
r
ttBMMG
cs:
M'Aro
IBIFEET
Amazing New Imported
CLIMBING TOMATO!
BEARS FOB A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001 b. per plant. Large,
red, smooth tomatoes. Climbs
12-20 feet. 2/6 packet posted.
PURE WHITE HEALTH
TOMATO!
For Rheumatism
Sciatica, Gout,
etc. (100 per cent.
NON-ACID!) Sup-
erb flavor! Disease free! Drought proof!
MAKES DELICIOUS JAM. 2/6 Packet, posted.
15-DAY TIMBER KILLER!
all trees, roots to top, large
small. In 15 DAYS! New method
TO BINGBARKING NECESSARY!
Prevents Suckering. Will not in-
jure :f
the soil. 6/6 Tin. Post Free;
N.S.W. SEED CO., 693 George St.. Sydney.
□
ŕ
BE INDEPENDENT OF
PETROL SUPPLIES
Anyone can assemble in a few hours with-
out a welding plant a “BLACK RANGE
HURRICANE” Gas Producer for his
Car, Truck, Tractor or Stat. Engine with
parts available on every station, farm or
mine in the back country. Many striking
testimonials from appreciative converts.
Comprehensive plans, with full instruc-
tions, 10/6 post free, from C. M. Shilling,
Black Range, Murchison, West. Aust.
ŗ
If your dog’s coat is dull
loose or ragged—if he is listless, won t
eat or is out of sorts —start him now
on a course of BARKO Condition
Powders. He will soon be lively and
eating with his old healthy appetite.
BARKO tones up a dog’s whole
system and benefits his coat.
ř
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists ,
NATURTON
for the DEAF and Hard
of Hearing.
“Naturton” is a new British invention which
has a particular appeal to those afflicted with
deafness owing to its comfort and unobtrusive-
ness. No batteries, wires or headbands are used.
“Naturton” is unique in that it is the only
hearing aid of its type with double sound
chambers and vibrators. Call or write for
particulars and SO days’ trial offer.
R. A. NOEDL. L.1.8.5.T.,
sth Floor, The Block,
438 George Street, SYDNEY.
“DINGO TRAIL”
for attracting Dingoes to Traps or Baits.
Per 40/.. Bottle, 21/-
From Gulgong, N.S.W.i ’‘Since using it
my loss from ; the ravages of the dingoes
has been practically nil.”
From Queensland: ‘‘‘Dingo Trail’ acts
admirably before the dogs get in amongst
the sheep.”
DINGO TRAPS
Double Folding Spring 9in. jaw, 16/-,
lOln. jaw 18/6 each (carriage extra).
GIBBS’ RABBIT DECOY
A bottle costing 12/6, post paid, will treat
1200 baits. Instructions given.
FOX DECOY WHISTLES V 6 each.
For all station supplies write —
R. J. BROWN
JVJNCHESTER
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
2- 750 ft. range, each ....
3- 1000 ft. range, each . .
Complete with Batteries.
Postage Extra Outside. N.S.W.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
QUICKand DEADLY
CYANOGAS, quickly, cheaply, cleanly and
safely destroys rabbits and all vermin. Econ-
omical. easy to use. No waste. IT'S THE
GAS THAT KILLS THEM,
PROTECT THE SHEEP
CVanogaS
L 5
m
Obtainable from all Storekeepers in Australia, i
US
r
LEARN ventriloquism
quietly —my new method
teaches it thoroughly in very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the VENTRILO you can imitate many kinds cf
birds, animals, etc. Everything for ONE
SHILLING, including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw your voice.
FRFF Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
1 lUdi Tricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
173 Pitt St., Sydney. 52 Swanston St.. Melb.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
■I Jin. knee pads. Sin., thigh
pads. 4Jin. to Sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid,
for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Jn Til ITV Manufacturii
. P. I All I 6 Cunningham
St., Sydney.
ŕ
SAVE £2
ON BATTERIES
Buy direct from well-known manu-
facturer at wholesale prices. Save
nearly half usual cost. Marshall
Batteries are renowned for long life.
Every battery is guaranteed in writ-
ing. Send for 16-page catalogue
telling you how to choose, instal and
care for batteries for cars, trucks,
cycles, radio, home or theatre lighting.
Marshall Battery Manufacturing Co.,
38-42 Harbour Street, Sydney.
FAT, FLABBYa
STOMACH
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The GOVERNA BELT supports
correctly the delicate organs,
and, by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes waistline
fat and bulge with every move
In 7 days your waistline will
be Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of
bulge and strain gone . . ,
OR. NO COST! Write for full
illustrated details of 7 DAYS’
TRIAL OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAD OFFER
Sydney.,
TRY "CENTURY" RADIO
—and save 40 p.c.
(up to £2O).
It costs you nothing to try the
“Century” Katlio. You can have
FREE TRIAL, in your own home.
Century Radio Sets embody the
latest scientific improvements . . .
wonderful reception assured from
all over the world on Battery and
All-electric sets. Write at once for
Catalogue. If no “Century” Agent
in your district you can buy at
wholesale prices (10% discount).
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
MAKE YOUR OWN SOFT DRINKS
appreciated by your visitor*. Less trouble than
making a pot of tea. A trial will surely please.
Obtainable in various nice flavors: lime, raspberry,
lemon, orange. Nine Pence per Packet, oi
Three Packets for 2/-, carriage paid; with full
directions.
refreshing cordial f(
of one “depp sink
delicious for the ho
sparkles tike
Better for your h
any bottled drink,
for the family a
than any you can b
gallon of the niees
Much better and 1
) U
c
]
i
The Union Manufacturing & Agency Co..
299' Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, CM.
ŗ
Get rid of
Horns BEFORE
they start!
One application of
HAYES CHEMICAJ.
DEHORNEK
Dehorns without bleeding
any calf up to two months.
Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from
its mother for SO minutes. An easy, cheap, humane
method. Price per pot sufficient for 35 to 50 calves,
6/6. Large size for 210 to 300 calves, 30/-.
HAYES VETERINARY Post Free.
COMPANY, 351 Queen St., Brisbane.
$
Refreshingly Different!
The “Thumbs Up” Series of Greeting Carets
specially designed by Armstrong.
I’or those who like their personal Greetings
to convey good humour and originality.
Series of six cards.
“Those Australians sure give me da head-
ache!” “I dell you, Goebbels, dev woman’s
a comblete stranger to me!” “Ve haven’t
got these ersatz mirrors quite right yet,
Ben!” “Dinky-di, Nursey—am I really the
first man you've ever dressed!” “Ps-ss-t,
Hermann —you’ve got a medal showing!”
“Who you think you vas —the K.A.P.?”
Price Per set, post free.
H. B. ARMSTRONG,
:i(is Klizabeth Streei, .Melbourne, Victoria.
LAMBS SAVED
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 iJ.e. efficient —
Humane —Safe —and as quick as the fastest
knife. Lambs suffer no setback —fatten
weeks earlier. No risk of Infection —No
losses. Don’t judge this instrument by othe?
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small. £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
Also LAMB DE-TAILEB, £3/5/-. From
all agents or the distributors: HAIN &
SjJARKJHT, 19b O’Connell Street, Sydney.
r
FINE TOBACCO!
Whitelaw’s Famous Import
Blend Number One.
A fine quality leaf which could not be purchased
anywhere at less than 24/ per pound. Despite
new duties, WHITELAW’S SPECIAL POLICY TO
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS enables us to offer this
tooacco at the lowest price consistent with its fine
quality. Save yourself the middleman’s profit—
buy direct and enjoy an extra fine quality smoke,
expertly blended, fragrant, cool, and satisfying.
Your money back if not satisfied. Send crossed
cheque or money order. (If cheque add exchange.)
Available in Ready Rubbed Fine Cut or Ready-
Rubbed for Pipe, Mb. 9/3 delivered; 11b. 17/6
delivered. James Whitelaw and Co., Factors,
Importers and Blenders of Fine Tobaccos. 160
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. (Note new address.)
Bankers: Bank of N.S.W., Head Office.
IWAY IS TO
AS YOU
GUITARS .... . . EKOM 3/- WEEKLY "
SAXOPHONES 3/6 .my.
(PIANO ACCORDIONS,,
TRUMPETS
BANJO MANDOLINS
UKULELES
Write for free catalogue
of instrument you prefer.
3/6 WEEKLY.
3/- WEEKLY.
3/* WEEKLY.
10/6 EACH.
'Ty,..i,3* i JTIla
'3Ax Cr
416 CEORCt STREET
f>TY
LTD
3* t
E
A
TILLEY LAMPS
ř
For the Farm, Camping
or Fishing.
British-made Kerosene Lamps
providing a steady 300 c.p. light
without flickering and without
smoke or smell..
Model EXIOO (illustrated)
can be used as a Storm
Lantern, Table Lamp or Hanging
Lamp. Reflector slips off when
not required. Burns tor 10
hours on 1} pint.
Price, 70/- complete.
Write for catalogue of Radiators
and all types of lamps.
Obtainable from your local agent or
W. Kopson & Co. Pty., Ltd .
376-382 Kent Street. Sydney
MA6336.
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
12/11/’4l (See Page 26)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss -
I Cut this out mid send with your “ Wants’' to The Bulletin Service Department.
For local office address, see Page 0.


SHAPING AUSTRALIA’S
INDUSTRIAL PROGRESS
B.H.P. Steel in its many forms fills Aus-
tralia’s need for the metal that gets things
done. The great tonnages of quality iron
and steel produced at The Broken Hill Pro-
prietary’s Newcastle Steel Works give Aus-
tralia an assured supply of the essential
materials for the development and defence
of the Commonwealth.
The high quality of B.H.P. Steel and the
fact that it is available at prices which com-
pare more than favourably with those
charged far overseas steel form convincing
evidence of the industry's efficiency.
The value of the B.H.P. enterprise in peace
time is only exceeded by its vital importance
in the extraordinary circumstances caused
by war.
r
i
Above is shown section of the Newcastle Steel Works
blast furnace plant, which produces more than 13,000
tons of iron per week.
mm
mm
. 1.
5 “5
,
-omr
«■
As an avenue of employment the Australian iron
and steel industry must be ranked of major import-
ance, as it gives direct employment to more than
32,000 persons, whose wages total yearly more than
£9,000,000.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited not
only produces iron and steel, but owns and operates
its own steamships, coalmines and ship-building
yards, and most of the raw materials used in steel-
making are obtained from properties under the con-
trol of the company.
B.H.P. PRODUCTS
include
Pig Iron, Steel Ingots, Blooms,
Billets, Ferro Alloys, Rails,
Flats, Angles, Rounds,
Squares, Beams, Channels,
Plates, Reinforcing Bar, Tee
and Bridge Rails, Spring and
Alloy Steel, Cold-Rolled
Bright Strip and Box Strap-
ping, Octagons and Hexagons,
Wire Rods, Toluol, Solvent
Naphtha, Ammonium Sul-
phate, Foundry Coke, Coals,
Steam and Roasting Coal,
Household, and Bunker Coal.
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD.
Iron and Steel Masters—Mine and Ship Owners Colliery Proprietors—Ship Builders
Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street. Melbourne.
Iron Ore Workings: Iron Knob, South Australia.
Iron and Steel Works: Newcastle, New South Wales.
Shipbuilding Yards: Whyalla, South Australia.
