

Purpose and
Performance
A LITTLE more than twenty-five
years ago—on June 2, 1915—The
Broken Hill Proprietary’s Newcastle Steel
Works was officially opened. The enter-
prise was established with a definite
purpose—to manufacture quality iron and
steel for the needs of Australian industry
and thereby supply at reasonable prices
the essential materials for the develop-
ment of the Commonwealth.
From the outset, unwavering determi-
nation and confidence in the Australian
workers’ ability to master the difficulties
of steel production were maintained. This
was backed by a courageous policy of
plant modernisation and extension, which
has culminated in Australia possessing
one of the world’s most efficient iron and
steel works.
Purpose has been backed by perform-
ance, the Newcastle Steel Works to-day
supplying great tonnages of the iron and
steel so vital to the nation’s development
and defence.
I
■i: '.
■ ■ I
■ : J ; :; ■ *
< -t ■:
■ ; '-i ; :: ";••• •
:
■
mm'' 4m
II a -
jM&a. ~nJ.ti!'i
r. a
il ■
VAln . S a 1 h t
iltßoimß{H«HmmsM".!ilUii!SirailUii.l . nm - ■ li. u . H "*■ 4^
mmm
■ -a., .
Wii: *. J
(■MiCKTTsOtt
IS ' ■■©iT"’ 1 !
, ■
ill
! ■■■■■■. ~ '
■■ V I!
,' . .
■ 1
:;; ' : :: : ' ; -
:
■r ? -
i
;: &
MK& . Nf* ’
1 ' —fSilkifS!
mm.
SB :■ :ii: : : '
■'% SP
p*
. lfa
„ * ■« T"
4 . ,
a 4:
■, i
mm
■ .
.... •
■Rwi
•■■■•■ :•••• : :
, 7m ■
.
m
mt. ~--d "• :
HBJj! I, ■ t .'l
Mfeij |,'-J
„■ , ; '
'■■,'v 1 - hj
■| V - v a ■ m, •
,S- . k®'. \ mry»
Hffc -
fesa l a ■
i#
In" -
e m
< f;. s ±E.!i
,
Above is shown molten steel being teemed
from a huge ladle into ingot moulds
at the B.H.P. Newcastle Steel Works*
WL
m
in
WHS
.•i3*
»«ii
KSi&SSSaSSfc
ii
■>: :■ ••
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.
Iron and £ tee! Masters, C o Uiery Proprietors,
Mine and Ship Owners •
Head Office ; 4
Iron and Steel
It Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Works : NEWCASTLE, N. S.W.
Iron Ore Workings: Iron Knob, B.A. Limestone Deposits; Devonport, Tasmania.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3202.
Wednesday, June 25, 1941.
The P.M.’s War Prospectus
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


sdf
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 241
The Red Page
Julian Ashton's Memories .
Now Came Still Evening On, Julian
Ashton’s random reminiscences published
by Angus and Robertson, is the most
pleasing book of memories to appear in
Australia since R. H. Croll’s I Recall—
a memoir with which Mr. Ashton’s has
obvious points of resemblance, since both
authors discuss leading Australian artists,
the early days and the Kelly Gang ; and
both, mbst creditably, manage to talk
about art without slipping into gang war-
fare.
Mr. Ashton has much to say about his
boyhood in Cornwall —and all of it
charming—but so little to say of his
services to art in Australia, except for a
few anecdotes, some tributes to fellow-
painters and an occasional brief reference
to such matters as the sending of an
exhibition of Australian painting to
London in 1898 and his support of the
Society of Artists, that if it weren’t for
Norman Lindsay’s graceful introduction
the book would be modest to a fault.
Recalling the help he himself had had
from Julian Ashton, Lindsay writes;
His affirmation of any other sincere effort
in art was just as indefatigable as it was
in my case. Streeton, Lambert, Hilder,
Blamire Young, Gruner, all owe much to
Julian’s early recognition of their works,
and the energy with which he fought to
gain their public recognition, too. To
Gruner he was a wonderful friend, from the
day that Gruner came to him as a student
till Gruner was free to make the most
subtle and profound analysis of light in
nature that the art of the landscape pos-
sesses. I cannot conceive what Gruner’s
diffident and reticent personality would have
done without just such a strong and resolute
spirit as Julian’s to stir him to action. ...
As for poor Hilder, sick and slowly dying,
it is not too much to say that Julian Ashton
literally nursed him through those last
years which gave us his few charming
works. And Lambert, when he returned to
Australia, told us in public how much, as
student, he owed to Julian Ashton’s
stimulus.
“A born leader,” says Lindsay; im-
portant not only to his students, but to
Australian art as a whole ; and, giving
art its proper importance, “I find it
impossible to compute the debt this
country owes Julian Ashton.”
With so much good service, and with
the fine statement of his own paintings
to his credit, Mr. Ashton could have
w.itten a bad book and still have had
it welcomed: but the fact remains that
Now Came Still Evening On is a good
book ; not a literary masterpiece, not a
challenging, turbulent autobiography of
the type of Dr. Moran’s Viewless Winds,
but a warm conversation-piece, slight on
the whole, but written with such charm
and humor that its appeal won’t by any
means be restricted to art circles. As an
indication of its spirit, this is the sort of
thing Mr. Ashton recalls from his youth:
A short, thick-set, powerfully-built young
man, Ernest was in the habit of swinging
heavy weights about and around his head
while standing with a foot on either side
of his iron bedstead which he had bent
into a half circle. This made his bed so
uncomfortable that he bought one of
those South Sea outrigger canoes about
12ft. long and swung it from the ceiling;
into this he would climb at night, cover
himself with his blanket and dream of
tropical seas. When his aunt complained
that he had cut holes in the blanket he re-
plied, “Mats, ma tante, il faut respirer.”
That happened, presumably, something
over 70 years ago ; Mr. Ashton is over
90 years of age. He has heard Dickens
reading from his own books and seen
Fleet-street completely blocked by people
waiting to secure an early copy of a new
piece of Christmas cheer from the
novelist. Once Mr. Ashton saw Carlyle
in a bus and just failed to pluck up
courage to speak to him. He has seen
Gladstone walking in Piccadilly. He
describes early Sydney:
I remember one drawing I did looking
down upon the Qudy. The space at present
occupied by the tram-sheds was then a pic-
turesque old fort. As you walked down the
“Stairs” you looked upon a little beach;
and upon this beach were piled up a
number of rowing boats. There bluff old
watersiders in the costume of the Thames
ferrymen sat and talked, smoking their
pipes and waiting for a passenger to take
across to the North Shore. Quite a few
old gentlemen who had built houses
amongst the trees at Middle Head had
their regular ferrymen to take them back
and forth to the city.
Looking for material for the Pic-
turesque Atlas of Australia, Mr. Ashton
wandered pretty widely about the coun-
try and has preserved one or two price-
less anecdotes and curiosa, notably the
story of how he painted a stuffed croco-
dile and became famous in Townsville
as “the man who sat and drew a croco-
dile not ten feet from him” ; and his
recollection of the gambling barmaid of
Gym pie known as Tubular Boiler Sal.
For some reason or other that reminds
this reviewer that Mr. Ashton has also a
chapter on Sir Henry Parkes ; he has
heard Parkes reciting “Abou Ben Adhem”
and has watched him holding up the
business of the nation while he worked
on a sonnet —which, Mr. Ashton declares,
wasn’t too bad. Mr. Ashton’s on rather
safer ground when he praises Sir Henry
as a statesman.
On the whole, there’s surprisingly little
art gossip in this book, and what there
is is all friendly. Mr. Ashton has a kind
word for The Bulletin’s “Hop” and
Phil May ; a story of Norman and Lionel
Lindsay, a dog and a pound of sausages ;
an account of the discovery of Streeton
and an excellent description of Lambert
at work ; appreciations of one or two
other artists and a brief survey of the
fine work Mr. Howard Hinton is doing
for art in this country.
Not yet ready to abandon the cause of
art himself, Mr. Ashton makes a spirited
attack on State parochialism and jealousy
in art and has this in particular to say
of the Felton Bequest:—•
As time goes on the Felton Bequest must
reach enormous proportions, far beyond
the possibility of its being exhibited in the
Melbourne Gallery, and I cannot believe
that so generous a spirit as Mr. Alfred
Felton would desire to confine it to one
State alone, when it might become a tre-
mendous cultural influence to the whole
of Australia.
That is typical of Mr. Ashton. And
so also is his recording of the odd fact
that every year Mr. Felton ate 365
whiting and 365 chickens. “Always
whiting for breakfast, always chicken for
dinner. No lunch.”
Airmen Stories.
“He belonged to the golden age of the
Royal Flying Corps, when aviation was
the marvel of mankind and the country
was fighting for its life, when every flight
was an epic, when every pilot flew in the
shadow of death, when the silly, breath-
taking confidence of youth was in its
0wn....”
At least, that was the impression he
gave, with his eagerness to get out of
hospital again after his crash, and fly
once more. Actually, he belonged to that
“golden age” only in that he was still
young and inexperienced enough to look
on flying as an adventure. He is a char-
acter in England Is My Village (Faber
and Faber), a collection of short stories
all concerned with flying, some of them
with flying in this present war. The
author, John Llewelyn Rhys (Flight-
Lieutenant J. LI. Rees, R.A.F.), was
killed on active service, August 5, 1940.
Judged by that character and others
in the stories, “the silly, breath-taking
confidence of youth” is still in its own.
It is the machines, not those who fly
them, that have changed beyond recog-
nition. The difference is noted by a
character in another of the stories who
is a survival from the last war:
“I had a look at one of your machines
to-day,” Ray said. “They’re very compli-
cated, aren’t they?”
“Not really, just a mass of gadgets you
soon get used to.”
“I suppose you’re right.” He drank
deeply, then looked up at me with eye-
brows raised. “It’s a lot different, you
know, from my day.”
The story of war flying in that charac-
ter’s day was unforgettably told in the
earlier posthumous book of another young
aviator killed on active service, published
in 1926 under the title War Birds: Diary
of an Unknown Aviator. It was cer-
tainly a day “when every pilot flew in
the shadow of death.” War Birds is
littered with crashed ’planes, not brought
down in combat, but getting out of
control, or their wings breaking off, in
training flights. There must be in it not
less than twenty times more pilots killed
that way than killed fighting. From War
Birds, to the text “when every flight was
an epic”:
We are going to start on Rumptys, as
these Henry Farnham ’planes are called.
They say that you test the rigging by put-
ting a bird in between the two wings. If
the bird gets out there’s a wire gone some-
where. They are so unstable that they
never go up except when the air is very
smooth.
Springs did ten loops in succession and
landed. Ainsworth went up later in the
same machine and was coming over the
top of his loop when the wings fell off.
He was killed instantly.
At last 1 got into a straight dive and
came out of the clouds at a hundred and
fifty miles an hour....
Montgomery was killed when the pilot
fell out of the front seat in a loop.
Cush Nathan killed. He was flying an
S.E. and the wings came off at five thou-
sand feet.
Information has been received that the
Germans have developed a parachute that
can be used from an aeroplane 1 like
the idea. It would certainly help at the
front. Most pilots are killed by struc-
tural defects or by having the ’plane catch
fire in the air.
A woman character in England Is My
Village comments; “In a few years what
courage the aeroplane has taken out of
the world!” It is not so easy in this
book as in War Birds to find quick illus-
trations of the difference between then
and now. Looking for them brings home
what a vast amount is commonly left
as taken for granted between writers and
readers. War Birds has the great advan-
tage of Clayton Knight’s splendid illus-
trations ; these fix in the reader’s mind
just what the comic crates they flew then
were like. One distinct difference be-
tween then and now is that the writer
of War Birds, like the whole glorious
outfit to which he belonged, was in the
raw novice and amateur class. There
was wonderful flying at that time by men
like Bishop and Mannock, each of whom
commanded his detachment in France,
and by many others. What was missing
was the streamlined efficiency that has
come into flying since. There was novelty
then. Hence the writer of War Birds
standing and looking in enthusiastic
astonishment at a Sopwith Pup:
It’s the prettiest little thing I ever laid
my eyes on. 1 am going to fly one if I
live long enough. They aren’t as big as a
minute and are as pretty and slick as a
thoroughbred horse. Tiny little things, just
big enough for one man and a machine-
gun.
That, of course, would convey nothing
to one who had never set eyes on a
’plane, but at least he is standing look-
ing at something which excites him very
much. There is not that enthusiasm for
the thing that is to be flown in England
Is My Village. “ the machine rocked
across the aerodrome and then, becom-
ing air-borne, soared smoothly up-
wards .... ” The wonderment and novelty
have gone ; in their place, complete
acceptance, “Crossing to the window,
he peered out at the waiting monoplanes.
Grim they seemed, he thought, their
broad wings like arms crucified against
the dying day. Precise machines, de-
signed, built and flown to one end, to
bring destruction to every part of the
inhabited globe.” Not only acceptance
of the thing itself, but now something
like hatred of what it represents. The
writer of War Birds saw war flying only
in one way, as heroic adventure. In
more than one story the writer of
England Is My Village sees a strong
streak of the sinister in it. After a wild
night flight in one of his stories a woman
character, hysterical from her experi-
ence, says: “I was so sure ... so sure ...
I knew your world . . . but dear God . . .
I didn’t know it was this.”
Considered as short stories the con-
tents of England Is My Village are
vividly imagined and satisfying to read,
without any of them being very great
stories. They lack the sheer vigor of
life that makes War Birds a masterpiece,
but they have distinct quality none the
less. In their parts they are excellent:
the descriptions of air experiences—in
a bomber being attacked over Germany ;
in a ’plane crashing at night; a test pilot
trying out a new ’plane and finding it
does not perform according to the blue-
prints ; the English landscape seen from
the air. Plots are not particularly strong
and characters not well realised ; but the
writing has the strength inherent in
naturalness, and what is being described
is always lively, interesting and exciting.
Oddly, it does not make flying seem
easier than it was in the age of War
Birds; it makes it seem much more
exacting, much more of a strain on
physique and nerve. Perhaps the writer
was feeling that strain himself during the
war period in which most of these stories
were evidently written —feeling it all the
more so because, on the evidence of his
stories, he was a finely sensitive and
imaginative creative artist.
Geneva a Racket
Probably a dozen books, all of them
different in point of view, could be
written on this theme. The Geneva
Racket, 1920-1939, by Robert Dell (Hale,
Ltd.), takes the view that the League of
Nations diplomats capitulated to Japan,
betrayed Republican Spain, capitulated
to Germany, etc., and in every in-
stance should have taken the opposite
course. The assumption is that, had it
done so, its action would have been effec-
tive in halting aggressors, and war would
not now be on. It could be at least as
plausibly argued that the result would
have been war some years earlier, with
none of the policing countries ready for
it and the people of all of them divided
and unwilling.
Anyone who can accept Mr. Dell’s
point of view will find that he makes out
his case very well, giving in its support
a closely detailed account of League pro-
ceedings in all the major crises of its
career. Others will feel that here is an-
other journalist with a large axe to grind.
Mr. Dell’s prescription for a revived
League is that its members must sur-
render their absolute national sovereignty
and the League become a “supra-national
authority.” “There are obvious difficul-
ties in the way” should perhaps be carved
on 'he Geneva Palace as setting a new
standard in understatement. A question
(hat would *hen have to be considered,
bays Mr. D-d, is whether it is desirable
that the seat of the League should con-
tinue to be in Switzerland.
It appears—and it is most curious that
newspaper correspondents at Geneva did
not let this out long ago—that “Swiss
opinion on the whole is unfavorable, and
even hostile, to the League. There is
strong feeling that the presence of the
League in Switzerland compromises Swiss
neutrality, and the Swiss Federal Gov-
ernment has shown an increasing ten-
dency to hamper the action of the
League.”
Mr. Dell suggests a move to another
country—one willing to give the League
a small territory of its own, on Vatican
City lines. Peru perhaps? Or the
U.S.A.? If Uncle Sam were willing—if
he did not roar out that he wouldn t
touch the League with a barge-pole—it
might not then be necessary to abandon
the million-pound Palace. They have
shifted entire castles to Gahd’s Own
Country. Why not a Palace? And Uncle
has some claim to the souvenir. He
started it all.
Mediterranean Sea Battles.
Subtitled “H.M.A.S. Sydney with the
Mediterranean Fleet,” George H. John-
ston’s Grey Gladiator (Angus and
Robertson) is much more than a record
of the Sydney’s exploits; as far as the
censorship will allow, and it has given
him plenty of both latitude and longi-
tude, the book is a history of the sea-
war in the Mediterranean from the be-
ginning of the war to the victory of Cape
Matapan. Within its strictly journalistic
limits (for whenever it approaches litera-
ture Mr. Johnston’s prose disappears in
a swoon of dots) it is an excellent piece
of dramatic reporting, much better than
such offerings as Noel Monks’s Fighter
Squadrons, and well worth anyone’s
reading.
One of its outstanding merits is the
clarity of its descriptions of sea battles ;
Mr. Johnston can make those accounts
of big battles, which in the dailies are
something like a mixture of Euclid, Book
IV, and the sound of a brass band, simple
and clear and doubly exciting for being
so. At long last the “disappointing”
battle of Calabria makes sense; with the
vivid description helped out by photo-
graphs, the drama and importance of
Taranto are given their proper emphasis ,
the account of the dive-bombing of the
Fleet by the Germans off Pantellaria,
interesting in itself, has the additional
value that it can be read as a commen-
tary on the latest and more successful
dive-bombing off Crete. Also of peren-
nial interest are the stories of the failure
of Mussolini’s E-boats and of the attacks
the Navy made on the Libyan coastline
to assist General Wavell’s offensive.
Mr. Johnston has plenty of stories that
aren’t so well known as the outlines of
the big battles. For instance, the one
about the time the Sydney ran out of
anti-aircraft shells but tricked the Italian
bombers into keeping their distance by
firing blank smoke-shells at them. And
the one about the Stuart “hatching” an
Italian submarine all night: when the
submarine eventually came to the sur-
face it popped up within a few feet of
the destroyer and the Italians, scrambling
from the hatch, were greeted by “a row
of grinning Australian sailors who lined
the rails of the destroyer, some shout-
ing ‘Waiter.’ ” One of the highlights
of the book is the description given by
one of the Sydney’s sailors of the cruisers
eerie voyage into the Adriatic at the
time of Taranto —the destruction of an
Italian convoy in a desperate but suc-
cessful night raid into Italy’s own waters.
This is the sort of book that naval
men could read without feeling disgusted,
for it pays full honor to the bravery of
the ordinary Italian sailor —of the out-
standing ' valor of the destroyer Zeffiro
at Calabria and of the submarine Galileo
Galilei in the Red Sea: stories that make
the British victories in the Mediter-
ranean all the more creditable.
Feeding and Care of Baby: Sir F.
Truby King (Whitcombe and Tombs).
It covers the subject exhaustively; is
well arranged and fully indexed.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every act
“THE SENIOR STORE”
mXbtw'rfbiclßtotdi
famous/LOW PRICES
For years, Anthony Horderns' have built their great reputat ; on on
quality value ... a Store that has always attempted to give a
square deal to their customers—especially is this true at Sale
time, a time when every article in every department is genuinely
reduced. Savings are welcome now as never beiore . . . and
our Half-Yearly Genuine Sale is a grand opportunity for all!
yf.
HALF YEARLY
105 i
84
/
-
C-
- '
m
mm
*W-
m
m
m
m
mm*
m*.
m':.
m
S'
&
M
m
m
m
&
m
m
m
S /IVN
s/:y. - a
m
m
mm
53
mi
V"' 1
m
m
/v
Suedette Golf Jackets
English Suedette Golf Jackets with zipp
fastening front, two pockets and turn down
collar. Nicely cut and made. Windproof,
showerproof and available in Fawn
shades.. Anthony Horderns' Regular
Price, 27/6. Sale Price 21/-
25-
/ -
■
SPORTS TROUSERS
Well cut Sports Trousers in seven distinctive shades of
Light Grey, Mid Grey, Blue Grey, Light Fawn, Fawn,
Green and Brown. Made from all wool worsteds with
non-fray seams and extended waist band. Four pockets
and waist pleats. 30 to 46 inch waists. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price, 28/6. Sale Price 25/-
GREY OVERCOATS
'Always smart . . . Grey Herringbone tweed
Overcoats expertly tailored by our craftsmen.
S.B. Raglans and D.B. Chesterfield styles.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 89/6
Sale Price 79/6
MEN’S OVERCOATS
Overcoats made from all wool fine quality
coatings in smart shades of Fawns and Greys.
Tailored by our own craftsmen. S.B. Raglan
and D.B. Chesterfield styles. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price, 105/-. Sale Price 84/-
Sports Coats
Handsome Sports Coats made from all wool
quality tweeds in shades of Fawns, Browns,
Greens and Greys. Patch pockets, tailored
backs and lined with art silk. 68 different
fittings for men 9 to 18 stone. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price 59/6
Sale Price 49/6
X
• Men’s Clothing—Ground Floor,
George Street. Freight paid to
all railway stations in N.S.W.
and seaports in the Common-
wealth.
'PHONE: M 2401 (DAY OR NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0.. SYDNEY


ONCE BREAK THE ICE
By J. C. SHELLEY.
THE fingers of the
boy’s right hand
clenched suddenly
round the butt of the
rifle. He tensed, listening where he stood by the base
ed' a smooth-trunked kurrajong. His dogs were running
a rabbit, the chase coming round the shoulder of the
hill opposite, its course traced by the high “yip-yip-
yip” of the little black-and-white foxy.
The rabbit shot into view over the brow of the
ridge where the hill dipped away to the river, went
straight down for the gully, with the mongrel grey-
hound Trouble hard behind, little stones and twigs
spraying from his pounding feet. The rabbit, long
ears flattened with terror, dodged suddenly. So did
the dog. Again the rabbit dodged, back around the
hill now, away from the boy, its stump of a white tail
flashing up and down like a Morse light signalling.
But the dog was good. Overrunning his quarry his
great jaws clamped at the back of the neck as he slid
to a stop. He shook the rabbit quickly from side
to side.
The rest of the pack came panting up, the little
foxy yipping like an old woman who missed the fight
yet knows all about it if someone will only listen to
her. The pack sniffed at the fresh kill lying
on the ground, turned away panting, their hot breaths
misting on the cold afternoon air. Old Trouble looked
around him, head high. The boy whistled, a particular
whistle, low and soft and carrying. The dog picked
up his kill, came trotting slowly. The boy spoke words
of praise to the dog and, taking out his knife, skinned
the rabbit, throwing the equally-divided carcass to
the expectant dogs. Immediately they had gulped it
down they were off again, ranging singly, heads down
sniffing, ears and eyes keen for a squat in a tuft of
tall grass, a hidden quarry in the lee of a log.
The boy undid his belt, running the fresh skin,
fur outward, over the belt along with six other skins.
Rolled in a bundle and tied to the sugar-bag pack
on his back was a foxskm, a young one and not
much good, for the winter had been hard. On a wire
loop at the back of the boy’s belt were four crows’
heads. In his right hand he carried the .22 by its
point of balance, and a second belt that dangled
low on his right thigh carried the bullets like a
cartridge belt.
He went down the hill towards the river. With
him as he walked went the ghosts of other hunters ;
sometimes he’d talk to them—only, of course, “they”
would be the dogs just in case anybody heard him.
“Ain’t no use agrowhn’, Trouble dawg. Sure ain’t no
use agrowhn’ thatways; ain’t gom’ ter get us nowhere
nohow agrowhn’ about somethin’ we ain’t got, see.
Now take these ’ere b’ars, ’oled up they be ; and them
coyote, mighty few they s gettm. The hillside was a
land of pine forests, deep with snowdrifts, and peopled
with Red Indians and bears and wolves that hid in
the drifts
Old Trouble put up another rabbit; the pack
followed in hot pursuit, the foxy yipping to show that
he wasn’t going to be left out of it. They disappeared
over the ridge. The boy followed, quickening his pace,
starting to get hot under the thick flannel shirt and
the old serge coat that had been his father’s. On the
brow of the ridge he met old Trouble coming back
with the kill clamped tight in his mouth, the rest of
the pack trailing along behind him.
As he skinned the kill in a circle of watching
eyes the boy spoke to the dog. “Now this ’ere’s a
fine fur, Trouble dawg, and I’m athinkin’ we’ve done
a purty fine day’s work, pard. But I’m also athinkin’
that pop’ll be cashin’ in on this ’ere deal like he alius
does. It ain’t that I begrudge him, mind, nor neither
can I tell a lie, see. That ain’t Christianity tellin’
lies, see. Me pop says that men that’s alius tellin’
lies is worse’n criminals, see. I ain’t never told no
lies yet nor neither do I expect to. Me pop’ll say
to me tonight ‘Hy’ar, son. How been the day’s
trappin’, huh?’ an’ I’ll say to him ‘Fair ter reason-
able. Fair ter reasonable. One b’ar, seven coyote
and four buzzard.’ And pop’ll say to me ‘Purty fair
ter reasonable, son. Yuh sure is one all around fine
hunter, huh.’ Maybe that’s all right. Trouble. Maybe
I am, see. But pop’ll take these ’ere skins ter town in
the car come Saterdee and all I’ll see of the green-
backs’ll be a sprat or a deener. Maybe I shouldn’t
grumble, seein’ as how I’m alius grubstaked. Maybe
it ain’t religion ter grumble. But thar’s a book I’m
a’itchin’ ter get me hands on in that paper-shop
window. All about the Hudson Bay it is. Only a
dollar and a half and me soul fair itching to have it.
It’s tough. Trouble, when you get that way about a
thing.”
Trouble blinked an eye and wagged his tail in
dumb sympathy,
nr HE thought of the book made the boy envious,
i To his way of thinking it was a good book, thick,
with plenty of pictures. He’d asked the man to put it
aside so nobody else could buy it. Time was getting
short now, only another couple of days till Saturday,
and up till the present he hadn’t a brass razoo towards
the seven and sixpence.
He had quite a library stowed away in a secret
hiding place down near the river, old books, most of
themj gathered from the Lord only knew where. But
this one was seve n and six, whereas the highest price
h e had ever paid before was a shilling. He had a
shilling or two pretty often of a Saturday; but seven
and s j x was a fortune
It wasn > t his nature to cheat, like keeping some
of the skins and selling them privately. Cheating and
falseh oods was something terrible, the horror of which
had been soundly gro und into him by his father,
BesideSj he knew that if he was to take skins to the
skin . buyer in town the man would, in due course,
make some re f erenC e of the sale to his father. They
were knotty prob i em s, and he sat down on a log to
think them over The dogs settled down, too, either
flat on their bellies or propped up on their haunches,
old Trouble came to squat between his knees.
» It isn>t any goodj Trouble,” the boy said at
len th? forgetting his assumed manner. “You don’t
know what bun g ering for a thing’s like. It’s nine times
worse than hunger i ng for tucker. And if I asked
father for the money he > d te ar the place down,
« No son of mine is going to addle his brains with
trash Hke thatr he > d say> Goshj if only he cou i d
realise what that book meant t 0 me.”
.
I T was B ettir| g colder now. The frosty chill of a
1 * ate August afternoon was settling, chilling the air
50 tha t sound travelled and echoed The moon was
becoming clearer as the sun faded. The boy ga ere
a handful or two of chips and bark and lit them. The
little flame caught quickly enough, grew bngh er an
stronger, its smoke going straight up in a true emng
column, the tang of it on the frosty air goo o
breathe.
The boy let the fire blaze till he had a good heap
of glowing ashes. From the sugar-bag pack on his
back he took some potatoes and a mutton-chop
wrapped in paper. The potatoes he thrust into the
heart of the glowing coals to roast in their jackets ,
the chop he grilled on a point of wire, slowly turn-
in § if about so that it would be well done, watching
the f at drip out of it and sputter into little flames as it
fell on the coals.
Watched closely by the ring of dogs he ate in
silence. The meat gone off the chop he gave the
bone to Trouble, who crunched it eagerly between his
jaws. “Gosh, Trouble, he said then, if I had a
“I bought it to teach me the language."
thousand quid one
even.” He thought that
over. “The trouble with
me is I’m too honest.
Other fellers would just rat the skins. They’d get away
with it, but me —I’d be caught, and then he wouldn’t
trust me any more, and that would be terrible.” It
made him shiver thinking about it. “Now father will
say ‘Well, son, how did you get on?’ and I’ll say ‘Very
good, father. One fox, seven rabbits and four crows.’
And that will be the truth, Trouble. For those will be
the things he’ll be referring to. Surely there’d be no
need to tell him everything when those are the things
he’ll be asking about.” He paused to let the weight of
his thinking sink in. “Maybe it’s not right, Trouble.
Perhaps it’s not what they teach you in church, but
I’ve just got to have that book and there’s a feller in
town who gives five shillings for possum skins and
no questions asked.”
The fire blazed brightly, making a spot of warmth
in the night; the dogs inched forward on their bellies
to get nearer the warmth. He spoke again to the old
dog, easing his conscience with words. “Only this
once, Trouble. Never again. Two skins will be
enough, and surely there’ll be no need to tell him when
all he’ll be referring to is the foxes and rabbits and
crows.”
THE boy wailed by the fire a while longer while
the cold, distant moon brightened and the frost in
the air settled like dew on the ground. The night
was still with a frozen stillness. He could hear frogs
in the marsh up towards home ; could hear his father’s
chained dog baying the moon ; could catch the call
of a mopoke down towards the luck. In the branches
of a near-by tree an owl hooted and a curlew
screamed on the wing as it wheeled low across the
ridge.
He got up at last and stretched himself, the front
of his trousers hot, the backs cold like ice where they
touched his legs. Picking up his rifle he strode away
briskly towards a clump of gum-trees a dark shadow
in the near distance.
It was cold away from the fire. The foxy was
the first to put up game. His shrill yipping made the
boy go hot and cold with quick fear; any one of the
neighbors could name the dog by its bark and so
reason out what they were up to. He called the foxy
back in a low, urgent voice, tied him securely by
a piece of string to a sapling. He was taking enough
risks as it was.
He was nervous, halting frequently, listening with
strained ears so that he let several chances slip away.
Half a dozen times he swore he could hear twigs
snapping under heavy boots as someone came to
investigate the foxy’s bark. Half a dozen times he
got the sights of the rifle lined up on a possum limned
against the moon high up on a branch. Just as many
times he had lowered the rifle, saying the risk was
too great; that the sound of the shot would carry
over the hills to home and his father would hear and
understand and forbid him to be out again after dark.
He thought of that, and he thought of the book,
and almost made up his mind that the price wasn t
worth paying. Then he thought of the newsagent s
promise not to sell that book ; could see with vivid
imagination the scene that would occur if the man
brought out the book when he was in the shop with
his parents; could hear him saying “This is the
book you asked me to put aside. Shall I wrap it?
The very thought of it made him go cold, cold
with fear. There’d be no scene in the shop; just a
cold hardness settling over his father’s face, a hard
tightening. He’d take the book from the man s hand,
slowly look at its title, open a few of the pages and
say in that politely impersonal manner “Yes, wrap it,
please.” The man would be so pleased at having
made the sale that he would babble, about the virtues
of the book while he wrapped it. His father wouldn t
say a word, but would take money from his pocket
and would carry the book about with him all after-
noon and lay it on the front seat beside him on the
drive home. After supper, he’d call his son to the fire
and slowly tear the book leaf by leaf and burn them.
He wouldn’t say a word or raise a hand, but next
time the boy wanted to go hunting he’d say No,
and that simple word would be final and conclusive,
and every Sunday morning for months to come, when
the few river neighbors gathered for devotion in his
father’s parlor, father would preach a sermon in some
way involving disobedience and lies and everyone
would know that he was referring to his son.
If he’d been a bit more casual about instructing
the newspaperman ; had taken the risk of the boor.
being there even But as things stood now he was
trapped. There seemed nothing else to do but carry
on with what he had intended. At last he took the
risk ; carefully sighted the rifle on an animal high on a
limb against the moon and fired.
For a long time after he had skinned the possum
he lurked in deep shadow listening anxiously for the
sound of someone coming to investigate. But theie
was nothing, and at last he hunted around again tu
another possum lined itself against the moon.
HE thought of his books on the way down to the
river where he’d left the old boat earlier in the
day. And as he rowed homeward with the dogs
curled up in the stern he took time off from his books
(Continued on next page.)


to admire the river. It sparkled all round him, reflect-
ing the moonlight. On the further bank the high
encroaching hills were clear-cut and abrupt, with deep
black shadows where timber clustered and dark mys-
terious gloomy gorges of silence where valleys ran
back into smaller bays and creeks. In imagination he
could see those valleys blocked with ice and smell
pine-trees, and the bark of a fox was the cry of a
wolf.
After he had tied the boat he took the possum-
skins and pegged them out in that hiding place of his
down in a backwash of the river below the house.
The clock on the mantelshelf in the parlor was
chiming the quarter-past midnight when he stole into
the kitchen. In a tin on the shelf he found some cake,
and set to. He had just got properly started when
his father’s voice from the bedroom inquired testily
“What time is it, boy?” The boy told him. “An
ungodly hour to be coming home. Hurry up and
get to bed.” The boy heaved a sigh of relief. If his
father didn’t ask how he’d got on first then he
wouldn’t ask at all. He poured himself a pint of
scalded milk half-frozen with the cold and went off to
bed.
He thought of the books he was going to buy as
he lay in bed unable to sleep. He’d buy that big
special one and spend the rest of the money on a
couple of cheaper ones. He could anticipate the thrill
that was coming on Sunday when, after devotions,
he could slip away down to his retreat and gloat over
the latest additions to his library. He thought again
of those books in the newspaper shop. He was going
to enjoy himself selecting his needs. They wouldn’t
last very long though ; that was always a nuisance with
books. Of course he could and would read them more
than once, but reading a book a second time was
never the same thrill as reading it the first time, no
matter how good it was, and new books were hard
to get —had been hard to get, but he had an idea in
the back of his mind now that he’d never be short
of the ready cash for a new book in the future. Of
course he wouldn’t make it a welter. He’d just pick
off a possum or two as he needed them.
A little smile of scorn at his own timidity touched
his lips as he remembered his nervousness out there
in the clump of trees. “Fool nerves,” he said to him-
self. “Just fool nerves. Lots of other fellers are
shootin’ possums every night and never get caught.”
TERRACOCKA’S
TRICK
By WILL LAWSON.
THE tragedy of the recruiting schooner Young
Dick at Malaita in the year 1888, when through
the trickery of a native chief named Terracocka
the natives almost gained possession of the vessel
and wiped out her crew, is outstanding in the records
of blackbirding.
The Young Dick was a pretty ship and a fast
sailer. Painted white with a broad black band run-
ning the whole length of her sides and a black ball at
her masthead, she proclaimed herself a blackbirder.
There was nothing underhand about Captain Rogers.
The ship left Brisbane in April, 1888, bound
for Guadalcanar, and at Mabo on the coast of
Malaita eight recruits were taken on board.
When he brought them out to the ship the second
mate, Hornbridge, who was also recruiting officer,
announced that the bush tribes had come down to
the coast and that there would be a good chance of
recruiting some of them next day.
“Be wary of them,” Captain Rogers said.
“They’re wild men.”
“I know. But I think it’s all right,” Hornbridge
replied.
Next day he went ashore with two boats and two
white men. Native boys rowed. He was met on the
beach and invited to the village, which was in the
bush two hundred yards from the beach. Carrying
arms, he went with his guides, leaving the other two
men to guard the boats. Before he had gone a hun-
dred yards Hornbridge was suddenly attacked by a
score of warriors carrying tomahawks and clubs. It
was a sanguinary fight, from which he was saved
only by free use of his revolver. He was badly hurt
in the head and cut across the mouth, but he got
back to the boats and they put off to the schooner.
Seeing the serious injuries Hornbridge had sus-
tained, Captain Rogers sailed for Port Adams to have
the second seen to by the surgeon of H.M.S. Opal,
which was patrolling the islands. After Hornbridge had
been attended to, the Opal towed the Young Dick to
sea ; then proceeded to Mabo to demand an explana-
tion.
Terracocka, a tough old warrior, would give no
satisfaction, so the warship stood off and shelled the
village for an hour. “You’d better leave Malaita
alone,” her commander warned Captain Rogers.
But the old skipper was stubborn. He wanted
Kanakas and he meant to get them, in spite of Terra-
cocka. He sailed eastward to a lovely bay named
Hinehouri, and sent his boats in. They were met by
showers of arrows, six of which hit the boats but hurt
nobody.
For some days afterwards the Young Dick
cruised about, keeping well offshore to mislead the
“Sure there s nothing else I can do for you, sir?”
natives as to where she would call again. At last, a
course was laid for the village of Sinerago.
“I’ll fool him,” Rogers said, chuckling, as the
boats were rowed shorewards. “We’ll pretend to be
making for the beach, then turn away, set sail and
scud down to 10, sixteen miles away. With the trade
behind us no native runner will be able to carry a
warning from Terracocka. I’ll bet he’s at Sinerago by
this ; they’ll have seen us beating in and told him.”
Terracocka was at Sinerago, also with a plan. He
did not send a runner to 10. He sent twenty Kanakas
hurrying through the jungle with special instructions
as to what they were to do.
WHEN Captain Rogers set out in the boats for lo
six white men—Marr, the mate, Popham, Govern-
ment agent, Merlin, cook, Beirr, carpenter, Lager-
bloom, sailmaker, and Chittenden, A.B.—and portion
of the native crew were left on the schooner off
Sinerago.
Captain Rogers was in high spirits. He was cor-
dially received at 10, though at first no recruits were
forthcoming in spite of the attractive display of “trade
goods”—knives, mirrors, nails, beads, bright cloth and
other geegaws—which were laid out on the beach. At
last a boy walked to the boats, handed his weapons and
headgear to a friend and took a seat in one of the
boats—a sign that he had enlisted. Another soon
followed, and another, all strong, big fellows, smiling
and happy. There was chaffing and joking in native
lingo as they stepped into the boats. When they had
taken twenty recruits the “trade” was distributed and
the boats started back to the schooner.
In the late afternoon they came within clear view
of her, lying like a painted ship on a sea of dazzling
° ue ’ , , , , „ tt
She s very quiet. Everyone seems asleep, Horn-
bridge said. The twenty recruits seemed to be in-
tensely interested in the schooner too, talking in low
tones among themselves and looking shorewards
apprehensively. As the boats approached the vessel,
moving side by side, the excitement among the recruits
“Get your guns out,” the skipper said. “These
Kanakas have something in their minds. Keep ’em
covered. They look like jibbing.”
But beyond talking excitedly in their own tongue
the Kanakas did nothing. They were got on board
without any trouble. Once on deck, however, one of
them made a dash for the rail. The second met him
with his revolver and shoved him back.
“Get ’em below quick! ” the master shouted ;
“there’s something funny here.”
There was indeed. Though the decks were empty
of men, there were sinister signs, bloodstains on the
deck planking, broken arrows and used cartridge
cases. In one place the rigging was cut to shreds.
Several of the recruits hung back jabbering to
one another, but they were hustled below and the
gratings clamped above them. Then the captain,
second mate and an A.B. who had formed the landing
party sought an explanation for the quietness and the
signs of battle. First they came upon Chittenden,
lying against the forward coaming of the hatch, but
still alive.
“Hullo!” he said. “You should have stayed here
—plenty Kanakas—hundreds of ’em.” His head
drooped again, but he was shaken back to conscious-
ness by the anxious captain.
“Wake up, man,” the captain shouted. “What
happened?”
happened? I was asleep below. Heard awful
yells and shrieks. Rushed on deck and found it packed
with Kanakas, the old chief among them. It seems
they sent out word that some boys on the beach
wanted to recruit. The mate told em to bring em
out to the schooner. The chief came, too—to collect
the ‘trade,’ he said. Merry hell had broken out when
I got on deck. I saw the mate punch Terracocka on
the nose, then fire like the devil with his revolver,
Killed several. I shinned up to the topsail yard with
a gun. The mate got a Snider and tore into them
again. Packed like sardines, they were canoes and
catamarans in scores alongside,
“Marr and Beirr stood together, beside the hatch,
“Merlin was at his galley door, shooting as fast as
he could with arrows falling on him. Popham was
surrounded, hundreds jumping on him ; he went down
fighting, laying ’em out with the butt of his gun. Poor
old Lagerbloom went first, cut to pieces.”
“Where’s the mate—not dead?”
“n oj be > & abve —j tb j nk . and geirr’s somewhere
about? half-dead. All the test are dead. Popham,
Lagerbloom and Merlin. They chased Merlin into his
galley and stabbed b i m i n a hundred places. I had a
b j rc j’ s . eye view. The niggers must have lost thirty
men Took tbe dead away with ’ em> p u t- U p job, it
sk i pper> Terracocka’s clever. He wanted them
to g tay and figbt tbe boa ts, but they’d had enough
and went off sw i mm i ng 0 r in canoes and him cursing
and yelling at them to stay . Didn’t you see the
canoe s?”
“No. It was hazy Come, mister. Find the
ma t e .”
They found Marr in his bunk scarce ly breathing,
He was covered i n b i ooc j an d looked at them in a
dazed way
. Thought you - d never come,” he said. “We've
had he]| | our hours , steady scrapping _ on i y six of
us. They were everywhere, but our fellows fought like
Beirr's a hero ; Popham, too. Poor Popham
J Lagerbloom and Merlin. Chittenden got aloft-
move shol dozens o£ . em xhat was what
J, ade . em c!ear out> him on the topsail yard. The
cou | d dhnb there H elll”-he sprang up
natjve seaman shouted on d eck-“ Here they
come again , get your Suns. hand
‘ No - lhe S' re D °‘- * he sk,p P er sald - puttlns a hand
00 hls arm <° soothe hlm ■ „ u . . „ „
“But they will. Let s clear out of this, sir. He
calmed a little and reason shone in his eyes. How
did you get on?” he asked,
“Very well. Got twenty recruits,
“Twenty? Thats Terracocka s cunning kept
you busy there while he dealt with us ; then he would
have dealt with you. Those recruits would be war-
riors.”
“Think so? But how did they know no man
could have run as fast as the boats sailed.”
“No. But they weren’t waiting for you on the
beach, were they?”
“No. They came about an hour after we got
there. Come to think of it they looked a bit weary;
but we thought it was from marching down fiom
the hills.”
When the captain and the second mate went on
deck, pandemonium seemed to have broken out in the
hold. The new recruits were shrieking to be let out.
The mate looked through the gratings at them, and
brandished his revolver. »
“You feller sing out too much,” he said and fired
above their heads. Instant silence followed.
“Only way to deal with wild men like that,” he
told Chittenden. “Tough boys they’ll be on the plan-
tations, eh?”
“Yes, when they get on the warpath on Sundays
they’ll skin out the abos.,” Chittenden said.


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
,/J fflfd Hme -cfWie meilctmedSandlmu/,ue£
Seppelt's
A NOTABLE TAVERN ON HAMPSTEAD HEATH
London, using the term in its widest geographical and governmental sense, has for long enjoyed an almost unique reputation for the number of taverns
which “possessed a history.” How many will remain to be recorded when the story of the application of the Nazi interpretation of “total warfare” comes
to be written is quite another matter. One can only hope the Fortune of War will be kind to these, institutions, no less than taverns, around which
memories of stirring and happy days have clustered with the passing of the years. Everyone has heard of Hampstead Heath, that great northern height
and lung of the mighty metropolis, once comprising lands of the old Dominicans, to whom so much of learning and culture preserved “through dark and
turbulent ages” is owed. It is a great Bank Holiday resort of the hoi polloi of London. That supreme artist, the late Albert Chevalier, who reincarnated
the costermonger and placed him on a pedestal far removed from that he previously occupied in public fancy, conferred a new sort of immortality on
this elevation. His song, still remembered, with its lines and haunting melody,
“O ’Ampstead, ’appy, ’appy ’Ampstead,
All the donahs look so nice,
Talk about a Pare-dise!
O ’Ampstead, wery ’ard to beat,
If you want a beano, it’s a fair old treat,”
indicates how the costermonger, and vast masses of Londoners, still regard this heath, to many the embodiment of the idea of open country. The taverns for
which the Heath may claim peculiar distinction are not numerous. Actually they are limited to two —Jack Straw’s Castle and the Bull and Bush. Only
the other day there passed away in Melbourne a genial and versatile soul, Mr. P. L. Krone, who by his written and composed effort, “The Old Bull
and Bush,” gave to the tavern of that name a world notoriety Jack Straw’s Castle may never hope to rival. For all of that, it has to be remembered
that the Bull and Bush catered for the masses, as the vigorous chorus in Krone’s effort indicates, whereas Jack Straw’s Castle encouraged “the more refined,”
and in doing so presented, and one hopes still preserves, the unspoiled remains of an old inn. A few years ago this notice, prominently displayed at
Jack Straw’s Castle, “spoke volumes,” as it were: “Unaccompanied ladies are not admitted and are requested to wait outside.” As a recompense, if such it was,
excellent beer was always on tap, but no dinners were served, a reversion surely from the days Charles Dickens visited it and left this striking testimonial, “On a
bitter cold day one can get here a red hot chop.” The tavern is not so old as its name implies. Jack Straw was one of Wat Tyler’s fellow-leaders during the
rebellion (1184), but antiquarians question if he ever came to Hampstead. Modern authorities suggest the title “Jack Straw” is merely symbolical of a
countryman, as “Jack Tar” is of a sailorman.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62.—No. 3202.
Wednesday, June 25, 1941.
“UNLIMITED WAR EFFORT”—LIMITED.
“We are committed to the voluntary system of enlistment for service overseas, and we must, as far as possible, remove anything that may impede its success.”
—Mr. Menzies.
“He’s doin’ his best, boss, an’ he was a good little horse in eighteen-ninety-nine.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
I it AO OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
.. 252IBB; ’Phone B7972.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street.
,, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
JNew Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings iopp. G.P.O.),
W ellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4s.; 6 months. 12s. 6d.;
3 months. 7s. (Exchange must be added to Countr >
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 16s.;
3 months, 8s. To members of the Services Abroad :
naif overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreigni:
12 months. £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months. £1 2s.;
3 months. Us.
INVASION OF RUSSIA.
While the U.S.A. is moving with measured steps
towards war or a state of war—with Germany ; while
Congress has under consideration a Presidential mes-
sage describing the sinking of the freighter Robin
Moor as “the ruthless act of an international out-
law which must be taken as “a warning to the
United States not to resist the Nazi movement of
world conquest,” a movement to which “we are not
yielding and do not propose to yield,” the area of the
war has been suddenly and vastly extended.
? n Wednesday the British Government formally
added Finland to the list of countries under blockade.
“This decision,” the Minister of Economic Warfare
said, “does not mean that Britain regards Finland as
unneutral, but rather that Finland is not in a position
to be truly independent.”
Towards the end of last year “Finland granted
Germany the right to take troops across Finland to
and from Norway.” This was “a grave breach of
neutrality,” but the British Government acquiesced in
it, recognising the plight to which the Finns had been
reduced by the Russian invasion of their country and
the impossibility of their resisting any move by either
of the parties to the Ribbentrop-Molotov pact. But
early in June the position changed for the worse:
It became quite obvious that German troops were
entering Finland in such large numbers as to make it
tolerably clear that they were taking up permanent
positions in Finland, and not merely passing to and
from Norway.
This movement of German troops into Finland—a
repetition of what happened in 1918 —coincided with
the massing of German soldiers on other parts of the
long Russian frontier, notably in Rumania, where the
troops of Antonescu had been called to the colors.
And the day after the British Government banned sea-
borne traffic to and from Petsamo the representatives
of Germany and Turkey signed a pact of friendship
at Ankara,
As usual, a hundred correspondents, famous and
otherwise, strove to explain everything and explained
nothing. A hundred radio stations added to the con-
fusion. It was asserted that there had been frontier
fighting. The one thing clear was that Hitler was up
to something which boded ill for Stalin. One of the
many guesses was that he had demanded Moscow’s
acceptance of what he calls his “new order” and that,
having secured it, he would declare that the wilderness
he has made of conquered Europe had become peace,
and that it would rest with Britain to continue the war.
Strictly construed, the agreement of August 23,
1939, forbade either party to fight the other. “Guided
by the desire to strengthen the cause of peace between
Germany and the Soviet Republics,” the two contract-
ing Powers undertook to “refrain from any act of
force and any attacks against each other or in con-
junction with any other Powers” ; from joining “any
other group of Powers which is directed against one
of the two” and from giving support to “a third
Power” if either “should become the object of war-
like action on the part of the third Power.” They
undertook also to “remain in consultation with one
another in order to inform themselves about ques-
tions which touch their common interests,” and, “in
case differences or conflict should arise on questions
of any kind,” to “solve these disputes or conflicts ex-
clusively by friendly exchange of views, or, if neces-
sary, by arbitration commissions.”
“The agreement,” according to Article 6, “is con-
cluded for ten years, with the stipulation that, unless
one of the contracting partners gives notice to ter-
minate it one year before its expiration, it will be
automatically prolonged by five years.” It was added
to Hitler’s collection of scraps of paper as the twenty-
second month was about to expire.
On Sunday Hitler gave his airmen and his sol- .
diers the signal to fall on the U.S.S.R.; and they were
accompanied by Finns and Rumanians. According to
Nazi custom there was no declaration of war, but
there was the familiar issue of proclamations alleging
that Germany was acting in self-defence, that the new
enemy had been guilty of atrocities (in this case, “the
disappearance of thousands of German subjects from
Lithuania”), of lying, of espionage and “methods of
sabotage,” of aggressive imperialism and double-
dealing.
In November, 1940, Molotov went to Berlin for
“an exchange of views.” The world was then informed
in a German communique that the “exchange of
views took place in an atmosphere of mutual con-
fidence and led to an understanding on all important
questions of common interest to Germany and the
Soviet Union,” and there was no denial from Moscow.
But in a Note to Dekanosov, the Russian Ambassador
at Berlin, presented on Sunday, Ribbentrop gave a
totally different version:
Molotov demanded, first, Russian guarantees to
Bulgaria and the establishment of military bases in
Bulgaria; secondly, a Russo-Turkish treaty for leasing
u®D errri i k ases for Soviet land and naval forces on
toe Bosphorus and in the Dardanelles, with Germany
and Italy co-operating in putting pressure on Turkey
in the event of Turkey’s non-agreement; thirdly, com-
plete German abandonment of Finland, which would
have meant Russian occupation of that country and the
extermination of the Finns. Germany rejected the
demands, which Russia designated as the - primary con-
dition for co-operation with adherents to the Tri-
partite Pact. The Soviet then intensified its anti-German
policy, co-operating more closely with Britain.
When the agreement of August 23, 1939, was
signed Ribbentrop received the Order of Lenin from
Stalin. Presumably he is sending it back.
For the rest, the combatants have returned with
smooth facility to the language they employed for
so many years. “It was not Germany who threatened
Russia,” Hitler repeats for the thousandth time, “but
the Jews, in their centre of Moscow, who wanted to
spread their domination, not merely spiritually but
and he assures his Germans that they
are “called upon, not only to defend their,native land,
but also to save the entire civilised world from the
deadly danger of Bolshevism.” And Molotov has
fallen into his old style—“all the responsibility for this
robber attack falls on the German Fascist leader....
the arrogant megalomaniac Hitler the war has been
forced on us by a clique of bloodthirsty Fascist
leaders in Germany.”
Through Molotov’s lips, the Soviet Government
“expressed the profound assurance that the valiant
Red Army, Navy and Air Force would honorably
carry out their duties and deal a crushing blow to the
aggressor.” It is to be hoped they will, and, while
there can be no question of an alliance with a country
which took possession of part of Poland and the
whole of Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania, it will be
obviously to Britain’s advantage—relieved as it is, and
that for an indefinite period, from the threat of in-
vasion—to wage its own war against the aggressor
with the utmost possible vigor. Meanwhile, the world
is waiting for a declaration from Mr. Matsuoka.
That gentleman declared on May 14 that “the war
would certainly spread all over the world,” and that
the aim of Japan” would be “to draw still more
closely to Germany and Italy,” its Axis partners, “and
Russia,” its associate in a non-aggression pact.
The P.M.'s War Prospectus.
On Tuesday night, June 17, Mr. Menzies broadcast
for three-quarters of an hour, reading a prepared
statement at a steady rate, and so broad and inclusive
was the field covered that at that he was able to
present little more than a general outline of what he
described as a war prospectus for Australia. Up to
a point it sounded a good, if belated, programme.
The P.M.’s travels abroad, what he saw and experi-
enced in Egypt and Britain, evidently worked wonders
in him. He has returned with the makings of a realistic
outlook, and it is a long time since anything approach-
ing that has been noticed in an Australian P.M.
The war position, as Mr. Menzies now sees it,
is very serious indeed. “Germany, has so fed on suc-
cess, and we have tasted so deeply of defeat, that the
whole war has come to a point of supreme crisis.”
He envisages a very Itmg war. In a sentence he cut
through the whole hampering fog of wishful thinking
on that point: “It is my solemn belief that this year
of 1941 will determine whether we are to lose, while,
in 1942, with defeat averted, we shall build our
strength more and more rapidly for victory.” The
war prospect for the immediate future, as he sees it,
is the carrying on of the grim battle on the Atlantic,
in which Britain is as yet far from winning, and all
the time suffering most serious shipping losses ; and
defensive warfare, no less grim and anxious, in Egypt
and on other fronts of the Near and Middle East.
With that prospect as his inspiration, Mr. Men-
zies aims to galvanise the whole people of Australia
into the same realistic state of mind that he himself
has attained to, and in his prospectus broadcast he
outlined some of the steps proposed to be taken to
that end. The general Australian scene shocked him
on his return from where the war is real, as well it
might. Broadly, it amounted to a small proportion
of the population doing an active bit in the war, and
the rest carrying on as usual. The general appear-
ance was of a country at peace. Not all the steps that
Mr. Menzies proposes under the belated war pro-
gramme are going to alter that, but they will do
much, and the P.M.’s own realistic acceptance of the
deadly seriousness of the war situation, and his
emphatic admission of it, should do more.
Since Mr. Menzies has arrived at this position as
a result of what he saw abroad with his own eyes,
and from his own personal experience, he should now
be prepared to agree that his task of galvanising Aus-
tralians as a whole from a peace-time to a realistic
war state of mind would be made much easier if these
same people were told more and shown more. In no
small way, perhaps, the filmed record that Mr. Men-
zies was reported to have made of bombed Britain
could help in that necessary job. That is only an
item. More important that Mr. Menzies should find
time somehow to look into censorship ; to see that
it is not acting in a manner to make his own galvanis-
ing task impossible.
At the moment there seem to be two conflicting
opinions on what sort of face should be put on the
war for public inspection. Hitherto, except when,
from time to time, events have been so catastrophic
as to make it impossible, the more hopeful and
pleasant side has dominated the less agreeable. The
truth would be better. It is right that Mr. Menzies
should appear as he did last week and take the
country somewhat into his confidence ; quite evidently
that was necessary. But the P.M. is heard only once
; • in a while ; newspapers, which are subjected to cen-
sorship, are there to influence the public state of
mind all the time. Mr. Menzies would find this part
of his big enough job easier—in fact, it could be
expected to vanish altogether—if censorship was
rigidly restricted to withholding military information
and suppressing positive subversive utterances.
The proposed steps Mr. Menzies indicated in
outlining his war prospectus were themselves a start-
ling measure of the real distance between prevailing
public complacence and real all-in war effort. In at
least one of them the true measure was between
Government indecision and public impatience that had
worn thin long ago. Mr. Menzies instanced a series of
disputes which held up, among other things, the erec-
tion of a vitally important gun-cotton factory, the con-
struction of important additions to the munitions fac-
tories at Maribyrnong, “and other important defence
works, including at least one large military hospital.”
Strikes are to be prohibited.
Committees, commissions and suchlike authori-
ties are to crop up by the dozen—the number and
variety of them the plainest possible indication that
so far, in the P.M.’s words, “our national structure
has been, with some modifications, largely that of
peace.” The combined job of Minister for Munitions
and Supply becomes too much for one to handle ;
there will be separate Ministers for each. Working
under the Minister for Munitions, an Assistant
Minister will be responsible for aircraft production.
Under the Minister for Supply will be also a Director-
General of Supply. A special Director will look after
tank and armored fighting-vehicle production. An
authority will be set up which will “drastically review
civil production, with power to take over factories
and plant, to close factories in whole or in part, or
to concentrate production on a limited number of
organisations.” A “small commission” will control
and direct the production, distribution, supply and
consumption of coal, and under this commission
boards or committees will lend a hand. On the lines
of the authority set up earlier in the year to control
shipping, there will be executive authorities for railway
and road transport, the chairmen of the three of them
constituting a Commonwealth Transport Authority.
The operation and management of railways and
roads, however, is to be left to the various State
authorities and Ministers, as at present, Mr. Menzies
relying on State co-operation for the time being; he
can count himself extra fortunate if he gets out of
this in the long run without resort to coercion. The
watertight compartmented State idea is dying fast;
the war prospectus should help to kill it, and what
that leaves should be killed in time by the war itself:
but the people running the States are diehard parochial-
ists, unless they happen to graduate luckily to Can-
berra, and they are still in their own apparent esti-
mate more important than any war.
What the States have separately bungled—civil
defence and A.R.P. —another Assistant Minister will
have the job of attempting to co-ordinate and con-
trol. An all-party Parliamentary standing committee
will keep watch on war profits. A central office in
each State capital will be established “to act as the
nerve centre for essential labor supply and regula-
tion for war purposes.” If these Ministers, etc., are
not enough, there may, Parliament being willing, be
some more: Parliamentary sanction has to be given
for the appointment of the new Minister for Supply,
this being one over the constitutionally permitted
dozen Ministers of State. Parliamentary committees,
enabling private members to do their bit in keeping
the war effort under scrutiny and by making sugges-
tions, about complete the list.
Exactly what steps are to be taken under all these
heads the P.M. could not, of course, state in any detail.
That, anyway, should be implicit in their nature. It
is the shape of a huge machine of State, being swung
into action to enforce something like a real war
effort at last. Up to this point it must appear to every
loyal Australian as being as welcome as it is obviously
belated. The question that may occur to many is
whether it does not all stop short at a most vital point.
If what was envisaged was war within this country
this question would not arise. For home defence
conscription is accepted and without any doubt would
be immediately enforced. Then, this prospectus Mr.
Menzies outlines would be as fully right as it is neces-
sary. Here, on the one hand —that which is the
P.M.’s chief concern —would be the country geared
to back up the available fighting man-power, and, on
the other hand, would be the available men to do the
fighting. But, Mr. Menzies declared, “we are com-
mitted to the voluntary system for service overseas.”
That is, all this new, necessary, huge home-front effort
is to be made, very largely by compulsion, to back
up that comparatively small portion of the available
man-power which has enlisted, and is likely to enlist,
for service overseas. If there is any flattering satis-
faction in the thought, some of it might go to sup-
port others —for example, Maorilanders, who have
no use for the voluntary system to which “we are
committed,” but raise their overseas army as Aus-
tralia raises its home.-defence army, by conscription.
When it came to this issue, the P.M.’s realistic
resolution turned to water. Women are to be em-
ployed in a manner to release fit men now doing work
that women can do, and there is to be some overhaul-
ing of the reserved occupations list. No evidence was
offered that men thus placed want to be released, or
that, if released, they would volunteer. It is not pro-
posed to sack them ; and, if it were, what would that
be —what is any one of the various forms of pressure
applied to young men —but a form of conscription,
and, like those other forms, miserable and contempt-
ible? Mr. Menzies would appear to believe that the
very commendable home-front effort he intends, plus
volunteers, will do the job. If he does believe that,
he evidently doesn’t read the recruiting news. Prob-
ably, he believes nothing of the kind, his real feeling
most likely being that, for the present, there are more
than enough hurdles in this Grand National as it is,
without facing a stiff one like that —just yet.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Garden-of-Eden Diplomacy.
In an evil hour for the Empire Mr. Eden was raised
to the Foreign Office. Violating all Foreign Office
tradition, he straightway set out on a pilgrim-
age to the Middle East and the Balkans, bobbing up
at Cairo, Ankara and Athens and going back on his
tracks. Everywhere he went he seems to have formed
false impressions, and information with which he was
furnished by British Intelligence and foreign corre-
spondents doubtless contributed to fix them. Return-
ing to London, he was congratulated on “the great
diplomatic triumph” he had brought off “in the
Balkans.”
That is only three months ago. In those three
months Eden “diplomacy” has borne the bitterest
fruit. There was, first, the withdrawal of our Sixth
Division and part of a British armored division
from Libya, based on the fatuous belief, soon to
be rudely shattered, that the enemy had no striking
force there. There followed the swift defeat and
dissolution of Yugoslavia, the hopeless campaigns in
Greece and Crete and the serious losses incurred by
the Navy in protecting the expeditionary forces and
in saving all who could be saved. Swiftly succeeding
came the invasion of Syria, a consequence of the
latest of Mr. Eden’s many warnings, and entered upon
with the assurance —fully shared by Sydney news-
papers —that the Germans were in control and that
the French wouldn’t fight. And last week Ankara,
which greeted Mr. Eden with such Oriental politeness
and apparent enthusiasm, signed a 10 years’ treaty of
friendship and guarantees with Germany.
“Travelling politicians have proved a nuisance in
peace-time ; in war-time, they can become a national
danger.” That appeared two months ago in the
“Daily Mail,” apropos of Mr. Eden and his “emo-
tional idealism.” How true it was then; how doubly
true now! Mr. Eden’s “diplomacy” might have been
successful in the Garden of Eden. It is out of place
in a harsh world where bad men abound.
Sir Samuel Hoare should be recalled to the
Foreign Office. Though newspapermen hate him, he
has done a good job in very difficult circumstances at
Madrid. Mr. Churchill has himself testified that Sir
Samuel Hoare’s work there has been “brilliant.” It
is, in fact, the one success that British diplomacy can
set against a staggering record of blunders and
calamities.
Mr. O’Sullivan's Manoeuvre.
In the 1939 report of the N.S.W. Industrial Registrar,
the latest presented to the superfluous Parliament, it
is recorded that 16,581 railwaymen were then mem-
bers of the A.R.U. (Australian Railways Union) and
5050 of the N.U.R. (National Union of Railwaymen).
On June 14 Mr. O’Sullivan, the Labor Minister of
Transport, announced, in effect, that the 5000-odd
N.U.R. men would have to quit the union of their
preference, leaving it only a memory, and join the
A.R.U. The penalty for refusal was not expressly
stated, but A.R.U. bosses take it for granted that it
would be the sack.
It is more than doubtful whether any penalty
can be legally imposed, and it is certain that if
members of accredited unions sentenced to death by
Ministerial decree stand on their rights as citizens
and as members of registered organisations they will
have the backing of people who hate tyranny in all
its forms —that and more.
The N.U.R. is registered under the Common-
wealth Arbitration Act. The Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Court has power to protect its members in
the exercise of their rights as unionists and to punish
those who try to take them away. It has been ruled,
indeed, that an award of the Commonwealth Arbitra-
tion Court —and the N.U.R. men are working under
one —nullifies any State law conflicting with it, at
least to the extent of the conflicting matter. All this
seems to have occurred to Mr. McKell, the Premier,
if not to Mr. O’Sullivan. Anyway, Mr. McKell stated
last week that “no direction has yet been given by the
Minister” —that gentleman had said that compliance
would be insisted upon before October 6, Six-Hour
Day.
Saying that “there is nothing in the Railway Act
that makes membership of any particular union a
condition of employment,” the N.U.R. secretary de-
clared that his members would not join another union
“under duress of this description,” and that as a
union “with both State and Federal registration” the
N.U.R. had a good record. The A.R.U., on the other
hand, has a very bad union record. It was the head
and front of the ignoble 1917 strike. Early in the
present war, it started running true to 1917 form until
Chief Judge Beeby pulled it up with a round turn.
There was a strike on the Broken Hill line, the
second in a twelvemonth, which led to an application
for deregistration of the A.R.U. There was a simul-
taneous coal strike, the progress of which was marked
by bitter attacks on Judge Drake-Brockman, published
in a bright-Red A.R.U. paper called the “Railroad.”
The Chief Judge announced in court that the “Rail-
road” attacks would be referred to the Attorney-
General, pointing out that “this Court has very wide
powers to punish contempt.” He went on to say,
apropos of the Broken Hill strike and of regulation
strikes stirred up by way of supporting it, that “rail
workers in New South Wales” had been “grossly mis-
led by their leaders” and that the regulation-strike
tactics were “sneaking, underhand and contemptible.”
The “Railroad” had previously accused “British
Imperialism” of being “responsible for the present
war.” It alleged that “the basic manoeuvre of British
Imperialism is to direct the energies of German
Fascism against the U.S.S.R.” Presumably the N.U.R.
men would have to support this rag if forced into
the A.R.U.
Heard at Canberra.
Scene: The House of Representatives at Canberra.
Time: Thursday. Subject of debate: The war:
Mr. Brennan challenged Ministers to stimulate recruit-
ing by enlisting themselves.
Mr. Collins, the only Minister present [he is one of the
Assistants], said he would be “glad to enlist tomorrow.”
Mr. Brennan: Private members supporting the Govern-
ment could also assist recruiting by enlisting. Some of them
could be spared.
Mr. Ward: The member for Wide Bay, Mr. Corser,
could go.
Mr. Corser: I will enlist with the member for East
Sydney, Mr. Ward.
After the Speaker had called Mr. Ward and Mr. Corser
to order for shouting at each other across the chamber, Mr.
Ward said he would enlist if 10 members of the Government
parties would enlist with him.
Mr. Falstein; The Government says there is a lag in
recruiting. Who is to blame? What else can the Government
expect, after Greece and Crete? The combined errors of the
Imperial Government and the Menzies Government are to
blame. While the present Government is in power I, for one,
will not offer my services to Australia. I would be afraid
that the same thing would happen as happened in Greece and
Crete.
Mr. Badman: Would you go if the Government was
turned out?
Mr. Ward: I’ll go if all the Government goes with me.
Mr. Falstein; I challenge any member of the Government
to resign and I will do the same and fight either seat on
the conscription issue. (To Mr. Collins) Will you take up
that challenge?
Mr. Collins: All right; we will both resign our seats, and
the man who loses will enlist.
Mr. Ward: You are brave, aren’t you? You know you
wouldn’t pass. You’re yellow right through!
Mr. Falstein: There is not only a fight abroad; there is a
fight at home while the present Government is in power.
Mr. Collins: It is safer to fight at home.
Mr. Falstein: I say honestly that one reason why I would
not enlist is that I would be frightened, but I am not
frightened to say so. [For several minutes uproar prevented
Mr. Falstein from continuing.] If, however, it is necessary
to take a stand to preserve liberty I should take it as the
workers did at the Eureka Stockade.
[lnterval of 24 hours.]
Mr. Falstein: A false impression has been obtained by
some members and a section of the press from a statement
made in the House last night. In answer to an interjection
by the Assistant Minister, Mr. Collins, I began to say that
I was frightened to enlist while the destiny of this country
was controlled by the present Government. Interjections
and uproar made it difficult for the press and members to hear
my remarks fully. If this country is invaded, I will be found
in my place in the front line, taking my chance with other
Australians fighting for my country, which has given life and
sustenance to me, my wife and two children.
So much for the Dignity of Parliament in the
twenty-second month of the war. So does Democracy
go forward (or does it?) bearing Wards and Falsteins,
towards what destiny?
Where Voluntarism Failed.
When the first petrol cuts were announced last year
they were accompanied by appeals to motorists to cut
down their consumption as much as possible. Instead,
it became the accepted thing to “beat” the ration.
By the time the second cut was announced it
must have been obvious to everybody that petrol was
the propellent of the war and that Australia, with none
of its own and dependent on a diminishing tanker fleet
for supplies, could not continue to use it on the same
scale. It might have been expected in a country
whose political and industrial leaders appear to believe
that the war can be won by voluntary effort that all
those interested in motoring of any kind would have
decided to use their vehicles for absolutely essential
work only and thus enable the building up of a big
store of fuel.
On the very eve of the P.M.’s speech announcing
the new cut, parking space outside racecourses, foot-
ball grounds and other congregational centres which
could have been reached, for the most part, by Shanks
pony or public transport was jammed with cars,
while on the roads taxis raced back and forth, often
with but a single passenger. On the morning after
the P.M.’s speech anybody in Sydney’s Centennial
Park could have seen a couple of utility trucks travel-
ling along, each containing apparently fit young men
and a load of what Henry Lawson vividly described as
“thin, thieving, spidery greyhounds.” Similar sights
were common throughout the Commonwealth.
The inevitable happened. It should' have hap-
pened a year ago. Late as it was, and necessary as
it has been fot months, it couldn’t stop the squealers:
About half Sydney service stations will go out of
business. The cuts will disorganise transport. It is all
very well, to tell farmers to use horses; they can’t get
horses and they cannot finance producer-gas units.
We have 12 days to close a drive-yourself business that
has been going for years. I do not know what is to
become of the tourist trade. It will put half the taxi
industry employees out of work. It will ruin many
garage owners. The Government should have increased
stocks while tankers were available. What can a
man do with two gallons a month?
To all of which it may be said that most of the
alleged transport in cities is pure luxury. As for the
allegations about ruin and unemployment, there’ll
be a darned sight more of it if we lose this war. The
winning is a long way off, and every gallon of petrol
used for any purpose other than a strictly essential
one puts it further off.
Apart from a few patriotic souls, Australian
motorists made little or no attempt voluntarily to cut
down their huge petrol expenditure. There should be
no kick because a Government belatedly forces them
to do so after many millions of precious gallons have
been wasted on private pleasure.
Educating Australia.
“0.T.”: There has been a sudden concentration on the
child-mind in eastern Australia. Dr. Evatt, M.H.R., is
calling for a “free expression of studied opinion” on
post-war reconstruction from a conference of the
teaching staffs of Australian universities. His brother,
the N.S.W. Minister of Education, has promised to
overhaul the dreadful examination system and intro-
duce other reforms into schools. Meantime, Mr. Paul
McGuire, a travelling author, was telling a conference
on educating the pre-school child that Australians
would have to be taught to develop a foreign policy
because they are “the only European nation between
Panama and Suez.”
Mr. McGuire believes this educating on foreign
policy can be done through the press, the films, the
radio and the universities. Some will suggest that
his mediums first need educating. His words inspired
the secretary of the Australian Teachers’ Federation
to support the idea and to urge that all that was
lacking was an, “initiator.”
This is all very good, but since there are six
Departments of Education, each a law unto itself,
unanimity on the subject might be difficult. An Aus-
tralian taught at Katanning (W.A.) could easily have
a different idea about foreign policy from an Aus-
tralian taught at Bogan Gate (N.S.W.), since a State
curriculum can be influenced by the political color of
the Government, and there is generally a wide differ-
ence between the ideas of a Labor Government and an
anti-Labor Government on what lines Australian
foreign policy should take.
All the same, if the nation is ever to impress
itself on the world it will have to develop a foreign
policy, as Mr. McGuire suggests. But such a policy
must never be colored by any false assumption that
this is a “European” nation, because it is no more
European than the U.S.A. except that about 97 p.c.
of its inhabitants are of British origin.
Educators have got to realise that this is an Aus-
tralian nation. Its people have been moulded by a
land which they, in their turn, have to some extent
moulded. Their outlook, insular though it has been
up to date, can never be the outlook of a European.
He who tries to foist upon them European standards
of conduct, customs and traditions not only is blind
to fundamental facts of distance, psychology and his-
tory, but is something of a menace to Australia.
By all means let us have an “informed public
opinion on foreign policy,” but let it, above all, be
informed on a foreign policy of its own, dictated by
its position on the face of the earth. Australia could
then set an example to other parts of the Empire
which might result in the development of an Empire,
rather than a British, foreign policy—a development
that could easily lead to a century of peace after
this war is won.
Onions for Britain.
“Thermos”: In response to the Commonwealth’s cry
for onion seed for Britain, I decided, like most of my
neighbors, to grow some. But in the meantime, I
thought, why shouldn’t I buy a few packets of seeds
and post them to Britain?
I rang Melbourne G.P.O. and asked how the seed
should be dispatched, to be informed that onion seed
is on the prohibited list and cannot be exported over-
seas. On mentioning the Commonwealth posters
about the dearth of onions in Britain and the urgent
necessity to grow seed, I was referred to the Customs
Department. All the Customs Department knew was
that onion seed mustn’t be exported. So I sought the
Victorian Department of Agriculture, which issued a
certificate, mainly, it stated, to satisfy the Censor
should he open the envelope.
So the Britons will get some onion seed, but no
thanks to a Federal authority whose right hand fights
its left hand.
Tasman Tides .
Facing the Future with brows unbowed.
Together through war and peace,
Lie the fronded land of the Long White Cloud
And the land of the Golden Fleece.
One is their gain and one their loss,
Now, and through time to be.
Set ’neath the stars of the Southern Cross,
Washed by the Tasman Sea.
Foemen fronting, as true men should.
Valorous stand their sons,
While the current of Brotherhood
Red through their being runs.
Facing a foe that maims and mars,
Ruthless of mind and heart.
Youthful under the ancient stars
Nobly they bear their part.
Ever with them one hope abides,
One task ’neath star and sun —
Twin keepers of the Tasman tides.
Counting their coasts as one.
Thus with the strength of youth endowed,
Akin in war and peace,
Lie the fronded land of the Long White Cloud
And the land of the Golden Fleece.
N.S.W,
RODERIC QUINN.


Socity
"AND IT'S SENDING
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Wodgil”: The “Woolcott Forbes” con-
spiracy case, which dragged its slow length
to a conclusion in Sydney last week, was
remarkable for, among other things, the
number of Jews associated with the pro-
ceedings. The conspiracy concerned the
fraudulent disposal of shares in Scottish
Loan and Finance, so called because the
ancestors of most of the pre-Forbes
shareholders came from north of the
Jordan. At the trial there was a proces-
sion of sons of Abraham in and out of
the witness-box; there were others on
the floor of the court seeing fair; and
there was one in the dock. “Woolcott
Forbes” himself (real name, Louis
Brandei) derives from a family of Italian
Jews —not numerous but very prosper-
ous in Italy till Musso. turned against
them; one was a very worthy Mayor of
Rome. “Forbes” made pots of money
within the law, but threw it away in
extravagant living and madly-reckless
punting ; then he turned—or returned —
to criminal courses. He was the big
Jewfish that got away.
* He * *
“Dr. Wrigley”: That fatality on the
football field through chewing gum (B.
18/6/’4l) can’t be blamed on the gum;
it was the epiglottis which did the trick.
From mouth to stomach there is a pipe-
line to convey food, and the pipeline to
the lungs is joined to this some distance
down, so that at the beginning one pas-
sage serves both purposes (breathing and
swallowing). At every swallow a movable
lid (epiglottis) closes quickly over the
end of the pipe leading to the lungs, so
that food will not go to the lungs in
place of the stomach. But the epiglottis is
not entirely trustworthy. Everyone knows
the feeling of a bit “going the wrong
way,” and many a man has come to his
end by taking a breath while food was
on the way down. If we were made like
automobiles there would be an improved
model of epiglottis on the market to-
morrow. The moral is, when chewing
gum, as when eating, don’t get excited,
* * * =H
“Ex-hassock”: A wandering Australian
journalist reports that “after five years
of research, revision and consultation,
leading Biblical scholars in America have
issued a modern version of the New
Testament.” He gives some samples of
the change. “Calvary” becomes “Skull.”
Dreadful enough, but what of the change
from “Now of the things of which we
have spoken, this is the sum” to “The
main point in what we are saying is
this”? That is not only reducing majesty
to mediocrity, but it also changes the
meaning of the original. The sum of a
speech can go much further than its main
point, which goes to prove that when
anybody starts interfering with a long-
established traditional text he is likely to
ruin it. The New Testament (Authorised
Version) is one of the finest examples of
English literature and language. Even
such a mild and scholarly rewriting as
is contained in the Revised Version has
never won popularity. To reduce it to
modern journalese is profanity.
* * * *
“Jamwood”: The militant non-mili-
tancy of Mr. Max Falstein, M.H.R.,
reminds me that The Bulletin’s John
Dailey, who managed to get accepted for
1914-18 war service though he was so
hard of hearing that it was suspected that
a giant howitzer in action sounded like
a popgun to him, used to grow very sar-
castic in his quiet way about the number
of lawyers—he was bred to the profes-
sion—who saw it out on the home front.
Had he lived to the present year sarcasm
would have changed to appreciation,
except in the case of Mr, Max
Falstein, M.H.R., for the proportion
of legal men in the fighting ser-
vices is very high. One of the
war correspondents mentioned “a young
Perth solicitor,” a company commander,
who fell in the Litani fight. Perth law-
yers and law students are very well rep-
resented in the A.I.F. overseas, and the
same is true of their congeners in all
the other capitals. You can see their
names in almost every casualty list. And
the enlistment of doctors is, of course,
noble. They, too, have suffered, and that
to a greater extent than in 1915. No one
would think of underrating the work
of the splendid medical contingent that
served in Gallipoli and in later years in
France and Flanders, but in this war of
’planes and tanks it is all front-line
service.
“It’s all your fault. I told yer that she might Work."
“D.R.”; These A.B.C. announcers!
Shortly after J. J. Cahill became N.S.W.
Minister for Works one of them was call-
ing him “Kay-hill.” Heaven protect any
O’Flahertys who get into politics!
* * * *
“Tuart”; In my youth in Victoria I
talked with soldiers who had fought
under Lord Raglan in the Crimea, and
with German veterans of the Franco-
Prussian war. In those days the Entente
Cordiale, now no more, was as inconceiv-
able as that the nations ruled by two
grandsons of Queen Victoria would ever
be engaged in a war costlier to both sides
than the wars with the French republic
and empire, though its duration was so
much briefer. Now I have lived to see
my country fighting Germans again and
French, though I have not nearly quali-
fied for the old-age pension. In a very
remote way, I am linked with Napoleon
and Wellington through those old soldiers
of Raglan, who, as the Great Duke’s
aide-de-camp and military secretary,
fought at Busaco, Badajos and Fuentes
de Onoro, and lost an arm at Waterloo.
In the Crimea he was so old and forget-
ful that at times he failed to remember
whom he was fighting and with whom,
and it is on record that on one occasion,
in the presence of French officers, he
commanded his subordinates to give the
French hell. His name and the name
of his Crimean actions and associates —
Balaclava, Sebastopol, Inkermann, the
Redan, St. Arnaud and Canrobert —have
been preserved in a curiously large num-
ber of localities and thoroughfares in
several Australian States.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: When the army in over-
alls emerges from a munition factory' m
our suburb, and, having unfolded its par-
cels of sandwiches or bought a pasty
from a motorised piestall, squats against
the wall of the factory at midday, a
limousine drives up and halts in the
vacant allotment adjacent. The chauf-
feur unpacks a hamper containing
chicken and ham, etc., spreads a table-
cloth on the grass, lays four places with
glittering china and uncorks a bottle.
Then the old lady and gent, and the
damsel who have been sitting in the
vehicle disembark while a youth in over-
alls strolls out of the factory and joins
them in a hearty luncheon. He is the
son-in-law of the elderly couple, and has
enlisted ip a skilled section of the muni-
tions industry. They drive over every
day with their daughter to see that,
whatever happens, the war effort doesn’t
suffer through one unit in it being under-
nourished.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The par. about the £250
Jack Abbott is to get from the Com-
monwealth Literary Fund reminded me
about a yarn Henry Lawson used to tell.
It was of a time when Abbott used to
live a bachelor existence in a camp
cottage at Curl Curl, Sydney. Lawson,
on the spree for a week, unshaven and
unwashed, decided to pay a call on
Jack. When he reached the camp its
owner was away, but Henry gained ad-
mission and turned in. It was not until
midnight that his host came home, and,
striking matches to get his bearings, de-
tected something wrong about the bed,
which had been left neatly made. Abbott
approached and struck more matches.
“And when he saw me,” chuckled Law-
son, “he thought he had the horrors!”
Seen by matchlight the unshaven Henry
must have looked pretty dreadful.
* * * *
“Zake”: The decision of the Queens-
land Carpenters’ Union to ban the wear-
ing of shorts by its members in working
hours would greatly have pleased my
Uncle James, a plumber, whose sartorial
elegance and courtly manners earned him
the title of Gentleman Jim. I recall
vividly the look of horror on his face the
day Bill, his new assistant, turned up in
a black-and-yellow football jersey, old
strides, sandshoes and an amorphous felt
hat. Uncle’s representations ensured that
Bill’s next appearance was in a smartly-
cut sac suit, starched batswing collar and
bow tie, brogues, oyster-grey shirt and
grey bowler. It was only by a tremen-
dous effort of willpower that Gentleman
Jim maintained his reputation for urban-
ity when, as his apprentice, I spilled a
crucible of molten lead down the
inside of his shoe as he was wiping a
joint. He took hold of himself in time
to say, “Kindly be more careful, Stanley ;
I fear you have spoiled my new silk
sock.” But his devotion to clobber beat
Gentleman Jim in the end. Wearing a
Sin. starched collar while on a drainage
job one hot day, Uncle kept running his
cementy hands between his collar and
neck. After a few hours the cement set
hard, forming a jagged collar super-
imposed on his starched one. Giving
vent to a tremendous sneeze, my uncle
cut his throat.
* * * *
“Bleedin’ Colonial”; Did I hear some-
one say that the war is going to wipe out
class distinction and the old school tie?
Not in England. The most conservative
of all Englishmen is the worker. Hitler’s
winged minions might shatter his humble
home, but if there’s a room or two left
intact he won’t shift, even to move into
the wing of a ducal mansion. And
officialdom has the devil of a job drag-
ging him out of a dangerously bombed
area if his accustomed pub is still capable
of dispensing joy juice. And at the other
end of the social scale? Nobody noticed
any particular dearth of top-hats in the
members’ enclosure at Newmarket when
the second war-time Derby was run there,
while it is strongly suspected that the
numerous liveried chauffeurs who were
observed obsequiously opening the doors
of their Rolls-Bentley limousines were
not bowing out retired laborers. Social
changes may be due in many countries
after Mars retires temporarily to the
shades, but I’ll bet my last two petrol-
ration tickets that Albion isn’t one of
them.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: A stage magician now
theatrically famous in his early days in
Melbourne used to play a simple trick
which went down successfully with
almost every audience. He would mingle
inconspicuously with the public in the
foyer before the curtain-raising and
would slip a crown-piece into some cus-
tomer’s pocket. Then when the audience
had taken its seat he would appear before
the footlights, produce a coin, nick it
with a knife, cause it to vanish and then
point into the stalls and instruct the gent,
in the grey suit with the bald head to
stand up and feel in the top pocket of his
waistcoat, when he would find the miss-
ing coin. He abandoned the stunt after
an evening when the person indicated
jumped up and said: “On- the contrary,
if the gent, over there in the blue suit will
stand up and feel in his top waistcoat
pocket he will find it.” The prestidigi-
tator had met his match in the local
amateur.
* * # *
“Puyyaka”: A survey of the arrange-
ments for feeding the population which
congregates in London air-raid shelters
nightly has disclosed some curious mass
dietary likes and dislikes. In all districts,
poor or well-to-do, potatoes baked in
their jackets and served hot with salt,
pepper and a dab of margarine are uni-
versal favorites. Soups were little in
demand until someone hit on the idea of
leaving the vegetables in small lumps in-
stead of mashing them up. Now at Id. a
cup with salt and a bit of bread they
are all the rage as bedtime tucker. But
the customer must be allowed to allocate
the salt. Fish and chips are in favor in
South and East London, but unsaleable
in the North and West, whose aristocrats
like best a roll with a slice of hot bacon
or a hot sausage inserted for filling.
“Woolton sandwich,” a roll with grated
raw vegetables flavored with chutney,
comes next in favor. A North London
shelter became so famous for its baked
bread pudding that its accommodation
had to be extended. The demand for
tea is many times that for coffee, cocoa
or milk, and in the poorest districts tea
and sweet cake outweigh everything else
for beginning the day on. Equally
marked is the detestation in poor districts
of porridge, much in favor as a break-
fast dish in more prosperous areas.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Two cats as dead as Julius
Caesar were the subject of consideration
at the Practice Court in Melbourne—
Peter and Bibsie. In 1939 their spinster
owner made a will leaving them an
annuity of £lOO, to be paid to
a selected person who was to have
no children in the house so that
she could devote all her time and
attention to Bibsie and Peter. The spin-
ster, whose testamentary intentions had
been bruited abroad was almost buried
beneath the flood of applications from
people who considered they fulfilled the
specifications. But the cats predeceased
their benefactress, necessitating Court
direction as to the disposal of their
annuity.
M. OR N.
“Up to 1-634 it was against the law of England
to give a child more than one baptismal name.”
—B. 18/6/’4l.
For us in this enlightened age who live
It’s hard to realise, I must declare.
How singularly unimaginative
When there were names at christenings to give
Our rude forefathers were.
“One man, one vote,” was a hypothesis
Which, had they heard it, would have failed
to stir.
But, in whatever else they were remiss,
Till Stuart times they pinned their faith to this:
“One kid, one moniker.”
One label for a prefix they opined
A fair allowance, a sufficient thing.
Whether the child to whom it was assigned
Was fathered by a noble or a hind,
A cobbler or a king.
Yet fashions change and laws their force may
lose
Now babes are ticketed with any array
Of naipes that doting parenthood may choose
For full expression of its tastes and views,
And parsons deem O.K.
Clearly our ancestors in these affairs
Were economic of nomenclature.
But should you ask me if our method bears
The marks of an improvement upon theirs,
I’ll own I’m none too sure.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Gad, Prendergast, Hitler will pay dearly for this.”
“8.P.”: A bright war-time idea —and
give the A.B.C. the credit—is the broad-
casting of messages from the A.I.F.
abroad to Australia. The troops come
to the mike in groups of three, and any-
body imagining that they’re downhearted
is soon corrected. A typical message: ~
Well, hello! How’s old Tamworth?
This is William James Digger, better known
as Blue, calling Mum, Dad, Tom, Jack,
Mollie and the mob at Armidale. Am
feeling fit after the Olympic sprint. Still
sorry I didn’t, Nellie. Think of me when
sinking a pot down at the pub, boys. Keep
your chins up; Fritz can’t get me. Hope
to be home for Christmas.
It ought to do far more for recruiting
than any of the vaudeville stunts.
* * * *
“Bo”: George was a railway clerk, a
cheerful soul but the despair of official-
dom because he refused to take anything
seriously. He had a strong political pull
and therefore could with impunity
buttonhole his chief and air his various
grievances. This he did frequently, and,
to the boss’s discomfiture, usually in a
place where the rest of his fellow-toilers
could hear the tirade. But even George’s
pull couldn’t prevent his being sent to a
very remote suburban station. A few
weeks after the shift it came to the ears
of the boss, a non-gambler, non-smoker,
non-drinker and non-swearer, that
George was indulging in practices con-
trary to the by-laws. He immediately
rang up the incorrigible one. “Mr,
So-and-so,” he trumpeted in his sternest
tones, “I hear that you are running an
s.p. double book. Is this true?” “No,
it isn’t,” calmly answered George, “but
any time you want a few bob on any-
thing I can get you set!”
* * * *
“Atrax”: For the second time in 140
years the ten-yearly census of Great
Britain, which should have been taken
in April, has been postponed. The first
occasion was in 1921, when it was put off
for a month on account of the disruption
caused by the great coal strike. This time
the cause is war and the postponement is
for the duration thereof and thereafter
until civilised conditions are resumed.
This census should have been something
in the nature of a centenary. It was in
1841 that schedules were first left with
householders for filling up and returning
to the visiting enumerators, who checked
them by inquiry. . Up to then census
information had provided decennial op-
portunities for pugilists who could read
and write, the response of many house-
holders being of a distinctly hostile
nature.
* * *
“F.S.”: Despite their alleged demo-
cratic principles, Australians are usually
visibly impressed when they get a knight-
hood, but at least his hasn’t made Arthur
Streeton namby-pamby. During the last
Prohibition referendum in Victoria he
staggered Toorak by painting and erect-
ing in his garden an immense poster
exhorting the population to support the
Wet cause, and in his latest exhibition
a picture of an awful devastated hillside
at his beloved Olinda, with giant gums
blasted by fire in melancholy witness,
was “dedicated to the Forests Commis-
sion.” Here is his latest outbreak from
the “Argus”:
The Rev. George A. Judkins reminds us
that prayer and return to God are essen-
tial to victory. He reminds us that “the
forgetting and forsaking of God (which in
Germany has developed into a fight against
God) are seriously affecting our capacity to
survive.” In accepting this conclusion, and
remembering that Germany has now con-
quered at least nine free countries, it seems
logical to assume that Germans through-
out the world must have united most
strenuously in their prayer for victory.
It was signed “Arthur Streeton (late
R.A.M.C.), Olinda.”
* * * *
“Oxmead”: “B. U. Colic” takes excep-
tion to N.S.W. shires’ representatives
being referred to by a city paper as “aider-
men” when their proper title is “coun-
cillors” (B. 18/6/’4l). “Aldermen,” he
tells us, “are a species only found within
municipalities.” And not always there.
In at least one State, Westralia, the more
imposing term is
never used. Even the
Lud Mayor of Perth
is no more than a
“councillor.”
♦ *
“Craiser”: A Mel-
bourne woman whose
husband was in the
A.I.F. in England
has been told by
letter of an illumi-
nating case of Scot-
tish frugality. Ob-
tain in g a week’s
leave, her husband
took the opportunity
of visiting close
relations he had
never seen in Aber-
deen, and sent a
telegram to announce
his coming. When
he debouched on the
platform there was
nobody to meet him.
“Either my wire mis-
carried, they don’t
want to see me
although I’ve come
12,000 miles to greet
them, or it’s true
what I’ve heard, that
my forebears were very curious people,”
he pondered as he made his way through
the barriers. Outside, however, he found
the entire family waiting, overcome with
delight at meeting their relation from
down under. “Ye see, mon,” the head of
the clan explained, “we didna hae plat-
form tickets.” But they gave him a mag-
nificent time.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: I hasten to pass on
the good news to all husbands whose
knit-for-victory spouses condemn them
to sit with outstretched hands supporting
endless skeins of wool. Today Mrs.
Mucklewame dropped in to see the ruler
of my household about Comforts Fund
work, I had to explain that she-who-
must-be-obeyed would not be back for
an hour or so and offered the paper to
while away the time. “Ah’ll juist be
gaein’ on wi’ ma knittin’,” the visitor
announced, producing a skein of wool
from a bag. My heart sank as involun-
tarily I held out my hands for the
accursed thing. She relaxed into a smile.
“Ah’ll no be troublin’ ye,” she said.
“We’ve a better way in Dumfries,” and
forthwith draped the skein twice round
her head turban-wise with the loose end
in position for easy unwinding. “All
yon twistin’ and twinin’ is juist waste o’
guid time makkin’ a ploything for the
cat,” she explained as the needles began
to fly.
* * * *
“Clooter”: Only a woman could think
of it, and perhaps only a woman could
work it. She called on a Sydney under-
taker, ordered an expensive coffin for
her dead sister, used the undertaker’s
’phone to talk to a relative about the
arrangements, produced a bank transfer
showing that she had shifted £2OOO-odd
from Wagga to Sydney and borrowed £2
“till the bank opened.” Next day she
got another £2 from a different under-
taker with the same stunt. Neither
undertaker could find a corpse at the
addresses she gave. The Beak made it
six months.
* * * *
“K.P.”: I agree with “Pawang” (B.
11/6/’4l) that the pea-green hue noticed
amongst enemy parachutists in Crete
could not have been produced by any
internally-taken drug without disabling
them. But his explanation that “the
bodies of the parachutists, dead before
they reached the ground, were dragged
for long distances” and that “bruising
would give a green appearance” is nega-
tived by the fact that bruising does not
occur after death. The post-mortem dis-
colorations caused by capillary stagnation
are totally different matters both in
causation and appearance. Any exten-
sive area of green-tinged skin is asso-
ciated with active decomposition. The
report indicated that some at least of the
men were noticed to be green colored
while still in the air and whilst alive after
landing, so that it was probably an
attempt to camouflage them for easier
cover-taking in vegetated country,
* * * *
“Uramao”: Lord Plunket, the Irish
peer who was Governor of M.L. 30 years
ago, is now almost forgotten, but his
wife, Lady Plunket, gave the name to
an organisation that has made MX. re-
nowned the world over for its work in
saving babies’ lives. Punters at a Welling-
ton race meeting recently must have con-
sidered the juxtaposition of two names
in a race a good omen and had their bit
on. The event was the Plunket Nursery
Handicap and the horse to romp home
was Premature.
* V * *
“V.C.”; Those notes on kissing as a
conveyor of germs (B. 18/6/’4l) hit my
eye on a day when, riding through Syd-
ney’s Bellevue Hill per bus, I observed
one grown man kiss another outside a
flat built in the ancient Hollywood style.
Evidently both were refugees—probably
father and son. All the same, their
valedictory had something thoroughly
un-Australian about it, which probably
caused the person behind me to remark,
“Gripes, look at them lips!”
* * * *
“Duco”: Into our village barber shop
stalked a customer, settled himself in the
chair and instructed the barber to shave
him. “Before you start,” he snapped,
“I know the weather’s been fine lately ;
that things look bad for Britain, and
that the Turks have squibbed it. I don’t
care who wins the next big fight, and
I don’t bet on horses. I know I’m getting
thin on top and that your hair-restorer
is unbeatable. Now get on with it!”
“Right! ” snapped the man with the razor.
“I’d have been finished by now if you
didn’t talk so much.”
* * * H=
“Cook’s Mate” discourses about a
notable dietitian:
Captain Cook’s attention to his seamen’s
dietary accounted for much of his success, and
in the journal of his second voyage he sets
out the bill of fare for the lower-deck messes
in H.M.S.S. Resolution and Adventure in some
detail. “Suppose,” he says, “four men to mess
or eat together, which is very common, their
daily allowance will be as follows: Each man
is allowed every day one pound of biscuits, as
much small beer as he can drink, or a pint
of wine or half a pint of brandy, rum or
arrack. They will have besides, on Monday,
half a pound of butter, about 10 ounces of
Cheshire cheese, and as much boiled oatmeal or
wheat as they can eat; Tuesday and Saturday,
two two-pound pieces of beef or one four-
pound piece of beef, three pounds of flour and
one pound of raisins, or half a pound of suet;
Wednesday and Friday, butter and cheese as
on Monday, and as much boiled peas as they
can eat; Thursday and Sunday, two two-pound
pieces of pork with peas. Sugar and oil are
served in place of butter and cheese ; a pound
of the one or a pint of the other is equal to
one pound of butter or 21 ounces of cheese.”
Monotonous, maybe, for voyages reckoned in
years, but solid and sustaining—and the beer
was good beer while it lasted.
“Hey—where are you taking that gun?
THE CURATE’S EGG.
An error, it has always seemed to me,
A practice with disfavor to be eyed,
Is damning something unreservedly,
Dismissing it as absolutely snide
If you can’t give it praise unqualified.
How far more subtle were the curate’s arts
When to his bishop’s query he replied:
“My lord, the egg is excellent —in parts.”
The speech with which you hotly disagree,
The editorial you “can’t abide,”
Each will have something, one may guarantee,
With which you cannot help but coincide.
Take clerical diplomacy for guide,
Forbear to launch vituperative darts!
Much better than asserting someone’s lied
’Tis to admit he’s stuck to truth —in parts.
The painter’s daub that leaves you “up a tree,”
The poem you hear so savagely decried,
Each must contain, however small it be,
Something to put upon the credit side.
When tempted to disparage or deride,
Leave that to coarser souls and harder hearts.
’Twill be some salve to the creator’s pride
To learn you get the hang of him —in parts.
An answer soft, it cannot be denied,
The curate gave—and yet how well allied
With the unspoken inference that smarts.
I wonder if it pierced the bishop’s hide:
“My lord, the egg is excellent —in parts.”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


CRAVEN A
..aieso
10
for
10d
20
for
1/8
El 868
f
#
Ik
MADE
PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
One thing about this new war —the
parties won’t need to spend much on
propaganda. All that each will require
to do is to turn up what he said about
the other at any time during the six years
to August, 1939, and let him have a daily
issue. But Australian Corns., whom our
Glorious Press has beckoned out of their
holes again, will have to be careful about
dates. In the early part of September,
1939, they supported the war for the
liberation of Poland, only to switch round
into venomous opposition to Britain
which lasted till last Sunday.
Not sure whether to be amused or
horrified, Australians witnessed the spec-
tacle of certain legislators challenging
each other to enlist. Mr. Max Falstein
(Watson) was understood to say that he
was “frightened” to go, though he was
not “frightened” to say so, because he
was “frightened” of the Government.
Reports of the ignoble debate appeared
in the papers on the day they announced
Australia’s biggest casualty list for this
war.
What Menzies called his “prospectus
of an unlimited war effort” sounded very
well until he read the words “We are
committed to the voluntary system of
enlistment for overseas service.” So it
it still to be a limited liability company!
To enshrine their “mutual trust and
sincere friendship,” Germans and Turks
have signed a 10-years’ treaty which
pledges each party to respect “the integ-
rity and inviolability” of the other’s terri-
tory and to veto “any measures, direct
or indirect, which may be harmful” to
either. The thing was signed at Ankara,
the repository of lavish British subsi-
dies, where Anthony Eden was perform-
ing a few months ago. Jacko must have
done great execution on Anthony’s leg.
In what is known as the Woolcott Forbes
case, though Woolcott Forbes did not
attend it, the proceedings in the Police
Court lasted 120 days and in the
Criminal Court 36 days there, they
would have lasted longer if Jus-
tice Halse Rogers had not inter-
vened. The length of time taken in
bringing the guilty men to justice (one
was an M.L.A.) is an appalling reflec-
tion on N.S.W. procedure, which is apt
to be dreadfully slow in other jurisdic-
tions as well. If Martin, the new Attor-
ney-General, can simplify it, as he talks
of doing, he will deserve to be transferred
to Canberra when the inevitable hour
arrives for his superfluous Parliament.
He proposes to appoint a committee.
His best plan would be to requisition the
services of Mr. Halse Rogers.
Cameron was in good form in the
debate on the P.M.’s “unlimited war-
effort” speech. Criticising the sending of
troops to Olympus “to interview the
gods,” and to Thermopylae “to report to
Leonidas,” he fixed part of the blame on
Eden and part on Menzies, and suggested
the possibility of a scapegoat being
found “by taking ‘y’ off the name of a
great Australian soldier.” Then, glancing
at Spender and referring to the proposal
for enlisting ladies in the “unlimited war
effort,” he said that more would be
needed than “a few meetings of women
over afternoon tea,” and “taking a
woman out of some corset establishment
or other and setting her up as a squadron-
leader in the Air Force.” He concluded
with a forthright statement that “con-
scription” was “the only democratic way
to raise troops.” Then the Labor back-
benchers, who had been inclined to cheer,
hissed dispraise.
Hitler is a whale for anniversaries.
His armies invaded Stalin’s dominions on
June 22, the 129th anniversary of
Napoleon’s declaration of war on Russia.
There is no confirmation of the rumor
that Mr, Sherlock Holmes has been re-
tained by the Belligerent Editors’ Union
to make a search of Syria for the missing
German army.
Under the new petrol-rationing scale,
to begin on 1/7/’4l, private car owners
are limited to 20 miles a week. The
Government aims at getting the present
monthly consumption of 20,000,000 gal-
lons down to 12,000,000. The usual
“protests” are being heard, but the Gov-
ernment, for once, doesn’t seem in a
mood to heed them.
Premier McKell, of Sydney, has
promised that a reduction in car regis-
tration fees will be considered when the
next State Budget is prepared. Con-
sidered !
Defending the queer arrangement
which has kept a minority Country party
on the Victorian Treasury benches for
Still, if he can pull himself together-
upwards of six years, Cain told the
annual conference of his group that it
was “not an alliance but an alignment.”
He acknowledged that there was no hope
of getting “a redistribution of seats on
Labor lines from the other party to
the alignment and that he and his sup-
porters have known this all along.
Delegates again approved of the align-
ment” Which means that they accept an
electoral fraud which gives a country
vote two or three times the value of a
Melbourne vote and can prevent a
majority of Labor electors and there
was obviously one in 1937 when three
Labor Senators got in hands down-from
ever having a Labor Government in
power
With “LAG IN RECRUITING” head-
lines going up everywhere, the minimum
age for AJ.F enlistment drops to 19. It is
21 in the N.Z.E.F. But then Maoriland,
which has had a Labor Government for
six years, has abandoned the wonderful
voluntary system which has such charms
for Australian Labor. It has called up
52,000 unmarried men (21-40) for over-
seas service, and there are 21,000 more
to be called up. It is also beginning to
enrol married men, but “it is most un-
likely that any married man will be called
up for service before the end of this
year,” the National Service Minister has
said.
The Australian Labor idea is that war
should be fought only by those who are
willing to fight, and the other Australian
parties accept this “principle” for the sake
of harmony or something. One effect is
the appearance in A.I.F. casualty lists of
names of married men with three or four
children as well as a lamentable pro-
portion of only sons. In Maoriland,
where all the parties have other notions,
married men are to be called up for
service, overseas as well as home, but
only when 73,000 single men have been
summoned to the colors. “Then,” it is
given out, “married men with no children
will be called first, then those with
one child, and so on.” From every point
of view except those of the slacker, the
doctrinaire and the defeatist, it is an
infinitely better arrangement and one
calculated to preserve the high standard
of the Maoriland population, even though
Australian politicians will have none of
it.
Though his accounts of the British
war effort from the inside were most
revealing, W. E. Holmes, the old trade-
union leader, was very skimpily reported
in Sydney journals. Perhaps it was be-
cause he described Chamberlain as “the
best Prime Minister England ever had.”
Q ne mos t annoying fellows in
thi count is s R Ca the Statis .
icj y J , f him
... ~ : TT
and hls confounded figures. He now
a ™° u “ c ft es , an u A strallan P o P ulat >onof
7,068,689 for 1940, but points out that
*P ucb ?f tbe increase for 20 years came
? rom immigration, the rate of
! nc^c ase having fallen from 15 per 1000
“ 1921 to 7.7 in 1939. Unless the seven
Governments do something about it
they 11 run out of taxpayers before they
kn ™„ wh “ e *** . .. .
Fhtlers ® a e £ 1P f
Finns looks like a bid for the support of
American sentimentalists. And no doubt
he is trying to play on the susceptibilities
of people in many countries, particularly
South American countries, who hate
Communists more than they hate Nazis.
The material gains he is after are obvious
enough, and so is his conscienceless
betrayal of the Georgian he accepted as
a partner; but if our leaders are not
careful, he may contrive to get his in-
vasion accepted, to an uncomfortable
extent, as a crusade for Christian nations
dominated or threatened by atheistic
Communism.
Those who voted Labor in N.S.W. in
the belief that wages tax would cease
if the McKells won will get a jolt if
that State’s Government Gazette falls into
their hands. It announces continuation
of wages and social-services taxes from
July 1 to October 31.
Announcing the suspension of publica-
tion of the “A.B.C. Weekly” from
31 /7 / ’4l for the duration of the war, the
P.M.G. said it was “to assist in the con-
servation of newsprint and to assist the
dollar exchange position.” So that if
the newsprint and dollar positions were
normal the thing would be allowed to
go on losing heaps of public money.
Canberra’s Minister for Labor has
joyfully announced that women will
“probably” be engaged for land work
to replace men absorbed into the mili-
tary or war industries, that his depart-
ment is prepared to train the women re-
quired and that “discussions” have
already taken place with the C.W.A.
about it. He’d better see about training
farmers to employ the women, though
farmers’ wives would gladly welcome any
of Mr. Holt’s trainees into the kitchen.
During the discussion on newsprint
rationing at Canberra, Rosevear (Lab.)
suggested that before rationing went any
further the Government should try to
regulate advertising space in newspapers.
And every commercial broadcasting
station gave three cheers.
Learning that more newsprint ration-
ing is on the way, Mr. Beasley asked the
Customs Minister what “steps the Gov-
ernment will take to transfer men who
might be out of employment through
the decision.” Well, the Army could use
some of the fighting editors.
A Mr. Lovegrove, of the Fibrous
Plasterers’ Union, Victoria, wants an
“immediate declaration of the strategy
proposed by the Governments of Great
Britain, U.S.A. and Australia for winning
the war.” Agreed, provided the Govern-
ments of Germany and Italy will recip-
rocate.
Professor Roberts has come another
thud. Supplementing the assurance of the
“S.M.H.” editor that the forces led by
“the ignoble Dentz” in Syria were negli-
gible, the know-all professor discovered
“the equivalent of an entire German
division” in Syria, and pounced upon
“the important fact” that “the Germans
have seized control of the Syrian aero-
dromes, which number nine in all.”
That was on June 7. On June 21, Sir
Oracle had to admit that “contrary to
general expectation” (i.e., Roberts’s) “the
Germans have made no attempt to land
in North Syria, even when the Allied
advance in the south proved disappoint-
ingly slow.” Also that “French resist-
ance was sterner and French defections
fewer than we” (i.e., he) “had been led
to expect” ; in fact, “the ignoble Dentz”
had “resisted with all means at his dis-
posal, and has extracted every military
advantage from the broken nature of the
country.”
Mulga wire from Melbourne:
Interviews are the order of the day at the
P.M.’s headquarters. Soldiers, sailors, states-
men, captains of industry, lawyers, logicians,
physicians, surgeons, dentists, economists,
manufacturers, unionists, laymen come and go.
Reminds me of Whitehall in 1642. Brains
are being picked, and the pickings seized,
sieved, sized, graded, grouped, shaded, collated,
contorted, conglomerated, measured, mixed,
modulated and prepared for the shop window.
No wonder Cromwell made it a capital offence
to concoct mince pies and plum duffs. That
prohibition, I am sure, was against their poli-
tics, not against their kitchens. Oliver knew
his onions, even if he was not so strong on
his oats.


THE WARDROBE AND THE CARPENTER.
To preserve the dignity of the trade,’ Queensland’s Carpenters’ Union has banned the wearing of shorts on the job.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE. W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E. 0.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
iboot
tantH'
Sjl/Vw *° ff * P' esS^fS^ errf "' n T * uC ' "a
s^ e
jcrt
and
can
f\aroe
' CeroSe nsia<' t V ' e ° t ‘
9 WeS 'W o
n°'f e -
oVt -
<¥l
Tfaund
i
/-
tfeC
avJMA
śdfsdfdf
cpo \t>ur
s,ore ‘
KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
Flush Out Poisonous Waste
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get
rid of 3 pounds of waste matter, the 14 miles
of kidney tubes and filters become clogged
with poisonous waste and the danger of add
poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition is a danger signal and
may be the beginning of nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles, puf-
flness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Frequent or scanty passages, with
smarting and burning, show there Is some-
thing wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of Intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes and filters.
Don’t delay 1 Ask your chemist or store
for DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS , ..
used successfully the world over by millions
of people. They give quick relief and will
heln to flush out the 15 MILES of kidney
tubes. GET DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS at your chemist or store,
PERSONAL ITEMS
No one is following the campaign in
Syria with a livelier interest than Lieut.-
Colonel Olden, the Deputy Director of
Recruiting in Westralia, for it is all
familiar ground to him. Twenty-three
years ago he and his squadron of the
Tenth Light Horse were so well up in
the rush to enter the oldest city in the
world that he received the surrender of
Damascus from an Arab notable, who
confided to him that he was a grand-
nephew of Abd-el-Kader, emir of Mas-
cara, “the great opponent of the con-
quest of Algeria by France.” Olden
wrote a history of the Tenth Light Horse
and its campaigns from the Nile to the
Abana, and a very good history, too ;
but the public was not then in the mood
for reading war books. By profession he
is a dentist.
Killed in action, at 43, one of the most
colorful members of the Maoriland Labor
party, Captain Jack Lyons, member for
Waitemata. An Englishman by birth,
he gained a commission in the 1914-18
war. He migrated to M.L. in 1927, and
had represented Waitemata since 1935.
He was chairman of the Defence Com-
mittee in the House. In England he had
won a reputation as a Soccer player.
Major - General Frederick Arthur
Maguire, of Sydney, recently appointed
to take charge of army education, was
MAJOR-GENERAL MAGUIRE.
formerly (since March last) Director-
General of Army Medical Services. A
Macquarie-street surgeon and sometime
Acting-Professor of Anatomy at Sydney
University, he saw service in the 1914-18
war in New Guinea and in France, win-
ning the D.S.O. In the immediate post-
war period he was colonel, A.A.M.C. and
D.D.M.S., 2nd District Base, Sydney. He
is the author of various anatomical text-
books.
Lieut. Hugh Randall Syme, awarded
the George Medal by the King for
courage, initiative and devotion to
duty, was six months ago assistant
manager of the “Age.” In Sep-
tember he joined the R.A.N.V.R. as
sub-lieutenant. He was a lieutenant
in December and was next heard of as
the leading spirit in a bomb-disposal
squad in London. On one occasion he
worked alone for four days and nights
taking the sting out of a bomb which
was threatening a row of thickly-
populated tenements. At latest advices
he was diving in a port in the South of
England to locate explosives dropped by
Nazi bombers. His father was Herbert
Syme, of the “Age.”
Father Richard Denny, of Glenelg
(S.A.), was never quite himself again
after being in a motor smash five years
ago in which his sister was killed ; and
he is now dead, at 67. Adelaide-born, he
studied and was ordained at Manly
(N.S.W.). Bill Denny, barrister, poli-
tician and Digger, was a brother.
One of M.L.’s best appointments to
the recently-created Maori Councils is
William MacKenzie Fraser, of Whan-
garei. A Scot and an engineer, he is a
trusted counsellor of the Maori race;
speaks their language fluently and is re-
puted to have been intimate with the
last tohunga. Fraser, who is engineer to
the Whangarei Harbor Board, is as well
known in the north as the kauri.
Squadron-Leader Guy Menzies, of the
R.A.F., reported missing last November
after operations in Egypt and now posted
“believed dead,” was a Drummoyne (Syd-
ney) boy who took to flying as a young-
ster and wrote a page in the air conquest
of the Pacific ten years ago by bringing
off the first solo flight across the Tasman.
He held a commission in the R.A.F.
since 1936.
Lieut.-Colonel Blair Anderson Wark,
who died at Puckapunyal recently,
received his V.C. for an exploit not at
Bullecourt (B. 18/6/’4l) but at Belli-
court on October 1, 1918, during the
attack on the Hindenburg Line. He had
been severely wounded at Fleurbaix in
1916.
Sergeant G. J. Gould, of Alphington
(Vic.), had an adventurous life from
November, 1939, when he enlisted in
Australia, until he was killed in an air
raid in England recently. He was the
“Sparks” of the Sunderland flying-boat
which sighted the 48 survivors of the
City of Benares drifting in mid-Atlantic
and was rescued himself by an Australian
warship when his flying-boat was forced
down. He was married six days before
a Nazi bomb struck him down in Ply-
mouth.
During the early days of Puckapunyal
the columns of the Melbourne “Argus”
were brightened by the contributions of
“Subaltern,” describing the new A.I.F. in
the making. The owner of the pen-
name was Lieut. Roy MacCartney, who
had joined the paper’s literary staff just
before the war-gong sounded. He is now
reported missing in Crete. Some of his
last articles in the “Argus” bore the
Cretan postmark.
Reported missing, Lieut.-Colonel Theo-
dore Gordon Walker, one of the 133
named for gallantry and distinguished
service in the campaign in Cyrenaica.
Forty-one, he was born at Richmond
(Vic.), and educated at Wesley College
and the Melbourne University. A State
Savings Bank employee when Hitler
erupted, he had had commissioned rank
back in 1921, and when he enlisted in
the A.I.F. was given command of the
24/39 Battalion, A.M.F.
William Holmes, who comes to Aus-
tralia to convey a message from the
British Labor movement, and who is here
at the invitation of the Commonwealth
Government and the Opposition, is well
equipped for his job. He’s a past presi-
dent and present vice-president of the
British Trade-unions’ Congress, has
been in the fighting front line of trade-
unionism for close on 50 years —he’s now
WILLIAM HOLMES.
68 and has a shrewd avuncular eye
and an uncompromising way of saying
what he means. Audiences as far apart
as that at Sydney’s Trades Hall and at
Sydney’s Millions Club have appreciated
his blunt honesty.
Dismay smote William Spargo when
the Victorian Railways Commission took
over the Hotham Heights Chalet in the
snowy peaks of the Victorian Alps. He
had been controller and found himself
without an occupation. Spargo knew
every inch of the inclement plateau, hated
the city and set out to find gold in the
mountains. After years of exploration
he settled on a spot in such a remote
district that most residents of the High
Plains completely forgot his existence.
Then last October he returned to civili-
sation, having lighted on a reef so
rich that he subsequently refused an offer
of £60,000 for it. His mine is hidden
under two feet of snow on the roof of
Victoria.
Hopes of the survival of that fine Aus-
tralian Arnold Wienholt, soldier, big-
game hunter, pastoralist and former
Queensland Parliamentarian, were re-
vived by a letter from the Sudan army
command to his wife. The native party
commanded by him was surrounded by
an Italian patrol in August, and he was
wounded in the side but seen to disappear
into the bush when the party scattered.
Although in the absence of precise detail
the Sudan command assumed that he
had been killed, the final cleaning-up of
Abyssinia may yet find him amongst the
last prisoners of war in Italian hands.
Dead at 71, North Adelaide’s special
magistrate, G. W. Halcombe. Born in
Adelaide, he studied at St. Peter’s and
read law at Oxford, ultimately being
called to the Bar of the Inner Temple.
He returned to Australia to practise law
at Peterborough, where he became
Mayor. In 1917 he was placed on the
Bench of the Children’s Court, stepping
down in 1935. A pillar of the Church
of England, his posts included chancel-
lorships of the dioceses of Adelaide and
Willochra, and he was a warden of St.
Peter’s Cathedral. He was also presi-
dent of the Police Appeals Board and of
the Marine Court of Inquiry.
“Crawley”: Westralia’s Professor Ross
(B. 7/5/’4l) was “Wee Ahlec” to his stu-
dents in my time. A quiet little man
with a massive brow and a full moustache,
he gave such emphasis to his r’s and s’s
that bold undergrads, were wont to intro-
duce him, rather rudely, as Profes-s-sor-r-r
R-r -ross-s-s-s. Being a philosophic charac-
ter, wise in the ways of undergrads., he
was never known to object, and his vast
fund of knowledge commanded respect.
I know dozens of fellows who would
rather have missed a meal than one of
the prof.’s lectures or broadcasts.
Walter Angel, who more than 50 years
ago spent two years in the South Aus-
tralian Treasury,- and is now ex-general
manager of the Savings Bank of S.A.,
has in retirement returned to a place
pretty close to his old department. He
has given his services to the State War
Loan Committee for the duration, and
is helping to organise the war savings
certificates campaign. The War Loan
Committee is at the Commonwealth
Treasury.
The driving force behind the scheme
for establishing youth hostels in the Ade-
laide hills is Bert Frederick George Apps,
secretary of the National Fitness Council
of S.A. Born at St. Kilda (Vic.) in 1912,
he was educated at Caulfield Grammar
and Melbourne Uni., where he gradu-
ated B.A. He taught for a few years at
his old school before shifting to Adelaide
in 1940. Like so many others who have
tried, Apps failed in his attempt last
summer to convince Adelaideans that
shorts and open-neck shirts were sensible
summer wear. He’s fond of walking and
tennis.
Noel Kenric Stevens Brodribb, 0.8. E.,
F.1.C., A.A.C.1., M.1.P.E., who now adds
C.B.E. to his comet’s tail of initials, is
Assistant Director-General of Munitions,
and as such one of the key men. He has
been concerned with explosives since he
started 30 years ago in the cordite factory
out of which grew the vast conglomera-
tion of factories at Maribyrnong, Mel-
bourne. He is the son of a Bristol Eng-
lishman, bom at Kew (Vic.) in 1885, and
N. K. S. BRODRIBB.
educated at Kew High School. He went
into the Chemical Engineering Depart-
ment of the Defence Department, became
Chief Chemical Engineer in 1921, and
Controller-General of Munitions in 1937.
He took his new job in 1940. Brodribb
is also a member of the Defence Council.
He has been on many missions, including
the Empire Conference in Delhi.
“Jayem”: E. J. Eggins, M.L.C.,
appointed N.S.W. representative on the
National Fodder Conservation Board, is
a Lismore businessman with dairy-
farming interests. He is president of the
North Coast National A. and I. Society,
Lismore, which runs the biggest country
show in the Commonwealth, and was
Mayor of Lismore for several terms.


m.
\
ft, S? '7 : •£*
i ;w j,
a>: f
(r
EXIDE STILL KEEPS GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED.
Obtainable from Dealers throughout Australia.
THE NAVY THE ARMY
THE AIR FORGE
Use Exide Batteries. Bear this in mind
when buying a new battery for your
car, radio or home lighting plant.
BATTERIES
THE FIRST SUBMARINE
WAS PROPELLED BY OARS
KING JAMES I MADE A TRIP IN IT.
The first known practical under-water
boat was built by Cornelius van Drebbel,
a Dutchman, in 1620. It was made of
wood covered with greased leather, and
was propelled from the inside by oars
passing through flexible sleeves. The
crew was supplied with air by means of
a pipe which led to the surface. King
James I made a trip in it during a suc-
cessful demonstration on the Thames.
In 1880 Robert Fulton built a cigar-
shaped submarine boat, which he called
the “Nautilus.” It was made of copper,
and driven by a propeller turned by hand.
It was proposed to use it to rescue
Napoleon from St. Helena, but he died
before the plan could be attempted.
In 1888 an electrically-driven submarine
of 30 tons displacement was officially
launched for the French Navy. The
United States followed suit, and in 1900
the British Admiralty acquired five boats.
They had internal-combustion motors
for cruising on the surface and electric
motors for propulsion when submerged.
The power for driving the electric motors
was stored in batteries. To-day the same
principle is adopted.
Forty Years of Extensive
Research.
Since these submarines were first used
by the British Navy, the Exide Company
has kept pace with the development of
the batteries. During these forty years
of extensive research the submarine bat-
tery has progressed enormously. In terms
of weight and man hours of employ-
ment, it is now equivalent of anything
up to 5000 car batteries.
When the hatches are sealed preparatory
to diving, the diesel engines must be
stopped and the submarine is completely
dependent upon the storage batteries.
They furnish power for propulsion, light,
heat and the operation of all control
apparatus, pumps, air compressors and
other intricate equipment necessary for
submerging and rising to the surface. On
the surface they furnish light; while
aboard many classes of submarines the
batteries continue to operate all electri-
cally-driven auxiliaries, and when dock-
ing propel the boat.
The earliest British submarines were
equipped with batteries built up of
Chloride Rosette positives and pastille or
lead chloride negatives. These batteries
were eminently satisfactory in service,
particularly as regards their durability.
But with the evolution of the submarine
boat higher capacities were called for,
and the next stage was the adoption of
heavy Plante positives and box negatives.
Before very many of these Plante plate
batteries had been supplied it was neces-
sary again to increase the capacity with-
out increasing the space occupied, and
this resulted in the design and
manufacture of the first
Exide submarine battery.
From this stage until the end
of the Great War a very large
number of Exide batteries
were supplied to the British
Admiralty.
A modern submarine bat-
tery weighs considerably
more than the displacement
of the complete vessels of
forty years ago. The big in-
crease in available power
from a given size and weight
of cell indicates how battery-
makers have been keeping
abreast of the times. A sub-
merged speed of five knots from one 75-
horsepower motor was all that was laid
down for these early boats.
The Heart of the Submarine.
Amongst the more important develop-
ments to which the approval of the
British Admiralty has been given is the
supercession of the Exide by the Exide-
Ironclad battery, and this represents a
very real advance. Primarily the im-
provement in life performance is of the
utmost value in maintaining the active
A CONTRAST IN SIZES.
An Exide workman standing beside a battery of
submarine cells and holding the smallest Exide
battery made.
This small battery is for use with Deaf Aid
Apparatus ; it weighs less than lib., whereas the
average weight of a submarine battery is 150 tons.
seagoing efficiency of the submarines.
Economy is effected both by the con-
siderably increased life of the battery
and by the avoidance of enforced loss
of time at too frequent intervals during
the replacement of a worn-out battery.
The Exide-Ironclad submarine battery
embodies details of design specially de-
vised to meet all the requirements of ser-
vice conditions of under-water propul-
sion, and, what is of vital importance,
to afford the maximum possible security
to the personnel. The battery has been
described as the heart of a submarine,
..act it is unquestionably true that
if the battery is put out of com-
mission the vessel can no longer
function as a submarine. Over
and above the supply of power to
the motors, hydroplane, pump and
compressor, the battery is, during
submergence, the sole source of
supply for lighting, heating and
ventilating.
The products of Exide find their
way into all corners of the globe,
and similarly Exide submarine
batteries have done their job in
the frozen seas of the Baltic, in
the tropical waters of the South
Atlantic and South Pacific, and
in the Adriatic and Scandinavian
Seas. The long voyages from Eng-
lish ports to China and Australia
have been made, and the widely
varying conditions of service
which obtain in different parts of
the world inevitably demand a
very high standard of efficiency
and all-round reliability.
Not One Recorded
Failure of Exide.
Throughout the four years of the
Great War it was Exide’s proud
achievement to turn out, on the
average, one submarine battery
per week, and at the end of hos-
tilities the Exide Company re-
ceived the following commenda-
A single cell of an Exide submarine
battery. A complete battery weighs over
150 tons.
tion from the Commodore in charge of
H.M. Submarine Service:
Admiralty, London,
_ November 30, 1918.
Gentlemen,—
On the cessation of hostilities, I wish to record
the gratitude of the officers and men of the
Submarine Service to your officials and em-
ployees for their indispensable assistance during
the War.
The services required from British Submarines
have been very varied. They include continuous
diving patrols during daylight off the enemy’s
coast to gain early information of enemy move-
ments, submarine mine-laying in enemy waters,
and the hunting of enemy submarines all over
the North Sea and Atlantic as far south as the
Azores.
All of the above necessitated the highest state
of efficiency of their Batteries, for these Sub-
marines using your Batteries have ayeraged
over ten thousand miles per month during the
War, and that THERE IS NO RECORDED
CASE OF YOUR BATTERIES FAILING.
The standard of work your men have given
us has been such as to engender a splendid
feeling of confidence in the behavior of your
batteries, and therefore of the Submarines
during their long cruises under water. This
has been a governing factor towards success
in addition to our having been solely dependent
upon your output for equipping new Sub-
marines, in which you have never failed us
during the War.
I would be much obliged if you would convey
to your officials and employees the very hearty
thanks of the Submarine Service for their loyal
co-operation and assistance.
I am,
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) COMMODORE-IN-CHARGE,
H.M. SUBMARINE SERVICE.


s sdf
“Old-timer”: Scene 1: Euston (River
Murray) on a blazing afternoon. An
eddy of dust drifts down the Balranald-
road, and with it comes an ancient river
roamer known as “The Plum Duff.” The
P.D. drops his swag, shakes dust off him-
self and tries the top pub. “Look,” says
the publican, “this bottle of schnapps
has been on me shelves f’r two years.
Take it an’ clear out.” The P.D. does
so, removing self and swag from the
town. Scene 2: Dawn next day on a
sandpit down the river. Smoke rises
from a fire near a motor caravan. From
the caravan emerge four nymphs in the
altogether who race to the stream and
bathe joyfully and shriekfully in its clear
waters, secure in the knowledge that they
are safe from prying eyes. Their noise
penetrates the clump of native willow
150 yards away where the P.D. is lying
beside an empty schnapps bottle. He
mutters cursefully, gets up with a horrible
effort and peers through bleary eyes at
the festivities in the river. A beatific
smile lights his ruined features, and he
reaches out, picks up the empty bottle
and reads the label. “ ’Struth! ” he
swears. “You’ll do me! An’ t’ think of
all the money I’ve wasted on beer.
All it ever give me was a neadache.” He
sinks back to slumber, half-determined
to get a job to get money to get more
of that brand of schnapps.
* * * *
“Pick”: Of all ground-nesters, cranes
are second to none in the camouflage
with which they trick predatory eyes.
They contrive to lessen the labors of con-
struction by their plans made beforehand.
Their nesting material is always secured
amongst the driftwood floated up by the
floods of the creek or river, and amongst
these they select a sandpatch for their
nests. First, they hollow out a basin-
shaped depression, around which they
intertwine light sticks or thistle stems
taken from the debris, interwoven with
grass, reeds or bark. When setting they
portrude their slim legs outwards to
counterfeit sticks of the nest, and they
entwine their wing feathers with the
structure.
“Gryllus”: My entry for the neatest
and cleverest nest-builder amongst Aus-
tralian birds is the corn-bird, more tech-
nically golden-headed fantail warbler
(Cisticola exilis). The shy little sprite—
it is no longer than a man’s middle finger
—weaves grass-stems into a graceful oval
house slung low in a bush or under-
growth, ornaments it with cocoons and
spiderweb and lines it cosily with vege-
table down. Then it sews the surround-
ing leaves together with neat, closely-
placed stitches of spiderweb or soft
fibre to shed rain and form a protective
camouflage for the nursery. The stitchery
is far finer and better than that of the
well-advertised Indian tailor-bird, and
the finished job is a miracle of conceal-
ment. Which probably explains why the
tiny creatures have contrived to cover an
area extending from India and Formosa
right down to King Island in Bass Strait.
* * * »
“Billy See”: But would a candle fired
from a muzzle-loader kill a horse (B.
28/5/’41)? When a juvenile I was mixed
with some theatricals, during which a
humorist played the trick of slipping a
couple of inches of candle down on top
of the blank cartridge that was to be
fired at the hero. It certainly knocked
him out, though no wound was inflicted
—only a severe bruise. Actually the
candle shattered with the impact on his
starched shirt.
* * * *
“Sylvaire”: While the emu egg is
under discussion 1 venture an inquiry
regarding a lost art. On Aunt Mary’s
mantelpiece there stood an array, “done”
by some untaught genius on a Riverina
sheep-station. In the centre was a lordly
egg carved with the emu and the ’roo,
symbol of a unitscj Australia when
Federation was still a matter of wishful
thinking. Flanking the centrepiece
stood a cameo of Queen Victoria ; on the
other side one of Prince Albert. Then
came the lion and the unicorn. Then
the American eagle, though the eagle was
a wedgetail. And several more, mostly
pretty ladies. How well the thick shell
lent itself to such carving! What
exquisite tints showed up, and how well
the bluish-green lustre of the outer skin
made a perfect framing! Some even were
mounted with silver, which added to the
effect. Do bushmen carve such things
nowadays, or have they gone the way of
the polished bullocks’ horns, the plover
skins and other objects of bush art which
were the delight of a less-sophisticated
Australia?
* * * *
“K. Ley”: An ingratiating individual
tried to sell me a well-got-up “encyclo-
paedic dictionary” for thirty bob. It
looked worth the money, but was printed
in U.S.A., so I opened it at random and
found, with illustration, “Lyrebird: A
bird found only in South Australia,” etc.
Hurriedly getting a grip on my Vic-
torian pride I handed the thing back and
banged the door.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat and his boss
loaded the waggon with chaff at the
siding in pretty quick time, then downed
a couple of pints and headed for home,
the boss driving the team and Mat lying
on top of the load. Effect of the work,
hot sun and beer on an empty stomach
put Mat into a coma. Presently he
awoke and lay happily, rocked by the
swaying of the wagon and his soft couch.
“Like bein’ in a boat,” he murmured.
Then a goanna that had somehow got
aboard poked its head over a bag and
looked at Mat, who gave a spasmodic
leap and rolled off the load with a yell,
his hat falling off. The boss, dozing on
the front, whoa’d the team and looked
round to see Mat picking his hat out of
the dust. “Gosh, Mat,” he said reproach-
fully, “y’ needn’t risk y’r flamin’ neck like
that. I’d ha’ stopped the team till y’ got
y’r bloomin’ hat.” Mat grinned and
climbed back.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: That yarn of the coves
who hooked a scarecrow in the Murray
(B. 18/6/’4l) was all right except for
the bloke playing a big cod. You don’t
have to play ’em. Once hooked, the cod
is the laziest of all fish. You just pull
’em in and dump ’em without a kick.
Best fighters in the Murray system are
catfish and bream, with perch next and
a well-hooked tortoise somewhere in be-
tween. The cod is a bad last, which is
probably why it appeals to lazy men in
a lazy land of lazy afternoons —which
latter is just the time when cod bite well.
* * * *
“Valak”: That severed snake, the busi-
ness end of which chased “Sailor Bill”
across the Abo. pages (B. 4/6/’4l), must
be one of the lightning moving type
which many have spoken of but no bush-
man has ever seen. Never yet have I seen
a crawler —and it is thus well-named —
go on level ground faster than a man can
kick his hat. Experiments in America a
short time ago showed that no snake in
the U.S.A. can travel at more than four
m.p.h., and that doesn’t mean that any
snake can travel four miles in an hour or
is silly enough to try. No other thing
living can stay put with the enthusiasm
of a snake. I have watched them for
hours, and as an example of still-life they
leave a State politician amongst the
never-rans. It is a safe bet that most
snakes do not travel four m.p.h. in their
lives. My place was once infested with
them. I killed them in the bathroom,
on verandahs and even on the roof, but
I haven’t seen one for years, although my
place is still surrounded with wild bush.
* * * «
“Trevdee”: Our forebears, we know,
were tough ; but if any of them, as sang
A. S. Allison (B. 4/6/’4l),
crossed the Bogong plains on the box of a
Cobb and Co.
then their moleskin-clad sterns must
have been corn-proof to have ridden thus
over a portion of our continent that has
never known a road. Recently the State
Electricity Commission of Victoria built
a road almost to the top of the plains
and thus paved the way for wheeled
vehicles ; but even with petrol-rationing
it is very unlikely that a Cobb and Co.
“Look where you're throwin' them banana-skins , Bert."
conveyance will ever be heard rattling
across these snowgrass uplands.
* * * *
“Arev”: The Skinners were new-
comers - to the Bundoon district. Jim
Skinner had bought a small farm and
was beginning his ploughing when a cold,
contracted when working in the rain, sent
him to bed. The doctor, called in by
Jim’s wife, was cheerful. “He’ll be all
right after a few days’ rest and careful
nursing,” he said. “Keep him warm and
don’t let him get a fresh chill.” The
doctor’s car was scarcely out of sight
when an old, gaunt man with a stooped,
wiry figure knocked on the back door,
stood back modestly, then bowed cere-
moniously to Mrs. Skinner as she
appeared. “Good day, ma’am. And
how is the boss? I heard he was sick.”
Mrs. Skinner told him what the doctor
had said. The old man shook his head.
“It’s sad —sad,” he said. “Oh, he’s really
not very ill,” Mrs. Skinner said. But the
old man didn’t seem impressed with her
cheerful tone. He shuffled off, muttering
something about calling on the morrow.
Jim was in bed for three days, and each
morning the old man came to inquire.
When the doctor made his last visit and
pronounced the patient to be fit for get-
ting up, Mrs. Skinner mentioned the
kindness of the old man who had made
daily visits of inquiry for the invalid.
The doctor laughed. “That’s old George,”
he said. “His hobby is attending funerals.
He’s never missed one in the district for
years and boasts his tally is 99. He’s
cracking his neck to reach the hundred!”
* * * *
“Bamekaw” (Saibui Is.): Am nominat-
ing as the youngest smoker in Australia
a Torres Strait abo. girl. She rolls her
cigarette in newspaper out of the regu-
lation trade tobacco, finely chopped, and
lights it with the ritual firestick, then
squats back in contentment for a quiet
draw. Age? Three years eight months.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Halfway up the track
leading up the gully we paused to look
back through a beautiful belt of black-
butt. From their dark bases in the scrub
gleaming trunks shot straight for the sun-
light, ending in clean, silvery branches
where currawongs and crimson parrots
drifted about in a world apart. You
would have taken any half-dozen at ran-
dom for stringers or gravel-beams —then
without warning an unmistakable crack
startled the gully, two more followed
sharply, then the eerie crescendo of top-
most limbs falling over, over, over, till
with a wild hopeless whine they heralded
the crash of scrub and sapling and
hindering boughs, and the final rever-
berating thump of a tall tree thundering
to earth. Leaves were still drifting down
when we reached the severed stump. It
was an old story. Owing to some early
distortion or injury part of the bole was
dead wood, and through this the termites
had entered. The scar was not a large
one ; in a quaint way it had added to the
charm of the tree’s appearance ; but it
was the source of a white-anting process
which had eaten deeper each year until,
for all its outward semblance of
grandeur, that trunk had been held up
at last by a few inches of sound sap-
wood, and only then because of the per-
fect perpendicular established in its
earliest years. When it fell no gale was
buffeting its branches, no flood under-
mining its roots ; the destruction was
worked entirely from within. Nations,
take note!
“Sou-west”: While I leave “Gravel-
snatcher” (B. 28/ 5/’4l) to his belief in
water-diviners and their professed ability
to be able to differentiate between under-
ground salt water and fresh, I must point
out that he does his western State wrong
by speaking of “country which is natu-
rally salty.” Not long ago a W.A. science
bureau went to great pains to prove that,
with the possible exception of the Kal-
goorlie area, W.A. has no such thing as
naturally salty country. Such country
would be where huge deposits of rock
salt existed, forming strata capable of
containing any rainfall, no matter how
large. Actually the salinity of W.A. is
superficial, being merely salt borne in-
land by the winds from the sea. The fine
spume thus thrown up into the hot sun-
shine evaporates almost instantly, leaving
its saline content suspended as fine dust,
to be carried inland by the prevalent
south and westerly winds. All over the
inland it is deposited, but only becomes
noticeable on areas of limited rainfall.
Given abundant rain, such as falls on the
western slopes of the Darling Range, and
particularly round Pinjarrah, this wind-
deposited salt is carried into the rivers
and thence to the sea. As for the water
stored in the underlying porous rock over
hundreds of square miles —well, I tap
that at Mandurah, on its western rim and
within a quarter-mile of the sea, and lift
water of such excellence that, if I had
the cash and the instinct, I would bottle
it off and sell it as spa.
OVERTURE.
How dark it is! The stars are frightened
children
Lost in the haunted forest of the sky—
Babes of the wood too sick of heart to cry.
Out of the darkness comes an eerie rattle.
It is the wind among the dead ti-tree. The
cattle
Are drowned m stagnant pools of shadow, black
As boles and stumps where fires have redly
raged;
And in the gloom the trees move forth and
back,
Straining against the dark, like creatures
caged.
The grasses rasp each other till the brittle
Blades are cicadas, singing in the night;
The hills are black hogs sleeping where the little
Glow of the stars lies cold and feather-light;
There is a pungent smell of dew on leaves
That pile where the impatient gums have shed
Their sweet bark-harvest in crisp scattered
sheaves
That crack like glass beneath the cattle’s
tread.
But now the night has changed. I turn to find
The dusky east has rolled up a blue blind;
Each tree leaps laughing from its ebon prison—
The moon has risen!
TASMANIA.
GLENARVON.


“Surfboat Bill”: “A mob of us,” said
Joe the bowhand, “gets into the tub one
day an’ go out off the reef to hook a
few tailer. Soon we’re haulin’ ’em in
like mad; the sun’s blazin’ away an’
everythin’ in the garden’s snifter. In no
time we’ve got fish of all sorts flappin’
around the bottom of the boat. Then
young Bill pulls in the queerest I’ve ever
seen. It’s just like a half-pint edition
of one of them swordfish, but his sword’s
all twisted and curly. The little feller’s
got a sad kind o’ look in his eye, so 1
tell young Bill t’ let him go. The mob
won’t hear of it, and Bill slings him down
in some water in the stern. I see that
fish keep eyein’ Bill and the mob over
in a nasty sort of way.. After a while
we ups the concrete block we’re usin’
fer an anchor and stroke fer the beach.
The surf’s come up a bit, so we have t’
watch what we’re doin’ with the big load
in the tub. Just then old Sam lets out
a yell like a sunstruck galah. ‘ ’Struth! ’
he sings out, ‘the blanky plug’s gone!’
The briny’s swillin’ round, an’ there’s fish
swimmin’ all over the shop an’ diggin’
their fins inter our feet. We go for a
decent shoot t’ try and get in before
the boat swamps, but the water rushes
t’ the bow and she’s over in a sec. We
get clear uv her and dive deep. Y’ know,
as true as I’m sittin’ on this reel, I see
that funny fish with the corkscrew beak
swimmin’ away fer his life with a sneer
on his dial and the damn’ plug stuck on
the end uv his snout!”
si: * * *
“Blue”: Those queer coves who
wander about catching live snakes would
find it profitable to follow a bullocky
when he’s delving a bore-drain. As the
bullocks drag the prow-shaped delver
along the drain the water cascades out
in all directions, and it’s not unusual to
wash out three or four snakes in a day.
Which is one reason why the bullocky
speaks so highly of a good pair of mole-
skins.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: That illuminated lure
for night-angling (B. 14/5/’4l) has been
used for centuries in Japan to catch
squid, a favorite item of Nipponese diet.
The light is provided by a glass tube
containing a powder made from calcined
oyster shells. If exposed to the sun
through the day it gives off a soft light
for many hours. Fastened to a jig, it is
towed behind a boat at night where
squid are on the feed. As for the ques-
tion of whether or not fish are attracted
by light, anyone who has ever taken a
hand in collecting a haul of mullet by
the simple process of pulling through the
“With lamb the price it is We've got to eat something."
migrating shoal with a lantern on a short
pole stepped in a thwart and a strip of
white canvas rigged below it will answer
it in one. The trout-poaching dodge of
sinking an electric torch in a pickle-bottle
alongside the bait is another practical
demonstration. So is the old windjammer
trick of a lantern on a stay to attract
flying-fish. Chased or not. many more
come aboard with the lantern than with-
out, as the ship’s cat soon learns.
jk * * *
“Bohemian”: Maoriland seems to
specialise in the capture of freak whales.
Latest was a ten-footer stranded on the
coast of Canterbury, an excellent
type of a rare dwarf species which in-
habits the Antarctic. The specimen’s
skeleton will adorn the Canterbury
Museum. Thirty years ago (on the oppo-
site coast, South Westland) was stranded
the largest whale known to science. Its
skeleton —195 ft. long—also went into the
Canterbury Museum.
♦ * * *
“Nor’-west”: “Dickie Beech” (B.
28/5/’4l) is right in blaming our erratic
fish nomenclature for my confusion
regarding the Burnett River lungfish
and what he calls a “mudskipper,”
but what we customarily call the
Kimberley lungfish. Still, I think our
little joker has the better right to the
name, for, although he may not actually
have lungs, he seems to be the link that
bridges the gap between the fish and the
reptile. For he does come out of the
water and walk, which seems to be more
than the bulky denizen of the Queens-
land rivers is capable of doing.
* * * *
“Atrax”: A visiting scientist now
working on the stone-implement culture
of Australian abos. has suggested that
they anticipated from early prehistoric
days the modern use of plastics. Binghi’s
plastic was —and is—gum, softened by
heat to fasten handles to stone imple-
ments, cutting-flakes to the edges of
wooden knives, or heads to wooden
spear shafts. On cooling it becomes
almost metal-hard, but can be readily
softened by heating for readjustment or
repair. Its principal sources in Queens-
land are from grass-trees, spinifex, beef-
wood and Mackay cedar, and long prac-
tice had given its users a thorough know-
ledge of the special properties and uses
of each kind. All types of technique
used by prehistoric people elsewhere,
from Ceylon to South America, in mak-
ing stone implements are represented in
those of Australia, and this is the only
place in the world where the industry
can still be seen in actual operation.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Many a toiler who has
got his first cane-cutting job under the
rearrangement for eliminating enemy
aliens from N.Q. gangs will wonder for
a while what he has taken on. Raw
hands they literally will be, arms and
faces, too, until the trick of dodging the
saw-edged trash is learned. The canes
hold the heat like boiler tubes, the leaf-
age keeps out any breeze and mosquitoes
develop maximum appetites and activity
in the calm, hot atmosphere where cut-
ting is done. Until the machine-like
swing is acquired backs will ache and
stiffen, and wrists swell and grow sore
under the weight and strain of the cane-
knife’s constant slashing and hooking-
out. The pay is good, but every penny
of it is earned in sweat and effort. But
if the tyro has a good mate or two to
carry him along at first, experience soon
comes, and with it the comforting realisa-
tion that if he sticks it for the first season
preference is assured for all future ones.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”; About the biggest curse
of northern Australia is the mosquito.
All kinds, from tiny little hummers with
a lance like liquid fire to other fellows
nearly an inch long. From every swamp
and lagoon they rise ; and woe to the
wayfarer who is without a mosquito net.
The abo., despite his tough hide and a
million years’ acquaintance with the pest,
“HALT! Take three paces forward and be identified."
is not immune. In fact, the mossies seem
rather to like him. Yet the abo. in his
practical way has his own method of
securing a night’s sleep. From the swamp
that breeds his tormentors he lifts black,
greasy mud, and plasters himself from
crown to heel, then lies safely down to
rest. Presently the mud takes on a plas-
ticity almost rubberlike, utterly defeating
the thousands of demon proboscises that
hover round like fiery swords. Morning,
and the mud cracks off. But long before
then the hordes have retired. Relieved
of his armor of mud, Binghi feels just as
if he had taken a bath, which, perhaps,
is one of the advantages of nudity.
* * * *
“Bughouse”; One of the mysteries of
life and growth is how a plant or a tree
can bring into being, with access to no
more than sunlight, air and soil, the most
complex substances —oils, resins, gums,
turpentines, eucalyptus and potent drugs,
not to mention substances capable of be-
ing brewed into stimulating drinks, tea,
coffee, cocoa. The alchemy by which all
these processes are carried through is
beyond the wit of man, although he can
in a number of cases imitate such pro-
cesses by methods he calls synthetic.
Lowly forms of animal life work in a
similar way. The blood of the cochineal
insect becomes a brilliant red dye. Fluid
given by a certain shellfish once dyed
purple the robes of Roman emperors. In
moist climates the lowly earthworm
performs a wonderful service for vege-
table life and also for agriculture, aerating
the soil, also enriching it by the constant
passing of earth through its alimentary
canal. A similar service is performed by
the white-ant of the tropics and sub-
tropics. Analysis of soils made in W.A.
reveals that the termite quite consider-
ably increases the supply of phosphoric
acid, potash, lime and nitrogen. Dining
on cellulose in the form of wood, grass
and vegetable fibre, the termite some-
how manages to conjure up the fore-
mentioned valuable substances, incor-
porating them into the soil of its nest,
which is thus of much higher fertiliser
value than the surrounding soil.
* * * *
“Aratta”: “I’m in the stable one
mornin’ gettin’ ready t’ start the day’s
work,” said Bogan Bob, “when I hears
the boss outside talkin’ t’ some bloke.
‘YTe after a job, eh?’ asks the boss. ‘Yairs,
replies the chap. ‘Can y’ plough?’ ‘Yairs.’
‘An’ milk?’ ‘Yairs.’ ‘Well, I might do
with another hand,’ ses the boss. ‘Would
a quid a week an’ keep do y’?’ ‘Yairs.’
‘Not sacked from y’r last job, I hope.’
‘No.’ ‘That’s good. A sacked bloke
ain’t much good usually, I’ve found.’
‘No.’ ‘S’pose y’ve come a good way?’
‘Yairs.’ ‘Well, all right. I think I can
fix y’ up with a job, an’ I think y’ll
suit me. I like a bloke what gives y
a plain yes or no t’ questions without
no frills like some blokes I’ve met. Y’ll
be ready t’ start after y’ve had a feed,
I s’pose?’ ‘Yairs,’ ses the bloke. ‘Good.
Wait here till I come back.’ Then the
boss comes inter the stable ses
me, ‘Nearly ready t’ start work?’ ‘Yairs,’
I ses. ‘Give each of them horses a good
groomin’?’ ‘Yairs.’ ‘An’ filled their
nosebags?’ ‘Yairs.’ ‘Put plenty of oats
in?’ ‘Yairs.’ He looks at me, suspicious-
like, an’ bellers, ‘Blarst it, can’t y’ say
anythin’ but “Yairs”?’ ”
THE LAZY MAN’S LIFE.
“Rabbit trapping better than work.”
—Sydney papier,
I s’pose it’s all a matter, so to speak,
Of wot a man’s brought up to. Pickin’ peas,
Daggin’ or clearin’, fossickin’ a creek,
Drivin’ a tractor, keepin’ fowls or bees—
No good to me! Me father was the same.
He bred me to a softer, lazier lurk,
The guvnor, an’ I’m thankful it’s me game;
For rabbit-trappin’s better far than work.
O’ course, I got to get around me traps,
Whether it’s freezin’ hard or blazin’ hot.
An’ though I ain’t got time for many naps.
In sixteen hours or so I do the lot.
When cottontails are scarce, a man' can lay
His traps and papers, clear ’em out an’ jerk
Their coats orf in eleven hours a day!
Still, rabbit-trappin’ saves me doin’ work.
The more I think o’ city rats an’ swabs,
Pore, heavy-laden wage-plugs, spendin’ half
The daylight hours a-muckin’ round in jobs
For union pay, the more I want to laugh.
You never catch me lumpin’ sixty traps
At once—no, never; graft I always shirk.
I’m one o’ them there take-it-easy chaps
Who know that trappin’ saves y’ doin’ work I
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE..
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Consult
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
Security
Economy
Service
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman);
(Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; A.
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J.
Colin A. Sinclair
E. Heath, C.M.G. ;
G. H, Shipway.
ESTABLISHED 1834. ,
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITA!, PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE PUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITA!, 4,739,013 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman):
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K..C.M.G.
General Manager; C. DarvalL
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M 4383.
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
86371.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of Australasia
Writ-
Oct., Profit. Dividends, ten Off. Reserves.
£ £ £
1930. . 615,084 13 p.c. = 585,000 4,667,027
Hidden reserves disclosed, £85,000.. 4,752,027
1931.. 217,536 9 p.c. = 343,500* 4,626,063
1932.. 254,970 7 „ ~236,250* 4,644,783
1933.. 258,508 74 „ ~253,125* 4,650,166
Inner reserves disclosed, £106,000.. 4,756,166
1934.- 265,087 94f p.c.=331,313* 4,689,940
Centenary bonus to staff, £36,250.. 4,653,690
1935.. 273,857 7f p.c.= 270,281* 4,657,206
1936.. 300,962 8 „ „ 289,898* 4,668,330
1937.. 309,501 8 „ „ 297,000* 4,080,831
1938.. 310,049' 8 ~ „ 288,000* 4,702,880
1939.. 292,023 8 ~ ~282,797* 4,712,106
From inner reserves, £25,004).. 4,737,106
1940. . 266J.06 8 p.c. = 261,000* 4,742,212
*After deducting tax.
flncludes 2 p.c. centenary bonus.
Latest accounts of this solid, 106-year-old
Anglo-Australian institution reflect initial
changes in the banking structure which
war has brought about. All but a frac-
tion of the co.’s business is done in Aus-
tralasia, where about 43 p.c. of its de-
posits are gathered in Victoria, 23 p.c.
in N. S. Wales, 17 p.c. in Maoriland,
and the balance in the four other Aus-
tralian States.
The changes in the banking structure
just referred to have their roots in the
development of our war effort, which is
concerned with the direction of men,
materials and money into desired chan-
nels by Government control of one kind
and another. Thus far the lag has been
in production of essential war goods, for
which Army administration must take
part of the blame. However, there is now
evidence that outputs of the right kind
are gathering momentum, though a lot
yet remains to be done before we are
independent of outside help, and early
independence is essential to national
security.
Money and credit play an important
part in the war effort because they pro-
vide the means of paying for the materials
and services required. In this respect
the banks are in an excellent position
to assist. British purchase of our surplus
exports at very satisfactory prices, Gov-
ernment spending on war account, and
credit expansion by the central bank have
bumped up trading-bank deposits and
reduced the demand for advances. The
weight of money has pressed down the
rate of interest, enabling Australia to
finance its war commitments at low cost
and at the same time make possible heavy
taxation and loan-raising without ham-
stringing industrial and other production,
all of which is as it should be. Never-
theless, the fact must be faced that
economic and other changes still taking
place will call for all-round sacrifices, in-
cluding some recession in the standard
of living.
Now consider the ’Asia’s balance-sheet
figures:
Liabilities.
, T . 1 9 38. 1939. 1940.
Notes .. .. £2745 £2,732 £2,722
Bills, etc. . . 5,568,657 5,711,816 5,243,529
Fixed deposits . .24.574,637 24,785,903 24,021 304
tree deposits ..14,989,103 16,135,624 20,437^34
Liquid assets ..14,040,448 16,228,593 20,244,046
Bills, etc. . . 2,673,088 2,466,733 2,240 953
Advances ..37,047,137 36,534,456 35,798 921
Premises. . . . 739,349 770,275 809,794
Last year a contraction of £764,599 m
fixed deposits (rates paid for this class
of deposit were reduced) was accom-
panied by an expansion of £4,301,510 in
current accounts, a growth of £4,015,453
in liquids, and a shrinkage of £735,535
in advances. Chief movements in liquids
were a lift of £2,546,698 in cash, etc.
(£7,226,011), and of £1,386,745 in Aus-
tralian and Maoriland Government secu-
rities (£10,822,968). When the books
closed liquids amounted to 40.7 p.c. of
the liabilities to the public, and advances
were equal to 80.5 p.c. of deposits as
against 93.6 p.c. two years earlier. And
the bank was holding £5 7s. 7d. of the
public’s money for every pound of its
own. It is a very strong position, and
the co. is obviously well equipped to
further assist both clients and the Gov-
ernment,
After making allowances considered
necessary for contingencies, last term’s
gross earnings (£1,500,397) were only £57
less than the previous year’s. A tight
hold was kept upon general exes.
(£773,236, down £9972), but the tax bill
(£461,054) was £35,832 heavier. The net
result was thus £25,917 lighter at 5.9 p.c.
on the £4,500,000 of capital, or a mere
2.8 p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined).
The amount paid in dividend tax last
year was £99,000 (up £21,800), equal to
ss. 6d. in the pound. After allowing for
exchange at the current rate, that makes
an 8 p.c. div. in sterling worth 1\ p.c.
in Australian currency, or a trifle more
if certain tax rebates are taken into
account. At £8 Bs. the £lO shares paid
to £5 —the other £5 is a reserve liability
callable only in the event of liquidation
—return 4.3 p.c. in Australian currency
on an 8 p.c. div. basis, with taxation and
exchange as stated.
Ballarat Brewing Co., Ltd.
_ t To Re— Re—
May, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1936.. 38,048 11} p.c. = 19,516 18,532 141,172
Share premiums, £65,000 . . . . 206,172
1937.. 38,553 124 p.c. = 29,318 9,235 ] 9 ,, , or
Brokerage, etc., written off, £3911 j ZAi,49D
1938.. 42,498 124 p.c. = 31,249 11,249 222,745
V Pref. Ord. Total.
1939.. 46,008 6 p.c. 124 p.c. 33,750 12.258 235,003
1940.. 40,683 6 „ 11-J „ 35,625 5,058 240,061
1941.. 34,502 6 „ 10 ~ 32,500 2,002 242,063
Results in the last two years are rather
out of step with those disclosed by city
brewers and the vigorous expansion since
the public came in in late 1936. That
is largely because trade from the co.’s
Ballarat brewery, though partly in Mel-
bourne, is spread mainly throughout
western Victoria, the N.S.W. Riverina
and Mt. Gambier (S.A.), where drought,
enlistments and migrations to well-paid
city jobs have been no help in meeting
the voracious appetite of the taxgatherer
and mounting costs.
Last year “substantial” Government
orders for overseas canteens helped, and
gross earnings (£142,821) improved
£5345 earnings from the trade
(£101,583) actually shot up £9600, but
returns from rents, etc. (£41,238), shrank
£4255. Outgoings, however (£108,319,
including £7BBO openly struck off for
depreciation), ran off with all the higher
gross and £6lBl besides. That was after
meeting the previous year’s tax bill, which
exceeded expectations by £4500, and in-
creasing the provision for the next when
it comes along by another £4500 to
£17,500.
After handing the prefs. their 6 p.c.,
the £34,502 called profit represented 10.8
p.c. on the £250,000 of ord. capital, as
against 13.2, 17.4, 17 and 16.4 p.c. back
to the commencement of the co.’s public
history. Another \\ p.c. was chipped off
the div., reducing it to 10 p.c. It left
£2002 to benefit the visible lay-by, now
£242,063, apart from which there is sub-
stantial inner strength. At the end of
May, 1936, brewery, hotels and other
fixed assets independently valued at
£545,200 had been taken into the books
at £306,100.
Rebuilding of the Criterion Hotel,
Ballarat, and the Geelong bulk store were
completed last term ; otherwise there was
a halt to the policy of property acquisi-
tion which added £322,083 (found mostly
by shareholders) to the book value of
fixed assets in the four preceding years:
1936. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £184,625 £250,000 £375,000 £375,000
Mortgages .. 1,500 38,500 125,000 120,500
Overdraft . . 80,138 60,175 38,326 44,910
Sundry creditors 6,766 13,107 8,140 11,341
Brewery, hotels,
etc. .. 259,133' 425,652 563,216 564,194
Plant, etc. . . 47,000 49,500 65,000 65,000
Stock . . 23,130 24,872 31,348 36,001
Advances . . 83,419 111,412 148,399 149,743
Shares other cos. 353 353 346 346
Cash, etc. . . 12,670 5,904 10,593 11,620
Despite last year’s outlay, fixed assets
recorded little net change. Neither did
the more or less liquid surplus (£21,619).
Notwithstanding the div. reduction, the
pound shares still fetch 40s. 6d., the figure
of a year ago, to return 4.9 p.c., as
against Carlton’s 5 p.c. It suggests that
the margin between earnings and dis-
tributions, which may not be so slender
as it looks either, is expected to widen
in the current term. The prefs. at 255.
yield 5 p.c. The book value of the net
tangible cover is 395. 4d. ords., £4 18s. 9d.
prefs.
Electricity Meter and Allied Industries
—Divs. Nominal
Net Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. 5 p.c. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1936.. 31,626 1500 23.514 ] „ aQ , on 9 , H
Preliminaiy exes., etc., £2717 j 9
1937.. 64,436 6000 23,542 / on qqk ini oqq
Share exes . . . . £3899 j d0 ’ 995 1-1.433
Written off goodwill, £59,387 .. .. 61,846
6 p.c.
1938.. 75,212 6000 28,273 40,939 102,785
74 p.c.
1939.. 74,557 6000 35,341 33,216 136,001
Share premiums, £36,298 .. .. 172,299
Accumulated losses new subsidiaries,
£54.527 117,772
1940.. 68,660 6000 46,411 16,249 134,021
* Subject to goodwill ( £164,387 to commence, now
£108,000).
Outstanding features last year were the
widening and consolidating of the co.’s
activities and interests. Formed in 1934,
the co. fused the interests of Electricity
Meter Manufacturing Co. and New Sys-
tem Telephones, two Sydney concerns
with London affiliations. The public be-
came interested a couple of years later,
when 100,000 6 p.c. cum. prefs. and 75,344
new ords. were marketed, and both lots
of scrip were listed.
In March, 1940, Australian interests
bought out English holdings aggregating
355,072 ords. at 245. 6d. per share (Aust.
currency). The English cos. exercised an
option over another 25,000 at par just be-
fore the deal. Then the business of West-
inghouse Rosebery (capital £206,500, of
which £31,800 carried 7 p.c.) was taken
over for 128,340 f.-p. ords. and appar-
ently £2400 in cash. Later the
Electrical Engineering and Construction
Co; (capital £19,537 —13,192 prefs. and
6345 ords.) was welded into the organ-
isation at a cost of £14,344, also in f.-p.
ords.
All this lifted E.M. and A.i.’s paid
capital to £738,902 in 100,000 6 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 638,902 ords., and led to
appearance of £36,298 of share premiums
in the holding cos.’ accounts. The figure
at • which shares in subsidiaries appear
(£576,318, up £181,382) is only slightly
below the net tangible value of the shares
in the combined accounts of the pups, so
the holding co. is carrying no deadwood
here.
As for earning capacity, for the year
to April 30, 1939, Westinghouse Rose-
bery registered a loss of £28,567. For
the last 12 months a small profit was
claimed, and the co. has now definitely
turned the corner, the chairman says.
The co. has a modern plant designed to
turn out, under American license, West-
inghouse refrigerators, switchgear, radio,
household appliances and other electrical
products.
The Electrical Engineering and Con-
struction Co., which has been rechrist-
ened Eicon Pty., is situated in Melbourne,
and is mainly engaged in manufacture of
electric fans. Nothing is said of its past
or present earning capacity. On the
purchase, the aggregate accumulated
losses of the two new subsidiaries was
£54,527, which was written off from the
accumulated profits of the other two
operating concerns. The aggregate good-
will item (now £108,000) increased by
£3OOO.
Whatever the operating cos. missed on
the commercial swings was picked up on
the defence roundabouts last term. After
providing an extra £18,877 for taxation
(£61,247), the net earnings of the group
were £5897 lighter at £68,660, or enough
to pay the pref. div. and show 9.8 p.c.
on the £638,902 of ord. capital. The div.
was kept at 1\ p.c., and the £16,249 that
remained lifted nominal reserves to
£134,021, subject to the amount of good-
will referred to.
Here are combined balance-sheet
figures for the group:
1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital* .. . . £571,218 £571,218 ££738,902
Outside interestsf . . 11,084 12,987 15,174
Excess of par value *of
shares over cost . . 44,563
Sundry creditors! . . 113,201 144,736 284,835
Freeholds, plant, etc. . . 173,512 325.130
Stocks 246.089' 231,364 471,898
Debtors’ balances, etc. 224,868 268.167 331,979
Cash and deposits . . 77,599 110,007 26,898
Excess of cost over par
value of shares . . 92 92
* Owned by holding co. f Including proportion
reserves. § Including tax provision, etc.
The figures reflect the year’s reaching-
out. Notwithstanding a lift of £140,099 in
the amount coming to sundry creditors
(mainly on account of provision for taxa-
tion included therein), the more, or
less liquid surplus (£530,766) improved
£78,951.
As for the outlook, the chairman says,
“Before long we may find the whole of
our manufacturing capacity given over to
defence work. Should this eventuate....
the reduced rate of profit on defence
work will not be sufficient to maintain
our present level of profits.”
The ords. sell at 265. 6d. to return 5.7
p.c. on the basis of last year’s distribu-
tion. The prefs. yield 4.9 p.c. at 245. 3d.
The net tangible backing is 225. 2d. ords.,
£8 Is. lOd. prefs.
Fairymead 3ugar Co. (Q.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930 . . 45,445 8 p.c. = 21,200 24,245 210,007
1931 . . 48,469 8 „ „ 21,200 27,269 237,276
1932 .. 3u,344 8 „ „ 21,200 9,144 246,420
1933 .. 45,807 10 „ „ 26,500 19,307 265,727
1934 . . 35,921 10 „ „ 26,500 9,421 275,148
Drop in replacement reserve, £16,245.. 258,903
1935 . . 29,857 10 p.c. = 26,500 3,357 262,260
From inner reserves, £40,500 .. 302,760
Reserves capitalised, £132,500 . . 170,260
1936 .. 42,079 8 p.c. = 39,400 2,679 172,939
Insurance reserve, £913 . . . . 173,852
Added replacement reserve, £11,897.. 185,749
1937 . . 47,185 9 p.c. = 44.325 2,860 188,609
Added replacement reserve, £12,582.. 201,191
1938 .. 49,812 10 p.c. = 49,250 562 201,753
Added replacement reserve, £18,960. . 220,713
1939 . . 53,577 10 p.c. = 49,250 4327 225,040
Added replacement reserve, £1547.. 226,587
1940 . . 49,443 10 p.c. = 49,250 193 226,780
The sugar mill and plantations, out of
which shareholders have done very well,
are at Bundaberg (Q.). The co. is also
interested in copra, having bought plan-
tations in the British Solomons from the
Young family for £95,000 (in scrip) in
1936. Returns from each source aren’t
separated in the published accounts, but
appearances are that copra hasn’t con-
tributed much to the pool, and isn’t likely
to until after the war. Last year copra
prices remained low and sales difficult.
On the sugar side, shareholders can
thank the Commonwealth and British
Governments for the satisfactory results
obtained. The home-consumption price
is fixed by agreement between the Federal
and Queensland Governments, while
Britain agreed, under stress of war
circumstances, to take. our exportable
sugar surplus at a handsome figure. Chief
factor influencing last year’s returns were,
therefore, costs and seasonal conditions,
which affect both the quantity and quality
of cane.
Costs, especially taxation, continued
on the up-grade, while less-favorable


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
w
£
's
Established 1808 in Beign of George HI.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensla: d Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
PATENTS. —Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* ♦ * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. \V. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * » *
DAVIES &• COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
'THAT
m
the
A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
Service to those who wish to travel
Those who, whether for pleasure or for business reasons, have to travel
overseas often find it necessary to appoint an attorney either to carry on their
business and otherwise supervise their affairs during their absence or to take
over trusts which they are under an obligation to perform. By appointment of
Burns Philp Trust Company Limited as your attorneys and agents you become
relieved of worry and responsibility whilst travelling. To those who, for health
and other reasons, wish to be relieved of the anxiety of looking after their
affairs, a similar opportunity occurs to appoint the Company their agents. A
free booklet describing this and other services of the Company can be secured
on application to the Head Office, or to any Branch of Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
or Burns Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY. LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
•Phone : B 7901 Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney
What the Society offers
IS protection
'T’HROUGH membership in the A.M.P. Society you can arrange
for an income for your wife and children if you should die
too soon, and for yourself if you should reach old age.
The Society has many different kinds of policies, because
men and women have so many different needs, but all its policies
spell protection,
. When you strengthen yourself and family with A.M.P.
policies, you strengthen the nation, for a great part of the
Society’s funds is loaned to the nation to meet its responsibilities.
Since the outbreak of the present War the Society has put
£6,500,000 into Commonwealth Loans. Always the Society’s
thought is protection.
Will you let the Society protect you?
Ask that a representative be sent to discuss how best it can
be done. If you prefer, ask that a copy of a booklet, “Peace of
Mind,” be posted to you. You incur no obligation by asking for
it, yet it may help you to enrich your whole life. Ask for it to-day.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir SAMUEL HORDERN, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., A. E. WEBB,
General Manager and Actuary. Manager for New South
Head Office: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
District Offices throughout all States.
Branch Offices at Melbourne. Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
weather reduced the output of raws below
the previous year’s record level. Crush-
ing performances and the price received
compare this way;
1937. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Cane tons .. 120.495 139,748 231,981 213,489
Raws, tons .. 15,381 17,392 29,973 27,804
Price, ton (94 n.t.) —
No. 1 pool £l7/11/- £l6/19/1 £l6/19/7 £l7/11/9
No. 2 pool* 7/8/6 7/6/10 9/8/4 10/6/o
* For sugar in excess of mill peak (now
21,000 tons).
After an unspecified allowance for
taxation, the slip in declared net earnings
(£49,443) was £4134. But only £1547 net
was added to the replacement reserve as
against £18,960 for the previous term. The
div. was kept at 10 p.c., and it took all
but £193 of the declared profit. For this
and other reasons, including the likely
demands of the taxgatherer and shipping
difficulties, on which British and other
shipments depend, and the long-term prob-
lem of overproduction, the 10 p.c. dis-
tribution cannot be looked on as secure—
indeed, nothing can be so regarded these
days. Still, good seasonal prospects and
the Government’s decision to buy the
peak crop make the outlook for the
current term encouraging.
The market expresses its opinion by
pricing the f.-p. pound shares at 325. as
against 345. a year ago. The return at
325. is 6.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis, or
5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. distribution. How-
ever, the one-for-two bonus-scrip issue of
four years ago would make 8 p.c. worth
12 p.c. on capital as before the gift.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1935. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £265,000 £492,500 £492,500 £492,500
Liabilities* .. 59,034 84,484 154,151 188,515
Estates . . 224,014 330,681 334,082 333,659
Factories, etc. 180,6681
Railways, etc. 55,832 ) 360,124 381,878 423,829
Plant, etc. .. 55,214 J
Stocks, etc. . . 7,045 45,648 182,642 176,506
Book debts . . 73,251 85,066 14,173 15,085
Cash, etc. . . 10,769 6,468 7,560 7,966
* Including provision for taxation.
Outstanding features last term were the
addition of £41,951 to plant of one kind
and another —it looks like a determined
assault upon costs —and the growth of
£34,364 in liabilities, which include an
unspecified amount for taxation. The
contraction in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£11,042) was £39,188.
A recent official report throws some
light on the new high-grade oil-shale dis-
covery in the Drummond Range (C.Q.).
Two prospecting shafts have been sunk
through the seam, in addition to many
hand drillholes, and show it to be 6ft.
thick with a middle section of 2ft. of
80gal. to 90gal. grade. The top and
bottom sections are low-grade coals with
yields up to 20gal. crude oil. Favorable
features are the flatness and persistence
of the seam over a considerable surround-
ing area, without evidence of any undue
disturbance. The syndicate is endeavor-
ing to raise further capital to prospect
this shallow area in the hope of the high-
grade section increasing in thickness.
This is possible, of course, but in any
case the 6ft. so far disclosed averages
around 40gal. per ton for the full height
and compares with Scotch-worked shale
seams of around 20gal.
Preliminary steps are being taken to
dewater and examine the workings of
the Great Fitzroy coppermine, near
Rockhampton (C.Q.). Outside Mt. Lyell
and Mt. Morgan, this mine appears one
of the best bets for speeding up Aus-
tralia’s present inadequate copper pro-
duction. Estimates range from 400,000
to 750,000 tons of low-grade copper-
gold ore, adapted to flotation. On the
plans available, there looks to be little
doubt about those figures.
* * * *
War has brought greater exploitation
of the N.T.’s mineral resources, produc-
tion for the year to June 30, 1940, being
worth £309,590 (up £107,000), bringing
the total to that date to £4,660,000. Prin-
cipal contributors last year were:
, 1938-39 , , 1939—40 ,
Output. Value. Output. Value.
Gold, oz. .. 12,681 £115,835 22,367 £233,789
Wolfram, ton* 369 66,525 275 47,837
Mica, ton .. 32 12,124 35 21,113
Tin, tonf . . 26 4,220 26 4,208
*64 p:.e. concentrates, t7O p.c. concentrates.
Sharp increase in gold production reflects
a higher price for the metal and pushing
up of Tennant output from 12,0590 z. to
21,2610 z.; The Granites and Tanami
contributed only 6140 z, Provision of a
new Government battery, passing of the
development stage by many producers
and the application of more scientific
and improved methods —the Eldorado,
for example, has lately put in a new mill
and completely electrified its mine—
should continue to boost Tennant outturn
while E. G. Banks, of Golden Plateau
(Q.), has been busy prospecting at Mt.
Todd and elsewhere, and Grove Hill is
to be scoutbored with a view to dredging.
Wolfram, won from Wauchope and
Hatches Creek, south of the Tennant,
showed another fall from peak 1938 pro-
duction of 438 tons concentrates, though
fixation of the price to return the miner
58s. a unit may now stabilise production.
Output of mica, that essential of the elec-
trical trades, from Hart’s Range reached
record value, but tin (mostly from Mar-
anboy) remains in a subordinate posi-
tion. So does copper; prospects of the
Redbank deposits at Wollogorang don’t
appear sufficient to outweigh the dis-
abilities of their ’ocation.
* * * *
Norseman G.M. (W.A.) is stiu suffer-
ing from past short-sighted policy of
sending high-grade ore to the mill in
order “to pay maximum dividends” —
they prompted investors to offer high
prices for the scrip which cut out
altogether last June. Because “it is not
yet practicable to mine a large amount
of high-grade ore in the upper levels,”
grade of mill-feed averaged 3.7ldwt. for
the first half of the current term, com-
pared with the ore-reserve estimate of
4.6dwt. From 60,843 tons of this Norse-
man ore and 31,646 tons of 2dwt. Iron
King ironstone revenue for the period
was £142,098 and working surplus
£37,931 ; that was before charging de-
velopment (£12,399), bulk of which ex-
pense is usually chalked up against share
premiums—debits to this account in six
years have amounted to no less than
£115,100. It is a policy which gives a
hazy view of profits. To have
charged the whole of this outgo against
income in the year in which it had
occurred would no doubt have been to
understate results, as some part of de-
velopment benefits the future ; but to err
on the conservative side is no fault in a
mining proposition. Indebtedness has
been reduced from £55,144 to around
£20,000 since the end of October, and
the ore position looks to be improving.
The south end of No. 8 level is said to
have been opened up for 400 ft, on lOdwt.
ore, stoping width 6ft., and what looks
like the continuation of Central Norse-
man’s Mararoa shoot has been dug up
in the bottom levels. Iron King “has
never been in better shape.” A denial is
given to a mines inspector’s report that
ore pillars left in place to support the
Norseman hanging wall of the main shaft
and the main levels were being mined out
—“the mine is being worked systemati-
cally and safely in accordance with
orthodox mining practice.”
* * * *
Westralian Minister for Mines Panton
estimates that ore reserves in Kalgoorlie
goldmines increased from 7,031,000 to
10,773,000 tons between 1938 and 1940.
Though 4,567,000 tons was mined and
treated during the period, new ore de-
veloped came to 8,309,000 tons.
* * * *
The long-idle Whim Well coppermine,
near Roebourne, on Westralia’s nor’-
west coast, has been nibbled at on behalf
of Claude de Bernales. Between 1906
and 1923 about three-quarters of a mil-
lion pounds’ worth of metal was extracted
from the property. Then a fall in prices
caused a suspension of operations.
* * * *
Freney Kimberley Co. (W.A.) has a
bore down to nearly 4000 ft. Though it
has not yet struck oil, it still has hopes.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Y.0.M.: Don’t care to prophesy as to what
the £ Australian will be worth after the war,
but if the Federal Government continues its
policy of paying for war expenditure largely
out of revenue (taxation) our £ should lose
even less of its buying power than it did in
1914-18. It shouldn’t go the way of the German
mark in the 1920’s —it didn’t go that way “last
time.” Since the outbreak of the present war
our £ has lost less than 10 p.c. of its in-
ternal buying power—that is after 21 months of
conflict. Your £lOOO life policy therefore
hasn’t lost a great deal of its value up till now,
and by the time it is payable the pendulum of
money’s value may be swinging the other way.
If you are still in doubt, ask for a paid-up
policy of reduced amount but free of future
premiums. You would lose nothing by doing so.
N.T.: Shares were handed out for bonds
in 1933, and the name afterwards changed from
Timberlands Woodpulp to Whakatane Paper
Mills. Boardmaking began a couple of years
back, but high costs have been against the
co. Write secretary, 27 Hunter-street, Sydney.
No record of proprietary venture... .G.R.:
Fell by the wayside without getting much
beyond the share-selling stage M.A.W.:
Can’t extract any information from the co.
Prospects generally for this class of venture
don’t appear bright H.G.: Co. looks to be
fulfilling its obligations, but what return, if
any, you are likely to get is most uncertain.
I.J.: See p. 21, B. 14/6/’4l. Policy-
holders’ interests are anything but “in jeopardy.”


The Federal Mutual Insurance Comnany
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman ; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
E. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 139 Pitt Street, Sydney.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager — D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne. Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading' Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Scottish Loan Case
The end of the seeming-endless “Wool-
cott Forbes case” came last week. Albert
Levitus, company director and solicitor,
was sentenced to five years’ and Ronald
Bruce Walker, solicitor and ex-M.L.A.,
to three years’ imprisonment. Clive
Oscar Airey, secretary and commercial
traveller, was acquitted. In the case of
William Kingsley Wicks, accountant, the
jury failed to agree, and he was remanded
for further trial on reduced bail.
The case was one in which Levitus,
Walker, Wicks and Airey were charged
with conspiring with John Woolcott
Forbes, David R. Provan and Albert
Edward Walker to induce people to buy
shares in the Scottish Loan and Finance
Co. “with intent to defraud by means
of fraudulent statements, conduct, tricks,
and devices, by preparing false records,
minutes, and other documents in con-
nection with the business of the company,
and by publishing false reports, financial
statements, and balance sheets of the
company, and by reporting falsely that
the company and its affairs were in a
sound and prosperous condition, pro-
ducing profits divisible amongst the
shareholders.” All the defendants pleaded
not guilty. Woolcott Forbes, Provan and
A. E. Walker are not in Australia.
Evidence was given of the acquisition
of the Scottish Loan business for £12,500
by a dummy, and of the appointment
of Levitus as managing director for 10
years at £l5OO a year, plus £22,500 for
work done by him in reconstructing the
co. and sacrificing his legal practice. To
J. J. Harrison, who did not exist, £11,250
was to be paid for services, and £30,000
to Peter A. Jackson —another name for
Woolcott Forbes —mainly for arranging
an underwriting agreement with David
R. Provan Pty. R. B. Walker was
appointed chairman at £4OO a year, and
was granted, with Levitus, an option over
20,000 Scottish Loan shares.
Nominal capital of Scottish Loan was
then inflated from £17,500 to £750,000.
Forbes got 30,000 shares, the Crown
stated. D. R. Provan Pty., Ltd., was
formed, and sold “well over 100,000”
Scottish Loan shares. The usual price
was 30s. The Provan co. later changed
its name to Scott Elder Pty. False
balance sheets were issued, it was said,
with the idea of selling Forbes’s and
other shares.
Early, 15,000 shares were sold to a
man named Ritter. Ritter died, and his
executors pressed Forbes, who agreed to
buy the shares back rather than attract
public attention, the prosecution stated.
Levitus and Walker came to Forbes’s
assistance. T. S. Crawford, K.C. (for
the Crown), said Wicks had received
£5OO to sign a false balance sheet.
Evidence in connection with the pur-
chase of Primary Producers’ Bank book
debts from P. and G. Finance, of which
Forbes was a director, was also given.
Certain of these debts were sold by
P. and G. to a person who was regarded
as nominee of the Scottish Loan co.
for £26,250. Face value of these debts
was £148,000, but there was “misrepre-
sentation.” The debts were mostly old
and doubtful.
It was stated in evidence that £52,500
in Scottish Loan shares was to be paid
to Forbes, who handed back the 30,000
shares allotted to “Peter Jackson.”
M. G. Smith, a witness, said that D. J.
Bush, A. Lovell and one Donaldson were
employees of David Provan Pty. They
were furnished with reports and balance
sheets of Scottish Loan. He himself had
sold “just over 100,000” Scottish Loan
shares.
A transaction involving large amounts
in connection with the Altona beach
estate, Victoria, was mentioned, also the
sale by Forbes of shares and securities
previously assigned by him to Scottish
Loan.
Walker, from the dock (he later went
into the witness box), declared his
innocence. Since his arrest he had “gone
through two years of hell.” His hair had
turned grey. He said he was the victim
of circumstances and a clever man, “the
like of whom the State may never see
again.” Woolcott Forbes was surrounded
by big names and influential men —in-
cluding “Ernest A. Goldsmid, of the
Merchants and Traders’ Association, at
that time probably one of the most in-
fluential businessmen in the community.”
Walker had had great faith in Scottish
Loan.
Levitus, from the witness box, said
“I was never asked by Forbes to do
anything improper or dishonest. 1 had
no reason to regard Forbes in any way
then but as a straightforward and very
reputable man.” He had never got a
penny out of the 22,500 shares allotted
to him, which were held by him on
Forbes’s behalf. Goldsmid was the first
person to mention the P.P. book debts
to him. He had corresponded with
P. and G. over the unsatisfactory P.P.
Bank deal right up to the time Scottish
Loan liquidated.
From the dock Wicks denied that he
had “accepted £5OO to do something.”
He had asked Forbes to invest £5OO for
him, and Forbes had given him a p.n.,
afterwards secured by transferring 600
Scottish Loan shares. He was later
handed a cheque for £5OO. Before he
had accepted the job of auditor he con-
sulted E. A. Goldsmid, “who said the
co. was a good one.” He had also seen
other people.
Airey, giving evidence on his own be-
half, said he had never done anything
dishonest in connection with Scottish
Loan, and had only received his salary.
Up to May, 1939, he had no suspicions
about the co.’s affairs. He had pre-
viously left the co.’s office because he
was unhappy by reason of “fault-find-
ing.”
In his summing-up Halse Rogers, J.,
referred to the allotment of shares to
Forbes, to Levitus on behalf of Forbes,
to the underwriting agreement with
Provan, to the sale of shares at a pre-
mium of 10s. each, to the disposal of
his shares by Forbes in 1937 at 305., to
the declaration of a div. at 10 p.c. p.a.,
and to alleged false entries in the
minutes; he then asked, could these
things be done without agreement? In
return for his 52,500 shares, had Forbes
rendered genuine services?
After the jury had found Walker guilty,
with a recommendation to mercy,
Levitus guilty, Airey not guilty, and
failed to agree in the case of Wicks, the
Judge passed sentence. Addressing the
prisoners, he said;
Assuming that you were led astray by a
man cleverer than yourselves, I think that
the verdict the jury arrived at was the only
one which was open to them on the evi-
dence. In recent years share hawking has
become an infamous trade. Companies
have sprung up which had as their main
object the sale of their own shares. The
suave and plausible persons who go about
procuring the purchase of shares from the
public are a menace in the community,
and mostly they are to be classed as cheats
and robbers. On the basis of false balance
sheets and faked financial statements this is
an infamous crime. Had it not been for the
recommendation in favor of Walker, I
would not have made any distinction be-
tween the sentences of the two convicted
men.
The trial was the longest in Australian
criminal records; it occupied 120 days
in the Police Court and 36 days in the
Criminal Court. It is nearly two years
since the charges were laid.
The sharemarkets showed no reaction
to the Prime Minister’s speech last week.
He spoke of “a drastic review of civil
production,” the first move being the new
building restrictions; he announced new
petrol rationing that will put Australia
on the shortest commons in the Empire;
he forecast the complete taking-over of
Australian coastal vessels on a charter
basis, and the establishment of a small
commission to control the production,
distribution and consumption of coal.
Strikes in war industries were to be out-
lawed, he said. A committee is to be
formed to watch excess war profits.
* * * *
E. G. Theodore having been “im-
pressed with the possibilities” of a 750-
square-mile area on the island of Guadal-
canal British Solomons, Emperor and
Loloma are going to divert some of their
funds towards the formation of a gold-
prospecting and -exploration concern. The
lease held is said to embrace “the whole
of the known auriferous area with the ex-
ception of leases already granted.” Ac-
cording to T. R. Victor, Loloma technical
men are to be sent to “prospect for lodes
on the island.” In the past it has been
mainly alluvial gold that has drawn
prospecting cos. to Guadalcanar, though
Les J. Davis and others have given atten-
tion to lodes recently. About 10 years
ago the Guadalcanar Co., fathered by
the Prattens’ Alluvial Tin, bored the
Belesuna and Tinshula areas, and pros-
pected the banks of the Tsarivonga
River. Percy Penman was in charge, and
on his advice the Prattens turned it in,
not so much because of the gold values
obtained as because of the difficulties of
recovering it economically. There were
too many boulders and too much rain.
In 1937 Solomon Islands Gold Sluicing
was formed by Sydney interests (includ-
ing L. J. Davis) to sluice the upper
reaches of the “Sorvohio and Tsarivonga
rivers.” Davis brought to Sydney some
nice alluvial slugs ; he mentioned heavy
boulders and fierce floods, and talked of
a lode proposition. He is still carrying
on. In April, 1939, Solomon Gold Mines
was formed in Melbourne “to acquire an
option over a large gold-bearing lode on
Valikorta Ridge, between the Tsaravonga
and Soryohio rivers.” W. H. Smith,
T. R. Victor and P. F. Cody were
directors. Shares soared, then crashed
from £22 to £8 in a little over 24 hours ;
they subsided further soon after when
Victor, Who went across to investigate,
recommended that the option be “aban-
doned forthwith.” But apparently the
search for the source of the gold in the
Tsarivonga and Sorvohio rivers hasn’t
finished yet. Slugs found along the river
banks have been very alluring.
* * * *
Debenture-holders in Bond’s Industries
are not participating in any of the bounty
flowing from the co. following its suc-
cessful financial year. Certainly they are
getting their arrears of interest, but only
up to the rate as reduced by the Interest
Reduction Act. The debenture-holders
really represent the funded debt taken
over from the old George A. Bond con-
cern after it crashed just prior to the de-
pression. They were originally entitled
to 7 p.c. ; Lang reduced the rate to
£5 Bs. 6d. per cent., and for the three
years to October, 1937, debenture-holders
accepted 2 p.c., 2\ p.c. and 3-j p.c., with
4 p.c. thereafter. The difference between
those rates and £5 Bs. 6d. per cent, is
now being made up to debenture-holders,
but their forbearance was very handy to
the co. at the time, though the deben-
tures fell heavily in the market.
Bond’s shareholders recently became
entitled to a 10 p.c. div. and a three-for-
four par issue. Rights to the latter sold
at 65., and the old shares are at 265. 6d.
The debentures, cum £8 7s. 4d. arrears,
are at £99, equal to under £91 —£9 below
par. This during a period of prosperity
in which earnings were equal to over 50
p.c. on capital, subject to war-profits tax,
and in which the ord. shares have risen
to well above par. It may be that
income-tax reasons —the payment of over
£l5 per cent, in interest and arrears in
one year (and such a year as this) is an
embarrassment to big holders —have
affected the price of the debentures. But
the capital backing and income prospects
are the chief factors governing the market
price. When the new issue is fully paid
there will be about £235,000 of capital,
compared with over £500,000 of deben-
tures, as well as mortgages and over-
draft. It has to be admitted that share-
holders put up their money after the de-
benture-holders. The old George A.
Bond co.’s capital went west. But in
view of their co-operation in the lean
times that persisted even after the recon-
struction, debenture-holders should not
be entirely overlooked if the year 1941
again turns out to be a good one.
* ♦ * *
When the Melbourne Board of Works
loan closed last week it was estimated
that it would be undersubscribed by
£50,000. The loan was for £296,000,
£3 Bs. 9d. per cent., 15 years.
* * * 9
The British wool-purchase scheme
continues to keep Australian woolbrokers
on an even keel. The wool is paid for
whether shipped or not, and brokers get
their commission on the price that was
decided on soon after war broke out.
Goldsbrough, Mort’s net profit last term
was £205,426, compared with £201,365 and
£120,227 in the two preceding terms. The
last-mentioned period was pre-war; the
other two represent appraisement seasons.
G.M.’s div. is now 7 p.c., raised from
6j p.c. last term, and from A\ p.c. in the
preceding period. So far there has been
no official talk of modifying the terms
of the wool agreement, but two or three
months ago there was semi-political men-
tion of letting Britain off its obligations
in the event of shipping becoming
scarcer. Britain itself has made no such
plea so far as is known.
* * * *
Who is an enemy alien? Sharebrokers
would like to know. The refugee colonies
in Australia have been active since they
sprang up two or three years ago, and
not all their members have gone into
business; some of them have been busy
investors on the Stock Exchanges. Share-
brokers have to get from all buyers or
sellers of shares the following declaration:
National Security (Enemy Property)
Regulations.
Declaration by Transferor f and Transferee ].
I hereby declare that 1 am not an enemy
subject within the meaning of the Trading
with the Enemy Act 1939, and that the
within written transfer is not made by me
on behalf of or for the benefit of an enemy
subject.
A Sydney broker has had dealings with
Austrians of comparatively recent arrival
in Australia, and they have signed these
declarations and dealt in scrip. The
broker is wondering whether all former
occupants of enemy territory must be
barred from dealing in scrip, or whether
the ban applies only to internees.
Authority has not been helpful. It
seldom is.
* * * *
The fact that Prestige, Ltd., and its
subsidiaries were able to show profits of
£40,431 (compared with £32,308 in the
preceding term) last year shows that con-
ditions in the silk-stocking trade aren’t
too bad yet. Before arriving at last
year’s figures £40,634 (against £45,568)
was provided for depreciation, together
with an unspecified allowance for taxa-
tion. Ord. div. stays at 10 p.c. One
reason for the year’s improvement in
profit appears to be the co.’s extension
into the field of woven fabrics, though
it is doubtful whether much benefit has
so far been derived from this recent de-
velopment, which is still going on. A
new subsidiary, Dyecraft Pty., has also
been formed. There has been consider-
able expenditure on buildings and plant.
* * * *
Morris Hedstrom did well last year
to show profits slightly higher at £53,296.
Ord. div. was maintained at 6 p.c., and
the liquid position improved. Copra
was a drug in the market most of the
year, and the poorer-grade stuff was not
shifted from the islands in many cases,
such was the shortage of shipping. Ap-
parently other activity in Fiji helped to
keep the co.’s trading figures up; the
Tavua mines are still going full blast.
Sugar has been worth more in the world’s
markets, too.
* * * •
The Australian note issue continues to
grow in proportion to public buying re-
quirements. With unemployment down
to 5.3 p.c., and money flowing more and
more to the classes that spend freely—in
cash rather than by cheque—the need for
expansion in the nation’s till money be-
comes clear. The note issue stood at
£66,619,444 ‘on June 16, up nearly
£10,000,000 compared with a year earlier.
Over the 12 months bank clearings
(cheques cleared) have fallen rather than
risen, but savings-bank deposits have
grown to record level. There is no
evidence of monetary inflation in the lift
in the note issue. Against the increase
in note-issue liabilities appears a rise in
“other assets,” which mainly looks after
the note expansion. Although the trad-
ing banks have made some fairly large
advances to the Government over the
last 12 months they aren’t out of the
ordinary, and by far the greater part of
the £85,000,000 or thereabouts borrowed
by the Loan Council on the open market
is now held by the public. Inflation would
be indicated by large advances by banks
to Governments and industry, and by
rising prices and wages. So far the people
have managed to finance most of our
war expenditure out of their earnings
and savings. The cost of living has lifted
only 8i p.c. since war broke out, and
interest rates are falling rather than
rising.


WHO DEVELOPS INDUSTRY
itmm
mm
m
RYES AUSTRALIA
MAJOR
CO
in?:
a.
V
‘Jtiity /?
A NEW INDUSTRIAL SPIRIT
Production of vital war supplies by Australian Industry is mounting daily to
keep pace with ever-increasing demands. Much has been done by Industry in
the manufacture of war implements it has never tackled before —there is much
still to be done.
Underlying the successful conversion of our Industrial effort is the new spirit
throughout Australian factories a spirit of co-operation, of mutual help, of
determination to get bigger, quicker production, regardless of all other
considerations.
An example of co-operative production is the way in which General Motors-
Holden’s, as Major Co-ordinating Contractors for several important Defence
projects, is now working closely with nearly 700 other Australian manufacturers,
all of whom are doing a splendid job.
General Motors-Holden’s pays tribute to the untiring effort and the fine team
spirit of these manufacturers, and is confident that those qualities will build
Australia’s production up to the volume so urgently needed.
9^
•4
w
Illustrating the Fishermen 1 s Bend {Vic.)
plant of General Motors-Holden 1 s Ltd.
Other plants are located at Woodville and
Birkenhead (S.A.), Pagewood ( N.S.W.),
Brisbane {Q 1 land) and Perth (IV.A.).
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD
BEDFORD • BUICK • CADILLAC • CHEVROLET • G.M.C. • OLDSMOBILE • PONTIAC • VAUXHALL
C 753.60


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
IN DEFENCE OF PET AIN.
(Condensed from a letter by Lewis Galantiere featured
in New York “Herald Tribune,” 25/5 /’41.)
The stage is being set for the casting of the
French in the role of an Axis partner, and therefore
a new enemy of the American cause. Raymond Swing
[who probably has a bigger audience than any other
American broadcaster] recently declared contemptu-
ously that Marshal Petain was a man without honor.
Miss Dorothy Thompson long ago assured us that
“Vichy” desired a German victory. The Gaullist
press releases attribute the presence of Nazi ’planes
in Syria not to Petain’s helplessness, but to Petain’s
treason to France. The next step will very likely be
war by Britain upon the French. I can think of no
surer way to found the Nazi “new order” on the
Continent than, by these means, to fling the French
people into it—for without the French, you may be
sure, there can never be a Nazi “new order” in Europe.
My fear is that the French, harassed, under-
nourished, humiliated as they have been, may be in-
duced by American words and actions to throw in
the towel; for American words and actions already
begin to belie American sentiments. For the first
time since last July we may see what we have thus far
not seen —French collaboration with the Germans.
“Collaboration” is the cursed word which for
half a year has constantly blocked our view of the
reality of the French position. It has created a uni-
versal misconception which requires to be removed.
Everybody has forgotten, but, once reminded,
everybody will remember, that last November Laval
returned to Vichy from an interview with the Nazi.
In his pocket was a German plan to which he alone,
without consultation with his chief, had agreed. Inter-
viewed, Laval congratulated himself upon having
reached a basis of “collaboration” with the Germans.
This was the first time the word collaboration entered
Vichy-Nazi relations.
What ought not to be forgotten is that it was pre-
cisely because of his readiness to “collaborate” with
the Germans that Laval was “relieved of his func-
tions.” He was dismissed after a bitter, tortuous
battle in the course of which Petain fought unmis-
takably against, and not for, collaboration with the
Germans. Unfortunately, the word had been spoken,
the harm had been done, and every subsequent step
in Vichy-Nazi relations was described as a phase or
stage of “collaboration.” But the truth is exactly the
contrary. The truth is that the whole history of
Vichy-Nazi relations has been of resistance to col-
laboration.
Now, when the Nazi, for reasons of his Medi-
terranean strategy, determines to violate the Franco-
German armistice agreement openly and unilaterally,
our commentators ask us to look upon this violation
as Petain’s collaboration with the Nazi! This uni-
lateral action is displayed to us as evidence that Petain
desires a German victory! On this abominable
premise we are asked to prepare ourselves to consider
the French people our enemies!
Whence comes this sad confusion? It comes,
in my view, from the error of judging political pheno-
mena in the light of ideological sympathy. Those who
attack Petain are, of course, anti-authoritarian pub-
licists. They assume that because Petain is at the
head of a non-democratic regime he must be col-
laborating with the arch-enemy of democracy. But
the position is not so simple as this.
To think of Vichy polity as something evolved,
something coherent, philosophical and responsible;
to accuse it as one might accuse Tokyo, or Rome, or
Berlin is plain intellectual frivolity. The problem (if
not the personal concern) of the men of Vichy was
this: that somebody or something must be created to
be a rallying point round which a betrayed and be-
wildered people could collect. In its central purpose,
to create a rallying point, Vichy succeeded. But the
error of those who vilify Petain is to assume that that
rallying point was something, an ideology. It was not.
It was somebody, the marshal. What is Petain but
France’s sole defence against the Nazi? This is his
primary function. Remove him and you will find
that his heir is Hitler. There is no one else. France
has no use for Petain as a political philosopher, now
that heads have cooled since July, 1940. France pays
no heed to Petain as the presumptive author of a
simili-Fascist Constitution. The Petain Constitution
does not exist. Every blow aimed at it passes through
the ghost and kills a Frenchman.
If your aim is to get rid of this un-French,
remnant-counter Vichy Fascism, strike at the Nazi
and leave Petain alone. Liberate the French,
instead of (1) showing them by strikes and
wrangling that you do not take the war seriously, and
(2) declaring to them that you look upon Petain —
their ephemeral but for the time being only cohesive
element —as the Nazi’s ally and your enemy. In the
whole world there is not a more misleading and ridi-
culous concept than that of Petain as the free-vv filed
friend of the Germans.
The idealists who pour their contempt upon
Petain forget not only how helpless he is to fight
with other weapons than evasion, negotiation, delay—
they forget that he is charged with the fate of human
beings, not of automata called “democrats” or
“Fascists.” His first concern cannot be ideological, it
must be to lighten the burden carried by the French
people, to keep life going among them as far as
possible.
There are realities that transcend great words like
democracy. Even in this war democracy cannot be
more than an international battle-cry. We may hope
that, the war once won, it will be translated into terms
real and concrete, but we must recognise that the
nations fighting the Axis are not fighting in the first
instance for democracy. They are fighting for their
survival or their restoration as independent entities.
That is to say, they are fighting for their own parti-
cular way of life first, and only afterward for a joint,
or common, or universal way of life. The concept
“democracy” is of no weight at all compared with the
concept “England” or “Greece” or “Norway” or
“Poland.” And the concept “France,” too, is not
despicable. Men resist, they yield, they resist again,
they yield again, in order to gain time, stay alive,
gather strength—and fight another day. This, not col-
laboration, is the case of the French.
Admiral Darlan.
(Condensed from a New York “Times” article by
Roger Prevost.)
Franqois Darlan, Admiral of the Fleet, Minister
of the Navy, of the Interior, of Foreign Affairs, Vice-
Premier of France, shares with Marshal Petain the
supreme power in the Government at Vichy.
In the past he may have disapproved of the Par-
liamentary regime, but he faithfully served under suc-
cessive Ministries in the Ministers’ Cabinets of ad-
visers. Owing to his naval training and traditions,
he may have been anti-British; but that did not mean
that he was pro-German.
At the beginning of the present war Darlan col-
laborated closely with the British Navy. Both at
Narvik and at Dunkirk the warships of France
were very much in evidence along with those of the
British. Darlan himself has a British decoration, the
Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order.
It is now definitely known that during the drama-
tic discussions when last June French leaders debated
their nation’s course in the face of German conquest
Darlan threw all his support to Cesar Campinchi,
Minister of the Navy, who was emphatically in favor
of continuing the struggle.
Darlan was one of those who insisted that the
armistice agreement contain a clause stipulating that
the French Navy was not to be delivered to the Ger-
mans. Even after June 16, when the Petain Govern-
ment came into being, with Darlan as Minister of the
Navy, he conferred with Sir Dudley Pound, who had
been his personal friend for some time, and discussed
means to prevent the Germans from gaining the
French fleet.
The radical change since then in Darlan’s atti-
tude can be explained by his ambition. He probably
soon realised that the partisans of continued resistance
had little chance of getting their way, and from then
on, it seems, he commenced considering the possi-
bility of a Fascist regime in France. Both Petain and
Weygand were very old men, whereas Darlan was
only 59. In short, Darlan suddenly abandoned the
idea of further resistance to the enemy and became
openly anti-British. He was confirmed in this on
July 3 when the British attacked French warships at
Oran to prevent their falling into German hands.
The One-man Reich.
[Condensed from a New York “Times Magazine”
article by Joseph C. Harsch, based on a forthcoming
book. The author was the “Christian Science Monitor's”
Berlin correspondent from October, 1939, to January,
1941.]
Long before Hitler committed his destiny and the
fate of Germany to the ordeal of combat he had
achieved complete ascendancy over every rival in-
fluence within the country. There was a time when
people liked to console themselves with the thought
that what they called “the better element” in Ger-
many would rise and resume power, meaning usually
the old aristocracy or ruling class. But today Franz
von Papen, the only member of that old class to hold
any important position in the Third Reich, is a will-
ing tool and a complacent decoy. He is the German
Ambassador to Turkey. The others are either in the
army or performing with well-drilled proficiency the
same function in social contact with impressionable
foreigners as that which Von Papen performs in
diplomacy. They remain figureheads, part of the
respectable “front” which Nazism preserves.
Baron Neurath presides in Prague, but his title of
Protector is as empty as that of the President Hacha.
The real power is in the hands of Hans Frank. Other
men of title fill diplomatic posts, but there is always
a trusted Nazi on their staffs behind them who wields
the real authority in the mission. They are “kept”
because they can speak the language of Western
civilisation and old diplomacy and because they have
performed wonders in dulling the outside world’s
appreciation of the true extent of Nazism’s ruthless-
ness and power. That is literally the only function
and the only importance of the old white hope of
Nazism’s opponents.
There was a time when the big capitalists of
Germany—the shipping magnates of Hamburg and
Bremen, the industrialists of the Ruhr and the Rhine-
land, the bankers of Cologne, Frankfort and Berlin
—liked to think that they could exercise the control-
ling power in a crisis. Some of their confreres in the
outside world thought the same. But one by one
every individual who resisted was pushed aside,
liquidated or rendered impotent. They have no in-
fluence in Germany today except as technicians who
are allowed to run the industrial and financial machine
when they have the competence and the inclination to
do so on the tolerance of the Nazi hierarchy.
In the beginning the National Socialist party in-
cluded some proletarian leaders like Rohm and
Strasser, who intended to convert the Nazi movement
into a real social revolution. But they were liquidated
in the “blood purge” of June, 1934, and replaced by
the loyal labor tool of Hitler, Dr. Robert Ley.
The army was the last hope of those within and
without Germany who thought that Hitler could be
used as a means of putting Germany on its feet and
then taking control from his hands. But in war itself
Hitler has established a final ascendancy over the
generals who long cherished ideas of some time assert-
ing themselves. The generals submitted reluctantly,
particularly those who derived from the old Prussian
Junker aristocracy. General Werner von Fritsch,
former Chief of Staff, was the last to challenge the
authority of the Fiihrer. How he met his death in
Poland is shrouded in official secrecy.
Thinking back over a year and a half in war-
time Germany, I am impressed by the fact that the
most intelligent, the most interesting, the most fair-
minded, the most honest —in fact, in all respects the
most desirable —men I met were in the army serving
people they despised, to ends in which they did not
believe, but welcoming the opportunity to forget their
feeling about those men and those ends in what
seemed to them a last means of serving their country.
Apart from this basic reason for capitulation of
the old officer caste to Hitler is the fact that everything
the army is today it owes to him. He gave it the
money and the authority over both industry and indi-
viduals which enabled it to build itself into the great-
est fighting force the world has ever known. Through-
out his regime he has protected it from fanatical
Nazis who would have done to it what Mussolini’s
policies did to the Italian Army. He gave it an
opportunity to demonstrate its prowess. He forced
on the High Command a campaign against France
which won it most glittering honors. And, finally,
after those victories of 1940, he raised a new crop
of officers to the dizzy heights of Field-Marshaldom.
Those so honored and all those advanced in rank
naturally look to him as the source of their dis-
tinctions. Nazism has undermined the social and
economic privileges of the class from which the old
officers were recruited, but it has restored the privi-
leges and the position of the army itself to top rank
in Germany.
The coming of war finally destroyed what latent
rebellion existed in the army against the regime. Many
of the higher officers dislike the regime. But any idea
that they are prepared to rebel against it must be dis-
carded. In the most important clash in the course of
the war between their interests and Hitler’s they capi-
tulated. The clash occurred over the treatment of con-
quered populations. It is to the obvious interest of
the army to conciliate those people, or at least to re-
frain from policies which tend to antagonise them
and goad them tq sabotage. Yet when Berlin insisted
on bringing party administration with Gestapo and
S.S. agencies of control into the occupied areas, the
army submitted.
The army might conceivably take control if the
Hitler regime were overthrown by some other force.
But it would not conceivably do so except in the
event of a political vacuum. It would certainly never
challenge the regime on its own initiative.
Even in purely military matters the army submits
to Hitler’s will. It was not only his decision to attack
France last year. He decided the time and many of
the technical details of the operation. While one must
discount somewhat the tendency of obsequious under-
lings to magnify the extent of Hitler’s personal respon-
sibility for the military victories of his regime, the
fact remains that he has a private military staff of
his own under Colonel-General Joedel and General
Warlimont which has been much more important in
strategy and planning than the official High Com-
mand under General Wilhelm Keitel.
In every sense, therefore, those groups within
Germany which had interests or objectives of their
own at variance with those of the regime have finally
been bent and subordinated to the one purpose of
shaping Germany to Hitler’s idea of an integrated
military machine dedicated to the task of making
Germany the dominant power of the age and Germans
the heirs of all the good things of the earth.
Lifeboat Odyssey.
[lt would need a Conrad to do full justice to the
story here briefly pieced together from the accounts of
some of the 38 survivors of the British liner Britannia,
shelled and sunk by a German raider in the South
Atlantic on March 25. After 23 days in a lifeboat,
the survivors—l 3 English officers and men, 11 Hindu
passengers and 14 lascar members of the crew—•
staggered ashore on the Brazilian island of Curupu.
This account is from “Fife,” U.S.A.]
Our lifeboat, built to hold 50, had 82 men. We
took turns squatting and standing up. The wounded
were placed at the bottom of the boat, but two inches
of water leaked into the bottom and some of the
wounded drowned when their faces were pressed into
the bilge by the crowd.
During the first week we saw eight ships. We
shouted and burned oil so that they might see the
smoke. None did. When it rained one day, we filled
three buckets with drinking water.
For the next 16 days we sailed the South Atlantic.
The heat nearly crazed us and the glare closed our
eyes until they were slits. Our skin festered with
sores from the sun and salt water. Each morning we
dumped overboard the men who had died the night
before. At first we buried them with a short religious
service, but later we were too weak to do even this.
By the third week men began losing their minds.
An Englishman named Smith screamed deliriously for
his wife until he died. Those with strength left tried
to bail out the boat and clean up the vomit of the
seasick men. For food we had a daily ration of one
biscuit and a spoonful of condensed milk mixed with
water. The lascars fought for the left-over biscuit
scraps. Our mouths cracked from dryness, and the
English chewed their pipe stems to create saliva. The
other men sucked the buttons of their clothes.
After two weeks of sunshine it rained again. We
spread sails out to catch the rain and we opened our
mouths to let the rain fall in. In desperation, however.


Question :
Lobster, Lobster, tell me do,
What is best to drink with
you?
Answer:
Gourmets everywhere agree
Guinness goes down best
with me.
There’s
nothing like
Sole Supervising Agents for Ausfralasia:-
SWIFT & COMPANY, PTY., LTD., 26-30 Clarence St.. Sydney
UINNESS
with Lobster
87377
two Hindus drank salt-water and later jumped over-
board. We were too weak to rescue them.
On the nineteenth day the color of the water
changed and strands of seaweed floated by. Land could
not be far away, but three more men died that day. By
now there was much more room in which to sprawl
out, but the legs of some of the men had become so
numb from sitting that they could not move over.
On the twenty-third day we sighted land! When
our navigator saw it he mumbled: “I have done my
duty. You are all safe.” Then he collapsed and died.
Later that day we landed at low tide. Many of
the men could no longer walk or talk. They simply
collapsed in the mud. The others stumbled further
ashore, bowing their heads to thank. God for deliver-
ance. If these men had not awakened in time that
night, the weaker men, lying in the mud, would have
drowned beneath the incoming high tide. Shortly
after the weaker men had been dragged to safety, we
heard human voices. At the sight of the Brazilian
fishermen who found us, some of us fainted with
happiness.
The Silent Soviet Revolution.
(Condensed extract from an article by Bertram D. Wolfe
in June “Harper’s Magazine.”)
Taken all together the whole series of changes
that have been taking place in Soviet Russia during
the past two years amount to a silent social evolu-
tion, or counter-revolution, in the Soviet way of life.
To a degree unknown in history (even in the his-
tory of old Russia), these far-reaching social changes
introduce fixity and absence of individual will or indi-
vidual right. On the land they attach the peasant
permanently, from birth to death, to his kolkhoz or
collective farm, and they introduce collective respon-
sibility to the State for its yield. The worker in the
city they attach permanently, from late childhood to
death, to his particular factory and particular task. No
one is to change his position or status except on the
order of his superiors and as the interests of the State,
interpreted by those superiors, may dictate.
Concomitant decrees prescribe fixity for the
children of the working class by abolishing free
secondary and higher education, thereby laying down
the foundations of a new caste system in which only
the children of well-paid bureaucrats and intellectuals
can possibly prepare themselves to become officials
or members of the intelligentsia. They establish a
system of labor conscription and apprenticeship for
boys and girls from 14 years onward, attaching them
to particular occupations and branches of industry
which they may never leave, unless it should please
their superiors, for the rest of their lives. And one
decree makes the attempt to change one’s job literally
a criminal offence and converts factory labor into
prison labor.
These decrees have been given but little publicity
abroad. Journals which specialise in telling the world
what life is like in the land of the Soviets have been
silent on this transformation. These decrees make the
good Dean of Canterbury’s book, dealing with the
Soviet set-up of 1937, seem to describe another world.
The non-Communist press also has let most of these
changes, and their cumulative import, pass unnoticed.
The “New Order” that is thus shaping up in the
Soviet Union has little in common with the socialism
that was envisaged by the thinkers who founded the
socialist movement. (Lenin came to power fully be-
lieving that the State, the apparatus of prisons, police,
compulsions, dictation and coercion, was shortly to
“wither away” as useless in a free, socialist society.)
But there is much —each day more and more —of that
old Russia which, despite three revolutions, has never
altogether vanished. Kryepost and nevolya —fixity
and absence of individual will or individual freedom
—were the outstanding characteristics of the old Rus-
sian life. Today they are becoming once more, in-
deed more than ever, the outstanding characteristics
of the “New Order” in the Soviet Union.
Other peoples, it has been mockingly said, consist
of two parts: a body and a soul. But the Russian
consisted of three: a body, a soul and a passport.
Now the internal passport has been revived, and a Rus-
sian can go nowhere within his vast land —not to
speak of crossing the frontier —without the special
order ( komandirovka ) of some superior, and without
showing innumerable officials his work book, his pass-
port, his propusk or pass to the particular office, fac-
tory, public building or institution he is visiting, and
various other documents.
The fixity of the peasant in old Russia was not
created, as was the case of the serf under Western
Feudalism, by a shortage of land ; for always in Russia
there was the boundless steppe. Immobility had to be
created by law, or rather by ukase. So, too, Peter the
Great, Russia’s most important industrialiser before
Stalin, filled his newly decreed factories by the simple
expedient of assigning serfs from the State farms to
the State factories. Long before socialism was so
much as thought of, the Russian State was the largest
landowner, the largest employer of peasant bondmen,
the largest owner of factories and capital, and the
largest employer of industrial labor in Russia and in
the world. Theoretically, too, all of old Russia was
one vast patriarchal family with a single, all-powerful,
divinely inspired, all-knowing, all-wise and infallible
head. The totalitarian State of the new Russia has not
learned its essentials, as some have charged, from
Hitler, but has its roots deep in the ancient ways of
the Russian land.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
It happened during the hurly-burly of the Nor-
wegian invasion. One of our submarines, busy in
the Kattegat area, which was stiff with enemy trans-
ports and their escorts, got well hunted and went
under. “The chap who was recording the explosions
of depth charges round us lost count when he got
beyond a hundred, and that annoyed the crew in-
tensely, because they had organised a sweepstake on
the number of depth charges that would be dropped.”
That submarine was hunted and depth-charged for
43 hours, but came through it. Manchester
“Guardian” naval correspondent.
*****
Actual combat in the stratosphere calls for the
utmost in swift, keen thinking. The description of a
typical R.A.F. battle, more than six miles up, sounds
like a fantasy. “We were up over Dover,” a British
pilot said, telling of one such flight, “and we ran into
a dozen Jerry M.Es. Their tail-man came at me as
I was trying to cut out the nearest M.E. I twisted
—Detroit “News,” U.S.A.
LOOK WHO SAY HESS IS CRAZY!
around to give him a burst, but I missed by a hundred
yards. We passed almost head-on, but all I saw was
a blur—our combined speeds must have been close
to 1000 miles an hour. By the time I could look
around, he was three miles away. Sometimes there’s
only one attack, at those speeds. Jerry shoots on by,
and you don’t even see him again. It’s tricky work up
there where the air’s thin. In that same fight, I had
to turn out sharply to miss another Spitfire. I slipped
a bit on the rudder, and before I knew it my bus
had knifed down about a thousand feet. Another
time I blacked-out in a sudden bank to miss a Jerry,
and when I came to I was halfv/ay to Calais, 20 miles
from the fuss.” —From New York “Herald Tribune■”
Sunday sunnlement
y % PP * * * *
me + , u ■ t-
° f toll taken by the conquerors in France
the so-called costs of occupation are the largest item,
but not the only one. Outright confiscation has been
practised on a large scale. It has been reliably esti-
mated that the tribute exacted from France in various
forms is equal to £_o a year per head of the popu-
lation. The reparations claimed from Germany even
under the first proposals of 1921, soon considered
unbearable, amounted to £3 10s. a year per head of
the German population, and in 1924 the charge was
reduced to about £2 a head. This indemnity was
taken from a country whose war prisoners had been
returned, whose labor force was left intact, and whose
industries were assisted by loans to full recovery and
re-equipment. There is, in fact, not a shadow of
similarity between the treatment of Germany after the
last war and the present treatment of France by the
Germans. —Manchester “Guardian.”
* * * * *
From Antwerp, Rotterdam and London the great
diamond migration began. A horde of diamond mer-
chants, most of them of Rumanian, Polish or Russian
extraction, fled west for the sake of their lives, and
they carried kings’ ransoms folded in tissue paper and
tucked in Manila envelopes. They looked for haven
in the United States. They arrived in New York by
hundreds during the latter weeks of the German in-
vasion of the Lowlands and France. In July the im-
ports of uncut diamonds swelled to more than 12
times tba t 0 f any otber prev i ous month. By the time
the Battle of Britain was well under way 1500
diamond dealers—9o p.c. of all the prominent Euro-
pean ones, half of all those in the world—had reached
New York with much of their stock. There is a story
told abou t that wholesale exodus: how, when the
German invasion was imminent, a trusted member
Q £ an An t wer p fi rm we nt from shop to shop of the
diamond dealers in that doomed city with a battered
va ii se> j n t 0 it the diamond men dumped packets of
jewels, rough and finished. The diamond collector
then went aboard a British destroyer and crossed the
channel to London with his fabulous burden. From
London he went on to New York. Today the city of
New York is the diamond centre of the world ; this
year ds diamond business is expected to break all
records. —Richard C. Hubler, in “Harper’s Magazine.”
* * * * •
For half a century pigs have been the most faith-
fui barometer of Denmark’s economy. At the begin-
ning 0 f 1932 Denmark’s pig population vastly exceeded
the human—s,soo,ooo to 3,600,000. In the following
years depression reduced the number of
pigs to somewhat less than the human
population. At the time of the Nazi
conquest Denmark possessed 3,166,000
pigs, but the invaders had reduced the
number to 1,968,000 by the end of
January of this year. —Joachim Joesten,
in New York “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
Most of Canada’s new plants will be
in full production this summer, although
the full sweep of the industrial pro-
gramme cannot be reached until 1942.
Canada is trying to produce almost
everything a modern army and air force
require, with the exception of airplane
engines. While airplane production is
improving, it has on the whole not come
up to expectations and the big bomber
programme is lagging. Results with re-
spect to tanks and some types of guns
have been definitely disappointing.
Canada now has an army for service
overseas of 188,000, and the number
should be increased to 260,000 before the
year ends. Canada’s battle fleet has in-
creased from a personnel of 1700 with
13 ships to a personnel of 17,500 with
200 ships, of which 13 are destroyers and
three are armed merchant cruisers.
Present plans call for personnel of 27,000
with 400 ships by next March. Trained
pilots, observers and gunners are now
being turned out at the annual rate of
18,000, and in four months from now
the rate of 26,000 will be reached. There
seems no doubt but that the flow of
crews across the Atlantic will more than
keep up with such increased numbers of
’planes as the United States is able to send. — E. J.
Tarr, director of the Bank of Canada, addressing New
York bankers.
*****
A clear majority of the country [U.S.A.] now
wants action today. An overwhelming majority has
recorded its desire for action whenever the peril to
Great Britain becomes grave. It is plainly in the
President’s power to unite the nation behind a policy
of action. In view of the crisis that lies close ahead,
we are confident that Mr. Roosevelt cannot longer
hesitate to give the nation the leadership it needs. He
has acted forcefully and swiftly in a series of minor
steps. The time has come in our judgment for a
series of major decisions. Those decisions must be
military ones and must rest upon the judgment of our
best military minds. This newspaper is convinced
that action should be taken forthwith in both the
Pacific and the Atlantic. To save the Battle of the
Atlantic there should be, in some form, convoy. To
prevent, or at any rate delay, a battle for the Pacific,
there should be an American fleet at Singapore. The
Neutrality Act should be repealed and the freedom of
the seas —in the Red Sea and everywhere—reasserted
with whatever force the piracy of Nazidom makes
necessary. —New York “Herald Tribune.”
*****
In 1936 the German National Insurance Office
decided that infertility on the part of a married woman
should be regarded as an illness if it could be cured by
medical treatment, provided that the cure was in the
interests of the community ; and in 1938 a law provided
that either party to a marriage can petition for the dis-
solution of the marriage if the other partner has
become prematurely infertile after the marriage, or
persistently refuses, without valid reason, to beget
or conceive children.— Dr. W. A. Bread, in London
“Nineteenth Century.”


i
m
fesfei
m
M-ll
-
sm
ilt-rJ
:■
MO- 42
BUILT up week by week with a News Sheet
and an Index which is brought fully up to
date with each issue, Vine’s News Diary is the
most important reference work published in
Australia today.
Indeed, it is more than a reference work. It
is a weekly recapitulation of the world’s news,
crisply presented, stripped of wondering specu-
lation and guesswork, as invaluable to the mail-
or two-mail-a-week man on the land as to busy
commercial executives and professional men.
With Vine’s News Diary readily available,
there need be no argument, no doubt of estab-
lished fact. No matter what news reference may
be sought a glance at the Index locates it in a moment.
“The Bulletin” and other metropolitan and pro-
vincial newspapers throughout Australasia, in the
United States and elsewhere, Public and Parliamentary
libraries, Cabinet Ministers, Government Departments,
and a score of others have found Vine’s News Diary in-
dispensable to keeping pace with this fast-changing world.
The sturdy, self-locking covers, illustrated at left, are
supplied free to subscribers for filing of the weekly issues.
Keep in step. Be informed. For a sample issue
and further particulars, write to the Manager.
VINE’S NEWS DIARY,
Scottish House, 19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
“Give our pork sausages a trial; you’ll find
you won’t be able to get better anywhere.”
—Suburban paper advt.
Not even at a Chinese herbalist’s.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Whale hit by liner.”
That was enough to make it blubber.
•F 4* 4* 4*
“Wanted, a dough brakesman.” — “S.M.H.”
A soft job, with prospects of an early
rise.
•F 4* 4* 4*
“Bandit attacks girl with payroll.”
—“Daily Mirror.”
Old-fashioned bandits used sandbags
or “blunt instruments.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wanted youth to sell poultry, not more than
17 years old.” — “S. M. Herald.”
A tough job.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Good prices rule for fleshy sultanas.”
—Market note.
Eastern potentates never did fancy ’em
skinny.
“Witness said he was driving cautiously at
0 miles an hour.”— “D.T.”
In fact, he had reduced risks to nil.
4* + + 4*
“Foott —Walker.” — Wedding announcement.
Petrol rationing won’t affect them.
4* 4* 4 1 4*
“Sectional foreman required.”—“ S.M.H.”
It’s to be hoped he won’t fold up on
the job.
“Corps Commanders just arrived, sir. He's goin' crook about y' not bein'
there to meet him."
“At this crowning insult the elder Braithwaite
flung down his serviette angrily and got to his
feet, glaring at the sneering Mortimer. Red
of face, he could only splutter. He was too
full at that moment for words.” — Short story.
It’s a wonder he wasn’t too full to get
up from his chair.
*i> 4* 4* 4 1
“Wrinkles for the young mother.”
— Woman’s paper beading.
Not even the old ones want them.
4* 4* +
The fond mamma’s hope is that her
sons will get on and her daughters will
get off.
4* 4* 4*
“Be as fresh as a petal.”
— Ad., womans paper.
A rrirl like that would be daneerous—
alwavs on the stalk §
always on the stalk.
“The day was drawing to a close, and there
was terror in his eyes.”— “Quiz.”
With three minutes to go, he was still
a good half-mile from the pub.
4 4 4 4
” 0t
Isha besh thing t’ do when y’ can’t
getsha boolsh off.
* * * *
“Some marriages at least are mad in heaven.”
— Woman’s paper.
Many more are positively insane down
bere.
4 4 4 4
Count ten and keep your temper is a
good maxim, except if you’re a boxer;
then you can lose your temper and let
the referee do the
Doubtful Situation.
Ho, raise up your voice! Give a shout
and rejoice !
Their garrison’s fallen the victory’s
won !
Yes, Jubjub we captured! And aren’t we
enraptured
This evening to read in “The Blurb”
how ’twos done !
What a thrill—but hold hard ! We must
be on our guard :
Perchance after all it is wiser to doubt;
For “The Yellie” tomorrow may tell to
our sorrow
That Jubjub is stubbornly still holding
out!
T. W. Nathan.
How They Got Their Names.
Botany Bay: When the Endeavour
dropped anchor in the bay Captain Cook
sent a party ashore to see if they could
obtain some foodstuffs from the natives.
As the longboat was pulling back to the
ship, Cook leaned over the rail and
shouted anxiously to the bos’n, “Well,
Bert! Did yer manage t’ bot any?”
Bass Strait: When Matthew Flinders
got back from his crossing of the narrow
strip of sea between Tasmania and the
mainland he was taken by the committee
of the Royal Geographical Society to
the nearest hostel to celebrate. “Name
it!” said one of them as he signalled
Hebe. “Bass straight,” replied the great
geographer.
Dougal.
Angels of Peace.
“If women had a greater say in the world’s
affairs there would be no war.”
— Woman’s paper.
“Oh, quite so,” I said when Maria
triumphantly read it to me. I wanted to
read.
“Now don’t you be sarcastic,
Aitchem!” said Maria belligerently.
“Sarcastic?” I exclaimed. “Why, I
merely said”
“I know. But it was the way you
said it! I know very well what you
think, Aitchem ; and I’m not going to
be answered with a sneer whenever”
“Good Lord!” I exclaimed. “All I
said was ‘Quite so.’ But if it comes to
the point of women as peacemakers, how
about you and Mrs. Sniggers?”
“Don’t you mention that woman’s
name to me,” said Maria violently.
“After the way she spoke to me.”
“Well, Sniggers says”
“Do you mean to tell me, Aitchem,
that you have been speaking to that
woman’s husband? If you were a real
man you would insist that he should
make his wife apologise, and if he didn’t
knock him down. But you are a spine-
less”—
And so on. If women, given power,
stopped war, it would only be to deprive
their husbands of that refuge from
domestic strife.
H. M.
Birthday Item.
No other celebrationsh I
Have shponsored in the daysh gone by
Has ever reached this birthday’sh high
And gloriously ecshtatic peak!
So lesh resholve on holding here
Thish function full of cheer and beer,
Not only thish day every year.
But alsho thish day every week !
T. N.
Manoeuvres.
“This war is different. Women are taking an
intelligent interest in tactics and strategy.”
— Woman’s paper.
Perhaps one shouldn’t give away
secrets of strategy, but war is war (even
on the home front), so here goes:
(1) When hubby offers you a box of
chocolates which he seems to have left
in the tram, shows particular care where
he puts his feet, tenderly strokes the cat
and calls him a “shnice li’l doggie” and
then overbalances into the fireplace, get
into close range before opening fire.
(1) If he ’phones saying that owing to
pressure of work he won’t be home till
nine o’clock, don’t jump to the conclu-
sion that he is dining his blonde silk-
buyer at “Duke’s.” Given the combined
senses of location of a bloodhound and
water-diviner, plus the energy of Sexton
Blake, you’d probably find him petting
his ginger secretary in a park. Advance
carefully from right flank, looking for
powder marks near shoulder. Delay
charge till dawn, when he’ll accept dis-
honorable terms just to shut you up.
(3) Should the jar in which you keep
the gas-money be all present and correct
on Tuesday, but is shy five bob on Thurs-
day, you’re entitled to suppose that the
favorite for the Flying bit the dust on
Wednesday. On the other hand, if the
missing dollar magically returns by
Friday, you may safely demand your cut,
which he will grudgingly hand over,
explaining that, as a vague man had sud-
denly repaid a vaguer debt, he is delighted
(the liar!) to oblige. And so on.
Percival.
Footnote.
“There’s a divinity that shapes our ends,”
Thus wrote some bard. But, heavens!
How glad I am that mine are not
Encased in size elevens!
Clem Lack.
The Saving Spirit.
With petrol rationing now into its full
stride, the motorist in, say, the 2B class —
he wasn’t consulted as to classification —
on gazing at the two gallons which will
have to last him a whole month, may in
his despair decide to keep it for his cigar-
ette-lighter or for cleaning his suit and
jack the car up in the garage for the
duration.
Before taking such a drastic step, which
would merely rob the Government out
of the Is. lOd. tax on the two gallons, he
might be well advised to examine ways
and means of making this meagre allow-
ance spin out.
Approach it first from the psycholo-
gical angle. You say “Two gallons,” and
it doesn’t sound much. But get into the
habit of saying “Yes, just got my month's
supply, 16 pints,” and you will immedi-
ately feel much better about it. You may
also recall that you have often boasted
that the old bus could do that stretch
from the top of Razorback to the Cow-
pastures on a pint of juice. On that con-
sumption basis the two gallons would
get you about 160 miles. Coasting with
the engine off will easily add another
20 p.c., so that with practically no effort
you could get 192 miles out of your
ration. Theoretically, at any rate, you
are much better off than when rationing
was first foisted on you.
It is well known that you use more
petrol starting the engine from “cold”
than you would in several miles of
straight running. Those fellows whose
houses are above street level will have
no trouble; the car will run down freely.
But what of the unfortunate devil who
lives on the low side of the street? He
will have a pull up, in reverse on a cold
engine, from his garage to the street level.
If he has a heavy car he will be allowed
one gallon a week. It will take him
practically all this to get to the street, so
that his motoring
will be limited to
backing up to the
gate and driving
back into the garage
again. Admittedly he
won’t use as much
juice getting back as
pulling out, and he
might save enough,
after backing out
about six times, to
get as far as Aunt
Amy’s in the next
suburb.
A better plan
might be to build
an elevated runway,
starting from the
footpath level at the
gateway, gradually
lengthening the sup-
ports as it ap-
proaches the garage,
thus allowing a level
run in and out. Of
course, this will
necessitate having a
movable garage roof,
which would have to
be hoisted up by a
block and tackle to
allow the car to be
run in between the
garage walls and then
lowered down after the car is safely
parked.
Or it might be possible to run down
to the back street. This would mean
taking down the rear wall of the garage
and running the car straight down your
backyard and through the yard of the
fellow whose back fence adjoins yours.
This can all be done coasting, a powerful
factor in your choice.
Should he refuse you permission to cut
across his lawns or vegetable beds to
allow you to reach his drive, simply get
into your car, release the brakes and,
yelling madly that they have failed, the
while you toot the horn furiously to clear
his kids or hens out of danger, tear
straight through the dividing l fence and
out through his front one. Having then,
as it were, pioneered a track, it will be
only logical for him to allow you to use
it thereafter.
Alternately using your car and the
chap’s next door for both families on
Sunday outings is another way to beat the
rationing. With midwinter on us, too,
it will keep everybody cosily warm when
the whole ten of you slack into your
five-seater. Some fellows, fussy over
their cars, stew over the possibly dele-
terious effect of the extra weight on the
springs. Remember that a heavily-
weighted car holds the road much better.
Of course the question may arise as
to where you want to go. They may
want to put the day in at the Botanic
Gardens, and have friends waiting there.
You will have booked up at an outer-
suburban golf course. It boils down to
whose car you’re in. If it’s yours you
just turn the bus’s nose towards the gum-
trees and damn the Gardens. On the
other hand, if it’s their car you can resign
yourself to spending a miserable day-
thinking of the golf clubs hanging out to
dry in the boot while you savagely con-
template the ducks, pansies and the surg-
ing throng.
Still, it all helps to solve the petrol
problem.
Bo.


SPO RTING NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES'
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The Rosehill meeting, like most others
at the present time, was well patronised
on Saturday. Some of the fields were
small, and in the circumstances a tote
turnover of something nearly £13,000
was not at all bad. The largest sum put
through on any race was £2352 10s. on
the third division of the Maiden Juvenile,
and of that £1479 15s. was place-betting.
Backers jumped off well when Duke
Claro won at 5 to 4, but the next seven
favorites were beaten, and the winners
included two at double figures. A little
while ago some members of the Ring
were inclined to weep over their losses,
but others of a more philosophical turn
of mind contented themselves with the
comment “Oh, it’s all right; our turn will
come.” That summing-up is in a fair
way of proving correct. It generally
does.
• • • • • *
Panchio’s success in the Dundas Han-
dicap was not a great surprise. In last
week’s issue I mentioned that his return
to the winning list was imminent, and his
form of Saturday assured him a trip to
Brisbane, where he has 7.3 in the Doom-
ben Newmarket. The prize was not of
sufficient value to cause any alteration in
his weight. Third to Postman and Radi-
cal up to the turn in the Dundas Handi-
cap, Panchio ran up to Radical a fur-
long from home, and quickly took the
latter’s measure. In the Doomben race
he will meet Radical 1 lib. and Beaulivre
51b. worse than last week.
Beaulivre did not look quite strung up,
but, no matter what excuses may be
made, his effort was disappointing. Last
early, he started to make up ground at
the three furlongs, but immediately after
turning into the straight it was palpable
his chance was not a winning one. Pan-
chio and Radical beat him so decisively
that he will have to make marked im-
provement in a fortnight to defeat either
in Brisbane. He displayed neither dash
nor finishing ability. Radical was started
for the Dundas in preference to the
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap in
order to ascertain how his Doomben
chance compared with that of Beaulivre.
He will now be a runner in Brisbane.
Early Bird’s form in the Ellesmere
Handicap scarcely warranted her warm
favoritism for the Rosehill Handicap, and
though she did better in that than in her
Randwick race she had to put up with
third. When she disposed of the pace-
maker, Highborn, soon after turning into
the straight, Early Bird’s chance appeared
excellent, but she was unable to stall off
Cable Boy when the latter tackled her
commencing the last furlong. Rod-
borough made a run at the leger, but
though it carried him into second place he
was not doing as well as Cable Boy when
the judge’s box was reached. It was Cable
Boy’s first win since last September, and
after Kestrel’s unlucky defeat at Vic-
toria Park last Wednesday W. Kelso, the
trainer of both, must have been wonder-
ing whether he could win with anything
from his stable.
« » • • • *
The Hurdle Race proved soft for the
favorite, Duke Claro, who deprived
King’s Cross of the lead after passing the
six furlongs post. The minor places went
to King Otho and Glaucus, and the
latter, who won a Maiden Hurdle Race
at this track about 18 months ago, is
worth keeping in mind. Of the unplaced
lot Tea Denis was doing best at the end,
and if some of the other runners are
further persevered with as hurdlers it will
be due to their owners being superopti-
mists, or ability on the part of their
trainers to tell a flattering tale.
Farewell, a rather plain daughter of
Cheveley Lad and Valicare, was made
favorite for the first division of the
Maiden Juvenile Stakes. After the first
furlong she dropped out, and though
Anbeau and King Herod led into the
straight they had nothing to do with the
finish, Alertful winning comfortably from
Fanvolan and Sweet Duchess, both of
whom, like the winner, were prominent
from barrier-rise. Re-Double was fourth,
and, as he was running on, will be better
suited by a longer distance.
King Herod, who was having his first
race since last October and looked a bit
above himself, tired badly over the last
furlong, and Kimbell was another who
did not do as well as expected. Alertful
is a half-brother, by Sylvandale, to Pen-
thides, and is trained by W. J. Bryan,
who was the part owner of Penthides,
and also trained him. As a yearling
Alertful was sold for 450gns. Sweet
Duchess is a good-looking Brueghel filly.
Justitia (Beau Pere-La Justice), for
whom F. W. Hughes gave 900gns. as a
yearling, led into the straight with
Gramada and Arenessa in the second
division of the Maiden Juvenile, and
then finished too strongly for her oppo-
nents. Haripur, who was second, did not
get the best of runs after turning for
home, but, even if more favored in that
respect, could not have beaten Justitia.
Miss Cygnea, though third, was never a
possible winner, and only narrowly cut
the tiring Arenessa out of the minor
position. Sparklet and Submission were
next, and the former, who has furnished
considerably during the past three
months, should shortly be a winner. An
interesting runner was Forever England,
who was sired in England by Listol to
Australian time. He did not show up.
The Hall Mark colt Guild Hall, who is
better than he looks, had no difficulty in
winning the third division of the Maiden
Juvenile from Fort Leon and Taurus,
who were his nearest followers entering
the straight. Valoroi’s fourth was a suf-
ficiently good effort to make his owner
optimistic regarding the future, and Sir
Galahad (a Medieval Knight colt) also
shaped fairly. Royalet was an absolute
failure. She jumped off well, was fourth
at the turn, and then dropped right out.
Her second to War Spear at Moorefield
evidently caused her to be overrated.
Valiant Garde’s showing was moderate,
and Jackdaw is not yet as good as he
looks. Well-beaten runners included
Beau Rasade (Beau Pere-La Rasade),
who was sold as a yearling for 950gns.
Guild Hall’s time was three-quarters
of a second slower than that of Alertful
and Justitia.
Ridden a quieter race than when
beaten by Brazen Lad at Randwick a
week earlier, Merrimba scored a decisive
win in the Three- and Four-year-old
Handicap. My Friend led into the
straight from Trade Mark and Loyal
Lad, with Wee Warrah and Merrimba
next. Moving up smartly when fairly on
the road home, Merrimba had My Friend
beaten shortly after commencing the last
furlong, and finished so strongly that a
win at a middle distance should not be
beyond him. Merrimba is by Caledon,
and his dam, Castile, is from the same
family as Windbag. Considering his
good form at Randwick, Merrimba’s
starting price of 5 to 1 was decidedly
liberal. Constant Chatter was the only
runner, apart from the winner, that was
doing really well at the end, though im-
provement in Grand Fils, Trade Mark
and Dawn Mary is not improbable.
Kurrawid, who had been out of the
winning list since last November, forced
his way between Bland Princess and
Legion Bird halfway down the straight
in the Parramatta Handicap, and won
by a length from the last-named. Bland
Princess made most of the running, but
Legion Bird was never far away, and
was up with her before reaching the turn.
Legion Bird’s backers were hopeful of a
protest on the score that Kurrawid car-
ried the latter out when coming through,
but even if it had been entered there
was very little likelihood of its being
upheld.
Jolly Times came from a long way
back to beat Bland Princess for third,
but the latter did well enough to make
her again worth backing. Enatic, though
favorite, did no better than at Randwick
the previous week, further demonstrating
that, as a rule, it does not pay to make
excuses for horses that finish out of a
place. Salivant’s effort was again poor,
and Speardale is not yet back to his old
form. Kurrawid was backed from
twenties down to twelves, so it is fair to
assume his connections had a substantial
win.
* He * *
Abandonment of the V.A.T.C. meet-
ing which was to have been held at
Flemington on Saturday upset the plans
of several owners and trainers of fancied
G.N. Hurdle and Steeple candidates.
Harley and Lockslea were two horses
affected, but in neither instance does the
trainer consider that National prospects
have been prejudiced.
Harley, equal G.N. Hurdle favorite
with Bureaucrat, has raced over hurdles
only twice since last July, and trainer
Des McCormick wished to run him in
the Toolambool on Saturday. McCor-
mick, however, points out that he had
intended giving Harley only one more
race before the National, and that the
Windarra Hurdle at Moonee Valley next
Saturday will do just as well. He is a
good doer, and has thrived since his defeat
of Bureaucrat in the York Hurdle, but
he needs another race to fit him for the
gruelling three-miler, and his connections
must take the risk of a further penalty in
the event of success next Saturday. So
far he has the distinction of being the
only rehandicapped G.N. Hurdle candi-
date.
G.N. Steeple backers of Lcckslea con-
sider that the abandonment of Saturday’s
meeting might have cost that gelding his
National chance. Basis of their anxiety
is the fact that Lockslea is not engaged
in the Kensington Steeple, to be run on
the first day of the V.R.C. meeting, and
that he will contest the National without
a prior race over Flemington fences. His
two starts for as many steeplechase wins
have been over the less difficult Moonee
Valley obstacles. Lessee-trainer E. F.
Silcock, however, does not share the per-
turbation of most Lockslea backers. He
was well pleased with the manner in
which Lockslea schooled at Flemington
last week, and expressed the opinion that,
being a natural jumper, he required “only
one look at them.” To make doubly
sure, however, Silcock will probably give
him another school at Flemington to im-
prove his acquaintance with the course.
Lockslea does not require much school-
ing—he schooled only once previous to
his two Moonee Valley wins—and races
in the Travancore Steeple at the Valley
next Saturday and in the Steeplechasers’
Flat on the second day of the National
meeting will ensure his fitness.
Our Boy has been backed substantially
as the first leg of National doubles, but
his supporters are wondering now
whether they will even get a run for their
money. He has not raced—and, at the
time of writing, had not even schooled —
over hurdles since his success in the Port
Phillip Hurdle at Moonee Valley a year
ago, and, to make matters worse, has not
been quite himself for the last week
or so. Trainer Lou Robertson stated
early in the week that he hoped to be
able to run Our Boy at the Valley next
Saturday, but, if so, it was indefinite
whether he would contest the Windarra
Hurdle or the principal flat race, the
Deep Creek Handicap. The trainer
added that, although he hoped for the
best, it was also indefinite whether Our
Boy would be a National runner. Every-
thing depends upon his immediate pro-
gress, as a horse cannot win the National
unless he is thoroughly fit.
Cheery Jack had not raced over hurdles
for about eight months before his suc-
cess in last year’s National, but he was
a more experienced jumper than Our
Boy, and had had a good deal of school-
ing. Our Boy has done a fair amount of
flat-racing recently, and can scarcely have
become backward in condition, but
even a slight break in training at this
late stage does not enhance a horse’s
National prospects. If Our Boy does not
toe the mark he will leave a consider-
able sum of “dead” money with book-
makers, who already have benefited by
mishaps to early fancies.
Meeting of Lockslea, Solecism and
Bridge of Dee in the Wanda Steeplechase
last Saturday would have given a definite
indication of their respective National
chances. At the time of writing they
shared second favoritism for the big race,
but now they will not meet until National
day. Neither Solecism nor Bridge of
Dee is engaged in the Travancore Steeple-
chase next Saturday, but both are in the
Kensington Steeple a week later. Bridge
of Dee has had several races lately and is
a fit horse, but, although Solecism
demonstrated in the Hopetoun Steeple
that there was nothing much wrong with
his condition —probably he would have
won had he not fallen when going appar-
ently easily in front at the third-last fence
—Saturday’s abandonment may not have
improved his chance. He has had only
one race since last November, and, not
having been entered for the Steeple-
chasers’ Flat on the second day of the
V.R.C. meeting, will have only one more
race before the National.
Des McCormick, who trained the win-
ners of this season’s Australian Hurdle
and Steeple double, Kevastar and Dark
David, looks to have reasonably bright
prospects of landing the National double
with Harley and Highland March. The
latter, a five-year-old, is young as
’chasers go, and, although he might have
been a trifle lucky to defeat Bridge of
Dee in the Royal Steeplechase, he won in
really good style. Further improvement
is probable, and his trainer is determined
that Highland March shall be fit to get
the 3 miles 1 furlong of the National.
He will run in the Travancore Steeple and
in the Kensington also. Brightello, how-
ever, will not race again until National
day. He let his backers down badly in
the Royal Steeplechase, but, quite apart
from the fact that he carried 111 b. more
than his G.N. weight, his form was alto-
gether too bad to be true. He races best
when fresh, and perhaps the Royal
Steeplechase was too soon after his suc-
cessful run in the Hopetoun Steeple nine
days earlier.
* * * *
Melbourne will be well represented by
Aurie’s Star and El Golea in the Doom-
ben (Q.) Newmarket on July 5. El
Golea’s recent third to High Title at
Flemington proved him near his best
again, and he will have derived benefit
from that race, while Aurie’s Star, after
several failures in Adelaide, reproduced
all his former brilliance in winning the
Lancaster Handicap at Flemington.
Aurie’s Star was not penalised for the
Doomben Newmarket, in which he has
9.10. N. Creighton will ride El Golea,
but no jockey has yet been engaged for
Aurie’s Star. His regular rider, A. Dew-
hurst, is in hospital, and the stable
apprentice, H. McDonald, who piloted
him in the Lancaster Handicap, is under
suspension for one month. R. Sinclair,
trainer of Aurie’s Star, did not make the
trip north. He has a large team of
horses to supervise at home, and on
Doomben Newmarket day will saddle
Bureaucrat for the G.N. Hurdle. It
will be a remarkable feat if Sinclair wins
Australia’s richest sprint and Australia’s
richest hurdle race on the same day.
* Ht sH *
Early in the week arrangements were
made to send Radical, Hydra and Lord
Valentine to Brisbane tomorrow. The
last-named, with 7.2, is a Doomben Cup
possibility.
* * * *
The old question of allotment of beL
ting stands in the Randwick paddock by
seniority of registration or ballot has
again cropped up, and the A.J.C. is to
receive petitions on the subject from dif-
ferent sections of bookmaking members
of Tattersall’s Club. The upholders of
the seniority side consider that continu-
ous registration should give them the
right to the choice of positions—not
necessarily in the front line. On the
other hand, many comparatively late
comers, whose ranks include some of our
most dashing bettors, reckon it would be
FOR WARWICK FARM.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT.”
Trial Hurdle Race: Duke Claro,
1 ; King Otho, 2 ; Windjammer, 3.
Trial Nursery Handicap; Epic
Poem, 1 ; Alertful, 2 ; Re-Double, 3.
Flying Welter: John Halifax, 1 ;
Glorious, 2 ; Camsion, 3.
Warwick June Handicap: Fear-
less, 1 ; Kurrawid, 2 ; Cable Boy, 3.
Farm Novice Handicap: Comet,
1 ; Qui Va La, 2 ; Royal Robin or
Rogerwood, 3.
Welter Handicap; Merrimba, 1 ;
Snow Queen, 2 ; Pimm’s, 3.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(Before acceptances .)
Windarra Hurdle: Harley, 1 ;
Methuen, 2 ; Coylton, 3.
Burnewang Handicap: Picca-
dilly Jim, 1 ; Cloudy Bay, 2 ; In-
vidious, 3.
Travancore Steeple: Lockslea,
1 ; Highland March, 2; Koke
King, 3.
Deep Creek Handicap; Kooren-
been, 1 ; Sir Richard, 2 ; Gay In-
vader, 3.
Chandos Trial Handicap: Pom-
pous, 1 ; Foreigner, 2; John
Ruskin, 3.
Greenvale Welter; Saki, 1 ;
Bluebeard, 2 ; Snow White, 3.


unfair to them if it were made definite
that they should be practically debarred
from a favorable position until age had
caused them to lose the zest they now
show in their business transactions. The
ballot does not assure a good position,
but it at least gives a chance of getting
one.
Against this it is argued that men who
have regularly fielded in the paddock
for years are genuinely entitled to greater
consideration than the man who is
granted his first season’s license for the
paddock. One thing certain, however, is
that the best bettors will always com-
mand strong support, no matter what
their positions in the paddock, while
choice positions will not greatly help
those men who have lost any desire to
do business on a big scale. It is difficult
to suggest any satisfactory solution of
the question, but unless there is a sub-
stantial majority in favor of precedence
to seniority the chances are the A.J.C.
will adhere to the ballot.
I have heard it suggested that, in order
of seniority, 25 bookmakers should be
given precedence each year and take part
in the ballot in following years. That
would at least give sfome of the latest
additions to the paddock ranks a chance
in four years, whereas they might have
to wait 20 under the proposed seniority
scheme. That idea, however, is not likely
to appeal greatly to either side.
* * * *
We are often told that we now have
no horses that could saddle up twice a
day like some of the old-time cracks.
The fact that owners of high-class horses
do not ask them to run more than once
in an afternoon is not due to the belief
that they would be unable to acquit
themselves satisfactorily, but that, with
plenty of valuable races in sight, it is
advisable to avoid anything that might
be injurious. It is improbable two wins
in a day would be beyond some of our
present-day best, even though they would
have to gallop faster in short or long
races than the old-time cracks. It is im-
probable Beau Vite would have any diffi-
culty in saddling up twice in an after-
noon for races run at a pace that was
customary in the days of the old-time
cracks.
* 5& # *
Hydra is to be a runner for the Doom-
ben Newmarket, and, taking the A.J.C.
handicapper’s figures as a guide, his
chance should be really good with 7.3.
Only for being so badly left at the start
of the A.J.C. June Plate he would un-
doubtedly have gone close to winning
that race, and will meet Rimveil 41b.
better. Although he did not run he
was weighted at 8.7 to Radical’s 8.4
in the Botany Handicap, and in the
Doomben Newmarket he gets 21b. from
Radical. Subsequent to the June Handi-
cap it was discovered that a sore mouth
was responsible for Hydra throwing his
head up and veering away at the start
of the June Plate.
* * * »
S. Killick, C. Rudd, and cheery P.
Ryan, three trainers well known in Syd-
ney, died within the past fortnight. Kil-
lick will be remembered as having de-
veloped Beauford, whose meeting with
Eurythmic in the Autumn Stakes of 1922
attracted an attendance of 92,300, which
is still a record for Randwick. Ryan
trained many winners, one of the best
being Valais Queen.
* * * *
There is one racing practice in connec-
tion with which I think the stewards
could occasionally ask “Why?” It is
that of putting up an indifferent young-
ster on a horse, and then, after it has run
a couple of bad races, replacing him with
a capable jockey and betting accordingly.
Or, vice versa, giving the mount to a poor
rider after a horse has scored a win or
two when handled by a good rider. There
is no need for a trainer to tell a com-
paratively inexperienced lad to do some-
thing that may lead to trouble. As a
rule, if the race happens to be a sprint
he knows he is quite safe in saying “Do
your best.” In such cases mistakes have
occurred, but not often. At a recent
meeting I noticed that the double book-
makers, in anticipation of a horse being
well in the market, had it at 5 to 1 and
6 to 1 in some combinations, but as soon
as jockeys’ names were semaphored book-
makers doing straightout business sized
up the situation, and the horse was at
nearly as long a price straightout as in
early doubles of which it was the first
leg. It did not win.
* * * *
Jymjon, an ordinary-looking little grey
gelding, was, on his previous form, gener-
ally considered out of place in the A.J.C.
Winter Plate, but his trainer’s opinion
that he was a stayer above the average
was correct. With a great finishing run
over the last quarter-mile Jymjon not only
won but made an Australian record of
2.41 J for 13 furlongs. His win was remi-
niscent of tfiat of L’Aiglon in the Sydney
Cup. A little over a fortnight before
his success in that race L’Aiglon was
third in a Progressive Handicap at Ken-
sington. On May 23 Jymjon was un-
placed in the Encourage Stakes at Vic-
toria Park, second in an Ascot Handi-
cap with the minimum on June 4, and
unplaced in a Kensington Handicap, \\
mile, with 7.2 (minimum 7.0) on June
11. He was fancied by his connections
each time, and it was therefore difficult
to give him much chance in a better field
on June 16. A few backers got 100 to 1
about him. Jymjon’s sire, Roxburgh, is
a grey by Pantheon from Chrystal, also
a grey, and she was by another grey,
Chrysolaus.
* * * *
There is another day’s racing at Rand-
wick before the close of the season, and
if the weather is favorable the totalisator
turnover for 1940-41 at that track may
total nearly a million and a quarter. Up
to date it is £1,196,373, made up as
follows;
Australian Jockey Club.
Spring Meeting—four days .. £222,107/5/-
Summer Meeting—-two days .. 85,227/-/-
Anniversary Meeting—two days 65,439/-/-
Autumn Meeting—four days .. 194,419/5/-
Winter Meeting—two days .. 76,687/-/-
£643,879/10/-
Warwick Farm.
August 31 £36,770/10/-
September 25 .. .. .. 14,741/15/-
October 26 27,469/10/-
November 23 .. .. .. 19,141/5/-
December 4 .. .. .. 14,348/15/-
December 7 .. .. .. 19,969/5/-
January 11 29,773/15/-
February 8 28,302/-/-
March 8 27,679/-/-
April 5 27,714/-/-
May 24 17,537/5/-
June 7 .. 32,026/-/-
£295,473/-/-
Tattersall’s Club.
September 14 .. .. .. £37,037/-/-
Summer Meeting—two days .. 81,621/-/-
May 17 37,760/10/-
£156,418/10/-
City Tattersall’s Club.
October 19 £36,768/-/-
May 3 31,648/5/-
£68,416/5/-
Red Cross Benefit.
September 21 £32,185/15/-
* * *
An English Derby and Oaks win at
the same meeting is unusual for any
trainer, but F. Darling brought it off last
week with Owen Tudor and Commotion.
The latter, who is by the French-bred
sire Mieuxce (Massine-L’Olivette), could
not have shown any form last season,
as at its close she was not among those
weighted for the Two-year-old Free
Handicap. Turkana, who ran second to
Commotion, was allotted 8.4 in that race.
Lambert Simnel was favorite early
last week, and it is probable he held
his position. However, he was unplaced,
and Mrs. Macdonald-Buchanan’s Owen
Tudor (Hyperion-Mary Tudor) won
comfortably ip 2.32 from his more-
fancied stable-companion, the Maharani
of Kolhapur’s Morogoro, their respective
prices being 25 to 1 and 11 to 2. They
were two of the four runners from the
stable of F. Darling, who won with Pont
I’Eveque last year. On public and track
form Morogoro was much superior to
Owen Tudor, but G. Richards believed in
the latter, and would have taken the
mount on him if an accident had not
prevented his doing any riding on Derby
Day. Richards, who is 36 years of age,
seems fated not to win a Derby. Last
year he could have ridden Pont I’Eveque
but preferred another horse in the stable.
When A. Fawcett, the Jockey Club’s
handicapper, compiled his weights for
the Free Handicap Sweepstakes, for two-
year-olds, at the close of last season, he
gave Morogoro 9.3, Owen Tudor 8.10
and Lambert Simmel 8.7, while Firoze
Din (third at 100 to 1 in the Derby) had
not shown sufficient form to be weighted.
Six colts by Hyperion ran in the Derby,
Devonian, in running fourth, coming out
next-best to Owen Tudor.
* * * *
England had its Derby last Wednesday
at Newmarket, with an attendance offi-
cially estimated at 25,000, against the half-
million that patronised Epsom in pre-
war days. It was, however, reckoned
that another 25,000 did not reach New-
market owing to road congestion. When
it was decided to abandon the original
Derby entries were taken in January for
a Substitute Derby. Twenty started of
the 56 nominated, and it is improbable
there would have been a larger field under
original conditions.
* * * *
An exchange says that Ellerslie has
rarely been as fast in winter as at the
commencement of this month. When
Esperance Bay won the Great Northern
Hurdles in 4.37 for the mile and a half
he reduced the previous record for the
race by the big margin of 4sec. He car-
ried 9.8 to the 11.5 of Streamline, whom
he beat a half-head. Later at the meet-
ing the latter won the Great Northern
Steeplechase with 10.10.
* * * *
In Florida last month the Legislature
approved of increasing the tax on tote
betting at Hialeah and Tropical Parks
(Miami) from 10 to 15 per cent, in order
to raise $2,450,000 (about £A785,000) for
old-age pensions. Of the total 15 per
cent, the Government will get 8 per
cent. Florida racegoers are to be made
pay heavily for indulging in betting.
There are no course bookmakers in that
State.
* * * ♦
At last week’s conference of repre-
sentatives of Sydney racing clubs and
the Newcastle Jockey Club it was de-
cided that, commencing with those for
maidens, hurdle races might be classi-
fied in the same fashion as restricted
flat races. The idea was that it might
encourage owners of jumpers. Perhaps,
but in Sydney over the last 30 or 40 years
clubs have been trying to encourage that
section of owners without meeting
with special response. Possibly the pro-
posed new order of things might have
some effect, but, after all, is it worth
while for other clubs to go out of their
way to cater for inferior hurdlers, with
the eventual certainty of small fields, no
matter what the class?
* * * ♦
Fractional times for the Kentucky
Derby, which Whirlaway won by eight
lengths in the track record time for a
mile and a quarter of 2. If were as fol-
lows : Quarter 23 f, half 46f, six furlongs
1.1 If, and mile 1.37 f. That made Whirl-
away run the last quarter in 24sec. The
prize-money was divided as follows: First
$61,275 (approximately £A 18,617), second
$BOOO, third $3OOO, fourth $lOOO.
Trainers’ awards: First $3OOO, second
$2OOO, third $lOOO. Breeders’ awards:
First $2OOO, second $lOOO, third $5OO.
The total of $82,775 would be equivalent
to about £A25,210. There certainly is
big money attached to owning a first-
class three-year-old in America.
* * * *
Sold recently at Alice Springs for £7
7s. and resold for £9 95., the 1927 Vic-
toria Derby and Melbourne Cup winner
Trivalve may yet end his days in com-
fort. Mrs. M. Fraser, of Toorak, has
got in touch with Trivalve’s latest owner
in the hope of buying him in order to
pension him off. I saw Trivalve win the
Melbourne Cup from Silvius, and a
gamer performance would have been
difficult. He was getting a pound from
the second horse, Silvius, who won the
Melbourne Stakes on the opening day of
the meeting. Trivalve won £28,375 in
prize-money, and it is regrettable that at
17 years he should have gone so far
down the scale as to be sold for seven
guineas.
* * * *
Ashley Reed did not make the good
beginning he hoped when he recently re-
sumed riding in Melbourne, but he re-
turned to the winning list at Mentone
last week. He scored two wins and a
third, the latter being on a horse so little
fancied that it returned nearly 12 to 1 on
the tote. Reed is evidently still able to
hold his own, and a second Melbourne
Cup may yet be credited him. It is said
that good riders are not numerous in
Melbourne, and, for that matter, it
appears to be much the same in Sydney,
The same riders are on most of the
winners at Saturday meetings, the excep-
tions generally being apprentices who
have recently come to the fore. Some of
our best jockeys are really in the veteran
class. Bartle, for instance, was on suc-
cessive Summer Cup winners—Braille
and King of the Forest —in 1920-21, and
still rides with as much vigor as he
showed then. McMenamin, who could
scarcely get a ride of any account in a
flat race when he first came to Sydney
some years ago, was never better than
during the past year.
* * * *
Prior to his success at Victoria Park
last week. Highborn had been out of the
winning list since he beat Bonny Loch in
a nine-furlongs race at Canterbury Park
last June. F. W. Hughes gave a stiff
price for Highborn at three years, and
won with him at Victoria Park a week
later. Highborn ran in the 1937 A.J.C.
Derby, and finished last. He is now a
gelding.
* * % x
Black Ray, a 22-year-old daughter of
Black Jester, is credited with being Eng-
land’s most prolific brood mare. She
won at two years, went to the stud at
three, and her first foal was thrown in
1923, when she was four. She has foaled
every year since, and threw her nine-
teenth foal in March of this year. Several
of her progeny were winners.
* * * *
The total prize-money distributed in
the United States last year was
$15,911,167 (approximately £A4,839,500),
a record for that country. It is antici-
pated the amount will be greater this
year.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Australian heavy champion Billy Britt
and ditto light-heavy Cec Overall slugged
each other for 12 rounds at Leichhardt
last Thursday night. The decision went
to Bill, not that it mattered very much,
since Ron Richards would only need to
emerge from his shell to take over both
titles on successive nights. Or why make
two nights of it?
* * * *
With just on 2st. advantage, it took
Joe Louis 13 rounds to beat Billy Conn,
who put up a splendid fight till he ran
his chin into a lethal right. Up to then
Conn had it on points. A better boxer
than Louis, and as game as they make
’em, he tried to get back on his feet
before the count ended, but couldn’t quite
manage it, which may have been just as
well for him. The scrap drew a crowd
of 50,000, and they got their money’s
worth.
* * * *
Anyone who saw Ken Overlin fight m
these parts must have been flabbergasted
when, back on his native heath, he col-
lected the world middleweight title. The
mystery is somewhat explained by Ameri-
can newspaper reports of the scrap in
which he lost the title to Billy Soose.
As the New York “World Telegram’s”
boxing writer put it:
If you care anything about prize fight-
ing and, specifically, if you care anything
about an oldish young man named Ken
Overlin, you will want to go up to him
today and shake his hand. You will want
to say to Mr. Overlin, “I’m glad. You
aren’t the worst middleweight champion
I ever saw. The fellow who got the de-
cision over you last night is the worst of
all time.”
Foofbrawl
Saturday’s V.F.L. matches, played in
the wet, left Richmond alone at the top
of the list, Essendon going down before
the despised Collingwood and Carlton
before the equally-despised Fitzroy.
Richmond had no trouble with St. Kilda.
At Victoria Park the ’Dons failed to
take advantage of a good wind in the
first quarter, only got a lead of eight
points and then found the ’Wood backs
too tough. The last was fought in pour-
ing rain, Essendon’s stoutly-maintained
attack wilting at the end and Colling-
wood going on to win, 8.12-7.10.
At Carlton the locals managed to stay
in front for halfway through the water-
polo match ; after that Fitzroy, by some
heady swimming and duck-diving, got to
the front and stayed there, 12.13-10.17.
Recoiling with shudders from contact
with the wet ball, St. Kilda failed to
score against Richmond in the first
quarter and gave the Tigers an untroubled
win by 10.13 to 6.11. Melbourne was
awarded 12.12 for its figure skating at
Hawthorn, the locals skidding in with
6.8.
Down at Geelong conditions were
better, and Footscray had to earn all it
could get against a side that appeared to
have been rejuvenated. Even though a
man short at the close, Geelong battled
on well and was within eight points of
the lead when Page goaled for ’Scray and
settled it, 13.15-10.18.
Best game of the day was between
North and South at South. Neither side
is high in League estimation, but their
wet-weather tactics provided a lesson for
their betters. Dribbling, handball and
short punting were exploited in a manner
pretty to watch, and, though a deluge fell
at half-time, both teams managed to keep
it interesting to the end. Sowth the
winner by 8.16 to 6.6.
* * * *
’Varsity has had another one-point
win in the Sydney Rugby Union com-
petition, this time over Randwick, 16-15.
The Students began at a great rate and
led 16-5 at half-time. After that it was
all Randwick. The Green backs handled
beautifully and drove hard and straight
for the line ; two more tries (they notched
three to Uni.’s two) took them to 15-16.
Another was disallowed after the touch
judge had pointed out a breach ; still
another —it seemed all right—ruled out.
Uni. hailed the bell with delight.
East keeps winning. Gordon was put
through 12-6 (four tries to one). East
is still level with University.
• • • • • t
Forwards won for North and Parra-
matta. North downed St. George 11-6,
and Parramatta accounted for Drum-
moyne 9-4.
West has gone through the first round
(nine matches) without scoring a win,
though it has three times forced a draw.
On Saturday the Westerners had all the
better of play against Manly, but were
beaten by a last-minute try —12-11 (two
tries all).


Or INTEREST
Right in the heart of Melbourne, the Victoria
is handy to theatres, main shopping centres,
trains, trams, and business and professional
centres. Luxurious and comfortable, the
Victoria is Melbourne’s most popular hotel,
and the largest non-iicensed hotel in Australia.
Each year more than a quarter million guests
enjoy the Victoria’s comfort, luxury, and
convenience, as well as the special guest
service which cares for your every need.
a.
w f.
iag'V'
iv*.
mss
SSS
cP v
p%i
S)\
VICTORIA
FAL A C E
“ROOM ONLY"
DAILY TARIFFS
Singles ■ 5/- to 101-
Doubles-8 /- to 18/6
Suites, Family Rooms, etc.
Full Catering Services.
$. D. HORNE
Manager
%
A. 12.41
MfIBOURNiS MOST P
215 LITTLE COLLINS STREET - NEXT TOWN HALL
SUNDRY SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Spring Tide”
Would producers please note that in
real life no young man over the age of
six ever shows that he is hurt or in a
rage by standing moodily in a corner
biting his lips and staring at the wall?
Two (or was it three?) of the young men
in “Spring Tide” at Sydney Minerva do
this repeatedly, one of them having an
extraordinary affection for a potplant on
the sideboard and the other seeming in
his tantrums actually to nibble the leaves
of the aspidistra (left) in which he has
buried his face.
Apart from that and the tears in Hal
Thompson’s voice when he tells all the
successful young people that his pictures
don’t sell (artists don’t cry) this J. B.
Priestley fairytale about the trials and
troubles of Youth is well done.
Harvey Adams as the wise, crusty,
kindly old Irishman who, as Everybody’s
Uncle or the Fairy Godfather, solves the
problems of all the young people and
sets them on the road to the record
happy ending of three marriages and for-
tunes all round ; Yvonne Banvard as the
only kindhearted landlady in captivity ;
Richard Parry as the sometimes inaudible
but always amusing share-pusher and
super-salesman; Muriel Steinbeck and
Diana Parham as young things who
sometimes let men kiss them (Mr.
Priestley is becoming positively Rabe-
laisian) —all these are good. Charles Zoli
plays the inevitable comic porter and
Marion Johns bursts into tears in a man-
ner that would gladden Mr. Priestley’s
heart.
The play, set chiefly in a boarding-
house in which the young people are
broke, dispirited and unhappy in their
love affairs, moves swiftly along on a
current of mingled humor and pathos
to the abysmally cheerful conclusion of
fame, fortune and wedding-bells all
round. Mr. Priestley is astute enough as
a playwright to know that stuff which
in a novel would be recognised for the
sentimental tosh it is is often enough
successful in a play because the mere
physical presence of his nonsensical
puppets on the stage misleads one into
regarding them as living people whose
smiles are pleasant to see and whose
tears (the artist’s excepted) are a matter
of some concern.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Windfall”
Melbourne Little Theatre made this
comedy-drama, by Edward Irving Young
and Jeffrey Dell, an excellent evening’s
entertainment and an exceptionally well-
acted one. In fact, few professional stage
actors ever put as much verisimilitude
into a part as Ray Connell put into his
role of the sanguine, self-satisfied, lati-
tudinarian estate agent who drops in on
the suburban friend in London (Gordon
Cook) who has just been handed £20,000
by his employer with instructions to
deliver the money to a mysterious
stranger. This was especially apparent
when his suburban cobber not only
dashes his hopes of getting a cut at
the money by confessing that the £20,000
was not his, but then makes off with his
exceedingly attractive girl friend (Jeanne
Nash) after a scene in which Miss Nash
has overcome the suburban husband’s
scruples with all the voluptuous resources
of a suburban parlor, including dimmed
lights and radio music.
Mr. Connell’s change of mood from
gaiety to insensate anger was thoroughly
convincing, and as the eight-pound-ten-a-
week clerk who finds £20,000 in his
hands without an owner Mr. Cook was
equally effective.
Although basically the usual suburban
fantasy on which dramatists have played
variations times without number, the opus
was amusing and frequently pathetic.
Dorothy O’Keefe fitted the part of the
complacent wife to perfection. Lewis
Tegart, Alec Doig and Harry Marks were
excellent as police and blackmailers, and
B. Randall was in charge of the pro-
duction.
* * * ♦
Percy Code and the A.B.C. Orch.
Sydney, left to stew in its own juice
orchestrally, without benefit of imported
conductors, keeps its musical flag flying
bravely. At the Town Hall on Saturday
night Percy Code steered the A.B.C. in-
strumentalists through the intricacies of
Elgar’s symphonic programme-piece “Fal-
staff” in a manner that would have done
credit to an English conductor. The
work, heard for the first time from a
Sydney concert platform, requires con-
siderable knowledge and preparation on
the part of the listener for full apprecia-
tion, but any Elgar work is worth listen-
ing to for its pure musical content. On
the programme also were a nice perform-
ance of Handel’s “Water Music” suite
and the Moussorgsky-Ravel “Pictures
from an Exhibition,” done with lashings
of fire and enthusiasm.
Mezzo-soprano Dorothy Helmrich
sang a group of songs including the very
early Schubert composition “The Eternal
One.” Broadcast transmissions of this
singer’s voice never do it justice.
» * * *
The third of this year’s series of
chamber music recitals at Sydney Con.
had as its most likeable feature a really
fine performance of the Brahms G
Minor Pianoforte Quartet. Laurence
Godfrey Smith (piano), Gladstone Bell
(’cello), William Krasnik (viola) and
Hugh McClean (violin) all acquitted
themselves well. Beethoven’s C Minor
Trio (Op. 9) was a fine contrast in manner
and outlook.
* » * *
The sight of “Rio Rita” parad-
ing again at Sydney Royal brings
to mind a fellow whose answer to the
time-honored “Have you heard this
one?” was invariably “No, not recently.”
“Rio Rita,” however, was always a
good ’un, and the Royal people have
done it fairly proud. Production is a
trifle patchy, but the effect on the whole,
allowing for the hackneyed ditties, is
good. Comedy—mainly Charles Norman,
Don Nicol and Dot Rankin —is tiptop.
Daphne Lowe and John Fraser are the
principals, and, backed by a solid chorus,
they each hold their end up quite well.
Alfred Bristowe, as General Esteban, and
the specialty dancers, Earl and Fontaine,
are strikingly good.
ARTBURSTS
Melbourne has had music amongst the
pictures at the National Gallery, and
now it has pictures amongst the comes-
tibles at the Meilleur Cafe in Collins-
street. An exhibition by the Contem-
porary Group in tjie Carlton Brewery is
indicated as the next step in the liberalis-
ing of art in Melbourne, and it is cer-
tain to be well attended. Latest occupant
of the walls at the aforesaid cafe is C.
Salis Lloyd, who presents a series of pic-
tures of sentimental subjects and of por-
traits. Mr. Lloyd is better when he gets
away from human beings into landscape.
* * * *
Melbourne’s Independent Group has
unpacked a livelier collection of pictures
in its latest exhibition at the Athenaeum
than the last time. If James Quinn,
Margaret Pestell, Dora Wilson and
others may plough their old rut, there
is an interesting experimental quality
about some of the exhibitors—Arnold
Shore paints rhododendrons in a
strangely disturbing manner, Nutter
Buzacott digs with a crude but unpre-
tentious pencil into the sombre world of
the munitions worker, Mary Mercer en-
deavors to express the force of breakers
pouring through the gaps in a concrete
revetment with a brush charged with the
primary colors, and Edith Alsop has a
spirited go at some pigs in “An Impres-
sion.”
* * * *
The man who painted most of the still-
life and landscape in Bertram Bryning’s
show at the Melb. Velasquez doesn’t
seem to be the same man who painted
“Foggy Morning, Fairfield,” “Late After-
noon, Ivanhoe,” “Bush Path,” “Almond”
and an unnamed portrait of a woman. In
the latter he appears to have been under
the influence of Max Meldrum. Other-
wise it would be difficult to account for
a sensitiveness in the one class of pic-
ture that is lacking in the others or only
fitfully appears. “The Tip, Colling-
wood,” is another interesting shot at an
impression.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Melbourne Nat. Gallery has
lately exposed some exceptionally inter-
esting carvings. Some are Gothic and
were brought out and lent to the Gallery
by a refugee from Central Europe. A
group of two women supporting another
is instinct with feeling quite apart from
the religious motive, and the others show
the religious emotion just as keenly even
if they look comic from the point of view
of modern notions of perspective and
proportion. Another magnificent thing
is a seated Kwanyin Boddhisatva
(Sung Dynasty, 960 a.d.), purchased
by the Felton Bequest. The Chinese
Goddess of Mercy is sitting with
her left arm lightly resting on her
raised knee and the weight of her
body thrown on to her right arm.
It looks just as living as the Greek Aphro-
dite which the Felton bought for a song
from a gentleman m England. As
Chinese art was mlluenced by Indian and
Indian by Greek when Alexander erupted
into Asia, there may be a link between
the Aphrodite from England and the
Kwanym from furthest Asia.
, tn , „ T *. *. * .
Cauboy : It is a curious experience
to weave ones way through the
Myer Emporium in Melbourne, where
radio cabinets resemble bookcases and
everything looks like something else, and
there is not a touch of Nature or of in-
dividuahty, but everywhere the stamp of
monotonous machine manufacture and
h “ debou f h lnl ° lle Chmese Art Ex-
hibmon. where every article even the
robes of a Manchu civil servant,
bears the marks of the craftsman,
and every bowl or vase or wine
pot or pen-washing dish, from 200 B.c
onwards to a.d. 1820, looks as if the dead
and gone potter had tried to make it
look just a little nicer than the last one.
The robes the mandarins hastily dis-
carded when the Manchu regime sue-
cumbed to Republican enthusiasm in 1911
are of extraordinary beauty of design
and execution, and the amount of needle-
work that went into a single jacket is
amazing. Another interesting exhibit is
the unique collection of Manchu badges
which a mandarin hung before and be-
hind his portly stomach. The show has
a somewhat comic aspect inasmuch
as the producers have mounted the re-
splendent robes on dummies from Myer’s
show-window, adding moustaches to the
young man ordinarily used to display the
firm’s latest in tennis outfits,
AT THE TALKIES
“The Long Voyage Home,” one of
the finest films ever shown in Sydney, ran
for exactly a week at Sydney Civic before
it was ripped off and replaced by a re-
vival bill of a couple of old films. Also,
before it had run half the week, it was
made the support item on the bill, while
the original support, an incredibly dread-
ful western, was made the principal
attraction. The only explanation offered
was that the patrons of the Civic “much
preferred the western,” and possibly they
did —the Civic is frequented mainly by
addicts of blood-and-thunder westerns,
moider mysteries and other gory melo-
drama. But that doesn’t explain why a
magnificent and timely drama, finely
depicting the lives of the kind of men
who are bringing arms from the U.S.A.
to Britain and the tremendous hazards
they are running every day, should be put
on for a week at one of the smallest film-
houses in Sydney, while the other
luxuriously carpeted and upholstered
palaces are showing for weeks on end
the usual run of croonanhoof, slapstick
and melodrama. It’s a sad commentary
on the intelligence of the film business.
* * * *
“Flight Command,” at Sydney St. James,
is all about a U.S. squadron of fliers
termed “Hell Cats.” Film is in the spec-
tacular melodrama class, with some excel-
lent authentic naval scenes, but, probably
because it was inspected directly after
“The Long Voyage Home,” it falls hor-
ribly flat. Robert Taylor is the aviation
school graduate who joins the squadron
and is mistrusted because of his youth
and inexperience and friendliness with
the commander’s wife, but who finally
proves himself such a dinkum ’ero that
the rest of the fliers practically go down
on their knees begging him to forgive
them and not to walk out. There’s so
much mock heroism and sentimentality
in the piece that the bunch of very pretty
young men who figure as the “Cats”
rarely get past the domestic-pussy stage.
♦ ♦ ♦
“Cheers for Miss Bishop,” at Sydney
Century, appears to be an attempt to
cash in on the popularity of “Good-
bye, Mr. Chips.” It concerns a
female of the species, depicted as
growing from girlhood to extreme old
age in the teaching business; her de-
votion to the school, y’ know, her heart
affairs, and other bits of her private life
are injected into the opus to keep it
going. What, however, was charming
sentiment and authentic character acting
in “Good-bye, Mr. Chips,” becomes,
under less skilful acting and directing,
sticky sentimentality and spadefuls of
make-up. Recommended to spinster
schoolteachers who like reading about
the private lives of spinster school-
teachers.
♦ * * ♦
Each one of the “Dr. Kildare” films must
send scores of nervous old girls and other
self-diagnosticians scurrying to their
medico, quite convinced that they are
showing all the symptoms of the poor
fellow in the film. In the latest, “Dr.
Kildare’s Crisis,” showing at Sydney
Lyceum, Robert Young is the young
chap with a horrible something or other
which Lew Ayres manages to track down
and prescribe for. It makes f.a.q. light
entertainment, with only Robert Young
to distinguish it from numerous prede-
cessors. Supported by an English film
of a type they seem to be mass-producing
there these days. This one has Claude
Hulbert and Will Hayes keeping it bright
while tracking down a spy.


A WOMAN'S
LETTER
“Rio Rita” brought a smack of the
tropics into the Royal on Sydney’s most
arctic night of the season. Anyone
under 50 who hadn’t made up his mind
to be an anchorite must have felt the
heart melted by the singing wrapped
around with the Moonlight ballet of “If
you’re in love, you’ll waltz.” There’s a
dance, too, in which Spanish shawls are
swirled and tossed like some bright pat-
tern of romance. Gladys Moncrieff,
Sydney’s original Rio Rita, watched from
a box. That Sydney remembered her in
the part was shown by the deafening
applause which greeted her entry.
She wore black velvet and her fur
coat was decorated with an orchid exotic
enough to have been plucked on some
■ungle path by the Rio Grande. With
Gladys was Florence Bennett, coated in
dark furs. The Roland Fosters were
here, seeing two of Roland’s pupils,
Daphne Lowe, the heroine, and Marie
Ryan as Carmen, walk straight into Syd-
ney hearts. Marie’s mother and sister
were there to applaud.
In spite of the chill the musical pilgrim
made for the Town Hall in great num-
bers last Saturday. The A.B.C. sym-
phony orchestral concert, with Percy
Code conductor, was the great draw.
Quite a crowd of the State’s best woolly-
minded went out to Pyrmont to see the
Governor tie up Charles II with his
championship ribbon. Merryville Rose
was a queen of the pen that had gauds
thrust upon her. Owing to the military
being in possession of the Showground
this year the pick of the pastures did
their baaing at the sign of the Common-
wealth Wool and Produce Co.’s Pyrmont
home. Mrs. Douglas Tooth, whose
father, Norman Kater, is president of the
Sheepbreeders’ Association, was one of
those who looked with the eye of discern-
ment on Corriedale and Southdown.
With her was Codge Barritt. Judy Earp,
of Glenrowan (Vic.), was noted, a
smocked handmaiden to the Dorset
Horns. Mrs. Harold Prell, of Goulburn,
and Mrs. Ted Body and daughter Margot
were there. Joan Harrison, of Rylstone,
was another in the picture. So was Mrs.
Toby Browne, who strolled about, her
coat, hat and handbag of grey lambskin.
The C.W.A. handicrafts committee had
arranged a show of spinning, weaving
and the making of camouflage nets. Lady
Wakehurst, all in brown, was a visitor
on the opening day.
Anyone who is picked to run as a
queen of anything should be sure to get
the barmaids of the State behind her.
They really are continuous and enthusi-
astic workers. That they worked for the
Liquor Trades candidate in the just-
past Red Cross Queen competition was
proved by the grand total of £27,550 with
which Betty Bryant wiped the eye of all
other contestants. The secretary of her
publicity committee tells there were no
really large donations in her cause. It
was just hard work all around that did it.
Generally conceded is the fact that no
prettier Queen has ever donned royal
raiment. Betty, in gold brocade, its pan-
niers and train lined with burgundy, was
a graceful figure. Her speech, too, was
a delight to the ear. Phrasing and dic-
tion were both good. Lorna Byrne, the
Rural Queen and runner-up, was all green
and gold, like the promise of spring, and
wore a headdress of tiny sheaves of
wheat. She carried herself with distinc-
tion and made a very graceful curtsy
at the pageant in the Town Hall
when the crowning of the Queen took
place. Lady Wakehurst, president of the
State’s Red Cross, received the royalties.
Mayor Crick placed the crown on Betty’s
brow.
The Town Hall blazed with the Red
Cross against its white ground. Silk
pennants from the gallery bore this de-
sign. It dominated the dais where the
ceremony took place. Enormous Union
Jacks, flags of Australia and of the
United States stirred to still greater
heights democracy’s will to victory. There
were trumpets, there was a great choir
singing “Rule Britannia” and “There’ll
Always Be an England,” and in addition
to the Queen and her runner-up there
were eight other aspirants to the crown
with their attendants, all dazzlingly
dressed. The Town Hall was crowded
to behold, which all added to the day’s
takings of £90,000. Incidentally, one of
the day’s unforgettable moments was pro-
vided by the singing of Gladys Moncrieff
in Martin-place. Another heard singing in
fine style was Marie La Varre. In fact,
the whole entertainment in this spot was
notable. There was no fricassee of stalls
this time. Badges and buttons alone were
sold.
Last Wednesday night Gladys Mon-
crieff, looking dignified in black velvet,
sang, and a rapt audience packed
the long room. “When We Were
Young,” “Rio Rita,” “The Chocolate
Soldier” and last, with all joining in (as
indeed they had in the chorus of the
others), “Land of Hope and Glory.”
Gladys’s little speech of thanks for the
rousing “She’s a Jolly Good Fellow” was
simple: “Thank you. Good-bye, God
bless you!” Just before supper and the
cutting of the birthday cake, braye with
its one green candle, the favorite com-
petition of the night happened. Bort
Fahy played a number of airs, old and
new, and the boys and girls wrote down
the names. Out of 21 numbers, which
included bits of “Carmen,” “Samson and
Delilah,” “La Paloma,” “Onward, Chris-
tian Soldiers” and “Who’s Afraid of the
Big Black Wolf?” two winners came up
with a total of 20. That’s a pretty wide
musical knowledge.
England, in ruins and still undestroy-
able, looks out from the display of photo-
graphs now in David Jones’s auditorium.
Here is the Englishman’s Home, a mass
of rubble and distortion ; here is the Eng-
lishman, if not smiling, at least dauntless,
picking out the pieces that the bombs
have not turned to dust and matchwood.
Down the long ruined streets walk the
King and Queen, talking to their sub-
jects, sharing their hour of bitterness, and
determined just as they are to go through
with courage till the sweets of victory are
served. Here are the guns, the ships and
the men to bring ultimate victory to the
Empire. It’s a show to arouse interest,
sympathy and grim determination.
This is a John Lee photograph of
Pamela Darling, who is taking the part
of Mile, de Fiemmes in Harry Tighe’s
play “Intrigue,” which will be presented
by the Phoenix Theatre Players early in
July.
Dr. Nigel Smith’s car was an inspiring
sight as it rushed about between subur-
ban post offices carrying on its steps
three large crosses made of Red Cross
seal posters. He had made them of card-
board and covered them with the posters,
using about 24. These were put up at
the different post offices where the V.As.
were selling the attractive sticker. Lady
Cowrie did a sort of Red Cross crusade
visiting p.os. at Bondi Junction, Drum-
moyne, Balmain, Crow’s Nest and other
arteries of the big heart in Martin-place.
Mrs. Nigel Smith is president of the com-
mittee, and it is her modest hope that
every letter-writing citizen in Australia
will soon be consuming six penny seals
a week; and that these will become, as
we said before, Australia’s pet perform-
ing seals, doing a non-stop act of mercy.
July 11 has been set aside as Free
French Day, and at the meeting of the
committee last week a cable from Henri
Sautot, Governor-General of Free French
possessions in the Pacific, gave the day
his patronage and blessing. Andre
Brenac, leader of the movement in Aus-
tralia, announced General de Gaulle’s
interest in the 11th. It is possible that
Free Frenchmen will have their hearts
warmed on that day by a special broad-
cast from the General.
After four years of war the Chinese
in Sydney could still find room in their
sympathies for warriors of battles of
other days. The Dragon Festival Ball
last week, arranged by members of the
Young Chinese Relief Movement, shared
its takings between its own funds and that
of the Ex-Service Clubs. The tickets invit-
ing to this ball bore a decorative border of
red dragon coiled completely around the
lettering and making at the bottom of
the card a ferocious attempt to snap the
tip of his own tail, and jolly near mak-
ing it. The wife of China’s Consul-
General Pao was the patroness, and to
the Consular pair were presented the 11
debs. The embroidery of which China
is justly proud was displayed by many
of the committee members on their
gowns.
Valerie Boyle and Max Sly are plan-
ning a novel entertainment for the 2/ 15th
Field Regiment Blitzkrieg Ball at Nock
and Kirby’s Pompadour Rooms on July
10. Valerie is secretary of the ball, and
by all reports is having a busy time try-
ing to cope with the bookings. Boys of
the camp are looking forward to the
function, which is organised to help raise
funds for medical equipment for the regi-
ment. Quite a large sum is expected to
be gained.
Pianist Ida Gough is giving a helping
hand to the little soldier hostel in the
crypt of St. James’s. On Friday, the
fourth of July, her pupils will give a con-
cert in the Forum Club for the hostel,
and as they and their teacher have already
held small parties in their homes to de-
fray the expenses all the takings will go
to the struggling but warm-hearted city
venture. A feature of the concert will
be the percussion bands, as this is a type
of musical training in which Miss Gough
is very interested. Some new ideas in
this medium will be demonstrated. As
well as being a gifted musician Miss
Gough is well known as an actress. She
has played leading Shakspearean parts in
Walter Bentley’s companies. She was a
popular member of the amateur group
known as the Vagabonds, and was one
of the Gregan McMahon Repertory
players. Her most recent appearances
have been with the Thespians.
The clubroom of the Fellowship of
.vustralian Writers was fittingly decorated
with gum-tips and early wattle on a night
of last week, when lovers of Henry Law-
son’s work forgathered in an anniversary
commemoration of his birth. With Frank
Dalby Davison in the chair, speakers
included Mrs. Bertha Lawson, who told
simply and interestingly of her first meet-
ing with the poet, when as a young
Gippsland girl she visited Sydney on a
three-weeks’ holiday, of their marriage,
their life in Sydney and their wanderings
overseas, mostly in the steerage;
Dymphna Cusack, who stressed the essen-
tial Australianism of Lawson’s work ;
and Rod Quinn, who told tales of his
old mate and of The Bulletin bards of
the ’nineties. An occasional poem from
Nellie Evans was read by Bartlett Adam-
son, and Freda Lewis also contributed a
reading. Notably present was Mrs. Amy
Seymour, an old-time North Sydney
neighbor of Lawson, whom he pictured
in one of his kindliest poems as the
Political Lady Next Door.
Certainly the eyes have it when it’s a
question of looks versus the hats of other
days. In the In Camera Exhibition that
marked the last stages of Sue Other Gee’s
queenship campaign eyes fine and large
and melting (even though the headgear
looked like extinguishers) held all the
appeal that had stirred a pre-war Syd-
ney. Most of these photographs of
other days were in the family-album
section. A striking photograph of
Mrs. Bertie Kelly in a “Merry Widow”
hat with a drooping coque plume
had pride of place on one of the screens.
Noel Coward was in the show at every
angle—his ears just as large as we had
thought them. He is always surrounded
by a bevy of smirks —these on the people
who are in his charmed circle. In fact,
here were segments of Sydney reflecting
a quarter of a century.
The show was in the Australia, and
was followed by a cocktail party hos-
tessed by Mrs. R. H. Bettington. The
photographs showed up well on the white
screens and completely filled that no-
man’s-land outside the ballroom and the
big dining-room off it. Jo Fallon, Jimmy
Bancks and Ernest Watt were chief
masters of ceremonies ; and Mrs. Fallon,
her black skirt swirling under a red
jacket, kept her eagle eye on the packet
of envelopes which held the prize-money.
For this “in camera” show was a com-
petitive one. A satisfying touch about
the cocktail hour was the enormous baron
of beef carried into the festive hall with
great eclat, carved with ceremony and
then devoured with or without grace, on
slices of bread and butter. Sue Other
Gee was there in the flesh and her V.A.
uniform and on the walls. Most of
smart Sydney popped in between the
afternoon’s doings and the first night of
the Priestley play at the Minerva.
Everybody was glad to know that
Marie La Varre was getting the benefit
of the sales of camellias and car-
nations last Thursday night at the
Minerva. Marie was the theatrical
Queen in the Red Cross Queen com-
petition that has agitated Sydney for the
last few weeks, but judging by results her
demands on the profession were very
modest. Anyway, most of the first-
nighters had a flower pinned to the chest
before the curtain went up on the Priest-
ley offering “Spring Tide.” This is very
sweet, very wholesome and as true to life
as everybody looking on would have
liked it to be. In other words, it was a
spot of dream world where all was kind-
ness. Even the girl with the scratchy
temper and the addiction for other girls’
lads was true gold underneath.
Alec Coppel and Kathleen Robinson,
partners in these Whitehall Productions,
were noted ; so was Mavis Ripper, who
designed the frocks worn in the play.
Myra Morton was there, and Mrs. R. A.
Eakin, the first-nighter Bradys and the
Walter Burfitts. Among the well-dressed
was Mrs. Warwick Fairfax, Actress
Helen Gilliland and actor Lloyd Lambic
were in the audience. Attractive addition
to the theatre is the tiny cleft in the wall
halfway up a winding stair where the
press can get a drink.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly has set out to eclipse
a triumph which she achieved in the early
days of her organising for good causes.
She is planning a “Dressed Heads”
dinner at Prince’s. The one of earlier
days was at the Wentworth. The dinner,
which will be on July 1, will be eaten
by 250 guests (tickets are already in
quick demand), all of whom are re-
quested to wear a headdress such as
might have been worn by some famous
French person, ancient or modern. The
headdresses should depict national or
political characteristics.
Beauty, too, must not be forgotten.
Among the prizes there will be one for
the most artistic. Think of all the lovely
French peasant headdresses to be copied
—how devastating to be, if only from
the neck upwards, a Nattier or Bouchier
beauty. Artistry and good works will
move hand in hand at this dinner dance,
for it will swell the funds of Free
French Day.
The whole £250 will be clear profit,
as the management is providing the
dinner free. There are to be no raffles or
sales of any sort. Guests pay their
guinea, eat their dinner and have a
chance of winning a prize of thirty
shillings.
The wife of Adelaide’s new Boothby
representative, Mrs. Grenfell Price, is a
newcomer among the group of members
wives at Canberra. For the last 16 years
she has assisted her husband in education
and research work while he was prin-
cipal of St. Mark’s College. She travelled
extensively with him in Burma, Malaya
and Java, and in the Dutch and French
islands of the Caribbean Sea, while he
was preparing material for his book
White Settlers in the Tropics. Mrs. Price
is president of the Uni. Wives’ Club and
vice-president of the Lyceum Club m
Adelaide.
The Music Advancement Society of
N.S.W., of which popular Josephine
Marks is president, announces that entries
for its fifth scholarship close on July 15.
This is a £25 scholarship, and is open to
all students of singing. Inquiries should
be addressed to Miss Marks, at the Went-
worth Hotel.
Recent wedding of wide country in-
: terest was that of Nerida Capp, only
daughter of the A. E. Capps, of Goran
: Lake, Spring Ridge, Quirindi, who mar-
ried her Murray Robertson in St. Mark’s,
Darling Point. ’Groom’s father was
W F of Barmedman. His
mother is Mrs. Ida Robertson, of Yoo-
s rooga, Spring Ridge.
There was no happier spot in Sydney
last Wednesday night than the hall of
Christ Church, St. Laurence. Here were
young warriors of the land, the sea and
the air gathered together for the first
birthday of this soldier centre, 1940-
1941 model. Here was pianist Bort Fahy
playing dance music for the lads, as he
did through the last war. Here was
organist Lilian Frost taking turns with
Bort at the piano, as she did in the last
war, when as a very beginning organist
she had the bright idea of providing
entertainment for boys from the camps.
Here was Mrs. Ben Edye, who had helped
partner the lads in the dance during 1914-
18, just as daughter Stephanie is doing
now.


Form a Group!
Join a Group!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Personal and Missing Friend.
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts of
ROBERT THOMAS JONES, formerly of North
Melbourne and South Yarra, in Victoria, and
of Paddington, Sydney, New South Wales,
kindly communicate with MESSRS. W. H.
JONES & KENNEDY, Solicitors, of 305
Collins Street, Melbourne?
DATED the 21st day of June, 1941.
W. H. JONES & KENNEDY,
305 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 953 of 1941.
BETWEEN JAMES HARPER JULES HUB-
BARD Petitioner and
IVY ELIZABETH MAY HUBBARD Re-
spondent.
TO IVY ELIZABETH MAY HUBBARD late
of West Maitland in the State of New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JAMES
HARPER JULES HUBBARD has commenced
a suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a decree for the Restitution of
Conjugal Rights AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court on
or before the Sixth day of September 1941 and
in the event of your not. doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
PP (L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
W J. ENRIGHT & SKILTON, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 467 High Street, West Mait-
land ■ by their Agents, TAYLOR & KEARNEY,
Solicitors, City Mutual Building, Hunter and
Bligh Streets, Sydney.
Melbourne
Shatter
A success was the five-bob dance
organised by the U.S. Cafe’s voluntary
helpers for British War Orphans. The
weather made no difference to the attend-
ance, and the small dancing space was no
deterrent to jitterbuggists or to those who
like a more sedate measure. Everybody
squeezed into the cafe where the band
had its stance. Although there were loud-
speakers to the dining-room that part re-
mained great open spaces, for the mikes
broke down now and again and it was
the sort of party where being squeezed
up together was what everyone expected.
Some helpers came in their white uni-
forms and thus felt much safer as part of
the mobile unit on the job of serving
sausages and curry, the latter in request
by those who like their pepper shaken
with a heavy hand.
Mrs. H. Gillespie and Gwen Izzard
were among the all-white utility brigade,
but Vaire Wilkinson was on the job in a
buttercup dinner gown. She did a neat
bit of first-aid during the party when
popular “Tas” cut his finger. “Tas”
(nickname from the land of his origin)
was christened Ray Limbrick, and is a
sailor in the R.A.N. who has already
seen active service abroad. He visits the
cafe so often that all the helpers know
him, and he’ll hop into things in the
kitchen at any moment if wanted. At the
party he worked all night like a streak
of lightning behind the liquid refresh-
ments counter.
In one party were Judge and Mrs.
Stretton, architect Molly Turner Shaw
and the F. A. Braceys, she a brunette in
blue satin. In another were the Alfred
Fowlers, Mrs. Fowler with waterproof
boots parked under her chair —she wore
them coming and going and gives them
the credit for saving the life of her pink
satin slippers. Mrs. Rupert Harvey was
among the fast-working helpers, and her
black velvet gown survived the ordeal,
though at times frankfurts in tomato
sauce missed it by inches. A patriotic
group (though the color combination was
unintentional) were the Pat Cahills, Frank
Foleys and Jack Gouldings, for among
them were one red, one white and one
blue frock.
Another fixture which Saturday’s
weather tried to spoil but didn’t was Mrs.
Isobel Green’s pay-party towards the ex-
penses of next Friday’s Military Ball.
About 80 people called in some time be-
tween 8.30 p.m. and 1 a.m., and those
who were there early went on an escorted
tour of the aquarium, where the seals
woke up and did their tricks as a hos-
pitable welcome. Claude Flemming called
in after “Susan and God,” and Strella
Wilson was there looking smart as any-
one, although in daytime gear of black
dress, coat and hat.
Elsa Stenning held a session in the
kitchen, where from a vantage point on
the saucepan cupboard she sang im-
promptu ditties to the Air Force, much
to the joy of the boys in blue. Among
young girls in much request were Lois
Green and Joan Crouch. Deciding that
the party would be much too mature for
them they went to the pictures, but on
arrival for supper they discovered dance
music and a stag line of personable
young men in uniform.
Ticking over nicely are plans for the
Radio Party drive for the A.C.F. on July
22 or beforehand —the committee isn’t
fussy over dates provided registrations
are received at the Town Hall or at any
commercial radio station by 19th. To
meet business girls the Lady Mayoress
was on duty in the council chamber one
day last week from 12.30 till 2. At her
invitation delegates from various firms
and institutions came along in pairs to
get information of procedure, to admire
some of the prizes and to eat sandwiches
and drink tea at a buffet.
It’s safe to say that any girls who
entered the Town Hall portals feeling
doubtful and a bit at sea over the whole
thing walked out again determined that
nothing in the world would prevent them
from having a party. The prizes did the
trick. Among these donations was the
staff of the Mutual Store’s magnificent
case of cutlery, several electrical gadgets,
jewellery, orders for frocks, hosiery, holi-
days (weeks and week-ends bespoken at
various guesthouses). Among things for
miscellaneous tastes are an inner spring
mattress, a feather cape and a garden
hose. Expansion of the party drive is
taking place with such schemes as Mrs.
Margaret McLeod’s production of “Wives
Have Their Uses” at the Princess on July
17. Anyone who sells a pound’s worth
of tickets is eligible to become a hostess.
Giving an impromptu knitting lesson at
the business girls’ meeting was Mrs. C.
C. Borhaven, doing ribbing the Nor-
wegian way that she learnt in her own
country. For the firmest version of “one
purl, one plain,” her instructions are
“Bring the wool forward, slip one, knit
two together.”
From Athol Shmith comes this photo-
graph of Shirley Sleight, who was mar-
ried last week to Eric Frederic Gorman,
an Englishman and an engineer whose
domicile is Christchurch (M.L.). The
tall and beauteous bride wore white satin
with shimmer of pearls, a tulle veil
attached to opalescent orange-blossoms
and she carried a prayer-book. In gown
of white moire, inconsequent hat of lace
and tulle, with bouquet of azaleas upon
her arm, was attendant Nina Rebottaro.
Bill Knight was henchman to the ’groom.
After the ceremony at Christ Church,
South Yarra, the Gordon Sleights gave a
reception at Menzies in honor of the big
day in the life of their only child. Wed-
ding presents and mahogany furniture
will follow across the Tasman as soon
as the newly-wedded pair have found
their home of the future, which they’ve
decided must be a house, and not a flat.
Almost closed is St. Vincent’s Hospital
collection campaign, which was granted a
month’s extension by the Charities Board.
The £lOO,OOO aimed at won’t be achieved,
but supporters feel that, considering
everything, a 65 or 70 per cent, success
is not too bad. Whatever the results of
the collection, plans for the new casualty
wing are going ahead, and the days are
numbered for Regent-street, which runs
between the west side of the main build-
ing and the Druids’ Wing. Already there’s
a bridge over the road and a tunnel under
it, and now, except for a few yards to
be retained as an ambulance entrance, it
will give up the ghost for the sake of the
new building. It was bought, after a
special legal adjustment, from the Fitz-
roy Council.
In the present casualty department,
which consists of a cramped waiting-
room 24ft. by 14ft., plus three small
examination rooms, 15,553 accident cases
were treated during the last financial
year. In the new building there will be
a series of cubicles so that privacy will
no longer be an almost impossible luxury.
The appeal should be of interest to every
citizen, for the hand of Fate that throws
dice with street accidents and other un-
expected mishaps knows nothing about
bank balances. There are no charges for
treatments in the casualty department,
though donations to the hospital, when
forthcoming, are accepted with thanks.
The hospital is undenominational, which
fact is noticeable in every ward. Although
the institution is the responsibility of the
city, not the country, rural church col-
lections have brought in £2OOO up to
date, Warrnambool coming top of the
class for the largest sum.
The bright and brainy young women
who call themselves the Originality
Branch of the Comforts Fund are inter-
ested in a column or so of newspaper
cuttings to hand about the success of the
Red Cross curry tiffin held in the Sydney
Town Hall earlier in the month. The
girls wouldn’t be human if they didn t
feel like giving a “Hoi” to Frank Albert s
remark, “The tiffin was an inspiration ;
whoever thought of it deserves the
highest praise.” A man was sent from
Sydney to Melbourne to interview the
Originality Branch about its tiffin held
in Melbourne on March 13. President
Mrs. Jack Kemelfield, grand mogul of
all curry-tiffin chefs H. Myer, Miss
Nobel, of Metropolitan Gas, and others
who gathered a lot of useful experience
about curry on a grand scale were very
pleased to help with advice, facts and
figures, etc. The Melbourne Town Hail
curry for 2000 raised £250 net at two bob
a head. The Sydney meal for 2500 is
reported to have raised £250 also.
The first night of “Funny Side Up”
happened in a flood, but in spite of the
weather the theatre was packed, and
considering everything it was a very small
section of the audience which arrived in
street wear, much more practical for
such a night than swishing draperies and
the kind of shoes that squelch up like old
newspapers in the park on their contact
with a rainy pavement. The time must
surely be at hand when “evening dress
optional” will be generally adopted. As
petrol shortage increases it is going to
be the tram or Shanks’ pony for every-
one, and ankle-sweeping skirts have no
place in long jumps across the swirling
rivers that the gutters of this city become
when we really get rain with a vengeance.
The old-timers at “Funny Side Up” were
delighted to see a girl after their own
hearts, Lily Moore. Sister Carrie Moore
was in the audience with Alyce Wyatt.
From Andre Evinson comes this photo-
granh of Marie Rendle, who will olay
Melanie Kurtz in the Gregan McMahon
production of “Thunder Rock,” com-
mcxicing on Saturday, 28th. If the
opinions of English papers are to be
believed this play by Robert Ardrey is
an interesting achievement. It has been
running for some time in London as a
second season —the first with Michael
Redgrave was curtailed during the worst
of last year’s Blitz.
The setting of the play is a lighthouse
in Lake Michigan. In the theme there’s
a likeness to “Outward Bound,” for the
characters, all but one, are ghosts. But
they’re not depressing spirits. The play
has its light relief and there’s an under-
lying motif of hope that, according to the
“New Statesman,” is “manna in a hungry
land.” Youthful Marie, who is the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C. P. Rendle,
has been seen several times in straight
and musical shows, both pro. and ama-
teur, but not for the last few months,
owing to a car accident and a broken
ankle.
Adelaide reports the death of Mrs.
T. E. Barr-Smith, an ardent worker for
the Red Cross Society and the troops
overseas during the 1914-18 war. For
many years she was vice-president of the
Victoria League, and though her name
seldom appeared on commitee lists there
are few charitable organisations in Adel-
aide which have not benefited by her
generosity. In 1918 she was awarded the
C.B.E. in recognition of her war services.
Flat-hunting in Melbourne is violinist
Jeanne Gautier, who will be heard as
“guest artist” at the symphony and other
concerts during the forthcoming season.
For the last year Mile, Gautier has been
living in her own home at Crawley
(W.A.) with her countrywomen Madame
Charrand and Madame’s vivacious young
daughter Denise Volceirk. Mile, Gautier
bought her Perth property during her
1939-40 visit to this country. She and
her friends left Paris, where they had
shared a home for 13 years, only a week
before France capitulated. Denise is a
competent pianist, but according to her
mother she won’t practise. She had a
job for a time on a Paris newspaper.
Mrs. C. A. Shepard, of Alphington
(Vic.), must tip the beam as Victoria’s
oldest living citizen. She was 105 last
week. Born in Cornwall in 1836, she
settled in Maryborough 70 years ago. She
was a keen oarswoman in her girlhood.
Out into the wide open spaces of the
Athenaeum the Independent Group of
artists have emerged with a show that has
covered all available wall space with pic-
tures of variety and interest. Regarding
numbers of spectators present it was
probably the most satisfactory opening
day of the year. Prof. Bernard Heinze’s
speech met with general approbation.
Present were most of the Independents,
who number 13, dodging the unpropitious
superstition by adding a couple of invitees.
In spectator sports outfit was Nevilla
Collins, whose red and green color
scheme and swayback coat went over
well enough to get away with a lorgnette.
Another visitor, lorgnette in hand, was
Mrs. Norman Macgeorge, her sartorial
stepping-stone being a black hat with
just the right amount of green feathers.
Wearing tweed with character Christine
de Gruchy studied the paintings, the
moderns particularly. Noticed also were
Mrs. John Tyson, the tall figure of knight
Robert Garran and, in crocus-blue
and dewy posy, Mrs. Basil Davies, up
from the cow country of Gippsland.
Attired thus, with the addition of a
trifle in hats, she looked as if she wouldn’t
recognise a cow if she met one face to
face.
Encouraged by his many friends Bert-
ram Bryning, who has painted for many
years as a hobby and relaxation, decided
to hold a show at the Velasquez. Cast-
ing around in his mind’s eye for a worthy
citizen to declare the show open, he lit
upon M. Stanton Sharman, recently re-
tired principal of the University High
School, which is also the old school of
Mr. and Mrs. Bryning’s two sons, Frank
and Noel. Mr. Sharman made an excel-
lent and down-to-earth speech, though
it’s something new for him to start off
with “Ladies and gentlemen”—it’s been
“Girls and boys” for so long.
During his 27 years at “University
High,” where at peak periods there were
1000 children on the roll, Mr. Sharman
acquired an excellent memory for faces,
and, in spite of the sameness of freckles,
pug noses and tow-colored hair, he sel-
dom made the mistake of calling a child
by a wrong name. Regarding art, he’s
broad-minded, and considers the subject
from all angles, the academic, the modern
and the mathematical (as represented by
the works of Walt Disney). Mr. Shar-
man had his first awakening many years
ago when Norman Macgeorge lodged a
complaint, “Please find the culprit who
has rubbed my drawing off the board.”
Even dominies sidestep sometimes, and
Mr. Sharman suggested it would be
simpler to do another drawing. Mac-
george said “I can’t —it was an inspira-
tion.” And he wasn’t joking. In fact,
he looked so deadly serious about it
that Mr. Sharman decided there must be
something in this art business after all,
and he’s thought so ever since.


THE SERVICE MAN
Hitler Turns on Stalin.
“Ek Dum”: Since dawn on Sunday,
June 22, Germany and Russia have been
at war.
As a preliminary, Berlin announced
that a treaty of non-aggression had been
signed with Turkey. Turkey and Ger-
many mutually agreed, for 10 years, not
to take belligerent sides against each other
in any conflict. But the Turkish Govern-
ment assured the British Government that
it had no intention of allowing German
troops or war material to be carried
through Turkey to be used against
Britain.
On Wednesday the British Government
declared a blockade of Petsamo, the
northern port of Finland, on the ground
that German troops were arriving in
that country in such numbers that they
could not be regarded as merely passing
through.
On Thursday Moscow announced that
its fleet had been assembled in the Baltic
“ready for instant action.” Meanwhile
there was no doubt about the withdrawal
of large numbers of German fighters and
bombers from the North Sea and Channel
areas, or about growing military activity
along the eastern German frontiers and
in Polish and Rumanian territory.
Rumanian ships in the Golden Horn were
ordered suddenly to remain there ; others
in the Black Sea were ordered to make
for the nearest Rumanian port.
The same day the Finnish Government
took over all communications and censor-
ship was clamped down on the dispatches
of a flock of correspondents in Helsinki,
but not before the news had leaked out
that the country had mobilised. So had
Slovakia. And Marshal Walther List,
German C.-in-C. in the Balkan campaign,
who had been killed off by the boo-boo
boys earlier in the week—he destroyed
himself to their order —arrived at new
headquarters 15 miles from Bucharest,
after an audience with his Fiihrer.
New York “Times” described rumors
of war between Germany and Russia as
“Hitler’s most gigantic smokescreen”:
They are intended falsely to indicate
that the war is moving eastward.
By the time that was published in Aus-
tralia on Saturday it was quite obvious
from German Radio that the atmosphere
of the eve of the original attack on
Poland was being duplicated. All Ger-
many seemed to be plunged in a vast
organising movement.
Moscow was reticent. Its Radio de-
clared that troop movements amounted
to large-scale exercises in the lessons learnt
from the campaign in Finland and the
German campaign in France and the
Low Countries. Evacuations of children
were merely usual holiday movements.
Refugees who succeeded in getting out
of the Russian-held Baltic States declared
that the Russians were systematically
creating a devastation zone 60 miles
wide inside the northern Soviet borders,
stripping the whole countryside of
shelter, food, bridges and everything
likely to be useful to attackers before
blowing up the roads.
On Saturday night German radio
stations revived martial tunes which had
been forgotten for months. They jeered
at British mystification about the lessened
aircraft activity over Britain and declared
that the reason would “very soon now”
dawn upon “an astonished world.”
“Something much more important than
the German-Turkish pact is about to
take place,” they said.
Very early on Sunday morning it
happened. The herald of the happening
was Dr. Goebbels, who, as he read a
lengthy proclamation to the German
people from Hitler, seemed to enjoy the
sensation of being able again to refer
to Moscow in 1933-38 language.
The main objective of the proclamation
was to link Soviet and British action in
the minds of the German people. They
were reminded that it had always been
Britain’s policy to try to maintain con-
trol of the Continent by encircling the
strongest Power upon it and by setting
other Powers at the throat of the most
powerful adversary.
When Nazism began its work of res-
cuing the Reich from its distress and
misery and Bolshevism, and bringing
about its resurrection, it was threatened
once more by the British policy of
encirclement, and by the Jews of Moscow
and so-called democrats bent on once
more plunging the world into a condition
of hatred and misery and Germany into
another struggle for existence. Early in
1936 a U.S. statesman had declared
before a Senate Committee that Mr.
Churchill had said that Germany was
once more becoming too powerful and
would have to be destroyed. And so on,
in familiar 1933-38 language.
Only in 1939 did Hitler bring himself
with extreme reluctance to send the
Foreign Minister to Moscow. This he did
“only from a sense of responsibility and
to reduce the sacrifices of the German
people,” Silent was Hitler while 500,000
Germans were made to leave their homes
in Lithuania and even when thousands
completely disappeared. The Fiihrer was
compelled to acquiesce again as Russia
moved west into the Baltic States; and
again in allowing the taking over of
Bessarabia, but he guaranteed to Rumania
the integrity of “what remained of the
country,” intending, “as Germany always
did,” to carry out his guarantee. (“We
Germans are neither Britons nor Jews.”)
Invited to Berlin, Molotov asked four
questions:
(1) Was the guarantee to Rumania a
general one, or was it directed against
Russia? Hitler’s answer was that it was a
general one directed against everybody
and affecting the integrity of the whole of
Rumania save for Bessarabia.
(2) Would Germany undertake not to
assist Finland, which was again threatening
the Soviet Fatherland, in case of hostilities.
Hitler’s answer: Though Germany had no
political or any real interest internally in
Finland Germany could not conceive any
circumstances in which an attack on Fin-
land would be tolerable, nor could he be-
lieve that a great and powerful nation such
as Russia could be effectively threatened
by a small Power like Finland.
(3) Was Germany prepared that Russia
should give guarantees to Bulgaria and
send troops there as an earnest of them?
Hitler’s answer was that Bulgaria was a
sovereign State and did not need any
guarantees, and in respect of the sending
of Russian troops to the Balkans that
could not be consented to either by Ger-
many or her allies.
(4) Was Germany prepared to allow
Russia to assure that at all times the latter
had free passage through the Bosphorus
and the Dardanelles and to consent to
the establishment of posts at suitable points
for the purpose of assuring that passage?
Hitler’s answer: Germany believed that
Russia, in common with all friendly nations,
should have the right of free passage
through the Dardanelles, but no consent
could be given to any step which would
give Russia control or supervision over
egress from or ingress to the Black Sea.
Then it appeared that the “Jewish
gang” of Moscow, having made a pact
with Yugoslavia and in league and con-
junction with Britain, brought about
mobilisation and a coup d’etat in Yugo-
slavia just as Comrade Adolf had settled
that country’s affairs. Serb officers who
went to Moscow were treated as allies.
Stalin had made arrangements to deliver
at Salonika aeroplanes, artillery and
ammunition to help the Serbs. Adolf
said he had documentary evidence to
prove this arrangement and that a Rus-
sian mission actually escaped from
Salonika by the skin of its teeth before
the German invasion.
While this was going on Adolf, still
eager for peace and the welfare and
safety of Europe and civilisation, coun-
selled Matsuoka to make a pact with
Stalin, But Stalin now had a secret
understanding with Churchill, and was at
the same time massing troops along the
German frontiers —the frontiers of the
countries which Adolf had overrun during
the term of his pact with Joe, Presently,
Adolf said, he found that Joe had 150
divisions on his side of the quarantine
line which hedged off Bolshevism from
Germany, whereas Germany faced the
new Soviet concentrations until a few
weeks ago without a single armored
division in the East, “as the German
people well knew,” even though the
U.S.S.R. had transgressed the Rumanian
guarantee by seizing Bukovina.
Adolf remarked:
Although up to now I have been forced
to keep silent, to continue to do so would
be a crime not only against the German
people, but against all Europe and the
whole civilised world.
He discovered that there had been con-
stant violations of the Reich by Russian
fliers, and that on June 17 and 18 Rus-
sian patrols had been kicked out only
after heavy and prolonged firing.
Therefore, he said, the greatest march
of all time along a line from the Arctic
to the Black Sea beaches was in progress.
Germans and Finns under the conqueror
of Norway and the Finns’ own marshal
had begun to hammer Bolshevism in the
north, and Germans and Rumanians,
the latter under General Antonescu, nad
begun the work of recovering Bessarabia
and rescuing Europe from danger.
Before Dr. Goebbels had finished read-
ing this document the war was under way.
German-served radio stations halfway
through the morning announced that
large-scale bombing and armored activity
had begun at 3 a.m., Berlin time, simul-
taneously along the whole German fron-
tier, directed against forts, aerodromes
and troop concentrations and cities, in-
cluding Kiev, Moscow, Sevastopol and
Kaunas.
Italy declared a state of war with
Russia as from 5 a.m. on Sunday, but
Tokyo had nothing to say save that it
was Sunday and all Ministers were out
of town.
Molotov, however, said a great deal.
He urged the Russian people to be calm,
and he assured the world at large that
there had been no provocation. Russia’s
peace policy was well known and the way
for agreement was open till the last
moment, when German Ambassador
Schulenburg had handed him a note say-
ing that the war had begun. He
prophesied that Hitler would meet the
same fate as Napoleon.
In London, Mr. Churchill said on Sun-
day night that “the cause of any Russian
fighting for his hearth and home” was
“the cause of free men and free people
in every quarter of the globe,” and that
the British Government had “offered the
Soviet Government any technical and
other assistance in Britain’s power”:
Any man or State fighting Nazism will
have our aid. Any man or State march-
ing with Hitler is our foe. This applies not
only to organised States, but to all the
vile race of Quislings who make themselves
Nazi tools and agents against their fellow-
countrymen.
It was plain by Monday morning that
the German campaign aimed at five
specific points—at Leningrad through
Finland; at Kaunas, the capital of
Lithuania, from East Prussia and the
Polish Corridor; at Minsk, on the way
to Moscow ; at Kiev, the heart and capital
of the Ukraine, and at Odessa, the main
naval and commercial port of the western
Black Sea region.
Ankara reported that Odessa had been
bombed on the hideous Rotterdam and
Belgrade scale. Moscow announced a
general mobilisation in all 10 military
districts, Siberia included, and the
proclamation of martial law over all west
Russia; but most of the actual news
came from German sources. Usually
silent in the early part of campaigns,
German correspondents began to broad-
cast details of fighting from the first shot.
In Estonia, Stockholm asserted, a revolt
had broken out, and the rebels had seized
armed ships in Talinn harbor.
In occupied East Poland, Berlin
declared, 33 out of a force of 35 Russian
’planes had been shot down and only
two out of nine Russian bombers which
raided East Prussia had survived.
While Moscow reported that all was
calm in the capital and that vast forces
were being moved up behind the Dneister
lines, the Luftwaffe claimed that behind
those lines on the Bug River, well inside
Russian territory, 60 ’planes had been
destroyed on an aerodrome.
Russian airmen made several raids on
Finland. Some inland points, ships near
Tarku and two coast defence vessels were
bombed. “We have held the enemy on
the whole front,” Moscow said on Sun-
day night, “and brought down 65
’planes.”
It was obvious, however, that the whole
immense battle was only in the pre-
liminary stages of artillery preparation,
bombers taking the place of the heavy
guns, and the mechanised forces throw-
ing out screens and feelers, preparatory
to a main advance.
Damascus Falls.
“Ek D.”: The Syrian campaign, which
was to have been over in a day or two,
took a new turn a week after it began,
While the British and French Free Forces
were operating in the suburbs of Damas-
cus and the A.I.F. was consolidating itself
on the coast preparatory to advancing on
Beirut from Sidon, an intermediate
column which had started from Lake
Galilee earlier than the others had passed
eastward of Sidon to Jezzin and seemed
about to curl round to the coast and
form a springboard from which the tired
Aussies in Sidon could take a new leap
northward.
The Vichy troops had knowledge on
their side and they used it. One of their
armored forces trickled down the slopes
of Hermon and was discovered making
a split attack—with both fists, so to speak:
left against El Kuneitra on the direct
advance towards Damascus, right against
Merjiyun, which the Galilee-Jezzin force
had first occupied and then left merely
picketed. Vichy’s reserves were being kept
in northern Syria and brought down
fresh to their tasks.
On Wednesday all attempts at parley
with Vichy seemed to have failed, and
fierce fighting was proceeding in the
western suburbs at Mezze, round the
aerodrome, and further to the east at
Kiswe on the railway,
Australian advanced patrols had
pushed up the coast to within 12 miles
of Beirut. There was no front in the
ordinary sense from Damascus to the
coast—only a loose linkage of forces
blasting their way through any avenue
which seemed penetrable.
Little gain was made in the earlier
part of the week. A communique
issued on Friday, after severe but desul-
tory actions had been in progress at vari-
ous points in the Merjiyun region for
three days, remarked that Australian
cavalry was within 16 miles of Beirut
and that, though “superior Vichy forces”
were counter-attacking south of Damas-
cus, the Free French were holding their
ground and British and Indian columns
were advancing in the Damascus suburbs,
A Vichy communique claimed that
attacks had been repulsed, that 400
prisoners had been taken in the Damas-
cus suburbs and that an attack had been
repulsed at Merjiyun, most of which the
Vichy troops were still holding after the
recapture of the town at the beginning of
the week.
On Saturday hand-to-hand struggles
for houses and strategic positions in
Merjiyun were going on between the
A.I.F. and the local French. The Com-
monwealth official correspondent, K.
Slessor, reported that a Queensland bat-
talion and a pioneer unit were tightly
, . 1
ensconced in the northern portion of the
town, while, further west, the A.I.F. and
Scots crawled up the coast assisted by
fire from warships, though once or twice
attacked by German dive bombers and
b y French destroyers.
Cairo H.Q. reported that resistance
was being slowly worn down in the
Damascus suburbs. Shells were falling in
the heart of the city, and columns of
smoke were rising from the packed area
around the Street Called Straight, which
cu ts across the centre of the town,
On Sunday morning it was announced
that Damascus had fallen, and that
General Catroux had led his forces into
it. Beirut was reported to be evacuating
its civilian population.
The Feint at Libya.
“Ek Dum”: The operations on the
Libyan border last week were evidently
what the Cairo H.Q. said they were —a
movement to feel the German strength.
General Wavell socked the enemy’s
formations fairly on the proboscis in an
attempt to discover on what kind of a
spine the latter’s spearhead rested and
whether it could be jarred.
Wavell struck on Sunday, June 15,
south-east of Solium. The Germans first
became vocal about the affair, claiming
next evening to have destroyed 60 British
tanks and dive-bombed large bodies of
troops out of existence. But they said
nothing about the fact that on Saturday
morning British patrols had turned up in
strength 40 miles west of Bardia and 20
miles nearer the Egyptian border than
Tobruk, thus proving that this district
was far from being in watertight
German-Italian control. Neither did they
say that they had been forced to rush
troops from Tobruk to meet the situa-
tion when British tanks and armored
cavalry hammered their way to Capuzzo,
while a milling fight went on in the tri-
angular piece of country formed by
Halfaya Pass, Solium and Capuzzo.
The first day’s fighting saw Indians
and Highlanders struggling for Halfaya
Pass. In two hours at dawn next day
the Highland units on the left flank
broke German resistance, while the
Indians on the right struggled against a
heavy machine-gun barrage. The High-
landers now held the pass head, and
another column of British infantry was
engaged in a wide semicircular sweep
toward the cape beyond Solium. This
compelled the German forces, who could
not use the pass to escape, to make a
stand on the beach. Then the Indians
broke through and the R.A.F. scattered
a heavy Panzer formation, destroying 10
tanks. But with the advent of heavy
German armored units in great force the
danger of encirclement of the British
advanced spearhead became too great and
the withdrawal began. On June 17, the
third day, the Germans launched very
heavy counter-attacks with much superior
armored forces, and the British withdrew
to their original lines.
Mr. Spender said in Canberra that
there were no Australians involved. The
withdrawal was made, he declared, with-
out serious loss. Though in the whole


engagement there were substantial British
losses of armored vehicles, the Germans
had a bad mauling.
On June 18, British G.H.Q. admitted
that there had been several heavy counter-
attacks and reported:
As we had accomplished our objective,
inflicting heavy losses on the enemy and
forcing him to disclose his strength, we
withdrew slowly to our forward positions.
We brought back several hundred German
prisoners and destroyed a large number of
enemy tanks and guns.
The previous day the R.A.F. had
knocked out 12 Stukas, two Fiat Gso’s
and six Messerschmitt 109’s.
The Germans claimed to have djiven
the A.O.T.N. back by sheer force, smash-
ing 14 of its ’planes out of the sky in
one day, menacing its flanks and rear
positions and capturing staff maps which
showed that the British intention had
been to reconquer a large portion of
Cyrenaica.
While the sally was in progress
Jerman operations round Tobruk were
suddenly inhibited ; the R.A.F., R.A.A.F.
and S.A.A.F. squadrons had sufficient
machines to keep up the worrying of
enemy aerodromes while taking care of
the forces engaged in the main battle.
On the Sunday night badly-battered
Benghazi had its almost daily strafe, a
little more than usually intense, and on
every German aerodrome of any import-
ance enemy squadrons were scattering,
when possible, among the holes which
the Blenheims and their kind were dig-
ging in the landing grounds.
Raids continued against Benghazi, the
main attacks being on Wednesday, Thurs-
day and Friday nights. Misurata aero-
drome and troop concentrations in the
western desert were machine-gunned,
German squadrons which tried to con-
trol the Sollum-Capuzzo area were vir-
tually chased out of the air before the
British retirement. Once eight Hurri-
canes hurtled suddenly into a large enemy
formation and brought down seven heavy
bombers, 12 dive-bombers and a number
of fighters. There were three Stukas on
the way to the ground almost at one
and the same moment.
At the week-end there seemed to be
a fair amount of sporadic activity. There
were artillery duels round the Tobruk
perimeter, and the Germans declared that
they had machine-gunned and dispersed
troop concentrations at Bug Bug, between
Solium and Sidi Barrani. Rome reported
an Axis raid on Tobruk in which a
Hurricane fighter was shot down, and
the bombing of a heavily-armed mer-
chantman entering Tobruk Harbor.
On Friday night four persons were
killed in a raid on Alexandria, which
the Germans declared to have been car-
ried out by strong bomber formations.
A.I.F. Casualties.
“Ek Dum”: Australian casualty totals
in Greece and Crete were issued on
June 19 by Mr. Spender. They were
slightly heavier than those of Maoriland,
which numbered 5765.
The A.I.F. C.-in-C., Lieut.-General
Blarney, reported that 1080 officers and
16,156 men had embarked from Egypt
for Greece and 11,285 had returned. Of
the total of 5951 who had not returned,
2275 were lost in Greece and 3676 in
Crete.
The Maoriland Government has been
able to dissect its casualties and tell
its people approximately how many
M.L. soldiers were respectively killed,
wounded and missing. So has the Ger-
man Government. The Australian Gov-
ernment was not only unable to do this,
but its latest estimate shows considerable
variation from previous ones. On the
strength of cables from General Blarney
on May 11 it was announced that the
casualties in Greece would be under 3000.
On May 23 an official estimate of “killed,
wounded and missing remaining in
Greece” was 3560, with another 423
wounded soldiers in hospital in Egypt,
Crete and Palestine. Total, 3983.
In Crete, Mr. Spender said early in June,
there were 6486 Australians. Of these
2886 had been brought away, including
218 wounded—total missing 3599.
The Germans have announced that they
hold 18,735 prisoners taken in Crete, in-
cluding 5600 Greeks, 5659 British, 2883
Australians and 1593 Maorilanders, the
remaining 3000 being from other parts
of the British Empire.
Mr. Spender says that “considering the
desperate courage which characterised the
defence by our troops, and the general
nature of these two campaigns, Austra-
lian losses could not be considered un-
duly heavy. At the battle of Pozieres
alone in the last war the Second Austra-
lian Division lost 6846 killed, wounded
and missing.”
But Pozieres was a major operation
of the greatest land war in history. The
figures given in the Official War History
for Second Division losses there are 8100,
not 6846 as given by Mr. Spender. They
were sustained in weeks of fighting in
which the enemy shellfire “set the
standard for the rest of the war,” and
they were the heaviest suffered during
the whole war by the Ist Anzac Corps in
proportion to numbers engaged.
The comparison is not one which
would be expected from an Australian
Army Minister.
The R.A.F. Takes the
Initiative.
“Ek Dum”: Northern Europe enjoyed
its most singular week of war since the
invasion of France last year. The weather
was fairly favorable to raiding, but the
Luftwaffe seemed to have withdrawn to
lines far in the interior in order to con-
centrate on Russia.
In the week just passed losses over
Britain were considerably less. On Mon-
day night only a few bombs were dropped
round the English coast; on Tuesday,
there was a tremendous battle to hold up
the British offensive across the Channel
and to close the air over that strip of
water to the persistent British bombers.
On Wednesday a few very weak sections
of the Luftwaffe crossed the Channel
into East Anglia and the eastern Mid-
lands, though the Germans claimed that
throughout day and night their bombers
had continuously mined British ports,
creating confusion and disorganisation.
On Thursday the German High Com-
mand again laid stress on the statement
that “we are increasingly mining British
ports, causing heavy shipping losses and
confusion.” All the Air Ministry had to
report was the laying of a few eggs at
widely separated points by desultory
flights of German machines.
The battering which the R.A.F. was
giving enemy centres during this period
was unparalleled. Monday, June 16,
was the sixth successive night on which
western Germany had been visited by
heavy forces, weighed down with every
kind of heavy bomb. Stirlings and
Liberators toured up and down the
Ruhr and Rhineland to a bus-service
schedule, while the F.A.A. and the
Coastal Command, with their lighter and
faster and more flexible Blenheims and
Beauforts, plastered everything that
looked like a German ship from Sylt to
Brest. One 4000-ton vessel attacked
almost at sea level received a heavy bomb
fairly on deck. Britain that day lost two
bombers and four fighters ; the Germans
three bombers, ten fighters and a sea-
plane.
Next day there was a 10-hour raid on
western Germany, while big forces of
Spitfires and Hurricanes, escorting
bombers, tackled German shipping and
drove off German fighters, 13 of which
were blasted out of the air. On the
Kentish coast watchers heard the inces-
sant thud of bursting high explosives
across the Channel and saw column after
column of smoke rear into the air
around Boulogne and for miles on either
side. Big guns blazed at each other across
the Channel, The Germans declared that,
in the Channel battle, they had decisively
defeated the R.A.F., shooting down 15
Hurricanes, five Spitfires and a Gloster.
They insisted that the attacks on Ger-
many which ranged mainly round
Cologne and Diisseldorf were made by
“weak” squadrons which did a little
damage in residential areas and killed
only a few civilians.
The remainder of the week for French
“invasion” ports and the Ruhr, and for
German shipping along the coast, seems
to have been a long and almost continu-
ous nightmare. Brest, where the two
26,000-ton battleships Scharnhorst and
Gneisenau and the 10,000-ton Prinz
Eugen are still sheltering, had particular
attention. A remarkable feature was that
each day after Tuesday German resist-
ance seemed to dwindle. On Thursday
the Air Ministry reported that its heavily
escorted bomber squadrons, which made
a Cook’s tour of northern France and
western Germany, met “little opposition.”
The attacks continued on Friday.
The week-end fighting gave reason to
believe either that the R.A.F. has once
again established an all-in individual
supremacy or that Germany has not
merely withdrawn numbers but also
quality from the Channel front.
The raiding of Channel ports or aero-
dromes and industrial centres from Kiel
to Brest continued, and on Saturday and
Sunday 55 German fighter machines
were brought down in daylight sweeps, 13
being destroyed in a single battle. British
losses numbered 11.
The Germans made only one fairly
heavy raid on a south-eastern British
town.
Death to Night Bombers.
“Aileron”: Officially it has been
announced in London that a “secret”
radio device for detecting enemy aircraft
has been developed—basically by Robert
Alexander Watt, whom everybody who
made a journey over projected com-
mercial air routes a decade or a couple
of decades ago came to know. The press
has introduced Watt as if he had just
come out of the wilds of nether Scotland
with an old lorry.
The truth is that he knows more about
meteorology in relation to flying than
most men. He was meteorologist in
charge of the Royal Aircraft establish-
ment 1917-21, superintendent of the radio
research stations of the British Depart-
ment of Scientific and Industrial Re-
search till 1933, then superintendent of
the radio department of the National
Physical Laboratory and next of a special
research station in 1936. Industrial and
other applications of ultra-short waves
have been a special field with him.
His first work on the lines now being
developed was described in the technical
press five years ago.
His work for years was linked
with the radio research stations of
the Dominions. When it came to
aircraft detection, the main points of the
principle which he put into use were well
known and had been used for many pur-
poses both under the earth and above it
—for submarine detection (Asdig), for
geophysical prospecting and for some
meteorological purposes.
Having set a principle from which to
work, it became an immense job to adapt
it to the needs of the air war and to make
its operation so effective that a detective
cordon could be formed round the
country at such a distance and with such
precision that no enemy ’plane could
approach the shores of Britain without
being caught in good time. To make
the scheme fully effective it was also
necessary to keep the enemy, once dis-
covered, pinned to a beam which our
fighters could ride accurately until they
had bagged their prey.
The scheme theoretically had been
proved when war broke out. The
immense task of applying the theory was
being entered upon. The Radio Research
Board of the C.S.I.R. was given tasks
and problems to unravel. John Madsen,
Sydney University’s Professor of Elec-
trical Engineering, the chairman, who
was in England, was brought into the
forefront of the organisation and be-
came closely associated with Watt. Prof.
Madsen’s work has been recognised ; he
was knighted on King’s Birthday.
Some of the best pre-war work of the
Radio Research Board of the C.S.I.R.
had been the completion in 1936 of a
simple and flexible method of measuring
the polarisation of radio echoes from
the ionosphere, through which radio
transmissions over long distances are
carried. Since the method adopted em-
ployed pulse emissions and was usable
as other systems had not been where
more than a single echo was receivable,
some of the technique developed certainly
would have suggested ideas of use in
developing the aircraft detector scheme.
Much work was also done by the board
in the radio location of thunderstorms,
a problem in which Watt had a particular
interest. This also would have provided
ideas.
At the outbreak of war, both Sydney
and Melbourne University sections of the
board set out to apply their experience
and apparatus to “problems related
directly to Australia’s war effort.” The
direction of some of this effort now is
clear. The scientific members of the
Radio Research Board were Prof.
Madsen, of Sydney, and Prof. Laby, of
Melbourne, associated with Commander
J. B. Newman, R.A.N.
All Dominions, including Australia and
Maoriland, share in the highly technical
job of manufacturing the complex plant
to make the scheme successful.
British sea losses for May—which Mr.
Churchill had suggested would be com-
paratively light—were 98 ships of 461,000
tons, of which 73 of 355,000 tons were
British. The figures included eastern
Mediterranean losses during the military
operations there. The Germans and
Italians claimed to have sunk 861,000
tons. Allied losses were certainly lighter
than in April (134 ships of 581,000 tons),
and March (122 ships, 505,000 tons), but
they are still too heavy to be covered
by conceivable replacements for a long
time to come. Nevertheless, as the enemy
lost 291,000 tons, the relative position,
having regard to the shortage of shipping
of both Germany and Italy, is better.
Germany and Italy at the outbreak of
war had a little over 7,000,000 tons of
commercial ships between them. To June
10 they had lost 3,211,000 tons.
* * *
British H.Q. at Cairo announced on
Sunday night that Jimma, the last strong-
hold in Abyssinia, had fallen to Abys-
sinian troops led by British officers. At
the same time, General Waved issued an
ultimatum that the Government at
Djibuti, capital of French Somaliland
and the Red Sea railhead of the Abys-
sinian railway, must join the Free French
forces immediately or dissociate itself
from pro-Nazi policy.
* * *
All Italian Consulates in the United
States have been ordered to close before
July 15. German Consulates are to be
closed by July 10. Reciprocal, orders
against U.S. Consulates have been issued
in Berlin and Rome.
* * * *
“Gunner S.” : The libels them Tommies
circulate about the poor blessed Aussies
would make a bloke sick. There’s a
legend in Libya that the R.A.S.C.,
troubled by Aussies scrounging rations
from their supply dump, sent an officer
to complain to an Australian colonel.
Said the emissary: “We Tommies can't
handle you Aussies, so you’ll have to
get your own chaps to guard the dump.’’
The colonel laughed. “Why don’t you
post a Bren gunner?” he asked. “We
did,” was the sad reply, “but he looked
up and saw an Aussie standing over him
with a Mills bomb!”
* * * *
“Nobby II”: Nelson called himself and
his captains a “band of brothers.” So
are Andrew Cunningham and his cap-
tains. It would be easy to imagine
Cunningham saying, as Nelson said of
the French Admiral Latouche-Treville
when the latter wrote to Napoleon that
the British fleet had avoided action: “If
I capture him I will make him eat his
letter on my quarter-deck,” Nelson
was and Cunningham is a master
of the art of temptation. Cunningham
is always ready for a fight, but he does
not like half-measures. And as Nelson
was a master of frigate technique, so is
Cunningham a master of the use of air-
craft and aircraft-carriers.
* * * *
President Roosevelt on June 20 char-
acterised the sinking of the U.S. freighter
Robin Moor on May 21 by a German
submarine as the “ruthless act of an in-
ternational outlaw.” He announced that
he held the German Government respon-
sible for the “outrageous and indefensible
act.” He drew the attention of Congress
to the sinking, which was made without,
he said, the submarine showing her flag
and despite the fact that there was no
doubt about the Robin Moor’s nation-
ality. The sinking violated the United
States’ right to freedom of the seas, and
also international law in not making pro-
vision for the safety of the passengers
and crew. The United States Govern-
ment would demand full reparation and
compensation for the loss of the ship and
its nationals’ lives.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: Hague Convention regula-
tions say that only persons who
wear either a uniform or an emblem
recognisable at a distance and displaying
their arms openly are entitled to be
treated as combatants and taken prisoner.
Belligerents whose country is invaded
suddenly, and who have no time to
assume uniforms or emblems, may fight
in their ordinary costumes, provided they
display their arms openly. There is some
ambiguity about the wording of the regu-
lation (Article 23) which forbids only the
“improper” use of a national flag, mili-
tary insignia and the uniform of the
enemy for purposes of ruse ; but there is
no definition of improper. The French
Military Manual does—or did a few
years ago —believe that the use of enemy
uniforms was tolerated by international
law. But the German Manual declared
the use of both the enemy’s flag and uni-
form as illegal under the Hague regula-
tions. So did the British, though the
Manual pointed out the ambiguity. In
this war there have been German infrac-
tions of their army’s own ruling both on
sea and land —Japanese flags on raiders,
uniforms on parachutists.


df
WiAK M£N AND WOMfN
Loss of vitality and premature feeling
of old age are due to failure of certain
glands.
831 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely revitalise you, banishing pre-
mature old age and weakness. Price
10/6. Write for this amazing new
treatment TO-DAY.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
ml
mwm
OINOI
QN&7O
PAINFUL CORNS.
No matter how many, or how big, or how long
they have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft, A’CORN SILK will settle them and give you
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble —no mess —no pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask your chemist for A’CORN SILK —only one price,
6d. Packed by FELTON. GRIMWADE & DUERDINS.
LTD., Melbourne,
Does you car jerk and
straggle on the hills?
Even the best spark plugs,
after a certain time, become
worn out and inefficient.
Then they should be re-
placed because weak spark
plugs cannot produce com-
plete combustion; conse-
quently, fuel is wasted and
power is lost. Install new
Champion
Spark Plugs,
the only plugs
with the Silli-
manite insula-
tor and the
Sillmentseal.
Factories,
Fell ha m,
Eng. Wind-
sor, Can.
Toledo,
USA.
prr
.
ill
* nil Mill
\n mu
wnmji
CONTAINS SILLMENT
THE MIRACLE MINERAL
Sillment seals Cham-
pions against trouble-
some leakage, at the
shoulder and past the
center electrode, com-
mon to ordinary spark
plugs. This patented
feature corrects rough,
uneven and wasteful
engine operation
caused by leaky, over-
heated spark plugs.
Install new
Champion Spark Plngsl
JOur Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Words of Norman Campbell’s verses entitled
“When Are You Going Away?”—1535.
Whereabouts of Mr. and Mrs. Fred Clements,
who arrived in Australia from England, De-
cember 7, 1938.—Reply to J. F. Flanagan,
Cunderdin, W.A.
Information Sought.
(1) To whom should I apply for Federal
"Hansard” ? (2) Cost ? (3) Could back copies
be obtained to, say, three months prior to the
war? —1200.
(1) Government Printer, Government Printing
Office, Canberra, A.C.T. (2) Annual sub. 4s.
or 4d. a copy. (3) No. Back numbers to Janu-
ary, 1941, only; forwarded on receipt of sub-
scription for 1941.
« * * »
(1) Is electricity used for the beacon in light-
houses or kerosene lamps greatly magnified by
means of numerous surrounding prisms ? (2)
Does a lighthouse-keeper always have an assis-
tant on duty with him in case of emergency or
accident? (3) Is a dwelling usually supplied
near the lighthouse for the lighthouse-keeper
and his family? (4) At what age do lighthouse-
keepers retire? Do they receive a pension?—
1105.
(1) Lighthouses along the coast may use
acetylene gas or kerosene in a vaporised form
with mantles similar to gas mantles. In some
(mainland) electric light is used. In most of
these cases the lens surrounding the light is of a
prismatic type, thus increasing the power of the
light. (2) In Commonwealth-manned light
stations around the Australian coast there are
usually three lightkeepers, and from sunset to
sunrise one lightkeeper only at a time is usually
on duty. (3) Yes. (4) All permanent light-
keepers in the Commonwealth lighthouse ser-
vice are members of the public service.
They, therefore, contribute to a superannuation
scheme and elect to retire at 60 or 65.
* * * *
My son is anxious to learn to be a dental
mechanic. Would he have to pay a premium,
and would he receive pay during his apprentice-
ship?—l2ol.
Dental law in N. S. Wales does not permit
a dentist to accept an apprentice in dentistry.
Parents of boys wishing to learn mechanical
dentistry generally approach dental mechanics
known to them or any of the recognised dental
laboratories. Suggest inquiries might be
addressed to Delves and Thompson, 175 Mac-
quarie-street; Dental Services (Aust.), Ltd., 206
Castlereagh-street; General Dental Laboratories,
Ltd , 112 Hunter-street; McKay Dental Labora-
tories, 160 Castlereagh-street; or Universal
Dental Laboratories, 141 Macquarie-street—all
Sydney. A three years’ course for the training
of dental mechanics is about to commence at
the Dental Hospital of Sydney. Instruction will
be given to students at the hospital on four
evenings each week for the first year. During
the second and third years trainees will be
eligible for employment during the daytime m
dental workrooms, laboratories, the Dental Hos-
pital or dental clinics, with instruction at the
Dental Hospital at night. It is understood that
a fee of £3 3s. per term will be charged. The
number of students to be taken each year is
limited to 25.
* * * *
(1) Could Christ read or write? (2) Did He
or His Disciples leave anything in writing?
(3) Who wrote the New Testament? (4) Is it
a fact that nothing was written about Christ
until 70 years after He died? —1465.
(1) Yes; on the authority of Luke iv, 16-30,
and John viii, 8. (2) Three of His Apostles,
Matthew, Mark and John, each wrote a Gospel.
(3) The New Testament is a composition of 27
books written by Apostles and their disciples.
(4) No. The Gospel of St. Matthew was written
six years after Christ died; of St. Mark, 10
years; of St. Luke, 24 years; of St. John, 63
years.
* * * *
(1) Can land be purchased under freehold
conditions at Canberra ? (2) If leasehold, sub-
ject to what conditions? —1111.
(1) There is no freehold available within Can-
berra city area. The Commonwealth is the
registered owner of all land. (2) Land may be
secured for residential or business purposes on
leasehold basis only, main conditions being;
Term, 99 years; annual rent, 5 p.c. of unim-
proved capital value; each block is subject to
a building covenant which is strictly enforced;
a building in accordance with the covenant
must be commenced within a stated period and
completed within a further period. Other in-
formation can be obtained from the Surveyor-
General and Chief Property Officer, Department
of the Interior, Canberra.
$ * ♦ ♦
I have two small tortoises. Any information
concerning their proper care and attention in
captivity ? —1364.
Probably your pets are turtles, fresh-water
reptiles which roam in search of water from
one district to another, as they must have water.
Their natural food is snails, worms, etc., and
greenstuff found in the garden. In captivity
they are usually fed on finely-chopped-up
meat, lettuce, cabbage, apple peelings, etc. In
the winter time turtles go for a period without
any food, and hibernate by burrowing under the
soil or sand and remaining there. People wish-
ing to keep them in captivity should provide
a pond, such as a fish pond, but probably they
will eat the fish if any are in the pond. To
permit them to hibernate a box should be pro-
vided containing sand into which the little
reptiles can burrow. If, on the other hand, they
show a disinclination to burrow in what is
provided artificially, it is best then to liberate
them near a creek or river in the bush.
* * *
(1) How can I clean paint-hardened brushes?
(2) Can ready-made paint that has solidified
but is still soft be made usable? (3) Have read
that linseed oil (two coats ) is better than varnish
for bedroom floor. What would he the method
of application ? And how can I remove dark
varnish, or stain, from floorboards before
applying linseed oil ? (4) Best method of cut-
ting linoleum? —1093.
(1) Allow brushes to soak in lacquer-thinner
until the paint is loosened, then wash well in
hot, soapy water. (2) Raw linseed oil and
turpentine in approximately the proportion of
two-thirds oil to one-third turps should be
added, and holes made in the solidified paint
to allow the liquids to penetrate. After standing
for some time the pigment should be in a con-
dition to break up and mix. (3) Linseed oil
cannot take the place of varnish. It won’t
dry, for one thing. Surface coating of varnish
may be removed with a paint- and varnish-
remover. (4) A specially designed knife is
obtainable at any hardware store for Is. or
Is. 6d.
* * H= *
Method of reconditioning trout fishing lines
that have become tacky? —l472.
Only procedure is to remove the lacquer
coating by means of a solvent such as benzol
and recoat the whole. Recoating is difficult
without special equipment. A good formula is;
Cellulose nitrate 100 parts, castor oil 250,
amyl acetate 400, magnesium carbonate two,
methyl alcohol 600.
* * * *
Method of destroying (1) crickets, (2) wood-
lice or slaters? —1215.
(1) If they are the mole crickets attacking
lawns a bait could be made of 11b. calcium
arsenate to 161 b. bran, or the burrows could
be given injections of nicotine sulphate or
derris solution. One ounce derris powder to
one quart water would make an effective solu-
tion for syringing the burrows. (2) As a bait,
loz. Paris green mixed with lib. rice flour
or maizemeal should be effective scattered dry
round the holes of the pests every two or three
days for seven to 10 days.
* * * *
What factors produce warm blood, as in a
human being, or cold blood, as in a snake? —
1301.
The condition of so-called warm- or cold-
bloodedness has no connection with the nature
of the food eaten by any particular animal.
The important point is that, while both cold-
blooded and warm-blooded animals evolve con-
siderable amounts of heat as the result of the
expenditure of bodily energy, the difference be-
tween them consists in the fact that in the
former group the losses of heat by the skin,
etc., are great as compared with the normal
production of heat, while in the latter the loss
and production are kept balanced. The result
is that to us, who are warm-blooded mammals,
the cold-bloods “feel cold” simply because they
dissipate heat more rapidly than we do. Never-
theless, and as an example, in some of the
more active fishes, like the bonito and the
tunny, a temperature of 99deg. F. (i.e., higher
than the human normal) has been observed
while the surrounding water was at 80J). So,
too, with frogs. The temperature of leeches,
snails and reptiles is always higher than that
of the surrounding air.
* * * *
What do the letters of the degree F.N.I.Ps.
stand for, and have they any importance? —
1265.
No record in standard textbooks. Do you
mean F.lnst.P.l. (Fellow of the Institute of
Patentees)? It is a reputable British society,
but membership confers no marked distinction
on the holder.
» « * *
(1) What is the cause of psoriasis? (2) Most
effective treatment for this disease ? —1240.
(1) Precise cause is unknown, but certain
predisposing factors are established, heredity
being the most important. Trauma (injury) is
a well-recognised cause, and the occurrence
of psoriasis upon prominences (e.g., knee and
elbow) is an expression of this factor. The
most widely accepted view at present is that
there is an inherent fault in the skin of some
individuals who have an innate predisposition,
often plainly inherited, to react in the form of
psoriasis to various stimuli, both internal and
external. (2) The first step in treatment is the
removal of the scales, which may be softened
with olive oil or an ointment containing sali-
cylic acid, aided by the daily use of soap,
warm water and a nailbrush. Next a reducing
agent (coal tar, oil of cade or chrysarobin) is
employed. X-rays are often used to clear
up obstinate patches. Numerous internal
remedies have been tried, of which the best
known is arsenic. Intramuscular injections of
milk (three to five c.c. every fourth or fifth day)
have been used with success in some cases.
In all acute attacks, rest in bed is advisable for
three to four weeks.
* * * *
My calendula plants are showing signs of
yellow dust spots on their leaves. Remedy,
please ?• —lo2s.
The plants are affected with rust. Cut off
all badly-affected leaves and burn them, then
dust the plants with flowers of sulphur or spray
them with lime-sulphur (one part in 50 parts
of water) twice a week. If these measures
are not affective dig out the plants, soak
the soil with strong permanganate of potash
solution and leave the area fallow for at least
a month before restocking with phlox, nemesia,
dianthus or plants not subject to the disease.
* * * *
Cure for a soft corn between the toes?
I’ve tried many remedies, also chiropodists,
without much success. —1231.
Wash the feet three times daily, dry them
very thoroughly, especially between the toes,
dust powder into the clefts, and put on dry
stockings, preferably of wool. A good dusting
powder consists of talc, boric acid and starch
(equal parts). To put cotton-wool between the
toes is to increase sweating and aggravate the
condition.
* * * *
(1) What are the points of a Pekinese hitch?
(2) Proper diet for such a dog? (3) Any society
in Sydney interested in these dogs ? —1462.
(1) The head should be rounded and large,
the nose should be as flat as possible and
should not protrude beyond a line drawn from
the forehead to the chin. The eyes should be
large and luminous, the ears long and well
fringed. The front legs should be well bowed
and out at elbows, the body rather long, with
a well-defined waist. The tail is carried over
the back. The coat must be long, particularly
round the mane and hindquarters. (2) Diet
depends upon age, which is not given. (3)
There is now no specialist club in Sydney for
the breed.
* * * *
(1) What Australian invented the "iron
lung” ? (2) Did he receive any remuneration
for same? —1308.
(1) E. T. Both, a young Adelaide physicist,
a pupil of Prof. Kerr Grant, of Adelaide Uni.
(2) Presumably, since he was sent to London
by an Adelaide syndicate to promote the
“lung” and other inventions.
* * * *
(1) My cinerarias are attacked by green aphis
and the leaves are riddled with lines caused by
a grub. What is the treatment for the pests?
(2) Best tonic to get high-quality blooms ?
1566.
(1) Spray the plants every week with nico-
tine (Black Leaf 40), getting it well under the
leaves. Use the mixture slightly weaker than
the directions on the bottle: if applied too
strong it often causes damage to the leaves
and rots the roots near the surface. (2) Weak
liquid manure in which a little soot-water is
added for preference; if neither is available mix
half-teaspoonful of superphosphate in the soil
about the base of the plants and water it in
heavily.
Brief Answers.
F.R.: No record of the Serbian Star; 84
Serbian decorations were issued to members
of the A.I.F. during the war of 1914-18....
J.E.M.: Minna Phillips was considered fairly
high in ranking of English character actresses
in the U.S.A. for many years up to about
1930. No record of her since that date. Can’t
say when she left Australia... .L.T.8.: The
college will forward you full particulars of the
slide-rule course F.T.C.: There was no eclipse
of sun or moon on March 19, 1780, and there
is no record available of the phenomenon de-
scribed ... .J.M.: For cough, with suspicion of
gastritis, the dog must not have access to
water for one month, substituting barley water,
or equal parts of Vichy water and milk. Give
pills made as follows: Hydrochlorate of
morphia half grain, powdered ipecacuanha
three grains, powdered rhubarb six grains,
compound squill pill 12 grains. Mix and
divide into 12 pills, one to be given night and
morning. Give an aperient medicine occasion-
ally F.R.C.: Linseed oil is the main oil
used in artists’ oil paints. Poppy and nut oils
may be used, but they are not generally so
satisfactory. Linseed oil should be of a pale
color. Paraffin oil or other mineral oils cannot
be used, as these do not dry on exposure to the
air. Artists’ brushes are made from hog hair,
sable, badger, fitch and goat hair. Ot these
the most useful are the hog hair, sable and
badger brushes. The hog bristle is used tor
the best quality coarser brushes, and sable tor
the best quality fine brushes... .D.K.: Nothing
unusual about it. It was the custom in com-
age of Queen Victoria’s reign.. . .8.M.W.:
Sir Arthur Sullivan wrote the music of ‘On-
ward, Christian Soldiers”... .J.G.D.: Consult
any textbook on mensuration.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
R.C.S.;
Honor redeemed, with sporran and dirk
(These gadgets you’ll certainly wear).
Henceforth you shall be The MeHesskie,
Instead of a commonplace Herr!
L.N.S.: —■
He led him to the hottest place
And, pointing through the smoke,
He showed him Herr von Ribbentrop,
His mouth stuffed full of coke.
R.N.:
Now, folks, no doubt you’re all aware
The struggle will be tough.
.It’s no good saying “Why should I care?”
For the Nazi hordes are cruel and rough.
S.W.: Call again... .J. 8.; Prose
A.E.W.: Just a jingle B.B.: You’ll never
get anyone to read those bedraggled bundles.
E.I.V.: Find somebody to sing ’em
P.J.H.: Thinnish... .A.8.D.: Why “politely”?
D.O’B.: “The March” is limping home.
. ...C.E.: A glimmer in both.... J.L.: Should
score elsewhere... .L.G.: Try a woman’s paper.
E.C.: If that’s poetry, so is an algebraic
equation W.R.; Not this time... .P.S.E.:
It got a grin... .E.V.: Not for us T.1.P.:
“The Spider” almost came to stay
L.B.McC.: Your language is magnificent....
R.C.: You can’t have people praying and a
horse neighing all in the one couplet....
E.R.M.: Kiplingesque... .C.M.: You make it
appear he’s going to crawl into his hat....
T.L.S.: Still like the cab; can’t you make it
trot or jingle a bit? ... .C.H.T.: Too prosy.
M.C.T.: Mrs. Green’s conversation is
hardly poetry... .H.R.W.: All right, we’ll blame
the Taxation Department... .A. 8.: Weaklings.
J.8.8.: But “swift” doesn’t rhyme with
“wish”... .G.J.W.: Not quite... .L.F.: Pity it
didn’t arrive a bit sooner F.G.: One among
many M.C.; Read what we publish
L.L;. Hardly up to Henley... .B.B.B.: Better
stick to the mouth-organ... .T.H.: That ought
to make you feel better... .8.A.8.; Merely
jaunty... .T.H.T., A.A., A.8.Y., J.8.L., C.A.8.,
J.T., M.M.; Missfires.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.M.: As their creator, could you suggest a
use for an amorphous drunk, a small boy with
his head on the wrong way round and a point-
less remark? ... .F.A.C.: Glad to hear it’s a
kangaroo; thought it was meant to be a cari-
cature of Goring or a tired swaggie sitting on
a 10g... .Vernon L.: In view of the tight-
lipped attitude of the two ladies, is the catty
remark made by some invisible onlooker?....
E.C.: The doctor has both hands in his pockets
and the patient’s two are bandaged. It’s doubtful
if you’ll always be able to avoid drawing them.
James S.: A long farewell if that’s your best.
A.R.: Put your hideous imagination in
splints and draw from life... .L.N.: One is an
ancient “Esquire” joke; the other, judged on
the company it keeps, also gets the b00t....
H.M.D.: Interesting in a wild sort of way;
tighten up your lines and you might see print.
... .N.T.: You’d be a brilliant success in
humorous art except that you lack draughts-
manship and a sense of humor...
“I went to a lot of trouble over this drawing.”
Thanks, but we’re not buying trouble Will
J.: If we published that picture of the learned
Judge we’d be up for contempt of Court or
something....M.W.: Awful.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
Perth . , . .
6PM
6AM
6KG
6GE
Northern. .
Kalgoorlie
500 watts
2000 watts
500 watts
500 watts
Geraldton
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
AN INEXPENSIVE STATION SADDLE
THE
“STOCKRIDER
ri
m
£6/12/-
(COMPLETE)
This saddle is
exceptio na 11 y
good value for
the money and
suitable for
station work.
It has a com-
fortable pigskin
seat with a
narrow waist, firm capped
pads and raised thigh pads.
N.S.W. Freight on Saddles
paid for cash with order.
VALTHER *. STEVEMSOM E«T:
395 CEORCE ST. SYPHEY
iK-
-5^3
/'
\
6
ANY CARDS
FOR YOU.
DIG?
NO THANKS
fht rather hare a
Reef Capstan
fr
Sx
t
w
ir
-S 9'
«vV
jn.
H
j*r
n:
a
Oj
mu
a
CAPSTAN
"810 Bern
Th
n
3t
ty/ly
th
pltp
ey
3/*£
the
°Ut
*te
Ci gar
ett e
1022-2.41
10 for 7° • 20 for 1 ; 2 ALSO flat and round fifties
Capstan Special Mild . . Red Packs Capstan Medium . . Blue Packs Capstan Full Strength . . Brown Packs
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
“Q.A.Z.”: Their flying-boat service de-
pleted by defence requirements, the
Qantas people found it impossible to
cope with the passengers for the Sydney-
Darwin stretch of their overseas run.
They are revising their overland service,
previously catered for by two D.H.B6’s
flying twice weekly from Brisbane to Mt.
Isa and once weekly on to Daly Waters.
A new Lockheed 10A from the U.S.A. is
going into service about the beginning of
next month ; it will leave Brisbane at 11
a.m. on Thursdays and reach Darwin at
1.30 p.m. the next day. It is, incidentally,
the first American ’plane the Qantas
people have used in 20 years.
♦ * ♦ *
“Cresswell”; Old buffalo bulls are
roaming out of their country again ; one
turned up the other day near Camooweal,
where marksmen promptly dealt with it.
Proud of their bag, the shooters posed
for their photograph, standing on the
horns of the carcass. They were adjust-
ing their smiles while the photographer
adjusted his camera when the animal sud-
denly came to life, charged its would-be
slayers and then made off into the bush.
When the old-timer was eventually shot
50 bullets from different rifles were found
under its thick skin.
* * * *
“Norther”: It has been mentioned in
Bulletin pars, that Trivalve, winner of
both Derbies and the Melbourne Cup in
1927, was spending his declining days in
the Centre, where there are no lush pad-
docks. If the shade of Jim Scobie had
been at the Alice the other day it would
have been horrified to see Trivalve sold
for £7 7s. to Bob Buck, who sold him
to another buyer for £9 9s. Trivalve
earned £28,375 in prize-money for E. E.
D. Clarke. In his lifetime Clarke was
esteemed a generous man, and it is re-
markable that he made no provision for
the latter years of his old favorite when
they parted company.
* * He ♦
“23-4”: A man who saw plenty of
active service in the 1914-18 war was
Bertram Charles Bell, of Coochin
Coochin, dead at 48. In England early
in 1914, he joined an ambulance unit on
the outbreak and drove the first Queens-
land ambulance in France. Later, he
joined the R.F.C., got his wings and was
stationed with the R.N. Air Service at
Dunkirk. He met the German attack on
the Somme as leader of a special flying
squadron, brought down seven enemy
’planes, was “mentioned,” got the D. 5.0.,
D.F.C. and Croix de Guerre, saw the
war out as a squadron-leader with his
brother, Major N. D. Bell, and returned
to Australia a major after turning down
a permanent commission in the R.A.F.
Back home, he managed Coochin
Coochin in its cattle days—the then
Prince of Wales was entertained there in
1920 —and established several farms on
it when subdivision came. He was a
member of the Queensland polo team
that won the Dudley Cup.
* * * *
“Dip”: After 12 months’ office Bris-
bane’s Lud Mayor Chandler had to try
out the ratepayers’ opinion of his ad-
ministration at municipal by-elections for
Maree and Sandgate the holders re-
signed, having landed seats in the State
Parliamentary gas-house. Sandgate was
contested by a “sub-manager,” a railway
clerk, a leather belting manufacturer, a
funeral director, an estate agent and a
retired farmer; the “sub-manager” got
home, the l.b. manufacturer and estate
agent lost their deposits, and the retired
farmer saved his by 23 votes, Maree
looked like going to Labor, and the
Lud Mayor got up and blamed the Mon-
day holiday, a wet polling day, and “dis-
tortion of facts by opponents” for the
defeat of his party’s candidate, who,
however, announced that he and his
opponent “fought a clean fight.” Next
day a mistake at the polling booths was
discovered, and the Lud Mayor’s man
found he had an extra 54 votes, which
was 25 more than he needed to bring
home the bacon. So Brisbane evidently
approves of what its new municipal ad-
ministration has done with the mess
Alf Jones and co. left behind.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Brisbane retail firms
are complaining that the place is rapidly
becoming a shoplifter’s paradise and
wanting to know what the police are
doing about it. Even such sizable articles
as wireless sets, hams, cases of fruit and
big clocks are got away with by experts
who heap insult upon injury by pinching
suitcases for carrying off the loot. One
firm lost a roll of expensive carpet to a
gentleman in shirt sleeves who walked
into the showroom, consulted what pur-
ported to be an order form, measured
the roll and walked out with it. A
favorite feminine method is for a woman
to bring along a child too small to be
seen from behind the counter and have
the little darling stand in front of her
with an open bag. She drops some of the
goods as she examines them, stoops down
and replaces them (less what the kid has
caught in the bag), and walks on. Other
child artists are trained to look out for
handbags put down by unwary shoppers
on the counter, pick them up and trot
after Mum. If caught the innocent
infant, of course, mistook it for Mum’s.


trSAGHT’S
u
PROOf
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
iff
iilifesi*
: _J^:
; -- S 3
m
* m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED,
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"IYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING,
ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT OT
GRAZCOS."
Lambs’ Tails.
“Murrawong”: C.S.I.R. tests at Gil-
ruth Plains, Cunnamulla (Q.), have shown
that breech strike in ewes is influenced
to some extent by length of tail—fly-
strike can be minimised by leaving four
instead of two or fewer tail-joints.
Three groups of 118 lambs each were
selected to contain about the same pro-
portions of plain, medium and wrinkly-
breeched types. At marking, one group
was docked, leaving two joints of the
tail, a second was docked practically
level with the buttocks, and a third group
at the fourth joint, giving about 4in. of
tail.
Six months later the advantage of
longer tails was already obvious. Total
strikes in each group: Long tails, 38 ;
medium, 66 ; short, 72. Between Novem-
ber, 1938, and July, 1940, total strikes
in each group were: Long, 47 ; mediums,
91 ; short, 103. A test with undocked
sheep resulted: Undocked, 12.1; long
dock, 8.4 ; medium, 28 ; short, 35.6.
There is no single cure-all for blow-
fly. Each property has its own fly prob-
lems, and control should be planned on
a combination of approved methods to
suit the sheep, season and locality. But
to these methods crutching, jetting,
Mules operation, dressing strikes—long
docking must be added.
War on Blowflies.
“Graz.”: There’s a new campaign to
reduce predisposition and susceptibility
of sheep to fly attack and to hamper the
breeding of primary flies.
Eliminating yellow-woolled sheep,
which are predisposed to fleece rot and
fly-strike ; concentrating on the produc-
tion of plain-bodied sheep with bright,
soft handling wool; applying the Mules
operation to those with large crutch
folds; docking lambs’ tails 4in. long in-
stead of 2in. and leaving a flap of under-
skin to cover the stump are advocated.
Sheep should be crutched, ringed and
jetted regularly to reduce susceptibility.
Rams’ heads should also be kept shorn
or jetted. Spraying freshly marked lambs
with oil of citronella emulsion will ward
off strikes.
The first fly to start a strike or get
into a fresh carcass is, nine times out of
ten, Lucilia cuprina. To prevent fresh
hatchings struck sheep should be dressed
early and carcasses burnt before they
are three days dead.
Struck sheep should be dressed on a
sheet of canvas to collect all eggs and
maggots, which should be burnt or tipped
into boiling water. When it is realised
that upwards of 5000 L. cuprina have
been found on one struck sheep and each
female reaching maturity can produce
2000 eggs it will be seen how important
it is to destroy every possible maggot.
Sheep Licks.
“Sheepo”: It’s no use trying to
supplement the mineral deficiencies of
pastures unless you’re sure what they are
lacking. In most cases it’s salt and/or
lime.
In drought-time a lick is at best
nothing more than a supplement and a
balancing agent for sheep that are being
fed on scrub or any other hard fodder.
During these periods the lick should be
placed well away from water ; otherwise
sheep will go from the lick to the water
and back again. They’ll get the lick
habit and won’t forage.
Where minerals are short in the soil,
the right lick will prove beneficial
throughout the year, but in good seasons
in areas where the essential minerals are
present licks are not required.
Drought Feeding.
“R. Ney”: Last year’s drought caught
J. F. Meynink, of Tandawanna, near
Goondiwindi (Q.), with 10,167 sheep.
When it broke he had 12,516. Most of
them were trough-fed for nearly six
months; others got scrub. Wet ewes
were on the troughs for five months and
were lambed on them. Loss of breeders
was only 5.7 p.c., dry sheep 1.3 p.c.
Cost of saving the flock worked out at
ss. 3d. a head for the period.
All the feed was Queensland grown.
Cottonseed meal was the basis, with
cereals for a balanced ration. Sorghum,
barley, maize and wheat, all as meal,
were used as prices and opportunity
dictated. Meynink gives credit to the
practice of making no sudden changes in
feed. Sheep going from (say) sorghum
to barley got some barley with the
sorghum before the sorghum cut out.
There was a fair amount of roughage
about at the beginning, and when this
was used up the trough-feeders were
given scrub.
After lambing the ewes got the best
quality wheaten chaff available in place
of the scrub. Where the sheep didn’t
show an inclination for the trough-food,
a coating of lucerne hay was put on top.
They ate through this and so on to the
stuff beneath. Lambs that survived made
the drop work out at 58 p.c., a fair effort
in such a time.
Milk Fever.
“Peapod”: It’s the high-quality milker
in good condition that is most susceptible
to milk fever. Sometimes it occurs a few
days before calving, but is generally
present only after calving. The affected
animal is at first restless and excited. It
soon becomes unsteady and knuckles
over at the fetlocks. Once down, it soon
lapses into a coma. That is the condi-
tion when the disease is usually first
noticed ; it is recognisable by the absence
of any reflex eye action and deep
breathing.
Preventive measures are best. See that
cows have exercise and are given a laxa-
tive drench before and after calving. This
checks excessive milk flow. Leave the
calf on the cow for the first three days
at least. Only milk the cow half-dry for
the next week.
If a cow should get milk fever inflate
the udder and tie each teat with tape to
prevent air escaping. Remove tape after
four hours. Use a sterilised teat siphon,
seeing that each quarter is inflated until
distension is apparent to the touch. Never
use a dirty siphon. Do not drench if
the animal has been unconscious, as it
is likely the drench will enter the lungs
and lead to pneumonia. Only after the
first three days should an affected animal
be given a small dose of salts.
Canada and Wheat.
“Ben C.”: A Government restriction
policy and wet weather combined had
reduced Canada’s wheat acreage by mid-
May by 23 p.c., the total then being esti-
mated at 21,293,100 acres. About three-
fifths of the crop had been sown and
growing conditions were mostly good. At
the end of May U.S. financial aids to
farmers pushed the price of wheat up
to 97 cents a bushel, which allowed
Canada to pay the 40 cent duty and com-
pete on the U.S. market. President
Roosevelt thereupon imposed an import
quota of 800,000 bushels for twelve
months, but granted Canada most of it.
Last August Canada had 834,000,000
bushels. Her export surplus on 1/ 5 / ’4l
was 560,000,000. Home consumption is
about 120,000,000 and her only export
markets, Britain and Eire, take about
225,000,000. Generally, Canadian
growers would consider themselves lucky
if they could get 50 cents a bushel for
their wheat on the farm.
In Australia, where seeding is—or
should be practically finished, things
aren’t too good for the new crop, rain
staying away as though it feared the
wheatbelt was the Sydney catchment
area.
Sweet Potatoes.
“Sailor Bill”: Sweet potato vines will
produce a crop in about five months in
almost any soil. Land well supplied with
potash and on which trees have been
felled and burned is best. Heavy dress-
ings of stable manure or nitrogenous fer-
tilisers produce vigorous growth of vines
to the detriment of the roots; excessive
moisture has the same effect.
Plant 50 or so sound “bucks” in moist,
fertile soil a few months before you are
ready to put out the crop. Thousands
of strong cuttings may be obtained from
the vines. Terminal cuttings about 14in.
long are best. Set up the land in ridges
or “banks” 3ft. apart. Plant the cuttings
to a depth of 6in. on the ridge and about
2ft. apart. Provided the land has been
well cultivated previously, there will be
little weed-growth. A good crop will
yield 20 to 30 tons of tubers to the acre.
Good table varieties are Brook’s Gem,
Seedling No. 3, Gold Coin and Snow
Queen.
The planting season in the coastal dis-
tricts of N. S. Wales and Queensland lasts
from October till April. Harvesting must
be completed before the frosts. In hilly,
frost-free areas, provided a moist, fertile
situation is found, sweets can be grown
at any time.
Hints for the Farm.
“Peapod”; In the slack winter season
overhaul all harness. First wash thor-
oughly in warm water, using plenty of
soap. Make sure all sweat and dirt are
removed. Hang to dry but not directly
in the sun. When dry go over every part
of the harness, mending all broken parts ;
renew stitching wherever necessary.
Finally apply a good dressing of oil to
preserve the leather.
“Sailor Bill”: Many pig ailments
would be avoided if Dennis were grazed
more often in lucerne or Kikuyu grass
paddocks. If green feed is thrown into
the sty, the strong pigs get the most of
it. The exercise they get while grazing
will do away with constipation troubles.
If rugs are used for the cows
see that they are removed whenever pos-
sible in the daytime—especially on sunny
days with no wind. See that the straps
are properly fixed and do not rub the
animal. If covers are left on for weeks
at a time during the winter a cow may
contract sores from sweat and rubbing ;
also, the rugs become a breeding-ground
for lice.
“Sailor Bill”: White-ant beds on land
required for cultivation can be destroyed
by breaking away portion of the outer
wall with a mattock and making a fire
of sticks against the inside. The nest
will smoulder away and leave a potash-
rich ash.
“Bull-ant Bill”: Asa change from
meat it’s worth while rearing and fatten-
ing a few ducklings for the table in
a movable pen. A frame of 2in. by lin.
timber, 6ft. long by 3ft. wide and 18in.
high, can be covered on top and sides
with lin. mesh wire-netting. The top


THE HYGEIA DISSOL VENATOR
The matter is transformed into a sterile solution which automatically runs
off into the soil.
No water supply required.
Approved by the Board of Health.
• NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Provides the comfort and safety of modem sanitation.
Efficiency, mechanism and life
fully guaranteed.
Price, £lB/8/- f.o.r. Sydney.
Including sales tax and crating.
Write Dept. B for illustrated pamphlet. ,
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Irniiiiun;
.<-W-
m
m
■ ’ ■
m
XV,
<&■>*
mm
The
stronger
the edge, the
longer its life
Seen under a lens, every Gillette blade has a steel shoulder
or buttress behind the cutting edge, rather like the blade
of a chisel. This construction, the outcome of three stages
in the sharpening process, gives such strength behind the
cutting edge that you obtain many more
smooth shaves than the ordinary blade will give.
The edge of many a blade is damaged by
careless unwrapping before it is ever used.
So carefully is the Gillette blade packed that
the cutting edges are not permitted to touch
even the inner wrapper, as you will see by
holding it up to the light; if you will take
equal care in handling it, you can get many
more shaves per blade.
GILLETTE
SHOULDERED
EDGE
**v\/v*w| '|
USE
GILLETTE
AND SAVE STEEL
SAVINGS // Gillette Sets 2/7i to 47 /-. Blue Gillette Blades 5 for 1/7.
K CERTIFICATES
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
BUY
WAR
BRITSTAND
GRADER-DITCHERS
For- every clay ol Ditching and Grading
Does everything for which you previously
needed a Grader AND a Ditcher, and DOES
IT BETTER. Makes drains over 4' deep, and
banks over 4' high. Good for maintaining,
also station roads, shifting drift, etc. Over
10.000 Grader Ditchers in use in America.
Hundreds already sold in Australia. Your
money refunded if you agree to part with
it after 2-days' trial. Write to-day for free
illustrated leaflet.
Procurable from . . .
E.S.C.A. Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland
British Standard Machy. Co. Ltd.. Sydney, N.S.W.
British Standard Machy. Co. Ltd., Melbourne,
Victoria
William Adams & Co. Ltd., Adelaide, S.A.
William Adams & Co. Ltd., Perth, W.A.
strips are made to project 6in. at each
end for easy moving, and a hinged door
is fitted on top for feeding. A lightly-
built movable house, 15in. high, 15in.
deep and 18in. long, with a flat g.-i. roof
sloped to the front and a raised floor,
fits inside for shelter. The whole outfit
can be easily moved about for cleanli-
ness or shelter from weather as required.
Kitchen waste from an average house-
hold of three people will feed up to four
ducklings except for the last fortnight,
when some pollard, wheatmeal and/or
liver may be needed to top them off. Get
them at the week-old stage—price around
Is. 6d. each average—and they will be
ready in from six to seven weeks.
Properly fed, each will provide two fair
meals for three people.
“Dead Nark”: A movement is afoot
to set up fur farms in Australia on the
lines of similar establishments in Europe
and North America. Ex-Premier Mair,
of N.S.W., was stampeded into setting up
a committee to investigate the possibili-
ties of the stunt, and some people in
Victoria have adopted it with enthusiasm.
Farmers are being told that the scheme
offers them a means of switching over
from forms of production affected by
the war. Australia has neither the climate
nor the market for furs to justify estab-
lishment of silver-fox herds, nor could
she hope to export. In Europe and North
America, where ice and snow are as
much a part of the winter scene as sun-
shine is a part of the Australian winter,
there is a big demand. In Australia the
fur-farmer would be nearly as short of
buyers as a hen is of teeth. This is apart
from the business of importing the
foundation stock, acclimatisation, feeding
and training necessary to make the
skilled fur-farmer. It is also apart from
the fact that in its wool Australia has a
clothing material warmer and more en-
during than fur, less costly and already
well-established. Wool is Australia’s big-
gest wealth-producer, and it has had to
face some pretty serious threats from
artificial fabrics. It seems strange that
some misguided politicians should con-
sider setting up another threat.
“H.T.C.”: C.S.I.R. experiments with
nicotine sulphate drench in Tasmania
were taken by some people as proving
that the drenched sheep showed to no
better advantage than sheep in the same
area that were not drenched but were
adequately fed and rotated. That may
have been true in the early stages of the
experiment, but after mating, lambing
and weaning it was found that internal
parasitism had declined and, despite the
relative absence of worms in both
drenched and undrenched sheep, the
drenched group had a greater body
weight by 51b. and cut .31b. of wool more
per head. Throughout the trial infes-
tation in both groups was very light.
“K.Mc.”: Each mill has its own fan-
cies as to how wool should be sorted to
suit the particular fabrics it manufac-
tures, and as scouring makes sorting
much more difficult “Two Strand’s” idea
of saving shipping space (B. 11 /6/’41)
would be strongly resisted by the stub-
born Yorkers. The difficulty could be
overcome if British and American mills
had their sorting done here.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) How long has the embargo on export of
merinos been in force? (2) Was it applied by
the Scullin Government and at whose request?
(3) Can you give aggregate yearly amounts
realised for merino exports prior to the imposi-
tion of the embargo? —1433.
(1) Since 1928. (2) The Scullin Government
introduced the embargo, largely at the request
of woolgrowers who feared eventual competition
from importing countries. (3) Information not
available. N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’ Assoc, might
have it.
* * * *
(1) How much capital is required to start
sheep-farming in a small way? (2) How would
a man without farming experience gain some
for sheep-raising? —1209.
(1) Hard to say. For dual-purpose (mutton
and wool) sheep you’d need heavy-carrying
country in a good rainfall area. For wool you
could go into the dry country. The land in
each case will vary greatly in price, say £25
an acre down to 55., according to quality.
Given the necessary knowledge, £SOOO would
be a useful amount. (2) Get a job on a sheep
farm. You’d need to spend at least five years
before being able to call yourself experienced.
Have a yarn with Ted Elliott, Sheep and Wool
branch, N.S.W. Dept, of Agriculture, Farrer-
place, Sydney.
Outback Occupations.
No. LXXIV.
THE MIDNIGHT RESCUE.
It has been raining steadily all day.
Just before going to bed you go out on
to the verandah and peer into the black
night trying to detect a star. None is to
be seen.
“Looks like rainin’ for a month,” you
tell the missus..
Just as you shed your right boot the
dogs start barking. You listen. Heavy
boots clump across the verandah, there
is a loud knock on the door and a voice
shouts “Hey, anybody up?”
You go out. Standing at the door is
a large heap of mud and water with a
face on top. It speaks:
“G’ day. How are y’? Bonzer flamin’
night, ain’t it? I’m bogged.”
“Bogged?”
“Yair. Y’ know that bit of spewy coun-
try down the road where the metal was
washed away last year? Well, me car’s
in that. I bin tryin’ t’ get out ever since
dark, but she won’t flamin’ well budge.
So I sees your light an’ come up t’ see
if y’d gimme a hand.”
“Gripes,” you say, “you picked a fine
night for it.”
“Fair cow, ain’t it?” he says cheerily,
shedding mud and water over the ver-
andah.
Later, having somehow succeeded in
dragging your eldest boy from his bed,
you arrive at the scene aboard the trac-
tor. You and Jack are in oilskins, you
have hurricane lamps, shovels, rope, wire,
two dogs and the owner of the car. You
stop the tractor on the edge of the bog
and go forward to examine the position.
The car is down to the running-boards
in blue slush. A ditch of water two feet
deep flows alongside it. You find this
ditch by stepping into it. The stranger
helps you oat.
“Ain’t it a beaut.?” he remarks.
You don’t say anything, but feel your
way carefully round the car, trying to
see by the hurricane lamp, which is now
dimmed by mud splashes.
“The trouble,” you tell the stranger,
“is where to get a rope on to her. We’ll
have to dig some of the mud away from
the back an’ get it under t’ the back
axle.”
“Hurry up, Dad, I’m gettin’ wet!”
calls Jack from the purring tractor.
You slosh back to the tractor, get a
couple of shovels and return. You and
the stranger dig mud away. You have
to dig fast because slush runs into the
hole. In the end you have a waterhole
under the car. The stranger hands you
the end of the rope leading from the
tractor. You hand it back, saying firmly,
“I’ll hold the lamp. You fix it.”
“Fair cow, ain’t it?” he says cheerily,
but he can’t reach under the car because
the rope isn’t long enough.
“Bring her forward a bit,” you shout
to Jack.
“She’s right on the edge of the metal
now,” he replies.
“Don’t be silly, boy ; she won’t bog.”
“Won’t she!”
“Come on, come on, we’ll be here all
night.”
You hear the tractor roar and the
rope slackens in the stranger’s hand. He
bends down and fiddles about in the
slush. Then he stands up.
“Righto, Jack! Take her steady.” •
There is a roar from the tractor, the
rope tightens; tentatively the tractor
roars some more, pops a couple of times
and dies to a purr. Comes Jack’s voice,
vexatious, “There y’ are. She’s stuck! ”
“She can’t be.”
“Of course she blanky well is.”
You and the stranger churn through
the slush. The tractor is certainly down.
Jack gets off and you get on. You give
her a go. She roars, grates, smokes,
throws mud about and sinks another
inch.
“Ain’t she a beaut.?” says the stranger.
Two hours pass while the three of you
dig tons of mud away from the tractor.
The dogs have long since given up hope of
any sport and gone home. The country-
side is enveloped in watery blackness.
You detach the rope from the bogged car,
tie it to the tractor pulley and to a strainer
post you find off to the right, start her up,
throw in the gears and pull the strainer
and two panels of fence out of the ground.
You try filling the holes in front of
the tractor wheels with sticks and logs.
The wheels revolve and chew them up
gleefully. You knew you were beaten
an hour ago, but you bumble around in
the slush, weary and worn, while Jack
mutters and the stranger leans against
the tractor. In the end you admit it.
The stranger goes to his car, having
accepted your invitation to stay the night.
While you wait he suddenly starts the
car and backs it wildly past you up on
to the metal. There he gets out and looks
underneath.
“Ain’t she a beaut.?” he says. “I never
thought o’ tryin’ her in reverse till just
then.”
Without a word you and Jack climb
aboard his car and are driven home, hav-
ing festooned the marooned tractor with
hurricane lamps to warn the unwary.


THE OTHER FELLW'S MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4Jd. per line; all others at
2Jd. per line.
First place for a writer who handles a difficult subject ably, though many people
will disagree with his main argument.
Birth Control
There has always been limitation of
population even among primitive peoples.
The crudest means is infanticide. Slightly
less crude is abortion, and less crude still
is contraception. If population increases
beyond the means of subsistence, famine,
war and epidemics wipe out surplus
population, and may actually depopulate
the area. Just as prohibition laws cannot
prevent the making and drinking of some
sort of alcohol, so no repressive laws can
prevent one form or another of volun-
tary limitation of population.
A wise society will therefore try to
choose the means which will be least
anti-social in its by-effects. Experience
in Europe and America has shown that
harmless and reliable contraceptive
methods, preferably under medical
advice, are to be preferred. Where con-
traceptive knowledge is available to the
whole population (as in England, where,
since 1929, Government - subsidised
Maternal and Child Welfare Clinics have
been permitted to supply this advice)
there is the least abortion.
Where contraceptive knowledge
is not available abortion flour-
ishes. In Australia reliable
contraceptive advice is difficult
to obtain, though unreliable
contraceptives abound and
make fortunes for their manu-
facturers and vendors. The
result is that abortion is appal-
lingly rife. It is carried out
generally by unskilled persons,
and, though there are few im-
mediate deaths, the consequent
illness is enormous. Sterility,
as a result of sepsis, follows in
a large proportion of cases.
Can anyone doubt that it would be
better for the community to discourage
abortion by making available knowledge
of contraception? Of course, such know-
ledge can be used for anti-social as well
as for social ends. It is true that increase
of population is vitally necessary for Aus-
tralia. This can best be brought about
by encouragement of early marriage, by
child endowment, by provision of ade-
quate housing at reasonable rentals and
by ever-increasing care of the woman
before, during and after confinement, and
of the infant and child. The number of
births is not the only factor in increase
or decrease of population —it is the sur-
vival rate that counts. In many years
France’s birthrate was higher than that
of England, but France’s infantile death-
rate was so high that the survival rate
in France was much less than in England.
Incidentally, contraception was legal in
England and illegal in France.
We should change our attitude t9wards
the unmarried mother and the illegiti-
mate child. We need not encourage ille-
gitimacy, but we should not make condi-
tions so hard that the unmarried woman
who finds herself pregnant is driven to
the abortionist or to regard the early
death of the child, if born, as highly
desirable. Infant mortality among illegi-
timate children is far higher than among
legitimate. And let us have done with
the stupid policy of dismissing women
from Government, municipal, teaching
and other posts on marriage. Let them
keep their jobs and take temporary leave
shortly before confinement. Adequate
creches or day nurseries must be pro-
vided for the care of the children while
the mothers are working.
Positive encouragement of parenthood
will do more than banning of contracep-
tives to increase the population. — Colin
Street (N.S.W.).
Drift to the Cities
Here is one reason for it, A dairy-
farmer had three sons. The eldest left
home after his schooldays, and is now
earning £l2 a week in a city job. The
second son was earning £7 a week before
he joined the A.1.F., and the youngest,
not yet 18, has just got a job—in the city
—at £3 a week. The farmer did not try
to dissuade any of them from going to
the city. His own life had been hard
enough, and if his sons could make their
careers any easier than his had been he
did not blame them.
With the departure of the youngest boy
from the farm the father has been un-
able to do the work himself. He cannot
get labor, so has been forced to tackle
something easier. His choice is a poultry
farm only a few miles from the city
where his sons are working. That
family’s story is similar to many which
could be told in practically every country
district. The young folk have been leav-
ing the farms for years, and the war,
with enlistments arid high wages for
munitions workers, is denuding farms and
stations of young man-power. No one
can foretell what the position will be
after the war, but it is not likely that
men will go on the land if they can get
better conditions and higher incomes in
other occupations.
There are, of course, many men with
a genuine love of the land. They are
the farmers who make good, but the
difficulty of getting labor, especially in
dairying districts, is handicapping them.
Smaller farms may be the remedy, hold-
‘No, no, NO — that's NOT the idea."
ings which can be worked efficiently by
one man content to earn a smaller in-
come than he would get from a larger
property. A system of small, intensively
worked farms would tend to lower costs
of production, thus making farming more
attractive, but the working would have
to be efficient, every yard of the place
would have to be made to produce, and
soil fertility would have to be main-
tained. — Yeno Ham (N.S.W.).
I’ve been to visit my people, who live
in dairying country on the upper reaches
of one of the northern rivers. From
the little bush post office, the mailman,
who also carries the cream and delivers
bread and groceries, carries the people’s
letters 10 miles up the river, dropping
them into improvised letter-boxes by
the roadside, or leaving them with the
bread and groceries in the cream-stand.
While I was there, the postman received
instructions that he was to discontinue
delivering letters to any settlers living
within three miles of the post office, as,
according to postal regulation, settlers
within that limit must come to the post
office and collect their own mail.
The mailman still has to travel the same
road, pass each farmer’s cream-stand,
stop to put some article in the box; but
the farmer must travel nearly three miles
to get his mail.
I came back to my flat at King’s Cross
—three times a day the postman whistles
at the front door—and wondered why
we wonder people won’t stay on the land.
—E. M. B. (N.S.W.).
In W.A., farmers, though exempt from
service, are abandoning their properties
to join the military forces, and their
wives and children are migrating to
the city. Country townships are lan-
guishing through lack of business, while
houses in Perth are almost unobtainable
In the south-west, abandonment of
farms is a great loss to the country, be-
cause the rapid regrowth of scrub and
suckers means that farms cleared after
years of labor return to their virgin con-
dition, which baffled so many of the
original group settlers. — Enoch (W.A.).
Collective Fanning
I have a plan for settling returned
soldiers on the land in Australia collec-
tive farming. The typical unit under this
scheme would be a farm of at least a
few thousand acres. There would be a
manager (preferably a returned soldier
with farming experience), and the men
who worked the farm in association with
him would be shareholders. All would
live in a village or township which the
farm unit itself would create. Every
worker would have his own home in the
village, which would be situated, prefer-
ably, right in the middle of the farm.
Every householder would have his own
garden. The scheme contemplates at
least 50 families in the village, so there
would be a school, a library and a church
also. The produce of the farm would all
be handled in the village. The cream
would be turned to butter, the wheat
milled, the bread baked and so forth.
Electricity would be generated in the
village. . ~
The most up-to-date machinery would
be used in connection with the land, and
the time saved thereby would be
used for sidelines, for which present-day
individual farmers have no time. Land
improvement, beekeeping, herd-testing,
scientific gardening, growth of herbs and
fruit would follow. All this activity
should also attract tradesmen landwards.
In such a community as I envisage would
be needed carpenters, mechanics, prob-
ably shoemakers and, maybe, a tailor.
Collective farming of this sort would
encourage marriage, and the children
born on each collective farm would be
entitled to full wages and a house when
grown to adulthood. Every family on
the collective farm would be entitled to
free issue of the basic foods, including
milk. There would, of . course, be in-
structional centres (preferably in each
village hall, by rotation) for teaching the
collective farm girls how to cook, mend,
sew.
This is, as I have said, a plan for
returned soldiers whom urban industries
can never fully employ. Under such a
scheme we could transform the present-
day drudgery of country life. The thing
could be applied also to large holdings
which are now purely pastoral—by
slightly reducing the pastoral area and
making some hundreds of acres cap-
able of agricultural production.—G. D.
(N.S.W.).
“Employment Wanted”
These two news items appeared in the
Queensland press of June 5:
Australian munition factories need more
and more fitters, turners, mechanics and
tradesmen of all kinds.
Stated unemployed 10,000 to 15,000. says
Treasurer; 21,780, says Canberra.
In the same issue the following notices
appeared (as hundreds similar have ap-
peared since war began) in the “Employ-
ment Wanted” column:
Expert oxy-welder desires position fore-
man works. Particulars to Box .
Motor mechanic wants position, 14 years’
experience, understands tractors, oxy-weld,
own tools. —Apply Box
Wanted work of any kind, sawmill,
truck-driving, any kind of work, go any-
where. —Box .
Apparently we have not yet solved the
problem of using our available industrial
man-power to the best advantage.
Smilax (Q.).
Shifted from the West
At least one of the “small but well-
equipped engineering works” in W.A.
said to have been sold piecemeal of late
was transferred for the most part to the
firm’s own eastern-States factory. It was
not the lack of Federal Government
support which brought the disaster along,
but rather the supine policy of the local
Labor Government, as interpreted by its
Minister for Works, that hastened its end.
The proprietors wanted some dilution of
labor, such as is provided for in the
Federal Metal Trades’ awards for eastern-
States manufacturers. It was denied by
the W.A. Arbitration Court, so those
who were in employment suddenly found
their occupation gone.
For some time past it has been known
in industrial circles that W.A. manufac-
turers have faced a difficult task in trying
to tender for Federal munition contracts,
and to overcome some of the handicap
have been trying to negotiate a new
agreement which will give them a chance
to compete on more equitable terms. If
this succeeds the few small factories in
W.A. will get the encouragement which
will expand them and thus calm some of
the now ruffled tempers. Spanner
(W.A.).
Army Training
“Dee Laney’s” criticism of military
training (B. 4/6/’4l) has enough truth
in it to make me reach for paper. Under
ideal conditions the job could possibly
be done in six months, but it’s not
routine and precedent which slow down
training; it is lack of knowledge of
routine and precedent.
It must be remembered that everyone,
from the C.O. down, is learning his job.
Many militia officers’ and sergeants’
messes have been emptied twice since
the A.I.F. was formed, and are now
training their third edition of officers and
n.c.os. In any case, the short-period
camps in vogue before the war were only
political face-savers, of little value in
teaching administration and organisation.
Then there is the lack of training equip-
ment and trained instructors. Only too
often one instructor has to struggle with
a squad of 25 or 30 men instead of the
eight laid down by training manuals.
Don’t blame the military system, which
has stood an unprecedented strain amaz-
ingly well. The blame lies with you and
me and the other voters of Australia who
allowed the Men of Canberra to abolish
compulsory service and enter the war
with a pitifully inadequate instructional
corps and training equipment. The
A.M.F. has to cram 10 years’ work into
two, and is doing it in adverse circum-
stances with surprising efficiency.
It mustn’t happen again. Time and
the Almighty have been on our side, but
He must be getting a bit sick of pulling
our chestnuts out of the fire. — Phcenix
(S.A.).
Hitler
Sydney papers may squabble over who
should have the right to print that
allegedly humorous composition Hitler’s
Flying Visit, but isn’t it time we woke
up to such stuff? Hitler is much too
serious a menace to be a subject for
mirth. Such tends to make superficial
minds hold him cheap. He isn’t cheap.
And, like Napoleon, he has one tremen-
dous advantage over any of our leaders
that have so far appeared—he was never
through a public school or a university.
That as a first quality leaves him free
from that class snobbery which finds it
impossible to realise that any man who
has not been “educated” in the afore-
mentioned class of institution is capable
of anything like leadership. Which gives
Hitler the power to pick his key men
from all ranks. Which in turn has en-
abled his armies to play so many in-
genious tricks —tricks that leave our
fixed-minded strategists wondering what
happened. The author of the alleged
satire is, of course, a public school pro-
duct.— Charn (W.A.).
Relative Importance
With possibly hundreds of wounded
waiting in the Middle East military
authorities are worrying when the
big military hospital at Hollywood,
Perth (W.A.)., will be finished. It should
have been finished weeks ago, but short-
age of bricklayers and shortage of other
men held it up. Yet within a quarter of


GRACE BROS
SALE
WINTER
»
3
LOUNGE SUITS... DINNER SUITS
DRESS SUITS and OVERCOATS
All Less 2>- in the £
HIGH
GRADE
SUITS
AUTHENTIC ENGUSH STYLING
CLOTHES
EXCLUSIVE TO GRACE B ROS.
H©
HO
00 3
<5 0
PRICES FROM
And Less 2 / ~ in the £
vwCv’.;::
NE
m
vm
::::
am?
sm
■m
m j
Without Exception!
THE WHOLE OF THE HUGE RANGE
OF ENGLISH CRAFTSMAN TAILORED
CLOTHING IS SUBJECT TO THE
10% DISCOUNT. THIS INCLUDES:
ENGLISH DRESS WEAR, TOPCOATS,
RAINCOATS, AND LOUNGE SUITS,
WHICH ARE AVAILABLE IN THE
FAMOUS 131 FITTING RANGE.
GRACE BROS. PTY., LTD., BROADWAY, SYDNEY. ’PHONE: M 6506


a mile of the unfinished hospital a large
block of flats is going up, one of the
dozens of similar blocks erected since
the beginning of the war. Half a dozen
bricklayers on them with laborers.
When the war was young I happened
to go fishing with a land agent in
a fairly big way. “I’ve sold more land
this last month than I sold the previous
two years,” he boasted. “People break-
ing their necks to get their money into
bricks and mortar for fear there might
be a capital levy or something.”
Perth has two hospitals in the partly-
finished stage: the big new Public Hos-
pital, which might also be used for sol-
diers, and the one mentioned. Yet
private building goes merrily on!
Godelpus (W.A.).
The Only Jones?
The owner—call him Jones —of a
garage in a Victorian country town is
a highly-skilled fitter and turner and was
•a munition worker in the last war. With
the plant he possesses, he is capable of
turning a shell, a bearing, a shaft and
other defence jobs. He has two sons
in the Navy. Listening to and read-
ing the impassioned pleas for every
skilled worker to play his part and keep
the equipment up to the boys overseas,
he was moved to write the Ministry of
Munitions and volunteer to play a part
with his machines.
In a letter dated 13 /3 / ’4l from the
Ordnance Production Branch, he was in-
formed that it was impossible to say
whether his offer could be accepted with-
out a personal call and interview. At
his own cost he travelled the 160 miles
to Melbourne, where he satisfied highly-
placed officials of his ability and the
capacity of his machines. He was
assured that both he and his lathe were
a “godsend.” He would get immediately
a few hundred gear levers and universal
couplings for turning, and would he, at
least a week before completing that lot,
let them know and a second consignment
would be sent along? “But hurry, please
hurry. Remember we are up against it.”
Home he went and spent a couple of
days overhauling and adjusting and assur-
ing himself of the full co-operation of his
staff. That was just on three months
ago. Not one part has been received nor
one word in explanation. I was speak-
ing to Jones this week. He was like a
man stunned.—H. A. (Vic.).
Be Prepared
With all this fuss about what each
E.P.S. organisation will do it mightn’t
be a bad idea to turn them all over to
the Scout Commissioners to run. Scouts
are the only body that—apart from the
Navy and Army—are ready to cope with
an emergency. Every Scout group can
at short notice have all its members
assembled in uniform. These boys can
act as messengers, supplying their own
bikes, and can memorise their instructions
accurately. In their own district they
know all fire alarms, doctors and such
like. They are trained in ambulance
and home nursing up to either St. John’s
or Red Cross certificate standard. They
can be trusted with casualties wait-
ing for or during transport. They are
able to cook in the open, care for elderly
people or children, have a knowledge of
sanitation and have been trained in fire-
fighting up to voluntary brigade standard.
Their counterparts can be found any-
where in England dealing, as part of the
regular E.P.S. services, with any emer-
gency that arises.—F. M. B. (M.L.).
Censuring the Censor
On June 6 Australian newspapers
reported, without contradiction, upon the
authority of Australian Associated Press,
that American papers declared that
“Britain’s situation is critical —she will
be beaten if the U.S.A. does not enter
the war.” Further, that “many neutral
observers fear that, without speedy Ameri-
can aid, Britain may be forced to con-
sider peace feelers, but Ambassador
Winant declined to confirm rumors that
the failure of all-out assistance would
force Britain to consider an armistice.”
Next day President Roosevelt stated
that the rumors which gave rise to this
fit of the jitters were lies deliberately
spread by Nazi and Fascist agents under
instructions from their Governments.
What was the censor doing that he per-
mitted these lying rumors, so dangerous
to our morale and so heartening to the
enemy, to appear uncontradicted in Aus-
tralian newspapers?—W. K. D. (Q.),
Post-war Employment
Richard Casey, our Minister to the
U.S.A., sounded a timely warning when
he urged us to plan for it now, otherwise
Democracy will destroy one menace only
to be confronted by another,
There will be much to do in recon-
struction after the war, cities to be re-
built, shipping replaced and so forth, but
there will be more than enough returned
servicemen and munition workers who
will find their jobs gone overnight when
peace comes.
For Australia, there will have to be
efforts to retain the new industries, such
as shipbuilding, ’plane factories, etc.,
even if they have to be subsidised for a
time. Vocational training will be neces-
sary. We must learn to process many of
ou f primary products, keep technical
training at a high pitch, prepare to handle
a rush of immigrants. All this, and more,
demands forethought and planning, as
Mr. Casey says, and the sooner something
is done about it the better—notwithstand-
ing that the war effort must reach a still
higher pitch.— Ricardo (N.S.W.).
° * y ’
T . c . . _
* axin g Single Men
. In aa y future increase of Federal taxa-
tion, a heavier burden should be placed on
the single man who has no dependants
at present he has to pay a higher tax
than a married man, but the difference
15 a °t great.
Take my own case. I have a wife and
child to support. I am on a good salary,
and I do not complain at the tax I have
to pay. Working in the same office is
a man on the same wage. He has only
*° suppott himself, yet his Federal tax
Wolks °ut at only 10s. a week more than
mine - 1 can afford to pay the tax, to
kee P myself and family and suffer no
hardship, and if I can do that a single
man on the same salary should be able
to pay double his present rate of tax.
Many highly-paid single men are pre-
vented from enlisting because they are
in reserved occupations or are medically
unfit. Others have no desire to join the
fighting forces. They should all be made
to take a greater share of the country's
financial burden. Further imposts of
taxation on married men will result in
hardship in many instances, but a doub-
ling of the tax on single men who receive
incomes over, say, £4 10s. a week should
cause no hardship, and, if the rate rises
progressively as the income increases,
there will be less need to tax those who
have to keep more than one person.—
Paul Pilgrim (N.S.W.).
“Costless Credit”
It speaks volumes for the sound com-
monsense of the Maoriland Government
that it has ignored demands from a loud-
voiced minority that it should immedi-
ately take over the banking business and
run the war on “costless credit.” In Aus-
tralia also there are many people whose
pronouncements on public finance de-
serve to be likewise ignored.
It is one of the weaknesses of social-
credit adherents that they refuse to recog-
nise that banking, like other highly-
specialised businesses, requires talent of
a high order and a wealth of knowledge
that only long experience of men and
affairs can give. And central banking,
which is what the credit fellows are most
anxious to meddle in, is a task compared
with which the work of the commercial
banker is child’s play—upon the skilful-
ness with which a country’s central bank
is conducted depend the stability and
efficiency of the whole economic system.
Banking reforms must be evolved con-
tinuously to keep pace with the constant
changes in economic life. The weight of
evidence of the past shows that, while it
is right that pressure for banking reform
should come from the community in
general, the methods by which the desired
ends are accomplished should be made
a matter for the banking profession,
whose members are no less honest, cap-
able or loyal than the members of any
other profession.— Wusslean (Vic.).
Christians
With the war in full blast, and our
various emotions working full time, we
are moved to remember that we are
Christians. When the King calls to
prayer the churches are filled. This is
all to the good, but do we actually prac-
tise Christianity? Christianity does im-
pose certain standards of conduct, and if
we fail in this respect our public worship
cannot have much value.
My challenge to the nation is that its
Christianity be proved in action. To
read of the vast congregations in the
churches on a “day of prayer” is refresh-
ing, until you turn to the other news,
and find that profiteering, industrial dis-
putes, circumvention and orgies of
gambling are rampant. You also see
pornographic displays in the pictorial sec-
tions of prominent journals. What a
contribution towards moulding national
character!
All these things detract from the merit
gained by answering the call to prayer,
probably wipe it out. If we pray let us
feel that we deserve that our prayers be
answered. If we claim to be Christians
let us live as such. Christianity isn’t just
a Sunday show -—Fitzjay (N.S.W.).
“Come and get it!”
Australian Books
A cheaply-priced series of reprints of
notable Australian books now out of
print is badly needed. The works of most
past-day Australian authors, even some
certain of a permanent place in Aus-
tralian literature, are unprocurable, un-
less one is lucky enough to chance across
one in a second-hand bookshop. A case
in point is Louis Becke. He was one of
the favorites of my youth, and I would
dearly like to renew acquaintance with
him, but his books are no longer pub-
lished, nor are copies to be secured at any
of the leading Sydney lending libraries.
Some years ago Angus and Robertson
brought out reprints at half a crown.
Only a few authors, among them Lawson
and Paterson, were listed. The series
sold very well at the bookshop I then
worked at —an experience not likely to be
unique.
If this series is still published couldn't
it be extended to form a complete library
of Australian classics on the lines of
Everyman and the World’s Classics?
Books by contemporary authors could be
included when copyright conditions per-
mitted. Thus the best Australian books
of each generation would be permanently
accessible to the reading public.— Den
(N.S.W.).
Milk Bottles
Isn’t the humble milk bottle of any
value these days? In our suburb at least
dozens of them are to, be seen every day
lying against fences and in gutters until
they are broken. At work most of the
fellows get a bottle of milk a day. In
one department there were no fewer than
100 bottles piled up waiting to be re-
claimed. In another section there were
six dozen and in a third part of the works
about two dozen, all ignored by the
milkmen, despite several notes. It was
not until the milk company was told not
to supply any more until the empties
had been cleared that we began to see
daylight. Now they’re beginning to pile
up again.—G. W. W. (N.S.W.).
Child Endowment
During depression years poverty-
stricken families were living on the dole
and relief work alternately. Their aver-
age weekly sustenance was less than that
quoted by “Blue” (B. 4/6/’4l) and much
below the then basic-wage based on the
barest necessities for man, wife and child.
They lived —to what purpose? Perusal
of Health Officers’ reports tell how.
For the past decade the poorer class
has not recovered from the effects of the
depression. Lack of nutritive food
caused malnutrition, to which is attri-
buted many of the ailments and physical
defects so common at present. This
contention is backed up by the number
of young men medically unfit for the
fighting forces.
Child endowment is an admission of
this fact. It has eventuated because of
the necessity to halt retrogression that
would make Australians an inferior race,
and to help build up a nation of virile
manhood. — Jeff (Vic.).
In Cloud Cuckoo Land
Does anyone dwell so habitually in the
unreality and obfuscation of cloud
cuckoo land as the “advanced” trade-
union official? “Doctrinaire” used to
be the term, but even that barely conveys
a right idea of their fairy-tale minds. The
reported proceedings of the debate on
war policy at the All-Australia Trade-
union Congress prompt these remarks.
The decision arrived at by a not quite
two-to-one majority was sound enough,
favoring as it did whole-hearted continu-
ance of the war against the Axis Powers,
but that it should be possible at this stage
for alleged representative speakers to
utter the rubbish reported of the militants,
and that over one-third of the delegates
could be found to support them, is pitiful.
“Let’s declare now for peace and unite
for socialism,” one delegate is reported
to have said. That when half the world
that is interested in such things lies help-
less under the heel of anti-socialist
Powers, and while those Powers march
in full-armed ruthlessness towards what
they feel certain are further conquests of
a like nature. “I would go behind the
barricades to fight Fascism, but I won’t
fight in a war for markets,” he said.
Doesn’t he realise that if he waits until
the barricades go up the cause will
already be a lost one?
But perhaps the prize should go to the
bird who said that the Australian t.-u.
movement should “take immediate steps
to make contact with the trade-union
and workers’ movements in those coun-
tries where such movements still exist
in order that efforts may be made 10
end the war.” Where are those move-
ments, and who and where are the leaders
who can speak for them? So far as
Europe is concerned, apart from Britain,
such t.-u. and workers’ leaders as have
not been murdered are in concentration
camps, and the only way to get them out
is by winning this war. Outside Europe,
apart from the U.S.A., the movement
would be about as effective for stopping
the war as a toy pistol against a tank.
In Britain the t.-u. movement is solidly
behind the prosecution of the war, and
the same is only less true in U.SA. —
Upagum (S.A.).


Mainly Mail-Order
sdf
CYPRUS
DE LUXE
The watch for hard
wear. Waterproof,
Shockproof, Dust-
proof, Anti-
magnetic. Stainless
steel.
£5/10/-
ITully Guaranteed.
Regimental Colour
Patch Brooches,
2/6 each.
DIAM'ONO
& WATCH
SPECIALISTS
&uA4<Jtd%
112 MARKET SI
> SYDNEY.
OPP. DAVIDJONES
“Aberdeen” Cow Rugs
T3STO
SPECIAL. OFFER.
No. 23—Heavy Twill Jute, unlined, 7/8 ea.
No. 22L > —Heavy Twill Jute, waterproof,
unlined, 9/8 each.
From all leading stores and saddlers.
SMITH COPELAND & CO. PTY., LTD.,
SYDNEY.
FLEX-1-TRfiCK
Flex-I-Track for “0” gauge Mechanical and
Electrical Trains. Will fit any make of track
- —switches—crossovers. Make any curve,
gradient—a new layout every time.
• No track sections to
connect—just roll it
out —roll it up.
• Strongly bu i 11 —
won’t bend or buckle.
• 10ft. (one 6ft. and
one 4ft. section) for
12/6, Plus Postage.
Nett weight when
packed, 51b.
AMPLION (A/siaj
Pty., Ltd.,
382 Kent St., Sydney.
NATURAL
WOOD TIES
FLEXIBLE IN '
ANY DIRECTION
FITS OTHER TRACK?
EQUIPMENT
sd
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free, En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEI, APPMAWCE CO..
DEFT. 37, 84 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Speed & Accuracy
in all mental
movements
follow the Pelman
training.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, posted free on request. Write to
The Pelman Institute,
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Fane,
Melbourne. Telephone: MU2355.
deaf:
New Invention—The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDIi, L.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 438 George St., Sydney.
TYPEWRITERS
of every description
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
fsd
FROM £5 UPWARDS.
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States—See ’Phone Book.
TRY "CENTURY" RADIO
—and save 40 p.c.
(up to £2O).
It costs you nothing to try the
“Century” Radio. You can have
FREE TRIAL in your own home.
Century Radio Sets embody the
latest scientific improvements . . .
wonderful reception assured from
all over the world on Battery and
All-electric sets. Write at once for
Catalogue. If no “Century” Agent
in your district you can buy at
wholesale prices (40% discount).
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
NURSERYLAND TRANSFERS
fs
Absolutely NEW!
Simple to Apply,
Washable.
Most attractively
designed & colored
The kiddies will love
them. These beautifully
colored and finished trans-
fers may be applied to all
kinds of things walls.
woodwork, beds, furniture, glass, crockery, bdoks, etc., at so
small a cost, the results could not b(j equalled for pounds by
any other artistic effort. They are so simple to apply a child
can do it; merely wet and slide on to the article to be'
adorned. The sizes of the transfers range from 2,2 J to 3
inches, some with, some without rhyme?, and the prices are
6d. each, 3 for 1/4, six for 2/B, twelve for 4/9. postage paid,
from the following assortment:—Miss Muffet, Mary and her
Lamb, Jack Be Nimble, Tubby Bear, Simple Simoft, Ding
Dong Bell, Little Pig Went to Market, Red Riding Hood,
Jackie Horner, Bo Peep,, Jack and Jill, Tom the Piper’s Son.
Union Mfg. & Agency Co.. 299 Elizabeth Street. Melh, C.L
TILLEY LAMPS
df
For the Farm, Camping
or Fishing.
British-made Kerosene Lamps
providing a steady 300 c.p. light
without flickering and without
smoke or smell.
Model EXIOO (illustrated)
can be used as a Storm
Lantern, Table Lamp or Hanging
Lamp. Reflector slips off when
not required. Burns for 10
hours on 1] pint.
Price, 70/- complete.
Write for catalogue of Radiators
and all types of lamps.
Obtainable from your local agent or
W. Kopson & Co. Pty., L,td.,
376-382 Kent Street, Sydney.
MA6336.
STOP SMOKING
Nicotine undermines your health, often
causing
HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE.
The TOBACCO HABIT can now definitely
be overcome with a new medicinal treat-
ment.
DR. PARKS’ ANTI-SMOKING
MIXTURE.
Mr. H., of Sydney, writes: “After 20
years of constant smoking I am now
cured of the habit.”
Complete Treatment, 5/- post free.
Obtainable only from —
NOEL P. FORD, M.P.S. (Syd. Univ.),
Chemist, 243 King Street, Newtown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
7
OILSKINS
fop long:, bard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of our
oilskins are oiir
best advertisement.
Hughes’ Tropical
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Write for Free Catalogue and Samples.
A. J. HUGHES
(Established 1893),
1218 REGENT
Get rid of
Homs BEFORE
they start!
One application of
Harris, Scarfe & Handovers
Ltd. Chemical Dehorner
will remove the horn
bud from any calf up
to two months. There is no bleed-
ing. Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from its mother
for 30 minutes —the horn bud drops off in a few
weeks. An easij,_vheap and humane method. Price
6 6
Post Free,
HARRIS, SCARFE & SAND-
OVERS, LTD,, Hay St., Perth. I>
m a •
w
FINE TOBACCO!
Whitelaw’s Famous Import
Blend Number One.
A fine quality leaf which could not be purchased
anywhere at less than 24/- per pound. Despite
new duties, WHITELAW’S SPECIAL POLICY TO
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS enables us to offer this
tobacco at the lowest price consistent with its fine
quality. Save yourself the middleman’s profit—-
buy direct and enjoy an extra fine quality smoke,
expertly blended, fragrant, cool, and satisfying.
Your money back if not satisfied. Send crossed
cheque or money order. (If cheque add exchange.)
Available in Ready Rubbed Fine Cut or Ready
Rubbed for Pipe, Üb. 9/3 delivered; 11b. 17/6
delivered. James Whitelaw and Co., Factors,
Importers and Blenders of Pine Tobaccos, 160
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. (Note new address.)
Bankers: Bank of N.S.W., Head Office.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
|4|in. knee pads. Sin. thigh
pads. 44 in. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
JD TAITV Manufacturing Saddler,
• r . IMLIf 6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
Ifc
a
MBING
TOMATO
FEET
Amazing New Imported
CLIMBING TOMATO!
BEARS FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 3001 b. per plant. Large,
red, smooth tomatoes. Climbs
12-20 feet. 2/6 packet posted.
PURE WHITE HEALTH
sciatica, (iout, 1 J
etc. (100 per cent. -JBI
NON-ACID!) Sap- WmmmK*
erb flavor! Disease free! Drought proof!
MAKES DELICIOUS JAM. 2/6 Packet, posted.
sdf
15-DAY TIMBER KILLER!
Kills all trees, roots to top, large
or small, In 15 DATS! New method.
NO BINGBABKING NECESSART!
Prevents Suckering. Will not in-
jure the soil. 5/6 Tin. Post Free,
SEED CO., 75 George St., Sydney.
BUY YOUR NEW BATTERY
from the Maker at Wholesale
Prices—Save £2.
Marshall Batteries are covered by a
watertight guarantee, and you can
buy them at a price which keeps
pounds in your pocket because all
the profits of the middleman are saved
for YOU. The Marshall catalogue is
packed with information about bat-
teries for cars, trucks, cycles, radio,
home and theatre lighting. It will be
sent to you free of cost. The Marshall
Battery Mfg. Co., 38-42 Harbour
Street, Sydney.
LAMBS SAVED
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord—
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient—
Humane —.Sale—and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback—fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection—No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
Also LAMB DE-TAILEK, £3/5/-. From all
agents or the distributors: HAIN &
SEARIGHT, 19b O’Connell Street, Sydney.
sdf
*WiNCH£snn
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
2- 750 ft. range, each .... 15
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 17,
Complete with Batteries. Postage Extra.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
END BLUNT KNIFE
TROUBLE.
New Imported Sharpening Stone
sharpens knives, scissors, scythes, etc.
—made from the famous Aluminium
Whitstone. This article gives long
and lasting service. Here is your
opportunity to purchase
a perfect sharpening stone
at, post free
Limited stocks only.
Money back if not satisfied.
MONTGOMERY, WARD & CO.,
Box 455 C, G.P.0., Melbourne.
1 /-
You may be a
future
TEX
MORTON!
Learn the
HILLBILLY
GUITAR,
Hawaiian Guitar,
Spanish Guitar or Ukulele in 30 MINUTES!
Let Norm. Scott, the singing stockman,
teach you!
His simple but complete Postal Inst ruc-
tion course costs only 2/6 a week.
Write today for complete details.
NORM. SCOTT, Hawaiian Club,
Hept. B, 296 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Tune in to 2CB every Sunday 9.45 a .m.
BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCE
CHARGER.
Standard Model , £6/12/6. Battery Extra.
Be Luxe Model, £B/14/6. Battery Extra.
Tlie new De Luxe Model gives greater
efficiency in low rainfall areas.
Send for FREE illustrated leaflet.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE CO.,
207 George Street, SYDNEY.
t
«
S 0
LEARN VENTRILOQUISM
quickly —my new method
teaches it thoroughly in very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the VENTRILO you can imitate many kinds cf
birds, animals, etc. Everything for ONE
SHILLING, including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw your voice.
FRFF Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
iixuis Tricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
173 Pitt St., Sydney. 52 Swanston St., Melb.
FAT, FLABBY
STOMACH
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The GOVERNA BELT supports
correctly the delicate organs,
and, by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes waistline
fat and bulge with every move
you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAL, OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will
be Sin. smaller . , . Sin. of
bulge and strain gone . . .
OR NO COST! Write for full
illustrated details of 7 DAYS’
TRIAL OFFER.
GO VERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN ”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
r,: £ase P ost m y copy of The Bulletin every week
jo* one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
-mpbscnption rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
■ subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN" SERVICE COUPON
25/6/’4I (See Page 32)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss .....
Cut this out and send with your “Wants" to the Service Department, 'The Bulletin"
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


1
m
4?*
m.
m
m
Jmmz
mmm
ill
'■
i
COAL FROM NEWCASTLE: The Poet Lau-
reate, once a sailor before the mast, has
immortalised the “dirty British coaster with its
salt-caked smoke-stack” and its cargo' of coal. In
the chain of delivery of coal from the pit face to
the domestic hearth and factory furnace, not the
least hazardous link is the coasting collier. Honour
to our coasting seamen, from whatever port they
may ply, and to those who in normal times go
%
farther afield with coal. Honour, too, to our great
army of miners working hundreds of feet below
ground—often in discomfort, and danger—denied
the sunlight and the open air. The miner’s is a
calling as fraught with risks to his own life as it
is vital to that of the nation. Little recognised is
the fundamental part which the chemical industry
plays in coal mining. Were it not for the chemist
very little coal would be brought to the surface
at an economic cost. Imperial Chemical Indus-
tries supply the explosives used in pit sinking,
road making, ripping and brushing work, and in
kinds —‘open light* mines, which are not dusty
or gassy, and ‘safety lamp* mines, which are. In
known as ‘ ‘ Permitteds ’*, specially designed to
prevent gas or dust from igniting. The range
of these is so comprehensive that all types of
stone and coal, hard or soft, may be adequately
treated. “Permitted” explosives must always be
fired by means of an electric detonator, in the
construction of which Imperial Chemical Indus-
tries have also played their part. Not only do
Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and
New Zealand Ltd. thus
the actual coal-getting. Coal mines are of two
gassy mines it is compulsory to use only explosives
duced, but they increase
safety and well-being of
men working in our mL._.
tribute largely to the
with which our coal is
“Behind the Empire Throughout the Empire”
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL DffIDSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA &
CIANZ
NEW ZEALAND LTD.
Subsidiary Companies:
BRUNNER MONO & CO. (A/ASIA) PTY. LTD NOBEL (A/ ASIA) PIT. LTD, INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS PTT, LTD. LEATHERCLOTH PTY. LTD. 1.C.1. ALKALI (AUST.) PTY. LTD. IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES <N.I.) LTD,


SYDNEY ROYAL, 1941
A magnificent Scottish Clydesdale is W. G. Wilkinson’s Braebank Bon Accord (imp. Scot.), who is by Dowhill Black Rod
A sire worth having as the big horses come back to their own.
One of the best-bred trotting sires imported to Australia,
Starwyn (imp. U.S.A.) did his mile in 2.10¼ as a two-year-old.
Owned by J. E. Frewin, Orange, he was R.A.S. champion.
The Shah, bred at the Jelbart Arab Stub, Albury, took the
championship for his owner, Miss I. Woodhouse, of
Campbelltown.


This class of Clydesdale mares, all four years and over, kept the judge thinking hard. Loudoun Ambrosine, nearest the
camera, won and went on to win the championship against severe competition.
Above.—The splendid head of El Rimal Winsome, champion
Ayrshire cow. Owned by Mr. F. A. Mclntosh, Woodside
Park, Berry, she makes a habit of championships.
El Rimal Winsome, nearest the camera, Ayrshire cow
champion, collected another tricolor for the Woodside Park,
Berry.
Right.—Navua Lassie Belle won the Jersey cow championship
for Navua Pty., Ltd., Richmond, N.S.W.


The come-back of the heavy horse. There was a great increase in Clydesdale classes at this year’s show and interest and
competition were keen. This is a magnificent parade of stallions four years old and over.
Mr. Hunter White, who is seeing fruition of his work for the
Devon breed, showed this champion bull, Havilah Delegate
54th. He is by the famous Ham Mill Delegate (imp.).
Another tricolor for the Navua stud, Dreamer’s Hampton Star
(imp.). A fine type to keep the breed going in Australia.
Royal s Best points for the winning post in his heat of a trotting event, with two others striving in vain to overtake him.


Dudgeon and Sons brought Parkview Matron from their stud
at Albion Park to win the A.I.S. championship.
Naturally, a son of Trilby, L. F. Leake’s Cudgeena Svengali,
was champion Polled Hereford bull. He comes from
Cudgewa (Vic.).
Young Australians show their ability to pick the points of a good beast. A junior judging competition
Judging a class of Australian Illawarra Shorthorn cows,
four years old and over, in milk.
Never yet beaten in a show-ring, and champion at Sydney last
year, Gundibri Laddie 2nd added another championship to
the Gundibri Estate collection for Polled Shorthorn bulls.


%s 'GRAND PARADE''
7^
///
//
/ / //
// //. >/
TOO Mp l'J
//
A
-
B
'SSL«*.
>w
Z 5
/y>
%
ft
w
m
iii
m
V
u
-e
y
y
/
l
/s'/S
J
//I
/:
r_- .'
u
y
,
yli*
\
7
y
(AC
TOOHEVS
**e C *S
i
* / * r r^/^O
* FLAG ALE
* OATMEAL STOUT
* CLUB LAC EII
FUSE NEB
"HERE'S TOEE'S!"
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY,
Agents:
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide*
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hohart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Laun-
ceston.


The M.LC
For Your
LIFE ASSURANCE
G
THE MUTUAL LIFE & CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
Founded 1886
Assets Exceed £32,000,000
Payments to policyholders exceed £41,000,000
CO-OPERATION REDUCES COSTS
Co-operation is, by universal consent, the only effective lever which
can most quickly and easily lift the productive efforts of the
Primary Producers to profitable levels.
A practical test of Co-operation has been provided by The Farmers
& Graziers Co-operative Grain Insurance & Agency Company
Limited. Since the year 1919 the Company has distributed
CASH BONUSES AMOUNTING TO £250,000
In providing the best service available in the trade and paying a
wool rebate of 40 p.c. the “F. & G.” creates further proof of the
benefits derived from modern Commercial Co-operation.
Convincing proof of clients’ appreciation is shown by the fact that
The & Graziers Company sells more Wool, Stock and
Produce than any other Company in Sydney.
Primary Producers are assured that our Expert Staff is constantly
at their service.
Consign Wool, Stock and Produce to the Great Country Organisation
THE “FARMERS & GRAZIERS,” SYDNEY


Keeping up the Haddon Rig reputation, Perry Bros.’ Haddon
Royal Cecelia, by Bromley Eros (imp.), won the Red Poll
female championship.
Miss Jean Lamond poses the champion Friesian bull, J. M.
Lamond’s Ingolston King Pontiac, bred at Yarrawalla (Vic.).
Mr. V. J. Lamond, of Terara, Nowra, showed this Friesian
cow champion, Brundee Damsel’s Pride.
Dr. Kinross, ex-president of the Guernsey Association, places
the ribbon on the champion Guernsey cow, Moongi Daphne’s
Perfection.
Three beautiful greys display their quality for the judge.


A view of the spectacular parade of livestock in the ring. As can be seen,
equine comeback. It is many years since either so man
Constable Livermore on the first prize police
horse, Trooper. Only a good judge could have
separated him from the others.
The N.S.W. Police Guard of old A.I.F. men, led by Sgt. Walsh,
proves that old soldiers never die.
A close finish as Jim’s Gift, outside, races to win the
Marcus Clarke final from Magnetic Mine and Tavern Terror.
The reward of persistent effort came to th[?]
Commonwealth Competition with this cou[?]
organisers to overcome the tropical and co[?]
the North Coast and Tablelands, which [?]


[?]ses were in the majority, and the show this year could well be called an
[?]such good horses were seen on Sydney Showground.
[?] st ern District of N.S.W. when it won the
Wool, grains and stock fodders assisted the
advantages of the other districts, especially
[?]feated for the first time in several years.
His Excellency the State Governor taking the salute from the
Police Guard of Honor on Wednesday.
Lieut. Court on Sandy, winner of the prize for
best military horse. Old Light Horsemen will
recognise in Sandy many a waler of other days.
Copper Nut leading Little Pay in a spurt for the judge at the
finish of a fast-run mile in a trotting event.


REAL ESTATE
PROVIDES
SOUND INVESTMENT
TODAY
e wise investor realises more than ever before that property
is an assurance of financial stability. Real Estate, unique
amongst other investments, has proved a constant source of
income over many decades.
The cost of living today is rising, and property values will
increase rather than decrease; thus there is no better security
than “bricks and mortar.”
Property management is a specialised function of Real Estate
gents. It not only relieves the owner of a tremendous
amount of detail, but also assures a greater efficiency with
consequent saving of time and money. The two Real Estate
organisations who offer the properties below specialise in
property management throughout the City and Suburbs they
represent.
Here are two investments situated in two popular and much
sought after localities in Sydney—the North Shore and
Eastern Suburbs.
■Mm
S JC:
M
m
a
mm
m
ill
T-
m
H
Hi
'Z'M
111
Block of eight de luxe flats built under the supervision of
leading architect. Situated in a popular and desirable
locality. Hot water service, refrigeration and all modern
conveniences are installed. Close to shops, schools, trans-
port. The rents total £9BB per annum, and after outgoings
are deducted leave a net annual return of £869 per annum,
or £l6/14/- per week. Apply
E. A. and F. SHEAD pty. ltd.
TWO OFFICES—
Opposite station CHATSWOOD. JA6727, JA3168.
7 Falcon Street. CROWS NEST. XF1216, XA2265.
RBffiS:'
. --Aj
■
•• : n
m
m
m
Hi
s ..
m
m -
■
I m
A.
.1 V
pi
fur-
am
I
m
r'rr«
HI W !
m
m
mmmm
A REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT FOR SALE IN
ONE OF SYDNEY’S BEST LETTING SUBURBS
This property, as above illustrated, comprises a modern block
of Nine Airy Flats, erected on a valuable corner site handy
to TRAMS, SHOPS, SCHOOLS and BEACH.
Equipped with Refrigeration, Incineration and sound-proof
floors.
ANNUAL RENTALS £916 —PRICE £7400.
First Mortgage of £3500 with about Three Years to Run.
For full particulars communicate with:—
O’BRIEN BROS. (D. and R.)
PTY. LTD.
Real Estate Auctioneers, Agents and Valuers,
144 Campbell Parade, BONDI BEACH. FWIIO9 (2 lines).
And 117 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. 81464.
m
A A
■ EM
/‘■.l
H
4./»
AM
ENGLAND Gan Take It
—and DOES!
And Australia Can Take
England’s Machinery
MV
Equip Your Shed Throughout
with
ENGLISH
Handpieces
sren
Built to Listers* incomparable
standard of English workman-
ship and quality, the “ACE” has
proved itself to be the finest
handpiece on the market today.
☆ NEW IMPROVED TENSION NUT. A
special cheek spring fitted around the top
of the lid-brush expands and auto-'
matically prevents any loss of tension.
THE TENSION PIN. Made of special
high tensile strength steely giving greatly
increased stability.
☆ FULCRUM POST SEATING. A
specially swollen casting gives more
threads in the Fulcrum Post.
☆ PATENT FORK CLEARANCE SLOT.
Enables the “ACE” Fork to be removed
and replaced in a moment without dis-
mantling the shear.
sd
& SPECIAL, SHEAR JOINT
BEARING. Prolongs the
life of the joint, main
spindle, cogs and crank.
& UNIQUE LUBRICATION
SYSTEM. Special oil dis-
tributing “arteries” ensure
correct lubrication over the entire spindle
and eliminate all oil leakage.
■& TRIPLE LIFE SHEAR JOINT. Years
of service have proved that this famous
“Lister” Shear Joint Bearing cannot be
improved.
☆ SAFETY CUTTER PINS. No cutter
can fly off the “Lister” Yoke. These
solid one-piece Safety Cutter Pins are
just one more point of Lister “ACE”
superiority.
s
'en
ENGLISH BUILT ENGINES
PS
Behind the Lister Engine stands the might of British
Industry, the brains of British engineers, the skill of
British workmen. Put into three words, it is “Made in
England I”
The man who buys a Lister has the lasting satisfaction
of having bought so much more in quality, durability
and efficiency—for so little extra cost. Hundreds of
owners everywhere report faithful continuous service
over long periods of years without a penny spent for
repair costs.
Any Machine is Better driven by a Lister Engine.
Diesels range from 3 to 40 B.H.P.
Petrol Models from to 14 B.H.P.
DANGAR. GEDYE&MALLOCH.Ltd.
10-14 Young Street, Sydney. G.P.O. Box 509 AA.
Telephone; 86095.
Please post me full information
regarding
Lister “ACE” Handpieces
Lister Shearing Machinery
Lister Diesel Engines
Lister Petrol Engines
Mark X against product interested in
Name
Address


Won his second Sydney Hereford championship, Windsor Puritan, a son of the imported Paunton Layman
A worthy type of Maoriland Aberdeen-Angus is Kahlua Gaelic
Chief, son of Gaelic Bard of Waiterenui (imp. N.Z.) and
bred at the Kahlua stud, Coolac.
Champion and a mother of champions. Havilah Apricot
303rd, champion Devon cow and mother of the bull champion.
From Mr. H. White’s Havilah stud.
Blue Baron, Hands Up, Giovanni and Silver Grace perform a symphony of grey grace in a hunting contest.


Radium Mark takes a tumble in a high jump. Nobody hurt
and he got over afterwards.
Evening Star, not sure of the landing, takes a look at it from
the other side of the jump.
Bold Ben almost takes a nose-dive after landing from a high
jump.
A contender for high jump honors.


■A--■
.ri.
T^>
.• • :
; . - • •
2^
Ml.
,
THE, HAT OF
f
' ■ -;ii
, ,
iv 4 .'
Kp:
-■"
■■ •
:
~ , 2
R> • * 1
iMI IlMil*
fy
** 4 a;' - /PS'- >
■
; : y ■;:
, * ' ■■-■
11-iS
«
Ip
ill Is
V;
.gw-v
&r-
- m:
wmm
/
•y.‘ '- ! *.«^l
Ik
fyfaYAtf&s >J V •;
m
, I
. ,;# ■ i
wmm
i. ..;> vi.v.-i
»s
Va
m
■■■■■/"'' ' : , f
: d
M
i jfl
- .•■ r “Z fr».
«•
■
iii
X.
m
* *»,l
ir -
•»-.... • ■■**
HATS
. . . are smartly styled, well
made and attractively priced.
They offer you sovereign value
for a pound note. * Made in
ail the new shades of Grey,
Blue, Fawn, Brown and Green
I'U",Via and 2Brims.
Obtainable at al I
progressive Hatters and Mercers


Pride, strength and docility in the head of Braebank Bon
Accord, champion Clydesdale stallion.
Competitors in a ladies’ hack event parade for approval.
A section taking the first leap in fours in a hunting contest.
The South Australian-bred mare, Loudoun Ambrosine, by
Great Count (imp. N.Z.), which won the Clydesdale female
honor for Messrs. A. A. Bahr & Sons, of Henty.
The impressive head of Mr. V. Ptolemy’s champion Ayrshire
sire, Yemlot David.
Coonong Keyman isn’t 18 months old yet, but he won the
Shorthorn championship for D. R. McCaughey. He is a son
of Calrossie Red Baronet (imp.).


orse is
nima
How would these look a-stride —and about—him? Riding
breeches and jodphurs quietly hall-marked with the rich
distinction of English cutting. Only the magic touch of
a cutter London-trained in styling fine riding wear can
give you their smart ease both in and out of the saddle.
Cut from fine riding twills. 3 to 7 guineas.
For Bowral, Kyeemagh—or anywhere that you’re spectating
out-of-doors, we can see one of the Braemar twin sets as
the smarter tie-up with your tailored costume. Styled in
Scotland from the softest of Angora wools in rich, quiet
shades. From the English, Ladies’ Sportswear Shop at
R. Hunts, from 5 to 9 guineas.
(JKunt Sf G
ompany
3I 4 GEORGE STREET
TELEPHONE BW 70 50
4>
'J-V
n
'-TK
M
'.y<&
ik <
oi
/t o a
*
«*
*
w
\n / r.
M \
*1 c
I
<l tj
i
J
™3isr ;
m
la)
;5%
This may have been alright once.
hut. .. Times have changed!
Supposing that you intend travelling on an overland journey
of a couple of hundred miles or so, and you are offered the
choice of riding in an old-fashioned Cobb and Co. coach
or the very latest model motor-car. What would you choose?
The old-fashioned stagecoach bumping, jarring
and swaying incessantly, horses stumbling,
driver swearing, whips cracking, and when you
finally reach your destination in one piece you
felt as though a miracle had happened. Seems
ridiculous to compare this to a trip in an ultra-
modern motor-car, doesn’t it? Yet when it
comes to Home Lighting—are YOU still Hying
back in the Cobb & Co. days?
Kerosene lamps and other old-fashioned methods
have gone the same way as the stagecoach.
The modern home enjoys the comforts and
conveniences of Electricity. No matter where
you may live, a Moffat-Virtue Lighting Plant
will bring you trouble-free light and power, as
it is doing for hundreds of other country homes.
As far as cost is concerned, a Moffat-Virtue
Lighting Plant to light, say, 1 5 rooms, and give
you the power you need for modern household
helps—Vacuum Cleaners, Fans, Irons, etc. —will cost only £l5O. M.V. Lighting
Plants are safe and so simple that a child can operate them.
An initial outlay of £5O will cover the cost of Plant, Installation
Charges, Wiring, Globes, Shades and Switches, and that is payable
after the lights are switched on.
If you have any Home Lighting problem to solve—you are cordially
invited to consult our experts. There is no obligation.
7 £
w,
r&.
VC
3
%
%
m
isa
MODERNISE YOUR HOME OR SHOP. ENJOY
THE COMFORTS AND CONVENIENCES
THAT MAKE LIFE WORTH LIVING.
ELECTRIC
LIGHTING PLANTS
WITH
EXIDE BATTERIES
See your local Moffat-Virtue Agent—or write direct
FILL IN
CUT OUT
AND
POST
MOFFAT.VIRTUE, LTD., 11-25 Palmer St., SYDNEY.
Please forward me full particulars and price of Moffat-
Virtue Electric Lighting: Plants to light a home of
rooips and verandah lights. Also to run Electric
Iron, Toaster, Vacuum Cleaner, Pan. (Delete the Electrical
Appliances not required.)
NAME
ADDRESS
Telegrams:
“Virtue,”
Sydney.
JTcoffat-Virtue Xtd.
ENGINEERS, MANUFACTURERS
AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS
11-25 PALMER STREET, SYDNEY; and at Toowoomba and Longreach, Queensland.
Showrooms: 44 BRIDGE STREET (opposite Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., Sydney.
Telephone:
FLS2I4
(6 lines).


Contestants flat out in a standing-log chop.
Greys never fail to make an attractive picture.
F. Wood s Loyal clearing a jump in impressive style.
Miss Beryl Perry riding Mexico to victory in the Buckingham
hunt.
A view of the Queensland girls in the parade of Australian
roughriders.
Trotting forward in optimism to face the waiting judge.
