

Preparing to Tap a Blast Furnace
at Newcastle Steel Works.
B
m
wmmsM
I
m
m
•'ft
' «
m
ft; "
W
ft
Mmmm
S 3
m
N
m
m*
«W
sdf
CTEEL in its many diversified forms is
secondary industry’s key material and
virtually alone makes possible the effort of
meeting the fighting forces urgent and vital
demand for munitions and equipment.
The men pictured above tending the tap-
ping of a blast furnace at The Broken
Hill Proprietary’s Newcastle Steel Works
are typical of thousands of workers in
Australia’s industrial army busy on the
job of creating greater mechanical fight-
world—provision of the basis of the
nation’s armament depends upon the
Australian steel industry. Its 33,000
employees are on active service in the
industrial front line.
Twenty-four hours per day the iron and
steel necessary to the armament effort and
to maintaining essential civil undertakings
is being produced at the B.H.P. New-
castle Steel Works, at the recently com-
pleted blast furnace at Whyalla, S.A.,
and at the Kembla Works of Australian
Iron and Steel, Ltd.
As a result, production of tanks, aero-
planes, guns and ships, with a wealth of
other munition requirements—and the
machines that make them—is steadily
mounting in volume and variety as Aus-
tralia’s industrial army works to equip
the fighting forces.
ing strength.
By virtue of its operations—which give
Australia the lowest-priced steel in the
«■ I-
V-V 1 I
TC
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO., LTD.
Iron and Steel Masters —Colliery Proprietors —Ship and Mine Owners —Ship Builders
Head Office: 422 Little Collins St., Melbourne. Steel Works: Newcastle, N.S.W.
warn
,
::
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3226.
Wednesday, December 10, 1941.
Enemy’s Sydney Story Analysed (Page 30)
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper-


Learn
freelance
Journalism
at HONE
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, -without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin
My Name
My Address
S.B, 241
The Red Page
ENGLISH VILLAGE WAR.
Another for the small shelf of books
of genuine quality coming directly out
of this war —The Oaken Heart, by Mar-
gery Allingham (Michael Joseph, Ltd.).
As a piece of sincere literature it is almost
as good as its title.
The author’s general purpose-—she
manages to do other things on the way
--is to set down as truthfully as possible
the collective reactions of an East
Anglian village to the war as a whole
and to its outstanding happenings, from
Chamberlain flying to Germany to Hess
flying to Scotland. The view, however,
is much more extensive. The village of
Auburn has its peculiarities, but at large
it stands for natural, instinctive England.
And not only England of the present
nineteen-forties, nor the particular Eng-
land of this particular war, decked out
in gasmasks and the like, but rather the
old oaken-hearted traditional England
this war has uncovered, brushing away
the chromium and veneer sophistications
of the “disillusioned” ’twenties and
’thirties.
Defending her depiction of the village
life, the author makes a statement towards
the end which can be taken as her guid-
ing motif throughout. She debunks “the
theory that only the unpleasant can be
realism, a belief so widely held in the
last few years that the very phrase ‘village
life’ has come to suggest the casebook
of a small mental hospital for less dan-
gerous patients.” Hence, though very
different in the superficial view, the
village—-and, indirectly, the England—
she depicts is essentially not greatly dif-
ferent from that seen by Washington
Irving when he was eating Christmas fare
with the squire and riding on coaches, or
Mary Russell Mitford watching cricket
on the village green. Miss Allingham
has Miss Mitford’s advantage of being
herself a figure in the village life, shares,
too, a special liking for village cricket,
has as good an eye for village characters,
and a clear, warm prose style, without
giving the Mitfordian impression of doing
it all with a pair of knitting needles.
As well as the depiction of the place
in peace, the description of the annual
village cricket match in August, with a
break for the Feed, and then a house
party till next morning, provides contrast
for what’s to come after. Also in con-
trast to the modern war sights, activities
and happenings that presently break
in:— ,
In the spring the cut squares round the
trees in the orchard are carpeted with
aconites, and all through the year the
memory of those blazing golden cushions
hangs about it. There is a legend that
aconites only flourish where Roman blood
has been spilt, and if this is true there
must have been a battle up there at the
end of the Old Doctor’s garden. There is
a heap of old cannonballs up there, too,
much later in date, and only a mile or so
away are the plains where Boadicea was
captured.
Into this setting and atmosphere—like
everywhere else, impregnated over the
past twenty years by an almost quaking
horror of the idea of war, engendered
by the war-book writers, enlarged by in-
dividual imagination—the war came, not
quite as a relief,-but certainly as a strip-
ping away of artificialities, with a quick
and surprising emergence of the real
character that had been submerged under
the sophistications of the late literature
of futility.
Its native instincts already risen, the
village was disturbed by the depressing,
uninspired oratory of England’s leaders
at the outbreak. Then “suddenly came
the speeches from the Dominions repre-
sentatives” ; and the author has here per-
haps the first good word that has ever
been uttered on the Australian accent.
Purists have stigmatised this hitherto as
“Cockney.” She classes it as English
country—that would be East Anglian
country. One of the village wardens
summed up on it: “Sounds like us, don’t
he?” of an Australian representative. To
East Anglia, “Most of the world, London
included, is a bit on the foreign side.”
But tbese accents the village now heard
were “country accents” ;
and when the Australian came out with
no measured commiseration, no yam
about us all being in trouble—which after
all was a f act none 0 f us was likely to
forget—but made instead a fine, vigorous
offer to come in with us and take the
enemy’s hide off him and enjoy, it (as they
have), it was the first word of the kind
we had heard. It was indescribable. It
was terrific. Here was the great draught
°. f new blood we needed, not foreign blood
either, not even Frenchy stuff, which is a
bit hot and sometimes a bit thin, but our
own blood, good comprehensible stuff suit-
able for fighting.
It was what the village—and, by im-
plication, the whole of England—wanted
to hear. Individuals could react in dif-
ferent ways—one went out and bought
his supplies for the war... two hams and
36 gallons of beer—but collectively the
reaction was a rising of traditional Eng-
land. This, of course, not a result of
one brave speech ; it was already risen,
wanting only to be expressed ; the speech
did it no harm.
It had already been expressed in acts,
One fair example, which has to be read
as fully described to appreciate what an
illustration it was of traditional English
character coming out—how the village
received and handled its evacuees from
London. A place of only a few hundred
people, it had arranged to receive and,
at a severe stretch, accommodate some
sixty or so boys and girls. One day out
of the blue there descended on it bus-
load after busload of London mothers
with babes in arms and broods of toddlers
—upwards of 300 of them! The author,
as one of those handling the situation,
came to the conclusion “that this was
probably the end of the world, and that
Dante was evidently going to have a
hand in it, as I had always feared he
might.”
The village rose to the occasion in a
way that surprised itself. Small troubles
came later, of course—as in all parts thus
invaded—but the immediate response of
the village, and the way it did its job,
can be called typical of how traditional
England rose to that serio-comical test-
ing, as to the tragic war-testing since.
Pirates and Poets.
A lady has just done a little job of
exhumation calling for all the tenderness
and delicacy of touch and thought for
which the gentler sex are rightly esteemed.
The lady, Margaret Armstrong; the
work, Trelawney (Hale, Ltd.), a biog-
raphy of Edward of that ilk, the one
who declaimed a service at Shelley’s
cremation pyre, companion for some of
the way of Byron on his last Grecian
adventure, and early in his life a middy
of the King’s Navy, from which he de-
serted to become as gaily bloodthirsty a
corsair as ever slit a throat.
Miss Armstrong does most of her
exhuming for the early part of the life
in Trelawney’s own The Adventures of
a Younger Son, itself a fairly juicy docu-
ment. Nothing of the juice of any real
flavor is lost. It is cupped up in warm
hands, and the reader can drink his fill.
Here the description of Trelawney’s boy-
hood fight with a raven, stringing the
bird up by the throat to a tree and then
stoning it, lowering it, belting it with
sticks; when it showed life, gibbeting it
again, and then with sticks cudgelling it
to death, “beating its head to pieces.”
Here the fight with his schoolmaster,
which got him expelled. Here his fight
with the captain’s clerk aboard ship, with
“our Edward,” as Miss Armstrong gently
calls him, getting hold of a penknife and
carving the nasty clerk with the most
lovely abandon.
By the time he was sixteen our Edward
had quit the navy and fallen in with a
French-American privateer in India. On
the way, such prentice feats as killing
the captain’s chooks by inserting a needle
into their heads, and when a bird thus
killed was thrown overboard as having
died from a mysterious disease, securing
it from the water to provide a rich repast
of cooked poultry. Also our Edward’s
challenging of one of the ship’s disagree-
able officers to a duel ashore in a billiard-
room in India, and, when the craven
fellow declined, belting him insensible
with a billiard cue.
Given the job by the privateer of skip-
pering one of his boats —our Edward is
still sweet sixteen —there was the little
matter of taking a chip out of one of his
sailor’s legs with an axe when cutting
the mooring rope ; but what was that
between shipmates? Anyway, the villain-
ous Customs officials were on the point
of getting aboard, and our Edward was
in a hurry.
Privateering down Madagascar way;
a spiffing time was had by all. After
one scrap—our Edward “enjoyed every
minute of it” —“His arm was sore and
stiff, he had a nasty unhealed wound in
his side, his head was bandaged, and his
face a mass of contusions; but he was
as gay as a lark.” Ashore to clean up
an evil bunch of pirates: “None would
surrender. They were killed like rats.”
It mus( have been jolly; yet our Edward
was to “remember it with disgust and
shame.” Fie on the company of pallid
poets that could thus make him seem
a lily-livered aesthete! But that was
later. The fight was still on with the
pirates, who had been sinking friendly
ships and carting off Arab prisoners,
headed for slavery. Our Edward’s band
of gallants found the pirate ladies busily
butchering the prisoners as they lay
bound hand and foot.
His men dispatched the hags, he went
on into an inner tent. Here he found an
Arab flat on his back, bound and fastened
to a stake driven into the earth. He was
covered with blood, half-dead, feebly ward-
ing off the attack of an old vixen humped
on his chest jabbing at him with a coconut
knife and trying to reach a young girl who
was crouched at his feet.
Up to now our Edward hadn’t figured
very strongly as a ladykiller, evidently
only because he had lacked opportunity.
In Miss Armstrong’s sewing-bee words,
he at once “caught the old woman by the
twist of cloth about her waist, pulled
her off, killed her and threw her away.”
Our Edward, however, did not get off
scot-free. In simple Arab style, the old
boy, soon to pass away, slipped a ring
on to our knight’s finger, joined his hand
with that of the crouching maid, his
daughter; and damme, sir, our Edward
found he was spliced!
After a voyage back, the honeymoon
ashore, our Edward fairly bubbling over
with good spirits. With what relish of
the joys of life do he and a fellow
humorist have the unpleasant old ship’s
doctor lowered down a well! “They
laughed and laughed.” Little Audrey
wasn’t in it! “It was simply rich to
hear the old fellow groan, wallowing in
the water, trying to crawl out, falling
back, cursing the bats, the toads, the
well and all its devils in Dutch, Latin
and English.”
All aboard again, and with mutiny in
the air! Our Edward caught the
mutinous bos’n by the throat and killed
him. How? Forward, Miss Armstrong,
with details. Why, “Malay fashion,” of
course—“the creese driven over the man’s
left shoulder, through the back into the
heart.”
Louder and funnier! Alas, our
Edward leaves these salubrious climes
for dismal Europe, there to fall in with
such staid patterns of conventionality as
the poets Shelley (“so sweet a nature”)
and Byron. With the lively help of our
Edward’s dripping nib —he had a great
eye for the juicy details; indeed, if he
wasn’t the hero of romanticised history,
some might think him a ghoul—our
author makes the best possible use of the
deaths of those two poets, but, though
fairly fruity in certain particulars, they
hardly match the gay doings of the first
half of the book, which may serve as a
warning to all Edwards not to mix piracy
and poetry if they wish to provide pos-
terity with a sustained well-balanced diet
of gore and guts.
As to our author’s part, it would seem
that, while a realistic approach to a
realistic job can always be justified on
literary grounds, a romantic approach—
such as she makes—to this sort of job
has much the same effect as would be
produced by presenting a post-mortem
dissection to fill in an interval of a frothy
musical comedy.
What Animal Is That?
Ellis Troughton, Curator of Mammals
at the Australian Museum, Sydney, has
written a first-rate “guide” to Australia’s
native animals, with the title Furred
Animals of Australia (Angus and Robert-
son).
It is uniform with, and on lines similar
to, Neville W. Cayley’s What Bird Is
That? Cayley supplies the 25 color
plates illustrating the animal book, each
with half a dozen or more of the furry
folk in natural color. General introduc-
tions, along with particular descriptions,
do all the rest that’s necessary to enable
anyone possessing the book to identify
any native animal on sight.
The author mentions that in the brief
State-wide (presumably N. S. Wales) open
season of 1931 some 750,000 possums
were slaughtered by guns, poison and
snares. In 1924 over two million koala
skins were exported; “their sale mainly
under the trade name of ‘wombat’ prob-
ably keeping the extent of the carnage
from public knowledge.” During the
Queensland open season of 1927 approxh
mately 600,000 koalas were massacred.
He mentions also the recent South
African Convention, “which reconciled
the views of nine participating nationali-
ties for protection of fauna and flora,” in
view of which “a general and early
agreement is surely attainable hy the
Commonwealth and various Australian
States for the control and conservation
of our unique wild life.”
Poet’s Holiday: Paul L. Grano (Yal-
laroi Publications, Box 1550V, G.P.O.,
Brisbane). A poet’s very much on holi-
day when he can rhyme “dawn” with
“mourn” or “bleat-man” with “meat-
can,” especially when the verses are epi-
grams. A couple on Churchill, one on
Stalin and a few others—“Modesty of an
Editor of a Religious Weekly”: —
have the necessary precision. It’s all
good-humored, satirical stuff with a nice
sting in the “colophon” tailpiece, prick-
ing the bubble of the “limited editions”
of Australian poets and poetasters.
Country Dance: Marceine la Dickfos
(Meanjin Press, Box 1871W, G.P.O.,
Brisbane); and Faun, by M. de Visme
Gipps (author: 106 Simpson’s-road,
Bardon, Brisbane). Mainly lyrical, essen-
tially feminine, and both pleasant,
“Angry Penguins” No. 2: edited by
Max Harris (Adelaide University Arts
Association). Items from the uncon-
scious or subconscious portions of Max
Harris, Paul Pfeiffer, H. M. Swan, James
Gleeson and others. Mr. Harris has
come to admire Wordsworth; but old
William would still shake his head over
Mr. Harris: —
Everyman’s Library. Latest additions
include Plays, Poems and Prose, by J. M.
Synge (six plays ; poems and translations ;
selections from The Aran Islands );
Henryk Sienkiewicz’s Quo Vadis ?;
Flaubert’s Sentimental Education; and
Anatole France’s At the Sign of the Reine
Pedauque and The Revolt of the Angels
(in one vol.). The library is now only 30
short of the thousand mark which was
an aim mentioned by the original Dent.
Britain Under Fire (Country Life, Ltd.).
Vol. of photos, of many of the more
important and historical buildings of
London and other parts of England
smashed by German bombs. A widely
representative collection of finely repro-
duced pictures, many showing the build-
ings before bombing and then after.
Polish Panorama, by Lewitt-Him (M. I.
Kolin, Ltd., London). What Poland was,
depicted in a vol. of large-page photo-
graphs of typical beautiful scenes and
architecture, with a written description
facing each picture.
A New Anthology of Modern Poetry :
Modern Library Giant (Angus and
Robertson), selected by Selden Rodman.
Yeats, Housman, Auden, Spender and
others included, but the emphasis is on
the Americans. Since American poetry is
probably not so well known in Australia
as English, its bias, though critically un-
justifiable, is an advantage.
Burial Trees : Lindsay Black (Robert-
son and Mullens). Valuable booklet on
the carved trees of the abo., called “den-
droglyphs”: —
The dendroglyphs, which extend from
the Murrumbidgee River right across
central N. S. Wales to the Queensland
border, are divided into two classes. Tapo-
glyphs, or burial trees, were a custom of
the Wiradjuri and the southern half of the
Kamilaroi nation, extending outside these
nations as far east as Goulburn and
Camden. The teleteglyphs [carved trees
used at Bora grounds, where all kinds of
ceremonies were carried out] are found on
the northern side of this area and extended
into Queensland on the north, and east,
and to the north coast of N. S. Wales.
Unlike the tapoglyphs, which contain only
a few trees ranging from one to seven,
the teleteglyphs vary from a small number
to over a hundred at one place.
The booklet, first of a proposed series
on the aboriginal customs of the Darling
Valley and central N. S. Wales, is illus-
trated with fine photographs of the
carved trees.
“Cultural Cross-Section”: Magazine
edited by John Ingamells (Jindyworobak
Club, Adelaide) “intended as a prelimi-
nary to further Jindyworobak publica-
tions containing more creative work in
proportion to criticism.” Articles, poems,
lino-cuts, notes on all the arts. Australia
could do with a good literary magazine;
whether this is it or not remains to be
seen.
Yarns Men Tell : John Crothers (Frank
Johnson). Anecdotes, true and spiced with
fiction, about notable Australians of all
sorts, from bishops to jockeys. The yarns
would amuse the jockey ; the moralising
tagged on to them make the bishop
swear.
Here’s Hal Percy in Verse: Hal Percy
(Mingay Publishing Co., Sydney). War
verses, rough but pleasant enough, from
the “A.B.C. Weekly’s” industrious canary.
He never once through his career
Left out a Papal Letter
Though he was certain all the time
He could have written better. —
near
this Windermere the, wattles met the breaking
southern ocean, moustaching the mouth
and the sea’s decayed teeth, those ancient cliffs
whose landslides bombed the sea.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — and in every act
“THE SENIOR STORE”
# m CHRISTMAS 1941
m
my-
m
vm
m
m
W%mt
m
m
m
m
mm
Ip
*>S#
Qo
a’UcWtf;
isfp
r#
SH
m
;:H'
rtO
\JW
->o
a® S
A
A
m
mm
&J
S&SS
m
M
m
mm
m
M
m
mm
sss
5
Smart Handbag in grained leather,
chromium triple mount, fitted inner
pocket and mirror. Black, Navy or
Brown. At Anthony Horderns’. Price,
each 17/11
m
m
m
• Ladies’ Handbags—Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Envelope-shape in glove leather and
fancy grained leather; fitted with
small purse and mirror. At Anthony
Horderns’. Price, each . . 12/11
A White Washable Handbag . . .
envelope shape, fitted with purse and
mirror. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price, each 8/11
Smart Handbag in glove leather,
with chromium mount; fitted centre
swing pocket. Black, Brown, and
Navy. At Anthony Horderns’. Price,
each 14/11
Neat Handbag, envelope shape, fitted
small purse and mirror. In Black,
Brown, and Navy. At Anthony Hor-
derns’. Price, each .. . 10/-
White Washable Handbag, envelope
shape, fitted with small purse and
mirror. At Anthony Horderns’. Price,
each 14/11
Chic Handbag in
box calf, fitted zip-
per fastening, small
purse and mirror.
Black, Navy, and
Brown. At Anthony
Horderns’ .. . 29/6
The Forces Wallet in real morocco,
fitted with photo, case, steel mirror,
note case, and identification card. At
Anthony Horderns’. Price, each, 13/11
I
Motorist’s Case in real morocco.
Special pocket for licence, keys, ser-
vV- chart. B'ack or Brown, with two
initials. At Anthony Horderns’.
each 14/11
Real Morocco Wallet, complete with
notebook and pencil. With two initials
blocked in gold. Price, each, 13/11
Others: 17/11, 21/-, 25/6, 31/6
Real Calfskin Note Case
and Money Purse Com-
bined, suitable for “Our
Boys.” In Black, Navy or
Brown. At Anthony Hor-
derns’. Price, each . . 15/6
o' v
k
*»
Surf Bag. White with bright col-
i\|L cured design; handy to carry bathing
accessories. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price, each 4/6
White Washable Handbag, with
chromium mount, fitted small purse
and mirror. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price, each .. . . 7/6
mm
ry
ife
M
Maid’s White Washable Hand-
bag trimmed chromium ornament
and pin tucks on flap, fitted with
mirror. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price, each 4/11
Tripie-frame Handbag,
with covered mount; fitted
with inner pocket and
mirror. Black, Navy, and
Brown. At Anthony Hor-
derns’. Price, each, 17/11
Useful-size Shopping
Bag in grained leather,
chromium mount; fitted
small purse. In Black,
Brown or Navy. At
Anthony Horderns’. Price,
each . . 17/11
Neat Handbag in soft
glove leather, with zipper
fastener; fitted small purse
and mirror. Black, Navy
or Brown. At Anthony
Horderns’. Price, ea., 21/-
Real Morocco Envelope-
shape Handbag, fitted
small purse and mirror,
also zipper fastening, safety
pocket. In Black, Navy,
and Brown. At Anthony
Horderns’. Price, ea., 31/6
Smart Handbag in soft
glove leather, with zip
fastening and stirrup strap.
. . . Neatly gathered and
trimmed with pin tucks.
Fitted with small purse and
mirror. In Black, Navy or
Brown. At Anthony Hor-
derns’. Price, each, 16/11
M
TO
’PHONE M 2401 (Day or Night)
jXoJot^
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Post to BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
fs
Seppelts
THE THAMES AT ISLEWORTH.
Regarding this illustration it is difficult
to believe it represents a section of the
Thames that has been “swallowed up by
the great Metropolis.” Such is the case,
however, despite the rural scene pre-
sented. Isleworth, it may be, is better
known to the English-speaking world
from the fact that for very many years a
famous toilet article, “matchless for the
complexion,” was manufactured here. It
may also be said, in the piping times of
peace, to mark the beginning or the end
of a walk along the Towing Path greatly
favored by London hikers, its itinerary
embracing Kew, the “Winning Post” of
the Oxford and Cambridge Boat Race
and Mortlake. Isleworth, despite its close
association with commercial life, as re-
flected by river craft and buildings, has
at the ferry a quaint charm far removed
from the hurly-burly. The church and
the buildings in this particular section are
of the Georgian period and present a
quiet repose and dignity the antithesis of
what is offered at most other parts of the
“stream” where evidences of commercial
activity are present on every hand. Isle-
worth possesses a tavern of some note, at
the left of the illustration, “The London
Apprentice.” Modernised internally, ex-
ternally it is sufficiently old to recall
memories of the days when the London
Apprentices played a not unimportant,
and by no means peaceable, part in the
everyday life of the big city. Strictly-
speaking, Isleworth has no history ; that
is, compared with places in its vicinity.
It has come down to us as just a little
town on a convex bend of the river, under
the lee of some low islands. Association is
set up, however, with Zion House, known
as the seat of the Dukes of Northumber-
land, for in pre-Reformation days the
religious community at Zion House was
endowed with the Manor of Isleworth.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62. —No. 3226.
Wednesday, December 10, 1941.
“The Angel of Death has been abroad throughout the land. You may almost hear the beating of his wings.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors;
H. K. Prior
P- H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street.
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0. ).
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street. London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly : 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire ); 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas C Foreign ) :
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
1\ per copy. United Kingdom, 2\ per copy. To
all other places, 4\.
MURDER AND SUICIDE.
Members of the Australian Government and of the
War Cabinet spent an apprehensive week-end. Dis-
patches received on Friday had been the theme of
grave consultations, out of which there issued instruc-
tions for the cancellation of leave, promised in an
optimistic spirit, to soldiers and airmen in the North,
the placing of an order for a million respirators and
other measures suggestive of preparations for a fore-
seen emergency.
Earlier in the week a great British squadron, headed
by the battleship Prince of Wales, had arrived at Singa-
pore. This was heartening news ; but to the tragic
list of mourners for Australian seamen lost in battle
there had been added the relatives of 141 officers and
men of H.M.A.S. Parramatta, the sinking of which
Was announced before the stories told by the crew of
the raider destroyed by H.M.A.S. Sydney were given
to the world. And Maoriland had its share of sorrow,
for it was revealed that the grim fighting in Libya
had been very costly to the magnificent soldiers of the
sister-Dominion. Those who were killed or captured
were swiftly avenged by their mates in an attack on
an enemy column, and, though the campaign proceeds
and victory is not yet in sight, there is no reason
for sharing the doubts or repeating the yelps of
flapper-papers. Only a fool would have expected
Rommel’s army to be pulverised in two or three weeks.
In Russia the soldiers of Timoshenko were in-
creasing the pressure on the Germans retreating from
Rostov, and the defenders of Moscow and Leningrad
were standing firm. But the thoughts of all men
turned to Washington. Mr. Roosevelt had put a plain
question to the Japanese negotiators concerning the
increase of land, sea and air forces in Indo-China.
Newspapers were permitted to state that some of the
dispatches received in Australia referred to “large-scale
Japanese troop movements,” Actually R.A.F. Cata-
linas and R.A.A.F, Hudsons had spotted two large
Japanese convoys, heavily escorted by warships, pro-
ceeding south along the Indo-China coast and moving
north-west in the Gulf of Siam.
The Japanese reply to the President was that the
number of troops in Indo-China did not exceed the
limit arranged with the Vichy Government, and that
they were not in a position to menace Thailand, being
disposed to deal with “a threatening concentration of
Chinese in the neighborhood of Yunnan.” This pro-
duced some impression, especially as the negotiators
remained in Washington and a Government spokesman
in Tokyo said something about Japan and the U.S.A.
“continuing with sincerity to find a common formula
for peace , but uneasiness continued, and prepara-
tions went on.
In point of fact, the Japanese “explanation” con-
flicted with facts in the possession of the U.S. State
Department. These were published together with the
text of the Japanese reply; they were to the effect
that there were 82,000 Japanese troops in the south of
Indo-China, 25,000 in the north of that “French”
colony and 18,000 more aboard '2l troopships in
Camranh Bay. Indignant at this evidence of duplicity,
the President addressed a personal message to the
Emperor of Japan. Before it was answered, and while
the Japanese envoys were at the State Department,
having delivered their Government’s answer to Mr.
Cordell Hull’s Note of November 11, inviting Japan to
subscribe to a non-aggression policy and the settlement
of disputes by negotiation, Japanese aircraft were
bombing Hawaii and Japanese forces were moving in
to attack Malaya and Singapore.
Treachery so calculated and on so vast a scale
was previously unknown in the history of international
relationships. Hollow declarations of war on the
United States and Britain were issued, but not until
the forces of evil had swung into action. Of the
unspeakable proceedings against the invincible
Republic the President’s secretary said: “The attacks
were made wholly without warning, when both nations
were at peace.” Of the reply to his note Mr. Cordell
Hull said to the Japanese negotiators in person: “In
all my fifty years of public service I have never seen
a document more crowded with infamous falsehoods
and distortions. I never imagined until today that
any Government on earth was capable of making
them.” And he concluded by declaring that Japanese
were “the greatest liars on earth.”
Liars their militarists have proved themselves,
and not only liars but madmen. In their madness
they have done what neither Hitler nor the last Kaiser,
with immeasurably greater resources, dared to do —
launched felon assaults on the greatest Republic and
the greatest Empire in history. “Those whom the gods
wish to destroy they first make mad,” and it
matters not if acts of murder committed in defiance
of the law and custom of civilised nations
bring them temporary gains, for these are emphatically
of the order of ill-gotten gains that never prosper.
Knowing the mettle of the Americans, we may be sure
that, however they may have been taken by surprise
and to whatever extent their preparations may have
fallen short of the mighty effort of which they are
capable, they will never rest until they have smashed
the military power of Japan for all time. And in this
task they will have the unswerving support of Britain
and the Pacific Dominions. Australia, for its part, has
fighting men at attacked or threatened points who will
fight like demons to keep the war from their
native shores. It may nevertheless come to the
Commonwealth; if so, it will find the nation united
and ready.
"The Voluntary System."
Exactly what the “voluntary system” to which “we
are committed” is actually worth should be revealed
quickly enough now that the “crisis” which had
shuttled backwards and forwards across the Pacific has
become war.
It is one of the most serious charges that can be
levelled at the present Government and its predecessors
that they preferred to wait on events. The P.M. and
members know very well that with this turn of events
conscription for Australia’s front-line defence could
be brought in without a murmur being raised against
it by anybody. Conscription would now be not only
in the national interest, which it has been, but would
also be politically expedient. That it has been con-
sidered politically inexpedient in the past is only
because it has always been falsely presented as
a political issue, instead of what it is—demonstrably
the only democratic method of raising and maintain-
ing an army by a democracy that has once become
involved in a war.
To bolster up opposition to conscription resort has
been had to all manner of political dodges, some pitiful.
Mr. Curtin has even resorted to the astounding argu-
ment, that advocacy of conscription is helping Ger-
many. This, because of some cock-and-bull story
broadcast from a German radio station! Mr. Curtin,
of course, added that “whatever views are aired con-
cerning conscription represent the very essence of our
way of living—the right to express views freely” ; with
this ominous addendum: “But that freedom in war-
time must be tempered with discretion.” It is to be
hoped, with some charity for Mr. Curtin, that this is
not as loaded as it might be,
A remarkable feature of the discussion so far has
been the palpable weakness of the arguments against
and the strength of those in favor. The most note-
worthy argument against has been that the issue would
split the country. Since this comes from official Labor
it is under suspicion as meaning that the issue would
split the Labor party, as it did before, with lasting
results. Australia was a long time forgiving Labor
for its general unrealistic attitude in the last war. In
that war it was Labor’s leader who coined the “last
man and last shilling” phrase, and it was a subsequent
Labor leader, Mr. Scullin, who repudiated that phrase
before the war was over; “I am not concerned with
what Mr. Fisher promised.” A decade later Labor,
with Mr. Scullin now at the helm, was given another
chance. It lasted barely two years ; but it promptly
abolished national training for home defence, and
all but utterly wrecked Australia’s Lilliputian home-
defence establishment, with heartless sackings of per-
manent force men as part of the achievement of strip-
ping Australia bare of defences.
Soon after that was accomplished Labor was out
again, and stayed out till the present Government
scrambled into office in circumstances that could
hardly be called satisfactory. Since then Labor in
office has carried on the war effort on the founda-
tions laid by the Menzies Government. That the
country has since been relieved of the former spectacle
of petty political squabbling is to the Government’s
credit. There is a measure of general stability now
that did not exist before. It would not last long,
however, if the volunteers doing the fighting were in
the slightest danger of being “worsted” and the
Government persisted in its reliance on the “voluntary
system.” Put out on that issue, Labor’s sentence
might be a Kathleen Mavourneen one.
But Labor’s future is, after all, a sectional poli-
tical matter, and this is a national issue. Even if the
Government, driven by force of circumstances —that
is, by immediate attack on Australia’s outer defences
in the north —should bring in conscription as some-
thing now both nationally essential and politically
expedient, Australia must find the waiting hard to
forgive. It would mean that Australia would be less
prepared than would be the case if all-round conscrip-
tion had been the normal basis of the Australian war
effort, as it is in Britain and Maoriland. The waiting
would mean, too, that part-trained and untrained men
might be sent into the fighting, though nothing could
be more unfair to them or more dangerous to the
country.
The unfairness of it to those who do the fighting
is one of the most shameful aspects of the “voluntary
system.” A warrant-officer, back from the fighting
front in this war, has publicly stated that of the wil-
ling volunteer reinforcements \yho joined his unit in
Egypt 88 per cent, became casualties of one sort and
another wholly because they were “so lacking in
training.” Apparently it is something impossible to
grasp by the non-combatant civilians in charge of the
war effort that sending untrained men into battle is
the shabbiest sort of deal for them and also for those
whom they reinforce. That could have been avoided
if the principle of conscription had been accepted, as
it should have been accepted, purely as a matter of
course, when the country went to war. This time it was
so accepted in Britain and Maoriland. It should be
remembered, however, that last time in both those
countries conscription came some time after the event.
That is to say, they both learned something for their
future guidance: Australia learned nothing.
Another aspect of the unfairness of the “volun-
tary system” to the men doing the fighting has been
pointed out by Mr. M. F. Bruxner, a colonel in the
last war and N. S. Wales Country-party leader since;
Much is said today of the need for rest and recreation
for those engaged in munitions, armaments and other
war production, but the volunteer soldier, dependent on
the uncertainty of reinforcements, has no rest and no
recreation. Units, beloved by those who served in them,
were [hi the last war] broken up to fill the gaps in other
formations. Members of the old Anzac Mounted Division
will remember the Jordan Valley and all its horror of
heat and malaria; there the New Zealanders, with con-
scription, were able to give 25 per cent, of their men a
month about spell by the sea; the Australians alongside
them could only spare a beggarly five per cent.
Mr. Bruxner—who in this speaks for very nearly
all returned soldiers ; witness the unanimous Returned
Soldiers’ League votes in favor of conscription—has
also raised the point that the “voluntary system” is
as false in name as it is undemocratic in principle:
“Why humbug ourselves that we have a voluntary sys-
tem, when really it is the most selective form of con-
scription in the world,”
The Prime Minister knows, as every one else does,
that every man worthy of the name will offer his services
to the A.I.F. His whole outlook in life compels him to
do so, and because the spirit of patriotism, sacrifice and
manliness is strong within this fellow, we surely and
certainly conscript him under the guise of voluntary
service. It is this system which compels married men
with family responsibilities to go, whilst scores of men
without a tie stay behind. It takes the last boy in one
family and leaves a house full of fit ones next door.
Mr. Curtin says it served us well last war. The voluntary
system condemned those who went on service to remain
without reprieve until killed or so badly damaged by
wounds or ill-health that they could no longer serve.
The Government and other supporters of the
voluntary system” have no reply to such arguments.
There can be no reply. In the Official History it is
admitted that if the last war had gone on into 1919
not only would battalions have had to be broken up
to strengthen the thinning ranks lacking reinforce-
ments that had already been done —but the Austra-
lian command might have had to disband “at least
one division, and possibly more.” That this position
has not yet been reached in the present war is not
due to the marvels of the “voluntary system.” It has
not been reached yet because the war has not lasted
so long and the fighting has not been so heavy and
bloody.
That is no excuse for waiting. The time for con-
scription is now —a measure of statesmanship taken
boldly and coolly in advance of requirements. The
alternative is waiting till the need is not only apparent
but imperative, and then, by necessity, sending un-
trained men to do a job for which training is vitally
essential.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Forward, the Write Brigade!
Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” that master of mobile
warfare on the racing and nudity-competition front,
discovered last week that the campaign in Libya was
not going as well as its correspondents said it was at
the beginning, and with the intuition of genius it
pounced on reasons. First, there was a dearth of
Spitfires, and the Australian Government members
of which allowed themselves to figure in a Tele-
graph”-booming film, though, yielding to remon-
strances from their own party, they had the thing
suppressed or cut —must see that the British Govern-
ment provided Spitfires. Then “(1) We have not
achieved 100 per cent, co-operation between aircraft
and ground troops,” and “(2) we still have to over-
come a reluctance to employ dive-bombers in the
German fashion.” —Mr. Noel Monks said so.
Who is Mr. Noel Monks? He is a young man
from Victoria, who reported the war in Abyssinnia,
which was the subject of some very fancy reporting.
Then he saw something of the civil war in Spain,
where he got involved in the Guernica wrangle, which
raged for months. Going to England, he became avia-
tion writer for the “Daily Mail” and was in France for
a time. By all the standards of flapper- and stunt-
journalism, an unquestionable authority, knowing all
that can be known about ’planes, methods of air
fighting, “co-operation between aircraft and ground
troops,” everything.
Another witness cited by the “Telegraph” is
“Time.” Though denounced by President Roosevelt
as a disgusting liar, “Time” is accepted by the Tele-
graph” as an aeroplane expert and as a fully
accredited critic of “muddling Britons.” In its issue
of September 29, “Time” asserted that, in response to
Moscow’s appeal for help, “the British nobly sacri-
ficed a few obsolescent Tomahawks, a few ancient
Mohawks.” This was quoted by the “Daily Tele-
graph” as a convincing condemnation of British self-
ishness and muddling, and of the inferior quality of
die Tomahawk, “to which we” {i.e., the muddling
British, not the “Daily Telegraph”) “have entrusted
the Libyan offensive,”
Actually, the Tomahawk is only one of a number
of types employed in the Libyan offensive, and it is
presumably being used because it proved itself in
Syria, as our own R.A.A.F. squadrons can testify. It
seems to have proved itself in Libya also ; anyway,
“a member of a crack Australian Tomahawk squadron
shot down two Messerschmitts and damaged two
others in a single fight,” and the Australian-born Air
Vice-Marshal Coningham declared that the presence or
the Tomahawk “was the reason for the absence of
Stukas.” There are also Hurricane fighters, which in
combats over Europe have accounted for thousands
of German machines; and Beau fighters, which have
a range of 1500 miles, can go 330 m.p.h. at 14,000
feet, and in Libya and in Europe have done deadly
work with their four cannon and six machine-guns.
And there are Blenheims, most successful of lignt-
bomber types; Marylands, American heavy bombers,
superior to anything in the Italian Air Force and up-
to-the-minute in equipment; and Wellingtons, among
the biggest and most destructive twin-engined bombers
used during the war.
The long range of the Beau fighter makes it
specially suitable for desert fighting over great dis-
tances, and it can fight anything on wings. Under
combat conditions, Spitfires can stay up for no
than an hour and a quarter. This is no doubt the
main reason for the preference given to the Beau,
which can keep going for five hours.
And the alleged “reluctance to employ dive-
bombers in the German fashion is rubbish. Against
modern fighter aircraft the dive-bomber has failed
every time. Against properly-equipped armies it has
also been a failure. Even in “the final stages of the
Greek campaign, when the Germans had complete
mastery of the air and we had no planes at all, the
damage to our troops and equipment was unbelievably
small, though the enemy incessantly bombed a column
eight or nine miles long” (Blarney). Hence the British
decision not to adopt dive-bombing.
Still it might be a good plan to give newspaper
oracles a chance of showing how much better they
could do, preferably in opening up their second
European front.” Mr. Noel Monks could be com-
missioned to take charge of the aerial part of the busi-
ness. The naval part would obviously fall to Mr. F.
Ehrenfried Baume, who complained during the cam-
paign in Greece that British battleships were being kept
as “show pieces.” And the editor of the “Daily Tele-
graph” could let himself go as a land commander with
power to requisition other editors of military age,
as well as the “famous” John Gordon and the
“famous” Frank Owen. And “Time” might be invited
to organise a “Famous” Correspondents’ Commando,
which would possibly gain deathless glory as The
Soolers.
The Fall of Melbourne.
From another “famous” correspondent, “Lord Luvus”:
The censorship may or may not be responsible for it,
but one of the major campaigns of this war has scarcely been
mentioned and no accurate description of it has yet been
vouchsafed to the public. Yet so important is it to the future
of the nation that no history of the war will be complete
without a description of it, an analysis of its principal
ingredients, an explanation of its causes and its significance in
relation to the war effort. I refer to the investment and
occupation of Melbourne, one of the most ruthless and uncom-
promising operations in the history of any country.
It began a few months after Hitler started, but the tentative
raids then made were no index of what was coming. After
the fall of France, however, the invader suddenly sent up
reinforcements. Unprepared, the inhabitants found their barri-
cades swept away, street fighting grew in intensity and the
conflict became a general melee. Doggedly defending build-
ing after building, the population gradually fell back to tne
inner ring of defences. It was confident that the aggressor
must eventually exhaust his resources.
But Melburnians had hopelessly underestimated his capa-
city in this direction. Throwing in one battalion after another,
he gradually extended his conquests, even penetrating that
part of the doomed metropolis hitherto sacred to confec-
tionery shops, beauticians’ parlors, cinemas and cafes.
After the downfall of Greece, the enemy gained new deter-
mination, throwing in reserves and fresh enlistments with a
reckless disregard for the consequences, financial or otherwise.
The capture of Crete seemed to stimulate him still further.
The occupation was practically completed just prior to the
fall of the Fadden Government.
Beaten and bruised and driven into holes and corners,
the population gave up its resistance and accepted the inevit-
able.
The result is that today it is impossible to find a large
area of office space to let in the whole city. At least one
Government department —in some cases six or seven is
housed in every skyscraper which has come out of the hands
of the builder since the conflict started. Tenants of old
buildings have been evacuated, against their will, into older
buildings, and tenants of the older buildings have been
driven to seek accommodation in bits of oldest Melbourne
which had hitherto been considered unfit for human, let alone
business, habitation. Tenants who have only just moved into
new buildings have found themselves evicted the week after.
In every main street, in every lane and back alley, the
invader flaunts his coat-of-arms, his insignia of office and his
function. At lunch-time his staffs, all unmistakeably bearing
the stamp of the conqueror, shoulder the plain citizen into
the gutter. At knock-off time they occupy all the seats in
the trams and buses, and in the evening they stretch their
legs in the front rows at the theatres. Those who wear
officers’ uniforms pay a threeha’penny tram fare as against the
munition-worker’s twopence. Postmen and telegraph messen-
gers stagger through the streets loaded to the Plimsoll with
the letters the conquerers write to one another, and office-
equipment firms are working double shifts to supply them
with card indexes, dictaphones, computing machines and ready-
reckoners.
The situation is so desperate that poor Mr. Dedman,
who as Minister for War Organisation of Industry should natu-
rally want to continue the offensive on the grand scale and
create at least as many directors, sub-directors, co-ordinators
and co-ordinators of co-ordinators as his predecessors, is
faced with the possibility of having to accommodate them
under canvas. And no co-ordinator of co-ordinators could
write chits to himself under canvas.
Tasmania Has An Election.
If Tasmania were part of the United Kingdom, its
internal affairs would be run by one or two county
(or regional) councils. Being part of the Australian
Commonwealth, whose constitutional development has
been thwarted by a selfish provincialism, it maintains
a Government House (cost last year, £6759), a Condon
office (£4256), two Houses of Parliament (£25,700), a
Government with eight Ministers (they share £6500 in
addition to drawing their Parliamentary salaries),
about 7000 Government employees and a horde of
boards and commissions, as well as having 11 members
in the Commonwealth Parliament. The area of Tas-
mania is 26,215 square miles ; the population 243,000.
On June 30 the little State owed £28,162,000,
apart from its share of the Commonwealth debt
£510,000,000. Though internal taxation is by no
means small, most of the money the local Government
spends comes from the mainland in the form of loans,
grants, interest payments, aids to industries, road con-
struction, farm relief and so forth, stamp duties on
lottery tickets and taxes on lottery prizes. “The key-
stone of Tasmania’s financial structure,” says State
Opposition-leader Baker, is “the system of special
grants from the Commonwealth.” Last year s special
grant amounted to £400,000. This year, for some un-
discoverable reason, the Government is to get £520,000,
which, with £266,859 annually paid to the State under
the Financial Agreement, will probably amount to
half the revenue from taxation, including the con-
siderable amount paid by mainlanders. But interest,
sinking fund and exchange constitute a heavy annual
charge—in 1940-41 it amounted to 44.32 p.c. of revenue
from all sources, which failed by £181,630 to meet
expenditure from all sources.
To June 30 there was an unfunded balance of
accumulated deficit, £731,024. In his report on 1940-
41 operations, the Auditor-General noted that this
balance “is still in an irregular position, as it is being
financed by the loan fund from loan moneys raised for
capital purposes.” This official’s report is one long
criticism of slapdash methods of finance practised
over many years. He shows that expenditure in excess
of and in anticipation of Parliamentary authority has,
since 1921, averaged £87,114 per year. Though the
Audit Act specifies that annual estimates are to be
laid before the Legislature “as soon as practicable
after the close of the financial year”—that is, on
June 30 —they are rarely presented “until the end of
November, and sometimes later in the year, with the
result that Parliamentary control of the public purse
has become a hollow sham. There is no Standing
Committee of Public Accounts, nor is any provision
made for “consideration or criticism” of the watch-
dog’s reports. .
There is a Hydro-electric Commission, which is
accused of having made insufficient provision for
future industrial enterprise. The Auditor-General has
nothing to say on that score, but in a review of the
commission’s accounts he remarks that though gross
revenue has, since 1921, increased by £337,676, ne
profit has decreased by £947,” and that in calculating
depreciation, “temporary camp buildings have been
given a life of 40 years.” Of the Transport Commis-
sion, which, since July 1, 1939, had control of rail,
road and air “facilities,” with railway capital reckoned
at £2,070,430 (it was “reduced” in 1936-37 by
£4,738,000), the official drily remarks that the loss for
1940-41 was £146,314.
The little State has had a Labor Government since
1934. The Labor Government’s principal achieve-
ments, so far as can be ascertained, were to introduce
five-year Parliaments and to make a permanent job for
its Attorney-General, E. J. Ogilvie, whom it P 1
at the head of a new Department of Labor and Indus-
try without the tedious formality of calling tor appli-
cations. The Government is to face the electors next
Saturday. Opposing it is a “Nationalist party,
called because its sentiments are wholly provmcialist.
If the electors had their way, they would protfbly
send both parties about their business. But both
parties are concerned to see that the electors n
no such opportunity, though sooner or later they win
demand it.
The Dunstcms and the Cains.
Just who is which or what is why in the so-called
Parliament in Victoria has everybody beaten. Most
people assumed that the Dunstan Agrarians and e
Cain Laborites were dear old pals ; but some Laborites
have got into the habit of voting with the U.A.P., or
portion of it —there are now two divisions and the
Agrarians haven’t yet healed the Dunstan-Hockmg rift.
Last week Mr. Dunstan must have wondered
whether he was coming or going. His Government s
Tomato Marketing Bill was badly mauled, and i
suffered three defeats on a Cain amendment to grant
rural workers wages boards under the Factories and
Shops Act. Mr. Cain said a special committee
appointed to look into the Act had recommended its
extension to rural workers. Mr. Dunstan retorted that
rural workers weren’t represented on the committee.
Mr. Cain said that didn’t matter; what did matter
was that the committee was a Government one and
made the recommendation.
There followed the usual “lively debate.” The
U.A.P. indicated it would support Mr. Cairn Mr.
Cremean (Labor) charged Mr. Hollway (U.A.P.) with
“insincerity.” Mr. Dunstan accused Mr. Hollway of
“flirting” with Labor. Mr. Zwar CU-AfO and Mr.
Dunstone (C.P.) got into holts oyer the tariff. Then
Mr. Dunstan challenged somebody to launch a no-
confidence motion.”
Mr. Dunstan’s Minister of Water Supply moved
the adjournment of the debate. He was beaten by o
23. Mr. Dunstan’s Minister of Labor moved that
progress be reported. Defeated, 27 to 19. After that
Mr. Dunstan muttered something about an unholy
alliance” taking the business of the House out ot
Ministers’ hands. In the end, after Mr. Cam and Mr.
Hogan (formerly Labor Premier and now Mr. Dun-
stan’s Minister of Agriculture) had had a furious
wrangle, “a compromise amendment was earned.
Pity the Victorian people aren’t given the chance
to express their want of confidence in the whole futile
institution.
A National Medical Service.
From The Bulletin’s family doctor:
The National Health and Pensions’ Insurance Act—far
more truthfully described as a Breadwinners Sickness Insur-
ance Act—would commit the Commonwealth Government to
immense responsibilities from the moment it was brought
into operation. British experience does not help because the
standard of panel medical services in the U.K. is inferior to
anything which would be accepted by Australians of equivalent
social status. . . , „
Australian doctors, trained and accustomed to observe a
higher standard, naturally object to accepting tuppence-ha’penny
per week per head —which actually is what the Act proposes
to offer them for a 24-hour service for each insured person.
They object too, on ethical grounds, to the omission of any
service for wives or children; of any provision for disease-
prevention, improvement of physical standards amongst
children, specialist services for cancer or tubercle, ante-nata
or post-natal care of mothers and infants—in fact, the pesti-
lential reactionaries allege that there is nothing in the Act m
accordance with modern ideas on the subject with which it
purports to deal. And recent N.Z. experience shows that
Governmental coercion is useless for overcoming organised
medical opinion concerning details which it regards as vital.
The National Health and Medical Research Council told
successive Federal Governments that N.H.P.I. is useless for
its purpose. The B.M.A. said in effect that its members will
have nothing to do with it in its present form. So Canberra
passed it along to the Parliamentary Select Committee on
Social Security. , , „ . *
That committee now has two plans before it : one from
the 8.M.A., the other from the N.H.M.R. Council. That of
the B.M.A. enunciates the general principles of what it con-
siders should be done to the Act before it will work, and
wants it, so amended, to be made compulsory for all persons
with incomes under £416 p.a. The council considers that
income or position should be no bar against the use of a
national service but that anyone who wishes should be free
to go to a private doctor and pay fees. After outlining objec-
tives little different from those of the 8.M.A., it sets out a
comprehensive and detailed plan for transfer of all hospital,
lunacy, school medical officer and health services from States to
Commonwealth for operation under a salaried general medical
and health service controlled by the Commonwealth.
Capital expenditure involved is estimated at about
£lO 000 000, but as it would be a transfer only no extra burden
would fall on the Commonwealth taxpayer. Annual cost of
salaries and maintenance services would be approximately
£5 000 000. Under present conditions the public pays over
£7 000 000 p.a. to 4000 doctors practising in Australia. Under
the council’s scheme 3,955 doctors would be needed for the
national service at salaries equal to rather more than present
net average earnings and with advantages of recreation leave,
assured income, study-opportunity, regularity of working hours
and financial security in old age which are at present un-
dreamed-of in ordinary practice. , , .
Described as “An Outline of a Possible Scheme for a
Salaried Medical Service” and presented as a basis for dis-
cussion only, the council’s plan-modestly described as a draft
_k ffie first real job of work in bringing this vastly important
national matter out of the quagmire of vague generalisation
and unthinking prejudice to the firm ground of reasoned
consideration. Its admirably presented facts and figures cover
all essentials for a completely effective medical service in
every part of the Commonwealth, cities and country alike.
If it does nothing else the council s draft should stop any
Government from bringing the ridiculous Act into operation
without drastic amendments based on actual Australian needs
and conditions. Also, when the provinces howl—as they
inevitably will-about being robbed of their doctor-services,
even if they do cost the taxpayers an extra million or so it
niciy help a bit towards unification.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Loo”: The lady with the big shopping
bag and bigger ideas stood like a rock
near a shop window, her eyes on the
barrow opposite. There were tomatoes
on the barrow, four pound for a bob.
The barrowman served from the back in
time-honored style and the tomatoes
were selling at a good pace. But, if the
lady was watching the barrowman, the
barrowgent. wasn’t in the Land of Nod,
either. He grinned to his mate: “There’s
another of them smarties. She’s waiting till
the big tomatoes get nearer to the front;
then she thinks she’ll hop in and get real
beauties.” The determined lady waited
45 minutes. Then she strode forward,
smiling broadly. Her smile died as, with
a sleight-of-hand movement, the barrow-
man removed the “four pound a bob”
ticket and replaced it with one that
threatened “Fivepence a pound!” Smil-
ing equally broadly, he advanced and
beamed, “Yes, missus. Termaters is it?”
“No!” roared the lady in good broad
Aussie ; “it’s b robbery! ”
“D.E.”: I, for one, wouldn’t object if
some censor looked with a baleful eye
at the advertising perpetrated by a Syd-
ney concern, Farmer’s. Set forth as the
work of “Esquire,” whose style and
jargon are presumably copied from the
American publication “famous” for bed-
room and lavatory “humor,” it makes me
leap with rage. “What do you say to a
colored tuxedo as a give-away that would
really rate?” wrote “Esquire” in his vile
imitation lingo on December I—he1 —he had
previously spread himself on the need for
buying 18-guinea suits. “For Man to Man
giving that runs from 755. to as close to
your heart as eight guineas, you could
hardly do better than a lightweight
dinner J. of 8-ounce linens and hopsacs
and in a line-up of four colors.” And,
“screwing the monocle home for a de-
tailed survey,” “you” preceded on
“your” war-forgetting expedition;
A right bank and the Tobacco Corner
gets in your pocket-book for 255., with.
Meriel-de-Luxe cigars as an excuse. In an
after-dinner fume size that are natural
companions of a rare vintage.
Back tracks to the Perfumery Depart-
ment. Venus drapes herself in mourning
whilst “Esquire” noses clumsily through the
hallowed and inviolable soil. What to give
the Leading Lady: (a) Gift Box of talc.,
face powder and perfume; 21s. 4d., if she
be the Gracious Type, (b) Home treatment
of toiletries or Fannie’s Last Stand. A
consequential set that would wring some-
thing more than “Thank you” from a prac-
tical lass. And 48s. lid. from you.
Across the passage and you be in the
“Silverware.” Where you come by Candel-
abra in the best Georgian tradition for
£4 I6s. 6d. Pregnant atmosphere to diggings
that sport furniture of the Villain-Still-
Pursued-Her type.
This pestilent rubbish appears “next to
reading matter.” The reading matter on
December 1 was a report of Curtin's
mournful announcement that H.M.A.S.
Sydney had been lost with 645 splendid
men.
* * * *
“Two of ’Em”: We quite agree with
“Plain Bill” (B. 3 /12/’4l), who doesn’t
like the way a Sydney newspaper glorifies
girl munition workers. The whole thing
was extremely unnecessary, and, as usual
with some papers, the facts were highly
Q , ~ , ,
embroidered by the reporter of the news-
paper concerned. It seems that either
yOU lu ve , the . m *S ory ° r A h u Y make X i
np. This kind of thing could have caused
much ill feeling but for the decency of
m the factory. But
.lain BUI isn t quite accurate in quot-
mg what the manager is alleged to have
said. We hope Plain Bills heart will
now stop rending. #
“Ca bailer”- T with “Prnf” TR
1/19 /Mn A r 0 A j
the honor tn 11/r L°Jfl ft,
* w"XttfhTS, ° UV
Toted on with id H UmVe fo n X
KjfA PIS *7??
of the early birds in'i.ondo” durins the
1914 18 scran were feeline nrnnd o/nnr
a friend that von could tel/Australians
from New Zealanders “bicause Aus-
tralians have their hats turned up at the
side, like. Westminster dustmen.” Many
Diaaers must bavp noiirpH thm an rbnap
aSf thl
Ghurkas, the City Imperial Volunteers of
Boer War vintage and several other units
whn user! tn snort tbp tnmpH im bat
who us # ed to sport the turned-up fiat.
“Morimoto”: The Chinese waiter who
was arrested in Melbourne’s Little
Bourke-street because, with undersized
legs, he was displaying biceps like San-
dow and was found to be carrying £3OOO-
worth of cocaine of German manufac-
ture up his coat sleeves, was lacking in
finesse. When the profession really flour-
ished methods were more dainty. For a
very long period the Sydney detectives
knew that the arrival of a certain steamer
from China always meant a sudden
increase of opium in the city but
they couldnt see how the stuff could be
got ashore. The technique was ingenious
but simple. After the mailbags had been
landed the fourth officer would get his
receipt from the Customs and then go
below. A few seconds later he would
rush up on deck with an agitated visage
waving a mailbag. “The idiots have for-
gotten this one,” he would shout, and
bolting through the barriers would jump
into a cab and gallop hell for leather in
the direction of the Post Office. When
he turned the first corner he would
change his direction. As usual in these
matters, he did it once too often.
“Paffifip”- if ¥ was nathanc jnlntAip
Palette It was perhaps inevitable
that most American critics should con-
sider the exhibition of Australian paint-
ings at Washington “fundamentally
British in flavor.” Australia is part of
the British Empire: therefore its art must
be British in flavor. Of course it isn’t,
The inspiration for the first important
development in Australian art—the for-
of the so-called “Heidelberg
School” of painters who painted land-
scapes out of doors, rapidly, in one light
—came out of Spain. Some of the most
influential teachers in Australia (such as
Julian Ashton and J. S. Watkins, of Syd-
ney, and Max Meldrum, of Melbourne)
got the most important part of their train-
ing in Paris, not in England. Others (like
Louis McCubbin, of Melbourne) were
Australian-trained. Anyway, climate,
atmosphere and character of scenery
have much more influence on national
art than the methods or prejudices of
instructors. Because of the similarity of
conditions, Australian art is much more
in line with American than with British
styles. The powerlessness of the im-
ported idiom is well exemplified in Maori-
land. Incomparably the greatest art
instructor that country ever had was
Petrus Van der Velden, who taught from
1890 to 1913. His style was Dutch to
the nth degree ; moreover, it proved mag-
nificently suitable to the portrayal of
certain aspects of the wild mountain
country of the Dominion. But not one
of his pupils—and he had hundreds —
shows a trace of Dutch influence.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: To examples of
“howlers” showing cute thinking on the
part of the kids making them (B.
26/11/’4l) might be added one passed
to me by a Sunday-school teacher. The
class had been considering the case of
the Prodigal Son, and on a seemingly
inattentive youngster the teacher sprang
the question why the prodigal had eaten
“the husks that the swine did eat.” The
youngster answered promptly, “He knew
they had the best vitamines.”
“Clooter”: My school-teacher mate
handed in a couple of howlers gleaned
from the recent primary final exams, in
our State: “The inventor of wireless was
Macaroni.” “The Premier of Soviet Russia
is Mr. Stallion.” And this was better
“Well, you re askin' for it!”
still: “A bridegroom is something they
have at a wedding.”
* * * *
“Piper’s L.”: My next-door neighbors
had three kids and a dog Their lawns were
wild growt hs of couch, clover, broken
, bones and b d ’ ,
t f r
. a L , r ence
an ovt ' r and tlirou gh it spilled the flam-
glory of nasturtiums. A climbing
f ose as °ld as Sydney hid the side fence,
lts phower of white blooms something to
uplift the entire suburb every spring. In
opo corner-a ragged old sugar-gum pro-
Tided a haven for sparrows, starlings,
wrens and honey-eaters. All along
the other side from the rose was a mass
of bougainvillaea, which spread across the
t> a ck fence and up over the garage, where
it was joined by a tangle of honeysuckle
and more lantana. When dogj. and kids
cou^d
thicket anything from a tribe of Mohawks
to the seven dwarfs, and in the golden
mornings the chirrupings of birds, kids
and dogs, all among the living color of
the vines and bushes, was a joy to the
heart. Now the place has been sold. The
new owner is childless, but owns one dis-
pirited and obese hound. He and his
wife gazed at the wilderness in horror
and promptly attacked it with sickle, mat-
tock, pruning saw, rake, lawn mower and
fire-stick. Gone are the lantana and the
honeysuckle, gone the bougainvillaea and
the rose, gone the nasturtiums and the
birds. Trim and orderly the house stands,
its fences Harsh to the sun, its lawns
straight-edged, its sugar-gum a memory.
It joins the long, horrid row of orderly
houses, and the suburb’s concrete streets
jeer triumphantly. And, reeking with
pride, the owners and their obese tripe-
hound sit on their verandah, suburbia
enthroned.
* * * *
“Avon”: Sydney is an easy-going city.
After 16 years’ study of it I have not
been able to decide whether its refusal to
bother itself with such small matters as
the letter of the law is due to inertia or
to a vast, experienced wisdom. I struck
one stickler for principle some years ago
—just after the Harbor Bridge and the
tube railway station underneath the city
had been opened. I disembarked at one
of those huge city stations early on a
Sunday morning and had, I thought, the
place to myself. I took the first stairs
that came on my way to the exit. But
midway on those stairs stood an imposing
uniformed figure, all braid and frogs.
“These stairs,” he said coldly, “are dis-
tinctly marked ‘No Exit.’ ” So I went
back and took the proper stairs out. I
think they must have heaved that con-
scientious bloke out within a week, for
ever since I have found it difficult to
get into that station because of the throngs
of people rushing out of all the portals
reserved for entrance.
* * * *
“Yankophile”: After a study of Ameri-
can writers who are acclaimed as world-
famous, and who, indeed, ought to be,
since they are named in the newspapers
almost every day, I have come to the
conclusion that they owe not a small part
of their prestige to the unusualness of
their given names. Almost every Ameri-
can nowadays seems to have
acquired a family moniker at
his christening, and some of
the results are, as Rossetti
would say, sweet symphonies.
The fashion started, I think,
with Richard Harding Davis,
Booth Tarkington and George
Barr McCutcheon. Of course
today much finer euphonies
have been achieved—Damon
Runyon, Caret Garrett, Ray-
mond Gram Swing, Orson
Welles, Clarence Buddington
Kelland, Royal Arch Gunni-
son. The Americans, as they
would put it themselves, have
got something there. Think
how very much better verses
by William Schwenk Gilbert
would sound than those by a
mere W. S. Gilbert!
* * ♦
“Macßopus”: In a N. S.
Wales north-western town,
where everybody knows
everybody, it is the custom
of the C.P.S. to entertain the
P.M. or, at Quarter Sessions
time, the Judge, at morning
and afternoon tea, the Court
adjourning for the purpose.
Not long ago Mrs. C.P.S. told
her three-year-old daughter
to go and tell daddy that the
Judge’s tea was ready. In-
stead, three-year-old mounted
the Bench, and, to the delight
of Bar, police and public,
said “Judgie, your tea is
ready.” “Thank you, dear,”
said ’is ’Onor. “The Court will adjourn for
a few minutes,” and the Court rose, bowed
and took the little lady by the hand. It was
then that the youngster, oblivious to her
surroundings and everybody else, re-
marketL ,“ wha ' nice P«tty curls you’ve
got, Judgie! Mr.(naming the P.M.
hasnt got nice pretty curls like you!
The judge was tickled pink to think that
anyone would take his old battered wig
as a witness of truth,
* * * *
t-, , . ;n
ungeness . ie ngisim n
mana g es now and then to hand a siu-
P rise to yis American cousin. A sun-
bathing visitor at a Long Island (N.Y.)
beach club got into conversation with a
member and in reply to a question men-
tioned casually that he had spent the
previous evening bombing a city in Ger-
many. When his surprised new acquaint-
ance as ked for details of how he had
t in < he intervening 18 or-so hours the
P ut * n Jie lnt evening 18 or so hours, th
E n B llsh man explained that aftei return-
mg rom raid ke kad deen a §ked to
g ? as c °-pilot on a bomber ferrying
P dots between England and Canada,
Arriving in Newfoundland that morning
h £ h a d taken the opportunity to fly down
to New York to meet a married sister
and was having a sunbath until she got
back from some city shopping. Even
with the six-hour difference between Eng-
lish and N.Y. time in his favor that is
a thought-provoking example of the vic-
tory of modern fast ’planes over distance.
THE REALISTIC ATTITUDE.
It’s facing up to facts—so far
The dictionaries all agree—
Viewing conditions as they are,
Not as you’d like to have them be.
In poverty or love or war,
There’s none can combat or elude
The urgent need existing for
A realistic attitude.
In art and lit’rature, perhaps,
It would occasion mild surprise
Were there no scope for dreamy chaps
Whose tendency’s to idealise.
But when you need your way to win
Through any path with perils strewed,
Be sure the truest wisdom’s in
A realistic attitude.
How infinite the evil wrought
To many a project, plan or biz.
By those who use the wishful thought
To kid themselves what isn’t is!
How many wake to wonder why
Such fatuous courses they’ve pursued,
Who’d have been spared their blunders by
A realistic attitude!
In churches every Sabbath day—
And not without sufficient cause—
For wisdom and for grace we pray
In those whose job’s to frame our laws.
With understanding we’d be glad
To see them, too (I learn), endued.
And to the list I’d like to add
A realistic attitude.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“It IS unusual, but you see the plates are missing /”
“N, E. Bottles”: You can’t always be
sure of what (or if anything) is passing
through the feminine mind. Two little
tabbies in “important war dress” (pretty
uniform and lipstick) chattered breath-
lessly in the George-street tram after the
parade. “Oh, but it’s his swagger that
I like,” said the one, “He’s certainly not
handsome,” agreed the other, “but there’s
something about him that I can go for
in a big way.” I grinned, thinking that
the discussed “he” was yet another
glamor-boy officer. Then up spoke the
first flutterbrain again: “But isn’t it
funny how some people dislike him? I
say they’ve just got no sense if they don’t
fall for Donald Duck.”
¥ * * *
“Bagot”: In case Perth suburban gar-
deners should be tempted by “Zake” (B.
12/11 /’4l) to limit their watering to a
desultory sprinkling every few days, I
must warn them that soil conditions differ
vastly from those in Sydney. Before the
recent completion of a couple of big
dams near the Swan River metropolis,
water restrictions during the summer
months were frequent and always resulted
in desolate gardens and arid lawns. Suc-
cess with a Perth garden is only achieved
by daily drenchings. The soil consists
entirely of dry, hungry sand, which sucks
up H2D with a thirst as insatiable as that
of “V. Cluse’s” drunk.
» * * *
“Looby”: Safety in trams was being
discussed. Everyone agreed it was dan-
gerous to remain seated if a sixteen-stone
woman looked meaningly in your direc-
tion. Better to lose your seat than for
her to lose her temper. From there the
yarn drifted to the trams themselves. The
bloke in the corner once worked with a
tramway repair gang, so this was his big
moment. “Trams are as safe as the bank,”
he said. “When I was working on them
a tram might come in with only one
little wire or something broken, but that
tram wouldn’t go out again under a fort-
night.” When his listeners cheered this
apparent thoroughness of the workmen,
he admitted with a reminiscent grin,
“Well, it wasn’t exactly thoroughness.
But, you see, if the tram didn’t need
much repairing the gang of us would get
into the pit underneath it and play cards.”
* * * *
“Tosh”: The Q.M. mentally nick-
named him “Big’un” on sight. A seven-
and-three-quarters hat looked like a
messenger boy’s pillbox on his cranium,
and he couldn’t have been got into the
largest stock-size trousers with a greased
shoehorn. After 20 minutes the Q.M.
gave him best, and he walked out of the
store with a pair of bootlaces entered
on his A.F. 200. They were the only
item of clothing that would fit him.
* # * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Judging from
the number of places pronounced Beer
and Bar by my favorite radio announcer,
Libya can’t always have been as droughty
as it would appear to be now. The one
which he terms Beer Grab—Bir Garab
on the map —sounds particularly attrac-
tive. Slantha, too, has a cheery note of
St. Patrick’s Day festivities. The soft
appeal in Bar, Dear? is rather discounted
by the abrupt refusal in Too Bruk, with
Darn ’Er to follow. Ma To Bar, his
rendering of Matuba, may have meant
a bit on the slate if Ma happened to
have been the landlady. There’s a
Shaikat—Shy Cat in radioese—who, may-
be, was the one who admitted to being
Seedy? O Ma! Or was it she who be-
came Gagah? Anyhow, El-Adem even-
tually—which should please the ancient
wowser who probably gave its name to
Driguttz.
* * * *
“Feng Shui”: Uncle Sam is having
difficulties in the Philippines with the
Moros, 60 of whom have been killed by
police guns in the last six months. Like
the Peninsular Malays, they are Moslems,
but, unlike them, are intensely fanatical
about it. Working in isolated bands, they
have taken an oath on the Koran to die
killing Christians, and this goes for
Filipino Catholics and Americans of all
denomination. Moros believe that their
traditional dress and tightly - girded
loins enable them to continue to
rush forward and vivisect enemies
with double-bladed swords made of
motor-car springs—even when
they are hit by heavy-calibre
bullets. The Moros were a
thorn in the flesh of British com-
merce until Rajah Brooke drove
them under hatches; they were
a thorn in the flesh of the
Spaniards; they were the spear-
head of the revolt against Ameri-
can domination after Admiral
Dewey had his almost bloodless
victory at Manila. Similar out-
breaks to the present were com-
mon 30 years ago, but, although
it was often unsafe for a Euro-
pean to walk along the streets of
Jolo, the Sultan used annually
to take a trip in the British
steamer to Singapore to have his
teeth attended to by an English
dentist. He travelled first-class
with the leading lady of his
harem, and was the mildest-
mannered pirate I have ever en-
countered. He couldn’t say
boo! to his wife, though he had
been saying boo! to the Ameri-
can Army, Navy and Constabu-
larly at intervals for a generation.
“Jurumudi”: A wandering American
correspondent recently reported that if
the Japs invaded the Malay Peninsula
they would get a warm reception from
the krises of the native population. If
so, the indigenes must have been keep-
ing those ancestral weapons in cold stor-
age. The curly blade, damascened accord-
ing to an ancient prescription and sur-
rounded with the halo of superstition,
has long gone out of commission, and,
outside museums, examples seen are
mostly Brummagem. A famous kris of
Java is the Kalamoonjang, part of the
regalia of the Jokjakarta Sultans. In
the good old days, so tradition says, it
used to chase its master’s enemies alone
and unaided, and slaughter them in thou-
sands. If it is still in existence it ought
to be obtained by Major-General Ben-
nett and put in an advanced position.
The modern Malay uses the golok, the
parang, a knife for milking the rubber-
tree and other implements of industry,
but not the kris, save on rare ceremonial
occasions. I am now waiting to hear
from another American correspondent
that if the Nazis invade England they
will get a warm reception from the cloth-
yard shaft in the hands of sturdy English
yeomen.
* * * *
“A Major”: Every music-lover over 40
that I have met seems to be convinced that
musically the world is going to the dogs.
Not only are there no new works of great
merit being composed (say the oldsters),
but, though technique in every field has
been perfected till the concert-platform
miracles of 50 years ago are the class-
room commonplaces of today, the thrill
and the inspiration seem to have gone
out of performances of even the classics.
I heard a very old, experienced orches-
tral player discoursing on the subject
recently. Somebody suggested that ad-
vancing age is the sole explanation of
elderly pessimism—the loss of the faculty
of appreciation. “It isn’t that,” said the
old chap vigorously, “it’s a feeling that
there’s no future. We’ve got to the stage
where, when we are listening to first-
class music we can anticipate every
phrase, every note, every nuance; There
are so few really great composers. And
why? Because in the old days you
couldn’t get instruction in harmony or
counterpoint and the fundamentals of
composing unless you were a thumping
great genius. Such a colossus as Schu-
bert was always beefing because he hadn’t
mastered fugue-writing. A damn’ good
job he hadn’t, too. Albert the Good was
considered a regular don among amateurs
because he could score a Te Deum good
enough to be performed once at the
Abbey. But nowadays! Every kid in
a conservatorium has enough knowledge
of musical grammar to compose, and
most of them feel they must do it, and
they do, and the result is enough to make
a cat sick.” When I left the old lad was
whaling into Walton and calling down
damnation on Delius. A diehard, but
with some hold on the root of the matter.
“Tonsilitis”: *“S.T.S.” (B. 26/11/’4l)
need not have stopped at “stop.” This
is not the only word in the language with
opposite meanings. “Fast” may mean
“rapidly moving” or “firm and immov-
able.” Another “double-header” is
“wear.” I heard a woman who entered a
shop say, “I want a dress that will wear
well.” Two minutes later another entered
and asked for a dress that would “not
wear.” Both wanted the same kind of dress.
* * * *
“Fitzjaq”; A terra which is getting
too much use in daily press war news is
“fear.” For instance, “Responsible quar-
ters fear that Japan” “It is feared
that General Rommel” “London
fears that moves by Vichy” In war
the British Empire should not fear any-
thing or anybody—and doesn’t.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”; Our tame drunk, after
numerous stops at various filling stations,
flowed solemnly towards his bus stop for
the run home. Nagging at the back of
his mind was a memory of something
he had been told to do—some require-
ment his wife needed. Mumbling about
it, he was passing a shop when his eye
caught sight of something in the window.
He halted, peered intently, thought
mightily, and with a blissful look entered
the shop. “Gimme that big duck orrer
there,” he said. The salesman got the
bird, wrapped it up and handed it over.
“That’ll be 18s. 6d.,” he said. The drunk
tucked the parcel under one arm while
he fished in his pocket. Then a thought
struck him. “Cripesh,” he said, “thash
pretty hot, ain’t it. Nearly a quid f’r
one liT bird like that.” Said the sales-
man, “Well, it’s very good china, and
the glazing is done by a special process.
If “Glashin’? Glashin’?” inter-
rupted the drunk. “Nerrer et a glashed
duck in me nacheral. Y’ mush mean
braishin’, but even a braished duck ain’t
that dear.” A light dawned on that
salesman, and he swiftly retrieved the
parcel, saying sharply, “My dear sir, you
appear to be —er —well, mistaken. This
is an ornament, not a dinner.” The drunk
studied him, then backed out of the shop.
“Well, you keep it, shee!” he roared.
“Shcandaloush, tha’s wharritis. I’d
sooner buy a tin o’ herrinsh an’ saushe ’n’
pay that prishe. An’ wha’s more, ol’
ferrer, the Prishes Commish —Commish —
well, I’ll write t’ the papers abourrit,
see’fidon’! ” And he went off, mumbling
vaguely about profiteers trying to do a
man out of his Christmas dinner.
* * * *
“Sevener”: The golf pro. took his
female pupil over to a 120-yard hole and
said, “Since you say you’ve never tried
to hit a ball before I’ll just show you
how easy the game becomes. See that
green?” He teed a ball, pitched it gently
on to the green and watched it roll into
the cup. 'While he was still trying to
recover from his astonishment, he heard
the voice of the pupil. “I thought so! ” it
said. “What do people mean by trying to
frighten one by saying golf is a hard
game?” Keeping a stern grip on himself,
the pro. hurried her off to the practice
putting green.
“Some bloke pinched the hose, sir.
THE LOOKERS-ON.
“General Blarney noted disapprovingly the num-
bers of young men who regularly attend football
matches, etc., as spectators.”
How marked the change since Goldsmith’s
tuneful lay
Pictured the scene upon the longed-for day
When Auburn village turned from toil to play!
There, you’ll recall, in some attractive glade
Were feats of strength and tests of skill essayed,
“The young contending as the old survey’d.’
It isn’t clear, from Oliver’s report,
What was the highest-favored form of sport.
Shinty, perhaps —or something of the sort.
Yet who can doubt they ran and leapt and
threw,
Belted the leather, aye, and chased it, too.
As forcefully as their descendants do.
They were all amateurs, it’s obvious, when
No “gates” enabled clubs to fee their men,
And barrracking was not invented then.
An even deeper diff’rence I’d assign
To knock the stuffing out of Goldsmith’s line,
In games where modern gladiators shine.
Still do the young for combat take the stage;
But watching them their mimic warfare wage
Has ceased to be a role reserved for age.
For every figure on the field of play
You couldn’t fail to count some scores today
Content, though just as youthful, to survey.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


df
s
PUBLIC 7 TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
14 Castlereagh St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
offers all facilities for the transaction of every class
of Banking business. Since 1854 #-* over a century
ago i—i the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
has maintained the confidence of its depositors and
the community alike.
HEAD OFFICE:
-5 '
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
GIVE USEFUL PRESENTS THIS XMAS
THE
‘KEMP JUNIOR”
CHILD’S SADDLE
£6/15/-
(COMPLETE)
This saddle is
made of best
quality kip
leather, the seat
has no seams to
burst, and the
panel has leather
points down sides.
N.S.W. Freight on Saddles paid for cash
with order.
Send for Our Saddlery Catalogue Free
WALTHER *STEVEHSOH ■
395 CEORCE ST. SYPHEY~]
I y ■> (?
rVJTr
POLITICAL POINTS
The Empire has four more enemies—
Japan, Finland, Rumania and Hungary.
In each case every effort was made over
the years to preserve good relations, and
in each case friendship was professed.
Hungarians went through the motions of
offering the crown of Hungary to the
late Rothermere, of the “Daily Mail,” and
of “Hats off to France! ” celebrity. The
newspaper baron died without ever sus-
pecting that his Hungarian “friends” had
had the loan of his leg.
Under national-security regs., issued
by the Transport Minister, George Law-
son, the Commonwealth Government is
to take control of transport. “These
powers,” it is stated, “are to be used in
an emergency,” but the emergency exists,
and has existed since September 1939.
The powers should have been taken then
and for all time.
Features of Britain’s Man- and Woman-
power Bill, which was carried in the
Commons with a handful of dissentients:
Registration of boys and girls 16 to 18.
Reduction of the minimum age for com-
pulsory military service to 18£.
Increase of the maximum call-up age
from 41 to 51.
Conscription of single women between 20
and 30. Numbering 1,620,000, they are to
be required, if necessary, to serve in uni-
formed auxiliary forces.
No present extension of compulsion to
married women, but childless wives “may
be called upon to go to another area where
their industrial services are needed.”
Now, Mr. Curtin!
Hobart “Mercury” sees the light:
Conscription is the fairest and most
democratic system, and if put to the test
would probably receive strong support uni-
versally The future holds prospects of
very heavy fighting... .The issue is whether
the A.I.F. is to be left without adequate
reinforcements or whether the Govern-
ment will have the pluck to stand up
squarely to the position.
Unlike Sydney fence-sitters the “Mercury”
makes no claim to “giving Australia
leadership.”
On paper the Tas. Assembly election
should be a soft thing for Labor. It
holds 18 of the 30 Assembly seats, and
its Government has been in office since
1934. On the other hand, Premier Cos-
grove, though earnest enough, is not the
campaigner that A. G. Ogilvie was, and
the cut-and-dried appointment of the
other Ogilvie to the Labor Department
job may cost the Cosgroves some of the
civil-service support they had in 1937.
Then Denison —the electorate of Cos-
grove, Ministers Dwyer-Grey and Culley
and Heerey—elected a Federal opponent
in September, 1940, and Willmott (three
Nats, and three Labs.) put in another
Menzies supporter. Indications favor
Labor, but Opposition-leader Baker has
hopes, and he is no unreasoning optimist.
D’Alton, the Tas. Labor Minister who
has control of fisheries, mentioned in an
election speech that “the West Coast is well
known for its splendid fishing-grounds,
but no definite plans have been adopted
to develop these resources.” He must
have been a prey to forgetfulness when
he said that, for Federal Labor had a
few days previously come out-with other
plans in the non-development line —a 100
per cent, increase in sales tax on fishing-
boats (“including oars, sails, lifebelts, life-
boats and other similar accessories”),
engines and crayfish pots. Put to the
vote, the 100 per cent, increase was de-
feated in the Senate, though the Tas.
Laborites Aylett and Darcey voted for
it, and Lamp found a pair. Someone
must have suddenly reminded the Gov-
ernment of the impending Tasmanian
election. It “accepted the decision.”
One Sydney daily, the “Tirralirra,”
has very cautiously lowered itself from
the fence on which they all took up posi-
tions when the Old Diggers declared for
conscription. It pleaded that conscrip-
tion would “split the nation” —which
possibly means that it would remove
masses of young men from the ranks of
students of racing form and of the nearly-
naked forms of brats who pose for news-
“THIS’LL BE THE TASTIEST HELL’S BROTH I’VE EVER MADE.”
paper photographers. But the “Tirra-
lirra’s” opposition had an uncertain note,
perhaps because a rival accused it on the
same day of pinching its competitions and
its report of the sinking of the Sydney.
Beale, M.L.A. for the South Coast
(N.S.W.), went back to his neglected
region after the parody of a Parliamen-
tary session in Macquarie-street, Sydney,
and told it to expect nothing from the
alleged Assembly, it being a “Chamber of
Horrors.” Stung out of his complacency,
McKell rebuked Beale, not for his graphic
description but for protesting that work
on an aerodrome in his electorate had
been stopped. McKell had a go at the
censor for not having shut Beale’s mouth,
and that of Federal Minister Collings,
who mentioned recently that some N.S.W.
rolling-stock was being sent to Iran —a
thing which McKell seems to regard as
the turning-point of the war. If McKell
isn’t careful his head will burst.
Before President Wilson took his coun-
try into the last war, he had to deal with
the threat of a nation-wide railway strike.
President Roosevelt has had the same
difficulty to contend with—it is one of
several striking parallels with events of
March-April, 1917. Roosevelt’s hold on
the railwaymen is greater than Wilson’s
was, and they have agreed to remain at
work. Reckoned to number 1,350,00(1,
they demanded increases amounting to
the equivalent of £281,250,000 Australian.
They are to receive rather less than a
third of that amount.
In the Victorian “Parliament” the Gov-
ernment was defeated three times during
a “lively debate” on an amendment to
give rural workers a wages board if they
wanted it. After a long and arduous
hunt five rural workers were found, but
the moment they heard about life and
wages in Melbourne they headed south
without waiting to express an opinion.
The Prime Minister came out with an
appeal to the public to spend as little as
possible on Christmas gifts this year.
Next day it was being joyfully printed in
Sydney daily papers that there never had
been such Christmas buying, and that
“few toys costing less than £1 were being
sold.”
Sydney’s Milk Minister, a Mr. Kelly,
has announced that plans now being
“examined” for reorganisation of that
city’s milk business will save £lOO,OOO,
included in which is £45,000 representing
the “annual loss to the distributing com-
panies through breakages of milk
bottles.” But somebody gets that £45,000
and it isn’t the producers, who didn’t
ask for bottles, and it isn’t the con-
sumers, who didn’t ask for bottles either.
They do odd things in Queensland’s
“Parliament.” Early last month Duncan
Macdonald, an Opposition member from
Stanley, was suspended for “disobedience
of the Chair.” Criticising the issue of
permits for the shabby gamble known as
Bingo, he said, “Morality is the keystone
of public life,” and “no one can accuse
this Government of having any preten-
sions to morality.” “Withdraw,” said the
chairman, V. C. Gair; and on Duncan’s
refusing the Speaker was summoned, and
a two-weeks’ suspension motion was
carried at the instance of Acting-Premier
Cooper. On November 21, the same
Gair being in the Chair, Barnes, the wild
man from Bundaberg, described “the
Courts of Queensland” as “the Govern-
ment’s Gestapo men,” and shouted that
the non-production of papers for which
he had asked was “typical of the filthy
Government and the filthy magistrates of
the Courts.” All Gair said was “Order!”
and all Cooper did when Barnes went on
performing was to move that the wild
man be “no longer heard.”
“What’s Wrong in Libya?” shouted Mr.
Baume, of the “Daily Mirror,” echoing
Mr. Penton, of the “Daily Telegraph,”
who promptly encored himself. The only
thing radically wrong is that the effete
British didn’t ask Mr. Baume and Mr.
Penton to run the campaign for them.
When this omission is repaired every-
thing will be all right.
Having tacked the Parliamentary fran-
chise on to the ratepayer and occupier
qualifications, the McKell Government
looked for sweeping victories at the
N.S.W. local - government elections.
Official Labor candidates scored in a few
Sydney suburbs, but in the city itself and
in Newcastle and other districts they
fared badly. In Sydney the Civic Re-
formers won again—to their own sur-
prise and to the chagrin of Civic Reform
aldermen who had “diplomatically”
retired. In spite of published anticipa-
tions of large-scale personation the poll
was poorer than in 1937, when only rate-
payers, tenants and lodgers voted. And
now the McKells are wondering whether
working people are really grateful to
them for “abolishing” the wages tax
which has been tacked on to income tax.
Items of expenditure listed by the Tas.
Auditor-General at the end of the second
war year (deficit, £181,630):
£
Ministers’ car hire and other exes. .. 1650
Railway passes for members and wives,
ex-Premiers, Ministers, etc. .. .. 2768
Fares of Wives of members travelling
on Trans-continental railways .. .. 29
Allowance to Economic Adviser .. .. 525
Grant to League of Nations Union .. 200
Small things, perhaps, but, added up,
they and other small things make a hole
in the Commonwealth grant. For the
Australian taxpayer does most of the
paying.
Fellow-members are admiring the mag-
nanimity of Senator Bertie Johnston,
from Westralia. In the Senate on
November 20 Bertie manfully declared
himself opposed to sales tax. A few days
later the tax-reformer collected two
thumping writs for income tax —one for
£75,493 from the Commonwealth, the
other for £16,445 from the State; and
both in respect of the years 1921-36 (with
1926 omitted). The Senator, who is
locally renowned for his interest in pubs,
was a State M.L.A. part of the time:
he has been a Senator since 1929.
Item reprinted, without apologies, from
“S. M. Herald”:
Mr. Keith Murdoch denied making the
statement attributed to him that Australian
naval units were withdrawn from the Medi-
terranean to operate in northern Australian
waters. I said “Our own Navy was guard-
ing our northern coastline,” Mr. Mur-
doch explained.
When Mr. Curtin received “a long and
friendly” cable from Mr. Murdoch he
dropped the subject. It should not have
been dropped.
Announced that the Sydney Govern-
ment intends to set up a Housing Com-
mission with a chairman at £l5OO a year
and members on part-time, and that
“already a number of Labor party sup-
porters are pressing their claims for ap-
pointment.” You bet your life they are!


BATTLE DRESSES.
“Please yourself, of course, Curtin, but this is OUR standard equipment.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1860.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ~£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. . . 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE gt. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE. W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia,
LONDON OFFICE; 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.S.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
exchange business transacted.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
LABOR’S FINANCIAL POLICY
FAR-REACHING EFFECTS
December Issue Now on Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting a Simple
Case of Piles
Any person takes serious chances
in neglecting an attack of Piles.
This ailment has a tendency to be-
come chronic and there is also
danger of ulceration, and forming
of Fistula, both very difficult to
cure. The safest remedy for any
form of Piles, whether itching or
protruding, is DOAN’S OINTMENT.
In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the
many cures made by it have made
it famous in every corner of the
world. It enjoys a greater demand
and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other Pile remedy ever
placed on the market.
Let DOAN’S OINTMENT give
you the relief you so sorely need.
Refuse all substitutes.. Remember
the name DOAN’S,
PERSONAL ITEMS
Brigadier lames Hargest, reported cap-
tured in Libya with his staff, was in com-
mand of the Fifth N.Z. Infantry Brigade.
He’s a 50-year-old Southland farmer who
fought through the 1914-18 war, coming
out a lieut.-colonel with the D. 5.0., the
M. and the Legion of Honor. Since
1935 he has represented Awarua, Joe
Ward’s old electorate, in Parliament. The
Brigadier for a while, in peace-time, com-
manded the Southland Infantry Regi-
ment, and later the Third N.Z. Infantry
Brigade. He’s a Nationalist in politics.
Brigadier Reginald Miles, of the
N. reported a prisoner in Libya, is
a soldier by profession. He was born at
New Brighton (M.L.) 49 years ago and
was at Duntroon Military College when
the 1914-18 war broke out. He served
on Gallipoli and in France, winning the
M.C. and D.S.O. In early post-war times
he was brigade major of artillery, and
he commanded the men who safeguarded
Edward P. on his tour of the Dominion
in 1920. He has studied at Camberley
and at the Imperial Defence College,
London, and when the present war broke
out was Q.M.-G. of the M.L. Forces.
Lieut.-Col. John Manchester Allen, of
the 2nd N.Z.E.F., reported killed, is of
English birth, but has spent most, of his
life in Maoriland. He studied law at
Cambridge, where he gained the degrees
of M.A. and LL.B., and has been farm-
ing at Morrinsville since 1926. An Angli-
can lay-reader, deputy-master of the Wai-
kato Hunt, Farmers’ Union branch presi-
dent, member of many municipal bodies
and M.P. for Hauraki since 1938, his life,
closed in his fortieth year, was a very
full one. He was an officer of the
Hauraki Regiment from 1924 to the out-
break of war, and joined the N.Z.E.F. as
a major.
December is a fateful month for Robert
Cosgrove, of Tasmania. He was born on
December 28, 1884, he succeeded A. G.
Ogilvie as Premier on December 18, 1939,
and he is seeking the judgment of the
electors on his administration next Satur-
day, December 13. Cosgrove has been
an Assemblyman for 22 years. Sport,
in which he used to take an active and
comprehensive interest, has lost much of
its attractions for him since one of his
two sons flew over the North Sea in an
R.A.F. squadron to attack Sylt and did
not return.
Except that both wear horn-rimmed
spectacles, Premier Cosgrove, of Tas-
mania, and Opposition-leader Baker have
little in common, though personally they
are on excellent terms. Baker is the
younger man by seven years. He was in
journalism before he turned to the law
—he is a member of a Hobart firm of
solicitors —and he had four years at the
last war, returning with the D.S.O. A
Brighton (Vic.) clergyman’s son, he mar-
ried a Hobart clergyman’s daughter.
Menzies has a birthday this month—
he will be 47 on the 20th. To outward
seeming, he is the old philosophic Bob
once more. Indeed, at Canberra, after
Curtin took charge, he looked consider-
ably more composed than when he re-
turned from Britain with that “pros-
pectus for an increased war effort” in
his pocket. Like many other pros-
pectuses, it had a short life and is now
forgotten.
Melbourne’s newly appointed City
Valuer, Jim Riddell, should be able to
overtake defaulting ratepayers, for he is
an ex-champion runner —the only Vic-
torian to win five of the State champion-
ships: i-mile, 1 mile, 3 miles, 5 miles
and 10 miles.
B. P. Robin, Adelaide’s just-arrived
Anglican Bishop, is a compromise be-
tween the old notion of importing all
prelates from England and the modern
idea of a man with Australian experience.
He is no stranger to
the Commonwealth,
having spent some years
in Queensland, mainly
with the hard-working
Bush Brotherhood. He
comes now from Lan-
cashire, where he has
been an air-raid warden,
and he knows all about
being bombed in the
night. He does not pro-
nounce his name like
the bird or the cricketer,
but likes the O long.
The new Common-
wealth Bank building in
Melbourne, which has
been rearing its marble
bulk on the old Bijou
site in Bourke-street,
got an unceremonious
war-time opening when
Maurice Boyce Duffy
put the key in the lock
of the massive portals
at 10 in the morning
and admitted the busi-
ness public. The Scul-
lin Government ap-
pointed Duffy to the
Bank Board in 1930.
He is Secretary-General
of the Australian Fed-
eration of Commercial
Broadcasting Stations
and was a big gun in Melbourne
Trades Hall circles. He was born in
Bendigo 55 years ago and educated at the
Marists’ College there and at Xavier,
Melbourne.
William Henry Sydney Sheppard,
recently appointed chairman of the S.A.
Division of Red Cross, was born in Syd-
ney in 1889, and commenced to earn his
living as a Mercantile Mutual clerk in
Sydney. He climbed to an inspectorship,
and since 1925 has managed the co.s
Adelaide branch. He has been president
of the Insurance Institute of S.A. In the
W. H. S. SHEPPARD.
1914-18 war lie saw service in New
Guinea, Gallipoli, France and Belgium,
and when he was invalided home in 1918
he was a captain. He’s an enthusiastic
amateur photographer.
F, W. Whitehouse, who received word
that he had won the 1939-41 Walter
Burfitt Prize while in an officers’ train-
ing school, is a Doctor of Philosophy
(Cambridge) and a Doctor of Science
(Queensland), has been a lecturer in
geology in both universities and is
Queensland’s Government Geologist
(Mines Department) and Palaeontologist
to the northern State’s Geological Survey.
He graduated at Queensland Uni. in 1922,
and a travelling scholarship took him to
Cambridge. His latest honor comes as a
reward for an analysis of western Queens-
land’s geological structure, with special
reference to water-bearing strata.
ARCHIBALD HOWIE, new president of the R.A.S.
(Modelled by Frith.)
For the first time in the history of
Queensland Presbyterianism a father
(Rev. W. S. Laurie) has ordained his son
(Rev. A. W. Laurie). It took place in
Brisbane’s oldest kirk. The elder Laurie
will shortly retire after 35 years’ service.
Halse-Rogers having resigned because
of the appointment as profs, of two
Maorilanders while Australian eligibles
were away with the fighting forces, Syd-
ney Uni. gets another knight as Chan-
cellor, and one, moreover, who obtained
all his degrees in Australia. Charles
Bickerton Blackburn was b<lrn at Wood-
ville (S.A.) 67 years ago, graduated at
Adelaide Uni. at 19 and then studied
medicine at Sydney Uni., which gave him
his M. 8., Ch.M. and M.D. He com-
menced teaching at the Uni. in 1913 as
lecturer in clinical medicine, and has been
Dean of the Faculty of Medicine for the
last eight years. He served abroad in a
medical capacity, with rank as lieut.-col.,
in the 1914-18 war, and was knighted in
1936. He has been associated with Royal
Prince Alfred Hospital since 1911, latterly
as hon. consulting physician.
Recently arrived in Australia to advise
the Victorian Government concerning its
Upper Yarra dam project, I. L. Savage,
who has had more experience of high-
dam building than anyone else on earth.
He has been an officer of the U.S.A.
Bureau of Reclamation since he his
doctorate in civil engineering at Wiscon-
son Uni. in 1903, and since 1924 has
controlled all the Bureau’s electrical,
mechanical and hydraulic activities in
addition to civil engineering works. The
Boulder Dam and Grand Coulee under-
takings are the largest with which he has
been associated. He intends to stay two
months, and has given a half-promise to
have a look at the cracks in Burrinjuck
dam before he leaves this land.
Into the silence:
At Adelaide, 78, Tom Barr Smith. The
founders of the great. Elder, Smith Co. were
his uncle and his father, and after Cambridge,
where he rowed for Trinity Hall, he settled down
to managing Elder S. and other pastoral cos.,
with polo and a few good racehorses for recrea-
tion. Pretty certainly S.A.’s wealthiest man
since Langdon Bonython died, he made charit-
able gifts in all directions, but quietly, having
a dread of the limelight, and seldom being
seen at social functions. His one big acknow-
ledged benefaction was the Barr Smith library
at Adelaide Uni. His wife died a year ago,
and he was never the same man after.
At Cairns (N.Q.), Rev. James Noble, Queens-
land’s only full-blood aboriginal clergyman.
For many years he accompanied the late Rev.
E. R. B. Gribble on missionary journeys
amongst his own people, and helped notably in
the organisation and work of the Yarrabah
Mission Station. He was admitted to deacon’s
orders in 1925.
Aged 64, Thomas David Burnett, of
Mount Cook station, who for 22 years repre-
sented Temuka in the Maoriland Parliament.
Son of a grazier, he was an authority on
high-country sheep-farming, erosion, reaffores-
tation and co-operative farming.
In an aeroplane crash in Scotland, Harry
Lawson, youngest son of the Harry Lawson
who was Premier of Victoria and Senator. A
lawyer like his father, he enlisted in the
R.A.A.F. at the outbreak, and was trained in
Australia, Canada and England. One of his
brothers is in the R.A.A.F. in England, and
another is a medical officer in Palestine.
Daniel McVey, A.M.1.E., Director-
General of Posts and Telegraphs since
1939 and now on loan from the P.M.G.’s
Department to organise a new depart-
ment for Mr. Dedman, gives a loud
chuckle when he recites his latest title.
It is “Director of War Organisation of
Industry and Chief Executive Officer of
Production Executive of Cabinet.” Mc-
Vey has never before had such a long
handle, but he has had plenty of Aus-
tralia’s big jobs. Born in 1892 at Fal-
kirk, Scotland, he came to Australia in
1910. Heading for the bush, he tackled
shearing, farming and droving. Then
he joined the P.M.G.’s Department in
Brisbane, only to enlist and serve four
years with the A.1.F., ending up as an
acting-captain in the 45th Battalion,
A.F.A. He came back from the war on
crutches as a result of playing Rugby
against a team of poilus, went back to
his old job and became metropolitan
engineer in Brisbane. From 1928 to 1930
he toured the Commonwealth with the
committee which prepared the way for
the revolutionary carrier-wave telephone
and telegraph system. In 1937 he was
assistant Public Service Commissioner for
DANIEL McVEY.
N.S.W., and in 1939 he was asked to
establish and' organise the new Depart-
ment of Supply and Development, in-
cluding munitions and aircraft produc-
tion. In Dec., 1939, he succeeded Harry
Brown as P. and T. Director. Married,
with three children, he likes gardening,
but hasn’t found time to learn to play
golf.


.c
p
I
iL:
ic
WHEN THE FIRST A.I.F. CAME BACK
YOU PROMISED THEM YOUR SUPPORT
■ , ,
v Sw.
m
m
I
i
.
I
HU
m
iiiii
» , JHBE * | B
II
■I
V
■I
m
mm
9
n
i I
Hi
:
m 4
m i
>1
■
Tf4
B
■
sn
B| ■
~ -mirw-rM™ vk*n» -A SC ■*
■H
'•••*'-I
t;
Otfc
ilii
'■ ■ ■
■
iPlfe
■
W
MB
I
ii
m ■
l J
a
imni.„
>: K ’
i
m
mi
IB
HPa
I
; . :
m m I
i
Wi
B
I
,
2,000 RETURNED SOLDIERS NOW GROW GRAPES FOR
df
sd
Wine is the ideal beverage for Christmas. It is the very essence of good
will, bringing health, peace, well-being and happiness to all. But there is
another reason why patriotic Australians are serving wines this Christmas
season. It is this. Much of the excellent wine which has made Australia
famous all over the world cannot now be shipped away because of the
war. This represents a serious threat to this important Australian industry
and those dependent on it (including the two thousand returned soldiers
who took up grape growing after the last war). So we must use more
of our own wines at home. For if any industry is weakened the whole
national effort suffers —and we need every ounce of strength in this all-in
fight against Hitler.
fA.\ -
a?
v
/
nr
miti
Xwu pi&fe&Zs . .
The famous wines which we produce in this country make perfect Christmas gifts, whether you give a
case, half a dozen or a single bottle. What better means could you find of expressing your good wishes
than with wine, the cup of friendship.
-JW , ..
Sherry parties are the most fashionable way to entertain today. They have been highly praised by the
Lancet, famous Journal of the British Medical Association. Both port and sherry are correct and popular
for afternoon or evening entertaining or at any time when friends drop in.
The wines to serve with meals are light wines. Among the light red wines claret and burgundy are the best
known. Among the best-known light white wines are hock and chablis (dry), and sauterne (sweet). If the
main dish is dark meat, most people find that a red wine blends best. If the meal is built around a dish
of fish or poultry, you will probably prefer a white wine with it. But let your own palate decide... the best
wine for you is the wine you like best.
rf


ABORIGINALITIES
“Gee”: Sam and Streak had an argu-
ment down the mine, and after the three
o’clock whistle blew and they had washed
they met in the scrub behind the mine.
Sam carried a walloping big stick.
“What’s that blanky thing in aid of?”
asked Streak suspiciously. “That,” said
Sam, “is in aid of me. I’ve never won a
fight yet, but there’s always got to be a
first time, and this is it.”
* * * ♦
“Eseph”; Doubt if “bubbles of air
rising through the water” is an infallible
sign of eels (B. 19/11/’4l). I’ve heard
similar yarns associating them with the
presence of the tortoise, platypus and
water-lizard. Try this experiment; Take
a wide-mouth pickle bottle and invert it
full of water over the spot where the
bubbles are breaking the surface. When
the bubbles have completely displaced
the water, seal the bottle and, after wrap-
ping a cloth round the outside of the
bottle remove the cork and apply a
lighted match. An explosion accom-
panied by a blue flame will result.
No form of animal life that I’ve
heard of exhales explosive gases. These
bubbles are methane, phosphoretted
hydrogen and allied gases generated by
the decomposition of vegetable matter
in the river bottom. I’ve done the experi-
ment dozens of times in the Macleay
(N.S.W.), where outsize eels abound, and
I’ve trapped the bubbles at times when
the bottom was clearly visible and free
of all forms of life at the point where
the bubbles were ascending.
* * *
“Sur Cingle”; One of old Tom’s pet
theories is that a prad needs eight hours
sleep, eight filling up on grass, rather
more for stoking with saltbush and bindi-
eye, out of every 24, That means that
if I saddle a horse at 6 a.m. and ride
him till 6 p.m. he’s actually starved—
lack of sleep being as bad for a horse as
lack of tucker, according to Thomas —
for four hours. The old chap himself
always rides long hours, but he applies
his theory by unsaddling and hobbling
out his hack for an hour or so at noon.
And his horses are walking ads. for his
ideas. What’s the truth of the matter?
“2L.X.”; What’s the greatest relief to
a tired horseman forced by some acci-
dent to get along on foot for a few
miles? Why, getting back again into the
saddle, feeling the horse swing under
you, having those outraged muscles take
up again the task to which they’re accus-
tomed. Relief! It’s a flamin’ luxury !
* * * *
“Me”: It happened in the Centre. A
lucky prospector had a moist time and
woke up in the lockup. The police
sergeant found him there and waited
until the two constables came on duty.
Neither of them had locked him up, but
some of the local talent had for a joke.
Charged at 10 a.m. with being “unlaw-
fully in possession of his Majesty’s gaol,”
he was fined 10 bob.
sfc * * *
“Yabbie”; “I’m on the road with
12,000 wethers from Winton to the
Downs,” said Barney. “It was a fair trip
till we ’it the pear country —we was three
days punching ’em through one bad belt,
“I think you'd better dismiss 'em before they shrink any more!"
and when we come to the first gate the
boss put a count on the mob. There was
just a neat 100 missing, so I calls me
dog, Nigger, and gives ’im the oil. Away
’e goes back into the pear, and we lets
the mob poke along steady fer a couple
er days. Next evening we was cornin’
on ter night camp when I sees a little
cloud of dust workin’ down the road, and
sure enough, after a while, ’ere’s Nigger
with 99 of the strays and round his neck
the skin of the one he’d killed f’r rations
on the road.”
“Charmer”: The abo. could build and
repair canoes with materials that would
seem useless to the average white. Up Cape
Londonderry way, nor’-west W.A., I saw
an ancient craft that had been in a
cyclone. With stones and shells and per-
haps a bit of bottle glass the native
shipwrights had cut away the injured
woodwork over an area 6ft. by 9ft. and
a thin slab, scraped and pared from
a slice of tree-trunk neatly covered
the hole. Every three inches matched
holes had been drilled through both boat
and repair piece. Then with strong, light
cord, twisted from the inner bark of the
roots of a native fig-tree, a lacing was
made through and through, keeping the
patch in place. After that it was a
mere detail to caulk all cracks and holes
with spinifex gum, applied with the glow-
ing end of a fire-stick, and the old dread-
nought took to water again for perhaps
another 20 years of life.
* * *
“Nor’-west”: One of the strangest
things about South Westralia is its
paucity of bird life in its splendid forests.
Except for the crow and magpie, the
jarrah and karri forests know little of
the whirr of wings. How different in the
north: in the country north of the Leo-
pold Ranges, with numberless unnamed
trees and shrubs in tropical bloom, the
birds almost make the flowers pale.
Parrakeets in blue and flame are in
clouds, there are thousands of small
grey doves and bronze-wing pigeons, bil-
lows of screaming white cockatoos and
galahs in blue and pink, black cockatoos
with red and yellow tails, painted finches
like the leaves of the trees. And, in the
grass, quail so thick that the stems rustle
like rain as they run. What they all
found to live on was a mystery, but there
they were —and Binghi in 10,000 years,
with only his throwing stick, has done
nothing to reduce their numbers.
# * * *
“Nisio”: “S. M. Herald” gives the oil
on using a tree-felling springboard:
The board should be of a soft lightwood
that will wear rough, under sprigged boots,
and, naturally, not short in the grain. Some
men, to get a good foothold, chop with
their boots off. If you do this, and you
are high up, it is advisable to tie the laces
together and hang the boots over the board.
You may have to jump for your life if
the tree goes suddenly, and from a height
of 10 or 12 feet jumping with bare feet
on spikes of brushed undergrowth with
points like bayonets does not make for a
happy landing.
Evidently there was more than tall timber
where the local color for that “copy”
was acquired.
» * * m
“Jacky Roo”: A cobber in the A.1.F.,
Malaya, tells how the boys of his batt.
shot their first crocodile in a waterhole.
Rumor having it that there was a 25
dollars bounty on crocs., an appropriate
claim was sent to the local Forestry
Officer. The reply was “No bounty pay-
able on crocodiles and did the claimant
hold a Game License? If not, five
dollars, please.”
* * * * n
“Homfrey Beale”: Love has wrought
great geographical and topographical
changes in New Guinea according to
native lore. Witness the case of Keaura
(Cupola) and Taurama (Pyramid Point).
Long ago these two and their wives were
neighbors and friends. One night
Taurama returned from chairmaning a
meeting of hills, and surprised Keaura
canoodling with his wife. Drawing his
kareva he belabored Keaura, who fled,
panic-stricken, westwards. Jittery as he
was, however, he didn’t go empty-
handed. As he ran he scooped up coco-
nuts, sago, betel-nut (areca), pepper
(piper-betel), taitu (sweet yams) and
yams, leaving the wronged Taurama only
arm-shells, beads, wild yams and bananas.
Keaura’s load grew heavy as he ran, and
at Kabidi (Redscar Bay) he jettisoned
coconuts, sago and yams ; at Naara (Cape
Suckling), betel-nuts, sago and bananas,
and at Lolo (Hall Sound) and Maiva
traded his vegetable residue for a few
thousand wallabies and some forests of
timber. Continuing his journey, he dis-
tributed these goods en route, with an
eye to future trade, which has since de-
veloped. In his present position west of
Silo he settled and became a respectable
landmark.
* $ * *
“Padflogger”: If the 16-stoner really
was lighter on his trilbies than his leaner
brethren (B. 12/11/’4l) it would be a
phenomenon—but he isn’t. Never knew
a big fat bloke to be any good on the
track yet; nor the bloke with outsize
feet. The mate I always found best on
a long march was the barrel-chested
bloke of between 11 and 12 stone, with
no bigger than No. 8 feet. Feet above
that size have a tendency to be flat,
flatfooters generally have corns, and the
fat weak ankles and varicose veins. Same
with the opposite gender. The 16-stone
female cook may seem a ball of muscle,
but the 10-stoner will see her off her feet
before the last dish is washed.
* % * Jfc
“J.E.8.”: Aboliars (B. 22/10/’4l and
12 /11 / ’4l) have not by any means ex-
hausted the uses of nature’s handiest
gadget. How could any bush springer
be set without the use of forked sticks,
both for the treddle, and the forks to
keep the crosspiece down? Snakes are
commonly caught with a long forked
stick. Then there is the farm gallows,
which, unless under cover, is invariably
made with two forked uprights and a
crosspiece. The divining rod is usually
a forked stick, and what fisherman
could do without forked sticks, small
ones to keep fagots in place, used
in oyster beds, and large ones to hang
his nets on for drying and mending?
* * * *
“Prof. Shingleshort”: In some parts of
the Brockman’s Water (Central Australia)
country the fleas at certain times of the
year are beyond all known invective, in
numbers and ferocity. The abos. of the
part burn a weed called by them “chron-
droglossosaurushonorifadinity” (meaning
cough-a-lot) the pungent aroma of which
causes the fleas to sneeze so violently that
they break their necks in the process. A
drawback to the efficacy of this remedy is
that the noise of sneezing fleas and crack-
ing necks is almost as great a sleep-
killer as the bites of the un-neckbroken
beasties ; while the racket of reserve army
corps of others on the outskirts of the
camp, who’ve caught a warning whiff,
stampeding wildly through the scrub to
safety is worse than several saxophones
arguing the point with a demented earth-
quake or a conglomeration of johnny-all-
sorts explaining where 300 quid went to.
Another nuisance is that camp has to be
shifted every few days owing to the stench
from the corpses of the conked.
* * * *
“Te Aute”: Among the highest-paid
seasonal workers in MX. are some of the
Maori shearing gangs. Having organised
his gang, the rangatira contracts to
shear at an overall price—about £3 10s.
a 100. Each of the half-dozen shearers,
who average 200 a day, gets 30s. a 100.
The shearers’ sisters, wives and mothers,
who work at the wool tables and as
fleece-ohs, collect 2s. 4d. an hour—2ls.
a nine-hour day. Their numerous off-
spring spend happy days chasing the
shepherds’ dogs and risking their necks
in mountaineering feats on piled bales of
wool. After paying all hands, at the
end of a fine week the contractor is about
£3O to the good. In a full week each
shearer earns perhaps £l6, and each shed-
hand £5 10s. So high is the standard of
the Maoris’ work that the pakeha regards
them as a blessing. No matter how heavy
the sheep, how hot the day, in a Maori
shed there is always a shout of laughter,
a haunting song, to help the hours along.
* * * *
“Natte”; In the car-shed a black snake
and a big toad faced each other,
both tensely immobile. Neither noticed
the opening of the door and the flood of
light. With a stick I settled the snake
and, as I did so, toad threw himself over
backwards and lay as if dead. I tossed
out the wriggler’s carcass and made sure
of my kill. Returning to the toad I
turned him over, and he hopped in a
reassuring way, but a few minutes later
he died. Snakebite, fright or joy at being
rescued?
H: * * *
“Turoar”: Old Bob had just returned
from a spell in hospital. “It ain’t such
a bad sorta place,” he confided. “But,
cripes, they got some funny ideas. I c’n
put up with ’em wakin’ a man up at ’arf-
past four in the mornin’, just t’ give y’ a
wash, an’ I c’n stick ’em shavin’ y’ an’
pokin’ their fingers into y’ an’ all the rest
of it. But when they starts puttin’ a bit
o’ glass in y’r ruddy mouth, I reckin it’s
over the flamin’ odds. Wot the ’ell’s it
got t’ do with them if y’are bad-tem-
pered? Their job’s t’ cure y’, not t’
test y’r flamin’ morals.”
“Narrin”: Ever seen a family of black
swans on the Murray? Mother leads the
way. Swimming low she keeps her peri-
scope pulled down till she looks like an
O.S. coot with a crick in its neck. After
her come three to five fawny-white
cygnets, their little black knees rising and
falling astern in a ludicrous bicycle
action. Last of all comes father, like a
galleon, neck stretched to its highest, red
beak jerking as he whips up the laggards.
Mother’s attempts at camouflage are vain
while he’s about. He’s the perfect pater-
familias —I suspect him of writing letters
to the papers.
THE PRIMAL CALL.
I here is a call abroad today
From woodland bay and waters wide
That wakes a something in the blood
And will not lightly be denied.
Be what you will, do what you may,
Be merry man or mourner,
Obey that call and you shall find
A brisk and wonder-working wind
To broom the cobwebs from your mind
And cleanse it, hole and. corner.
While sounds that summons, sweet and
strange.
Though tied to toil you be,
You shall not shut and seal your ears
To its insistency.
Unknown to you, unguessed by you,
Still dwells in you a rover,
Who wakes at times, and waking sings
A song subdued of primal things,
Strange questings and wild wanderings
In days long dead and over.
Heed but that call and you shall find,
With Fancy for your guide,
Escape from narrow prison walls
To highways fair and wide.
It tells you that within you dwells
A rover and a ranger,
Who breathes the breath of ancient sires
I hat loved the songs of forest choirs,
Or couched themselves by cavern fires
On nights of death and danger.
N.S.W.
RODERLC QUINN.


“ Don't you remember, Dave? This is little Dot, our baby."
“Picker”: Old Frank the kangaroo-
shooter had a telescopic sight attached to
his .303 and used it frequently to identify
anybody at a distance, A new station
hand, riding over to give Frank the time
of day, saw the old chap sit down com-
fortably behind his stand and take a
deliberate bead. The stranger immedi-
ately went to earth. Old Frank was
intrigued and followed him carefully
with his telescope. After dodging around
the flat for about ten minutes the lad
got panicky and fired a long shot at
Frank with a .22. The old fellow’s sprint
to his Model T was a record, and his
profane complaint to the manager
through the outstation telephone nearly
fused the insulators. “Young pups fresh
from the city,” he roared, “shouldn’t
have no firearms! Dunno how dan-
gerous they are!”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Old Mac, mallee cocky,
went into Murrayville (Vic.) one Satur-
day, had his usual few drinks, then drifted
up to the monthly horse sale. They
brought a hefty sort of half-draught into
the ring, and the auctioneer boomed it
up as an ideal sort for general spring-
cart work —fast, strong and durable. Mac
wanted a horse like that, or thought he
did, and bought the thing. He led it
round to the pub yard without trouble,
tied it in the stall next to his old sulky
mare and went off to complete his weekly
buying. He got back just on dark in a
benevolent mood and said to the old
mare, “Hey you can go, ol’ girl; I’ll
make this joker take me home.” He
stripped the mare and let her go, know-
ing she would go home, then harnessed
his new nag, yoked it into the sulky,
climbed aboard and started off at a fast
clip. Mac sang for awhile, then fell
asleep, a thing he always did with the
old mare. Next morning Mac’s family
saw the mare but no Mac, By afternoon
the whole district was searching for him.
That night Mac telephoned to say he was
at Walpeup, over 50 miles away. “What
on earth took you there?” his missus de-
manded. “Me new horse, the blankard,”
grunted Mac, and hung up.
* * * *
“Koolpinyah”: Are buffaloes tough?
One hardened old sinner absorbed 19
Martini-Henry bullets before going down
for good. He continually charged, thus
making it hard to get in a decisive shot.
Three lumps of lead were in his forehead
and four more within half an inch of his
spine, yet the brute fought on until a
shot in the brain-box did the trick.
* * * *
“Macßopus”; High on the N.S.W.
Monaro the village awaited the Bishop,
who was to confirm those of his flock
who were ready. There was great pre-
paration, but there was no church choir,
nor could one be found. At the last
minute two blokes consented to sing, duo,
during the ceremony. There was no
organ or piano, but Harry and Walter
said that wouldn’t matter. So on the great
day they took up their position at the
rear of the little church, and when the
“go” signal was given launched with
great gusto into “The Ship That Never
Returned!” The informed part of the
congregation was stricken dumb, save one
who hastened to inform the songsters
“You’re singing the wrong song! ” Steve,
sitting near by, let out a stage whisper,
“Don’t stop ’em; let ’em go; they’re
doin’ blanky fine.” What his Lordship
thought has never been recorded, but
there never was such hilarity at a church
service before.
* * * *
“B Nuisance”: Tell “Akrabo” (B.
29/10/’4l) that a bee having shot away
its stinging gear has far less chance
of ever returning to its ’drome than
has a Wellington bomber with its
tail-gunner’s cockpit shot off, A
bee’s inclosed armament consists of
an automatic barbed bayonet lubri-
cated by two oil cups and charged
from two ammunition drums of
which the larger contains an acid
liquid and the smaller an alkaline,
the mixture of the two resulting in
a fully effective explosion. All this
is attached to the surrounding inter-
nal parts by very delicate mem-
branes. After a dinkum stingkrieg,
a bee, tearing off hurriedly, leaves in
arid about the target all the arma-
ment and, in addition, from its fuselage,
the ninth, tenth and most of the eighth
abdominal segments as well as the ter-
minal end of its alimentary canal. And
that bee is reported with dispassionate
accuracy by the Bee Command as “Miss-
ing, believed killed,”
* * * *
“Seal Tee”: A fowl that pays us a
visit every morning in our outer Mel-
bourne suburb appears to be a sparrow-
fantail cross. In looks it could almost
pass for a “sprog,” but it has a tail, a
voice and a joie de vivre that no sparrow
could ever lay claim to. Incidentally,
it is boss of the sparrows of the neigh-
borhood. What is it?
* * * *
“J. Me”: Booby claimed to be the
largest abo. in Australia —he was 6ft.
high and weighed 20 stone. One even-
ing the boss and I were riding past
the blacks’ camp, and Booby was bounc-
ing a piccaninny up and down in his two
great hands. “My word, Booby,” the
boss said, “you have a thoroughbred
there. What do you call him?” “Bin
call this one Lucky,” said Booby,
“Why?” “ ’Cos a man bin damn’ lucky
to get a black baby on this station!”
We rode on.
* * * *
“Canbelego”: In a S.A. shed a classer
came across a well-grown fleece with
stripes in it like a ribbon cake. From
the tip there was an inch of black wool,
then alternating bands of black and
white, with an inch band of black nearest
the skin. The stripes were well defined
in the 3|in. staple. A sheep with a fleece
like that might not be much good as a
stud proposition, but it would be the
means of raising cash for the Red Cross.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”; I move that the storm
bird (pallid cuckoo) be struck off the
rolls as a weather prophet. In spite of
tradition, he is no more reliable than a
newspaper forecast. Often his pipings
mean nothing more than that he and
spouse are in the midst of playing a
dirty trick on a more domesticated
couple. Certainly, when the humidity is
around about 80 p.c. and a haze is
creeping up from the horizon, he will
sometimes whistle shrilly to denote
“storm approaching” —as if a fellow
swinging a Kelly wouldn’t know! But
“Then I gave him a burst ”-
it is no guarantee that the disturbance
will not merely pass over. When he does
click, however, his excitement and
general skiting are out of all proportion.
* * * •
You’ve got to hand it to the
ants. We had a meat-safe perched on
four legs, each leg in a jam-tin of water,
but still ants got into that safe. One
windy day the riddle was solved. Near
the safe was a pepper-tree with a low
limb that trailed on the ground in a
calm, but in a wind would rise and swish
against the safe. Those ants used to
wait, clinging to the leaves, to be lifted
on to the safe, and others, already
there, waited to grab the swirling leaves
and return to earth on the downward
sweep.
* * * *
“Wang”: “I wus mates once with a
bloke who wus always moanin’ about
what an unlucky cow he wus,” related
Dan. “This here ‘Misery’ Mick reckoned
he was born that way, an’ had continued
so all his life. One night we’re camped
under a tree. I got the toothache bad and
can’t help slippin’ a curse now an’ then.
‘Misery’ gets shirty after a while ’bout
bein’ kept awake, an’ shifts his bunk
round t’ the other side of the tree. I’m
siltin’ there holdin’ me jaw, and after a
while a strong wind springs up. Sud-
denly I hear a crack overhead, an’ just
have time to jump up and duck away
as a big branch comes crashin’ down
right on top of where I’ve been squattin'.
The shock stops me toothache. The
noise of the crash wakes ‘Misery,’ an’
he calls out in a scared voice t’ know
what’s doin’. I tell him, an’ add that
me toothache’s stopped. ‘It’s lucky fer
us I had it,’ I ses; ‘if I hadn’t you
wouldn’t have shifted yT possie, an’ I
wouldn’t have been awake t’ hear the
branch crackin’ an’ get out in time.’
‘Misery’ gets peevish right away. ‘You
wus lucky, all right,’ he ses. ‘Cured y’r
flamin’ toothache. But I won’t be able
t’ get t’ sleep agen now fer hours, woke
up like this. That’s the sort of unlucky
cow I am.’ ”
* * * ♦
“Tubal C ”: When “Sailor Bill” (B.
22/10/’41) noted that 80ft. hollow blood-
wood burn itself out inside a few hours
he was witnessing a natural application
of the power of draught—the scientific
application of which went quite a little
way towards laying the foundations of
Australia today. When our sanguine
forefathers conceived the idea of building
locomotives in Australia they were not
overabundantly supplied with steel fur-
naces, rolling mills or other annexes of
modern industry. So they fell back on
the faggoting furnace, which was not
unlike a baker’s oven, with a big fire-
box and a stack anything over 50ft.
high. In the firebox burned coal or coke,
or even charcoal, the draught—and the
heat — being generated by the tall
chimney, which had its damper right on
top, lifted or lowered by a long wire.
On the hearth were piled all sorts of
wrought-iron junk, mostly horseshoes, of
which millions had been imported and
worn out in the diggings days. In a
surprisingly short time the parcels of
wrought junk glowed with incandescence,
were lifted out on a sort of long-handled
shovel, placed on the anvil of the big
trip-hammer, and so became buffers,
connecting rods and even axles. The
trip-hammer depended for power on its
weight. With a long iron handle, pivoted
at three parts of its length
away from the head, it worked
with a cam, which struck
down on the short end of the
lever handle and so lifted the
hammer-head. Crude, slow
methods ; but they represented
the infant steps of Australia’s
heavy industries.
i * •
“Propalong”: “Look at them
wethers,” the butcher growled.
“Hardly more than lamb, in
prime condition, and yet old
Blake mags about his blasted
meat being tough. Ought to
teach his missus to cook.
Tough! Just look at ’em.” I
looked. They were all he said ;
and they were all old John
Blake had said. Young wethers,
they had been fat too long.
In excellent nick, they had run
about till they were all muscle.
The secret of tender meat is
getting it fat quickly and then
killing it. The tenderest mut-
ton I ever ate came off an old
cull ewe, turned out after
lambing on good feed. And
the tastiest steak my teeth ever
sank into was peeled off a
working bullock. The ewe and
the beast were both either too
old or too quiet to race about:
they stayed still and ate, and
they fattened quickly.
MURPHY AND HIS BEER.
The beer is cold in Labrador,
And fairly cool at Murphy’s pub,
But only yesterday I swore
To languish thirsting in the scrub.
Repining in the scrub I’ll stay,
Though drought conditions I abhor;
Although ’tis but three miles away,
I will not darken Murphy’s door.
1 will not drink at Murphy’s bar;
I cannot bide the Murphy clan;
I’m learned, though I like my jar,
And Murphy’s not a cultured man.
’Twas well, he thought, for him to say
“Pay up; I give no credit here!”
Although ’tis but two miles away,
I’ll drink no more of Murphy’s beer.
It’s not that I can’t take a joke,
I am not of the touchy sort;
But there’s a line ’twixt what a bloke
Should tolerate, and what he ought
To kick against; and so I say,
“He will be forced to rue his sneer,”
For, though ’tis but a mile away,
I’ll drink no more of Murphy’s beer.
One should forgive the ignorant,
But I cannot forgive . . and yet,
Perhaps his insult was not meant . . .
So I’ll forgive; but not forget.
Although they say revenge is sweet,
Forgiveness is the best by far.
So since ’tis just across the street,
I’ll have one more in Murphy’s bar.
W.A.
JACK SORENSEN.


Correct belt tension, the all important facto:
in power transmission with belting, can now
be automatically controlled by Ludowici
Pivot and Torque Drives a great step up
in belt drive efficiency.
The 23 different stock sizes and types of
Ludowici Pivot and Torque Drives cover
every possible application. Increase pro-
duction, eliminate belt slip, lengthen belt
and bearing life by installing an A.T.C.
drive in your plant.
Victorian Ottice: 20 Queen's Bridge Street ,
SOUTH MELBOURNE. Aaents All States.
[S
M
an
■
m '
i
Kiill
H
/ .’a- -
■ ; ; • , ■•;•
I
j.i :
j* '< y.j
BP I
Kaer
%
Bi
V:
5 »
Vi
BELTING • PULLEYS • BEARINGS • SHAFTINGS • COUPLINGS • ALL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting!
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * 7f
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated Dy
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
United Insurance Co.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 42,639 10 p.c. = 45,000 478,784
Unexplained reduction, £lBl6 .. 476,968
Loss.
1932.. 12,022 5 p.c. = 22,500 442,446
Profit.
1933.. 27,140 6 „ „ 27,000 140 442,586
1934.. 49,045 74 „ „ 33,750 15,295 457,881
1935.. 38,569 8 „ „ 86,000 2,569 460,150
1936.. 48,454 8 „ „ 36,000 12,454 472,904
1937.. 51,067 8 „ „ 36,000 15,067 487,971
1938.. 57,609 84 „ „ 38,250 1 r>n9
To staff fund; £5OOO .. f U ’ 359 502 ’ 330
1939.. 57,671 9' p.c. = 40,500 1
To staff fund, £5OOO . . > 12 * m 514 > 501
1940.. 46,802 9 p.c. = 40,500 6,362 520,863
1941.. 51,559 9 ~ „ 40,500 1 / n -o nor 000
To staff fund, £5OOO . . j C ’° o9 ,j 26 > 922
Except for an office in London and
another in New Caledonia, this co.’s fire,
marine and accident contracts are all
written in Australia and Maoriland, and
have been for the last 79 years. For the
15 of them to the close of accounts in
1927, shareholders got a steady 10 p.c.,
sweetened with £325,000 of bonus scrip.
Then the gift-giving ceased, partly owing
to mounting costs and heavier claims
(especially in the marine section at the
London end), following wider policy-
writing. But the 10 p.c. div. continued
until 1931. Slump brought a loss in ’32,
when 5 p.c. was paid. Curtailment of
marine underwriting followed, with bene-
ficial results to the loss ratio, while
income from other sections responded to
the uplift in conditions generally, and
shareholders have had 9 p.c. for each of
the last three years, making the average
7.8 p.c. for the last decade.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, the volume of trade
generally swelled, except in the motor-
car business ; building activity was well-
maintained, merchants generally carried
heavier stocks, payrolls lengthened, and
there were no heavy losses in the Austra-
lian marine section. Altogether the co.
gathered an extra £51,769 in gross pre-
miums (£684,206). Reinsurances (£310,514)
were £26,182 heavier, leaving the gain in
net premiums at £25,587:
Net Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1925.. 297.720 101,465 146,677 34.0 p.c. 49.2 „
1930.. *498,050 261,695 168,124 52.5 f „ 33.7 f „
1932.. *357,836 256,408 113,450 71.6 f „ 31.7 f „
1934. .*325,693 144,417 132,208 44.3 f „ 40.6 t „
1935.. *330,737 165,887 126,281 50.1 f „ 38.1 t „
1936.. *366,755 191,806 126,620 52.3 t „ 34.5 t „
1937.. 360,520 211,899 132,352 58.8 „ 36.7 „
1938.. 385,782 217,975 142,764 56.5 „ 37.0 „
1939.. 387,358 206,958 157,683 53.4 ~ 40.7 „
1940. . 348,104 186,760 143,622 J 53.6 „ 41.2 „
1941.. 373,691 179,434 172,375{ 48 „ 46.1 „
*lncludes interest, etc.
tßatio to net premiums plus interest, etc.
t After deducting investment income taxation.
Of each £lOO of net premiums losses took
£5 12s. less than in the previous term,
while exes, gobbled £4 18s. more, largely
on account of taxation. The favorable
loss rate was thus entirely responsible
for the gain of £4160 in the underwriting
surplus (£21,882), which W'as equal to
4.8 p.c. on capital. The net return from
interest and rents (£30,482, up £1577) was
6.7 p.c. on capital. After allowing for
reserve adjustments, the net return from
all sources (£51,559) was £4697 better at
11.4 p.c. on capital, as against 10.4, 12.8,
12.8, 11.3, 10,7, 8.5 and 10.9 p.c. back to
1934. The div. stayed at 9 p.c.
The co. is well equipped to expand
underwriting connections, and assets are
well worth book value:
1933. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £450,000 £450,000 £450,000 £450,000
Creditors* . . 103,466 148,922 168,414 246,534
Government
securities . . 444,970 468,723 468,760 518,890
0 a s h, book
debts, etc... 284,755 393,584 421,991 473,785
Debentures . . 39,875 40,000 40,000 40,000
Mortgages . . 123,444 109,745 102,155 89,409
Premises . . 118,759 126,622 126,622 126,622
* Including taxation, etc.
At the close of last accounts, policy-
holders could see net tangibles equal to
261 p.c. of the year’s net premiums,
whereas 150 p.c. is usually considered
adequate.
At £9 ss. (£lO a year ago) the £lO
shares paid to £5 return 4.9 p.c. on a
9 p.c. div. basis. The cover is £lO
16s. Bd. in net tangibles.
Adelaide Electric Supply (S. Aus.)
i —Dividends—, Nomi-
Net Ords. To Re- nal Re-
Aug., Profit.* Prefs. 10 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Written off plant, £22,731 .. .. 709,713
From suspense account, £41,737.. .. 751,450
1934.. 355,469 172,500 50,000 132,969 884,419
Reserves capitalised, £125,000 .. .. 759,419
Suspense account transferred, £31,109 .. 790,528
Premiums on repayment debcn. stock, £2145 788,383
Written off plant, £20,112 .. .. 768,271
1935.. 334,073 172,500 56,250 105,323 873,594
Underwriting, etc., exes., £2404 .. 871,190
Premium repayment debentures, £14,633 856,557
Written off plant, £20,108 .. .. 836,449
1936.. 352,929 172,500 62,500 117,929 954,378
Written off plant, £22,520 .. .. 931,858
1937.. 397,902 174,583 62,500 160,819 1,092,677
Written off plant, £90,990 .. ..1,001,687
Cost debenture conversion, £10,432 .. 991,255
1938. . 374,008 185,000 62,500 126,508 1,117,763
Written off plant, etc., £105,377 .. 1,012,386
New capital exes., £3887 .. ..1,008,499'
1939.. 388,889 185,000 62,500 141,389 1,149,888
Written off plant, etc., £102,572 .. 1,047,316
New capital exes., £2597 .. ..1,044,719
1940.. 400,459 193,854 62,500 144,105 1,188,824
Written off plant, etc., £28,120 .. 1,160,704
1941.. 427,095 197,500 62,500 167,095 1,327,799
* Includes provision for debenture sinking fund.
The co.’s mains serve an area of 4116
square miles in the s.-e. portion of South
Australia. Another 2664 consumers (now
107,649) were connected up last year,
when the sale of output increased 15.8 p.c.,
bringing the figure to double what it was
in 1935 and emphasising the rapid indus-
trialisation of the winegrowing State in
the past half-dozen years. Demand on
the reticulation has now become such
that it is “imperative” to erect a new
powerhouse near the existing Osborne
station, but it is unlikely to be in opera-
tion before 1945, the board says. Cost
isn’t indicated, but some hint of at least
part of the intended method of finance
may be indicated by Premier Playfair’s
amendment of trustee law to make the
co.’s first mortgage debenture stock a
trustee investment. Another major but
more immediate development is the co.’s
contract to supply power for the Whyalla-
Morgan pumping scheme, transmission
line for which will cost £150,000.
Last year’s record demand carried
gross earnings £124,092 higher;
1936. 1939. 1940. 1941.
£ £ £ £
Gross revenue 878,910 1,064,905 1,134,017 1,258,109
Operating exes,
and taxes.. 456,198 591,854 653,384 764,641
Net revenue 422,712 473,051 480,633 493,468
But all except £12,835 was absorbed by
the steeper grade of outgoings. Shortage
of colliers on the Australian seaboard
forced the board to get supplies from
oversea, and the coal bill went up
£48,000 p.a. Also, direct taxation alone
absorbed £182,000, and the Chifley per-
centage is expected to call for £28,000
more than has been provided for.
Allowing for debenture interest and
reserve movements, the improvement of
£26,636 shown in the profit table is thus
more apparent than real if tax under-
provided is taken in. The £427,095
was sufficient to satisfy the prefs., put 10
p.c. into ord.-holders’ pockets and leave
£167,095 to benefit reserves. That leaves
out of the reckoning a reduced £28,120
charged to reserves in lieu of deprecia-
tion for plant scrapped—shortage of both
labor and materials makes it inadvisable
these days to discard equipment within
its working life. New capital expenditure
totalled £253,295.
Including reserves, the co.’s share and
debenture capital, which partly determines
its charges to the consumer, is costing a
moderate 5.1 p.c. on the average:
/—Capital Stock— \ /—Debenture Stock—,
Adelaide. London. Adelaide. London,
p.c. £ £ p.c. £ £
Pref. 6 . . 178,108 71,892 6 D 250,000 —-
„ 5A .. 250,000 4 E 197,750
„ 8B . . 249,950 50 44 F 200,000
„ 61C.. 744,287 255,713 44 G 200 846,259
„ 5D . . 500,000 if H 250,000
P. Ord. 8.. 743,348 6,652
Ord. .. 616,729 8,271
Total £3,032,422 592,578 £897,950 846,259'
With £280,636 coming to sundry credi-
tors, the lot at Aug. 31 was represented
by written-down cost of the undertaking
£6,546,335, debtors £201,890, stores
£231,149 and cash, etc., £161,855.
In some eastern States the trend of
public utility legislation has been discon-
certing ; but South Aus. investors regard
Adelaide Elec.’s div. as safe as anything
of the kind can be, the yield from all
classes of scrip being in the vicinity of
4.2 p.c. The debentures return somewhat
better at 4.3 p.c.
Allan and Stark, Ltd. (Brisbane)
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Loss. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
& £* £,£,£,
1931.. 4,531 3500 Nil 12,954
Profit.
1932.. 3,432 3500 Nil 12,886
Loss. Deficit.
1933.. 12,397 1750* Nil 1,261
1934.. 21,113 Nil Nil 22,374
Rgsgtvgs.
Capital written off, £27,161 .. .. 4,787
Assets written down, £4787 .. ..
Profit. 12.5 p.c.
1935.. 8,057 6250 f Nil 1807 1,807
5 p.c.
1936.. 8,295 2500 2 p.c. = 4,889 906 2,713
1937.. 4,534 2500 Nil 2034 4,747
1938.. 9,386 2500 24 p.c. = 6,111 775 5,522
Surplus on life policies, £735.. .. 6,257
1939.. 12,904 2500 24 p.c. = 6,111 4293 10,550
Surplus sale shares, £312 .. .. 10,862
1940.. 16,636 2500 3 p.c. = 7,333 6803 17,665
1941.. 17,072 2500 34 ~ „ 8,556 6016 23,681
* Half-year, t Includes arrears.
Better figures haven’t been hoisted since
1929. And, while Canberra shirks the
realities of war finance, stocks are going
to get small chance to grow musty on
shelves so long as Allan and Stark and
other drapers have the goods to sell.
Thus far most managements have been
able to maintain the level, if not the
range, of inventories, but the difficulties
of replacement are rapidly snowballing.
In the year to June war spending
expanded Brisbane retail sales some
6 p.c., most of which came from the
purses of the crowd that swills round
the Queen-Adelaide street block, where
A. and S. is, and the 59-year-old business
got a full slice of the larger trade. Helped
by the mail-order connection and the
public scramble towards the end of the
term to buy lines that may later be in
short supply, gross earnings (£195,170)
lifted £28,076, an improvement of 17 p.c.
on the ’4O experience.
Most of the extra business, however,
was done for the benefit of the tax-
gatherer, for whom £21,813 (up £12,278)
was provided, leaving only £436 more to
show shareholders. The prefs.’ 5 p.c.
left 5.9 p.c. for the ords., but the modest
appearance of the prop for capital didn’t
justify the board in adding more than
i p.c. to the div., making it 3i p.c.
On that basis the 18s. ords. —2s. a
share went overboard to meet depression
losses —return 5.6 p.c. at 12s. 6d.; they
could have been had at Bs. 9d. about the
time Germany marched on France. A
buyer’s offer of 17s. 6d. for the prefs.
shows 5.7 p.c. Net tangible cover is
19s. 9d. and £6 7s. 3d. respectively.
Provided they are the right type —and
Dame Fashion is a less capricious person
these days—the stockholding should be
a source of strength with conditions as
they are;
1930. 1935. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £321,615 £294,454 £294,454 £294,454
Mortgages, etc. 82,925 86,99'3 113,276 115,227
Sundry creditors 52,467 37,851 55,025 66,933
Premises & plant 231,972 220,886 216,236 220,263
Stock.. .. 162,977 131,342 195,034 204,371
Shares other cos. 21,296 21,546 21,546 21,546
Investments . . 550 550 50 50
Book debts . . 62,063 41,727 54,968 62,780
Cash, etc. . . 4,042 6,803 1,168 1,090
Shareholdings comprise mainly the 52 p.c
interest in Stuparts (paid capital, £52,595),
which has returned £1134 on the parent’s
investment in each of the past two years.
Clifford Love and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.!
£ £ £ £
1931.. 25,539 10 p.c. = 21,138 4,401 86,122
1932.. 25,539 10 „ „ 21,138 4,987 88,109
1933.. 25,320 10 „ „ 21,138 4,182 92,291
Premiums on shares, £5250 .. .. 97,541
1934.. 25,506 10 p.c. = 21,336 4,170 101,711
1935.. 26,688 10 „ „ 22,050 4,638 106,349
1986.. 26,586 10 „ „ 22,188 4,398 110,747
1937.. 26,340 10 „ „ 22,188 4,152 114,899
Insurance reserve taken in, £12,120 .. 127,019
1988.. 27,911 10 p.c. = 22,188 5,723 132,742
Div. equalisation reserve, £27,500 . . 160,242
1939.. 29,733 10 p.c. = 22,188 7,545 167,787
1940.. 32,461 10 „ „ 22,188 10,273 178.060
1941.. 23,305 10 „ „ 22,188 1,117 179,177
t Subject to trade-marks, etc., now £72,500.
In the drygoods field price-control is
both wide and rigid, which means there
is a time lag between the rise in costs
and the rise in selling prices, and the
taxgatherer continues to make deeper in-
roads into takings to help meet war costs.
So, despite expanding turnover, Clifford
Love, which turns out some well-estab-
lished proprietary lines from efficient
plant and enjoys a strong position in the
trade, has suffered a sharp contraction in
disclosed net earnings.
After setting aside £25,000 (up £8500)
for the taxgatherer, providing £12,233
(down £898) for depreciation, openly
striking off the usual £5OO for doubtful
debts, and including a net addition of
£730 (down £3820) to the insurance and
div. equalisation reserves, the net result
was £9156 lighter at £23,305. That was
10.5 p.c. on capital as against 14.6, 13.4,
12.5, 11.8, 11.9 and 12.1 p.c. back to
1935.
The net addition to the deprecia-
tion, etc., reserve was £13,148, making
it £150,063, equal to 90.2 p.c. of the
book value of plant, or 40.5 p.c. of the
book value of premises and plant com-
bined. The probabilities are, therefore,
that the 10 p.c. div. was an easier matter
than the figures in the table suggest. In-
cluding the depreciation, etc., reserves
but deducting intangibles (£72,500), capi-
tal had the support and assistance of
£256,740 of net reserves when the books
closed. So the two combined need turn
in only 4.6 p.c. to provide 10 p.c. on
capital alone.
Now look at these figures:
1935. 19'38. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £221,884 £221,884 £221,884 £221,884
Mortgages . . 4,451
Trade debts . . 24,663 29,195 30,090 22,481
Properties . . 163,123 176,049 197,973 204,050
Plant, etc. . . 143,913 151,093 158,922 166,191
Stocks . . 76,752 72,912 93,660 92,516
Debtors . . 32,305 42,960 45,030 49,456
Cash, etc. . . 3,984 16,926 21,909 21,434
Last term a reduction of £7609 in the
moderate outside debt was accompanied
by an expansion of £6077 in properties,
£7269 in plant and £4426 in debtors’
balances, which appear to be strictly con-
trolled. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£140,925)
was £10,416.
The chairman says the outlook is dis-
turbed but hopeful, but the co, has never
paid less than 10 p.c. since 1922, and the


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE...
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution. ,
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Consult
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF
( Incorporated in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE ; Hon. Sir Henr y.. r, c‘ B ‘Jami^Kidd^A
(Vice Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B. - ,•• Manager; J
Robert 0. Wilson.
AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
; Colin A. Sinclair
.. E. Heath, 0.M.G.;
. G. H. Shipway.
Security
Economy
Service
Mr# '
n
H
II
111
m
ii
mm
m
A Record of
Service and Progress
THE ANNUAL REPORT FOR 1941 SHOWS
THAT THE SOUND GROWTH OF THE T. &G.
HAS BEEN WELL MAINTAINED.
SERVICE —The T. & G. is a Mutual Life
Society —it has no shareholders. In the
forefront of its ideals it places fair dealing
and service to its Policyholders. All claims
are settled with the utmost promptness.
£2,970,000 was paid to Policyholders last
financial year—nearly £lO,OOO every work-
ing day in the year.
POPULARITY —The esteem in which the
Society is held is shown by the fact that during
the year a large number of existing Policy-
holders, in addition to new members, acquired
protection for themselves and their de-
pendants. In all 1 59,244 new Policies assuring
£14,82 7,338 were effected.
SECURITY —The assets, which are held in
trust to meet Policy liabilities, now total more
than £37,000,000 invested in first-class
securities.
BONUSES —As there are no shareholders
the greater portion of the surplus will be
distributed to Policyholders in the form of
Reversionary Bonuses, the balance being held
as reserves against contingencies.
WAR EFFORT —Over 500 members of the
Society’s Staff have enlisted for Active Ser-
vice, and the Society has invested to the limit
of its capacity in the various War Loans in
Australia and New Zealand. The sum oi
almost £2,000,000 was contributed to Gov-
ernment Loans during the year.
GROUP ASSURANCE- The Society
specialises in Group Assurance and Staff Supei-
annuation Schemes on terms most advan-
tageous to Employers and Employees. These
plans operate on the mutual principle, the
Surplus being divided between the members.
THE T. & G. SERVES THE NATION.
PURELY MUTUAL. NO SHAREHOLDERS
&
The Australasian
Temperance ami General Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
round shares fetch 51s. 6d., (50s. a year
ago). The return at 51s. 6d, is 3.9 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis, and the net tan-
gible cover is 295. 7d.
Now resident in Westralia, Morton
Webber, a Yankee mining engineer of
credit and renown, advocates the basing
of goldmining costs on the ounce,
not on the ton. He says the use and
appreciation of the “divisor” learned
about at school has escaped proper
attention in compiling goldmining costs.
Its lack of use in the past has been due
to the fact that gold didn’t fluctuate in
value, and therefore the importance of
its application was not the same as with
base metals, the price of which periodi-
cally booms, to be followed by overpro-
duction and cycles of low prices. With
costs based upon the “divisor” method
the intelligent stockholder could at once
tell the cost position of the mine in
which he is interested in relation to the
price of the metal. Gold now being
artificially “pegged,” which situation is
subject to change, Webber sees no logical
reason why goldmining cos. should not
adopt the method of costing which has
stood the test of time in the base-metal
industries, and which, he argues, quickly
presents the real financial position.
Webber claims that the Federal gold tax
is economically unsound, and that it is
not a tax but a levy which reduces the
price of the metal and prevents the
mining and treatment of a lower grade of
ore which would otherwise be dealt with.
It is a fact these days that Canberra is
taxing without regard to the problems of
production. So far as the gold industry
is concerned, Webber’s putting of the case
deserves full consideration.
* * * *
Commenting on statements in the
Federal Parliament and in newspapers
that the goldmining industry is opposed
to the gold tax, F. C. Brinsden,
acting-president and spokesman, says the
Westralian Chamber of Mines hasn’t
been, and is not now, opposed to such
tax, though at the time of its imposition
the Chamber realised that it would affect
certain producers rather severely. How-
ever, under the subsequent Gold Mining
Encouragement Act, relief has been given
to such producers, and they are entitled
to make a profit of up to 30s. per fine
ounce without paying any gold tax. It is
realised, Brisden adds, that costs are
bound to rise, and that later modifica-
tions of the Chamber’s viewpoint may
be necessary in the interests of producers.
If and when such a condition arises that
the increased price of gold due to the
war is not sufficient to cover the increase
in costs, then representations will be made
to the Federal Government for some
lightening of the burden of taxation on
goldmining,
% He * *
Last year South Kalgurli (W.A.) re-
duced to 9d. the Is. interim dividend it
had paid in January for a number of
years previously. This year it has in-
creased the payment to 10d., despite cost
increases and higher taxation. The lift
is probably due to a better grade of mill-
feed and improved future prospects.
*
Lake View and Star (W.A.) dug bullion
valued at £1,338,073 sterling out of its
Kalgoorlie-Boulder mines last year.
Sundry revenue swelled receipts to
£1,343,992. Principal debits were de-
velopment £106,021, extraction of ore,
etc., £442,678, taxation £230,000, depre-
ciation £41,407, and directors’ additional
remuneration £lO,OOO. Dividends, 2s. in
all on the 4s. shares, took £197,750.
Previous year’s production was worth
£1,375,937.
* * * *
Gold Exploration’s revenue for the
year to March was £5tg.94,374, against
£100,307 for the previous 12 months.
Profit of £71,382 was lopped off the p.
and 1. debit, reducing it to £210,288. To
date £273,190 of the £500,000 six-year
convertible notes has been purchased
and cancelled. Australian interests in-
clude Central Norseman, Triton, G.M.
of Kalgoorlie, Cox’s Find and Victoria
Gold Dredging.
* * * *
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie is engaging
geologists to undertake field work on the
big area of auriferous country which it
has taken up south of the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile and extending beyond the
Lake View, Chaffers, Horseshoe and
Hannans Star towards Hannans Lake.
In the past some sections of it have been
diamond-drilled by others, but only in
a haphazard, half-hearted way.
* * * *■
Apart from gold and coal, value of
Westralian mineral production last year
was: Asbestos, all from Hamersley
Range (Gascoyne), £14,554; tantalite,
from Pilbara and Coolgardie, £7Bll ;
tin, mostly from Greenbushes, £5174;
antimony and arsenic, by-products at
Wiluna, £lO,lBO and £59,997 respectively.
Output of copper, mica, scheelite and a
number of other metals was insignificant.
* * * *
Unlucky Mutooroo Copper Corpora-
tion —it has searched mostly for gold —
announces that it is still domiciled at
Hustler’s Reef, Bendigo (Vic.). It settled
there about a year ago, and broadcast
that it had 30,000 forfeited shares for
sale at 3d. Debits from then to August
31 are shown at £23,508, including
£22,964 written off abandoned leases and
options. Only revenue was interest (£39).
Assets were valued at £2979. Co.
formerly carried on in South Aus., West-
ralia and elsewhere in the Common-
wealth, and few Australian mining ven-
tures have prospected more duds or given
shareholders more market aches and
pains.
« * * *
Clansmen Gold, now living at Ben-
digo (Vic.) and which recently obtained
permission to reissue shares forfeited for
non-payment of the fourth call, reports
that the number has been reduced to
24,100 by sale of 4900 at 3d. (fifth call
paid).
* * * *
“Norther”; A lively interest is being
taken in Herberton tin areas, applications
for dredging leases and for copper and
antimony shows amounting to the pro-
portions of a rush. Rifle Creek and Mt-
Molloy are being scratched over, and
the old Black King leases have been
taken up as abandoned ground. On
Kiama Creek lode tin and wolfram are
being got. Tableland Tin, N.L., has
nearly 200 men hard at it and expects to
put on more when material for the new
dredge is available. More than £10,500
v/orth of minerals was taken from the
Herberton in September, an increase of
about 25 p.c. on August returns. Out-
side capital is beginning to dribble in,
and there are parties pushing further out
after copper shows. A new crushing unit
is going into the State works at Mt.
Molloy, where public ores are being
treated on a two-shift basis.
* * * *
Sunshine, New Guinea, reports that the
clean-up for November (2420 z. gold) was
lower than usual owing to sinking opera-
tions at No. 8 elevator. This new eleva-
tor, the total lift of which will be 80ft.,
will come into operation this month.
5? * *
For five months ended October 31,
Bulolo’s dredges handled 7,688,000
cubic yards of gravel and recovered
67,346 ounces of fine gold equivalent to
$2,357,110 (U.S.A.).
* * *
Big figures from the Rand goldfield,
South Africa. Government Gold Mining
Areas, third-biggest mine, had about
51,000 ft. of development (some 10 miles)
done in it during 1940; 40,000 ft. was
sampled on reef, and 21,000 ft. was pay-
able, averaging 4.3dwt. over a width of
69in. Ore reserves at the close of the
year were estimated at 10,500,000 tons,
averaging 4.7dwt. The plant treats 10,000
tons a day at a profit of 12s. to 13s. a ton.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
CHURCHILL’S WINNING WAY.
[ln editorial comment here condensed the “Saturday-
Evening Post” traces out by means of extracts from his
speeches the part played by Mr. Churchill in steadily
winning America over to Britain’s side in the present
war.]
Five days after the Germans had marched into
Paris, Mr. Churchill said to the Commons:
The battle of France is over. The battle of Britain is
about to begin. On this battle depends the survival of Christian
civilisation. Hitler knows he will have to break us in this island
or lose the war. If we stand up to him all Europe may be
freed and the life of the world may move forward into broad,
sunlit uplands; but if we fail the whole world, including the
United States.., .will sink into the abyss of a new dark age.
The moment of great despair had been when
the dying appeal of France to America fell short.
Now Mr. Churchill’s battle was to win America. The
key to his strategy —and it never changed—was set
in a broadcast speech of July 14, 1940:
We are fighting by ourselves, alone; but we are not
fighting for ourselves, alone.
The idea of offering to the United States certain
British bases in the Western Hemisphere was prob-
ably his own. On August 20 he said to the House
of Commons:
There is, however, one direction in which we see a little
more clearly ahead Some months ago we came to the
conclusion that the interests of the United States and of
the British Empire both required that the United States should
have facilities for the naval and air defence of the Western
Hemisphere and that we should be glad to place such
defence facilities at their disposal by leasing suitable sites
in our transatlantic possessions for their greater security....
Undoubtedly this process means that these two great organisa-
tions of tlie English-speaking democracies the British Empire
and the United States will have to be somewhat mixed up
together in some of their affairs for mutual and general
advantage No one can stop it. Like the Mississippi, it
just keeps rolling along. Let it roll.
On September 5 he announced to the House of
Commons:
The memorable transactions between Britain and the
United States which I foreshadowed when I last addressed
the House have now been completed No doubt Herr Hitler
will not like this transference of destroyers. I have no doubt
he will pay the United States out if ever he gets the chance.
That is why I am very glad the armed air and naval frontiers
of the United States have been advanced along a wide arc into
the Atlantic Ocean, and that this will enable them to take
danger by the throat.
After that, for the duration of the Presidential
campaign and until the President had made his
arsenal-of-democracy speech, Mr. Churchill was parti-
cular to refer to it always as the New World that was
going to save England, as in a broadcast on Sep-
tember 11:
This wicked man this monstrous product of former
wrongs and shames has lighted a fire which will burn with
a steady and consuming flame until the last vestiges of Nazi
tyranny have been destroyed, and until the Old World and the
New can join hands to rebuild the temples.
And again to the House of Commons on Novem-
ber 21:
I look to the time when the arsenals, training-ground and
science of the New World and the Empire will give us that
material superiority which, added to the loyalty of constant
hearts, will surely bring us victory and deliverance to mankind.
But on January 9 this year he said to the Pil-
grims in London:
If co-operation between the United States and the British
Empire in the task of extirpating the spirit and regime of
totalitarian intolerance.... were to fail, the British Empire,
rugged and embattled, might indeed hew its way through and
preserve its life and strength for the inevitable renewal of the
conflict But the chances of setting the march of mankind
clearly and surely along the highroads of human progress
would lost and might never return 1 therefore hail it
as a most fortunate occurrence that at this awe-striking climax
in world affairs there should stand at the head of the
American republic a famous statesman in whose heart
there burn the fires of resistance to aggression and oppression,
and whose sympathies and nature make him the sincere and
undoubted champion of justice and freedom and of the victims
of wrongdoing wherever they may dwell.
Introducing Harry Hopkins as the personal envoy
of the President in Glasgow on January 17, he said:
Mr. Hopkins has come in order to put himself in the closest
relation with things here. He will soon return and report to
his famous chief. We don’t require in 1941 large armies from
overseas. What we do require is weapons, ships and air-
planes. All that we can pay for we will pay for, but we require
far more than we will be able to pay for. And I watch with
deep emotion the stirring processes whereby the democracy of
the great American republics is establishing its laws and formu-
lating its decisions in order to make sure that the British
Commonwealth is able to maintain, as it is maintaining at
present, the front line of civilisation and progress.
Then, while the Lend-Lease Bill was pending in
Congress, he said, February 9, in a broadcast speech:
The other day President Roosevelt gave his opponent in
the late presidential election a letter of introduction to me, and
in it he wrote out a verse in his own handwriting from Long-
fellow, which, he said, “applies to you people as it does
to us.” Here is the verse:
Sail on, O Ship of State!
Sail on, O Union strong and great!
Humanity with all its fears,
With all its hopes of future years
Is hanging breathless on thy fate.
What is the answer that I shall give in _your name to this
great man, the thrice-chosen head of a nation of 130,000,000?
Here is the answer that I shall give to President Roosevelt:
Give us your faith and blessing, and under Providence all
will be well. We shall not fail or falter... .Give us the tools
and we will finish the job.
After the Lend-Lease law was passed the ques-
tion was: Would the Americans let their aid be sunk
in the ocean by Hitler? On that he said to the House
of Commons, April 9:
While I am hopeful we shall gain mastery over the air
attacks upon our shipping, the U-boats and the surface raiders
range ever farther to the westward, ever nearer to the shores
of the United States, and constitute a menace which must
be overcome if the life of Britain is not to be endangered
and if the purposes to which the Government and people of
the United States have devoted themselves are not to be
frustrated.
And more to that point in a broadcast, April 27:
During the last year we have gained by our bearing and
conduct a potent hold upon the sentiment of the people of
the United States....ln the long run, believe me, for I know,
the action of the United States will be dictated not by
methodical calculations of profit and loss but by moral senti-
ment and by that gleaming flash of resolve which lifts the
hearts of men.... 1 could not believe that they would allow
the high purposes to which they have set themselves to be
frustrated, and the products of their skill and labor sunk to
the bottom of the sea When I said ten weeks ago “Give us
the tools and we will finish the job,” I meant “Give them
to us; put them within our reach.” And that is what it
now seems the Americans are going to d 0.... When you come
to think of it, the United States are very closely bound up
with us now, and have engaged themselves deeply in giving
us moral, material and, within the limits I have mentioned,
naval suport.
After Greece, but before Crete, he said to the
House of Commons:
We must look to an immense construction of ships in the
United States....lt may be that 1943, if we have to endure
it as a year of war, may present easier problems. The United
States patrol, announced by President Roosevelt, on which
the American Navy and Air Force are already engaged, takes
a considerable part of the Atlantic in a certain degree off our
hands, but we need a good deal more help. I expect we
shall get a good deal more....but here I speak with great
caution because it is not for a British Prime Minister to fore-
cast, still less to appear to prescribe, the policy of the United
States So far in our relations with the great republic I
do not think we have made any serious mistakes. When a
mighty democracy of 130,000,000 gets on the move one can
only await full development of those vast psychological mani-
festations.
He was sure he knew his Americans. In a mes-
sage to Rochester University (U.S.A.), on receiving
a degree, June 16, he said:
Here at least, in my mother’s birth city of Rochester,
I hold the latchkey to American hearts A wonderful story
is unfolding. How it will end we are not allowed to know.
But on both sides of the Atlantic we all feel —I repeat all —
that we are a part of it, and that our future and that of many
generations is at stake... .United we stand. Divided we fall.
Divided, the dark ages return. United, we can save and
guide the world.
Hitler’s sudden attack upon Russia created a
political situation of extreme complexity. There
—New York “Herald Tribune.”
SUDDEN PIETY.
was danger in it. How would the Americans like
Stalin as a partner in the crusade for human free-
dom? On Sunday afternoon, June 22, before the
American Government could speak, Mr. Churchill
came on the air, saying:
The third turning point was when the President and
Congress of the United States passed the lease-lend enact-
ment, devoting nearly two billions sterling of the wealth of
the New World to help us defend our liberties and their own.
The fourth is now upon us It is not for me to speak of the
action of the United States, but this I will say: If Hitler
imagines that his attack on Soviet Russia will cause the
slightest division of our aims or slackening of effort in the
great democracies who are resolved upon his doom, he is
woefully mistaken His invasion of Russia is no more than
a prelude to an attempted invasion of the British Isles. He
hopes, no doubt, that all this may be accomplished before
the winter comes and that he can overwhelm Great Britain
before the fleets and air power of the United States will
intervene.
In the House of Commons, July 29, he said:
The United States is giving us aid on a gigantic scale and
is advancing in rising wrath and conviction to the very verge
of war.
Then came his momentous meeting at sea with
the President of the United States. In his report
upon that, a speech that was broadcast on August 24
—and much of it news to the American people—he
claimed the battle, saying:
~,,1t was somewhere .in the Atlantic. And there for
three days I spent my time in company, and I think I may
say in comradeship, with Mr, Roosevelt, while all the time
the chiefs of staff and naval and military commanders, both
of the British Empire and the United States, sat together in
continual council... .We had the idea when we met there, the
President and I, that without attempting to draw final and
formal peace aims it was necessary to give all people, and
especially the oppressed and conquered peoples, a simple
rough-and-ready war-time statement of the goal toward which
the British Commonwealth and the United States mean to
make their way The United States and Great Britain do
not now assume that there will never be any more war again.
On the contrary, we intend to take ample precautions to
prevent the renewal in any period we can foresee by effectively
disarming the guilty nations You will perhaps have noticed
that the President of the United States and the British repre-
sentative, in what is aptly called the Atlantic Charter, have
jointly pledged their countries to the final destruction of the
Nazi tyranny. That is a solemn and grave undertaking
And of course many practical arrangements to fulfil that
purpose have been and are being organised and set in motion.
The question has been asked, “How near is the United
States to war?” There is certainly one man who knows the
answer to that question. If Hitler has not yet declared war
upon the United States it is certainly not because he
could not find a pretext. He has murdered half a dozen
countries for far less If he can succeed in beating the
life and strength out of us then is the moment when he
will settle his account, and it is already a long one, with
the people of the United States.
Finally—for the present —the Canadian Prime
Minister, speaking to the Lord Mayor’s luncheon on
September 4, asked that the United States give Britain
such a guarantee as she gave to Canada three years
ago—that we would not stand by if Canadian soil
were threatened. And Mr. Churchill, endorsing Mac-
kenzie King’s words, declared that Germany could be
beaten only by the full co-operation of all nations
which
as yet lie outside the range of the conqueror’s power
I find further encouragement in the words of President
Roosevelt last Monday when he said: “I know I speak for
the conscience and determination of the American people when
I say that we shall do everything in our power to crush
Hitler and his Nazi forces.”
And there, in Mr. Churchill’s grand words, is the
story of the evolution of American foreign policy as
if you were reading it in a mirror, the story of how
the United States became involved the second time in
a war that was Europe’s business —and a record of the
most amazing singlehanded feat in the whole brilliant
history of British diplomacy.
Whither Japan?
[Condensed from a New York “Times” article by
Nathaniel Pelfer, Associate Professor of International
Relations, Columbia University, and author of China:
the Collapse of Civilisation.]
That there are groups in Japan that have chafed
at the failure to make the most of the European war
is indisputable. For months after the German victory
in France there was a vacuum in south-eastern Asia.
Indo-China and the Netherlands Indies were defence-
less. Great Britain could have deflected no part of its
meagre armament to protect Singapore. The United
States confronted the necessity of withdrawing all its
naval force from the Pacific to prevent the incursion
of a victorious Germany into the waters of the Western
Hemisphere. The way lay open to Japan in the East.
But Japan hesitated, and perhaps, in hesitating, lost.
After England had withstood the German on-
slaught in the air and could send both troops and
bombing ’planes to Singapore and the United States
therefore felt freer to take a stiffer line in the Pacific,
there was chagrin in Tokyo. But then Germany
attacked Russia. Another opportunity was forming.
First it was necessary to give the relatively
moderate groups one last chance to square America
or to let them prove to themselves that America could
not be squared. There was nothing to lose. If the
threat to attack either Singapore or Vladivostok served
to blackmail America into removing embargoes, with-
drawing help from China and thus making easier the
consummation of conquest over China, so much the
better. If America was obdurate, that would prove
moderation was hopeless and would discredit the
moderates.
So it has turned out. The negotiations came to
nothing. America would not and politically could not
barter away China for a promise to maintain the
status quo elsewhere.
It can be assumed that there is one point on
which no group in Japan will yield, whether avowedly
extremist or mildly moderate. That point is the rela-
tion of China to Japan. There is no group in Japan
that would restore China to the status of 1936 or even
waive the essence of what is called the New Order
in East Asia, meaning Japanese economic and poli-
tical paramountcy as far south as Canton.
The military want a Chinese Manchukuo, with
Wang Ching-wei in Nanking as the equivalent of the
so-called Manchu emperor in Hsinking. The moder-
ates want a pro-Japanese Government of a nominally
independent China, with Japanese monopolies and
priorities in all parts of China and Japanese garrisons
to protect them.
Japan, like the United States, has had its “great
debate” since 1939 —to go into the World War or to
stay out. But the future of China is not within the
scope of debate. There is at issue only whether to go
beyond China and, if anything more is attempted,
whether to strike first at Hong Kong, the Netherlands
Indies and Singapore or to strike first at Siberia.
This last issue is not new. It antedates the Euro-
pean war. In fact, it has been under debate since
Japan launched out on the formal career of expansion
in 1931. The advocates of each course have never
been clearly marked off and have changed from time
to time. On the whole, however, the navy and the
industrial and financial groups with vested interests
in international trade preferred the southward course
—preferably by penetration rather than attack. The
army and a large part of the interests grouped around
heavy industry, especially industry involved in arma-
ments, have advocated expansion on the continent of
Asia itself.
The navy and the trading classes have never in
recent times exercised as much influence as the army
and its satellites. In the naval and trading classes
there is perhaps a little more of urbanity by birth and
background and certainly more knowledge of the world
and therefore more apprehension of risk. The army
therefore had its way in 1931 and again in 1937, when
China was attacked. And within the army the majority
decided on attacking China first, partly because, with
the Stalin purges, Japanese military men, like many
military men elsewhere, became contemptuous of the
Russian Army or at least believed it to be demoralised.
When the opportunity came for the naval school
to act in 1940 it did not have its way, partly because
it lacks the dynamic drive of the army in internal


ill
}so <*
w f> s ~‘ ’ ' !,t “>-
f§ . ', JjaSartP® BB * BB^
WORLD FAMOUS SHIPS
including the “Qu.cn Elizabeth,” 85 000 ton. (Mu.traUdh
“Oueen Mary,” 81,250 tons; “Mauretania, 35,000 tons, use
Exide batteries for essential equipment. You, too, can depen
on Exide for your car, radio or home lighting plant.
£xii>e
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE S rOPPED
politics and partly because the army had dissipated
much of Japan’s strength in the China adventure.
There is doubtless a large class that would prefer
that Japan remain passive, the nation’s fibres already
having been weakened. But it is fatalistic and inarti-
culate.
On precedent and the balance of internal power,
it is likely that Japan will move in Siberia first
if Russia collapses or is forced to draw down its
forces in the East. The Japanese might calculate, too,
that this would be construed by America as the lesser
affront. Whereas America might go to war if Singa-
pore were attacked —of this the Japanese seem at last
to be convinced —America might not deem an attack
on Vladivostok sufficiently vital.
As a matter of fact, if Russia is crushed in the
West a Japanese occupation of Vladivostok or even
advance to Lake Baikal would not be decisive. If
Russian armies were left intact and able to maintain
a front immobilising the German Army, only then
might a Japanese attack have vital results. Otherwise
the effects of a Japanese thrust northward would not
be comparable in seriousness to an attack on Singa-
pore.
Japanese occupation of Singapore would carry
with it the occupation of the Netherlands Indies, would
surround the Philippines and sever Great Britain from
the southern Dominions and the eastern half of the
Empire. It would also cut America off from the
source of indispensable supplies. The loss of Vladi-
vostok would hardly determine the conclusion of the
war —that is, determine whether Germany acquired
world supremacy. Japanese conquest of Singapore
might very easily give Germany victory in Europe and
supremacy over all Europe, Africa and Asia except a
small segment in Eastern Asia in which Japan would
be allowed to remain as an uneasy junior partner.
Vast U.S. ’Plane Output.
(Condensed from a New York “Times” article by
Frederick Graham.)
The numerical superiority Germany’s Luftwaffe
enjoyed over Great Britain’s R.A.F. a year ago is fast
melting away. Within the next few months —certainly
before the end of next summer —it will have dis-
appeared completely. In some quarters in the U.S.A.
it is believed that the combined output of American
and British plants at present is equal to or perhaps
greater than that of Germany’s factories. One esti-
mate of ’plane output in England and the United
States today is that ’planes of all types are rolling off
assembly lines at a rate of about 35,000 a year.
’Plane production in tremendous volume is now
starting ; it has been estimated by reliable sources that
by next July American ’plane plants will be producing
250 ’planes daily. This figure, which includes fighters,
bombers of various types and sizes, observation,
liaison, transport and training craft, seems fantastic
only to those who have not recently visited the ’plane
factories of the U.S.A.
On the basis of a five-day week the 250-’plane
day would mean 60,000 craft yearly. If a six-day week
were worked the figure would mount to 72,000, or
almost twice as many ’planes as were built in the
United States from the first flight of the Wright
brothers to 1937.
In October the U.S. Aeronautical Chamber of
Commerce reported that during the first six months of
1941 the American aeronautical industry delivered
more ’planes, engines and propellers than in the full
year of 1940. The rate of delivery for the last half of
the current year will show even greater acceleration,
probably reaching its peak about the middle of next
year. An ever-growing number of heavy and medium
bombers were among the ’planes shipped out of
American factories.
U.S. engine, propeller and accessories factories,
as well as airframe builders, are building toward peak
output. At the present time there are 10 companies
making aircraft engines, and five automobile com-
panies are either building or preparing to enter the
field. It is estimated that the engine builders of the
United States are turning out monthly about 4500
power plants totalling about 4,000,000 horsepower.
By the first of next year this will be increased to
between 6000 and 6500 units with a combined power
output in excess of 6,000,000 horsepower.
Although ’plane output is expected to reach its
peak about the middle of next year and then level
off, the production of engines is expected to mount
until late in 1943, when it will hit its peak. This is
another indication that more heavy bombers are to be
built, for while the unit number of ’planes will remain
about stationary after the middle of 1942 the switch
to heavy four-engine bombers will call for more power
plants.
Next July, when ’plane output will probably be
a torrent such as the world has never seen, the engine
output is expected to amount to about 8000 or 8500
units a month. It has been estimated that peak engine
output —to be reached in January, 1943 —will be more
than 10,000 engines totalling more than 12,000,000
horsepower.
As for the quality of American ’planes in compari-
son with German craft, there is little doubt. America’s
high-altitude bombers, such as the Boeing Flying
Fortress and the Consolidated B24, probably have no
equal in the Third Reich. Medium bombers built by
Martin, Douglas and Lockheed have already proved
themselves in battle.
In pursuit ’planes America is building in quantity
some of the finest medium-altitude fighters the world
has ever seen. The Bell Airacobra, with its heavy fire-
power, speed and manoeuvrability, need ask odds of
no fighter up to its present ceiling, and the ceiling is
being pushed higher and higher. The Lockheed P38,
twin-engine interceptor, likewise can take care of
itself among the best of them. Latest versions of the
Curtiss P40s are more than holding their own against
German Messerschmitts in the Middle East, even
though numerical odds against the American-built
craft have been heavy.
Even though the chief emphasis now is on produc-
tion, the development of new types of warplanes is
not lagging in the United States. It is fully realised,
both in America and in England, that to defeat Hitler
the war must be carried to Germany. That requires
long-range bombers of great striking power, bombers
that can go to tremendous altitudes, and fighter ’planes
that can go as high or higher.
Clamor for “Offensives.”
(Condensed from an article by the foreign editor of
New York “World-Telegram.”)
Before the clamor for a British offensive in
western Europe Prime Minister Churchill has faced a
situation very like that of General Joffre in 1914 before
the First Battle of the Marne.
As Hitler has thrust deeper into Russia a con-
siderable section of the British public has shouted for
—Glasgow “Evening News.”
"FOR WHITHER THOU GOEST I WILL GO.”
“positive action” —an invasion of the Continent to
help the Soviet Union. The British Government
answered the outcry, its spokesmen explaining that
Britain will risk whatever is necessary when she be-
lieves something commensurate is to be gained. But
it refuses to send armies of men to certain and futile
death merely as a gesture, however gallant.
The French Government and General Joffre
underwent a similar test in 1914, The Kaiser’s legions
had broken through and were rapidly marching on
Paris. The Allies were retreating all along the line.
To the Frenchman in the street France seemed doomed
and the Allies appeared not to be putting up a real fight.
An anguished cry demanded that Joffre make a
stand. But Joffre said, in effect: “I know the situa-
tion looks bad. It is bad. I also know what the
people are thinking and saying—that France faces
another Sedan, another defeat by Prussia like that of
1870. I fully understand their anxiety. But I will
not be stampeded into any action which I know, in
advance, to be hopeless. That is what the Germans
want me to do. We are being driven back, but our
armies remain intact. I shall try to keep them so.
When I think I see a reasonable chance to win I shall
give battle. If necessary, however, I shall retreat until
my back is against the Pyrenees rather than risk the
fate of France on some manoeuvre primarily designed
to win popular acclaim.”
Not until September did Joffre see his chance.
The Germans —actually in sight of Paris- —suddenly
swung eastward, exposing their flank. Then Joffre
turned and struck with all his might.
Defences Beyond Moscow.
fin the article here condensed from the New York
“Herald Tribune” supplement Paul Wohl describes three
important remote defence centres on which Russian
resistance could still be based after Moscow had fallen.]
Said Soviet Ambassador Maisky: “Should Moscow
fall we will fight on, supplied by these factories
and growing industries hidden in the Urals. For years
we planned dispersal... .of industries vital to the war.
Little is known about the Soviet Union s indus-
trial resources in and beyond the Urals, in the vast
spaces of Asia. Mr. Maisky, however, did not exag-
gerate. Having been attached as Scientific Adviser to
the Soviet Department of Land Transportation, I had
a fine chance to follow this growth of Soviet industry.
There are three important outlying industrial areas
around which Russian defence will naturally be centred
should the Nazis overrun Western Russia. Each has
the raw materials and the factories to produce
machines of war, and each is separated by 1000 miles
from the others. For the Nazis to conquer all three
would be a herculean task. . ,
The first of these defence centres is cradled in the
Ural Mountains, about 1200 miles east of Moscow.
Its northernmost principal cities are Perm and Sverd-
lovsk, from which the region stretches south for hun-
dreds of miles to Orenburg. Here there are oil wel s,
mines, iron and steel works, machine and tool fac-
tories and chemical plants. The natural resources of
the region are extremely rich and diversified, ana
there are half a dozen large modern cities which are
hives of industrial activity. Sverdlovsk is surrounded
by iron and copper mines, and has modern smelting
furnaces, machine-tool, arms and textile factories.
Perm is a centre of machine-building. Chelyabinsk,
boasts huge tractor and automobile plants. Ufa even
before World War No. 1 was famous for its metallur-
gical industry. Magnitogorsk is an important steel
town ; and Orenburg’s factories prpduce locomotives
and district has goo d rail connections with
the two other outlying defence
centres, so that large quantities
of war materials can be moved
between them. The trans-
Siberian and several trunk lines
link it with the industrial dis-
trict in West Siberia; another
double-track railroad connects
it with the industrial defence
centre in Central Asia.
One thousand miles east of
the Urals, and more than 2000
miles east of Moscow, lies the
industrial area of West Siberia
—the Soviet Union’s second
defence stronghold in Asia. This
district, which is'north of Outer
Mongolia, has some of the great-
est coalmines of the world and
almost inexhaustible reserves of
iron and other ores. In the past
the West Siberian mines have
shipped part of their production
to the smelting furnaces in the
Urals ; but the bulk of the indus-
tries in this West Siberian
defence centre can operate inde-
pendently of other sections of
the country. Large cities, such
as Novosibirsk, with its smelt-
ing furnaces and tractor fac-
tories, and Tomsk, with its
machine-tool and chemical industries, already are busy
turning out implements of war.
Far to the south, 2000 miles south-east of Moscow,
lies the industrial district of Central Asia—Russia s
third centre of defence. Buried in the heart of lurke-
stan, lying near the borders of Chinese Sm-Kiang and
Afghanistan, this centre is not quite as highly de-
veloped as are those in the Urals and m West Siberia,
but it is probably even richer in basic materials.
There are coalfields, oil wells, great reserves of molyb-
denum (essential to modern steel industry), iron,
copper, zinc, lead and tin mines and matchless water-
power resources. In recent years a considerable
number of machine factories and automobile, loco-
motive and aeroplane plants have sprouted up. Trunk
lines connect this Russian stronghold in Central Asia
with the defence centres in the Urals and West Siberia.
Should the Germans penetrate the defence centre
in the Urals, or seriously damage its industries by
bombings, the two other great industrial defence
centres would remain. In West Siberia, the large au o-
mobile plants and ’plane factories near Novosibirsk
would form ideal bases for organising further
resistance.
Thus, the conquest of European Russia and even
of the much-coveted oilfields of Baku would not neces-
sarily mean the end of Russian resistance. Even i
the present political regime in Moscow should change
and Hitler should succeed in setting up a puppet Gov-
ernment for the territories under his control, the
Siberian and Asiatic peoples of the Soviet Union,
with the technical co-operation of Britain and America,
would be in a position to carry on in West Siberia
and in Central Asia. They are economically self-
sufficient and their industrial equipment is powerful.
Despite any victories that Hitler may achieve in
Western Russia, he may find these centres of resist-
ance blocking his march to the East. He then would
be obliged to send his Panzer columns deeper and
deeper into Asia. Such an enterprise might require


years of terrific fighting, in which the Nazi war
machine would be deprived of almost all its initial
advantages.
Canada Emulates Germany.
(Condensed from a Philadelphia " Bulletin" article bv
Dr. Felix Motley.)
Piime Minister Mackenzie King broadcast a warn-
ing that Canada, like Germany before it, must now
choose between guns and butter, repeating Goring’s
once much-derided phrase.
Since the outbreak of war the price level in
Canada has been surprisingly stable. There have been
relatively few strikes for wage increases. Canadian
farmers have not received legislative favoritism. So it
is not surprising that the Dominion has been severely
startled by the radio address of its Chief Executive.
Canada is devoting nearly half its national income
to war production, whereas the comparable figure for
the U.S.A. is still only about 20 p.c. But the “Vic-
tory Programme” now being evolved in Washington
calls tor an even greater percentage concentration on
defence than is now being made by Canada.
The new Canadian experiment is described by Tom
M ?u° r % president Labor Congress of Canada,
as the longest step yet taken by any democracy toward
the establishment of a totalitarian State.” The criti-
cisna js subject to some discount. But there is no
T™** the Programme goes far to fulfil warnings
that the war will not be won without fundamental
alteration of the normal processes of capitalistic
society. *
As outlined by Mr. Mackenzie King, it calls for
a ceiling on all prices except for goods going into the
export trade. Rentals and public utility charges will
be subject to the same definite limitations as food
and clothing. The maximum price set for every com-
modity is to be that prevailing during the period
between September 15 and October 11. In the words
of the Canadian Prime Minister, “prices are to be
halted at the level they have already reached.”
Following the German model, price control in
Canada will be balanced by complete Governmental
control of wages and agricultural income. “Hence-
forward, says Mr. Mackenzie King, “no employer in
Canadian industry or commerce may without permis-
sion increase his present basic wage rates.” Prices
for farm products are also stabilised at current levels.
Labor criticism is predominantly hostile, which
is scarcely surprising in view of the virtual elimination
of collective bargaining. That step obviously threatens
the entire trade-union structure.
Politically the programme seems safe, since it is
sponsored by a Liberal Administration and in general
favored by the Conservative opposition. Enthusiastic
support is given by Mr. Malcolm MacDonald, the
British High Commissioner to Canada, who calls the
programme “a grand experiment.” But there is room
for more than one interpretation of Mr. MacDonald’s
remarked that “This is carrying things even farther
than the measures taken in Britain.”
The timing of the Canadian action is not with-
out significance. It is announced by the Prime Minis-
ter, who recently returned from conferences with the
British War Cabinet, coincident with the accumula-
tion of bad news from Russia. The successive disasters
sustained by the Russians are taken to mean that the
defeat of Germany will require at least two more
years of war. It is with a view to that eventuality,
and all implied thereby, that Canada is imposing
rigorous federal controls over prices, rentals, wages
and farm incomes.
That Germany will never be defeated on a pro-
gramme of business as usual is the real moral in
the drastic measures being applied in Canada. That
is why Washington, which is usually rather indifferent
to Canadian occurrences, in this instance sent officials
flying post-haste to Ottawa. They have noted, inci-
dentally, that the programme announced by Mr. Mac-
kenzie King is not merely a war-time measure, but is
to be continued after the war “to facilitate recovery
and reconstruction.”
There is no comment from Berlin on this evidence
that Canada, at least, regards the war as being still in
its opening stages. But if imitation is the sincerest
form of flattery there must be some gratification
mingled with whatever anxiety the Nazis feel. When
they put price and wage controls into effect the move
was denounced as a sign of economic weakness and
dictatorial predilection. Now Mr. Mackenzie King
adopts even the “guns versus butter” justification in
applying to Canada the same controls which Marshal
Goring ordered for Germany five years ago.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
Some European winters back in the Middle Ages
may have been worse than the third winter of the war
promises to be; but for modern times Europe’s 1941-
42 winter is expected to smash all misery records. —
New York “Sunday News.”
* * * * *
Mr. Frank Wolstencroft, the new President of the
Trades Union Congress, speaking at a National Coun-
cil of Labor demonstration in Liverpool, deprecated
any effort to throw thousands of lives away on the
Continent merely to provide a “stage show.” He was
satisfied the Government was doing everything pos-
sible to send help to the Russian people. We did not
require shows’ merely to prove that we were
doing something. The lives of our men were too
valuable to be wasted, and he hoped that, whatever
pressure was brought to bear on the Government, it
would not foolishly throw thousands of men on to
any part of the Continent unless assured that there
would be a chance of success. We could not afford
to continue to be thrown out of every place into which
we went. There had been no complaint from the Rus-
sian Government that the British Government, had
not given them all possible help.— London “Times.”
* * * * *
Germany has no objection to pushing Japan into
suicide. No real friend of Japan’s, she desires only
one thing: that Japan should keep the U.S. too in-
volved in the Pacific to give attention to the European
war. Conflict would do that. But so would constant
alarms. It seems that Japan’s Government will restrict
itself to heightening the alarm. Its policy may be
described by the phrase which the Chinese once used
to describe the international policy of the United
States. Big noise in staircase—but nobody comes
down steps. New York “Daily Mirror.”
* * ♦ ♦ ♦
If after reading news stories about the fighting
[m Libya] you have mental images of Beau Geste
forts and minarets and streets filled with goats, camels
and Arabs, forget them. Lawrence and Allenby would
be amazed at what has happened to that once glamor-
ous business known as desert war. It has become
about as glamorous as a garage and it smells like a
garage,— Frank Gervasi, in “Collier’s.”
*****
Certainly the United States, from the sidelines,
cannot presume to determine what action Britain may
find it necessary to take toward nations aiding Hitler.
Nevertheless, most Americans who hope to see a world
of reason and justice after this struggle will find it
impossible to agree with Lord Beaver brook’s charac-
terisation of the nations opposed to Russia —“the great-
est gathering of savage Powers the world has ever
known Finland, Rumania, Hungary, Italy and Ger-
many over all, banded together in murder, theft and
arson, sweeping through the world conquering and
torturing one nation after another until all mankind
is broken and bowed in a martyrdom unparalleled
in history.” One cannot recognise the Finnish, the
Hungarian, the Rumanian peoples—or the Italians, for
all the crimes and vaporings of their leaders —in this
description. Hitler must be beaten, and if the coali-
tion with which, through a variety of methods and
because of a variety of motives, he has surrounded
himself, must also be beaten, that is a tragic neces-
sity.—New York “Herald Tribune.”
* * * * *
The following excerpt from the United States Gov-
ernment bulletin “Foreign Agriculture” for October,
1941, may discourage wishful-thinking about starvation
and food riots in Germany: “Present food consump-
tion in Germany compared with that during the World
War from 1916 is characterised by considerably larger
aggregate food allowances and considerably more
rational distribution among consumer groups. Long
and night workers, heavy workers and extra-heavy
workers now also have rations considerably above
those granted in the last war, and they are being made
available to a much larger number of people than was
then the case. The soldiers’ diet is also better and
more scientifically balanced than it was in 1914-18.”
New York “Post."
* * * * *
The U.S.A. is going to send five billion pounds
of milk to England next year; and one remembers
that Rudolf Hess was surprised, on landing in Scotland,
to be offered a glass of milk; he thought there was
none in Britain. There will be more now; the U.S.A.
is up-tilting a river of it to fill the English cup. But
this is milk taken from Americans, is it not? No. A
special survey by the “Wall Street Journal” shows
that American farmers, who normally produce 117
billion pounds of milk, will produce 125 billions of
pounds next year; five for Britain and three more
than we had before, for us. The apple is being divided.
It turns out to have three halves. — Samuel Grafton;
New York “Post.”
* * * * *
The U.S. Communist party line now is that the
United States and Great Britain must underwrite the
boundaries of Soviet Russia as they existed before
this war began, as against both Germany and Japan,
and must open a Western Front in Europe to draw
off some of Hitler’s soldiers from Russia. The
domestic part of the party line is even more impor-
tant. For the United States the Communists pro-
pose: That all private property be confiscated and
turned over to the Government, That the present
owners of such property —landlords and merchants
and manufacturers large and small, holders of life-
insurance policies, owners of any other kinds of prop-
erty—be liquidated, a Red euphemism for killed or
exiled. That the teaching of religion be stopped,
church property largely confiscated and most of the
clergy liquidated. That the farmers, whether holding
their lands in fee simple or farming it as tenants, be
stripped of all private title to such lands and made to
work for the Government on large, mechanised col-
lective farms. That the labor unions be taken over
by the Government, with their members forbidden to
strike and allowed to change jobs only on Government
permits. That the entire country be run by the mem-
bership of the Communist party, which in turn will
be run by one man. — New York “Daily News.”
* * # * m
Japan has been “Blitzed” many times in its his-
tory —not by bombs, but by earthquakes. In one
period, between 1884 and 1897, Japan was rocked by
17,750 quakes. Since Japanese history began to be
recorded there have been 2006 major quakes. In the
earthquake of 1923 nearly 100,000 people were killed ;
one-third of Tokyo and the whole of Yokohama were
destroyed either by earthquake or by the fires that
followed. No doubt about it, Japan has been tough-
ened against a Blitz by a long history of earthquakes.
—New York “Daily Mirror.”
*****
The U.S.-Argentine reciprocal trade agreement is
the worst blow Hitler has suffered in this hemisphere
and the largest gain for Pan-American defence. Its
political significance exceeds even the mutual eco-
nomic benefits, for Argentina has been the chief anti-
Yankee influence in Latin America. To obtain the
first trade agreement with Argentina in nearly a cen-
tury, and despite Nazi propaganda and penetration,
is almost a miracle of statesmanship. One concession
made by the United States allows Argentina to con-
tinue discriminating in favor of the United Kingdom.
Although this should not extend beyond the war
emergency, England will have an advantage even in
peace-time as long as she buys more Argentine sur-
plus than the United States buys. —New York “World-
Telegram.”
*****
An endless stream of Norwegian patriots has
been pouring across the North Sea in recent months.
In parties of two to sixty, travelling in rowboats, cat-
boats, motor-boats, fishing smacks and seagoing
trawlers, between 3000 and 4000 of these indomitable
anti-Nazis have reached the British coast. Ninety
per cent, of them are young men who immedi-
ately join the Norwegian army, air force, navy or
merchant marine. On one occasion a boatload of
girls came over to train as nurses. Occasionally the
entire population of some small Norwegian west coast
village appears, including the local parson, village
doctor, schoolmaster, postmaster and midwife. —New
York “Post” London correspondent.
*****
The present war is a clear challenge to the democ-
racies to demonstrate that they are capable of regu-
lating their economies and trade so as to attain
progressively higher living standards and minimise
economic rivalries and hostilities. Not to accept that
challenge would be to confess that democracy cannot
provide the answer either to poverty or to war. The
handling of agricultural surpluses is one of the major
problems. The approach to it should be systematic,
commodity by commodity. But the men who do the
planning in wheat or cotton or sugar or coffee must
be aware that their plans are but a part of a whole,
and that the prices which they seek to establish must
bear an appropriate relationship to the prices of other
commodities in international trade. This is impor-
tant. Permanently effective action cannot be taken
in this field unless each step is related to every other
step and to the whole. Indeed, it may be found im-
possible to work out an effective agreement on a single
commodity without bringing to bear economic pres-
sures from other points in the trade structure. Sooner
or later there must be a master plan to which all indi-
vidual plans are adapted. That whole will be created
out of the various parts. Among them will be inter-
national commodity agreements. —Leslie A. Wheeler,
in American “Foreign Affairs.”
*****
“The machine-gun is losing its terror for the
French people, who have to watch their children
starve to death,” declared Mr. Buchignani, who has
served as correspondent for the New York “Times”
at Nice since 1935, and has returned to America.
“How the French continue to live is a mystery. Every-
where you see emaciated children, and it’s a sight
that breaks your heart. I have known of mothers who
got up daily at 4 a.m. to get in line before food stores,
and usually they came back home with nothing more
than a couple of tomatoes. In Nice it is impossible
to obtain milk without a doctor’s certificate. Mean-
while the people watch trainloads of food from French
farms taken off to Germany. —New York “Times.”
*****
Who is this “Josef” Stalin that so many people
and publications insist on? In his own Russian tongue
he is losif. This form we encounter in a good many
American library catalogues, where they make it a
point to preserve the original form of a foreign name
as far as it can be done. The English translation is
Joseph. That is the way Stalin appears in his four-
line notice in the British Who’s Who, where the
biographical sketches are personally written and so
have the stamp of final authority. Josef is the German
form, and whatever may have been the case two years
ago, Stalin doesn’t like the Germans today and they
don’t like him.—New York “Times.”
*****
Commenting on a U.S. Navy Day poem by the
English poet Alfred Noyes, the New York “Times”
said that “some light on a hitherto dark subject, the
location of the now famous conference between Presi-
dent Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill” might
be gleaned from the poem. Here are two relevant
stanzas;
Beyond the broad Atlantic they had hidden every
light;
In the black, death-trampled cities there was nothing
but the night;
When the little ship Potomac, in a reach between
the pine-woods.
Anchored close behind Deer Island, with her lanterns
burning bright.
In the dusk, behind Deer Island, off the wooded coast
of Maine,
Though there shone no light between her and the
midnights cliffs of Spain,
In the lights of the Potomac, for the lands that hell
had darkened.
Shone a light of hope rekindled that shall not be
quenched again.
*****
It has been said that there must be a change of
heart in Germany. In a last analysis that is true.
But the change of heart can only come if it be a
genuine revolutionary process and not a means to
evade the consequences of defeat, if it arise out of the
full awareness, the anguish and the humiliation of
defeat and not a trick to postpone the issue so that
victory may be attempted again after a convenient
interval. The change of heart in Germany can only
come if the people of the German nation with whom
we are at war know they are responsible for the war,
if they understand the truth that Hitler is their agent,
whom they carried into power and kept there, and
not that they are the agents of Hitler, if they realise
to the full that when Germany is defeated it is they
and not merely Hitler who have been defeated. The
change of heart can only endure if the consequences
of defeat are made inescapable, if the defeat is per-
petuated in the post-war order, and if the means of
retrieving the defeat are for ever removed. —London
“Nineteenth Century” editorial comment.


X
Wi
v
X
S#/>
U
I
*V«
' W.w:
: B3a«
i
a
?;3gsa
?
il
ri>^2S
;J
€2
vZ.
/^\\x\\\\uj‘{ygfw[
SS
H
g|
0
a
s
im%
IBS
5
55
s=
g
sa
sa
sa
a
®
sss
a
a
sSS
s
s
IK
es
I
i
BS
i
sp3B
IIiSS
i
za
5^
r #r'«
i
z
m
£
SPECIAL #J|p. QVALB
€
X
DISTILLED IN AUSTRALIA ;
AND BOTTLED IN BOND ;
UNDER SUPERVISION OF -
THE COMMONWEALTH ;
EXCISE
H
m
the united distillers pt*
MELBOURNE. AUSTRAL I Ak-
..
b >
«r
S!?'«
m
m
A
!S
I TT
$>
///


MTS
LYS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
jjWire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
T :
■■ 5® -
m
,v
mm
m
m
m
i
mm
i
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGH T’S” WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
Anthrax in Stock.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRU. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Huxave”; Deaths of cattle and pigs
have occurred in nor’-west N.S.W. from
anthrax. This is the second outbreak in
the district within 13 years. The bacillus
thrives in marshy soils and places sub-
ject to periodic floods. The disease can
occur in any season and mostly attacks
young animals in good condition.
Most common infection is when the
blood escapes from the natural openings
of the body or when an anthrax carcass
is opened. The bacilli develop spores
which are hard to destroy and live in the
soil for years. Eaten by animals, the
spores pass into the bloodstream where
they form bacilli which multiply into mil-
lions within a few hours. Winds and
surface water can contaminate either pas-
ture or waterholes. Dogs and birds
attacking an open body easily infect
clean areas. Burying deeply won’t get
rid of the spores, which can be carried
to the surface by water or earthworms.
Mostly the affected animal is found
dead, the body greatly swollen and dark
blood coming from the body openings.
On occasions the animals may go down
in convulsions, blood-stained foam come
from the mouth and nose and blood from
the annus. Death is almost instantaneous.
Warnings are: high temperature, which
drops suddenly before death; labored
breathing and discoloration of mem-
branes of eyes, mouth and nostrils which
turn bluish-red. In horses watch for
colicky pains and diarrhoea following con-
stipation. Large amounts of blood may
be passed, and hot, spongy swellings may
appear on the neck, breast, flank or loins.
The horse may also develop severe
pharyngitis. Affected pigs usually suffer
from pharyngitis and swelling in the
throat.
When it is known that an animal has
died from anthrax the carcass should not
be opened but should be burned where
it lies. If this is impossible it should be
burned in a hole at least six feet deep
with a heavy layer of unslaked lime
placed over it. Earth on which the car-
cass has been lying should be removed
to a depth of several inches and burned
with the carcass. The area should be
railed off for some time.
Yearly vaccination is the only guaran-
teed safeguard for stock in anthrax
areas.
Pigs and Whey.
“ T. McBerk ”: From whey (B.
I9/ll/’41) pigs get nearly all the carbo-
hydrates and minerals of original milk,
about a fifth of its protein and a little of
its fat, together with some vitamins. The
average percentage is: water, 93.9;
sugar, 4.4; albumin, 0.4; fat, 0.3;
minerals, 0.6 ; casein, 0.4.
Make sure the whey is clean; dirt will
cause quick fermentation and putrefac-
tion. No pig under eight weeks should
get any, after that give it in small quanti-
ties, gradually increasing with age. A
10-weeks-old piglet can have a gallon
daily,
A potato-whey mixture goes well in
Europe. The pigs get as much potatoes
as they need, with Igal. to of whey
a head daily. To that is added, irrespec-
tive of weight or age, of cereal-meal
and of fishmeal a head a day.
Another method is to give whey with-
out restraint up to 4gal,, with to 21b.
of cereal-meal and of fish- or meat-
meal a head daily. After the pigs get to
about 1301 b. live weight the proteins are
cut out and the whey increased up to
6gal. a head daily. Within a fortnight of
slaughter the whey allowance is reduced
to Igal. to a day. It can be given
to pregnant or newly-farrowed sows,
when ligal. to 2-}gal. of whey may re-
place lib. to I fib. of cereal-meal in the
ration. These quantities are suggested as
the maximum in each case by the National
Institute of Dairying, England.
Bencubbin Again.
“8.C.”; Bencubbin came out on top
in all eight district R.A.S. field-wheat
competitions in the central-west N.S.W.
wheat belt —proof how this Westralian
variety, given proper farming methods,
will stand up in a dry season.
The area is a comparatively small one,
a triangle with Gilgandra as its apex and
Condobolin and Parkes its base points—
the west side about 130 miles, each side
about 112, base about 65. It had from
6in. to Sin. of rain in January, which
gave growers a chance to work out weeds
and build a mulch. There was nice rain
in March, but none from then until well
after seeding, when a fair fall came in
June. After that falls were sparse and
the wheat had to hang on as best it could.
Though Bencubbin is a fine drought-
resister and will yield if given anything
like a chance, it lacks somewhat in flour
strength. Plant breeders are hopeful of
turning out something that will hold Ben-
cubbin’s best features and step up the
flour strength. The seed has a tendency
to revert to type fairly quickly, and most
of the eight winners will need to get in
pure seed from outside to maintain the
standard.
The R.A.S. championship goes to T. F.
Dwyer, of Bogan Gate, whose crop was
one of the two best on yield estimates
and points ahead of the rest in general
condition. Some idea of the popularity
of Bencubbin can be got from the fact
that the crop placed third had previously
won the Trundle contest, in which 16 of
the 19 competing crops were Bencubbin.
Victorian Pastures.
“Piangil Pete”: The Victorian Agri-
cultural Department and Pastures Im-
provement League have been experiment-
ing with irrigated pastures in the north
of the State between Swan Hill and
Cohuna, Perennial and annual pastures
and lucerne all have a part in the scheme,
but the report of G. B. Rayner, agrostolo-
gist of the Department of Agriculture,
deals with the pastures.
The chosen plots got a thorough work-
ing and irrigating before being sown in
April-May, 1935, with six legumes and
nine grasses. The following winter was
harsh and the strike wasn’t too good, but
a heavy July rain worked wonders and
by spring the legumes, except strawberry
clover, were in good heart. Rye grasses
had also done well, so had P. tuberosa
and prairie grass. Kentucky blue and tall
fescue did fairly well, but meadow fox-
tail and Timothy were poor. The Phalaris-
sub. clover plot made a fine showing, but
the stock shied off the Phalaris.
In the second year perennial rye had
formed the best sward —the seed was cer-
tified, not ordinary commercial strain —
and cocksfoot, tall fescue and Phalaris
were going ahead, the others fading out.
Strawberry clover was still the weak
legume and red clover had pushed into
the picture.
In subsequent years white clover broke
away from everything else and is now the
most important legume in the sward.
Alsike and lucerne have thinned out, and
“Stand back , there—give her air."
strawberry, though it has increased, is
only a minor element. Red clover has
stuck well, tall fescue has become too
rank for stock, Phalaris and sub. are the
winter standby.
For persistence, production and paya-
bility white clover, red clover, perennial
rye and cocksfoot get the prize, with
alsike and lucerne showing up as useful
in a pasture mixture. Tall fescue, Ken-
tucky blue, Timothy and meadow foxtail
can be forgotten.
Ergots Wanted.
‘‘Gulper”: There might be a bob or
two in growing ergots, which are wanted
by the British Government. Various
poisonous alkaloids got from them are
used in obstetrics and for the treatment
of fainting and bomb shock. The
common ergot —distinct from paspalum
ergot, which has no drug value —is a
hard, blue-black substance formed by
the development of a specific fungus on
some cereals and grasses, notably rye.
Usually it develops well on the heads of
crops growing in cool, moist climate and
rarely causes any damage to crops or
grasses, nor is it likely to spread from
its host.
The culture can be got from the
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture. It
is mixed with a small amount of water,
strained through a 30-mesh sieve, and
the volume then increased to 80 to 100
gallons, sufficient to spray an acre of rye.
Spraying can be done either with a well-
cleaned orchard sprayer or the ordinary
knapsack type, when the rye is flowering
and late in the afternoon. There should
be a second spraying a week later.
Mostly the ergots are hand-picked, but
they can be taken off with the usual har-
vesting machinery when the grain is ripe
and floated off the grain in a 20 p.c. brine
isolution, the ergots being rinsed and
dried afterwards. In a normal season,
round about 801 b. of ergots an acre may
be obtained.
Tests for alkaloid content of Austra-
lian ergots showed that they were well
up to the required standard of .05 p.c.
Price seems a bit indefinite. Early this
year the British Health Minister was
appealing for supplies, and the Maori-
land Government was said to have
offered ss. per pound for ergots grown
there. Sydney prices varied from;
1930, Is. lOd. ; 1936, 7s. to 10s.; 1940,
225.; 1941, 11s.; all per pound. One
firm paid 6s. for M.L. rye grass ergot and
15s. for fescue grass ergot —a high-quality
drug producer. A recent English quote
was 9s. It seems safe to assume an Aus-
tralian price of Bs. per pound, which
would give £35 an acre on a yield of
851 b. an acre. Generally the buyer
wants the alkaloid content assayed before
making an offer.
A lot has yet to be learned about
ergot production. Experimenters should
confine themselves to small areas.
Early Peaches.
“E. L. Berta”: Most of the early peach
crop is grown close to market. It is
usually picked in a riper condition than
later inland peaches and there is thus
more need for care in handling to avoid
damage to the fruit.
E. C. Whittaker, a N.S.W. Agricul-
tural Department fruit-packing instruc-
tor, insists that care be exercised right
up until the fruit is sold. The variety
of receptacles used for picking often con-
tributes to damage. Deep buckets and
boxes allow the top fruit to weigh
heavily on the bottom. A shallow box,
such as a quarter-bushel and half-bushel
case, slung in front of the picker is best.
It leaves both hands free and the fruit can
be placed in the boxes. Filled, the box
is unhooked from the sling and loaded
on to the lorry for carting to the shed.
Knock up a multi-tiered rack for the
cases at the shed. Using 3x2 uprights


For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
«. A. Rose &. Co. Ptv. Ltd- Kina St, Sydney
mm
mm
m
tr mom
m
v
♦
#
*
Cars.. Trucks .. Utilities.. ’Buses
Bicycles .. Motor Cycles
100% AUSTRALIAN
Olutnpic
TYRES
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
SYDNEY OFFICE MANAGER: A. M. MURDOCH.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES', LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
FULLY GUARANTEED AS TO LONGEVITY, EFFICIENCY AND MECHANISM.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF, AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN.
IT DISPLACES PANS AND SAVES SANITARY RATES.
Matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine, and automatically runs off into
sd
an underground sump and soaks away into the soil.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
THERE IS NO EMPTYING OR OTHER UNPLEASANT JOB.
Approved by the Board of Health —over 1700 in use.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Gives same comfort and safety as a septic tank.
ANY HANDYMAN CAN INSTAL IT.
Write or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co.Pty. Ltd.
30 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone B1052.
Price,
Plus 20/
Obtainable direct,
£17/17/6 f.o.h. SYDNEY, including 10% Sales Tax.
- war surcharge. Crating, if necessary, 10/6 extra.
or from all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
fs
df
sd
fs
dfs
More and more people are smoking
CRAVEN ~A”
every day
quality always tells!
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREV E N T SORE' T HR OAT S
and shelves of 2 x 1 battens an inch or
two apart (the shelves with about a foot
between) a rack of four shelves each
6ft. by 2ft. 6in. will easily hold 56
quarter-bushel cases.
Whittaker recommends packing direct
from picking case to market case, which
cuts handling to a minimum and allows
the packer to work on several cases at
once, taking the fruit as it comes. Pack
firmly but not too.tightly, and make it so
that the lid will keep the fruit in place
during transit with slight pressure. If
fruit is too ripe to stand handling for
packing it’s too ripe for market and will
spoil a pack if let go. Use clean white
paper in the cases ; it adds to the appear-
ance and prevents the wood marking the
fruit over a long trip. Packing to count
pays, and so does clearly marking the
box with variety and count. Spirals
and noughts and crosses mean nothing to
the buyer.
It’s a good idea, too, to survey the
crop on the trees and instruct the pickers
how to take the best fruit first, then next
best and so on in other words, do your
culling and grading on the trees.
7 Tf.,, x . T
H-C. : Though Little Navy (B.
26/11/ 41) w the most popular canning
bean in this country at present, A C
Orman, of the N-S.W. Department of
Agriculture, awards honors to Medium
Navy, the marrow and the kidney bean.
He says, too, that Michehte a new
white pea-bean, developed m Michigan
(U.S.A.) is promising for Australian
canners, and is bemg grown on a sma
scale in N.S.W. The bean is fla , uni-
form in size and shape, resistant to
mosaic and very productive. For some
reason Australian bean experts hmit
t° 400, whereas Bill War-
neld (U.S.A.) two years ago rounded up
“Brecko”: In Westralia there is a
shortage of broom millet. The present
price is £45 per short ton, and 50 tons
are required annually. It grows well in
south-west W.A., and demands moist
conditions like maize. A fine seed bed
and cultivation to control weeds are
necessary. Seed should be sown in rows
30in. to 36in. apart at 41b. to 61b. an
acre. Sown during September or
October, the crop is ready for harvest in
March or Anril
Outback Occasions.
No. 13.
A CHANGE OF DIET.
The occasion when Mother was away
and Father brought home the German
sausage from town and we had it for tea
on the Sunday night is still talked about
out our way. It was summer-time and
when we saw that sausage we hailed it
with delight, being a bit tired of cold
mutton and tinned dog. Jack, our
brother, didn’t mind the tinned dog, he
used to eat more than anybody else until
he caught himself barking once or twice
and lay down under a tree one afternoon
and let his tongue hang out and panted.
After that he shied off the tinned stuff,
but reckoned if he ate any more mutton
it’d have the same effect, only in a
sheepish way.
So we got some tomatoes and raw
onions that Sunday afternoon and
gathered round the German sausage.
Father ran off slices of it with the
carving knife and our sister placed the
slices round the plates and decorated
them with slices of tomato, onion crumbs
and fingers of bread-and-butter. You
only had to put a little mustard and vine-
gar with it and you had a feast fit for
gods or commercial travellers.
Well, we wired in and ate the lot, then
we sat back and Father told us tales of
his youth. Father was always good for
a tale when his stomach was full, and
though we could remember the yarns
belter than he could we always laughed in
the right places and admired Father’s habit
of always getting the best of everybody
and everything in his youth. This night,
still savoring that sausage, we helped our
sister clear up and then all went out on
the verandah. After a bit Father got up
and went off mysteriously and came back
all grins and produced a giant water-
melon, About all you could hear after
that was a sort of slurruping noise and
the tit-tat of seeds as we spat them with
ease, delicacy and precision at each other.
Then we lay on our backs on the
verandah boards and looked up and
thought about nothing in particular.
“By cripes,” said Jack in a dreamy
sort of way, “it’s a pity Mother don’t go
away more often if Father’s goin’t’ turn
it on like this.” Then he arched his body,
balanced a moment on his left ear and
suddenly shot upright, screeching like a
night owl. Father sat up and looked at
him and said, “You thinkin’ of joinin’ a
circus or somethin’?” Jack rolled off the
verandah into the dust and wriggled like
a snake, making funny noises. “Very
funny,” said Father, sarcastically, and
got up. Then he bent over and said,
“Hogan’s ghost!” and got down and
kicked the verandah with both heels. I
thought they must have seen a snake or
something and sat up. A bolt of chain
lightning hit me under the chest, ran
round the back and up between my
shoulder blades and a hand reached into
my stomach and started tying knots in
the things there. ,
Our sister —she hadn’t had any water-
melon —got up and ran round, crying,
“What’s the matter? What’s the matter?’’
And Jack said, indignantly, “I’m goin’ t’
die, an’ you rush round yellin’.” Father
moaned and said, “Get t’ bed, get t’ bed.
Y’ can’t die here. Hogan’s ghost!” and
he got up and fell over again and said,
“Ring f’r the doctor, girl, ring f’r the
doctor.” Our sister ran inside and
slammed the door —young women do
things like that, I suppose she thought
she could keep the epidemic out of the
house or something—and we crawled to
the door and tried to reach the knob.
But every time we reached up somebody
shot us with shotguns and we fell down
and wriggled about.
Jack fell off the verandah and started
to crawl, round the house to the back
door and Father and me started after
him. Our dogs rushed up and looked at
us and then rushed round the house,
barking and growling. Then they rushed
back again and Ruff, the kelpie, trotted
up to Father and sniffed busily all round
him and then went and whispered some-
thing to the other dogs. So they rushed
off round the house again and the second
time they passed him Jack stopped crawl-
ing and tried to cow-kick them. The
cattle-dog fell over backwards and the
other three hopped into him and they
had a dingdong go. Father roared at
them and pulled himself up by the tank-
stand and tried to kick them but lost his
balance and sat in the calf bucket. The
dogs then rushed off down to the road
and sat down by the gate and howled.
I passed Jack in the crawl round the
house and met our Indian game rooster,
who was making for bed. The thing
baulked, looked me over and said, “Tuk,
tuk, tuk, ata caw-aw,” in a warning tone
and began backing away, watching me
closely. “Gerrout, y’ fool,” I yelped, and
the thing ran madly along the verandah,
squawking, so that all the other roosters
and most of the hens on our place came
running and flying and gathered on the
verandah in a very excited condition.
Then they saw us crawling and looked at
one another, and all hopped down and
marched off slowly to the fowlhouse,
looking back at us in a puzzled way.
And down by the gate the dogs still
howled.
Our sister came out, very white, and
pulled the calf bucket off Father and
helped him inside. Then she came out
and helped Jack inside. By this time I’d
reached the sofa in the living room and
I fell on it and sweated while the light-
ning bolts galloped round in my stomach.
Sometime later I found myself being
held up by the doctor and drinking
some white stuff that tasted like lime.
Father and Jack, pretty pasty about the
gills, were sitting in chairs looking at me.
Father gave me a wintry sort of grin and
said, “Mow’d y’ like a good feed o’
German sausage, boy?” He always liked
to crack a joke, did Father.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4|d. per line; all others at
2|a. per line.
A short but precise account of an Old Digger’s experience in a recruiting bus
goes on top this week.
On a Recruiting Bus
As a returned man with some experi-
ence of mechanisation I was invited to
join Adelaide’s recruiting bus on a Friday
night to assist other speakers in the
recruiting appeal and say something
about the Armored Division. With two
other officers, four Diggers from Tobruk
and the Garrison Band, we set off at
7 p.m. and spent two and a half hours
in the busiest part of the city.
There were hundreds of young fellows
in civvies waiting for their girl friends
who worked in the shops, and hundreds
of others with their girl friends intent on
spending their big munition cheques. They
treated the recruiting bus as some kind
of mobile Punch and Judy show which
was sent out to entertain them.
The aggregate result of the strong and
lively appeals made throughout the even-
ing was an inquiry from an 18-year-old
youth—he was sent on to the R.A.A.F. —
an application from a full-blooded aborb
ginal, who could not be enlisted, and
determined efforts by two Diggers who
were obviously at least ten years over
the age limit. That, I understand, was
a fair average for a night’s work. And
people are still writing to the papers ask-
ing, “What’s wrong with' the voluntary
system?”— Camsa (S.A.).
Fighting Men First!
Loud-speakers, recruiting posters, pro-
cessions, platform and radio appeals,
patriotic displays! All these are used in
an effort to persuade fit, eligible men to
fight for their country. And high wages,
luxury spending, specially-built Govern-
ment subsidised houses, marriage loans,
child endowment are the incentives and
suggested incentives for fit, eligible men
to stay at home and let others fight for
them.
I may have distorted vision, but it
seems to me that the high wages and the
new homes should be reserved for the
men who have gone away to fight. When
the fit young man has the benefits of war-
time prosperity and the privilege of
choosing between such prosperity and the
poorly-paid risky job of protecting his
country, only the morally brave choose
the hard road.
General Blarney says we are fighting
for our life. To the men overseas it must
seem that they are fighting to provide
good times, prosperity and luxuries for
the stay-at-homes. — Arev (Vic.).
For and Against
Conscription is the theme;
I am president of a sub-branch of the
R.S.S.I.L.A. with a membership of 90-odd
Diggers, and I took the opportunity of read-
ing “The Need for Men” (B. 19/11 /’4l) at
our last meeting. We felt a letter of apprecia-
tion would not be amiss. I have one son who
is at present a driver in the A.I.F. in Malaya;
he is only just 20, and has been away some
six months. I have been requested at various
times to speak at recruiting rallies, and I fully
realise that the only way is conscription. As you
say, it is' the responsibility of a Government
and not the people to decide this big question;
it is not human nature to ask a mother to
conscript her son or young men to conscript
themselves. I can assure you that my branch as
well as myself appreciate your stand. —E. S.
(Tas.).
How does the Labor party reconcile its love
for the voluntary way of life with its policy
towards trade-unionism? There is nothing
voluntary about getting a job or employing a
man; if you want to make a living you are
compelled to support the union, either as an
employer or as an employee. Anyone who
“voluntarily” wished to do otherwise would
call down far more wrath on his head than
falls on those who advocate conscription. The
Labor party finds it necessary, when something
it regards as important is to be maintained —
in this case the trade-union movement —to re-
sort to compulsion. If, then, it is not prepared
to adopt the same procedure with regard to
the possibly more important job of winning
the war, we must conclude either that the Labor
party does not regard the war as of great im-
portance, or that it has very carefully con-
sidered the question and honestly formed the
opinion that wars are best won by ballyhoo
and volunteers —in spite of what the great mili-
tary countries have found necessary. It is
simply not possible to believe the second
alternative. .
Democracy does not mean —any more than
does socialism, communism, fascism or any
other system of government—that the individual
is free to do as he pleases, to carry on with
the voluntary way of life no matter what the
consequences. The greatest measure of free-
dom of choice of action, so long as we do not
injure our neighbors or do damage to the inter-
ests of the State, is certainly what we expect
from democracy. But we equally expect that
if we fail, if we do injure our neighbor,
if we do neglect the interests of the State
(fail to pay our income tax, for example),
we shall be compelled by our democratic
Government to support democracy by doing
the fair thing, by contributing our fair share.
It is perhaps not too much to say, then,
that a Government which will not compel
each man to give his fair share to the country
at a time when the very existence of the country
is in danger cannot be regarded as a democratic
Government. —F. J. P. (Vic.).
Mr. Curtin doesn’t like conscription. The
Bulletin likes conscription. So do I. So does
every woman who has a husband or a sweet-
heart or a brother or a friend on the other
side. So do their fathers, and so do the
soldiers. There are thousands of men in the
battle line. There are just a few of them back
home. They didn’t expect to come back to
a civilian world. They have lived so long
in a soldiers’ world that they thought that when
they came home they would be treated as
they came home they would be treated as soldiers.
Some have gone searching for work and have
been able to listen to managers thanking God
that their departments had lost none of their
strong, able-bodied men into the army. They
don’t say much, these men who have come
back. They think a lot, though. They think
about what will happen when the boys are
all back, and what they think is not pleasant
toward the men who stay at home and reap
all the benefit from their absence. Doit
(N.S.W.).
Congratulations on your splendid articles and
cartoons on conscription. But until mothers,
fathers, wives and sweethearts of our men Over
There hold meetings in every town in Australia,
and demand that our boys get the same backing
as the Germans get from their conscription
laws, only then will the Government sit up and
find we are in earnest. The Germans can tackle
the Russian front, and at the same time meet
the Libyan campaign, only because they have
millions of conscripts.— Winifred K. R. (N.Q.).
The Bulletin has blotted its copybook as
far as I am concerned by advocating conscrip-
tion. I am an Australian, and, as such, I
believe in Democracy. Democracy, to my
mind, means freedom for the individual, free-
dom to think and choose one’s own way in
life. Our forces are fighting for an ideal of
which conscription is no part. The response
to the Commonwealth Loan is the latest answer
to critics of Australia’s voluntary war effort.
—J. G. D. (N.S.W.).
Since the conscription issue was raised (in
my opinion, with damaging results) various
groups have advocated conscription of wealth
and industry in an attempt to persuade the
individual, and especially the Labor voter, that
an equitable sacrifice would be imposed on
everyone. How can wealth and industry be con-
scripted? They can be harnessed, of course,
but that is by no means the same thing. An
industry harnessed to the war effort (given
Government orders) is also given profits and
money to meet depreciation and obsolescence.
An individual who is conscripted shows a cer-
tain financial and a possible bodily loss. So
far we have found no equitable sacrifice, nor
do I believe one to be possible short of out-
right socialisation, with no compensation to
individual shareholders bar soldiers’ pay. Such
a measure would be counter to the whole
structure of our social and economic systems
and would probably produce complete indus-
trial chaos. 1 suggest, therefore, that an end be
made to this inherently dishonest talk of con-
scription of wealth and industry. The con-
scription of man-power for military service over-
seas is a thing apart. Personally I oppose it
and always shall, but at least I would like it
to be debated in the open and with as few
red herrings across the trail as possible.—
Observer (N.S.W.).
Cost-Plus
Uncontrolled man-power and wages
are the main thing against cost-
plus as I see it. The cost -plus firms on
munitions production definitely pay higher
wages than the Government factory—■
wages are controlled, but classifications
are not. The Government factory has
nearly 80 p.c. of its man-power on classi-
fications with a rate of pay at 955. or
under in S.A.; 50 p.c. of these are on
85s. What private firm can show a per-
centage of wages as low as this?
In the Government factory where I
am employed we are continually train-
ing men for cost -plus employment. A
man comes to us as a laborer oh 85s.
If he is the right type, in a few weeks
he is a process worker or similar classi-
fication on 955. He gets a little more ex-
perience, and then it’s an even money
bet that he will leave to go into a cost-
plus factory at a rate of 116 s. or there-
abouts. Perhaps he will stop with us
a little longer and be a machine- or die-
setter at around 100 s. Then cost -plus will
offer him £8 to £9 a week. Can you
"It's out of order! I want my penny back.”
blame him for going? Croweater
(S.A.).
Munitions Plants
A. Daly (B. 5/11/’4l) makes a bad
mistake when he criticises the site chosen
for the biggest munition plant in S.A.
This plant had to be erected on level
ground with a steady and uniform fall for
drainage, close to existing broad-gauge
railway and main road facilities, on good
soil where grass could be grown to keep
down dust. It had to be handy to
main power transmission lines and fairly
close to a main seaport in order that
haulage of coal could be reduced to a
minimum. As the staff will number
about 20,000 when full production is
reached, it had to be close to a large
centre of population and, above every-
thing else, it had to have an assured
supply of good water to provide the mil-
lions of gallons needed every day for
the work. This automatically ruled out
every other site. —H. A. L. (S.A.).
“Conversation Piece”
One of the horrors of the Nazi system
is the banning of free discussion on inter-
national questions. Such a prohibition
could be imposed in Australia without
making much difference to the conver-
sation of the workers.
I travel daily in crowded trains to and
from work, and find myself in different
groups of toilers almost every journey.
There is much talk, but not once in six
months have I heard any serious refer-
ence to the war. There are lively argu-
ments about the scarcity of tobacco, the
working of overtime and sport gener-
ally, but there would seem to be a con-
spiracy of silence regarding everything of
a military nature. The “vast industrial
expansion” might be due to a boom in
lollies or toys as far as conversation is
concerned.
Reason? For years Australian union-
ists have been taught that the only war
that affected their interest was the war
against Capitalism. Any “wage slave”
who dared to say otherwise openly was
promptly snubbed by any “militant” who
heard him. Peaceable patriots learned
to hold their tongue, and the habit still
persists. *
Years of “class-conscious” propaganda
has had its effect, and it wifi, require a
lot of counter propaganda to convince
many workers that there is anything in
the international situation to get really
excited about or even worth discussion
compared with purely local or personal
matters. — Silence (S.A.).
Democracies and Dictators
Agree with “T.E.P.” (B. 26/11/’4l) that
democracies would have difficulty in
choosing a dictator. Dictators choose
themselves; they are never chosen. In
a time of crisis the Roman Senate gave
an individual more powers than he would
have been allowed in peace-time, just as
the Australian Government did with
W. M. Hughes during the last war. When
the crisis was over it found great diffi-
culty in taking them away, just as Aus-
tralia found difficulty in separating Billy
from his War-time Precautions Act.
But those types of individuals are not
of the kidney of dictators. Nobody chose
Napoleon. He was the last sort of person
any Government would have chosen. He
did not fulfil society’s idea of a military
genius; he completely violated it. It
was his own belief in himself, not mili-
tary diplomas, which forced him to the
head of the French, nation. When the
superior force that was arrayed against
him shattered his hopes he had to go
into exile.
The other type of leader who gets
power from some temporary crisis doesn’t
go into exile. He bobs up again in some
other party, just as did our Billy.—L. L.
(Vic.).
A.I.F. at Darwin
Eighty Queensland members of the
A.I.F. from Darwin have arrived in Bris-
bane on leave. They did not complain
as much as the papers lead us to expect
of the lack of cold beer, up-to-date pubs
and entertainments, these things being,
in fact, only minor growls. The main
complaint was that, although enlisted for
active service abroad, they had been kept
for long periods on garrison duty in Aus-
tralia.
Authorities seem to agree that the morale
of the French forces was sapped by the long
period of inactivity behind the Maginot
Line. Although the morale of our volun-
teers is far too high for that, there is no
doubt that the spirit of an army suffers
if it feels that it has been badly treated
or “let down.”
The army should call for volunteers
from militia ranks to relieve the A.I.F.
in the tropics.
Those who accepted would be doing
a fine job for Australia. —D. (Q.).
Sport and War
Controversies on sport, with one side
yelling “unnecessary luxury” and the
other “necessary relaxation,” merely con-
fuse the issue and ignore the existence
of two main classes of relaxation: vicari-
ous and real sport.
Real sports are those which call for
active, individual participation. Riding,
sailing, shooting, swimming and so on,
down through the various excuses for
punishing a ball, are real sports. They
call for and encourage judgment and in-
telligence, bodily fitness and muscular
co-ordination, and they provide oppor-
tunities for either group or individual
activities.
The vicarious sports are those which
lately have been a confounded nuisance
to Australia. Horseracing in all its
largely-organised forms, the unmention-
able dogs, the antics of the hug-and-bite
brigade, down to such more or less harm-
less but still expensive shows as the films,
all encourage spending on a large and
wasteful scale with only the promise of
some dubiously healthy excitement in
return. And they do, in too many cases,
lead to improvidence among the smaller
wage-earners, not only by reason of the
actual cash wasted, but by the mental
tradition of easy gain and money-for-
nothing which they foster.
The real sports, on the other hand,
besides the benefits conferred on their
practitioners, are assets to the nation.
They can, of course, be degraded into
mere social shows which undoubtedly en-
courage luxury spending on clothes or
into exhibitions designed to extract gate
money. But in themselves they are
simple and healthful activities. They
build strong, keen-minded young men,
and, wisely used, they constitute an excel-


lent maintenance service for middle-aged
bodies.
To encourage all forms of sport which
do not readily lend themselves to
exploitation by professionals or by highly
professional “amateurs” would be a
worth-while policy for a country which,
while still in its infancy, is worried about
unhealthy concentrations of population
in its cities. — Prop (S.A.).
O’Malley Wood
“Sahdpatch’s” criticism (B. 26/11/’4l)
may be accepted as fair comment as far
as he deals impersonally with mortgage
banks, but when, under the cover of
anonymity, he makes a personal attack
on the banking reputation of a dead
man who was respected by all who knew
him he invites a challenge to come out
into the open and give his name,
I knew O’Malley Wood for 35 years,
commencing with his appointment as a
Commissioner of the Government Savings
Bank. I was in close official association
with him as assistant secretary and later
as secretary. In that position I attended
all board meetings and heard the board
discussions of all loan applications, and
I say emphatically that the board was
never “told” by the Premier or anyone
else to make any loan. All applications
were considered on their merits from the
security offered and the credit-worthiness
of the applicant. O’Malley Wood had too
high a sense of his duty as a Commis-
sioner to tolerate dictation by anybody
in matters where his judgment and that of
his colleagues should be the sole basis of
decision.
“Sandpatch” then gives his personal
opinion of the causes of the closing of
the G.S. Bank. Unfortunately for him
his opinion does not coincide with that
of the Royal Commission on Banking.
Paragraph 357 of which says: “The
failure of the Government Savings Bank
does not reflect discredit on the manage-
ment of the bank. The cause of the
failure was political rather than financial,
and the responsibility must be borne by
those whose conduct created apprehen-
sion in the minds of depositors.”—A. W.
Turner (N.S.W.).
Egg Board
“Chicker’s” stereotyped wail (B.
26/11/’4l) about Egg Board control and
the troubles of the sideliners who have
some eggs left on their hands because
they’re too lazy or too pig-headed to
register needs comparing with the other
side of the story. This paragraph cost
me about £6OO to write, so it should be
worth reading.
Some 12 years or so ago my wife and
I decided to start a poultry farm in
western N. S. Wales. We battled and
made every mistake a mug can make,
but we learned and went forward. We
were well on the way to building up a
nice flock. We were grading our eggs,
throwing out cracked shells, blood spots,
etc., and when the eggs were small we
sold 13 or 14 to the dozen. And every
egg was sold within 24 hours of being
laid, and had our name stamped proudly
on it.
The “free competition” from wheat-
farmers’ wives when eggs were plentiful
didn’t help, but we were able to find
people who liked our way of doing busi-
ness. Until the depression came. Then
farmers’ wives raked the haystacks and
sheds and brought in baskets and boxes
of eggs, which they sold to storekeepers
as low as 3d. a dozen and “cut it out”
in groceries. Our eggs cost us sd. a
dozen to produce, not counting our
labor.
The storekeepers didn’t want the eggs
they were flooded with, even at 3d. a
dozen, but they had to take them or risk
losing good customers. They unloaded a
lot in Sydney and a lot locally. Many
were bad, and there was no attempt to
grade them for size or quality. So we
went broke and sold the place to pay our
debts, leaving it with much less than we
would have had if we’d never seen it.
Afterwards, I had a yarn with the
manager of the local freezing works who
was looking for a sideline. He put in
an experienced girl to grade eggs, worded
the storekeepers and advertised. The
wheat-farmers’ wives found that they got
better prices for their eggs once they were
educated to gathering them fresh and
keeping the male bird away from the
hens in hot weather. The storekeepers
brought graded eggs from the freezer,
and didn’t have their grocery business
complicated by amateur egg speculations.
The public got decently-graded, fresh
eggs at reasonable prices. Inferior eggs
were pulped. We were put of it and
broke, but if there had been organised
marketing in our time we would have
been independent now.
Now there is an Egg Board floor in
that town, told with a, stabilised market
there are many—probably 35 to 50 —
wheat farms in that district running very
profitable flocks of fowls. One such has
some 2000 layers. There are many
smaller sideliners, and several small
poultry-farmers raising their families on
nothing but eggs and poultry. Those who
would not register and take the little extra
trouble involved are out of it, but those
who are in are finding that it pays. No
doubt they growl at their Id. a dozen
levy and their selling commission of
6 p.c. or whatever it is, but 12 years ago
they were calling us fools for starting a
poultry farm in a tick area, for thinking
we could make money out of fowls where
it hadn’t been done before. We were
fools—fools to start without organised
controlled marketing.—R. B. P. (N.S.W.).
“Chicker” quotes “S.M.H.” as saying
that the Egg Board has caused disruption
and confusion in the country. If there
is any confusion it is caused by the
inland farmer and storekeeper in not
acquainting themselves with the new
conditions.
All the farmer has to do is to apply
to the board for a producer agent’s per-
mit, which is free, and then he can sell
his eggs anywhere as long as he sells at
the board’s fixed price. Perhaps the
storekeeper will not like this, as he will
only be able to make 3d. a dozen on all
eggs sold, but it will stop him from buy-
ing eggs at sd. and 6d. a dozen and
railing them to Sydney to sell at city
prices, making from 50 p.c. to 60 p.c.
and over on them.
The board taking control of all N. S.
Wales the public will not pay any more
for their eggs, but the farmer will receive
a better return. The only man it will
hit is the middleman, who has been mak-
ing money at the expense of the producer.
—W.F.H. (N.S.W.).
Tomatoes
The latest contribution to the war
effort in Victoria is a Tomato Board,
which proposes making it illegal for any
householder to grow more than 12
tomato plants for his own use unless he
becomes a licensed grower. This so en-
raged one householder that he wrote to
a daily and said that he was growing
more than the dozen, and that if any
inspector called on him to make him pull
the surplus up there was a nasty Aire-
dale dog on the premises that would love
a change of diet to inspector-meat.
The notion that a person who grows a
few tomatoes for his own consumption is a
detriment to the nation could only come
from a Government run on the commit-
tee basis. If I grow a few tomatoes I
am adding to the quantity of foodstuff in
the country. If this produces a decline
in the price of tomatoes I am helping to
make money available for other purposes.
If the Tomato Board’s idea were right,
then it necessarily follows that the fewer
tomatoes there are in the country and
the higher the price the more prosperous
we would all be. The final extension of
this argument would be a single tomato
costing all the money there is in the
country— Lord Luvus (Vic.).
Tasmanian Elections
Perhaps the other States don’t know
it, but we are to have a State election
in Tasmania, It seems that many State
electors don’t know it, either —listen to
this gem from a candidate on the attend-
ance at political meetings: “Possibly the
elections are overshadowed by the wad’
(italics are mine); “whatever the cause, it
is difficult to get some people to discuss
State politics much less to attend meet-
ings, It is one of the tamest political
campaigns in which I have ever been
engaged.”
The worthy candidate’s name is not
given, but obviously he doesn’t realise
that a State Parliament has become super-
fluous and that the electors themselves
are increasingly aware of it. Youth
(Tas.).
Best of All Psychologists
Have just heard that Mr. Evatt, N. S.
Wales Education Minister, is about to
establish a clinic for the treatment of
delinquent children with a psychologist
and psychiatrist in attendance. It sounds
all very modem and progressive, but no
doubt is also very experimental.
I wonder if the Minister ever heard
of the long-tried and very successful
clinic known as the large family. And
what better psychologist ever was than
an understanding mother interested in
her children?— This Fellow (Q.).
Rents and Rales
The Fair Rents Board is a very valu-
able institution, but I imagine that not a
fraction of the cases in which excessive
rent is demanded and paid comes before
it. Here is a suggestion which should
eliminate the necessity for a Fair Rents
Board and further legislation.
Why not proclaim a ratio between the
rent and the rateable value of any pro-
perty, and peg rents at that level for the
duration of the war? Rateable values
are generally assessed in a fair manner;
what could be more reasonable, then,
than to accept that valuation as the yard-
stick of all rents?— Viator (Vic.).
Experts
That sarcastic person Cameron, M.P.,
put his finger on one of the weak points
in our system of government when he
asked Curtin “whether in selecting men
for important posts he acted on the prin-
ciple that the appointee should know
nothing about the job.” It would be inter-
esting to know what percentage of heads
of Government agricultural, financial and
industrial departments have had practical
knowledge of those callings.
Nowhere, however, is the tendency for
the inexpert to override the expert so
blatant and so dangerous as in the
military sphere, two examples of which
were seen lately. One was the reaction
of National Emergency Minister Heffron
and his cohorts to General Blarney’s sug-
gestion that in the light of his Middle
East experience our A.R.P. appeared to
be overdone. The other was the Govern-
ment’s answer to the G.O.C.’s (Home
Forces) remark that “our home forces are
smaller than I would like and training
shall have to make up for lack of
numbers,” The reply was an assurance
to Caucus that consideration was being
given to the question of reducing the
number of home defence permanent men
and to reducing the militia’s period of
training from six to three months. —D.
(Q-).
Education
“Pawang” (B. 8 /10/’4l) raises questions
that are as old as the human mind itself,
and neither the theory that a university
education is essential to success nor the
dictum that it would handicap an original
mind (as one university professor told a
member of my family) settles the issue.
It seems to boil down to the question
of genius as against talent. The fact
that some outstanding men have climbed
to the pinnacle not merely in spite of
but apparently because of the lack of
that expert guidance which Messrs. Lewis
and Myer have bequeathed to aspiring
youth is not to say that theirs should or
could be the universal recipe for suc-
cess. Such men represent a very small
percentage, and if their humble begin-
nings and educational and social handi-
caps are to be regarded as general essen-
tials for success, then out of the huge
welter of poor, aspiring and similarly
handicapped men and women a notice-
able proportion should be seen steadily
mounting their ladders.
But the facts are that to the majority
of intelligent working people the missing
ingredient is just that guidance and
specialised, sifted, up-to-date information
that can be got in its most condensed
form at a university. Of as great value,
perhaps, is the hard mental discipline
which the student undergoes in the course
of his studies, the habit of correlating
what he has learned and setting it down
on paper, the further vistas opened up.
Probably no one more than the suc-
cessful self-made man knows the high
cost in time and effort of finding out by
lone experiment. Such a man happens to
have had the faculty for profiting by
every step and stumble, of capitalising
his opportunities; an important in-
gredient in his success may have been
ability to judge character, or perhaps a
blessed thick-skinned tenacity; he may
have a rare combination of shrewdness,
energy and courage. Such a man can
best work as an untrammelled freelance
with the world as his university, and how
much he might have profited from aca-
demic training is an individual matter.
Yet his own type and history need not
annul the value of such a man’s bequest
to help those who thrive best on inten-
sive study, laboratory work and quiet
research —these are all the better for the
lift of a helping hand in the early stages.
A very effective summing-up is pro-
vided in the story of a self-made man
who founded a flourishing steam-trawl
fishing fleet in my native town in Eng-
land. A product of the dockside slums,
he could not write his name, and earned
a crust pushing a fishbarrow for small
shopkeepers after the fish-quay auctions.
He hoarded his pennies, and when in his
teens got himself some instruction in the
three Rs. He invested the small savings,
bought an interest in a fishing boat, saved
and invested again. Through it all he
never lost his head or got too big for
his boots. But my point is this: He
ensured that his eldest son got all the
education that he himself missed, and
that son acquired a knighthood, sat in
Parliament for many years, and with his
superior training and knowledge helped
to expand the business to proportions
that his father could never have achieved.
—Keel Row (Vic.).
"Let's dump the flamin' stuff. This place has been done already."


Is you car hard
to start ? |
Good, hot sparks are an aid to quick
starting reduce strain on the battery.
Discard worn-out spark plugs. Install
new Champions and enjoy
peppy, responsive engine.
They will soon pay for
themselves in the fuel
they save. Factories,
Feltham, Eng. * !
Windsor, Can. jo*,
Ibledo, USA.
rJjJh
tum
f m
-rijl
arr?
mm
ms
\
CONTAINS SILLMENT
THE MIRACLE MINERAL
Sillment seals
Champions
against trouble-
some leakage,
at the shoulder
and past the cen-
ter electrode,
common to or-
dinary spark
plugs. This
patented fea-
ture corrects
rough, uneven
and wasteful en-
gine operation
caused by leaky,
overheated
spark plugs.
Install new
Champion Spark Pings!
FISHiiM G TACKLE FOR EVEkY NtED
As practical anglers, with complete stocks of tackle, we can supply everything
needed for beach, rock, deep-sea, harbour and river fishing. Call or write
for full particulars ... or for advice about specialised tackle. Prices are
moderate ... and all goods are GDABANTKED by us.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
sd
fs
df
sd
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
10/12/’24
Mr., Mrs. or Miss .
Cut this out and send with your “Wants’" to The Bulletin Service Department.
For local office address, see Page 6.
Wants.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
fo avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Man, 40, would like to hear of opening, self
and small capital, or would provide truck.
Any proposition anywhere considered. —2993.
To buy i-h.p. electric motor, also small
lathe, power or treadle. —3000.
To make contact with anyone in Sydney
willing to coach member of A.I.F. in Morse
during Christmas leave. —2991.
To buy a Phillips Map of the World, pub-
lished some years ago in England.—299B.
To buy “Studio” magazine, April, 1940. Will
pay 55.—3037.
To buy books on bees and beekeeping.—
3041.
To buy Dennis’s Glugs of Gosh. —3043.
Information Sought.
(1) What military forces receive the special
force rates of pay ? (2) What rates are paid
to naval sea-going forces? (3) And to naval
reserves called up for continuous service ?
3033.
(1) In the Army, home-service forces: (a)
Citizen forces called up for full-time duty or
undergoing universal training; ( b ) garrison bat-
talions ; (c) permanent military forces appointed
or enlisting after October 5, 1941. Also A.I.F.
members after embarkation or transfer to
pperational station or after six months’ service
in Australia. In the Air Force, both the
R.A.A.F. serving in Australia and serving over-
seas. (2) and (3) Both receive permanent
force rates.
* * # #
(1) National Emergency Service members in
some N.S.W. districts have been ordered to
stand up when doctors, sisters, supervisors or
assistant supervisors enter the room. What
authority has been given for this order? (2)
Have members a right to know how funds
given by the Government are used or spent ?
(3) What N.E.S. members, if any, are paid in
each district? —2911.
(1) The N.E.S. Department has no official
knowledge of the practice referred to. (2)
Expenditure of moneys on A.R.P. work is
accounted for in accordance with the general
rule applying to public moneys, and any citizen
may peruse the statements laid before Parlia-
ment. (3) The department replies to this that
the N.E.S. is a voluntary organisation.
* ♦ # *
Is there an organised meteorological scheme
providing service for aviation in Australia ?
—2966.
Yes. At the request of the Department of
Civil Aviation the Commonwealth Meteorologi-
cal Bureau has arranged a network of meteoro-
logical facilities for the use of air services.
The organisation is being expanded to meet
the growing needs of air services, and personnel
is being trained in the special application of
meteorology to aviation requirements. Full
forecasting stations are now established at
Darwin, Broome, Perth, Adelaide, Melbourne,
Sydney, Brisbane, Townsville, Port Moresby,
Launceston, Canberra and Hobart. Secondary
stations are in operation at Onslow, Kalgoorlie,
Ceduna, Rockhampton, Cloncurry, Cooktown,
Salamana, Karumba, Groote Eylandt, Daly
Waters and Oodnadatta. A secondary station
will soon be opened at Alice Springs; Rabaul,
Willis Island and Hotham Heights act as
secondary stations. Reporting stations are to
be formed at Nhill, Holbrook and Kempsey
for night flying between the capital cities.
Forecasts over the whole of each air route
section, compiled from observations taken
throughout the Commonwealth, with other in-
formation received from selected stations in the
vicinity of the various air routes, are given by
the meteorological officers when required.
Pilots on regular air services report to the
meteorological officer prior to each flight, and
also on arriving at an aerodrome where a
station is established, thus giving the weather-
man further first-hand information of the con-
ditions of the particular route. Rapid trans-
mission of meteorological observations neces-
sary for aircraft operation is provided by
aeradio stations over the routes of regular air
services.
* * * *
(1) Is the leaning tower of Pisa a com-
paratively modern structure or is it of great
antiquity ? (2) Was the leaning due to the
actual construction or to faulty foundation ?
(3) If the latter, has it completely settled now ?
—3103.
(1) Commenced in 1173 and finished in 1350.
(2) It was intended to stand upright but com-
menced to tip during construction owing to
clay in the soil which gradually gave way on
one side until the round eight-storey marble
building was 16ft. out of the perpendicular
and was 181 ft. on the north side and 179 ft. high
on the south. According to experts it is
still sinking gradually and since 1932 more
than 1000 tons of cement have been injected
into the foundations. The same experts, study-
ing microscopically small movements of the
tower over a period from September, 1934, to
April, 1935, recorded some remarkable obser-
vations. During September, 1934, the tower
moved north, but at the end of the month
moved south. This continued up to the end
of January, when the movements towards the
north started again for a couple of months.
At the same time the tower was persistently
moving eastward.
* * * *
(1) Is there any special way of growing the
Geraldton wax shrub ? I have had three of
them and all have died after two years of
flowering. (2) Can the shrub be propagated
from cuttings? —3oso.
(1) Probably you were too generous with water
and manure. This Westralian evergreen shrub
does best in dry soil which has been well
drained. Animal manures must not be placed
near them, and avoid digging deeply about the
stem-base. In windy areas tie the shrubs firmly
to stakes. (2) Pieces of last year’s wood (which
has flowered) firmed in sandy soil will propa-
gate, but they must not be shifted to the open
garden until the following year.
* * * m
Formula for making Bordeaux mixture ?
3039.
Dissolve l£lb. bluestone in j-gal. of warm
water in an earthenware container, then pour
into a vat containing three gallons of water.
Slake 11b. fresh lime to a paste, mix it into
three gallons of water and strain it through
hessian into the bluestone, stirring vigorously
while mixing. Protect face and hands while
doing the job. It is ready for use in 24 hours.
The Bordeaux mixture will retain its strength if
stored in dark glass bottles and sealed firmly.
♦ * ♦ «
Cause and treatment for (1) feather-eating
and (2) egg-eating by fowls? —3054.
(1) Too much heating food, lack of exercise
and absence of green food start the feather-
eating habit. Segregate offending birds, re-
strict their fo<pd to wheat and pollard and give
green food liberally. For exercise scatter a
little grain in straw or grass to cause them
to scratch. (2) The egg-eating trouble generally
begins with the absence of grit in the pens.
Keep trays filled with coarse sand, crushed sea-
shells and grit, and small pieces of charcoal.
Gather all eggs as soon as laid to stop fowls
attacking them. A few blown shells filled with
mustard is also a corrective. Fowls that do
not respond to treatment should be marketed
or used at the table.
* * * *
Recipe for a home-made axle grease 7 — 2911.
One quart castor oil, one quart linseed oil,
21b. tallow, 21b. resin, lib. beeswax. Heat all
well together and stir till cold. If too hard,
add a little neatsfoot oil; if too soft, a little
more tallow.
* * * m
What is the price of quicksilver per pound,
and where can it be sold? —2923.
H. B. Selby and Co., 244 a George-street,
Sydney, are sometimes buyers of quicksilver if
perfectly clean and in quantities of not less
than 201 b. Price is approximately 17s. a lb.,
depending on weight and quality.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of abo. word “narangy”?—3o34.
Brief Answers.
G.N.J.: Finland, Norway, Sweden and
Switzerland were all represented at the New
York World’s Fair... .P.P.L.: At June 30, 1939,
there were, in addition to the city of Brisbane,
75 country towns in Q’land provided with
water-supply systems (including seven in the
course of construction) constructed by munici-
palities chiefly from Government loans. At the
same date eight cities outside the Metropolitan
area—Bundaberg, Ipswich, Mackay, Mary-
borough, Rockhampton, Toowoomba, Towns-
ville and Warwick —had sewerage works; also
the towns of Charleville and Goondiwindi and
the shires of Paroo (Cunnamulla) and Quilpie.
Some were still under construction at the end
of the year M.G.D.: At the census taken in
1881 there were 670 Europeans in the N.T.
The number increased slowly, reaching a maxi-
mum in 1918 of 3767 persons. At the 1933
census the white population had decreased to
3306, but that number was 34.5 p.c. greater
than the figure for the 1921 census S.R.A.:
The Netherlands, on pre-war figures, had the
largest average wheat return per acre in the
world—4s bushels during 1936-38. The Aus-
tralian average in the same period was 12.24
bushels Palestine is at the bottom of the scale
with something slightly under six bushels per
acre... .R.M.W.: Child endowment is payable
for all children in a family under the age of
16, except one, at the rate of ss. per week
for each eligible child J.X.C.: No. 1 is a
medal commemorating the Silver Jubilee of
George V and Queen Mary. Collector value is
gold content, plus 255. or so. No. 2, five-pound
Piece commemorating Queen Victoria’s Jubilee.
Collector value, £l2 10s. No. 3, Queen Victoria
Jubilee two-pound piece. Collector value, £5.
... .D.S.W.: All those ferry names are aborigi-
nal. The meanings are: Barrenjoey, “a young
kangaroo”; Belubura, “beautiful woman”;
Koompartoo, “a fresh start”; Kareela, “south
wind”; and Kulgoa, “returning” G.D.M.:
area - Ih® British Empire is
13,320,854 sq. miles, about one-fourth of the
world’s habitable land surface... .L.C.8.:
Nothing much better than a mixture of equal
parts of lanoline and cocoa butter, warmed to
blend we 11... .N.P.R: Write to the Society of
Australian Genealogists, 91a Phillip-street, Syd-
ney, giving all possible information R.M.L.:
The Red Cross Handicap, run at Kembla
Grange on October 7, was won by Slam, start-
ing at even money. Casicasado was favorite at
5 to 4 0n... .C.8.T.: “R.R.,” in reference to
a lens, stands for rapid rectilinear; a doublet
lens that has been corrected for distortion of
line, and known also as a “symmetrical” or
“rapid symmetrical lens.” When the two com-
ponents forming the lens are the same in con-
struction, one component or one half of the
lens can generally be used as a single lens of
double the focal length of the complete lens.
....T.T.A.; To prepare lemon sauce to serve
with steamed puddings, wipe a lemon, grate
off the yellow rind and rub it into a table-
spoonful of fine sugar. Melt one ounce of
butter in a saucepan and stir in half an ounce
of flour. Pour in half a pint of water and stir
until boiling. Then add the lemon sugar and
the strained juice of the lemon and cook a
few minutes longer. The yolk of an egg may
be stirred in last... .E.W.T.: There is no such
examination in Victoria. All inspectors are
officials of the department and are appointed
after public advt. on their qualifications. If
you want to go further you must serve an
apprenticeship in boiler engineering H.S.P.:
Names meaning “high” are Bao-lrra, Bolwarra
and Bowral, while Attunga means “a high
place.” Other suitable names are Wanawang,
side of a hill”; Cobbadah, “place on a
hill”; Yuruga, “an extensive view”; and
Coolangatta, “a splendid view.” Taronga also
means “a beautiful view,” but the association
might make it an unsuitable name for a home.
X.Y.Z.: G.P.Os. do not pay pensipns.
Russell-street and Victoria Market post offices
handle them in Melbourne.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused: —
O.Q.: —
We support all efforts patriotic
To pacify a world chaotic;
And though our services are small.
They’re gladly given, one and all.
J.C.: —
The Motherland now involved in war,
And her peoples so devoid of fear,
Her children are so staunch and brave—
This makes the Hun rant and rave.
They are never heartbroken by German damage,
Which further increases the Filhrer’s rage.
M.M.; Don’t “doth”... .J.H. (13): A few
years away yet S.H.G.: The last line, though
almost a clichd, was the best D.H.; At
“Nature’s best” it perished G.P.D.: Your
style’s a hundred years out of date... .M.F.:
Suppose all those dots indicate that the poems
are temporarily in a swoon; but they look
more like measles R.E.E.: We do not like
your rhinoceros D.O’G.: “Come, gentle
breezes, come and play!” Go, gentle wheezes,
go away... .G.W.: Elementary E.T.: Every
time we see a drought poem we send up
a prayer for rain E.J.C.: “Is this too
strong?” Terrible as a mouse P.R.: No
amount of it will make “hope” rhyme with
“throat”....I.M.S.: A woman’s paper should
like them H.B.: Shows imagination, any-
how M.I.V.: Even the editor of Aborigin-
alities has never heard a gum-tree talking
“scandal” J.H.W.: Featherweights C.E.:
Flashes here and there W.B.: Possible pars.
in impossible verse E.W.M.: Your Muse
doesn’t spark too well on blue stew M.M.:
Illustrate it? We could do a little poker-work
on it....O.K.: As soon as he saw the title
of “Swagman’s Last Reverie with His Dog”
the office boy closed his eyes and howled....
K.A.R.: All over the place J.B.B.: The
opening line’s flat as last year’s beer... .C.G.R.:
Send it to the school magazine N.C.: Last
verse disappointing V.M.H.: Just a tinkle.
. ...M.T.: We don’t reprint C.R.H.: Just
as well you’re a realist... .E.C.; The descrip-
tion never comes to life R.N.H.: The horse
should like it very much J.S.: Chopped-up
prose A.E.W.: “Accusation” the best
S.P.H.: The fact that spring follows winter
has been known to poets for some time....
F. : You’ll never fly in here on a “zephyr’s
damask wing” B.F.: Things are rough all
right T.L.S.: Unless you’re going to be
funny, it’s not much use talking to brindlc
cows... .D.M.H.: Next thing you’ll be telling
us that the clouds have a silver lining
P.P.: Sung or spoken it may well have brought
your house down; printed, it would have ours
tottering.... L.P.J.: Slight... .J.A.: Keep at it.
. . . .E.M.B.: “And the dandelions glibly glint
their golden glances round.” Sure they didn’t
gimble? W.J.McK., M.K.H.,
A.W.M., D.G., M.S.B., H.H.W, L.B., M.M.
H.M.O’M., P.H.H.: Missed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.D.F.: Monstrosities....V.S.: Find a friend
with an autograph album and bury the drawing
there... .D.R., W.B.H. and V.N.: Every year
we can count on seeing that same Santa Claus
stuck tight in the same chimney-pot at least
10 times in December H.M.: Horrible
W.D.; Your picture of Curtin as a proud
Ctesar driving the Commonwealth chariot and
quelling his unruly steeds is a trifle too
fanciful... .K.T.: A woeful wheeze... .L.A.S.:
Just microscopic scratchings... .M.St.P. Scor-
field made a much better fist of it a couple of
weeks back S.H.: You’re a dull jester’....
G. The signature is artistic P.J.: That
style of drawing died with the Pharaohs
C.Q.: Try us again in a couple of years.
S.L.B.: Smudged anti-liquor posters in
colored chalks were hurled from the top of
The Bulletin building and last seen floating
to rest on a near-by pub.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors—W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ;M. J. Ryan, Esq.; F. E. Loxton, Esq.;
Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., 0.M.G.; E. E. D. White, Esq.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
s
f v
m
m
ft
v it.
to
Mfc
i
;
gIISIMBEISIIEI
*
4
I 1
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
Manager W. G. Bulfm
SMOKE-OH!
In these modern flats there is hardly
room to swing a tin-opener.
4* 4* 4*
“Jockeys ride hobby horses.” — “Argus.”
Sometimes they ride old goats.
4. 4* 4* 4
“By-laws suggested for the chaining of dogs
at night.”— Suburban paper.
This should evoke howls of protest.
•J*
“Hitler is going down m history as the
‘Madman of Europe.’ ” — “Sun.’
As long as he goes down!
•J* ***
“Actually a stingy person does ‘enjoy his
money.’ He is gleeful over every saved shil-
ling.”—“D.T.”
The happy mean.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Christmas is already taking hold of every-
thing.”—Daily.
Santa Claws.
4. 4. 4« 4*
“The higher man advances in civilisation the
more he owes to his tailor.” — Advt.
Then it’s practically impossible to look
for further progress.
“Women have an acute scent of humor.”
— Woman’s paper.
That explains why they nose into other
people’s business —for the fun they can
get out of it.
•J* *s* *s*
“Hilda stopped in astonishment. Tom was
coming down the street, and he was wearing a
tie and a waistcoat!” — Woman’s paper.
Enough to give any woman pause.
•j* •£•
“The sling is probably the oldest known
weapon of warfare.” — “World’s News.”
Tell that to the wife next time she
thinks it’s smart to sling off at you.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The natives of Mauritius and Malabar re-*
gard bats as edible food.” — “World’s News.”
Even the best of them must be a bit
batty.
“Medical specialist makes more than £40,000
a year.”—News item.
There’s gold in them there ills.
4* •i* 4 1
“Several batsmen would have been out early
but for the errors of fieldsmen who seem unable
to hold a ball dropped right into their hands.
—“Sunday Sun.
Evidently this complaint is not catch-
es* .
“There is a special method of cutting
peaches.”— Woman’s paper.
But who wants to cut the little
darlings?
if 4* •I* 4*
“Some children find history a very indi-
gestible subject.”— Educational magazine.
It is liable to repeat itself.
4* 4* 4« 4*
“Generally speaking, men of 80 are too old
to become fathers.”— Physical Culture Magazine.
However, some are still capable of be-
coming sugar-daddies.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“For Sale, Ayrshire cow, giving milk, two
tons lucerne hay, a grindstone, wheelbarrow,
fuel stove, scythe and rake.” — Advertisement.
A fair cow —a primary producer and a
few secondary industries.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Potatoes sold at £5B 6s. Bd. a ton in Wel-
lington.” — Melbourne “Herald.”
Enough to make them open their eyes.
“Congratulations are extended to Mr. ——-
on his marriage. He has also successfully
overcome an operation for appendicitis.”
—College magazine.
There’s nothing will daunt a really
brave man.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The only difference in Melbourne police
uniforms between the seasons is the wearing of
a white helmet in summer instead of the shiny
black of winter.” — Melbourne “Herald.”
It is reported that a conscientious con-
stable was observed changing his helmet
four times in one day.
Heads Are Wrong.
“Many beautiful heads are spoilt on men
by parting too near the ear, giving the head
an unbalanced appearance.”— Sunday Sun.
I came to the parting and glowered in the
glass,
“Come now,” I cried, “never say
bungle;
You must let her see you re a fellow of
class* 9
So I carved a deep path through the
jungle.
My hair was a model of neatness, iro
doubt.
But my efforts she quickly derided.
“Good heavens!” she said, “do you think
Yd walk out
With a fellow who’s looking lop-
sided ?”
Q.
Rough Ride.
Tommy Noonan was nothing if not
game, for a jockey who has ridden hun-
dreds of winners over the jumps needs
plenty of dash and nerve. Yet today he
had to admit that he was scared.
It had been a perilous fide, and now,
as they approached the turn for home,
he relaxed just a little. There was still
one more obstacle to face, however.
Although she had been well schooled,
this was her first appearance in public,
and it was only Noonan’s quick thinking
that had pulled her out of trouble on
more than one occasion. She was strong-
headed, and at times it had taken all
his ingenuity to handle her. Once out
of the scrimmages, she had passed every-
thing else with ease.
As they rounded the home turn and
approached the last obstacle, the jockey
tensed himself. She didn’t slacken speed,
but went straight at it. There was a
terrific crash.
Noonan sat up and surveyed the dam-
age—a broken windscreen, buckled
radiator and bumper-bars, and smashed
garage doorpost—and swore he’d never
let his wife drive the car again.
PATON.
Down.
/ doubt if men are right in shtating
That whishky — hie—ish elevating.
I’ve shplendid reason — hie —to doubt.
For whishky hash me here flat out!
T. W. N.
Guarding the Garden.
“Lawns should be moving freely now, and
will need feeding.”
—Gardening note in Sunday paper.
Gardeners with valuable lawns which
exhibit a tendency to wander should tie
them down with ropes and pegs. Ropes,
however, should not be made too tight,
as lawns need some exercise at this time
of year.
It will be found that a well-fed lawn
is usually more contented and less in-
clined to stray, and careful attention to
its diet may be all that is necessary. For
a square lawn, three square meals a day
should be ample ; for an oval one rather
more oval meals are necessary. Circular
lawns are the hungriest; conscious of
the fact that their circumferences are
three and one-seventh times their diame-
ters they demand that much more in
proportion.
Not until the midsummer heat renders
it torpid and lazy, and all signs of move-
ment in your lawn have ceased, will it
be safe to relax your vigilance. But
should you come home one day and find
your lawn has grown fractious and is
bucking and pigrooting in an effort to
escape, your best plan is to resolve to
take more water with the last one.
AH ME.
Pants and AIL
“Women are in men’s jobs everywhere.’’
—“Sunday Telegraph.
From manly toil they haven’t flinched
On farm or aerodrome;
And thousands, like my wife, have
pinched
A fellow’s place at home!
P. M.
Announcing!
A GRAND NEW COMPETITION.
. „ . .
The “Sunday Squint takes great
pleasure in announcing a special Quiz
Competition as a new and exciting intelli-
gence test for its great army of readers.
With each answer must be lodged
threepence l as a guaraneCgOt
good faith. The Qur „ reat
free seat at the ]udg; g which
Bronze Goddess Competit ° »
f 'GocMess finalislf through
The city’s principal streets under a
“Those at the back are all right, but Well have to intern YOU.”
thrilling avalanche of ticker tape in
real Broadway fashion. The lovelies
will appeal at the same time for recruits,
so if you win you will be doing your bit
to help win the war.
Here is the Quiz. Bend your wits to
the problem. .
I. —Our next free novel is that brilliant
piece of documentary writing. The Con-
fession of a U-Boat Captain, by
Now, who wrote it?—Clinton X. Blather-
skyte, ace N.Y. columnist; Basil Zonker,
foreign editor of the Devils Bend (Pa.)
Bugle , Irene ott, wmons au o e
of How I Would .
v Z sS” p has as our
raid's 1 s d KS d s ra
authenticity used most in our cables: It
is believed ; it is learned from reliable
sources ; circles close to the President are
said to; it is understood ; authoritative
quarters assert; according to a high
authority whose information is regarded
as sound.
~ 3.—With rival papers cutting into the
film advertising business, it naturally
follows that a bad film may have to be
given a puff. Were this not done one
especial employee of the paper might be
expected to roar. He would be: The
CO p y f, o y ; the head comp. ; the printer;
t he “dogs” editor; the staff artist; the
ac f vert i s i ng manager ; the chief etcher.
—Eclipsing all news items from the
world’s centres this week was something
which could not have escaped you if you
rea d the dispatches from our special com-
missjoner i n the film colony. It was:
Glark Fable announced at a press con-
Terence that his three weeks’ marriage
g| a mor startlet Madeleine Feather-
brane was a failure; May Gusshe ob-
tained her Reno divorce from her ninth
husband, producer Izzy Swankstein;
“Babs” Wurple, of Corps girl fame,
walked off the set because a cameraman
sneezed . Hollywood’s tongues are wag-
. QVer 37_ year . 0 id Canshot Stone s
be - seen at various night clubs with
2g. year , o id tomato-blonde playlet, Car-
Avvaspot>
s_The 5 _ The average reader can thoroughly
digest the news contained in the “Sunday
Squint” with the exception of horse, dog
other sporting results in—3 minutes;
5 minutes 6 nlu.es; 7 minutes; 7*
““-The photo, of one of thess; will
appear m the column Women Who Really
Count” next week: A charity worker at a
cocktail party at Banano’s ; Mrs. Percy
Marcelle in her off-jacaranda candlewick
chenille playsuit on Balm Beach; the
wife of a soldier who is abroad with the
A.I.F. taken with her five children ; Miss
“Dilly” Boogie, who daringly took her
miniature Pekinese to a reception at
Dukes’s.
7—The Canter poll conducted by the
“Sunday Squint” among its countless
thousands of eager women readers de-
cided that the most important war dis-
covery so far made in Australia was that
the W.0.0.F.5. marched with greater
smartness when they were allowed to
wear—lipstick ; rouge ; face powder;
lacquered nails; matching scantees;
wrap-on corsets; high-heeled shoes;
perms; creamed legs instead of stock-
mgs, no corsets.
BO.


That they shall
not go unprepared
into battle
&
'
i
Australia’s Armoured Division re-
ceives from Felt & Textiles Extra
Hard Felt Strips for Bren Gun
Carriers, Felt for Seat Padding,
Wadding for Truck Cabins and
other essential products.
Anzao Troops
in their Bren
Gun Carriers.
Bren Gun Carriers are vital to Australia’s defence
and the equipment of her troops overseas. But, to
construct them, hard felt of a special quality is
required. At the request of the Dept, of Munitions,
Felt & Textiles of Australia Ltd. is now supplying
large quantities of these special felts. Thus, once
again, an Australian Company demonstrates its
readiness and ability to turn from peacetime pro-
duction to the manufacture of requirements of war.
Felt and Textiles
of Australia Limited
261 George Street, Sydney
r.i.i.m.
ABSOLUTELY
SAFE and
f SILENT
LANE'S
GENUINE
NO PRICKING
NO PRIMING NO PUMPING
Hot instantly. Only one fuel
Kerosene. New long life
wool wick. No expensive burn-
ers to replace. See your local store.
B L U E Vf LAM E
KEROSENE STOVE
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Dangerous Nark
A particularly nasty feature of the Aus-
tralian scene is the prominence of the
currency crank. Some of these are honest
but ignorant; some others are neither
honest nor ignorant, but cunning revolu-
tionaries aiming to turn the finances of
Australia into disorder and confusion.
Their objects may be entirely political, and
be based on class “grievances” more than
anything else. But currency chaos would
be a very bad sort of enemy to find
within our shores while we are fighting
this war, Australia’s contribution depend-
ing particularly on its munitions produc-
tion—and production of any kind would
be difficult if a breakdown in financial
organisation occurred. Even if no actual
interference with the currency happens,
the fomenting of unrest among workers
who are no more eager to work out the
truth of currency matters than they
are to learn how to perform a surgical
operation on the human brain is in itself
a retarding factor in the war effort. Nearly
any fool nowadays is prepared to spout
on currency “reform” the same as a few
centuries ago any barber or blacksmith
vyould be prepared to carry out an opera-
tion on a human being. All sorts of
dummy arguments about the marvels of
“credit creation” are built up to delude
the disgruntled. Many of them look all
right, too, until the surface is scratched,
at which they collapse very easily.
Since the last war knowledge on finan-
cial matters throughout the British Em-
pire has grown considerably. Fundamen-
tal principles have not altered, but man-
agement has found that it has had to
temper itself to circumstances. After the
last war it took a depression to convince
Britain that it would have to cut portion
of its war-time losses, and acknowledge
the inflation that had undoubtedly taken
place, by putting a higher price on gold.
It would have been better, of course, to
have prevented the war-time inflation to
start with, as until recently we en-
deavored to do in Australia; but once
it was a done thing the remedy should
have been applied much more promptly.
When war broke out in 1939 most
British countries adopted a policy of
price control, credit control and a “pay-
as-you-go” plan for financing non-produc-
tive war expenditure. In Canada and
Australia this worked excellently, the war
job being done efficiently and faithfully,
with little or no hardship on the indi-
vidual, and inflation of prices was kept
at a particularly low level. Britain,
bombed and blockaded, was not able to
carry out such an ideal plan, but that was
mostly because of the physical difficul-
ties, not the financial. In Germany, too,
financial management has made great
strides since the depression, and these de-
velopments have not been lost to the sight
of British eyes.
In finance no less than in government,
administration is the thing. No system
badly administered will give satisfaction.
Over the last ten years, though Govern-
ment finance in Australia has not been
managed skilfully, largely because of vote-
catching, the service rendered to the pub-
lic by the banking system, including the
Commonwealth Bank, has been far ahead
of the service previously rendered in this
country or elsewhere in the world. Aus-
tralian banks of the larger variety are no
longer mere money-lending institutions ;
politics have intruded so forcibly into
their domain that they have been com-
pelled to study social and economic prob-
lems. There is no comparison between the
service rendered by a trading bank to its
clients and that rendered by the average
Government department.
The currency idealist is a different per-
son from the currency nark. Some of
the principles of the former have been
welded on to the hard, practical experi-
ence of the banker and economist in
recent years and have helped to deal with
the problem of employment. But the
nark blackguards the people he doesn’t
like or agree with and is apt to charge
them with anything from usury and
bribery to theft. His own financial-
world-to-be has the atmosphere of a
seraglio out of the Arabian Nights, and
it is just as much a delusion and a snare.
Federal Cabinet has decided to put the
Newnes-Capertee (N.S.W.) shale-oil un-
dertaking under Government control. A
new managing director is to be appointed,
as well as a “financial officer,” and these
will join the board with E. J. Kenny, the
N. S. Wales Mines Department expert
and Government representative. A third
Commonwealth nominee is K. Butler.
Two of the present members of the direc-
torate will be retired. The Newnes ven-
ture is run by National Oil Pty., founded
by George Davis, with financial assist-
ance from the Commonwealth and N. S.
Wales Governments. Of about £1,300,000
of capital involved, the Commonwealth
Government is up for over £BOO,OOO, in-
cluding a bank guarantee.
♦ * * *
After suspending the Prices Commis-
sioner’s order in regard to tobacco prices
for a month. Senator Keane has seen the
light, and is satisfied that lifts in tobacco
prices since the outbreak of war have
been purely on account of increased
Customs and excise duties. The Senator
pointed out that changes in the prices
of tobacco and cigarettes were covered
by the cost-of-living index and therefore
by the basic wage. The Prices Commis-
sioner has a very ticklish job, and he
comes in for criticism from some people
who have had dealings with him ; others
are perfectly satisfied with their treat-
ment. A matter, however, which is caus-
ing some heartburning is the refusal to
allow “payroll tax” (child-endowment
tax) to be passed on in prices. Basic-
wage increases are passed on, and so is
sales tax, but payroll tax is specifically
a charge on the employer. This
anomalous attitude is emphasised when
it is known that at one stage it was
being debated whether to broaden
the base of the basic wage on a
“notional” family basis irrespective of
whether the wage-recipient was mar-
ried or not, or to supplement wages of
married earners with family endowment.
Anyway, family endowment it was ; and
the ironical part is that, had the basis
of wages as a whole been broadened in-
stead, manufacturers would have been
able to pass on the increase, whereas now
they are subject to a 2\ p.c. tax on wages
that is an inescapable charge against them.
* * * *
Mr. Chifley, who has in the past
expressed the opinion that there can be
no possibility of “any well-ordered pro-
gress in the community under a system in
which there are privately-owned trading
banks which have been established for
the purpose of making profit,” had better
nationalise all the banks immediately and
place them under the special control of
the Apple and Pear Board. This board
should be heart’s delight to those who
believe in a “new order” in banking mat-
ters. It has lost money by the million
ever since it was formed, and it has
industriously destroyed vast quantities of
apples. Its efforts on the whole, how-
ever, have been so effective that, despite
the fact that our British and Continental
markets have been lost to us for exports,
a Granny Smith of fair size and quality
—off the ice—costs 4d. in Sydney.
* * * *
Coming on top of the savage taxation
of private and other companies under
the terms of the Chifley Budget, it is now
announced that the trading banks must
in future “limit” the accommodation
granted to retailers and manufacturers
of goods for civil consumption. “Taxa-
tion, as a general rule, and as far as
possible, should be met, and dividends
paid, from income, and not by means
of new or increased bank accommoda-
tion. It is appreciated that this must
mean sacrifices.” Again the sacrifice is
restricted to one class —the energetic and
thrifty class. Although the restriction ol
bank accommodation is confined, appa-
rently, to manufacturers of civil goods,
which may be desirable in some respects,
this restriction of civil output is being
achieved in a blundering manner. In the
first place taxation on undistributed pro-
fits is colossal, yet banks are asked to
discourage the distribution of profits.
Thus a co. that is not flush with actual
money—and is turned down by the bank
—will be more heavily taxed than a co.
that is able to pass on its profits to
shareholders without having any worry
about having to go to the bank. The
Federal Government has been bleating
about the cost of the concessions it
made under the company taxation
scale, and sneered at the Opposition's
“lack of co-operation.” The whole trouble
is that the Chifley Budget is not based
on co-operation. It calls for heavy sacri-
fices from the industrious few and prac-
tically none from the free-spending many.
* * * *
American notes worth Australian
notice;
According to U.S. Department of Commerce
estimates, salary and wage payments for the
seven months to July 31 were up 20 p.c. on
the same months of 1940. Incomes of business-
men and industrialists rose only 8 p.c. in the
same period, and company dividends lifted
5 p.c. Commenting on the cry that “swollen
profits are piling up in the coffers of business
while Labor is being excluded from a share in
the ‘prosperity’ of the defence programme,”
the “Wall-street Journal” refers to the un-
precedented attendances and receipts at race-
courses, picture-shows, sportsgrounds, etc., and
asks, “Where’s the money coming from? Are
the filthy rich spending like that?”
Mr. Morgenthau says, “We must, as I have
said many times, reduce non-essential Federal
expenditure. We must also appeal for economy
in State and local-government expenditure and
a curtailment of their borrowing for non-
defence purposes.”
On Labor Day week-end “Variety,” journal
of the show business, spoke of the takings as
“terrif,” a “smasheroo,” and “like New Year’s
Eve.” Airlines are turning thousands of travel-
lers away.
Bank deposits and currency outstanding ex-
ceed 74,000 million dollars. This represents
an increase of 35 p.c. over the corresponding
figure of the boom year, 1929. Never before
have the U.S. people possessed so much money.
The war has had much to do with this.
Raw cotton quotations in some cases have
risen to the highest levels since Nov., 1929.
The price is up 100 p.c. compared with a year
ago. '
In the final week of August petroleum pro-
duction of the U.S. exceeded 4,000,000 barrels
a day for the first time on record. The average
for 1918, the last year of the Great War, was
975,000 barrels a day. In 1941 the U.S. will
produce approximately 62 p.c. of the world’s
oil output. In spite of this huge production,
stocks are declining.
The “instalment debt” outstanding —cash-
order and other t.-p. debts —has reached 6000
million dollars for the first time. The total
has almost doubled since 1938. Part of the
lift has been due to a fear that motor-cars will
be hard to get soon, and consequently buying
of these has been exceptional.
President Roosevelt’s second quarterly report
to Congress on lease-lend showed that actual
exports to Britain and other beneficiaries under
the law aggregated only 190 million dollars to
the end of August—mostly agricultural produce.
Aircraft shipments were worth six million
dollars, and tanks and ships two million dollars.
This indeed was apart from “heavy armament
shipments against orders placed before the lease-
lend law was enacted,” but the New York
“Journal of Commerce” says, allowing for this,
“the fact remains that the United States does
not yet fulfil its role as the arsenal of Great
Britain and other nations at war with Germany
to any significant extent.”


NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc.. Insuring with Any
Insurance Company not Registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927,
ALL persons, firms, companies and associa-
tions being owners, trustees or agents for any
goods or property within the Sydney Fire Dis-
trict, and every other Fire District in the State
of New South Wales to which the Fire Brigades
Act, 1909-1927, has been applied, in respect
of which premiums are paid to an insurance
company not registered in the State, are hereby
notified that they are required to send to the
Board of Fire Commissioners of New South
Wales returns showing the amount of such
premiums paid by them in respect of the said
property to such insurance companies during
the year 1941.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1942; subject
to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day for every
day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only of the pro-
portion of the premiums properly chargeable
in respect of the Fire Risk during the time such
property was in any Fire District under the
said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary.
Sydney.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by the
above Act, are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales returns showing
the total amount of the premiums received by
or due to such companies in respect of risks
against fire during the year ending 31st Decem-
ber, 1941, within the Sydney Fire District and
every other Fire District in the State of New
South Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1927, applies; less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of reinsurance
to any other insurance companies contributing
under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1942; sub-
ject to a penalty not exceeding Five pounds
for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required re-
turns may be obtained from the undersigned.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales,
H. M. WEBB,
213 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney,
TIME WORKS CHANGES IN FAMILIES.
Time works changes in family circumstances. It creates problems that only the experi-
enced may be able to foresee. For that reason it is wise to appoint in yotur Will an
experienced and level-headed Executor and Trustee, one upon whose integrity, mental
vigour, and good judgment you can rely; one who will never die.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited, offers you the permanence of a Company, the
collective judgment of many trained minds and an understanding of family financial and
business problems born of 56 years’ experience with thousands of Estates.
That you may understand the Company’s service, ask that we send you a copy of a
book, “Your Executor and Trustee.” It explains the sendee in detail, and tells what it
costs. Write now while you think of it.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS;
T. H. Kelly (Chairman) ; Brigadier the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.;
E. R. Knox; 11. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuehar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others.
Administrator, etc.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THAT WILL CREATE
DELIGHT
and be of real
UTILITY
For a Wedding or
Birthday select a
novel Gift to express
your goodwill
Our china and glass-
wa r e department
abounds with bright
gift ideas that are
truly
PERSONAL
ORIGINAL
and
REASONABLE
Sweet or Fruit Salad Dish oi
finest hand-cut English Crystal
in a very dainty pattern. C /
4|/ 2 in diameter "
A fascinating table decoration of coloured glass
flowers in various pastel shades, mounted on a
solid crystal block. In three sizes.
27/6, 30/-, 63/-.
m
4?
The "Aquaflorium" a very practical novelty
prolongs the freshness of flowers. Colourful
blooms or foliage magnified in this bowl OO /L
are remarkably effective decoration ... w
m
m
m
wm
A new and handsome glass Hors d'oeuvre or Sandwich
Tray a fluted pattern with fancy handle, in I A/ L
emerald or amber colours; 11'/ain diameter .... 1
This is a very handsome English Crystal Salad Bowl with,
deep hand cutting. 7%in diameter, and excellent 07 /L
'alue '
I
Hors d'oeuvre or Relish Dish four frosted glass dishes on a
handsome black glass fray, which has chromium-plated handles
and gallery, and fitted with rubber-domed cushions. It makes a
fine serving tray, while the dishes separately will be found O I /
useful for no end of purposes. Complete, only */ "
CATALOGUE FORWARDED POST FREE ON APPLICATION.
itt&a
Wide, weaker quotations on ’Change,
with few buyers and not many sellers,
followed Japan’s widespread attacks in
the Pacific on Monday morning.
* * * *
“Daily Telegraph” (Consolidated Press,
Sydney) reasoning at its unbeatable best:
Let £ s. d. tell its own story.
Here is a table showing the 1941 reserves
and profits of 14 leading Australian companies:
1941 1941
Reserves. Profit.
A.C.I £3,277,779 £509,306
Australian Paper .. .. 430,289 242,378
Bank of N.S.W 6,379,346 547,123
Adelaide Steamship Co. .. 608,641 180,066
B H Prop. (inc. subsids.) 7,545,287 1,550,214
Colonial Sugar Refin. Co. 8,947,156 1,697,191
Dunlop Rubber .. .. 869,509 459,907
Electrolytic Zinc .. .. 921,883 362,784-
Dr ug Houses of Australia 439,442 194,846
Tooth and Co 1,540,481 809,036
Goldsbrough, Mort .. .. 1,707,323 N 9,658
Bankers and Traders’ Ins. 203,406 27,085
Nestld & Anglo-Swiss Milk 830,760 215,710
Yarra Falls, Ltd 427,939 154,853
Totals £34,129,241 £7,150,157
Out of that total 1941 profit of £7,150,157 the
14 companies paid £5,237,254 in dividends.
We could just about buy a new cruiser of
the Sydney class with the undistributed profits,
which, for these 14 companies in 1941,
amounted to £1,912,903.
Eight of the companies on the list made
bigger profits this year than in 1940.
They should be at the top of the Lord
Mayor’s list.
Why talk about raising the money in a
month when these prosperous companies—
just a few of those which are making great
profits in our war-time boom —have enough
money locked up in reserves to pay for 17
Sydneys at once?
If the cos. mentioned really have a great
surplus of cash, which is not necessarily
indicated, they may well feel in duty
bound to contribute a portion of the funds
belonging to their numerous shareholders
towards a new Sydney, just the same as
other people, especially those who are
carrying little or no direct war-time taxa-
tion, may feel obliged to kick-in with
some of their overtime or other surplus
war earnings. But, never so gently, let us
lead the “Telegraph”back to the sense and
sanity of the world of fact. The money
which it says so emphatically “is locked
up in reserves” and is enough “to pay for
17 Sydneys at once” is in the majority of
cos. quoted already locked up indeed in
plant devoted largely to defence work,
such as shipyards and steelworks, metal
refineries and munitions factories, com-
mandeered merchant vessels, plant for
making drugs and medical supplies for
fighting services, and in looms and
spindles that are so taxed with defence
work that Australians may soon have
to go short of civil requirements. To
turn over these reserves and “pay for 17
Sydneys at once” would be about as prac-
ticable an idea as that of turning the
goodwill and other intangible assets of
Consolidated Press into Bundles for
Britain iihmediately if not sooner.
* * * *
“In the last two months,” said Minister
for Labor Ward, “the Federal Govern-
ment has done more to protect the social
interests of the people than any other
Government, Federal or State. We have
now tremendous powers, and we will use
them.” Mr. Ward had better wake up to
the fact that social security has to give
way to national security during war-time.
Too much preoccupation with the idea
of gaining social advantages over the
other fellow isn’t part of a war-winning
programme.
♦ ♦ # m
Again the Canberra Labor Govern-
ment has given evidence of its lack of
co-operative capacity in the war effort.
Every post is being made a winning-post
from a political point of view. Although
the Government has been most solicitous
seeing to it that even old-age pensioners
are paid a higher pension than before the
war, and making certain that rising living
costs will be reflected in pension rates the
same as in the basic wage, any compens-
sation for rising costs is to be denied to
the landlord, and if the rent he is re-
ceiving is under £4 4s. a week he must
restore the rate to that prevailing in
August, 1939—if he has lifted it since
that time. The new regulations have
been put into immediate effect in N. S.
Wales, and in other States the Federal
Government “hopes that they will soon
operate.” Mr. Ward, Minister for Labor,
says “it is hoped and believed that from
these regulations fair tenants will have
much to hope and fair landlords nothing
to fear.” There are landlords and land-
lords, of course; but Mr. Ward’s ideas of
fairness in this case are mostly humbug
or ignorance. Since war broke out the
cost of living has risen 10 p.c. in Aus-
tralia, and wages have been lifted in sym-
pathy. But any similar compensation
has been deliberately denied to land-
lords by Mr. Ward’s regulations. There
is a sanctimonious, lopsided crudity
about Canberra Labor’s policy of in-
equality of sacrifice and “voluntaryism.”
* * * *
“Despite suggestions to the contrary,”
Montagu Norman is not to retire from
the governorship of the Bank of Eng-
land next year. The “suggestions to
the contrary” arose from a rule made by
the court of the bank itself that no
member should offer himself for re-
election after reaching the age of 70
“unless otherwise requested.” Mr.
Norman has now passed three score and
ten, but, having received the necessary
request, he is to carry on for a twenty-
third term of office. A controversial
figure, Mr. Norman (with his co-
directors) is being joined by another
well-known personality, J. M. Keynes,
in the place of Lord Stamp. The “Times”
approves all round. It points out the
appropriateness of the Keynes appoint-
ment in view of the fact that Keynes’s
compulsory-savings plan is in operation
throughout Great Britain as a war-finance
measure.
* # * *
Defence work has helped to haul back
operations of Howard Auto-Cultivators
on to a profitable basis. Net profit for
last term was £12,800, after providing
for depreciation, compared with a loss
of £16,325 in the preceding year. Last
term depreciation provision was £11,832,
and in the previous £11,254. The
receiver is still in charge of the business,
but is contemplating handing control
back to the board. Sales have about
doubled. The assets of Rotary Hoe Cul-
tivators have been reabsorbed by Howard
Auto, and the other co., it is now pro-
posed, should be given the job of hand-
ling all sales. Howard Auto’s business
was in a bad way before defence orders
started to put new life into the factory.
As it is, shareholders should feel pleased
with result, especially those who had to
pay calls on their contribs. last year when
the fully-paids were down to 7s. The
scrip now stands at 16s. 6d.
* * * *
At the annual meeting of Tableland
Tin (Mt. Garnet, N.Q.) Malcolm New-
man said there was a shortage of 500
tons a year in Australia’s present tin pro-
duction, and by July, 1942, the co.’s No.
2 dredge should have overcome this
shortage. Imported tin was from £4O to
£5O a ton dearer than the Australian
product.
* * ♦ *
Pacific Oil and Gas Co., Ltd., has been
registered in Sydney with a nominal
capital of £250,000 in ss. shares. The
purpose of the company is to develop
potential natural gas and oil areas near
Sydney. First drilling activity will be
on the “Stanwell dome,” between Appin
and Bulli. “Appreciable amounts of
natural gas, suitable as a cheap efficient
substitute for petrol as well as for house-
hold and industrial purposes,” have been
encountered in bores drilled in widely
separated localities of the Sydney district,
the co. says. “These bores, however, are
situated in places, where, owing to the
geological conditions, substantial accu-
mulations could hardly be expected. As
a result of recent geological studies,
several large and attractive structures
have been defined which are situated
close to Sydney and which possess the
necessary accompaniments of natural gas
and oil fields.” Oil Search, Ltd., is to
hire the co. a drilling plant. The public
is being offered 200,000 ss. shares in
Pacific Oil and Gas. To the vendor of
geological data, etc., 40,000 deferred
shares will be issued when the co.
reaches production. There will be a
refund of £2500 in respect of expenditure
incurred by the vendor.


THE SERVICE MAN
War Comes to the Pacific.
“Nobby II”: In the early hours of
Monday (Sydney time), without a de-
claration of war and while the Japanese
negotiators were still at Washington,
Japan attacked its old friend and mentor
the United States and set in motion an
attack on British possessions.
Fortunately the outbreaks had not been
altogether unexpected, and preparations
for defence both by the United States
and British nations were far advanced.
It had previously been announced that
a formidable British squadron, headed
by the 35,000-ton battleship Prince of
Wales, had reached Singapore, and that
the China station, traditional head-
quarters of the British Fleet in the Near
North, had been superseded by a full
command station at Singapore under an
Admiral’s flag. The command was vested
in Admiral Tom Phillips, right-hand man
of the First Lord of the Admiralty,
After further discussions with Admiral
Nomura, the Ambassador, and Mr.
Saburu Kurusu, the special envoy, Presi-
dent Roosevelt addressed a note to Japan
asking why that country was increasing
its land and air forces in Indo-China.
A reply was received promptly. It was
to the effect that the number of Japanese
troops in Indo-China was within the limit
prescribed by the treaty with the Indo-
China Government (40,000); that in-
dependent reports about the numbers had
been grossly exaggerated ; and that the
forces were disposed there to “combat
a threatening concentration of Chinese
formations in the vicinity of Yunnan
Province,” and were so placed as not to
menace Thailand. “As far as we are
concerned, we are always willing to talk
in continuance of our conferences with
the U.S. Government,” said Admiral
Nomura. “After all, we are a friendly
nation.” And Mr. Kurusu said that he
hoped the talks would continue.
British and American information did
not coincide with the Japanese assertions.
The U.S. State Department reported on
Saturday that Japan had 82,000 troops
in southern Indo-China, 25,000 in the
north and 18,000 in Camranh Bay in 21
transports. Camranh Bay is on the east
coast of Indo-China about 800 miles
from Singapore.
At the same time it was ascertained that
two large amphibious Japanese concen-
trations at sea were moving southward
and elsewhere to undisclosed destinations.
On the previous day a serious note had
been struck. U.S.A.-Japanese talks, it
was said, would depend on the answer
to the Cordell Hull Note, insisting that
peace in the Pacific could be based
only on a general acceptance of a policy
of non-aggression.
Some time on Saturday Mr. Roosevelt
revived the procedure which he had
adopted at the time of the bombing of
the gunboat Panay in 1937, He com-
municated direct with the Japanese
Emperor.
By that lime, however, the whole Pacific
was in the throes of preparation for war.
In this country there were special meet-
ings of Ministers and the Advisory War
Cabinet. Leave for the Darwin garrison
was stopped. The North was placed “on
a war footing”— i.e., arrangements were
made by which air and naval forces took
up precautionary defensive positions and
troops were told to be on call. And it
was announced that 1,000,000 gas res-
pirator-containers had been ordered, and
that the Volunteer Defence Corps was to
have a full-time staff of officers.
On Saturday afternoon British Catalinas
and R.A.A.F. Hudsons spotted two
Japanese convoys, including cruisers, in-
side Point Camau, the southernmost
point of Cochin China. The Gulf of
Siam is 300 miles wide from Pt, Camau,
on the east, to the northern part of the
Isthmus of Lagor, in southern Thailand,
The long neck of the Thai-Malay
Peninsula narrows down 40 miles or so
above this into the Isthmus of Kra,
through which the Japanese have several
times sought to cut a canal.
Here the southern peak of Burma
joins Thailand, A little further north
Burmese territory widens till some parts
of it are within sight of the Gulf of Siam.
The Japanese fleet was, therefore, less
than 300 miles from Thai and Burmese
territory. It was moving north-westward
on a course directed towards Thai and
Burmese territory.
Events moved swiftly after that. Burma
already had applied general blackout and
had passed regulations enabling the Gov-
ernment to impose general conscription
“in case of actual or apprehended attack.”
All British troops, sailors and airmen
were on the instant recalled to duty in
Malaya. Foreign nationals were debarred
from leaving Malaya without special
permit. Thailand’s Government put the
country on a war basis.
In the Philippines steps were taken to
remove all but essential civilians from
teeming Manila, and the islands began
to establish a war footing.
In isolated Tientsin the mayor of the
British Concession advised the Chinese
and Japanese that the concession would
shortly be isolated “to deal with un-
desirable elements.”
On Sunday night—time in Sydney is
an hour ahead of Japan—the position did
not seem hopeless. Japanese Radio,
while retailing savagely hostile press
attacks on British and U.S. policy, still
left the impression that negotiation was
possible. It declared that the Foreign
Minister and the Navy Minister would
make statements on Monday morning.
The story of how Japan attacked was
mired in the usual confusion. The first
news of it was given in a statement,
broadcast simultaneously by American
stations and 8.8. C. at 5.45 a.m. Sydney
time on Monday that Hawaii was being
bombed by Japanese aircraft and naval
vessels. This time would correspond to
9.45 a.m. on Sunday in Hawaii. Tokyo
declared that the first attacks came at
7.35 a.m.
In Washington, where the time is five
hours ahead of Hawaii, the Japanese
ambassadors were finishing a very un-
pleasant interview with Mr. Cordell Hull.
While they walked down the steps of
the State Department the bombing
already was in progress.
The bombers had come in over the
U.S. bases which lie on the south side of
Oahu. Oahu is the central island of the
Hawaiian group ; it is shaped exactly like
a bull-chined snapper swimming north-
westward. Honolulu lies on the southern
underside. On the left, looking from the
sea and nestling under the towering
green backbone of hills, is the Pearl
Harbor naval base, with its landlocked
bay. On the other side of the main city
are the military defences at Diamond
Head, on the right looking from the
sea. There are two air bases, Hickman
and Bellairs fields. The force of
bombers which attacked was estimated at
between 80 and 90. It took the defenders
by surprise.
The squadrons, coming in succession,
bombed the aerodromes. They hit an
oil tank. They smashed a barracks.
They set the 1914 battleship Oklahoma,
29,000 tons, 14-inch guns, afire, and dam-
aged four other vessels in the harbor.
Casualties were heavy—the latest report
on Monday afternoon in Sydney gave
580 killed and 300-odd wounded.
About 1300 miles off California’s coast
a U.S. transport was reported sinking.
She was loaded, not with troops, but
with lumber. Then came another report
that a second vessel, 700 miles off the
coast, had been attacked with torpedoes,
seeming to suggest that Japanese sub-
marines had been strung out and wait-
ing in the 2300-mile stretch of ocean
which lies between Hawaii and the
American coast.
Later, Tokyo reported a fierce naval
battle between Japanese and British-
American forces in the Western Pacific.
A New York account was that a Jap air-
craft-carrier and four submarines had
been sunk.
Contemporaneously—that is, allowing
for difference in time —Japan being only
one hour behind Australian time, against
20j hours’ difference between Honolulu
and Sydney—attacks were launched on
American and British possessions in the
Near North. In Shanghai, where the
Japanese quarter is separated from the
main shopping centre of the International
Settlement by the bridge over the narrow
Suchow Creek, it was reported that des-
perate fighting had taken place, and that
Japanese were in possession of the Bund,
which runs along the Whangpoo River
front, all the way up to the old Chinese
City and the French concession. A small
British gunboat lying off the Bund had
been sunk.
Guam, a U.S. naval base which lies
only 40 miles from Saipan, capital of
the Japanese Mandated islands, was said
to be under fire from sea and sky.
From Bangkok there were unconfirmed
statements that bombers had blasted the
city and a naval squadron bombarded it.
Finally Malaya reported assaults on
British possessions there at two points.
One was Kotah Bharu, in Kelantan, on
the east coast. The raiders had a hot
reception. It is a town of 16,000 people,
the terminus of the railway from Bangkok
and about 350 miles from Singapore.
The second was Singapore itself.
Japanese Imperial Headquarters got in
first with its bulletin. At noon (Sydney
time) on Monday it made many claims.
They included “the driving back of
British forces from southern Thailand,
which they were prevented in the nick
of time from seriously invading”(!); a
successful surprise landing in northern
Malaya ; bombing of Hong Kong ; en-
circlement of Guam ; the taking over of
the Shanghai international settlement “in
orderly fashion” ; the sinking of H.M.
gunboat Petrel and the capture of the U.S.
gunboat Wake in the Whangpoo ; bomb-
ing of Singapore and of three points in
the Philippines; taking over of the
British concession at Tientsin and of all
British and American interests in a dozen
ports along the China coast and at
Peking. And it was asserted that heavy
damage had been done in Oahu, and that
at some unspecified point West Virginia,
the crack 31,000-ton battleship of the
U.S. Fleet when it visited Australia in
1925, had been sunk.
The Netherlands East Indies, in com-
mon with Australia, has declared war on
Japan.
Japan did not issue a declaration of
war against Britain and the U.S.A. until
after the attacks had been made, in
circumstances which have never been
matched for barefaced treachery in in-
ternational history. They were so wide-
spread, reaching as they did round a
vast half oval segment, of which the
furthest point at Oahu was 3500 miles
from Japan, that the details must have
been worked out for months.
The expedition to Hawaii, 3500 ; miles
from Yokohama, would have taken a
week to steam there at 20 knots. It must
have been lurking at sea for weeks. No
submarine could have reached U.S. waters
under a fortnight or three weeks at the
best.
Mr. Roosevelt cannot declare war. That
is the prerogative of Congress. Congress
was called together immediately after a
special U.S. Cabinet meeting, but with-
out delay 1,600,000 U.S. soldiers were
ordered into uniform and all naval men
were summoned to Their ships.
In Melbourne the War Cabinet met
and arrangements were made for a War-
Advisory Council meeting. All steps were
taken to put the Commonwealth on a
full war footing.
The Japanese territories nearest to
Australia are in the Marshall Islands,
300 miles from the northmost Ad-
miralty Islands of the New Guinea
Mandate, which some months ago
was included in the Commonwealth de-
fence zone. There is no base —not even
an advanced one —nearer to our actual
coast than Palau, about 1500 miles by
any feasible direct approach. And a
triple screen of defences lies between this
continent and the Japanese Empire, which
is further away from the Australian con-
tinent than Suez is from London. The
Indo-China bases are a matter of 3000
miles from our northern coast by sea ;
by air line Nippon is over 3000 miles
from Arnhem Land across the hump of
New Guinea.
British-American-Dutch defences con-
sist of the powerful ring locking the
gates through the Malay Straits —Malaya,
Dutch E. 1., Darwin, Manila, Hong Kong.
U.S. air bases stretch across the Pacific
from Hawaii to Manila via Midway (550
’planes). Wake (400 ’planes), Guam, in the
very heart of the Japanese mandated
islands and only 40 miles from the Japa-
nese capital of them at Saipan, to the
Philippines.
There is every hope that war may not
touch our soil except in the lightest way,
but that will depend on the extent of the
effort put forward to hasten defence
measures and strengthen the now superb
fighting force which the Commonwealth
has in Malaya representing every branch
of the services.
Parramatta and Sydney.
“Nobby II”: December 1 will be re-
membered in the ports of the Common-
wealth as the beginning of the worst week
of mourning the R.A.N. has known in
its splendid history. It brought the an-
nouncement that H.M.A.S. Sydney had
been sunk. Next day came news of the
loss of H.M.A.S. Parramatta, 1060 tons.
H.M.A.S. Parramatta was all-Austra-
lian. Built at Cockatoo Dock, Sydney
Harbor, she carried a complement of 161,
of whom 141, including all her officers,
are missing and believed killed. Her
commanding office-, was Acting Com-
mander J. H. Walker, M.V.0., D.S.C.,
a Victorian, educated at Jervis Bay.
Parramatta was engaged in the work
for which she was designed —patrol,
escort, minesweeping. She had weathered
the trying days of June, rescuing survivors
from bombed vessels. Once she saved
200 lives and brought down three enemy
’planes. In the first year after Parra-
matta was commissioned —March, 1940-
41 —she voyaged 50,000 miles. The Com-
monwealth had full value for the expen-
diture upon her. But the loss of so many
gallant seamen, coming on top of the
loss of Sydney, was a cruel blow.
H.M.A.S. Sydney was last heard of
patrolling the steamer ?oute 300 miles
west of Carnarvon (W.A.).
On November 25 new's reached Car-
narvon that two boats wim about 80
sailors were landing, and about 8 a.ra. a
squadron of R.A.A.F. bombers arrived.
A grazing homestead 53 miles north of
the town-then reported that 103 Ger-
mans had been captured: 46 had come
ashore on a beach 17 miles north of the
station on the morning of November 24 ;
the other 57 had landed about 15 miles
further away. About 20 were suffering
from shrapnel wounds and burns. An-
other 31 were picked up at sea on the
evening of November 24 by a coastal
vessel. Another ship towed in two boats
with 62 Germans, and others subsequently
turned up. In all 291 German sailors
and three Chinese were rescued.
Ships, trawlers and flying-boats scoured
the sea, but there was no sign of Sydney
or any other ship otherwise unaccounted
for. One R.A.N. lifebelt was found (but
that is a common find), also one British
Carley float and one German float. These
might easily have been blown off a
ship by gunblast.
The stories told by the German sailors
were contradictory in many particulars.
Basically they came to a statement that
Sydney had sunk their raider, the Kor-
moran —formerly Steiermark —and had
disappeared, burning, in the night.
Kormoran had a speed of 18 knots and
a crew of 400, against Sydney’s 32 knots
and crew of 645. Of 9400 tons, she car-
ried six 5.9-inch guns, two aircraft and
torpedo tubes above and below water.
She had begun operations near the Cape
Verde Islands in December, 1940, and,
finding her way to the Indian Ocean, had
sunk the Greek ship Anthonis (3229 tons),
the British tanker Union (6987 tons) and
the Afric Star (11,900 tons). With another
raider she destroyed the Eurylochus
(5723 tons), met the tanker Nordmark,
refuelled and transferred the prisoners.
The Kormoran now made for the S.
Atlantic. The Agnita (3552 tons) and
Craftsman (8022 tons) were sunk during
the first fortnight in April. There was
a hiatus of 2\ months in sinkings, during
which the vessel transferred her prowl-
ings to the Indian Ocean, apparently dur-
ing May.
On June 26 the Velebit (4153 tons) was
sunk, also the Australian Mareeba (3472
tons), somewhere between Ceylon and
Sumatra. The Mareeba had a crew of
48 ; there is some reason to believe that
they are prisoners of war.
After these daring attacks the Kor-
moran disappeared till September 26;
then she sank a 4000-ton Greek ship,
Stamatios G. Embiricos. Again she dis-
appeared off the sea for two months.
Then came the tragedy of the Sydney.
Mr. Curtin gave the facts as they were
pieced together from prisoners’ accounts
—he warned that they might not be
reliable.
An encounter with H.M.A.S. Sydney
had taken place 300 miles west of Car-
narvon shortly before dusk on a day not
named:
In the absence of direct evidence it can
only be assumed that some factor prevented
the Sydney making use of her aircraft for
reconnaissance from a distance. With dusk
falling, Sydney had to close in on the
suspect to establish identity. She did this
cleared for action. As soon as the raider
was convinced that her identity would be-
come known she opened fire simultaneously
with the first salvo from the Sydney. The
raider’s first salvo struck Sydney full on
the bridge and put her at a temporary but
vital disadvantage. In addition to doing
grave damage to the central control the
salvo started a fire which lasted throughout
the action. Sydney closed the range immedi-
ately and fought fiercely, probably with
independent firing. She was soon on fire
amidships as the result of another salvo
from the raider. She had, however,
crippled the enemy by a direct hit in the
engine-room and set her heavily on fire also.
By this time it was dark and the enemy
ceased fire and abandoned the raider, which
presently blew up.
From their boats the Germans watched
the Sydney disappear over the horizon. She
then appeared on fire amidships. That
was the last seen of her. The prisoners
claimed that a number of torpedoes were
fired. It was not known whether any of
these struck. It was possible that the fires
on the Sydney destroyed her boats and
floats, which were housed amidships. It
has been assumed that these were destroyed.
There is nothing in evidence to point
to the Sydney having been blown up. The
last evidence of her was her disappear-


ance, still afloat, over the horizon. The
search for her has been long and wide.
It has produced nothing but two empty
lifebelts and a Carley float damaged by gun-
fire.
All the information, coming as it did
from the enemy, must be suspect. Especi-
ally as enemy statements and known
facts reek with suspicion.
In the first place the action seems to
have taken place in the cold current which
sweeps round to join the equatorial cur-
rent. A narrow belt of warm current
runs nearer the Westralian coast. Both
run at about H m.p.h., and the outer
one makes north and then north-west-
ward towards Africa.
The most detailed accounts came from
prisoners on a liner which was said to
have picked them up at dawn on Novem-
ber 23. Some said the battle had been
on November 19, others on November
22 ; but none of the survivors had beards,
which suggested the later date as accu-
rate. This lot of Germans was dis-
covered about 6 a.m. on November 23
about 250 miles from Fremantle. They
were on a raft, whose rubber sides were
only nine inches clear of the water and
round which several large sharks were
swimming. The sea was so rough that a
boat could not be launched. Yet, accord-
ing to one account, these Germans had
voyaged 400 miles or so from the alleged
scene of the disaster in 84 hours, and that
against the current; according to an-
other, about the same distance in about
12 hours! And the boats which landed
north of Carnarvon had travelled over
300 miles eastward across the two cur-
rents and negotiated the reefs in the
interval between the disaster and the
morning of November 24.
The time factor is not the only mysteri-
ous one. The men taken by the liner
told a story different from the one
accepted officially. One man, who
claimed to have been on the raider’s
torpedo tubes, said that Sydney had come
up alongside firing all her guns; that tor-
pedoes were fired at her and that, with
two big fires and one little one amid-
ships, the cruiser turned away.
It is difficult to believe that the war-
wise complement of so fast a warship,
with guns laid on such a mark as a
10,000-ton freighter, would be likely to
allow a raider to get in first shots. Even
if it were dark her searchlights and
every glass on the ship would be focused
on the raider.
The normal procedure of a cruiser
stopping a ship for inspection would be
to order —by signal and/or gunfire—the
merchant ship to heave-to. The cruiser
would then approach within a certain
distance, her bows pointing toward the
merchant vessel to present the smallest
possible mark, her fore turrets trained
on the merchant vessel, the guns ready
to fire at a finger-touch. Her captain
probably would order the merchantman
to send a boat with ship’s papers and
would expect prompt obedience to the
order. Every inch of the merchant ship
would be inspected, particular inspection
being given to anything upright or likely
to be a rangefinder or concealed gun.
In all merchant auxiliaries guns of
any size must be mounted on well-decks.
These would be visible from the Sydney’s
tops at half a mile. It would be neces-
sary for bulwarks to be dropped before
the guns could be trained and fired at
any appreciable range, and training of
guns from such a position on a hove-to
ship in even a mild sea is not very easy.
No cruiser so superior in fighting
weight, readiness for instant action and
speed has ever been destroyed before by
a converted merchantman.
The Sydney’s captain was a cautious,
highly-trained man who liked everything
shipshape about him and who was
meticulous in the performance of his
duty. He was the last man to be caught
napping. And the same applies to his
warwise officers and men.
The lack of wreckage is unusual.
Perhaps the state of the ocean was re-
sponsible, as the winds might have been
responsible for the swift movement of
the rescued Germans —if it was so swift.
It is all to the interest of the Ger-
mans to deceive their captors to the limit,
and the incentive is a double one if there
was another warship, German or Japanese,
about. There have been several reports
from American and one from Japanese
sources that Hitler’s 35,000-ton Tirpitz,
sister to the Bismarck, had reached the
Pacific. Also there was a report from
Associated Press of America that the Kor-
moran had been accompanied at one
time by a pocket battleship with 11-inch
guns which sank the British freighter
Eurylochus on January 29 off Freetown,
West Africa.
German raiders which have reached
this side of the world usually have acted
in coveys. And Sydney’s captain, if
he suspected the presence of another ship
or ships, might not have signalled the
news of his engagement until he had
developed the situation to his satisfac-
tion, especially if he believed the other
vessel to be superior metal.
Sydney apparently was still fightable
at the end of the encounter with the
Kormoran. She seems to have been
under way. There is no report as to
how long it took for her to “disappear.”
She might have had a second engage-
ment some hours later with something
too heavy for her to handle in her partly
disabled condition. Or she might have
been mortally stricken in a previous en-
counter and with a last supreme effort
sank the Kormoran.
One thing is very certain. She would
not have left the scene, save for reasons
of grave urgency, without attempting to
rescue some of her beaten enemies. To
do so would have been completely against
British tradition and inclination.
The Crossroads in Libya.
“Ek Dum”: The position in the Libyan
campaign took an unfavorable turn after
the Tobruk garrison linked up with the
Maorilanders below Sidi Rezegh.
On December 1 German forces broke
through the British communications with
Tobruk, in effect a corridor 10 miles
wide. The gap was driven through at
Zaaran, on the coastal belt below the
escarpment, seven miles north of Sidi
Rezegh. Sidi Rezegh itself and the strong
point at Bir el Hamed were recaptured
by the Germans, who succeeded in uniting
their two divided Panzer divisions.
The German attacks constituted a full-
scale battle into which General Rommel
flung his whole weight. Maorilanders
took the brunt. They fought grandly,
as they always do, and inflicted heavy
losses, but Major-General Freyberg, V.C.,
their G.0.C., admitted that their own
losses were severe.
The Germans claimed that the opera-
tions were developing favorably for the
German and Italian troops ; that British,
not Axis, formations were encircled ; that
Brigadier Reginald Miles, a Maoriland
artillery divisional commander, and
Brigadier J. Hargest, of the sth N.Z.
Infantry Brigade, had been captured ; and
that in the whole of the fighting 9000
British prisoners had been taken, 814
British tanks captured or destroyed and
127 British aircraft shot down.
At that stage the whole of the battle
area from the enemy positions on the
Libyan border to the Tobruk line had
been a fluid paddock full of formations
and units, in which either side was free
to wander until it met the enemy. The
battle paddock is roughly an area equal
to that from Sydney to the Blue Moun-
tains as far south as Bulli Pass.
For four days the struggle for
supremacy over the crucial Tobruk lines
was fierce and unceasing. It was suc-
ceeded by a lull, during which, it was
announced that, though British mobile
units were still active, Empire divisions
were being reinforced and reformed for
a determined counter-attack to drive the
Germans from the Tobruk corridor and
re-establish communications.
Attempts by the enemy to reinforce and
supply their armies from the sea met
with decided setbacks. On December 3
Captain Agnew, in command of a R.N.
squadron, reported the destruction of a
German tanker, an ammunition ship and
an escorting Italian destroyer, and a
Greek submarine bagged a supply ship
off Crete.
The Germans, however, declared that
they had surrounded the bulk of the
Maoriland division, part of the men being
“captured” and the rest “wiped out,” on
Dec. 1 and 2.
Rain fell on Dec. 3, except on the
roads, and unfortunately the Trigh-
Capuzzo highway, out of range of naval
guns, is open to the enemy west of Sidi
Rezegh, and perhaps east of it. Also, the
huge concentration of tank power avail-
able to the enemy placed him in a
formidable position. Despite water
shortage his strongholds in the Sidi Omar-
Sollum region along the Libyan border
are turning out tough nuts to crack.
Indeed, the course of the campaign shows
how mad were those people who have
been urging that Tommies should cross
the Channel somehow and crack the Ger-
man defence lines in France or the Low-
lands, which are covered by land artillery
up to 15 inchers, and could be strength-
ened with ease.
By Dec. 6 the opposing armies had re-
gained their breath. The bulk of the
remaining German-Italian tank forces
were marshalled along a defence line
about 35 miles long, from the El Gubbi
oasis to the Tobruk lines, across the
escarpment and the Trigh-Capuzzo road,
much of it tucked well into the strongest
part of the Tobruk attack perimeter n.-w.
of El Adem.
The arrays flung themselves headlong
at each other and, in further advanced
positions in the main, the melees of the
previous week were repeated.
S. Africans picked up 100 enemy
vehicles with a couple of tanks four
miles from El Gubbi on the south,
knocked out a tank and forced the rest
to withdraw. North of the oasis Indian
troops were engaged, and patrols in the
Maoriland sector north of the escarp-
ment were penetrating enemy territory
and destroying vehicles. On Dec. 7
general clashes were occurring, with
heavy casualties, and the R.N., west of
Tobruk, was blasting the coastal road.
R.A.A.F. ’planes were engaged on
Saturday and their Tomahawks and Hur-
ricanes wrought great havoc among the
dive-bombers as their bombers did to
enemy ports. C. R. Caldwell, the
Olympic hurdler, was credited with pick-
ing them out of the sky at the rate of
one a minute for a time.
In spite of newspaper carpers, whose
tails go down very easily, the general
situation is by no means unsatisfactory.
Its decisive stage has yet to be reached.
Heavy fighting is still to come, but the
initiative is with the British.
Unbalanced reporting masks the fact
that General Rommel has an attack army
comparable in strength to that of General
von Kleist at Rostov —a Panzer group
of three divisions and a supporting attack
army. To that force the British Eighth
Army has done as much damage as the
Russians have done to Von Kleist’s for-
mations, treating Russian claims on an
optimistic basis. It pushed the Ger-
man Libyan main front back in a week
further than Timoshenko pushed his Ger-
mans. It has completely isolated the
German-Italian screening positions on
the Bardia-El Omar line. It used the
tin-opener successfully on a fortress, com-
manded by strongly fortified confining
lines, and which had been besieged since
April. The enemy tank divisions were
using the siege positions as a lair.
Though its route was dominated from
an escarpment, the Eighth Army secured
a strong position on the enemy left flank
and has kept it in its hands. It holds the
bulk of the eastern escarpment and has
command of the air. The country which
our soldiers overran was full of prepared
bases.
It is about time somebody said a word
for our own generalship and gallantry
which, on the Libyan performance so
far, heartily deserves it.
On the Russian Front.
“Ek Dum”: The great fact about the
Russian effort, especially the stout defence
of the two great cities, is that it is using
up German men and material and wip-
ing out German aircraft which otherwise
might be employed desperately against
Libya and Britain and British shipping
and ports.
So long as Russia can keep fighting, so
long are the Russian armies doing a vital
part of the job of wearing down the
German armies and sapping German
morale. But this is not enough for daily-
press oracles, who seem ever ready to
proclaim the worst about their own
generals on the slightest pretext.
The Rostov drive is held up as a major
operation which might prove the undoing
of Germany. It is useful and extremely
welcome, but it is not that momentous.
The facts seem to be that General von
Kleist’s Tank Army, which is not a main
force, rolled, at its third attempt, into
Rostov, Marshal Timoshenko found a
weak spot further north in the Italo-
Hungarian sector and drove into it. Von
Kleist then drew back his army along a
narrow front. He retired his main body
at the rate of about eight miles a day.
If there had been a rout there would
have been a German withdrawal on a
much wider front than has been the case,
and a swift protective readjustment of
the position in the Crimea.
At the end of the week the Russian
9th Army was reported to be cutting up
the remnants of the German rearguard,
and had hoisted the Red Flag in Tagan-
rog, 40-odd miles from Rostov. The
Germans, it was said, were digging in at
Mariupol, 50 miles further west, with
their communications threatened from the
north. On December 4 Timoshenko was
credited with having launched another
attack further north on Kharkov across
the Donetz. Unfortunately none of these
movements seems to have prevented the
intensification of the German efforts
against Moscow. In that region, on a
250-mile arc round the city, fighting con-
tinued throughout the week on the
bloodiest scale.
Marshal von Bock’s first cardinal
operation was to push his northern horn
above the city to Dmitrov, on the Stalin
Canal, 45 miles east of Klin. That end
of the arc was then almost due north of
Tula, the extremely easterly point of
penetration south of the city. The half-
circle round the capital was then com-
plete.
The task of advancing the segment was
taken in hand at the starting point of all
the groups of operations which the
enemy has achieved—a strong drive in-
wards from Nasry Fuminsk, on the
Bryansk railway, 38 miles from the heart
of the capital, towards the main Moscow-
Smolensk road, which runs a little to the
north. While attempts to push this home
were being made there were confused and
bloody engagements over most of the
250-mile half-ring round the city.
On Saturday the German High Com-
mand announced that the Russian ad-
vance from Rostov had been halted and
that “the world would now learn the
true value of this supposed victory.” On
Saturday night the Russians admitted the
arrival of German reinforcements in the
area. On Sunday they announced that
the Germans had begun a new offensive,
designed to retake Rostov at any cost.
Moscow’s position became more serious
on Saturday. It was admitted that Panzer
divisions had thrown themselves astride
the main road between Tula and the
capital, and that, to the south-west, spear-
heads had been driven into the defences
within a few miles of the inner ring of
the western Moscow defences. Russian
Radio announced early on Monday
morning that the Red Army was vigor-
ously counter-attacking on all fronts and
that the enemy was making no progress
save on the Tula front.
The Finns, now at war with the Em-
pire, have regained their port of Hango,
the Russian defenders having been with-
drawn with no great loss.
In the last fortnight the war has taken
a heavy toll of fighting men of three
Dominions: Australia has lost 786 naval
seamen, and South African and Maori-
land soldiers .have suffered severely in
Libya. So far the fortune of war has
spared Canadian soldiers, though not
Canadian seaman or airmen. Canadians
were the Old Diggers’ stout battle-
companions on August 8, 1918, and veter-
ans of Germany’s Black Day realise how
the Canadian soldier must be fretting to
be in action.
* * * *
Under German direction the Italians in
Libya have fought surprisingly well, but
left to themselves they have never given
much trouble anywhere. A charitable
supposition is that, in that situation, their
hearts are not in the war. It was believed
that they had made an exceptional stand
in Gondar, Abyssinia, but Nairobi cruelly
dismissed Axis propaganda to the effect
that the garrison had “fought for six
months against overwhelming numerical
odds” as nonsense. When the weather
permitted a serious assault on the very
strong position the defenders were over-
come “in about 14 days’ preliminary
operations and one day’s full operations,”
and that by less than half their numbers.
And they were surprisingly numerous —
11,500 Italians and 12,000 native troops,
who had 50 guns.
* * * *
Chester Wilmot, of the A.B.C. field
unit, has been knocked in Libya, though
not badly, and when last heard of was
in a Cairo hospital. Wilmot, a Melbourne
University man who was trained for the
law, has done a very good job for A.8.C.,
and if it was he who suggested the talks
of soldiers, airmen and nurses which have
come over the air for months, and which
have brightened thousands of Australian
homes, it was an inspiration. A.B.C. has
done nothing better.
* * * *
In a big raid on Hamburg (November
30) 15 British bombers were brought
down. According to one account the
German port, which suffered severely in
previous raids, has greatly improved its
anti-aircraft defences, one feature of
which is “a new system of sky lighting,
which, aided by bright moonlight, made
the conditions almost like day.” Very
interesting reading for “Blackout” Heff-
ron, the terror of Sydney and suburbs,
town and country.
* * * *
Introducing Britain’s Man- and
Woman-power Bill, the P.M. said;
“We must prepare for the expan-
sion of the R.A.F. in 1942, and for
far greater expansion in 1943.” And
“continuous growth of the Royal Navy”
has also to be provided for, inasmuch as
“great numbers of warships of all kinds
are steadily coming into service.” That
is particularly good news, and the arrival
of a great squadron, including two battle-
ships, at Singapore shows that it was
no idle boast.


food flavour ..
with new-style efficiency..
. when' you cook with an AGA
It wasn’t much fun . . . cooking in the
good old days . . . too grimy, too tiring,
too wasteful of fuel for modern tastes.
But what delicious flavour old-time
cookery gave!
You can j) repare delicious old-time meals
without hours of drudgery in a hot
kitchen simply by installing the most
efficient, economical, easiest-to-use cooker
ever invented ... a beautiful, modern, in-
sulated AGA. The AGA Cooker burns
continuously. Hot plates and ovens are
instantly ready for scientific flavour-
retaining cooking ~. fast or slow ... by
STOKED heat.
An AGA Cooker requires very little atten-
tion. A rub with a damp cloth keeps its
beautiful, vitreous-enamelled surface clean
as a china plate. And the AGA’s insula-
tion keeps the kitchen cool.
(.RX.OD TRADE MARK)
JAtOmmljkatSioraM
COOKER
MAOt IN SRI TAIN
LEVIN & CO., LTD.,
Est. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
433 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
and at Wellington, N.Z.
The AGA is almost unbelievably
economical. Tor instance, fuel cost of the
AGA Model C (illustrated) for city or
country homes is guaranteed to be less
than £S in a whole year (with coke at
30/- per ton) in the city. (Freight in-
creases price in country, but annual con-
sumption is so low that amazing economy
is possible anywhere in Australia.)
Now, let us show you an AGA Cooker, or
if you cannot call, write for illustrated
AGA Catalogue R. 13.
I —o
S.A. Agents: Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd.. Hobart.
Agent for Western Australia: Malloch Bros., Ltd., Perth.
Agent for Queensland: Queensland Primary Producers’
Co-operative Association, Ltd., Brisbane.
7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
■ ■ B
S 3
m
Established 1808 in Keign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD,
{England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensla:d Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Wayinouth Street, Auemnie.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
Dyed-in-the-wool addicts consider
“Princess Ida” one of Gilbert’s lesser
and Sullivan’s greater spasms, but the
audience at Sydney Royal evidently con-
sidered it worth the money. Viola
Wilson shone as Princess Ida, and
although Ivan Menzies made a brief
appearance as the physically and mentally
crippled King Gama he riveted attention.
John Fullard, Max Oldaker and Gregory
Stroud, as the three who invade the girls’
school, clowned and sang capably, their
portion of the second act bringing down
the house. The rest of the cast threw
plenty of enthusiasm and tune into their
parts and received good backing from the
choruses. The piece deserved the laughter
and applause it got, though critics might
have found odd bits wanting, such as the
occasional squeaks from the strings. But
then shows aren’t specially made for
critics.
* * * #
The Kirsova ballet is still holding the
8.30 session at Sydney Minerva. “Faust”
and “Les Matelots” give way today to
“Les Sylphides,” “Les Matelots” and
“Vieux Paris.”
* * * *
Final orchestral concert of Sydney
Con.’s 1941 season was devoted to two
great works of Dvorak, the Stabat Mater
and the “New World” Symphony. Though
a distinguished English critic now resi-
dent in Australia could find no better
adjective for the devotional work than
“lugubrious,” and professed himself too
exhausted to listen to the Symphony, the
decision to perform them does not need
defending. They have withstood 50 years
or so of currency and have won very
widespread affection. The impression
made by the Stabat Mater, published in
1883, was so pronounced that by 1887 a
Maoriland choirmaster (ignorant that
Stabat Maters should be saucy and lively)
was introducing the work to his choristers
and prophesying great things for the then
not-very-well-known Bohemian composer,
The c on ’ s performance of the choral
] a hold G f S pj r it jf it some-
John Fullard, Ivan Menzies and Max
Oldaker in “Princess Ida,” at Sydney
Royal, and —
times transgressed the letter. The solo-
sists, Mary Thomas, Alice Prowse,
Ronald Dowd and (especially) basso
Stanley Clarkson, sang with intelligence
and reverence, choruses were admirable
and orchestral backing excellent.
The “New World” Symphony also was
given a good performance, conductor
Edgar Bainton appearing to be more in
sympathy with Dvorak than with most
other composers who have figured in this
year’s concerts.
* * * •
Emlyn Williams has just missed writ-
ing a fine play in “He Was Born Gay,”
Adelaide Repertory’s tenth and final
offering for the season (each for three
crowded nights in the big Tivoli). Did
Louis XVl’s little son really die in
prison or escape and grow up in Eng-
land? On the latter legend, we have a
snobbish English family, at Waterloo
time, boosting an obvious impostor,
while in the house as music-master is the
real prince. There is one great curtain,
when; as the genuine is about to expose
the false, “His Majesty the King of
France” is announced —and enter a com-
plete stranger. But this is “curtain” only.
The new arrival just comes from the
actual new Louis XVIII, who can’t afford
to have a Louis XVII living, even across
the Channel, and thus desires him to take
poison; which he does, leaving two
women who loved him to utter the futile
epitaph that he was Born Gay. The
suicide, on top of a comedy, seems to be
the reason for the mixture being a flop
in London. It was finely played by the
three claimants, Maxwell Dunn, Peterson
(producer also) and Robert Matthews ;
with a very strong feminine contingent,
Mrs. Campbell, Mimi Mattin, Florence
Brown, Beryl Kook and Lois Dickson.
* * * *
“By Candle Light,” by Siegfried Geyer,
has replaced “Susan and God” at the
Comedy, Melbourne, after the latter play
had established a new Australian
duration record. The new opus is light
Viennese pastry, and if there are any
vitamins in it the present commentator
missed them. Still, Claude Flemming, as
the baron who acts as his own valet, is
such an admirable actor that he some-
times almost seems to be saying some-
thing extraordinarily witty; and Betty
—Peggy Shea and Gregory Stroud.
Welch, the girl from Maoriland, looks
extremely attractive in spite of her strange
make-up, and would probably prove her-
self a fine actress in a part that wasn’t
purely flour and water. John McCallum
is the valet who impersonates his master
and entertains his ladies, and Frank
Bradley makes a brief appearance as an
incredible count afflicted with incompre-
hensible emotions.
* * * •
“We’re in the Navy Now” is Mel-
bourne Tiv.’s latest gift to the nation. It
is a bright and breezy show with plenty
of A.Bs., male and female, in it. Joe
Lawman’s jokes must have just come out
of dock—there isn’t a barnacle on them.
* * » *
The Old Grammarians’ Dram. Soc.
had a shot at Harrison Owen’s “Dr. Pyg-
malion” at the National Theatre, Mel-
bourne, last week. The one-time Bulle-
tin contributor’s effervescing comedy was
done professionally in Melbourne 10
years ago, after it had had a success in
London. The Old Grammarians did it
justice. Producer Lucy Ahon followed
precedent carefully, and the cast was
adequate.
ARTBURSTS
An exhibition of photographs of life
in Russia, sponsored by the Australian
Society for Cultural Relations with the
Soviet Union, turns out to be much the
same collection that was hung at the
National Gallery in Melbourne a year
or so before the present conflict turned
international relations of all sorts topsy-
turvy. There are portraits of Stalin,
Kravetz, a notable steel smelter, Gormov
(Soviet hero), Litvinov and Voroshilov ;
of smiling peasants, soldiers, Tartars,
bear hunters, athletes, male and female ;
guns, aeroplanes and warships. The
exhibition no more gives a real picture
of Russia than the pictorial sections of
the Melbourne dailies give a real picture
of Australia, and a year or so ago its
organisers would have had difficulty in
getting accommodation for it. But such
are the vicissitudes of war that it is
enjoying the hospitality of the Athenaeum,
Melbourne.
* * * *
A show at the Education Department’s
Gallery, Sydney, of the work of diploma
students of the East Sydney Technical
College’s art department is a depressing
affair. Students in the life classes seem
to concentrate with terrible realism on
the anatomical peculiarities of models.
The oil technique is not impressive.
Applied art, as always, is much more
cheering to look at. There are some good
sample decorative designs, but nowhere
any evidence of an original outlook.
The sculpture, when not Epsteinian, is
trite.
AT THE TALKIES
John Barrymore seems to be giving his
declining years to lashing at some of his
pet aversions. A short while ago he
ripped into himself in “The Great Pro-
file,” and his latest, “World Premiere,”
at Sydney Prince Edward, is a choice
satire on the whole Hollywood merry-
go-round. The story is as insane as it
needs to be, and the laughs come thick
and fast. “Magic in Music,” on the same
bill, is a pleasant musical with Alan
Jones and Susanna Foster, some nice
singing and a novelty operatic number.
* * * *
“Wild Geese Calling,” at Sydney May-
fair : Henry Fonda is the romantic young
fellow who feels the urge to move on
every time the geese fly over; Joan
Bennett is the dance-hall wench he mar-
ries ; Warren William is the smooth
gentleman who likes to have Fonda in
on all his deals. A rather slow-moving
story is built up around the fact that the
Bennett and William were treading the
primrose path or thereabouts before
Fonda arrived, which matter is conveni-
ently concealed from him until it is
needed to shove the story along to its
climax. An f.a.q. entertainer supported
by an opus of the same standard about
a benign old gentleman (Charles Coburn)
who guides a shopgirl (Anne Shirley)
along the road to romance.
* * * *
Sydney State has Irene Dunne, Robert
Montgomery and Preston Foster in
“Unfinished Business,” but just what the
unfinished business was is a little vague.
It seemed to boil down to something
between Irene and Preston Foster, which
would never do because she was married
to Robert Montgomery and Preston was
married, too, and they said it was an
inhibition and Robert had an inhibition
about black cats and whenever he felt it
coming on he used to get out a stuffed
cat he kept for the purpose and kick it
round the room so Irene got rid
of her inhibition by having a baby and
jumping on Preston’s best pigskin gloves.
Impressionistic, probably.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
(Conducted by "Pilot's" Understudy)
Home Secretary was destroyed and
four other horses pulled up injured after
a sensational race for the Epsom Cup,
run at Mentone on Saturday. Falls and
interference marred the race, but there
was a happy ending for backers when
Chamberlain, medium of one of the most
spectacular plunges in months, won by
a head from the 25-to-l chance, Alibi,
with Strategy third,
• ••••«
Wanganui began the excitement when,
after piloting the field down the straight,
he ran off at the first turn, crashed
through the outside running rail and sent
panels and uprights flying. His appren-
tice rider, K. Smith, was lucky to escape
with a bruised leg, but Wanganui received
a hugh gash in his off hind leg. It had
been intended to take him to Adelaide
for the Port Adelaide Cup later this
month, but he will have to be given a
long spell. His owner-trainer states that
Wanganui’s leg was stripped when an-
other runner galloped on him shortly
after the start.
Ellison and Marcius figured in the
second sensational incident. Soon after
passing the six furlongs Ellison acciden-
tally struck Sir Romeo’s heels, somer-
saulted, and brought down Marcius.
Ellison was bleeding from the nose and
favoring his off hind leg when brought
back to the enclosure, and his rider, A.
Reed, who had a nasty spill, later under-
went an X-ray examination of his back.
Marcius lost some skin from a leg, and
his apprentice rider, J. Neale, escaped
with a shaking. The falls settled what-
ever chance Sir Romeo possessed. Equal
second favorite, he followed the field for
the remainder of the trip, and was very
sore on pulling up.
Home Secretary completed the chapter
of accidents when he suddenly faltered
when apparently going nicely in fourth
position coming to the turn. It is thought
possible that a bent or twisted plate on
another horse almost severed his fetlock,
and Home Secretary was in such a bad
way that he was destroyed. A four-year-
old gelding by Solicitor General from
Homedale, trained by F. W, Hoysted for
A. Crofts, he had won four of his previ-
ous five races, and was one of the most
improved gallopers in training.
• • * * • *
Chamberlain’s success was a bad result
for ringmen. The race was considered
so open that 6 to 1 the field was avail-
able for a time, but weight of money
forced Chamberlain’s price from eights
down to favoritism at 7 to 2. A slow
beginner, he escaped interference which
prejudiced the chances of several other
runners, and, fifth for home, finished just
too strongly for Alibi, who had looked
like winning when he headed Isonomia a
furlong from the post. Isonomia weak-
ened into fourth position, but Keelie
dropped right out after piloting the field
into the straight. Chamberlain is a five-
year-old gelding by Pantheon from
King’s Consort, and has been an excel-
lent investment for his present owner,
J. J. Holden.
Backed from twelves down to eights,
W.A.-owned Treleen upset general cal-
culations when he outstayed the firm
favorite, Reception, in the Mordiallic
Stakes. Reception looked all over a
winner when he hit the front about a
furlong from home, but Treleen, who
had been a long way out of his ground
on the turn, finished brilliantly and won
going away. Old Red Morn maintained
his consistency by finishing third, two or
three lengths ahead of Manrico, who
headed the pacemaker. Bow Tie, soon
after entering the straight, but failed to
respond when pressure was applied.
Chatsbury, fifth, can be jotted down as
a near-future winner.
J. Armanasco, who rode and trained
many winners in Westralia, has had no
reason to regret his decision to settle in
Melbourne. He has since won four races
with Romanette, and two each with Tre-
leen and Atorna. Treleen, a five-year-old
gelding by Treat, won well on Saturday,
and looks like repeating the dose before
he is much older. He is owned in part-
nership by the trainer’s brother and F. B.
Lennard, a wheat-farmer in W.A.
Great expectations were cherished about
Pyramus after he had finished third to
All Love in the Maribyrnong Plate, but
it was not until Saturday that he won his
first race, the first division of the Manum-
bar Handicap. The prize was worth only
£lOO to the winner, and, owing to the
course withdrawals of Silver Light and
Law Student, Pyramus was never better
than 2 to 1. He started at 11 to 8, with
Vermont, backed from 5 to 2 to 7 to 4,
the only other runner inside 12 to 1.
Backers showed good judgment, but
Pyramus may have been a trifle lucky to
defeat Vermont by half a head. Ver-
mont, sold recently for 625 guineas, is
still a maiden, but a winning turn for
him is not far distant. Argenter ran on
fairly in third place. Pyramus is owned
by Frank Musgrave, of Ajax fame, and
trained for him by his son Roy.
Lucille, raced and trained by cross-
country rider F. Douglas, gave most
books a skinner when she defeated
Manito and Azores in the second divi-
sion of the Manumbar Handicap, She
started at 33 to 1, and paid a tote divi-
dend of 129 to 1. Lucille and Manito
had the race to themselves. They cleared
out with a lead of five or six lengths, but
Lucille held her challenger to half a
neck. Azores ran on well in third place,
and may continue to improve, but the
favorites, Trustee and Silver, ran below
expectations.
Regular Bachelor, winner of a New-
market and a Futurity Stakes, has sired
a useful galloper in Regular Hope, winner
of the Murray Handicap. Starting at
7 to 1, he got up in the last stride to
defeat Legality, with Gallant Gentleman
a good third. Gay Roi, favorite at 9
to 4, finished fourth after having every
chance. Regular Hope was bred by his
owner-trainer, R. P. Trihey, who raced
Regular Bachelor, and his success was
the first leg of a winning double for
jockey E. Preston, who also won on
Treleen.
Iridium, owned and trained at Geelong,
recorded his third win from his last four
starts when he defeated Comic March
and Pannade in the Parkdale Welter.
Country jockey C. Cerchi, who mixes flat
and hurdle riding with success, shot
Iridium to the front before the turn, and
the result was not in doubt subsequently.
Pannade only added to his exasperating
list of minor placings, and no excuse was
possible for Portico’s failure to do better
than fourth. Mastercraft, racing for the
third time in four days, led until passed
by Iridium, then weakened to finish
eighth.
Shanghai, winner of an Adelaide G.N,
Hurdle, is one of the most brilliant track
gallopers at Caulfield, but, though his
work led his connections to believe he
would run well in the Melbourne Cup,
he will not always consent to do his best
in a race. O. Callinan, who rode him
in the Cheltenham Handicap on Satur-
day, made him do his best. Setting up a
long lead, he did not let up at any stage,
and drove him along to wind up winner
by six lengths from Danae, with Similar
third. Shanghai did not beat a strong
field, but, if he could always be relied
on to race as generously, he would not
be out of place in open company. Alter-
nate, favorite at 5 to 2, was never a pos-
sibility, and finished second-last.
* * * *
The first day of the Warwick Farm
December meeting at Randwick last week
was mostly notable for a further boost-
ing of the stocks of the Australian sire
Hua, two of his sons, Takarangi and
Dinkum Aussie, taking first and second
prize-money respectively in the five-fur-
long event for two-year-old maidens.
Takarangi won a barrier trial at Rand-
wick in September by 12 lengths, but in
subsequent starts in races showed nothing
out of the ordinary. He was, however, a
solid favorite at 3 to 1. Dinkum Aussie,
who races in the interests of the Ameri-
can movie man, Mr. Louis B. Mayer,
had performed poorly in all his previous
starts.
Both Takarangi and Dinkum Aussie
are from imported mares. Trained by
S. B. Kelly for the owner, who figures
as Mr. “H. A. Keepa,” Takarangi is from
Inheritance; Dinkum Aussie from the
French mare Sabran. Takarangi is a big
and well-developed brown colt, and
nothing could be more conclusive than
his four-lengths win. Two points, how-
ever, might be worth noting against it.
One was the time —1.2, which is 3|sec.
outside the record. The other was the
start, in which several likely contenders
were badly served. The well-backed
Peach Pie was squeezed out, and Gasooka
was also left to make what he could of
the wall of horses in front of him. This
is no criticism of the starter, whose work
is of such a high standard that the im-
possible is expected of him, even when it
comes to getting away a large field of
maiden two-year-olds.
Another point of special interest on the
first day was the running of the three-
year-old Brueghel-Aulone filly Astrid in
the Flying Handicap. She easily led such
a fast sprinter as Brazandt, and, though
she went down in the end to Kingsdale
and Brazandt, in that order, she battled
it out very well, and was little more than
a neck away from the winner. It was
Astrid’s first run since early in April.
The hurdle performance of Anpapejo
was also worth noting. Having only his
second run over the jumps, this six-year-
old gelding by The Buzzard jumped very
cleanly, had the race won a mile from
home and was going easily four lengths
in the lead at the finish.
* * * *
Colts owned by the A.J.C. committee-
man Mr. E. J. Watt and trained by G.
Price won both the races for two-year-
olds on the second day of the Warwick
Farm meeting at Randwick. In the
Kirkham Stakes Riverton, a well-grown
chestnut by Midstream-Society, justified
the support he has had at each of his
three appearances, hitherto disappointing.
Favorite for the Breeders’ Plate, he was
left at the post. When again favorite
he ran an erratic race, and was well
beaten by Hall Stand in fairly fast time.
In both those races Hall Stand led the
field, and he again did so on this occa-
sion, Riverton trailing him and Bangster
till they headed for home, easily racing
past Hall Stand with a furlong to go
and running out a convincing winner
by over three lengths.
Riverton’s time, 59jsec. for the five
furlongs, was slower than Hall Stand’s
Hoxton Stakes run, so his three hard
runs may have taken something out of
the Hall Mark colt. The Breeders’ Plate
winner, Bangster, was not up to his 71b.
penalty, and finished a poor third. The
only other starter, High Flight, was never
in the hunt.
As winner of the Canonbury Stakes the
well-bred Baroda, by the sire of High
Caste from Cereza, was a natural favorite
for the other two-year-old event, the
Nursery Handicap, also over five fur-
longs. Kiaree, a bay Manitoba-Yarree
colt from the Jamieson stable, was the
only one of the other six starters to make
anything of a race of it. Baroda was
giving him nearly a stone and beat him
soundly, even though it was only by half
a length. Still, Kiaree is a strong gal-
loper, sure to do better. Goshawk, a son
of The Buzzard, was a very distant third.
For each ss. invested tote supporters of
Baroda collected 6d. for a win and 9d.
for a place.
In the Camden Handicap over six fur-
longs the four-year-old Newcastle horse
The Miller once more ran a typically
honest race. Before his third in the
Horsley Handicap last month he had
won three races in as many starts at
Randwick, and with a little more luck his
record would now be five out of five.
He came from a long way back and
finished very strongly for his third in
the Horsley, and on Saturday he was
beaten only half a head by Rylstone,
with Radical a fair third. At that, The
Miller ran into trouble at the turn and
again in the last half-furlong.
The Miller has won over the Rand-
wick mile, and should be in great trim
for the Villiers, though that will be much
tougher than anything he has had a start
in yet. Henchman, who, like The Miller,
has a strong finishing run, failed to pro-
duce it, and merely plugged along in the
middle of the field all the way. It might
pay to forget the run ; he looked to be
going ungenerously. A run it might pay
to remember was that of Dundalk, who
improved in very taking style in the
straight to be a good fourth, about two
lengths from the winner.
Evidently Gigli was not seen at his
best when, looking in great fettle, he ran
poorly for Munro in Panurge’s race at
Canterbury Park. Ridden in the first divi-
sion of the Farm Trial on Saturday by
McMenamin, he came home strongly to
beat Munro’s mount Patrician by a
length and a half, with Platero third.
Christopher Milne also improved on his
Rosehill run to beat Plimsol and Paul
Muni in the second division. Now a
four-year-old, if he ran up to his looks he
should beat better than Trial company.
As on the first day of the meeting,
the distance event, the December Handi-
cap, over a mile and a half, was a dis-
appointment, It attracted only three
starters, Dewar, Anpapejo and Malagigi,
and they finished in that order, the win-
ner passing Wednesday’s hurdle winner
only in the last few yards. Though the
going looked fairly fast, it took them 2.35
—six seconds outside the course record.
Veiled Threat won the last race, the
Wan Vick Welter, in fine style, carrying
the steadier of 9.13, but finishing very
strongly to be going away from the field
at the end, with Sobersides second and
Air Link third. There was, however,
some luck in the win. Without the clear
run on the rails left for him in the
straight he could not have got there.
* * * •
Victorian racing has suffered a loss in
the death of J. Stuart Dunbar, chairman
of the Victorian Club and an indefatig-
able worker as chairman of the Racing
Patriotic Appeal Fund and an executive
member of the Australian Comforts
Fund. Stuart Dunbar was an extremely
popular club man, and raced a number
of horses. His best win was with Bang
Bang in the Australian Steeplechase of
1932, and his last winner was Consider-
ate, whom he sold as a three-year-old to
go to India.
All hopes of G.N. Steeple success next
year for Winterset, outstanding fencer at
the V.R.C. spring meeting, went by the
board when he broke a small bone in
one of his feet. He is making a steady
recovery, but it will be many months
before he races again. His trainer, D. S.
McCormick, however, is well satisfied
with the progress made by Cheery Jack,
who is now back to normal. No definite
programme has been mapped out for
Cheery Jack, but he might be entered for
the steeplechase to be run at Flemington
on New Year’s Day, and his new owner
is not leaving the Australian Cup out
of calculations.
Former successful jockey V. Sleigh had
his best win in his own colors when Sir
Richard, backed to favoritism, won the
£5OO Ballarat Cup from Mastercraft and
Heart’s Desire. Sleigh, who races Sir
Richard on lease, is owner Eli Phillips’s
son-in-law.
* * * *
If there is one thing more than another
that has benefited racing in Australia it
is the stipendiary stewards system. When
it was first adopted there was a deal of
antagonism from some Sydney owners.
In the “good old days,” with a friend or
two on a committee, various owners and
trainers were privileged, and some of the
things they did, even in the metropolitan
area, were hair-raising. Still, everyone
seemingly accepted it as part of the game,
and demonstrations were not so numerous
then as now. Stipendiary stewards can-
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before Acceptances.)
Maiden Hurdle: The Kite, 1;
Jubilee, 2 ; Shot Gun, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Miss Hua,
1 ; Kiaree, 2 ; Antelope, 3.
Dundas Handicap: Yaralla, 1;
Rimveil, 2 ; Henchman, 3.
December Handicap; Dewar, 1;
Early Bird, 2; Red Pete, 3.
Carlingford Handicap: John
Dory, 1 ; Veiled Threat, 2 ; Spear-
vaie, 3.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
(Before acceptances.)
(Our Melbourne Representative .)
Delamere Trial Hurdle: David
Spear, 1 ; Jack Farr, 2 ; Dominex,
3.
Mallacoota Handicap: Silver
Light, 1 ; Law Student, 2 ; Avion, 3.
Pembroke Trial Handicap; Public
News, 1 ; Deliberate, 2 ; Vale, 3.
Lincolnshire Handicap: Chats-
bury, 1 ; Unishak, 2 ; Orteli, 3.
Ascot Cup: Sir Richard, 1 ;
Chamberlain, 2 ; Strategy, 3.
Berkeley Welter Handicap:
Somerset, 1; Florin, 2 ; Thuna, 3.


COOLEST SUITS
UNDER THE SUN!
Let THE SUN blaze
away. If you’re suited in
Soltine you’ll be comfort-
ably cool and fresh! Soltine
Cloth is woven to let the
fabric "breathe,” to hold
its shape, to wear longer.
Styles are smart and manly.
The example above has a
cruiser grey ground with
superimposed shadow stripe
effect broken by pin stripes
in blue and white. It’s a
beauty—and so are all the
new Soltine patterns your
tailor or store can show you.
Born, Shorn, Woven and Worn In Australia
1/ unable to obtain, write to Box 489 Q,
Post Office, Melbourne, and we’ll advise
you where you can get Soltine Cloths.
Personal and Missing Friends.
Estate Walter James Thomas Davis,
JAMES DAVIS, born Wilmington, South Aus-
tralia, father Walter, mother Jessie (nee Mc-
Kenna), schooled Day Dream, Broken Hill,
Drover-Station Worker, Broken Hill district,
R.C. About 1907, when aged about 23 years,
left brother Walter at Broken Hill on droving
contract with companion Eastman, both of
whom said to have died suddenly near Queens-
land border. Anyone knowing whereabouts or
able prove death James Davis please communi-
cate with ELDER’S TRUSTEE AND EXECU-
TOR COMPANY, LIMITED, Currie Street,
Adelaide, South Australia.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2133 of 1941.
BETWEEN HILDA MARJORY ODDY Peti-
tioner and
JOHN CHARLES ODDY Respondent.
TO JOHN CHARLES ODDY
TAKE NOTICE that the said HILDA MAR-
JORY ODDY has commenced a suit against
you in this Honourable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the ground
that you have without just cause or excuse
wilfully deserted her and without any such cause
or excuse left her continuously so deserted during
three years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honourable Court on or before the Twenty-
seventh day of February One thousand nine
hundred and forty-two and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of Novem-
ber, A.D. 1941.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
HERALD, BRUCE, BRIERLEY & ENG-
LAND, Solicitors for the Petitioner, 109 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1961 of 1941.
BETWEEN DAISY ALICE ELLIOTT Petf*
tioner and
ANTHONY JOHN ELLIOTT Respondent.
TO ANTHONY JOHN ELLIOTT late of
Sydney in the State of New South Wales
TAKE NOTICE that the said DAISY
ALICE ELLIOTT has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground that you have without just cause or
excuse wilfully deserted her and without any
such cause or excuse left here continuously
so deserted during three years and upwards
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Second day of March One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-two and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit will be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned Solicitor free
of charge.
DATED this Fifth day of December One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
EDW. L. EVERETT, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Bank of N. S. Wales Building, Bondi
Junction; by his City Agents (JENNINGS &
JENNINGS), 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
s»! » 1
m
Hot
m
m
I
388$
a
i
i
i
i
;SS*
; ' -- -•.
, iiii
wmmww&
4
m
m
m
9
CARAMELS
iiwi W I
mm mi
m
//
pis
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1734 of 1941.
BETWEEN JEAN MILDRED CLIFFORD
Petitioner and „
RICHARD JOHN IRWIN CLIFFORD Re-
TO S RICHARD JOHN IRWIN CLIFFORD
the abovenamed Respondent.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JEAN MIL-
DRED CLIFFORD has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying foi
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds that
you have been guilty of desertion without
reasonable cause by reason of your non-com-
pliance with the decree for Restitution oi Con-
jugal Rights made herein on the Twenty-seventh
day of February One thousand nine hundred
and forty-one AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court on
or before the Second day of March One_ thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-two and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on appli-
cation to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fifth day of December, One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
EMIL E. J. FORD & CO., Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 350 George Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1909 of 1941.
BETWEEN KENNETH ALLAN HENRY Peti-
tioner and
MAVIN JEAN HENRY Respondent and
ROBERT CAVENAGH Co-respondent.
TO ROBERT CAVENAGH 107 Rocky Point
Road Kogarah.
TAKE NOTICE that KENNETH ALLAN
HENRY has commenced a suit in this Honour-
able Court praying for a divorce from his
wife MAVIN JEAN HENRY on the ground of
her adultery with you. He alleges that she
committed adultery with you on the Sixteenth
day of October One thousand nine hundred
and forty-one at 106 Curlewis Street Bondi
in the State of New South Wales AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honourable Court on or before the
Twentieth day of February One thousand nine
hundred and forty-two and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned solicitors free of charge.
DATED this 20th day of November, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
MADDOCKS, COHEN & MAGUIRE, Solici-
tors for Petitioner, 38 Martin Place, Sydney.
not be expected to see everything, but
it must always be remembered that they
witness races without bias, which cannot
be said of a section of the betting public.
* sj« £
If numbers always counted, F. W.
Hughes and E. J. Watt should have a
big say in the December Stakes. The
former has 12 entered in his own name
and one he shares with E. A. Coghlan.
The sires represented are Hall Mark,
Double Remove, Plymouth, The Marne,
Fanfare, Beau Pere, Tiderace, Harinero,
Law Maker and Oro. Owner Watt has
10 engaged, and Mrs. Watt one,
the sires of their lot being Waikare,
Bulandshar, Midstream, Tiderace, Law
Maker, Plaintain and Double Remove.
No other breeders approach Messrs.
Hughes and Watt in number of entrants.
They are prepared to spend a lot of
money in racing as well as breeding
horses, whereas some breeders are de-
sidedly niggardly in their support of
racing.
* * * *
Backers have notoriously short memo-
ries, but some are more forgetful, or
careless, than others. Since the introduc-
tion of tote betting in Victoria 10 years
ago backers have given the State Gov-
ernment £26,000 in unclaimed dividends.
Only reason that can be advanced by
J. A. Raymond, Melbourne manager of
Automatic Totalisators, to account for
failure to collect the money is that
backers either lost or unthinkingly
destroyed their tickets. Unclaimed divi-
dends are held by the company for one
month, then transferred to the Treasury.
It at the end of six months dividends are
still unclaimed the money goes to con-
solidated revenue.
* * * *
Having had Bing Crosby’s colors up
for inspection, the A.J.C. declared them
quite in order —bow tie, tassel on cap,
etc., inclusive. The whole outfit looked
gay, but exceptionally neat. Until Bing’s
adornments came along to make the
rosellas envious the gayest seen for some
time were those worn on Monte Cristo for
Messrs. T. and R. Hodges—red and white
stripes, dark blue sleeves with white stars
and brown cap. The king of them all,
Phar Lap, carried red, with black-and-
white-hooped sleeves. The Ajax colors
were white, with red seams and cap. R.
Lewis, in the course of a career that
went on from generation to generation,
wore fairly gay colors on all his four
Melbourne Cup winners—lavender, rose
sleeves, collar and cap on The Victory ;
all rose pink on Patrobas ; grey, with a
red sash on Artilleryman ; and light blue,
pink sleeves and cap on Trivalve.
Poseidon, who in 1906 won both Derbies
and the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups
(he also won the Caulfield Cup the fol-
lowing year), wore only one color, but it
was well in keeping with his performance
—all purple.
* * * *
Six-year-old Finis, winner of this year’s
Gold Cup at Newmarket (a substitute
for the Ascot Gold Cup), has been bought
for Maoriland. He is by Cameronian
from Felkington, and last year won the
Black Vine Handicap, 1 mile 7fur. 65yds.,
at Hurst Park, with 9.0, and the Ford-
ham Handicap, 2 miles 24yds., at New-
market, with 9.3. He had topweight in
a field of eight in the latter, and beat
the second horse five lengths. He was
then trained by O. Bell for Sir H. Cun-
liffe-Owen. Maoriland buyers have either
been lucky or else shown particularly
good judgment in their selection of stal-
lions in England, and Finis may add to
their many happy purchases.
* * * ♦
Up to the end of September the
progeny of Blenheim II had won 50
races of the value of $302,015 (about
£A94,300) in America this season, the
principal contributor being Whirlaway.
Nearest Blenheim II in prize-money was
Sir Gallahad 111 with $197,780, but Wise
Counsellor was first in winners and races,
61 and 153 respectively.
* * * *
The Indian market for good Australian
horses was never more buoyant than at
present, and R. W. McLean, who sold
Lucrative for Indian racing, was asked
recently to put a price on his A.I.C.
Derby winner, Laureate, also. “Not for
sale,” was the reply. McLean has every
reason to believe that Laureate will
develop into a w.f.a. performer next
season, and that was one of the chief
reasons why he sold Lucrative. He did
not wish to have two horses clashing in
the same races. Beau Vite and High
Caste have more or less monopolised
w.f.a. races for some time, but they will
have to look to their laurels with such
good young horses as Skipton and
Laureate coming along.
* * * *
Breeders naturally dislike any reference
to sires they own not fulfilling expecta-
tions, but, without particularising any,
it will be necessary for the progeny of
a few to do something outstanding during
the next few months for there to be
much demand for their yearlings next
autumn. Failures by stallions for the
first couple of seasons are always ex-
cusable, but after that it is difficult to
say anything favorable of them.
* 3= * *
The “stormy petrel” among American
jockeys is the Italian E. Arcaro, who is
one of Uncle Sam’s best riders. He won
the Derby and Preakness on Whirlaway,
and then at Empire City (New York
State) received a month for foul riding.
He had not long finished that sentence
when the Jockey Club (New York)
stewards stood him down until the close
of this year. He ran an opponent into
the fence, almost knocking him over, and
his excuse was that the other rider had
tried to get through where there was no
room. As with prominent jockeys in any
country, influence is being brought to
bear for the reduction of Arcaro’s sen-
tence, but it is unlikely the Jockey Club
will relent.
Queensland won the Brisbane match
against N.S.W. by 19 runs —334 and 249
to 310 and 254. Young Raymer had a
solid double for Queensland —50 n.o.
and 77.


df
WfAN MfN AND WOMfN
Loss of vitality and premature feeling
of old age are due to failure of certain
glands.
B31 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely revitalise you, banishing pre-
mature old age and weakness. I’rice
10/6. Write for this amazing new
treatment TO-DAY.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
B2I
GJL4ND
TONIC
WBLfTS
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
MASONITE "SHORTS
make Xmas Mern|, ijet
a
YDU, or any other handyman can easily and
economically make novel and useful Xmas gifts from
Masonite "Shorts", the grainless, knotless boards in the
handy sizes. The gifts illustrated on this page can be
made quickly with the regular handyman's tools. Get
your free copy of the interesting 24 page Booklet, "45
THINGS YOU CAN MAKE FROM MASONITE ‘SHORTS'."
Your nearest Builders' Supplier or Hardware Store will
have a copy...in case of difficulty, write to our nearest
office.
MAKE THEM WITH
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD. (Oulldi.g Materials 01.1*) SYDNEY .. MELBOURNE ~ ADELAIDE.. BRISBANE .. PERTH
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
“23-4”: The North lost a great battler
in David Green, editor of Townsville
“Daily Bulletin” and “N.Q. Register,”
dead at 85. Born at Ararat (Vic.), he did
a bit of farming and mining in Victoria
and Tasmania and headed north in the
’eighties. He was nearly 30 when a hotly-
written protest against treatment of the
blacks attracted the notice of the old
Townsville “Standard” and Green en-
tered journalism. He was a contempor-
ary of Louis Becke, E. J. Banfield, Dodd
Clarke and their crowd, and penned mil-
lions of words in defence of and for
the development of the North. He had
a finger in all its history of the past 50
years—a finger that could be gentle or
savage, sad or humorous —and the pity
is that he never found time to write that
history. A rangy six-footer, he knew every-
body between the Gulf and the Downs.
* * * *
“Balander”: On the eve of the intro-
duction of Queensland’s new liquor bill,
which will change bar hours from 8-8 to
10-10, the State Statistician came out
with his “crime figures” for the year,
revealing that drunkenness offences had
increased by 56.2 p.c. Oddly enough,
the Government didn’t give that as a
reason for altering the hours. The figufes
show that Ipswich had the lowest and
Charleville the highest percentages of
drunks.
“Poi-Poi”: Queensland’s new liquor
trading hours of 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. will
be law before Christmas. The bill pro-
hibits liquor at or near dance halls, gives
the police greater powers to close licensed
premises during emergencies, doubles the
distance required to be travelled by bona
fide travellers —to 40 miles —practically
doubles all penalties for publicans commit-
ting breaches and recognises the Masonic,
the Caledonian and the Burns as registered
clubs. Introducing the bill. Health Min-
ister Hanlon charged some golf clubs
with illegal trading and waxed sentimen-
tal about unfortunate souls who “drink
until all hours of the morning in clubs.”
The greatest evil in Queensland, he said,
was drinking in closed bars and the
“Licensing Commission will have to con-
sider the introduction of European
methods of drinking in the open air.”
Nicklin, leader of the Opposition, de-
scribed the bill as a “blot on the Gov-
ernment and a disgrace to the State” ;
but that’s what Opposition leaders are
for, so the first reading was carried and
all hands adjourned —where to isn’t
recorded.
* * * *
“Gala Badela”: Administrator Mc-
Nicol and his lady have left Rabaul for
the capital at Lae, but the only other
Government department so far established
there is Lands, headquarters of the Dis-
trict Services having gone to Salamaua.
The Asiatic section of Rabaul is in a
dither, not being sure whether evacuation
is compulsory, whether suitable sites will
be available at Lae or whether the
Administration is likely to assist it in
making a new start. Popular tip for
headquarters of the New Britain dis-
trict is Kokopo. One reason given for
the studied silence of the Administration
is that it wants to prevent land-grabbing.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: The Spanish mac-
kerel season is in full swing in N.Q.
waters. Over 35,0001 b. of the big striped
fellows, many up to 601 b. or more, have
been brought into Townsville in one
week. Further south, gear is being over-
hauled and rigged for the jacks, lively
spotted chaps up to 51b., which pass
northward early in December, as a rule,
but have been late this season. Towards
the end of December their big northern
cousins will be moving southward after
the shoals of small fry. Lines and gear
now carry a 5 p.c. sales tax for profes-
sionals, and proof of being a real one
is needed before remission is granted
from the 20 p.c. paid by amateurs. Gut
lines of suitable weight are practically
unobtainable, but the good old hemp
with a long wire trace can do stout work
if care is taken to adjust trailing-depth
to where the fish are feeding, the main
trick in mackerel fishing.
*'* * *
“C.R.”: The most bethumbed copies
of The Bulletin must be circulating in
New Guinea. A woman tells me that
every issue she sends to that tropic de-
pendency is read by 200 soldiers.
* * * *
“Atrax”: A fine job of fly-and-mos-
quito control has been done at a camp out-
side Brisbane. Situated close to an exten-
sive swamp, limited to horse transport by
the sand and unprovided with any sewer-
age system, the site provided all mod.
cons, for flying-boat pests of all descrip-
tions, and for the first few months of
occupation they certainly took all pos-
sible advantage of them. Scientific assis-
tance was invoked and flypapers, traps,
smoke-coils, smudges, veils, nets and other
usual measures brought into action. The
wily scientific blokes laid their plans to
get to the enemy in its wiggler infancy
and time of least resistance during the
cool months. Now, even a single buzz
is a rarity which attracts immediate atten-
tion and action. Nets are unnecessary
and fly wire a superfluity. Yet, in the
average Brisbane suburb the mosquitoes
could haul a sleeper out of bed if they
only pulled together.
j|t :|e 9
“Dungeness”: “Chink” (B. 19/11/’4l)
seems to have neglected the history of
his adopted country when he states that
in 1846-47 “there was still no settlement
north of the Darling Downs.” Bris-
“Excuse-a me, Diggah. Do they really giva
da five ’undred to da best foota runner
at Stawell?”
bane and Ipswich had been there
for 20 years and more. And 300
miles north of the Downs Yeyndah
township had been formed on the Bur-
nett River, Thomas Archer was at
Dorandoa (Wide Bay), and scores of
other pastoral properties had been taken
up in the intervening country, including
Kilkivan. Leichhardt did not discover
“most of the rivers and ranges of eastern
Queensland” ; that job had been finished
years before he saw Australia.
* * * *
“K.P.”: Had I the power to expunge
any two words from the English language
I would select “leper” and “leprosy.”
Around them has been built up from
tradition an aura of horror and repul-
sion which has caused innocent sufferers
from a disease which is rare amongst
whites, of extremely low
infectivity and small direct
mortality to be regarded
as untouchables. Doctors,
nurses and attendants at
leprosariums are very sel-
dom infected, although no
special precautions are
take n —as the precise
method of infection is un-
known, none can be taken.
Most early cases can be
arrested by treatment, all
cases can be improved,
some can be cured. It is
not a painful disease, and
few of its victims show
any repulsive evidence of
it; moreover, it has little
effect in shortening life,
and is not hereditary. Yet
we rush all lepers into
expensive isolation stations
and cut them off from all
that makes life really
worth living. At the same
time, with tragic stupidity,
we allow victims of open
pulmonary tuberculosis to
disseminate their far more
dangerous and more com-
municable disease. An
Australian specialist has
recently complained in the
“MJ.A.” that “the bed-
shortage for tuberculosis
in every State is disgrace-
ful; the urgent need is obvious,” God
forbid that we should persecute consump-
tives, but as a decent people we should
discard the stupid medieval fears which
impel us to make the white Australian
leper’s existence a living tragedy.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Seventeen thousand or more went out
to the Warwick Farm meeting at Rand-
wick on Saturday. Fetes and parties
for Comforts Funds, for Furlough House,
for the Convalescent Home of the Royal
Alexandra Hospital for Children ringed
the city. In the evening “Princess Ida”
took the stage at the Royal. Knight
Robert Best was there to applaud her ;
so were the Athol Flemings and the usual
intelligent audience of stalls and circle
that distinguishes Gilsullivan productions.
Before a Jack’s Day button has been
struck the fund has passed the £6OOO
mark. The Royal Australian Navy Relief
Fund will benefit, and through it the
relations and dependants of the men of
the Sydney and the Parramatta. The
vestibule of the Town Hall was seething
with sympathy at the opening meeting.
Sydney’s Mayor Stanley Crick an-
nounced that December 19 will be known
as Jack’s Day. It is hoped that more
than £50,000 will be raised. A quarter
of a million buttons will be on sale.
Premier McKell and William Morris
Hughes gave their eloquence for a cause
which cries aloud for itself. Lady Wake-
hurst was at the meeting; also seen,
Mayor Jeffery, of Parramatta, Commo-
dore Muirhead-Gould and committee
members of the Naval Wives’ Auxiliary.
It is to be hoped that imagination and
showmanship will join hands to make the
day for the lads in navy blue a spec-
tacular success. What’s wrong with each
yachting and boating club around the
harborside running, in its own premises,
a special money-raising stunt on that
day? Why not turn Rowe-street into a
Cairo bazaar, perfume sellers, water car-
riers and all? If the water should by
magic turn into beer while being poured
out, there wouldn’t be enough of it to
reduce hotel profits by a great margin.
Springfield-avenue, too, has possibilities.
And what about the Harbor Bridge shell-
ing out one penny of the toll paid by every
vehicle that passes over it on Dec. 19?
Great doings next Saturday night at
the Minerva, when “The Man Who Came
to Dinner” will do so in the presence
of Lady Gowrie and Lady Wakehurst.
There are to be no deductions for
expenses; so all the box-office money
will go to the Red Cross Prisoners of
War Fund.
As pleasant a group of Islanders as
you can meet are the members of the
Make and Mend Branch of the Naval
War Auxiliary. The Make and Mend
are all wives of civilians connected with
the Navy, and their homes are on Garden
Island, Cockatoo Island, Spectacle Island
and the Royal Edward Victualling Yard.
Make and Mend is an old Navy name
for the day set aside for the lads in blue
to do their bits of darning and patching.
This group, now in the Union Bank
building in George-street, between King
and Market streets, is kept busy making
new garments for the Navy, unravelling
old woolly ones and knitting up the good
thread all over again. Just now their
knitting needles are running hot prepar-
ing baby clothes for expected babes
whose fathers were in H.M.A.S. Sydney.
President Mrs. R. N. White and secre-
taries Mrs. Cusack and Mrs. McMeekin
had joy in the card party for the cause
which brought all the Islanders together
at the one time. The party was in David
Jones’s in George-street, and with guess-
ing competitions and so on about £8 was
garnered. The bright-faced Mrs. Daniel
extracted stray silver painlessly from all
present. Treasurer is Mrs. J. Keating.
Books and magazines (not about the war)
will be welcomed by the group. If they are
a bit shabby the workers will repair them.
In Dr. Russell Gillies, who died at
Yaralla Hospital last week, Sydney has
lost a fine citizen. He was a qualified
chemist at 19, served through the 1914-18
war with the A.M.C. and was later a
specialist in Vienna, Before joining the
9th Field Ambulance this year he had
been medical examiner for the Roseville
Volunteer Defence Corps.
The hand of the law isn’t heavy in the
case of barrister Mrs. Sybil Greenwell.
She is a noted cake-maker, and as presi-
dent of the Law Society Comforts Fund
she brought ingenuity to bear on the
Christmas cake that was the arresting in-
cident at the Fund’s end-of-the-year party.
The cake was a facsimile of a Legal
Digest , morocco covers and all (in icing).
If the Legal Digest shows the way to as
many plums as its copy did, the law is a
profession to be cultivated. Well, the
party was a success. John Peden cut the
cake. But not the booky one. That was
a lucky-number prize. The Law School
in Phillip-street was the scene of fes-
tivity ; one of the big lecture rooms was
bright with Christmas bush.
Sybil Greenwell made three of the
season’s traditional fruit cakes. One,
all tucked up in its tin for the post, was
still another competition prize. Sybil was
John Peden’s first woman law student;
and at the party somebody questioned
Did the law knight teach her law or cook-
ing? Incidentally, it was the Prof.’s last
appearance as Dean at the Law School.
The hockey girls of the State have
already over £4OO in hand towards their
memorial to Mrs. F. J. Davy. On next
Saturday, when the hospital will be
opened by Lady Wakehurst, her name
will be inscribed above the well-
equipped laboratory door. But the hockey
girls have to raise £lOOO in all to
pay for this corner of the Rachel
Forster Hospital, the work of which is
blessed by the poor women and children
of this city. Barbara Young (daughter
of dancer Irene Vera Young) is doing
her bit to help the hockey girls in their
labor of love. With her mother and
Brigid Clarke, she will present the artistic
programme for the appeal fund on
December 16 at the Conservatorium.
Photograph from Raymond Sawyer.
The livestock was particularly active
in helping to raise the £3321 which crowned
the Martin-place effort on Prisoners of
War Day. The silkworms, the Red
Cross seals and the police dogs all worked
busily away, and added a gold thread or
two to the finance pattern. Every detail
of programme, badge or raffle sales was
announced by the Sam Walder lady at
a tea party in the Australia at which she
was hostess. At many tea-tables in the
ballroom Red Cross importants and the
day’s committee workers sat and
gloated over the success. How the band
was nearly not cooeed in time, and how
the midday-recruiting gun was trundled
off with but a minute or two to spare,
was told with a reminiscent twinkle. The
grand total of £30,000 is expected from
the collection.
Three returned warriors of this cam-
paign were honored guests. One of them
had been busy selling programmes all
through the carnival day. Mrs. Penfold
Hyland, Enid Bayly, the Red Cross’s Mr.
Marks, and Mr. Pitt; Mr. Lethbridge, of
banking fame, Mrs. Nigel Smith, queen
of the seals, and Mrs, A. A. Ranken,
from Newcastle, were others. Mrs.
Ranken told of sister Helen Simpson’s
(Mrs. Browne) small daughter, living since
her mother’s death somewhere in the
country in England. Writing to her re-
lations here the small girl illustrated her
last letter with drawings of horses. Then
she said: “You will wonder why I didn’t
put in their hooves. I didn’t forget, but
I didn’t know how to draw them.”
Two hundred and fifty friends of the
Women’s Hospital in Crown-street sipped
gimlets and sherries late last Friday after-
noon in the Forum Club. The tickets
for this conviviality were 7s. 6d. each,
and games of skill helped to swell
the kitty. The hospital’s Matron
Shaw and retiring-because-of-matrimony
secretary May Mitchell were at the
party. Mrs, Hope Gibson was a
busy and competent committee worker.
Mrs. Robert Dixson, Mrs. Vernon Coles,
with a numerous and smart party, the
Maurice Gulsons, Mrs. Harold Bott, Mrs,
J. C. Windeyer, Mrs. Harry Twigden,
Sister Burchell, the Roland Fosters and
Mrs. Garnet Malley, Mrs. Florence
Taylor and pretty Dr. Donovan were in
the crowd. Masses of pale pink car-
nations and blue hydrangea decorated
the rooms.
Last week Francis Halls, in association
with his students, gave a song recital at
Paling’s concert hall. The total proceeds
will be given to the Big Sister move-
ment.
From Melbourne
In spite of the appalling weather, of
spattered stockings and stormswept hair,
supporters of the Orthopaedic Hospital
party organised by Mrs. Wallace Mitchell
spruced themselves up sufficiently to make
a satisfactory late-afternoon entry to the
ballroom at Menzies. On the door were
the Jimmy Watts, who have a soft spot
for the crippled children of Frankston.
As an entertainment for guests hats were
shown, much glamorised with picture-
frame setting and black velvet background.
All were sophisticated salon products, 100
per cent, for frivol and zero for anything
as dull as service. Mannequins were
three blondes—Mrs. Norman Spry, Sonia
Parish and Joan Stewart —and a brown-
ette, Freda Connolly, Poor Sonia suffer-
ing from starvation (bilious attack plus
nervousness) quivered so that her winged
creations seemed to be taking flight.
Claude Fleming did the commentary,
which drew a criticism from Roberty Lee
—“Can’t we scrap mikes and go back
to human voices?”
Among those present were Doc Fleming
Dunstan and youngest daughter Pam,
who’s doing first-year nursing. Pam says
that news of sister Val is rare and indirect,
but satisfactory. Afterwards Mary Ward
and Diana Parnham ate a hurried dinner
at the Florentino before making tracks
towards their dressing-room for “By
Candlelight.” At the party American
Violet Dunn produced a calfskin hand-
bag for Miss Parnham’s inspection; it
was bought at her shop when she (Diana)
was “Handbags” in Sydney.
Inset from Broothorn, Sue Broadhurst,
oft a bridesmaid and now a bride, Dr.
lan Galbraith being the justly proud
young ’groom. The romance was first
discernible a few years ago up at the
Shop' when Sue was an Arts fresher and
lan in the early stages of his med. course.
After concluding a year at Ballarat Base
Hospital he’s now in private practice.
As he’s an R.A.N.R. man, plans are un-
certain and a furnished flat in Parkville
will be first address after a meandering
honeymoon over a rain-soaked country-
side in the direction of Mt. Gambier.
Females either love dolls or they don’t.
Either the long-lashed, scalloped-toothed
baby doll produces coos of rapture or
cold stares through a figurative lorgnette.
Judging by the success of the R.A.A.F.
Welfare Doll and Toy Exhibition last
week there are a lot of pro-doll people in
this town. Some lent their possessions,
others came along for tours of inspec-
tion. Apparently dolls by the dozen have
been cherished by the Geoffrey Syme
family, by Betty Paterson and Mrs.
Russell Jackson, and there was a whole
glass case from P.L.C. Among others
who lent their pets were Mrs. Charles
Armstrong, youthful Jennifer Ramsay,
and Elizabeth Cahill, Serena Brunton,
Deirdre Neylon, Joan Hargreaves, Painter
Dora Wilson (who lent Pinoccio, bought
in Italy) and a Spanish girl (from Mar-
seilles). Of general interest was Mrs.
Percy Phillips’s international collection.
The anti-doll people who usually love
cute toys and whose favorite actor is
Disney’s Goofy could live amicably with
her cute little Egyptian who steals and
dives for pennies, her swaggering Texas
cowboy or her rugged-up Eskimo, though
his fur might be a deathtrap for sneez-
ing. (Incidentally Mrs.. Phillips’s daughter
Jean is enjoying a holiday here after
seven years abroad, including a term of
nursing in Kenya.)
Mrs. J. Doig produced some quaint
animals for the exhibition, and Mrs. A. L.
Walters, of Laverton, dressed from top
to toe a bridesmaid in the wedding group.
this doll being a gift of the Locker Fund.
Most popular wins in all competition
sections were those of two little girls
from St. Catherine’s Orphanage. One
won a guinea for her monkey made
from scraps left over from her brown
uniform. In a special section were dolls
passed down from great-grandmother’s
era, playthings of the ’sixties, ’seventies,
’eighties, etc. —large and languishing as
to orbs, full-bosomed, constricted of
waist and pale as to countenance, for
those were the days when the vapors
were a prerogative of every modest
maiden.
Those audiences who keep flying the
flag of amateur dramatics and music
composed at home hearthsides had to
choose on one night between two pre-
mieres, “Alaya” and “Asmodee, the
Intruder.” The former’s a musical
comedy set in Corsica with a singing
peasant girl as heroine and an Aussie
tourist (he’s really the son of a marchese)
as the winner of the maiden’s heart.
“Asmodee,” translated from the French
of Francois Mauriac, gave another guess
to the population of Central Hall. Was
Lebel the spirit of evil, was Madame a
nympho, and how about Mademoiselle?
Early in the piece there were suspicions
about commonplace things like drug
rings (wrong, much too commonplace).
Final and safe conclusion was “It’s
very French.”
It is rather unfair to expect that a
character actress can play a widow
bristling with sex-appeal, smouldering
with jealousy, a man-eater disguised in
a reefer coat. But Alan Money sent
tickles up the spine with his sinister
Lebel. Betty Howden was excellent as
Emmie, the young and the sweet (virtue
slipping through the hands of vice). Con-
sidering the tricky role, Donald Mackay
was satisfactory as the lad of 20 with
whom Madame falls violently in love.
The Harry Uxbridge Bests were in the
audience to see young John as a school-
boy.
Owing to the white-satin-clad bride’s
late arrival for her wedding in Grammar
Chapel, she encountered a shower instead
of a deluge and umbrellas provided
shelter without blowing inside out. Some
60 friends received hospitality at the Kew
home of parents, the Robert Broadhursts,
where a marquee successfully withstood
the elements. Younger sister June
attended in pastel-blue satin. She and
Betty Spiers, Jean Kennedy and several
other first-year science students have for
the time being abandoned their studies to
answer a call to arms for munitions lab.
workers. At the wedding Bill Orchard,
of Geelong, was henchman to ’groom
lan, who’s the son of A. V. Galbraith, of
Kew, and the late Mrs. Galbraith.
Newly engaged and embarking upon a
new career with a holdall of new uni-
forms (no glamor braid of the female
militants, just cotton utility) is June
Alice, younger daughter of the Gordon
Chirnsides, of Carranballac, Skipton.
Reason for the engagement is Sam
Rogers, A.1.F., Abroad ; reason for the
uniforms is the newest school of nurses,
fledglings at the Alfred since last Monday.
Sam is the only son of Mr. and Mrs.
P. R. Rogers, of Mt. Widderin, Skipton,
which property is but a gate or two re-
moved from Carranballac. June’s hand-
some mamma is at the moment spending
most of her time in smocks and Chinese
gardening hat sprucing up her lawns
and flower beds for the garden fair to be
held on 20th for the Carranballac branch
of the A.C.F. If the weather plays no
dirty tricks incidentals will include boat-
ing over a four miles’ course of Emu
Creek, the Western District waterway
that’s the pride, joy and satisfaction of
many a pastoralist thereabouts. Mrs.
Chirnside’s cosy rug raffle, the work of
her own fair hands, raised £2OO for the
local Comforts branch.
While the Russians are fighting for
their existence Australians are lucky
enough'to spin the reel backwards and
glimpse the peace of the halcyon days at
the exhibition of photographs depicting
Life in Russia at the Athenaeum.
It’s organised by the Society of Cultural
Relations of the Soviet Union by a recip-
rocal process through which educative
matter on Australia has similarly been
sent to Russia. Some of the pictures of high
standard shown were seen here before
the war, others are more recent arrivals.
Copies are available at moderate enough
prices. Proceeds are for the Australian
and the Russian Red Cross.
For variety there are other Russian ex-
hibits such as a silver samovar and great-
grandmother’s embroidery lent by the
Vassilieffs, a hand-woven rug lent by
Mrs. Clive Turnbull, and several dolls.
(A swarm of locusts is as nothing to the
masses of dolls that have recently de-
scended upon this town). Russian dolls
are not cast in the mould of prettiness
but they look awful little flirts.


BROTHERS’ WIVES
By JOHN K. EWERS.
THE first time she saw her Sheila felt sorry for
Marion. She’d just started that morning at Dur-
rant’s, and they’d given her the job of washing-up.
You could tell by the look on her face that she
felt she’d never catch up with the endless stream of
dishes.
Once or twice Sheila spoke to her in passing.
“Don’t let it get you beat. You’ll soon get the knack
of it.”
Marion looked up hopelessly. She didn’t say any-
thing. She didn’t need to. The droop of her shoulders
told Sheila the kid was just about dropping. She’d
been through it herself —your back feeling as if there
was a red-hot poker running up and down it, your
head throbbing, your hands red and shining, steam
rising in clouds and clatter-clatter all round as dishes
were brought in on trays. The tiredness went right
down to the soles of your feet that first day.
Sheila waited for her at knock-off time. “Worn
out?”
Marion nodded.
“It won’t be so bad tomorrow.”
“I hope not.”
“After a bit they’ll take you off the washing-up.
It’s not so bad then.”
A A ARION was a quiet little thing. She never had
1 1 much to say for herself. Sheila reckoned she
had a deadly sort of time at home because, once when
she suggested they might go to a dance at the
Embassy, Marion looked almost scared.
“On our own?” she asked.
“Why not? Plenty of boys there.”
Marion shook her head. “Mum wouldn’t like
that,” she said.
But Sheila managed to persuade her to go to the
staff picnic, and that was where Marion met Bob.
She was just the sort Bob would take to. He was
a quiet, shy sort of boy. Not a bit like his brother
Stan. All the girls were mad about Stan. “Ain’t he
a trick?” they used to say. Stan was always up to some
lark. But you couldn’t get a penn’orth of change out of
Bob. He didn’t seem to take any notice of girls. But
he took to Marion right away, and Sheila was glad
because it meant she and Stan wouldn’t have Bob
hanging round when they wanted to go off on their
own.
The girls were all as jealous as cats about Stan.
Sheila reckoned she was lucky, too. She wouldn’t
have given him up for anything. On the afternoon of
the picnic, after the races were over, they went off
together where they could be alone. Sheila reckoned
she would always be happy if she could be with Stan.
When they were strolling back Stan said “Old
Bob seems sort o’ smitten by that friend of yours.
Wonder what they’ve been up to all the afternoon.”
Sheila giggled. “I expect they’ve been sitting out
on the pier watching people go by.”
“Yes. That’s about Bob’s idea of a good time.”
“Marion’s, too,” said Sheila.
“Anyway, the old lady’ll be pleased,” said Stan.
“She’s always saying ‘I do wish Bob would pick up
with a nice, good girl! ’ ”
“Marion is a nice girl,” said Sheila loyally.
“All right! So’s Bob a nice boy. But he’s that
damned quiet you can hear his whiskers growing.”
Sheila giggled. She told some of the girls next
day and they nearly split their sides. “Ain’t he a
character?” they said.
A FTER that the two couples went about together a
good bit. They went to dances and pictures and
parties and moonlight trips down the river. One night
at a dance Stan had a few drinks and was a bit noisy.
Sheila could tell Marion didn’t like it and tried to
quieten him down. Stan couldn’t make out what
was the matter. “What’s bitin’ you?” he asked.
“Everyone’s looking at you.”
“Well, let ’em! Who cares?”
But Bob didn’t mince matters when they were
going home. He ticked Stan off properly, and, though
Marion didn’t say anything, you could see she agreed
with Bob. That made Sheila wild, because Stan
didn’t mean anything. It was only in fun. Next day
at work she cut Marion, and after that they stopped
going about together. Sheila liked it better, being
alone with Stan. The two of them often used to
laugh about Marion and Bob and say what old stick-
in-the-muds they were.
But it wasn’t a laughing matter when Sheila told
Stan one night after the pictures that they’d have to
get married pretty quick.
“Gee, Sheel! You’re not dinkum!” he said.
“Stan, you do love me, don’t you?” she asked,
looking up at him and twisting her fingers together.
He took her and hugged her till she could hardly
breathe. “ ’Course I do. I’ll fix it up, don’t you worry.
You just say when.”
They set to planning and dreaming about the
place they were going to have. He bought her a ring,
and she showed it to all the girls the next day. They
thought it was lovely, and they were fairly green with
envy because Sheila was going to marry Stan. All
except Marion. She came up after the first excite-
ment, her eyes just glowing with
happiness. “I’m so glad,” she
said. “You an’ Stan’ll be so
happy. You’re made for one
another.”
Somehow it made Sheila
sorry for her again. *
They were married and
Marion was bridesmaid. After
the wedding breakfast Bob drove
them home in the car he’d just
bought. Marion sat bolt upright
beside him in the front seat,
while Sheila cuddled up next to
Stan in the back.
When the baby was born
Stan was wonderful. He was
that proud of being a father.
They’d sort of planned to have
a son, but he never showed any
sign of disappointment that it
was a girl. It seemed to have
sobered him up, too. He cut
out drinking and was always
home from work as soon as pos-
sible after six. Sheila felt it
was worth while. No one
seemed to make any difference
because the baby was born so
soon.
One day Stan came home
and told her he’d chucked his
job at Durrant’s and was going
in with Arthur Caple, who’d
opened up a motor-car agency.
“He’s selling ’em like hot cakes
and wants me to take on metro-
politan sales. That’s what I
was made for, Sheel. Not
counter-jumping for old Durrant. Every car I sell
means a tidy little bit.”
Sheila was scared stiff at first. There was going
to be another baby, and Durrant’s was steady, even
if it wasn’t much money. It would be all right sell-
ing cars, if he did sell them. But if he didn’t
“I’m glad you’ve had the courage to strike out on
your own,” she said. “Some people never do.”
Stan gave her a squeeze. They both thought of
Bob at the same time.
Marion was horrified when she knew. “Suppose
there’s another depression!” she said.
Sheila told Stan that night and he just roared
laughing. “She’s a nice little thing, Marion is,” he
said. “But she hasn’t any imagination. Just like old
Bob.”
Stan didn’t seem to be able to go wrong. Money
started rolling in and they splashed out on new carpets
and furniture, all on time-payment.
Sheila wanted to save enough to put a deposit
on a house, but Stan said “It’s too much responsi-
bility. We don’t want to be tied to anything. You
an’ me’s going to see things, Sheel. We’re going to
travel places. A house of our own wouldn’t help any.
Not until the family’s grown a bit, anyhow. May as
well let ’em knock someone else’s place about while
they’re little,”
Sheila wasn’t convinced by that sort of talk. All
she knew was she was going to have her second baby.
There wouldn’t be any travelling for her for a long
time to come.
There was always a car outside their place now.
The demonstration models were the very latest, and
Stan would take Sheila and the baby out at week-
ends. When the time came for her to go to the
hospital he was able to whisk her off without calling
up Bob.
Sheila had a bad time after the baby was born
and had to stay in hospital a week longer than usual.
She brought back a trained nurse with her, and that
was a fiver a week. To cap it all, Jennifer got the
measles. Stan was a bit mad, too, because it was
another girl they’d got. Girls were all right in their
way. But a man wanted boys to keep him from get-
ting ofd and remind him of when he was a boy him-
self.
K A ARION and Bob were married at the end of that
*VI year, and moved into a little cottage a few streets
from Sheila and Stan.
Sheila liked having Marion so handy, but it piqued
her every time she took the youngsters round to think
that Bob was actually buying the place, while she and
Stan were still paying rent. Bob had got his place
for a hundred down and the balance as rent. Stan
reckoned they were mad. If Bob got sacked they’d
lose the lot. Sheila couldn’t make him see that pay-
ing rent they were losing the lot, anyway.
She didn’t see so much of Stan now. Often he
had to go out at night and try and clinch a deal. The
first flush of sales had eased down. There was more
competition and money wasn’t as plentiful as it had
been at first. Still, he was making more than if he’d
stayed on at Durrant’s.
Nearly every week-end there was an outing with
one of the automobile clubs. Stan was on to Bob to
“ Blime, 'Any , Wouldn't ole Cromwell 'ave got a kick out o this?"
come out on some of them in his little roadster, but
Bob wouldn’t. Stan reckoned Marion had him bluffed.
But it wasn’t that, because not long afterwards Bob
joined the militia.
“What’s the big idea?” said Stan when he heard.
“Not going to be a war, is there?” He thought it was
pretty silly for Bob to go playing soldiers.
Marion seemed glad Bob had found something
to interest him. “It’ll do him good to be among men,’
she said.
Most week-ends after that Marion either went
over to Sheila’s or Sheila went to Marion’s. Sheila
always came back from these visits, more and more
envious of Marion. Her house was like a new pin
and the garden was a picture. So different from her
own place. The children messed it up so, and as for
the garden, it was just a riot of weeds. Stan didn’t
like gardening and, anyway, he was so seldom at
home. She was always telling Marion how she wished
her place was like that. But one day Marion said
“But you’ve got Jennifer and Mary. They’re better
than all the nice homes and pretty gardens.” She and
Bob had been married two years now, and it looked
as if they weren’t going to have any babies.
808 was a lieutenant in the militia when war broke
out. Marion and Sheila were together and heard
Mr. Chamberlain’s speech over the wireless. They
sat holding hands and hanging on every word he said.
Sheila was wondering about Stan, and felt glad she
wasn’t the mother of sons. She didn’t know what
Marion was thinking. When the broadcast ended she
said “Isn’t it terrible. Will Bob have to go?”
“I don’t know. He told me this morning it would
be war by tonight and I asked him then if he thought
he would. He didn’t seem to know. He thought he’d
be wanted for home defence.”
Stan was full of excitement when he came home
from a club picnic in the hills. “ ’Course Bob’ll have
to go,” he said. “He’ll be one of the first. He can’t
expect to play soldiers in peace-time and stay out
when war comes.”
CTHEILA thought everyone would be mad about the
war. But somehow they didn’t seem to be. Men
joined up, but not many that they knew. Mostly
they seemed to be unemployed or boys from the
country.
Even Bob didn’t join up for overseas. He left
Durrant’s and went into the militia on full time. The
only difference was he was home most week-ends now
instead of being in camp. Stan was home, too, but
for different reasons. You could hardly give a car
away these days. They’d had to sack the three other
salesmen they’d put on. There were only Stan and
Arthur Caple left now, and they found it hard enough
to keep themselves busy with maintenance and repair
work. As for the week-end outings, petrol rationing
put an end to those.
Sheila could see Stan was unhappy. He wasn’t
one for sitting round twiddling his thumbs. Besides,
it was getting harder and harder for them to keep up
their payments on ail the things they’d bought.
One day he came home at eleven o’clock without
the car. “I’ve joined up,” he said. “Couldn’t go on


the way things were, Sheel. Anyway, they can’t
touch us now. I’m going in on Monday.”
Sheila couldn’t hold the tears back.
"Don’t take it like that, old girl,” Stan said.
"You’ve nothing to worry about. It’s only so long as
the war lasts. When it’s over we’ll pick up the threads
again.”
QTAN was different after he’d gone into camp.
Every fortnight he came down and he never
wanted to be away from her during his leaves. They
parked the kids, either with Marion or with Sheila’s
mother, and went to pictures and dances together like
they used to before they were married. He was his
old happy self again. Strange, too, how he and Bob
got on better now they were both in khaki. If ever
they were on leave the same week-ends the two of
them would yarn away as if they’d always been the
greatest of pals.
Bob was a captain now and Stan had two stripes.
Sheila could see that Stan looked up to Bob. For
her part she was bitter because Bob wasn’t showing
-any sign of wanting to go overseas. She felt
especially sore when Stan came down on his six days’
embarkation leave. They saw a good deal of Marion
and Bob that week, far more, in fact, than Sheila
wanted to see of them. She wanted Stan all to her-
self. The thought of having a baby with Stan away
scared her.
When Marion heard, she said “Oh, Sheila, you
are lucky! Here am I, can’t have one, and you’re
going to have your third.”
But Sheila didn’t feel lucky. When Stan sailed
she knew for sure, and the knowledge made her cold
inside every time she thought of it.
It was the waiting that got her down. Stan did
not write. Then at last had a letter and a card
by the same mail from Palestine. Stan wrote about
the Arabs and the oranges and the Jews. He was still
in Palestine, itching to be into the war, when Sheila
went to her confinement. This time it was a boy.
Marion sent off the cable for her and the reply came
back: “Thrilled to bits. Hope well. Love, Stem.”
Marion was a brick. She looked after the young-
sters and didn’t complain, though Sheila could guess
by the look on Bob’s face when he came to see her
that they had been knocking things about in a house
“Good on you, Digger—that was my mudder-in-law !”
and a garden where children were not allowed to do
as they liked and go where they pleased.
The more she thought about Bob the less Sheila
liked him. Why should he stay at home with only
Marion dependent on him while Stan had to go and
leave her with three children on her hands?
Soon after she was up and about again she had
a card from Stan saying they were on the move, but
he didn’t say where. The papers had been full of
the A.I.F. in Libya and she worried to think he’d been
in danger all this time and she hadn’t known. Then
she got a letter which made it clear that Stan was in
Libya. It was a light-hearted letter, and seemed to
back up the news in the papers that the Australians
were having a pretty easy time with the Italians. Stan
told her of a joy-ride across the desert he and another
chap had had in a captured staff car, “It was like the
old days of the trials in the sandhills,” he wrote.
To Sheila it didn’t sound like war at all. But she
reckoned it was more real war to Stan than the part
Bob was playing. His latest was he was off to Mel-
bourne for a month’s special training. Marion went
on as if he was really going into the- front line. It
made Sheila disgusted.
'T'HE baby cut his first tooth the day she got word
* from Stan to say he was in Tobruk. After that he
grew more and more bitter with each letter. He spoke
of dust storms that were worse than dive-bombers, of
night raids, skirmishes, of lack of water, of the pleasure
of getting a decent homemade cake. He took to rail-
ing at the chaps at home and to criticising strikers and
politicians. It was so unlike Stan. Usually he never
bothered about those things.
Bob was back from his special training course,
and Marion was afraid they were going to send him
overseas. She came over to Sheila for comfort. But
Sheila had just had a letter from Stan that she couldn’t
show to Marion. “What’s Bob up to?” he’d asked.
“Is he still mucking around at home. Tell him to
cut out playing war and come over and have a taste
of the real thing.”
Somehow she couldn’t give Marion much com-
fort. Why should she?. Marion was a selfish little
thing. She was very sweet and helpful, but she seemed
to have built a halo of self-pity round herself, and
Sheila was growing tired of it.
Hardly a day went by without Tobruk being
mentioned in the papers. People were saying the
men there were building up a name for themselves
like the Anzacs in the last war. Sheila knew at what
cost from the letters she was getting from Stan. He
tried to be bright, and she knew he wasn’t telling her
half the things that really happened. But between
the lines she could see him gaunt, grim, living she
knew not how, but embittered by something outside
of himself and tortured with nervous tension. She
knew others who had men in Tobruk. They told her
the same.
Then one day she had word to say he had been
relieved. From what he said she guessed he was back
in Palestine. And he was ill. Nothing much, he
reckoned. Just a bit of reaction now the strain was
lifted. He was in hospital, and from where he lay he
could see through a window into a sort of courtyard.
There was a tap on the courtyard, and every so often
an orderly went to the tap with a bucket. Stan said
he couldn’t take his eyes off that tap. He’d wait till
the orderly turned it on and the water started to run.
“Gee, Sheel, I didn’t think I’d evey see running water
again! ”
She was sitting with the letter in her hand when
Marion came in.
“He’s going,” she said, “He’s told them he’d
go! ” Sheila could see she’d been crying. “I had to
come and tell you at once. Oh, Sheila! What am I
going to do?”
Sheila found herself thinking: What thousands
of others are doing, you fool! What I’m doing.
She said “I’m sorry, Marion. Here, sit down. You’re
all upset. I’ll make you a cup of tea.”
Marion went on while Sheila lit the gas under
the kettle. “I tried to keep him. Perhaps it was selfish
of me. Often he’s said he’d have to go. But I begged
him not to ... I don’t know what I’ll do without
him . . . He’ll be happier now, I suppose. He hasn’t
been happy for months.”
vSheila put a scoop of tea into the pot. Her mind
was racing. So Marion had kept him back. She’d
misjudged Bob, So had Stan.
“There’s a letter from Stan on the table,” she
said.
While Marion read the letter Sheila set out a
plate of cakes.
Marion looked up from the letter. “Poor Stan! ”
she said. “Poor Stan!” she said again. “But you’re
lucky. You’ve got the children. Bob’s all I’ve got,
and when he goes” She paused a moment. “If
he’s killed, Sheila”
“Oh, he won’t be. Don’t get silly ideas like that
into your head.” She was thinking: If Stan was
killed .. . there’d be the children .. . God, no! Stan!
Stan! The thought was like a scream in her brain.
“Bob’s going in on Monday,” said Marion.
Sheila said nothing. She was thinking of the day
Stan had said those very words to her.
ANTARCTIC
SEAS
By WILL LAWSON.
WAR has taken a lot of shipping to ports within
the Arctic Circle ; the waters around Green-
land, Iceland, Spitzbergen and now Archangel,
once scarcely visited by large steamers, are
today crowded with shipping. It is conceivable that if
war came to the Pacific the same would happen in the
Antarctic seas.
In the old whaling days and when the clippers
sailed between the Cape of Good Hope and Cape
Horn, to and from Australia and Maoriland, the
Antarctic knew many keels. With the passing of the
wardships, the Southern Ocean, with its wreck-strewn
reefs and islands, was deserted again. Steamers kept
further north ; they had no need to woo the wester-
lies to run their easting down.
Still, from time to time, steamers have been far
south. Before twin screws were widely used with
their added margin of safety in case of breakdown,
Kipling wrote,
“From Capetown east to Wellington, you need
an engineer.”
The 10,000-ton steamer Waikato, well south, on
the Great Circle course, on her way from Capetown
to Wellington in 1903 broke her tailshaft. For weeks
she drifted helplessly south and further south. She was
found and towed to port. In 1906 the steamer Port
Stephens became disabled and drifted south till she was
among icebergs. When all hope of rescue seemed
gone, the barque Ravenscourt hove in sight and Cap-
tain Jolley, of the Port liner, had his crew and himself
taken on board. Even an engineer could not save
them, he considered. The Port Stephens was never
sighted again.
In 1907 a well-known Australian trading steamer,
the Koonya, went right into the Arctic Circle to tow
the Nimrod, Captain Shackleton’s vessel, over the
1400 miles of sea between New Zealand and the ice.
The heavily sparred Nimrod would have wasted
weeks of time and all her fuel in battling against the
heavy gales which prevailed that year. The Koonya
Was commanded by Captain Evans, who afterwards
left the sea and became a barrister in Sydney. The
Koonya’s job is accounted one of the world’s famous
tows.
More recently, in 1931, the Danish training ship
Kopenhavn was lost on her way from South America
to South Africa and was believed to have been dis-
masted in the Southern Ocean. It was hoped that her
crew might have reached one of the island depots where
food and clothing for castaways are stored by the
New Zealand Government. An Australian steamer,
the Age, was chartered for the search. She made a
long and wandering voyage, calling at the Aucklands,
200 miles south of Dunedin, and at the Campbells,
further south again-, at Macquarie Island, and then
westward to Kerguelen Land.
Kerguelen belongs to the French, and is deserted,
save once a year when a steamer from Capetown
makes the voyage to catch and load a cargo of cray-
fish. This ship was there when the Age called, and for
some days the two steamers lay in the sheltered port
where scarcely a ship ever floats.
On most of the southern islands there have been
attempts at settlement. Macquarie Island for a time
had a small party of sealers to look after the gear
while the ships went to New Zealand. At the Auck-
lands a bold settlement plan was begun a hundred
years ago by the whaling firm of Enderbys of London,
which leased the island and took there farm animals,
plants, seeds and some, hardy folk from the Western
Isles of Scotland. But the sperm whales suddenly
departed from those waters and a New Zealand com-
pany took over the enterprise, most of the people
returning to Scotland.
Port Ross, the harbor at the Aucklands, is larger
than Sydney Harbor and very deep and sheltered. At
the Campbells there is a good harbor. Since the islands
were abandoned the sheep have lost their hoofs
through footrot and waddle about on horny pads
where the hoofs formerly were. The pigs have gone
wild, too, and, lean as greyhounds, they flee from
strangers through the dense wind-twisted scrub.
There is a mysterious island in these lonely
waters —shown on the maps and charts as Emerald
Island. A whaling captain found it many years ago.
He reported it of volcanic soil, green and fertile, with
sandy beaches, in contrast with the tussock-covered,
shingly-beached islands usually found in those lati-
tudes. But when the survey ships went —on two occa-
sions—they failed to find Emerald Island. And it has
never been seen since. Perhaps the experiences of
another captain may throw some light on this matter.
In waters usually a mile deep, he found himself in
less than ten fathoms, a dangerous depth with a big
swell running. Some years later, being blown into the
same locality, he anxiously took soundings and found
no bottom. Maybe some submarine subsidence took
Emerald Island.
Today scarcely a ship traverses the empty wastes
of the Southern Ocean ; yet who knows what warlike,
or neaceful, occasipn may not crowd them again with
ships.


Mainly
sd sdf
CYPRUS
DE LUXE
The ideal watch for
the Service Man.
Waterproof, Shock-
proof, Dustproof,
Anti - magnetic.
Stainless steel case,
£7.
Fully Guaranteed.
Regimental Colour
Patch Brooches,
2/6 each.
DIAMOND
8- WATCH
SPECIALISTS
fd f
112 MARKET Slj
SYDNEY.
OPP. DAVIDJONES
FLEX-(TRACK
Flex-I-Track for “0” gauge Mechanical and
Electrical Trains. Will fit any make of track
—switches—crossovers. Make any curve,
gradient—a new layout every time.
• No track sections to
connect —just roll it
out —roll it up.
• Strongly bu i 11—
won’t bend or buckle.
• 10ft. (one 6ft. and
one 4ft. section) for
12/6, Plus Postage.
Nett weight when
packed, 51b.
AMPLION (A/sia;
Pty., Ltd.,
382 Kent St., Sydney.
NATURAL
WOOD TIES
FLEXIBLE IN '
ANY DIRECTION
FITS
EQUIPMENT
OTHER TRACK
For the VWrTfeWk
u
Tonette —The Musical
Sensation
l(f you con hum a tune you can ■
play a Tonette In no time. Swing,
Jazz, popular Songs, . Classical|
Pieces are all easily played on this
instrument of the moment. Price,
7/6; Posted, 7/10.
'P&st'Free ¥ ya&tna)/
?/?/$ artferr
NICHOLSON’S PTY., LTD.
“The Musical Centre
416 George Street, Sydney.
STOP
YOUR
Worries/
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL, APPUIAIVCE CO..
DEPT. 37. 81 PITT ST.. SYDXEy.
gfjfhkjsd;oki
Speed & Accuracy
in all mental
movements
follow the Pelman
training.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, posted free on request. Write to
The Pelman Institute,
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Fane,
Melbourne. Telephone: MU3335.
WINCHESTER
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
2- 750 ft. range, each .... 17/6
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 19/-
Complete with Batteries.
Postage Extra Outside N.S.W.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Six Months’Perfect Shaving
with the Same Safety Blade
NO MORE
RAZOR TROUBLES
Try This Magic Sharpener
EASY
TO
USE
2/-
Post Free.
LASTS
FOR
YEARS
PACKED IN LEATHER CASE.
Box 4113 WW, G.P.0., Sydney.
Post one to the boys overseas.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
';k sdf
*
J. P. TALTY
(BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
. flaps and skirts.
4-iixi. knee pads. Sin. thigh
pads. 4Jin. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2/12/-and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
TYPEWRITERS
of every description
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
lor you to choose
from.
dfg
AT ATTRACTIVE PRICES
Each machine guaranteed-
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States —See ’Phone Book.
You may be
future
TEX
MORTON!
Learn the
HIULHIULY
GUITAR.
Hawaiian Guitar,
I
Spanish Guitar or Ukulele in 30 MINUTES !
Get Norm. Scott, the singing stockman,
teach you!
His simple but complete Postal Instruc-
tion course costs only 2/6 a week.
Write today for complete details.
NORM. SCOTT, Hawaiian Club,
Dept. B, 296 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Tune in to 2GB every Sunday 9,45 a.m.
l; f
A genuine, and Instruc-
tive toy. An Australian
patent. Priced at 5/6.
Postage paid to any
part of Australia.
Write to John Sterling,
Fisher’s Chambers, 554
George Street, opposite
St. Andrew’s, Sydney.
Send for the new in-
genious toy—a battle-
ship that you can build
and blow up again and
again. Made in sec-
tions ; easy to assemble.
15 inches long. Strongly
made. Packed in 'an
attractive carton.
r.
NATURTON
for the DEAF and Hard
of Hearing.
“Naturton” is a new British invention which
has a particular appeal to those afflicted with
deafness owing to its comfort and unobtrusive-
ness. No batteries, wires or headbands are used.
“Naturton” is unique in that it is the only
hearing aid of its type with double sound
chambers and vibrators. Call or write for
particulars and 30 days’ trial offer.
R. A. NOEDL, 1.i.b.5.t.,
sth Floor, The Block,
428 George Street. SYDNEY.
TEN GAMES AND PUZZLES
IOK XHJii PKlC'ifi Oi tKNii.
/k sd
;l' sdf
Draft and Chess
Board, 24 Men
and 32 Pieces.
Pull Set of
Double - Six
Dominoes Game
and Puzzle, Soli-
taire, Pox and
Jeese, Kine Men
Morris, Tapatan,
Jumping Prog
Puzzle and Crib-
bage Board.
Amusement for the whole family and your
friends the year around. Plenty of variety
and constant entertainment. The lot with
book of directions for ONE SHILLING,
post free.
THE UNION COMPANY,
399 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
ED
kl;'k f
The GOVERNA BELT will reduce
your waistline and give a slim
athletic figure. Supports delicate
organs. By gentle, changing pres-
sure, waistline bulge is eliminated
7 DAYS' TRIAL OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will be
Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of bulge
details of 7 DAYS’ TRIAL
OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
with every move you make.
and strain gone . . . OR NO
COST! Write for full illustrated
BUY YOUR NEW BATTERY
from the Maker at Wholesale
Prices—Save £2.
Marshall Batteries are covered by a
watertight guarantee, and you can
buy them at a price which keeps
pounds in your pocket because all
the profits of the middleman are saved
for YOU. The Marshall catalogue is
packed with information about bat-
teries for cars, trucks, cycles, radio,
home and theatre lighting. It will be
sent to you free of cost. The Marshall
Battery Mfg. Co., 38-42 Harbour
Street, Sydney.
sdfssdd
f df
If your dog’s coat is dull,
loose or ragged—if he is listless, won t
eat or is out of sorts —start him now
on a course of BARKO Condition
Powders. He will soon be lively and
eating with his old healthy appetite.
BARKO tones up a dog’s whole
system and benefits his coat.
ouuva
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists
CLIMBING
to'm'Ato
USES.
Amazing New Imported
CLIMBING TOMATO!
BEARS FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001 b. per plant. Large,
red, smooth tomatoes. Climbs
12-20 feet. 2/6 packet posted.
PURE WHITE HEALTH
TOMATO!
For Rheumatism
Sciatica, Gout
etc. (100 per cent.
NON-ACID!) Sup-
erb flavor! Disease free! Drought proof!
MAKES DELICIOUS JAM. 2/6 Packet, posted.
□
sdf s
15-DAY TIMBER KILLER!
Kills all trees, roots to top, large
or small, in 15 DAYS! New method.
NO BINGBARKING NECESSARYI
Prevents Suckering. Will not in-
jure the soil. 5/6 Tin. Post Free,
N.S.W. SEED CO., 693 George St., Sydney.
What Better Present ?
A BERT OLDFIELD
BAT
(Personally Autographed)
Size 4 13/6 and 17/6
Size 5 15/- and 19/6
Size 6 17/6 and 30/-
Wieketkeeping Gloves,
from 11/6
Compos 1/-
Illustrated Catalogue Free.
Bert Oldfield,
: ■
:
51 HUNTER ST.. SYDNEY. 8VV4257.
t
a
\sr,
IjEARjV ventriloquism
Quickly —my new method
teaches it thoroughly in very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the VENTRILO you can imitate many kinds of
birds, animals, etc. Everything for ONE
SHILLING, including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw your voice.
FRFF Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
1 RhJ/ Tricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
173 Pitt St., Sydney. 52 Swanston St., Melb.
‘ DINGO TRAIL”
for attracting Dingoes to Traps or Baits.
Per 4oz. Bottle. 21/-.
PASHLEY’S BRANDING FLUID does away
with the hot iron process. Definitely a one-
man job. Adopted by the Victorian United
Cow Test Association as their method of
branding. Write for leaflet.
TIMBER KILLER.—KiIIs in 14 days from
roots to top. Kingbarking not necessary.
21b.. 9/0; 41b., 17/6; 71b., 27/6; 141 b., 55/-;
281 b., 90/-. Freight paid.
GIBBS’ RABBIT DECOY—A bottle costing
12/6. post paid, will treat 1200 baits. Instruc-
tions given.
FOX DECOY WHISTLES. —1/6 each.
For all station supplies write —
Dept. B, 39 Bligh
Street, Sydney.
R. J. BROWN
sd sdf
LAMBS SAVED
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES. OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient—
Humane —Safe—and as quick as the fastest
knife. Lambs suffer no setback —fatten
weeks earlier. No risk of Infection —No
losses. Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
Also LAMB DE-TAILER, £3/5/-. Prom
all agents or the distributors; HAIN &
SBABIGHT, 19b O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRY "CENTURY" RADIO
-—and save 40 p.c.
Cup to £2O).
It costs you nothing: to try the
“Century” Radio. You can have
FREE TRIAD in your own home.
Century Radio Sets embody the
latest scientific improvements . . .
wonderful reception assured from
all over the world on Battery and
All-electric sets. Write at once for
Catalogue. If no “Century” Agent
in your district you can buy at
wholesale prices (40% discount).
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
QUICKand DEADLY
CYANOGAS, quickly, cheaply, cleanly and
safely destroys rabbits and all vermin. Econ-
omical, easy to use. No waste. IT'S THE
GAS THAT KILLS THEM.
PROTECT THE SHEEP
CVANOGAS
guzacolt -^olseley
7TOII MARKET STREET SYDNEY. (?)
Obtainable from all Storekeepers in Australia.
FINE TOBACCO!
Whitelaw’s Famous Import
Blend Number One.
A fine quality leaf which could not be purchased
anywhere at less than 24/- per pound. Despite
new duties, WHITELAW’S SPECIAL POLICY TO
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS enables us to ofler this
tobacco at the lowest price consistent with its fine
quality. Save yourself the middleman’s profit—
buy direct and enjoy an extra fine quality smoke,
expertly blended, fragrant, cool, and satisfying.
Your money back if not satisfied. Send crossed
cheque or money order. (If cheque add exchange.)
Available in Ready Rubbed Fine Cut or Ready
Rubbed for Pipe, Jib. 9/3 delivered; 11b. 17/6
delivered. James Whitelaw and Co., Factors,
Importers and Blenders of Fine Tobaccos, 160
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. (Note new address.)
Bankers: Bank of N.S.W., Head Office.
Get rid of
y Homs BEFORE
'• they start!
One application of
HAYES CHEMICAIj
UEHORNEK
Dehorns without bleeding
any calf up to two months.
Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from
its mother for 30 minutes. An easy, cheap, humane
method. Price per pot sufficient for 35 to 50 calves,
6/6 Large size for 210 to 300 calves, 30/-.
HAYES VETERINARY Post Free.
COMPANY, 351 Queen St., Brisbane.
ss'\af.
TILLEY LAMPS
For the Farm, Camping
or Fishing.
Save your eyesight with Britain’s
best Lamp. 300 c.p. of steady
brilliant light at a cost of id.
per hour using only kerosene.
Stormproof, inseetpvoof and
easy to operate. Used by
Navy and Army. Model EXIOO
illustrated may be used as a
storm lantern or as a hanging
lamp or table lamp. May be
carried around, set down or
hung up. Price, 77/-.
Write for Tilley Lamp catalogue.
W. Kopsen & Co. Pty.. Idtl.,
380 Kent St., Sydney. MA0336.
Country Agents everywhere.
fs f
.DEAF
The World’s Smallest Effective
Hearing Aid the VIBRAPHONE
Worn by 50..000 satisfied users.
Perfectly safe practically in-
visible —no wires, batteries or
headbands. They do not distort sound.
Call or write now for particulars of our
30 DAYS’ HOME TRIAD PLAN,
NATHAN HEARING AIDS
Suite 6018, City Mutual Building,
Cnr. Hunter and Biigh Sts., Sydney.
’Phone: 8W7569.
df sd
SANI-LID
LAVATORY
• No caustic
used.
$ >« water
supply needed.
• Costs nothing
instal.
• Self-closing lid.
» Positively destroys
Hies, mosquitoes,
etc., and banishes
all odours.
PRICE £5/5/-
Complete with six
months’ supply of
chemicals.
QUIRK’S VICTORY LIGHT CO
22!) CASTEEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
...


&
N;
i
c
r
SE
0
cr
I
BM
m
vf*
«V\
Pi
IV
&
m
W»
$
<8
vr
3ml^s
9BTSS
K
C
IV
e
««
uS
4'
© iCc
<s^
l£
(&
5
(v*
Jr
, :V^>
©
©
&&
f
si
tiS-T's-
c
k
?i
(c
% \r
£
c
(;
r
k
0
(r.
0
(r.
EC
c
'frV.
*ss*£
IfSi^r
SHUT
&
*k
ST VI. : . 1 ;
:<#<«■
8 WILLOW
AND
ARIEL! ltd.
MAKERS OF BISCUITS * PLUM PUDDINGS
CAKES * VITOGEN * ICE CREAM
r >L y uy.r i.*>V
krs
‘•I'V J- ! >v <a,V (-; w,< J.i
-it V-.W V -,v_V v_A\
$
&
afc*
5S7>
i
i
i
5S
B
iSI
ESS
m
1
I#
B
Wj
I
r:
Sg
3
<S>£
f)'
Cs>
■:
1
I
w
&
Ls.
c V
WwWjPM
