

............... -
ill
illi
i
S
i. ::
■
*** I hj&
i
>
it
STTQ|||«
1 I
11
PING
IK6®
:'! v -
'•if
■
Xx
/
m
*-
f
TO||^^-.'''
V
x; -
«■ |
x:
IN recent years the Nightingale Supply Co., Ltd., has
increased its activities and expanded its sphere of
operations to such an extent that it can now justly be
considered as a manufacturing concern of national import-
ance, with its own factories in Sydney, N.S.W., Melbourne,
Victoria, and agencies throughout the Commonwealth and
New Zealand.
Its activities are many and varied and include the only
Sodium Meta-Silicate plant in Australia, the manufacture
of Insect Sprays. Antiseptics, Sheep Fly Oil, Wood and
Metal Polishes, Adhesives, Metal Degreasing Compounds.
Alkalis for the Textile trade, Cleaners, Sterilisers, etc.
Sundry products are used in the manufacture of aircraft,
etc., and in this respect "Nightingale's" is making a useful
contribution to the Nation's war effort.
Chemical research is an important side of the business,
and the Company's laboratories are amongst the most
modern and efficient in their class. In this connection we
may mention that "Nightingale" is the only company in
Australia to instal the Peet-Grady equipment for testing
and standardising fly spray. In the Company's Insectiary
flies, cockroaches and other insects are constantly bred
to uniform strength and high resistance and then destroyed
for experimental purposes, to ensure standardised
products.
We of the Nightingale Supply Co., Ltd., are very proud of
the fact that we are a happy family working throughout
in perfect harmony, and that there has been complete
freedom from industrial disputes during the whole 30
years of the Company's existence. The provisions made
for the physical and social comfort and recreation of
the employees are reflected in the high quality of
"Nightingale" products and in the unstinted
service given to our customers.
x. 1
niCHTinOfiLE SUPPLY CO.
Head Office and Works: Allen St., Waterloo, Sydney. N.S.W.
Branch Works at Ingles St., Port Melbourne, Victoria.
AGENTS:
QUEENSLAND: Thos. Brown & Sons, Ltd., Brisbane and Rockhampton;
J. Michelmore & Co. Pty., Ltd., Mackay; Cummins & Campbell, Ltd.,
Townsville and North Queensland.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA & WEST AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Adelaide and Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: S. W. Peterson & Co., Ltd., Wellington.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3216.
Wednesday, October 1, 1941.
Greece, From the Other Side
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, tor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


df
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,"
My Name
My Address
5.8.341
The Red Page
AUSTRALIAN PROSE.
Coast to Coast stories (R.P. 17/9/’4l)
present us with the surprising and ex-
tremely pleasing discovery that Australian
prose of today is of a higher quality than
English or American prose of today. Save
for one or two regrettable lapses into
Hemingway’s infant-school stylisms, the
best of these stories show a genuine un-
derstanding of the metier of words, which
is, in Conrad’s finite definition, “to make
see.” Visual clarification first of all,
which cannot be achieved without a pre-
cise knowledge of the word as image,
and a construction of phrase to make the
image start up alive in the reader’s mind.
In hardly any of these stories do we
find modernism’s slovenly device of
escaping the difficulties of prose by
ignoring them. Character presentation
by externals, the sequence of events
which build up to climax, a command
over bridge parts which makes a unity of
sequence and theme, plus the tonal mass
of background—these are the real pro-
fundities of prose which modernism has
striven to replace by form in outline,
labels for personality, staccato repetitions
for the emphasis of drama, and for theme
a blank space, assuming a profundity
which the reader is left to guess at. Too
easy...
I don’t want to draw invidious com-
parisons, but another discovery forced
on us by these stories is that on the
average Australian women writers are
taking the problem of prose much more
seriously than the men. And this con-
firms a suspicion that I have had for
some time past that prose is to be the
express statement of the feminine ego in
art. Not poetry —prose. And this is to
be hoped for, if life is to get back to
any sort of future stability. We are pay-
ing too big a price today for man’s
Utopia-mongering, his Leftism, his De-
featism, his efforts to reject life as a
tragic madhouse or only a bad joke. All
the isms that have played hell with us
come from men. Ido not believe they
have any real place in women’s harder
rationalism. Putting the whole studio
world aside, where women are just as apt
to act the goat with isms as men, women
are normally equipped for the j'ob of
prose. They are realists, not sentimen-
talists ; they are sceptical of all political
slogans ; they have malice, humor and a
trained eye for externals. With irony,
these qualities are the essence of good
prose. And Pride and Prejudice is still
today a perfect example of the novel.
The era of experimentalism in art is
dead —as dead as the art it produced.
Modernism hasn’t lifted a single difficulty
from art —only shelved them. Its whole
impetus has been to escape art; to find
an easy way out of its inferno of struggle.
In the words of Yeats, it has succumbed
to “the artist’s greatest evil, creation with-
out toil.” Prose of today does not begin
with Joyce and Hemingway; it ended
with them. To stabilise itself, it must
begin again where Conrad and Lawrence
left it two writers of English who
are assured of immortality. And the
most pleasing thing about the Coast to
Coast stories is that the best prose in
them does pick up from Conrad and
D, H. Lawrence.
To take a handful of the best of these
stories is to find prose and the art of the
short story at their best. The clarified
color of Douglas Stewart’s style and his
exquisitely sardonic dilemma of modern
civilised man striving, and failing, to
keep alive his need to kill in a world
gone mad with primitivism. Katharine
Prichard’s perfectly-dramatised story of
the dominant white woman at the mercy
of a" half-caste limbo. Myra Morris’s
picture of the parson delivered over to the
malevolence of God under the harsh
clear light of an Australian midsummer
day. Frank Dalby Davison’s extremely
subtle analysis of sex conflict, where
woman’s weapon of threat and suspense
is a much more effective attack on man’s
complacence than a rifle bullet on a
dingo. Marjorie Barnard’s powerful
fantasy of Australia’s moral inertia ...
In all these stories we not only have
prose at its best, but, more important
still, the writers have maintained the first
essential to good taste in art; an ironic
detachment of the writer from his or
her subject matter.
Emotion in art is an infernally vexed
question. Should art arouse emotion? Of
course. But not the wrong sort of
emotion. It is not the emotional content
of the subject matter that is in question,
but the projection of the writer’s emotion
into it that is the obnoxious element.
Once the writer demands that we should
suffer with him for his too intense aware-
ness of an emotional intensity, we are in
the area of second-rate art —stage art. It
was this same vulgar appeal to generous
emotion that made Dickens ruin half his
work, that excited even Balzac to overdo
emotional stress as an actor overacts
drama. It made a mess of a great deal
of Henry Lawson’s work.
Emotionalism in the writer is based on
self-pity, the most degraded of all
emotions. It has tainted nearly all prose
for the last decade—especially Leftist
prose. Another destructive illusion that
those writers have suffered from is that
to take a serious air to their material is
the evidence of a serious value in the
writer himself.
The normal national Australian out-
look on life is sardonic without being
disillusioned. There cannot be a better
basis for prose, and the best stories in
Coast to Coast have it. The editor (Cecil
Mann) and publisher (Angus and Robert-
son) have done a great service to Aus-
tralian literature in allowing us to see
in a compact form just where this
country’s prose stands today.
NOSMAN LINOSAY.
A Handefull of Pleasant
Delites.
Had Ronald McCuaig’s The Wanton
Goldfish (printed by the author at 73
Fitzwilliam - road, Vaucluse, Sydney)
landed winking and blinking its wanton
eye on a table at any time
between 1541 and 1641, the ichthyologist
would have had no difficulty in classify-
ing it. One glance at “The Hungry
Moths”—
and the booklet would have been accepted
at once as adding something, in just the
right tone, to songs of Wyatt, Campion,
Shakspeare, Herrick or the gay Sir John
Suckling of: —
Out upon it! I have loved
Three whole days together.
And am like to love three more
If it be fair weather.
But it’s an odd fish to have swum from
file depths of Vaucluse to a reviewer’s
table in Sydney, in September, 1941.
Strange company for lan Mudie’s
patriotic This is Australia and for
Leonard Mann’s vigorously contempor-
ary Poems from the Mask; alanning
company, maybe, for Kathleen Dalziel’s
gently feminine Known and Not Held.
Yet a “handefull of pleasant delites,”
a book of songs, is not really such a
phenomenon in the Australian scene as
too exclusive an attention to the works
of such moderns as Mann and Mudie
would lead one to believe. Hugh McCrae
and Herrick are brothers and contem-
poraries, and it’s only a couple of years
since Angus and Robertson published
McCrae’s Collected Poems with a handful
of new lyrical delights. And, truly un-
derstood, the effect of McCrae’s songs,
or of McCuaig’s—
is not to show how archaic living writers
can be, but how up-to-date the dead ones
are, how directly the purest poetry of the
Elizabethans speaks to the contemporary
mind.
Nor, since Yeats at the end of his life
turned to ballads and songs, is a frank,
clear-cut, singing verse any interloper on
the world-scene of contemporary poetry.
“The natural words in their natural
order,” said Yeats; “and always, at the
back of the mind, music.”
At a time when the two most promi-
nent trends in Australian poetry — the
Australianism of the Jindyworobaks, to
which group Mudie belongs, and the
exploration of the contemporary world
exemplified by Leonard Mann’s new
poems —both tend, in varying degrees,
to ignore the musical basis of poetry,
Yeats’s “rule” is always worth stressing.
Kathleen Dalziel is, of course, a lyrical
poet —
Peewits calling by long lagoons
Where the ripples wash and the heat-haze
swoons
All through the long hot afternoons —
and needs no urging to remember that
verse was once chanted to the lyre.
Without great depth, sometimes too facile
in form and diction, her verses in Known
and Not Held (Bread and Cheese Club,
Melbourne) are nevertheless an expres-
sion of a love for the Australian land-
scape every bit as genuine as Mudie’s
and, at their slightest, they have always
the charm of verse that sings.
By his insistence on music, Yeats was
always at pains to make clear, he did
not mean merely the easy, essentially
Georgian lyricism of which Kathleen
Dalziel’s poems would be an example.
His definition was wide enough to take
in the macabre gaiety of McCuaig’s
Death has a butcher’s shop
Where the gods come in to buy:
And old meat turns their faces wry
As the chipper-chopper goes chip, chop;
But they’d like a cut from your lady’s thigh
Or a tender steak from her ribs to fry,
as well as the deeper undertones of
Mann’s
Silence like a sea sound in the conched ear,
That lays an awe and spell upon the heart.
Until I move as though I were a part
Of silence and of earth, a moving stone,
A shape of life from which the life is gone.
In flashes, too, there is in This is Aus-
tralia (Frank Cork, Ltd., 18 Hindley-
street, Adelaide) a strong music of oratory
that would claim for these intensely
patriotic verses one of the essentials of
poetry:
But far too much of Mudie’s verse, how-
ever one is inclined to sympathise with
it for its burning Australianism, and
however much it may contribute to the
dream of an Australian renascence which
is stirring most of the Jindyworobak
writers, is didactic and dull, without
music, merely prose set out as verse: —
Oh, let us now, before we sink —as nothing
more
tharfcurious-outlined blob upon the map—
into a fuddled dream of orb-wide medioc-
rity
of “universal brotherhood” as label for a
new
stockbroker-plan for universe monopoly
in which each one shall crawl in cut-to-
federal-plan
and carpet-slippered ease of slavery ...
There are two things which Mudie,
perhaps a natural balladist —
The grass grows over Eureka
and Stuart’s tree is burned
And Greenaway’s stones are down —
might consider: one is, didn’t “Banjo”
Paterson contribute far more to the Aus-
tralian culture, and so to the Australian
nation, in “The Man from Snowy River,”
a pure ballad, than in any of his political
and didactic verses? The other, if Mudie
is not willing to go back to the ballad
as McCuaig has gone back to the
Elizabethans, is, as contributing to the
matter of music in poetry, what Coleridge
had to say about compound adjectives: —
The authority of Milton and Shakspeare
may be usefully pointed out to young
authors. In the Corpus and other early
poems of Milton there is a superfluity of
double epithets; while in the Paradise
Lost we find very few, in the Paradise Re-
gained scarce any. The same remark holds
almost equally true of the Love’s Labor
Lost, Romeo and Juliet, Venus and Adonis,
and Lucrece, compared with the Lear, Mac-
beth, Othello and Hamlet of our great
Dramatist. The rule for the admission of
double epithets seems to be this: either
that they should be already denizens of our
language, such as blood-stained, terror-
stricken, self-applauding; or when a new
epithet, or one such as is found in books
only, is hazarded, that it, at least, be one
word, not two words made one by mere
virtue of the printer’s hyphen.
Yielding nothing to Mudie in the
matter of patriotism, less technically
accomplished than The Wanton Goldfish
but rarely without music, even in “The
Workshops”—
Shifts clocking off and on
While machines stay at their places,
New flesh and blood filling the empty spaces
Left when the old were done —
Mann’s Poems from the Mask (Hawthorn
Press, Melbourne) has, besides the depth
that one would not ask for in a book
purely of songs, a contemporaneity of
language and outlook that would have
given The Wanton Goldfish the sharp
teeth it lacks. A book of contemporary
songs, on the lines of the lyrical ballad
of Sydney’s Friday night saturnalia in
his Vaudeville, is what one would like
to see from McCuaig. Beside Vaudeville.
The Wanton Goldfish is slight. Leonard
Mann, though he has still some technical
weaknesses to overcome—
offers a marked improvement on the
verses of The Plumed Voice and shows
that he shares with Robert D. Fitz Gerald
the ability to think in verse without losing
the quality of music.
Poor hungry white moths
That eat my love’s clothing,
Who says very soon
Ye’ll leave her with nothing,
Here under the moon
I make bold to persuade ye,
Ye may eat all her clothes
So ye leave me milady,
Poor
hungry
white
moths —
Love me and never leave me,
Love, nor ever deceive me,
And I shall always bless you
If I may undress you:
Which I heard a lover say
To his sweetheart where they lay.
He, though he did undress her,
Did not always bless her;
She, though she would not leave him,
Often did deceive him;
Yet they loved, and when they died
They were buried side by side —
This is Australia, this is the wide continent
that holds the gate of the world for men
and warmth
against icy immensities of emptiness
—cold light and great darkness—of the
southern seas;
or
and we
are not a nation, shall not be
until our Land in all our thoughts
looms vast and peremptory as the sea.
Glad am I my life should be
Of this the repository—
Hollywood Hocus-pocus.
Mr. Noel Langley has seen more
people in shops look at the first page of
a book and if they can’t get something
for nothing there they flip up the last
page and see if the guy gets the girl or
somebody dies, and is that any way to
be? Horning in on the surprise finale
instead of getting to it the honest way.
But in the case of his new novel Hocus
Focus (Methuen; Moore’s Bookshop)
that only makes Mr. Langley feel good ;
because the last page here isn’t going
to mean a thing to anybody without they
do the thing properly and go along with
him.
Or, rather, it’s not Mr, Langley who
says that but the female named Pearl
O’Mara who tells the story of Hocus
Focus in the first person. And Pearl, or
Mr. Langley, needn’t feel quite so darn
good about it, for anybody skipping in
one jump from the first page to the last
would get a pretty good idea of the fun-
damentals of Pearl’s story. The last
page;— .
Twenty-five last birthday, and marriage
has contributed a lot, too. I could make
my fingers meet round my waist once, but
if I tried now it’d kill me. Retired, that’s
me.
This book, then, is about a girl (sorry,
goil) who falls in love, quarrels with her
lover, parts from him, meets him, parts,
meets, parts, meets, parts, meets, parts,
meets, parts and meets to part no more.
Love, marriage, virtue triumphant.
Certainly, on looking into the novel,
Pearl’s is not the old-fashioned sort of
virtue. But Mr. Langley is quite clear
about her being a nice girl at heart; and,
anyhow, it all comes all right in the end.
But the things that anyone who did
skip to the end would miss are (1) Mr.
Langley’s celebrated naughtiness; (2)
Mr. Langley’s wisecracks ; and (3) a first-
rate satire on Hollywood.
For while Pearl, as far as the business
of getting married and triumphing in
virtue is concerned, is behaving in exactly
the same way as all the heroines of Holly-
wood, she is also babbling a most com-
plicated but genuinely funny history of
her explorations in the jungle of film-
dom, filled with roaring “executives” and
sneaking yes-men, she-cats and he-cats,
strong, dumb men hunting fame, crooks
and touts and twicers, shameless plagiar-
ists, authors howling to the moon and
those shadowy outlaws “the boys on the
black list.”
Specimen of a director —the great D.G.
talking after Papenfus and Froomberg
have horsed up (i.e., altered beyond re-
cognition) the script submitted by Pearl’s
author boy friend:
“Well, Pearl,” says D.G. looking very
good, “I just want to tell you that I’ve been
in the business since Zanuck wrote a book
and I never had a script like this before.
It’s got beauty. Pearl, it’s got a message.
You don’t hear that said very often about a
script, do you? This script is a piece of
literature. It’s all this and Warner Brothers,
too; with more uplift than a sarong.” He
waits for us to laugh, which we do, Waldo
most of all on account of it was his gag
first. “For the first time I can truthfully
say I’ve got a serious piece of literature,
with dignity, and something to say; and
don’t worry, sexy, too.”
Specimen of a Langley wisecrack —
Pearl on the artistic Miss Papenfus:
Papenfus’s got culture, and they’re kind
of respectful the way they handle her: I
guess I’d be respectful the way I handled
her, at that; I bet if you tookTiold and
shook her, out’d come mothballs and maybe
a bat.
Pearl’s conversation at times uncom-
fortably resembles Kitty Foyle’s ; and the
Hollywood satire differs very little from
Jeffry Dell’s Nobody Ordered Wolves,
satirising English filmdom a few months
ago. Still, Hocus Focus remains worth
reading for a laugh, and the satire strikes
home. The odd thing about it is that,
since Pearl remains so indomitably a
good girl at heart, and since the wedding
bells tinkle on that last page she doesn’t
want you to look at, the story is just the
thing for the films.
From Anzac to the Hindenburg Line:
Norman K. Harvey (Wm. Brooks, Ltd.,
Brisbane). History of the 9th Battalion,
the old Queensland Ist Divvy lot, from
Enoggera to the end. They were among
the first ashore at the Landing, were in
it at Pozieres and other hot spots. A
grand crowd, and their story here so
fully and well told that this adds another
to the generally good historical accounts
of the Diggers in that last war.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”— the of business.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
V
\«*■
> -W
«■■■■ /
Be In the Swim!
BRIGHT COLOURS ARE
FOR THE N EW SWI M
AT RIGHT:
Jantzen"
Half Hitch,
These "Jantzen'' Surf Trunks fit perfectly,
make a man's waistline a little more trim
and add a touch of neatness which is
very much in order. Half skirt model
made from "Jantzen's" rugged barred rib
fabric with-contrasting side piping. Black,
Navy, Maroon, Grey and Doon Green. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, pair 17/9
THE VOGUE
SEASON.. .
\ 1!
Ir
ABOVE:
Beach Jerkin
6 s
For fit, freedom and comfort . . .
fleecy lined Beach Jerkin. Long
sleeves, smart crew neck and avail-
able in sizes, S.M., M., and O.S.
White only. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price 6/3
• Men’s Wear—Ground Floor. George Street.
Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W.
and seaports in the Commonwealth.
m
179
2/
4
. X
v
• •>
V
'
I
mm
mm
\ J
A
/
f'
, “i.-W
v -s
S vS
ABOVE:
12/6 "Meritas" Trunks
We candidly think this very
special value ... all wool ribbed
knit "Meritas" Surf Trunks genu-
inely reduced. Made with coin
pocket, White Belt and Buckle. Shades of Royal
Grey, Marone,- Bottle, Navy and Black. Sizes 34
to 40 in. waist. Price, 12/6. Special Price, pr„ 10/6
ABOVE:
'Jantzen' aq/ c
De-luxe b
These "Jantzen" Surf Trunks have a
certain degree of resplendence you
couldn't help but admire. Robust
barred-rib fabric, half skirt with
tailored coin pocket. De luxe worsted
belt is fitted with popular D. ring
buckle. Navy, Grey and Black.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price, pr., 22/6
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'PHONE; M 2401 (Day or Night)
Post to BOX 2712 C, G.P.O. SYDNEY


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
Hime of take mellctmeu amilmiqimt
Seppelt's
MACNA CHARTA ISLANS
Some twenty-one miles south-west of London, adjacent to that ridge of sand—Cooper’s Hill —the site of the College established in 1870 to train young men
for service in India as civil engineers, the locale which inspired Denham’s oft-quoted ode to the Thames, is the small ait which must ever figure in
history allied with an event of tremendous import in the advancement of civil and political freedom. It is Magna Charta Island, upon which many
hold that on June 15, 1215, King John under the “persuasive” influence of the barons signed the charter of British liberties. Many also maintain this great
“deed of freedom” was signed on the broad, flat meadow at the foot of Cooper’s Hill, familiar to all by its name, “Runnymede.” The exact spot
where the signature was secured is, however, immaterial. According to Matthew of Westminster, Runnymede of old was a place where treaties concerning the
peace of the nation were signed, the name signifying “The Mead of Council.” Sir James Mackintosh, who died in 1832, the distinguished jurist, historian
and philosopher, has in his “History of England,” Vol. I, p. 221, presented for all time in lofty and stately sentences all Magna Charta meant, and all of
which, by the way, Nazism would negative:
“On the English nation undoubtedly the Charter has contributed to bestow the union of establishment with improvement. To all mankind it
set the first example of the progress of a great people for centuries in blending their tumultuary democracy and hauty nobility with a
fluctuating and vaguely limited monarchy, so as at length to form from these discordant materials the only form of free government which
experience has shown to be reconcilable with widely extended dominions. Whoever in any future age or unborn nation may admire the felicity
of the expedient which converted the power of taxation into the shield of liberty, by which discretionary and secret imprisonment was
rendered impracticable, and portions of people were trained to exercise a larger share of judicial power than was ever allotted to them
in any other civilised state, in such a manner as to serve instead of endangering tranquillity—whoever exalts at the spectacle of enlightened
and independent assemblies, who under the eye of a well-informed nation discuss and determine the laws and policy likely to make
communities great and happy—whoever is capable of comprehending all the effects of such institutions with all their possible improvements
upon the mind and genius of a people, is sacredly bound to speak with reverential gratitude of the authors of the Great Charter. To
have produced it, to have preserved it, to have matured it, constitutes the immortal claim of England on the esteem of mankind.”
The Gothic cottage seen in the illustration, erected by the late Mr. S. Harcourt, the owner of the island and the manor in 1832, contains the stone
upon which, as an ancient inscription testifies, the Charter was signed. In 1939 this most precious parchment was sent to America, and is now guarded by the
United States Government, and will continue to be until such time as Hitler and his evil counsellors shall be "things of the past, ’ when it will be returned
to the land of its origin.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62.—N0. 3216.
Wednesday, October 1, 1941.
ALL AID SHORT OF WORK.
“Keep your wool on, Joe! You’ll get what you want when we get our price."


The Buĺltin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp . G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6a.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign ) .*
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
WHAT ABOUT TOBRUK?
Unconsciously condemning the general reporting of
the Russian war, in which newspaper “experts” and
radio commentators have surpassed even their
Spanish - war achievements, Australian journals
announced last Wednesday that Russians on the cen-
tral front had gained “the first decisive victory won
against German troops anywhere in this war.” The
authority for this statement was a London “Daily
Telegraph” man, member of a party of British press-
men who have been permitted, very tardily, to visit
part of the Russian front. His authority seems to
have been a certain Major-General Sokolovsky. On
one point the correspondent and the general differed.
“The Russians,” quoth the correspondent, “are within
16 miles of Smolensk” ; the general’s version was that
his men were “some 25 miles from Smolensk.”
There is no occasion for dwelling on inconsis-
tencies. Let it be frankly and gratefully accepted
that the Russians have forced back the invaders in
the Smolensk region. May they go on doing it, and
may their hard-pressed comrades join in, until the
enemy is in hopeless retreat along the whole front!
May the ghastly invasion be avenged until the Red
Army has won as many battles with real arms as
Sydney afternoon papers and radio authorities have
won for it with ink and hot air!
But to say that Timoshenko’s men have “gained
the first decisive victory won against German troops
anywhere in this war” is an untruth, and a gross
injustice to British Commonwealth fighting men.
Before the Russian war began, a decisive victory over
Germans, which brought them to a standstill in
Cyrenaica and wrecked their plans for an invasion of
Egypt, was gained by our own men and their straight-
shooting British companions at Tobruk.
The thrilling story was related in glowing sen-
tences by an actual combatant, the writer of “Retreat
.to Tobruk” (B. 13/8/’4l). It began when the
Germans, taking advantage of the withdrawal of part
of the British armored division and the Sixth A.I.F.
Division to Greece, “came swiftly along the coastal
road, smashed through our armored troops and
approached Benghazi.” There followed as a harsh
necessity a dreadful 400-mile retreat over the desert
to Tobruk, in the course of which the writer’s brigade
was joined by “hunted groups” of “survivors of the
disaster at Mekhili,” who told “how a brigade had
been surrounded there and had fought against heavy
odds and had then attempted, with lumbering convoys
of heavy lorries, to escape.”
It had tried to turn back, faltered in confusion,
broken up and then been scattered by the enemy mobile
units. We knew, too, that we had lost many good men
in the withdrawal from Barce. One of our sister bat-
talions had lost almost 200 of its strength, including all
its senior officers. Many smaller groups were missing.
On the retiring troops went, punished by machine-
gun posts and ’planes, and haunted by proud and sad
memories of “two of our battalions,” who, “scatter-
ing into hopeless positions, laughed as they smoked
and waited in country over which armored fighting
vehicles would roll like an avalanche.” The colonel
of one battalion had “laughingly indicated two enemy
tanks on the horizon and changed his Tommy-gun to
his other arm.” Night after night the retreat went on
until there came a dawn when the Australians
reached Tobruk. Exhausted, they “slept through
the morning beneath a blinding sandstorm. Under
cover of that storm, still raging in the afternoon, we
took up a position on the Tobruk perimeter and knew
that our withdrawal had ended.”
Early in the afternoon, two days later, the hill in
front of our wire seemed to move. The Germans came
steadily down the slope, moving confidently and slowly.
Behind the hill we could see the lines of their transport
disgorging the motorised infantry which they bore.
Our guns opened and we saw the shells bursting with
dreadful effect amongst the moving ranks of men and
the hurrying convoy lines. On they came until at
last the attack wilted and failed before our wire.
It was the first of many attempts to take Tobruk
by storm. “The next afternoon they came again in
the same way, and again our shells drove them back.
That night in the darkness they breached our wire
and filled our tank ditch and, in the furious morning,
came through.”
First the tanks smashed through our posts and ran
amuck inside our defences; infantry flowed over our
positions like a wave. The fighting was fierce and dread-
ful. Above us, battling ’planes fought just as fiercely.
A Hurricane spun put of the fight to crash in a cloud
of dust and a sheet of leaping flame. Then the enemy
began to fall. Five were down in as many minutes.
The battle on the ground went on in the dawn. One
of our companies went into counter-attack with the
bayonet. The men laughed and talked as they closed
with the enemy and their bayonets were dreadful to see.
The enemy felt that dread; they cried for mercy as those
men they had pursued for four hundred miles fell upon
them; then they fled, scrambling back in terror through
the hole they had made in our wire, and their tanks
followed them out, except for those, burnt and broken
masses of steel, which remained within our defences.
So ended our withdrawal. Our men forgot the mis-
takes which had caused their retreat, forgot the discom-
fort and misery of those days which lay behind them and
settled down to fight. Day after day they were to go
on repelling the enemy’s attacks, living in sand and dirt,
longing for water, of which they had all too little,
laughing as they spoke of being “surrounded,” cursing
the enemy aircraft coming at them in thirties and forties
and fifties with bombs and machine-guns, sallying forth
at night and harrying the enemy in the darkness.
To Tobruk they had fallen back; at Tobruk they
stayed and knew that, in their staying, they slowly
drained from him all the enemy’s strength in the wastes
of Libya.
That is what the men of Tobruk did and are
doing still. Decimated, half-starved, half-dead, they
stopped the march of an exultant enemy whose goal
was the Royal Navy’s one base in the Eastern Medi-
terranean ; and, although short of everything and
bombed incessantly, they have kept him tied down in
Cyrenaica ever since.
What will these men think when they read in
their home papers that the end of the third month of
the Russian campaign saw “the first decisive victory
won against German troops anywhere in this war”?
What will they think when they read that a day and
a night, ending in a division involving the fate of the
Government, were devoted in the national Parliament
to the subject of a “secret fund” established for “a
special purpose,” described as “active counter-propa-
ganda against the activities of subversive bodies”? How
thunderously they will laugh when they learn that,
instead of doing the essential job itself, the Govern-
ment handed it over, complete with funds, to a so-
called Australian Democratic Front, with a solicitor for
president and society ladies and an elocutionist among
the office-bearers? What will be Tobruk’s reaction
to the news that, with the full sanction of the Treasurer
and the Attorney-General, a Mr. Winkler, “Assistant
Commonwealth Publicity Officer,” received three sepa-
rate sums of £lOO “for transmission to Mr. Nelson,”
general president of the Miners’ Federation, and to
Mr. Nelson’s statement that, “if any such money was
paid, it was never received by myself in any shape
or form”? Tobruk will assuredly regard this affair as
the last word in paltriness and the Government’s part
in it as feebleness itself. Even the Budget with which
Mr. Fadden rounded off the sorry story of war taxa-
tion in 1941 must seem one of the infinitely little
things to Tobruk.
Messages breathing the same unflinching spirit
have been exchanged by the garrisons of Tobruk and
Odessa. How bitter would both have been if they
could have read last week that a thousand engineers
employed by the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation,
led by shop stewards, had demanded “an immediate
policy of support for Russia” and “a ten per cent,
increase in pay and improved conditions” for them-
selves, the alternative to the ten per cent, and trim-
mings being a strike, with 500 sheet-metal workers
joining in. Full support for Russia and strike! If a
corresponding “demand” were issued in Germany,
how long would the shop stewards be at large?
Contending with two Powers fully organised for
war and with all the resources of Europe at their dis-
posal, our fighting services and the Merchant Navy
have carried the Empire through the darkest months
it has ever known and kept most of it as secure as it
has ever been. But the majesty of their achievement
is still imperfectly appreciated by those who have the
greatest cause for gratitude, nor are they even yet
receiving a full measure of support from Governments
and civil populations. Given that full measure of sup-
port and a steady adhesion to the true principles of
imperial strategy, which, when faithfully followed,
have given such grand results —at the moment there is
a mad newspaper agitation for spectacular offensives
which could achieve nothing, and which would imperil
our vital supremacy at sea —our fighting services and
our merchant service are invincible.
Urging Uncle Sam.
At last one plain truth at least is being admitted —
that it is going to be very hard to win this war in the
sense of imposing our terms on the enemy with-
out the full participation of Uncle Sam in a fighting
role side by side with J. Bull. The alternative to be
faced is not J.B.’s defeat, but a long—an intermin-
ably long—war of wasting attrition, with both sides
exhausting themselves in the process. There is war-
rant for the sustaining belief that the Germans, or
their Nazi system, would eventually be the first to
crack under such a test: the point, however, is that
it would be a long and severe test; one that would, in
time, make Australians look back with astonishment
at the fool’s paradise of voluntary effort, munitions
strikes and the like which was their deluded idea of
war in 1941,
A certain measure of satisfaction can be had
from the fact that this grim prospect must be even
more of a headache to Germany’s leaders, and a
heartache to the Germans generally. On our own side
wishful thinking for a short war has all been of a
private nature. Occasionally the hope has been fed
by foolish optimism from above, but mostly it has
had its weak nourishment from catchpenny news-
papers and their astrologers and pyramid prophets.
The time set by better authorities when the war
started was three years; that was before the fall of
France, the trampling under of the rest of Europe, and
the exhibition of German military might against Russia.
Taking over when the position was most desperate,
Mr. Churchill held out only the Spartan encourage-
ment of blood, toil, sweat and tears —indefinitely.
The Germans, on the other hand, have been
buoyed up with positive promises of a short war —
to be finished, with German victory, this year at the
latest. The most optimistic of them must realise by
now that there is no hope of those promises being
fulfilled, but it would be the wildest of wishful think-
ing to believe they are at all likely to begin cracking
up on that account. Perhaps it is possible that next
year, or the year after, or the year after that, their
morale might begin to show signs of wear in an ex-
haustive war of attrition with no end in sight. Sup-
posed good evidence in support of that hope is pub-
lished in abundance, but this mostly comes from
German expatriates and other sources about which
it might be safest to be sceptical until events have
proved them trustworthy.
Nothing in the German military performance to
date has indicated other than complete and fanatical
confidence. There has been no sign anywhere—in
Germany or in the German fighting forces —of any
weakening of morale. It would be amazing if there
were any such signs, since morale feeds on success,
and the Germans —except when they have come
directly up against the British Commonwealth —have
had nothing but success. Wishful thinking might then
turn to the hope that a state of stalemate might bring
about the cracking of German morale. Perhaps it
might, too —in time. But that again means anything
but a short war, apart from the consideration that it
probably rests on an outsize fallacy which all along has
seriously handicapped the effort to beat Germany. This
fallacy is the belief —still widely accepted, despite
everything—that this war, unlike all other wars, can
be won without fighting. It is false, and all fighting
men know it is false and desperately dangerous, but it
still has its dupes in large numbers, and in more anti-
German countries than one.
Oddly enough, it springs in the first place from
German propaganda spread abroad after the 1914-18
war, trumpeted by German propagandists ever since
—especially by Hitler —and all too readily accepted
by credulous pacifists and others who have read in
it a prescription for abolishing wars, or at least for
having them henceforth painless. This was the Ger-
man face-saving falsehood that the German Army did
not suffer military defeat in 1918, but was “stabbed in
the back” by the German people brought to a desperate
stage of despairing revolt by blockade-produced star-
vation. The truth is, of course, that the Germans
were positively defeated in the field ; that they were
on the run ; and that not until they were thus mili-
tarily defeated did the morale of the German people
break down.
In the general reaction against war which fol-
lowed, it became fashionable, not only to condemn
war, but to belittle and ridicule all those who had
been in the forces that had defeated the Germans.
Politicians in, the highest places joined in this spate
of ingratitude—they wanted the credit for themselves.
It spread generally. When the present war broke out,
the commonest notion of the earlier war prevailing was
that that war had not been won by anything so primi-
tive as sheer dogged fighting quality ; it had been won
with such weapons as blockade and propaganda.
Even now this notion is still far from being
knocked out. With the Germans again on the march,
triumphant over Europe, hacking into Russia by the
sheer power of fighting, there is still this belief that
they can somehow be beaten by means other than
military fighting and all that military fighting implies.
It implies, for one thing, properly equipped forces of
approximately equal fighting strength to the German
forces, which must, some time, somewhere, be once
more met and defeated by fighting if this war is to
be won. It is sickening now to look back to that
beginning with “confetti” raids on Germany. That
was the precious idea of war then prevailing—that
propaganda could do it, as it did last time! Events
killed that folly soon enough ; but even such events
as there have been have not yet entirely killed faith
in the belief that blockade alone will do the job—
as it also did last time!
But now at last this fallacy, too, is in process of
liquidation. It is being liquidated by the stark reality
of what is happening in Russia, where the Germans
—who have never had any fallacious notions about
the prime importance of fighting, and have had suc-
cess in proportion—go on with their murderous busi-
ness, incidentally knocking out yet another line of
wishful thinking while they’re about it: the line
propagated by Mr, G. B. Shaw and his newspaper
echoes shouting that the war for Britain was now all
over; Britain could sit back and smile, while Stalin
destroyed Hitler. At last it is being realised that giving
the major credit for the German successes to Fifth
Columnists and suchlike has been greatly overdone.
The plain, stark truth is at last being accepted—that in
war there is no escape from a fighting part.
With this belated realisation comes the sudden
increased urging of Uncle Sam to take up his musket.
Yet even now the pretence is kept up that the reason
for this urging is not really a fighting reason. The
pretence is that all that’s really wanted from Uncle
Sam is what he can produce. “Give us the guns and
we will finish the job,” said Mr. Churchill. It sounded
magnificent; it may yet appear to have been extremely
foolish, or at least mistakenly optimistic. Now it is
being urged that Uncle Sam’s production cannot
become enough unless it has behind it the impetus
that would follow on direct entry into the war. No
doubt that is true enough, too ; the fault with it is
that it perpetuates the idea that production will be
enough. In turn, this idea can be accepted provided
that what is envisaged is a war going on and on,
year after year, indefinitely. Otherwise, this is yet
another idea due presently for liquidation. It has
done damage enough in America, where today these
notions prevail side by side: that Uncle Sam is com-
mitted to help J. Bull win this war, and that this can
be done without Uncle Sam taking on a fighting role.
The first of these notions would seem to be about as
positive as words and undertakings can make any-
thing ; the other notion looks, on the face of all the
evidence, the worst sort of wishful nonsense.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Mr. Fadden's Second Attempt.
Judged as an effort to keep in office, and as a thing
to go to the country with if an election cannot be
avoided, the second Fadden Budget is no mean per-
formance. Pretty well everybody has been thought of
except the taxpayer in the middle group, who, hard
hit by the first Fadden Budget, is to suffer a bit more
—though presumably his vote is not important enough
to matter. Even two of the “necessitous” States, which
shouldn’t be necessitous these times, are to get sub-
stantial additions to their special grants: South Aus-
tralia has been promised another £1,150,000, up
£150,000, and Tasmania £520,000, up £120,000, though
Westralia is to lose £20,000 of the £650,000 it received
from Canberra last year. Considering that war ex-
penditure in Westralia is trifling compared with what
South Australia is getting, this is exceedingly strange.
War expenditure for the current year is “con-
servatively” estimated at £217,000,000 and expenditure
on non-war services at £102,000,000, up £17,000,000.
For the men of the fighting services another
£6,000,000 is to be provided, mainly by an increase
of Is. a day, to be credited to them as deferred pay
“from the date of this announcement.” To this in
principle nobody objects ; the main question is whether
the stout fellows who have been in the war from the
beginning should not get their increase from the date
of enlistment. Liberalisation of the conditions under
which old-age and invalid pensions are to be granted
is expected to cost another £1,434,000 ; going on past
experience it should be a lot more.
The hand of Taxation Commissioner Jackson is
plainly visible in part of the taxation proposals, and
another part was inspired by Mr, J. M. Keynes. Mr.
Jackson it was who suggested that the Commonwealth
should make its income-tax uniform by ceasing to
exempt income-tax payments made to the States, and
Ihis is to be done. A Sydney accountant calculates
l hat it will mean another shilling in the pound in
( ommonwealth tax on higher incomes, and it will
also mean that the taxpayers thus affected will have
a crow to pluck with their State Governments, which
will gain nothing in the long run by their churlish
refusal to consider any plan for one Australian income
tax.
All incomes, from £lOO upwards, are to be
assessed for what is called a “national contribution,”
ranging, in the case of personal income, from £ll Is.
on £l5O to £34,796 on £40,000. From this there will
be deducted Commonwealth income tax payable in
1941-42 and State income taxes paid in 1940-41 ; the
balance, if any, will be collected as a loan, repayable
after the war, plus interest at 2 p.c. But because State
taxation differs so much, especially in Queensland and
Victoria, incomes of the same amount will yield sub-
stantial post-war credits in Mr. Dunstan’s State and
nothing whatever in Mr. Forgan-Smith’s State. It
has already been suggested that the ingenious
Keynesian plan is unconstitutional; but Mr. Fadden is
sure it is constitutionally sound.
Companies, now taxed 2s. in the £ (of course, they
have several other calls to meet), are to pay 2s. 6d.
and hand over “20 p.c. of yearly accretions” to depre-
ciation funds and undistributed profits as a forced loan.
With these measures Mr. Fadden hopes to get
£7,500,000 additional to what individual post-war credits
will yield—£2o,ooo,ooo is his reckoning. Postage is to
be 2yd., and telephone calls and rents are to be dearer.
And there is to be a mortgage bank—at least, if Mr.
Wilson is good—and “the banking system” is to find
£62,000,000 this year, while the trading banks will
be required to keep “any increase in their funds due
to war finance” in a special Commonwealth Bank
deposit account. Presumably it is hoped that these
proposals will still the howls of people who blame
the banks for everything that cannot, without too
violent a jolt, be attributed to Hitler.
On the whole the Budget might be worse, but
there are noticeable errors and omissions. It is a grave
fault to permit greedy State Governments to grab for
provincial purposes what is needed for the national
emergency; the Government should have swept their
litter of taxes away and placed them on a grant-in-aid
basis. And it is a serious omission not to clap war
taxes on lottery prizes, horse- and dogracing (with
total war-time abolition of the broadcasting that feeds
the s.p. plague), cinema shows, jazz joints and gate-
money sport. But with the Labor Opposition ready
to pounce whenever Mr. Wilson chooses to come down
from his eyrie above the battle, the Fadden Govern-
ment cannot risk alienating people who demand busi-
ness and pleasure as usual.
That "Secret Fund."
Stirred by visions of a mysterious person slipping in
and out of Mr. Curtin’s bedroom, by hints of a secret
organisation financed by the Government and by
thrilling references to a “secret fund,” the public
momentarily forgot its trepidation about the Fadden
Budget and settled down to await further news of the
apparently vast conspiracy unearthed at Canberra.
True to form, the leaders of both sides and the
more vocal of the lesser Representatives thundered
across the Chamber at each other for two days.
Ancient political history was dragged out, the where-
abouts of forgotten politicians and reporters were re-
vealed and the old Labor heresy cry of “Rat! ” echoed
once again. Finally Mr. Fadden promised a royal
commission, after saying there wouldn’t be one, and
all concerned, except Mr. Curtin’s bedroom visitor,
expressed their gratification—though whether all were
sincere is another matter.
What was it all about? On the face of it the
penchant of Mr. Hughes for playing at being the
Chief” to “Operators X, Y and Z” in the secret-
service games he has indulged in since somebody
hit him with an egg when he was Prime Minister, and
the fixed resolve of the Government not to govern if
any substitute for governing can be resorted to.
Mr. Curtin’s bedroom visitor was one Joe
Winkler, who had graduated from the defunct “Labor
Daily ’ to assistant Commonwealth publicity director.
He revealed to Mr. Curtin certain documents that
were “official secrets” and Mr. Curtin revealed “all”
except the “official secrets.” Mr. Fadden, promising
a royal commission, indicated that the prosecution
of Mr. Winkler would be “considered.”
“All” seemed to consist of the fact that the Gov-
ernment, fully aware of the activities of Communists,
instead of dealing with them as a war-time Govern-
ment should, yielded to Mr. Hughes’s pleas to be
allowed to create a “front.” The “front” was duly
formed at a Sydney Town Hall meeting which Mr.
Hughes described as “a clarion call to Australia.” The
clarion was heard by a Martin-place solicitor, five
other gentlemen and three ladies. These became the
committee of the “Australian Democratic Front.” Mr.
Hughes duly fitted out the A.D.F. with an office and
staff, and between February, 1940, and September this
year it got, according to Mr. Fadden, £4BlB Bs, 4d.
from a “confidential fund” —the “secret fund” of the
disclosure. Included in the amount was £3OO, signed
for by Mr. Winkler as having been received from the
A.D.F. on behalf of Mr. C. Nelson, president of the
Miners’ Federation, ostensibly to cover Mr. Nelson’s
travels around the miners’ lodges to preach industrial
peace. Mr. Nelson denies everything.
Mr. Curtin put it to the House that all this was
a misuse of public funds, and in the resultant vote
the Independent Mr. Wilson “saved” the Government.
Since there is to be a royal commission, some of the
real truth might come out, especially in regard to the
apparent belief of writing boys that Ministers should
not only take them into their confidence and be
guided by their advice, but should, if necessary, find
well-paid jobs for them. But no royal commission
will remove the growing belief that the Government is
afraid to govern, nor will it remove the amusement of
both the ordinary citizen and the Communist at the
idea of Mr. Hughes trying to “counter” subversive
activities through solicitors, elocutionists and society
ladies. And the whole thing also brings into question
the worth or otherwise of Senator Foil’s costly Depart-
ment of Information.
Comrade Chollop.
The mantle of Mr. Chollop now enfolds the “Aus-
tralian” of the Friend-of-the-Soviet brand. “We must
be cracked-up, sir,” said Mr. Chollop, “in a tone of
menace,” to Mark Tapley. “We are a model to the
airth, and must be jist cracked-up, I tell you.”
“What, I speak too free, do I?” cried Mark.
“I have know’d strong men obleeged to make
themselves uncommon skase for less. I have know’d men
beaten into punkin-sarse for less by an enlightened
people. We are the intellect and virtue of the airth, the
cream Of human natur’, and the flower Of moral force.
Our backs is easy ris. We must be cracked-up, or they
rises, and we snarls. We shows our teeth, I tell you,
fierce. You’d better crack us up, you had!”
A perfect specimen of Mr. Chollop—except that
he doesn’t carry “a brace of revolving pistols with
seven barrels apiece”—is Comrade Laurie, secretary
of the Australia-Soviet Friendship League. The letter
which invoked the assistance of the Melbourne Trades
Hall Council in trying to get the ban removed from
“Moscow News” and placed on The Bulletin bore the
name of Comrade Laurie. Nor was Comrade Laurie
in any way chastened when the Trades Hall Council
ignored him or when the Federal A.L.P, executive, fol-
lowing the State Labor organisations in Victoria
and Queensland, decided that Australian Labor could
not afford to be seen dead with the Australia-Soviet
Friendship League. On the contrary. Comrade Laurie
shot up immediately with an insolent demand for the
suppression of the Hollywood film called “Comrade
X,” on the ground that it was “a malicious, lying and
scurrilous attack on the Government of an allied
Power.” ,
This was too much for even the feeble Foil. The
feeble Foil protested that “Comrade X” was nothing
more than a mild skit, to which Maisky himself had
not objected. Mild it is, and there is nothing in it half
as humorous as the notion that Hollywood would
manufacture a film really detrimental to Moscow.
For upwards of 21 months, Reds were venom-
ously opposed to what they called the “imperialist
war, and they did a power of mischief. Their attitude
now is that, because they condescend to support the
war while Moscow is in it (which does not mean that
Communists are joining the fighting services), their
associations and publications should be treated as if
they had never been venomously opposed to the war,
and anti-Communist Australians whose first loyalty
is to the Commonwealth of which King George is
King should be silenced to please them.
Legalisation of the Communist party was one of
a series of demands presented to Mr. Curtin by a
parcel of Red trade-union secretaries of whom Com-
rade Thornton of the Ironworkers was first in order
of impudence. Mr, Curtin dryly replied that the
methods and aims of the Communist party were “com-
pletely antagonistic to those of the Labor movement”
an( !ii \ compliance with the demands would amount
to blackmailing the Australian public.”
Among the many movements of the Red mind
there is nothing so extraordinary as the demand, with
menaces, that Moscow should be cracked up.
Every day and in every way Communists have been
doing that themselves since the last shot was fired in
the last war, and they have had the active assistance of
writing men and professors in many countries, headed
by G. B. Shaw and H. G. Wells, the cleverest old
fools in Christendom.. The day on which the enemy
claimed the destruction of “50 Soviet divisions east
of Kiev” and London “Daily Telegraph” reported “the
first victory against German troops in this war” saw
the publication of an issue of roaring nonsense by
Professor Duhig, of Queensland:
Russia has more and better tanks, better and more
accurate artillery than Germany The Red Army
soldier received an academic, military and cultural edu-
cation unrivalled in the world of today or any yester-
day the most modern, progressive and imaginative
ideas on military science in all its branches to the point
of being world pioneers in military thought.
Does this professor really think he can get away with
that? Or with this?
The U.S.S.R. has struggled consistently for peace and
disarmament. She has never been convicted of bad
faith.
Then why did “she” consent to the Molotov-Ribben-
trop pact and why did Molotov say on October 31,
1939, that it was “not only senseless but criminal to
wage a war for the destruction of Hitlerism, covered
as a fight for democracy”? And what was the Red
Army doing in Poland, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania,
Estonia, Bessarabia and North Bukovina?
Australians do not lack sympathy for the people
undergoing the horrors of Nazi invasion, but it has
become dreadfully evident that the world-wide blah
campaign which has been going on for nearly quarter
of a century has contributed to their calamities.
Finance in Tasmania.
A remarkable system of finance seems to have been
evolved in Tasmania through the necessity of the
State Agricultural Bank having to function under
State Acts. The Commonwealth Grants Commission,
without “wishing to reflect on the present manage-
ment of the bank,” points out that its “functions and
legal powers as prescribed are such that loss is inevit-
able.”
The Cosgrove Government asked for a Canberra
grant of £608,000 and is to get £520,000. Last year it
received £400,000. Expressing his disappointment, Mr.
Cosgrove claimed that “on the figures we might reason-
ably have been granted £575,000, and the seriousness
of our Budget position would have justified even a
higher grant.” He seemed to think his State should get
more because of “the great improvement in the eco-
nomic conditions of N.S.W. and Victoria,” though
whether Mr, McKell, of Sydney, will agree with him is
debatable, seeing that Mr. McKell is himself flounder-
ing in a bog of weird taxation proposals. But the
Grants Commission is required only to consider a
State’s disability as arising from Federation, and when
it encountered the remarkable economics of Tas-
mania’s State bank it nearly fainted.
Every activity of the bank results in loss and the
total for the year was £101,054. These losses are not the
real losses. A rather unusual practice exists in the
bank of creating reserves each year for future losses,
though the activity shows a loss. Reserves thus created
are not provided out of profits but increase the losses,
which are met by appropriations in the State Budget in
the following year.
The Commission’s report then gave some figures as
examples, remarking by the way that “the soldier-
settlement losses are too complicated to analyse here.”
All of which was somehow construed by Mr. Cos-
grove as meaning that
The Grants Commission expressed itself satisfied with
the State’s methods of dealing with losses arising from
the soldier-settlement scheme, from which almost the
whole of the losses of the Agricultural Bank had resulted.
“In any case,” he told a Hobart “Mercury” man
cheerfully, “the losses of the bank have not increased.
On the contrary they are diminishing.” Doubtless the
Grants Commission would be interested in his method
of reaching that conclusion, and, considering that it
is from their Commonwealth taxes that these grants
are made, Australian taxpayers have another shocking
example of their “disabilities” under the system which
loads them with seven Parliaments, seven Govern-
ments, seven Governors and the rest.
Science and Ethics.
“T.McN”; David Rivett, chief of the C.5.1.R., told
a meeting of the Australian Chemical Institute that
politicians and others engaged in the field of human
relationships might not be “aware of the tide of
resentment that was rising among scientists as a result
of the mishandling of affairs.”
Are any of you prepared to say that you are
satisfied with the ethical standards of politicians, and
other workers in that important field?
The Institute’s reply isn’t reported, but if the
query were addressed to the common man in these
parts the answer would be a thunderous “No!”
There is, in Dr. Rivett’s words, an implied call
for leaders with vision and “absolute intellectual
honesty.” The latter is an even rarer commodity than
the former, and though a leader had both he would
be opposed by selfishness, ignorance, suspicion and
superstition. The “ethical standards of politicians”
are the ethical standards of those who elect them, and
it will remain thus until the electors are educated up
to alright appreciation of the kind of leadership that
combines vision with intellectual honesty and of the
great truth that the vote carries with it the acceptance
of duties as well as rights.
Meantime, the scientists themselves could do with
a little purging, particularly among the professors who
infest the columns of my daily newspaper and the
ether round my radio set.


Soctety
"AND it"s PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S'
“Sigsie”: Five times, as a residential
permanent, I’ve been sold with the furni-
ture and goodwill. I have put it to more
than one proprietress that she owed me
something for my value to the place, but
got no redress. Often have these pro-
prietresses, on the eve of a sellout, dolled
up the furniture with coats of varnish,
etc., but none ever bought me a suit
of clothes to help me look spruce. No
longer shall I endure such injustice. I
shall form a syndicate with other perma-
nents, take an empty house, fill it with
furniture, work it up till full and sell it.
Then we will all decamp to found an-
other residential, and so on, our opera-
tions growing snowball-wise till we corner
the city’s residential business. Then these
stingy proprietresses will be sorry.
* * # *
“Ashfield”: Nobody denies that there
is an acute shortage of houses in Sydney,
especially in the “nicer” subbubs, but
there is a distinction between homes to
let and homes for sale. The city’s oldest
daily and one of its weeklies came out
recently with articles purporting to show
that you couldn’t buy a house for its
weight in gold, that anything that looked
like a seller was promptly smothered
under a flood of buyers and that agents
were introducing a “new element” by
having canvassers go round persuading
people to sell. The daily in the same
issue had its usual columns of homes
for sale. One of the oldest city agents
produced his own list; one place had been
on his books eight months and others
for lesser periods, and offers made for
them were no higher than official valua-
tions. As for canvassing for likely sellers,
that’s as old as the estate-agency game
itself.
* r * *
“Pitt-street”: She minced along the
street, but the soldier didn’t see her until
she was past. Then he eyed her chassis,
detached himself from the railings and
went in pursuit. She turned as he
breasted up, but he muttered something,
returned and reattached himself to the
rails. “Only an old model re-ducoed,”
he told me disgustedly.
* * * *
“Jacky Roo”: News that the Red
Cross is to build “rest camps” for the
A.I.F. on the Cameron Highlands in
Malaya will shock the upper crust
amongst rubber planters and British Gov-
ernment officials in those parts. The
Highlands have been kept as a closed
preserve for white nabobs, high-priced
travel and accommodation keeping out
lower-salaried Chinese and Indians. I
know two A.I.F. privates who decided
to spend their four days’ leave there.
Once they got into the Highland country
they found that the price of the bus fare
for 40-odd miles was considerably more
than the preliminary rail fare for over
100 miles, and hotel tariffs were too steep
for a private’s pay. One of them was a
former N.S.W. walking champion and
the other a well-known marathon runner,
so they foot-slogged it and lived in a
lightweight tent instead.
“D.E.”: My Old Digger doctor friend
has a Maltese cook who is an Old Master
with fish. “Try that,” said the doctor,
serving a perfectly-fried portion of sea-
food, “and see if you can name it.” 1
had a second helping before I ventured,
washing the second down with a glass
of Australian Burgundy; then I said
“Murray cod.” “No,” my host replied,
“black rock cod. It’s the Mediterranean
fish most prized by epicures—any Maltese,
Greek or Italian fisherman would tell you
that and you can catch it in these
waters, though it is not so plentiful about
Sydney as it used to be. But there is no
demand for it.” And so we came to the
end of a meal which recalled to me the
one that young Darsie had with Red-
gauntlet in the enchanting novel of that
name on a wild Solway night.
* * * *
“K.P.”: Pathetic was the case of a
young man who broke the Queensland
leprosy law. Aged 27 and the mother of
two children, his wife was admitted to
the Peel Island lazaret in January, 1940.
He had been permitted to make fortnightly
visits to her, but had become desperate
at her mental distress under conditions
of segregation and had made unauthorised
visits by motor-boat. On this occasion
he was accompanied by his father and
had brought his wife and another female
inmate off for lunch on the boat. The
minimum penalty of £lOO was imposed,
but from any reasonable medical point
of view any penalty is ridiculous in a
community where sufferers from open
pulmonary tuberculosis, a far more dan-
gerous and communicable disease than
leprosy amongst white persons, are
allowed to go about as they choose and
without any organised effort to teach
them how to avoid infecting others. There
are more white lepers in Britain, where
segregation is not practised, than in all
Australia. In more than 40 years of
observation not more than four cases of
proven infection from them have been
recorded.
* * *
“Oxmead”: I professed myself be-
wildered at the statement in a woman’s
paper that the first Croft baronet received
his title from Charles I on the battlefield
—22 years after that monarch had ceased
to exist. Now “Bombardier” comes along
with the assurance (B. 24/9/’4l) that “the
title was received during the reign of
Henry VI (1422-1461) after the battle
of Mortimer’s Cross.” As the only title
which has been referred to is the
baronetcy, this bewilders me still further,
for such distinctions didn’t exist in Eng-
land until the seventeenth century, when
James I found he could raise money by
the sale of them. Of course a Croft may
have been knighted on the field of battle,
but the hereditary title didn’t arrive until
more than two centuries later.
“El Verdugo”: The Croft baronetcy
doesn’t date from Henry VI or Charles I.
It was granted by Charles II to a son of
the Bishop of Hereford. As to the Crofts
being “one of the oldest families in Eng-
land because they are mentioned in the
Domesday Book,” I don’t know. Cer-
tainly they owned Croft Castle for 700
years, father and son, and sat in one Par-
liament at the end of the thirteenth cen-
tury (the castle was sold in 1761, and
repurchased in 1924 by the family trus-
tees). But I suspect that families like the
Crofts are newcomers beside half the
Sussex peasantry and nearly all the
Welsh. “Britons of the clay” have lived,
father and son, in the secluded corners
of England so long that the same families
of hedge-swappers who now turn aside
on the borders of Kent to mutter “fur-
riner” when Churchill drives past are
descended in direct line from blokes who
did the same to Aulus Plautius.
* * * ♦
“Morimoto”: Java is having trouble
with its largest volcano, Smeroe, and
20,000 villagers are being evacuated out
of its vicinity. I lived under its shadow
for some years, and the natives’ attitude
towards the gigantic kettle which was
always threatening to boil over was as
amazingly indifferent as the indifference
of the Italian peasantry to Vesuvius.
Having read as a boy a novel, Blown to
Bits, based on the story of Krakatoa and
been told by my elders that the effects
had been seen in Adelaide sunsets for
years afterwards, I was much more scared
of Smeroe than the natives were. The
Dutch vulcanologists have done wonders
with some of the smaller disturbers. One
which periodically overflowed and poured
boiling mud over hundreds of square
miles of country was studied and was
found to follow a regular cycle. After
an eruption a crust of mud would form
at the bottom of the crater and when
this hardened it would begin to fill with
water. When the lake reached a certain
level the bottom would collapse and the
whole contraption erupt skyward with a
roar like 1,000,000 Panzer divisions.
After one of the tantrums the Dutch
ordered cement from Tasmania and gave
the demon a false bottom. Since then it
has never given trouble.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“G.H.”: A sergeant air-gunner, back
on leave from the Middle East, relates
this one, A squadron of ’planes about
to set out on a leaflet raid over Tripoli
received the final careful instruction:
“Air crews are reminded to remove the
rubber bands from leaflets, otherwise the
bundles may be dangerous to civilian
population.”
* * 4= ♦
“N. Shore” remembers an early Sydney
dock project:—•
It isn’t generally known that the north side
of Port Jackson was once in the running as the
site of a naval dockyard of large dimensions.
Hulk Bay—its name was afterwards changed
to Lavender Bay, after George Lavender, super-
intendent of the convict hulk Phoenix —was
strongly recommended by Mitchell, about 1830,
as a suitable place for a dockyard. He gave
it as his opinion that no better situation existed
anywhere for such a purpose, and said that if
his proposal was realised barracks and docks
for the British naval forces in India and China
could easily be made available on the bay—
there was a lack of them in those parts then.
The authorities considered the Surveyor-
General’s scheme —and turned it down.
* * * *
“C. 8.”; Unknown to the public,
Victoria has a vast organisation dedi-
cated to the cause of camp enter-
tainment. It speeds in chars, and
cars to wherever two or more thou-
sand soldiers or airmen are gathered
together. There are sometimes stars
amongst them, but for the most part they
are working girls and businessmen with
varying degrees of talent. Unlike city
showmen, they are certain of packed
houses, and if the criticism is outspoken
it is always kindly. A long, low, tin-
lined hall with a flat perspective and as
full of smoke as a gully in a bushfire
usually greets them, and most of the stages
are of packing-case dimensions, though
Seymour is installing a theatre so ornate
that it can afford to spend £BOO on its
stage equipment. Bills are submitted to
the camp censor and follow the tradi-
tional lines of vaudeville in the city, with
a sprinkling of ancient romantic numbers
and jokes about the sergeant-major, who
takes the place of mother-in-law in the
lexicon of camp humor ; a ballet, a magi-
cian, crooners, comedians and a compere
who keeps the show moving—in short, the
old road show modified by circumstance.
The colonel commanding, smiling be-
nignly like the father of his flock, the
padre, officers and ladies sit roped oft
in front, and the troops, vocal in their
blue haze, fade away in the distance.
* * * *
“Jachris”: While a Sydney man who
had been found with five tins of Ameri-
can cigarettes hidden in his ice-chest was
being fined £2O in the Summons Court
for “having been in possession of
smuggled goods” another Sydney man, a
Hungarian, was steering through the
Appeals Court a case which should admit
of the other getting his fine refunded.
The Hungarian had gone up for a “fiver”
for having “smuggled goods”—the same
brand of smokes. He pointed out that
they were on the prohibited list, so there
could be no evasion of duty. Judge
Barton agreed: “I cannot hold that
banned imports can be smuggled,” he
said.
“S.T.S.”: The Gaza-
Klemzig argument is on
again in S.A. Almost as
soon as the State was
founded, the Angas family
imported South Germans
(they wanted to get free-
dom of religion and
escape from the already
growing Prussian domi-
nation), who became very
good farmers. But in
1917, even though
Schmidts and Mullers of
the third and fourth gen-
erations were dying for
Australia in hundreds
overseas, war-time bitter-
ness insisted on the many
German place-names being
wiped out. Blumberg be-
came Birdwood, and so
on. At the centennial of
S.A. 20 years later three
or four of the best-known
were allowed to change
back, and among these
was Klemzig, the oldest,
the nearest of them all to
Adelaide, and now a
suburb. But in the inter-
val a new local generation
had grown up, which
knew nothing except the
modern form, Gaza, and
so resented any alteration.
And now, with anything sounding Ger-
man again under suspicion, the whole
question is to be argued in Parliament
once more.
« * * *
“L, de Rideau”: Some of the reper-
cussions of the German-Russian conflict
would be funny if they weren’t so tragic.
It used to be the custom in Melbourne
concert programmes for the annotators
to explain carefully that all Russian com-
posers had cleared out of Russia after
the Bolsheviks took charge. This was
said recently about Prokofieff, who was
reported to have gone to Germany, and
the “Argus” critic mentioned it in his
comments. A music-lover promptly
retorted that Prokofieff had recently
decided to return to his homeland, and
was heartily welcomed by the Soviet
people. What the peregrinations of com-
posers have to do with their music it
is difficult to understand.
« * * ♦
“Colonel Bungstarter”: With the slow
drift of America towards a shooting war,
it is gratifying to learn that there has
been no falling-off in the supply of Ken-
tucky’s famous colonels. The obituary
notices of ex-Governor Laffoon, who pre-
sided over the Blue Grass State from 1932
to 1935, reveal proudly that he appointed
2368 of them during his period of office,
as well as an admiral of the Kentucky
Navy. Amongst the colonels were Mae
West, Jean Harlow, Charlie Chaplin and
Jack Dempsey. No military service is
required —merely the duty of riding in
uniform at State functions, which include
a procession. The admiral was Signor
Rosso, Italian Ambassador to the U.S.
in 1934, but it is understood that no
naval secrets were confided to him.
PREJUDICED.
“The average Australian could get as much good
Australian wine as he could drink, if he wanted it;
but he doesn’t. He has a prejudice against it.”
—“Strict B. 24/9/’4l.
De gustibus non disputandum est.
Explain it how you like, he will not have
The beverages Falstaff quaffed with zest,
The tack they tippled at the Mermaid tav.
The vintages that brightened Omar’s Muse,
And fired the songs that luckless Villon
trolled,
With absolute indifference he views,
He finds no kick in them; they leave him
cold.
The Chian or Falernian about
Which Horace sings in many a tuneful lay
No cravings wake in him. A pint of stout
He’d sooner have than either, any day.
With Noah, the first of men his lips to wet
With products of the grape, he finds no fault,
But naturally feels a mild regret
The patriarch couldn’t know of hops and
malt.
The claret Byron sank, the fruity port
That Tennyson surrounded at “The Cock,”
He’ll tell you candidly are “not his sort.”
And very much the same applies to hock,
Madeira, Burgundy, sauterne and Chablis.
Even Tokay, with its bouquet rich and rare.
One doubts if he would find appreciably
Superior to French vin ordinaire.
Tastes change with generations and with climes.
Hence, when some poet of our own we raise,
Give him a salary for slinging rhymes,
And wreathe his temples with the Laureate’s
bays,
To wet his pipe and supplement his pension
A butt of wine no more will serve, it’s clear.
A more appropriate annual subvention
He’ll welcome, doubtless, in a tun of beer.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Forester”: Sydney’s Sunday-night
blackouts have had a strange effect in
our very quiet suburb. They have made
us realise that our locality isn’t quite as
quiet as we thought it was. The first
time darkness descended by regulation
those of us residents who went to the
door to gloat upon the sombre scene were
struck not so much by the sudden black-
ness as by the sudden silence, and realised,
most of us for the first time, that our
rural surroundings have a high level of
nocturnal noise, contributed to by owls,
possums, countless insects, and, wherever
there is a creek or waterway, frogs. With
the switching off of electric current over
a vast area these night sounds faltered,
then faded out altogether, and the silence
lasted out the blackout. Three seconds
after the lights came back the frogs led
the renewed chorus of small creatures,
nonchalantly giving their celebrated imi-
tation of somebody clinking two stones
together, the owls once more emitted
dismal hoots, the possums went on
scampering through trees and over tiles,
and the insects let their wings rustle
again. Don’t ask me why sudden dark-
ness stops them.
“V. Cluse”: Our tame drunk and a
couple of his pals arranged to enjoy the
recent Sydney blackout in comfort, A
stock of the doings was laid in, and
when the lights went out the trio retired
to the garage and endured the thing by
switching on the dashboard light in the
car. When the stuff was gone, and while
darkness still prevailed, our drunk de-
cided to go home and was there greeted
by his missus with a cold “Where on
earth were you?” He considered this
gravely, then re-lied, “Aw, I jush wen’
ou’ t’ shee wharrer blackou’ looks like.
But y’ couldn’t shee a shing, no’ a shing.
Stupid goatsh, fancy havin’ a blackou’
"Wish they'd come over 'ere an't' ear a word they're sayin'."
an’ not being able t’ shee wha'
it looksh like.”
“Chevroford”: If Melbourne
had staged its blackout four
nights earlier it would have been
a frost, since the State Emer-
gency Council hasn’t yet found
a way of getting Nature to con-
form to its rules and regula-
tions. There was an undimmed
display of aurora australis
which was the finest on record.
The sky arid the city were suf-
fused with a greeny-red glow,
said to be due to electric radia-
tion from a large group of sun-
spots. It stopped telegraphic
communication, interfered with
the short wave, censored the
nightly radio lies from overseas,
disorganised the cable between
Darwin and the outside world
and made the Melbourne Astro-
nomical Society swear. That
body was holding a meeting
while the show was on, and,
although it would have given a
lot to have had the aurora under
scientific observation, the first
most members heard about it
was when they read the morn-
ing paper next day.
“N.X.” (with the A.1.F.): “Sapper”
(B. 11/6/’4l) is sceptical about the men
of the A.I.F. singing as they go into
battle. If he is wondering where that idea
comes from I can offer him two clues—
a chapter in one of C. J. Dennis’s books,
headed “The Singing Soldier,” and a piece
in Sydney’s “Sunday Sun,” headed “High
Jinks of the A.I.F. Abroad,” lifted from
the American magazine “Life.” This
says:
The Aussies are ideal shock troops.
They like to charge with the bayonet, sing-
ing. In Libya, the sight of the Aussies
rushing into battle, waving their bayonets
and singing “The Wizard of Oz,” invari-
ably petrified the Italians, who surrendered
without a fight.
The same issue of the Sunday journal
(15/6/’4l) had Aussies strutting up and
down Bardia and Tobruk in sundry cap-
tured uniforms; had them in Ceylon
“near naked” for two days ; kissing all
the pretty women in Capetown, which
“has borne the brunt of the Australians’
attack”; fighting with Scots soldiers ;
camouflaging in a three-color scheme 150
cows in England ; parading in “monocles”
and reducing Edinburgh authorities to
“a state of jitters.” After all that, an
allegation that we mix fighting with choir
practice isn’t very surprising.
* * * *
“Angus McEdgecliff”: Our local kirk
was so well packed on the recent national
day of prayer that the adjoining Sunday
school had to be raided for extra chairs.
Seeing one seat was being disturbed by a
little genteel shoving, an elder hurried up,
placed a steadying chair beside it, smiled
and retreated. When he looked again he
saw the chair occupied by somebody’s
lapdog!
* * * «
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide’s main hospital has
had the unusual experience of an all-in
fight at its own gates. As the result of
a bottle fight—in both senses—at a house,
one man had to be taken there; but the
party had not had enough stoush, and
followed on to mix it merrily practically
on the hospital doorstep, with the advan-
tage of skilled attendants to carry them
inside as they became casualties.
“And next time you call me to see a shooting star , Prendergast, I'll clap
you in irons!"
“Hamfat”: Even on the stage over-
enthusiasm may be disastrous. Dot Brun-
ton was a victim of it when she appeared
in London in August, 1918. London was
full of Australians, and the boys made
it a Diggers’ night. Their enthusiasm was
spontaneous, but was viewed with cold
eyes by the critics. These Diggers were
fine fellows, no doubt; but just because
of their war performances they need not
think that they were going to force any
actress down London’s gizzard. So the
demonstration didn’t help Dot.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Melbourne is being
agitated over the pros and cons of vacci-
nation for diphtheria, and the discussion
has revealed the ignorance of the general
public about the technique which medi-
cal authorities have been using for two
decades. A health officer approached one
devoted mother and asked her if she
would favor immunisation of her young
hopeful. “What will you do to him?”
she asked. “First of all we will give him
the Schick test,” replied the doctor. “Cer-
tainly you won’t!” retorted the lady.
“I’ve never touched a drop in my life
and my husband doesn’t know the taste
of it either.”
* * * *
“Ilex”: If “Spasebo” (B. 3/9/’4l)
speaks from experience, the weather
must have altered considerably in the
Ukraine and Crimea during recent
years. During voyages from Novo-
rossisk to Nikolaev in the autumn
and winter of 1908-09 snow blizzards
were experienced from late October
until March. Christmas Day at Theo-
dosia in the Crimea was one of the
coldest I have experi-
enced, and that ex-
perience ranges well
over the Seven Seas.
Whilst the latitude of
this area is much the
same as the Riviera,
the geographical and
topographical features
are very different, and
no society matron’s
stare of disapproval is
more frigid and pene-
trating than the per-
sistent n.-e. wind that
sweeps over the
frozen steppes from
the Arctic.
* *
“Colonel Bung-
starter” : Sumptuary
laws may be danger-
ous stuff politically,
but something will have to be done about
turned-up trouser-cuffs as a waste of
material in war-time. My tailor esti-
mates that the average pair of pants
requires about a square yard, of which
cuffs comprise some 32 sq. in. One pair
in each 40 is thus wasted in constructing
insanitary dust-traps round the ankles
which also act as effective accident-
causers by tripping up the wearer. On
push-bikes they are an active danger to
riders and pedestrians alike. They wear
through at the fold if any real walking is
done, and in these days of petrol ration-
ing a Back-to-the-Boot movement is in-
evitable. Permit me to suggest to Mr.
Fadden the immediate creation of a
Federal Pants Supervision Department,
empowered to examine the leg-wear of
every male civilian, and to collect a tax
of Is. per leg from each culf-addict. Its
officers should be authorised to impound
taxable trousers on the spot in the event
of refusal to pay,
“L.H.P.”: “S.T.S.” (B. 10/9*41) is
wrong in attributing “The Colonel” to
H. J. Byron. It was adapted by Burnand,
of “Punch,” from the French play “Le
Mari a la Campagne.” The piece had
its first Australian performance in Mel-
bourne on April 8, 1882.
* * * *
“J.M.”; The very earnest young
Sunday-school teacher told her class of
young hopefuls the story of the Good
Shepherd and “the one and the ninety-
nine.” Then she asked them “Why was
it, when there were 99 sheep safe in the
fold, the shepherd went out to search for
the one that was missing?” Silence for
a bit until one young Australian saw
light: “It was the stud ram!”
* * * *
“Zake”; If the great god Hooey is as
solidly established in the Nazi hierarchy
as elsewhere, Franz von Papen and Fritz
Wiedemann must be running about neck-
and-neck for the Carpet Biter’s favor.
No stunt journal worth its tripe would
think of referring to Von Papen as other
than “sinister.” His every move is the
signal for the discovery of some dark-
some plot. History, if it is interested at
all, will probably write him off as a
champion messer-up of big jobs. But
credulous newspapers still gleefully
record his recall to Berlin “in disgrace”
every time he goes back to tell Adolf
what he hasn’t accomplished, and a few
days later have to announce his return
on another “mission.” The blue-blood’s
rival for the English-speaking press head-
lines, Captain Fritz Wiedemann, who has
been in the U.S.A. doing the usual spot
of spying under diplomatic immunity,
recently went to Buenos Aires. Then it
was discovered that he had “fallen out
with the Fiihrer” and was proceeding to
China, apparently having switched his
allegiance to Roosevelt and Churchill.
That wasn’t dry on the presses before
the just-foiled military plot in Argentina
was attributed to the machinations of
Hitler’s ex-aide. Franz and Fritz should
go down on their marrow bones each
night and thank Thor for the 800-800
Boys.
* * ♦ «
“S.T.S.”: The real man-without-a-
country has turned up in an Adelaide
court —a munition worker charged with
having as an “enemy alien” travelled to
his work without a permit (which he
had failed to get renewed). His plea was
that, being regarded as a Jew, he was
driven out of Germany by Hitler in 1939.
He had tried several times to enlist here,
but was refused as non-British. He was
not recognised by the local Jewish com-
munity because as a fact he had been
Christian from birth. He was fined £l2
for not being more careful about his
permit.
HARRISON’S HAIR.
“ ‘My hair stood on end,’ said Customs Minister
Harrison, giving his reasons for the banning of James
Joyce’s Ulysses."
Lonely and late the Watcher sits
While the morepork hoots and the night-moth
flits;
By the guttering candle’s ghostly light
He guards a nation’s soul tonight.
Oh, look! What is that?
Is it only a bat
That suddenly scares him out of his wits
As it swoops by the lamp like a vampire in
flight?
The toadstools grow and the dews descend.
And 100k —look there!
For Harrison’s hair,
Harrison’s hair is up on end.
Cold is the sweat on the Watcher’s brow —
Saint George for our bold defender now!
For the nation sleeps and he stands alone
To meet the spectres that gibber and groan.
There’s a step on the stair!
It’s behind his chair!
It’s under the table—who knows how? —
It’s onto the table .. . has Harrison flown?
Has Harrison flinched —ah, God forfend!
He stands four-square,
And his flaming hair,
His furious hair stands up on end.
Oh, a far worse foe than a fantod grim
Are a couple of words in a book to him;
And what are the famous horrors of war
To the things in Ulysses (page seventy-four)?
Alone in his room
With Leopold Bloom
(No primrose he, by the river’s brim!)
He hurls the deplorable wretch to the floor.
O Muse as your shining way you wend,
Stop here and stare
At Harrison’s hair,
Harrison’s hair all up on end.
N.S.W.
MACHOOTS.


■frarojjjv
\Ar E SAT DOWN AND THOUGHT ABOUT THE COUNTRY MAN AND
WHAT HE REALLY NEEDED IN A RADIO . . . THEN WE DESIGNED
AND PRODUCED THE FAMOUS
-V ~
fmg.
■' m
Mullard67
To the country family, radio means
far more than entertainment. The
country home looks to radio to
bring news; market information;
weather reports, as well as the
finest entertainment offering. For
years the country man has asked
for a battery-operated radio that
will do this, and do it well; and
now such a receiver has been built
—the Mullard 67.
The Mullard 67 embodies a feature
unique in Australian-built Battery
Receivers—an “8.F.” stage. As a
result, this Model 67, a battery-
operated radio, gives the country
man performance equal to an A.C.
radio operated from electric mains.
Dual-wave, it gives extraordinary
performance on the short-wave
band, in addition to peerless broad-
cast reception. In fact. Model 67,
a brilliant, powerful and beautiful
radio, is a fine addition to the
range of Mallard Master Radio.
Write for special brochure and
expert test reports to your local
Radio Dealer, or direct from:—
-nULXARD-AUSTKAEIA VTY., LTD., 367-S7l KENT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone: MJ4688 (4 lines). Telegrams: “Mulvalve,” Sydney.
POLITICAL POINTS
Naturally the sore-headed McKell,
who, in the shabbiest provincial spirit,
got in ahead of Fadden with his N.S.W.
Budget, couldn’t find any merit in
Fadden’s much more difficult perform-
ance. In the newspaper article he some-
how finds time to write he was pleased
to grow facetious about it. People who
know a great deal more about finance
than McKell does predict that McKell
will be laughing on the other side of his
face when his own calculations are put
to the test.
Scarcely had the echoes of Fadden’s
supporters’ claim that it was a “coura-
geous Budget” died away when the papers
began to hint that compromises were
likely. One of these days an Australian
Government will refuse to compromise,
and then the hospitals will be filled with
victims of nervous shock.
“Not only ability but also capacity for
loyal self-subordinating teamwork will
have to be among the standards on which
Mr. Fadden picks his new Ministry,”
according to “S. M. Herald’s” Canberra
man. Go ahead, Artie ; you’ve got your
orders!
The terms of the royal commission to
be issued to Justice Halse Rogers, who is
to inquire into the affair of the secret
fund, have been drafted by Menzies. They
should be comprehensive enough to admit
of its being discovered how the Winkler
person, who signed those receipts for
£3OO from the “Australian Democratic
Front” got his Government appointment,
and who recommended him. Just before
Winkler emerged from obscurity it came
out that one Alwyn Lee, a colleague on
the “Labor Daily” (or “Daily News”)
had bobbed up in New York with a
cushy Australian Government press job.
Through Parliament, if not through this
commission, a heavily-taxed nation
should be told how many press boys
in the military-age group have been
planted in Government jobs, and why.
N.S.W. Auditor-General Spence says
that his expectation, expressed in his 1929-
30 report, that necessity and public
opinion would force the State Govern-
ment to cut its financial coat according
to the cloth available has not been real-
ised. McKell’s reaction to the Loan
Council decisions doesn’t argue any hope
that the Auditor-General’s expectation is
any closer to realisation.
Employment in N.S.W. reached a new
peak in August, when the total of persons
employed reached 912,158. However,
these figures don’t give a true picture.
They include members of the Assembly
and of the Board for the Control and Dis-
tribution of Threepenny Tickets on Public
Roundabouts, Steam or Electric.
Hollway, leader of the Victorian
U.A.P., said last week that there was a
very strong body of opinion that his State
Government’s war effort was not 100 per
cent, and that the Dunstans had been
so long in office that they had grown tired
and resentful of criticism, Hollway added
that if it was impossible to get the three
parties together to face the situation a
Labor Government with some go in it
would be better than the present outfit.
Dunstan made the usual reply, which
showed that he had grown tired and
resentful of criticism.
Probably feeling he had to say some-
thing during the “secret fund” debate,
young Maxie Falstein chose Menzies as
a good mark. “It’s a waste of public
money,” he cut in while Menzies was
defending the establishment of the fund.
Without a pause, Menzies came back, “I
am sure most honorable members will
agree when I say that quite the biggest
waste of public money I know of is pay-
ing the honorable member for Watson
his salary.”
Sydney City Council’s “emergency
committee,” a bit annoyed because Syd-
ney people seemed to regard the latest
blackout as an occasion for a stroll in
the streets, with the usual skylarking by
the young, hinted at using fire hoses on
them. Put it to “Blackout” Heffron’s
credit that he wouldn’t entertain the
idiotic idea. He’s got a better under-
standing of Australians than the aider-
men.
Under a Francise Bill going through
the Westralian Parliament, youngsters
of 18 to 20 who are serving abroad
with the nation’s fighting services are to
be given a vote in the western State’s
Assembly elections in March. Seems fair
enough, though it might cause some
'"Wilson, M.H.R.. has been inflated into the positio of bolding the balance pwerin the discuśsins n the Faďen Budfet."
THE REAL WILSON ("Wheat! WHEAT!"): "Surely this can't be me."
shocks as the young fellows look back on
their politicians from places like Tobruk.
A fierce mudslinging competition is in
progress in the Assembly section of the
Macquarie-street, Sydney, gasworks. One
scurrilous attack after another has been
made on public servants and private citi-
zens—among them a former Minister, a
doctor, the head of a great public organ-
isation, a company director, a solicitor,
police officers and jurymen—and had any
newspaper published the mullock as its
own its principals would now be gazing
at 20 or 30 writs for libel and looking
forward to several appearances in the
dock. As things are, the victims have no
redress; but the outrageous outbreak of
privileged defamation provides one more
weighty reason for the abolition of the
alleged “Parliament.”
Sydney’s morning papers, which ran
those comic tickets of “outstanding can-
didates,” continue to be enraged with
Menzies. A “Herald” man had the face
to attack him because he had refused to
disclose “his attitude on the Budget
against the Government” to “this corre-
spondent,” though “suggestions” had
been put to him by “this correspondent’’
in very “specific form.” The “Telegraph”
slated him for leaving the House while
Fadden was reading his Budget speech
and for not shaking Fadden’s hand at
the finish. Fadden himself answered
this miserable allegation by telling the
reporters that no man could have given
him “greater practical support and co-
operation and sympathetic assistance”
than Menzies had done, and by saying
“What is journalism coming to when tripe
like this can be published at a time of
national crisis?”
Menzies in temporary eclipse makes
a greater appeal to Laborites chronic
soreheads excepted than he did when
P.M. They are saying now that the man
was head and shoulders above the col-
leagues who whined that he wasn’t
“popular,” and that in accepting the head
he tendered to them they showed them-
selves an unspeakably poor-spirited and
ungrateful lot of duds. More especially as
the Cabinet decision that he should go
to London as P.M. was made in his
absence, and without his “expressing any
opinion in the matter at all” —Senator
Leckie, his father-in-law, let that out.
Premier Dunstan defended the observ-
ance of the Royal Show holiday, although
there was no show, on the ground that
the Commonwealth Government had
urged the States to keep all normal holi-
days going as breaks in the monotony and
rigidity of industry. But the Thursday
holiday wasn’t normal, and the bulk of
the holidaymakers were white-collar
workers, a large proportion of whom are
employed in superfluous State depart-
ments.
In a letter read out by Nimmo, M.L.A.,
P. McCaffrey, a former senior inspector
of audits in Queensland, alleged that rail-
way accounts had been juggled, fictitious
Government assets shown, and sinking
funds under Commonwealth control de-
prived of contributions from the State
Treasury, * Coming back with a long
statement about “inoperable” Acts and
railway finance, Forgan Smith said that
he would grant an inquiry if a charge
was made by the Opposition, but not
on McCaffrey’s accusations alone.
Present indications are that there will
be no inquiry.
A striking defect of the tribe of
“famous” correspondents is that they
have always been mainly concerned with
the politics of countries, and not at all
with the people of countries. They are
supposed to have their fingers on the
world’s pulse ; but the fact is that they
live in cities —in circumscribed, political
centres of cities —are frequently foreigners
in the lands they allegedly “cover,” and
are profoundly ignorant of the people
they are cast among. Even natives of
a country soon achieve that ignorance
when they become journalists centred and
bound in cities. That can be seen with-
out going outside Australia; it is even
more apparent in some of the reports of
slick journalists temporarily cast up in
London.
The N.S.W. Deputy-Director of Re-
cruiting, who ought to know better see-
ing that he comes from Young and was
the pre-Labor Minister for Agriculture, be-
came excited because a country publican
had allegedly removed recruiting posters;
It is a shocking thing that, while the
Empire is fighting for its existence, whole-
hearted co-operation in the recruiting
appeal is lacking.
“S.M.H.” headed this, “Recruiting Lag
in Country.” If there is any lag it is
because the country has been drained
of eligible men. There is a general out-
cry from farmers for harvesting labor,
and a man from Forbes gives a fair
idea of conditions. “Population of the
police district was 6000 before the war,”
he said. “At least 2000 have left since,
either to join up or work on munitions.”
Other districts tell the same story.
J. A, Gibson, speaking for users of
Murrumbidgee water, has reminded
Premier McKell and all the other Snowy
River scheme enthusiasts that there are
people living in parts of Australia other
than Sydney. He announces that the
scheme to divert the Snowy waters to
Sydney will be “strongly opposed,” and
hints that Victoria, South Australia and
the Commonwealth, all of which are
parties with N.S.W. in a Murray-water
agreement covering irrigation in the
Murray valley, may also have something
to say.
The flapper press, which has been con-
tinually telling the Government what
ought to be done with and for the A.1.F.,
as- well as keeping a benevolent eye on
the dear girls in uniform, must have got
a momentary shock when Percy Spender
told that rough Archie Cameron that he
was going to run the war his way. Still,
there was instant relief after a quick
review of Percy’s way, which isn’t far
removed from the flapper-press way.
Probably following the precedent laid
down in Canberra, where “the boys”
invite everybody to call them by their
Christian names, the Minister of Edu-
cation urged Newcastle school kids to
“call me ‘Daddy,’ ” and to think of
Hawkins and Cameron, Ms.L.A., as
“Uncle Harold” and “Uncle Robert.”
Evatt will be lucky if they don’t dub him
“Auntie Clive,” Australian kids are like
that.
Sydney can learn things from Welling-
ton (M.L.), home of one (1) Parliament
and of a municipal milk organisation
which supplies the citizens with a better
quality of cow-fluid than Sydney gets for
tuppence a quart less than Sydney pays.
When war-worn Maoriland soldiers
return home the Mayor comes to light
with a simple and dignified appeal to his
people, in a top-of-column advertisement,
to do the square thing by them. Text
of the latest:—
A force of our Fighting Men who have
recently seen service overseas will march
through the City via Lambton station,
Bunny-street, Lambton Quay and Willis-
street at approximately 12.15 p.m. today.
Business firms and offices are asked to ex-
tend the usual luncheon period to enable
their staffs to line the streets and give a
rousing welcome to these men.
Bunting should be displayed to the
greatest extent possible.
How different from Crick’s confetti
stunts!


POWER OF A CLARION CALL.
“Justice Halse Rogers is to inquire into ‘the circumstances under which public moneys were used in connection with the activities of the Australian Democratic Fr*nf »
and payments totalling £300 were made to one J. Winkler,’ The A.D.F.by Mr. Hughes as ‘a clarion call to the nation.' "


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised . . . . £1,250,000
Capital Issued . . . . 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up . . . . . . £1,250,000
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Kim
M.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE £319,000,000 BUDGET REVIEWED
MT. MORGAN’S AFFAIRS ANALYSED
October Issue on Sale Saturday.
PRICE 21- PER COPY or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
STOP GETTING
UP NIGHTS!
Don't get up night after night because of
lack of control over the urine. When your
rest is interrupted, you are tired and worn
cut on arising in the morning—totally unfit
for the day's work. If you get up at night
due to frequent, scanty passages with burning
and discomfort, your kidneys aijd bladder
need help.
The longer you have suffered from these
symptoms of kidney and bladder trouble, the
more you owe it to your health to heed the
warnings and take immediate steps to correct
the cause of sleepless nights and days of
misery, discomfort and inconvenience. When
the kidneys do not function properly, waste
matter and poisonous acids stay in the blood.
In addition to causing frequent scanty pas-
sages, you may have backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, leg pains, swollen feet and
ankles, dizziness, pufflness under the eyes and
excess uric acid.
Don’t delay 1 Neglect is dangerous. Taka
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They
strengthen and regulate the kidneys and blad-
der, banish pain and aid in ridding the system
of harmful wastes and acid poisons. Get
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Henry Bolton, manager of the Brisbane
and South Coast (Q.) Hospitals Board,
has resigned after 51 years’ service. Sec-
retary in 1921, he was appointed manager
in 1926. Bolton’s hobby is tinkering with
motor-cars, and he tells with joy the story
of an occasion when he helped a stranded
motorist, who thanked him kindly and
expressed the hope that some day he
might be able to render some service in
return. Henry said, “That’s all right.
I’m Bolton from the hospital.” Whereat
the motorist replied: “And I don’t blame
you! Hop in and I’ll drive you away
now.”
Lieut.-Colonel A. D. Reid, now Deputy
Director of Recruiting in N.S.W., joined
the old A.I.F. at the outbreak in 1914. He
was wounded on Gallipoli, then served
with the Light Horse in Sinai, Syria and
Palestine, commanding a squadron at
Beersheba and there winning his M.C.
Afterwards he went on the land at
Koorawatha (N.S.W.), won the Young
seat in 1927, lost it in 1930, regained it
in 1932 and was Minister for Agriculture
in the Mair-Bruxner Government when
the blow fell last May. Tall and rangy,
he hadn’t quite the look of a politician
and is probably happier out of the busi-
ness.
After the most exciting night in his latter-
day history, Hughes turned 77 last Thurs-
day. Anyone studying him in the first
Commonwealth Parliament in those May
days 40 years ago would have felt him-
self warranted in quoting Dryden—“ Fiery
soul, fretting the pigmy body to decay.”
Actually, of all those 111 original mem-
bers, Billy alone remains in Parliament.
He has outlived all the first, second and
fourth teams of Commonwealth Min-
isters, and all his colleagues in the first
Labor Ministry except Watson (still on
deck in Sydney, at 74, as chairman of
the N.R.M.A.). Of Fisher’s three Min-
Billy has a birthday.
istries only Billy, Pearce (they were in all
three), O’Malley (second) and Gardiner
(third) survive. Parliament has had no
other Hughes but Billy. He has taken
part in votes of condolence to the rela-
tives of five Prime Ministers, five Presi-
dents of the Senate, five Speakers, seven
Chairmen of Committees in the House,
about 70 Ministers and more than twice
that number of fellow-members.
Francis Alexander O’Connor, dished
up herewith by Counihan, is chair-
man of the Contracts Board and Direc-
tor of Contracts. He has spent most
of his life dealing with supplies. Born
at Leongatha, Vic., and educated at Mel-
bourne High, he joined the public ser-
vice at 17 as secretary to Captain
Griffiths, of the Military Board. Shortly
after that he was transferred to the newly
organised Navy Office. For the last four
years he has been executive member of
the Contracts Board and administrative
F.A. O’CONNOR.
head of the Contracts organisation for
the Commonwealth. A family man with
four children, his relaxation is found in
his garden and, when petrol rationing
doesn’t interfere, in his motor-car.
“Sixenate”: William Desmond Creagh,
the court missionary who clashed with
a Sydney magistrate sufficiently to get
charged with contempt of Court, has
collected pledges to abjure booze from
inebriates at the Sydney Central Court
for many years. He is a compassionate
friend of the drunk, his belief being that
Bung is as much to blame as the boozer ;
and it was an untimely expression of
this belief that constituted his contempt.
Creagh, who works as a sort of offsider
to Archdeacon Hammond, arrives
amongst the drunks at “the Central”
every morning with a steaming canteen
of tea or coffee ; if a repentant sinner has
“done in” his job and his boots, besides
his cash, Creagh carts him off to Ham-
mond’s Hostel and gives him a chance
to start again. He has no reproach when
his protege slips again, only a bit more
of the helping hand.
Harold Vivian Piesse, M.L.C., is the
youngest son of F. H. Piesse, virtual
founder of the solid town of Katanning
(W.A.). Harold is big physically and
broad in outlook. He is regarded as an
authority on farmers’ debts legislation
and acts as trustee for numerous estates.
Every cocky in his district carries his
troubles to the burly legislator, who has
smoothed the financial path of many. He
took a course in farming at Hawkesbury
College in early manhood and has found
it very valuable.
A spate of public-service engineering
appointments in the Speck: Col. H. B.
Bennett, formerly chief mechanical
engineer, becomes general manager of
the Government railways—he’s been in
the service since 1922. R. D. Low steps
up as c.m.e. A newcomer, Glenister
Sheil, Melbourne-born, highly qualified,
and with experience in three States, be-
comes chief civil engineer of the Hydro-
Electric Commission and T. A. Adams
goes from the Government railways to
be engineer for civil construction. Adams
got his early experience in M.L., and a
couple of years ago was supervising
erection of the newsprint mills at Boyer,
Tasmania.
Reported missing, Lieut. B. Cherring-
ton-Hunter, of Melbourne. Educated at
Xavier College and Melbourne Univer-
sity, he was head salesman at Metters,
Ltd., when the war gong sounded. He
graduated from Duntroon and went over-
seas in April, 1941. He is a cousin of
the Baron Lionel Harty de Pierrebourg,
a French flying officer who was captured
by the Germans during the French
debacle.
Charles Martin, who has retired from
his job as Queensland Land Court
advocate, had 30 years of it, handling an
average of 1000 cases a year. He joined
the Crown Solicitor’s staff in ’99 and
entered the Lands as assistant to counsel
in 1903. One of his most outstanding
successes was against a man who claimed
£lO,OOO for permanent injury and loss
of health from the Railways Department,
allegedly caused by being thrown from
a train on the Darling Downs. Martin s
eross-examination broke down the story.
Strange that, though six of the 13 P.Ms.
have come from N.S.W., not one has led
a Government as a Ma State member
for the full Parliamentary term. Page,
of course, was merely a stopgap for 19
days, but Watson’s Ministry lasted only
from April 27, 1904, to August 17, 1904,
and Reid’s from August 18, 1904, to
July 5, 1905. Cook contrived to stay in
from June 24, 1913, to September 17,
1914, and Barton had a longer run—
January, 1901, to September 24, 1903.
Though Hughes was P.M. from October
27, 1915, to Feb. 9, 1923, he was member
for Bendigo most of the time. Going
from West Sydney to that Victorian divi-
sion, he was elected on May 5, 1917,
crossing the border again to become
M.H.R. for North Sydney on December
16, 1922. Six weeks later he was out
of office.
Lieut.-Col. Frank Elwyn Wells,
appointed to the command of the
armored division of the 4th Military Dis-
trict (S.A.), has dropped a peg in rank
to take his new job. He was formerly
Deputy Quartermaster-General, with rank
of colonel. Born in Sydney and educated
there and at Duntroon, he served through
the 1914-18 war with the 11th Machine-
LT.-COL.F.E. WELLS.
gun Regt. (Q.), coming out with a cap-
tain’s commission. He’s 45, and in
peace-time plays golf and enjoys a day’s
fishing.
Frith, like most other people, has been
struck by the fact that leading the attack
on Customs Minister Harrison for ban-
ning Ulysses was the Bishop of Grafton,
with his Synod behind him. By all
accounts the Bishop hadn’t read the novel
which Harrison condemns as immoral
and obscene.
Maoriland has had the ranks of its
nobility enlarged by the succession of
a 72-year-old Gisborne sheep-farmer to
the title of Viscount Doneraile. Hugh
St. Leger has a run grazing 10,000 sheep
on 5650 acres at Hangaroa, 30 miles
from Gisborne, on which he has been
for 33 years. The estates at the seat of
the ancestral home at Doneraile, County
Cork, Ireland, are not sufficient to tempt
the new viscount to forsake his jumbucks.
St. Leger is married to the daughter of
an adjacent settler and there is no family.
The new viscount is qualified as a lawyer,
and he got the better of the M.L. Gov-
ernment in an action concerning his
property that went to the Privy Council.
“A.L.”: W. H. Colliver (B. 24/9/'4l)
was not the last of the foundation
scholars of Prince Alfred College, Adel-
aide. No. 1 old scholar, who joined the
school on the opening day in 1869, Dr.
J. T. Mitchell, is alive and well—he lives
at Northbridge, near Sydney. Two Sydney
contemporaries of Dr. Mitchell have
passed away this year —Rev. I. C. Hill,
of Roseville, and F. J. Beach, of Mosman.
Into the silence:
In Sydney, at 80, Colonel Andrew Pitt
Gribben, a member of the Royal College ol
Vets. (Edinburgh), who served in the Boer
War and was Chief Veterinary Officer at
Victoria Barracks during the 1914-18 war.
Transport manager of Tooheys in private life,
he gave most of his spare time to horse inter-
ests, joining the council of the R.A.S. in 1908
and becoming chairman of the horse committee
until he retired a few weeks ago. A noted
judge, he was R.A.S. ringmaster for 12 years.
In Melbourne, at 74, Captain L. J. Bolger,
one-time Deputy Director of Navigation and
Lighthouses. The captain started his sea career
in sail, and in 1888 transferred to Australia and
steam under Howard Smith. He was for 10
years skipper of the old Lady Loch, serving
Victorian coastal lights. He retired in 1932 and
was made a member of the Marine Board.
In Adelaide, at 64, parson F. L. Rooney-
He was born in Fiji, educated in Melbourne at
Wesley and Queen’s, and occupied S.A. pulpits
for nearly 40 years, especially up and down
the Murray in retumed-soldier settlements.
At 89, W. H. Williams, Emeritus Professor of
Classics and English Literature at the University
of Tasmania. Birmingham-born, and an M.A.
of Cambridge, he came to Sydney in 1884 to be
headmaster of Newington, and nine years later
took up his professorship in Hobart, retiring
from active teaching in 1926. He was an
authority on Elizabethan English, and edited
various sixteenth-century texts.
In Adelaide, at 78, Waldemar Gaskell
Hawkes, pastoralist, stud-sheep breeder and
founder of the Koonoona stud, Burra (S.A.).
London-born, he came to S.A. in his teens,
and from jackeroo on the Koonoona station
he forged his way ahead until, as senior part-
ner in Mordern and Daskein, he bought the
Mordern group of stations in western N.S.W. —
a holding of 1,500,000 acres. He also had
interests in Westralia.


ill
i 111 If
111
lIHIH
ill
fill
111
£
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METRO POLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Many women who can’t afford to pay for
hair-dos get free coiffures at hairdressing col-
leges where apprentices practise on them. Some
even get free face massages this way.”
— Woman’s paper.
Grinding the faces of the poor.
•¥•
“The burglars gained entrance through the
kitchen, forcing a catch on the widow.”
— “D.T.”
And she didn’t need much forcing,
either.
•i* * *3> 4*
“The old Scot was used to being left on his
owl in the big house at night, but his blood
froze at that awful sound. ‘What can it be?’ he
muttered.” —Short story.
Hoots, mon.
•i* *J* ❖
“The bride, who was attended by two brides-
maids, wore white satin with a veal.”
—Social report.
It was the ’groom who felt like a calf.
“The car was travelling at high speed when
the accident occurred. The driver received only
slight injuries and after treatment was allowed
to go some.” — “Sun.”
What! Again?
❖
“Captain became an expert apiarist.
Now, retired from the sea, he potters around
among his hives of beer.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
Let’s hope he doesn’t keep a few bottles
of bees on the ice for his friends.
4* *J*
“The plastic surgeon can now entirely alter
the shape of your nose in a matter of hours.”
— “World’s News.”
A less expensive and much quicker
method is to stamp on the foot of a
15-stone navvy in the pub, then tell him
he’s a lily-livered mongrel, and just stay
where you are.
“Most broadcasting stations have records of
crowds applauding which they work into their
various presentations.”— Wireless paper.
Clap-trap,
•I* 4* 4* *B*
“Chemist knocks out 14-stone burglar.”
— “Courier-Mail.”
All he has to do now is advertise that
just before he did so he had taken a dose
of his own nerve tonic mixture and his
fortune’s made.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Although Gerald had protested passionately
that his love for Jennifer was a fire that was
consuming him, he had selfishly considered in
this matter only his own interests and con-
venience.” — Serial.
He wouldn’t put himself out.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Take the cake out of the oven and stand
it on a wire stand until it coils.”
—Recipe in woman's paper.
The cake or the wire stand?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“It’s time the N.S.W. Railways took a lesson
from the Victorian Railways on how to hgandle
crowds.” — “D.T." correspondent.
As it is now, it’s a scgandle.
“A fwe ’undred pounder! Don't you mean fwe HUNDRED pounds, sarge?”
“Pick the bloody thing up and see if the HAITCH makes it any lighter s
“Tanks in each section keep in touch with
one another by radio.” —“Sunday Telegraph.”
Marvellous how they can understand
each other’s muddled speech!
“This winter the bread beans I put in failed
even to come above the ground. Do you think
this was due to diseased seed or soured
ground?” —Correspondent in daily.
Perhaps insufficient yeast.
•i* 4* *f* 4*
“Is your skin dry?’— Advertisement.
Yes, particularly on the inside of the
front of the neck. But we’re not worried.
The treatment is attractively presented in
long-necked bottles.
“Is there anything more unreliable than our
weather? ” — “D.T.”
Yes, The prophecies about it.
4» 4* 4* 4*
Funny the way marriage can change a
pet lamb into a little cow.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“During the entire contest he did not use
his right hand once.” —Boxing report.
Another Leftist?
*l*
“ Hilaire Belloc was born an English
mother.” —Melbourne “Age."
Some of these authors have queer
beginnings.
Viewpoint.
I sometimes think that I shall never see
An object funny as a tree —
A tree with trunk so bulged and thick
As to recall my Uncle Dick.
Its branches like the arms of apes,
A rthritic limbs in comic shapes,
Festooned by Nature for a lark
With scattered tails of scaly bark ;
Covered with scars of various sorts,
Calluses, bunions, bumps and warts —
With leaves that humorously trace
The lines of an eccentric face...
Giggles are raised by fools like me.
But Tm not in it with a tree.
ABIE.
The Moving Spirit.
“A woman can’t be expected to move furni-
ture.” — Woman’s paper.
Trying to creep in quietly in the dark-
ness so as not to disturb Maria’s rest —
and my own—when I got home early the
other morning, I bumped hard into some-
thing in the lounge-room where there
should have been a wide open space.
Feeling cautiously over the bit of furni-
ture I was convinced that it was the
dressing-table from the spare bedroom.
As I moved away from it my vest caught
in one of the drawer knobs, and there
was a fearful clatter as a drawerful of
cutlery and silver crashed to the floor.
That's how Maria moves furniture
around.
She doesn’t always do the moving her-
self, of course. If I am not handy when
she gets the urge, she ropes in the bread-
carter or the milkman.
“I promised them four shillings each
for doing it. They’re coming to see you
about it on Saturday,” she says.
Once the player-piano even climbed
the stairs to the attic. That was when
she decided that that room upstairs with
its view would make a lovely sitting-
room. Then she discovered the dis-
advantages, and the stuff had to come
down again. It didn’t do the player-
piano any good, or my pocket either.
Maria always finds the disadvantages
too late.
“Don’t you think this is better?” she
depends, surveying the results of the
day’s upheaval.
“I think it’s just right as it is,” I say
fervidly.
“ ’M, yes, it’s not bad,” says Maria,
“but I think I like it better the other way.
You take the heavy end of that ward-
robe.”
But I have one consolation —she can’t
shift the laundrv to anywhere else.
H.M.
When the Fur Flies.
“Mrs. N — (nee Catt) said that three months
after their marriage she discovered that her
husband was carrying on an intrigue with a
girl he had formerly known.” —Divorce report.
He walks on very shaky ground
Who weds a lady named like that.
For should he start to play around
She's pretty sure to smell a rat!
P.P.
Clothes Sense.
“How old are your newest clothes?”
—Fashion article.
That depends.
The flapper throws open her wardrobe,
stares in dismay at her four newest frocks
and gasps, “Frumpish old things! Why,
they’re a month old.”
The wife looks at her navy hat and
wishes she hadn’t spent the gas money
on it, for the very next day after she
bought it Mrs, Kidd from over the road
came out in one exactly like it, and
everyone knew she always got hers from
a t.p. firm. So she gives it to the pup
to play with. It might cost the hound
a boot or two, but it’ll mean a new one
to her.
As for you, you look at your only suit
and, having been well-trained, you think
fondly, “I’ve been married ten years, but
I like this suit just as well as the day I
was married in it.”
ELM.
Alternative.
“Petting is no good to anyone. A substitute
pleasure should always be found to take its
place.” —Temperance lecturer.
If abandoning cuddles and kisses,
The best of all substitute blisses
To cheer us through worries and muddles
Perhaps would be kisses and cuddles.
T.W.N.
The Case for Ardor.
“Because of ridicule for having had no con-
flagration in his district for years, the superin-
tendent of a Maoriland fire brigade started
fires to show what his brigade could do in
putting them out.”
Such rare zealousness is apt to be con-
demned too hastily. It is one of man-
kind’s noblest attributes, and has charac-
terised our family for many generations.
I recall the most unjust condemnation
of Great-uncle Aubrey in the long ago.
An insurance canvasser by birth but a
bush naturalist by predilection, he had
devoted his spare-time life to the study
of the earthworm’s habits. It had long
been his theory that the worm could not
complete its life-cycle if it were subject
to a terrific pressure of water above its
natural habitat. Naturally he had no
opportunity to study it in these circum-
stances, but he was a man of great deter-
mination, and he decided to create the
circumstances. As in everything he
touched, he did it in the grand manner.
That this necessitated the blowing up
of a big dam and the flooding of the sur-
rounding 150 square miles of country
with 30ft. of water was perhaps unfor-
tunate ; it was even more unfortunate
that they wheeled poor Aubrey away
before he could put in any research
work.
Another relative, Uncle Plantagenet,
allied a burning zeal to a highly-
developed conscience. He was an
ambulance superintendent. Sitting in his
office one day he gloomily thought of his
beautifully polished but idle ambulances.
Uncle realised that, he was in danger of
accepting his wages under false pre-
tences, as it were. There was only one
honorable course open to a man of his
zeal. The constable who gave evidence
later deponed that Uncle had scorched
at 50 m.p.h. on his wrong side and had
kept going, seemingly with deliberation,
at others after he had skittled three cars
and 17 pedestrians. Seemingly! How
could a soulless dolt like that be aware
of the man’s fine motive?
My father was perhaps the keenest
foreman of a breakdown gang ever to
have ennobled the railway service. He
would sit by his telephone day-long ready
to pounce on it when the ring came, and
the look of pure joy on his face when
word came that a truck had been de-
railed or floods had caused a washaway
somewhere would have touched the Chief
Commissioner’s heart could he have wit-
nessed it. It was after they brought in
the safety-first regulation that Father
would come home at night soured with
the thought that his talents for putting
busted carriages and engines back on the
line were being stultified. He stood it for
a while and then—need I say more? Suf-
fice it to say that all might have been
well had he not, in his zealful haste to
get back to give his breakdown crane a
final oiling before setting out, left his
presentation pipe alongside the
points after he’d driven the dog-
spike into them.
For my own part I can
modestly claim, I think, to have
shared fully in this character-
istic of consuming zeal of all
our clan.
It may seem peculiar, perhaps,
that I chose the civil service for
a career. But it was my endea-
vor to be an exemplar to my
fellow-toilers. I got a job as an
acting-temporary prison warder.
Naturally, I was in my
element. Whenever a prisoner
got a bit too close to the 15ft.
wall and looked longingly at the
top I would be on to him like
a flash and shepherd him away.
When I was given charge of
the exercise yard the prisoners
were for the most part a puny,
weak-kneed bunch. Keen to see
them improve, I bought out of
my own pocket several Sandow
developers and at every oppor-
tunity I would have them at it.
Soon they all had muscles like
iron. One day, dead keen, I
kept them going half an hour
beyond the regulation period. I
spent three weeks in hospital
that time. Even now I can’t
move my jaw sideways.
The authorities soon recognised that
zeal such as mine must be given further
scope. Within five years I was a full
temporary warder and within ten years
after that a warder. My further pro-
motion was meteoric. Ten years later I
was an acting-assistant senior warder,
and in another eight assistant to the
senior warder. Within 15 more years
and after there had been 18 deaths in the
service I became warden of the prison.
I was allotted a blacktracker and two
bloodhounds in case any prisoner should
escape. It gradually became a source
of extreme annoyance to me to see the
dogs wolfing their daily quota of rump
steak and Corporal Flourbag eating and
smoking his head off.
At last I could stand it no longer.
Calling all the warders on duty into my
office one night I kept them there for a
few minutes on some pretext and went
out and unlocked cells and gates. Within
a minute not a prisoner remained. Giving
them a good start X then called on the
tracker and the bloodhounds to justify
their existence.
I believe they are still looking for
some of them.
Bo.


ABORIGINAITIES
“Old-timer”: “These blokes,” said
Dusty, “who skite about the dry tracks
they’ve struck mostly talk through their
hats. What happens is that years ago
they’ve had to do a bit of a perish, walk
perhaps 10 or 15 mile on a hot day
without a drink. As the years go by the
distance gets longer and the day hotter
till they’re tryin’ to tell you they went a
week without a drink and covered up to a
hundred mile, and, of course, after tellin’
it f’r about 20 years they’re dead certain
it really happened. By cripes. I’d like
t’ have seen ’em with me the dead-still,
blazin’ Sunday I set out from me camp
near Orange to see old Mick, me mate,
at Euchareena. Somebody told me it
was 15 mile, and after a couple of hours
there I am on the road, the sun heatin’
down and me tongue bangin’ out. A
bloke in a sulky goin’ the wrong way
tells me it’s another five mile, an’ 1 pushes
on. By sundown I’m seein’ things and
light in the head ; me mouth’s burnin’
and me tongue’s like a chip o’ lignum.
I never thought I’d hold out, but I
stumbles into Euchareena just after dark.
When I pulls round they tell me I’d come
28 mile.” “But,” put in Collar-proud,
“there’s plenty of creeks and tanks on
that track.” Dusty looked at him.
“Creeks and tanks!” he snorted. “Do
you think I’d walk over to see old Mick
and drink water!”
* * * ♦
“Oliver Filter”: “Cheraps” (B. 24/9/’4l)
uses the term yabbie, which is surprising
in a Sandgroper. When I was in the West
Parachceraps bicarinatus was never re-
ferred to except as “gilgie.” Still, since
living in the eastern States I’m getting
used to the dual names for everything
from fish to trees. From stingaree to
stingray was an easy hurdle, but calling
the skipjack a trevally and a cobbler a
fortesque was a shock. Botanically, it
is even more confusing, I was called
upon to admire a Christmas bush in a
Sydney suburban street. After scanning
all visible vegetation I had to be shown
a straggly green sapling with reddish-
brown flowers. It would be difficult to
imagine anything less like the sturdy
Christmas bush of Westralia with its rich
green foliage and glorious crown of
orange-colored flowers, to which, legend
says, is attached the curse of death if they
are picked on any day other than Christ-
mas Day.
* * * «
“Aratta”: Dad, escorting the parson
around the farm, came on Dave and the
hand noisily trying to catch a young colt
in the stockyard. “Hi!” he cried, “cut
that racket out. YTe scarin’ it out of its
wits. That ain’t the way to treat an
intellergent animal!” “What’s there in-
tellergent ’bout him?” snapped Dave,
nettled; “he’s as cranky as y’ make
’em.” “No, he ain’t,” replied Dad, for
the parson’s benefit. “It’s on’y a matter
o’ keepin’ y’r block an’ he’ll respond.”
“Well,” said Dave sourly, “p’r’aps the
intellergent creature’ll stand still while
you stick this on,” and he tossed the
halter to Dad. Thus challenged, Dad
climbed into the yard and approached
the shivering colt, murmuring “Whoa,
lad, there ; whoa, boy,” Reaching the colt’s
side he put out a hand to pat its neck
when the animal gave a squeal and, twist-
ing around, landed Dad a crack on the
shin. Dad dropped the halter and,
grabbing his leg, went hopping around the
yard. Then his mouth opened as he
turned toward the colt; but the tail of
his eye caught the parson looking at him
concernedly. His whiskers bristling and
his eyes glinting madly, he limped pain-
fully through the rails. “Yes,” he jerked
out grittily as he massaged his injured
limb and eyed the parson covertly, “the
bl-blessed co-creatcher has even more in-
tellergence than 1 gave him credit for.
He knows there’s a parson present.”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Somebody left the toilet
soap in the bath and Dad fished it out, a
round, white squashy mass, and heaved
it into the yard. The Leghorn cock
pounced on it, but was promptly tackled
by the half-bred Indian game, and in the
scurry a battered old chook swiped the
prize and legged it for the stables. Boozer,
who would have been a beagle hound
only for his mother’s indiscretion, rushed
the hen and sent her squawling off. He
was about to sniff at the prize when a
black streak dived down and picked it
up, and by the way the other crows gave
chase you’d have thought it was a nugget.
In flight the Kelly must have chopped
the soap through, for half of it fell to
the ground right in front of the same old
“I’m so TIRED! Think l'll get undressed and go to bed.”
hen, who promptly gobbled it. Her
shocked expression and the way she tried
to knot her throat to stop it getting all
the way down was a fitting finale to the
little pastorale,
* * ♦ ♦
“Pick”: In hillside corners or gully
nooks of the high Kiandra (N.S.W.)
country I saw more skeletons of
dead horses than 1 have ever seen
elsewhere. In the middle ’eighties
this country was heavily stocked with
wild horses sleek, beautiful animals
that were often roped and tamed to make
first-class saddle-horses. They roamed
in vast mobs and skimmed over the bog
lands when pursued. In winter, when the
fogs of coming snowstorms caused them
to huddle together in some sheltered
nook, they stood in danger—the falling
snow shut them into their confined space,
where the available food was insufficient
to keep them alive for more than a short
time. They gradually ate the grass and
wild hop scrub; then starvation soon
cleared them off and their bodies lay still
enclosed by the snowdrift that had been
their ruin.
* * * ♦
“Youanmi”: This, friends, is a dog
story that is dinkum. Mick, half cattle-
dog and half fox terrier, had attached
himself to Paddy, a mine timberman,
who spent one-third of the day under-
ground. He got to know his master’s
habits better than Paddy himself did.
Should the alarm clock fail to wake
Paddy for the night shift, Mick would
do the job by snuffing about his face
and neck until he woke up ; when Paddy
went into the change-room Mick went
with him and curled up at his feet until
he changed ; when his boss went under-
ground Mick saw the cage away, curled
up near the shaft-mouth and waited for
eight hours until the cage brought Paddy
up again. Only once did I see Mick put
out of his stride. Paddy had gone on
a bender, and during the excitement Mick
lost him. The subsequent hangover
stopped Paddy from going underground,
but the dog assumed he had gone, and
waited at the shaft-mouth all night until
the cages started coming up at eight the
following morning. When Paddy didnt
appear—he usually came up in the first
cage —Mick was nearly frantic.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Woollen yarn is getting as
scarce as the sweat of a politician s brow,
and to keep me in socks the missus has
had the spinning wheel going through
the winter. A cocky in the district was
shearing and I sent a message asking him
to save a fleece of about 3in. staple 56 s
to 64’s merino. Back came a sample
of wool and a note saying that this was
the best fleece unbaled at the time: the
owner declared he didn’t know whether
it was 60’s or 160’s. And he didn’t. And
he had been on the land since boyhood.
Always thought there was something
queer about a cocky—now I darned well
know.
* * * *
“Mallee Hen”: After a close survey of
the plans and specifications of “Douglas
J.’s” Westralian blue-tongued lizard (B.
24/9/’4l), I unhesitatingly declare it to
be the same as that commonly found
reposing on the sandy tracks of the Vic-
torian, S.A. and N.S.W. mallee country.
It’s culinary properties I leave to others,
except to mention that I once served up
two, partially roasted in a stubble fire, to
Martha, our sow, who rooted them round
enthusiastically for a bit, sat on them
while she carefully pondered my inten-
tions, decided I had some sinister design
and resolutely pushed them out of her
abode with a supercilious snout. One
w’as thereupon seized with reckless aban-
don by our pup, an animal given to
astonishing gastronomic feats, and was
in a fair way to being consumed in three
gulps when the pup, part way through
the third gulp, took on a worried expres-
sion, hastily regurgitated everything and
departed for the tank, where he lapped
up vast quantities of water and occupied
several hours in regaining his normal
optimism. I interred both remains.
« * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide University had
some 1100 acres of bare ground on
Koonamore station, in the north-east of
S.A., presented to it in 1926 by Hamilton
and Wilcox as an “arid flora research
station.” It got a severe test, there hav-
ing been only two good rains in the 15
years. Yet Prof. Wood reports that, with
stock kept out and with the land —chosen
for its bareness —given a chance to come
back, “perennial saltbush has spread,
kangaroo-bush has reappeared, and
patches of bare ground are being covered
with soil-binding lichens; now fairly well
covered with plants palatable to stock.”
And the moral is, as might be supposed,
that all country of this type should have
been “grazed judiciously.”
* * * *
“Taylor Ville”: The wind swooped
through the camp, whisked a saddle-cloth
into the water-bucket, peppered the stew
with sand, sent the billy whirling in clat-
tering flight and blew tobacco into Dan’s
eyes and hot ashes into his boots. “Blank
and double-blank the sanguinary, lurid,
condemned wind!” he said as he rubbed
his streaming eyes. Old Jimmy, whis-
kered, illiterate and very argumentative,
wiping sticky tea off his clean shirt,
looked up and snorted. “Wind?” he
challenged. “Well, what the blazes else
d - ' y’ expect at this time o’ the year?
Don’t y’ know it’s them there marsupial
gales?”
“0.0.3.”: There had been a storm out
on the Culgoa (S.Q.) country well laced
with lightning and thunder. Next day the
wind sprang up. There were about
100.000 acres just fit for the match, with
no break worth a second thought the
way the wind was blowing, and about
30.000 sheep were hidden in the high
grass. With never a thought of fire the
boss sent three men to have a look for
straggling wethers in a river paddock.
As they were passing a coolibah tree on
their way to boil the quarts, a burning
limb cracked and fell to the ground. They
were right on the spot to deal with it.
The boss is now a firm believer in coin-
cidences.
♦ * * *
“Etymologist”: Reading a rather
ancient newspaper, the “Swan River
Guardian,” of May 6,183 y, I learned,
on the word of its then editor, William
Nairne Clark, that the natives of the
W.A. south-west called the fat white grub
which they dug from decaying blackboy
stumps the birdas. With little imagina-
tion this becomes “bardies” —as indeed
it might have been pronounced and only
distorted in Clark’s spelling —a term com-
mon today practically all over Australia.
What I want to know is, was it the abo-
riginal name for that type of grub in
other parts of the continent? If such be
the case it definitely links up the abo.
language; adds one more atom of evi-
dence as to the common origin of all
the Australian tribes. That the name was
original to the Swan River blacks is
beyond question, since the colony at the
moment of Clark’s writing was still only
seven years old —there was no possibility
of the term having been introduced by
contact with natives from any other
division of the continent. Incidentally,
the W.A. abos. farmed the bardi by
yearly dooming a number of blackboys
(Xauthorrhoea) to decay, the process being
accelerated by chopping off the wide
head of fronds, autumn being the season.
« * * •
“Whiskers": Met the buyer of the
hungriest farm in our district. He was
telling me about some cows he’d bought
a couple of weeks previously. “And how
are they milking?” I inquired. “Oh,”
he said, “I don’t know —I haven’t tested
’em yet.”
* # * ♦
“Jika”: It was getting towards the end
of the month, and Doug, in an effort to
conserve what little “juice” he had left,
was taking the cream to the butter fac-
tory in the spring cart. Flossie, the mare,
was in fine fettle, and soon caught up to
a jinker driven by a neighboring cow
cocky. “Hullo, Joe!” Doug bawled out.
“You run out o’ petrol, too?” He nodded
at two cans perched beside the driver,
“’Struth, no!” Joe roared back. “I still
got a forty-four-gallon drum full that I
never declared.” “What’s wrong then?”
pursued Doug. “Utility gone bung on
y’?” “No,” Joe replied. “Y’ know that
paddock we ploughed up in June? Well,
I buried the blasted drum in that and
I’m damned if I can find it now! ”
WHERE THE SKY BEGINS.
“Where are you speeding to, galloping rider,
Riding your horse with the rein and spur?
Are you hurrying home for a sight of her —
She who is still, whate’er betide her?”
Said the rider, “I go where the plains are wider,
Where the hurrying sun his distance spins,
I am seeking the place where the sky begins.”
“Steady your team, O weary driver!
Look to your horses, ere they be done.
Are you racing to see a stricken son?
Or matching your team with a rising river?”
“By day and by night, when the white stars
shiver
1 am bound for the land where the darkness
thins
On the edge of the world where the sky
begins.”
“Driver of engines, shut down her throttle;
Bravely all night have her big wheels spun.
Weary the distance and tracks they’ve run
By mountain ash and by golden wattle,
Where the flannel flowers the valleys mottle —
Are you running a race?”... The engine
dins,
“We are bound for the place where the sky
begins.”
What though no silver or golden guerdon
Waits at the end of this journey vain—
What though we travel and travail again
Facing the toil and bearing the burden—
Man the great Rider flashes the word on—
“ Proud is the race though nobody wins,
We ride for the place where the sky begins! ”
N.S.W.
WIĹ LAWSON.


specimen of Felix tigris. She made her
pin money selling them to European zoo-
logical gardens.
# * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; It was a Sunday of
steadily pouring rain, and we were
isolated in the pub. Vienna George, who
must have been vaccinated with a gramo-
phone needle, started talking soon after
breakfast and kept it up all through the
dreary forenoon while we read, played
desultory whisky poker or dozed. Dinner-
time came and the publican tried to
brighten things up by standing a couple
of bottles of beer with it, which only
made George talk the more. The rain
kept on, and by mid-afternoon that pub
was full of as sore-headed a bunch as
you’d find, but still George talked on.
Then Mat spoke up. “ ’Struth, George,”
he said, “your flamin’ tongue must be
ball-bearin’. Don’t it ever stop?” “Get
out,” said George, “ somebody’s got to
keep things goin’.” Mat looked at him
and said, “Look, if you keep quiet till
teatime I’ll buy you a drink every half-
hour till then.” George went dumb.
Presently, with signs of strain, he got up
and went out of the parlor. He was back
at the half-hour for his drink and went
out again. This was repeated, and at tea-
time we gratefully told Mat we’d pay our
whack for the drinks. In the
dining-room we waited in vain
for tea. Then we had a look in
the kitchen and found Bung
wrestling with a cold joint. “That
flamin’ George,” he gritted. “He’s
bin here all afternoon talkin’ to
the cook, an’ now she’s cleared
over t’ her sister’s place.”
“Where’s George?” “Aw, he’s
gone over, too. Say’s she’s the
first understandin’ woman he’s
ever met. Y’ know, she’s a good
cook; it’s a pity she’s stone
deaf!”
* * * *
“Capricorn”: I first heard from
blacks of the Maranungo tribe (Finnis
River, N.T.) that during the dry season
in the north (May to October) the goanna
digs the female turtle out of her hiber-
nating hole in the cracked mud of a
dried-up waterhole and drives her, dopey
as she is, to a hole he has dug for her
in the bank of a creek or billabong. He
never makes a mistake by digging up a
gent. Having got the lady into the nest
he seals her in and leaves her till the
rains set in again, when he frees her and
gobbles up the eggs she has laid. Fan-
tastic, yes. But so is much else in Nature.
Later an Adelaide River half-caste
scoffed at the tale and offered to prove
his contention by collecting turtle-eggs in
the middle of the wet season, which was,
he avowed, when turtles laid. Still later
a native of the Djauan tribe (Katherine
River) upheld the contention of the
Maranungoans. Since then members of
tribes as far afield as the Victoria and
Roper rivers have sworn to me it was
gospel. Most old bushmen I know give
the suggestion the raspberry. Submitted
to the Council for examination.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”; From his perch in the
tree he was lopping Bert suddenly ex-
claimed; “Gripes, Ma Johno’s gorn ratty
—she’s doin’ exercises on the rooftop!”
There was an instant rush for observa-
tion posts. Sure enough, balancing on
the ridge with her expansive rear-eleva-
tion towards us, the widow was alternat-
ing between a touch-toes position and
an arms-upward stretch. The boss being
absent, and curiosity stronger than con-
“Gryllus”; Many an old-style Austra-
lian politician must be enjoying a soul-
transmigration stage in Jacky Kooka-
burra. Observe the grave deliberation
with which he will sit on some high, safe
fence, weighing carefully the respective
advantages offered by either side. His
mind made up, he glances swiftly round
lest some unscrupulous rival may take an
unfair advantage, swoops swiftly down
upon the fattest grub or juiciest worm,
and returns with equal swiftness to enjoy
it in his safe seat. Only after both sides
have yielded every possible return does
he proclaim his jovial appreciation of
the fact that all is joyous for the righteous
in a rightly-constituted world and take
off for a nap in some well-shaded tree.
There he probably dreams of some inno-
cent camera enthusiast to whom he can
pose with a real serpent dangling from
his brave, self-sacrificing beak, thereby
getting his portrait into the papers as a
national benefactor. It will always be a
small and completely non-venomous one,
but Jacky, M.P., knows his public and it’s
a real snake anyhow.
♦ * * *
“Si Anu”: The A.I.F, lieutenant who
keeps a 15-foot python for a pet in his
quarters in Malaya isn’t exceptional.
Pythons are as easy to handle as cats —
if you know how. If you don’t let them
throw more than a couple of folds
around you they won’t squeeze your life
out. The most spectacular collection of
pets I have seen was in the possession of
the wife of a Dutch harbormaster in
Java. She had tigers, panthers, mouse-
deer, young buffaloes, venomous snakes
of all sorts contained in contraptions in
her backyard which looked so gimcrack
that I used to wonder how she could
sleep at night. But she kept them con-
fined less by strength than cunning, and
she let the cubs run wild, and you never
knew when you picked up a pretty little
kitten whether it belonged to the domes-
tic variety of feline or was a youthful
“Where's Murph?"
science, a little investigation seemed in
order. We’d just topped the rise when a
double shotgun report echoed from
the house, closely followed by another.
It was four “windy” men who finally
peeped around the door. Instead of a
corpse or maniac, a normal, if flushed,
Mrs. Johnson invited us in and demanded
to know “didn’t it beat all?” “For a
fortnight,” she went on, “I’ve endured a
smoky chimney, thinking that one of
you boys might drop in. This morning
I decided to fix it myself. I poked a
wire up the flue, tied a bush on, climbed
along the roof like a tightrope walker
and was working the thing up and down
when it jammed. Just as I was at my
wit’s end I remembered the old shotgun
“We better pull Joe in until the tide comes up again."
trick. The third shot brought the bush
—and buckets of soot —down. And then
four men arrive! ” “We saw your
trouble,” Bert lied glibly, “so we came
over to give a hand.” It was quick think-
ing, and it worked —tea and scones all
round.
* * * *
“Naturala”; The really interesting
point about that lawn at Mt. Isa (B.
3/9/’4l) is how the grubs came to get
there. They are, of course, the larvae
of some flying insect, which must have
bridged a lawnless gap of several hun-
dred miles in order to deposit its eggs.
The ’plane as a carrier is suggested, or
perhaps the gravid mother came attached
to a truck, or to bales of hay, to almost
any kind of outdoor goods. I have a
similar migration in mind at the present
moment. The land around Perth, with
the exception of a few swamps and river
flats, is sand, capable of a limited amount
of cultivation without manure, but re-
markably free from that indicator of
good soil the earthworm. For at least
10 years I gardened my quarter acre,
originally with the fertility of an ash
heap, but slowly, under a long course of
heavy manuring, attaining to what might
be called good soil. But never during
the decade did I glimpse one worm. This
winter every shovelful I turned over
revealed numbers of them. How did
that multitude get there? Earth migration
is out of the question, since surrounding
areas are still wormless. The only sug-
gestion is that the spawn might have
arrived attached to potato peelings or
other root vegetables that have been
buried to provide soil humus.
* * . * *
“Propalong”: The toughest proposi-
tion I know is a lone bull camel in the
breeding season. Anything from a man
to a coil of barbed wire is fair game to
an inhibited oont. Thoroughly equipped
for killing, he can, and will, pace it with
a saddlehorse for miles ; and he’s mighty
hard to stop. I’ve put five hollow-nosed
.32’s into the head of a draught bull
before sending him down for keeps with
one at the base of the skull. Old Tom,
alone with pack- and saddle-horses on
the Blanchewater (S.A.) netting, put up
the gamest show with one of the brutes
that I’ve yet heard of. Awakened at
daylight by a mighty clashing of bells and
hobbles, he discovered a bull after his
prads. His only weapon was a shotgun,
and the only cover a four-foot tar bush.
But Tom, his moustache on end with
rage, got up under cover of the excite-
ment, manoeuvred till he was under the
camel’s stern and let fly. The oont left in
the general direction of Birdsville, and
Tom, a lively nine-stone youngster of 65
at the time, went back to put the billy on.
* * * ♦
“Wang”: “I’m lyin’ in me bunk one
night readin’,” related Dan, “when there’s
a knock at the hut door, an’ in comes
the boss’s son, a moon-faced kid of about
twelve. ‘Dad sent me over t’ say he's
got stuck bad, an’ would y’ mind cornin’
over t’ the house an’ givin’ him a hand,’
he says. ‘How’s he stuck?’ I asks. The
kid just looks stupid an’ ses, T dunno;
that’s all he tole me t’ say t’ yV I gets
outa bunk feelin’ pretty savage. I’m just
up to an interestin’ part in the thriller,
an’ it’s damned cold outside the blankets.
I dress meself, an’ make me way t’ the
house. There’s the boss siltin’ at th’ kitchen
table in front of a roarin’ fire, a pen in
his hand an’ a writin’-pad on the table.
‘Sorry t’ drag y’ outa bed,’ he ses as I
come in, ‘but I gotter write a letter t’ me
bank manager ’bout me overdraft.’ I
look at him, bewildered like, an’ ses, ‘But
young Bill ses y’ sed y’ wanted me help,
somethin’ ’bout y’ bein’ stuck bad.’ ‘So
I am,’ he ses, ‘fer the sorta words t’ use
t’ start this ’ere letter.’ Fer a second
or so I stood there lookin’ at him siltin’
there snug, then I rapped out quick an’
lively a dozen or so words, slams the
door an’ goes back to me hut. I wasn’t
worried fer any more help that night;
but if the boss used them words I spoke
that overdraft of his wasn’t helped any.
I’ll bet.”
THE DINKUM STUFF.
Where the platypuses, savage with the urge
to rend and ravage,
Scale the prickly bloodwood vines in search
of feathered bandicoots,
There you’ll also see a wombat, like as not, in
mortal combat
With a thornbill who’s been robbing it of
luscious corkwood roots.
Come with us and see a dingo borne aloft by a
flamingo
While an old bull brolga shoots the rapids
of some billabong;
Watch the strongly-swimming chamois in the
widely-flowing Namoi
Gambol with the playful cuscus or devour
a wobbegong.
With their tusks with gore all dripping from
goannas they’ve been ripping.
On the western Queensland claypans grim
and fierce the bustards roam,
While enormous gecko lizards feed exclusively
on gizzards
Of autochthons who go under to the reptile’s
armored comb.
If the day is hot the chances are you’ll see the
graceful dances
Of the geebungs and the boobooks in some
leafy forest glade.
In a thickly-brackened dell is where you’ll find
the yellowbellies
As they feed their young on dugongs or the
nests of bunyips raid.
A diseased imagination, this, or gross exag-
geration,
You would say, of elements which make our
Aussie outback scene?
Not at all! Its authenticity is really quite ex-
plicit—
You will find it goes as gospel in some
Yankee magazine !
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


What ARE THE
Duties of an
Executor ?
oMM
HOUR Executor should assume control of your Estate imme-
diately and take measures to safeguard your assets. He
must manage the assets and deal with the problems of
claims, debts and taxes, including Estate Duties and
Income Taxes, and in general, substitute his business
judgment for yours. He must administer the Estate as the Will
directs and the law provides, and account for his acts to your
beneficiaries, and to the Court.
The foregoing is only a brief outline of his duties, but it suggests
the reason why those versed in affairs appoint an experienced
Trustee Company as Executor or Co-Executor with a friend or
relative rather than place the entire burden on a single
individual.
The services of The Trustees Executors & Agency Company
Limited with more than 63 years’ experience as a corporate
Executor and Trustee are available at a fixed and moderate
charge. Consult your Solicitor or call or write for further
information.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
I BLIGH ST.. SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £958,760.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; John Fordyce;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G., Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S'. Colman.C.B.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS';
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G, (Chairman); W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M 4383.
25 O'Connell Street, SYDNEY.
86371.
The WILDCAV COUMN
Associated Pulp and Paper (Tas.)
Towards
Re-
April, Loss. Dividends. serves. Deficit.*
£ £ £ £
Rights, development, etc. .. • ■ 251,253
Preliminary exes., £11,006.. .. 262,230
1939.. 51,823 Nil 314,062
Added patents, £5007 .. .. 319,069
Profit.
1940.. 31,743 3 p.c.f= 28,500 3,243 315,826
1941.. 132,092 6 „ „ 68,827 63,265 252,561
To stock reserve, £31,150 .. .. 283,711
* Excluding “Reserves for depreciation, renewals,
etc., £158,668.” t Ord. shares only.
From northern Tasmanian eucalyptus
pulp, this fine writing and printing
venture has in the first 23 months of
war sold over 35,000 tons of paper, in-
cluding 19,287 tons apparently turned
out in the latest year. Owing to the
protection afforded by overseas war-time
costs and shortages, the co. has come
into production at an opportune time
both for itself and the nation, and its
contribution to the war effort extends
beyond papermaking to direct defence
work (without profit), including research
into production of cellulose suitable for
nitration for explosives.
The manner in which earnings bounded
ahead in the third year of actual opera-
tions reflects a bigger outturn and im-
proving mill manufacturing technique
and efficiency. There were no lifts in
selling prices, which, indeed, have been
so strictly controlled by the Prices Com-
missioner that the cost to the Australian
consumer has been kept below half what
would have had to be paid for British
imports had they been available —which
they aren’t, while supplies from non-
sterling sources are restricted to qualities
outside Associated’s manufacturing range.
About 22 p.c. of the output has been
taken direct by the Government, and
the co. is selling the rest of its products
so fast —the rationed order-book is con-
gested for six months ahead that
addition to productive capacity to 27,500
tons p.a. is being carried out (initial
annual visualised output was 15,000 tons),
and the mill may be called upon to pro-
duce substitute papers for those normally
falling outside its scope. The management
has permission to issue another 313,000
shares, but “it is impracticable at the
present time to indicate whether it will
be necessary to issue further capital.”
The small amount of debt suggests that
outside finance could be safely and more
profitably employed to cover at least part
of the new outlay.
Of the £1,505,000 at which paid capital
now stands, all but £255,000 (considera-
tion for assets, timber concessions and
rights, etc.) has been put up in cash, and
among them A.C.1., North and South
Broken Hill, Electrolytic Zinc, Zinc In-
vestments and Tasmanian Paper figure as
holders of 742,250 shares. Capital grew
by £300,000 last year by cash issues
to option-holding cos, in consideration
for early financial assistance. Corporate
and public shareholders now rank alike
in any future issues.
The £132,092 (up £100,349) of profit
for the latest term represented 8.7
p.c. on capital as it now stands after
provisions of £61,750 for depreciation
and £60,621 for taxation allocations
together £70,034 more than in the pre-
vious year, when no income tax was
debited. Doubling of the div. to 6 p.c.,
which included only 3 p.c. on the old
deferreds (now ords.), left £63,265 to
consolidate the future, of which £31,150
is being reserved against high-priced
imported supplies and has apparently
been tossed in with the lay-by for depre-
ciation, renewals, etc., not treated as a
free reserve in the first table.
Last term’s new capital was applied
to financial consolidation:
1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital .. £1,200,000 £1,205,000 £1,505,000
Liabilities .. 841,826 342,424 41,481
Tax provision .. 1,675 71 59,807
Freeholds . . 100,834 110,017”* 111,488
Buildings and plant 971,967 991.809 1,009,067
Stores ~ .. 61,373 100,552 243,279
Stocks .. .. 52,057 33.069 24,996
Debtors . . .. 26,679 72,105 100,643
Cash, etc 16,529 9,364 32,099
Rights, preliminary
exes., etc. .. 814,062 319,043 286,872
Retained earnings, with depreciation, etc.,
looked after the additions of £142,727
to raw materials and stores and £18,729
to fixed assets. Expansion of £28,538
in debtors’ balances and the small amount
of finished stock indicate the lively nature
of turnover. So far the co. has not had
to draw upon its freehold forest reserves
for pulping.
Compared with 275. 6d. earlier this
year, the pound shares now fetch 355. 9d.
(after 375, 6d.), at which investors are
prepared to accept a current 3.4 p.c.
yield in anticipation of later benefits.
With nothing wrong with the quality
of its product, and much of the benefit
of recent development still to accrue, the
co.’s immediate future is bright. Present
control of prices will also give it a strong
claim to tariff assistance against sub-
sidised foreign competition, should that
later eventuate. At present there are
nominal duties of £3 a ton British and £8
foreign something less than those on
brown paper—although, as pointed out,
the question of protection right now isn’t
a consideration. An 8 p.c. div., which
appears the immediate expectation of the
market, would call for £120,400.
Peters American Delicacy Co., Ltd.
To
June. Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 43,716 10 p.c. = 42,583 1,133 492.682
Written off investments, £25,000 .. 467,682
Unexplained additions, £32,482 .. 500,164
1932.. 22,779 10 p.c. = 42,583 480,360
Written off investments, £12,435 .. 467,925
Unexplained additions, £19,434 .. 487,359
1933.. 32,266 7.8 p.c. = 31,937 329 487.688
Unexplained additions, £34,779 . . 522,467
1934.. 43,383 10.7 p.c. = 42,583 800 523,267
Unexplained additions, £32,944 .. 556,211
1935.. 55,720 10.7 p.c. = 42,583 13,137 669,348
Unexplained additions, £28,847 .. 598,195
1936.. 68,517 12i p.c. = 49,681 18,836 617,031
Depreciation reserve, £20.276 .. 637,307
Unexplained reduction, £24,388 .. 612,919
1937.. 109,320 16 p.c. = 63,876 45,444 658,363
Added depreciation res., £21,277.. 679.640
1938.. 113.491 8.9 p.c. = 35,486 78,005 757.645
Added depreciation res., £26,434.. 784,079
1939.. 96,812 8.9 p.c. = 35,486 61,326 845,405
Goodwill ( £25,250), freeholds, etc.,
sold to subsidiary, and £397,446
of bonus scrip issued from profit .. 870,655
Depreciation reserve disappears,
£453,423 417,232
Div. on bonus shares, £70,972 .. 346,260
1940. . 87,537 8.9 p.c. = 72,991 14,546 360,806
1941.. 77,306 8.9 „ „ 74,498 2,808 363,614
This is now mainly a holding co., the
freehold, goodwill and most of the plant
having been sold to a subsidiary, Peters
Ice Cream Pty., £397,446 of the profit
on the deal being capitalised in a one-for-
one bonus issue. That was before the
close of accounts in 1940 —the sale and
capitalisation proposals had hung fire
since 1937 because shareholders couldn’t
compose the differences which had arisen
between them about the issue of bonus
scrip to the contribs.
The backbone of the business is, of
course, the new wholly-owned subsidiary,
Peters Ice Cream Pty. (paid capital
£1,000,000), and the creamery at Taree,
Peters Creameries Pty., in which the
parent also owns all the capital (£100,000).
Last term the holding in these two cos.
was increased by £316,954, partly by
capitalisation of previous advances to
them and partly by new cash payments:
1937. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £397,446 £397,446 £834,306 £834,381
Sundry creditors* 80,841 95,335 57,736 58,451
Overdraft .. 114,943
Freeholds, etc. 260,838 285,345
Plant, etc. .. 548,540 687,281 117,831 114,362
Shares subsidiaries 783,046 1,100,000
Other shares,
etc .. 149,300 212,051 158,311 158,311
Stock .. 25,447 39,897
Book debts .. 11,115 23,238 165,701 35,973
Cash .. •• 180.084 108,115 65,207
* Includes provision for taxation.
The co. went to its bankers for £114,943,
drew upon the cash holding for £65,207
and reduced advances, etc., by £129,728
net. The reduction of the more or less
liquid surplus (£20,880) was £310,603.
Other shares, etc., include £60,974 of
Commonwealth securities, the balance
consisting chiefly of the following hold-
ings :
, 1941—^
Profit, Div.,
Held p.c. p.c.
Paid by Oapi- C3pi-
Capital. Parent. tal. tal.
Peters Arctic (Q.) £180,086 £43,150 10.2 8.3
Peters (Vic.) .. 195.236 20,540 13.7 9.0
Peters (W.A.) . . 128,631 20,736 12.2 9.0
Obviously these inter-State associates are
giving a very good account of themselves,
and so apparently are the two wholly-
owned subsidiaries, over whose figures
the curtain is kept drawn.
After providing for taxation and allow-
ing what looks like a liberal £19,120 for
depreciation the subsidiaries set aside
£20,480 (up £9898) for the same purpose
in their own accounts —the net result for
the year was £10,231 lighter at £77,306,
or 9.2 p.c. on capital as against 10.5 p.c.
for the previous term. The div. was kept
at 8.9 p.c.
To help guard against the effects of
petrol restrictions upon deliveries, and
therefore earnings, the co. has become
interested in a plant for production of
liquid fuel from shale at Mittagong. To
date results are most encouraging, the
chairman says. Taxation and costs, how-
ever, continue to climb, and are likely
to keep on doing so. What effect war
conditions will ultimately have upon the
sale of ice cream, which is on the Army’s
menu, remains to be seen.
At 19s. 6d. the f.-p. 14s. shares return
6.4 p.c. on an 8.9 p.c. div. basis. On
the same basis the contribs. at 13s, 9d.
(they are paid to 9s. 4d.) yield 6.1 p.c.
On the parent’s figures, book value of the
cover is 28s. 9d. per pound of paid
capital.
Port Jackson and Manly Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 14,168 5 p.c. = 14,081 87 12,349
1932.. 18,651 5 „ ~14,081 4,570 16,919
Surplus on liquidated subsidiary, £23,556.. 40,475
1933.. 15,984 54 p.c. = 15,489 495 40,970
1934.. 23,411 7 „ „ 19,713 3,698 44,668
1935.. 29,491 8 „ „ 22,529 6,962 51,630
1936.. 22,575 8 „ „ 22,529 46 51.676
1937.. 37,617 8 ~ „ 22,529 15,088 66,764
1938.. 33,071 8 „ „ 23,428 9,643 76,407
1939.. 24,638 8 „ ~24,000 638 77,045
1940.. 24,710 8 „ „ 24,000 710 77,755
1941.. 24,407 8 ~ ~ 24,000 407 78,162
The co.’s ferries carry passengers from
Circular Quay across the Heads to
Manly; and quick, cheap and efficient
service they provide, too, while new
wharves, provided by the Maritime Ser-
vices Board, at each end of the run
have helped to quicken the embarkation
and disembarkation of passengers. The
fleet numbers seven vessels:
Gross Year
Vessel. Tonnage. Built.
South Steyne . . •, 120° 1938
Dee Why . . • • 800 1928
Curl Curl .. • • 800 1928
Bellubera .. • • 500 1910
Balgowlah .. .. 500 1912
Barrenjoey .. .. 500 1913
Baragoola .. • • 500 1922
The Burra Bra, of 460 tons gross, built in
1908, was retired last term. During this
period the other boats made 34,700 trips,
aggregating 242,900 miles, without mis-
hap to craft or passenger.
Weather conditions, less favorable than
during the previous 12 months, didn’t
hamper takings. Indeed, after meeting in-
creased operating costs, allowing £23,146
(up £164) for depreciation and making
a bigger but unspecified provision for
taxation, the net result was only £303
lighter at a shade over 8 p.c. on capital,
or about the same level as for the two
preceding years. The div. was kept at
8 p.c.
Disturbed in the previous term by a
drop in the interim div., the market
now prices the f.-p. 10s. shares at 14s.
as against 12s. a year back. The return
at 14s. is 5.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis,
or 4.8 p.c. should the rate recede to
7 p.c., which is a possibility with costs
and taxation still rising. The backing is
12s. 7d. in net tangibles.
Finances are comfortable enough;
1937. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £281,616 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities . . 13,819 64,198 49,092 36,134
Ship property 185,723 285,637 271,227 251,084
Freeholds, plant,
etc 76,245 71,985 74,234 72,903
Investments .. 97,442 84,270 83,046 88,750
Stocks . . 8,118 9,248 11,597 14,450
Cash, debtors,
etc 5,936 2,103 1,744 2,110
The fleet (book value down £20,143) is
reported in thorough repair. The money
that became available last term was used
to reduce the outside debt (down £12,958)
and strengthen investments (up £5704)
and stocks (up £2853). The year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£69,176) was £21,881.
“K-M” Steel Products (Melb.)
f Dividends x Towards
Net Pref. Re- De-
June, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, ficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Goodwill, etc., £13,973 .. .. 13,973
Preliminary expenses, £2,608.. .. 16,581
1938*. 4,582 350 8 p.c. = 1,800 2,432 14,149
1939.. 9,330 2,100 8 „ „ 5,862 1,368 12,781
1940.. 9,799 2,100 8 ~ ~ 6,000 1,699 11,082
1941.. 13,030 2,100 10 „ „ 7,500 3,430 7,652
* Six months.
Despite a shortage of material in some
departments, the most satisfactory show-
ing since conversion to a public co. in
early-1938. The old proprietary sold out for
£60,000 in f.-p, ords., including £13,973
for goodwill. Public put up £45,000 in
15,000 ords. and double that number of
7 p.c. prefs., and now another 70,000
ords, are offered, 14 for 15. Average net
earnings of £7700 for the three pre-
prospectus periods have been succeeded
by annual profits at the rate of £10,330
since.
Steel window frames, etc., now gaining
in favor for private as well as public
and industrial buildings, are the co.’s
bread-and-butter line, supplemented by
a growing range of sheet-metal and re-
inforcing steel. Dependence on the con-
structional trades is at once apparent.
In pre-war days about three-fourths of
its requirements of light steel sections


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
3J6
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
*** " *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated bv
A - W- & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
, —Advt,
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN
No friend or acquaintance should be expected to become your
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria)
2 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman) ;
(Vice Chairman) ; Hon, Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; A.
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J.
FRAILTY
Colin A. Sinclair
E. Heath, C.M.G.;
G. H. Shipway,
The Symbol oj
Security!
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
Insvire with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 409-413 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH; Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
5
*
3k
I
I
A
WITH WHICH IS AMALGAMATED
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
A thorough, comprehensive and efficient service
-founded on traditions of more than a century of
sound Banking—combined with a progressive policy and
extensive organisation, enables THE COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LIMITED, to offer every facility for
the transaction of all classes of Banking Business.
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Robt. J, A. Massie; Owen E. Friend; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager; C. Darvall.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Correct belt tension, the all important factor
in power transmission with belting, can now
be automatically controlled by Ludowici
Pivot and Torque Drives a great step up
in belt drive efficiency.
The 23 different stock sizes and types of
Ludowici Pivot and Torque Drives cover
every possible application. Increase pro-
duction. eliminate belt slip, lengthen belt
and bearing life by installing an A.T.C.
drive in your plant.
Victorian Office: 20 Queen's Bridge Street,
SOUTH MELBOURNE. Agents All States.
sdf
Hi
%
A
VM
7j
z
belting • Pulleys . bearings • shaftings • couplings • all power transmission equipment
was imported. The board now plans to
render itself largely self-sufficient in this
respect by installation of a complete
cold-rolling mill, and that part of the new
plant’s output not required by the co.
itself is expected to be readily absorbed
outside —the Defence Department is a
particularly large buyer of light steel
shapes at the moment. Peace-time future
of the venture will, of course, be partly
a matter of costs.
After charging £2OOO for depreciation
and doubling tax allocation (£6700), last
term’s net result ran out at 14.5 p.c. on
ord. capital, as against 11.6 p.c, in 1940.
Though ord.-holders’ participation in the
result was lifted to 10 p.c., it was a more
conservative disposition of profits than
formerly. With the pref. div., continua-
tion of that rate when the last of the
new money comes in (about mid-1942)
will call for £3570 p.a. more than netted
last year.
Here is another angle on things:
iqqq iqqq 1Q4.0 IQ4I
Capital .. £86,638 £105,000 £105,000 £105,000
Liabilities .. 25,616 24,206 23,774 35,581
Tax provision 750 1,767 2,813 5,918
Freeholds .. 29,613 40,696 40,898 43,926
Plant, etc. .. 25,038 31,131 34,021 34,281
Stock. . .. 26,265 30,544 26,301 35,508
Book debts .. 18,758 18,331 21,375 28,293
Cash, etc. .. 1,331 1,540 1,960 2,389
The trend of turnover is apparent in
further expansion of debtors’ balances
and stocks, outsiders being called upon
for an extra £11,807 in the process. Still,
the more or less liquid surplus (£30,609)
improved £4747.
Ex rights, which have a market at 3s. 3d.,
the old ords. fetch 255., to return 8 p.c.
from 10 p.c. divs., which suggests that
some cut in the rate is looked for till
the new plant gets going at least. Prefs.
yield 5.9 p.c. at 235. 9d. Including new
issue, which has been underwritten, the
net tangible backing is 18s. lid. ords.,
£5 11s. 7d. prefs.
With its new 20-head mill in operation
and four years’ ore (87,000 tons, of which
20.000 is low-grade but profitable) to
feed it on, Maude and Yellow Girl is set
to double its output and make regular
appearances on the div. list, from which
it has been missing since December, 1938.
The co. is working a property at Glen
Wills (Vic.) by means of adits and an
internal shaft from No. 5 adit level sunk
in the breeches-like split of the main
(Maude) reef. Profits (£6BOO, after de-
preciation of £5000), throughput (8525
tons) and gold yield (452 loz.) showed
little variation in the year to June. The
surplus, with £7500 from the issue of
30.000 new shares, went into the new
plant. This has shown lower recoveries
to date, but there should be cost-savings,
and the scrip enjoys a firm following.
Values are living down —to No. 9 level,
at least,
* * * *
The small development co. of Plevna
oil shale, Mackay hinterland (C.Q.), has
lately secured exemption from labor con-
ditions to finalise financial arrangements.
Plevna is one of the low-grade shales,
but is reputed to be over 100 ft. thick
and workable by opencut, in which event
values of 28gal. of crude oil per ton
seem to make it a possibility. Further,
it is claimed to be rich in by-products,
particularly extolled being possibilities of
ammonium sulphate production. Pre-
liminary development has consisted of
eight bores and two shafts. The logbook
of one bore showed 150 ft. depth of shale.
* * * *
A pale reflection of prospectus hopes
is presented by Blue Mountains Gold
(N.Q.) —a couple of men not even touch-
ing 100 ft. below the grass roots and a
reef that averages four or five inches as
against one-foot expectations. But these
bulges occurred only in short bunches
and with lower values. Some recent
crushings have ranged from 20 to 30 dwt.
per ton ; quantum more than grade has
so far let down public hopes.
* * * *
The B.H.P.’s magnesite options in the
Hundreds of Davenport and Crozier, near
Port Augusta, look like outshining other
S.A. workings in this mineral. Round-
the-clock prospecting work is proceed-
ing ; 700 ft. has been passed in one shaft,
and much ore has been mined. Trenches
spaced at five-chain intervals have been
cut over a considerable distance and
opencuts have been made in the gullies.
Government Geologist Dr. Ward says
that all openings give proof of the con-
tinuity of the veins. Upwards of 20
tons of magnesite has been won weekly
for many months. The deposit is un-
officially claimed to be the largest in
the hemisphere,
* * * *
Disclosure of an estimated eight to ten
years’ life in the new Upper Watut area
of Sandy Creek (N.G.) had little effect
on the market for the scrip in the absence
of information as to the precise yardage
available and values. Cost was £17,668,
of which £16,468 has yet to be paid. Cash
is sufficient for the purpose, so profits
will be available for distribution. Earnings
for the latest term are £4582 lower at
£7154, of which the div,, chopped in half
to 2d., has taken £5167 since the close of
accounts. Values and costs each recorded
a id. movement in the wrong direction
at 2s. sd. and Is. a yard respectively ;
but it was the 20 p.c. decline in wash
sluiced (188,993 c.y.) that pinched most.
Since the beginning shareholders have
had back Is. 3d. per share. Introduction
of compulsory unionism, not wanted by
the miners, has clouded the industrial sky.
* * * *
Paget Gold Mines, Ltd., has secured
further exemption on the Edjudina Con-
solidated goldmining group (W.A.). Some
time ago the State Government agreed
to back the co. at the bank to the extent
of £20,000, provided it raised another
£40,000 in London. It did, through Edju-
dina Consolidated, which holds all its
shares, but, owing to Treasury restric-
tions, says it can’t get the money re-
mitted. So far, a six-figure sum has been
expended on plant and development, but
since operations ceased some years ago
some of the equipment has been sold. A
former estimate of ore reserves ran into
hundreds of thousands of tons.
• * * *
Southern Cross (W.A.) spread the news
far and wide the other day that Ridge
bros.’ Evanston mine had been sold to
Western Mining Corp. for a six-figure
amount and a fifth share interest. Later
the Corp. admitted negotiations for pur-
chase of the property, but declined to
state whether they had been completed.
* * * *
There is talk in London of raising
money to drill here and there on the two
miles or more stretch of hitherto-unpro-
ductive country southward of the present
known southern limit of the Kalgoorlie-
Boulder Golden Mile in the hope of
striking continuations (if any) of the Lake
View, Boulder and Horseshoe ore-shoots.
Some bores were put down years ago,
but nothing valuable was struck. Geo-
logical opinion isn’t optimistic.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.A.D.: (1) In severe form, monetary in-
flation results in a general flight from the cur-
rency into goods, land, property, etc., and the
tendency is for money to depreciate in value
faster than the issue of notes. Holders of
these and fixed-money incomes and debts par-
ticularly suffer. Nothing like so extreme is in
prospect in the Commonwealth. (2) Ord. shares
in any concern whose funds are represented
chiefly by assets of concrete nature provide a
measure of protection. Little to choose be-
tween the stocks you name. Adelaide Steam
would probably prove the steadier, though
heavy post-war demand is in prospect for base-
metals E.S.G.: No record 1.G.R.: Yes.
Silk position creates some doubt as to the
future, but there is still the woollen-hose sec-
tion, and present prices appear to allow for a
cut in the div J. 8.: Old co. is still in
existence, retaining an interest equal to its ex-
penditure to date. Prospects appear encourag-
ing at present metal prices H.0.L.; Outlook
ahead of all forestry ventures shrouded in-
mist, particularly those now planting.


UHCABLED ADDITIONS
SUNK BY TORPEDO.
[This personal-experience description of the sinking
of a cargo ship by torpedo near Britain was written by
the captain of the torpedoed ship, Captain L. E. Jaeckel,
for American “Mercury.”]
The Neviston —7800 tons, 16 years old, single
screw, with a speed of about 12 knots —pushed her
drab grey nose into the white-capped, choppy cross
current of St, George’s Channel, her engine pulsing
soberly. Anglesey light was less than 20 hours’ run,
and if we could believe our chart and logbook we
should be in the Mersey River late the next day. Our
holds, from bilge plates to main-deck hatch-covers,
and crowded into the ’tweendecks, were filled with
canned foods, dried fruit, clothing, shoes and phar-
maceutical supplies—the essentials of preservation for
a besieged people.
As the hours passed we began to hope, as we
always did at the end of a war-zone voyage, that Fate
had dealt us a good hand from the deck. I had been
sharing the bridge with my watch officers for 36
hours. We don’t sleep much in the war zone. By
noon a stiff north-east wind was scudding thick, grey
clouds across the sky. Mr. Cosgrove, the second
officer, urged me to turn in. “The weather’s getting
too heavy for submarines,” he commented. “We’ll
sight destroyers soon.” I was almost asleep on my
feet. The ship was heaving against the wind. “We’re
not out of danger, Mr. Cosgrove, but I’m going into
the chartroom and stretch out. Call me at six bells.”
“Very good, sir! We’ll make Liverpool this trip,”
he said cheerily.
You think you are ready for the moment when
a torpedo will strike. You convince yourself that the
element of surprise will not sneak up on you. If you
are fortunately on deck or on the bridge and can see
the furrow-like wake of the torpedo, you suddenly
discover that, with all your veneered anticipation of
the moment, you are not prepared. Your nerves jump
and your heart starts pounding. It isn’t fear, it’s
just a matter of facing reality.
It seemed to me I had been lying on the leather-
covered settee but a few minutes when I heard the
bell in the crow’s-nest clanging vigorously. As I
dashed for the bridge, I glanced at the wheelhouse
clock above the ashen-faced wheelman. Two minutes
till three! Mr. Cosgrave was on the bridge wing,
staring off to starboard through binoculars.
“Periscope about three points off the sta’board
bow, sir!” he said tersely. “Manoeuvring for position.”
He turned and shouted at the wheelman. “Port helm,
hard, and steady on three points!” He jammed the
engine-room telegraph to half speed. My right hand
went to the whistle cord, my left to the binocular
rack. I picked up the periscope easily, lost it in a
smother of foam, saw it come through again, higher
than before. I yanked down on the cord, and from
behind me the hoarse bellow of the whistle sounded
almost prophetic in its distress. Feet were pounding
the decks, while fore and aft the gun crews were
manning their pieces.
“Get your eye on that periscope and keep our
bow on.” I instructed the wheelman. Overhead the
wireless was crackling, then I heard the boom and
felt the bridge vibrate as the after gun opened fire on
the submarine. Mr. Harlan, the third officer, stood at
my elbow. “Get the ship’s papers from my desk,
Mr. Harlan, and put the logbook in the envelope
with them.”
I felt the deck tremble violently as both our deck
guns barked at the same instant. Through the glasses
I saw the shells fall at least 50 yards from their mark.
It isn’t easy to estimate the distance of a periscope in
a welter of white caps. The wheelman lost sight of
the U-boat and our ship slipped into the trough of
the sea, wallowing drunkenly for the better part of a
minute. We crested a wave, bringing the U-boat in
plain view certainly little more than a half-mile off
and with a direct midship bearing on the Neviston.
“Hard port that helm!” I snapped at the wheel-
man. “Mr. Cosgrove! Signal boat stations! There
it comes! Mr. Harlan, engines full astern!”
The sea was running too high for us to get com-
pletely out of the torpedo’s path. I looked aft at our
wake. The ship was responding very slowly to the
helm. Mr. Veneen, the first officer, was supervising
clearing away the boats. He raised his hands just as
the torpedo struck. All of us on the bridge held on
to the rail. Thank God, the torpedo struck abaft the
engine-room, the death trap of every steamship. The
crash was terrific. My arms were nearly wrenched
away. The ship heaved mightily, as if bowing amid-
ship, and we could hear the rending of steel plates and
beams. A huge geyser of sea-water rose above our
heads, reaching almost to the top of the masts. It
fell upon us, a soaking deadweight.
A vicious hissing of steam caused me to look
down. We had blown a cylinder-head. Mr. Veneen was
nowhere in sight. The concussion, catching him with
his hands raised, had catapulted him from the boat-
deck to the after-well deck. The ship was heeling
heavily to starboard. I signalled “Abandon ship,”
and watched the gun crews dash for their boats.
The black gang and engineers streamed out of the
fireroom door.
“The submarine is standing by to see if we need
another torpedo, sir,” Mr. Cosgrove stated calmly.
“Pipe Sparks to his boat,” I commanded. There
would be no death plunge with the Neviston. She
was going to roll over and settle slowly. “To your
boat, Mr. Harlan!”
The wind was bitter cold. Mr. Cosgrove was
watching the boats fill. “They’ve carried Mr. Veneen
to his boat, captain. All present,
“Lash the wheel, quartermaster, and go to your
boat. You next, Mr. Cosgrove.”
A high wave caught the Neviston on her port
bow and heeled her back on her stern. I heard water
cascading into the hold and knew that when it reached
the boilers there would be another explosion. The
boats were being lowered from the davits when I
reached into the chartroom for the ship’s papers and
logbook in their waterproof envelope. A sudden
impulse seized me,
I returned to the bridge and twisted the whistle
cord over a cleat on the awning frame. Under reduced
steam pressure, the whistle sounded like a challenge.
I went to my boat and we cleared away. Our four
lifeboats, spread out fanwise about a quarter-mile
apart, bobbed like corks. We watched the thinning
cloud of steam from the whistle until there came a
dull roar from the bowels of the stricken Neviston.
Her boilers had exploded. Slowly she began the death
roll and, like a tired animal, capsized, her red-leaded
keel glowing for a few seconds against the darkened
water. Then she disappeared.
I saw a grizzled, grey-haired Gloucester seaman
wipe his eyes with the sleeve of his coat as he stayed
his oar momentarily, and I knew how he felt. This
was the third time he and I together had seen a ship
go down. I swallowed hard and lit my pipe.
State of Germany’s Morale.
[Though expatriates by compulsion are not always the
most trustworthy authorities, this (condensed) American
“Mercury” article by Otto Strasser, one of the founders
of the Nazi party and now bitterly anti-Hitler, has its
points of interest.]
From letters I have received since the beginning
of the year from inside the Nazi Reich I feel justi-
fied in forming a fairly sharp impression of the present
mood of the German people—that Germany’s morale
is cracking between the upper stone of hope and the
nether stone of fear.
“We are sick and tired of these victory celebra-
tions and parades,” one letter complains. “Hitler asks
—New York “Herald Tribune.”
WHERE SHOOTING NEEDS NO APOLOGY.
for greater and yet greater sacrifices, but still he
doesn’t get England down. People were not enthu-
siastic when Athens were taken. There are plenty of
women and children wearing black, despite all threats
from the [Nazi] party.” Another says: “I am sitting
here near Hamburg railway station and look peace-
fully down the Alster River.” Translated, it means
that at least six blocks of houses must have been
bombed away for the river to be visible from the rail-
way station. The dread of bombing is an ever-
present strain.
The common element in all the letters is the firm
conviction of ordinary Germans that the war will be
finished this year. The vast majority of them count
confidently on a victorious finish. Repeatedly, in
many variations, there is the sentence: “Next autumn”
(several even say summer) “our soldiers will be back
home and our sufferings will be over.” The attack
on Russia dealt this hope a staggering blow, and
Hitler sought to restore the equilibrium by promising
to be in Moscow in a fortnight, to bring Russia to
its knees in a month.
The confidence in victory has something convul-
sive in it. There is about it a desperation that seems
an aspect of bottomless fatigue. The German people
are like a man on a long march with a heavy load,
suffering every kind of privation, who is sustained only
by the belief that he is near his destination. They
are worn out psychologically, tired of trying to be as
iron-willed as the Fiihrer demands.
The truth of this is implicit in the tactics of the
Nazi home propaganda. It was Hitler, in his New
Year’s proclamation, who gave the people of the Reich
a binding promise that the war will be finished in
1941 “with the greatest victory of all times.” Goebbels
has stressed this short-term perseverance at every
opportunity. The Nazi leaders know quite well that
only this hope enables the German people to keep plod-
ding along the agonising road. We must never forget
that for the Germans this via Dolorosa began not
on September 1, 1939, but on January 30, 1933.
It might seem contradictory that the deep fatigue
is coupled with belief in victory, but the contradiction
is entirely natural. Precisely because the German
people are so deadly tired they cling desperately to
their Government’s promise of a victorious conclusion,
just as a patient clings to the doctor’s assurance that
he will soon recover. The convulsive hope of early
victory seems to attest a lack of moral reserves in
Germany. Th§ contrast with the patient, dogged
determination of the English people is truly startling.
That is why Hitler is compelled to give abnormally
low figures of losses and to prevent open signs of
mourning for the dead.. The German population
cannot and would not stand for the truth.
The flight of Rudolf Hess, whom I knew inti-
mately in the years when we worked together, seemed
to me a sensational confirmation of the news that has
reached me from Germany for many months. It
confirmed that German morale is strained to the limit
and kept from breaking only by the hope of victory
this year. And it confirmed that a bitter inner struggle
for control is now under way and gaining momentum
inside Germany. It is a fight to the death.
I do not for a minute believe that Hitler and Hess
quarrelled. The personal loyalty and friendship
between these two men is beyond doubt. Only
Heinrich Himmler has held for Hitler a personal de-
votion comparable with that displayed by Hess. I
do not pretend to have an answer to the riddle of that
flight. But I am convinced that Hess had read the
handwriting on the wall; the coming collapse of
Nazism, the purging of Hitler and his associates, the
seizure of power by the Prussian military clique, with
Goring displacing Hitler as the popular leader. He
fled Germany not only to save his own skin, but in a
romantic and desperate attempt to head off the catas-
trophe. if possible, by wresting a compromise from
Britain.
The army chiefs have abandoned hope of final
victory. They realise that the conquests by Hitler’s
legions are tenuously held; that land victories are
useless without victory over British sea control; that,
with the marshalling of the full armed might of the
British nations and the industrial might of the United
States, Germany is doomed to defeat.
Increasingly, the stirring of America fills the sub-
conscious mind of the Germans with fears and the
conscious minds of the Prussian generals with gloomy
forebodings. With all the means at its disposal, the
propaganda leaders try to suppress these fears: by not
speaking of America at all when possible, or by be-
littling its role. But Goebbels cannot suppress the
memory of the last war, when America was similarly
belittled. Therefore he dares not take the old 1917
line of argument. He no longer tries to minimise the
strength of America, but rather insists that such
strength will be used too late to save England—in
effect, the same argument employed so repetitiously
at the other end by American non-interventionists.
With the start of the Russian campaign, Goebbels’s
propaganda has included the statement that America
cannot possibly give timely aid to Russia.
Thus the propaganda in relation to America is
simply an extension of the larger theme that the end
of the war is near. It is a propaganda destined in
the nature of the case to boomerang. A will-to-victory,
artificially supported by false hope, must collapse
suddenly when the falsity of the hope becomes
apparent. It was recognition of this real danger which
led Hitler, in his Reichstag speech of April 4, to move
the date of victory a little farther away. Yet he was
obliged to declare 1941 as decisive.
It may surprise some people that I place so much
stress on the morale factor. But those who really
know German conditions will agree with me that the
outcome of this war will be determined finally on the
battleground of morale. During the whole course of
the war, in hundreds of intimate letters, I have had
no indication that difficulties with food or raw
materials would lead to the collapse of the Nazi
regime. On the contrary, Germany is in a better
position economically than in the previous war, because
of long and effective planning and. preparation.
No, the weakest link in the German chain is
neither economic nor military. It is morale. A cause
of moral debility which must not be overlooked is
the bad conscience of the German people. At bottom
the Germans have an overpowering desire to be liked
by the world, to be “understood” and accepted. They
realise that they have done a grave wrong to the
Czechs, the Poles, the Norwegians. The Germans
stood united with Hitler in condemning the Versailles
Treaty, and even in “liberating” Germans under non-
German rule, but they shy away psychologically from
the later policies of subjugating non-German peoples.
One consequence of this bad conscience is a far
greater sensitivity of the German people to air bomb-
ing, as compared with other populations. There is
scarcely an uncensored letter from Germany which
does not speak with real horror of British bombings
and of the terror caused by each new alarm. I ven-
ture to say that the Germans —not because they are
less brave, but because their conscience is not clear—
could not take half the blows that the English have
taken so magnificently.
Thus the German people are wavering between
hope and fear, Hope for an early victory this year.
Fear of the failure of an invasion attempt, fear of
entry of the United States into the war, fear of British
air reprisals. I regard this autumn as the critical
moment on the battleground of German morale. ' If,


BRITISH NAVY’S TRIBUTE
“Submarines using your batteries
averaged 10,000 miles per month, and
there is no recorded instance of your
batteries failing."
This striking tribute was received from
the British Admiralty at the conclusion
of the World War, 1918. Needless to
say, Exide Batteries are again playing
their part in the present war. You,
too, can depend on Exide.
£xli)e BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE
STOPPED
: ommr
*5» -'I
by then, the British will have recognised the crucial
importance of that battle, and will have given full
attention to its possibilities, a revolution in Germany
is a real likelihood. And revolution, more than any
other single factor, can bring full victory to the
democracies.
Russian War Prospects.
{Condensed extract from an “Atlantic Monthly” article
by William Henry Chamberlin.)
There are three broad perspectives for the out-
come of the war in Russia. By far the least likely of
these, except perhaps to Bernard Shaw and to that
cleric beloved of Communists the Dean of Canter-
bury, is a Soviet military victory. Such a victory
would be little short of a miracle. It would run
counter to every ascertainable fact about the com-
parative military and industrial strength of the com-
batants. It would also transform immediately and
sensationally the whole atmosphere of international
politics.
More probable, although far from certain, is the
perspective of a complete victory for Hitler. Sup-
pose that every doubt about the course of this
German-Soviet war resolves itself in Germany’s favor.
Suppose that the better-trained and better-equipped
units of the Red Army are smashed to pieces. Sup-
pose that the Russians, Ukrainians and other peoples
of the Soviet Union are too apathetic, too depressed
by Stalin’s own tyranny, to offer much effective resist-
ance in the form of guerrilla warfare and sabotage.
Hitler would then have made a very profitable
political and military investment. He would possess,
along with the man-power and industrial plant of
Western and Central Europe, new and rich reserves
of many of the most essential foodstuffs and raw
materials, so situated as to be almost inaccessible to
bombing attack. With the German legions established
in the Caucasus, Hitler would possess a new base
from which to launch military and propaganda offen-
sives against the British position in the Near and
Middle East. Should his conquest extend to Soviet
Central Asia, he could threaten India.
The German dictator would be in an advan-
tageous position either to offer peace, perhaps on the
basis of an evacuation of Western Europe in return
for a free hand in the East, or to prosecute the war
against Great Britain in the Isles, in Africa and in
Asia more relentlessly than ever. Should his sway
extend, through the medium of puppet Governments,
all the way across Siberia, he would be in a position
to intervene in the affairs of Japan and China. Most
definitely he would have escaped from the prison of
his European conquests, in which the British blockade
has sought to contain him.
It would be a tremendous task for Great Britain
and the United States together to build up enough
a nd and air power to break this huge Eurasian empire,
this ‘ Union Now” of the totalitarian mastodons under
the hegemony of the stronger. At the same time, sea
power would preserve the American continent and
the outlying parts of the British Empire from any
serious danger of attack.
There is a third possible outcome of the war,
less improbable than the first, less spectacularly de-
cisive than the second. This would be a protracted
struggle, following the general outline of the Sino-
Japanese War. Germany, like Japan in the Far East,
would win the big battles, occupy many large towns
and considerable stretches of territory. But some
kind of front would continue to exist, perhaps in the
Ural Mountains or even farther to the east. A Soviet
Government, or a new national Russian Government,
would remain in being. The countryside would be
laid waste before the armies of occupation. Oil wells
and industrial plants would be damaged or destroyed.
Guerrilla war would be waged in the occupied regions.
Should such a situation arise and be maintained
indefinitely, Hitler’s victory would not be worth its
price. His empire would begin to bleed to death,
like Napoleon’s in Russia and in Spain. It is ques-
tionable whether England possesses the trained man-
power and equipment to initiate a two-front war by
invading the Continent in 1941. By 1942, however,
if a Russian army should still be in the field, this
nightmare of German strategists might become a
reality.
Whatever may be the outcome, the German-
Soviet war certainly marks an important turn of the
wheel of history. It opens up probabilities of vast
new changes, in Asia as in Europe. For Japan will not
remain aloof and disinterested in the event of a Soviet
collapse: the Japanese move into Southern Indo-
China, followed by American economic reprisals, was
certainly not unaffected by the Soviet preoccupation
in Europe.
Hitler’s blow at Russia has extended the scope of
the war in actuality and in prospect. It has opened
up perspectives that are new and unpredictable. But
it has already probably achieved at least one negative
result. It seems to have ruled out the possibility of
an all-round collapse in an atmosphere of universal
hunger, misery and despair, as the climax of a pro-
longed military deadlock and a futile competition in
destruction from the air. Then the Soviet dictator,
had he been able to remain aloof from the conflict and
to keep his forces intact, could have stepped into the
vacuum as the arbiter of Europe’s destiny. He would
have won the war by staying out of it.
We still cannot know with certainty what out-
bursts of revolutionary despair may occur in a Europe
that has not yet drunk its cup of bitter torment to the
dregs. But as from June 22, 1941, Stalinite Com-
munism has been pretty definitely eliminated as
Europe’s “wave of the future.” For the disintegrating
effect of large-scale war will now be felt in the Soviet
regime itself.
Importance of Iran.
(Condensed from New York “Journal of Commerce.")
The invasion of Iran by British and Soviet forces
was a strategic move of first-rate importance because
of the bearing it has upon the oil resources of the
Axis Powers. The German march into Russia is open-
ing the road to virtually unlimited supples of petro-
leum, unless the German armies can be checked
before they reach the Caucasus. Occupation of Iran
by the Anglo-Russian forces is designed to prevent
the German armies from reaching the vast Caucasian
and Iranian oil deposits.
Russia is the second-largest oil-producing country
in the world, her output aggregating 249,000,000
barrels last year, or almost four times that of all the
territory occupied by Germany, including the latter’s
synthetic plants. The bulk of her production is derived,
however, from a relatively small area south and north
—New York “World Telegram.”
WITH A WISH.
of the towering Caucasian mountain range which lies
directly north of Persia. Iran itself is fourth among
oil-producing countries, turning out 79,000,000 barrels
last year, or more than that of all German-occupied
territory.
Control of Iran is thus of key importance, not
so much because of her own rich oil resources but
because of the far richer deposits that lie just across
her northern border, A railway line runs across Iran
from the Persian Gulf to the Caspian, over which
British troops and supplies could be transported readily
for the establishment of a strong defensive line in
south-eastern Russia to protect the Caucasian oilfields.
The high mountain ranges of the Caucasus should
make this area relatively easy to defend, if the Ger-
man armies succeed in sweeping across the Ukraine.
Iran also furnishes an avenue through which war
materials and supplies can be shipped from the British
Empire and the U.S.A. without using the very round-
about and circuitous routes via Vladivostok or Mur-
mansk, both of which are threatened by enemy action.
British influence in Iran had been declining in
recent years. In 1915 the Anglo-Persian Oil Cos., con-
trolled by the British Government, obtained exclusive
rights to exploit oil deposits throughout the country.
This concession had been restricted latterly, while
German influence within the country had grown.
A successful defence of the Caucasus and Iran
will mean that Germany' will not be able to add
materially to her oil resources by her invasion of
Russia. The loss of these oil areas, on the other
hand, would vastly strengthen the German war
machine and seriously cripple both Russian resistance
and the British war effort in the Middle East.
Ireland and Egypt: U.S. View.
[These speculations on possible future threat to
Ireland and Egypt are condensed from New York “Wall
Street Journal,” and are given here only as views pre-
vailing in Washington, as reported by the “JournalV’
correspondent there.]
Soon or late, this war, which in June unexpectedly
swung to the east and since has been concentrated in
the great German-Russian struggle, will swing back
again. When it does, two relatively small nations will
assume an importance not heretofore attributed to
them.
Upon them —or rather upon the fight over them
—easily may hinge the final result of the war. One
of these nations is Ireland, the other is Egypt. The
first is officially neutral ; the second is the “passive
ally” of the British, but not actively in the war —nor
apt to be. Among the military strategists in Washing-
ton there is a conviction that Hitler plans, following
the Russian campaign, to seize Ireland and that if he
succeeds the British will be in dire straits. Of that
there is hardly any doubt, and concern exists over
the Irish situation.
The position in Egypt may'become equally criti-
cal. If the British were driven out of that country
their status would be pretty desperate. The more
vital of their socalled lifelines would be severed,
and without Mediterranean naval and Egyptian air
bases they would be unable to protect their posses-
sions, operate their fleet or save their soldiers. They
would be driven back into their own island, there to
make the last stand.
A grasp of these facts makes the role of Egypt
appear much more important than has been generally
appreciated. It is encouraging to report that, from
the British standpoint, conditions there are better
today than they have been at any time since the war
began. In the first place, it is contended, Egypt is
rendering a greater service as a passive ally than she
could as an active one. She is living fully up to her
treaty obligations toward the British. Considering the
sentiment of her people, any course other than the
one she has adopted would have been unwise and
the results bad. As things are, the Egyptian army
relieves the British of a heavy burden in Egypt by
taking on itself the garrisoning and defence of the
military zones of the country, without inviting Italian
and German bombing of the interior by active parti-
cipation.
In the second place. Hitler’s effort to capitalise his
position as the world’s greatest Jew baiter by stirring
up Islamic opposition against England has failed.
Summing up the situation, those who know it
best say that, while Egypt is not actually in the battle
line, she is more effective than if she were. There is
no doubt of the strong anti-Nazi feeling of the people
—and none that when the big test comes, as it surely
will, they will stand steady. Though there is a racial
gulf between the Egyptian and the Englishman and
the Irishman, many posted persons have more con-
fidence in the Egyptian conviction that a British vic-
tory is linked with their own interests than they have
in any Irish feeling on that subject—of which there
has been no really reassuring evidence up to now.
Plain Talk to America.
(Condensed from a New York “Post" article by Dorothy
Thompson.)
The lack of candor, forthrightness and factual
education concerning the present world situation and
America’s stake in it is responsible for a growing
apathy in the United States which can be disastrous.
We speak of “all aid to Britain,” and an “arsenal
and granary for democracy,” thereby putting ourselves
in the position of good-natured neighbors handing
out gifts to members of the same church. Actually,
Britain is our own first line of defence and is holding
the fort while we get ready. The idea that she will
be able to win this war for herself, for us and for all
the rest of the would-be independent European
peoples while we act merely as a factory and granary
is a piece of wishful thinking quite unsupported by a
study of realities.
Either we intend that Germany shall not accom-
plish her objectives, in which case we should make
complete common cause with all her available enemies,
or we do not. A policy of being neither in nor out
can only involve us in a situation where we will lose
however the war turns out. For, if Britain should
win the war with us as a sort of colonial source of
supply, she could pay us back for our benevolence,
and even the Poles, who have spilled the blood of
thousands of their race, will have more rights in any
settlement than we, who have merely tried to buy our
way in with materials and platitudes.
Our position is not neutral, nor could it be
neutral. But the American people as a whole still do
not clearly understand why it could not be neutral.
The clear-cut question has to be put: Have we a life
and death interest in the outcome of this war? Were
the answer to have been no, we should have held


completely aloof. If the answer is yes, then we should
not make our national destiny depend upon the British
or the Russians, but upon ourselves, in such alliances
as would give us complete equality and a leading
position.
Actually, and viewed with the coldest reality, our
most vital interests are deeply involved. The Gov-
ernment, the army and the navy all know this. But
Congress certainly does not know it, and the instru-
ments of education are unwilling to use forthright
words, because they fear the congress of the people.
But the people have been kidded along, until we have
reached a political situation where everyone fears to
take real leadership.
Apparently the President does not believe that the
people are capable of enduring the full truth. Some-
how, by hook or by crook, things must be broken to
them gently, as though the American people were not
grown up and must be coddled. The public is treated
like a patient who must be spared shock, and this
treatment actually induces a pathological state of
mind, and a deep distrust.
Politicians, whether in high places or low, do
not like to bear the onus of breaking bad news. In
every single democracy they have kept the people from
realising their full situation until the public morale
has disintegrated. Nation after nation has perished of
the concept “measures short of” ; has perished
in the hope of a miracle, or in ignorance of reality.
The Aid to Russia cry blinds us to our real con-
dition, suggesting instead a sort of charitable idealism
to be abandoned if it begins to hurt. The truth is
that we need every ally that can be mustered on the
globe—the strategical position of the British Isles,
the man-power of Russia and China, the resources
of the Dutch colonies, the ships of the British and
allied navies. We need them. We need them exactly
as much as they need us.
The land-power of Germany, which can radiate in
all directions from a central base, assisted by aviation,
which is always a more effective instrument for land-
power than for sea-power, must be offset by com-
bined sea-power and by resistance to the very death
in the vital area of the Middle East, where the battle
still hangs in the balance.
For if the Battle of the Eastern Hemisphere,
which is the battle of the world, is lost in the Ukraine,
the Black Sea area, the Eastern and Western Mediter-
ranean, just where can it be won?
Just how can a world-continent, containing seven-
eighths of the world’s population and two-thirds of
its land area, be blockaded?
And just how long would it take Germany and
her satellites to outbuild Britain and America together
in sea-power?
In terms of cold reality this is what the struggle
is about, and it is terrifically serious.
France, Today and Tomorrow.
(Condensed from an article by the editor of London
“Nineteenth Century.”)
We disagree entirely with the proposals Com-
mander King-Hall made on June 5. “What steps,
he asked, “were we taking to encourage them [the
French] to revolt, to refuse to pay taxes, to fight the
traitors at Vichy?... .We needed to start a revolution
in France and force Darlan to fly to his spiritual home
in Germany.” To exhort the French, from a safe
distance, to incur the fearful reprisals —the massacres,
the ruin and the deprivations —which would be the
immediate consequence of revolt in any form is as
Pharisaical as it is silly. It is more than this, it is
highly prejudicial to that deeper understanding between
the French and the English, that sense of a common
destiny in dark days and darker still to come, of
community in the presence of the ruthless foe, and
of responsibility for the future of mankind.
The French are enduring afflictions that are worse
than air-raids with unimaginable fortitude, and just
as Londoners need not be told how to behave when
they are bombed, so the French need not be told how
to behave in their anguish, ruin and humiliation. When
the time comes, the spirit of resistance which burns
with a white heat in the heart of the French people
will burst with a mighty conflagration—but not at the
request of the amateurs who, alas, are allowed to talk
in the French programmes of the 8.8. C.
There can be no lasting peace without a strong
and independent France, with an overseas Empire,
disposing of armed forces capable of full collaboration
in the defence of the European order. Conferring
unqualified independence on Syria might weaken her
gravely as a future Mediterranean Power (besides
creating a political problem that may turn out to be
as intractable as the problem of Palestine). The peace
of Europe cannot be made to endure save by reducing
the exorbitant power of Germany, by perpetuating
the armed ascendancy of England, and by restoring
France to greatness, so that she may collaborate in
the exercise of that ascendancy.
That the French nation is intensely anti-German
at heart is certain. It is certain, also, that the vast
majority of the French want England to win. There
is in many Frenchmen a “crise de conscience" because
France failed inwardly as well as outwardly beneath
the German onset, because England fought on single-
handed, because the Poles fought on even when their
country had been overrun. But the French, as a
nation, have recovered their inner poise. They are,
in disaster, showing qualities of mind and character
that absolutely refute the belief that they are de-
generate, that the rot, which certainly existed in
France, had gone so deep that it could not be ex-
tirpated. It has been extirpated now, by one of the
most frightful operations ever performed.
Not victory but defeat is the test of national mind
and character. Not until the war is won shall we see
where the rot has gone deepest. The Germans have
not been put to the test as yet —it remains to be seen
whether they will, in defeat, show the immense dignity
and patience, the courage, the ultimate pride, and
the great Christian virtues which the common people
of France are showing now. We shall see then where
abasement of mind and of character have gone deepest
in Europe. Meanwhile it is good to proclaim the
prodigious fact that the heart of the French nation
is sound.
There is abundant evidence. The following was
written by a Frenchwoman who left France in the
spring of this year:
Do not judge too harshly what is happening in
France today. Those who were not there during the
catastrophe can say nothing. I believe that those m
charge are, with certain exceptions, doing the impossible
to prolong our neutrality. Despite all rumors, everyone
is pro-English in both zones. But the press is muzzled
and the Boches have unimaginable means of exercising
pressure on the Government. Moreover, De Gaulle
has often been very tactless in his propaganda, in keep-
ing many undesirable people round him, and insulting
Petain, who has accomplished the miracle of having
all the country behind him.
There are, in France, sources of an immense
spiritual strength that will assert itself when the time
comes. Perhaps it is in France, and through France,
that the prodigious German tragedy will find its
denouement. At the same time the French are highly
critical of England—also of America. Democratic
institutions, such as existed in France until the collapse,
can never return. Whatever form of government the
French will accept, it will not be modelled on that
of England or of the United States. No one can tell
what the political order of Europe will be. It will
certainly be heterogeneous, and nothing could be more
superficial than the unqualified assumption that
democracy will, indeed must, prevail throughout
Europe as the result of an Allied victory. Even the
—New York “Herald Tribune.”
AMERICAN V’s FOR VICTORY.
English political order will undergo profound changes,
and there is no telling what it will resemble when
the war is over.
For the first time in our generation the French
are seriously considering the monarchy as a point of
crystallisation for the various political and psycho-
logical altitudes that are, as it were, afloat and but
half-formed in the French national consciousness. It
may even be that royalism will have a big part to
play in countries other than France after the war,
perhaps even in Germany. The ascendancy of Marshal
Petain is very significant in this respect. Although,
as head of the State, his authority covers the actions
of the Government at Vichy, he is revered, while that
Government is despised—it exists only by virtue of
German patronage and would be swept out of exist-
ence immediately if that patronage were to be with-
drawn. But the Marshal would remain. He has
become, as it were, the symbol of France defeated
and humiliated —but also of France undivided and
eternal. Something of the reverence accorded to
royalty is accorded to him. That he is very old and
very tired does not diminish his great moral authority.
But it would be a dangerous illusion to imagine
that when the fallen might and majesty of France
have been restored, her power will simply be at the
disposal of England and that the alliance can be re-
established in its old form. France is no longer an
ally. To assume that the French nation, as distinct
from Marshal Petain and the Government at Vichy,
is an ally, or at least a future ally, and to exhort that
nation to repudiate that Government and to resist the
Germans, is to make a most harmful political and
psychological mistake. France is wounded and broken,
she is in a state of physical prostration and intense
spiritual anguish. She must go through a period of
recovery and of profound inner change, without any
hope of speedy relief from servitude, ever intensified
humiliation, and brutishly grinding oppression. She
cannot resist. They forget everything who imagine
she can — they forget above all the prisoners, the
French prisoners, numbering close on 2,000,000, who
are hostages in the hands of the Germans. There is
no outrage or horror that may not come upon these
men if the French make the slightest effort to resist
the implacable German will.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from •various acknowledged sources .)
The delivery of war ’planes to the British in Egypt
will be vastly simplified and accelerated by the new
service to be conducted by the Pan-American Air-
ways System under agreement with the United States
Government. Viewed as a complementary operation
to the one set up in the United States to fly newly-
built ’planes from the factories to shipping points,
the Pan-American service will enable the British in the
Levant to obtain the ’planes well within a week after
their completion. Preparations are going forward to
handle as many as 500 ’planes for delivery along the
Pan-American route within the near future. — New
York “Journal of Commerce”
* * * * *
The Fight for Freedom Committee has reported
that 52 out of 55 Labor editors have voted their dis-
agreement with the foreign policy of the isolationist
Republican leaders, headed by Hoover. A great many
persons who argue that this war is no good for Labor,
and who try to picture it a* a struggle between rival
imperiums, fail to do the simple and obvious thing:
to see what Labor itself has to say about it, or to
note which side permits Labor to say anything at all
and which does not. — New York “Post”
*****
The Roosevelt-Churchill “Declaration of the
Atlantic” may be regarded in part as an Anglo-
American peace feeler, the more clearly so because
of President Roosevelt’s subsequent denial that the
historic meeting had brought the United States any
closer to active participation in the war. The primary
reason for viewing the declaration in this light is the
anticipation that Hitler will open another, and tempt-
ing, peace offensive as soon as Germany has estab-
lished unmistakable military dominance oyer the
Soviet Union. German control of a substantial part
of Russia’s vast resources, plus widespread reluctance
to confront a third winter of hostilities, would give
much influence to any seductive overtures emanating
from Berlin. The Churchill-Roosevelt statement of
war aims was admirably calculated to offset this poten-
tial Nazi advantage and to place German diplomacy
in an inferior negotiating position in advance. — Felix
Morley, president of Haverford College (U.S.A.), in
the “Wall Street Journal.”
*****
Assistant Secretary of State A, A. Berle, Jun.,.
told the Institute of Human Relations that, although
aid to Russia is right now that Russia fights our
common enemy, the aid is to the country, not the
system. “I am not sure that the American Communists
are of any help to Russia now,” he said. “The State
Department has evidence that German espionage was
turned over to them. Some were so entangled with
the Nazis that they did not know whether their orders
were coming from Russian or German sources. Now
the burden of proof is on them to show that they
are not still part of a Fifth Column. Certainly they
are of no use to Russia and no use to us. They are
a nuisance, not a menace. Russians have the inalien-
able right to have Communism in Russia, but not to
inflict it on other countries. And we have no reason
to impose democracy on other nations. Truth im-
poses itself. Our democracy is a slow-moving revolu-
tion in itself. We seek to make the world safe, not
for democracy, but for anybody.” — New York “Post.”
*****
This is a war that moves from one point of the
compass to the other like a black, untethered wind. All
the belligerent and non-belligerent Powers have tried
to limit it, and their efforts have been defeated by
the very nature of the struggle. Hitler sought desper-
ately to contain it within set bounds, but every dam
he erected burst in process of construction and added
to the force of the flood that drove him on and on.
The British tried to hold it to the seas ; the Atlantic
and the Mediterranean are their chosen battlefields.
Russia strove to build walls against it in the east and
in the west. By pacts with Berlin and Moscow Japan
attempted to fend off attacks in two directions while
she advanced in another. Before and since the fight-
ing started the United States has acted time and again
to localise the conflict. But the storm sweeps on with
a certain inevitability. No Power has yet proved
strong enough to wage this battle on its own terms
either of time or place. The first World War had fixed
boundaries; this war jumps frontiers and oceans, not
simply because it is fought in the sky or with mechan-
ised forces but because it is more universal. It liter-
ally shakes the central pillars and the farthest outposts
of the whole world. — New York “Times.”
*****
Cablegram from Colonel Moore-Brabazon, British
Minister of Aircraft Production, quoted in a letter by
H. E. Lawrence, of the American Curtiss-Wright Cor-
poration: “Air Marshal Tedder has told me of the
brilliant performance American aircraft are giving in
the Mid-East. As Air Officer commanding Middle
East with experience of what your Tomahawk fighters
can do I send you the thanks of our fighter pilots for
these grand machines. My pilots tell me again and
again how they relish the performance, the manoeuvra-
bility and the range of the Tomahawk, and their suc-
cesses against enemy fighters and bombers supply the
proof. We can use all you send us.” — New York
“Post.”
*****
John Habinyak, 26, was drafted into the army from
New York City on June 23. On July 4he committed
various acts of insubordination for which he has just
been court-martialled. The report from the Court
shows that what he did was to spit on the floor in
the mess hall and “wilfully” refuse to clean up, that
he “wilfully” refused to clean his mess kit, and so
on. He was convicted on five counts and the sentence
—hold your hats—is as follows: to be dishonorably
discharged and to serve for 10 years and nine months
in prison at hard labor. — New
Something like two-thirds of all New Yorkers,
when asked, say that Hitler means to conquer the
United States if he can. Public opinion polls show
that Americans are sceptical about Russia’s chances
of holding out. Most of us think that with Russia
licked Britain would be lucky to survive. And that if
Britain goes down we have a miserable chance of
remaining a democratic island in a Fascist world.
These are the things most of us think, but obviously
they’re not the things we feel. For if they were New
York couldn’t possibly be going so placidly about its
business today.— New York “Post.”


Manual Testino of Oafs
fov OATMEAL STOUT
mmi
2?
- 7
8
VUo
4*
h
n
22
/ -
B
/
■W
rWIIVV
flrtT
*\"M/
r?
SsW
J^SSh
«4
i
&
llWiij^
U'*
3SW;2
iIW
»
%.
s
luu
m
w
1 1 1 V
AAJj
Hfe
w\M
'Mlt
*u
Ui
»«u,
Ww
ywn
'Hmu
A
5"
m
<y/
JSek
SfflS
mi>
W
/>
e*
?:
I
#Mi>
THE
\
6»fvyso,
IQOHgVS sT
The wholesome glory of the sun-
ripened Oats is concentrated into
each health-bringing glass of
OATMEAL STOUT.
TOOHEYS
OATMEAL
STOUT
Here’s To’ee
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents:
VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne
QUEENSLAND—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND: Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co, Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


iOOttd
9
SAI
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
TT‘. ;
W&Mmw*
£sMv&X»»oo»wtw»>>?
>%4<;
■' $
JE*
#s £
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S” WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I’M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Drought and Hand Feeding.
“Bungaree”; Drought feeding implies
the provision of a complete ration. There
is an intermediate stage beforehand when
sheep can keep in condition on the
gradually-disappearing pasture provided
a suitable supplement be fed. Dry grass
is a filler, and, if a protein-high concen-
trate supplements it, sheep will do well.
A big advantage of concentrates like
meat- and bloodmeal is the saving in
freight and handling. Two ounces a day
of either, plus roughage, is equal to or
better than a 4oz. ration of mixed arti-
ficial feed.
Use of salt should not be overdone. It
is useful as an appetiser when feed is dry
or unpalatable, but sheep acquire a habit
for it and it should be made available
only when pastures dry off. Used to
accustom sheep to the taste of unpalat-
able concentrates it can be added when
they are overeating to deter them. Under
drought conditions sheep have been fed
a ration with a Very high proportion of
salt without apparent harm. There have
been warnings against salt poisoning, but
so far no reliable observer has quoted
definite cases or described the symptoms.
Nevertheless, in a drought feed where
the ration exceeds 4oz. per day, it is not
advisable to include more than 20 p.c.
salt.
If it can be got sorghum grain has a
feed value equal to that of maize and
wheat. It may be fed to sheep without
treatment or included in a mixed food,
but for horses or cattle it should be
crushed.
Sheep Troughs.
“R. Ney”; Spreading grain on the
ground for sheep is a wasteful, business.
Old cornsacks strung on wire between
short posts make good troughs, but in
view of the scarcity and cost of bags it’s
a good idea to add to their lasting quali-
ties by painting the inside of the trough
with a mixture of cement and water. Mix
the two to a thin cream and shove it on
with a whitewash brush as soon as the
troughs are up.
Worn-out guttering from a building
makes good troughing. It is lasting and
can be moved from paddock to paddock
with ease. Fit it together in sections of
from 18ft. to 24ft. in length, then nail
it to a back support of waste pine scant-
ling about Sin. by lin. Fateh up holes
in the guttering and then place your
trough against the bottoms of posts in
the fence, fixing it by a nail through the
trough into the post. A couple of plug-
holes along the trough can be left open
any time rain is likely.
Pasture Management.
“J. Isle”: Andy Moodie, agrostologist
to the N.S.W. Agricultural Department,
is convinced that an “alarming” transfer-
ence of fertility from one paddock to
another is going on in the dairy country
because of the existing system of pasture
management. On most farms a paddock
close handy is used for the night herd,
with the result that most of the drop-
pings are voided there. Moodie says it
is common to find night paddocks under
rank and unpalatable growth while on
outer areas where the herd grazes through
the day soil poverty is becoming increas-
ingly apparent.
One farmer experimented with a sys-
tem of grazing small, intensive subdivi-
sions for an hour or so and then remov-
ing the cows to a rest paddock. Im-
proved pastures were divided into acre
lots and each grazed in rotation by 40
cows. The cows got the best of the graz-
ing at a time when it was most valuable,
but it was clear that little dung was being
dropped on the grazed areas.
The estimated total amount of manure
dropped by 40 cows in grazing periods
totalling about eight hours over a period
of three days was about 4501 b. In three
days 40 cows would normally drop about
62401 b. of manure, so that only about a
fourteenth of the total amount was re-
turned to the area which produced the
most valuable grazing. The balance went
to inferior paddocks, whose fertility was
“Tol’ y' it Was a waste of time sweeping the stuff into the burrow .”
thus increased at the expense of the
better paddocks.
There is clear evidence that, unless the
short-grazing practice is counteracted by
using some of the best paddocks as night
or rest paddocks from time to time, the
disappearance of some of the best pas-
ture grasses is inevitable. In this way
paspalum, which can thrive on poorer
soil, gets a run in the paddock, choking
out such valuable species as Phalaris
tuberosa and perennial rye grass. Given
back a fair proportion of the fertility
taken out, these species would continue
to flourish.
A Word for Saccaline.
“Spreader”; If you want to get full
benefit from the saccaline crop don’t let
the seeds harden before it is chaffed. If
the seeds mature, they pass through the
cows undigested.
When the grain is at the milky stage
the cows make the most of it. The
stalk makes rich chaff and with the seed
is practically a balanced ration. As cow
feed it stands alone. One growth is
sufficient to pay for the labor of putting
it in. One of its advantages is that it
will stand such a long period after it has
flowered. And on good country second
and third ratoons are well worth while.
One of the best crops of saccaline ever
I got was from a night paddock for
milkers. I ploughed it in as it stood —
clods of manure thick all over it. Imme-
diately after rain the self-sown crop of
saccaline got a flying start.
Haricot Beans.
“Brecko”: Westralian farmers are try-
ing the haricot bean. Climate and soil
in the south-west and great southern
areas are suitable. It can be sown and
ripened within 120 days. The plant is
hardy and disease-resistant, and the beans
resist splitting during threshing.
Light, medium soils of ordinary fer-
tility worked up to a fine tilth will do.
Seed should be sown at the rate of 451 b.
to the acre in rows 22in. apart, with 6in.
spacing. There is special machinery for
harvesting, but smaller growers hand-pull
just before the pods are ready to shatter,
leave the beans to cure in the straw for
seven days, then stack and allow three to
five days for drying. After drying and
depodding the beans can be stored in
stacks.
Varieties for Westralia appear to be
Navy Pea, White Boston and White
Marrow, which measure up to canners’
demand for a high-grade bean, uniform
in size and color, that doesn’t toughen
or split in baking.
Lupins Are Useful.
“B. Y. Toller”; It’s a wonder more
attention isn’t paid to lupins in eastern
Australia. They make a great green
manure crop for orchards and other
places where such a crop is needed, and,
though sheep don’t like lupins except
when very young, some of the newer and
sweeter varieties offer possibilities for
cattle.
In Westralia lupins are grown on wheat
country as a rotation, allowed to mature
and the seed fed to sheep, or grown
straightout for seed as a stock-food con-
centrate. The popular variety is the blue
lupin. It maintains and increases fer-
tility on light country and improves stock-
carrying capacity. Sheep are kept off
until the pods have shattered and the
seed fallen; they soon learn to hunt for
the seed on the ground. Lupins may not
go well on the heavier wheat country
of the east, but where the soil is light
and sandy they should be a success. The
seed is high in protein and is a valuable
supplement to linseed meal.
No special implements are needed;
the seed will go through the wheat drill
and the header can be used for harvest-
ing, though uneven ripening and shatter-
ing make reaping and threshing a better
proposition. N.Z. blue and N.Z. white
are the best yielders, though the white
seed might need something more like a
maize dropper for sowing.
Lupins don’t need much rain and will
grow on acid, sandy soil, though they
don’t like lime. There has been a
prejudice against them because in Europe
stock got “lupinose” from an alkaloid in
the plant. German workers, however,
evolved a sweet type, alkaloid-free, and
some samples of the seed were obtained
from Poland just before the war.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mackay”; Cost and scarcity of arti-
ficial nitrogenous manures are making the
green manure crop important to sugar-
growers. Poona cowpeas are suitable,
and, where soils are short of phosphates,
a dressing of super, with the seed im-
proves growth. Green manure crops
sown during the rainy season are soil-
preservers and erosion-controllers. Phos-
phates, potash and other soil foods
absorbed by the legumes are returned to
circulation when the plants are ploughed
in, plus nitrogen gathered from the air.
“Pansy’s Valet”; To prevent sore teats
wash the udder and teats thoroughly with
warm water and soap when the cow first
comes in, then dry and apply olive oil.
If the teats are sore, treat with carbolised
vaseline after the washing and drying.
For bad cases wash with a solution of
one dram of sugar of lead to one pint
of rainwater, then apply benzoated zinc
oxide ointment. Neglected sores will
lead to chapping, most difficult to cure.
“Mullengah”; The dressed-weight of
porkers will be approximately two-thirds
of the liveweight; seven-tenths of the
liveweight will be the bacon-weight.
“Goulburn”; To make limewash
place large pieces of fresh lump lime in
a suitable container and cover them with
hot water. As the lime begins to boil
and break up keep it covered with about
half an inch of water. Before it starts to
boil fiercely, add about 11b. of common
fat or tallow to each 71b. of lump lime.
The fat makes a good binder, which pre-
vents the wash from rubbing off. When
the lime is thoroughly slaked, stir it well
and add sufficient water to make it a
little heavier than milk. Strain the wash
before applying it; remove all dirt, dust
and grease from the surface to be treated
and damp it slightly first.
“Huxave”: The bean fly, a small black
insect, deposits eggs in the leaves of the
plants as soon as they appear above
ground. In warm weather the eggs hatch
within two days, larvae then burrow down
the stalks into the stems. Plants turn
yellow, topple and die. Use a spray
mixture, 1 fi. oz. nicotine (40 p.c.) and


BRITSTAND
GRADER-DITCHERS
For every cla*p of Ditching and Grading.
Does everything tor which you previously
needed a Grader AND a Ditcher, and DOES
IT BETTER. Makes drains over 4' deep, and
banks over 4' high. Good for maintaining,
also station roads, shifting drift, etc. Over
10.000 Grader Ditchers in use in America.
Hundreds already sold in Australia. Your
money refunded if you agree to part with
it after 2-days' trial. Write to-day for free
illustrated leaflet
Procurable from . . .
E.S.C.A. Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland
British Standard Machy. Co. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
British Standard Machy. Co. Ltd., Melbourne.
Victoria
William Adams & Co. Ltd., Adelaide, S.A.
William Adams & Co. Ltd., Perth, W.A.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM
6AM
6KG
6GE
Perth ....
Northam. .
Kalgoorlie
Geraldton
500 watts
2000 watts
500 watts
500 watts
Xce., Perth
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s
Egelabra Merino Stud
H. E. KATER & SON,
Warren, N.S.W.
Established 62 years.
Four times winners of
Stonehaven Cup.
Grand Champion Ram and Ewe
Sydney Show, 1940.
Rams for Sale.
Tel., Warren 10.
.
BLUE M
RAME
LANES
KEROSENE STOVE
T'-
'Vo
yA°
NO
lights
SVo v
0OS
\\Ve
i •»
ONLV ONE FUEL
—Kerosene
NO PUMPING
NO
tXPENS
OOO
IVE
'S£L**'p&:
\eteW
Cof°P
Nq
Or/,
O/w
SlD □'
iUL
L°
e f>/.
WjO°
ABSOLUTELY SAFE and SILENT
SEE YOUR LOCAL STORE
I
v».••. 'a^
wsmM
r
IT IS SA F 6
T IS SIMPLE
' IS ECONOMICAL
Mws&
; /lT PROVIDES A RECORD
IT IS MORE CONVENIENT
IT IS A PROOF OF PAYMENT
/IT MAKES BOOKKEEPING EASY
• tpy
IT AFFIRMS YOUR CREDIT STANDING
Pjaen o cheque account to-day w[th thg'
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
570 C.
IT
PAYS YOU
TO PAY BY
CHEQUE
THE.
6y fl. oz. white oil emulsion in 4gal.
water. Spray when plants are three days
old, again three days later, then at inter-
vals of four days, varying applications
according to heaviness of attack. It
takes about 40gal. of spray to the acre.
“Jayem”; When cutting seed potatoes,
see that each set has a good eye, is
blocky and weighs about to 2oz.
There must be enough food in the seed
piece to maintain the sprout until it
develops leaves to feed itself. Cut the
seed no earlier than a day before plant-
ing.
“Murrawong”: Records kept by the
Graziers’ Co-operative Shearing Co. and
covering 133 N.S.W, sheds, situated
chiefly on the plains, show that last year
sheep shorn numbered 1,940,551, as
against 1,722,259 this year. The weight
of wool cut dropped from 16,686,4321 b.
to 15,341,6481 b. Thus reduction in sheep
numbers was 11.2 p.c., and in wool per
head 8.05 p.c., evidence that this year's
clip will be appreciably smaller. Except
in a few favored spots, the season was
not good. There were heavy rains from
January to March, but the autumn rains,
which are necessary for winter feed,
mostly failed. It is too early to forecast
the clip, but the reduction will probably
be increased. Average weight per bale
is appreciably less because of lighter
fleeces, and there is more tender wool.
Heavy summer rains caused abnormal
growth of burr, bound to be noticeable
in the wool returns.
“Mt. Boppy”: Tallarook is a late-
maturing, very leafy strain of sub. clover
which does not turn black or go to
powder when it dies down, but provides
good feed for months. It can be sown
in all districts with a good rainfall from
April to November. Sow 31b. to 61b. per
acre, either alone or with pasture mix-
tures or oats. It can be surface sown on
existing pastures during topdressing. Sow
immediately the seed is mixed with the
superphosphate, to prevent damage from
acids in the fertiliser.
“Pekoe, Too”: W. Poggendorf, a
N.S.W. plant-breeder, believes the N.S.W.
Dorrigo country would grow tea. Climate
and soil are both right and the area
generally compares well with the hilly
country in China and southern India.
There are tea plants growing as far south
as Melbourne for decorative purposes,
Poggendorf also believes that if the Dor-
rigo takes it up Australian genius will
soon invent a machine for picking.
Outback Occasions.
No.3.
RRICATICG.
The occasion of irrigating the lucerne
is one that seldom passes without inci-
dent. Usually the water officer asks
you to take the water just before noon
in the top block, which is never less than
a mile from the house, so you tell the
cook that you’ll start the water and
then slip back for a bit of lunch, and
perhaps it’d be better to have lunch a
bit late. Then you take your shovel and
yourself up to the top lucerne block.
Time passes pleasantly enough while
you look over the bays, check the ports
and make sure the ditch is clear. Then
you sit on the bank and watch the head-
ditch for the first crest of the water.
About three o’clock you’re wondering
whether the water bloke said today or
tomorrow, and why the confounded cook
hasn’t sense enough to send out a bit
of lunch. For all they know, you might
have fallen in the ditch and got drowned.
You take a walk up to the channel and
look at the water, wondering whether
it’d be safe to open the box and let the
water go. But it pays to keep in with
the water bloke, and you decide against
it, sitting down on the box to wait.
Shortly after four o’clock the cook
appears and says the water bloke has
rung up to say he can’t cut you in just
yet but you ought to get it in another
hour. You go back and take a late
lunch, then drift up to the block again.
The water arrives at sundown. You
start it on half the bays, then find the
head insufficient and cut out four of
them. Leaving them running steadily you
go back, snatch a bit of tea, light the
hurricane lamp and make back to the
water. Taking a short cut across the
bottom corner, you suddenly step into
a foot of water where there shouldn’t
be any. Peering around in the weak
light of the lantern, you discover a broad
running stream and set off at a blunder-
ing run for the head-ditch.
A look along the ports shows every-
thing in order. You then have to search
along the check-banks and across the
bays till you find the bank that has
broken. A wall of dry grass, dead
leaves, roly-poly and other rubbish has
built up across one bay and backed the
water up till it floods into the next and
finds the old cross-slope that the grader
never could level out.
You clear away the rubbish and repair
the bank, look along the bays and decide
to cut three out and open three new ones.
But when you get up to the head-ditch
you find the water has dropped, so you
make up to the box on the channel and
find an empty kerosene-case jammed into
it, while the checked water is lapping the
far bank of the channel. You put the
lantern down and reach for the case.
Not sure how it happened, you find your-
self up to your waist in the channel, the
case in your hands and the lantern gone,
leaving you only the light of the stars.
You get out on the bank, hurl the
case far into the night, drain the water
out of your boots, squeeze out your pants
and go to pick up the shovel. It isn’t
there. You remember standing it up
somewhere on the head-ditch and go
back. You can’t find it. An irrigator
without a shovel is about as useful as
an airman without a ’plane, and you tell
the night what you think of it. Then
you start back for the house and another
shovel, but trip in the darkness and bury
your face in soft mud, knowing the
earthy taste of lucerne roots. Your
hands, instinctively thrown out, grip
something, and you emerge from the
mud, blowing, to find yourself the pos-
sessor of one shovel, long-handled, used
for irrigation and fencing, etc.
“Well,” you grunt, “that’s one way of
finding things, anyhow.”
About this time the noise of the water
in the ports suggests a rise in the channel
and, feeling round with your hands in
the dark, you’re certain there’s a bigger
flow. You make for the bottoms of the
bays and feel round to see how far the
water has gone, slapping the ground with
your feet. All of a sudden something
wraps itself tightly round one leg. You
jump three feet and kick madly. It hangs
on. With your heart pumping wildly and
strange noises in your throat, you kick,
run, kick again, blunder into a fence,
fall, get up and somehow find the chan-
nel. An idea penetrates your panic, and
you shove the leg and the snake deep
into the water, sure that the flamer will
either drown or unwind. Eternity passes
while you force yourself to be still, at
the same time convincing yourself that
the thing hasn’t struck anywhere or at
least you haven’t felt it strike. A second
eternity is well on the way when a light
comes bobbing along the channel and a
voice cries your name.
It is the cook. Weakly you call, and
he comes over and shines the light on
you.
“Hey,” he says, astonished, “what’s the
idea? You bogged in there or some-
thin’?”
“Snake,” you gasp, indicating the im-
mersed leg, “coiled round me. Won’t
let go.”
The cook eyes the situation, then takes
your shovel and pokes it down beside
your leg. There is the rasp of steel on
steel. Hurriedly you lift your leg into
the light, and, with an embarrassed cuss
or two, unwind the bit of fencing wire
and hurl it into the night.
“You got too big an imagination,”
says the cook. “Come on, I brought you
up a billy o’ tea and some sandwiches.”
“Boy,” says you, “your blood’s worth
bottling.”
However, except for this sort of thing,
which only happens every time you irri-
gate in the dark, and that’s mostly when
you do irrigate, watering the lucerne is
often a pleasant occupation.


THE OTHER FELLOWS MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4|d. per line; all others at
2i£d. per line.
A soldier’s suggestion from Syria heads the list this week.
Suggestion from Syria
A soldier’s first taste of real action in
the recent Syrian campaign led to some
surprising revelations. Most surprising
was the way in which much of the text-
book training was nullified right from
zero hour.
For month after month we had lived in
a world of what we should or should
not do. There were rules, regulations
and limitations for everything that we
had to handle 6r do.
With the real thing, however, every-
thing in that line was dropped. Certain
fundamentals stood, but all extraneous
frills were forgotten by common consent,
from the top downward. There was a job
to be done and no time for forms or
red-tape. Men who had never been tried
had to be left to themselves and to
lead othei men. Decisions had to be
made promptly, despite risk. The result
was a good, quick, efficient job.
With the end of the campaign it has
been amazing how quickly the threads of
pre-action days are being picked up again.
No one really minds. The thing is done,
and the Army must have its own little way
in these things. Jobs have to be found
to keep men busy, and all this helps.
I am trying to present an analogy, not
quite perfect, perhaps, but plain. Why
can’t our Government and department
leaders declare a state of emergency or
“action” in their sphere? Wipe aside
the department rigmarole,, cut asunder
the red-tape. Certain fundamentals will
stand. Leaders will be found or made.
The job will be done despite the risk of
a mistake or two. They would have to
be big mistakes to approach the cost
of the present delay and bungling.
When the emergency has passed, let
them all revert to the old way again,
forms, red-tdpe, boards and committees
all complete. We won’t mind so much
as long as they have risen to the present
need and proved equal to it. There is
always the prospect, too, that, as in war,
men at present obscure may be given the
chance to rise—and such men may be the
means of bringing to pass improve-
ments which will live long after the emer-
gency.
It works in the field. Surely it should
be efficient in the security of our own
land. —A. I. F. (Abroad),
“V” for Is.
In the seclusion of a camp where in-
tense concentration on learning to fly is
the focus of living, I missed reading
articles criticising our lack of an all-in-war
effort. But I’ve a respite now, and I’m
surprised to find that those same criti-
cisms are still being levelled in precisely
the same way at precisely the same things
by precisely the same thinkers. Once I
agreed with the critics, but a week-end
in Melbourne ended that.
For everywhere I went dozens of men
between 18 and 30 years of age were
wearing “V” badges on the lapels of their
lounge suits. Some even had them on
their overcoats. The man without his
badge was a rarity, and well deserved the
sneers of his duty-ridden compatriots. It
was a superb demonstration of confidence
in the prowess of our men overseas, of
assuredness that their ever-thinning
numbers and fast-deteriorating weapons
would win through in the end to glori-
ous victory. While young men will
spend Is., or even 2s. in some cases, on
their “V” badges, any talk of “no all-in
effort” is fifth-columnist calumny.— Pip
(Vic.).
Back to Civvies
It’s a puzzling metamorphosis getting
back into civvies after 14 months in the
A.1.F., six of them in Malaya. It’s fast
becoming a cliche to say “You wouldn’t
know there was a war on” in Australia,
but it is partially true. It’s like coming
into a new world—even from non-
belligerent Malaya—and what it’s like to
a man from Tobruk I can’t imagine.
Australia seems still so remote from the
realities of war that we should strain
every effort to keep war from its shores ;
not wait complacently, as some people
are still doing, for war to come here.
This extraordinary refusal to recognise
obvious dangers becomes more and more
apparent as one drifts back into a civilian
mentality. It is terribly easy to ignore
realities. Soon good food, beer, pretty
women and leave—the things we dreamt
recklessly about—become commonplace
and unimportant. The same eligible
young men we met before we left Aus-
tralia meet us now on a civilian footing,
although the gulf has widened more and
more on our part. Gone the slightly un-
comfortable defensive attitude in the
presence of a uniform when they said
“I’m joining the A.I.F. myself soon,” or
“I’ve put in for a job in the navy.” (These
frequent unsolicited apologies used to
make us feel slightly sick ourselves.) But
apparently the right job hasn’t turned up
and, of course, it would be too unutter-
ably foul to enlist as an ordinary infantry
private.
Seeing we still depend on an archaic
voluntary system, it’s not for me to con-
demn anybody for not enlisting. After
all it’s a man’s own personal affair, and
our insidious “business as usual,” ostrich-
head-in-the-sand attitude is calculated to
lull plenty of thoughtless people into a
dangerous sense of false security. But I
must say I dodge the Martin-place re-
cruiting rallies like the plague—there’s
something nauseating about returned men
having to appeal to a silent and appar-
ently apathetic crowd for help for their
mates overseas.
What does annoy me savagely in
civilian life are the eligible gentlemen
with “V” badges in their buttonholes who
complain bitterly that Britain should
invade the Continent or that Britain
should have rushed help more quickly to
Russia. It’s a handy excuse making
scapegoats of brasshats and the Old
School Tie, but are all these smug critics
entirely without blame themselves? Might
it not be that the lack of their own all-
in help has made these things impos-
sible? And the Canberra gentleman
who wants to form a Foreign Legion to
fight beside the Russians when we can’t
get enough of these gallant Foreign
Legionaires to fight beside our own boys
in Tobruk.
The worst complacency of all I have
found amongst the middle-class—back-
bone, one would think, of the Home
Front. There are tens of thousands of
voluntary workers doing magnificent and
appreciated work in Australia—and tens
of thousands who are doing nothing. I
have been appalled in civilian conversa-
tion by the attitude that a man has pulled
his weight in the war effort by having a
large slice of his income taken away by
compulsory taxation. And the pious feel-
ing of having “done one’s bit” by cheer-
fully accepting all the little inconveni-
ences of war-time, such as petrol ration-
ing and lack of domestic help. I am
appalled by the number of people I know
who have voluntarily sacrificed nothing
of their time or money and will not do
so until they are shaken out of their
abysmal complacency.
Members of the fighting services are
frequently told in the press that in the
end the war will be won on the Home
Front, It’s a shock to come home and
find that a large part of this boosted
Home Front seems utterly indifferent to
the effort that is required of it in a
“total” war— Yam Seng (N.S.W.).
From Another Digger
Latest issues of The Bulletin
and other papers arriving at
A.I.F, stations in the Middle
East contain such an amount of
matter in regard to further
recruiting that, as a Digger, one
is prompted to give a thought
or two as to how we view it
over here.
Taking a cross section of all
ranks it is pretty safe to say we
are thoroughly disgusted and
disappointed. Disgust arises
from the way the Government
handles the whole business, and from the
confusion created in the public mind
when responsible officials at home are
urging men, and more men, to join up,
and the P.M., arriving home from abroad
right in the middle of it, says “we need
machines rather than men,”
If the great need for men is there,
let us have conscription. If the great
need for machines is there, let us con-
script our resources for their production.
All arguments for and against conscrip-
tion notwithstanding, it would prove, once
and for all, that the position is urgent.
The disappointment arises in the atti-
tude of Australia’s young people, an
attitude not excusable by any amount
of official apathy. The collapse of
France, followed by the debacle of
Dunkirk, caused a tremendous rush to
the colors, despite the fact that there
were no Aussies in that show. Libya,
Greece and Crete put thousands of Aus-
tralians in mortal danger but have brought
no recruiting response worth mentioning.
It is not the individual we are dis-
appointed in—it is still a volunteer army
—but it is the lack of that national spirit
we Aussies used to be so proud of.
Conscription will always remedy the
numerical shortage; it can never re-
store the spiritual laxity. That rests with
the soul of the individual and becomes
the character of the nation.
There are doubtless many reasons for
it all, and this is no place to analyse
them. But in the lines, in the camps and
wherever the A.I.F. gathers, the analysis
is made ; and it is safe to say here that
the result leads to a definite hardness
of opinion against the chaps who will
not heed the call, and if one can judge
rightly this opinion is likely to crystallise
into something tangible when the A.I.F.
returns home. If there should be any
who are after the soft jobs and other
plums during the absence of so many, it
may be pertinent to point out that, when
the present A.I.F. does get back, re-
turned men are going to have an enor-
mous say in the political and economic
life of Australia. The men from two
wars, plus the enormous aggregate of
their families and dependants, are going
to command a great percentage of Aus-
tralian voting power, and are not likely
to do without anything they may need.
There is no threat in this, A little
thought will show it to be quite a natural
sequence. It is only mentioned to those
who may be thinking in terms of such
advantages now, and who may not have
thought of this aspect of the matter in
the future. —N. X, (Abroad).
Friends of the British Empire
I am going to start a society called
“Friends of the British Empire.” Aim:
To give the Empire its due.
God saved the army at Dunkirk, the
Italians were kicked out of Libya be-
cause they couldn’t fight, America has
saved Britain by selling her material, and
the Red Air Force has made it possible
for R.A.F. bombers to concentrate on
Germany. And so on.
The F.0.8.E. will maintain that, under
God, Britain was saved by the Royal
Navy and the Royal Air Force, Imperial
services both, and by the people of
Britain. Any members? —F. H. W. (S.A.).
An Achilles’ Heel
To my mind there are at present
reasons far more compelling than prob-
lematical economic advantages why vital
industries should be shifted inland. The
chief of these is that the majority of the
Commonwealth’s major industrial under-
takings are now located in two centres
exposed by reason of their seaboard posi-
tions to raids by carrier-borne aircraft.
There has been a colossal disregard of
modern strategical requirements in the
placing of key munitions factories. Not
only are these factories placed where they
are accessible to enemy bombing, but
many of them have been grouped around
easily identifiable landmarks in such a
way that it is impossible for an enemy
pilot to fail to locate his target.
People in Britain have come to under-
stand that there is only one sure defence
against air raids dispersal. It is
time the authorities in Australia began
to insist that all new defence plants
should be established in the bewildering
vastness of the Riverina, preferably west
of Cootamundra and in such a position
that bombers taking the short route in
from the sea would first have to cross
Australia’s highest mountain range and
then would find themselves over country
notable for its lack of landmarks. —
G. J. S. (Tas.).
Wishful Thinkers’ Club
I have decided to form a club for
wishful thinkers. I’m sure it would fill
a long-felt want and be a great success.
Not only could members encourage each
other in the attainment to new heights of
wishful thinking, but they could mutu-
ally console themselves when the march
of events, as sometimes happens, proves
them wrong—although this side of the
club’s activities would not be stressed.
The list of vice-presidents would, of
course, include famous correspondents,
radio commentators, journalistic profes-
sors and an odd bishop or two, the last
to lend the club an air of respectability.
As to ordinary members, all those who
believe that Crete was a victory, or that
Hitler must necessarily follow in the
footsteps of Napoleon, or that the Yanks
or Russians or Patagonians are going to
win the war for us will be, ipso facto,
elected to full membership.
Suggestions for a motto for the club
would be welcome. My own bright
suggestion is: “There is nothing in this
world but wishing makes it so, with
knobs on.”—T. E. P. (N.S.W.).
Panic
It is difficult to reconcile with estab-
lished fact “Kiowa’s” argument that the
panic germ thrives in mixtures (B.
27/8/’4l). Surely in no other part of the
world is there such a mixture of peoples,
creeds and colors as there is in London's
East End. Yet during the Blitz, when Jerry
dropped everything he had on the teem-
ing thousands housed in little better than
rabbit warrens, the reaction was one, not
of panic, but of calm courage and a
fixation of the determination to stick it
out and win.
Those people were regarded by many
as the dregs of humanity, but, like the
people of other British ports with mixed
populations, their calmness and bravery
were not excelled by the people of such
cities as Coventry and Sheffield, which
are predominately British.
My own opinion is that high-speed
living fosters the growth of the panic
germ. It is nearly 30 years since I was
in the U.S.A., and what impressed me
more than anything else then was the
feverishness of the people and the sensa-
tion of tense expectancy in the air. Even
then the tempo of life was unnaturally
high, and the passing of the years has
brought the inevitable reaction on the
nerves of the people. That is the reason
why an army of quacks grows rich on
"Hi, cut that out! You ain't erloWed ter folygraph Warships."


should be nothing to fear, provided
butter quality is maintained at a high
level and the price is kept within the
reach of possible purchasers. In fact, a
little healthy competition should stimu-
late the butter interests to increase sales,
—Cow Time (N.S.W.).
Country Medical Services
Lack of medical services in remote
country towns and districts is worrying
Victorian Premier Dunstan. The prob-
lem is not the result of war enlistments
and service of doctors, although it may
have been accentuated by it; it is a prob-
lem that had assumed State-wide cog-
nisance prior to the outbreak of war.
While cities and large provincial centres
are overcrowded with doctors, remote
country towns, most of them with hos-
pitals and offering a guarantee by no
means small, are unable to secure the
services of a resident medico.
Woomelang offers a guarantee of £6OO
per year; £7OO is guaranteed at Natimuk
and £5OO at Werrimul.
Refugee doctors are available and will-
ing. Natimuk has a doctor ready to com-
mence, but the Government refuses regis-
tration. Premier Dunstan recently was
inclined to grant limited registration to
refugees, with promised full registration
after a period of three or five years’ ser-
vice, but revoked his decision when a
petition of protest arrived from doctors
serving with the military forces.
'Die Premier now proposes the subsi-
dising of doctors who will serve in these
districts, or the use of ambulances to
convey patients to centres for treatment.
Distance of most of the towns from
large centres seems to make the latter
scheme impracticable. Mirboo North,
for example, is 45 miles from Warragul
and across the Strezlecki Ranges ; Red
Cliffs is 37 miles from Mildura ; Ultima
is 20 miles from Swan Hill. The cost of
an ambulance journey alone to a patient
would be heavy.
Subsidised income would not overcome
a doctor’s objection to isolation and to
car-owning residents going to the local
doctor with minor troubles and to
the doctors and hospitals in the nearest
big centre for operations and other medi-
cally interesting and profitable work.
Nationalisation or some scheme of
partial control of all medical services
seems to be the only solution. —J, A. M.
(Vic.).
Germ War
From the usual “authoritative” source
comes the report that when Germany
begins to lose the war she may launch a
bacteriological as well as a chemical
assault on Britain.
There is one thing that is certain. When
this war is over, there will be an un-
official bacteriological offensive by germs
enlisted on a voluntary basis. On the
analogy of the last war it will start
amongst the most depressed, discouraged
and impoverished nations of Europe, and
won’t affect them very severely because,
having been subjected to a long period
of infection, individuals will have ac-
quired heightened powers of resistance.
But in passing through their weakened
and diseased bodies the germs will
become buttered up and swoop down on
better-nourished and more prosperous
countries like Britain and Australia with
an unprecedented virulence.
Those countries, having been relatively
immune from epidemics, will have low
powers of resistance and there will be
wholesale slaughter, probably exceeding
the war-time tally by high explosive, and
the only modifying factor will be better
social organisation, quarantine and isola-
tion. Germs, unlike human beings, have
an amazing capacity to change their
nature. The scarlet-fever germ was a
relatively mild wog until European
children brought it to China. From them
it passed through Chinese bodies without
causing them much harm. Then it leaped
back into the foreign settlements, where
it became the most dangerous infection
European children could encounter.
It therefore behoves Australian authori-
ties to take thought for the morrow.
Australia has a natural advantage in her
isolation, but it could easily be thrown
away by sentimental politicians, as hap-
pened after the last war. — Pawang (Vic.).
A Statutory Declaration
The way we civilians make war amuses
me. To prevent dangerous enemy agents,
Fifth Columnists and secret sympathisers
of Hitler acquiring land in strategic posi-
tions, National Security (land transfer)
Regulations provide that no subject of
an enemy country or country in enemy
occupation, no naturalised German or
Italian or subject of occupied country
may acquire land without the consent of
the Federal Attorney-General. To ensure
man-made ills; it is the reason for all
the freak religions and hysterical cults
and for the panic which followed Orson
Welles’s broadcast. —JEsmond (Vic.).
War Pensions
Mr. Fadden’s hint that the Budget may
make provision for increased pensions
is cheerful news for old pensioned Dig-
gers who are now feeling the effects of
higher living costs and increasing calls on
what should be their spare cash but isn’t.
There has been no alteration in the pen-
sion rate for over 20 years, and some
adjustment is long overdue.
At present the difference between the
total permanent rate and that misnamed
the “full” is too great. The few men
on the t. and p. rate deserve all they get,
but at the same time those men on the
lower classification deserve, and many
desperately need, more than they get now,
especially those —apart from a few un-
accountable exceptions—classed as 75 p.c.
or more. To be in this class a man must
be far from fit and his earning capacity
negligible, and the individual effort
needed to earn what little he does takes
far more out of him than it would out
of a fit man.
Theoretically a man classed as 100 p.c.
incapacity is entitled to a full pension,
but what he actually receives is only
half the t. and p. rate of £4 4s. Admit-
tedly we all know men on “full” pensions
who are earning a good living, but the
great majority are having a tough
struggle. Most pensions are now stabi-
lised, but at a classification, in most cases,
made years ago. A man classed at, say,
75 p.c. incapacity 20 years ago was then
able to earn some sort of an income, but
the passing of the years has changed that,
and his earning capacity is probably now
much lower, yet his pension has remained
the same. I know there is the right of
appeal, but how many men take advan-
tage of it? They are always hoping for
something to turn up, and they hate to
make a nuisance of themselves.
War pensioners can be divided into
three classes: (1) The t. and p. men, who
are reasonably well looked after; (2)
those on a 50 p.c. or less classification,
most of whom are earning a decent
living; (3) those classed as 50 p.c. or
more incapacity, who are feeling the
pinch.
The remedy is to base the pension pay-
able not on the “full” rate but on the
t. and p. rate, or alternatively on the
basic wage.
Either plan would give the dinkum
pensioner a fair deal. It would also give
unnecessary benefits to some. But in
these cases a check could be imposed by
securing power to examine taxation
papers.— Seven-eighths (Vic.).
Country Centres
Country districts that are fairly closely
settled should be fit places in which to
start communal centres for farm workers.
It would be cheaper and more congenial
for farm workers to have decent dwell-
ings in place of the ramshackle old
dumps that are so often made to do. Just
because a chap works on a farm there’s
no need to think he can do with less con-
veniences than the cowshed. If a com-
munal centre were formed workers would
have to travel to work daily, but the
advantages would outweigh the disadvan-
tages.
Something could thus be done to give
the country toiler —and his family—some
of the amenities the townie enjoys. A
library, a hall for pictures or dances, bil-
liards, to name a few. With the cottages
clustered round such a centre the dreary
life of the wife and kids would go.
At harvest time this centralisation of
labor would expedite the work if the
farmers would use it intelligently. And
there’s every reason why the farm worker
should be given better living conditions.
The prosperity of Australia and M.L.
depends on their farms, and any effort
to stem the rush to the Big Wens is a
move towards greater prosperity after
the war.— Peapod (M.L.).
Butter and Margarine
Dairy-farmers appear to be alarming
themselves unduly about margarine. They
have made some noise about how the
substitute was allegedly menacing butter,
but all the good they seem to have done
was to give margarine a good free adver-
tisement.
Butter sales have not suffered. An
exporter told me that when a margarine
factory began operations in Malaya his
firm expected that its exports of butter
would be cut considerably. They did
fall away for a month, but after that
butter sales in Malaya were as good as
ever, and were even showing an increase.
Some dairy-farmers are expressing
concern about the possible competition
of margarine after the war. There
“’Sail' is own fault , doctor; ’e will keep tryin' to say them Russian
War names.”
compliance with these regulations, land-
transfer registration offices require a
transferee of property to make a statutory
declaration that he is not an enemy sub-
ject, subject of occupied country or
naturalised former German or Italian
and that he is not “disloyal.”
A statutory declaration! As though
an enemy agent or sympathiser, who by
his very presence in the country risks the
firing squad, would boggle at making a
false declaration. — Smilax (Q.).
Debtors’ Relief
On October 28, 1940, Debtors’ Relief
Regulations were promulgated under the
National Security Act by which:
A debtor who is unable to pay his debts,
or any of them, by reason of facts attribut-
able to the war may apply to a tribunal,
as defined by these regulations, for relief.
Although nearly a year has elapsed since
these regulations became operative, not
one application for relief has yet been
filed with any of the tribunals in Bris-
bane!
This is the best answer I know to those
who are clamoring for “more liberal use
of credit expansion” and other quack
nostrums on the ground that the national
finances and business are creaking under
the strain of war-time conditions and
war-time taxation.— Solicitor (Q.).
Britain and Europe
Must Britain for the future avoid
European “entanglements” and stand
aloof from the “Mad Continent,” as The
Bulletin has from time to time con-
tended? There is no doubt that she
could have done it in the past.
Air development has by no means
reached its zenith, and with every im-
provement Britain must become more
vulnerable from the Continent. At the
same time any European nation or group
of nations with production centres snugly
located hundreds of miles from the coasts
facing Britain will increase its strength as
opposed to Britain. Then, unless Britain
has friends on the Continent with and
through whom she may come to closer
grips with a potential enemy, her posi-
tion will become most precarious.
Can anyone estimate the importance
of British democratic influence upon Con-
tinental democracies? Or suggest what
new groupings, possibly inimical to
Britain, British withdrawal from Con-
tinental affairs might precipitate? On a
basis of population and material strength
the future of Europe might lie with either
Nazism or Communism. Britain will have
neither and must surely exert a powerful
influence on the smaller European peoples
who think similarly. But should she
turn her back on them Nazism or Com-
munism may engulf them and leave
Britain the ultimate victim of whichever
system gained supremacy long enough to
turn Europe’s resources against her.
Air power, mechanised warfare and
modern communications will give amaz-
ing advantages to those Powers control-
ling large land areas from the remote and
protected centres of which all those
modern death-dealing and destructive
machines may be spawned. And the
unity which is really strength and can
combat the evils thus arising is one based
on community of democratic ideals and
principles, not merely on defence against
a common danger.— Upagum (S.A.).
The Pleasant Politician
A favorite argument against one Gov-
ernment in Australia, and a pet conten-
tion in some rural districts, is that, with
the seat of government in one of the
eastern States, the interests of the small
man in the small State will be over-
looked.
It would be handy to know what the
small man in the small State considers his
interests to be. They are usually local
concessions—new desks for the school,
a member of Parliament to open the local
fete, assistance in some local undertak-
ing of earth-shaking importance for three
miles around. They come in very handy,
for the local member, at election time.
Bill Jones, assured that there will be new
school-desks Just before the polling day
and seeing them arrive, is quite certain
that he is well represented in Parliament.
He doesn’t know and he doesn’t flamin’
well care what that member does for his
country in more important matters.
The expense of maintaining a large
number of gentlemen to go around pro-
mising desks and opening fetes is con-
siderable —so considerable, in fact, that it
seems that they might assume rather more
onerous duties for the money. Bill Jones
might remember that, even in his own
State, there are other districts than his
own, and larger districts, too, in which
there are more fetes to be declared open,
and that his money could be spent on
other things than these fete-openers’
salaries.
The interest of the small man in the
small State is at present being well looked
after —at a luxury price.— Prop (S.A.).
Poets and Inspiration
There are people who never read poetry
except when a war is on. Poetry is an
art, and the artist is not inspired by the
magnitude of a thing but by its nature.
Lying one day in an English meadow,
Shelley, in a grey, cold mood, heard the
skylark. He had heard it often before,
but on this occasion his soul, “with
sorrow laden,’* responded. And so he
went home and wrote his famous “Ode,”
and its “harmonious madness” went
round the world, Samuel Fergusson
(Irish-Scotch) when a boy was fascinated
when he watched the village blacksmith
forging an anchor. So when he came
to maturity his first poem was “The Forg-
ing of the Anchor.” And it has gone
round the world, carrying with it the
tang of the sea and the music of the
sea winds. The cast-off shell of a cephalo-
pod was responsible for Oliver Wendell
Holmes’s “Chambered Nautilus.”
A death of a friend is a very conven-
tional occurrence. But it is to the death
of Tennyson’s friend Hallam that we
owe the “In Memoriam” with its digni-
fied, majestic music. One day Mrs.
Browning heard the bitter wailing of a
child in its mother’s arms in a slum. The
infant was half-frozen and half-starved.
But it was responsible for E. 8.8. giving
us the pathetic “Cry of the Children.
An Australian rugged seascape—“A
grey, cold coast and a seaboard ghastly”
—was the inspiration for Gordon’s
powerful “The Swimmer.” The highest
flight of the poet is inspired not by physi-
cal achievements. The best poetry is in-
ternational, and is not concerned with
latitude or longitude.— Herbert Mulvi-
hill (M.L.).


WE ARE
SPECIALISTS
IN
COWBOY SADDLERY
£l5/5/-
DOUBLE RIGGED.
Three-quarter rigged, with one cord
cincha, 15/- less. This is a very
popular line, quite equal to saddles of
the same class made in U.S.A. It is
made of brown leather, without fancy
stamping, and the seat and cantle are
in one piece of heavy leather.
Weight, about 281 b.
N.S.W, Freight on Saddles Paid for Cash with
Order.
COWBOY BITS, SPURS, BRIDLES,
CHAPARAJOS, TAPADEROS, ETC.
VALTHER * STEVEMSOH CTJ
335 CEORCE ST. SYDHEY
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ;M. J. Ryan, Esq.; F. E. Loxton, Esq.;
Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., 0.M.G.; B. E. D. White, Esq.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all , general banking business.
FULLY GUARANTEED AS TO LONGEVITY, EEEICIENCY AND MECHANISM.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVrNATOR
IS A COMPEETE SEEE-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF, AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CEOSBT PAN.
IT DISPEACES PANS AND SAVES SANITARY RATES.
Matter is dissolved and sterilised in the niachine, and automatically runs off into
an underground sump and soaks away into the soil.
THERE IS NO EMPTYING OR OTHER UNPLEASANT JOB.
Approved by the Board of Health—over 1600 in use.
NO SMEEES. NO FEIES. NO GERMS.
Gives same comfort and safety as a septic tank.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
Write or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co.Pty. Ltd.
Price £lB/8/- f.o.b SYDNEY, including Sales Tax and Crating.
’ Plus 30/- war surcharge.
Obtainable direct, or from all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all Slates.
jiji/irrn
26 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone 81052.
MACMILLAN BOOKS
NARCISSA
By Richmal Crompton
The story of Stella Markham, who grows up so
obsessed by the idea of her own perfection that
she cannot endure to be with anyone who does
not share it. This secret vanity gradually
warps her character, and brings tragedy into
the lives of all who love her.
Price 9/6; posted 10/-.
PRESENTING MOONSHINE
By John Collier
Readers who appreciate the unusual will find
it in this volume of twenty-four short stories
by this witty and original writer.
Price 10/6; posted 11/-.
NO ONE NOW WILL KNOW
By E. M. Delafield.
This novel represents a high achievement in
Miss Delafleld’s distinguished career. The theme
is the building up of the past to show its
connection with the present.
Price 10/6; posted 11/-.
GONE WITH THE WIND
By Margaret Mitchell.
Gone With the Wind is still going. Fresh
supplies of cheap edition just received.
Price 7/6; posted 8/3.
These hooks may he obtained from booksellersj
wholesale only from
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE AND LONDON, W.C.2.
Our Seryice Departwent
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Man or youth wanted to help on N. S. Wales
North Coast dairy farm. Milking machines used.
Good home; 25s. per week and keep.
Woolclasser, returned soldier, many years
exp., disengaged after October 1, seeks engage-
ment. Refs. —2543.
Married man, 31, ineligible military service,
now travelling salesman, wants position inside.
Gen. commercial exp. Refs. —2402.
To buy any issues of “Vision,” a literal y
quarterly, first published May, 1923. 2521.
To buy Admiralty publication Manual of
Seamanship, Vol. 1. State year published and
condition. —2523.
To buy Sinclair Lewis’s novels Main Street,
Babbitt, Ann Vickers, Elmer Gantry, Martin
Arrowsmith and Dodsworth. —2436.
To buy any issue of “Burlington Art Maga-
zine.” —2524.
To buy or hire big Oxford English Dictionary,
with supplement. —2559.
To buy Dr. Hay’s “Foolproof Meal Chart.”
—2525.
To buy or borrow Animal Breeding, by
Hagerdoorn, and Genetics, by Walter. 2470.
To buy Wild Animals of Australia, by A. S.
Le Souef. —2526.
To buy song “The Floral Dance,” by Katie
Moss. —2448.
To get in touch with persons willing to invest
in the establishment of a kapok plantation.
2349.
Information Sought.
Is it legal for a minute book to be of the
loose-leaf type, provided that each page is
signed by the chairman at the time of confir-
mation? If so, would typewritten minutes
similarly signed and kept in spring-backed
covers be in compliance with the law? —2370.
The law dealing with the keeping of minutes
is rather unsettled. In the absence of any
legislation or by-law dealing with the particular
type of minute book to be kept, it would not
be improper to keep loose-leaf minutes, but
the ordinary • bound minute book is preferable.
H: * *
(1) Who is the accepted authority on English
usage? Is it Fowler? (2) What is an idiom?
(3) Is it correct and for permissible to speak of
two persons being “alone” in a room ? (4) If
this plural use of the word “alone” is correct,
does that make the expression an idiom ? (5)
What is the latest verdict on (a) the “different
to”-“different from” controversy, (b) the split
infinitive, (c) the conclusion of a sentence with
a preposition ? (6) Difference between local
variation” and “idiom”? —2316.
(1) H. W. Fowler is an authority—one of
wide repute and high qualifications. He is
much quoted, too, by other writers on Eng-
lish usage. (2) A turn of expression peculiar
to a language. Idioms cannot usually be trans-
lated literally into another language, and do not
always square with the accepted rules of
grammar. (3) and (4) Though the word “alone
means “by one’s self,” its use with a plural
association is good idiom. (5) (a) Fowler says
it is a superstition that “different” can only be
followed by “from” and not by “to.” “The
fact is,” he concludes, “that the objections to
d. to are mere pedantries. This does not
imply that d. from is wrong; on the contrary, it
is ‘now usual’ (Oxford English Dictionary).
T. A. Rickett, an authoritative American writer,
is critical of Fowler on this matter, and adds
that “different to” is taboo in the United
States. It is safe to keep to the logical “differ-
ent from.” One thing differs from, not to,
another. (6) In the words of “John o’
London,” infinitives may be split when to leave
them unsplit involves ambiguity or artificiality,
(c) Follow no arbitrary rule. A sentence may be
ended with a preposition whenever the sen-
tence is thereby rendered more fluent and
natural. Who, for instance, would say or write
“For what are you waiting?” instead of “What
are you waiting for?” But it must be borne
in mind that a preposition makes a feeble
ending for a serious statement. (6) A “local
variation” is a sort of slang peculiar to a certain
district.
* * * *
Words of Walter de la Mare's poem “Here
Lies a Most Beautiful Lady” ? —2372.
The title is “An Epitaph,” and the words are:
Here lies a most beautiful lady,
Light of step and heart was she;
I think she was the most beautiful lady
That ever was in the West Country.
But beauty vanishes; beauty passes;
However rare —rare it be ;
And when I crumble, who will remember
This lady of the West Country?
« • • •
A and B own adjoining allotments of land
in N. S. Wales. Is each responsible for half
the cost of erecting a dividing fence ? Assuming
that A wishes to erect an expensive fence (say a
brick or stone wall) between the two properties,
while B is satisfied with something cheaper,
what is the situation regarding each party s
expenses ? —2427.
The law dealing with dividing fences in
N.S.W. is very antiquated and needs legislative
revision. The Dividing Fences Act 1902 is
merely a consolidation of the law as it stood
in 1828. It provides that the owner of land
adjoining or abutting on other land and having
no sufficient dividing fence may require by
writing the owner of the adjoining land to
assist in equal proportions to make or repair
any dividing fence. If the adjoining owner re-
fuses or neglects to assist in making or re-
pairing the fence for six months after receiving
the requisition, the owner who made the requisi-
tion, having completed his half of the fence,
may proceed to complete the rest of it. He
must first, however, use such indigenous timber
as he may find on his neighbor’s land, and only
when that is insufficient may he purchase other
material. The cost of completion may then
be recovered from the adjoining owner. In the
event of questions arising as to the necessity
or sufficiency of the fence the dispute must be
referred to arbitration in the manner provided
by the Act but it seems that any award made
by the arbitrators cannot be enforced for 12
months after it is made. No doubt, what was
good enough for the hardy settlers of Governor
Darling’s days should be good enough today,
but it would nevertheless be amusing to see a
respectable Bellevue Hill property-owner, armed
with his axe, entering his neighbor’s property
to cut the indigenous trees growing thereon
in order to erect a dividing fence.
* * * *
Should a girl or young woman rise when
greeting an older woman who enters the room
if the older woman is the hostess or the mother
of the host or hostess? If the young woman
is married should she do the same as an un-
married woman, rise and greet the older woman,
or should she remain seated in both instances ?
2317.
Presume you refer to a visit entailing atter-
noon-tea, or even a more formal reception. In
each case, when a visitor is shown into a room
in which one or more ladies are already seated,
her hostess rises, shakes hands and both take
a seat; none of the others rise (unless, of
course, the new arrival is of high rank, such as
the wife of the Governor); all keep their seats
and draw the newcomer into conversation. The
hostess, by the way, never says “Take a seat,”
though she may say “Will you sit here?”
$ * * *
History of the adhesive postage stamp? —
2315.
A post-paid envelope was in common use in
Paris in the year 1653. In November, 1818,
stamped postal letter-paper was issued to the
public by the Government of the Sardinian
States and stamped postal envelopes by the
same Government from 1820 to 1836. In 1830
Charles Whiting, in London, made, experi-
mentally, stamped wrappers for newspapers
under the name of “go-frees,” and four years
later a well-known publisher, Charles Knight,
ignorant of what Whiting had already done,
wrote to the Chancellor of the Exchequer
recommending similar wrappers for adoption.
Rowland Hill, who is regarded as the originator
of the postage stamp, apparently got his idea
from this source. Meanwhile, however, the
adhesive stamp was made experimentally, in
1834, by James Chalmers. These were printed
from ordinary type and were made adhesive by
a wash of gum. Chalmers made no public
mention of his stamp until November, 1837,
but in February of that year Rowland Hill
brought the adhesive stamp to the notice of
the commissioners of the post office inquiry,
and as a result of his efforts stamps were
brought into use in May, 1840.
* * * *
Most recent figures available for the produc-
tion of gemstones in Australia. 25 jo.
It is difficult to secure accurate returns in
connection with the production of precKms
stones. The yield of diamonds in N. S. Wales
for 1937 'was estimated at 200 carats, valued
at £2OO. The total production to the end or
1937 is given at 205,243 carats, v **lued
at £148,000. No output of sapphires for N.
Wales has been recorded since 1929, when 65 oz.,
valued at £450, was produced. Owing to tne
unfavorable market, production in recent years
has been restricted. On the Anakie sapphire
fields in Q’land gems to the value of £l4lO
were sold in 1937, but returns arc very
incomplete, as many were probably sold
privately or held for better price. The pi educ-
tion is a steep decline from 1920, when the
yield was valued at £66,000. The estimated
value of opal won in N. S. Wales for 1937 was
£3357, but this again does not represent tlie
total output. The total value of opal won in
N. S. Wales since 1890 is estimated at
£1,622,795. Figures for Q’land, which are
merely approximations, value the yield tor iVJ /
at £IOO, and up to the end of that year
£IBB,OOO. The greatest recorded output was m
1895, when the yield was valued at £32,750.
Production of opal in S.A. m 1937 amountcc
to £11,887, after having fallen from £11,056
in 1929 to £1517 in 1934. In 1920 the return was
£24,000. In W.A., 609 carats (rough) of emeralds,
valued at £278, was produced during 1929 in the
Cue district on the Murchison goldfield, and
in 1939 it was reported that 3750 carats was
produced from the same area. In addition,
small quantities of various other precious stones
have from time to time been discovered in the
different States, including agates, amethysts,
beryls, chiastolite, garnets, olivines, rubies,
moonstones, topazes, tourmalines, turquoises
and zircons.
* * * *
In preparing water-color paper for use one
method is to damp the paper and paste it down
with flour paste on to strawboard —when the
paper dries it is stretched tight. I have no
difficulty in doing this, but the strawboard in-
variably buckles. Is there any way of over-
coming this buckling? Would sizing the straw-
board help? —23ol.
Usual practice is to paste the paper to a
proper drawing board. Three-ply would be
better than strawboard. If you must use straw-
board, paste a sheet of ordinary paper on back
to neutralise the buckle.
* * * *
(1) What does "36 degrees B.” mean in a
recipe for soap? (2) What is lye? (3) Where
obtainable ? (4) Could lye be made from wood
ash or caustic soda? (5) Price of coconut oil
and where obtainable? —2310.
(1) “B.” is the sign for Baume, and applies
only to the specific gravity of the lye (Baume
—pronounced 80-may —was a French chemist,
and his hygrometer and hydrometer measure-
ments are seldom used in English). (2), (3) and
(4) Lye is simply ash or caustic soda. (5) Coco-
nut oil is too expensive to use for home-made
soap. Buy a ilb. tin of caustic soda, melt
down your fat and follow directions on the
label; you will get a good soap with little
labor.
Brief Answers.
E.M.J.: The owner of the copyright of a
song may apply for registration of his right.
Application should be made to Registrar of
Copyrights, Copyright Office, Canberra. A
complete copy of the work must accompany
the application. The right subsists during the
life of the author and 50 years after his
death. Registration is not essential W.0.T.:
The Architects Act does not deal with the
matter W.8.G.: Write to the Officer-in-
Charge, Munitions Employment Bureau, 132
George-street North, Sydney... .D.L.H.: There
was a treaty of commerce between Great
Britain and Portugal concluded by the British
Ambassador, Paul Methuen, in 1703. It pro-
vided for the importation of port wine at re-
duced rates and led to the popularising of that
drink in Britain S.S.P.: If that spring were
broken it would not function at all. Let a
competent mechanic have a look at it....
T.M.S.: Cooranga was sired by Dunnottar
from Kooloona J.K.F.; Tom Morris’s skip-
ping endurance record, without a break, was
18,463 turns in 101 minutes, at Penneshaw,
Kangaroo Island, S.A., on December 30, 1933.
.... G.L.0.: It was announced in July that
Vichy had appointed General Weygand Gover-
nor-General of Algeria in succession to Admiral
Abrial, and that Weygand would remain the
Vichy Government’s Delegate-General in North
Africa A.R.A.: Blood-and-bone manure
in the latest list is quoted at £7 10s. a ton and
11s. 9d. a bag W.R.C.: There was an article
by Frederick D. McCarthy on “Chipped Stone
Implements of the Aborigines” in the “Austra-
lian Museum Magazine” of March 10, 1941
D.8.P.: Write to the Deputy-Commissioner,
Repatriation Commission, N. S. Wales branch,
Sydney H.A.0.: The £19,000 paid for Talk-
ing is an Australian record price, but is not a
world record. Big prices paid in England in-
clude Call Boy £60,000, Tracery £53,000,
Solario £47,235, Windsor Lad £50,000, Blen-
heim £50,000, Donatello II (Italy) £45,000;
£60,000 was given for the unbeaten Italian
three-year-old colt Nearco, and in England
21,000gns. was given for the two-year-old Duke
of Westminster... .C.S.W.: “Alderman” origi-
nated with the Saxons, the term being given to
Governors, magistrates, etc G.T.V.; Specu-
lum metal has a high polishing quality which
makes it suitable for the reflecting surfaces of
telescopes, for which it is much used. It is
a hard white substance formed of one part
of tin with two parts of copper C.8.A.:
Timbers virtually free from knots, such as Tas-
manian myrtle, may be more expensive in the
first place, but, in view of the anticipated trouble
you mention, the additional cost is justified.
. ...P.P.D.: The “Australian Museum Maga-
zine” states that a diamond weighing 28 carats,
supposed to have been found at Mount Werong,
near Oberon, N. S. Wales, almost certainly
came from South Africa. The largest on record
is one of 6i carats, from Copeton, N.S.W
A.T.M.: As there are restrictions on the number
of subjects for which a candidate may sit, such
a result is impossible.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
5.8. W.:
Oh come, ye stars! Oh come, ye stripes!
Lend here a helping hand.
H.A.S.:
For fifty years they did prepare
To crush the British nation,
But ever England held her sway
And sank their expedition.
G.W.: What exactly is the moral lesson to
be drawn from the fact that the kookaburra
eats snakes and lizards? Do you want to eat
Hitler? D.W.C.: Don’t believe that any
woman has eyes like “gimlet balls”.. . .T.G.W.:
If you want to “lose yourself on lips where
laughter lurks” in print, lose a few of the
“l’s” G.N.: Te-tum, te-tum, te-tum, te-
tum M.H.H.: Somewhat muddy for a
“Glitter Over Water” C.S.: Have yet to
hear a Digger, going off to fight “the ravening
hounds of Hun,” ejaculate “One boon I crave
of thee, pale m00n... I love a maid”....
P.C.W.: End’s disappointing M.V.G.: A
trifle breathless P.J.1.: “It was worthy in-
spiration.” Yes; but that’s not enough....
G.M.: Write it out like this: “Crowing of
roosters. Calls answered. Cows lowing. Milk-
ing ushers in the dawn of another day”: and
where’s your poem gone? M.H.: Try a
woman’s paper... .Tablis: “And always did
agree....as you will plainly see.” We plainly
see you were stuck for a rhyme... .G.H.; Just
a sunset J.K.: Amateurish Q.R.R.: Half
a line then: “Come! Join our gallant army!
.. ..M.G.: Try elsewhere A.M.: Something
to it P.W.: Close 8.P.: Both weaklings.
....M.8.D.: Slight....F.C.: You might try
pars L.R.; “We must gird up and effort
make.” True... .P.H.: Not far 0ff....R.C.:
Well, it was a change from the usual “V” pome.
S.C.H.: Overdone C.McI.: Elementary.
G.H.: “Toast” not crisp enough J.L.:
Your literary steed is as yet unbroken P.P.D.:
Call again when you’ve lost your soapbox
C.D.: If you must find orphans with faithful
dogs don’t bring ’em here PB.S.: If the
Controller of Salvage read that he’d be after
you for wasting paper... .K.8.M.: Yes, it’s
funny, but we laughed louder the first time
we heard it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.H.: Phil May did it better... .G.L.R.:
Drawing impossible, gag improbable, optimism
incredible... .R.J.C.: Neither of them bad
enough to raise curses or good enough to justify
encomiums... .J.H.: Portrait (?) of Uncle Sam
with a face like Chief Little Wolf’s, 18in. legs
and a beard like a 1902 cow cocky’s being
harangued by a Russki on one side and a
slant-eyed dwarf on other makes neither sense
nor art... .A.G.A.: You’ll need a lot of prac-
tice before you reach publication level; watch
hats and hands D.P.: Stillborn offspring of
Brush and Wash going back for interment
A.F.: Thanks a lot. The art editor won a
bet as to which side up you had to look at it.
.... J.P.: Puns annoy us at any time, but the
“matter-o’-money-matrimony” one is particu-
larly atrocious J. 0.: The first gag we looked
at was an old Bulletin joke, so the rest went
straight into the basket.


STAMPS
100 New Zealands, all different 8/-
100 Australians, all different 4/-
40 Pacific Islands, all different 4/-
We buy all Australians for Cash. Betail and
Air Lasts—Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Est. 56 Years.)
THE
lIMITCn iNSURAN CE
U 11 1 IC U COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager.
T. O. REYNOLDS,
Aest. (Sen. Manager.
OMPA
SA
»5S
m
m
m
n
m
Just rinse under the tap
and wipe. No blade to
remove. Strops itself in
10 seconds. Changing a
blade is simple, though
rarely necessary . . . He
is indeed fortunate whose
birthday gift is a Valet
Autostrop Razor with
a lifetime’s service.
BRITISH MADE
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney,
You will admire the Valet
Autostrop Safety Razor
as much for its beautiful
precision-construction as
for its ingenious simplic-
ity. It is an amazing
piece of mechanism, with
nothing to take to pieces.
A splash under the tap
cleanses it. The self-
stropping device automa-
tically re-sets the blade
at the correct angle —one
blade lasts for weeks.
10 for iOd. 20 for 18
E 1869
CRAVENA
IjouM aapbeeiatt tkeh
• 0
■
advr
GREECE FROM THE OTHER SIDE.
“Ek Dum”: “Collier’s” achieved a
scoop in Greece. One of its men, W. B.
Courtney, went through the campaign
with a Panzer unit.
What Courtney has to say brings a
new realisation of what Britain and the
Dominions are up against and of the
need for reorganisation of fighting
methods and implements, which has been
stressed vigorously by Major-General
Iven Mackay.
According to Courtney, a Panzer unit
is not a mere hodge-podge of tanks and
armored cars. It includes a wide variety
of sizes, purposes, shapes, fuel usage and
combinations of treads and wheels. “From
baby tanks on rubber treads that scuttle
past like frightened beetles and turn and
pirouette like ballet dancers, it ranges
through squad cars, three-man motor-
cycles (the cavalry of Nazi Germany),
tractors hauling big guns, tractors mount-
ing what appear to be seventy-fives, up
to huge tanks with guns and conning
towers like those of submarines. You
are surprised that more units are not
Diesel-powered”:
From Salonika onwards you gain your
most comprehensive idea of the true nature
of the formidableness of a Panzer division.
You are provided with an endless suc-
cession of superb bird’s-eye pictures, back-
ward and forward from low and high, of
your Panzer column... .German custom
keeps 20 metres between the vehicles. Some-
times at one-way-traffic ravines or hairpins,
you might have to wait as long as five
hours for a single Panzer division to pass.
“Content that their power will paralyse his
brain,” as Courtney puts it, “the Panzers
do little to confound the foe’s eyes”—•
no camouflage. Mostly the column is the
witch-grey of a Berlin afternoon, while
overhead the Stukas are of the same hue,
but with nose and tail dandelion yellow.
Greek, roads the traveller found almost
intact—“the Germans, in conformity with
Panzer tactics, did not damage the roads
rather they strove by speed and
ceaseless harassment to prevent the
enemy doing it They needed those
roads.” The enemy ’planes ignored the
roads and bombed the roadsides, sowing
craters along them for miles as neatly
and regularly spaced as fence posts.
(“You speculate what might be done for
the betterment of humanity, with the
vast money totals wasted in war de-
struction”) :
Some damage has been done here by the
retreating British and Greek forces to im-
pede the onrush of the Germans, but
you wonder at its lightness, especially on
mountain hairpins which are set-ups for
air-bombing. Moreover, you are filled with
curiosity when you see on the fields of
Salonika and Athens many British and a
few Greek ’planes that were captured un-
damaged. Why hadn’t they been flown
away? ... .The Germans claim it was due
to the swiftness of their advance, plus the
activity of the Stukas.
One contradiction of Blitzkrieg is eco-
nomy of a grim sort. Unlike the last war,
in which fluctuating lines churned vast
countrysides into sterility, you may travel a
hundred miles or more now without
finding a blemish upon the landscape.
Blitzkrieg jumps from place to place and
destroys only where it strikes. Stukas and
Panzers exact the heaviest tolls ol material,
rolling stock, stores and prisoners from
the elements of surprise and speed. As with
the countryside, so with men. Thus, you
can believe the claims of both sides to
low casualty lists and forget that “heaps-
of-dead” stuff about the other fellow.
Each buries the enemy dead as well as his
own.
From Salonika to Athens, 350 miles
(Courtney writes), was “the hardest going
from dawn to midnight you ever want
to endure.” But he did not do the
trip under Stuka bombing and in dark-
ness, as did the A.I.F,
Larissa, where there was severe fight-
ing—the N. S. Welshmen played puss-
in-the-corner here with the Hun—with
tanks manoeuvring like infantry on the
plain, came “nearest to anything you’ve
seen in all your wars of ‘not one stone
left standing upon another stone.’ ” A
few days before the Stukas came an
earthquake brought half the wretched
town down.
Prisoners told what had become an old
story—“ They got behind us.” This
was achieved by “the beautiful timing
which seems to be Hitler’s secret
weapon.” The initial blows fell on three
days, spread over nearly a week and
widely apart, from Macedonia to Slovenia.
The Allies could not organise a front,
because they did not know where the
next splitting thrust would come from.
The urynechanised Greeks were only
in the Pmdus when the British forces had
reached the Piraeus. The Germans raced
in between the two forces, causing the
wholesale collapse and surrender of the
Greeks.
The Germans paid tribute to the British
—particularly the A.1.F.:
“Here in Larissa,” an infantryman said,
“the Greeks told us that when Stukas came
down at them the Tommies just sat quietly
in their trucks or walked along looking
up at the ’planes, waving and shout-
ing jokes at them. At Thermopylae—l
won’t forget that—the British left a strong
rearguard [they happened to be mainly
Australians and Maorilanders], but we got
around them. When the British commander
came to surrender —what a magnificent figure
of a man, so tall, so straight, and he looked
right through you!”
At Nish on the way down in Serbia,
after having noticed with astonishment
earlier “the way the Austrian village cops
yell at Panzer drivers and make them
obey local traffic rules,” the Division
came upon its first Allied prisoners:
Hordes of Serb prisoners trudge dismally
along under guard to one side of the road,
and the Panzer soldiers pay no more atten-
tion to them than to goats. But suddenly
you feel a current of excited interest run-
ning up the Panzer column even before you
hear the shout carried back: “Hier kommen
die Tommies.” There’s a general stand-
ing up in each truck a craning of necks.
Along came three British trucks and one
Greek truck loaded with Australians. The
Germans and Australians stare at one an-
other gingerly as if at creatures from
different planets, as if each half-expected
the other not to be familiar human shapes
at all. If there’s a halt the strange em-
barrassment melts, the Germans gather
. round for a close look and there’s grin-
ning on both sides and halting experimen-
tation with languages. At Nish you en-
counter 250 prisoners mostly Anzacs,
with a few S’Africans and one Englishman.
They were the rearguard captured at
Fiorina [i.e., the vanguard of Mackay’s
men]. The German officers give you per-
mission to interview them, but the Aus-
tralians remain cagey They’re a fine, up-
standing lot, but it is obvious that they are
disgusted as they look askance at their
Balkan surroundings The German
officer tells you admiringly, “The Serbs
are no trouble. They don’t want to escape.
But those Tommies! You’ve got to watch
them every minute or they’re over the
barbed wire.”
Another picture brings the tragedy and
heroism of the campaign right home:
There’s a small white cross beside the
road where the Panzers roar and roll across
the plains of Thessaly. It was rudely
wrought of wood-batten strips from a shell
box. A sprig of wayside foliage is fastened
to it; and dangling on top there’s a British
helmet. The favorite souvenirs of this war
are enemy helmets, but those you have
seen borne off were from prisoners or cap-
tured stores. The ones that belong to the
fallen are left to them. Here, then, lies
a boy who came a long way from home and
friends and loved ones in the new country
of Australia to die in an ancient land.
It was obvious that the Germans were
not cut off from the outside world. The
Panzer officers had “fun at the expense
of the amateur experts on the American
papers, Reserve Major This and Com-
mander That.” One chuckled that “since
September, 1939, they have been pre-
dieting that Generals Mud, Winter, Flood,
Time, Spring, Initiative, Mountains and
all the other mythical generals would
stall the Blitzkriegs. Those experts have
made a lot of money out of being con-
sistently wrong, haven’t they? Give
them one tip for me, please. Say to them
two Allied Generals have fought very
well —on the Axis side: Generals Wishful
Thinking and Misinformation.”


FOLLOW THIS
LINE OF
REASON
i
/Nl
«W
1
"•'VV
1
'll
t£)
tf
LONDON
ND
BV ABBOINTMCNT
m
'6oM,
"•r
"/*r
OK
( Sr
-S
7Xp
/iV
Ei*
6fi4V
£o*o
GENUINE
LONDON
GIN CAN
ONLY
COME FROM
LONDON
ENGLAND
where
Gordon's
Gin
IS DISTILLED
If maq cosf a
little more buf
its WELL worth it!
Sta*u&
Sup*^
THE HEART OF A GOOD COCKTAIL
LTD° LONDON. ENGLAND.
Jlu LahyeSi gin diMilkhi in the woild
y.
, > c
y -"yWMK-^
..-A
/-J /'*- ■-H i-
>■
>-r- v v
<r>vs
RE NOW A
CONTINUOUS
CHANNEL
OF INVESTMENT
By inviting advance subscriptions to the next war
loan now—with interest payable from the date of
subscription the Commonwealth Government is
giving investors the opportunity to help the war
effort as soon as they have funds available. Appli-
cation forms on which full details and conditions
are given can be obtained from any bank or
stockbroker.
INVEST IN THE NEXT
WAR LOAN NOW!
Business,Roĺleiy Ete
Mount Morgan
Fate hasn’t been very kind to the
management and shareholders. Prices
are right, but at the mine the weather,
the grade and the overburden have been
against the winning of the long-awaited
results. Details of mining figures may
no longer be published, but some idea
of the co.’s difficulties may be gathered
from the abbreviated annual report.
Wet weather continued longer than
usual and considerably hampered opera-
tions in the opencut. Grade of milling
material fell off owing to lower values
in the overburden, the ratio of waste
material to sulphide ore mined, how-
ever, falling from 1.78 to 1 to 1.58 to 1.
In order to get out the desired reserve
ore, over the next 12 months the ratio
will be lifted to about 2 to 1, which in-
dicates a further stretch of low returns
unless better values now showing up
are maintained. Another difficulty en-
countered last term was the fact that
reserve ore mined in some cases com-
prised 27 p.c. filled slopes. All filling
mined was payable, but unpayable
patches are looked for later. Ore over
the old bumt-out slopes has become
almost calcined by roasting, and in the
wet weather turns into cement. In the
most favorable of circumstances it is hard
to mine and treat, and the acid in it has
been rough on the plant, which is now
being adapted to the problem.
Restricted mill throughput followed the
wet conditions in the opencut and the
treatment of acid ore. Variations in the
types of ore affected recoveries, and a
higher ratio of lime had to be used in
treatment. In No. 1 mill and the sulphide
section of No. 2 mill, however, mining
and treatment costs together were
brought down from 12s. lid. a ton to
10s. lid. The sulphide section of No.
2 mill treats ore won in the process of
removing overburden. In the oxide sec-
tion of No. 2 mill the same costs were
brought down from 3s. 6yd. to 2s. Bd. a
ton. These cost reductions are the most
pleasing features of the year’s results.
Total mining costs were much the same at
2s. 7d. a ton, but smelting costs fell from
£l9 7s: 9d. per ton of copper to £l3 12s.
a ton. Power production costs were also
cut.
In the oxide section absence of oxide
ore in the working faces and overburden
led to more dump material being milled.
Wet weather seriously interfered with ore
deliveries. Total overburden removed by
the co. last year was 1,364,887 tons,
compared with 954,105 tons in the pre-
ceding term, removal costs increasing by
£37,103. Even greater quantities will be
involved this year.
The co. doesn’t reveal its recovery
figures for the term, but apparently, from
the circumstances outlined and pos-
sibly others, they were not pleasing. It
is clear enough from the overburden
figures given, coupled with the published
ratio of overburden to ore, that a record
quantity of ore was mined during the
financial year. Yet, in spite of all this
effort and the stable price of metals, net
results fell precipitously. Here are some
comparisons of gross and net results:
June, Income. Surplus.! Ord. Dividends.
1935 .. £347,900 £110,433 40 p.c. = £BO,OOO
1936 .. 390,821 104,961 55 „ „ 127,600
1937 .. 515,056 143,043 15 „ „ 40,333
1938 .. 628,566 116,064 30 „ „ 88,049
1939 .. 878,219 124,409 10 „ „ *40,882
1940 .. 989,815 255,895 20 „ ~*74,700
1941 .. 819,168 82,667 Nil *16,000
♦lncludes 8 p.c. to prefs. f Before depreciation.
Blister copper realised £4919 more at
£777,103, but bullion proceeds (£40,305)
slumped £175,940. Sundry income im-
proved £374 (to £1760). Total income
(£819,168) fell £170,647, while mining,
treatment and realisation charges could
be brought down only £6967, Working
profit dropped by £163,680 to £157,667.
Overhead exes, rose £9548, and the net
result was £173,228 lower at £82,667
before sending £34,810 to depreciation
reserve. That takes no account of
additions of £15,684 to other reserves,
mainly in respect of stimulating copper
production, visibly not put through p.
and 1. figures. The ord. shareholders
were passed over, but the prefs. got their
8 p.c. (£16,000).
Outlay on plant during the year was
£79,519. Of this, £70,922 was in respect
of machinery for increasing copper
output:
1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital .. £493,500 £493,500 £493,500
Reserves .. 136,419 299,118 376,873
P. and 1. balance 130,207 144,422 147,519
Investments, etc. 1,258 55,961 88,991
Debtors .. .. 3,085 1,592 5,154
Unsold products 183,606 91,834 84,291
Stocks and stores 153,594 169,979 143,749
£341,543 £319,366 £322,185
Liabilities .. 149,933 18,646 17,587
Surplus liquids.. £192,610 £300,720 £304,598
Mine, etc. .. 53,420 53,420 53,420
Plant .. .. 509,096 578,900 657,874
Intangibles .. 6,000 4,000 2,000
The outlay was covered by retained earn-
ings, so there was no deterioration in the
liquid position. Most of the investments
item is provision for eventual repayment
of the £200,000 of pref. capital.
Since the close of accounts there has
been improvement in values that the
market hasn’t responded to. Reserves of
higher-grade ore are being tapped be-
tween the 450 ft. bench and the 550 ft. level
—much of it from 5-10dwt., made pos-
sible (and likely to continue) because of
the advanced recession of the westward
benches. In addition, patches of fair-
grade copper ore are being taken just
below the batter on No. 2 bench, and the
conditions which gave rise to a nearly
total eclipse of reserve ore about No. 14
winze at various periods in the second
half of last term aren’t expected to recur.
It raises hopes of resumption of small
regular dividends in the near future,
particularly as the co. is now getting £9O
a ton for refined copper in excess of
4000 tons p.a. Also the board has become
interested in Mt. Chalmers, a potential
producer of 1800 tons of copper and
63000 z. gold a year, for immediate de-
velopment of which it has received a
Government loan of £lO,OOO. It has been
after another advance of £llO,OOO to
establish a refinery at Mt. Morgan, too,
claiming that it would save nearly £5 a
ton in blister refining and realisation
charges, but nothing so far appears to
have eventuated.
The hesitation about establishing an
Australian aluminium industry is a pecu-
liarity of Canberra’s war effort. It is
especially peculiar when one remembers
that a great deal of help has been given
to the shale-oil industry, which could
hardly be more of an economic proposi-
tion than the treatment of Australian
bauxite, whatever faults may be found
with the constitution of some of the
known deposits. Towards the end of
last year Canberra granted permission
for the raising of £2,500,000 of capital
by the Standard Oil Co. of Australia
for the purpose of exploiting the low-
grade Baerami (N.S.W.) oil-shale de-
posits, a fact which this paper found
grounds to criticise. Australia must even-
tually establish an aluminium industry of
its own, and the present time, in which
the metal forms such an important place
in our war programme, seems an oppor-
tunity to start getting on with the job.
M. J. Martin, of Sulphates, Ltd., a con-
cern that has been treating Australian
bauxite ores for a number of years,
Malcolm Newman, the mining engineer,
and L. J. Hartnett, of General Motors
and Commonwealth Aircraft, have be-
come keenly interested in the possibility
of turning Australian bauxite into
aluminium on a large scale. Sulphates,
Ltd., and White Metals, Ltd., are between
them retaining the services of an
aluminium expert who was engaged in
ferro-alloy work for the B.H.P. Permis-
sion is being sought to form a £1,500,000
co. to make aluminium at Port Kembla
from bauxite mined at Mt. Tamborine
(Q.), Boolarra (Vic.), Wingello (N.S.W.)
and elsewhere.
In addition to bauxite, alunite is a
source of aluminium. Sulphates, Ltd.,
has worked deposits of this stuff near
Bulhadelah (N.S.W.), and though it is
not such a fruitful source of the white
metal it has other possibilities. West-
ralia’s Government reckons there are
1,666,000,000 tons of alunitic clay at Mt.
Campion containing 60 p.c, alunite,
which, after treatment, will yield
1.750.000 tons of potassium sulphate,
3.250.000 tons of alumina and 750,000
tons of sulphur. If treated primarily for
the potash content, it has been estimated
that the residues obtained in making
11.000 tons of potash a year would con-
tain 18,000 tons of alumina —enough to
produce over 8000 tons of metallic
aluminium. There are at least five known
deposits of alunite in South Australia as
well.
Australian Aluminium Co., associated
with British Aluminium, Aluminium,
Ltd. (Canada), and Electrolytic Zinc,
turns out alloy sheets from imported
ingots. An extrusion plant is also being
installed to make alloys of aluminium
with magnesium and copper. This co.
doesn’t make aluminium. Some time
back it was announced by Canberra that
a factory for the making of alumina from
bauxite and a smeltery for the produc-
tion of aluminium would be built in Aus-
tralia, the bauxite to be obtained, in the
first place anyway, from Borneo.


TH AT
ADVICE WORTH SEEKING
Are you satisfied that the arrangements made for administration of your estate
cannot be improved? Are you convinced that there are no loopholes? Have you
definite and complete assurance that your wishes cannot be misinterpreted? If you
have the slightest doubt in your mind, or any problem, it is suggested that you call
on Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd. for advice. The matter can be discussed in absolute
confidence and without obligation. Counsel given will be unbiassed and completely
friendly. If a personal call is not possible, a letter will bring an immediate and
helpful response.
An interesting Brochure is available setting out the features of the special services
this Company is able to render. The book (entitled "The Task That Few Men Want )
will be forwarded free of charge on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
BALANCE-SHEET
OF THE
Commonwealth Bank of Hustralla
AT 30th JUNE, 1941.
LIABILITIES.
£140,325,346 18 4
Contingent Liabilities-
Outstanding Credits
per Contra 1,333,457 5 5
Total General Bank and
Rural Credits De-
partments 141,658,804 3 9
Note Issue Department 77,144,817 13 2
£218,803.621 16 11
ASSETS.
£
Coin, Bullion and Cash
Balances 4,170,979
Australian Notes 2,518,769
Money at Short Call In
London 53,999,231
Investments—
British, Colonial &
Government Se-
curities 11,895,064
Commonwealth Gov-
ernment Securl-
-11 e s (Including
Treasury Bills) . 37,745,228
Bills Receivable In Lon-
don and Remit-
tances In Transit 4,403,092
Bills Discounted, Loans
and Advances to
Customers, and
Other Assets 24,855,151
Bank Premises 737,829
8. d.
2 5
0 0
19 7
7 10
6 4
16 6
18 0
7 8
£140,325,346 18 4
Liabilities of Customers
and Others on Let-
ters of Credit per
Contra 1,333,457 5 5
Total General Bank and
Rural Credits De-
partments 141,658,804 3 9
Note Issue Department 77,144,817 13 2
£218,803,621 16 11
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR HALF-YEAR ENDED
30th JUNE, 1941.
General Banking Department—
To Reserve Fund 87,552 18 2
„ National Debt Sink-
ing Fund 87,552 18 2
Rural Credits Department—
To Reserve Fund 12,835 8 1
„ Development Fund . 12,835 8 1
Note Issue Department—
To Commonwealth Trea-
sury 673,344 7 4
£874,120 19 10
£ s. d.
By Profits for Half-year
ended 30th June,
1941
» Banking Business ... 175,105 16 4
„ Rural Credits Depart-
ment 25,670 16 2
„ Note Issue Department 673,344 7 4
£874,120 19 10
RESERVE FUND.
£ s. d.
To Balance 3,183.713 10 11
£3,183,713 10 11
£ s. d.
By Balance 3,096,160 12 0
„ Transfer from Pro-
fit and Boss
Account of one
half of the Net
Profits of Bank-
ing Business .. 87,552 18 2
£3,183,713 10 11
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, "1
compiled from Statements furnished by I
the several Offices of the Bank, is true I
and correct. j
E. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant. J
and on behalf of the Board.
H. T. ARMITAGE,
Governor.
Sydney, 3rd September, 1941.
Note Issue Department.
LIABILITIES.
Notes In Circulation ..
Reserve for Notes not
Presented
Special Reserve —Prem-
ium on Gold Sold
Other Liabilities
£ s. d.
67,864,038 0 0
39,388 10 0
7,754,954 10 4
1,486,436 12 10
£77,144,817 13 2
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Gold and English Sterl-
ing Reserve 17,705,021 19 1
Debentures and Other
Securities 51,367,017 5 6
Other Assets 8,072,778 8 7
£77,144,817 13 2
Certified Correct.
BERTRAND LATHAM.
Secretary, Note Issue Department.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
and on behalf of the Board.
H. T. ARMITAGE,
Governor.
Sydney, 3rd September, 1941.
Commonwealth Savinas Bank ot Huotralia
BALANCE-SHEET AT 30th JUNE, 1941.
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d.
Reserve Fund 3,093,669 12 2
Depositors’ Balances .. 150,553,865 5 4
Contingency Account &
Other Liabilities .. 8,184,705 3 7
£161,832.240 1 1
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Coin, Cash Balances and
Money at Short Call 17,033,635 2 10
Australian Notes 278,100 10 0
Government Securities . 107,151,744 17 9
Securities of Munici-
palities and Other
Public Authorities 33,349,357 10 5
Other Assets 3,293,724 19 3
Bank Premises 725,677 0 10
£161,832,240 1 1
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR HALF-YEAR ENDED
30th JUNE, 1941.
£ 3. d.
To Savings Bank Reserve
Fund 100,517 7 8
„ National Debt Sinking
Fund 100,517 7 8
£201,034 15 4
£ s. d.
Profit for half-year
ended 30th June,
1941, after provision
for payments
amounting to
£130,848/2/6 due to
State Authorities
under Savings Bank
A malgamatlon
Agreements 201,034 IS 4
£201,034 15 4
RESERVE FUND.
£ s. d.
To Balance 3,093,669 12 2
£3,093,669 12 2
By Balance
„ Transfer from Pro-
fit & Loss Account
of one half of the
Net Profits ....
2,993,152 4 6
100,517 T 8
£3,093,669 12 2
We certify that the above Balance Sheet,'
compiled from Statements furnished by
the several Offices of the Bank, is true
and correct.
B. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board.
H. T. ARMITAGB,
Governor.
Sydney, 3rd September, 1941.
Certificates as to the correctness of these- accounts have been given by the Auditor-General
for the Commonwealth (Mr. R. Abercrombie).
£217,000,000 for War
After having been led to expect a war
expenditure variously indicated by the
Treasurer at £250,000,000, a figure later
lifted to £280,000,000 and then cut to
£225,000,000, Australians on Thursday
learnt that the actual budgeted-for war
outlay for 1941-42 is £217,000,000, an
advance of £47,000,000 on 1940-41.
Though the figure is “conservative,” it
depends more on borrowing and similar
political concessions than last year. In
1941-42 borrowing will account for 38
p.c. of total Budget outlay and post-war
credits for 8 p.c.; 1940-41 borrowings
totalled 30 p.c. Civil appropriation goes
up from £85,000,000 to £102,000,000,
largely because of £13,000,000 for child
endowment, giving a total Budget outlay
£64,000,000 higher at £319,000,000.
In one respect the Prime Minister’s
preliminary estimates were near the mark
—the “gap” between anticipated current
revenue and expenditure (after allowing
for public borrowing of £60,000,000) is
£94,000,000. It will be met as to a
maximum £62,000,000 by borrowing from
the “banking system” and as to
£32,000,000 by new taxes and compulsory
post-war credits, the latter expected to
yield £20,000,000 (carrying 2 p.c. interest)
from individuals and £5,000,000 from
companies on the basis of 20 p.c. of un-
distributed profits and depreciation allow-
ances. Only actual tax increases are on
the higher income brackets and 6d. in
the £ on the company impost. These
and rescission of deductions for children
after the first as a result of endowment
will turn in £5,500,000* But, including
£8,000,000 payroll tax, the whole field
of taxation is expected to produce
£18,000,000 more at £148,000,000, despite
anticipated fall of £9,000,000 in Customs
revenue. At £50,500,000, total yield from
income tax will return £11,000,000 more,
excise and sales tax an extra £7,000,000,
and waiving of State taxes as deductions
—extending the range of double taxation
—will also help. Revision of postal
charges will produce most of the lift
of £2,000,000 in business income
(£22,000,000). Exemption for income tax
stays at £200; for compulsory loans it
is £lOO.
In aggregate, this table gives an idea
of where the money will come from and
go:
Expenditure.
Actual, Estimated,
War expenditure— 1940-41. 1941-42.
Australia .. .. £127,000,000 £160,000,000
Overseas .. .. 43,000,000 57,000,000
£170,000,000 £217,000,000
Civil expenditure .. 85,000,000 102,000,000
Total .. .. £255,000,000 £319,000,000
Revenue.
Cash in hand .. £28,000,000 £2,000,000
Taxation .. .. 130,000,000 148,000,000
Business income .. 20,000,000 22,000,000
Post-war credits .. 25,000,000
Loans —
Australiat.. .. 62,000,000 122,000,000
London .. .. 15,000,000
Total £255,000,000 £319,000,000
t Including banks.
There is no heavy cash carryover this
year. Still, the £57,000,000 of overseas
expenditure will not involve borrowing in
London and so creating future interest
charges on our exports ; £49,000,000 of
it is expected to be recovered from other
Governments for war work done. Thus
actual gross war outlay within Australia
will amount to £209,000,000, as against
£136,000,000 last year. Part of the
monetary increase reflects higher costs,
but the figures are still testimony to the
growing effort on the industrial front.
Of the £43,000,000 spent overseas last
year, loans from Britain provided
£15,000,000 and the other £28,000,000
came from London funds. These were
nevertheless “appreciably” higher at the
close than at the beginning of the year.
Allowing for £11,000,000 of work paid
for by other Administrations, the im-
plication there is that our ordinary
balance of payments, apparently includ-
ing produce paid for but not shipped,
was favorable to the extent of
£17,000,000.
In at least two directions, Mr. Fadden’s
proposals are new here. First is the
“National Contribution,” providing for a
uniform levy on the same individual
incomes irrespective of State of domicile
by means of compulsory loans varying
according to the weight of taxation in
each State. On the surface, that appears
to “differentiate between States” and
present constitutional problems, but Mr.
Fadden says not. Secondly, compulsory
deposits with the central bank are to be
exacted from the commercial institutions
in order to “sterilise” the new money to
be pumped into the monetary system.
There has been no suggestion so far of
any but the closest co-operation between
central and trading banks, which by
control of advances in the national in-
terest have restricted the most profitable
part of their business to pre-war dimen-
sions, while witnessing earnings being
depleted by rising costs and Government
control of exchange dealings, etc.
In a “compromising” way, the
Fadden Government has shown some
grasp of the realities involved by its effort,
in the Keynes plan, to reduce competition
by the people (among themselves and
with the Government) for the falling
volume of many goods of normal con-
sumption at rising prices. Adoption of
the Budget will depend partly on how
enticing proves the birdseed extended to
Mr. Wilson in the form of a Common-
wealth Mortgage Bank, ostensibly to carry
out a recommendation of the Banking
Commission, whose only suggestion
adopted to date has been publication of
a monthly statistical bulletin.
Minimisation of inflation, however, will
be gained only by limitation of wage and
salary increases to actual rises in living
costs, lines along which Canada is pro-
ceeding. The complement of that policy
is equally rigid control of company
profits, a step the U.S.A. now proposes.
But those are both things calling for
more courage and boldness than present
Canberra inhabitants are likely to muster,
as shown by some of the present half-
measures to curtail luxury spending.
Normally, last week’s cut in bank-
deposit rates would have provoked a
strengthening of values on ’Change. But,
with an uncertain Budget in the offing,
which hasn’t turned out so “severe” after
all, and Russia’s back hard-pressed to the
wall, there was little doing in share-
markets, which, if anything, were a trifle
easier in the early part of the week. They
closed dull but steady last week-end.
* * * •
Because of costs, Whakatane Paper
Mills, up Bay of Plenty way (M.L.),
hasn’t yet found board-making as re-
munerative as the location implies.
Profits, however, are now showing up
on a scale “within measurable distance
of the margin permissible under price
control” —a percentage originally based
on capital investment in the mill only,
not on the £2,058,611 share-register total.
For the year to June a loss (after depre-
ciation of £36,163) of £13,180 compares
with one of £72,994 in 1940. The im-
provement reflects increase from 7000
tons to 9300 tons in output and a lift in
revenue equal to £34 10s. (against £22)
per ton of total production —whether all
due to price adjustments or partly to
bigger outturn of quality boards isn’t
clear. Producing the present range, limit
of mill capacity is about 10,000 tons
p.a.; additions are in progress to lift the
figure. But reasonable returns to share-
holders, as well as embarkation on
chemical pulp and then newsprint manu-
facture, still envisaged, appear well away
in the future.


THE SERVICE MAN
The Drift in Russia.
“Ek Dum”: After the capture of Kiev,
the operations of the invaders resembled
those which cut up the southern French
armies after the breaching of the Magi-
not Line. Pockets of captives were
shaken out of the vast net thrown round
the Dnieper-Desna region ; but there was
violent disagreement about the size of the
haul. Losovsky said that Marshal
Budenny, with his usual foresight, had
taken almost all his forces in good order
to a line defending the Kharkov region.
It was difficult to reconcile this claim and
others from the same quarter with the
timetable of the battle. On the other
hand, it seemed impossible that any large
force, with modern equipment, ringed so
hurriedly—the Von Bock and Von Rund-
stedt linkage occupied only three days—
could not have put up a fight which
inflicted severe losses on the winners.
Nevertheless, on September 27, a week
after the fall of Kiev, German Radios
dislocated their programmes and delayed
their English transmissions in order to
give, in German, a special communique
from the Fiihrer’s headquarters. The
High Command was pleased to announce
“the conclusion of the double flank en-
circlement movement which by terrible
pressure had destroyed five Soviet armies
without even small remnants being able
to escape.” The Germans had taken
665,000 prisoners, 884 tanks and 3718
guns, with enormous quantities of war
material as yet uncounted. It was a
“victory on a scale such as history had
never seen before,”
No mention was made in this exultant
stuff of the millions of Russian peasants
and workers to whom, as Mr. Churchill
said on June 22, the stealing of their daily
bread, their crops and the oil which drives
their ploughs will bring famine “without
example in human history.”
On Sept. 28 a Berlin military spokes-
man said that the way was now clear
for further major operations, and that
their gigantic successes marked the turn-
ing point in the war, but that the decisive
effects would only be obvious at a later
dale. The new operations were already
being launched.
The German story of the Kiev opera-
tions may be here summarised. It
asserted that the defenders numbered 70
Soviet divisions of about 1,300,000 men.
During the second half of August the
Germans drove the southern portion of
Marshal Timoshenko’s forces to Cher-
nigov and attacked them on the Desna
and the Sozh —tributaries of the Dnieper.
Chernigov was taken on Sept. 9 after a
“stubborn defence.” The Germans then
drove 50 miles south-east, cutting the
Kiev-Kharkov-Moscow railway at Jago-
tin. Another pincer was made east to
Konotop region, cutting the line to Kursk
and Moscow. It was raining heavily;
the roads “were as bad as they could
be”; nevertheless, the Konotop force
made another drive—this time south-east
to Romny to cut the eastern and southern
railway link to the Don via Poltava.
The Southern (Ukraine) Group Armies
in the meantime had crossed the Dnieper
at Kremenchug, taken the city after
breaking down a vigorous Russian de-
fence, widened their bridgehead appro-
priately, and then moved their spearhead
north-westward to meet the forces ad-
vancing from Romny. At Lochvitza, 75
miles-odd from Kremenchug, “the iron
ring was closed.”
Another drive had begun from Koro-
sten, 100-odd miles east of Kiev, towards
that city. It reached the Dnieper at Kiev
on September 19. On its approach, com-
manders and commissars of the Soviet
forces (it was alleged) deserted the bat-
tered town and their men and fled. Other
German columns from the north and
south-east were already pressing on the
city. Though all the bridges were down,
the Korosten forces quickly made a cross-
ing, and set out in pursuit of the fleeing
Russians after sealing the capture of the
city.
The Soviet troops now being encircled,
“wedges were driven into their forma-
tions, cutting them up into pockets for
capture or annihilation.” And this was
accomplished with the help of the Luft-
waffe, so that few escaped.
“Thus,” Berlin shouted, “ended the
greatest and most destructive battle of all
time on a field which covered an area
equal to one quarter of the German
Reich —60,000 sq. miles.” In the whole
of the last war Germany took 2,000,000
Russian prisoners; “in three months of
this war this figure was exceeded by
200,000.”
Up to Monday morning, Sept. 29,
there had been no denial or admission
from Moscow of this specific com-
munique, but earlier Losovsky had
described German claims to have taken
between 400,000 and 500,000 prisoners in
this area as “lying propaganda, the pro-
duct of wishful thinking,” Fierce battles,
he said, were still going on in areas east
of Kiev which the Germans claimed to
have cleared. As for the operations
against Leningrad, which, according to a
Moscow representative of the American
National Broadcasting Corporation, re-
porting on Sept. 24, had robbed the rest
of Russia of that city’s huge production,
Losovsky declared at the week-end that
communications were still open. And it
was announced that Marshal Shapol-
nikov. Chief of the General Staff, had
gone south to discuss the position with
Marshal Budenny.
For the first time, correspondents
from Britain and other countries have
been allowed to see for themselves how
the war is going on, Major-General
Sokolovsky, a Red Army spokesman,
showed them round part of the central
front last week. He told them that Ger-
man losses in material were “five times
greater than ours,” and that counter
blows were converting the Blitzkrieg into
the lightning destruction of German men
and material.
There is now something like a continuous
grinding of Nazi men and material on a
vastly greater scale than at Verdun. The
Nazis are digging in along hundreds of
miles of front. Trench warfare and winter
now lie ahead of them.
The general declared that the superi-
ority of Russia’s tanks, ’planes and artil-
lery had enabled the Soviet central army
to maintain the offensive, and that the
German losses in man-power on the
central front were twice those of the
Russians.
Next day, a correspondent of one of
the London papers was able to give his
personal impressions. There were “no
craters on the roads,” which he took as
“a tribute to the quick work of the labor
gangs.” Everywhere were Russian pony
wagons, waiting to repair damage. And
in the fields, right up to the Russian
batteries, peasants were reaping oats,
barley, rye, brown flax and scarlet buck-
wheat as if their lives depended upon it,
as, in fact, they do.
In this area across the main Moscow-
Smolensk road, the ebb and flow of the
German tide had been so rapid that neither
side had much time for scorched earth.
Five or six miles east of the ruined town
of Yartsevo, centre of the present battle
positions, we turned sharply to the south
to the forest headquarters of a famous
division.
At the headquarters were “command-
ing officers and divisional commissars—
the latter did most of the talking, though
they also do a lot of fighting.” A
divisional commander told the newspaper-
man that his division had “already taken
on eight German divisions and was ready
to take on more.” The visitors spent
“a quiet night three miles behind the
lines, where there were only 17 sick and
wounded in the casualty clearing
station.” The visitors were looked after
“by two girl orderlies, handsome
Siberian lasses kind girls with no
illusions who carried big revolvers on
their hips.” Indeed, the correspondent
quoted was struck with “the numbers
of comely girls I saw doing all jobs
except that of actual fighting.”
Another account from the opposite
(southern) end of the 75-mile Russian
central offensive front described Yelnia
as having been retaken on September 5,
after bloody fighting since July 29. The
Russians had smashed at least eight Ger-
man divisions in this area. There was
evidence of “the deadly accuracy of the
Russian artillery fire,” of “uncanny
ability” in camouflage, and of the
amphibious properties of the tanks —they
“swim through mud as easily and grace-
fully as swans.” The peasants again were
described as reaping right up to the
artillery posts on land only recaptured
a fortnight ago, and the village of
Ushakovo is mentioned as “a holy and
historic place, a symbol of the world’s
hopes and the shape of things to come.”
Here it was that the Red Army, for the
first time, “advanced, after 30 days and
nights of fiercest fighting,” and stormed
the fortified hilltop. Germans there “lay
buried in their own shell holes,” which
“pitted the ground in thousands.”
In London on September 22 Maisky,
the Russian Ambassador, spoke at a con-
ference of Allies, and his words seem to
have produced a distinct effect. While,
he said, the Germans had lost 3,000,000
men, killed, wounded and missing, and
8500 aeroplanes, Russia was “facing a
tense, difficult situation. It is no use
shutting our eyes to the reality of the
position.”
Amateur strategists talk glibly of the
weather General Winter has been re-
duced to colonel and General Mud to
major or lieutenant.
Russia, Maisky concluded, had a
“right to expect co-operation.” Losovsky
put it on Saturday that Russia was
“entitled” to help. Help it certainly
needs, and, though there are definite limits
to the military assistance that can be
afforded, the plight of the people must
be considered and prepared for, par-
ticularly by good-hearted Americans.
Quakers can be depended upon to do
their utmost, and a generous Govern-
ment gift of foodstuffs would be sup-
ported by all Australians.
As for the position at Leningrad, the
Germans claim to have battered their
way to the third line of defences.
But the Red Army declares that the
besiegers have been beaten back at vari-
ous points for miles and that they have
lost at least 150,000 dead. Vichy re-
ported on Sunday that a final ultimatum
had been served on Marshal Voroshilov.
So long as the city holds out there is
still hope.
It is claimed by the enemy that dozens
of Russian merchant ships have been
sunk in the Gulf of Finland and that
practically every unit of the Russian
Navy there has been either sunk or
heavily damaged. The Russians, how-
ever, state that between 70 and 90 sub-
marines from the Baltic have reached the
Black Sea via the Volga Canal,
It was announced at Berlin on Sun-
day that a detachment of Germans had
reached the source of the Volga. This
great mother river of Russia rises only
200-odd miles w.-n.-w. from Moscow,
not far from Toropitz in the Valdai Hills,
and goes circling away to the east and
south to pour into the Caspian Sea, 2000
miles away on the edges of Asia. To
September 29 information about the
attack on the Crimea remained vague
and unconvincing.
The essential factor in the war is the
Ukraine drive. That will remain Ger-
many’s main preoccupation. For if
Kharkov and Rostov fall and the Cau-
casian communications are cut, most of
the Red Army and Air Force will be
deprived of oil supply, and no help in
mechanical supplies or metals from out-
side will be of much avail.
The Finns report the capture of
Kandalaksha, in the far north. The R.A.F.
helped to break an attempt to seize Mur-
mansk, and assisted in pushing the enemy
back 10 miles, losing one machine for
every seven Nazis. But the Murmansk-
Moscow railway is cut and it will be diffi-
cult to get supplies in through any chan-
nel, Once the Caucasus connections go,
only the Volga routes from the shallow
Caspian remain.
The Finnish position is obscure. Across
the Gulf of Finland Russians and Ger-
mans are still struggling for final posses-
sion of Oesel and Moon Islands, re-
ported captured last week. Increased
pressure has failed to drive the Russians
out of Hango at the gates of Helsinki.
The British Government has told the
Finns that if they fight beyond their own
borders Britain must treat them as full
belligerents in the world war. A section
of the Finnish press reports that no Finns
are now fighting outside their own
borders.
For what it is worth, Bulgarian sources
reported on Sept. 28 that Russia was
seeking peace. But the Bulgarians report
a lot of curious things. Their latest state-
ment regarding their own attitude to the
U.S.S.R. is that they are not going to
fight it.
A.I.F.and Aid Russia?
“Ek Dum”; Anybody who knows any-
thing about geography must be puzzled
at these plans to “help Russia.” Perhaps
they are merely the product of hysteria,
which jolted the editor of a London paper
into shrieking that the seven days of
British tank production which are for
Russian benefit “should shake the world.”
Production is one thing; delivery
is another. No tanks smaller than
the 15-ton Valentine, which, with the
32-ton Matildas and the even heavier
Churchills, is the staple of British tank
forces, would be of much use. Anyhow,
the shipping of tanks is governed, not
by their weight but by their size and
contours. Whatever other cargo they
carry in addition, few freighters can take
more than 15 medium tanks at a time.
To carry an armored division (German
type), which runs into about 2500 vehicles
would need an armada.
However, assume tanks and shipping
are available, how can they reach the
front line? Not by Murmansk, because
the railway to Moscow is either cut or
threatened by the Finns, and so is the
Stalin Canal. At any moment, also, both
may be cut by the Germans lower down
if Leningrad falls.
Two routes remain one by sea,
through the Strait of Gibraltar to Pales-
tine and Syria, the rest of the journey
by land.
Such a voyage involves a 3300-mile
journey under strong naval and air escort
—heavy, since the Germans will do their
utmost and divert ’planes and submarines
from other duties to block help.
The first stage of the land journey
from Beirut to Bagdad, Khanikin or
Mosul would then be about 600-700 miles.
After that by road transport by rail
seems unlikely in view of the weight of the
units—there is another thousand miles or
so even to Baku, which is still another
1000 miles or so from the present
Russian front. There are three devas-
tating ranges to be crossed en route.
This journey from Britain is the short-
est relief route available about 5800
miles to Baku at the shortest, a large
part under the tanks’ own power.
The only alternative route from
Britain is by a 15,000-mile convoy round
Africa to Basra, followed by a 2500-mile
trek over desert and mountain. The
road speed of a tank is 15 to 30 m.p.h.,
and it might not average 10 m.p.h, over
the Persian roads, even if fuel were kept
up to it all the time.
Whatever route were adopted tanks
could not reach the Russian front until
near the end of the winter, even if the
snows allowed them a clear run. How-
ever, within a little over a month the
Elburz and Caucasus regions will be
struck with breathless cold and the
passes will become deep in snow. Both
ranges are twice the height of Kosciusko,
and the Alvand passes cross the range
at over 7000 ft.
It may be that it is proposed to send
supplies from India. That again involves
heavy usage of shipping or a 4000-mile
land trek, at stages over high mountain
ranges.
Apart from supplies, a proposal is now
forward to send troops to Russia. General
Wavell has been in London. The Middle
East and India commands have been
interlocked. All Middle East commanders
have conferred in Cairo. British and
Russian forces in Iran are said to be
pushing on further railway linkage with
Baku Iran is a land almost without
railways, the only one across the country
having been built in the last decade or so.
It would be a perilous task to send a
force of any strength even to Baku at
this time of year, but it must be
attempted, unless the Germans break
through before it can be done. Even if
the Germans should break through to the
Caucasus, which they certainly will try
to do immediately if they breach
Budenny’s Don defences, it might be
worth while to turn the Baku oilfield into
another Tobruk so as to withhold oil
supplies from the enemy. Once he
reaches Baku his petrol problems—and,
worse still, lubricant problems will
virtually be solved. Baku and other
Caucasian fields can give him 30,000,000
tons of oil per annum, with a depot which
would make a jumping-off place for
an attack against Iran, India and Suez
next year, and which can be easily de-
fended with the Caucasus on the north,
the Caspian Sea on the east, the Elburz
on the south and Turkey on the west.
The approaches to Iran by the Elburz
route also must be held, apart from the
oil region. If the Russians cannot do it
then British forces must have a try to
stem the tide.
But Baku and its frontiers should mark
the limit of British effort. If Russia is
unable to save the Don and the Donetz
Basin, Leningrad, Moscow and the Volga
region, any British force bent on helping
Russia is a forlorn hope. Material and
men sent to its aid might just as well be
posted direct to Berlin as a Christmas
box.
The only objective which justifies entry
of our troops into Russia is that of
barring the gate to Iran, Iraq, India and
Suez and saving the oil. And the perils
involved in that undertaking and its risks
are so great that any Australian part in
the venture should have the specific sanc-
tion of Parliament
An R.A.A.F. Overseas
Command
“Aileron”: In this war the R.A.A.F.
has had the kind of history which would
be expected of the descendants of Wil-
liams and Tommy White, who helped to
raise the Commonwealth’s first four


Missing Friends.
RITCHIE, GEORGE HAROLD—WiII this
person, who would be about 52 years of age
and who was a son of William Ritchie, deceased,
late of Broken Hill, or anyone knowing his
whereabouts please communicate with the
Public Trustee, 14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney?
DR. ARCHIBALD DAVIDSON, Deceased,
late of “Verona,” Shakespeare Grove, Haw-
thorn.
WOULD MRS. KATE DAVIDSON, widow
of the abovenamed, any of her children or
anyone knowing of their whereabouts, com-
municate at once with the PERPETUAL
TRUSTEES ASSOCIATION, Queen Street,
Melbourne?
INFORMATION is required concerning
CHARLES WILLIAM JOHNSTON, formerly
of Bridgetown, Western Australia, last heard
of in Melbourne, Victoria, in December, 1920.
If alive he would now be about 75 years of
age. Particulars required by SLEE & ANDER-
SON, Solicitors, Bunbury, Western Australia.
ESTATE OF WILLIAM SCOTT, late of Wel-
lington (N.Z.), formerly a labourer, but latterly
a hairdresser and tobacconist (known in boxing
circles as “Nugget” Scott, and who at one time
worked on the N.S.W. Railways and the
Woronora Dam). Would any person knowing
the whereabouts of the parents, brothers, sisters
or next-of-kin of the above-named, please
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Wellington?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1248 of 1941.
BETWEEN AUDREY MARY JONES Peti-
tioner and
FRANK EDWARD JONES Respondent.
TO FRANK EDWARD JONES late of Mel-
bourne Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that the said AUDREY
MARY JONES has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Eighteenth
day of December One thousand nine hundred
and forty-one and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-second day of Septem-
ber, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
NICHOLL & HICKS, Solicitors, 56 Hunter
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1736 of 1941.
BETWEEN GRACE ESLICK Petitioner and
CLARENCE JOHN ESLICK Respondent.
TO CLARENCE JOHN ESLICK late of
Lakemba near Sydney in the State of New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GRACE
ESLICK has commenced a suit against you in
this Court and is applying for a dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse.
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance in the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Twenty-
fourth day of December next, and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the said suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 25th day of September, 1941.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
E. ALLAN UTHER, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 350 George Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1642 of 1941.
BETWEEN KATHLEEN GRACE HESTER
Petitioner and
RICHARD JAMES HESTER Respondent.
TO RICHARD JAMES HESTER late of
Dorrigo in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said KATHLEEN
GRACE HESTER has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Twenty-second day of January One thousand
nine hundred and forty-two and in the event
of you not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit will be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED the Twenty-fourth day of Septem-
ber One thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. STILWELL FLYNN, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
rickety warplanes off the ground before
the last war, and who are still both on
active service with a lot of their shell-
necked contemporaries.
The Australian Short Sunderland
squadron which was to have been
stationed at Moresby has an unparal-
leled record for distance and for light-
ness of casualties over the wild Atlantic
and the foggy North Sea.
The first Libyan squadron, even with
ancient Gladiators, quickly made a name
for itself. The Tomahawk squadron
which was born of it was outstanding
in Syria, and no novice outfit has ever
beaten the record of Finucane’s Spitfire
boys, who are in the news every time
there is a scrap over the Channel,
Apart from these, there are hundreds
of Australians in the R.A.F.
Acting Air Marshal “Peter” (R. M.)
Drummond, Deputy C.-in-C. Air in the
Middle East, was last week made a C.B,
—he began his military career as a
Westralian private in the A.I.F. in 1914.
Another C.B. has been handed to Air
Vice-Marshal Coningham, till recently in
command of No. 4 Bomber Group in the
North of England—he was born in Bris-
bane and educated in Maoriland. And
an 0.8. E. has been awarded to Wing-
Commander G. E. Sampson, formerly of
Brisbane.
“Peter” Drummond told an interviewer
the only British pilots now coming to the
Middle East were those who ferried air-
craft out there from the factories. The
rest —mark that the M.E.R.A.F. provides
air service for 750,000 men —were being
supplied by Australia, S’Africa and
Rhodesia. The R.A.A.F, has one squad-
ron, and the R.A.F. squadrons teem
with Australians.
According to Drummond there has
been a steady increase in air strength in
the Middle East, and it is now “satisfac-
tory.”
The Axis Air Force in the Southern
Mediterranean has, he says, become
pinched for supplies because of the British
submarine and aircraft activities, and its
action will continue to be limited so long
as the sea war continues to destroy
enemy convoy shipping.
The bombing of Benghazi has closed
that port to big shipping, and it
is a long trail from Tripoli to the front
and an adventurous one, since the R.A.F.
harasses it continually.
Summing up the Tobruk position,
Drummond said:
It is not practicable to put a fighter um-
brella over Tobruk, but our fighters make
periodical sweeps over the area, and the
A.A. has taken such heavy toll of the
enemy and has developed such accuracy
that dive-bombing has been practically
given up. Dive-bombing, unless directed
against ships, is a most expensive pastime
which the R.A.F. certainly would not in-
dulge in. The material effect is negligible,
and, as for the moral effect, well-trained
troops laugh at it, just as they do in
Tobruk.
The Middle East Command will shortly
form two more R.A.A.F. squadrons ; but
this is not enough.
The A.1.F., wherever it is, should be
supported by an R.A.A.F, Group at the
disposal of the A.I.F. Command. A.I.F.
and R.A.A.F. should be inseparable.
Russia is the last scene to which Aus-
tralians have been sent with the wing
which has gone to help in the defence of
Leningrad. The personnel of the wing
includes Pilot-Officer M. E, Sheldon
(Granville, N.S.W.), Sergeants S. M.
Clark (Onslow, W.A.), and A. J. Gould
and B. J. Campbell (Brisbane). They
have been in action covering Russian
bombers.
Meanwhile, the largest batch of Empire
Air Scheme trainees, from all States, and
comprising all sections of air and ground
complements, has reached Canada. Many
of them only need a final polishing, since
they have been 18 months in camp.
Since war began, 203,347 applications
for entry into the R.A.A.F. have been
received 44,630 for flying duties and
160,717 for ground jobs, and men are
still on offer at the rate of 1000 per week.
They will all be needed. Too much has
been made of Axis air losses, and too
little of Hitler’s air construction. The
British monthly, “Aeroplane,” estimates
Axis losses since war began at 11,500
aircraft and 30,000 pilots. Losses on the
Russian front for three months are put
down at 4250 machines and 10,000 men
—German “official” figures to Aug. 31 are
725 machines and 3000-odd men, which
must include numbers of ground staff,
parachute troops and ancillaries. The
German Army owns two complete para-
chute corps of about 25,000 men each.
At any rate, the Russian-front German
losses are problematical; but the figures
which have come over Moscow Radio,
combined with the cessation of bombing
attacks on British towns, are leading to
a dangerous complacency. Whatever the
Germans are losing, they will certainly be
creating such reserves that when they
renew their non-stop attack on Britain
they will do so with at least the same
strength as they had before they left
off on May 10, six weeks before the cam-
paign against the Soviet Union began.
Some well-informed people, including
leading American manufacturers, are
under the impression that German pro-
duction is from 4000 to 6000 machines
a month. It certainly is not lower than
2000, the now known figure for 1939.
Every man who can be put into the
air throughout the Empire will certainly
be needed ; and the time is near when
the Commonwealth must have its own
air group centres overseas, commanded by
R.A.A.F. senior officers and at the dis-
posal of the Commonwealth, to prepare
for the inevitable large-scale expansion.
The sending of Air-Commodore A. T.
Cole to the Middle East and the veteran
T. W. White to Britain is a move in that
direction.
In the Near North.
On Sept. 24 a Japanese spokesman (M.
Ishii) said that a reply had been received
from Russia on the question of mines
which had sunk small Japanese vessels.
He refused to disclose details, but said
that relations with Russia were continu-
ing normally and trade was uninterrupted.
The Japanese reported the capture of
Changsha, the capital of Hunan. Chung-
king, however, declared that the Japanese
in Hunan were in a precarious position.
Dutch reports said that Japanese troops
in Indo-China were “feverishly” complet-
ing concrete runways at all aerodromes,
and that transports carrying men and
material were being continually sent to
Cambodia. Saigon Radio noted the ille-
gality and infringement of French
sovereignty involved in the search and
arrest by the Japanese military in Indo-
China of about 100 Chinese and
Annamese.
Arrangements for the removal of
British nationals from Japan were con-
tinued, and when the Anwhei, which is
to carry the evacuated to Shanghai or
Hong Kong for transhipment, was about
to leave Yokohama it was discovered
that Australia’s Minister Latham would
be a passenger. Subjects of the King
in Japanese territory number 1000 British
and others, 200 Indians and about 20
Australians, and include 200 women..
According to Minister Stewart, John
Greig Latham is coming home for a
short talk “about several matters of im-
portance concerning relations between
Australia and Japan,” and will return to
Tokyo.
Japanese newspapers and radio
speakers are pressing the Government to
maintain its Axis connections, but
Sabura Kuruso, who was Ambassador
to Berlin when Japan signed the Tripar-
tite Pact—the anniversary was celebrated
in Japan on September 27 —declared that
“German attacks on U.S. shipping have
been established; therefore Japan is re-
leased from obligations under the pact,
which bound her to aid Germany only if
Germany were the victim of attack.”
He said that “the Japanese Navy would
not be made the cat’s-paw of a third
Power and led into fighting America,”
and that the time had come for Japan to
reorient its policy regarding the Axis.
Nevertheless, it is in the Tripartite
Pact, still undenounced, and in the Anti-
Comintern Pact of 1936 that the main
danger lies in the Far East.
Another U.S. ship, the Pink Star —for-
merly the Danish Lundby—was sunk on
Sept. 19 within the Iceland U.S. defence
zone. There followed immediately de-
nunciations of the Neutrality Act by
President Roosevelt and Colonel Knox,
Secretary for the Navy, and a Senator
introduced a repeal bill.
Colonel Knox had said:
The Neutrality Act is crippling the efforts
of the United States and should immedi-
ately be repealed. We are at the edge of
a grave situation Recent events on the
Russian front have made the prospect
of victory dim and the fighting in Russia
has a direct bearing on America’s situa-
tion.
At the launching of the battleship
Massachusetts he said it was possible that
she “would participate in another fight
for human liberty.”
Washington papers announced that
U.S.-Japanese negotiations had reached
a critical stage—virtually a deadlock —
because of the unwillingness of the
Japanese to pledge themselves not to
attack Siberia. Under the Tripartite Pact
they are bound for 10 years to give
mutual support to Germany and Italy in
the event of any other country not at
war with the Axis in September, 1940,
becoming involved as an aggressor.
And the Germans now are no doubt
endeavoring to persuade Japan to strike
in Siberia at the most inconvenient
moment for Russia.
“Aileron”: Trifles like facts don’t
trouble the Germans when reporting
their war against British sea- and air-
power. They asserted last week that
U-boats had sunk 12 ships and an escort-
ing vessel in a convoy totalling 67,000
tons between England and Gibraltar ( plus
a tanker of 12,000 tons in the South
Atlantic), and that the Luftwaffe had de-
stroyed most of another convoy totalling
33,000 tons. Sinkings for the week Sept.
20-27, they alleged, were 193,500 tons;
sinkings for three months, 931,000 tons.
And the Luftwaffe was alleged to have
brought down 89 British ’planes, with
little German loss. The R.A.F. drives
over the Channel coast were characterised
as “complete failures”; on the other
hand the Luftwaffe was presented as
having raked the coasts from Milford
Haven to Scotland, east and west.
British raiding has been limited by the
weather, but was resumed in full force
on Friday night and Saturday with 650
machines. They carried out raids and
sweeps for 44 hours continuously and
plastered everything from shipping lanes
to the Rhineland. Raids over Britain
have continued so light as to be almost
negligible, only a few bombs being
dropped. Machine losses for the week
to Sept. 27 were: German, 45 fighters;
British, 28 aircraft (five pilots saved).
* * * *
The Admiralty announces the loss of
a Canadian corvette, the Levis, with 18
seamen, and of two trawlers, one of
them Norwegian; and the sinking of an
Italian minelayer by a British sub.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: “All quiet” was the week-
end report from the North African fronts.
Tobruk mentioned that there had “not
been a decent air raid for three weeks”
and that the Italians get harder to bring
into action every day. “All quiet” doesn’t
mean that there haven’t been land sorties
and nightly visits of the R.A.F. and
Empire Air Forces to Tripoli and
Benghazi, with a few return visits from
the Germans.
* * ♦ *
One of the last garrisons in Ethiopia,
north of Gondar, has surrendered —4000
soldiers, 3000 of them Italians.
* * * *
“Sammy-the-Hornet”: One of the most
important items in last week’s news
scarcely got a mention in the dailies. It
was that a 1200-h.p. aero engine had
been successfully built in the Common-
wealth. If it was entirely built here, and
not merely assembled, then it marks an
epoch. Early in 1940 you could have
counted on the fingers of your hand the
number of firms in the world which could
have built a 1200-h.p. aero. After this
war the Commonwealth should be abso-
lutely self-contained in the production of
transport and defence vehicles.
* * * «
“Aileron”: Air Commodore R. V.
Goddard, a 8.8. C. commentator, re-
marked a little while ago that “when
our airmen withdrew from Crete we had
only seven ’planes still able to fly”—
four obsolescent Gladiators and three
Hurricanes —and “these seven were facing
thousands of Nazi aircraft.” The Navy
withstood the onslaught with no other
air backing save that which could be
got off the decks of its own two or three
carriers. It shows that sea-power is not
dead, and that, even in extreme circum-
stances, well-equipped squadrons which
include aircraft-carriers stand more than
a fighting chance against teeming aircraft.
It also shows that wherever there are
troops which depend for connection with
their bases on the sea, there should be
adequate aircraft attached to them under
a joint command. H.M.S. Gloucester
and Fiji, sunk off Crete with many other
ships, cost about £4,000,000 between
them —the price of 700 Spitfires,
♦ ♦ ♦ •
“X.T.”: Lieutenant-Colonel Spender
says that troops garrisoned in Darwin,
New Guinea and Papua will be relieved
after 12 months’ service on those stations
and will not be returned for at least a
year, Sydney “D.T.,” which painted
Darwin as having one of the worst
climates in the tropics—shouts of laughter
from the Darwinians of both sexes who ,
have flourished under its onslaught for
a generation or so—comments that the
change “justifies the disclosures in the
“Sunday Telegraph” on August 10 that
A.I.F. men at Darwin are bitter about the
monotony of garrison life, and dissatis-
fied because they have not been sent
abroad.”
Army authorities airily brushed aside
the complaints. Mr. Spender was more
openminded.
Hundreds of British regiments have put
up with the tropics under conditions in-
finitely worse than anything suffered in
this war by men who, willing as they are,
have not been called upon to fight—the
Black Watch were 25 years in the worst
part of India without any of the modem
comforts, and it is nothing for British
soldiers to spend six and seven years on
tropic stations. The reason for the change
probably has nothing to do with mono-
tony or health. The army has seized
the chance to rotate its troops so as to
give as many as possible tropical train-
ing, since any war in direct defence of
this country would almost certainly be
fought in the tropics.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: Blarney, G.O.C. of the
A.I.F. in the Middle East, has appar-
ently been holding the position of
Deputy C.-in-C. British forces over the
heads of Britons senior to him in rank.
He has now been promoted to general—
the first Australian to reach that
eminence. Monash was a major-general
in 1917 and part of 1918, becoming a
lieutenant-general when he achieved
Corps Command.


COOLEST SUITS
UNDER THE SUN!
mm
Let the sun blaze
away. If you’re suited in
Soltine you’ll be comfort-
ably cool and fresh! Soltine
Cloth is woven to let the
fabric "breathe,” to hold
its shape, to wear longer.
Styles are smart and manly.
The example above has a
cruiser grey ground with
superimposed shadow stripe
effect broken by pin stripes
in blue and white. It’s a
beauty—and so are all the
new Soltine patterns your
tailor or store can show you.
Born, Shorn. Woven and Worn in Australia
If unable to obtain, write to Box 489 Q,
Post Office, Melbourne, and we'll advise
you where you can get Soltine Cloths.
Smokers are saying—
“Vm not cutting down
my smoking, Vm smoking
‘Hillmans.’”
The greatest tobacco value
in Australia —Specially Cut
for slow smoking— therefore
must be economical.
As perfect a tobacco nature
can provide and art can devise.
No throat rasps, cool to the
tongue however much it is
smoked.
LOOK AT THE PRICES.
TOO! From Manufacturer to
you. That’s why smokers are
sticking to “Hillmans.’'
PRICE LIST as from Ist June, 1941.
Four Square 9/6
First Crop, mild 9/6
All British, mild 9/6
Riverhead Gold, medium ... 9/6
Old Peter, dark 9/6
Cavendish Strong 9/6
Beech Nut, medium 9/6
Africa, mellow and mild .. . 9/6
Soldier's Own, mild 9/6
Normandie, medium 9/6
Winning Post, medium 9/6
Three Bells, strong 9/6
Bird’s Eye, medium 9/6
Nigeroid, in pipe only 9/6
Latakia, in pipe only 10/-
White Lodge Medium 10/-
White Lodge Light 11/-
Union Leader, medium 11/-
Tender Leaf, medium 11/-
(mperial 14/-
Premier 16/-
Postage Extra.
When ordering please state whether
for cigarette or pipe smoking.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
COMPANY PTY. LTD.,
Manufacturers and Blenders,
Box 6, P. 0., Valley, N.l, Brisbane.
Telegrams, “Comgrow.”
’Phone No. 84587.
SUNDRY SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“The Blackers-Out”
This comedy, drama or melodrama
was staged from 9 p.m. till 10 one night
in Melbourne and was an outstanding
success ; in fact, such an outstanding suc-
cess that its producers confidently expect
repeat performances ad infinitum or at
least for the duration, with a steady box-
office return of an audience of a million,
plus the normal increase in the popula-
tion by births and immigration. In pur-
suance of his calling, The Bulletin critic
occupied a dress-circle seat or, rather,
stand on the windy top of the new police
headquarters building now nearing com-
pletion.
From that lofty vantage before the
sirens brayed their hollow note of warn-
ing the city looked like a coronet of
emeralds, rubies and diamonds, with
colored sparks shooting in and out of it
and surrounded by a girdle of pearls
which were the outer suburbs. Before
the first note had subsided it looked like
the shadowy shape of a dead or dying
dinosaurus whose nerves were twitching
here and there and whose stertorous
breathing coming up out of the appar-
ently empty darkness had a sinister note
about it. “A verra successful blackout,”
murmured Police Commissioner Duncan.
“But what’s that light over there?” “I’m
afraid it’s the Southern Command,” said
a military officer detailed to see how the
civilian population responded to the
national emergency. “Well, ring ’em up
and tell ’em that their blackout cloth
needs strengthening,” said Mr. Duncan.
That was the only comic relief in an
otherwise solemn, if not serious, perform-
ance. It was deeply impressive to see a
million people who differ about marriage
and morals, Mr. Fadden and Mr.
Menzies, drinking, Chinese cooking,
going to church, early closing, art,
Ulysses, the Australian-Soviet Friendship
League, caning schoolchildren, putting
the cat out, and almost everything else
in creation, acting as a single organism
even over such a simple thing as turn-
ing the lights off.
One thing the production did was to
reveal aspects of Melbourne which no-
body would have ever seen if it hadn’t
been for the blackout. For instance, the
sky above the city, which nobody ever
sees under normal conditions, with Venus
smiling brilliantly from under a storm-
cloud and looking like the Gellibrand
light gone for a scamper. In one kindly
stroke the blackout wiped out the mistakes
of modern architects of Melbourne
and turned the city into the semblance of
a city in the Middle Ages, before street
lamps and Neon lights were invented.
Collins-street and Bourke-street were mys-
terious canyons flanked by towering
buildings, whose silhouette was infinitely
more varied than the architectural de-
tails seen in lamplight. Lovers whispered
in the doorways, couples giggled on the
pavements and pedestrians lost their
workaday pose and became subjects
for romantic speculation. Then the sirens
roared again, the lights came on like
clockwork and the show was over.
Citizens played their parts as well as
the A.R.P. officials, and the only charac-
ter lacking in the cast was the villain.
A Pub Opinion Poll taken on strictly
scientific lines three hours before the
blackout revealed a consensus of belief
that the villain was a hypothetical
monster invented by the State Emergency
Council to justify its bossing of the public.
Another section suggested that Mel-
bourne authorities are following a fashion
started in London for quite different
reasons, just as the gals of Melbourne put
on lipstick or a porkpie hat because the
gals in New York or Los Angeles are
doing it. But the show was aesthetically
magnificent, whatever else could be said
about it.
* * * *
A collection of prosperous-looking
moths seen rising from the pit at Sydney
Theatre Royal before curtain time seemed
an ominous omen, but “Kissing Time”
emerged in good repair. Don Nicol and
Marie Bremner had more than a fair
share to do with that, and a very lively
ballet, plus the specialty dancers Earle
and Fontaine, turned in first-class work.
Curtain speeches from Sydney Wheeler
and producer Alan Chapman opened
with some words of wisdom about Holly-
wooden films and the Australian stage,
but the excuse then proffered for the
current plethora of stage show revivals —
that dollar exchange prevented the im-
porting of new shows from America —
left something unsaid. Certainly it is
stupid and unfair that the comparatively
small needs of the Australian flesh-and-
blood shows should not be met, while
films are imported hand over fist on the
ground that they are “essential for pro-
paganda purposes.” But at the same time
that is the situation, and the “trot-out-
the-veterans” method of coping with it
looks a little like sitting in the corner and
sulking instead of doing everything pos-
sible to get new shows somehow. With
(he following the stage has in England
there must be, quite apart from new
shows, dozens which have not been seen
here. In any case, while dollar exchange
may be a good reason for digging in the
archives, at the same time it mightn’t be
a bad reason for doing a bit of digging
for local talent.
It was an excellent performance of
Shaw’s “Pygmalion” the Un-named
Players put over at the Central Hall, Mel-
bourne, though Cuthbert Barringion
seemed to have taken the screen version of
Shaw’s philological professor as a model.
Actually, the screen Professor Higgins
was a matinee idol’s notion of a Shavian
intellectual. Otherwise producer Maie
Hoban did a good job. The old dry
bones of the least of Shaw’s plays rattled
in places, and the orchestra occupied a
good half of the evening, but a full house
gave the play-intervals rapt attention.
As Eliza, the flower girl, Heather Parker
couldn’t have done better. She was as
rough as bags until her metamorphosis
into a pseuao-lady, but carried emotional
conviction in each case. Robert Stirling
made a good father for her. Vernon
Margetts and Phillis Hargrave gave care-
ful renderings of Colonel Pickering and
Mrs. Higgins. Shaw doesn’t make much
of a point in this play, and if his repu-
tation rested on “Pygmalion” posterity
would probably remember him as the
playwright Hollywood made a popular
success of; but it’s good enough theatre
to keep an audience bubbling.
* * * *
At their North Sydney theatre Doris
Fitton’s Independents are trying out
Shaw’s “St. Joan” for a series of Saturday
and Wednesday performances. The first
night the prompter was kept busy, and
there were other hitches in the produc-
tion, but it’s a large and ambitious under-
taking and, with those things ironed out,
a creditable one. Doris Fitton plays the
Saint carefully and at times with sincere
conviction; it’s a pity that the broad
dialect of the French peasant girl is so
strikingly reminiscent of Grade Fields.
In the background of the action the
minor figures are excellently drawn.
Sumner Locke-Elliott is the Dauphin, the
part caricatured, but caricatured exactly.
Charles Tasman (the Inquisitor), Des-
mond Rolfe (the English chaplain), Nor-
man Haire (the Bishop of Beauvais) and
John Alden (Dunois) all brought life and
vigor to their portrayals.
He * * *
Bernard Heinze, of Melbourne, waved
a baton over the Sydney A.B.C. orchestra
at the Town Hall last week to educe,
among other items, the Cesar Franck
Symphony in D Minor. The refulgence
of Franck’s golden sunshine might have
been enhanced by a little more attention
to shade, but even so the performance
was enjoyable. A workmanlike job was
the playing of the thousand variations
that form the fourth movement of Tschai-
kowsky’s Third Suite. Nora Williamson
was soloist in the Mozart Violin Concerto
(K 218) and acquitted herself right
bravely. Orchestral backing was
judicious. Heinze is an exceptionally
logical and understandable conductor.
It would seem that he would get better
press notices if he were less so.
* * * *
Ignaz Friedman, now a fixed star in
the Sydney musical firmament, gave as
the principal items of last week’s Chopin
recital the B Flat Minor Scherzo and
the Fantaisie-Impromptu. He is a superb
technician and can rightfully assume the
grand manner, A Sydney newspaper
found it necessary to tell him that the
Fantaisie-Impromptu is hackneyed. The
need for new Chopin numbers is a long-
felt want.
One of the oases of light in Mel-
bourne’s blackout last week was the con-
cert chamber in the Town Hall, where
Friedman continued his excursions into
Chopin. He held his audience spellbound
in the second panel with his playing of
the Fantaisie-Polonaise, was tender in the
Nocturne, Op. 62, No. 1, and, if his fire-
works in the B Flat Major Polonaise had
been visible to an air warden, would
have got six months without the option.
ARTBURSTS
The Twenty Melbourne Painters opened
their annual exhibition with a tea-party
at the Athenaeum, according to tradition.
Most of the painters seem to be striving
after strange patterns and unusual color,
but end by falling into some convention.
A few get it by using observation. Alma
Figuerola’s straightforward painting of a
suburban yard with a brilliant red chair
in it and her “Red Rock, Phillip Island,”
are far more unusual in pattern and
startling in color than the deliberate
efforts of others to be unusual. Arnold
Shore draws flowers with the brush, which
is just as legitimate as drawing them with
the pencil, and in “Dahlias” gets an effect
of considerable brilliance. E. Buckmaster
has a posterish “Olinda Landscape” and
Percy Watson has some sensitive little
studies. Two portraits by John Long-
staff are in his old-established manner.
* * * *
Colin Wyatt, who has a show of oil
paintings and color-prints at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney, did most of his
painting in Catalonia, Yugoslavia and
Lapland. Style is pseudo-primitive, draw-
ing indifferent, color sometimes very
good. A print, “The Jumper,” a flower-
piece, “Strelitzias,” and a portrait, “The
Guide,” earn a passing benediction.
AT THE TALKIES
Technicolor is still sufficiently a novelty
to camouflage a multitude of filmic sins.
It does a good job to this end in “Vir-
ginia,” at Sydney Prince Edward. The
plot has moments of originality and in-
terest, but becomes too involved and
leaves a final impression of clumsiness.
The purpose, apparently, is to extol the
virtues of the Virginians, who seem to
consider themselves a race apart and the
refined salt of the earth. Fred Mac Murray
as a poor but proud Virginian is suitably
salty, but as a New York showgirl—
Virginian-born—who inherits the family
mansion, tradition and lack of coin, and
shocks the locals with her intention to
use the first to remedy the last,
Madeleine Carroll, though always pleas-
ant, is simply miscast. Color shots of
the Virginian countryside and intermit-
tent patches of good stuff make it f.a.q.
entertainment,
* * * *
“Man Hunt,” Sydney Plaza: All about
an English big-game hunter who creeps
up to within 500 yards of Hitler’s moun-
tain hideout, and from there draws a
perfect bead on Adolf’s chest through the
telescopic sights of a high-powered rifle.
He had not, he subsequently explains to
the Nazis after they capture him, any
intention of shooting Adolf (time is just
after Munich); it was purely a “sporting
stalk”—a diversion of big-game hunters
who have achieved mathematical cer-
tainty in markmanship and whose sole
delight is stalking the prey for the one
purpose of getting close enough to shoot,
but not shooting. The Nazis, under-
standably, don’t believe it, and it behoves
the sporting gentleman to get himself
out of Germany and home to England,
where, however, the relentless pursuers
make things hot enough for him and for
all addicts of good screen melodrama.
Walter Pidgeon is the Englishman, George
Sanders and John Carradine his main
pursuers, and Joan Bennett a Cockney
wench who lends Mr. Pidgeon a helping
hand; all turn in work well enough
suited to the story. Wishful thinkers,
please note that the last seen of Mr.
Pidgeon is when he leaves, per parachute,
a bombing ’plane on a raid over Ger-
many ; he grasps a high-powered rifle
with telescopic sights to his chest, and
his phiz registers the expression of a
man with a set purpose.


SPORTING NOTIOCS
SPRUSO GVES YOUR HAIR A LOVELINEŚS THAT DAŹZLES:
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Red Cross Day at Randwick will be an
unpleasant remembrance for bookmakers
for some time. Five of the six races were
won by first favorites. In view of the
meeting being for such a good cause, a
larger attendance than 32,000 could easily
have been possible, but still that total
was satisfactory. The tote turnover was
£45,449 10s. An action worthy of special
mention was H. Tancred’s gift of £5OO to
the fund. If High Caste had run in City
Tatt.’s Stakes and won, he would have
given the prize to the fund. The horse
went amiss on the morning of the race
and was unable to start. In face of that
disappointment Mr. Tancred made his
£5OO donation. Such liberality would be
hard to beat. Beau Vite’s owner, R.
Stewart, was also well to the fore with a
contribution of £lO5.
Everyone was looking forward to a
great tussle between Beau Vite and High
Caste in City Tattersall’s Stakes, but
unluckily the latter developed colic on
returning home after working on Satur-
day morning. “Was never better” was
the general summing-up when he was
leaving the track, and it was a shock for
his trainer when the horse was in trouble
after breakfast.
High Caste’s withdrawal practically
killed betting on the race, but it was not
altogether lacking in interest. Lucrative
and Yaralla made the running in com-
pany, cutting out the first six furlongs in
1.15, and opposite the leger Munro was
riding Beau Vite hard to get on terms
with them. However, after drawing level
Beau Vite quickly settled both, though
Lucrative, in second place, struggled
gamely. Beau Vite now appears to have
a mortgage on the Colin Stephen Stakes,
Craven Plate and Randwick Plate, first
money for the three totalling £2760 —a
useful addition to his present earnings.
Reading lost many lengths at barrier-rise,
and Dick Whittington and Galliard were
outclassed. Yaralla was a fair third.
Evergreen was seen at his best in win-
ning the A.I.F. Quality Handicap. He
was in the middle of the field at the
half-mile, and had to fight his way
through to get a run after turning into
the straight. However, over the last bit
he was too good for Flying Knight, who
led half a furlong from home. Hydra
did particularly well to get third. Some
distance behind the main body, and ahead
of only two or three other runners at the
half-mile, he did not look a place possi-
bility at that stage. Then he made a run
on the outside, and at the winning-post
was not more than a length and a half
behind the winner.
All Veil, who looks the part of a high-
class sprinter, gave no trouble, nor did
Amiable, and, after being first into the
straight, Winnipeg finished a long way
back. Tuhitarata is coming on again,
and Grand Fils approaches a certainty
for a minor race.
Chatoona won the Red Cross Cup, but
was all out to score by a neck from Yours
Truly, who led into the straight with
Santa and raised another effort after
appearing beaten. Goose Boy ran on
well in the straight to get third, while
Veiled Threat, after raising the hopes of
his backers a furlong from home, found
his weight too great. He was meeting
Chatoona 81b., Yours Truly 151 b. and
Goose Boy 21b. worse than Metropolitan
terms. The trouble may be to get a 6.7
boy for the last-named, who is evidently
a fair stayer. Dashing Cavalier and
Katanga were among those not sighted
near the front at any part, and Red
Pete’s form was much below expecta-
tions. Remarc, after galloping freely in
third place for nearly a mile, stopped
completely from the turn, but is likely
to improve with each race. Serenata and
Foxsen were runners, but as they were
two of the last three their efforts said
little that was favorable for Maoriland
middle-distance form.
In an exciting finish for the Nurses’
Three-year-old Handicap Kingsdale de-
feated Lagoon in the last few strides.
I Jhe latter did most of the pacemaking.
and 50 yards from home appeared sure
to win. Prince, in getting third, showed
his first glimpse of form this season, and
Magi and Linemond should at least pay
expenses at minor meetings. Justitia was
disappointing, and Whisper Low, who lost
ground at the start, will require more
racing to bring her back to her best
two-year-old form.
Lo Dokes was the best-looking horse
in the Charity Encourage field, and he
acted up to his appearance. He led soon
after barrier-rise, and, first into the
straight from Soho, Patrician and
Levraut, was equal to stalling off The
Bailiff and Soho. Barrenjoey, a Chatham
colt, Condignity and Patrician were next,
and nothing behind them did well enough
to suggest early success.
In the Diggers’ Handicap Metallic
acted up to his mid-week form, and, dis-
posing of the pacemakers, The Elk and
Camsion, soon after entering the straight,
fought on well to win by half a neck
from Micawber, who was last at the half-
mile and still in a backward position
turning for home. As Micawber is a
good weight-carrier, a few additional
pounds for that run should not stand in
the way of a win. Asnazu, in third place,
also came home well, and of the re-
mainder Sethia and Willie Green did best.
J. Munro was very partial to Tel Asur’s
chance, but the trouble that horse struck
near the three furlongs completely dis-
posed of him. Diadem was one of the
leading division at the leger, but then
weakened, while Brazen Lad, who looked
very bright, but was slowly away, did
not after get in it.
* * * *
Although beaten by Panka in the
Quality Handicap at Moonee Valley on
Saturday, Rivette’s whirlwind finish to
run second at a mile consolidated her
position in the Caulfield Cup market.
Last on the bend, she was forced to go
right round the field, and, at the age of
eight, apparently is quite as good as
when she won the two Cups in 1939.
“Quite as good” might not be good
enough with her heavier weights this
spring, but rider E. Preston considers she
could have won the 1939 Caulfield Cup
with considerably more than 7.2. She
has 8.8 in the corresponding race this
year, but that represents lib. less than
she carried on Saturday.
Historian was backed solidly for the
Quality Handicap, but, although he ran
on fairly in fourth position, did not
finish with the same dash as Rivette,
whom he met 41b. better than Caulfield
Cup terms. Historian may do better on
a larger track and over a longer dis-
tance, but he has the task ahead to im-
prove on his Caulfield Cup third of last
year. Burrabil battled on well for third
money after sharing the lead with
Operatic and Panka on the bend, but
Zonda’s performance was lifeless, and
she is still considerably below her autumn
form.
Panka, who was always favorite on
the strength of his win a week earlier,
won the Quality Handicap stylishly
enough to indicate bright prospects in
the Toorak Handicap and Cantala Stakes.
His win left him open to a rehandicap
for both those races, but he was never
better than at present, and further im-
provement is probable. At the time of
writing it was intended to start him in
the w.f.a. Melbourne Stakes next Satur-
day, and that race should provide a better
line on his real ability. He will be ridden
in all his forthcoming engagements by
J. Purtell.
Not content with Panka’s win, owner
A. R. Withers and trainer F. Godby took
half the Ailsa Welter prize with Panka’s
two-years-younger sister Plana, who
dead-heated with Distinction, Both are
by Salatis from Lady Nalpa. Plana, a
winner during a previous visit to Mel-
bourne, fluctuated alarmingly in the bet-
ting. She eased from threes to tens, but
late support brought her price down to
sevens. Crowded for room halfway
through the race, she looked all over a
winner when she drew clear entering the
straight, but Distinction drew level in the
last stride, and Billie Burke, half a head
away, almost made it a triple dead-heat.
Withers, a South Australian, was not
present to see either of his horses win.
He has been ill, but hopes to be in Mel-
bourne for Toorak Handicap day.
Not all present-day horses are the
“pampered darlings” many old-timers
would have us believe. Sir Locket was
racing for the fourth time in 11 days
when he outstayed Contact and Palencia
in the Tullamarine Handicap, 10 fur-
longs. Incidentally, he landed a plunge
which forced his price from sixes down
to threes. Apprentice W. Harrison’s 71b.
allowance reduced Sir Locket’s weight
to 7.10, and the lad carried out instruc-
tions to “let him see plenty of daylight.”
Sir Locket went round three horses on
the turn, but, although that cost him a
fair amount of ground, he won running
away by half a length. The four-year-
old son of Treyford is one of the tough-
est geldings in training, and it will not
be due to lack of condition if he fails in
the Caulfield Cup with 7,8. He thrives on
hard work and racing.
Contact carried a stone more than
his Caulfield Cup weight of 7.4, but no
excuse was possible for him. He had the
run of the race, and it seems that \\ mile
will be beyond him. Palencia, carrying
171 b. more than his Cup weight, was
beaten on his merits, but he may im-
prove. Rainbar was not disgraced in
fourth position, even though he weakened
after cutting at Warbird for the lead. He
carried only 91b. more than his Caulfield
Cup weight, however, and will have to
improve a lot to win that race.
Spearmain ran himself into a start for
the Victoria Derby by defeating Ver-
mont and Highway King in the first
division of the Pascoe Handicap. He
carried 7.8 and won by only half a
head, but he raced under difficulties, and
may be about to fulfil the promise con-
tained in his second to the subsequent
Ascot Vale Stakes winner, High Road, in
the Flemington Stakes last spring. He is
by Manitoba from Celia, a Spearhead
mare, and cost 240gns. as a yearling.
Spearmain’s other spring engagements in-
clude the Melbourne Cup with 6.13, and,
judged by the manner in which he ran
the mile right out on Saturday, a dis-
tance will not trouble him.
» i • • • •
Trustee, owned in Adelaide but trained
in Melbourne, led throughout the second
division of the Pascoe Handicap to defeat
Morvi and Foxhow in a second and a
half faster time than that recorded by
Spearmain. His form was an improve-
ment on his effort at Mentone a week
earlier, but trainer L. McCann states that
he is an uncertain galloper, who is apt
to “dig in his toes.” Purtell made him
do his best on Saturday, and Trustee
never looked like being beaten. He is a
fine type of colt by Gay Lothario from
Beneficiary, and has won two races for
owner T. H. McKay, who paid lOOOgns.
for him as a yearling. McKay might
now be tempted to run him in the Caul-
field Guineas, in which McCann will also
be represented by Millais, provided the
latter progresses well meantime.
Country-trained La Chelone recorded
her first city win when she carried 9.2 to
success in the first division of the Merri
Trial. Corredor, beaten favorite for the
fourth time in succession, looked unlucky,
but full marks were due the winner,
who is' a six-year-old daughter of the
Caulfield Cup winner Gaine Carrington.
She has won her last three races, and 19
in all. La Chelone is ridden in most of
her track work by her 57-year-old trainer,
J. J. Turner, one-time successful jockey
at Victorian country meetings.
Great expectations once centred
in Isambard, but, although he won
two hurdle races at Flemington in July,
it was not until Saturday that he recorded
his first win on the flat. Well-backed
for the second division of the Merri
Trial, he had to survive a protest after
defeating the unlucky Martinez by a
neck. Hurdling seemingly has improved
Isambard, but, although he was entered
for the Melbourne Cup, jumping may be
more in his line.
Riccarton completed a winning hat-
trick by carrying 11.4 and easily defeat-
ing West Haran and The Brewer in the
Lindsay Gordon Steeplechase. He is the
most improved ’chaser in training, and
has been a splendid bargain at the 140gns.
he cost A. S. Peacock less than a year
ago. J. Regan has been associated with
Riccarton in each of his wins, and that
rider is making the most of his oppor-
tunities. With three recent wins in Syd-
ney, his last eight mounts have yielded
six firsts and two seconds.
* * * *
Evergreen’s win in the A.I.F. Quality
Handicap strengthened his Epsom claims.
His weight drops only 41b., but the style
in which he finished said a lot for his
prospects next Saturday. At the same
time, if it were not for slight doubt
attaching to Freckles seeing out the mile,
his chance, on figures, would be genuinely
preferable to that of Evergreen. The
latter has not shown himself a really
good beginner, while Freckles, no matter
where he is drawn at the barrier, is likely
to be prominent when the field settles
down. That will help him to avoid a
lot of the trouble that often tells against
a horse that commences a trifle slowly.
Flying Knight, meeting Evergreen 111 b.
worse than last Saturday, can have no
chance of beating him, and, though Ami-
able may improve slightly, a win for her
with 8.11 is going to be difficult. Rim-
veil won so well at Rosehill that he is
deserving of a deal of consideration, but
assuming he had started in the A.I.F.
Quality Handicap with 9.6 —the 121 b.
separating them in the Epsom—he would
have found Evergreen a stiff proposition.
Session’s win at Randwick was not really
impressive, as she had nothing to spare
from Creditor, and Flying Knight, meet-
ing her 71b. worse than Epsom terms,
was not far away. Session beat Flying
Knight at level weights, and in the A.I.F.
Quality Handicap Evergreen gave him
81b. In the Epsom the last-named gets
31b, from Session.
High Rank’s fourth in Session’s race
appeared to give him an Epsom chance,
but he did not shine in the A.I.F.
Quality Handicap, in which Evergreen
gave him 81b., against the 61b. separating
them next Saturday. The extra furlong
may help High Rank, but it will not be
against Evergreen. In the Quality Han-
dicap All Veil’s showing did not suggest
an Epsom chance even with 61b, less to
carry, and on their form of last Wednes-
day Merrimba and John Doiy do not
appeal, even though they received men-
tion in doubles a little while ago.
High Caste, if he recovers entirely
from his illness of Saturday, is bound to
give his backers a great run. However,
despite his recent win at Rosehill, there
is still a little uncertainty as to how he
will fare in the first furlong or two, and,
with his big weight, he cannot afford to
be far away from the leading division
commencing the last half-mile. The field
may not be very large, and that will be
something in his favor, especially if some
of the smart beginners string it out in the
early part.
Hydra’s showing in the Quality Handi-
cap was first-class, but as he goes up 71b.
and Evergreen drops 41b. figures are
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT."
First Hurdle Race: Royal
Sceptre, 1 ; Gold Pan, 2; Generous
Gesture, 3.
Trial Stakes: Lo Dokes, 1;
Grand Fils, 2 ; Red Pete or Half
Way, 3.
A.J.C. Derby: Laureate, 1 ;
Yaralla, 2; Lugano, 3.
Epsom Handicap: Freckles, 1;
Evergreen, 2 ; Panchio, 3.
Colin Stephen Stakes: Beau Vite,
1 ; Lucrative, 2 ; Pandect, 3.
Kensington Handicap: Asnazu,
1 ; Micawber, 2 ; Patrician, 3.
SECOND DAY—OCTOBER 6.
Breeders’ Plate: Sandman, 1 ;
Riverton, 2; Yarrawonga or Hall
Stand, 3.
Metropolitan: Veiled Threat, 1 ;
Lucrative, 2; Gundagai or Trigger-
man, 3.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(Before acceptances.)
October Hurdle: Winterset, 1 ;
Paul Lois, 2; Giant Killer, 3.
Maribyrnong Trial Stakes (fillies):
Ellembee, 1 ; Miss Understood, 2 ;
Cavort, 3.
Maribyrnong Trial Stakes (colts
and geldings); Great Britain, 1 ;
Gallant Gentleman, 2 ; Portsmouth,
3.
Edward Manifold Stakes: All
Love, 1 ; Primavera, 2; Wheat
Sheaf, 3.
Melbourne Stakes: El Golea, 1 ;
Tranquil Star, 2 ; Rivette, 3.
Stand Handicap: True Flight, 1 ;
Velocity, 2; Ronolive, 3.


advr
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will den-
nitely rejuvenate vou. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
T.JONES £CO.
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
against him, though it must be added he
is a fair weight-carrier. Algerian has
worked nicely since his arrival at Rand-
wick, but, as at his last start in Maoriland
he could only run fourth in a mile race
in which he was 21b. from the minimum,
he will find an Epsom hard with 141 b.
above it. Panchio is still included in
my possibilities. At his last start he fin-
ished strongly with 8.3 when sixth in
the Tramway Handicap, won by Ever-
green, 7.13. He will meet the latter 141 b.
better.
It is really difficult to go beyond
Freckles for the winner. Applying the
A.J.C. handicapper’s figures for races
since the Epsom weights were issued it
seems probable that if he were afforded
the opportunity he would give Freckles
at least 101 b. more than the 7.5 he has
to carry. So, for a brilliant horse,
Freckles has a great advantage over
most of his probable opponents if the
going is good. I have heard it suggested
he will not shine on a soft track, but I
know nothing concerning him on that
score.
• * • •
The Derby position has not changed
to any extent since the Rosehill meeting.
Yaralla, though third, had no chance
against Beau Vite and Lucrative in City
Tattersall’s Stakes, but finished well
ahead of Derby acceptors in Galliard
and Dick Whitington. I read that
Yaralla’s trainer expects him to im-
prove, though on what he bases that
opinion it is hard to say. The chestnut
looked strung up on Saturday, but, as F.
Cush is not a talker, presumably he must
have some sound reason for his belief
that he will be better on Saturday next.
The Champion, Laureate and Beau
Son are doing well enough to please their
respective trainers, and Lugano has prob-
ably improved since running, at Rosehill,
when he certainly did not s»6w the form
that enabled him to beat the older Mel-
bourne horses at weight-for-age. IPs
Funny continues to look well, but his
third in the Rosehill Guineas did not
give him a better Derby chance than
Yaralla. Prince’s third last week was
something better than he had shown
recently, but was scarcely a run that
entitled him to be regarded as a probable
Derby winner.
Cloudy Bay may have to be reckoned
with, notwithstanding his disappointing
run in Henchman’s race ; but Chatham’s
Choice did not shape like a stayer in the
Rosehill Guineas. For that matter it
cannot be said with certainty that any
of the three-year-olds are potential stayers,
though Laureate’s Rosehill win said more
for him in that respect than any of the
others.
* ♦ * *
Pandect and Lucrative continue the
popular selections for the Metropolitan.
The former gave a good account of him-
self at Rosehill, but more will be known
concerning his chance after he runs in
the Colin Stephen Stakes. He will be
meeting Lucrative only 31b. better than
in the last Sydney Cup, and there is no
sound reason for supposing he has made
the greater improvement since. For my
part I expect both to be beaten by Veiled
Threat, to whom his drop from 9.2 in
the Red Cross Cup to 8.5 is likely to
make a lot of difference. Though he
missed a place on Saturday he did not
run a bad race.
On his last two runs Dashing Cavalier
cannot be recommended, and there does
not seem much hope for Binnia Hero
or Malagigi. After his win in the
Green Hills Handicap, Katanga was
disappointing in the Red Cross Cup, and
his failure slightly discounted the chance
of Triggerman, whom he beat on only
41b. worse than Metropolitan terms.
Excuses were made for the latter, but a
mile and a quarter was far enough to
permit of his overcoming any disadvan-
tage he may have suffered at the start.
Katanga was scratched on Monday.
If Chatoona has a good Metropolitan
chance, that of Gundagai should be
better. At level weights he was a trifle
stronger than Chatoona at the end of 11
furlongs at Rosehill, and will be getting
91b. from him in the Metropolitan. There
are greater impossibilities than that of
seeing stablemates in Veiled Threat and
Gundagai fighting it out in next Mon-
day’s race. Remarc may scarcely be
ready, but lightly-weighted horses in Aris-
tocrat and Goose Boy cannot be over-
looked. In attempting to “pick it in
one” I shall pin my faith to Veiled
Threat.
* # ♦ ♦
As was to be expected Evergreen be-
came definite favorite for the Epsom
after his win on Saturday, and on Mon-
day the order of the most fancied Epsom
and Metropolitan horses was as follows:
EPSOM HANDICAP.
Evergreen.
Freckles.
Rimveil.
High Caste.
Amiable, High Rank, Panchio, Session.
All Veil.
Algerian, Chatoona, Hydra, Valve.
METROPOLITAN.
Pandect.
Lucrative.
Veiled Threat.
Trigger-man.
Chatoona.
Gundagai.
Goose Boy.
* * * ♦
If track form works out as well in the
Breeders’ Plate and Gimcrack Stakes
as last year, backers will have cause to be
pleased. Yaralla, at 9 to 4, won the
Breeders’ Plate; while, though the
Gimcrack Stakes favorite, Whisper Low
(5 to 4), was beaten, it was by All Love,
second in demand at 3 to 1. Cradle Song,
the only other backed to any extent, ran
third. The fillies’ race was run in 58i,
against Yaralla’s Imin. in the Breeders’
Plate.
» * ♦ *
Last week, in referring to the book-
makers’ attitude towards place betting on
Sydney racecourses, I erroneously used
the words “starting-price betting” in the
concluding portion of the paragraph.
The mistake, however, was too obvious
to be misleading.
* * * *
A horse that seems a certainty for
favoritism at Randwick on Saturday is
Lo Dokes in the Trial Stakes. He has
won so well at a mile at his last two
starts that he should be equal to getting
another quarter-mile. The Bailiff, who
was second to Lo Dokes on Saturday,
will meet him 51b. better, but it is doubt-
ful whether that difference will enable
him to turn the tables. Last year the
Trial Stakes was won by Freckles, who,
starting at even money and carrying
8.5, beat Evergreen (7.12) by a head in
the good time of 2.3| for the mile and a
quarter. Veiled Threat (7.9) was third.
« * * ♦
Owing to the last day of the A.J.C.
meeting and the opening of the V.A.T.C.
meeting clashing Sydney entrants for the
latter are not numerous. In the Caulfield
Stakes, run on the second day of the
V.A.T.C, fixture, the Sydneyites engaged
are High Caste, The Champion and
Evergreen. The last-named is also in the
Coongy Handicap the same afternoon.
B. Payten has more entered for the
V.A.T.C. meeting than any other Sydney
trainer.
The appended prices at auction as
yearlings of most of the three-year-olds
engaged at the A.J.C. spring meeting are
of interest. Some have already given a
satisfactory return, while others are still
in the maiden division:
Gns.
Beau Son, by Beau Pere-Banita .. .. 3500
Beau Port, by Beau Pere-Grey Port .. 2200
Murmuring, by Bulandshar-Tea Tattle .. 2000
The Champion, by Spearfelt-Sere Vale .. 1300
Goldbrook, by Medieval Knight-Helens-
brook 1300
Yaralla, by The Buzzard-Even Keel .. 1200
War Spear, by Spearfelt-My Treasure .. 1100
Justitia, by Beau Pere-La Justice .. .. 900
Gold Rush, by Tiderace-Gold Trail .. 800
Condignity, by Constant Son-Stencil .. 750
Laureate, by Law Maker-Stage Wit .. 600
Dark Warbler, by Pantheon-Blackbird .. 575
Epic Poem, by Piccadilly-Loquacious .. 550
Cloudy Bay, by Phaleron Bay-Cherry Pie 525
Wellesley, by Spearfelt-Gallant Elsa .. 450
Final Victory, by Phaleron Bay-Hunting
Lodge 425
The Bailiff, by Double Remove-Biddy
Menda 400
Soho, by Brueghel-Trevally .. .. 400
It’s Funny, by Constant Son-Roscome .. 375
Kingsdale, by Andrea-Rippledale .. .. 325
Henchman, by Harinero-Engaged .. 325
St. Pancras, by Piccadilly-Farfadet .. 325
Galliard, by The Buzzard-Blue Shirt .. 300
Colonel Post, by Posterity-Curtaia .. 250
Lugano, by John James-Bucentaure .. 160
* * * *
If Thrax had not lost a little ground
in blundering slightly at the crossing in
the Three-year-old Handicap at Randwick
he might have beaten Henchman, but
there was merit in the latter’s win with
8.8, He beat only two other runners in
the Rosehill Guineas, but that race
greatly improved him, though only for
Munro being on him he would probably
have been a 10-to-l chance on Wednes-
day. Last season Henchman scored two
wins and a dead-heat, and the only time
he was out of a place in seven starts was
when he fell in a race at Randwick. He
has made a good start this season, and as
he has returned £BB5 in wins and placings
he has been a good purchase as a yearling
at 325gns.
♦ * * *
The yearling trials at Victoria Park
were interesting, notwithstanding the
absence of some youngsters that had
worked well. These included Hesione
(half-sister to Ajax), Hall Stand, and
Silver Crown, trained by B. Payten. G.
Price’s stable had two heat-winners in
Riverton (Midstream-Society) and Baroda
(Bulandshar-Cereza), and a dead-heater
in Roman Law (Law Maker-Romaine).
Each had a full share of weight, being
ridden by M. McCarten. Riverton im-
pressed me most of the trio.
Sandman (a brother to Bona Fide) was
another colt that took my fancy. He
galloped very smoothly to win his heat
in slightly slower time than Riverton,
but carried less weight. G. F. Gorrie
(W. J. Smith’s trainer) has a promising
colt in Yarrawonga (Beau Pere-Capford)
and a particularly smart filly in
Corroboree (Beau Pere-Natiya), who, in
equalling Riverton’s time, beat her
opponents in a fashion that suggested
the possibility of a Gimcrack Stakes win.
With only one to beat, Angel (Double
Remove-Virgin Wing) had an easy win
in her division. She is a nice mover.
The yearling price of each heat-winner
sold at auction was as follows: Flying
Shuttle 600gns., Riverton 600gns., Santa
Cruz 200gns., Angel 800gns., Roman
Law 400gns.
* * ♦ ♦
Cloudy Bay was the disappointment of
Henchman’s race at Randwick. Excuses
were at first made for him on the score
that the reverse way of going to which
he was accustomed in Melbourne told
against him, and he certainly did make
a bad job of it. Later he was found to
be slightly affected by colic, and that may
have been the real trouble. Marked im-
provement on his form of a week ago
will be necessary to give him any chance
in the Derby, and, though Lugano and
Murmuring were also well credentialled
by Melbourne wins, only Laureate has
done anything here to suggest another
Victorian win in the A.J.C. classic.
* * * •
Royal Sceptre lost his rider at the first
jump in the Trial Hurdle Race at Rand-
wick, but then he did well enough to
indicate that he has a liking for the jump-
ing business. Leaving the straight he
took up a forward position, and was
not after further back than third. There
is a big difference between running rider-
less and carrying 10.7, but, apart from
his initial error. Royal Sceptre cleared
the jumps in a fashion that could not be
faulted. He will again be in the market
when he next runs in a hurdle race.
* * * *
Training horses in public has always
found favor with some owners and
trainers, and no one is deceived when a
horse that is of little account at less than
nine or ten furlongs takes part in sprint
races. It may finish up the straight, but
a handicapper is unlikely to be influenced
to the extent of dropping its weight when
it is nominated for a suitable race. Nor
are racegoers misled in such circum-
stances or when a horse is ridden by a
moderate jockey or comparatively in-
experienced apprentice. It may start at
an outside price and run accordingly,
but that does not prevent it being in
demand a little later when a capable
jockey replaces the indifferent one. It
may be beyond their powers, but in such
cases stipendiary stewards must often be
inclined to ask “Why?”
* * * *
At the annual meeting of members of
the Auckland R.C. the chairman, O.
Nicholson, said that if the Government
and Racing Conference at any time de-
cided that racing should be suspended or
curtailed the club would accept the posi-
tion without complaint. Chairman
Nicholson drew attention to the fact that
there were no proprietary racing clubs in
Maoriland, and added: “No member of
racing clubs can make for himself on
account of his membership any profit or
gain out of the clubs’ racing operations.
All racing revenue must be applied for
racing purposes exclusively.” That posi-
tion would not be appreciated by Aus-
tralian proprietary and debenture clubs.
• * * •
It is interesting to read that of all Son-
in-Law’s long list of foals only three were
registered as chestnut, and it is considered
probable an error was made in their
case. His days of usefulness as a sire
practically ended in 1936, when 19 foals
were credited him. In each of the three
succeeding years he was responsible for
only one. Up to the end of 1939 his
progeny had won about £380,000, but
though he sired so many high-class
stayers he had only one classic winner,
Straitlace (the Oaks).
* ♦ ♦ •
The agreed maximum of the number
of horses in training in England this year
was 1200, which means that many
trainers went through the season with
small teams by comparison with pre-war
days. From Sept. 1 to Nov. 8 racing
days were to total 23.
* * * *
Steeplechasers command good prices
in America. At Saratoga in August
F. A. Clark sent up 14 steeplechasers
for. sale. Four were passed in, but the
other 10 realised an average of $3560
(about £A1073). Bladen, a four-year-old
gelding, topped the list at $9900 (a little
over £A3000), while London Town, a
nine-year-old gelding, made $7500 (about
£2280). The prices are remarkable, in
view of the fact that opportunities for
jumpers are not really great in America.
Bennell Disqualified
Fighting at his best, Hockey Bennell
(10.3) was setting up a nice points lead
against Ron McLaughlin (10.7) at Leich-
hardt last Thursday night when, in the
sixth round, he suddenly did his block
and socked the ref., who promptly
crowned Ron the winner.
That was the hop-over sign for yet
another of the all-in shindies in the ring
that have become more and more com-
mon over the last few years—ugly, bad-
tempered performances, with the cops
having to swarm through the ropes and
restore order. It’s a legacy to the Noble
Art from the mauling vaudeville called
wrestling, in which this sort of ending
is more or less the expected, thing. What
the Noble Art now needs is control by
a body to lay down rules and to enforce
them with suitable punishment. Lacking
such a body, the free-for-all is getting
almost as common in boxing as in
grappling.
Apart from its sorry ending, the fight
was, while it lasted, the best seen in Syd-
ney for months. Bennell fought as well
as if his title had been at stake. Always
a fast boxer, he has greatly improved on
the fighting side. With McLaughlin
forcing the attack and Hockey countering
splendidly, the scrapping was uncom-
monly fierce in the third and fifth rounds,
though there was enough solid fight in
the others as well to keep the crowd
excited. Ref. Pearson’s version of the
ending was that he’d warned Hockey for
using a rabbit-killer, and was about, to
warn him again when Hockey let him
have one behind the ear. The ref. then
disqualified Hockey, and Hockey, seconds,
and others were presently in holds, with
the police rushing in to sling their weight
about. For once the crowd was with
Hockey—but then it usually takes the
offender’s side in these brawls.
In their present form a title scrap be-
tween this pair should be well worth put-
ting on and well worth looking at.
Hockey’s speed should win, but it would
be no walkover.
Lithgow’s 21-stoner Les McNabb
added to his mounting list of easy wins
in Sydney by outing Herb Daley (14.7)
in the second round of their prelim, to
the Bennell-McLaughlin scrap. McNabb
isn’t just so much beef. He knows how
to punch, has learned some useful things
about boxing, and is remarkably nimble
for his tonnage.
Footbrawl
The 77,746 of the faithful who jammed
into M.C.G. on Saturday to see Mel-
bourne down Essendon by 19.13 to 13.20
for the V. F. League premiership paid
£6506 7s. for the doubtful privilege of
watching a game that was all Melbourne’s
from bounce to bell.
Essendon scored first goal within a
minute, but Melbourne was 6.6 to 1.1
at the first change, 11.9 to 2.6 at half-
time and 14.11 to 6.13 at the third
change. The ’Dons got 6.7 to 5.2 in the
last, but that could be put down to sheer
kindness. It is Melbourne’s third premier-
ship in succession. Previous years of
triumph for the club were 1926 and
1900, Three years before that they met
Essendon in the V. F. League’s first
premiership; the ’Dons won by 1.8 to
0.8.
The big crowd that waited for the final
at M.C.G. saw a real footbrawl between
Essendon and Fitzroy seconds, playing a
curtain-raiser. By the last quarter the
opposing sides were mixing it with fists,
boots, teeth and anything else handy.
Coburg fairly played the hide off
Prahran in the Association semi-final
at Toorak Park, winning by 19.12 to
13.7 after being 18.12 to 6.9 at three-
quarter time. A very large crowd reso-
lutely stayed away. Coburg meets Port
Melbourne in the final.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Big moment for all Sydney women
occurred last Saturday morning at
Admiralty House when the Governor-
General, himself a V.C., presented to
Mrs. J. H. Edmondson the V.C. awarded
to her dead son, Corporal John Hurst
Edmondson, for valor in the defence of
Tobruk, and to Mrs. W. J. Hickey the
Distinguished Flying Cross awarded to
the late Squadron-Leader William Joseph
Hickey for courage and devotion to
duty in the operations over Greece.
An equinoctial gale plucked with
mischievous fingers at spring hats at
Randwick on Saturday, but on the whole
woman’s belief in the power of the
bandeau was not misplaced, and hats
remained as close to the head as limpets
to the rock. Tiny sailors and tufts of
tulle prevailed as headwear. Dresses
varied from light silks to woollen suits.
There were even a few fur coats on
parade. The meeting was given over to
the Red Cross. Voluntary Aids in their
blue popped about the lawns, reminding
of Omar’s line about the hyacinths the
garden wears. However, they weren’t
there for mere decoration. They were
gathering in shekels for the Red Cross.
Another coin-snarer was the Churchill
Flag. Eager V.As. offered scrolls on
which for threepence you could write
your name. Apparently this will then be
inscribed on the flag. Wife of A.J.C.
president George Main entertained the
Alexander Gordon lady and other Red
Cross potentates at lunch.
Mrs. Reg Bettington’s blue-and-white
scheme was among things admired.
Pamela Bushell’s dove-grey frock, slimly
fitting, had as finish a hat which was like
a small nest of pink tulle. Phillipa
Stephen’s grey-blue suit had its lapels
white spotted. Her smart little sailor
was white.
They say that “Kissing Time” is old —
Don’t you believe it;
The merry tale can not grow stale,
Such moral to relieve it.
What though its Frenchmen are of mould
Nineteen fourteen,
Kissing’s the plot wherein no jot
Of change is seen!
To those whose blood runs yet not cold,
To those whose life is still gay rhyme.
The Royal calls in Neon’s gold
It’s “Kissing Time!”
After the audience adjusted its reflexes
to the sight of bright and gay French
men and women who had never thought
of Vichy except as a table water, it
settled down to enjoy the Royal’s new
offering. Some of Saturday night’s house
remembered that “Kissing Time” first
appeared in Sydney about 20 years ago.
Gladys Moncrieff, just then leaping to
stardom, had the singing part of Lucienne
Touquet.
Last Saturday Gladys, all white and
silver brocade, sat in the managerial box,
while Marie Bremner was Lucienne, her
last frock a whirl of orchid chiffons. A
daffodil-like ballet and one that suggested
a stylised design of black and gold butter-
flies were stage attractions; likewise Joy
Youlden, from her first entry in spreading
white organdie. Mrs. A. E. Grace, Mrs.
Eva Wunderlich, Mrs. Edmund Playfair,
the H. Bradys, Mrs. Bertie Kelly and
daughter Mrs. J. M. McPhillamy were in
the audience. Mrs. Alfred Varcoe’s cerise
frock wrapped in silver fox was admired.
Alice McKenzie, from Orange, brought
taffetas flowered in many colors, Mrs.
Toby Browne, as faithful as Mary of the
nursery rhyme to her little lamb, wore
an evening coat of grey lambskin.
Premier McKell’s wife made the speech
commending the table-setting competi-
tion for the Sydney Hospital to well-
wishers and friends. Quite a company
of these was gathered in David Jones’s,
and each was jangling with silver coins
to exchange for votes. Mrs. McKell’s
black frock had a foam of white jabot,
and its three-quarter sleeves ended in
puffs of white lace. With her on the
little dais were the Norman Paul lady and
Mrs. Hamilton Kirkland. An American
voice whose owner was regarding the
latter’s beige-pink frock with its soft fur
remarked: “Guess that frock was born
on the Avenue.” Direct inquiry proved
she was right. Mrs. E. P. Houghton and
Mrs. C. L. Jones wore suave, slim black
frocks.
Mrs. Sterling Levis’s “exotic” table
seemed to be raking in votes. It is all
green and crystal and tall black candles
in high silver holders. Orchids and fruits
are the crescendo. The war-time naval
wedding table has its two-tier cake boat-
shaped. On its top is a replica of a
R.A.N. cruiser camouflaged and sailing
pn a blue sea, The McMaster lady is
responsible for a “country” table, its
trimmings including ears of wheat. There
are turf, jockeys and the gold cup won by
Gilltown on City Tattersall’s table. Bridge
by a mere man shows four black cats
around a bridge table. There’s a mouse-
trap under the table, and near by a jug
marked “Milk.”
President of the Society of Artists
Sydney Ure Smith, just back from sketch-
ing and sunbaking at Palm Beach, is
delighted with the news, just to hand,
of the Australian art exhibition sent a
while back to America. Will Ashton, of
the National Gallery, who is chaperoning
the exhibits, reports that already Yale
University has bought Margaret Pres-
ton’s aboriginal landscape for its own
art gallery. In fact, all the galleries
show interest in the work of Margaret
Preston, Dobell and Drysdale. The show
is to be opened with some ceremony by
Australia’s R, G. Casey in Washington
to-day (Oct. 1). U.S.A.’s “Art News” is
bringing out a special issue devoted to
the Australian show. It will be replete
with color plates.
Artistic and musical circles of Sydney
are indebted to the Bryants, of Manly.
Charley Bryant, mainly responsible for
Manly’s having an art collection of its
own, was recognised as an artist of dis-
tinction both here and in London. Sister
Alice Bryant is one of our noted women
organists. Just now she is under engage-
ment to the Municipal Council of Sydney
to give a series of recitals in the Town
Hall. Her second concert was given last
Sunday, and she is booked for one on
the 12th and one on the 26th of October.
Alice, when studying her instrument in
England, had many opportunities of prac-
tising in Westminster Abbey.
This is Senator Foil’s daughter
Marjory, who is a great worker for the
Far West Children’s Health scheme.
She reports that the recent spring parade
for this cause was a great success. Among
her patriotic efforts is giving every Wed-
nesday to the Army War Comforts
Auxiliary in King-street. Norton Tre-
vaire photograph.
Isabel Crowdy, who came to Aus-
tralia as private secretary to Lady Game
when Sir Philip was Governor of this
State, died recently at Newton Mearns,
Scotland. Like her three clever sisters,
Isabel did war work in France duirng the
1914-18 struggle. When she went back
to England she held a job as information
officer at the Cockspur-street office of
the Orient Co., and here literally thou-
sands of Australians sought her advice.
Hotels, schools, guesthouses the world
over were known to her, if not by per-
sonal acquaintance, at least from the facts
compiled in her comprehehsive card
index. She was a woman with great
charm and no affectations. One of the
gifted and public-spirited sisters is Dame
Rachel Crowdy, who married Lt.-Col.
Cudbert Thornhill.
The Women’s All Services Canteen at
Central has just had its first birthday
party. It was dizzy with pomp and cere-
mony and surrounded the crowning of
the Queen of Victory. The contest had
raised £2OOO for the canteen. All of this
is needed to help keep up the meals and
menus which make the canteen famed
among the lads of the services. A mil-
lion and a half meals have been served
free of charge in the 12 months just
passed. The Wentworth ballroom was
festive and pictorial for the pageant.
Topsy Stewart was crowned queen,
and wore the royal purple cloak
and crown with distinction. The
five runners-up were ladies-in-waiting
with plumes in their hair, their soft
frocks enriched with Court trains. Other
ladies of the Court had their flower
coronets formed in the V for Victory
sign. Josephine Marks was organiser.
Mrs. W. A. Holman is one of a com-
mittee busy with arrangements for a card
party which will benefit the fund for
medical aid to Russia. This will be held
on October 9 at the Pickwick Club, and
already bookings are in a very healthy
condition. Mrs. Holman’s daughter
Portia is now on the staff of St. Ebba’s,
one of England’s big hospitals, about ten
miles from London. Since the bombing
of Great Ormond-street’s hospital St.
Ebba’s has great contingents of child
patients. Portia describes the work as
absorbing and life in the hospital as too
busy to leave much time for worrying
over the war.
The Society of Women Writers snared
a real commodore to its monthly lunch,
and he told the members so many
nautical terms and their meanings that
one and all feel qualified to become at
least Minister for the Navy. The reason
why the bos’n and his mate pipe an
officer on board and over the side again ;
the reason why all officers salute when
stepping on to the quarterdeck (from
Elizabethan days, when a crucifix was
enshrined there in a niche) —in fact, why
salutes are given at all —were made clear
by Commodore Muirhead-Gould. Many
had hoped that the history of convoys
might be told in the Navy’s graphic way.
It would have been interesting to learn
how the Corinthians and Athenians
managed to convoy their troops during
Mediterranean upheavals b.c.
From Melbourne
An anachronism of the week was a
piebald holiday for the Show —and there
was no Show. Lukewarm attractions
were races at Ascot, the poultry show at
South Melbourne and window shopping
in town. The railways and bus cos. put
on extra transport to the country, but
few seats were booked. A dazed condi-
tion at having a holiday at all persisted
until the day was over. Also Melbourne
had a blackout, and there were some 280
reported breaches ; and George Colville’s
panels representing munitions in the
making were exhibited for the first time
at the Twenty Painters’ Show. Mr. Col-
ville said he had a warm job doing these
pictures, he and his canvas dodging like
a couple of kangaroos the danger zones
of molten metal.
Inset from Ronald Esler, Helen
Andrews, recently engaged to Lieut. R.
Jephson Rumley, A.I.F. Abroad, who is
the son of the Percy Rumleys, of Morn-
ington. Helen is the only daughter of
Captain and Mrs. W. Andrews, now of
South Yarra, erstwhile of Koraleigh,
N.S.W, Her job is in the X-Ray depart-
ment of the Children’s Hospital. Brother
David went away as a gunner in the
same field regiment as his future brother-
in-law.
It would be hard to find a better-value
meal than that dished up monthly from
12 to 2 at the Legacy Club by the
women’s association of the 2/4 Field
Regiment. The papas of Legacy never
miss the date and book their own private
room for holding a meeting conjointly
while doing credit to soup, salad with
ham and poultry, jam, cheese and tea ;
the lot for Is. 6d. Last week presiding
power of the piping hot soup (equipment
being a primus and large size thermoses
for the rush at the end) was Mrs. A. R.
Stewart; and Mrs. V. Leggo, Mrs. F.
McCabe and Miss Glasscock were the
three musketeers of the dish-washing.
Mrs. Evan Evans, Mrs. Chenhall and
Mrs. Max Cooch carved turkey so that
there was barely a bone left for the pup.
They bring their own knives and have
them sharpened en route. Among others
were Mrs. Ted Milford, Mrs. Stuart Ross,
Mrs, Val McDonald and (recently
spirited away from “salads” to “super-
vising tables”) Mrs. Frank Sampson.
Mrs. Arthur Rau called and ate her lunch
like a lady before discovering she should
have been a waitress —she’ll keep that
date on October 22.
Smith and Brown were responsible for
the much admired decorations for the
A.C.F. ball at the Palais Mr. Jack
Smith, of the Parks and Gardens, con-
tributing flowers and green stuff, and Mr.
Brown, of the Palais, a desert scene, a
camp and a hearty welcome from the
troops for the Comforts truck, the back-
cloth veiled with gauze being effective
under diffused lighting. It was too late
in the year for a bumper crowd, but the
vast open spaces of dance floor were
satisfactorily populated in spite of the
gale out of doors. On the spot £25 worth
of raffle tickets was sold by Mrs. E. M.
Dye, Mrs. lan Mclntosh, May Angliss,
Nance Naughton and Mrs. Garnet Cur-
wen, and a tenner was forthcoming from
sales of wherewithal for the balloon
dance, which won a standard lamp for
Mrs. Jud Holt.
On the following evening Mrs. Curwen
did a further job and weathered a catas-
trophe to an “all’s-well-that-ends-well”
finale. Selling lucky envelopes at Rookery
Nook for the Red Cross and Comforts
she dropped the takings all over the dress
circle in the middle of the first act. The
audience almost to a man went upon all
fours (the rest of the house could hear
a jingle-jangle of silver and a few
smothered oaths as hard heads knocked
together) and the missing fortune was
returned to a penny.
At the Victory V Ball First Naval
Member Sir Guy Royle, gold braid not-
withstanding, relaxed upon the arm of
a chair to talk with Vi Tivey, Captain
and Mrs. Foley and ever-affable David
York Syme. Also in official waters were
Mrs. Russell Clarke, Mrs. Mortimer
Robb and the George Gills (Mrs. Gill’s
portrait of Clark Gable was auctioned dur-
ing the evening). Present also was Reg
Collins, who never misses a naval do.
Some W.A.A.A.Fs. and R.A.A.Fs. were
together, the girls, with a fundamental
feminine instinct, casting longing eyes at
the evening gowns around them; the
longer they looked the tighter and hotter
their own uniforms felt. U.S. Naval
Attache Commander L. D. Causey
squired two of his countrywomen'whose
husbands were out of the State on jobs
of moment. Mrs. G. L. Hutchinson and
Mrs. S. P. Weller have been in Australia
only a fortnight, but they like it and
its people, and are longing for the day
when they set up their own respective
flats. The vegetable markets are too much
for their housewifely instincts. Both want
to get on with the job of cooking.
The Aero Club Ball at the Palais
clashed with the Victory V Ball in St.
Kilda Town Hall, and both fell on the
evening of the Budget, but both survived.
Also for the Aero Club there were inci-
dental catastrophe—an epidemic of sore
throats on one air station, a call to work
upon another and so on. Though pro-
ceeds for the Locker Fund might not be
as high as expected, dancers had a good
time, and stayed till lights out. Cr. C.
Elder (who flies, as do all Aero presi-
dents, past, present and future) handed to
the Lord Mayor during the evening
cheques for £lOOO and for £5O for the
Comforts and Bomber Victims Appeal
respectively —results of the generosity of
Essendon during Cr. Elder’s term as
Mayor.
Vice-president Mick Power did the
honors of looking after everybody with
his usual suavity. Official guests in-
cluded Air Vice-Marshal and Mrs. H.
N. Wrigley, Group-Captain and Mrs. A.
H. Cobby, Captain and Mrs. Edgar John-
ston and Wing-Commander and Mrs.
Garnie Malley. The approaching Cup
means nothing at all to Mrs. Malley, who
is off to Sydney during October for early
preliminaries regarding the Chinese Exhi-
bition to be held at David Jones’s at
Easier. She’s lending lavishly from her
large collection.
On leave from R.A.M.C. service in the
Middle East, Dr. Mary Thornton, who
can call herself a major if she wants to —
for she’s been given the pips and stripes.
At present she’s atWarrandyte with spouse
Dr. Kent Hughes. Dr. Mary looks a
ball of muscle and good health. In the
last war she did work as a V.A.D.
Patsy Finlayson, of Bowral, who has
been ski-ing instructress at Kosciusko, has
become affianced to Peter Grant Hay, of
Toorak. The two met when he was on
a ski-ing holiday at the Chalet,
Kosciusko. Patsy is now having her turn
at holidays, and will stay at the Grant
Hays’ home till after the Caulfield races.
Freda Swain, with husband Arthur
Alexander, is giving duo-piano broad-
casts over A.B.C. Freda, who has been
on the staff of the Royal College of
Music, London, for some years,
specialises in the interpretation of
modern, particularly British modern,
music. She is a composer as well as a
player.


advr
m
$
&
BEHIND THE KID AND THE ICE CREAM
IS A HISTORY OF ACHIEVEMENT . . .
Not for him to worry about keeping the io.e>cream at correct temperature,
about delivery over many miles on hot days, about manufacture to exact
standards of quality . . . those things are part of the world of business
and industry which he hopes to enter some day.
In that world, the problems of Ice-cream manufacture and storage are
expertly solved year in and year out by a highly skilled organization of
management, labour and machines that, fortified by the experience of
40 years' manufacture and service, is supplying and installing plants and
units to Australian industries.
■\ ’ *
.vr*
m
m.
ir' ;
**r
-
AN AUSTRALIAN LED THE WORLD
IN COMMERCIAL REFRIGERATION .
It was In Geelong, on the banks of the Barwon River, that about 1850
James Harrison constructed the first commercial ice-making plant. Harrison
was convinced that Australia’s future was dependent on the successful
development of refrigeration because he realized the value of carrying
perishable food from Australia to Europe. Today Australia still maintains
its leadership in the excellence of the manqfacture of its commercial
refrigeration. Firms everywhere endorse that Werner refrigeration has
proved in service to be the finest equipment of its type made.
safe
«E?g
s
:. £
: J
FROM SLAUGHTERHOUSE TO YOUR KITCHEN
REFRIGERATION LOOKS AFTER YOUR MEAT .
Abattoirs, butchers, transport companies and householders all use our modern method of food pre-
servation. In pre-refrigeration days animals when killed were hung in flyproof sheds overnight so that
the cool night air would drive out the animal heat from the body. This method was not always
successful, because the cool air did not necessarily penetrate to the bone, and therefore there
developed a bone taint in the meat. Today all danger of bone taint is efficiently taken care of by
refrigeration chambers, where powerful fans in Werner cooling units force cold air directly on to the
meat. After being conveyed to the butcher in refrigerated wagons, it is stored in a chamber at
♦he correct temperature, so that a bloom is maintained on the meat. Sooner or later it reposes in
your household refrigerator, and so today meat-eaters enjoy a standard of quality never reached before.
w%
ummm Jm* n
o
m
m
PEACETIME SKILL DEVOTED TO
NATIONAL WAR EFFORT . . .
To-day, the Werner organization is engaged in the
greatest task it has ever undertaken supplying material
from a greatly enlarged plant to the Defence Departments
of the Commonwealth.
While thus engaged, it shall continue to attend to the
current requirements of its many customers in the essential
industries of food storage and production.
INDUSTRIES SERVED BY
WERNER
REFRIGERATION
ABATTOIRS
BAKERS
BREWERIES
BUTCHERS
BUTTER FACTORIES
CONFECTIONERS
CAFES
COUNCILS
DAIRIES
DAIRY PRODUCE SHOPS
FISHMONGERS
FRUIT STORAGES
GROCERS
GUEST HOUSES
HOSPITALS
HOTELS
ICE MANUFACTURERS
ICE CREAM FACTORIES
MARKETS
SHIPS
Werner's are relrlgeratlen specialists wlie nave
teen building nothing but refrigerators lor 41 years.
Their technical advice Is always available for any
refrigeration problem. Year-round service Is
available to all users.
rrrr f
C
(fi
M
w
\
L f
A
/«
i* A.
f
R. WERNER & CO.
PTY.
LTD.
FINEST REFRIGERATION SERVICE IN AUSTRALIA
Showooros: 608 Little Collins Street, Melbourne. MU 6275. • Works; 54 Burnley Street, Richmond. JAII6I.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
N.S.W.: STUART, WALKER & CO.PTY.LTD.im Clarence St., SYDNEY S.A.; R. WERNER & CO. PTY. LTD.; 56 Franklin St., ADELAIDE
W.A.: ATKINS (W.A.) LTD., 894 Hay St., PERTH QLD.: G. A. ROCHE PTY. LTD., Cr. Ipswich Rd. and Reis St., Woolloongabba, STH.BRISBANE
TAS.: NOYES BROS. (MELB.) LTD., 36 Argyle St., HOBART; 59 George St.. LAUNCESTON
REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
NORTH OF TWENTY ELGHT
Lone Voice Crying?
“Balander”: C. H. Wilson, a Barcal-
dine road engineer with a pretty thor-
ough knowledge of central Queensland,
is trying to stir up a realisation of what
he calls the “decadence of the district”
through Government neglect and graziers’
exploitation of the land—decadence that
was evident before the war and is now
being accelerated at an alarming rate.
The two main problems Wilson sees
are the failing wool industry and living
conditions of residents. The first arises
principally from recurring droughts,
which must be regarded as permanent
afflictions and dealt with accordingly. A
beginning could be made with regenera-
tion of fodder and shade timber, intro-
duction of other suitable timber, conser-
vation of the heavy grass crops that occur
periodically and pasture improvement.
Boree and gidya, says Wilson, are dying
out rapidly, and, unless a replanting
scheme is developed, a treeless west must
come. He has germinated seeds of both.
There could be tests with introduced
trees. For cutting and storing the grass
crops he suggests either Government- or
co-operatively-owned plant. There is a
job awaiting the C.S.I.R. in finding suit-
able pastures for introduction, and
already contour ploughing on slopes is
proving valuable as a means of holding
water. Wilson wants to see field officers
established in various parts of the dis-
trict to conduct experiments in all these
things.
He condemns the average type of
house there as entirely unsuitable for the
climate, especially the kitchen, and pro-
nounces it far inferior to the average
coastal house. Most western houses are
simply galvanised-iron ovens.
“There is stagnation and worse in the
towns. Two or three may be holding
their own, the rest are declining. The
country needs prosperous and growing
communities inland.”
As to causes, Wilson blames the “un-
balanced” system of taxation and expen-
diture, which takes a lot from the west
but gives little in return, lack of adequate
roads, poor facilities for treatment of eye
troubles and high rail freights.
He maintains that in Queensland set-
ting up of war industries in coastal towns
has brought about something like a
balance between taxation and expenditure
there, while in pastoral districts the
balance is rapidly vanishing. Flow of
men and money is all away from the
inland.
He maintains also that his is not a
lone voice, and that men with any vision
at all must realise what is going on.
“Norther”: There was a wild finish
to a hack race at Atherton. Black Dove
and Rufus came to the post fighting it
out, and onlookers close by heard their
riders abusing each other. Then the
riders pulled their mounts up in the
straight, dismounted and bogged in. The
pugnacious mannikins were fined a quid
each for the disturbance, one another
quid for using his whip on the other
horse and rider during the race, both
horses were disqualified and the third
horse declared the winner. Who says
bush meetings are dull?
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Droving Down the
Castlereagh has been immortalised in
Australian verse, but Droving Down the
Bulolo remains for the inspiration of
N.G. poets. One Blake is now busy
taking 300 head of cattle from Madang
down to the Bulolo, 200 miles away.
They will skirt the flanks of the Finisterre
Range through heavily-timbered country
up to 5000 ft. above sea-level, drop down
the steep slope to the Ramu Valley, cross
the Markham and climb again up to the
Watut before reaching their new pastures
at 3000 ft. Most of the 800-odd head of
cattle in N.G. are along those rich grass
flats, many of them flown to the vicinity
in the big air freighters. So far, the
drought which has dried out the sak-sak
swamps and set back the coconuts for
300 miles towards the Sepik River and
Dutch border has not affected the Bulolo
country.
* * * *
“Towner”: A freighter with a history
blew into an Australian port with
a load of Oregon. She was laid
down in an American yard during the
1914-18 rush to build merchantmen, and
was launched almost simultaneously with
the Armistice. For some reason or other
fitting was never completed, the hull lying
in the Alabama River for 20 years until
the new war came with its need for ships
and the old hulk was rejuvenated. But
getting engines was a problem, so a
couple of old German U-boat engines
lying in a marine yard were fitted. She
can’t do more than nine knots an hour,
but is a good sea ship and is comfortably
equipped with quarters.
* * * *
“Nuiop”; A coalmine that has not
known a strike in 12 years is that at Mt.
Mulligan, which is worked co-operatively
by the miners who took the show over
when it threatened to close. They've
never earned much more than the basic
wage, but they battled on, most of their
500 tons a week being taken by the rail-
way authorities at Cairns. Now they’ve
asked the Government to make up the
difference between their earnings on
tribute and the basic wage. If they don’t
get it a township of 300-odd will vanish.
* * * *
“23-4”: Passed out at Wynnum, Pete
McCafferty, Australia’s oldest Digger.
He had fought Afghans, .Sudanese and
Boers before 1914; then he convinced
the A.I.F. enlisters he was 45 and got
away, only to be found out as being 65
when abroad and repatriated. He re-
enlisted and got away again, was reported
killed in action, mourned for months and
one day turned up. He married at 84,
became the father of a son at 86, and
was 92 at the end.
* * * *
“Dip”; From evidence so far seen it
seems likely that the report of the Federal
Parliamentary Broadcasting Committee
will be based on the views of the National
Council of Women, the N. S. Wales Tem-
perance Alliance, the Good Film and
Radio Vigilance League, the angry com-
plaints of sundry elderly ladies and gentle-
men, and so forth. Everyone, in fact,
except the common or garden radio
listener. Probably with that state of
affairs in mind, a “Radio Listeners’ Asso-
ciation” has formed itself in Brisbane,
object being to give ordinary knob-
twisters “a channel through which to
voice their suggestions and complaints.”
The association is open to the general
public, membership subscription is a bob
a year and branches are to be formed
throughout the State. My bob is in with
one from the fellow next door, although
he prefers Bach and I prefer Bing Crosby.
* * * •
“Parap”: Mr. Spender, who is running
the war his way, has a plan by which
Darwin garrison troops who have been
in Darwin since the last wet will get six
weeks’ transfer to the south. “The chief
difficulty at Darwin,” says Mr. Spender,
“is boredom, arising from the desire of
the troops to go overseas to the fighting.”
Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” however, is
convinced that “relief of the Darwin
garrison follows criticism of conditions
under which the troops live.” Which
seems to be the “D.T.’s” way of telling
Mr. Spender that it is running the war
its way.
* * * »
“B. Bane”: F. Besley, new president
of the Brisbane Chamber of Manufac-
tures, is a Devon man who left that
county to learn what there was to know
about all branches of printing in London
and Norwich. Later he visited S’Africa,
but Queensland finally claimed him and
has held him for 28 years. He’s man-
aging director of Besley and Pike, a
printing house which he started shortly
after his arrival in Brisbane and in which
his three sons lend a hand.


HALCROW
STREET
By MARGARET TRIST.
IN Halcrow-street the late milkmen passed and the
footsteps of early workmen echoed along the
pavement. Pale sunshine filtered over the brick
semi-detacheds and penetrated chinks between the
drawn blinds. Milk bottles stood chastely in front
of resolutely-closed front doors. In each narrow strip
of garden hydrangea bushes swayed with the breeze
that came up from the harbor.
Halcrow-street was shaped like a lopsided crescent
moon. It ran upwards from the harbor, curved out-
wards, curved again, then ran into a dead-end at the
stone wall of an old quarry. From it could be seen
a little blue bay with white yachts lying at anchor
and the dirty, humpy buildings of the gasworks. To
the left of it ran a maze of narrow, twisting streets
crushed tightly with dingy houses ; to the right of it
were strong, well-preserved homes standing each in
its acre of land. Halcrow-street did not resent the first
nor envy the second. It belonged to neither extreme
and was intent entirely upon itself.
The sunlight, strengthening, pushed a yellow ray
through the chinks of the blind of Mrs. North’s bed-
room and fell across the polished wood of her dressing-
table. It glinted on the assortment of cut-glass odd-
ments and rested soberly on the bowl of stiffly-
arranged flowers in the centre of the table. Mrs.
North turned drowsily in bed, vaguely resentful in her
half-sleep that day had come upon her before she was
ready for it. Beside her her husband lay like a thin
curled log under the bedclothes. She settled back into
sleep, only to be awakened by a sharp cry from the cot
in the corner of the room. She lay still, hoping it
would subside, but it grew louder and more insistent
every second. A clock in the back of the house struck
six.
The baby ceased his crying and began a loud,
savage sucking of his fists. The sound stirred her as
no cry could. Resigned, she got out of bed and went
to him, lifting him clumsily out of the warm damp-
ness that surrounded him. His hunger was greater
than his discomfort. He pursed his mouth and made
fat, gurgling sounds of annoyance while she changed
his napkin, fumbling with the pins, sticking the sharp
points into her own thumbs. Back in the bed he
nestled against her and drank, first greedily, then with
a steady guzzling sound, stopping at intervals to con-
vey his satisfaction and once even taking time to smile
complacently and vacantly into her face. Mrs. North
watched the little clock on the dressing-table and
fought the drowsiness that threatened to engulf her.
She brought herself to wakefulness by thinking about
the breakfast and figuring out whether the butter
would last till the grocer came the next day. “Perhaps,
if I fry some bread,” she thought.
The baby, satisfied, went to sleep. She put him
back in his cot and tucked a blanket over him. She
hurried into her clothes and sat on the edge of the
dishevelled bed to push her feet into loose house-
shoes. She gazed down unseeingly at her thin, white
legs with their sprinkling of black hairs. In front of
the mirror she ran a comb through her hair and
hastily adjusted a pin. “Must wash it one of these
days,” she muttered, apologetic about its lankness.
In the bathroom she sluiced her face and brushed
her teeth. In the loungeroom she turned on the
radio. Its sudden blare shook the house, hurtling into
consciousness the sleeping man. The baby slept un-
stirring.
In the kitchen she undipped the window, allow-
ing it to open three inches. Through the window she
could see into her neighbor’s kitchen and Mrs. White,
•trim in a bright-blue overall, moving briskly about.
Such energy so early made Mrs. North yawn. She
started fumbling about her own breakfast arrange-
ments.
“Water ready yet?” asked Mr. North from the
kitchen doorway. He was a thin, dishevelled man
with a shock of untidy dark hair and a stub of cigar-
ette stuck in the corner of his mouth.
“Just on the boil,” answered his wife, and won-
dered if she really ought to fry the eggs again today.
They had had them fried each morning for the last
fortnight. But it was so easy. She hurried the fat
into the pan. Mr, North set up his mirror and gear
on the kitchen window-sill and began to lather his
face. He whistled with the radio and scraped at his
thrust-out chin.
They sat ddwn to breakfast at a quarter to eight.
Mr. North gulped porridge and eggs and the morning
news. “Not too good,” he mumbled. “Not too good
at all.”
Mrs. North swallowed her tea and squashed an
uneasiness that rose inside of her. It was nothing to
“ 'E ups with 'is 'ands and calls me comrade, so, blime, sir, l didn't 'we the 'eart to stoush ’im !”
do with her. Nothing at all. She allowed herself to
be cheered by other items of news and forgot the rest.
“I don’t like it,” said Mr. North and rolled him-
self another cigarette. “My lunch ready?”
Mrs. North went with him to the front door.
He kissed her. Though neither ardent nor romantic,
it was sincere. In it were the memories of the past
and the hopes of the future.
“I’ll fix up the garden over the week-end,” he
called as he went out the gate.
His wife nodded and waved and knew quite posi-
tively that the garden would not be touched that week-
end or the next or the next
J_J ALCROW-STREET was alive now. Women shook
* * mats or made one of a group who, having seen
their menfolk off, congregated round Mrs. White’s
gate. Mr. Rowe, who was on holidays, and who
lived across the road from Mrs. North, mowed his
lawn with an enthusiasm which was soon to fade in
favor of the morning paper. Schoolchildren called
farewells. A bread-carter rumbled past in a red and
yellow cart. A bottle-oh followed him crying cheerily,
“Bottles, bottles, any empty bottles, bottles, bottles,
any kind of bottles.” After he vanished at the harbor
bend his voice lingered for a long while on the air.
Down in the bay the water was very blue. White
boats stirred lazily on it. Mrs. North stood at her
door watching for a second. She would have liked to
join the group round Mrs. White’s gate, but the
wakening cry of the baby kept her back. She went
inside, picked him out of his cot, patted him a moment,
then laid him in his pram. She put the pram in the
sunshine of the front verandah and left him there
sucking his hands and frowning with deep concentra-
tion at the green of his mosquito net. She walked
slowly back through the house feeling depressed
because of the unmade bed and crooked hall-runner,
the damp towels in the bathroom, last night’s paper
spread over the loungeroom floor, the litter in the
kitchen. She sat down in the kitchen and looked at
the mess. But when a thing had to be done, it had
to be done, and there ypu were. She brushed her hair
back with her hand and got up to fill the kettle.
There was the washing-up and the tidying of the
house and the baby’s washing. Hanging the washing
on the line she looked out over the narrow streets
and dingy houses. A faint odor came up from them,
a human smell mingling with escaped gas and blocked
drains. She wrinkled her nose. Why did people live
in such places? she wondered.
The baby was crying now. She hurried in to put
on the water for his bath. He was a nice baby, blue-
eyed, fair-haired and with sun-flushed skin. His
hands were strong and dimpled and his body firm
with a straight back. He gurgled in the water and
tried to move his fat legs. He mouthed sounds, then,
sure of his cleverness, grinned lopsidedly. Sometimes
he went to laugh, then forgot what he was about to do,
and shrieked with annoyance. By the time that every
crinkle and crease of him was clean he was used to
the bath and objected to coming out. He hated being
muffled in towels and he remembered that he was
hungry. By the time he was dressed his small hands
clawed fiercely at the empty air and his face screwed
with impotent rage.
When he was settled to sleep once more, Mrs.
North tidied herself a little and went and stood at
the front gate.
The butcher boy rode a pushbike with a basket
perched on its handlebars. The boy’s hair was fair
and straight, blowing back from a too-fair face. He
whistled as he rode up the hill, manoeuvring the bike
in zigzag fashion on the grade. He left Mrs. White’s
meat, then came on to Mrs, North. She tobk the
newspaper-wrapped parcel and opened it. She looked
at the meat, then dug her forefinger into it. “Tough
as old boots,” she said. “I’ve half a mind to send it
back. How much?”
“One and three ; it’s written on the outside.”
“One and three! Talk about robbery.”
“Killers’ strike,” said the boy briefly.
“What are they striking about?”
“I dunno. Strikes aren’t anything to do with
me.” He made to move off towards Price’s.
“Mrs. Price is out, I’ll take her meat,” put in Mrs.
North quickly. “She visits her mother on Wednes-
day.”
The boy, glad not to have to gp any further up
the hill, handed over the meat. Mrs. North opened it.
“Pork chops,” she said. “What are the Prices
doing eating pork chops these times?”
“They have ’em a couple of times a week,” the
boy answered with his eyes on the downward slope.
“Hmm! It’s good to be some people.” She dug
her forefinger into each chop in turn.
The butcher boy went and Mrs. North stood
hopefully for a few minutes, but there was no one in
sight. She went inside. There was the bed to make
and the bathroom needed attention. A man on the
radio was talking about books. She turned it on to
something interesting.
She put on the steak to braise slowly and made a
pudding. She felt free with the dinner on the way
and set about her own lunch. A pot of tea and a
tomato sandwich sufficed. Then she rested on the
lounge while a man sang a lovely song about blue
birds and roses and another about moonlight on a
blue lagoon.
A T two o’clock she fed the baby, then took a rug
on to the front lawn. She took off the baby’s
napkin and let him kick unrestricted. He discovered
the sky and stared up into it unblinkingly. She went
and stood at the gate.
The greengrocer came slowly up the hill, walking
at his horse’s head, his hand firmly on the headpiece
of the harness. He was a stockily-buiit man with
broad shoulders and a sun-tanned face. His head
was bare. Over his working-clothes he wore a canvas
apron. Having negotiated the steepest grade he patted
the horse and gave it a carrot. The horse rubbed its
head against him. He halted outside Mrs. North’s
gate —it was level there.
“Good day,” he said, “peas are thruppence and
apples two for thruppence, turnips thruppence a bunch,
potatoes thruppence.”
“How much are the pineapples?”
“Aw, awful dear, the pineapples. I wouldn’t
advise you to take a pineapple. Not worth the
money! ”
“I think I’d like a pineapple.”
The greengrocer coughed. “Well, I’m not advis-
ing it,” he said. He looked at her a while and then
turned his attention to the baby. “Fine kid!” He
went to the fence and leaned over it, whistling to the
baby. It looked at him soberly, then fixed its eyes
again on the all-absorbing sky. “Kids are great,” he
said.
“My pineapple?” Mrs. North reminded him.
“Oh, yes,” he said heavily. He paused a second,
looking very sad, then went slowly to the cart. He
looked among the vegetables and fruit, then turned
back to her. “Well, I’m blowed! ” he said, “but
there’s not a pineapple in the whole caboodle. Must
have clean forgot them this morning. Peas are thrup-
pence,” he ended hopefully.
Mrs. North opened her gate and stepped over to
the cart. Then Mrs. White came, and Mrs. Rowe


from over the road, and Mrs. Jones from the end of
the street and Mrs. Smith from the middle of the
street. The greengrocer served them slowly, then car-
ried the vegetables and fruit to each verandah in turn,
writing down the prices with a stumpy pencil on a
piece of newspaper.
As he was moving off the first batch of home-
coming children rounded the corner. They broke into
a run and the boys whooped. He waited, feeding his
horse with a little red apple. They charged up to
him and he handed out fruit ungrudgingly. Then he
went on slowly, with the children following. “Never
had no kids of my own,” he called back to the group
of women. “They’re great things, kids!” The kids
yelled their approval.
Mrs. Rowe looked after him uneasily. “I don’t
know if I’d like my children hanging round him,”
she said. She went and leant against the fence
and made clucking sounds at the baby. But the
baby, having made the discovery that he could trans-
fer himself from his back to his tummy, was lost in
his own proud thoughts.
K / RS. ROWE was a plump woman with a soft face
and a determined chin. She had brought up a
family of seven and considered that she had had all
the experiences necessary for a successful life. She
was an authority on church work, a mild form of
politics, where to shop for bargains, holiday resorts,
babies, weddings and birth control. Not that she
believed in birth control, but it was handy to know
these things sometimes, Mrs, White knew a lot of
things, too, but she never told them, merely express-
ing with a wise shake of her head the things she
could unfold if she so desired. Mrs. Jones sniggered
before she spoke, and when she had finished speaking
covered her mouth with her hand and sniggered again.
Mrs. Smith had three children and was interested in
Mrs. Rowe’s birth-control reminiscences.
“I see Mrs. Price is out again today,” said Mrs.
Rowe. “I wonder where she gets all the money for
her gallivanting.”
“They have pork twice a week,” put in Mrs.
North.
“You don’t say! ” Mrs. Rowe’s eyes glinted. “How
do you know?”
“She told me herself,” answered Mrs. North
casually.
“Oh, just showing off, I suppose. People don’t
tell anyone what they eat unless they want to show
off.”
“Living next door I can see on to her back
verandah,” said Mrs. Smith. “It’s always in a fright-
ful mess. I feel at times I’d like to go in and scrub
it myself.”
“Well, she certainly can’t keep her house properly
when she’s out all the time.” Mrs. Rowe sighed
heavily and squared her chin disapprovingly. “Her
poor husband!”
Mrs. North slipped inside to look at her meat.
“Wouldn’t you think she’d keep herself tidy about
the house?” sniggered Mrs. Jones.
“You would,” said Mrs. White, “but she keeps
the baby real nice.”
The meat was doing satisfactorily. On her way
to rejoin the group Mrs. North picked up the baby.
“How much does he weigh now?” asked Mrs.
Smith.
“He’s just on fifteen pounds,” answered Mrs.
North. “He was seven and a half pounds at birth
and he’s put on six ounces every week since.”
“Babies make a lot of work,” said Mrs. Rowe.
“But they’re worth it!” Mrs. Smith put in
quickly.
Mrs. Rowe looked at her, then looked away and
went on speaking. “Yes, thank goodness! My seven
are out of the baby stage now. I tidy my house and
it stops clean.”
“My husband is worse than the children,” com-
plained Mrs. Jones. “I can manage them, but he
leaves his things everywhere.”
“You’ve spoilt him,” said Mrs. Rowe. “I keep
Mr. Rowe out of the house except when there’s
visitors. My laundry’s good enough and clean enough
for him to read his papers and smoke his dirty old
pipe in.” She nodded complacently. “There’s a lot
in training, of course.”
Mrs. Smith prepared to depart. “Well, my meat
isn’t on yet, and Joe will be home at a quarter to six.
Ta-ta, little oogle-oogle-dums.”
The baby blinked his eyes, stared and wobbled
his head uncertainly. The women watched Mrs. Smith
retreat along the street.
“She’s a caution, that one,” said Mrs. White.
Mrs. Price, with two small children in tow, ad-
vanced from the harbor bend. She was fat and jolly,
with masses of curly brown hair showing under a good
brown hat. She came upon the group like a brisk,
good-natured breeze. Her eyes were brown and
twinkling.
“I’ve got your meat,” said Mrs. North, “I’ll pop
in and get it.”
“Here, give me the baby.” Mrs. Rowe took him
with strong, determined arms. The baby looked at
her speculatively.
Mrs. North came back with the meat. “I put it
on the ice, but I didn’t unwrap it. I thought you
mightn’t like me too.”
“Oh, that would have been all right. It’s only a
few pork chops.”
The women looked at each other significantly.
After Mrs. Price had moved on conversation
flagged, and one by one the women drifted back to
their homes.
Mr. North was due home at half-past six. It was
nearing six, so Mrs. North sponged the baby, undressed
him, fed him and put him to bed. She had the dinner
dished up when Mr. North’s latchkey sounded in
the door. She liked the sound of the latchkey. It
gave her a protected feeling.
“Any news?” asked Mr. North.
“No,” answered Mrs. North; “have you any?”
“No.” Mr. North kissed her.
Mr. North told her at dinner what the boss had
said to him and how he had explained to the boss
where he (the boss) was wrong, and how the boss had
admitted his mistake and shaken hands with him,
saying “You’re a good man, North. I’ve got my eye
on you,” and how some of the juniors had him snouted
because of it. “The trouble these days,” he said, “is
that no one wants to work for anything. ’Specially the
young mob. Think they’ve only got to ask for some-
thing and have it handed to them. Spineless young
idiots.”
After the washing-up they read the evening paper
and listened to plays on the radio. At ten Mrs. North
gave the baby its last feed. Then with deep thank-
fulness she went to bed herself to sleep unbrokenly
till six o’clock next morning. Beside her, her husband
slept like a thin, curled-up log.
'T' O the right of Halcrow-street soft lights shone
1 dimly, the lights wavering as the night breeze
stirred among old trees. There was a sound of sub-
dued laughter and music. Life was trickling on in a
thin, cool stream, dreaming placidly of a long-dead
past. To the left of Halcrow-street there was a blaze
of lights, lights yellow as old butter and bright as a
million marigolds. The stars were pale beside the
lights. Laughter floated on the air, voices shouted,
music jangled. Halcrow-street was dark by half-past
ten. The sparse street lights made shallow pools ringed
about by blackness.
"Poor of' Bill gets about ten days to the gallon."
OUR CHLORINATING
PROCESS
By JAMES HACKSTON.
WHEN my father gave up cyaniding it did not
mean that he had given up the idea that
there was gold in the dump of tailings, nor
• that he would give up trying to get that gpld
by some other process. Yes, there was still gold
there, and all he needed was a new process, a new
treatment. He would go in for chlorinating ; it would
get the gold the cyanide process had ignored.
It was summer, a record hot summer, and I hoped
chlorinating would be wet-looking like cyaniding, that
the gold might come out of it frozen, for preference,
or that draughts of cold air might belong to it. But
I soon discovered that it was no freezing process.
“It is done with heat,” said my father. “We bake
the tailings.” And the mere thought of it brought
beads of perspiration to my forehead.
Where he had failed with the cyanide he built his
chlorinating plant. The sides of an old bricked-in
tunnel near the mine were raided to build the long,
hungry oven. When this scorcher was complete the
tailings were spread on top and the fire lit, my father
launching it by throwing the remains of some cold
tea over it. The gold that had so successfully eluded
the cyanide solution was now doomed. The chlorinat-
ing process had it in its grasp.
I remember how excited my father was on the
opening day to see his brick masterpiece in action.
To start off with, it lowered the time for all wood-
consuming championships, and our supply was whisked
away so quickly that I was sent off post-haste for
more ; my father cursing me into dynamic action!
You’d have thought the ship was sinking, so
urgently and ruthlessly did its master and pilot call on
the stoker —he had appointed me to that responsible
and unenviable position. I had to work like a demon
to keep heat up. To me it was already not far below
melting point. Every time the iron door was opened
to feed it the flames came bounding out, licking at
my eyebrows and taking running jumps at the hairs
on my arms. I thought of the squatter who owned
all the surrounding country, with its fences, grass
and sheep. I guessed that on this scorching north-
wind day, with the bush as dry as a packing-case, he
would have trembled in his spurs had he known that
flames from our furnace were, at every opportunity,
trying to jump out and have a go at his property.
All that day I fed the fiery dragon with wood,
and once when I shoved a piece in that was too long,
and had to drag it out again, I threw it down care-
lessly at the back of me. It was what the north wind
had been hanging round for.
The captain first gave the alarm and rushed off
to head a thin streak of flame that was making a dash
for the grass. Headed, it divided, and a second streak
jumped off. Acting under volcanic orders I got the
upper hand of this one. But the fire’s morale was on
the up, and with the wind as its ally it again split
up its forces and sent two advance detachments gal-
loping to the sides. We had now to hold the two
main attackers and fight these side reinforcements.
And no sooner had we quelled them than several small
outposts which had got through our lines mounted
the wind and began to advance ahead of us. Now
outnumbered by the raider, and pressed hard by the
wind, we had to fight on an ever-widening front. And
then the fortunes of war changed. The wind died
down and the fire slowed up. It was our opportunity.
We sailed in and beat it on all fronts ; all stray out-
posts of the enemy that had not succumbed being put
to death with buckets of water from the dam.
I was called up before the captain and received
such a salvo that he must have blistered his tongue
firing it. I was then derated, and from then on was
made fuel providore only.
The captain’s orders now echoed over the ranges.
“More wood” shivered the air and rippled the mine
dam. And so the days went by with the furnace eating
up the bush. It was such a success that it could swallow
a log and lick it up as if it were an ice-cream. My
stoutest logs could not hold their own. Even those
defiant logs that make settlers desert were no more
than crackers in the fiery inferno. As the captain
said: “The draught arrangement is perfect.”
At night we had our separate watches to keep.
Sometimes I’d go on at eight bells and take the craft
gently along until the captain came on, when he’d
clamp on full speed ahead again.
In due course we were to clean up. Quite easily,
I could have prayed for a failure, so that there would
be no more chlorinating; but, not wishing to mutiny,
I only wished it.
Then we returned home.
What a success it had been! A wonderful pro-
cess! He had carried out everything according to
schedule ; knew the process backwards ; had given it
an honest trial, and it had returned an honest result.
He had got the correct return at last. “I’m satisfied
with the result,” he said. “It has proved finally, and
without further argument, that there is no gold in
those tailings after all,” he beamed. “And that was
worth finding out, wasn’t it, Mother?”


Mainly Mail-
advr
CYPRUS
15-jewel. The ideal
watch for active service.
With military strap.
... 60/-
advr
Military Colour Patch
Brooches 3/6
Also R.A.A.F. and R.A.N.
Brooches, from .... 3/6
DIAMOND
S- WATCH
SPECIALISTS
advr
112 MARKET ST
SYDNEY.
6PR DAVID JONES
AS YOU
m
WAY IS TO
'CHf*
GOITARS ...... MOM 3/- HiIKLY. "
SAXOPHONES ... „ 3/6mu.
PIANO ACCORDIONS,. S/B war.
TRUMPETS .... . „ 3/- MEEKLY.
BANJO MANDOLINS „ 3 /- WEEKLY.
UKULELES 10/6 hch:
Write for free catalogue
of instrument you prefer.
ty
LTD
3*\
«I« ciotci
ITMB
MP-LI
PORTABLE UNITS
By
Briggs & Stratton.
A small, compact
Petrol Electric
Generator, with
everything a car
engine has.
300 WATTS 12 VOLTS
Running cost 1/ per
week.
Details gladly posted.
MPHON Ptuim.
• For Home Lighting.
• Battery Charging.
• Will operate twelve
25-watt lamps.
• Runs 12 hours on
Igal. of petrol.
Also available—loo-watt
and 400-watt models.
381 Kent [Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
advr
Try the new Roussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and security. Definitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE KOUSSEI, APPMANCE 00..
DEPT. 27, 81 PITT ST.. SYDNEY.
LATEST RADIO SETS
£2O Below Retail Price.
You can buy direct from factory if
no Century Agent in your District,
and thus save up to £2O on retail
prices. Marvellous tone, sensitivity
and economy; world-wide reception
brings overseas news direct to your
borne. Absolute satisfaction is
guaranteed by FREE TEN DAY
TRIAD TO INTENDING PUR-
CHASERS. Illustrated catalogue of
Battery and All-electric sets post
free on request.
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
TYPEWRITERS
of every description
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
cadvr
AT ATTRACTIVE PRICES
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States—See ’Phone Book.
Pelmanism
Scientific training of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
Pelmanism trains the observation to
speed and accuracy, increases the
power of concentration and streng-
thens the will. It is a complete
mental training and it develops
personality.
The Pelman Institute
3a Gloucester House, 3!)6 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne (Cnr. Market St.).
l )'U
CLIMBING
TOMATO
FE
>■
I Amazing New Imported
CLIMBING TOMATO!
BEARS FOB A WHOLE YEABI
Yields 2001 b.
red, smooth
12-20 feet.
per plant,
tomatoes.
2/6 packet
Larjre,
Climbs
posted.
PURE WHITE HEALTH
TOMATO!
For Rheumatism,
Sciatica,, Gout,
erb flavor! Disease Drought proof!
MAKES DELICIOUS JAM. 2/6 Packet, posted.
LJ
advr
15-DAY TIMBER KILLER!
Kills all trees, roots to top, large
or small, in 15 DAYS! New method.
NO RINGBARKING NECESSARY!
Prevents Suckering. Will not in-
jure the soil. 5/6 Tin. Post Frea
N.S.W. SEKI> CO., 693 George St., Sydney.
Are you
watching
his health?
If your dog’s
coat is dull,
loose or ragged
—if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts—
tart him now on '
course of
ARKO Condition Powders. He will soon h
eating with his old healthy appetit;
IARKO tones up a dog’s whole
Mi!
advr
BARKO
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists.
NATURTON
for the DEAF and Hard
of Hearing.
“Naturton” is a new British invention which
has a particular appeal to those afflicted with
deafness owing to its comfort and unobtrusive-
ness. No batteries, wires or headbands are used.
“Naturton” is unique in that it is the only
hearing aid of its type with double sound
chambers and vibrators. Call or write for
particulars and 30 days’ trial offer.
R. A. MOEDL, 1.i.b.5.t.,
sth Floor, The Block,
138 George Street, SYDNEY.
DEHORNING
Get rid of
fomsBEFORE
they start!
One application of
HAYES CHEMICAL
DEHORNER
Dehorns without bleeding
any calf up to two months.
Just apply the paste with a small
| wooden paddle and keep the calf from
jits mother for 30 minutes. An easy, cheap, humane
I method. Price per pot sufficient for 35 to 50 calves,
16/6. Large size for 210 to 300 calves, 30/-.
Post Free.
"mm'
m
mw
fc#
HAYES VETERINARY
{COMPANY, 351 Queen St.,
Brisbane
advr
advr
THE BULL DOG
FISH HOOK
A SURE GRIPPER.
A nibble sets it off and hooks the
fish safely. The hook springs
wide open directly the bait is
taken. Strong, simple, nothing to
go out of order.
Sold in three sizes.
Price 1/3 each, post free.
Obtainable only from
THE UNION MFC. CO.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melb., C.l.
END BLUNT KNIFE
TROUBLE.
New Imported Sharpening Stone
sharpens knives, scissors, scythes, etc.
—made from the famous Aluminium
Whetstone. This article gives long
and lasting service. Here is your
opportunity to purchase
a perfect sharpening stone
at, post free
Limited stocks only.
Money back if not satisfied.
MONTGOMERY, WARD & CO.,
Box 455 C, G.P.0., Melbourne.
I
THE “/
“Adjusta” Patent Com-
bined Leg and Surcingle
HORSE RUG
Can be put on and
fastened up in J a
minute. Impossible
for rug to come off.
The animal has per-
fect freedom, as the
fitting is self-adjust-
ing. Heavy check
lined, IJ-inch plated
breast-strap and lea-
ther on wither. All
sizes and qualities
from 85/- to 51/-.
(Regd.)
Prom all leading stores and saddlers.
SMITH COPELAND & CO. PTY., LTD.,
SYDNEY,
Write
for
You may be a
future
TEX
MORTON!
Learn the
HILLBILLY
GUITAR.
Hawaiian Guitar,
Spanish Guitar or Ukulele in SO MINUTES!
Let Norm. Scott, the singing stockman,
teach you!
His simple but complete Postal Instruc-
tion course costs only 3/6 a week.
Write today for complete details.
NORM. SCOTT, Hawaiian Club,
Dept. B, 206 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Tune in to 2GB every Sunday 9.40 a.m.
advr
TRULY AMAZING!
31 YEARS WITHOUT COUGHS, COUHS
OK INFLUENZA.
Now Sixty and Living: Quite a Careless Life,
Never Worrying: About Draughts, Hail, Bain,
Wind, Snow or Anything that Produces
Coughs, Colds or Influenza.
Brief Truthful History of My Own Case.
Ujp till I was 29 I had Colds and Plu in plenty and
spent many a day in bed. During 1910 I made a
keen study of cause, cure and prevention of these
wretched complaints and finally made up a COM-
POUND which put me on the road to COMPLETE
IMMUNITY, as I have not had an attack since nor
have I taken any of the medicine in all those
years, now 31. No fussing, coddling, boring exer-
cises, drastic dieting or extreme dosing. A short course
and simple system fortified me; why not you also ?
Give yourself a chance, WHITE NOW BERRY’S
COMPOUND, 84 Pitt St. (negr G.P.0.), Sydney.
t
t
II
U|y
LEARN VENTRILOQUISM
quickly my new method
teaches it thoroughly in very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the VENTRILO you can imitate many kinds cf
birds, animals, etc. Everything for ONE
SHILLING, including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
FREE
Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
Tricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
m Pitt st..
X ANDRADE
Sidney. 52 Swanston St.,
Melb.
FAT, FLABBY
STOMACH
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The GO VERNA BELT supports
correctly the delicate organs,
and, by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes waistline
fat and bulge with every move
you make.
7 WAVS’ TRIAL OITEK
In 7 days your waistline will
be Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of
bulge and strain gone . . .
OR NO COST! Write for full
illustrated details of 7 DAYS’
TRIAL OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
3
BATTERIES DIRECT AT
WHOLESALE PRICES.
Cut your costs in half. Every
type of wet battery for car, truck,
cycle, radio, home or theatre lighting
approximately fifty per cent, cheaper
than retail. Marshall Batteries are
entirely new throughout and guaran-
teed in writing. Our 16-page cata-
logue on how to choose and look after
batteries is yours for the asking. The
Marshall Battery Mfg. Co., 38-42
Harbour Street, Sydney.
advr
BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCE
CHARGER,
Standard Model, £6/12/6. Battery Extra.
I>e Luxe Model, £B/14/6. Battery Extra.
The new Be Luxe Model gives greater
efficiency in low rainfall areas.
Send for I’BEE illustrated leaflet.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE CO..
‘.*o7 George Street, SYDNEY.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
advr
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
Jin. knee pads. Sin. thigh
ads. 4jin. to Sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue!
advr
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
TILLEY LAMPS
advr
For the Farm, Camping
or Fishing.
British-made Kerosene Lamps
providing a steady 300 c.p. light
without flickering and without
smoke or smell.
Model EXIOO (illustrated)
can be used as a Storm
Lantern, Table Lamp or Hanging
Lamp. Reflector slips off when
not required. Burns for 10
hours on 1J pint.
Price, (0/- complete.
Write for catalogue of Radiators
and all types of lamps.
Obtainable from your local agentor
W. Kopson & Co. Pty., Ltd ,
370-382 Kent Street, Sydney
MA6336.
LAMBS SAVED
advr
liy Using: the
AROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS.
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord—
ither hand closes instrn-
iicnt. 100 p.c. efficient
Humane —Safe —and as quick as the fastest
knife. Lambs suffer no setback-—fatten
weeks earlier. No risk of Infection —No
losses. Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAKOUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
Also LAMB DK-TAILEK, £3/5/-. From
all agents or the distributors: HA IN &
SEAKIGHT, 19b O’Connell Street, Sydney
WINCHESTER
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
: . .
2- 750 ft. range, each .... 17/6
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 19/-
Complete with Batteries.
Postage Extra Outside N.S.W
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
*252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING
WEEK’S
YOUR
WEEKLY
EVEN ONE
ISSUE OF
FAVORITE
*For local office
address, see Page 6.
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
1/10/’ 41 (See Page 26)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Wants" to The Bulletin Service Department.
For local office address, see Page 6.


K eep your car!
Keep your car as good as it is for these are
war times and it isn’t so easy to get new parts
or new models.
From the spin of the fan to the lightning
strokes of the pistons every moving part is
fighting for power and as metal meets metal,
the arch-enemy “friction” is slowly taking
toll of the engine’s efficiency.
(
The enemy of friction is Oil not just any
oil but Purr-Oil.
In these days so much depends on maintain-
ing engine - efficiency that the matter of per-
fect lubrication is of vital national importance.
I
Don’t gamble with your engine. Insist on
Purr-Oil a pure solvatised Oil selected and
refined to the highest known standards by
Independent Oil Industries Pty. Limited, an
entirely Australian Company.
INDEPENDENT OIL INDUSTRIES PTY. LIMITED
FEDERAL ROAD, GLEBE
Marketers of the famous SPECIAL PURR-PULL and PURR-KOLL Motor Spirit
