

m
m
m
%
-a
n;
&
m
p /
.
m
'ffi ■
B
3*
M
IK
®s
Is
iiC^tJmS!
3S
fd
w/ f
m
ATI
N
0
NA
SER VICE
BEAM WIRELESS SERVICES
BEAM WIRELESS PICTUREGRAM SERVICE
OVERSEAS RADIO TELEPHONE SERVICES
COASTAL RADIO SERVICE
MARINE WIRELESS SERVICE
PACIFIC ISLANDS WIRELESS SERVICE
BROADCASTING
RADIO-ELECTRIC WORKS
RADIOLA RECEIVERS
VALVE MANUFACTURE
AERONAUTICAL RADIO
ƒ
A.W.A. Is the largest manu-
facturer of wireless apparatus in
Australia and is wholly self-
contained in the manufacture of
every type of wireless equipment
for use at sea, on land and in
the air.
Manufacturer of wireless
apparatus to —
THE NAVY
THE ARMY
THE AIR FORCE
GOVERNMENT DEPTS.
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CIVIL AVIATION
SHIP OWNERS
AIRLINES
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(A’SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—No. 3199.
Wednesday, June 4, 1941.
Roosevelt's Declaration
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Learn
Journalism
°ai HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without oh ligation, your New’ P ree
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, «
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 241 ..
The Red Page
FRED BROOMFIELD.
Fred Broomfield, who died in Sydney
last month at 81, had personal contacts
with leading Australian writers back
to the dawn of the ’eighties, to
J. F. Archibald at the time of the
founding of The Bulletin, to Henry
Kendall, Theodore Argles, Francis
Adams. As a young man, Fred asso-
ciated with men who had been the con-
temporaries and companions of Harpur,
Deniehy, Michael and Rowe. He could
claim intimacy with the literary atmo-
sphere of Sydney from the forties of
last century onwards. He had read prac-
tically every readable Australian book,
and owned a library that was the envy
of collectors of Australiana.
Fred Broomfield was born at Stoney
Cross, Minstead, Hampshire, in 1860, and
if he didn’t run away to sea he should
have. The lives and voyages of the great
circumnavigators always had a strong
attraction for him.
The date and circumstances of Fred’s
entry into journalism were probably
known only to Fred himself, but it must
have been some time before he became
an associate editor of and contributor
to The Picturesque Atlas of Australasia.
He became associated with The Bulle-
tin during its infancy, and was one of
its earliest sub-editors. Archibald used
to refer to him as “the man with the
book.” No one ever saw Broomfield
without a volume under his arm. Gener-
ally he carried a swag of tomes, har-
nessed with book-straps, as bulky and
weighty as half a dozen quarts of beer.
His active literary relationship with The
Bulletin extended over 50 years.
When Fred joined the staff of the N. S.
Wales Government Statistician, his news-
paper friends prophesied that he would
walk out on the job after a few weeks.
But, unlike Victor Daley, who found
employment in the same office years
later, Fred was not “dismayed at the
sight of long perpendicular columns
of figures.” He revelled in the work.
Victor, who could not add, subtract,
multiply or divide, bitterly declared that
in such work madness lay, and, at the
risk of starvation, resigned and returned
to freelance journalism.
In 1912, as an appendix to the Aus-
tralian edition of Webster’s Dictionary,
Fred compiled “A Pronouncing Gazetteer
or Geographical Dictionary of Austral-
asia,” a piece of work that merits being
brought up to date and given separate
publication in a handy form.
He edited “Theatre” and the “Golden
Fleece,” among other papers, and pro-
duced a constant flow of stories and
articles. One of his verses, “The Vision
of Labor,” achieved a small fame, and it
was quoted in The Working Man’s Para-
dise, a socialistic novel set in Sydney
during 1888-91 and connected with the
Queensland strike of 1891, written by
William Lane, organiser of the “New
Australia” colony in Paraguay. Another
of his poems, “Ode to Hugo,” was pub-
lished in Albin Villeval’s Victor Hugo.
Villeval was sometime editor of
“L’Oceanien,” Sydney.
Broomfield is represented in a number
of annuals, anthologies and miscellanies ;
in Bush Yarns, by Authors on the
Wallaby (1884), in which his and Brunton
Stephens’s were the outstanding con-
tributions ; in Brooks’s A ustralian
Xmas Annual (1897), edited by
Professor R. F. Irvine; in Sham-
rock and Waratah: A Tribute to
Victor J. Daley (1902), which he edited
with A. G. Stephens, Roderic Quinn,
D. H. Souter and Elsie Espinasse (it was
published to raise funds to enable Daley
to take a health trip to the South Seas);
and in Red Kangaroo and Other Stories
(1907), reprinted from the “Sydney Mail,”
and edited by W. R. Charlton.
In collaboration with J. F. Archibald,
Broomfield selected and edited A Golden
Shanty : Australian Stories and Sketches,
published by The Bulletin in 1890.
According to E. Morris Miller, it was
the “most significant of the early antho-
logies with a critical bearing.” Including
both prose and verse, “it was an expres-
sion of The Bulletin’s achievement in
fostering the Australian short story” and
“the writers included in this anthology
have found their way into the front ranks
of Australian writers.” Among the
authors were Dyson, D,aley, Kendall,
Paterson,- Farrell, Edmond, Myers,
Bracken and Lawson.
Broomfield, who knew Archibald better
than most, put it on record in Australian
Literature (1940) that Archibald said
that “three Bulletin writers had re-
deemed Australian journalism from the
dead level of commonplace statement, and
had lifted it to the altitude of literature.”
These three were, in Archibald’s pro-
nounced judgment, W. H. Traill, Francis
Myers and Frank Morton.
Friends of Fred Broomfield in past and
present literary circles were legion. He
and Henry Lawson were particularly
attached to each other. A stirring address
Fred delivered on “Henry Lawson and
His Critics” before the Fellowship of
Australian Writers, Sydney, in 1930, was
afterwards issued in pamphlet form by
Angus and Robertson. In “Recollections
of Henry Lawson,” published in Henry
Lawson, by His Mates (1931), edited by
Bertha Lawson and J, Le Gay Brereton,
Fred paid an affectionate tribute to
Henry’s memory and at the same time
recalled the carefree doings of the
Brotherhood of the Dawn and Dusk.
Lawson, who in all the bulk of his
writings made surprisingly few references
to his literary associations, in an article
in memory of Bertram Stevens, spoke of
Fred sporting a fierce, pointed dark
moustache and beard after the fashion of
his beloved D’Artagnan of The Three
Musketeers. Henry also wrote of Fred
in “Dind’s Hotel”;
I sat alone till half past eight—alone with thirst
and sin—
When one who’d blown across the strait —Fred
Broomfield —thundered in.
Vice-editing the “Bulletin,” Fred thought my
verse “not bad”;
He “chanced” my first and so became my
literary dad —
A wayward dad, who sometimes led his joyous
child astray,
To our most mutual delight—and subsequent
dismay.
Lawson seldom mingled with large
groups, but there was a time when he
mixed- and made festive week-end excur-
sions to the Hawkesbury River with a
merry circle comprising Victor Daley,
Roderic Quinn, Jim Philp, Nelson Illing-
worth, Fred Broomfield and Bertram
Stevens. • “And,” said Henry with a
chuckle once, “it was mostly Bertram
Stevens who paid the fares.” Stevens
had a regular job in a lawyer’s office.
When Bertram Stevens edited the 1904
edition of John Farrell’s My Sundowner
and Other Poems, he invited Fred to
contribute a tribute to the genial, philo-
sophical John, who mixed brewing ale
with advocacy of the single-tax principle,
writing poetry and an ardent love of all
things Australian.
In his young days Fred was a book-
keeper and accountant and worked for
Octavius C. Beale, the piano-maker. He
was closely associated with Beale’s elder
brother Francis —“a tempestuous young
Irishman, ready to quarrel with you 20
times a day, yet the most lovable man I
ever met.” Francis Beale had a fine
taste for good writing and made a col-
lection of old Australian and Tasmanian
manuscripts; one of the treasures he
passed on to Broomfield was a poem
written by a Tasmanian West Coast
native in blood —in those days a pretty
common way of raising a few bob to
buy tobacco.
It was during Broomfield’s time that
an early Bulletin poet tried the trick of
sending a poem written in his own blood
to Archibald, but all he received was a
reply in the “Answers to Correspon-
dents” column saying: “If you must
write in blood, write in blue blood.”
If Fred had been choosing blood to
write in he would probably have chosen
dragon’s blood. It would have been the
right shade for his picturesque phrasing,
passion for medieval oaths and eager-
ness to cross pens with all wowsers and
humbugs of this world.
One of Fred’s last jobs was to act as
one of the assistant editors of E. Morris
Miller’s weighty Australian Literature.
W. E. FITZ HENRY.
Pecking at China.
Good travel books —entertaining, in-
formative stuff written not for political
reasons but simply out of the love of
strange places and strange peoples—are
about as rare these days as Ben Jonson.
So that when Moore’s Bookshop sup-
plied Graham Peck’s Through China’s
Wall (Collins) with the assurance that
it really was a travel book, it was re-
ceived with a certain scepticism ; which,
when the book had been read, changed
to something like awe. For even in
normal times, when travel books are as
easy to find as trams, it would be worth
while taking a peek at Peck.
Not that Through China’s Wall is a
literary masterpiece. It’s well enough
written, but an Osbert Sitwell in China
would hesitate to use “refugeed” as a
verb and would certainly not describe a
landscape of cream-and-red temples,
mountains and a green valley as “a tasty
prospect.”
Nor is it altogether an “off-the-beaten-
track” book. For six weeks and several
chapters Peck lives in a Mongol tent on
the grass plains beyond the Gobi desert
with a family of Mongols ; had he stayed
six months and continued to describe his
existence with the simplicity, liveliness
and humor he devotes to the six weeks’
sojourn, this would indeed have been a
remarkable book. Or if, when travelling
on the Tibetan border to sketch the tribes-
people, he had not been smitten with a
terror of appendicitis and fled back to
Chungking; of even if he had stayed
longer in that little-known capital (which,
he declares, is so foggy that the dogs bark
at the sun). Through China’s Wall would
have had more genuine substance.
As it is, it’s a book of bits and pieces
—views of Peking before and after the
outbreak of war with Japan ; glimpses
of Shanghai; a slab of the Gobi; the
Mongols’ tent; Tibet’s mountains and
monasteries; a chunk of Chungking;
journeys by train and car (Chinese in the
unsophisticated centre thought that the
car at night was a dragon), by horse and
camel and sampan; hundreds of anec-
dotes and dozens of his own drawings as
illustrations —and all these bits and pieces
are good.
His anecdotes are priceless. There’s
the revealing one about the Chinese who,
not daring to have a crack at the tiny
Japanese officer riding through Peking on
his immense horse, smacked the horse’s
rump instead. The Japanese immediately
made a formal complaint to the Chinese
authorities: “An insult has been offered
to a Japanese horse.” And the one
about the Chinese General, Governor of
a province, who enrolled a large bandit-
suppression corps to deal with the bandits
who infested his territory: all the bandits
promptly joined the corps and spent their
days looking for themselves, their nights
at their old trade of banditry—a stunt
that came to a sticky end when the
General at length suspected that all
wasn’t well and, tricking the bandits into
a military train, had 500 of them executed
by machine-guns.
There’s also the story of the gasmasks.
When war broke out, patriots in Shanghai
at once began a great drive for com-
forts for the troops and sent them, among
other things, hundreds of gasmasks. Later
they discovered (1) that the gasmasks
had been made in Japan, (2) that they
were so cheaply made as to be entirely
useless, and (3) that the invaders were
not, in any case, using gas. And there’s
this essay on “Water” from a Chinese
book called Correctly English in a
Hundred Days and designed for “the
Chinese young man who wishes to
served for the foreign firms”:
Water.
Water is the most useful thing. If we
want to cook something we must use the
water. We wash face and body must use
the water. Everything must have water to
living in anytime in anywhere except the
dead things. Young man should do some-
thing. Young man should obey his parent.
Young man should not gumbling. Young
man should be diligent. Young man should
be fairthful. Young man should on guarrel.
Post no bill. Spitting Prohibited. No
smoking. No admittance. Stop talking.
Public Telephone. Please shut the door.
Reck, obviously, took his sense of
humor wherever he went. Most of his
“odd facts” have a tinge of comedy,
often of the Rabelaisian. He notes that
camel-drivers from Turkestan, en-
countered in the Gobi, were all “pro-
digious knitters” —“I’ve even seen them
stitching and purling at sox and scarves
as they walked with their camels” ; that,
owing to their desert origin, Mongols have
a horror of wasting or even of using water
and so, from birth to death, never wash ;
that the Mongols can fairly be called a
nation of drunkards and that, as they are
habitually violent in drink, it is considered
quite in order for a host, when visited by
a drunken caller, to climb up to the roof
of his yurt and entertain him from there.
There is also a notable account of the
author, in a Buddhist temple in Tibet,
sonorously declaiming last year’s racing
results to the priests who wished to have
the “foreign inscriptions” of a newspaper
read to them. In Chungking Peck
observes the shopsigns:
False Eyes and Dental Plumbing
Inserted by the Latest Methodists.
And
Ladies Tailor
Clients May Have Fits Upstairs.
This is his description of Chungking:
The walls of the city were on the very
edge of the precipices, and from the gates
long flights of crooked steps spilled to the •
river. Behind the walls the myriad roofs
of the city were stacked in crowded heaps,
and even before them were clusters of
wretched houses clinging to the cliffs and
the rocks below. Wedged into crannies
and propped with tangled structures of
bamboo, these hovels resembled so many
birds’ nests. The whole scene was stained
with age; the cliffs particularly were veined
with the garbage and sewage of centuries.
Nowhere is his sense of humor more
valuable than in his references to the
Sino-Japanese war. Like every other
American writer on China, Peck hasn’t
a solitary good word to say for the
Japanese, but, unlike most of the others,
he has kept his sense of proportion and
doesn’t hesitate to tell a story against
the Chinese and doesn’t try to portray
every stupid coolie and every crooked
businessman as a patriot and a champion
of democracy. Before the war in Peking
he describes the Chinese calmly watch-
ing the preparations for their destruction,
regarding the Japanese as just such a
necessary evil as floods and bandits. When
the war is in progress, with bitter fighting
taking place just outside the city, he
sees the Chinese and their foes still
amicably mingling in the streets of
Peking:
Both factions had their military head-
quarters in the city and it seemed typical
of Peking that inside its walls Chinese and
Japanese soldiers should pass peacefully
on the streets, while in the fields not far
outside they were attempting to kill one
another.
This comparatively impartial writing
is not only more pleasant reading than
the usual bitter propaganda, but it rings
more truly, and the quality of mind re-
sponsible for it leads Peck to a convinc-
ing analysis of the Chinese character;
The tendency to apathy on the subject
of public affairs, for centuries very strong
all over China, stems from a quality which
has been at the same time the nation’s
greatest strength and its greatest weakness.
Down to the last man, woman and child,
every one of the four hundred millions has
learned to Ijve as a convinced and practis-
ing individualist. In matters of war and
public peril particularly, they have been
loath to endanger their personal interests
for the benefit of public ones.
Apparently a pacifist himself, Peck comes
regretfully to the conclusion:
The old attitude could be called a sign
of decadence, another indication that China
was too old, but by the same standards all
other forms of pacifism must be con-
demned as decadent. It may have been
the only really practical form of pacifism.
Our own pacifist movements are essentially
emotional. It is a discouraging possibility
that true pacifism can only originate in
this bald and perhaps ugly form of indi-
vidual indifference, and consequently can’t
be attained until a time when no move-
ments are necessary to further it.
Peck agrees with most other writers
on China that the Japanese made a fatal
mistake in forcing a war on the Chinese;
“The Chinese people have finally had to
face the appalling possibilities which
threaten them, and now it does look as
if the country will be able to fight to the
end of its very considerable resources.”
If the Japanese hadn’t gone whole-
heartedly to war but had kept to their
old policy of “biting off small bits of
territory at regular intervals,” he believes
that within a reasonable time they could
have taken over the whole country with-
out very great trouble or expense.
"The Gold Rushes."
W. P. Morrell, in The Gold Rushes
(A. and C. Black, Ltd.), deals with
most of the larger rushes—Brazil,
Siberia, California, British Columbia
and the Rocky Mountains (Fraser
River and Cariboo, Washoe and
the Comstock Lode, Pike’s Peak and
Colorado, Boise, and the Montana
rushes), Ballarat and Bendigo, Otago and
Hokitika, Queensland, Coolgardie and
Kalgoorlie, the Kimberley and the Rand,
and Alaska and the Klondike. From such
a wealth of material a good deal of
“human interest” might be expected, but
that is the one essential the volume lacks.
A faint suggestion of that “human in-
terest” is given when the author draws
on his extensive bibliography. For in-
stance, G. C. Mundy on the Turon (N. S.
Wales) ’field:
I pulled up my horse and heard, as I
imagined, the rushing of some mighty
cataract. “It is the cradles,” said he,
and so it was—the grating of the gravel or
rubble on the metal sifters of five hundred
rockers there was no pause nor the
slightest variation in the cadence as it
floated on the still air.
Or a Melbourne “Argus” man on the
dust at Forest Creek,’ Mount Alexander
(Vic.), E. B. Kennedy on the roaring
Saturday nights at Gympie (Q-), or D-
W. Carnegie on the early days at Kal-
goorlie.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — ahvays.
ANTHONY HORDERNS
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Bargains for the Tradesman
Double Sewn • Fast Dyes • Cut
Heavyweight English Drill Overalls, 14 6
Overalls always look well the first few days regardless of the price you pay. But this
is important to you. How will they look after the first few weeks of gruelling work?
Will they .shrink after washing? Become faded? Will seams weaken? With these
heavyweight English Drill Overalls the answer is emphatically NO. They're in Bib and
Brace style in Navy or Khaki fast Government dyes. All sizes up to 46-inch waists.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price 14/6
Navy or Khaki Drill Combination Overalls, 23'6
These are the Overalls made to stand more day-after-day rough wear than you would
believe possible. Ruggedly sewn with double seams, they are made of heavyweight
English Drill in a roomy, full cut combination style. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, 23/6
Black Oilskins, 45'-
The man on the land needs ■ one of
these Waterproof Oilskins. Well
made and lined throughout. Special
features include cape shoulders,
storm fronts, leather bound and
double armpieces. Sizes, 48 to 58
ins. in length. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price .. 45/-
'PHONE: M 2401
(DAY OR NIGHT)
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Cotton Tweed
Trousers, 13 6
Made for extra service . . . cut for com-
fortable, correct fit, these work Trousers
will always look neat. In strong Cot-
ton Tweed in dark patterns that do not
easily show soil marks. Strong pockets.
Sizes range from 30 to 46 inch waists.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price .... 13/6
Drill Trousers, 14'6
Here are the Work Trousers for extra
long wear, neat appearance and com-
fortable fit. Made of Khaki Drill in fast
Government dye. Order without delay.
You'll be pleased with the value too.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price .... 14/6
Wool Trousers, 16'9
Full cut for comfort these heavyweight
All Wool Tweed Trousers are in neat
dark patterns. Made in our own work-
rooms with three pockets, cuffed bot-
toms and belt loops. Sizes range from
30-46 in. waists. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price 16/9
• Men’s Wear—Ground Floor. George Street. Freight paid to all
railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
f
%
}i
m
-«* ¥
***««#
u
i**i
m
21/- Lum. Jackets, 186
Lumber and Sports Jackets of soft
All Wool Tweeds. Grey, Green,
Fawn and Marone tonings in neat
Lumber checks. Well finished, and
sizes available include S.M., M.,
O.S. and X.O.S. Regular Price, 217-
Special Price 18/6
POSTAL ADDRESS:
BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.


SEND-OFF
By DON EDWARDS.
“Where's the nearest pub, mate?”
“ Couldn't say, sir. The wife does all the shopping .”
THE frost had started to form at dusk, and by the
time I left home there was a brittle coating of it
on the stiff, dead grass, and the air had a bite
in it that made me beat my hands together and
stamp my feet on the hard road. I pulled the collar
of my overcoat about my tingling ears, and thought
of the big fire in the kitchen at home. The slightest
movement of the air was like a slap across the face
with an ice-cold cloth.
Away through the dark gums I could see a light
twinkling at the Taylors’ homestead, and I wondered
if Jimmy Taylor had managed to sneak out, and what
I would do if he hadn’t. I didn’t like the idea of
going on alone, but I knew I wouldn’t turn back
now, no matter what happened. At the bridge over
the creek I could see him waiting, his dark form show-
ing against the white rails. I whistled, and his whistle
came back sharp and clear on the frosty air.
“Have any trouble?” I asked as I came up to
him.
“No,” he said, “not much. Ma and dad went
into town today and they’re not back yet. I told
Martha I was going over to your place.”
“What if your old man catches you?” I asked,
Jimmy didn’t reply.
“Do you think he’ll make any trouble?”
“Dunno,” said Jimmy, “but Uncle Fred and
Harry Barker stopped on their way to the school just
before I left.”
“They’d better be careful,” I said. “They might
get more than they expect.”
Jimmy didn’t answer, but I knew what he was
thinking. He leant against the bridge and kicked
some gravel into the creek. “I don’t suppose there’ll
be any swimming this summer,” he said.
“No,” I said. “Not now that he’s going. They’re
sending a woman in his place.”
“Well, I’m over fourteen, so I’ll leave school,”
he muttered.
“Me, too,” I said.
After that we stood close together and talked of
the good times we had had at the school after Mr.
Carroll had come.
“I don’t know what they wanted to move him
for,” Jimmy said.
“He asked for a shift,” I replied. “Dad says he
must have got tired of squabbling with your old man
and Harry Barker.”
Jimmy didn’t say anything, and then I was sorry,
for he couldn’t help what his father was like.
“Come on,” I said. “We’d better hurry.”
All the way to the turn-off we talked about Mr.
Carroll. He was a great cove, right enough, and not
only in the school. He was the best bat in the district
and a good-enough footballer to get into the group
team. The cricket and football teams would go to
pieces now that he was leaving. There hadn’t been
any in the town till he came and got the young chaps
together; there hadn’t been any tennis courts either,
or library, or any fun at all in the place. And tonight
he was going, and on Monday there would be a
woman standing in front of the kids at the school or
sitting at his table.
A T the turn-off we could see the lighted windows
** of the school, shining against the blackness of the
high hills beyond, and the big fire leaping and twist-
ing outside.
“We’d better go round the back way,” I said ;
“some of those people at the fire might see us.”
As we walked through the saplings in the corner
of the playground we could see a ground mist begin-
ning to rise. The grass fairly crackled under our
feet and the cold rose, sharp and stinging, against our
faces and hands. There was no one on this side of
the school and the windows were closed except for
about a foot at the top. A good deal of noise was
coming from the building, sounds of laughter and
shuffling feet and talking, and the music of a violin
and an accordion.
Jimmy scrambled up into the tree and I followed
him, edging myself out along a branch next to his.
“Not too far,” I whispered. “It might break.”
“0.K.,” he said. “I’ve got a beaut, view from
here. They’ve got old Artie playing his accordion,
and I can see your father and. Dan Steele.”
“There he is,” I said, “See? Dancing with Sylvia
Nash.”
We waited till he came round again and we could
see him smiling at her the same way as he smiled at
us in school.
“I hope he doesn’t marry her,” said Jimmy,
“No chance of that,” I said, “She’s pretty enough,
but he knows how silly she is,”
We talked for a while about the girls who had
thrown themselves at him, and how he had just been
friendly and polite to all of them, and we talked about
the outings we had had with Mr. Carroll and the time
he made 176 runs against Birana, and Jimmy said
“Gee! I’m sorry he’s going.”
A couple of times when we got so cold we
could hardly feel our hands and feet, we climbed
down out of the tree and stamped round till we
warmed up a bit, but the sound of music from the
schoolroom or a burst of clapping or laughter would
send us scrambling back into the tree.
Once Jimmy said; “There’s the old man and
Uncle Fred,” and I saw them step into the room.
“You don’t think your father would make any
trouble tonight, do you?” I asked.
“I dunno,” he said, “but if he does I hope he
gets a couple of black eyes.”
We were feeling the cold more than ever. The
mist had come over fairly thick and there was a damp
veil of it about us.
“There’s the Pritchard kid,” said Jimmy. “I
thought they said no kids were to be allowed.”
“His mother drags him into everything,” I said,
wishing I was in there with him, and knowing that
Jimmy wished he was, too.
Suddenly we heard some people coming round
the corner of the school near the big tank.
“Sh!” I whispered, and we sat as still as owls.
They stopped under the tree and started to com-
plain about the cold. A couple of them lit cigarettes.
There were Dan Steele from over at Springvale and
his brother Ernie, Alec Furness, who did odd jobs
about the district, and big Ned Russell, the drover.
Dan Steele said “Did you get it, Ned?”
“Yes, here it is.” We heard the rustling of paper.
“I’ll give it to him after the other things have been
presented,,” Dan said, “I’ll just say something about it
being from his fellow-cricketers, and on account of
him being such a great chap. I hate making speeches.”
“Well, make sure you say something,” Alec
chipped in. “Don’t be like Ned here.”
They all laughed, and Jimmy and I nearly laughed,
too, for we remembered the time big Ned had got up
to make a speech at the cricket club’s dinner and just
spluttered and stammered and gulped and sat down
without saying anything.
“Ced Taylor and his brother are in there,” Alec
said.
“Yes,” Ned growled, “and Harry Barker, too.”
Nothing was said for a few moments till Ned
said “I hear Taylor’s been yapping about what he
intends to do. I hope he tries something.”
Jimmy leant over and touched me on the arm, as
if to reassure me he wasn’t on his father’s side.
Dan’s voice came up to us, clear on the cold air,
although he didn’t do much more than whisper.
“George Carroll is easily the best teacher we’ve ever
had here. It just shows how you can’t please every-
one. Look how he coached the kids through their
exams., and how he sat up night after night with Ernie
Bradshaw when he had pneumonia. I know he bought
all the food for them that time, and then gave Mrs.
Bradshaw five pounds to help her along. You ought to
hear her talk about him. She reckons Ernie would
have died if it hadn’t been for the teacher. And that’s
not the only case either.”
“No,” agreed Dan’s brother, “and that goes for
Taylor, too. What about the time the bushfire threat-
ened Taylor’s house? Didn’t he turn out with the
others? And didn’t he get Taylor’s oldest boy through
the leaving certificate. Teaching for those exams, isn’t
supposed to be part of his job. And now Taylor
can’t say a good word for him.”
“If he says anything tonight I’ll flatten him.” It
was Ned speaking in his slow, deep drawl.
Alec Furness spoke then, and I wondered what
Jimmy was thinking about it all. “If Taylor and that
sneaky brother of his try to make any trouble I’ll”
Alec didn’t say what he would do, for there was
a sudden burst of clapping from the school and Ernie
Steele said “We’d better go in.”
EE! I’m cold,” said Jimmy after they had gone,
* and I was just about frozen, too, but we hung
on to the branches and waited, afraid that if we got
down we would miss something. Mr. Carroll was
standing near the top end of the school, where sixth
class sat, and there was a crowd round him. It looked
as if the presentation was about to start. I edged
forward a bit to see better, and so did Jimmy. There
was a sharp crack, a low cry from Jimmy, a swish of
leaves and a thud.
I scrambled down. Jimmy was sitting up, holding
his leg and rocking about a bit. “I’m not hurt,” he
said ; “help me up again till I see what’s happening,”
but as soon as he tried to stand he groaned with pain
and his leg seemed to give way,
I didn’t wait, but rushed round to the school door
and ran inside. I didn’t notice anyone except Mr.
Carroll up the front. “Jimmy’s hurt his leg,” I said.
“Quick,” and then I was running back with him.
Mr. Carroll picked Jimmy up carefully and car-
ried him inside, and started to feel his leg. “Broken,”
he said, and he got some bandages and splints out of
the big press.
All the time he was setting the leg he said nothing,
but now and then he stroked Jimmy’s forehead where
a few drops of sweat showed despite the cold night.
Jimmy was quiet, too, but his breathing was noisy.
It was only then that I noticed all the other people,
and especially Jimmy’s father and uncle. They were
just staring.
Mr. Carroll looked at Jimmy’s father, and said
in that quick way he has of speaking “I’ll take him
into town to the doctor.”
There were a few murmurs. “It’s thirty miles.”
“What about the presentations?”
Then there was silence while Jimmy’s father
spoke. There was a harsh, antagonistic note in his
voice. “I’ll take him in myself,” he said, “I’ll go and
get the car.”
Mr. Carroll stepped in front of him and I saw
the same gleam in his eyes that he had the day he
caught Freddie Johnson bullying little Charlie Warner.
“Your car’s down at Barker’s place,” he said,
“and it has a puncture. I heard you say so. The
boy’s in pain and I’m taking him now. You can
follow later.”
He turned to us and said “Good-bye.”
He carried Jimmy out to his car. Jimmy’s father
didn’t say a word. He just hurried off with his brother
and Harry Barker, and no one of the crowd offered
to give them a lift down the road to Barker’s place,
because they were all too busy shouting “Good-bye”
and putting the presents into the back of Mr. Carroll’s
car.
Then Mr. Carroll and Jimmy left, and that’s
how the send-off ended, and I was pleased I was at it
even if I did get into a row from my father when I
arrived home. But I was sorry to see Mr. Carroll go,
for we’d never get a teacher as good again. And I
couldn’t help envying Jimmy even if he did have a
broken leg.


WEEK AT THE QUARRY
By MUNGO MacCALLUM.
MY mother woke me at four o’clock in the morn-
ing. It was quite dark, and she bent over me
i with a kerosene-lamp, and for a moment I
thought someone was ill or something had
gone wrong. Then I remembered. I got out of bed
on to the chilly planks and dressed, and ran over to
the other house where Mrs. Jim was waiting for me.
She had a huge teapot and some buttered scones, but
I was too excited to eat.
Jim came into the kitchen soon. He had on an
old blue double-breasted overcoat which hung very
short and far out from his legs, and he carried a
sack full of angles tied at the top with a piece of rope.
He picked up a scone and put the whole of it into
his mouth and said: “Are y’ ready, boy?” He looked
very adventurous and daring. Then he picked up
another scone, “Taking one y’rself?” he asked. I
wasn’t, so he said, “Oh, well. I’ll take one for y’,”
and laughed, and we left.
Mother came to the door, looking very small,
wrapped up in her dressing-gown, against the reddish
light of the oil lamp. “Take care of yourself,” she
said softly to me, and we started down to the railway
station.
You could see all the lights of the town below
and in front. At night it seemed even smaller than
in the daytime, just a cluster of lights—the pub, the
station, a couple of houses, and the lamp at the level
crossing near the red signal light.
I stumbled down the steep path after Jim, touch-
ing the trees near the edge of the track with my thumb.
“What train are we getting, Jim?” I asked.
“The old Pick-up,” he said and laughed. “Just
stops when you want her to.” This didn’t mean much
to me, but I laughed too. I had just read a book
about comrades in arms and I felt like one.
We went over the rotting bridge at the creek-
all the clay between its logs had crumbled and fallen
in the dry summer —and then through a three-barred
gate and over another bridge. At the level crossing
the rails stretched on each side of us, white and
gleaming, as far as I could see. Far away on one
side was the red light of the signal. It made me feel
powerful as if I owned all the long rails and the dis-
tance round me. As I stood there, there was a sudden
whirr and shiver at my feet. I jumped.
“Don’t y’ recognise that? It’s the signal wires,”
said Jim. “The old Pick-up’s left Wang,” and, although
I knew there was plenty of time because Wang was
eight miles away and four miles of this was uphill, I
hurried forward.
There was a sleepy porter sitting in the station-
master’s chair with his feet on the table, his shirt open
at the neck. Jim bought the tickets and Bill, the
porter, was a bit surly because now the train would
have to be stopped to pick us up.
Soon we could hear the train coming, puffing
slowly on the up-grade. She began to murmur as she
came over the top, and soon she was roaring round
the bend. As she came closer I could hear the trucks
rattling in between the roar of the wheels. A red
glow came from the funnel and a long stream of
sparks flew back towards the guard’s van. As she
passed the distance signal, Bill ran to the levers and
pulled it up again. Passing the level crossing, the
fireman leaned out of the cabin. But the train did
not seem to be stopping. As it rushed past us, Jim
shouted out to him “Locksley!” and he waved, but I
didn’t think he heard. Bill was waving a lantern, and
at last the guard’s van came into the platform and
stopped at the very end. We got in and the train
started with a terrific jerk. Soon I went to sleep. When
Jim woke me it was getting light and we had reached
Locksley.
T IM worked in a quarry about half a mile from
Locksley station. There were about twelve men
in the camp and they had pitched two or three tents
on the bank of a creek that ran down from the
mountains which rose, misty in the summer heat haze,
behind the railway.
We would get up early, the air already hot, the
sky white, and wash in the creek. Jim and the boys
would make breakfast —black tea, bread, bacon, some-
times eggs, sometimes chops—and go off to the quarry.
It lay a few hundred yards away in the middle of a
great curve of the line. You could see the trains from
the west come round the hill into the curve, disappear
behind a cutting for a minute, burst out a few hun-
dred yards away, pound past the quarry, on into the
station, and out of sight round another hill.
The gravel walls of the quarry sloped down
almost on to the siding. The gravel was a near-
biscuit color. It clung to your trousers and got into
your shoes, and you sank knee-deep in it when you
climbed on the slopes. Slipping along the falls, the
men spaded and picked at it all day, loading it into
the trucks which had been shunted into the siding till
it appeared shining above their black iron sides. Some-
times the men fired off gelignite. It took a long time
because first they had to drill a hole by working a
long iron rod into the ground with their hands, rather
like a carpenter uses a bradawl. Then one would set
the charge. He would give a long shout and the rest
would scatter off the slopes, well away. Suddenly the
side of the hill would leap out with a muffled boom,
and gravel would slip like a soft waterfall down the
slope, slower and slower, until it stopped.
About five o’clock, when the sun was shining
across the line, the men stopped work and went back
to the camp. They sluiced themselves in the creek and
cooked tea. At night they sat round the fire and
talked about horses and dogs and the railway and
the quarry.
I was keen about railways, and almost every day
I drew plans of the lines at Rydal station. Each plan
was more elaborate than the last, but they were all —-
I thought—strictly correct. Locksley opened a new
field to me. I had my ruler, pencil and writing-pad
with me and I was going to color the finished diagrams
of the station and the quarry line when I went back
to Rydal, So when I took part in the talk round the
fire it was almost always to ask Jim for some detail
of the siding, or for the length of an off-line, or the
name of a signal,
I came to know the names of all the trains, too.
There was the Old Bitch, the goods train, long and
heavily loaded, which crawled past us up the slow
grade, stopping at every station and shunting there,
growing longer every time it stopped. There was the
paper train, which left Sydney with the newspapers
early every morning. When it rattled down past us
not long before lunch it was a short goods train with
a passenger carriage and a guard’s van waggling on
the end.
At the quarry, the water train was the most
important. Every few days a train would drop a
water truck on the siding, and the water would come
pouring out from it into the square iron tank which
stood by the line. The gravel from the quarry surged
almost to the base of the tank. In the heat its sides
were so hot that they were almost untouchable, but
the water always tasted good, I expect it was luke-
“Come this Way , please !”
warm, but there was a drama about the arrival of the
truck.
My main business during that week was trains
—and the quest for gold. Jim told me that there was
gold aplenty in those hills, and I felt that the creek
must also be sprinkled with nuggets, I have for-
gotten the name of the creek, but I spent hours sift-
ing and stirring the sand and gravel a few inches
below the swift, clear water with a tin spoon. The
rocks by the water glittered deceptively in the sun, and
the spoon used to bend complainingly as I gouged
at them, extracting infinitesimal bits of mica which
were carefully wrapped in a handkerchief and car-
ried back to Jim. He always said “Let’s have a look.
Yeh, it’s just mica, son.” But this did not disappoint
me. My mind was running contentedly, full of the
brilliance of the pebbles I had seen through the water,
the sunlight and the clean, hot air. I always came
away from my gold prospecting with a fine feeling of
hard work done well.
It was only a week, yet it is still vivid with sun,
heat, the strange smell of yellow gravel, and the feel-
ing of something new and quite different from any-
thing before or since. The night before we went back
to Rydal Jim pulled a little bottle, carefully corked
and wadded with cotton-wool, out of his bundle.
“Here’s something for y’,” he said laughing, and gave
it to me. Inside was a tiny speck of gold in a few
drops of water. Jim told me it was worth about six-
pence and, though I don’t remember now what hap-
pened to it exactly, I had it for years.
QUESTS
By LES ROBINSON.
A GREAT deal of most people’s time seems to
be spent in searching for this, that and the
other. To say that there are those who fritter
away fully half of theirs in doing so would,
in fact, be no exaggeration. Take the fumbler, for
example, that poor unfortunate who wears out all
his pockets by searching frantically for tickets, keys,
matches, receipts, coins and goodness only knows
what else besides, which involves him thereafter, to
the amusement of those übiquitous pests onlookers,
in longer and more intensive rummaging down among
the linings.
It is all so fruitless and tiresome, this searching.
Yet there’s no escaping it even in dreams. Who has not
had the dream in which one searches high and low
for something or somebody, without, of course, ever
being able to find it, him or her? If, however, the
dreamer, instead of seeking, should happen to be the
perhaps all too relentlessly sought, and, despite
desperate efforts on his or her part, is unable to
escape detection, the dream, especially when the
seekers or pursuers happen to be warders, policemen,
ferocious animals, debt-collectors, brigands or bandits,
becomes, needless to say, a nightmare.
Dogs and cats are always questing in their dreams
as well as in their waking moments, too, and derive
more pleasure from it, except when fleas are what
they seek, than we do. Many other animals, most
birds, fish and insects innumerable spend much more
time restlessly in questing than they do motionless.
Flies will buzz up and down a window-pane all day
long in the endeavor to find an aperture through
which, if they are outside, they can get inside, where
the householder is ready and waiting to swat them or
to annihilate them with chemical spray. If inside,
they seek with just as much persistence to get out of
doors again, where larger insects, various reptiles,
birds and other enemies of theirs are searching most
diligently for them. Mosquitoes will spend the whole
night in trying to find holes in nets; moths and
beetles in striving to get inside a lamp or lantern ;
lobsters in trying to enter lobster-pots, and then, if
they succeed, in the still more feverish though merely
tiring scramble to find a way out.
Silence—more golden than ever now that the world
has become so confoundedly noisy—is the quest of
such numbers of people that noise-detesters’ leagues
have been formed. Solitude, though the contemplative
can walk for miles without finding it, is, nevertheless,
eagerly sought after also. Home-seeking is a form
of activity that is almost perpetual among the rest-
less, the never-satisfied and those who experience dif-
ficulty in paying rent; home-escapement, despite the
obstacles to be surmounted before it can be achieved,
has as many persevering votaries. Did I not, on a
glorious Saturday, when rambling round the country-
side, catch sight of one of these seemingly peculiar
home-deserters? He had escaped from his model
suburban bungalow, “replete with all modern cons.,
and was sitting alone, brooding darkly, on a ro ,
deep amid the tangled undergrowth of an unimproved
and most unkempt vacant allotment near by.
My own quests, such as, for example, a met o
or means (painless preferred) of transforming myself
into that altogether different and far superior being
whom, though at times I suspect him of being
legendary, some people think I should ceaselessly
strive to resemble, have not, for the most part, ]us i-
fied the effort, the concentration and the amount ot
will-power expended upon them.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
cftaie viellmmcMandMmquef;
Seppelts
INSIDE WESTMINSTER CATHEDRAL.
Londoners, no less than British citizens
everywhere, have been provided with
evidence of, unhappily, the most con-
clusive character that they were fight-
ing an enemy who respected none of the
common decencies of civilisation. In
other words, one that by practical actions
showed he neither feared God nor man.
Human life he regarded as of no moment,
equally the temples raised to the worship
of Almighty God. Cathedrals, churches,
houses of religious communities, hospi-
tals, orphanages, were all one for the
destructive satanic lust firing the bar-
barian. Few are unfamiliar with the
external appearance of the Cathedral, that
great Byzantine edifice in Ashley Place,
Westminster, the product of the genius
of Bentley and the faith of Vaughan,
Not so many, especially in other portions
of the Empire, are equally familiar with
the interior. That this magnificent and
unique temple erected to the Most High
would escape the fury of the enemy was
not to be expected. The New Year had
scarcely begun when many incendiary
bombs were dropped on the roof, but,
thanks to the heroic efforts of the
Cathedral clergy, without serious effect.
Some idea of the vastness of the interior
may be realised from the illustration. The
rood cross, pendant over the chancel
steps, is 30 feet long. Beyond it is the
white marble baldachino, and east of or
behind this the high altar, a block of
Cornish granite weighing 12 tons. An
eminent London merchant, writing on
November 6 last, admirably stated the
spirit of the people: “In spite of the
damage to so many churches of all de-
nominations, this great city of ours is
still steadfast in its Christian faith, and
the barbarianism only constitutes an
impetus to further energy and spiritual
resource,”


The Bulletin
Vol. 62. —No. 3199.
Wednesday, June 4, 1941.
A LONG FLIGHT AND A STRONG FLIGHT.
“We will actively resist Hitler's every attempt to gain control of the seas. Our patrols are helping now to ensure delivery of needed supplies to Britain. All additiona
measures necessary for the delivery of those goods will be taken.”— President Roosevelt.
“Stop me—if you can!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings {opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire); 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 Jj. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months. Us
GREECE, CRETE AND CANBERRA.
The loss of H.M.S. Hood was swiftly and amply
avenged. Pursued across the North Atlantic until
the toils closed round her, the pride of Hitler’s
fleet was sent to the bottom, with all but 100 of her
officers and crew. Planning and execution of the
battle which ended so victoriously were alike perfect;
a more majestic demonstration of sea-power and air-
power, united under Admiralty control and concen-
trated on one grand object, could not be imagined.
But the pride and exultation with which people
read the story were tempered by the simultaneous pub-
lication of a report from the Eastern Mediterranean
which showed that the part of the Royal Navy which
has done such noble work there had suffered more
grievous losses, this time in protecting the Imperial
troops and their allies in Crete and in trying to make
up for that dearth of aircraft which has been so tragic
a feature of every European campaign in which the
soldiers of the present King have been engaged.
On May 21 our warships broke up an attempt at
an invasion of Crete in small craft, many of which
were sunk and an Italian destroyer with them. But
on May 22 our battle-fleet and the accompanying
lighter craft, among which was H.M.A.S. Perth, were
attacked by the greatest concentration of bombers
ever assembled over any sea. For fifteen hours the
engagement went on, and there was scarcely a moment
when every ship was not in deadly peril. Darkness
brought relief to most of the sorely-tried ships’ com-
panies, but some of the destroyers were so little
affected by their nerve-shattering experience that they
moved in to bombard the Germans who had estab-
lished positions on shore. But it would have been
madness to renew the action on the following day
or any other, and the fleet moved south to its
African base. It had lost three cruisers and four
destroyers (York, one of the cruisers, had been
bombed while in Suda Bay for repairs), and “several
ships,” two battleships among them, were damaged.
The loss of life was not great considering the number
of ships sunk and the dangers to which all were ex-
posed, but every seaman’s life should be esteemed
precious.
After the withdrawal of the fleet aircraft arrived
in Crete from Egypt. As has happened so often, they
were not in sufficient force, but their crews did all
that men could do to aid the soldiers, now locked in
savage battle with ever-increasing numbers of the air-
borne enemy, whose cloud battalions spread desola-
tion among the helpless Cretan communities. Fight-
ing under conditions which only the stoutest hearts
could have endured, the troops disputed every yard of
ground. The world marvelled at their heroism while
wondering how much longer they could hold out.
Australia had to depend upon newspaper corre-
spondents for the information that Australians,
“veterans of the Libyan and Greek campaigns”—
which means Sixth Division men—were among the
defenders of Crete. Mr. Menzies, addressing Parlia-
ment last Wednesday, did not mention how many
were in Crete (“some thousands,” one of the news-
paper correspondents said) or whether they were
there with the repeated sanction of his Government
or as a tacitly accepted sequel to the decision to
send the Sixth Division to Greece. Of that decision
he made an elaborate defence.
“It was a military decision,” he insisted, “but the
political considerations were also overwhelmingly in
favor of it.” Overwhelmingly in favor of it because
“the formation of a real Balkan bloc was possible,”
and there was “a plan for the defence of Greece,” a
plan of “great merit.” It was part of the plan that
“Empire and Greek forces should co-operate in terri-
tory in which it seemed that the effectiveness of
German dive-bombers and tanks would be restricted.”
“Two things happened” which “upset” it. First, the
Greek army in Albania was tired and “its means of
transport almost non-existent”; therefore, it was
unable to move to its “appointed positions in
Greece at the appointed time.” Then “division
occurred between the peoples of Yugoslavia,” and,
Yugoslavia collapsing, the Germans cut off the
Greeks, with the result that the Australians guarding
the Monastir Gap were “left hanging in the air.”
They had to be withdrawn, and the withdrawal, under
General Blarney’s direction, “was one of the epics of
the war.”
The German advance, however, deprived the R.A.F.
oi air bases in Greece. It was forced to operate from
Crete. This meant that only part of the Greek peninsula
could be covered by British fighters. A ghastly result
of this was that the ultimate embarkation of troops from
Greece had to be carried out without adequate protec-
tion against German dive-bombers.
Other accounts have left an ineradicable impression
that throughout the three weeks’ campaign the
Imperial troops and the Greeks fighting alongside
them were “without adequate protection against
German dive-bombers,” just as they were without
adequate protection against German dive-bombers in
Crete. And unless British Intelligence is staffed by
imbeciles, it can surely have been no mystery that the
Serbs and Croats were divided and that the Greek
army in Albania was tired and without transport.
Referring to the situation in North Africa, the
Prime Minister stated that the victories in Libya
were gained over “a vast and magnificently equipped
army of Italians, probably twelve divisions, by one
British armored division and one Australian infantry
division”— i.e., the Sixth. In consequence of the
“military” decision, the political aspects of which
made so powerful an appeal, the infantry division and
part of the armored division were withdrawn ; and we
know too well what happened to them in the country
to which they were sent, and to the services which had
to take them there and bring all that were left of them
back. “I thank God,” Mr. Menzies said, “that 80
per cent, of the troops that went into Greece came out
safely,” and “I do not regret the part I played in
causing Australian troops to be engaged in one of the
most gallant events of modern war.” But the position
in Libya, he admitted, changed immediately for the
worse ; “so grievously was the Germans’ capacity for
speed of movement miscalculated”—by whom he did
not say—“that they took Benghazi and rolled us back
to Solium,” and “the battle of Libya has to be
won again.”
The House listened to all this in silence. It did
not become vocal till Mr. Menzies mentioned the
political situation and intimated that he was dissatis-
fied with it. Then there were angry interjections,
and Mr. Curtin himself became indignant. In the
course of two or three days the political situation was
discussed several times, and always as if the subject
were of transcendent importance. Only Mr. Brennan
brought the House out of its dream world by criticising
the whole Greek affair in good set terms and denounc-
ing the involvement of the Sixth Division in a cam-
paign that, with only the shadow of an air force
available, was doomed from the beginning.
Perhaps members sought relief from brooding on
the tragedy then moving to its certain conclusion in
Crete by indulging in small beer about the political
situation, the recantation of Dr. Page, the step in
home-service rank (legal section) conferred by Mr.
Spender on Mr. Spender and the treatment of
“crimed” soldiers in Holdsworthy camp. Be that as
ir may, they quitted Canberra at the week-end for
another adjournment—to June 18—without having
shown any particular curiosity as to the terrible facts
of the fighting in Crete ; the responsibility for the
employment there of men who could scarcely have
recovered from their shattering experience in Greece ;
the number of Australians actually left in or dis-
patched to the island ; the grave losses of the naval
and merchant services, sure to be increased by another
and still more hazardous evacuation ; the persistent
embarking on distant foreign adventures with no pro-
vision made for an effective counter to the swarming
dive-bomber and pursuit ’plane, or the features which
have characterised and the fatality which has attended
every expedition in which Mr. Churchill has had a
hand—Antwerp in 1914, Gallipoli in 1915 (two Anzac
divisions and a British division landed), Norway and
Dakar in 1940, and in 1941 Greece (two Anzac divi-
sions and the equivalent of a British division landed)
and Crete.
When members caught their trains the familiar
“military and diplomatic correspondents,” who seem
to have so much influence, were demanding another
foreign adventure, in Syria this time, and that should
have suggested the possibility of another Australian
division being flung into that strange land of Arabs,
Turks, Turkomans, Kurds, Circassians, Armenians,
Persians, Greeks, French and Jews; of Sunni,
Alawiyya and Ismailian Moslems, Druzes, Maronites,
Uniats, Melkites, Greek and Armenian Catholics and
Orthodox Churchmen. From Iraq there had come
another inspiriting example of what British imperial
commanders and forces can do when they are left to
conduct a necessary campaign in their own way.
Roosevelt's Declaration.
President Roosevelt’s postponed, and therefore all
the better advertised, “fireside chat” measured fully
U P to expectations. The most momentous speech of
the triple-term President’s career, its implications
were: (1) assurance for Britain, China and any other
country fighting against aggressor domination that
American aid in arms would be not merely promised
9 r hut delivered ; (2) American ships—naval and,
h could be inferred, merchant ships as well—would
j 36 employed in ensuring that delivery; (3) an uphold-
in 8 °f the principle that this and any other conse-
quent necessary steps would be towards the defence
°f the U.S.A., but an abolishing of the narrow con-
ception of defence as meaning territorial defence, thus
widening the American frontiers by thousands of sea
miles, and including any positive threat among grounds
f° r defensive action. It included finally the declara-
fion of a state of unlimited national emergency, which
m effect means that America is on an active war
footing.
Spread abroad by a battery of nine microphones,
linking up with hundreds of thousands of wireless sets,
the speech was directly heard by millions of listeners
—eager, or, alternatively, anxious—in every part of
tjhe world. While he spoke President Roosevelt wore
the mantle of world leadership against the forces of
evil, of menace, chaos, destruction, devastation and
slavery. He spoke as one conscious that he was then
and there assuming the responsibilities of that tre-
mendous and historic role, determined that his part
would not be relinquished until, in his earlier words,
“victory is won.” His words rang out to Americans
as a directive appeal from their President and a com-
mand from the Commander-in-Chief of all their armed
forces. To others on the same side in the struggle
they brought a strong renewal of confidence ; in the
aggressor countries, for all the bombast that may seek
to disguise individual and national feeling there, the
speech may well have brought the beginnings of doubt,
if not despair. To all it gave a clear, if general, im-
pression of the shape of things to come, as seen and
also as desired by the President of the United States
and his advisers from a point of vantage which, it is
to be hoped, enables a clearer, more realistic view
than has elsewhere been acted on, or not acted on,
time and again since this war started.
The postponing of the speech because of the
President’s indisposition could not have had better
results if the postponement had been, for one reason
or another, deliberate. Even for these eventful days,
the meantime became big with events, some of them
most probably extremely helpful to President Roose-
velt, providing further and urgent justification for the
positive move he proposed and investing that move
with the unanswerable logic of natural law. The ex-
tended conception of defence formulated by the Presi-
dent once accepted, there could remain no alternative
but to follow him. And there could be no alternative
to acceptance, since that conception of defence was
grounded on the common experience of country after
country, lulled into false security by Nazi deceit and
pretence, and then attacked, conquered and enslaved
one by one in turn. At a distant remove President
Roosevelt envisaged that fate eventually even for the
U.S.A.; but more immediately he pointed, first to
considerable German success so far in the Battle of
the Atlantic, from that to the grave menace to the
U.S.A. involved in a possible British loss of that all-
vital battle —a menace which he envisaged in terms of
the aggressors’ subsequent control of the seas, the ex-
tension of their world domination to the South
American States, the economic encirclement and
walling-in of the U.S.A., and, finally, from suitable
bases and with the help of Fascist and Communist
Fifth Columnists, inevitable bombing and military on-
slaught against the U.S.A., the last stronghold of
democracy and free civilisation.
This main part of the speech, directed to reason
and national self-interest, was enormously strengthened
by the events of the preceding few days. Dealing
with the Battle of the Atlantic, President Roose-
velt revealed, “with the full knowledge of the
British Government,” that the rate of Nazi sinkings
of British ships was three times as high as the capa-
city of British shipyards to replace them, and more
than twice the combined American and British output
of merchant ships today. To those sinkings four days
earlier had been added the 42,100-ton Hood, and
German propagandists had been filling the air with
boasts of other sinkings and, as it was to turn out,
premature exultation over those successes of the brand-
new German battleship Bismarck. As well, it was
officially announced immediately prior to President
Roosevelt’s speech that two British cruisers and four
destroyers had been lost and two battleships and
several other cruisers damaged by bombers in the
Mediterranean, part of the cost of the Battle of Crete.
All of this, and especially the reckless venture of
the Bismarck and other ships of the German Navy
as far towards America as Greenland, served to sup-
port President Roosevelt’s insistence on the pressing
urgency of the situation, from the U.S.A.’s own
national point of view. Within three days—once
more just prior to President Roosevelt’s speech-ships
of the British Navy had caught the Bismarck and sent
it to the bottom of the Atlantic. This, too, had its
measure of effect. President Roosevelt based his
appeal and exhortation to the American people very
largely on the ground of enlightened self-interest. But
he spoke also to the national idealism. There cannot
be any question that it is that element, running as
strong as ever in the American people, which has,
more than any other combination of influences,
brought about the very considerable step they have
now taken, with, despite a strong body of disruptive
opposition, a unity incomparably stronger than that
with which they followed President Wilson in 1917.
Two potent forces have been working on that charac-
ter of idealism all along; on the one hand, deepening
sympathy and pity for the peoples of all the countries
suffering humiliation, slavery and persecution under
the aggressors’ heel, with a rising resentment against
the aggressors; on the other hand, ever-mounting and
unbounded admiration for the British in their lone
and gallant stand. The sinking of the Bismarck and
the Battle of Crete added to that treasury of admira-
tion deposits more valuable, certainly more influential,
than all the gold massed in Uncle Sam’s vaults.
In another aspect the postponement ensured a
further important strengthening of President Roose-
velt’s position. The postponement could almost have
been made in the certainty that some German or
other would blunder in the meantime. As one did.
British —and, for that matter, Australian —spokesmen
have been slow enough in realising the futility of
“warning” nations: a German exponent of that form
of futility appeared in the shape of Grand-Admiral
Raeder to give advance assistance to President Roose-
velt. On the eve of the advertised date of the “fireside
chat,” the German Grand-Admiral took it on himself
to warn the United States that “convoys will mean
shooting.” Apart from the helpful effect of such a
challenge to the American spirit, this futile warning
played right into President Roosevelt’s hands. He had
displayed a wizardlike ingenuity in leading the U.S.A.
thus far; ha was now enabled to declare America’s
intentions, and put back on Grand-Admiral Raeder
the responsibility for any aggressive action.
There, until the shooting is started, the position
rests. Envisaging what lies ahead, President Roosevelt
sees the war as, above all, a struggle for control of the
seas. The United States, he declared, will “actively
resist wherever necessary and with all resources every


attempt by Hitler to extend his Nazi domination to
the Western Hemisphere or to threaten it.”
We shall actively resist his every attempt to gain
control of the seas.
Thwarted in that, “the Axis Powers are certainly
defeated”:
Their dreams of world-domination will collapse and
the criminal leaders who started this war will suffer
inevitable disaster. Both they and their people know it,
and they and their people are afraid. That is why they
are risking everything they have in a desperate attempt
to break through and secure control of the oceans.
Once they are confined to a land war they will be unable
to keep their cruel Fascist heels on the millions of
people in the Continent of Europe, and, in the end,
their whole structure will break into little pieces.
As to the world President Roosevelt and his
advisers desire beyond that;
We will not accept a Hitler-dominated world, and
we will not accept a world like the world of the post-
war world of the 1920’5, in which the seeds of Hitlerism
were allowed to grow. We will accept only a world
consecrated to freedom of speech and expression, free-
dom of every person to worship God in his own way,
freedom from want and from terror.
Now lies the job ahead.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Mr. Curtin Won't Come In.
Saying that “there is national unity in Australia on
the one thing that matters, the prosecution of the war
to a victorious conclusion,” Mr. Curtin repeated his
refusal to join a Government of all the talents, or at
least all the parties, Mr. Menzies had offered him
50 p.c. representation. Mr. Curtin put the offer to
Caucus, whose unanimous resolution was: “This
party maintains its opposition to entering a coalition
Government, believing that its present co-operation
in the war effort is more effective.”
For himself, Mr. Curtin said: “The mere poli-
tical formula of a national Government would not
add one scrap to our war effort. It would be the
signal for disturbances in our political, industrial and
civil life that would be as dangerous as they would be
inevitable.”
There is something in that, and the Labor leader
here speaks with much greater knowledge than the
editors who have been giving him such profuse and
patronising advice. He can remember, if they and
Mr. Menzies cannot, what happened after the coali-
tion of 1917. He showed no little ability and courage
in thrusting the Reds out of the commanding posi-
tion they had gained in the N.S.W. Labor organisa-
tion in the early part of last year, as illustrated in
the notorious “Hands-off-Russia” resolution. Labor
acceptance of portfolios in the Menzies Government
would give these people a chance to regain their
ground. Though they have been soundly beaten at
two elections, they have still sufficient support to be
capable of mischief.
There is also something in Mr. Curtin’s conten-
tion that the constant harping on the national-Govern-
ment theme is giving an appearance of disunity which
—except for the Communists and their friends—
doesn’t exist, and thus giving the enemy matter for
mischievous propaganda. He insists that private
Labor members —he mentioned Mr. Chifley—are doing
useful war work in a quiet way. This cannot be
questioned, nor are the Labor members of the
Advisory War Council shirking the job which they
have voluntarily undertaken. Still, people who can
take an objective view do not share Mr. Curtin’s exalted
opinion of the Advisory War Council’s importance
and usefulness. Apart from its having no executive
functions, it was not consulted on the most momentous
decision which Ministers have had to take since it was
set up, the sending of the Sixth Division to Greece,
and, as it has fallen out, from Greece to Crete.
Though the bottom has fallen out of the news-
paper story that miracles of performance followed
the formation of an all-party Government in Britain,
most Australians would prefer an all-party Govern-
ment to the present Administration, in which there
are very palpable duds.
But, after all, Mr. Curtin and his party are free to
choose their own course, and they have made their
choice. If they won’t join the Government of their
own accord, it is better that they should stay out than
that they should be forced in unwillingly by a cam-
paign which has some appearance of another attempt
at government by newspaper. In the light of recent
events, it is very necessary that Australia should have
an effective Opposition. And, as Mr. Curtin points
out, neither Canada nor South Africa has an all-
party Government, and neither can be accused of
slackness in its war effort.
The American Attitude.
A sober American review of the events that led up
to the President’s historic speech:
The German people had been taught to believe in the
justice of might. The naked sword was to rule. Germany
struck for Weltrnacht oder Niedergang, for “world power or
downfall.” From the outset she followed a deliberate policy of
Schrecklichkeit or “frightfulness.”
Both belligerents presented their cases and asked the
sympathy of our people. Unfortunately not all Americans
were well enough informed to be able to discriminate between
the true and the false, and it is well known that fiction is
often more convincing than fact. Furthermore, the German
Government had long had agents at work in America prepar-
ing for the day that had now come. Many people, therefore,
took the German side in the controversy. Many others
remained indifferent. Not a few assumed that it was a conflict
in which no vital principle was at stake on either side.
Very early in the conflict the American Government pro-
claimed a policy of strict neutrality, but dangerous international
complications developed. At the very beginning of the war
Germany committed one of the grossest violations of inter-
national law recorded in history. She immediately followed
this by sowing the high seas with mines. Germany sought
to justify such acts on the ground that “necessity knows no
law”; her defenders must make use of every available weapon
in order to save the country from annihilation. But such
argument came with ill grace from aggressors.
Notwithstanding the protests of the United States and
other neutrals, Germany began ruthless submarine warfare.
Meanwhile German agents spent vast sums of money subsi-
dising newspapers, forming “leagues” and “societies” and
bribing. Explosions and incendiary fires damaged munition
plants, bombs were placed aboard vessels carrying cargoes
for the Allies and much property was destroyed and many
lives taken.
Germany’s ruthless warfare aroused millions of Americans
who deplored militarism to a realisation that in the last
analysis brute force, not right or reason, rules the world.
Meanwhile the country was flooded with proposals and
methods to end war and ensure peace.
The international situation was more or less overshadowed
by the Presidential campaign. Roosevelt ardently advocated
thorough military preparedness and favored a vigorous enforce-
ment of American rights. He did not hesitate to denounce
Germany. . .
There were pacifists and pro-Germans who insisted that
America should meekly bow before the Nazi fist, but the great
mass of Americans thought otherwise.
“We are drawing near the verge of war,” the Secretary
said. , , ,
The President realised that forbearance had ceased to be
a virtue and stated that he would ask authority to protect our
seamen and people on the high seas.
A great patriotic uprising occurred. A resolution granting
the President what he asked for passed the House by an
enormous majority.
The Germans boasted that in three months they would
reduce the British to submission, and it was evident to all
who had eyes to see that, unless some means could be found
of checking this carnival of destruction upon the high seas,
Great Britain would indeed be forced to accept any terms that
the war lords might dictate. She might even be compelled to
surrender her fleet to the victors. With it the war lords could
sweep the seas and reduce all the world, America included, to
a state of vassalage.
It was vitally important that we should increase our
merchant marine. Fortunately there were in ports of the United
States about 90 German merchant vessels, and these vessels
were seized. The machinery of nearly all the German ships
had been badly damaged by their crews, who supposed that
thereby they had put the ships out of commission for many
months. But American mechanics put the ships into working
order in an astonishingly short time.
From a contemporary magazine or newspaper?
No ; from a book. The United States in Our Own
Time, written by Paul L. Haworth and published in
1920, with only two names (Wilson and Lansing)
omitted and only one word (“Hohenzoliern”) altered.
The parallel will be completed to the satisfaction of
all except the enemy and his sympathisers if another
short paragraph can be added to the record as fact—
“ The work of patrolling a large part of the Atlantic
was soon taken over by our Navy, thereby releasing
British vessels.”
A Rat Would Feel Insulted.
“El Verdugo” : Norman Lindsay had better be care-
ful. He keeps on depicting Comrade Stalin as a prize
rat.
The Moscow “News” is a Government-owned
paper, published in English. On April 10, four days
after Yugoslavia was invaded, the Moscow “News
came out with a large picture of Stalin, Molotov and
Vyshinsky laughing with a group of happy Yugoslav
delegates, who apparently saw salvation in the treaty
which had just been signed with U.S.S.R. The Moscow
“News” published a translation:
The two contracting parties mutually undertake to
desist from any aggression against each other and to
respect the independence, sovereign rights and territorial
integrity of U.S.S.R. and Yugoslavia.. . .In the event of
aggression against one of the contracting parties on the
part of a third Power, the other contracting party
undertakes to observe a policy of friendly relations
towards that party The present treaty is concluded
for the term of five years....it comes into force from
the moment of its signing.
The moment of signing was the evening of April
5, a few hours before the German Panzer units crossed
the Danube from Hungary. Beside the reproduction
of the treaty is published a reprint of a leading article
from “Izvestia,” Stalin’s personal daily organ, printed
on April 6, the day on which the agony of Belgrade
began. Some paragraphs:
Treaties of this nature, as the rich experience of the
Soviet Union has shown, contribute not only formally,
but practically, to the consolidation of peace. Hence
they are invariably a component part of the foreign
policy of the U.S.S.R., whose basis has always been
and remains the struggle for peace. The Soviet-
Yugoslavian Treaty of Friendship and Non-aggression
will undoubtedly occupy a special place of honor even
among documents of this nature. It should be borne
in mind that it has been signed at the height of a war
which has already drawn, more than 1000 million people
into its orbit.
But the significance of the new Soviet-Yugoslav
treaty is not confined to this alone. It is further
enhanced by the fact that the treaty has been concluded
between the Mighty Soviet Union, which is_ unswervingly
pursuing a policy of peace, and Yugoslavia, for whqm
insuring peace is * now the chief thing. Foreign
relations have become extremely tense of late in the
Balkans. A few days after its advent to power the new
Yugoslavian Government was forced to adopt a number
of precautionary measures, such as declaring Belgrade,
Zagreb and Ljubljana to be open cities, holding black-
outs in Belgrade and the like.
“Izvestia” declared that the efforts of the new
Yugoslav Government “could not but win the sym-
pathy of the Soviet Union” because “action directed
toward consolidation of peace, no matter whence it
comes, coincides with the fundamental and unswerv-
ing aspirations of the foreign policy of the Soviet
Union itself.” It opined that the treaty would be
“warmly welcomed by the peoples of fraternal Yugo-
slavia, who against their will are going through hard
and troublous times,” and also “enthusiastically
acclaimed by peoples of the great Soviet Union, who
will see in this significant document a further ex-
pression of the sage Stalin policy of peace.
When this was printed in the Moscow “News”
Belgrade lay in blackened ruins, the Danube ran
blood by its doors, the Greeks were breaking in
defence of their homeland, and Anzacs were dying in
the cause of peace and security under the fire of the
Panzer divisions of Stalin’s bloody ally.
The “sage Stalin’s” only practical efforts in the
cause of peace were (1) to notify the Yugoslavs that
they must close their Consulates since they no longer
had a country; (2) to make a treaty with Japan,
an Axis Power of which he had always spoken in
terms of the bitterest hate ; (3) to enter into new trade
relations with Berlin, giving the German High Com-
mand fresh materials wherewith to carry on the
slaughter and devastation of helpless nations which, in
“Izvestia’s” words, were being “drawn into the
shambles.”
Belgium and Norway also were ordered to close
their Consulates. Despite the fact that Norway had
been in German hands for over a year, Stalin had
used the courtesy of its Consulate in Shanghai, where
he had no Consulate himself because of Japanese
hatred of him, for his diplomatic business.
Yes ; Lindsay had better be careful. A decent
rat would bite anybody who put him in the same
class as the servile body-snatchers of Moscow.
Sending Emissaries to China.
“Feng-Shui”: The Australian Government is sending
a representative to Chungking. It is to be hoped that
it won’t let him go without a staff man whose know-
ledge of the Chinese language is unchallengeable.
If the Minister to Chungking has no Australian
subordinate who understands Chinese he will be depen-
dent on Chinese translators —not an enviable position
for him to be in, especially in war-time. The Chinese
written language is extraordinarily complicated, full
of literary allusions, and its already enormous boun-
daries are continually being enlarged by the importa-
tion of words and phrases to express ideas and re-
quirements which the impact of the West on Asia
has forced on China. This process has been accel-
erated by the Chino-Japanese conflict. As every
character has to be memorised and there are upwards
of 45,000, even veteran Sinologues get headaches try-
ing to keep pace with the language. The chances of
any of the Australian staff getting a command of it
on the spot inside 10 years is as remote as the
millennium.
But this isn’t the most important aspect of Aus-
tralian diplomatic representation. I have had some
acquaintance with British legation and Consular staffs
in China. They are manned for the most part with
young fellows from Eton and Oxford or the British
civil service ; very nice young fellows, but with about
as much diplomatic equipment as a beerpot. They all
follow the same pattern. What they don’t know
about the country with which they are supposed to
be dealing would fill an encyclopaedia, and to show
any passionate interest in the subject is regarded as
bad form.
If the Australian Minister and his suite go to
Chungking in anything like the spirit of my friends of
the British Consular service, they might just as well
stay in this country and read the “Argus” and the
“S. M. Herald.” It would be even best that they
should do so, for the opinions of a Minister to a
foreign country carry great weight with home-staying
politicians and Government departments. He has
the prestige of a high official position. Yet all he may
be doing is translating into the solemn phraseology
of diplomacy the prejudices of the man-in-the-street
in his homeland, _
Rejected.
“E.V.” in honest indignation:—-
The 15 th Australian Light Horse-Northern Rivers
Lancers —attempted for the second time, at the end of four
months’ hard and enthusiastic training at Rutherford (N.S.W.),
to enlist as a body in the A.I.F. The first offer—first in
this war from an Australian regiment —was made over a year
ago when the 15th A.L.H. was encamped at Armidale under
Lieut.-Colonel Hindmarsh. In each case the answer was no.
Yes, this magnificent body of trained horsemen, trades-
men, motor-drivers and technicians, men who include some
of the ablest bushmen and best shots in the C.M.F., and 200
of whose comrades are in the A.I.F. and the R.A.A.F.—I3
are officers —was coldly rejected. The Government’s policy
is “not to enlist units but to build up reinforcements.”
Unimaginative and stupid.
These men of the 15th are not schoolboys who need their
parents’ consent. They are seasoned light cavalrymen, with
half their war training behind them. They have a tradition
of voluntary service which dates back 55 years. On January 1,
1886, border men came from near and far—swimming rivers,
then abanker, with their horses—to be sworn in at Tabulam,
the old homestead on the hilltop.
C. H. E. Chauvel was the original captain of the Tabulam
troops. His son, C.A.C., was second lieutenant. J. D.
Smith captained the Border troop and young Harry Chauvel
was his second lieutenant. Today Old Harry is honorary
colonel of the 15th.
The regiment had hard, uphill work to begin with. The
N. S. Wales military command lent a staff-sergeant on con-
dition that he should be kept in horses. There was great
difficulty in getting the scarlet and blue uniforms of the day.
Gradually there was a blending with other border forces
until there was a full-strength regiment..
In three years headquarters had moved to Casino. Men
came on their horses from all over the border country to
camps and tournaments. With expansion, the original Tabulam
troops of ’B5 grew into the nuclei of three regiments—the
15th of the present day (Richmond River Lancers in earlier
years), 12th (Tenterfield Mounted Rifles) and 11th (Darling
Downs Mounted Infantry), whose cradle was Cullendore and
Creek*
In the Boer War the regiment was well represented in
the N.S.W. Lancer contingents. In the Great War the regi-
mental crest was born —a combination of the Chauvel arms
(incorporated at Sir Douglas Haig’s request) with the insignia
of the Desert Mounted Corps, and the motto Nomina
Desertis Inscripsimus —“We have signed our names upon the
wilderness.” The colors carry these battle honors: S. Africa
(1899-1902), Magdaba, Gaza-Beersheba, Jordan (Es Salt),
Nablus, Damascus, Romani, Megiddo, Jerusalem, Egypt
(1916-17), Jordan (Amman).
The 15th provided the war with one of its greatest cavalry
leaders in Harry Chauvel. Its members are, to a man, the
kind of soldier who would have been in his element in the
rou'ffi Greek terrain. Many of them are the grandsons of the
men who formed the first troops in the ’eighties. “Compulsory
service” has had no terrors for them—they have never needed
compelling. . . . . T .
The 15th has always been a training regiment. Its present
C O Lieut -Colonel V. A. Lauritzen, is the third of his
fine 'to have worked his way up from the ranks—a trooper
with the Coraki troop, he fought through the last war as a
rsm. with the 2nd A.L.H. “A” squadron alone has sent
four w.os. to the permanent Australian Instructional Corps
in the last three years. . . .
Nearly all the great British regiments were built on a .terri-
torial basis. On that basis, they have served for centuries in
Britain’s wars. All the splendid nucleus of the first A.I.F.
was born of the same system. There is nothing like a common
interest as a core of regimental discipline, nothing like the
mutual knowledge and long friendship of men springing from
the same district to produce military enthusiasm and efficiency
and a competitive spirit. f
One would expect a military system with an ounce of
commonsense to adopt a method of A.I.F. enlistment which
would make the battle flags of the last war rallying-pomts for
the country’s new generation of defenders.


with WIMBLES INKS"
“Harold Hardupp”: The war has
brought a new crime to our naicest sub-
urbs. With the joining-up of so many
able-bodied gardeners and odd-jobbers
the value of the old-age pensioner has
sky-rocketed. Many hale young fellows
in their late sixties are now holding down
quite classy jobs as gardeners, and the
“perks” they cop may often exceed what
they used to get for a whole week’s sub-
sistence. Even an occasional beer-up is
viewed indulgently by their grateful em-
ployers. Which explains the situation
between two well-to-do old codgers,
usually together, with whom I sometimes
conversed on the ferry. They had ceased
to be together; and one day I mentioned
to Dash that I never saw him with
Blank nowadays. “That old swine!”
snapped Dash bitterly. “He’s worse than
a common thief. He stole my old-age
pensioner! ”
* * * *
“Clooter”: A case that in milder times
would have “made” the headlines ended
in Sydney last week when one man got
five years, another three years, and two
24 months each for conspiracy in forging
a will and trying to get probate. It con-
cerned £34,000 left by Thomas Leafe, a
Sydney estate agent, and one of the four,
the Crown alleged, was to have got
£lO,OOO “free of legacy duty” and £l5 a
week. Judge Clancy, passing sentence,
remarked that, if the conspiracy had suc-
ceeded, the widow and family would have
been left without a shilling. The evidence
disclosed astonishing casualness on the
part of testator. He casually met one
conspirator on Anzac Eve, 1939, was in-
troduced by him to another casual, casu-
ally asked both to witness his will and
then casually handed it over to one of
them to look after “till next Anzac Day.”
He died in September, 1939. The man
who got five years was a “business
agent,” born in Germany.
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: A cleric, endeavoring to
lead Sydney to the light, alleges that
many Australians have never heard of
the Ten Commandments, and backs it
with a story of a girl who, asked if she
knew the Ten Commandments, replied
“Whistle it and I’ll see.” All the same,
in that part of the cow country where I
first saw the light they knew at least one
commandment, “If your neighbor talks
religion, hop in an’ brand y’r calves
early.”
=H * * *
“Dip” •' A scene that would have de-
lighted “O. Henry” can be witnessed any
day of the week within a few hundred
yards of Sydney’s Martin-place. A
voluble gentleman sets up a small col-
lapsible table on the kerb, places his
wares thereon and gives a demonstration
with them, meanwhile inviting passers-
by to inspect the miracle of miracles.
No one stops until a lean gentleman in
spectacles and an old suit strolls up and
gazes intently at the show. Then the
great herd instinct asserts itself; some-
one else pauses, then another and an-
other, and presently a score or more
people are looking on. The demonstra-
tion over and a few sales made, the
crowd melts away; a copper appears
and the salesman and his goods vanish.
But around the corner he sets up his
table again, and once more implores the
hurrying population to gaze upon his
wares. No one stops until a lean gentle-
man in spectacles and an old suit strolls
up
* * * *
Chevroford”: A car and a truck col-
lided at peaceful Berwick (Vic.) —with such
force that they crashed into a garage,
wrecking the petrol pump, which blew up
with a terrific roar. The flaming petrol fired
the-building, threatening the three occu-
pants trapped inside the car, which was
on its beam ends. Also a prisoner in his
cab was the truckdriver —one of his res-
cuers had his leg blown off through the
explosion of an acetylene cylinder. Ex-
ploding petrol tins and burns brought the
casualty list to seven. The only fatality
was a woman of 70 who, rushing out of
a neighboring house, was so appalled by
the spectacle that she collapsed and died.
* * * *
“Lid”: Surprising how often the old
ones come off—or nearly. A gipsy
woman, one of two, induced a Neutral
Bay (Sydney) shopkeeper to let her
“bless” his money, asking him to look
up and swallow while she bestowed her
benediction upon a calico bag which
contained £26. She then “blessed” his
wallet, which had £45 in it, and received
a shilling for doing him “a good turn.”
After the Romany ladies had gone he
found the bag was lighter by £6 and the
wallet by £2O. The Law caught up with
them and ordered them to refund the
cash, and fork out another tenner apiece.
If I had a drink for every time I have
read of that money-blessing trick I’d
soon be sleeping the sleep of the very
drunk.
* * * *
“E.L.”: Let me in with the radio
“quiz” answer I prize most. The person
facing the microphone was asked who
said “Kiss me, Hardy.” Unhesitat-
ingly he replied, “Disraeli to Queen Eliza-
beth ! ”
“R.N.”; Flak (B. 14/5/’4l) is the cor-
rect abbreviation from the word
FLugzeugAbwehrKanonen. Flugzeug is
the German for “aircraft” —literally flag,
“flying,” and Zeug, “thing.” Abwehr
means “defence” and Kanonen obviously
“guns”; hence “aircraft defence guns.”
An anti-aircraft cruiser— i.e., one armed
principally with A.A. guns—would
be Flugzeugabwehrkanonenschiff or Flak-
schiff; an aircraft carrier would be
Flugzeugtrager or Flugzeugschiff. The
contemporary Germans are much ad-
dicted to abbreviation, a habit caught
possibly from their Moscow preceptors,
as is so much else of the Nazi doctrine
and practice. Here are some examples.
Hapag—Hamburg Amerika Paketfahrt
Aktiengesellschaft; Oflag Offizieren-
lager (officers’ concentration camp); Ges-
tapo —Geheimnis Staats-Polizei (secret
State police); G.m.b.h. —Gesellschaft mit
beschrdnkter Haftung (a limited liability
company). Nazi itself is short for
Nazional Sozialist Deutscher Arbeiter
Partei, though it was not coined by the
Nazis themselves and is disliked by them,
especially when pronounced with the
scorn Churchill puts into it.
* * » •
“C.Q.”: Life’s little ironies? Dr.
Button, the new Moderator of the Pres-
byterian Church in Victoria, is one of
those muscular Christians. On a recent
three days’ hike from Bendigo to Mel-
bourne he was passed by hundreds of
motorists, some of whom no doubt be-
longed to his own denomination. He
received only two offers of a lift. One
was from the driver of a beer wagon.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Peter II of Yugoslavia and
George II of Greece, both chased out of
their kingdoms by the Nazis, are the
latest examples of the hard luck which
attends monarchs who draw second place
in the line of name-succession. Of British
examples, James II lost his crown and
William II and Richard II were probably,
and Edward II certainly, murdered.
Henry II died brokenhearted after being
forced to make a disgraceful peace. In
France Louis II was a half-wit, and
Henry II was killed in a tournament by
the captain of his Scottish guards. In
Germany Ludwig II of Bavaria was
drowned when trying to escape from
prison, and William II had to go into
exile after a lost war. In Russia, Peter
II died of smallpox at 15, Feodor II was
murdered, Alexander II was blown up
by Nihilists after five previous attempts
at scuppering him, and Nicholas II was
shot by Bolsheviks with his whole family.
* * * *
“Tuart”; The abject form of provin-
cialism which prompts so many ink-
slingers born in Australia to write
“like those smart Left-Wing Ameri-
cans” (B. 21/5/’4l) goes further
than imitation of style and lingo
and the throwing of contumelious
clods on Chamberlain’s coffin. Our worst
example, Sydney “D.T.,” is running a
“you got your borders. 'lgh explosives on the school'ouse and incenjiaries
on the Sund'y-school.”
“Bundles for Britain” stunt. Though it
seemed odd to collect “blankets, rags,
cardigans, pullovers” at the end of an
Australian autumn for use in an English
winter which is at least five months off, I
told myself that Britons who might then
be in need of “blankets, rugs, cardigans,
pullovers” deserve a double issue, and
inwardly congratulated the “D.T.” on
thinking up a generous idea on its own
account. I was wrong, of course. It
borrowed the notion, title and all, from
the unfailing source of smart writing,
colored illustrations and “hot news from
the studios” (“next Sunday we will broad-
cast a recording of one of the American
appeals for ‘Bundles for Britain,’ just to
show you how fervently the Americans
have gone to work”).
“Morimoto”: “What in thunder is a
‘tycoon’?” asks “Wodgil” in a spasm of
irritation at the flapper press’s servile
adoption of the American language (B.
21/5/41). “Tycoon” is an early English
corruption of “shogun,” the hereditary
Commander-in-Chief of the Japanese
Army until 1867. It derives from sho,
leader, and gun, army. I don’t know
how the Americanised Australian jour-
nalists use it, but it has been as good
currency in the U.S.A. for a certain
pretentious kind of American as “nabob”
(orginally a Viceroy or Governor in
India) once was in England for any
luxurious rich man.
* * * *
“T.W.N.”: Lost in the wilds of King’s
Cross, and burdened with the inevitable
quart, he lurched into the foyer of a
block of flats and studied the names on
the indicator. Evidently still lost, he
began to lurch out again, but here tra-
gedly intervened and sent the quart crash-
ing to the tiles. He was regarding the
mess in a daze of despair when the pro-
prietress arrived, bristling with hostility.
“Look what you’ve done, you drunken
wretch!” she fumed, “How dare you
come in here! Go away at once or I’ll
call the police!” He eyed her first with
surprise, then with growing indignation.
“Shtrike me pink!” he exclaimed. “Any-
one’d think it wuz your beer!”
* * * *
“Hamer”: Another centenary passed
in May—that of the gas-lighting of Syd-
ney on Queen Victoria’s birthday, 1841.
Three years previously an experimental
exhibition of the possibilities of gas had
been given in the old Theatre Royal,
Pitt-street; there followed a quick sub-
scription for shares in the gas co. It took
a long time to realise that gas could be
used for cooking. Even when this cen-
tury dawned the gas stove had only really
begun to live down early prejudices.
Women were nervous about it; and
owners of really up-to-date homes usu-
ally advertised “gas and fuel stoves.”
• » • •
“Strict Veg.”; I see that, for reasons
unnecessary to mention, the trustees of
the La Perouse monument at Botany Bay
have not received this year the annual
grant of 1000 francs for the upkeep of
the narrow strip of ground inside the
railings. In my young days as a pro-
bationer at the neighboring cable station,
now defunct, it was a fixed belief of
the local fisherfolk that the area of 37ft.
2in. by 36ft. Sin. had been presented out
of courtesy to the French nation. They
were always careful to tell Sydney week-
end trippers this fairy story, and it used
to amuse us a good deal to see trippers
climbing over the iron fence so that they
could go home and say that they had
stood that day on French soil. The
ground, of course, has never been alien-
ated, but used to be kept in order by
the French Consul-General, by arrange-
ment with the N.S.W. Government. In
1937 it was proclaimed a reserve, the
smallest in Australia, and put under the
care of trustees.
* i * « «
“V. Cluse” has a ringside seat:
Sydney’s poshest suburb had a blackout
test. All lights went out at 10.25 p.m., traffic
ceased and the local cat hurried home, fearing
greatly. Down in the black gulf of Watson’s
Bay a banshee, or it might have been a debil-
debil, let go a wailing. But Australian dark-
ness is a luminous darkness, what with a young
moon and stars behind a thin cloud-wrack which
also reflected back the glow from the non-
blacked-out parts, and the groups of wardens
prowling the still streets in search of the
thoughtless cigarette or forgetful householder
could recognise each other 50 yards off. Across
by South Head cemetery, where Governors
and heroes and artists and refugees sleep, a
double-window light glowed, what looked like
a bowser light shone at the Loop and South
Head Light revolved ceaselessly. Then a ’plane
was heard above and searchlights came on,
whereupon white buildings glowed and darker
ones were sharply outlined. Picked up by the
searchlights, the ’plane shone like a firefly,
circling steadily over the watching suburb.
Typical, sardonic, Australian remarks came out
of darkened motor-cars or lanes. Then the
street lights came on, a contralto banshee
wailed and a woman said, “That’s the all-clear.
Quite good, wasn’t it?” A delicious voice
answered, “Most lifelike, I thought. If only
somebody had dropped a few bombs we’d have
got a real thrill.”
THE KNOW-ALL.
Of all the types of men I hold accurst
1 rank the know-all definitely first.
Bores may be dodged by gentle artifice
And bounders given a judicious miss.
But how avoid the all-too-frequent gent.
From whom —though always after the event —
You hear this enterprise or that assailed
As ill-advised, merely because it failed,
And learn how different things would have been
With some such god as he in the machine.
In cricket he’s admittedly “the one”
(As Alfred Jingle was at Muggleton);
He knows what strategy is in demand
Better than any captain—from the stand.
In every branch of sport the law he’ll Jay
Down in the game at which he doesn’t play.
At ’lection time he’ll tell in terms precise
How Jones, by disregarding his advice
On tactics, suffered Brown to score a win—
But that’s when Jones is out and Brown is in.
At art or letters he’ll be just as hot
To wise you which is which and what is what,
No matter if he couldn’t paint a pic.
Or fashion a successful Limerick.
But when grim war provides a sterner test
I’ll say you find the know-all at his best.
How clearly and relentlessly he’ll prove
Disaster threatened such-and-such a move,
How coldly demonstrate campaigns are won
By something that he would —or wouldn’t —
have done!
What though he knows no more of war’s
technique
Than any aborigine of Greek,
It well may make you wonder what you’ve
missed
When listening to the armchair strategist.
Save me, O save me, you benignant Fates,
From blatant Douglas Credit advocates,
From teacup readers, astrologic pests,
From radio wits Who peddle mouldy jests,
And those whom war invariably evokes,
These smug, assured, dogmatic, know-all
blokes!
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Next time We go to the fun fair, Prendergast, perhaps you Wont let us
miss the last boat.”
“S. Gumm”: In point of oratory as
well as politics, Roosevelt’s speech ex-
ceeded expectations. The Roosevelt voice
is a noble organ, and on this occasion
the effect was enhanced by the absence
of interruptions—in previous broadcasts
there were long pauses caused by cheer-
ing, which always sounds vexatiously de-
sultory over the air. The speaker gave
me the impression, which I don’t always
get from our eloquent Mr. Menzies (the
fault may be mine), that every sentence
was deeply felt. And while leaving his
hearers in no doubt as to his opinion of
Hitler and Hitlerism, he did not once
descend to personal invective, which
Churchill so often does, thereby weaken-
ing a good case, even when much of it is
presented in classic language. It may
be all right for a Prime Minister address-
ing his own people, and knowing how
they feel about their arch-enemy, to use
such expressions as “that bad man,” “that
wicked man,” and “after all, there are
only 70,000,000 malignant Huns, some
of them killable and others curable,” but
they are out of place in a world broad-
cast. The President kept his speech on a
higher plane.
» * * *
“Bad Australian”: If “Ex-Mister”
(B. 21 /5/’4l) is right in saying that Cleo-
patra’s Needle was struck by a bomb on
the very night on which the last survivor of
the craft that brought the monolith from
Egypt was killed by an enemy bomb in
Malta, there is another coincidence to
be recorded. The Needle was struck by
a bomb during the last war. When I saw
it shortly before the Armistice, the base
of the monolith was slightly injured and
part of the plinth shattered.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Touching Dion Boucicault’s
meticulous producing (B. 21/5/’4l), the
film presentation of the Malayan environ-
ment of “The Letter” isn’t a patch on
Dion’s rendering of it in the stage play.
Despite Hollywood’s elaborate efforts to
be correct in detail, the Malaya it ex-
hibits is a purely romantic conception.
whereas Boucicault’s production was not
only factually correct, but artistically as
good as the screen version. When the
white masters bawled for their Chinese
“boys,” the “boys” came running on
hastily donning and buttoning up their
tunics. The first-night Melbourne audi-
ence thought they had missed their cue,
but Boucicault had got that point right
from observation. Laundry is the most
expensive item in a native servant’s
budget. He gets out of his starched
clobber the moment he leaves a tuan’s
presence, and, to show his zeal, always
makes an appearance in a state of partial
undress. Incidentally, the much-boomed
Bette Davis was vastly inferior to Irene
Vanbrugh in the role of the English lady
who empties a revolver into the body of
her planter-lover while her husband is
away at Singapore.
* * * *
“Uramao”; More and more these days
one has to take off one’s hat to the Sex.
At Napier (M.L.) a man painting the
roof of his house grasped some power
lines leading to it. His cries were heard
by his wife, who, going out, saw her lord
hanging by the hands to the wires and
in imminent danger of electrocution.
Sizing up the situation at once, she got
a step-ladder, ascended it, seized the
man by the legs and jumped. Her weight
dragged her husband free of the lines and
both fell twelve feet. The man escaped
unhurt, but his devoted and resourceful
wife is nursing a broken arm.
* * * *
“Wodgil”; That statement of Sixth
Division casualties (B. 28/5/’4l) was pub-
lished on Saturday, May 24. As it appeared
in “S. M. Herald,” one sentence puzzled
me: “Thus, on the present estimate, 3560
Australians killed, missing, prisoners of
war and wounded were in Greece.”
Thinking it would be elucidated next
day, I laid out tenpence on the three Sun-
day prints and waded through them
methodically from date-line to imprint.
Did I find anything about the matter?
Not a line; not a word. The Sunday
sheets all claim to
Give the Public
What It Wants, and
apparently in their
conception of what
the public wants
the loss of approxi-
mately a fourth of
a splendid A.I.F.
division in one
campaign wasn’t
news. But in the
same issues there
were yards of
photographs o f
half-naked women,
taken in all sorts of brazen pos-
tures ; more yards about the marriages,
divorces and other diversions of Holly-
wood morons; more yards about the
inane capers of playboys and playgirls in
flash Sydney joints, and still more yards
about the football, the dogs, the horses
and the Dashing Punters who wager
immense sums with Dashing Bookmakers.
All, no doubt, aids to recruiting—re-
cruiting of threepences and fourpences
from people of the mental age of 11, to
many of whom war is just a tedious game
played in far countries by mugs.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: I suggest that the word
“nuts” or “nutty” (B. 28/5/’4l), heard
often enough in Australia as well as
America, has deteriorated in meaning. In
Douglas Sladen’s life of Adam Lindsay
Gordon, we find a com-
panion of the poet put-
ting the direct question
to him: “Are you nutty
on Sally?” the adjective
denoting no more than
an ardent attachment.
And in Wells’s Food of
the Gods somebody re-
marks ungrammatically
but expressively; “Them
big rats is nuts on
horses,” conveying a dis-
tinct liking for that form
of provender. But nowa-
days I think “nutty” is
little more than a syno-
nym for “ratty.” I re-
member a Westralian
Premier who wore the
sobriquet of “Nutty”
, among his intimates —a
survival from his school-
days. But in his case it
had no connection with
lack of brain-power or
balance ; the allusion was
to his complexion.
* * *
“Private Spudpeeler”:
Our favorite ticket-
inspector is a sleepy,
good-natured chap who
mutters “Ticketsplease”
without bothering to see if we have ’em.
The other day, however, our carriage was
graced by the presence of a member of
Parliament, now in uniform. The in-
spector mumbled something about tickets
and turned to leave, when the glint of a
gold pass brought him round like a
startled colt. In an instant he was trans-
formed to bureaucratic efficiency and de-
manded to see all tickets or hard cash in
lieu of them. I’m sorry that M.P.
doesn’t live in my electorate.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: My friend
Blimp will have to tear off the Old School
Tie to enable him to explode properly
in what remains of his club concerning
the disgraceful conduct of the War Office
in releasing 22 tons of cavalry swords for
conversion into scrap steel. Mechanisa-
tion of cavalry units has, of course, been
the reason for it, and anyhow, swords
have been outmoded as military weapons
for half a century and more. One of the
Colonel’s abhorred monkeys on a damn’
stick, sir, with his tommy-gun and motor-
bike would be more than a match for
any dozen of the most valiant, jack-
booted, scarlet-clad Guardsmen or
dandy short-jacketed Hussars who ever
charged the foes of Britain. A half-
squadron of him would have made a
total loss of the entire Light Brigade
without a volley or a thunder in the job.
* * * *
“Paddy M.”: New on the run, he
stood on the doorstep waiting for an
answer to his repeated ringing. From
within came the racket of a radio and
the cries of a baby. A neatly dressed
man came as far as the gate and took in
the scene at a glance. “You’d better
come back later,” he said ; “I’m the t.p.
collector and they won’t open the door
till I’ve left the street.”
* * *
“0.-t.”: Three healthy, clean-limbed
pleasant-faced young A.I.F. men stood
outside a Sydney picture-theatre. Sud-
denly one of two girls, quite intelligent-
looking, cried: “There’s Artie Shaw. He’s
gorgeous. Oh, let’s go over.” They
headed for the warriors, and I paused to
see which was the “gorgeous” Artie ; but
the girls pushed past and finished up in
front of a lurid poster. “There he is,
isn’t he gorgeous ? ” said the first ecstati-
cally, jabbing her finger at the pictured
face of an American dance-band leader.
Ruminating sadly, I went on my way.
* * * *
“Pawang”: An R.A.A.F. medical
officer who made experiments in Mel-
bourne on the effects of high altitudes
found that they tended to simulate the
effects of inebriation. The beer-saturated
individual sits about convinced of some-
thing without the slightest notion of
what he is convinced about. As the m.o.
discovered, it is much the same with the
oxygen-starved person. Going into a
high-altitude chamber with several
masked companions he lifted the lot to
a pressure equivalent to a height of
25,000 feet. He then started writing and
working out simple sums in arithmetic,
and was feeling extraordinarily pleased
with his mental alertness when he noticed
his cobbers laughing and nudging one
another. When he turned the oxygen on
again he found that his writing and arith-
metic wouldn’t have got him a merit
certificate. At 35,000 feet he suffered an
attack of tennis shoulder which instantly
disappeared when he descended to 25,000
feet.
* * * *
“K.P.”; An outstanding contribution
towards the maintenance of national
morale is being made by a team of plastic
surgeons organised by the British Minis-
try of Health for the repair of facial dis-
figurements suffered by bombed civilians.
To the great majority of people, particu-
larly women, the idea of gross permanent
disfigurement is far more abhorrent and
terrifying than that of death. If only
subconsciously, death is as familiar and
unavoidable an attribute of daily life as
is one’s face in a mirror, but one takes
a more intimate and personal inter-
est in the face. Even if its owner pri-
vately regards it as no great shakes of a
face, with nose or chin shot away it can
become an object of horror such as few
wish to live on with. To these modern
wizards of plastic surgery providing a
new nose or chin is a mere detail, not
nearly so tricky a job as, say, skin-
grafting a mask of oozing livid scar-tissue
back to reasonable normality. They
have, too, done much to banish the
parental nightmare of child-faces ruined
for ever. Children are the best of sub-
jects for such work.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The rumor that Rudolf
Hess was an adherent of Dr. Buchman,
founder of the moral-rearmament move-
ment, may lead to a heresy hunt. Among
first indications is a Letter to the Editor
from “E. C, McNaughton,” who points
out that this “pseudo-Christian move-
ment” has or had its adherents in every
quarter of the globe, notably in Norway,
Holland, Belgium and France ; and he
asks: “Is it a mere coincidence that the
fifth-columnists were able to do their
underhand work under the guise of
friendship in those countries?” Mr.
McNaughton ought to know that the
most ardent and impassioned advocate of
Dr. Buchman’s moral-rearmament pro-
posals in Melbourne was Ivan Menzies.
Ivan opened several art shows to the
tune of the Oxford Group’s vague and
self-contradictory generalisations, adding
a skip and a dance and a song to give
point to his amorphous convictions. No-
body in or out of his senses would say
that Mr. I. Plaza Toro Menzies wanted
to wreck the Empire.
“If ’ltler got ’ere We'd ’ave to Work for nothin'."
“WOULD we? The union'd ’ave something to say about that!
ALMOST UNANIMOUS.
“Recognising the almost unanimous view of the
community that amendments are needed in the Liquor
Act, the Government intends to make them.”
-— N.S. W. Premier McKell.
It’s most infrequently, to tell you true,
William, I’m in complete accord with you;
But now that you’ve been chose to run the
State
Your lightest words acquire an added weight,
And here it is my notion that you strike
A note that’s eminently statesmanlike,
Wherefore in this crusade I wish you well,
McKell!
Too long have various Governments delayed
This wholesome measure, obviously afraid
Of being flayed by unco righteous tongues
As puppets of the brewers and the Bungs,
And nothing sticks in politicians’ throats
Like any move that threatens loss of votes.
But such reaction how can one foretell,
McKell?
Restore to us, in joints where liquors flow,
What one may designate the status quo,
The hours of trade which custom still demands
In less constricted, more enlightened lands.
Let struggling souls no longer throng and block
The bars in surging crowds at six o’clock,
Striving in record time their thirsts to quell,
McKell.
What, do you think, would Robbie Burns have
done,
Stern Caledonia’s most engaging son,
Could he had featured such a man-made drouth
In any section of this sunny South?
How fitting were it that another Scot
Should wipe away the stigma and the blot,
And ring the 6 to 6 enactment’s knell,
McKell.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


r
More and more people are smoking I
CRAVENA
every day j
quality always tells! I
i
10 for I0d. 50 for 4K2
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENTS OR E * THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
Replying to the passionate pleas
for a national Government, Curtin
pointed out dryly that the passionate
pleaders never mentioned the matter till
the war was many months old. In fact,
Menzies didn’t even invite the Country
party to come in until March, 1940,
when his party lost Corio. His best offer
to Labor before the general election was
“five or possibly six seats” in a Ministry
of 16. He has since raised it to half the
portfolios. The unanimous vote of
Curtin’s party is that it will carry on as
the Canadian Opposition is doing.
Called upon to explain the promotion
of Lieutenant-Colonel Percy C. Spender—
“ Percy” to the boys—in the Army Legal
Department (“a great fighting force,”
Cameron interposed), the Minister for
the Army, Mr. Percy C. Spender, blushed
furiously and murmured something about
there having been many rapid promotions
and new appointments. “The appoint-
ment was made by the Military Board —
it came before me and I signed it,” he
got out. Whereupon Cameron asked that
the answer be inscribed on Duntroon’s
foundation stone alongside Archdale
Parkhill’s title.
When he was Chamberlain’s First Lord
Churchill made all the Admiralty an-
nouncements in the Commons —as, of
course, was his right. Since he became
P.M., he has continued to make them,
and he it was who gave the account of
the sinking of the Bismarck and got all
the cheers. It is very rough on Alexander.
The British Ministry of Information
has had to apologise to the Duke of
Hamilton for the 8.8. C. statement,
broadcast to the world and accepted as
fact by the British Commonwealth press,
that the Duke of Hamilton knew Hess
and had received a letter from him. The
gentleman had to admit that 8.8. C. got
the information, which “may have” led to
doubts as to the Duke’s integrity, from
his own concern, which is run by Mr.
Duff Cooper. Ministries of Information
seem to be unsatisfactory everywhere.
Asked last Thursday whether any of
the A.I.F. casualties published that day
related to the campaign in Greece, Mr.
Spender got in touch with Army Head-
quarters, but was unable to say any more
than that “far too many rumors about
casualties in Greece, Crete and Libya are
reaching Australia.” The position calls
for a plain, unvarnished statement from
the Minister for the Army. If the delay
in publishing precise information about
casualties in Greece is unavoidable, he
should say so, and give reasons. If the
records system has broken down or got
hopelessly bogged in red-tape, the sooner
he admits it and straightens the thing out
the better.
Inspired by the McKell victory across
the Murray, Victorian Labor is taking
steps to end its strange association with
the Cockies. It has decided to oppose
Dunstan and two of his Ministers at the
next State election and to contest 40 seats
altogether. This will be a refreshing
change.
Churchill in his first (May 21) reference
to the campaign in Crete did not men-
tion Australians among “our troops
there” ; “British, New Zealand and Greek
forces,” he said they were. Neither did
McEwen mention them in a May 23
review of the invasion. The first intima-
tion that Australians were among those
present came in a four-line newspaper
par. published on May 24. Two days
later “S. M. Herald” readers learned, on
the authority of its war correspondent,
that “some thousands of seasoned Aus-
tralian troops who fought in Libya and
Greece are helping to defend Crete, under
the command of one of the most pictur-
esque figures in the A.1.F.” Since the
Australian Government is supposed to be
responsible for the employment of Aus-
tralian troops in every theatre of war, the
least it can do is to tell the nation itself
when and where they are in action, and
not leave it to newspaper writers.
A stillborn proposal to extend conscrip-
tion to Northern Ireland united all the
Eire parties in opposition, and they got
no little English newspaper support.
Without arguing the rights and wrongs
of the question and of Eire’s attitude to
war, the conscribing of 40,000 or 50,000
Ulstermen, a third of them bitterly hostile,
was not worth the trouble it would have
caused in Ireland and between Eire and the
U.K. They could do little if Ireland were
invaded, and they are not needed in
Britain, where there seem to be far too
many men in khaki and too few in ship-
yards, tank, aircraft and munitions
factories.
Fadden’s Adelaide speeches on the
industrial expansion of S.A. have made
his fellow-Queenslanders feel envious. In
eight years, he said, the number of fac-
tories had increased from 1660 to 2270
and the number of employees from
23,800 to 44,500, and there have been
further substantial increases these last 11
months. Artie gave the credit to his
Government’s decentralisation policy. It
has helped, no doubt, but his Govern-
ment’s grants to, the Adelaide Administra-
tion have also helped, since they have
been applied in part to reduction of S.A.
taxation, especially on companies.
Queensland’s Government (of course it
gets no grants) believes in taxing com-
panies to the limit.
The war has rammed home the neces-
sity for more and better long-distance
roads, and Canberra itself has become
enthusiastic. Engineers and construction
gangs made a very good job of the
North-South road, over which so many
troops were carried to Darwin —that itself
was no mean feat of military organisa-
tion —and now the track from Port
Augusta (S.A.) to Norseman (W.A.) is to
be “reconditioned.” Though it will need
a lot of “reconditioning,” being chiefly
the work of overlanding motorists, the
expenditure (£250,000) is warranted, and
the conversion of overlanders’ tracks to
serviceable roads is all to the good. But
a necessary accompaniment is a reasser-
tion of the liberties which the Constitu-
tion-makers thought they were gaining
for the people, so that a man may travel
from end to end of the Commonwealth
without provincial interference provided
he has paid his just dues.
Yeates, M.L.A., got a nasty one home
on the bosses of the Queensland State
Service Union, who refuse to let their
members do any A.R.P. training for the
protection of Government property
unless the Government pays them over-
time, He dug up the minutes of a meet-
ing held on October 1, 1940, in which
the Congress of the State Service Union
“declares, and all organised workers must
realise, their responsibility to end success-
fully this war by working in all countries
for the overthrow of capitalism and the
institution of Socialism.” So they expect
to win the war by “working for the over-
throw of capitalism,” and meantime they
won’t do any A.R.P. work outside their
39i-hour week without overtime pay.
Victoria’s unemployed have reached
the record low of 5473, and Melbourne
firms are notifying customers that de-
liveries can’t be undertaken because of
labor shortage; but the unemployed
relief tax is still as stiff as ever. Mean-
time, the State Government is finding
tax-money for such things as removal of
four pillars from the Library and Gal-
lery entrance to make it look more
spacious.
If you think the butcher is charging
more than he ought for lamb, all you
have to do is compare what you paid
with the normal retail price, as deter-
mined by the wholesale price, plus the
margin permitted to retail butchers in
the schedule of margins used by the
Retail Butchers’ Association and ap-
proved by the Prices Commissioner. If
what you paid isn’t halfpenny a pound
below that the butcher is liable to be
. “declared,” If you have to prove it, try
the Douglas Credit system on a basis of
algebraic equations.
One of the notices of motion on the
agenda for the A.L.P. conference in
Sydney; “That the Labor party be in-
structed to repeal the Consorting Act.”
Yes, it came from Darlinghurst.
Two views of Churchill given to the
world on the same day:
Our Mr. Menzies: “A leader of the most
notable courage and of the most noble
spirit. The British people are fortunate to
have Churchill as their leader.”
America’s Mr. Hearst: “His conduct of
war and diplomacy has been an unbroken
record of failure.”
It is not expedient for Churchill to have
a go at Hearst, but if he chose to do so
no man could do it better. He it was
who described the “Daily Mail” as “a
paper written by office boys for office
boys,” and it is doubtful whether Harms-
worth, afterwards Northcliffe, ever really
forgave him.
Dr. Price’s majority inßoothby exceeded
8500. Opposition efforts to belittle it
were rather absurd; Curtin himself and
all the N.S.W. members who got in for
borderline seats would like to feel
assured of majorities one-eighth the size.
In point of fact, Dr. Price’s surplus has
rarely been exceeded at Commonwealth
by-elections.
A long-ago Westralian Government
constructed a railway from Wongan Hills
to Mullewa, expecting to knock out the
Midland Railway Co. It failed expan-
sively ; the company has not only kept
going but contrived to make annual
profits, whereas the Government railways
pile up annual losses. The present Gov-
ernment is to build a pub, with 20 bed-
rooms, at Wongan Hills ; estimated cost,
£20,000. A new Government pub in war-
time —good Lord!
Mr. Max Falstein, M.H.R. for Watson
(N.S.W.), wants a referendum to pro-
hibit men over 65 becoming members of
Parliament:
It is generally recognised that tragedy has
befallen Europe because the administra-
tion of the domestic and foreign affairs of
Britain had been left in the hands of old
men.
Generally recognised by whom? The
“neutral” Russians, to whom Mr. Max
Falstein wanted to send an Australian
representative as soon as he reached Can-
berra?
The S.A. Government is the first to
realise the need for reducing State taxa-
tion of motorists in view of petrol
rationing and the increasing price. It is
to cut registration fees by 25 p.c. Motor-
ists in other parts of Australia are now
waiting for their State Governments to
do something. It looks as if most of
them will have a long wait.
The new scale of weekly income-tax
deductions hints at an increased impost.
For one thing, the exemption rate for
dependants is cut from ss. to 3s. a head,
though taxpayers with youngsters under
16 are to get ss. per head per child, first
omitted. It’s a sort of put-and-take.
An Australian who recently returned
home to a Y.M.C.A. physical-training
job, after seven years of studying U.S.A.
methods, declared that America had the
world’s most up-to-date physical culture
training, and that we in Australia were
a long way behind. Before his voice
had stopped echoing, a U.S. brigadier-
general (Hershey) was announcing that
400,000 of the first 1,000,000 men ex-
amined for “selective service” had been
rejected as physically unfit. He described
them as being in a condition “of which
the nation should be thoroughly
ashamed.”
A C.S.I.R. report describes the wealthy
Californian tuna fisheries as “based on
five tunas, all of which occur either as
identical or representative species in Aus-
tralian seas.” Evidence presented to the
Tariff Board has shown that Australian
canned tuna is equal to Californian, and
that big orders have been secured but
cannot be filled. Fisheries statistics help
to explain why: Five thousand boats em-
ployed 8342 men to secure a return valued
at £1,470,778, lobsters included; practi-
cally £3 6s. per man, or £6 per boat, less
gear, repairs, maintenance and all other
costs of production. The job of garner-
ing the rich harvests of Australia’s home
waters can’t be done with cockleshells
manned by casuals.
Tasmanian education authorities are
becoming alarmed at the effect of teacher
enlistments. One result, the Minister
says, is that the list of high-school sub-
jects will have to be curtailed. It is just
another illustration of the blessed volun-
tary system of fighting all-in wars.
Country killing centres are among the
things promised by the new Sydney Gov-
ernment. To achieve it means fighting
down serious opposition on the part of
two Government concerns as well as pri-
vate interests ; all the same, if Labor can
do it a big forward step in decentralisa-
tion will have been taken. Moreover,
feeling people will no longer wince at the
spectacle of livestock crammed into
trains that take long hours to reach their
destination.
Some of these British advocates of a
grandiose invasion of Europe dig up
strange allies. One Slocombe, writing in
the “Sunday Express,” has discovered a
Dutch Scarlet Pimpernel whose “organisa-
tion” is described as “a spearhead for a
future British invasion.” A hundred stout
ships would be worth more than five
hundred thousand Pimpernels.
“Tamarite”: Re this recruiting lag
we’re hearing so much about from the
mainland. Tasmania’s monthly quota is
91 men. Volunteers for May totalled 270
by the 23rd, with Launceston’s figures
still to come. That’s a three-month quota
in three weeks. You mainlanders want
to feed your men on lamb, apples, cheese
and fish.
Mulga wire from the Molonglo:
Canberra’s Solons did little but make each
other’s dander rise during their three days.
Crawford, the old sugar man, celebrated the
beginning of his 25th year as a Senator by re-
signing from the U.A.P. —the Parliamentary
party, not the organisation—because Menzies
hadn’t included any Hughes supporter in his
Cabinet; he wrote a letter which the press found
too hot to publish in full. Curtin became angrier
than anybody had ever seen him when Menzies
told, amid a buzz of interjection, how “sick
at heart” he was to have to come back to
“play at the mock battle of politics.” Makin,
as a member of the War Council, challenged
the P.M. to say that the Opposition had not
been helpful. Menzies said that he “had always
admitted publicly the splendid attitude of the
Opposition.”
From each party meeting and public sitting
members seemed to emerge feeling more
and more sore. The only olive branch seen in
the A.C.T. was waved by Dr. Page, who said
he had forgiven Menzies for everything he had
said about that gentleman, or something like
that —he was in a very emotional mood. His
outburst was interpreted by cynics as an anti-
dote to the strange affection which Labor
seemed to have developed for the company
of Fadden (“Call me Artie”). The only real
laugh came when Spender palliated the shock
of his having been named lieutenant-colonel
by remarking that the “war had brought many
rapid and new appointments, and the Spender
appointment was recommended by the Mili-
tary Board.” Without doing any real business,
the House adjourned till June 18 —Waterloo
Day.


THE OLD RELIABLE.


l/V.JN O'. BAKER
BAKER’S TRIPEE CRUSH EMASCUEATOR.
A well-made, first-class, nickel-plated instru-
ment. combining the blunt cut and the crush-
ing block. Its simplicity and thorough effec-
tiveness in operating commends it to both the
novice and expert. Price, 60/-.
WOOL GROWERS
BAKER'S GOUGE CALF BEHORNER with “cup” blades
for calves under 12 months. Hand-forged throughout
Length, 27 inches overall. Price, £4/4/-. N.S.W. Postage’
2/9; Interstate, 5/6.
Head of “Juno
Special.
BAKER’S JUNO
SPECIAL
DEHOBNER for
Calves up to 12
months, £4/4/-.
Postage: N.S.W.,
2/9; Interstate,
5/0.
BAKER’S
SHEAR
SHEATH, made
as No. 17 Outfit,
fitted with Sin.
Bagging Shear,
13/9 complete.
Postage, 1/-
extra. Pitted
with Gin. Lamb
Shear, 14/9 com-
plete. Postage,
1/- extra.
W. JNO. BAKER
PTY.,
LTD.,
3 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS
When David T. M. Davies died in
Melbourne the other day, one of the
biggest firms of cotton manufacturers in
Australia lost its founder. David Davies
was born at Lilydale, Melba’s birthplace,
the son of a parson. He went with the
A.I.F. to the last war, returned, joined
the Commonwealth Taxation Depart-
ment? got a bit of capital together and
in 1925 started a small factory. Today
his company (Davies, Coop) has an
annual payroll of £395,000 and, with its
offshoots, operates on a capital of around
a million. In 1939 it imported £ 100,000-
worth of machinery from Lancashire, and
a huge expansion produced a spawn of
subsidiary companies which have spread
to every State. David Davies’s chief
activity outside his business interests was
the Melbourne City Council. A dispute
over his first election involved him in 13
Supreme Court and High Court actions.
He was only at his 48th milestone.
After the taking of Bardia it was here
mentioned that Major F. O. Chilton,
sometime Sydney secretary of Toe H,
had been named Acting-Governor of the
town. Promoted lieut.-colonel, Chilton
went with his battalion to Greece, and a
newspaper report that a battalion com-
mander who distinguished himself in
Libya was last seen in the neighborhood
of Shelley’s “liquid Peneus” firing his re-
volver at the enveloping enemy aroused
fears for his safety. Word came last
week that Lieut.-Colonel Chilton was
“safe and well.”
John Charles Goodchild, who suc-
ceeds L. H. Howie as principal of the
S.A. School of Arts, is a water-colorist
and etcher who “discovered” himself
while serving with the first A.I.F. Born
in London in 1898, son of a stained-glass
worker, Goodchild came to S.A. with
his parents when a child. After the war
he was commissioned by the Defence
Department to execute a series of draw-
ings of Australian war cemeteries for its
publication Where Australians Rest.
He is president of the S.A. Society of
Arts and a member of the National Gal-
lery Board.
Here depicted by Coventry are the
lineaments of Gilbert Meller, who steps
up from the hon. secretaryship of S.A.
Rotary to the presidency. He has been
associated with Rotary for 13 years. As
GILBERT MELLER.
hon % organiser of S.A.’s Crippled Chil-
dren’s Association he gets excellent re-
sults ; he is also hon. secretary of the Free
Business Advisory Committee, which helps
the fighting forces and their dependants,
and vice-president of the South Adelaide
Football Club. These are just spare-
time activities from his job as photo-
grapher.
The flying-doctor service inaugurated
by Flynn of the Inland has proved a
training ground for army medical ser-
vices. Dr. R. J. Goto, first to bring succor
to outback patients from the base at
Wyndham, is serving somewhere with
the British Army ; Dr. A. J. King, from
the same place, is in the Mediterranean
zone ; Dr. Alan Vickers, onetime of Port
Hedland, is directing a military hospital in
Perth; Dr. Keith Sweetman, who was
Wyndham’s flying doctor from, 1938 to
1940, is with the R.A.A.F. in Melbourne ;
and Clyde Fenton, the wizard of the
N.T. flying service, is also somewhere or
other with the R.A.A.F.
Con Lindsay, dead in Melbourne, at
76, had 50 years of work in the news-
paper, literary and business fields in Aus-
tralia and Maoriland. He was a pioneer
in Labor politics and he
lived to be the last
member of Sydney’s
Dawn and Dusk Club,
surviving his old friend
Fred Broomfield, the
founder, by two days.
Con was also a founda-
tion member of Mel-
bourne’s live Bread and
Cheese Club.
“Hamer”: Fred
Broomfield (B. 28 / 5/ ’4l)
was a party to the last
duel fought in Aus-
tralia. A Pole with
literary leanings was
given the freedom of
the Athenaeum Club,
then in its Bohemian
beginnings. Informed
that the visitor had
made slighting remarks
about Sydney women,
Fred, egged on by con-
spirators, sought him
out and demanded an
apology. The Pole re-
fusing, Fred flicked a
glove in his face, and
the scene was set for
the combat that honor
demanded. Pistols in
hand, Fred and the
Pole faced each other
in the misty moonlight
near the ponds in Cen-
tennial Park, neither
realising that the weapons were loaded
with blank cartridges. After the first
exchange of shots they refused to fire
at each other again and vowed eternal
friendship. Liquor having been pro-
vided, a hilarious party cabbed it back
to the city in time to have coffee and a
half-and-half (pies and stewed steak) be-
fore the pie-stalls closed for the morning.
The “Star” (forerunner of the “Sun”) had
a full account of the “Duel in Centennial
Park,” as was only right—“ Star”
journalists had organised the show.
Fort-street High School (Sydney) boys
of the A. J. Kilgour period (1905-1926)
honored their G.0.M., who turned 80
on May 29, by presenting a Norman
Carter portrait of him to the school. Dr.
Evatt, M.H.R., made the presentation in
the Memorial Hall on Saturday, and his
brother, the Minister of Education, ac-
cepted it for his department. Gordon
McKenzie, Director of Education, who
won his teaching spurs under Kilgour,
presided, and Army Minister Spender
and Justice Maxwell added tributes —
they, like the Evatts, were pupils of
Kilgour. Many others are on active
service.
“Old-timer” farewells a friend:
Harry Leslie, boss of Prill Park, near Euston
(N.S.W.), is dead at 84. He took up Prill in
the days when you could ride 100 miles in
western Riverina and not see a white man,
and was the main source of many yarns
told between Piangil and the Darling. The
last of the brumbies died on his place in 1920,
and on Moonlight outstation could still be
seen the wooden sweeps they used to tie to their
horses’ chests to sweep down the whipstick
when galloping after cattle. Leslie got his
start as a rabbiter. What he knew of read-
ing and writing wasn’t much, but he knew
stock and he knew country, and before Euston
got its railway Harry was a king in the dis-
trict. In time his domains spread, and there
were motor-cars housed near the homestead,
but he remained a horseman and a bushman to
the end. Prim people were shocked by his
language, but those who knew him took little
notjce of it. As a squatter and a king he had
social duties to perform, but he was at his best
camped at Little Gulthul with his men, hack-
ing slices off a cold leg of mutton with a
pocket-knife and keeping the mob in a simmer
of merriment with his quips and tales. His
horses raced on practically every Riverina and
north-west Victorian course and in Melbourne.
Leslie’s hands were always well-mounted, and
any who ill-treated a horse or dog got prompt
marching orders. He will become a tradition
in western Riverina.
Professor William John Dakin has the
air of a contented young seal splashing
joyously in a boundless and sparkling
ocean of knowledge. During the brief
PROFESSOR DAKIN.
(Modelled by Frith.)
time he sat for Frith, he pursued a prawn
out to Long Reef, chased a fog off Heli-
goland, came up to look at the ex-Kaiser
off Jutland, attended the University of
Kiel, sported with a whale or two, probed
the mysteries of the German accent,
chewed a bit of iridescent fluorescein
and explored the realms of art and poli-
tics. When The Bulletin lost sight of
him he was riding the traffic waves of
George-street as if they were limpid
combers off Aleutian shores. Professor
of Zoology in Sydney, as he was in his
native Liverpool, he is the most interest-
ing of all Commonwealth broadcasters.
Counihan here represents H. C. Green,
assistant secretary to the Department of
Supply and Development, who also, under
Colin Fraser, holds the balance between
civil needs and the Department of Muni-
tions in the matter of materials. Thick-
set, affable and active. Green has a brain
long inured to figures, inasmuch as he
entered the statistical service in 1911 when
H. C. GREEN.
George Knibbs was in charge. He had
four years with the first A.I.F. overseas.
Then he spent two years at Australia
House reviewing war expenditure. Re-
turned to Australia, he became Assistant
Commonwealth Statistician and took the
1933 census ; in 1940 he was given the
dual role he fills at present. Has no time
left now for his ex-delights, golfing and
fishing, but likes chopping and clearing on
his bush property at Woorialloc Creek,
the other side of Monbulk. Forty-eight,
the son of a parson, he was born at
Shepparton and schooled at Ballarat.
Harry Freame returned from Tokyo,
where he was one of Latham’s men, to
die in Sydney. He was a scout in the
First A.l.F.’s First Battalion, and proved,
on Gallipoli, to have the skill, daring and
initiative of a fictional hero. Recording
the fighting round The Nek, Baby 700
and German Officer’s Trench, Charlie
Bean mentioned Freame’s work time after
time, from scouting alone in deadly
gullies to holding off the Turk with a
revolver while others got clear. He prob-
ably got his revolver skill in Mexico,
where he had seen some fighting. Freame
came back with sergeant’s rank, a D.C.M.
and many wounds. He was born at
Osaka (Japan); his father had gone there
from Australia to teach English and
married a daughter of the house of Kata-
gawa.
It looks as if there will be no great Eng-
lish fortunes after the war. In three
years the value of Lord Austin’s estate
is reckoned to have slumped from
£3,000,000 to £1,000,000, and the Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer will collect 52
p.c. of that.
From “Friend for Thirty Years”:
The Austins had three children, not two
(B. 28/5/’41); their only son, Vernon, a lieu-
tenant in the British Army, was killed at La
Bassee, France, in 1915. The elder daughter,
Irene, the Hon. Mrs. Arthur Waite, was born
in Australia; her husband, a South Australian
Digger captain, is now a director of the Austin
company. The other daughter, Elaine, is the
Hon. Mrs. Charles Powell Lambert; her son
Gerald becomes the second Lord Austin of
Longbridge.
The 1940 Whitaker's Peerage, the latest
to hand, says “No heir.” Kelly’s 1940
Handbook to the Titled, Landed and
Official Classes, which holds the Royal
Warrant, says “Heir, none.” The Lambert
boy was born in 1934, two years before
his grandfather Austin became a peer.
Unless the patent was recently amended
—as, of course, it may have been —he
could not succeed to the title.


BOOK
NINE OUTSTANDING
BIG BOOKS!
10/6 value for 7/6
0 Each Volume over 700 pages, actual size
B£in. x sJin. and 2iin. thick. Each book
by the best authors, absorbing and
entertaining.
THE GREAT BOOK OF
THRILLERS. Stories of Mystery,
Crime and Romance.
FOUR DRAMATIC WAR
NOVELS. The titles of these
books tell their own story.
“Under Fire,” by Henri Bar-
busse; “Bretherton,” by W. F.
Morris; “Patrol,” by Philip
Macdonald; “Roux the Bandit,”
by Andre Chamson.
FIFTY MUTINIES, REBEL-
LIONS, AND REVOLUTIONS. A
sensational volume of famous
deeds.
FIFTY AMAZING HAIR-
BREADTH ESCAPES. Vivid
pages of exciting events.
FIFTY GREAT DISAS-
TERS AND TRAGEDIES
THAT SHOCKED THE
WORLD. A veritable Cav-
alcade of Famous Events.
FIFTY AMAZING STORIES
OF THE WAR, 1914-1918.
FIFTY ENTHRALLING
STORIES OF THE MYS-
TERIOUS EAST.
FIFTY GREAT SEA
STORIES BY WELL-
KNOWN AUTHORS.
FIFTY AMAZING SECRET
SERVICE DRAMAS, of
High Adventure and In-
triguing Plots.
If desired, these nine volumes can be bought
as a set for only 5/- deposit and the balance
10/- per month. Terms price; £3/12/6, Cash
Price: £3/7/6. (Freight extra).
is . >....
izmm
Actual Size | »
of each Volume I®# tMMi
8’ x 54 x 24
pg ' W
|SfejnrmsA5T£Ks
Wf?
m
J' ' <
:wfev : V' l> '
fffTT ,«W8«S
,. «»» &* 1 •• s&&r mmi
m
. MANS/ OTHtn -BOOK VALUES 0PPWN6- AT,
ANGUS a ROBERTSON LTD.
89 CASTLEREAGH ST. SYDIMEY
The Most Beautiful
Book you have ever
seen at such a Bargain
Price
£3/3/- Value for 31/6
“WORLD-FAMOUS
PAINTINGS”
ƒ
Contains 100 full - page
pictures in colour, the
great masterpieces of all
ages, with text edited by
Rockwell Kent. This mag-
nificent volume is nearly
12 inches tall, 894 inches
wide and 2 inches thick.
These are no ordinary
“Coloured Prints”— each
one is an “artist’s proof”
in quality, printed and
“tipped on” separately,
one by one, at the edge of
each page. Any picture
can be removed without
injuring the book. No ex-
pense has been spared in
making these superb full-
colour reproductions. Each
priceless picture was
s p e c ia lly photographed
right in the museum. The
engraving and printing
were done by modern
colour process, which
renders even the most
delicate tones and shades
of colour with wonderful
accuracy.
A:
WSifJiZJ*
-SJP U^ii
iP
ACTUAL SIZE
12” tall, 8|” wide
and 2” thick.
. Miracle Of Modern
Publishing Brings You An
AMAZING BARGAIN!
The Newest Of All Encyclopaedias
Funk and Wagnall’s New Standard Encyclopaedia
COMPLETE IN 25 VOLUMES. £5 VALUE FOR 63/-.
The NEW STANDARD ENCYCLOPAEDIA is a digest of world-wide
essential knowledge for everyday use and gives special emphasis to
subjects in the News today. The work of experts. Authentic —
Reliable — Up-to-date.
Over 6000 subjects, 12,800 Pages. More than 2000 illustrations.
Over Seven Million Words. Handsome and durable binding.
Volumes standing close together occupy 25 to 27 inches of shelf room.
Each volume 6 x 4| inches and about one inch in thickness.
iSVMUE
f.
63
mi
mm
&
am. asssT <***
- ■:
I 03
2$w£v
K :■:-■•
■ '"'
S«i 4tt& *B* «&
S&SSfgSS SSSKWgSSSi 86^^88
HW
» *s|f
31
»sp wm
>m «*&*
liSKF®** « ■ * < •*i.*'.-: : Sj/....»• <■ *.?” * ■• ** w J N * >v *
a***
s*s*
:«4*«
i >;'<*»
Xtfi'Sto’, :• i;-. »SwS
ACTUAL SIZE of each Volume
6” x 4|” x 1”
MAIL THIS
ORDER FORM
NOV/!
i
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
£ If you are not satisfied with these books when you receive them, return them within
10 days and your money will be refunded.
Please send me the following books from your SENSATIONAL BOOK OFFERS:
TITLES
NAME
ADDRESS
B.4.0.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Dropping down the
Murray in his pram-boat, Jimmy Beggs
tied up below Tapalin one night, boiled
the billy on the bank and retired to his
bunk in the boat. Some time later the
pitching of the craft awoke him, and he
found himself in the midst of a cross
between a tornado and a waterspout.
In the pitch-blackness the wind howled
through the gums, the river was lashed
to fury and Jimmy could hear ominous
crashes as big limbs came down. Un-
decided whether to seek refuge ashore
or cast off and drift in midstream, he
spent a fearful hour. Then the storm
passed, the moon shone through the
cloud-wrack and Jimmy saw, sitting on
the stern thwart, a large goanna and a
half-grown rabbit. “Well, I’ll be
jiggered!” he informed them. The
goanna gave Jimmy a queer look and
slid over the side, the rabbit shot past
him and took a header for the bank from
the stem of the boat. “It just shows
y’, James,” said the whaler, “how lucky
y’ are. Dammit, man, if this’d bin
Africa y’ might ’a’ found a coupla
elephants an’ a blasted baboon aboard.
Now p’raps y’ll take notice o’ me.” And
thus having settled himself with himself,
he got back into his blankets,
* * * *
“W. O. Donga”: First time Unk White
ever sees Albury railway station (B.
28/5/’4l) he’ll understand why all this
part of Riverina is anxious to meet him.
It isn’t a way station, as his drawing
and caption suggest, but a terminus —
and a break-of-gauge terminus at that.
His train could stand at its platform and
let another in behind it. And since
when have Australian railways taken to
hitching freight-trucks on to the rear of
passenger trains and Australian pad-
floggers taken to riding brake-rods?
They’d be inside that truck or wait for
another train.
* * * *
“Sailor Bill”: When I saw a 2ft.
copperhead snake on the bush track a
few yards ahead, I looked round for a
good stick. None being in view, I
grabbed a roundish stone weighing about
31b. and let Joe have it square across the
back- Instead of breaking its spine only,
the stone’s sharp edge cut the reptile
clean in two about Sin. behind the head.
The tail portion wriggled aimlessly in the
dust, while the head end came straight
towards me, leaving a trail of blood. I
jumped off the road and behind a tree,
and flattened the head with a stone when
it came opposite. Since then an old bush-
man has told me that it is not uncom-
mon for the severed head to go for a
man at uncanny speed. The shorter the
severed portion the more dangerous it is.
* * * *
“Wang”: “I’m ridin’ inter the town-
ship one afternoon a coupla days before
Chrismus,” related Dan, “when ole
Dawkins, a neighboring cocky, comes
runnin down from his house a quarter
of a mile in from the road, an’ asks me
to bring him back a bottle of whisky.
He gives me a quid, an’, as it’ll be dark
before 1 get back, he says to leave the
bottle an’ change in the mailbox on his
gatepost. Next afternoon I’m passin’
that way agen when I see ole Dawkins
come yellin’ down from the house. He
looks as mad as a snake. ‘Whatcher do
with me whisky?’ he yells. I tell him I
put it in the box. ‘Y’re a blanky liar! ’ he
bellers, ‘I came down ’bout ten larst
night, an’ there ain’t nothin’ there barrin’
a coupla letters. Y’ boozed up me quid
at the pub, that’s what y’ done. Hand
over me money or I’ll wring y’r thievin’
neck! ’ He grabs me by the leg an’ jerks
me orf me horse. I’m seein’ red be this
time, an’ in a second we’re into it
prop’ly. I’ve got him be the throat, tryin’
t’ choke some sense inter him, when I
get a belt on the side of the head that
sends me spinnin’. When I get me wits
back I see Paddy O’Neill, the mailman,
standrn’ over me. He’s a big bloke, near
fifteen stone. After roarin’ me up for
tacklin’ a man older than meself, he
climbs back inter his jinker, and starts
orf. He’s about fifty yards away when
he yells back over his shoulder ‘Oh, Mr.
Dawkins! I fergot t’ thank y’ for the
bottle of whisky an’ the tip y’ left in
the mailbox larst night. Merry Chris-
mus ! ’ ”
“ Anyway, I didn't hit you and run.”
“No, but you'll wish you had!”
“Hanko”: “Sailor Bill’s” attempt to
debunk the reputation of the boobook
owl as a camoufiagist (B. 21/5/’4l) has
misfired. The boobook never postures
for camouflage. All the dumpy little
chook craves in daylight is dense and
darkening foliage, wherein it may hide
away in safety and seclusion. Harried
from such sanctuary, the boobook flies
with haste and assurance to other cover.
Whereas Podargus the Frogmouth makes
it a habit to go blundering about in day-
light, only untoward accident finds the
boobook abroad between dawn and dusk.
Anyhow, the boobook owl has the ap-
pearance of an old-fashioned treacle-
pudding, and except when flying it stays
like that old-time confection.
* * * *
“Lingha”: I’ve heard a lot of blokes
say a lot of things about other blokes,
but the best thing I ever heard said was
on the track, when Long Molo said of
an absent mate, “Well, none of his
mates’ll ever go short of a feed while
Bluey’s got two bob.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “Jer ever work f’r a
mad boss?” Mat asked. “Well, I did, out
on the Pinaroo line in South Oss. He
seemed all right at first, an’ it wasn’t
till the Sunday he broke loose. We’re
fixin’ up a six-furrow plough when a
well-dressed cove comes up an’ 'tarts
talkin’ religion. The boss gives him a
funny sorta look an’ says t’ me, ‘Slip
up t’ the house an’ ask the missus f’r a
pound o’ butter.’ Wonderin’ a bit, I
obeys him, but has a bit of a job con-
vincin’ his missus. Anyhow, when I get
back with the butter he opens it up and
smears it all over the plough axles an’ on
the shares. Strike me, y’ ought t’ seen
the look on the religious bloke. Then
the boss hands me the tin o’ axle-grease
an’ says, solemn, ‘Guard that well, Mat,
for it’s all we have t’ eat.’ This makes
me sit up, but before I can say anything
the boss takes his trousers off, scratches
a hole in the furrow an’ buries ’em. Then
he climbs on the plough an’ starts talkin’
as though the team is pullin’ it an’ workin’
the levers, gettin’ off now an’ then t’
wrestle with the plough as though it’s
stuck in a big stump. The religious bloke
gives me a look an’ starts backin’ off.
I’m keepin’ me eyes on the boss. He
leaves the plough an’ starts crawlin’
round on all fours, bleatin’ like a lamb.
The religious bloke takes t’ his scrapers
an’ I’m just gettin’ off the mark, too,
when the boss says, ‘O.K., Mat, that’s
got rid of him. Now we can work in
peace.’ An’ he resurrects his pants, re-
covers his sanity and back we go to
work.”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”; For heaven’s sake give
“Nigel D.” (B. 28/5/’4l) a clean sanitary-
pan, well-tarred, and let him go off into
the bat country and hold the thing up.
On his theory it should fill in 10 minutes,
but he must be careful of the dingbats.
They’ve a penchant for rushing into dark
places, though not because they think
they’re hollow trees.
* * * *
“Oscar”: “Talk about easy pickin’s!”
said Big Sam. “I’m sloggin’ it to Kerrim-
bin, when I run into a couple of
city coves who’d ’oled an old wombat.
For a while I stood lookin’ on, an’ then
I burst out laughin’ at the antics of their
dorgs. One o’ the blokes thinks I’m
slingin’ off, an’ says he’s got ’alf a nicker
to say I can’t fetch ’im out with my flea-
catcher. ‘Get your dough ready,’ I roars
back. ‘ ’E’s as good as out.’ Pickin’
up me mong, I backs ’im into the ’ole ;
next minute ’e lets out a yelp an’ dives
for the scrub, with Womby ’angin’ on
to ’is tail. The cow wasn’t goin’ to
cough up either until I peeled me coat
orf an’ ’e gits a mince-pieful o’ me bare
arms.”
* * * *
“Murlonga”: Recently I saw an abo.
going up the Hamilton River, above
Boulia (W.Q.). When we got to 800100-
800100 waterhole he sneaked on his
hands and knees, peered over the bank
and crept back to the cattle with every
evidence of reverent awe showing on
him. That was how his tribal forebears
used to act: none of them would touch
that water; not one would camp within
five miles of 800100-800100. The reason?
An old man of the tribe told me long ago
a party was camped at 800100-800100.
A purinthy which had wandered in from
the Toko Ranges came into the camp. It
chased a young gin. She ran out on a
coolabah limb and dived into the water
to dodge the giant goanna. It followed.
None of their descendants, natives tell
you, ever lived to adult age. But they
in their multitudes, and the ghosts of
their progenitors with "them, still haunt
800100-800100 and demand obeisance
from all passing abos.
“c -r e’> T"U* * *
S.I.S. : Ihe local record (believed
to be the world’s also) for a white-pointer
shark has gone up again in S.A. Two
years ago Cowell caught a 13341 b, one
at Port Lincoln. Riggs put it up to
17471 b. in the same waters last March,
Cowell has now recovered the blue
ribbon with a 1919-pounder—length
girth 7ift.—taken off Kangaroo
Island. Both men are pastoralists who
like to get among the denizens of the
ocean for their holiday sport,
* * * *
“Blue”: Add this to the list of strange
accidents sustained by animals. A dog
owned by a Yarraman (Q.) farmer was
leaping all over him when a forepaw
accidentally slipped into a trouser pocket,
Before the limb could be released the
dog jumped sideways and broke the paw.
* * *
“AreV”: Bill Jupp came stamping into
kitchen. “Look here, Mum,” he said,
“I’ ve got to repair the harrow this after-
noon. “If that Muldoon comes over
here Again magging I’ll never get it done,
Tell him I’ve had to go into town to
B et some seed spuds.” Mrs. Muldoon
nodded. “All right, Dad. I’ll do what
I can. Perhaps he won’t come.” But
Bill had just got back to the shed when
one of the youngsters called out to say
Mr. Muldoon was coming. Mrs. Jupp
did not answer; she quietly went into
the front room and hid behind the door,
ignoring further calls of “Mum! ” Pres-
ently the clamor died down, and Mrs.
Jupp judged that the coast was clear. She
congratulated herself on having let young
Jimmy deal with the visitor. That even-
ing at tea Bill asked what had happened.
“I told Mr. Muldoon there wasn’t no-
body home,” said young Jimmy. “Told
him I couldn’t find Mum, and that you’d
gone into town to get y’r seed pertaters.
That was right, wasn’t it, Dad?” Bill
nodded. “And what did Mr. Muldoon
say?” “Oh, he said it didn’t matter,
Reckoned he had some seed pertaters for
y’, but as y’ wouldn’t be wantin’ ’em
now he’d take ’em across t’ Mr.
Smithers.”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: All bees drink (B.
28/5/’41)! Hung a billy of black tea,
sweetened, on a sapling and then got
to work cutting burrs. Two hours later
I worked back to the spot and went for
a drink. I couldn’t see the billy for
bees, and when I had scared them off
‘f
q 1 1 W 1 th
g *
“Bogaduck”: Jock, one of the town’s
two odd-job men, got the job of build-
in 8 a new kitchen chimney at the Corrie-
da*e station homestead; after finishing
the work he cautioned the owner against
Behting the stove for at least three days,
when the mortar should have dried out.
When the stove was li4 > however, choking
cl .ouds of smoke billowed into the
k h cben - be s Q uatter looked up the
ohimney to see if it was blocked, but
found that he c °uld see a large patch of
sk T At the top of the flue. Jock being
awa Y or a week At a neighboring town,
? ent 01 to things right.
I thought this d happen, said the rival
° dc H ob ™ n - Not enough draught.”
Ri g Bmg Ins scaffold he added another
few feet to the height of the emmney, and
thereafter the stove drew beautuully. It
wasnt till he made sure the coast was
clear that Denny brought down from
the roof and stowed away in his utility
the square sheet of clear glass that he
had sneaked up and parked in position
over the chimney the night after Jock
had done the job.
SALT.
I crossed the Bogong plains that night on the
box of a Cobb and Co. —
A stripling lad on his first trip down from
Bright to Omeo.
On Feathertop’s back a moon rode high and
the frost hissed below like sand.
While the driver, Len, hummed a snatch of
song as he piloted six-in-hand.
And life seemed good as I saw each tree, a
giant with arms outflung,
Reaching aloft to snuff the lamps, so low in the
heavens hung.
Then above the chatter of wheel and trace I
heard a sullen sound;
The mutter of hooves —a thousand strong —on
the flinty, frozen ground.
Len heard it, too; his whip snaked out as a
leader plunged in fright.
“Scrub steers!” he swore. “They’re after salt,
and the team’s on edge tonight.
They lost us a coach from Dawson bridge—you
can see it ahead on the bend—
And they lost us Jimmy, the driver, too, though
he stuck by his box to the end.
He’d driven this run for nigh ten years and
never was late with a mail,
Till the night some scrubbers crowded his
team and sent him over the rail.
Old Jim was a card with a sense of fun and
often he’d put on a show,
And call up the cattle for miles around with
his cry of ‘Salt! Salt-o!’
“In the flick of an eye they’d come on the
run; and Jimmy would beckon them in,
For a scrubber loves his lick of salt as a soaker
loves his gin.
Then Jimmy would laugh and shake a rein, and
the team would quicken pace,
Outstripping the sullen, sweating mob in its
hungry, hopeless race.
But came a time when his bluff was called —
you could almost call it fate—
When a wheeler lamed with the pack behind,
and Jim made his run too late.
The mob closed in as he reached the bridge
like a vicious, swirling tide;
But only the mob got through that night in
the race for the other side.
“And down from us now in the gorge beneath
where the water’s white in the rip
They found old Jim one afternoon still holding
his rawhide whip.
You’ve heard of the curse of Dawson’s Cut —
and I’ll grant you it’s mostly rot —
But find me a beast in a hundred teams that’s
willing to pass the spot.
Damnation! Bess, come over there! Up,
Prince, you worthless hack!
Another inch, you yellow curs, and you’ll have
us off the track!”
Then I heard a voice—a thin, far voice—
“ Salt! Salt!” it called; “Salt-o!”
But only I and the horses heard Jim’s cry from
the depths below.
N.S.W.
A. S. ALLISON.


"I'll be glad when they repair these buffers.”
“Uramao”: My corpulent Maori
friend Henare was not enamored of hard
work, and it occasioned me no surprise
when I chanced upon a gang of dole
workers to see him leaning on his shovel
surveying the landscape. A query con-
cerning the work and its appeal to him
rather than to that on adjacent farms
elicited a reply from which life assurance
actuaries might profit. “Like t’is work?
My oat’,” was Henare’s unblushing com-
ment. “I work for te private boss, I live
t’irty year. I work for te council, I live
forty year. I work for te Guv’ment, I
live fifty year. If I work on te relief I
live seventy year. By korry, te dole for
me eferytime! ” And the wisdom of the
sage illuminated Henare’s expansive
countenance.
* * * *
“Red Devon”: I was tempted to let
the Council sit in judgment on the facts
when I saw him polishing off the remains
of a “drunk’s friend,” but gave him the
benefit of the doubt on the ground that
he was after the salt in the Cray’s shell.
Yesterday he again fell from grace when
I saw him chewing with gusto at the
remains of a leg of mutton, and I can
only presume that he intends to wrest
the crown from Oswald Pryor’s king of
the rubbish-tip. I refer to the station’s
pet kangaroo.
* * * *
“Coper”: Don’t let anyone kid you
a prad shies from shortsightedness (B.
28 /5 / ’41); it’s either genuine fright or
cussedness. The last mile of our trip
to town is over an open plain across
which the roly-poly tumbles whenever
there’s a wind —and that’s always. Riding
into town my mare shies at every bush
that tumbles past. Coming home, often
by moonlight or dark, she takes no notice,
though the roly-poly frequently collides
with her legs. Her only genuine shy
was the day the mailplane, flying
low, roared over us. She almost spread-
eagled herself.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: “N. Sylvester” (B.
21/5/’4l) can’t be much of a sea-
observer if he has never watched alba-
trosses settle down as the contents of the
dog-box drift astern, swim vigorously after
choice bits, then take off on wide wings
after a scuttering run of webbed feet
over the swells and a few flaps to gain
elevation. Even steamer passengers know
all about that. Had “N.” dropped one
of the mate’s captives overside the “proud
bird” would have soon demonstrated that
it wasn’t scared of salt Water. It wouldn’t
need to be, for that is where albatrosses
sleep. If that unobservant mate really
specialised in “the Australian albatross”
his 10ft. by 4ft. specimen couldn’t have
been one —the only member of the seven
species which keeps to Australian seas
is the whitecap, and it doesn’t much
exceed 30in. from beak to tail, with an
Bft. spread. The great wandering alba-
tross, tireless pilgrim over all the southern
oceans up to BOdeg. s. lat. attains 14ft.
or more. Amongst other curios from
captured albatrosses, pipestems from the
long wingbones and imitation tiger claws
from the beak-tips were half-deck favor-
ites in my windjamming days.
* * * *
“Ex-Vic.”: I’d sooner buy “Poetaster”
(B. 28/5/’4l) drinks than argue with him,
for he’s the only human with the true
appreciation of literature I’ve ever struck.
He calls me a poet! All the same, he
refuses to grant me the—ahem —poetic
license extended to lesser fellows like
Masefield, Lawson, Douglas Stewart,
“S.W.K.” and “T. the R.” when I sing
of the “pump-rod sucking an empty
tank,” insisting that the pump-cylinder
would do the sucking. All right, but how
could the cylinder suck unless it was
sucked at by the pump-rod? Besides,
the cylinder sucks at the valve, which
sucks at the water or where the water
was. Which just goes to show that even
a poet —how I love you for that, mine
critic! —isn’t such a sucker.
* * * *
“Naturala”: One thing about those
procession caterpillars that gets me
puzzled is where they are heading for
with such persistence and determination.
One old bushman held that they always
moved towards the east. And scouring
over the nearest square mile I found that
all visible squadrons were moving in that
direction. “But,” I argued, “if cater-
pillars constantly moved eastwards they
would all have been concentrated in New
South Wales centuries ago.” “Yes,” he
admitted, “but caterpillars develop into
butterflies and moths, and these in turn
fly west. There they ultimately lay their
eggs and there the next season’s grubs
hatch out.” Ingenious, if correct, and that
I believe it to be. Thus Nature causes
certain types of plant-eating insect to
oscillate across given areas of country,
ensuring that the stripped plants shall
have some chance to recuperate, while
also ensuring that the infant grubs, born
in the west, shall have before them in
their eastward travel the reasonable cer-
tainty of finding food.
* * *
“Rowley G.”: Tell “Gravelsnatcher”
(B. 7/5/’4l) that an excellent Stockholm
tar was extracted in W.A. 20 years ago
from that ancient botanical freak the
Xanthorrhcea, or blackboy tree. And with
it came at least a dozen other complex
substances —varnishes, wood stains, oils
and, from the inside core, acetic acid.
More, from the crown of the blackboy,
long recognised as being edible, a very
good sago was extracted, said crown being
pulped and then soaked, the resultant
fluid allowed to settle into a jelly, which
was next passed through a fine screen
and then dried. But with the passing of
Dobbin and the sailing ship, the demand
for Stockholm tar became negligible. The
craze for brick and asbestos-board houses
likewise knocked the varnish and wood-
stain end. So what had promised to be-
come a valuable Australian industry
lapsed back to dry-rot, and the factory
was given over to the white-ants. Since
then thousands of tons of blackboy have
been used as firewood, nowadays all that
Australia seems able to do with it.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: The real hero of that lock-
up-log-carrying episode (B. 7/5/’4l) was
Russian Jack, or, more correctly, Ivan
Fredericks, and he carried the log all on
his own. Fredericks was a Balt, and
first earned fame by his feat of strength
and endurance out from Derby on the
rush to Hall’s Creek in the ’eighties.
Trundling his barrow with a load of
well over a quarter of a ton, “Jack” came
on a fellow-wayfarer in a state of col-
lapse. At a loss as to what to do, Jack
solved the problem by hoisting him on
the top of the load and wheeling the
lot the further 90 miles to the creek.
It was years later at Mt. Magnet that
he did the log feat. Big and merry and
quite law-abiding, Russian Jack fell foul
of a newly-arrived and officious Johnop,
who promptly shot him in. Quite agree-
ably the culprit submitted to being
chained to the log, and there for a while
slept the sleep of the child and the drunk.
Awaking hours later, and knowing that
“The one ’oo gets the longest straw can 'ave me!”
the pub would be still open (they seldom
closed in those hectic W.A. days), Jack,
inspired by a raging thirst, hoisted the
log and strolled across to have a drink.
And there, with the log leaning against
the bar, he was when the John came to
rearrest him. But anyone nursing ideas
of a Gippsland or a Blue Mountain log
will be wrong ; W.A. goldfields timber,
although weighty, did not grow to any
great size.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: “Billy the Battler,” do-
ing new territory, confidently put the nips
into the well-dressed stranger whom he
pulled up on the outskirts of the town.
But the stranger revealed in cultured
tones and at length that he had just lost
a good billet and would take on anything.
“Blime!” said Billy, “with that gift of
the gab you ought to make the best back-
door lugger on the road.” “But my
clothes are too good,” said the stranger.
“Well, what do y’ say to peeling off
our rags and swapping?” asked Billy. The
stranger agreed. Billy was careful first
ta remove the silver he always carried
in his kick. At the next farmhouse Billy
sent in the stranger, after giving him
Matilda and showing him how to hump
it; then he hid in a clump of ti-tree.
After waiting for almost an hour and
no sign of the stranger, Billy, alarmed,
called at the door, but the missus in-
formed him that after she had given
the man a handout he had left. Puzzled
and savage, Billy made for the next town.
Walking up the main street he was
sighted by Constable Houlihan and
promptly tossed into the cooler. The
sergeant before whom he was haled
refused to believe the yarn about the
exchange of clothes. Next morning the
sergeant made Billy hand over his re-
splendent outfit, substituting an old
gardening suit of Houlihan’s and an
awful pair of boots in place of the very
high-grade pair the stranger had swapped.
“And make yourself scarce about the
town, or we’ll bring a case against you
for aiding and abetting a criminal to
evade justice. No doubt that bloke
squared you with a couple of quid,”
said the sergeant. Billy never heard again
of his swag or the well-spoken stranger.
* * * *
“Waratah”: “Award's” cocky friend
who needed to tie up his tabby cats to
get an unbroken night’s rest (B. 2/4/’4l)
must have been a particularly jumpy
specimen of his kind. No farmer I have
known would miss a wink if all the cats
in Hades were let loose outside the
window. Even the howling of dogs or
dingoes has no effect. Once asleep,
your agriculturist is noise-proof. I
have spent many a disturbed night
hoping against hope that my host would
get up and quieten his mong. Discreet
remarks at breakfast time about the
noise would be greeted with tolerant
amusement of a city bloke’s “notions.”
But perhaps the best sleeper of the lot
was a hefty youth who had five blankets
to cover him in midsummer. To my
solicitous “Don’t you get too hot?” his
reply was a scornful “I go to bed to
sleep.” Asked about the interval between
touching the pillow and slumber’s advent
he replied “There ain’t none.” If those
blankets on a hot night couldn’t wake
him, nothing could.
“Billy See”; A cat, even a half-Persian,
that had an insatiable appetite for
chickens (B. 7/5/’4l) would be a novelty
—or perhaps his owner was. I’ve reared
thousands of chickens and kept at least
a dozen cats, but I’ve never had a feline
which, after the first misdemeanor,
would even look at a chicken.
I’ve kept them hungry, some-
times necessary when the rats
were getting the upper hand, and
the same cats have walked
among dozens of baby chicks
without taking one. Cats are
easily taught that it is a mortal
offence to steal the master’s
chickens. A scolding word, a
bit of a slap over the ears, and
the lesson is given. Dogs the
same, even confirmed fowl-
killers. I’ve known dogs, kept
on a poultry farm to ward off
foxes, go a mile at night to an-
other farm and there take toll of
the chooks. I have known suca
accused dogs to be tested by be-
ing shut up for days in a pen
with the owner’s fowls and not
touch one, yet on being released
would start on the long-distance
killing again. And here’s another
thing. When a fowl-killing dog
has made its catch it will carry its victim
to some place of concealment, there kill it
and leave it and double back on its tracks
to see if by any chance its wickedness has
been noticed. A guilty conscience! Yet the
theologians used to teach, and some still
teach, that man alone has reason and
a conscience—that the lower animals act
only by instinct.
JOURNEY’S END.
If you travel by sweat and sole leather
Or lord it on petrol and tyre,
When you come to the end of your tether
And stop by the way to inquire
The local will squat on his haunches
To chart with a piece of match stub,
And the wandering voyage he launches
Will lead to one haven —the pub.
All landmarks he’ll faithfully mention
And chart with meticulous care:
A crop here will draw your attention;
A dam to the right—“about there.”
“These ruts through the clearing you follow,
Then cut down that track in the scrub;
The township is just past this hollow
An’ ’ere” (a huge cross) “is the pub!”
No church site is ever afforded
A place in the guide’s work of art;
The store may be briefly recorded
Though schools won’t be seen on his chart.
The Town Hall he deems unappealing
And lockups he’ll frigidly snub;
But always, with infinite feeling,
Triumphant, a cross marks the pub.
Perhaps it’s the fruit of repression—
Some trick of the depths of the mind;
A subtle, unconscious confession
Of yearnings not clearly defined.
More likely, along the track pounding.
Or driving a battered old tub,
He learnt that of music sweet-sounding
The sweetest is this, “ ’Ere’s the pub! ”
N.S.W.
B. A. KER.


YOUNGHUSBAND LIMITED
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS
Laches and Gentlemen, 27th May, 1941.
• _ Xu 1 " w the ° CCasi ° n of our Annual Meeting we find ourselves immersed
n All-in-War—a war the duration of which no man can with any accuracy foretell,
and which must be prosecuted with the utmost possible effort before victory can be
achieved. All recognise that sacrifices must be endured, and it can be truly said
that no sacrifice is too great for freedom.
Your Company has not been free from the repercussions of war, and, whilst
our outgoings have been affected, we must all appreciate the fact that our main
commodity, Wool, has been purchased by the British Government for the duration
° , e war an oae year thereafter, thus enabling our industry to carry on with
a degree of stability not enjoyed by those in less favourable circumstances.
In our last report delivered about this time last year we stated that a good
general winter ram was awaited, but, unfortunately, this did not eventuate. Generally,
in Victoria and Kivenna, we have had a very lean season, as no rain of any value fell
dUr ii 0 j' o 6 Wll ? ter and spring- It was not until January that we got a really
B i° od «j ’ and e , Ve . n , thls Was P atch Y> but it g a ve a lot of summer feed and water on
the Murray and Murrumbidgee and North of Victoria, with the exception of the
North-western portion, including the Mallee, where they have had practically no
rain ror the last twelve months.
Even to-day the country that recovered and became good is drying up again for
the want of more rain, and a winter break is eagerly looked for. However, not-
withstanding this dry period, all stock have done very well, but graziers are experienc-
ing a difficult time at present owing to a very serious visitation of the blowfly. Here
is a problem of the greatest importance to sheep men awaiting solution by our
scientists. It is estimated that the loss caused by fly in Australia totals millions of
pounds annually.
BRANCHES.—Since our last report we have taken over the businesses of Messrs.
Gow and Gow, Ltd., Barellan, New South Wales, and that of Messrs. Macarthur and
Macleod at Alexandra and Yea, in Victoria. The Directors considered the Company’s
business would be advantageously extended by the acquisition of these businesses,
and results are justifying such action.
The general progress of the Company s business has been satisfactory, our sales
of wool for the year I 940-1 941 being 111,281 bal es, which is a record for the
Company since its inception. In spite of all adverse conditions, and notwithstanding
a very dry season last year, it is a cause for satisfaction to be able to record this
volume of business. In the matter of stock sales, which are an important factor in
our earnings, we are not able to report comparable figures, the severe drought very
materially affecting our turnover. Certain items of expenditure have increased, such
as increased wool storage accommodation owing to lack of shipping increased
wages owing to Arbitration Court awards—payments to staff who enlisted for
service abroad.
The carrying on of war will have its influence on our business in the future—
Government having already notified through the press that a shortage of shipping
must be expected—thereby influencing the turnover of stock for meat requirements
and its consequent influence on all stock sales.
Increased taxation must be anticipated for war purposes.
Such factors as these we cannot complain of, and must determine to carry on
and show the best results possible, having regard to the circumstances in which we
find ourselves.
Shareholders will appreciate the improved liquid financial position of their
Company as shown in the Balance Sheet—a reduction of £382,000 in the bank
overdraft, from £515,000 in March, 1940, to £133,000 in March, 1941.
THANKS T O STAFF. 1 would like to express our thanks to the Staff for the
manner in which all have carried out their duties during the past year. The period
has brought much more work than under normal conditions, and it is with pleasure
I acknowledge the willing response of all members.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia
Dividends. Writ- To
Mar., Profit. 81 p.c. ten Off. Reserves. Reserves.
1931.. 561,206 425,000 50,000 86,206 3,449,113
6 p.c.
1932.. 276,838 300,000 3,425,951
5 p.c.
1933.. 291,944 250,000 20,000 21,944 3,447,895
1934.. 274,024 250,000* 20,000 4,024 3,451.919
1935.. 275,591 250,000 20,000 5,591 3,457,510
5i p.c.
1936.. 294,403 262,500 30,000 1,903 3,459,413
5| p.c.
1937.. 325,627 287,500 40,000 3,457,540
6 p.c.
1938.. 347,401 300,000 50,000 3,454,941
1939.. 351,245 300.000 50,000 1,245 3,456,180
1940.. 356,096 300,000 50,000 6,096 3,462,282
1941.. 301,296 300,000 20,000 3,443,578
War now calls for not only mobilisa-
tion of our armed forces, but for mobi-
lisation of our entire productive and
other resources as well. In short, it
has become a total national effort. Be-
cause of this practically every phase of
life today is subject to Government con-
trol of one kind and another, the aim
being the development of maximum
national strength by directing men,
materials and money into their appro-
priate channels. Men have been taken
out of their normal productive employ-
ment and transferred to the fighting, ad-
ministrative and supply services; and
there is a constant demand for replace-
ment of personnel in the services. So the
rest of the population is called upon
not only to produce more food and
clothing per capita than it used to, but
also to meet the big and quickly grow-
ing demand for strictly war goods such
as arms, munitions, uniforms and equip-
ment. The demand for essential war
goods has become so urgent and vital
that non-essential production must be
curtailed in order to meet it. Failure
to do so can only retard development
of the power necessary in our own
armed forces to overthrow the enemy.
Money and credit also play an im-
portant part in the war effort, because
they provide the means of paying for
the goods and services required. Since
the use of money is limited to what it
will buy, the Government’s war-
finance policy becomes everybody’s con-
cern. Taxation, loans and central-bank
credit are the usual means of transfer-
ling purchasing power to the Govern-
ment. Thus far all three have been
used. Greatest danger lies in excessive
use of credit, with the resultant infla-
tion of prices and profits and decline in
real wages, which means that those with
fixed incomes from labor and invest-
ments bear more than their fair share
of the burden. The Government, alive
to these pitfalls, has adopted a policy
with less sting in its tail—heavy tax-
ation and loans. Loans mop up sav-
ings, while heavy taxes help to retard
the rise in prices and profits and to
diminish the volume of claims on the
future that can be established by pur-
chase of bonds. Severe taxation is thus
the most important contribution to
financial stability.
To make possible heavy taxation and
loan-raising at low rates of interest, the
central bank bought long-dated Govern-
ment securities on the open market,
thus strengthening the trading banks’
deposits, which were further assisted by
advances to the Wheat Board, etc., the
accelerated rate of Government spend-
ing, and by prompt cash payments in
Australia for wool and other exports
bought by Britain.
Chief effect of all this upon the bank-
ing structure has been to increase de-
posits and expand liquids, thus placing
the banks in a strong position to help
finance the war effort, as the following
comparison of the National’s balance-
sheet figures shows:
1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital .. £5,000,000 £5,000,000 £5,000,000
Notes .. .. 47,549 47,546 47,531
Bills, etc. . . 1,518,426 1,980,864 1,803,049
Deposits .. 44,057,573 47,597,046 49,750,915
Liquid assets. . 16,433,644 21,338,473 22,712 848
Advances .. 36,403,779 35,465,871 36,045 088
Premises, etc.. . 1,392,312 1,433,394 1,437,136
Deposits increased by £2,153,869,
liquids by £1,374,375, and advances by
£579,217. The net addition to the hold-
ing of British and Australian Govern-
ment securities (£9,004,992) was
£1,618,192. When the books closed
liquids amounted to 44 p.c. of liabilities
to the public, advances were equal to
72.4 p.c. of deposits, and the bank was
holding £6 2s. 3d. of the public’s money
for every pound of its own. It is a
strong position.
The year’s gross earnings (£1,480,511)
improved by £40,169. Ordinary trad-
ing exes. (£974,155) took £20,036 of the
increase, and the taxgatherer made off
with an extra £74,933, or £205,060 in all.
That left the net result £54,800 short of
the previous year’s at a shade over 6
p.c. on the £5,000,000 of share capital,
or 3.5 p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capi-
tal and reserves combined). The div.
was kept at 6 p.c., and £20,000 was
written off the book value of premises.
The market prices the f.-p. £lO shares
at £ll 10s. as against £l2 10s. a year
ago. The £8 shares paid to £5 fetch
£5 12s, compared with £6 a year
back. At the lower prices the return is
5.2 p.c, and 5.3 p.c. respectively on a
6 p.c. div. basis. They are very satis-
factory returns from sound bank stock.
Colonial Mutual Life
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Written Added to
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
From Accident Dept., £lO,OOO
Profit reval. securities, £495,357
1934.. 394.3201.204.671 468,116 3,703 °
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..
From Accident Dept., £12,000
1935.-2,728,0181,242,504 519,316 10,954 1 Qftl n r,o
Staff bonus, £5185 .. .. ’
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..,
Profit on sale securities, £62,335 1
From Accident Dept., £60,000 L i 191 oq9
1936.. 3.146.251 1,559,795 581,827 4162 f ’ ’
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO .. )
From Accident Dept., £20,000 1
1937.-3,565,539 1,559,405 573,936 48,371 \ 1,402,827
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..J
Unexplained addition res., £8624]
From Accident Dept., £20,000 [-. rfin Qlfi
1938.. 652.463 1,413,983 521,285 83,903 (
Superannuation fund, £lOOO J
From Accident Dept., £20,000 ..]
1939.. 769.186 1,530,963 523,061 79,658 1- 1,654,504
Superannuation fund, £lOOO J
From Accident Dept., £20,01)0.. ]
1940.. 3.864.411 1,502,362 504,588160,417 ( , n -,
Superannuation fund, £lOOO .. ( ’ ’
To Contingency Reserve, £140,000 J
Industrial Department.
Written
Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Funds.*
£ £ £ £ £
1933. .642,329 171,479 178,767 656 1 0 o 0„
Superannuation fund, £9OO ..]
Profit reval. securities, £116,779 ]
1934. .715,779 178,463 203,517 438 1 3,326,163
Superannuation fund, £9OO .. J
1935. 178,868 215,378 431]
Staff bonus, £l9lB .. .. 1 3,696,673
Superanuation fund, £9OO ..J
1936. .837,036 187,022 230,434 702). 11 , r . 1
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. (
1937. .916,293 254,552 246,612 1,261 ]. r 97 „
Superannuation fund, £9OO .. (
Added guarantee fund, £B5O ]
1938. .981,657 351,217 252,852 2,131 }■ 4,903,026
Superannuation fund, £9OO .. J
Added guarantee fund, £l9B ..]
1939 1,026,215 447,864 263,059' 3,762 } 5,213,854
Superannuation fund, £9OO ..J
Added guarantee fund, £ 880 .. ]
1940 1,062,516 479,343 276,797 19,710 !■ 5,500,500
Superannuation fund, £9OO .. J
* Includes contingency funds, etc.
During 1914-18 there was a progressive
rise in interest rates that enabled Aus-
tralian life offices to offset the bulk of
their increased war mortality, and it was
not till the middle of that period that
war claims forced a reduction in bonus
rates. Since the outbreak of the present
conflict, however, the trend of interest
rates has been sharply down under official
control, and taxation has further lowered
net earning power of both old and new
funds. To mitigate the effects of these
forces on future profits and at the same
time provide for the as-yet unknown con-
tingencies of modern Blitz warfare,
prudent managements, the mutual
Colonial among them, have set aside large
chunks of current income ; hence general
temporary reduction in bonus rates.
Comprising Ordinary, Industrial and
Accident and Sickness contracts, the
Colonial’s business spreads outside Aus-
tralia to the U.K., South Africa and
Maoriland. Despite the difficulties
created by war, that progress so conspicu-
ous over the past decade continues. New-
business writing £8,508,272 (down
£2,073,275) in the O.D. and £2,030,572
(£15,524 less) in the I.D. last year—has
been necessarily affected. But, taking in
the healthy Accident Branch, gross in-
come for all departments combined
sprang £132,801 to £5,060,523. Of that,
£3,918,925 (up £53,576) was gathered in
premiums and £1,141,598 (£79,225 more)
in interest, rents, etc.
To policy reserves, £1,875,728 was
added, bringing them to £26,656,364. In
addition to meeting all legitimate claims
and exes., including taxation (£89,217, up
£12,682), that was after writing £180,543
off sundry assets and sending £140,000
to contingency, £l9OO to staff and £9BO
to guarantee funds. Supporting assurance
funds, which are in themselves more than
sufficient for the purpose created, there
are now other visible reserves of £839,140,
Substantial growth in the surpluses
available for division among policy-
holders affords a measure of the extent
of recent headway:
1937. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Ordinary .. £5.39',648 £628,630 £702,885 £836,577
Industrial .. 122,270 146,783 114,329 121,758
Accident . . 41,873 35,848 42,634 46,083
Total . . £703,791 £811,261 £859,848 £1,004,418
Latest O.D. figure has been swollen by
the carrying-forward of heavy unappro-
priated surpluses from 1939, however,
pf the O.D. surplus £301,667 (up £11,140)
is to be distributed in unchanged 1939
rates of bonus, which are still quite hand-
some., and £97,039 in the ID. Of the
O.D. balance, £105,000 has been sent to
contingencies, £5500 to staff funds and
£200,263 earmarked for possible later dis-
tribution to U.K. policy-holders, who
have had nothing in the past two years,
should the death-strain due to war eventu-
ally permit. That leaves £224,147 to
carry forward unappropriated.
More economical handling of the busi-
ness is another pleasing feature. Deduct-
ing taxes and amounts written off, and
allowing 3 p.c. as consideration for
annuities, the O.D. expense rate has been
chopped back from 22.7 p.c, of net
premiums in ’35 to 16.1 p.c. in 1939 and
to 14.9 p.c. last year, when the smaller
amount of new business helped. On the
same basis the corresponding I.D. figures
are 33.4, 31.1 and 31.7 p.c. Mortality was
49 p.c. of actuarial expectation.
On the mean life funds alone, last
year’s net interest return was 4.20 p.c.,
a reduction from 4.22 p.c. But the
assumed rate when valuing policies is
3 p.c., so there is a comfortable margin
here.
The investment portfolio, now
£27,957,803, is spread over assets of good
quality:
Public securities 1939. p.c. 1940. p.c.
and debentures. £12,584,733 48.8 £13,526,798 48.4
Mortgages .. 7,460,790 28.9 8,550',522 30.6
Freeholds, etc. .. 2,925,662 11.4 2,957,013 10.0
Loans on policies 1,788,539 6.9 1,842,392 6.6
Premiums and in-
terest outstanding 293,070 1.1 292,272 1.1
Cash and deposits 527,931 2.1 611,662 2.1
Other assets .. 202,437 0.8 177,144 0.6
Most of last year’s surplus earnings
found their way into Government securi-
ties (up £942,065) and mortgages
(£1,089,732 higher), largely in financing
co-operative building societies under Gov-
ernment guarantee, another national ser-
vice.
Anthony Hordern and Sons (Sydney)
, Dividends To Nominal
Pref. Re- Re-
Feb., Profit.* p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £ £
1931.. 55,280 56,250 2 p.c. = 25,000 81,897
Loss.
1932.. 16,907 Nil Nil 64,990
Profit.
1933.. 16,817 Nil Nil 16,817 81,807
1934.. 51,864 51,139 Nil 725 82.532
1935.. 84,387 87,188 t Nil 79',731
1936.. 97,941 87,188 f 2 p.c. = 25,000 65,484
1937. .109,416 43,593 4*,, „ 56,250 9,573 75,057
1938. .113,026 43,593 5 „ ~ 62,500 6,933 81,990
1939. .107,695 43,593 5 „ ~62,500 1,602 83,592
1940. .110,950 43,594 5 „ ~02,500 4,856 88,443
1941. .111,732 43,594 5 „ ~ 62,500 5,638 94,086
* After deducting debenture interest. t Two years.
+ Subject to goodwill, etc., now £273,153.
Earnings of this big Sydney emporium
are subject to a far wider range of influ-
ences than those of other city specialty
retailers because of (a) the situation of
the store, which is on the edge of
the main shopping centre; ( h ) the
large proportion of country business com-
prising turnover; and (c) the universal
nature of the undertaking, which slows
down stock-turn because of the necessity
to carry quiet as well as quick-selling
lines. Still, none offers better service
than the more-than-century-old business,
and service is one of the chief forms
competition takes these days.
Aided by modernisation of the store,
which is continuing, and some attractive
purchases of liquidation stocks, turnover
has stepped along in good style of recent
years. The stubbornness of profits in
responding reflects the inroads of costs
of one kind and another, including taxa-
tion. Last term, with employment almost
at its full and better paid, there were in-
creases in city payrolls that taxation and
savings campaigns seem to have made
small impression on ; Imperial purchases
benefited the level of most rural incomes,
too, wheatmen notably excepted. More-
over, at the previous balance, the man-
agement had stocked up with goods that
became increasingly difficult to obtain as
the year wore on. Though declared net
lifted only £7BO, it was struck after allow-
ing £54,485 for depreciation and increas-
ing tax reserve by £36,523 to £112,720 —
a comprehensive sum.
On the £2,000,000 of capital, of which
£750,000 carries a cumulative 1\ p.c.,
reduced to 5.8 p.c. under the N.S.W.
Interest Reduction Act, the £111,732 of
profit was 5.5 p.c. After handing the
prefs. their minimum rate, there was 5.4
p.c. available for the ords., which again
received 5 p.c. The £5638 remaining lifted
reserves £179,067 short of the valuation
placed on goodwill, etc. (£273,153).
Merchandise problems threaten to be-
come an increasing source of worry
generally. Difficulty in replacing both
local and imported goods is already show-
ing up in Horderns’ figures, though stocks
are still a substantial lot:
1937. 1940. 1941
Ord. capital . . £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Pref. capital .. 750,000 750,000 750,000
Debentures .. 600,000 540,000’
Mortgage .. • • 450,000
Sundry creditors,
etc. .. .. 84,633 288,667 177,736
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 1,281,236 1,229,339 1,206,640
Plant, etc. .. 256,951 181,008 150,535
Stocks . . .. 757,221 959,693 853,295
Book debts .. 224.469 351,489 375,387
Cash, etc 63,289’ 51,616 28,579
The outstanding movement there is the
replacement of the £540,000 4£ p.c.
debenture with a mortgage of £450,000,


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G., Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists,
—Advt.
* ♦ • ♦
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
■ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman).
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman).
Robert J. A. Massie. Owen E. Friend. Geoffrey F. Hughes.
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
LONDON OFFICE;
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS-.
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay’s Bank, Lt(L,
National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
SPECIAL FEATURES
Of the DIRECTORS’ REPORT presented at the
ANNUAL MEETING
Held Wednesday, MAY 28, 1941,
at the Offices of the Society, No. 316 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
RECORD SURPLUS
'New Policies issued during the year _ V o' V ’ " ’
Assuring (excluding term assurances for Guaranteed Income Policies, and Accident and Sickness
Benefits)
Total Income for 1940
Interest Income
Total Payments to Policy Holders during 1940
Total Surpluses
Special Reserves for Contingencies
Total Funds as at 31 st December, 1940
CONTINUED ECONOMY. The percentage of Renewal Premium Income of the Ordinary Department absorbed
in Expenses (excluding Taxation and Self-charged Rent) was only 8.389 Per Cent.
The Society is WHOLLY MUTUAL,
All Surpluses being Applied to the Benefit of the Policy Holders Only.
INTEREST EARNED ON ALL FUNDS (INCLUDING CONTINGENCY RESERVE FUNDS, GUARANTEE FUNDS
AND PROVISION FOR ACCRUED TAXATION) FOR ALL DEPARTMENTS, £4/8/1 Per Cent.
TOTAL PAYMENTS TO POLICY HOLDERS SINCE INCEPTION £32,770,516
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society aims to Render Exceptional Service to the Assuring Public.
PURELY MUTUAL NO SHAREHOLDERS
PIONEERS OF GROUP ASSURANCE
61,047
£10,538,844
£5,060,523
£1,141,152
£2,01 1.680
£1,030,157
£1,425,754
£27,421,232
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND PRINCIPAL OFFICERS: „„ AT>XT _ „ _
The Hon. Sir HARRY LAWSON, K.C.M.G., Chairman. General Manager: CECIL B. HEARN, F.C.I.b.
ARTHUR RONVILLE WERE JP Secretary: A. H. JOHNS, A.I.A.
gS™? Sir HARRY CHAUVBL, g'.C.M.G., K.C.B. r‘ ROWDBN WHITE MD
Sir DALZIEL KELLY, LL.B. Chief Medical Officer: A. E. ROWDEN WHILE, M.u.,
ALEX. COOCH, J.P. P.R.A.C.P.
LOCAL BOARDS OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS: ,
QUEENSLAND: 289 and 291 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Director: JOHN E. TRUDE. Medical Director: S.
PANCOURT MCDONALD, M.D., P.R.C.P., P.R.A.C.P.
Manager: P. H. IRONSIDE, A.C.I.S.
NEW SOUTH WALES: 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
Directors: Sir SYDNEY SNOW, K.8.E., Chairman; Sir
KELSO KING: ALLEN C. LEWIS, Assoc. Inst. C.E.;
Sir GRAHAM WADDELL, K.8.E., M.L.C.
Manager: JOHN ANDERSON.
Consulting Medical Officer: A. MAITLAND GLEDDBN,
M.D, (Brux.), P.R.C.S. (Edin.), M.R.C.S. (Eng.), L.R.C.P.
(Lond.).
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
Directors: H. B. JACKSON, K.C., Chairman; CHARLES
DIAMOND. Medical Director: D. M. McWHAE, M.D.,
P.R.C.P. Manager; J. A. EDWARDS.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; 45 King William Street, Adelaide.
Director: Brig.-General G. H. DEAN, C. 8.8., V.D.
Medical Director: C. T. C. de CRESPIGNY, P.R.C.P.
Manager: A. J. CROSS.
TASMANIA: 18-20 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; 91 Cameron
Street, Launceston.
Director: Hon. Sir JOHN McPHEE, K.C.M.G. Manager:
A. de JONGH.
BRANCHES IN NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH AFRICA, AND GREAT BRITAIN.
interest rate not mentioned. Other in-
debtedness was reduced by £110,931, too,
thanks to lightening of stocks by
£106,398 and writing off of £53,232 more
than was spent on fixed assets. The im-
provement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£629,525) was £95,394.
Market for the pound ords. has lifted
from 10s. to 13s. Id. over the past 12
months, the higher figure returning an
immediate 7.6 p.c. At 21s. the prefs.
yield 5.5 p.c, on the minimum div. rate,
on which no early improvement need be
looked for. The net tangible cover is 17s.
Id. ords., £2 Bs. 7d. prefs. Defence spend-
ing will be at a much faster rate from now
on ; but it will require greater assistance
from the public, while wool is our only
export for which the war-time future is
assured.
Mt. Morgan (C.Q.) had another 2in.
of rain last week. Wet weather not only
slows down handling of ore for the oxide
mill, but it means that the higher-grade
sulphide ore is temporarily cut off
through passes being blocked by falls
and slips because of the saturation of
stopes and faces in the opencut. This
is usually the driest period of the year,
too. Still, reserves of sdwt. ore, cut
off for the time being, should restore nor-
mality of ore grade once obstructions
due to wet weather are overcome.
* * * *
The Trekelano, Cloncurry (N.Q.), is
about maintaining half of its recent out-
put of copper ore. For April ore pro-
duction was only 277 tons. This is
probably of greater concern to the Chil-
lagoe Smelters than the syndicate pro-
ducers. A vigorous policy of develop-
ment would probably put the mine on
its old basis, for it has proved to be one
of the leading ore-bodies in Cloncurry.
Sloping has been completed down to No.
7 level, and this is being driven in a
4ft. lode carrying roughly 10 per cent,
copper at present. Capital and an expert
geolpgical lead seem called for.
* * ♦ *
A few stalwarts still stick to the Bartle
Frere field (N.Q.), picking up leases for-
feited by the fainthearts, and there have
been one or two small crushings with
values panning out around the ounce.
But at the moment there is little showing
up to compensate the stalwarts for the
wet, isolation and scrub-leeches.
* * * *
Consolidated Gold Areas (W.A.) still
struggles to turn the White Hope mine,
Hampton Plains, into a profit-making
asset. One handicap is the carting of
the ore seven miles to the Celebration
mill for treatment; others, costs and the
nature of the ore. Operating perform-
ances since the mine was reopened a
couple of years back after 18 months’
idleness compare this way:
Gold, All-in
Treated, Gold, Dwt., Costs,
Dec., Tons. Oz. Ton. Ton. Loss.
1939.. 14,130 2658* 3.76 41/10 £4521
1940.. 36,082 V9llt 4.38 39/10 571
Also *12560z. silver; +28680z. silver.
When rebate of gold tax is received last
year’s performance will look better.
Still, lateral and vertical development on
the scale considered necessary is a job
too costly for present finances, and
Mines Department assistance of £5OOO
is being sought. In the same breath
it is announced that a sampling
option has been given to Australian
Mining and Industrial Finance, a De
Bernales concern, with the right, for
£35,000, to take an 18 months’ working
option from August 1., Last year’s in-
creased crushings depleted broken,
proved and probable reserves above
400 ft. from 55,234 to 46,100 tons ; but
grade is given as 5.6dwt., against 5.36dwt.
Included in the assets is a £15,000 share-
holding in Blue Spec Mines.
* * * *
Inspector of Mines’ candid and in-
formative comment on Yellowdine, which
so far has proved the best of De Ber-
nales Westralian golden group:
Production is still being maintained at a
little more than 1000 tons a month. The grade
has dropped to Bidwt., but this should be main-
tained until present developed ore is worked
out. Development work has stopped on No. 6
level. Present indications are that the ore-
body cuts out at this level, and that the life
of the mine is going to be short. ...At the
present rate of extraction there is sufficient
ore to keep the mine going for another two
years... .Further development and diamond-
drilling below No. 6 level might pick up the
lode again,
* * * *
Ora Banda Amalgamated (W.A.) has
dug up some 16dwt. ore, 48in. wide, on
No. 6 horizon, Div. prospects appear to
hinge on how much of the stuff is avail-
able to sweeten up the 6|dwt. grade of
other ore reserves, in themselves hardly
sufficient to make both ends meet on the
basis of last term’s figures.
* * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.) has been getting
on to slightly better grade ore. Latest half-
yearly estimate of blocked-out re-
serves is 170,900 tons, assaying 5.23dwt.
a ton. Probable reserves are computed at
104,000 tons of 5.22dwt. ore. Previous
figures were: Blocked out, 179,600 tons,
assaying s.ldwt.; probable, 98,800 tons,
assaying sdwt.
* * * *
Westralia has been talking about its
deposits of alunite (a source of supply of
metallic aluminium), and this is by
no means hot air; the West’s de-
posits offer more definite possibilities of
economic exploitation than those of any
other State. This is acknowledged by two
members of the Australian Chemical In-
stitute’s war emergency sub-committee in
S.A., J. S. Hosking (C.5.1.R.) and A. A.
Weir, who place the States in the follow-
ing order for probable value of alunite
occurrences: Westralia, N, S. Wales,
South Aus, and Victoria. Their report
says alunite was for some years worked
as a source of alum at Bulahdelah
(N.S.W.), where Alum Mountain, three
miles long and 900 ft. high, consists for a
third of its length of impure alunite. One
of the S.A. deposits is at Rapid Bay,
where the B.H.P. is developing big lime-
stone workings. A deposit at Sunbury
(Vic.) is worked out.
First Hit (W.A.) has declared its 14th
—the ninth consecutive—quarterly div.
(3d.). Its gold deposit is small, but
has so far proved good. An estimate of
ore reserves in October put the mine
nearly three years ahead of the battery
and offered prospects better than be-
fore. Co. is the most successful of locally-
controlled goldmining concerns at present
operating.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Worried Investor: Unless the surrender value
you were offered, on inquiry, was more than
you have paid in, suggest that it would be
better to hold the policy until maturity. As
it is, the most you are likely to lose is some
future bonuses, a cutting-down of which seems
inevitable. But the sum assured and bonuses
declared to date should be quite safe, and
paid when due. The office, on the figures pre-
sented, is actuarially solvent, even after allow-
ing for the overstatement of asset values men-
tioned in the circulars.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 409-413 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
PEACE AND
PRIVACY
Perfect peace and solitude await the weary
traveller or business man in his room at the
Victoria. And though this peacefulness may
make the outside world seem far away, the
Victoria’s special guest service is always at
hand to care for your every wish. For when
you make the Victoria your Melbourne home,
you’re assured of service, comfort and luxury,
as well as the convenience of staying right
in the heart of Melbourne.
T H E
Scrim ts
V A U Ml M A
PR LACE
“ROOM ONLY”
DAILY TARIFFS
Singles - 5/- to 101-
Doubles - 8j- to 18 j 6
Suites, Family Rooms, etc.
Full Catering Services.
S. D. HORNE
Manager
MELSOURHES MOST POPULAR HOTEL
215 LITTLE COLLINS STREET - NEXT TOWN HALL
Not Fair to Appoint a Friend Alone
If you want your friend to be the Executor of your Estate, appoint him
Co-Executor with Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. It is not fair
to appoint him alone. Write for a copy of Your Executor and
Trustee” that explains why.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS *
T. H. Kelly (Chairman). Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Pl a yf a '' ! '>
E. R. Knox, H. Norman Pope, Allen C. Lewis, J. P. Abbott, M.H.K.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P- Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees ana others,
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration, £57,500,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Facts for the “‘Bright Boys”
There are still some “smart” boys in
the Big Cities who regard this war as a
heaven-sent opportunity to make money.
There are later unions with the same
ideas. A Pitt-street accountant accus-
tomed to handling new flotations and
drawing secretaryship fees was bitter
about the capital issue regulations and
the taxation proposals of the last Budget.
With regard 10 the latter he was forth
fied by the long and determined cam-
paign carried out by the Sydney “Sun”
(in July, 1940) against the increasing of
taxation in order to finance the war.
Whilst the most necessary and vital
adjustment in Australia’s war effort was
being put to a barely-comprehending
people, the “Sun” used its editorial, newi
and correspondence columns for the out-
pouring of corkscrew-shaped economics
tw imim in
that might have hindered the passing in
Parliament of this essential measure. The
Budget was “deflationary to the last
degree.” trumpeted the “sin” ; a “policy
° £ d S Sd r '” ,ip q, lS ,ed Tr itS SSS "ate
dWaatim*letteWttS Lore
Y '
sru^°u ma ” Rydge, one of our
bnghter boys who should now be old
enough to know better, m his election
campaign last year said; This war is for
posterity ; let posterity pay for it. He,
too, was all against increased taxation,
But a big majority of the electors in
Parramatta were against him, so Can-
berra has not yet been graced by his
presence.
The Budget met with opposition in
Parliament. It met with opposition from
some of the “brighter” boys within the
Government itself. But in its main form
it was passed, and soon the financial year
to which it applied will be over. And
as an answer to the “Sun’s” tipsy
economic policy, so emphatically and
truculently expressed, it cap be recorded
with precision that in the third quarter
of this , “disastrous” and “deflationary”
f ar trade-union unemployment had
a en t 0 P-o* compared with 7.9 p.c. a
year earller ' , A , c '" a l„ em ? loy ™ e ?* * ad
rlsen ~ lom 2,193,000 to 2,269,000
°y er l le , s a ‘t lc period. The only thing
that might be suggestive of deflation is
the fact that since war broke out the cost
o£ to Australia has risen by no
more * a » P' c : In P°>“' of fact, how-
f v ? r - small increase in the cost of
v !”8 shows that war-time inflation is
being checked, and that invisible robbery
? £ salary-earners and pensioners is being
kept down to a minimum. The Budget
and price-control can be awarded thanks
for this good work
T , Th 5 ?. ud 8 e * "a 5 " l « lth ? ut 1,5 £aulls '
incidence of sales tax is a weakness,
Smc f additional sales tax has been in
most cases added to the retail price of
, . f ~ t u at thp r ~ tai i e r hasn’t
* * fl- m -tf!
Pa d the tax out of A,v profits. Neither
"2a«“it Tm Jte
the
Arbitration Court. Sales tax is added to
the basic wage, and most decidedly be-
comes an inflationary factor. The salary-
earner p a y S sa j es tax and gets no corn-
pensation. The middle- and higher-
income classes are in the same boat. But
t he wage-earner who escapes sales tax
represents the majority of the population,
a pd sa les-tax inflation therefore becomes
a potent item
Mr . Fadden> the Commonwealth
Treasurer, has stated that it may not be
necessary to increase taxation in 1941-42.
If it is not, and taxation spread isn’t
extended, then the Australian wage-earner
will be on an excellent wicket. Those
people getting between £2OO and £250
a year pay little or no war taxation. Their
living standard has, in the worst of cases,
been only lightly touched by taxation,
But we are coming more and more up
against the fact there is a solid burden
to be borne in this war, and we are going
to encounter it very soon in a real short-
age of some living requirements, includ-
ing materials made in this country.
The reason why taxation is necessary
is because the British Empire requires,
fer war purposes, the use of many Aus-
tralian factories, some of our work-
men, ships, materials, etc. Our energies
and production are partly required for
war use. But the output of one factory
or one person can’t simply be confiscated
without compensation. Those doing war
work and those doing civil work have
all to participate m the sacrifice; thus
taxation is levied on all to pay for what
is .being taken from the individual mdus-
try or worker.
It was inevitable that the leal natuie
of war s cost would eventually be brought
hometous First of all, we felt the lack of
dollar exchange; imported luxuries were
cut first, and petrol, motor-cars, newsprint,
tobacco and a hundred other such items
were soon rationed Then we noted a
shortage of steel products, including gal-
vanised iron and fencing wire especially
barbed wire. Though these things were
produced m Australia they were wanted
urgently for war rather than civil pur-
poses. Copper has become scarce, and
zinc is in great demand Cotton goods
have been on the short side for some
ime; now we are finding that Aus-
trahan-produced woollen goods are be-
coming low-tha blankets arc difficult
to buy, and that no more yarns will be
available for civilian purposes, because
every ounce produced in Australia is
needed for the clothing of troops at home
and overseas.”
It has been announced that there will
be no shortage of stocks to meet civilian
needs in the way of suitings, etc., for 12
months or more. That is fortunate, Aus-
tralia is far better supplied with woollen
mills than cotton-spinning and -weaving
equipment. But such shortages of vari-
ous necessities and luxuries as have arisen
show what a real tax on our production
war is, and that the tax is just as unavoid-
able as the physical difficulties that have
sprung up in the course of this war.
We aren’t in any way suffering from
deflation because of the substantial use
of taxation in financing the big waste,
We are busier than we have been for at
least 20 years, on a population basis. As
a nation, our production has never been
greater. But a great deal of that produc-
tion is being used to pursue this extrava-
gant conflict. Thus there is no reason
why anyone should be “making money”
out of the war, unless it be the previously
unemployed. So far as they are con-
cerned, good luck to them. It is a great
pity, though, that it has taken a war to
put the unemployed back to work. The
“credit-expansion” talk of the “Sun” and
the wizardry of B. S. B, Stevens failed to
do it in peace-time.
Bradford Cotton’s expansion is still
going on. A new issue of 185,645 ords.
at par is to be made to shareholders, one
for three. New plant has been ordered,
but owing to the uncertainty of delivery
the co.’s directors can’t at present give
time and terms of the issue. Including
the latest lot, Bradford s capital has ex-
panded by the following issues since
Dec., 1937: ....
Feb., 1938, 53,750 ords. to shareholders-
April, 1939, 20,000 6 p.c. prefs. to share-
holders.
Mid-i 939, 43,000 f.-p. ords. and 93,167
prefs. to shareholders in Austral Silk and
CO De°c n : 1939, 34,000 f.-p. ords. to Dunlop-
Perdriau and 239,964 ords. to shareholders.
Sept., 1940, 57,000 f.-p. ords., understood
tOjbe part consideration for Sydney free-
May, 1941, 185,645 ords. to shareholders.
Issued capital will rise to £875,684, all
but £153,104 of it (represented by 6 p.c.
prefs.) in ord. shares. In just over three
years total addition has been no less
than £727,526, most of it since the out-
break of war. On the issue of 239,964
ords. made in Dec., 1939, 2s. 6d. a share
is still to come in (on June 30). Some-
where about that time a further issue of
ords. (possibly 20,000) will be made to
Dunlop-Perdriau in satisfaction of the
balance owing on the Barnet Glass fac-
tory at Footscray (Vic.).
. . . . .
Part of the fruits of the co.’s expan-
sion programme have been the establish-
ment of C. and D, Mills, makers of
canvas and duck, and Sanforising Ser-
vices of Australia, which pre-shrinks
cotton goods by a patented process. An-
other important development was the
purchase of Austral Silk and Cotton
Mills, Melbourne, for the purpose of in-
creasing yarn output, and the estab-
lishment of a new spinning and weav-
ing plant at the Barnet Glass factory,
Present capital may be required to put
plant into the factory building acquired
in Missenden-road, Sydney,
......
In the term to June 30 1940 Bradford
earned 1(U on its ord capita j, corn-
d with 16 2 p.c. in the preceding
£ eaj% and dropped its div> from 12 ± p . c .
to 10 p.c. The remarkable demand exist-
• £of codon goods a t present is the
h |. £ reason wh earnings have been ab le
k anything like in step with the
fast £ wi ' c f tal account Much of
h s m 8 rec ' ntly introduced cannot
be ea ' nj its ' ke That goes to
y h the mo s neym aking possibilities of
(h indust , ate y r on S I( 1 ' js not likely
h divs be liberal for a few years,
; that he ter ,
f bu ’ siness \ as been established
d eX p ens ive war-time conditions. The
mana F ent has a , w been carefu |
b s providing adequately for deprecia-
; p lt is to ß ward J writing down the
book va , ue of assets to the level of post-
expec,ations that the co. should
d & |us fits
? r
*.*. * * ,
, After having straightened out several
Tittle points in question with the Tariff
Board and capital issues committee, S.A.
collaborators with the powerful Calico
Printers’ Association, of Manchester,
were able to announce that Actil, Ltd.
(Australian Cotton Textile Industries),
would be registered with a capital
°f £600,000 to establish a mill near Adel-
aide. It will produce cotton goods and
sheetings of weights not previously made
in Australia ; also pillow cloths, twills
and dyed plain cloths ; and it will have
facilities for cotton-spinning, weaving,
bleaching and dying. The venture has
the blessing of the British Government,
One or two existing Australian cotton
manufacturing enterprises had hoped that
the Manchester co. would invest its spare
money (available partly through com-
pulsory contraction of U.K. business) by
linking'with Australian interests for ex-
pansion in lines indicated, instead of
starting an entirely new show. But local
companies are not particularly unhappy
about it now, as in any case Actil’s
activities will be complementary to theirs
rather than competitive, and the total
percentage of our cotton goods require-
ments which Australian makers can
supply is still small. At least one big
cotton-miller will probably co-operate
with Actil in a subsidiary industry
for utilisation of waste and rags. Calico
Printers’ Association is putting up
£300,000 ; the rest should be easy, accord-
ing to an assurance given by those
interested.
* * * *
Ai;nbitious claims made from time to
time that there could be a big revival of
coppermining in the once immensely pro-
ductive Wallaroo . Mo onta field (S.A.)
have been pretty well knocked on the
head bv tbp and conioint
neaa me , s eP arate ana conjoint
asseverations of Government Geologist
Keith Ward and his assistants Ralph
Segnit and S, B. Dickinson. They say
tbat ore-bodies in the old mines of the
district, where not completely worked
out, are too small and poor for produc-
tion> Tbe Wallaroo and Moonta Min-
m§ Co. used to ignore anything under
4 P- c -> but even several bodies estimated
°n P a P e r at 3.75 p.c. have been found to
Y* or4 Y * P- c - Diamond-drilling has
shown that Karkanlla, where 113,000
* ons ° f worth-whiie ore was claimed,
ha f but . 60 ’ 00() ton . s °w-grade. The
onl Y savm S. is that, as there were
no surface indications for any of the old
ncb ore-bodies, someone might be lucky
enough to strike on an unknown new ore-
body. Meanwhile, nei her price increase
nor bonus can do much for Wallaroo-
Moonta, where John Verran once fough
hard for a profit-sharing arrangement
and got the company to agree. The
men turned it down.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
NO
MORE
Atom's
ƒ
• Thousands of suf-
ferers from impaired
hearing have over-
come their difficulties
by turning to the
West e r n Electric
Audiphone Hearing
Aid. A scientific
achievement of the
first order, it com-
pensates for hearing
loss, gives true
natural tone, and a
much wider hearing circle than you would
believe possible. Other features of the
Western Electric Audiphone that will
appeal to you are its extremely small size,
which makes it difficult to detect on your
person, and its economy of operation. Bone
and air conduction models available, the
correct type for your needs being
assembled after audiometrie test. Let any
of the firms listed below demonstrate.
THE AUDIPHONE CO.,
M.L.C. Building, H Martin Place, Sydney.
CODES & GARRARD PTY., DTD.,
370—SH Bourke Street, Melbourne.
TREVOR HENDERSON.
T. & G. Buildings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
DEN G. STONE,
67 Gaw I e r Place, Adelaide,
SAINKEN & SAINKEN,
6 3 3 II ay Street, Perth.
PINDDAYS PTY., DTD.,
Apollo House, Brisbane St., Launceston.
Western Electric
'audiphone'
HEARING AID
20 Investments in One!
Your purchase of FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES secures a “spread” of investment over 20
leading Australian Companies listed on the Stock Exchange.
You also obtain a yield, at present prices, of around 5 % per
annum, and your investment is safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees: Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Booklet No. 1 gives full details. Your copy posted free on request
to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
OVER 100 YEARS OF INSURANCE SERVICE-
-1835 UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY 1941
OF CANTON, LIMITED.
A British Office. Incorporated in Hong Kong.
Head and Registered Office; Sydney, Australia.
ASSETS EXCEED £5,700,000 STERLING
Nearly £1,000,000 invested in Australia and New Zealand.
MARINE FIRE ACCIDENT
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 87131 (Three Lines). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
f
Abbey’s
famous
STOCKMAN
For work in the yards or the saddle there
isn’t another Boot made that can equal the
Abbey “Stockman.” Look at these specifica-
tions and judge for yourself: Uppers, genuine
strong calf. Sides, reinforced elastic. Soles,
genuine Goodyear welts.
When ordering, state size. Half-sizes also
available.
32 c
In Black
or Brown.
ABBEY
SHOES
316 George Street 224 Pitt Street A3l.
m
m
i
\v>
'M
«
$
w
(2)
®
m
ƒ
Cifit IH
little H
more but*
it's WELL
worth it/
'UdleMwM^hdon,
THE HEART OF A GOOD COCKTAIL
l*0WSt yin diMilbM in the mMd
The N. S. Wales Government proposes
to abolish the allowance to dividend-
receiving taxpayers of the amount of tax
paid by the company. By its last Budget
legislation the Commonwealth did the
same. But it didn’t try to hoodwink any-
body, nor to justify its action beyond
indicating that in war-time extraordinary
taxation measures were necessary.
McKell, new Premier of N. S. Wales,
isn’t so blunt. He tries to make us be-
lieve that rebates of company taxation
are illogical, and that, “because of
anomalies in the law, many company
shareholders are not fulfilling their obli-
gations to the State”;
Under the New South Wales law un-
justifiable anomalies exist. A shareholder
in a company, for example, is not called
upon to pay State income tax (except super
tax) on dividends, unless additional tax re-
sults after deducting the company rate of
tax (2s. 6d. in the £) on the dividends,
from the tax otherwise payable.
The rate of State tax for individuals does
not reach 2s. 6d. in the £ until the income
amounts to £3935, so that a person re-
ceiving dividends amounting to £3935 would
be free of ordinary income tax, and would
be liable only to the super tax of Is. in
the £ on the part of the income in excess
of £2OOO.
No recipient of so little as £1 in divs.
from a co. is free from N.S.W. taxation.
He pays 2s. 6d. in the £ (through his co.)
even if he is not otherwise taxable. Divi-
dends represent portion of a shareholder’s
equity in the profits of a co. ; obviously
his dividends would be greater if the co.
paid no flat rate of taxation on his be-
half. What McKell proposes to do now
is to tax dividend income twice, in the
hands of the co. and in the hands of
shareholders. If a business is conducted
as a partnership and not as a limited co.
it won’t have to bear double taxation.
Possibly the advantages that shareholders
gain from forming a limited cp. are
worth paying extra taxation for. If so,
let us say so without becoming involved
in sophistries such as expounded by Mr.
McKell.
Hr * * *
Dullness characterised the Australian
sharemarkets last week. London and
New York were quiet, too. There were
few notable falls or rises on the Aus-
tralian markets. Yarra Falls shares at
41s. 3d. looked better than ever in view
of our great textile activity, and Adelaide
Steam was exceptionally cheap at 275. 3d.
Barrier stocks were well worth buying,
and B.H.P. scrip, old and new, was
attractive.
* * * *
Gordon and Gotch . earned £86,316
during the year to March 31, compared
with £92,667 in the preceding term. Tax-
ation provision was £78,088, against
£59,132. Had taxation provision been on
the usual scale, last term’s earnings would
have been well above the previous year’s.
Out of the year’s profits £9915 was
carried to a staff fund. Thus, in spite of
all the difficulties attending the importa-
tion of periodicals, up to March 31 last
trading profits hadn’t been impaired. It
remains to be seen now how the growing
shortage of shipping affects the co. The
ord. div. has been brought down from
14 p.c. to 12 p.c.
* * * *
B.H.P.’s Whyalla blast furnace has
gone into production, and for the first
time ore from the great Middleback
mountains of iron has been made into
pigiron without leaving S.A. Construc-
tion period has been nearly three years,
embracing site reclamation, harbor
dredging, furnace and wharf. Seven hun-
dred tons daily is scheduled average pro-
duction capacity. Meanwhile, another
B.H.P. development in new limestone
workings at Rapid Bay, south of Adel-
aide, was temporarily slowed down a
while ago through a solid rock sea-bed
interfering with the construction of a
jetty being built to load the crushed
limestone. Fadden said in Adelaide that
with the development of iron production,
as against iron-ore mining, in South Aus.
there had come into being a shipbuilding
industry within the State, and construc-
tion had been allotted to it of a number of
escort ships designed for escort, convoy
and anti-submarine work. The first of
these has been launched. Its place on
the slip would shortly be occupied, said
Fadden, by the laying of the keel of one
of three 9000-ton overseas freighters,
construction of which had been approved
by the Commonwealth Shipbuilding
Board. Further orders for ships of this
class and for coastal freighters of some-
what smaller tonnage would be allotted
to S.A.
* * * *
“Tinopai”: M.L. employers are facing
a serious shortage of juvenile labor for
factory work. At present the demand
exceeds the supply by several thousand.
Official figures show that the position
will steadily deteriorate. For decades
past the birthrate has steadily fallen ;
in 1940 there were 82,100 males in the
age-group 13 to 18, but by 1945 a fall
of some 6000 will have taken place. The
fall for females of the group 13 to 20 is
from 105,400 in 1940 to 99,200 in 1945.
Thereafter an even more rapid decline
can be expected. An even greater use
of machines to maintain present factory
output is indicated.
* * * *
There is one possible alternative to
increased taxation for growing war ex-
penditure, and that is compulsory saving.
Such a scheme is now operating in
Britain on lines advocated by J. M.
Keynes. It is being restricted to the
working classes, thus tapping a great
source of revenue in a diplomatic way.
The worker is, in reality, taxed now
by the savings scheme, but he
gets his money back after the war.
Compulsory saving by wage-earners has
the effect of restricting their spending
on essential war materials, which is just
as important to the Defence authorities
as the raising of the money.
sH * * *
Australian life assurance as a whole
is founded on healthy foundations. At
the end of 1939 business in force
in the Commonwealth had grown to
£539,152,572—£427,290,892 of it Ordi-
nary—in addition to annuities worth
£384,392 p.a. As measured by the assur-
ance funds, liabilities under these policies
then amounted to £155,521,457, to meet
which and £6,743,666 coming to sundry
creditors the various offices could show
tangible assets in Australia of
£229,968,538. The most favored invest-
ment channel was Government and muni-
cipal securities £115,712,296, followed by
mortgages £59,621,516. In both Ordinary
and Industrial departments combined,
income in 1939 reached £29,968,135, of
which £9,357,714 was represented by
interest-earnings, etc. Payments to policy-
holders aggregated £13,889,310, and total
outgoings, including £939,604 visibly
appropriated to tax and special reserves,
to £20,133,413. New business figures,
totalling £66,804,942 for the year, pro-
vide further evidence of Australian thrift.
« * * »
Consolidated Tin Mines, of Tavoy,
Lower Burma, has written to The Bul-
letin asking to be put on to Australian
suppliers of potassium amyl xanthate,
sodium ethyl xanthate, pine oil, creosote
oil and oleum. The first three items are
required urgently. Cable address of the
co. is “Stannicbur, Tavoy.”


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
THE BATTLE OF BRITAIN.
IT his war has added, .and continues adding, epic
stones to the annals of British heroism. The Battle
ot Egypt, the Battle of Crete, the Battle of the Atlantic,
when they come to be told descriptively in full, will be
splendid and stirring chapters. The grand story of Dun-
kirk is another —one that it was possible to relate here
soon after the event. Yet another, the “Battle of Britain,
August-October, 1940”—the great air fighting in which
the R.A.F. over that period engaged and defeated the
Luftwaffe in its determined, massed attempts to bring
about the conquest of Britain—has been vividly told by
an anonymous-author in a British Ministry of Inlorma-
tion pamphlet. Retold in two two-column articles by
the aeronautical correspondent of the “Times” (from
which the account here given is taken), the story seems
one that should be as absorbing to Australians and New
Zealanders as it has been to those on the spot in Britain,
where the pamphlet has been a best-seller.]
During that memorable period, August-October,
1940, no fewer than 2375 German aircraft were
known to have been destroyed and many others prob-
ably met a similar fate, while the cost to Fighter
Command was 375 pilots killed and 358 wounded. In
daylight 1700 persons, nearly all civilians, were killed
and 3360 seriously wounded. At night 12,581 were
killed and 16,965 injured.
The complete story, now told for the first time,
not only brings into clear relief the brilliance and
courage of our fliers and the devotion of the ground
staffs, but shows how sound tactics and careful plan-
ning baulked the enemy at every turn and prepared
the defenders for each new move. In the greatest air
battle in history the German Air Force was reduced
from a confident, machine-like organisation to a shat-
tered and disordered Armada.
The enemy’s avowed object was to obtain a quick
decision and to end the war by the autumn or early
winter of 1940. To achieve this an invasion of Britain
was evidently thought essential. By August 8 the
enemy thought himself ready to begin the opening
phase, on the success of which his plan depended.
There were four phases of the battle, the first from
August 8-18, the second from August 19 to September
5, the third from September 6 to October 5, the fourth
from October 6-31.
Again and again history shows that, if the original
plan fails or becomes impracticable, the German has
little power of improvisation. The Luftwaffe was to
prepare the way for the German Army by smashing
our resistance, and a fundamental assumption in Berlin
was that Germany could establish and maintain air
supremacy. Aerodromes were to be put out of action,
so tying the R.A.F. to the ground ; ports and com-
munications could then be destroyed without hin-
drance, our military forces paralysed and the German
armored divisions placed in a position to operate un-
disturbed. Success meant the destruction of civilian
courage, followed by internal disruption and sur-
render. But the R.A.F. was not overcome, and for
that reason the plan miscarried.
During the first stage the Germans sent over
massed formations of bombers, escorted by similar
formations of single-engined and twin-engined fighters.
The fighters flew in large, unwieldy formations from
5000 ft. to 10,000 ft. above the bombers, where the
protection they afforded was not very effective. Using
these tactics the enemy made 26 attacks in the initial
stage, first on shipping and then on ports, such as
Portland, Weymouth, Dover, Portsmouth and the Isle
of Wight, and in the process lost 182 aircraft. Begin-
ning to realise that our fighter force was stronger than
he had imagined, he next attacked fighter aerodromes
in south and south-east England, but maintained the
assault on coastal towns. A certain amount of damage
was caused on August 15, but at the cost of 180
German aircraft, making a total of 472 since the open-
ing of the battle. Nevertheless he persisted in this
form of attack for two more days. The pace was too
hot to last, and Goring called halt and gave his Luft-
waffe a rest lasting five days.
Throughout the first stage the German tactic was
to open their attack on objectives near the coast in
order to draw off our fighters. These feints were fol-
lowed 30 or 40 minutes later by the real attack de-
livered against ports or aerodromes on the South
Coast between Portland and Brighton. The chief
problem created by this tactic was to have a sufficient
number of fighters ready to engage the main attack as
soon as it could be picked out. The success of our
fighter tactics can be gauged by a comparison between
our losses in pilots and those of the enemy. The
ratio was about one to seven, and might have been
even more striking if so much of the fighting had not
taken place over the sea.
Goring evidently decided that a change of objec-
tives was necessary. Perhaps he thought that he had
achieved the necessary results, and that Portland and
Portsmouth, together with our coastal aerodromes,
were virtually out of action. Perhaps he was under
the impression that inland aerodromes, factories and
other industrial targets would not be as stoutly de-
fended. It is more probable, however, that he merely
gave the order for the second part of the plan to be
put into operation and disregarded the failure of the
first part —either deliberately or because he had no
alternative.
In the next stage the main attack was delivered
on a wider front. Enemy tactics also were changed.
The number of escorting fighters was increased and
the size of the bomber formations reduced, while the
covering fighter screen flew at very great heights. The
bomber formations, too, were protected by a “box” of
fighters. This type of formation succeeded on several
occasions in breaking through the forward screens of
our fighter forces by sheer weight of numbers and in
attaining their objectives even after numerous casual-
ties had been inflicted.
Having thus altered his tactical formations the
enemy proceeded to deliver some 35 major attacks
between August 24 and September 5. While his object
was to destroy our inland fighter aerodromes and air-
craft factories he did not disdain purely residential
districts in Kent, the Thames Estuary and Essex. On
the last two days of August 800 aircraft were used to
attack a number of our aerodromes. The fighting
during this stage cost the enemy 562 machines. Our
own losses were 219 aircraft, but 132 pilots were
saved. During those 12 days our own tactical dis-
positions were altered so as to meet the changed form
of attack. The effect was to cause the enemy to be
met in greater strength and farther away from the
inland objectives, while such of his aircraft as were
successful in eluding this forward defence were dealt
with by squadrons farther in the rear. The heavy
task of the defence can be realised by the fact that
in these first two phases of the battle no fewer than
4523 fighter patrols of varying strength were flown
in daylight; an average of 156 a day. Though the
Germans had done damage to aerodromes both near
the coast and inland and thus put the fighting efficiency
of the fighter squadrons to considerable strain, they
failed entirely to put them out of action.
By September 6 the Germans either believed that
they had achieved success and that it only remained to
bomb a defenceless London until it surrendered, or,
following their prearranged plan, they automatically
switched their attack against the capital because the
moment had come to do so. It may be that Goring
had made up his mind to attack targets more easily
reached than were our fighter aerodromes. It may be
that he thought our fighter defence was sufficiently
weakened.
However that may be, on September 7 Goring
switched his attack away from fighter aerodromes on
—New York “Herald Tribune.”
THE CHANNEL FERRYMAN.
to industrial and other targets, and he began by mak-
ing London his main objective, waves of aircraft being
sent over at intervals of about 20 minutes. The waves
were composed of formations of from 20 to 40
bombers with an equal number of fighters in close
escort, additional protection being given by large for-
mations of other fighters flying at a much higher
altitude. Most of the enemy came over at heights
above 15,000 ft. By way of diversion dive-bombers
reappeared in attacks on coastal objectives and ship-
ping off Essex and Kent. By night the Germans
greatly increased their attacks by single aircraft, mak-
ing no attempt to hit military targets, but dropping
their bombs at random over London.
Somewhere between the coast and London, usually
in the Edenbridge-Tunbridge Wells area, but some-
times nearer to the sea, the raiders were met by our
fighters. The Spitfires tackled the high-flying fighters
and the Hurricanes, which had taken off first, engaged
the fighter escorts, followed by other squadrons which
went for the bombers, and there were dogfights all
over Kent.
The attack on London was the crux of the battle.
It continued from September 7 until October 5 and
was the last desperate attempt to win victory. Despite
the hard fighting of the previous month the fighter
defences of the R.A.F. were battling as hard as ever.
Goring still believed in superior numbers, which had
gained swift victory on the Continent, to win the trick.
He put forth all his strength in a final endeavor, and
during this phase 38 major attacks were made by day.
On September 7 a force of 350 bombers and fighters
flew in two waves up the Thames Estuary, some pene-
trating nearly as far as Cambridge. For the first time
since that September day in 1666 when Samuel Pepys
informed the King at Whitehall that the city was on
fire Londoners saw flames leaping up from various
points in Dockland, while from every German radio
station announcers broadcast a running commentary
on the action, in which imagination and wishful think-
ing were nicely blended.
Damage was inflicted on dock buildings, on several
factories, on railway communications, on gas and elec-
tricity plants, but 103 German aircraft were shot down,
and these heavy casualties shook the German High
Command. Even so, the enemy persevered with great
tenacity and courage. On September 11 those who
got through were so savagely handled by our fighters
that the losses among their crews are estimated to be
not fewer than 250. On September 15 came the
climax; 300 German aircraft, 150 in the morning and
a similar number in the afternoon, fought a running
fight with our Hurricanes and Spitfires from Hammer-
smith to Dungeness, from Bow to the coast of France.
It cost the Luftwaffe 185 machines, and between Sep-
tember 6 and October 5 the total German loss was at
least 883 aircraft.
In all the 32 major daylight attacks between Sep-
tember 11 and October 5 bombers were used, and
their fighter escort steadily increased in numbers, till
the ratio rose to four fighters to one bomber. Of
these attacks 15 were made on Greater London, 10
against Kent and the Thames Estuary, six on South-
ampton, one on Reading. While these last attacks
were well executed and pressed home, those on
London were less determined than in the opening
stages of the battle. On many occasions the enemy
jettisoned his bombs before reaching his apparent ob-
jective as soon as he saw our fighters. To enable
their bombers to reach their targets the Germans
sought to draw off our fighter patrols by high altitude
rather than by geographical diversions, high fighter
screens being sent over to occupy our machines while
the bombers, closely escorted by more fighters,
tried to get through some 6000 ft. to 10,000 ft.
below.
As autumn came on and the sky grew
more cloudy the enemy began to make in-
creased use of fighters flying very high above
the clouds. The usual practice was to put a
high screen of fighters over Kent from 15 to
45 minutes before the bombers appeared, the
object evidently being to draw off our fighters
and make it impossible for them to engage the
bombers. The high fighter screen was engaged
by pairs of Spitfire squadrons halfway between
London and the coast, while wings of two or
three Hurricane squadrons attacked the
bombers and their escorts before they reached
the fighter aerodromes east and south of
London, Other squadrons formed a third and
inner ring, patrolling above those aerodromes,
forming a defensive screen to guard the
southern approaches to London. These inter-
cepted the third wave of any attack and
mopped up the retreating formations belong-
ing to earlier waves. Between September 11
and October 5 No. 11 Group of Fighter Com-
mand alone destroyed 442 aircraft at a loss of
58 pilots, giving a ratio of enemy to one
British pilot lost.
By the end of the first week in October
our aerodromes had recovered from the
damage inflicted on them. The percentage of
intercepted raids increased, as did the enemy
casualties, while our own decreased steadily.
On September 27, No. 11 Group destroyed
99 German aircraft out of the day’s total of
133, for the loss of 15 pilots, a proportion of
6j to one. Three days later, when 32 enemy
aircraft were destroyed, the proportion rose
to 16 to one, and on October 5 only one pilot
was lost, though 22 of the enemy were shot
down. The brunt of the fighting fell on No. 11
Group, which was reinforced when necessary by
elements of Nos. 10 and 12 Groups.
The final stage of the battle began on October 6.
The enemy’s strategy and method now changed com-
pletely. He withdrew nearly all his long-range
bombers and tried to achieve his end with fighters and
fighter-bombers. This change was the surest proof
that he had received such a hammering as to make
further use of his depleted bomber force by daylight
too costly. He preferred to send it over by night. In
increasing numbers mass fighter formations came at a
great height in almost continuous waves to attack
London, still the principal target. The enemy doubt-
less hoped to wear out our fighter defence by forcing
it to engage, at much higher altitudes, aircraft which
were making the best use of cloud cover. To enable
the large formations to break through the Germans
used the tactics of diversion. On sighting our fighters,
however, the fighter-bombers often jettisoned their
bombs and made off. Our own tactics were imme-
diately altered so successfully that No. 11 Group ac-
counted for 167 enemy aircraft in weeks at a cost
of 45 pilots. In this phase the number of the enemy
probably destroyed rose considerably; the fighting
took place so high up that our pilots were unable to
see the ultimate fate of many opponents.
On September 15, when 185 wrecked German
machines littered south-east England, 16 squadrons
of No. 11 Group, followed by five from Nos. 10
and 12, were sent up to engage the enemy in the
morning. All but one of the squadrons were soon
engaging the raiders. The enemy realised that our
defence was awake and active, for the German pilots
could be heard calling out to each other over their
wireless-telephones “Achtung Schpitfeuer.” While the
Spitfires and Hurricanes were in action over Kent, 14
squadrons of Hurricanes, almost immediately rein-
forced by three more squadrons of Spitfires, were deal-
ing with such of the enemy as had succeeded, by
force of numbers, in breaking through to the out-
skirts of London. In the continuous and general en-
gagement, extending from London to the coast and


beyond, the tactics so carefully thought out and assi-
duously practised brought a handsome victory. One
squadron of Spitfires twice dived clean through an
enemy bomber formation, each time delivering beam
attacks and throwing the enemy into complete con-
fusion. One Hurricane pilot recorded a hit at the long
range of 800 yards. Though our fighters seldom had
superiority of numbers, the enemy seemed unable to
benefit by his advantage.
In the afternoon attack all 21 squadrons were
sent into the air, and this time the numbers were fairly
equal. There was nothing haphazard about the inter-
ception ; every detail had been planned and tested in
the fighting of the previous months. While the fight
lasted the Germans were destroyed at the rate of two
aircraft a minute. The writer says that only a very
high degree of confidence in their training, in their
aircraft, and in their leaders could have enabled our
pilots to maintain the spirit of aggressive courage
which they invariably displayed.
By October 31 the Battle of Britain was over.
It did not cease dramatically ; it died away gradually.
Bitter experience had at last taught the enemy the cost
of daylight attacks. He took to the cover of night.
At the end of the battle the fighter squadrons of the
R.A.F. were stronger than they had been at the begin-
ning. The Luftwaffe, which, as Goebbels said on the
eve of the battle, had “prepared the final conquest of
the last enemy —England,” did its utmost and paid
very heavily for the attempt. It was a great deliverance.
Value of Peace Aims.
(Condensed from a “United States News” article by
David Lawrence.)
There is no inconsistency in appealing for a
declaration of peace aims at this time while concur-
rently prosecuting the war with unabated vigor on all
fronts. The danger lies rather in the growth of sus-
picion now that, when the war is over, the successful
belligerents may slip back to the same pre-war mis-
takes that can breed new wars.
Great Britain has less to lose by a declaration of
peace aims than has Nazi Germany. America has
more to gain than lose by assisting in the formulation
of a world opinion on peace aims.
Examined in the perspective of morale within
each of the fighting countries, a declaration of peace
aims becomes vital and pertinent. It is incredible that
the disciplines of war can ever suppress the gradual
development of a public opinion in all countries to
the effect that war as an instrument of national policy
is futile and that the sacrifices of peace must require
greater and greater restraints on nationalism.
There are millions of people in Germany who
have been taught that the rest of the world is per-
manently hostile to them and that the present war is
a battle for self-preservation alone. Propaganda of this
sort has never been combated effectively. Some leaf-
lets were dropped in Germany, but British policy has
been so much absorbed in the war that the more
powerful instruments of pleading with enemy peoples
have been left largely unused.
A declaration of peace aims is essential to the
winning of the war for democracy. It need not be a
declaration of details or of territorial boundaries, but
of principles. The average Britisher has been taught
that his is a battle for self-preservation, too, and that
it is a mark of defeatism even to mention peace. Some-
thing of the same sort of intolerance is growing up
in the United States. It arises, of course, out of the
transparent attempts of Nazi sympathisers to stimu-
late a so-called “appeasement” group in America, by
which is meant an influence that would cause America
to dillydally over its defence programme, on the theory
that peace is coming soon anyway. Plainly, such
delay would be in the Nazi interest.
It has been apparent for some time that if the
Nazi leaders could bring about a peace “negotiation”
right now they could dictate a peace based upon their
present military domination of the continent of
Europe. This is why a clear distinction must be made
between a “negotiated” peace predicated on the status
quo in Europe and an appeal for a peace treaty based
upon the status that must ensue when the peoples of
Central Europe join with the peoples of the rest of
the world in denouncing despotism.
But before that day comes the peoples of Central
Europe must know what is in store for them —what
guarantees of a better economic lot may be expected.
A declaration of peace aims can constitute the
beginning of the greatest long-range battle of morale
building the world has ever seen. The United States
could well participate in such a campaign to win
peoples to the cause of democracy.
The first and foremost peace aim which America
should insist upon is the “open door” of commercial
opportunity everywhere—in the Far East, in the Near
East, in Europe and Asia and in Latin America.
The second should be the removal of trade bar-
riers and the development of the principles of recip-
rocal trade agreements based on the stimulated flow
of production from country to country rather than
the selfish principles of barter.
The third peace aim should be the removal of all
restrictions upon the individual based upon race,
religion or nationality.
The fourth peace aim should be the guarantee of
freedom of the press, freedom of speech and freedom
of assembly. Without these freedoms the will of the
people to maintain peace will not be permitted to
grow strong, and the road will be kept open for
cliques and dictators to manipulate public opinion
and frustrate the true will of the populace.
The fifth peace aim should be a mechanism of
collaboration by free peoples based on moral rather
than physical force.
The sixth peace aim should be the co-operation
of all nations in a programme of financial and eco-
nomic rehabilitation.
The peoples of the British Commonwealth of
Nations have much in common with the people of
the United States in the attainment of such a set of
peace aims. But there exists in America considerable
scepticism concerning Britain’s financial and commer-
cial policies of the past.
The United States is about to tax itself to the
extent of many billions of dollars to help Britain
prosecute the war. American public opinion would
rather support the expenditure of billions instead for
economic reconstruction. The sooner the war is
brought to an end the sooner will the sums now being
appropriated be available for a peace programme of
unprecedented proportions.
Let the people of Germany and Italy and the
people of the occupied areas be told now, however,
that there is a definite programme for peace being
prepared, and let this be developed openly and in
such formal fashion that it will carry conviction to the
80,000,000 people of Central Europe, who will then
begin to wonder whether the overthrow of Hitler and
Hitlerism isn’t, after all, a small price to pay for the
greater rewards that lie ahead. The greatest of these
rewards would be freedom to live in a world recon-
structed by the money and materials and good faith
of the democratic peoples led by the United King-
dom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa,
the United States of America and the 20 republics
to the south of us.
Concerning Conquerors.
(New York “Daily News” article.)
Numerous generalisations about conquerors are
in circulation because of Hitler. One is to the effect
that a conqueror cannot stop ; that he must go on and
on, fighting and plundering. Another is that every con-
queror comes to a bad end eventually by some crack-
—Chicago “Tribune”
PACT.
up which has been dogging him throughout his career.
A third is that empires built by violent conquest
quickly come apart —usually on the conqueror’s death.
All of which generalisations are supposed to make
the settling of Mr. Hitler’s hash only a matter of time.
Sorry, but it isn’t as simple as that. Let’s look at some
conquerors in history.
Alexander the Great (356-323 b.c.) took over from
his father, Philip of Macedon, who had built the
Macedonian Empire and invented the Macedonian
phalanx. Alexander extended this empire through
Greece, down into Egypt, and over into Asia as far as
the western borders of India. He was one conqueror
who apparently couldn’t stop. He died at 33 after a
record-breaking drinking bout. But his empire can-
not be said to have disintegrated. It was divided up
by three of his generals—Seleucus, Antigonus and
Ptolemy. Antigonus’s share was split at his death in
battle between a couple of other warriors. But the
Seleucid (Persian) and Ptolemaic (Egyptian) empires
held together fairly well for quite a while.
A prime example of a conqueror who didn’t
follow the pattern nowadays attributed to all con-
querors was Julius Ctesar (100-44 b.c.). Caesar was
the prime founder of the Roman Empire—not its only
founder or builder, but the man who started it. He
came to a violent end at the hand of assassins, as a
lot of people are hoping Hitler will do. But his
empire didn’t crack up when he did. It went on
spreading and growing stronger for a long, long time.
It enforced peace throughout the ancient world, and
many of its laws and customs survive today. It did
not officially explode till a.d. 476.
Charles V (1500-58), Emperor of Germany and
King of Spain, did pretty well at strengthening the
Holy Roman Empire, fighting the Turks and the
French, and marrying himself and relatives into
families that had power over other parts of the map
of Europe. Far from being unable to quit conquering,
Charles became prematurely old at 52, parcelled out
his kingdoms to his brother Ferdinand and his son
Philip, and retired to a monastery.
Napoleon Bonaparte (1769-1821) is the classic
example of the conqueror whose life followed out the
pattern that many people believe any conqueror is
fated to follow out. He did go on and on ; in the
end he did crack up (because of his military mistakes
in Spain and Russia and the British blockade); and
his empire did not survive him. The kings of Europe,
against whom he had been leading the revolutionary
armies of France, got together and took that empire
apart.
To counterbalance Napoleon as a “typical” con-
queror, we might mention Oliver Cromwell (1599-
1658) and George Washington (1732-99). Cromwell
led a successful revolution, beheaded the king, kicked
the Dutch off England’s front doorstep, and passed
on his kingdom intact to his son. Washington won
the American Revolution, and could have been King
of the United States or President for life. He knew
when to stop, and did stop after his second term as
President; and his country still goes marching on.
So it looks to us like a fallacy to say that all
conquerors are alike and must inevitably tread the
same road. Conquerors in history have been as
diverse as human nature itself. The only thing they
have had in common has been an instinct for manag-
ing armies—the instinct of the soldier. And the life
story of one of them is not necessarily going to be
repeated by any other conqueror, on the record of
history.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
There can scarcely have been a group of states-
men in American history more consistently and gravely
mistaken within a short period of time than the isola-
tionists during the past two years. First of all, the
American isolationists declared right up to the out-
break of war that hostilities would not break out —
they had positive inside information, said they, that
nothing would happen. War came. Then they declared
it was a “phony” war, and their Eliminations because
more slaughter was not taking place were intense.
They heaped sarcasm upon British leaders, and sought
to justify their scarcely uttered prophecies that no
war would come by declaring the whole thing
to be a fake. Such fatuity and gross ignorance
of military fact can only be matched by the
“isolationists” of other lands. When the
winter of preparation was over and the light-
ning war really began, the isolationists set up
a defeatist cry. Nothing whatever could save
Britain, they declared, and they insisted that all
American aid was futile. Time went on;
Britain stood. —Erwin D. Canharn, in “Christian
Science Monitor”
* * * •
It will be objected, though not out loud,
that a sudden peace now would bring on a
serious, probably world-wide depression. True.
Big war orders make a certain kind of boom.
Post-war readjustment, while the defence in-
dustries are retooling for peace production
and writers are again beginning to label de-
fence industries “merchants of death,” is
bound to throw a lot of people out of work
for a while. But we know of no comeback
to this proposition: That the longer this war
goes on, meaning the more real wealth is tossed
into its far-flung and ever-growing furnaces,
the worse the post-war slump will be. If it
goes on long enough, we shall sink together
into Communism or a new Dark Age. —New
York “Daily News.”
The failure of the British Navy in the Nor-
wegian campaign was due, on the one hand, to
passive leadership, and, on the other, to inadequate
army and air force co-operation. The brilliant actions
of the British Navy in the Mediterranean have shown
the alternative possibilities. It is the disproportionate
burden of tasks that weighs down the British Navy and
the unavoidable limitations to its material power that
now limit its effectiveness. Co-operation between the
British and American navies would be able to take
advantage of the sea as a safety belt and as a base
of operations for a counter-offensive. —Quoted by
New York “Post” from a new book, “Battle for the
World,” by Max Werner.
*****
An interesting “inside” picture of the internal
dissensions besetting the Daladier Cabinet in the year
that preceded the outbreak of war is given in the
“secret journal” of Jean Zay, Minister of Education
in that Ministry, which recently was published in
“Gringoire.” According to the “Gringoire” account,
Zay instructed a friend to destroy the secret journal,
but was double-crossed. The journal, which bears
every sign of being genuine, discloses a bitter fight
between Daladier and Bonnet at a French Cabinet
meeting on the eve of the war. Their quarrel turned
on the answer France should give Mussolini’s pro-
posal for a second Munich to prevent a war over
Danzig. Bonnet was all for accepting the note ; Dala-
dier advocated a policy of firmness. So violent be-
came the dispute that Reynaud told Zay as they left
the Cabinet meeting that it was the most painful
scene he ever had witnessed during his entire political
career. Bonnet declared it would be dangerous to
reject purely and simply the Italian offer. He argued
that it should be accepted with the purpose of gaining
time. Daladier replied that II Duce was proposing a
second Munich. Germany was to get Danzig, the cor-
ridor and Upper Silesia, while Italy was to obtain her
share of the spoils. “It will be more serious to accept
than to refuse,” said the French Premier. “Are we
going to accept the partition of Poland, to dishonor
ourselves and lose Turkey and our other allies, only to
have war in the end after all? The lesson of Munich
is that Hitler’s signature isn’t worth a damn. When
I received the telephone call from Corbin [French
Ambassador in London] I told him, after consulting
Gamelin, we would commit a mad imprudence in
demobolising.” Daladier was supported by a per-
sonal letter from Robert Coulondre, French Ambas-
sador in Berlin, which said forcibly: “Stand firm.”
Daladier won and it was war.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
jssgaih
■BCDCGOaB E ■ > J
miiißSWiiii E"" 1
ft s! 13
IK&3R UhfSir
JU
I!!
■lllllll
laaiHiHißßi
a.
[4p M
-o
%
n
X.
&s
u
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
'Manager W. G. Bulfm
iVr A
'a k l\ /I
Product of Scotland
“BIRKMYRE”
WATERPROOF TARPAULINS
Made from Scottish Canvas by British Trade Union labour,
"BIRKMYRE" tarpaulins give maximum protection. The famous
"BIRKMYRE" proofing process is recognised as the World's
Best. It is IN the canvas not ON the canvas and —it stays
IN! In various weights and colours. If difficulty is experi-
enced in getting supplies, write Wholesale Distributors :
GOUROCK ROPES AND CANVAS LTD.
(Incorporated in Scotland.)
BRISBANE MELBOURNE SYDNEY
SMOKE-OH!
“Women carry far too much in their hand-
bags.”—Woman’s paper.
Next thing they’ll be selling handbags
to carry' the handbag in.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She was always asking him to bring her
bottle of medicine.” — Woman’s paper.
And, of course, to shake it up.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The orchestra played this movement far too
slowly, while at times the pianissimo was over-
emphasised to the point of inaudibility.”
—Musical critic.
In short, they crept along the secret
passages.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Baritone to marry pianist.”— Social note.
She will even accompany him on the
honeymoon.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Rudely taking his leave of his former
fiancee by turning on his heel, Gerald abruptly
stalked out of the roof.” — Short story.
Without even lifting his tile?
“U.S. Government Will Demand Money.
From Our Own Correspondent.”
— “D.T.” heading.
Chicago tactics, eh?
“Football referee suspended.”— “D.T.”
Unless it’s by the neck, some of the
barrackers won’t be interested.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Prizes for families should be offered to pro-
mote a better birthrate.”— Woman’s paper.
Kid stakes?
4» 4* 4* 4>
“It is a tradition that at the dinner table
father should operate on the joint or poultry.
Actually, a woman curves much better than a
man.”— Woman’s paper.
Or did until slimming came in.
4* 4* 4* •*>
“Instead of making speeches after a meal,
why not make them before?”— Woman’s paper.
Pearls before pork.
“See the big puff-puff, Willie!”
“Parts of our coast are gradually vanishing
as a result of sea erosion.” — Magazine.
If this keeps up some guest-houses will
in fact be only “a stone’s-throw from the
beach.”
5* 4* •5*
“How can you discourage friends from giving
you large bunches of home-grown flowers?
— Correspondent, woman’s paper.
Very simple. Let them pick a very
big bunch, wrap it carefully, and present
it to you with all due solemnity. Then
just look at it critically and remark in a
peeved tone: “Well, I don’t know how
I’m going to find room in the bin for all
these ! ”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Speed of attack combined with heavy punch-
ing ability enables Vic Patrick to eat all his
opponents.”— Boxing article.
They’re just a feed for him.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Bed (part board) for single man.” — Advt.
Too hard.
4* 4* + 4
“Rub this ointment on your face night and
morning for a week and you shall find it will
have disappeared.” — Woman’s paper.
In some cases, that will be a happy
relief.
One Thing Lacking.
“His client, although admittedly he was
guilty of embezzling £9OO and spending all of
it foolishly, was as simple as a child. He
had not one single vice.” — Court report.
A simple, childlike sort of chap.
He pinched a lot of dough.
He could not keep a hold on it
But, childlike, let it go.
But had he had the smallest vice,
It needless is to say.
He might have doubled what he pinched
And made a get-away!
HERBERT MULVIHILL.
Vicious Cycle.
“Bicycles are not affected by petrol ration-
ing.”—Trade journal.
It will also come as a surprise to many to
know that trains are exempt under the
Navigation Act, while taxi-cabs are not
subject to the Coalmines Regulations.
Water restrictions in Sydney don’t apply
to beer (between the hours of 6 a.m. and
6 p.m.), and if you’re caught pinching
flowers in the Botanic Gardens you are
immune from punishment under the
Weights and Measures Act.
Although pushbikes may not make too
many fortunes for carburettor manufac-
turers, their express purpose of hindering
all other forms of vehicular traffic is well
recognised. Bikes, too, are handy for
colliding with five-ton trucks, delaying
telegrams and for walking beside when
negotiating hills.
PERCIVAL.
Played Out.
“Drama of flat life in King’s Cross.”
— Woman’s paper.
Title: “Flat High Life.”
Scenes: All the same, only a little more
blurred as the play proceeds.
Act I: Party in progress. First day.
Act II: Same as Act I. Same night.
Act III: Same as Act 11. Second day.
The play ends with a complete black-
out.
Eve.
The Snag.
“Puil frequently gets a man through even
when ability has failed,” says a writer.
There’s nothing like a bit of “pull” ;
On Easy-street you’ll rob
If you’ve enough; it’s powerful
In getting you a job —
A cushy post that carries “perks.”
Still, though its strength is fabled
It’s doubtful if it ever works
On doors where “Push” is labelled.
P. O. M. C.
Need Bugs Be a Bane?
“Plant pathologists of the Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture are trying to develop, in-
stead of eradicate, a dangerous cereal disease.”
I’ve often wondered why such possi-
bilities were not explored more extensively
before this. In my own humble way
as a backyard gardener, I have conducted
similar experiments with some success.
I had been doing a little one way and
another —I had developed a cutworm
which for the beautiful sheen of its
coat outdid those of all the neighbors—
when one day Smithers, who lived next
door, passed some broad beans over the
fence. “I see yours have got the black
aphis,” he said. “I’m afraid you won’t
do much good with them.” Smithers
is one of those superior fellows who like
to impress you just how little you know
and how much he does.
“As a matter of fact,” I replied, “they’re
doing quite well.”
He looked sharply at me and then at
the drooping, enfeebled beans a few feet
away. “Why, man,” he rejoined, “they’re
nearly dead.”
I looked at him in the calm, detached
manner of the man sure of the soundness
of his statement. “On the contrary,” I
said, “they were never more vigorous.”
Smithers’s look changed to one of irri-
tation. I’m sure that at that moment he
regretted having given me the beans.
“But, dammit!” he exploded at last,
“Blind Freddie can see they’ll be a com-
plete failure. Why, not a flower’s shown
up on ’em yet, let alone a bean.”
“Who’s talking about the beans?” I
asked. “I refer to the aphis. Have you
seen any fatter or. more sleek? Why,
they’re simply jumping out of their
skins. You don’t know how to breed
a decent aphis. The only insects I’ve
ever seen on yours are emaciated things
that I wouldn’t have in my garden.”
Smithers gave me rather a queer look.
“Ar, y’re batty!” was all he could say
as he got down from the fence.
Next Sunday morning he appeared on
the fence again, this time with a cabbage
the size and hardness of a well-blown-up
football. Smithers can’t resist the vanity
of giving his biggest vegetables away.
I pressed it. “It’s a bit on the hard
side, isn’t it?” I said.
“Whaddayer mean!” he bellowed.
“That’s how it should be! ”
I smiled as I shook my head. “A
cabbage of this size and hardness,” I
said, “can never have had a cabbage-fly
or a caterpillar on it. Now mine,” 1
went on, “are soft, with the outside leaves
eaten into many delightful patterns. Can
you honestly say you could go down to
your cabbage bed now, turn over a leaf
and be certain of finding a well-nourished
caterpillar?”
That had him. “Well, no, I couldn’t,”
he admitted, rather lamely.
“There you are,” I said triumphantly.
“You confess your failure. Well, I can.
Moreover, by faithfully following the in-
structions in my gardening handbook and
spraying them twice weekly with lime-
sulphur and kerosene I am evolving
bigger and better caterpillars. The kero,
was the one thing needed to overcome
the diet deficiency.”
I could see that Smithers wasn’t so
cocksure after that, and 1 kept it up. I
proudly showed him the swarms of
perfectly-formed, muscular thrip on my
carnations, and the serried ranks of
healthy green sucking aphis on the ten-
der, purplish rosebuds. But it was after
I had displayed to him my collection of
mealybugs that Smithers began —at first
imperceptibly, but nonetheless surely—
to change his hitherto pigheaded attitude.
His complete capitulation came over my
orange-tree.
He had poked his head over the fence
one Saturday afternoon and gave me
some spinach, apologising for the com-
parative freedom of it from the spots of
the red mite. I accepted it handsomely,
giving him a little encouragement, and
expressing the belief that if he kept up
the good work his red mite would per-
haps equal in physique my own. “By
the way, 1 said,
jerking my thumb
towards my orange-
tree, “what do you
think of that?”
He surveyed the
white trunks and
branches of my Late
Valencia. “What the
hell have you been
liming it for at this
time of the year?”
he asked.
“Lime, my whats-
this! ” I said scorn-
fully. “That’s the
Indian wax scale!”
For a weak mo-
ment Smithers lapsed
back to his old
heretical beliefs.
“But that’s a dis-
ease ! ” he said.
“What of it?” I
replied. “It’s had it
for years. When you
come out into your
garden on a pitch-black night your nude
citrus-trees give your eyes no assistance.
I heard you swearing last night when you
banged into something. These scale-lined
branches are a perfect guide. You must
admit that you’ve never seen scale as
good as it before.”
It was a challenge to Smithers’s vanity,
and it touched him on a tender spot.
“You think you’re the only one who can
cultivate a decent plant disease, don’t
you?” he sneered. “Well, I’m just going
to show you I can grow scale that’ll
make your mouldy stuff look like a bunch
of white pinheads.”
It was the goad I needed. Since then
I have evolved a sweet-pea mite that is a
miracle of savagery and sucking ability,
and a mildew that is at once my delight
and Smithers’s despair. I’ll hand it to
him that he’s developed a fern weevil and
a codlin-moth that I haven’t been yet
able to equal, but I don’t despair.
It was yesterday that Smithers appeared
again at the fence, and I was struck by
the haggard, almost desperate look of the
man. I felt instinctively that something
had gone wrong. I was right. Brokenly
he confessed the blackspot disease on his
tomatoes was itself being attacked by an-
other and, to him, unknown disease. In
silent sympathy I wrung his hand. I, too,
have had my failures.
BO.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPR USO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
It rained sharply on Saturday morn-
ing, but the weather cleared two hours
before racing at Moorefield commenced,
and there was a large attendance, with
a tote turnover of £14,977 10s. The
going was good, as shown by the fact of
Lady Neith winning the Three-year-old
Handicap in 1.154, which was only
three-quarters of a second outside the
track record for six furlongs. Backers,
as a whole, had a bad time, every favorite
failing, and the winners included
two at 25 to 1 and another at 12 to 1.
G. P. Nailon supplied three well-backed
runners, and, though the best they could
do was to record a third, that increased
his point score for the trainers’ prize
at Moorefield to 52, and, with only one
more meeting at that track before the
end of the season, he appears to have
a mortgage on that £75. B. Pay ten, with
36 points, is nearest him.
In the Brighton Handicap Brazen Lad
went to the front immediately after bar-
rier-rise, and was never actually headed,
though Creditor was alongside him at
the home turn. Aristocrat and St.
Andrew were not far away, though the
latter was beaten entering the straight.
At the leger Aristocrat looked like going
on to win, but he weakened, and Brazen
Lad, outstaying Creditor, won by half
a length. Aristocrat was a close third,
followed by St. Andrew, whose short
price, even on his best form, was not
warranted. Apart from the four men-
tioned, nothing was ever a possibility in
running. John Peel was again backed,
but did no better than at Randwick the
previous week.
Hilarious is not far behind the form
that enabled her to win an Ellesmere
Handicap at Randwick with 8.3 in June
of last year. Last half a mile from home
in the Moorefield Handicap, and a long
way from the leaders —Mortine, Baldmon
and Miss Heroic —she finished strongly
to score by a head from Mortine, who
did the pacemaking. Mortine was
headed by Miss Heroic immediately
after entering the straight, but she out-
stayed the latter.
Miss Heroic, who weakened in the last
hundred yards, was only half a head be-
hind Mortine and very little in advance
of Lord Valentine. The last-named was
somewhat unlucky, as, failing to get
through on the rails, he had to be pulled
to the outside, and the race was as good
as over before he could fairly tackle
the leaders. Court Gosssip tired after
being prominent to the straight entrance,
and Pennywise is not acting up to what
was expected of her as a stayer a little
while back. Highborn, though backed,
never really got in it, and is still a long
way from his best form.
• ••••»
Bringa, who had been out of the win-
ning list since he pulled off the 1939
Summer Cup at Randwick, and was sold
a few months ago for 20gns., came to
light in the Hurdle Race and, though at
12 to 1 in the ring, paid a tote dividend
at the rate of 234 to 1. King’s Cross
set up a long lead in the first mile, but
Bringa was close to him half a mile from
home, and then Shot Gun made things
look interesting when he made a run
that took him almost up to Bringa in
second place at the home turn. King’s
Cross was beaten before reaching the
last jump, and Bringa won comfortably
from Shot Gun. As Bringa looked as
if he could be improved, he is likely
to win again shortly, especially as a
longer distance will not trouble him.
El Banado ran fourth, and was the
only one of those behind the place-
getters that shaped fairly. Punarua
settled his chance when he blundered at
a jump near the six furlongs. King
Otho was disappointing, dropping out at
an early stage, and the once smart
sprinter Disalto was such a long last that
it is hard to say how much he will have
to improve to win a hurdle race,
Kama, a strong favorite for the Three-
year-old Handicap, was slow to get
going, and was so badly placed at the
end of the first furlong that she did well
to finish fifth. Lady Neith led at the
half-mile, and outpaced her opponents
over the remainder of the trip. At the
straight entrance Loyal Lad and John
Halifax were nearest her, but did not
threaten danger in the run to the winning-
post. Shem was always fairly prominent,
and in the last few strides dead-heated
Loyal Lad for third. As Shem gave the
impression of still being a trifle above
himself, a win for him before long in
an average field is probable. Martheus
showed some of his earlier pace, as did
Valve, and the latter has made up into
a nice horse.
Milanja completely upset calculations
when he registered his third win of the
season in the first division of the Juvenile
Handicap. He was so little fancied that
he receded from sevens to twenty-fives.
Going up the hill he was fourth to
Cradle Song, Makatha and Grand Land,
but moving up second at the straight
entrance he was too solid for Cradle
Song at the finish. Pallama, however,
was the unlucky horse of the race. Inter-
ference at barrier-rise caused him to lose
several lengths. Third-last at the half-
mile, he then got a remarkably clear run
through, but he had too much leeway to
make up, and did well to get third. If
he had got away fairly he would have
won. Fanvolon did well from the turn
to get fourth, and Valaroi, a Peter Pan
colt owned by D. U. Seaton, shaped
promisingly. His dam, Neon, is out of
Lightsome, a sister to Gloaming.
The second division of the Juvenile
Handicap also went to an outsider, the
llOOgns. colt War Spear (Spearfelt-My
Treasure) putting in a fast finish to win
from Royalet—a nice Royal Sun filly—
and Blue Metal. War Spear ran rather
greenly, but though he cut across Royalet
and Blue Metal he was going away at
the end. A protest on behalf of Royalet
was dismissed. Arenessa (Chatham-Dame-
minster), from B. Payten’s stable, was
supposed to have a mortgage on the
race, but though she was the early leader
and was first into the straight she then
tired badly.
Miss Cygnea and Vivien Leigh were
well backed, but though each had a good
run in the early part of the race neither
had anything to do with the finish. Those
actually nearest to Arenessa rounding the
bend were Vivien Leigh, Blue Metal and
Miss Cygnea in a bunch. Although the
field was not supposed to be nearly as
strong as that for the first division, the
time was only a quarter-second worse.
Benburb, favorite for the first division
of the Flying Welter, was slow to com-
mence, and eventually finished third to
My Friend and Loyal Lad. My Friend,
who looks a welter horse, was never far
from the front, and had the race safe
half a furlong from home. Loyal Lad
could not gallop for the first two fur-
longs, dropping back to the rear division,
but then moved up so smartly that he was
one of the leading division turning into
the straight. He struggled on gamely,
but had no chance against My Friend.
Jubilee, who was the early leader, was
fourth, followed by Bramol, who is now
one of C. Windred’s team. There was
support for Miss Pentheus, but, failing
to jump away smartly, she did not give
any trouble. However, as she is looking
well, a win for her may not be long in
coming. Asa yearling My Friend cost
W. Guest 225gns.
McMenamin’s horsemanship had a lot
to do with Camsion’s win in the second
division of the Flying Handicap. Stick-
ing closely to the rails he brought Cam-
sion through with a fast run, and nar-
rowly defeated the heavily-backed
Southerly, who looked a winner when he
took the lead from Sylvienne turning into
the straight. Tunisia, from an outside
position, ran up third going up the hill,
and finished in that position, followed by
Good Earth, who is coming on again.
Electra was fifth or sixth throughout,
but did not show any dash, and, though
Tellaweepy was expected to give a good
account of himself, he was chopped back
to last soon after the start. It was a large
field, but the form of several runners
was such as to suggest that it must be
due to pronounced optimism on the part
of their respective owners that they are
being trained. However, it would be bad
for racing if there were no optimsitic
owners.
* * * *
The Stork and Lockslea, respective
candidates for the G.N. Hurdle and
Steeple, have advanced in favor for those
races as a result of their ridiculously easy
wins at Moonee Valley on Saturday.
The Stork won the Federal Hurdle by
seven lengths, and Lockslea the Com-
monwealth Steeple by 10 lengths, each
being eased up at the finish.
The Stork did not have a strong field
to beat, but he was racing over jumps for
the first time since January, and his
owner, D. Reid, doubted whether he
would be quite ready to win. The former
Sydney-owned gelding, however, hit the
front about half a mile from home, and
was not troubled subsequently to win as
he liked from Campaspe and the favorite,
Atticus, who jumped badly. The Stork
was formerly raced by a radio actor,
George Edwards, but was not much of a
success on the flat, and was sold to Reid.
He remained with trainer J. Besanko,
who was not anxious to keep him, but
Reid, who won the 1935 G.N. Steeple
with Riawena, has a good eye for a
jumper, and made no mistake in selecting
The Stork as a likely hurdler. The
Stork has already won him three races
over hurdles, and, being only four
years old, seems certain to improve. Pro-
vided the gelding’s form warrants it, Reid
intends giving him his opportunity in the
National, in which he will be ridden by
his Moonee Valley jockey, S. McKee,
Lockslea has an unbeaten record in
two starts over fences, and on each
occasion has given a brilliant exhibition.
As at the Valley a week earlier, he simply
hurdled his jumps in the Commonwealth
Steeplechase. He made one mistake
early, but gained ground at every subse-
quent fence, and, leading throughout the
last round, was never in danger of defeat.
Gold Glare and Kosela, the minor-place
getters, could not cope witfi his brilliance,
but the favorite, Nevizes, may have made
the finish a little more interesting had he
stood up. He was going well when he
knuckled over after jumping the last
fence the first time round. An eight-year-
old by Polycrates, Lockslea is a natural
’chaser. Owner-trainer E. F. Silcock has
not mapped out his immediate future, as
there are plenty of opportunities before
National Day, but he naturally believes
he has a good G.N. prospect if Lockslea’s
doubtful forelegs stand.
Form followers were staggered when
Prairiedale, starting at 20 to 1, lasted long
enough to defeat the favorites, Ellison
and Our Boy, in the Mount Alexander
Handicap. Two starts earlier he had
won rather well at Ascot, but he showed
no dash and beat only one horse home in
True Flight’s race at the Valley at his
next appearance. On Saturday, how-
ever, he galloped freely, moved up
second near the five furlongs, and, draw-
ing clear at the top of the straight, won
by half a head. Lessee-trainer J. Hay-
ward stated after the race that he could
not account for his gelding’s poor form
a week earlier, the only possible ex-
planation being that he does best for
apprentice T. Unkovich. Latter, who has
ridden him in both his recent wins, was
required for another horse on the day
of his defeat.
• • ii • •
Prairiedale will be nine years old when
the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups are
run, but his lessee-trainer said on Satur-
day that he intended nominating him for
those races. He has trained many good
horses, principally in W.A., over a period
of many years, but considers Prairiedale
one of the hardiest he has had. It is
high praise, but the big Cups are not won
by horses of Prairiedale’s age, and on
Saturday he was lucky to beat Ellison
and Our Boy. They had a solid wall of
horses ahead of them rounding the turn,
and could not get clear until too late.
Our Boy was doing a little better than
Ellison right on the post, and his per-
formance did not lose him any admirers
for the G.N. Hurdle Race, for which he
is one of the early favorites,
•
Unpenalised for her Ascot win three
days earlier, Beaufiler appreciated her
drop from 8.4 to 7.10, and defeated a
stronger field for the Keilor Handicap,
The W.A.-owned mare is right at her
best again, and, always one of the leaders,
drew clear entering the straight to win
decisively, though not easily, from El
Reo and Con Naru. Beaufiler and
Master Craft, the latter of whom also
won at Ascot, are owned by Mrs.
A. M, R. Bunbury, for whom their
trainer, Ted Temby, prepared horses in
the West about 30 years ago. Several
months ago Temby announced his inten-
tion to retire from racing, but a number
of wins have followed his change of
mind. Feature of the Keilor Handicap
betting was a plunge on Pamelus. From
10 to 1, his price firmed to favoritism at
9 to 2, but, although well-placed early,
he gradually dropped back and finished
second-last.
Best two-year-old filly in Victoria is
Wheat Sheaf, who took her record to
six starts for five wins and a second
when she defeated Gay Revelry half a
head in the Piccaninny Handicap. The
race was considered a match between this
pair, with 10 to 1 on offer bar them,
and, although Gay Revelry would have
won in another stride or two, he was
conceded , 201 b. by the winner. Gay
Revelry, incidentally, has not been out
of a place in his three starts, and is a
colt of really good promise. He began
slowly on Saturday, and, forced to go
wide when still a fair way out of his
ground on the turn, rattled home at a
great rate. Roseate, a half-sister to
Apostrophe, also ran on strongly in third
place, while Vermont and Spearmain
were unplaced runners who might repay
following.
Wheat Sheaf is to be kept in work for
further winter racing, but lessee A. W.
Watkins, being of opinion that he pos-
sesses a prospective champion, does not
intend to knock her about. All going
well, she will be on hand in the spring.
Whether Wheat Sheaf, who is by Mani-
toba from Steel and Gold, is in the same
class as All Love is another matter. All
Love has won very much better races, but
Wheat Sheaf did not begin racing until
February, and probably will keep on im-
proving. Her only classic engagement
is the Oaks, and, having already won at
seven furlongs at Flemington, there is no
real reason why she should not get a
mile and a half among horses of her own
age and sex.
• •*•••
Palencia’s defeat of the favorite, Link-
boy, and Somerset in the Empire High-
weight was a wonderful result for book-
makers. He started at 33 to 1, and re-
turned a tote dividend of approximately
53 to 1. Palencia hit the front on the
bend, and, drawing clear after entering
the straight, was not in danger subse-
quently. Linkboy had every chance, but
old Somerset finished well, and is not yet
a back-number. Heart’s Desire, backed
from 5 to 1 down to equal favoritism
with Linkboy at 5 to 2, was hard-ridden
most of the way to retain a good posi-
tion, and lacked her usual dash at the
finish.
* * * *
Sydney bookmakers evince little in-
clination to bet on the V.R.C. Grand
National double, but a fair amount of
business has been transacted in Mel-
bourne. Victorian horses favored for the
Hurdles by southern critics .are Bureau-
crat, Allanius, Boisterous, Our Boy, The
Stork, Harley and Dartbrook. For the
Steeplechase Brightello, Collier, Bridge
of Dee, Dark David, Solecism, National
Debt, Baldasair and Grantley receive
most mention. The combination of In-
dignity and Dominor has been supported
FOR RANDWICK.
By “PILOT.”
Trial Hurdle Race: Generous
Gesture or Windjammer, 1 ; Shot
Gun, 2; King Claro, 3.
Nursery Handicap; The Cham-
pion, 1 ; War Spear, 2; Epic
Poem, 3.
Trial Handicap: Rhythmic, 1 ;
Haran, 2 ; Jymjon, 3.
George’s River Handicap: Rod-
borough, 1 ; Tel Asur, 2 ; Hydra, 3.
Homestead Handicap: Lord
Valentine, 1 ; Feminist, 2 ; Mabson
or Lockray, 3.
Welter Handicap: Shem, 1 ;
Veiled Witch, 2 ; The Squire, 3.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(Before acceptances.)
York Hurdle Race: Bureaucrat,
1 ; Harley, 2 ; The Stork, 3.
Rothsay Handicap; Gay Revelry,
1 ; Roseate, 2 ; Gold Strand, 3.
Hopetoun Steeplechase: Highland
March, 1 ; Bridge of Dee, 2;
Lockslea, 3.
Royal Handicap; High Title, 1 ;
El Golea, 2 ; Tranent, 3.
Sandringham Handicap; Glad-
stone, 1 ; West Wind, 2 ; Ellison, 3.
Buckingham Handicap: Fur
Trader, 1; Sun Valley, 2 ; Master
Craft, 3.


from Adelaide. The latter has won over
hurdles at Flemington.
* H: * ♦
It is always a wrench for a jockey to
drop out while his services are still in
demand. Ashley Reed, who retired
nearly two years ago, found he could
not stand it, and last week was granted
a renewal of his jockey’s license by the
V.R.C. As even Melbournites allow the
present standard of horsemanship over
there is not particularly high, Reed's past
record will get him all the riding he
could wish. It is scarcely necessary to
add that his Victorian handicap wins in-
clude the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups,
Newmarket Handicap and Cantala Stakes.
In Sydney he won the Epsom Handicap
on Cathmar. Incidentally, J. Pike re-
sumed riding work at Randwick this
week.
=f= * * H:
In last week’s issue I inadvertently
wrote of Epic Poem as a half-sister to
Loquacious. It should have been “half-
sister to Feminist,” their dam being
Loquacious. Epic Poem may not prove
another Feminist, but it is probable she
will do credit to the relationship.
V * * *
The change from Sydney to Brisbane
is doing as much for O Raklo as it has
done for High Rank. A failure in Sydney,
0 Raklo has won a couple of races in
quick succession in Brisbane, and is evi-
dently staying much better. On more
than one occasion he displayed lots of
pace in races in Sydney, but tired at the
finish. O Raklo is a half-brother, by
Lo Zingaro, to Respirator, and cost
500gns. as a yearling. He was first
trained by J. T. Jamieson, and though it
was thought distance would be his forte
it is the reverse with him up to the
present. However, as he is only three
years old there is plenty of time yet for
him to develop as a stayer.
* * * *
It seems remarkable that Moonee
Valley should have been able to average
£3OOO a day for prize-money during its
recent financial year, while at their Satur-
day meetings Sydney’s minor clubs rarely
reach half that amount. Melbourne
attendances are not nearly double those
of Sydney, and yet the minor clubs over
here are unable to approach those of
the southern capital in their distribution
to owners. And shareholders in Sydney
clubs claim that their dividends are on
the light side.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
Entry lists for the Doomben New-
market and Cup indicate that Sydney
will be strongly represented in Bris-
bane next month. Beaulivre, High Caste
and Gold Salute are in each race, and,
in view of the outburst on the part of
the owner of the last-named on the way
he was weighted for the C. W. Cropper
Plate, the Doomben handicapper’s
will be interesting. Amiable, who beat
Gold Salute at Randwick, is in the New-
market, and, one way and another, han-
dicapper T. Mitchell may have difficulty
in adjusting weights in a manner pleas-
ing to all Sydney owners, to say nothing
of the Queensland division.
* * * *
Clarion Call (Hunting Song-Saxon
Saint) is rated not only the best hurdler
but the best steeplechaser in the North
Island of Maoriland. In the G.N.
Hurdle Race, of £1750, 2\ miles, to be
run in Auckland, he has 11.13, and 12.5
in the G.N. Steeplechase, of £2OOO, 31-
miles. Gladynev is engaged in the Corn-
wall Handicap, of £7OO, 1 i mile, the
principal flat race of the meeting. He
has 8.8, the minimum being 7st., and
as the three-year-old gelding Lou Rosa,
with 9.6, tops the 41 entrants it would
seem probable that the older horses now
racing in Maoriland are not of a really
high standard. This possibility tends to
throw a little doubt on Kindergarten
being quite the phenomenal colt sug-
gested by his wins, though it is certain
he is good. Anyhow, he will be
thoroughly tested in Sydney and Mel-
bourne in the spring, the w.f.a. division,
as a whole, promising to be particularly
strong.
* * * *
Beau Pere’s American list for this year
filled very quickly, and in April bookings
were being taken for next season. His
fee was by private arrangement. Beau
Pere is at L. B. Mayer’s Elbee Farms,
Perris Valley, California.
* * * *
The English Derby is to be run at
Newmarket on the 18th of this month,
and the Oaks the following day. The
original races were dropped, and when
fresh entries were taken last year the
Derby closed with 65 and the Oaks with
54. We do not get much racing news
from England nowadays, but on the
opening day of the flat-racing season at
Lincoln on March 26 Gordon Richards
won the first race on Snapdragon, a 10-to-
-1 chance. S. Raphael’s four-year-old
Gloaming, a gelding by Dastur, beat 18
other runners in the Lincolnshire Handi-
cap the same afternoon, and, though he
had never previously won a race, started
at 14 to 1 on the strength of good track
work. Gloaming cost 2500gns. as a
yearling, and is trained by 80-year-old G.
Lambton.
* ❖ H: H*
As 1 have repeatedly written, New
Yorkers do not take the same interest in
racing as Melbournites and Sydneyites.
Despite New York’s tremendous popula-
tion the record attendance for a day at
any of its tracks last season was 42,859
at Belmont Park. This year 37,284 at
Jamaica on April 12 was a record for an
opening day at a New York track. Visi-
tors did not leave their money at home,
the day’s tote turnover being $1,288,551
(approximately £A434,885). In the whole
State of New York $110,000,000 went
through the tote in 174 days last year, but
it is anticipated this year’s total will be
$140,000,000 (about £A42,550,000), which
should mean a further advance in prize-
money, as well as greatly increased
revenue for the State.
* * * *
The Hawkesbury R.C. may lose finan-
cially by the exchange, but its committee
readily agreed to the suggestion that ff
should race on October 18, instead of
September 27, in order to help the meet-
ing to be held at Randwick for the benefit
of the Red Cross Fund. City Tattersall’s
had generously passed its meeting ol
October 18 over to the Red Cross people,
and it was recognised that if it could be
held a week before the A.J.C. spring fix-
ture, it would mean a much greater
monetary return. The Hawkesbury R.C.
being in agreement, dates have been ex-
changed, and, as on a previous occa-
sion, the meeting will be controlled by a
committee apart from that of any racing
club. Even opponents of racing must
admit that our principal clubs are doing
their full share in assisting war funds.
* * * *
Discussing Sydney tracks recently I
heard a jockey who does a lot of riding
say that Canterbury now has the best
galloping surface of any. “It’s like rid-
ing on a carpet, and there’s nothing better
in Melbourne.”
* * * *
Whenever it is suggested that little
would be lost by the reduction of provin-
cial meetings you are generally met with
the reply “You must give the ‘battler’ a
chance.” Well, as so many of these pro-
vincial meetings are won by leased horses,
there cannot be much in it for the
“battler” unless he gets a punter. Prizes of
£l7 or £2O do not leave much for the
lessee if, after payment of other ex-
penses, he has to hand over a third of the
prize to the horse’s owner, “Battlers” do
not win out of their turn, and no matter
how cheaply they may conduct their
operations paltry prizes must keep them
very close to the breadline. However, if
they are satisfied it is presumably no one
else’s business, and some would never be
able to have horses unless they got them
on lease. The other day I heard it sug-
gested that the A.J.C. should move for
higher prizes at provincial meetings and
a reduction everywhere of the percentage
charged for leased horses. The latter,
however, is a matter of private arrange-
ment, and it is improbable the ruling
body would be able to interfere.
* * =H *
Milanja is Madagascar’s best two-year-
old of this season, and his owner, M.
Dann, who gave 575gns. for him, is
hopeful he will be among the top division
of the coming season’s three-year-olds.
Queen Balak, dam of Milanja, also threw
Prince Ariel, and, as he is fairly good up
to a mile and a half, it enhances Milanja’s
chance of developing into a stayer.
Queen Balak is by Moabite from Sita
(Comedy King-Star of India, by Wallace)
and is a half-sister to Highardo, whose
wins included the Adelaide R.C. Birthday
Cup and Alderman Cup.
* * * *
Sydney tote punters will begin to think
that the road to wealth is to follow owner
S. E. Chatterton’s horses. They have not
won more than their share of races this
season, but as Melorado’s dividend at
Randwick in March was at the rate of
nearly 17 to 1. Grand Fils returned
64 to 1 at Rosehill a fortnight ago and
War Spear nearly 53i to 1 at Moorefield
on Saturday, those dividends have put fol-
lowers of the Chatterton colors well ahead
of anything lost on them on previous
occasions.
* * * *
Majorca is not the only pony that has
done good service for his owner in
Sydney during the past few months. At
her first start of the season Lady Limarch
ran nowhere in a 14.2 race at a Rose-
bery meeting in November, but since
then she has scored seven wins, two
seconds and a dead-heat for that position
and three thirds, her earnings totalling
£636. Although she missed a place when
backed at Kensington last week, it was,
as she is only three years old, asking a
lot of her to win with 9.10, seeing the
minimum was 7.0. That was the weight
carried by the winner, Shop Girl.
* * * •
Not only can an owner get a small
fortune from prize-money for some races
in America, but trainers of winners are
treated with marked liberality. At the
Suffolk Downs (Boston) meeting of 60
days which started in May and will end
in July, the trainer of the winner of the
Massachusetts Handicap, of $50,000,
received S2OOO from the association,
trainers of three other winners of big
races SIOOO each, two other races $750
each, and of eight others SSOO each.
Altogether trainers’ awards from the
association totalled $10,500 (nearly
£A3200).
* * * »
The question of stretching a wire
across Flemington from the judge’s box
to the winning post, in order to assist
the judge, was considered by the V.R.C.
committee last week, and was held over.
Perhaps the V.R.C. has no intention of
making any change until it has given
consideration to the photographing of
finishes, which is strongly advocated in
Melbourne by some racing men who are
not satisfied with the present system. The
“eye in the sky” method of photograph-
ing finishes is the one that has given most
satisfaction in America, but its instal-
lation at any Australian track would
mean heavy expenditure.
« * * *
In view of the opinions of some critics
that Yaralla’s pace and conformation are
against him as a probable stayer, his
owner can point out that True Flight
(brother to Yaralla) has won at a mile
and a half, and was also second at two
miles in a Perth Cup. Furthermore that,
while he is by a sire of stayers in The
Buzzard, his dam, Even Keel, is a half-
sister to Old Rowley. From the foregoing
it will be gathered that breeding is not
against the possibility of Yaralla getting
a distance, and as for conformation —
well, Phar Lap, as a two-year-old, was
not only “on the leg,” but flat-sided. Last
season it was reckoned by many good
judges that Lucrative was too brilliant to
stay, but his Melbourne Cup run and
autumn form proved that idea erroneous,
and at present there is no reason for
Yaralla’s owner to allow adverse
opinions to worry him.
* * * *
Unbeaten Bahram, who was bought
last year by an American syndicate of
four from the Aga Khan for a reported
price of between £A48,000 and £A49,000,
did not do as well physically as could be
wished after his arrival in America. In
consequence all subscriptions to him for
this year were cancelled. He was to have
had 40 mares, of which 29 were owned
by members of the syndicate. All going
well, he will have his first American sea-
son next year. Bahram, whose wins in-
cluded the Two Thousand, Derby and St.
Leger, had his first stud season in Eng-
land in 1936 and his winners of last
year included Turkhan —Irish Derby and
Yorkshire St. Leger.
* * * *
Vergure looked particularly well at
Kensington last week, but though the
way he was backed for the first division
of the Flying Handicap suggested that
those who should know most about him
were of opinion he was back to his old
form that idea proved incorrect. His
early pace was missing, and to the dis-
may of his supporters he was so far back
when half the distance was covered that
it was apparent his chance was hopeless.
In the straight, however, he put in such a
good run that he finished fourth, and was
travelling faster than anything ahead of
him. Hitherto he has shone at six fur-
longs, but it is possible that, with age, he
has lost some of his dash and might now
be better suited by seven furlongs or a
mile than anything shorter. After the
way he ran last Saturday he is worth a
trial at one of those distances.
* * * *
In California horses that have shown
themselves specially good on soft tracks
are to be denied the opportunity of
running off weight on hard going. A
Lexington (Ky.) exchange says that the
Californian authorities have decided to
refuse the entry on fast tracks of horses
which have shown they are capable
“mudders” but poor performers on hard
going. This action was taken by the
board of stewards at Santa Anita, and is
discretionary. It is said to be aimed at
trainers who have deliberately raced sore
horses on hard tracks, but it is most
unusual procedure. If the weather looked
like being fine, and an entry was refused,
it would be rather rough on an owner
if, after all, the day on which the race
was run was wet and the track soft.
Californian stewards would seemingly
have to shine as weather prophets as
well as racing experts.
M.Q. and Rafferty
The ham-and-beef vaudeville com-
monly described as wrestling looks to be
at last heading for the cold and bleak
outer. The cheerful wish of an addict of
the Noble Art is may it freeze there and
petrify. Winter after winter it has prac-
tically put the kibosh on honest stoush:
if it hadn’t been for places like Leich-
hardt, giving a full night every week or
so to scrapping—sometimes for as long
as seven or eight weeks on end, the bulk
of Sydney’s scrappers might as well have
hung up the gloves.
There seems to be now a fair chance
of reviving the Noble Art: certainly the
public is there waiting if the promoters
know how to cater for it. The clash of
Vic Patrick and Tod Morgan at Sydney
was last week filling in crosses all
over the box plans. It isn’t a cham-
pionship fight, either ; Tod sensibly in-
sisting on a non-title scrap first, with an
undertaking to risk the title later.
In Melbourne and Brisbane also any-
thing like a good fight seems to be now
capable of pulling ’em in. At West Mel-
bourne on Saturday, Enrico Ventrillo, a
Filipino featherweight, proved far in-
ferior in boxing skill to Billy Rainsbury,
though he stayed the distance,
Georges Champion continues on his
winning way. He has had a poor press
since he landed in these parts from round
about Noumea, though the fact that he
can be billed as a Free Frenchman might
alone have been expected to ensure him
a better run. As well, his ring ability is
tiptop. His victim of last week was the
Filipino Young Frisco, whom he beat by
a vast margin of points at Brisbane
Stadium. Frisco had previously accounted
for Alan Westbury.
Footbrawl
Saturday’s round of V.F. League games
gave speckers a line on the final four,
though war and other things may work
many changes before the last bell is rung.
Melbourne, Richmond, Carlton, Essendon
and Footscray are out in front, with
Collingwood a game behind and the rest
nowhere.
Melbourne pushed ’Wood out of the
front line with dazzling handball among
the forwards and sure shooting. It
finished with 26.11 to 19.13.
Richmond-Fitzroy looked like being
easy for the Tigers till ’Roy clapped on
the pace and tried to jam up the play.
These tactics succeeded until Richmond
countered with positional play. Rich-
mond, 17.18 to 15.8.
Footscray, somewhat moody at the lack
of opposition, slammed on 14.21 to
North’s 8.8, while Essendon gambolled
among the Haw-Haws and totted up
23.18 to the locals’ hard-earned 8.12.
Carlton, after pottering about in the
first quarter at St. Kilda and being be-
mused by the great work of the Saints’
half-forward McLean, started the last
quarter nearly four goals to the bad.
Then it remembered that to win meant
being up with the leaders, and the crowd
was treated to a ding-dong gO' which saw
Carlton win by 15.18 to 13.12.
A strong wind affected the match at
Geelong, where South Melbourne scored
behinds like an adding machine every
time it had the breeze. South 13.25 to
14.12.
* * * *
University still leads in the Sydney
Rugby Union competition, but very
nearly suffered its first defeat on Satur-
day. Level (11-11) at “lemons,” St.
George was ahead, 23-21, a few minutes
before full time and holding on grimly.
Then Davis, the half-back, tried to clear
with a kick as the ball came from a
scrum ; it struck the breaking forwards
and bounced back over the line, and the
’Varsity captain, Oxenham, dived on it
for a try: University 24-23, and the best
match of the season.
After a run of outs Randwick beat
Parramatta 11-3. The Green backline
produced a bit of its old-time dash. East
led West 1 l-nil at half-time, but was
afterwards so hard pushed that it was
glad to hear the final bell; East, 11-8.
Manly, too, had a half-time lead of 11-/i/7
(against Gordon) and managed to retain
five points of it; 14-9. North and Drum-
moyne played a draw, 9.9.
* * * *
In China, as in Australia, it is “football
as usual.” A Chinese Soccer team
began a goodwill tour or something with
a match against N. S. Wales at Sydney
C.G. The visitors found the N.S.W.
forwards too fast and too heavy, and
were beaten by two goals—6-4. On Sun-
day, however, they put Illawarra (South
Coast) through, 4-2, at Woonona.


19
n
-
ms
J»;
■
w.
■"■V |
HHI
■Hi
ji
■
■
: V
ib >
I
Wi
2k WM‘ mtm ;; ■
mmmmM. liS I
/fj
WksmkSk
I I I
W'miMi.
■ ■ ■■
HH
■id
“
mm
WMm.
■l■
IH
Jr
*
1L
Mi
a#,.; q» aw t
$d r wU icU ll ° r '’°" . ~u.s
pi"' C blood to
B,s
'*' ' , „;«! s< >l <’< - ; lS i w«»* ..^—<■,
S' l " I ’V® cfc “■* /iWS
in **** - -
HADDDN RIG STUD
NORTH OF TWENTY. EIGHT
“Qwert Yuiop”: Bli Bli, a small agri-
cultural district on the Maroochy River
(S.Q.), has so far contributed seven en-
listed men to Australia’s war effort. Sur-
names: Bowda, Blanch, Buckland, Burne,
Briggs, Beadnell and O’Brien.
* * * *
“23-4”: Making an appeal for educa-
tion in citizenship at a Queensland pow-
wow on education, a speaker said that
184 boys of an average age of 14 were
given a general-knowledge test, with this
result:—
Forty-eight didn’t know how many State
Governments we had ; 13 couldn’t name the
KT of ?S. ;°”lx sa „lef SndS!
one Fadden and one Sir Leslie Wilson as
Queensland Premier; 11 held that Tas-
mania wasn’t part of the Commonwealth
and six that Maoriland was; nine gave
the same honor to Java and three said the
U.S.A. was part of the British Empire.
At first glance it seems shocking, but is
it? Go out and ask adults to tell you the
names of the six Premiers or the six State
Governors and ask them the political
color of the same Governments. If you
are in a city, see how many adults can
instantly answer when you ask who is
Lord Mayor.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Queensland’s
most outstanding example of the physical
benefits conferred by a military life is
provided by Lance-corporal Hopkins, a
driver in the A.I.F. at Redbank camp. A
mere 18 stone and 6ft. lin. when he en-
listed some months ago, he has since put
on an inch in height and now weighs 24
stone. Still only 21, he has plenty of
time yet in which to attain his full adult
dimensions and to outgrow his present
nickname of “Tiny.”
* * * »
“Norther”; A Dimbulah consignment
of tobacco has made the highest price
ever paid for Queensland leaf, 68d. per
pound. Otto Jonsson is the lucky man. N.
Pettitt, from the Glasshouse Mountains,
ran him close with 64d.
* * * *
“Tabu”: The case of the Cairns licen-
see who kept his pub open on election
day and got away with it on a technical
point (B. 21/5/’4l) recalls that of the
country lad who was caught riding a
lampless bike. The cop said that only
the pin-point of light from the rider’s
cigarette saved him from being knocked
down. Unfortunately for the prosecution
the charge was worded “riding a bicycle
without a light.” The defence contended
that the cigarette was a light, and that its
*““<2 been admitted by J, Hop
himselt. Case dismissed.
* * * *
ttD • + if
Poi-poi . It is safe to say that it
Brisbane, Sydney or Melbourne were
situated on or close to a State border the
dreadful effects of multiple government
would be at once so evident and so irri-
tating that the movement for their abo-
lition would soon sweep State Parliaments
away. As it is, only those few city people
with business interests in other States
have any idea of the costly overlapping
and incredible stupidity of having two
sets of laws operating on each side of an
imaginary line. Let Sydney people
imagine that the Parramatta River is the
Queensland-N.S.W. border. On each side
there would be different liquor hours,
transport laws, crime penalties, tax-rates,
fares, rules and regulations of all kinds,
Added to all that, every employer on the
north who had employees whose work
took them over the Harbor Bridge would
have to pay double workers’-insurance
cover. That’s what faces Coolangatta
and other south Queensland employers.
Though the Queensland Act covers
Queensland employees when working
in other parts of Australia, the N. S.
Wales Act requires that anybody work-
ing in that State must be covered, irre-
spective of where his boss lives or what
other cover there may be. One of the first
bodies to encounter the snag was the
Coolangatta-Tweed ambulance commit-
tee, which was forced to take the double
cover to perform its errands of mercy on
either side of the State line.
* * * *
A top-flighter among Australian
classical scholars, F. S. N. Bousfield,
M.A., is dead at 85. A product of Win-
chester and Oxford, he was appointed
to the Brisbane school in 1888, when
the roll numbered 212. In 1909 he be-
came head. When he retired in 1928,
roll was 478. Bousfield filled his leisure
with more studies in the classics and odd
jobs for the Queensland University in
that line.
* * * •
Latest estimate of Queensland’s popu-
lation is 1,029,613, The cities of Sydney
and Melbourne each have more. Yet
there are people who say that all this
talk of metropolitan indigestion is eye-
wash.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: A curious coincidence
has puzzled the Brisbane Police Court.
On a voyage down from Papua a man
became so seriously ill that after radio
advice had been obtained he was landed
at Gladstone. Found to be suffering
from a duodenal ulcer he was sent on to
Brisbane by train for urgent treatment.
On arrival he was arrested on a charge
of having defrauded a Toowoomba man
by an allegedly valueless cheque. He
claimed that the matter had been already
settled by a cheque sent from Papua, but
this could not be verified because the
plaintiff in Toowoomba was too ill to be
interviewed. The only course available
was to remand him on bail until both had
recovered sufficiently for the case to be
proceeded with.
* * * *
“Col. B.”: On the occasion of her
533rd conviction for drunkenness, a Bris-
bane woman asked the P.M. for “an-
other chance.” After an unavailing sug-
gestion that she should take a dry spell
at the Dunwich establishment for dere-
licts, the chance was given in the form
of a prohibition order, for which she
expressed grateful thanks as on previous
occasions of the kind. Other mentally
afflicted persons who are incapable of
leading reasonably normal lives are not
dealt with on “chance” lines after com-
ing before a Court more than a very
few times. But, as Health Minister
Hanlon remarked recently in reply to a
proposal for a law to place confirmed
drunkards under compulsory mental and
physical treatment, Queensland is not
interested in “freak legislation.”
“Laodah”: One David Arnstein,
described as president of the terminal
taxicab system in New York, and 13
American traffic-trucking experts are on
their way to China to apply modern com-
mercial methods to the problem of keep-
ing the Burma Road open in face of
Japanese bombing. No doubt they will
do it, for, contrary to Western opinion,
the Chinaman is the least conservative
of human beings ; show him a new notion
and he will take to it like a duck to
water. Talking about ducks reminds me
of an illustration. I had been shown
over a silk filature outside Soochow which
possessed every modern device for turn-
ing out goods by mass production. The
courteous Chinese engineer, who had been
educated at Sheffield, was farewelling me
at the front gate when our eyes fell on a
duckboat in the canal adjacent. It was
evening, when the ducks come home from
feeding in the ricefields. The duckherd
started beating on a gong and then ran
a gangplank down to the canal bank.
“Now you will see how Old China does
things,” remarked my guide. A few
minutes later a regiment of ducks came
waddling out of the ricefields, converged
upon the plank and started to ascend it
in good order, but in an obvious hurry.
Towards the finish there was a melee,
and when it sorted itself out the duckman
was seen to be belaboring the last six
webfoots with a willow switch. “They’ll
be the first six tomorrow,” said my
Chinese acquaintance. “The method
works superbly, so why should he give
it up until somebody shows him a better?”
* * * *
“Moturoa”: The camp solicitor was
urging Private Hamurana to make a will
before going overseas. “Whom will you
leave your money to?” the soldier was
asked. “Oh, to my father or my mother,”
he replied. “But they may die before
you,” the solicitor said. Hamurana
scratched his head. “T’en leave te
money all to me,” he replied.


THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE ~. MARINE ...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F- W. WALTON, Manager.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E, Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivera, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
CORNS,
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
BANISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE .
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
CiUSiVUST, 31» George Street, Sydney.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have, to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Experienced dental nurse wants position in
Brisbane urgently. Good refs. —1564.
Competent radio mechanic wants position
in Queensland inland town. Reply to Box 580,
P.O., Innisfail—1577.
Housekeeper wants country position. Excel-
lent refs. —1575.
To buy copies of “Esquire” for June, July,
October, November and December, 1940;
“Razzle” for September and December, 1940;
“London Opinion” for January, February and
June, 1940; “Men Only” for April, 1940; and
“Digest of Digests” for June, September and
October, 1940.—1505.
To buy Hesiod’s Works and Days. —1563.
To buy book on nautical navigation, such as
Lecky’s or Norie’s Epitome. —1568.
Information Sought.
What are the conditions governing the dis-
patch to and receipt in the United Kingdom
of gift parcels of foodstuffs ? —1573.
Gift parcels of foodstuffs, rationed and un-
rationed, sent to the United Kingdom after
June 28 will be subject to the following restric-
tions : Parcels must not exceed 51b. gross or
contain more than 21b. of any one foodstuff,
all parcels to be marked as “Gifts.” No permit
or license necessary, but receipt of gifts at
frequent intervals will not be permitted.
Licenses previously granted U.K. importers
to receive individual gifts in bulk for distribu-
tion after arrival will not be renewed or
further licenses granted, but existing licenses
will cover consignments dispatched by June
28. Well-wishers desiring to send larger
quantities of goods (which must not include
rationed food) must first arrange for some re-
sponsible organisation in the U.K., formed
for charitable or similar purpose, to be the
recipient. Applications for licenses must then
be made by the organisation, which will be
required to give undertaking that goods will be
consumed within that organisation.
* » * #
Particulars of Bare Island at La Perouse
(N. S. Wales)?—m0.
In the late ’seventies a committee was
appointed to draw up plans for improving the
defences of Australia. Among other recom-
mendations was one for the defence of Botany
Bay which included the fortification of Bare
Island and Henry Head, commanding the
entrance to the bay. Bare Island was previously
known as Bare Rock. In 1880 it was con-
verted into a fort at a cost of nearly £34,000.
In 1885 it was manned by a garrison of N. S.
Wales permanent artillery, and the light sus-
pension bridge which had previously connected
the island with the mainland was replaced by
a solid wooden bridge. In 1915 the fort was
left to the care of district gunners with an
n.c.o. in charge. More modern guns were
installed. Then, after consultation with the
Imperial authorities, it was decided to place
Bare Island and Henry Head forts in reserve
and outside the general scheme of coastal de-
fence. The women’s branch of the British
Empire League in N. S. Wales suggested that
the Government might make a reserve fort
available as a home for Imperial veterans, and
eventually Bare Island was handed over on a
permissive occupancy to a body known as the
Governing Council of the Veterans’ Home of
New South Wales. These veterans, soldiers
and sailors, included men who had fought in
the Zulu War, the Egyptian campaign, the
Sudan and other places. The institution is
supported by bequests and public contributions,
and the veterans pay something from their own
pensions.
as * * *
Can a steam engine drive a bigger plant by
indirect power, producing electricity, or by direct
power? —1304.
No. When an engine is attached to an elec-
tric generator, the latter develops slightly less
power than the engine. Further, when the
electric generator is used to drive an electric
motor, there is again a slight loss in power.
Any particular engine, therefore, would be able
to drive a slightly bigger plant if coupled
direct but not if coupled indirectly through an
electric generator and motor.
¥ * * *
(1) What is the maximum pressure (above
atmospheric pressure) delivered by an efficient
super-charger? (2) Is such pressure sufficient
for efficient combustion and reasonable power
output in internal-combustion engine without
further compression? (3) Types of fuel suitable
for low-compression engines? —9s9l.
(1) Depends on the type of engine and super-
charger. For aircraft, a pressure of 61b. per
sq. in. above atmospheric pressure is about
the maximum obtained with present centrifugal
types. (2) No. (3) Petrol, alcohol, benzol, pro-
ducer gas, etc.
* * * *
Is there an electrical instrument on the
market for branding sheep and cattle on the
nose ? —IOB7.
Tattooing needles can be obtained from any
good supplier of stock and station requisites.
Try Denyer and Cos., or write to Mr. Bowman,
c/o Vic. Department of Agriculture.
* * * *
Method and ingredients to make chop suey?
—1403.
Not all Chinese cooks agree, but this is how
one of them makes it: Take 11b. fresh pork
cut very thin, two onions sliced thinly, one
cup chopped celery, one cup mushrooms (tinned
or fresh), three tablespoons soy sauce, one cup
water or stock. Fry meat five minutes without
browning, fry onions, add celery and fry five
minutes, put in meat, sauce and stock and
cook gently 25 minutes. Serve with Chinese
rice: Put one cup rice into saucepan with two
cups cold water, bring to boil and boil 10
minutes, stirring from bottom to prevent stick-
ing at first, then put on low heat to finish
cooking without boiling. All water should
be absorbed and each grain separate.
♦ • * *
(1) How to polish raw red cedar ? (2) How
is the name Bebe pronounced? —l4ss.
(1) As the cedar has never been polished it
will first need a coat of knotting. Powder
2oz. of pale resin, mix it with 21b. orange
shellac and add one gallon methylated spirit
(any quantity may be used, proportionately, of
course). Put these ingredients into large jar
or bottle, stand in hot water and shake occa-
sionally till melted. Cover top to prevent
evaporation, but do not cork tightly. Remem-
ber that the vapor is inflammable. Give wood
a coat of this solution. Now powder or flake
some beeswax, just cover with turpentine and
stand container in hot water till wax is melted,
then apply and polish, rubbing well. If the
first polish is hard an occasional rubbing with
pure raw linseed oil should keep the gloss on.
(2) “Bay-bay” is near enough.
* * v *
Treatment for a persistent case of mange
in a d0g? —9551.
Ninety per cent, of cases said to be mange
are wrongly diagnosed. If expertly diagnosed
as such, the treatment consists of one part
powdered sulphur to eight parts of vegetable
oil, or vaseline, well rubbed in every fourth day
for 12 days. All equipment, kennels, brushes,
etc., must be thoroughly disinfected with a
strong solution of Jeyes’s Fluid. If eczema, as
is most probable, diet plays an important part.
Cut out all sweets, cakes, milk, etc., and feed
on raw beef with a little wholemeal dog bis-
cuit. The dog should be wormed with an
appropriate remedy. Apply twice daily a mix-
ture of equal parts of oil of cade, methylated
spirit and green soft soap, 8.P., or every fourth
day wash with Jeyes’s Fluid, one tablespoonful
to a quart of warm water. Mix 12 grains of
reduced iron with one drachm of sulphate
magnesia, divide into 12 powders and give
one twice daily with food.
* * * «
In the scale of animal intelligence, where does
the sheep come in relation to the horse, and is
there any soundness in the claim of an Ameri-
can scientist that the sheep rates higher than the
horse ? —9567.
Never heard of any properly attested data.
People with a practical knowledge of both
animals put the horse above the sheep. Sheep
can be taught tricks, but it stops at that, and
there are more performing horses than per-
forming sheep. A horse taken far from home
and let go, unless hindered, will go back. No
sheep will do that. Watch a good stockhorse
at work and compare its performance with all
that has ever been heard about sheep.
* * * *
A few hints regarding the preparation of
Romney Marsh sheep for shows? —1283.
They’ll probably be judged on conformation,
condition and wool quality, with points for
adherence to breed type. Appearance counts.
If there is a sort of haze of long fibres show-
ing on the fleeces, and draggled bits about the
points, a little judicious trimming is advisable,
preferably with sharp hand-shears and not
overdone. Trimming, however, won’t deceive
a good judge if the sheep’s form or fleece is
faulty. Shedding is advisable only to keep the
sheep clean and protect them from very bad
weather —heavy rain might cause a break in
the wool —but in a mild climate it should be
done only at night and within a week or so of the
show, otherwise the animals will get a pampered
look and may tend to obesity. Know of no
books on the subject, but your State Depart-
ment of Agriculture may have some pamphlets.
* * * *
A simple, permanent tan for rabbit skins.—-
1442.
Rabbitskins can be tanned by rubbing baking-
powder thickly on to the fresh wet skin daily
till dry. All rough parts are then rubbed off
with a piece of brick and any membrane re-
moved. The wattlebark solution (for tanning
any skin) is made in this way: Crush wattle-
bark as fine as possible, put it in a wooden,
earthenware or concrete vessel and fill with boil-
ing water. When cool pour off water into a
similar container, again add boiling water to
cover bark and leave to cool. Pour off water
and repeat. These three fillings, all mixed in the
second container, are the right strength. Soak
skins till soft in clean fresh water (24 to 48
hours), scrape off all fat, put in tub and soak in
solution for four days to a week, airing each
half-hour each day. Dry in draughty shed, rub-
bing now and then to soften. Trim with sharp
knife.
* * * *
I stack salt through the wet seltson in pens
with rails ( wooden) for the sides, and line the
sides with cornsacks to keep the salt in. Can
you advise a mixture or paint to make the sacks
waterproof to keep the moisture from the salt ?
—9643.
The following method might be worth trying
(it is a quotation from the “N.Z. Journal of
Agriculture”): Procure 121 b. cement, 11b. salt,
21b. lime, 41b. alum, 4oz. bluestone, H gallons
water. Sieve the salt and lime through a fine-
mesh sieve to destroy lumps and remove any
pieces of rock. Add the water slowly, keeping
the mixture stirred. Then add the cement,
and stir thoroughly during the process. The
alum and half the bluestone are finally added,
and the whole mixture well stirred. Take the
remaining bluestone and dissolve it in 1 \ gallons
of fresh water. With this solution thoroughly
wet the sacking, using a whitewash brush. The
mixture should then be quickly applied to the
outside, then the inside, and finally to the out-
side again before the first coat has dried.
* * * *
(1) Is there any way of distinguishing a male
pawpaw-tree in its infancy from the female
tree? (2) Can a mango-tree be grafted on to
another tree; if so, what sort of a tree would
be suitable? —1055.
(1) Can’t be done until the first blossoms
appear. (2) Mango-trees can be grafted, and
the stock used is a seedling mango-tree.
Further information on this matter can be
obtained from H. W. Eastwood, Instructor in
Tropical Fruits, P.O. Box 23, Murwillumbah,
N.S.W.
Brief Answers.
H.E.W.; Condition may involve the correc-
tion of some glandular imbalance, the regulation
of diet, or the treatment of some constitutional
disorder. Can’t advise without further par-
ticulars; it’s a matter for private consultation.
. ...K.E.R.: (1) A decided advantage. (2)
No better than in Australia, unless he has
special qualifications D.W.M.: (1) and (2)
Try J. Creffield, 171 King-street, and R. C.
Paterson, 438 Little Collins-street, both Mel-
bourne, or the Government departments, all of
which are very busy at the moment. (3) Tracers
in blueprint work get 14s. 6d. to £2 a week,
according to experience. Senior female
machinists, £2 10s. 9d. and 475. 3d. if not on
machine but engaged in other work connected
with blueprinting... .W.S.: Information not
available... .A.WJ.: Apply to the manager,
Small-arms Factory, Lithgow. .. .D.S.: (1)
Neville Chamberlain married Miss Annie Vere
Cole. (2) Churchill commanded the 6th Royal
Scots Fusiliers in France in 1916....
D.W.L.: Gibbs is still alive, living at Shamley
Green, Surrey, England. He published two
books last year... .D.McL.: The Bulletin
has no copy for sale. Published price is
12s. 6d. in England... .E.C.D.: You may
apply for pension. The Act provides that
income, including pension, must not exceed
£BB Bs. a year. The value of board and lodg-
ings supplied is income... .C.F.: The Queens-
land Income Tax Assessment Act provides for
the assessing of income earned or derived in
Queensland or from sources within the State.
The assessment as issued to you is in order....
K.M.W.: Bleaching wax is done by mixing
with it (when melted) a little sulphuric acid
and heating it to a temperature far above boil-
ing-point. Consult your technical-college or
museum authorities—it is not a home j0b....
C.S.J.: Cerasin is simply the gum which exudes
from the cherry-tree; its addition to beeswax
and turpentine makes a harder and more
durable polish. If cerasin is unprocurable,
gum arabic may be used in proportion of two '
to one of wax, but for car polish beeswax and
turpentine alone will give a splendid polish.
Apply sparingly and polish energetically
J.A.W.: A reinforced-concrete underground
tank of 8000 gallons would be necessary.
Write to the Cement and Concrete Advisory
Association, Shell House, Carrington-street,
Sydney... .X.Y.Z.: Queensland itch in a horse
is still an obscure complaint. Best treatment
includes change of diet, a purgative and a
lime-sulphur wash. Write to the Department
of Agriculture, Brisbane, for booklet on treat-
ment of leg mange and directions for making
lime-sulphur wash A.E.D.: Write to the
Secretary, Commonwealth Board of Inquiry
for Hire-purchase and Cash-order Systems,
Fraser House, 42 Bridge-street, Sydney....
W.C.R.: Applications for exemption from mili-
tary service should be made to the area
officer for your district. Each case is treated
on its merits in the light of information
obtained by the area officer. Application
may be made at any time; if by a serving
soldier it should be made to his commanding
officer J.H.G.: (1) State taxation per head
for Queensland in 1914-15 was £1 Bs. 6d.; in
1939-40 it was £8 13s. 3d. (2) The amount
of tax per £1 of gross production value was
6d. in 1914-15 and 2s. 3d. in 1939-40. (3)
The State public debt per head of Queensland
was £B2 7s. 2d. at June 30, 1915, and £126
6s. 4d. at June 30, 1940. (4) The net invest-
ment of State Treasury funds in State enter-
prises at June 30, 1940, was £2,182,834, and
the value of remaining assets was £373,767;
so that the book loss to that date was
£1,809,067... .C.M.M.: In the course of annual
migration, godwits travel along the eastern
and western coastal regions of Australia, and
occur in Tasmania... .C.R.0.W.: Statutory
exemption for Federal income-tax purposes is
now £2OO, less £1 for every £1 by which the
net income exceeds £2OO. As the net income,
£275, exceeded £2OO by £75, the exemption of
£2OO is reduced by this figure to £125. The
statutory exemption was amended by the
Income Tax (Assessment) Act, 1940, and applies
to incomes derived during the year ended
June 30, 1940 J.W.F.: Follicular mange is
very difficult to cure. Often, unless the dog
is a valuable one, it is much better to have
him destroyed. Some success has been had by
the Bayer process—write to Bayer Pharma Cos.,
60 Hunter-street, Sydney; cost of materials
355. 6d., plus postage. David Moore, 16 Bridge-
street, Sydney, has treated several cases suc-
cessfully; initial cost 15s. The complaint is
communicable to man in the form of scabies.
In handling the dog rubber gloves should be
used L.C.: For railway purposes the metro-
politan area extends from Sydney as far as
Otford on the lllawarra line, Campbelltown to
Kenny Hill on the Southern line, Penrith and
Richmond on the Western line and Cowan on
the Northern line. Within the southern metro-
politan area the country is flat and has been
absorbed mostly for residential purposes ex-
cept in the vicinity of Clyde, where many fac-
tories have been established. Beyond Liver-
pool there are evidences of dairying and grape
cultivation, but these pursuits are not followed
to any marked extent W.A.K.; Forward
samples of graphite to the Department of
Mines, Brisbane, for free analysis and an esti-
mate of their commercial value. Graphite
occurs in two forms, amorphous and flake.
The amorphous graphite is used principally for
foundry work and is valued at about £8 a ton;
flake graphite is sold at a much higher price.
E.C.D.: Yes, members of the Provost
Corps of the A.I.F. are entitled to wear color
patches.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
T.T.:
There’s no doubt that Rudolf Hess
Left his country in a mess
By quitting it in that surprising way.
E.S.:
“There’s a maggot in the apple,”
There may be two or more:
The apple now will have to grapple
To keep the maggot from the core,
K.A.R.:
I see a soldier passing by,
On leave he comes, buoyant on foot.
His youthful eyes so candid, speaking truth,
A cleft upon his chin that not long since was a
dimple!
. ...M.MacL.: Pleasant, but it’s prose
L.MacL.: “Banjo” tilled that field... .L.H.:
Can see no logical reason for the publication
(or even the existence) of very bad Limerick
describing Gandhi eating a prawn H.N.M.:
“My heart is calm because forsook.” Not
because you needed a rhyme for “look”?
E.D.: “Spangled trapezists dare aerial trip and
perform wonders hanging in space.” So do
poets... .G.H.: Cheer up. ...A.C.McL.: Back
it over a cliff... J.F.: Them was the days!
....J.J.: What a title!... .V.E.8.: All right
as thought; dull as poetry... .8.M.: Slight.
. ...R.G.H.; If it had all been as good as
“High above time and terror yet it gleams”....
W.A.M.E.: Miles away... .D.C.M.: A glimmer
there... .W.F.: Very true. Very trite... .K.C.:
Didn’t roar with laughter... .P.K.; Try else-
where T.L.S.: A good theme, if you’d
handled it with gusto... .J.D.: Cut to make it
just the story of the dealing, and polished, it
might d 0... .J.A.F.: More suited to a museum’s
mag J.K.: Keep at it, but write about
people you know.. . .D.A.: “Martha” is still
a wallflower G.T.8.: Less murder and more
mystery would improve U....L.W.: Touching,
very touching... .E.R.: Hardly a story
A.J.A.: Passed “Lannie the Loon” on to our
chief chucker-out... .K.G.R.: Not for u 5....
J. : There must be only about half a dozen
grandpas in Australia who haven’t been the
subject of a short story... .R.G.; Dreadful.
... .F.T.W. and M-O’D.: Unsuitable....
K. : Without reading beyond the first page
we knew that the two prospectors would strike
gold, that one would murder the other and
then die of thirst... .J.E.D.: Nearly got
there G.T.: “This story dates back for
more than 1000 years.” Dunno about that, but
we’ve heard it pretty often during the last 20
years.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.M.: There’s still not the faintest breath
of life in those swaggies H.T.W.; You’re
in an artistic fog R.J.: Fades into mere
rumor about the head and shoulders... .M.L. :
If the humor was as fresh as the barmaid you d
have been on a winner... .8.H.T.: Alleged
drawing showing two wooden-faced females
With 76in. busts and explanatory leading article
under it was carried out by two strong men
and dumped in the lane. .. .N.R.: That sub-
ject calls for the butterfly touch; you tackled
it with the hoof of a rhino A.P.: Merely
exercises... .G.N.: They show enough promise
to warrant speculation on a finer brush....
R.G.L.: A crematorium might take it 8.5.:
After that effort inscribing the Lord’s Prayer
on a threepenny bit should be child’s play....
JF.: Churchill horror returning under escort.
N.F.; The humor dawdles; but it’s a Spit-
fire compared with the drawing.


Smokers are saying—
“l’m not cutting down
my smoking, I’m smoking
‘Hillmans.’ ”
The greatest tobacco value
in Australia—Specially Cut
for slow smoking—therefore
must be economical.
As perfect a tobacco nature
can provide and art can devise.
No throat rasps, cool to the
tongue however much it is
smoked.
LOOK AT THE PRICES,
TOO! From Manufacturer to
you. That’s why smokers are
sticking to “Hillmans.”
PRICE LIST as from Ist June, 1941.
Four Square 9/6
First Crop, mild 9/6
All British, mild 9/6
Riverhead Gold, medium ... 9/6
Old Peter, dark 9/6
Cavendish Strong 9/6
Beech Nut, medium 9/6
Africa, mellow and mild ... 9/6
Soldier’s Own, mild 9/6
Normandie, medium 9/6
Winning Post, medium 9/6
Three Bells, strong 9/6
Bird’s Eye, medium 9/6
Nigeroid, in pipe only 9/5
Latakia, in pipe only 10/-
White Lodge Medium 10/-
White Lodge Light 11/-
Union Leader, medium 11 /-
Tender Leaf, medium 11 / -
Imperial 14/-
Premier 16/-
Postage Extra.
When ordering please state whether
for cigarette or pipe smoking.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
COMPANY PTY. LTD.,
Manufacturers and Blenders,
Box 6, P. 0., Valley, N.l, Brisbane.
Telegrams, “Comgrow.”
’Phone No. 84587.
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BSAHDAOJU * CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
. m
m
m
mm
t
“PRICE CONTROL
IN THE KITCHEN!
The AG Ais a rigid controller of kitchen costs. With an AGA it is easy to
budget for your fuel. Model C (illustrated), for instance, suitable for city or
country homes, cannot burn more than £3 worth of coke (at 30/- per ton) in a
whole year.
Just add up your present fuel bills for a year. See how much you would save
with an AGA, cooking for 2d. a day. 40,000 satisfied users in the British
Empire are saving on fuel, with the AGA.
The AGA Cooker bums continuously; ovens and hot plates are instantly ready,
day or night, for every kind of cooking. Flavour is retained, grills and roasts
are tastier, tenderer; meat shrinks less, with AGA cooking. Delicious meals just
cook themselves, then stay hot, ready to serve.
Yes, it’s miracle-cooking ... with a beautiful streamlined AGA Cooker, insulated
and Enclosed to keep kitchens cool and spotlessly clean.
Find out now about cooking the modern way. . . with an AGA. Call in and
let us show you an AGA, or write for Illustrated Booklet R 6.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Estd. 1852 {lnc, in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney,
433 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
and at Wellington, N.Z.
S.A. Agents: Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ptd.,
Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster & Sons
Xitd., Hobart.
n
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES
Australian Films
The war business of dollar conserva-
tion should be a godsend to the people
interested in making Australian films. It
should now be more than ever possible
to produce Australian films on a scale
large enough to replace in some measure
films imported from the U.S.A.
Over a stretch of years a good number
of films have been produced in Australia,
but they have been spasmodic outbursts
rather than the steady output of anything
like an established industry. Some of
the films have been good—the documen-
tary “A Nation Is Built” and “Forty
Thousand Horsemen” as examples—but
it would need a brave soul to say honestly
that Australian films so far have
measured up to the imported product.
Until quite recently Australian films have
been treated as novelties and all faults
ignored. With the larger number pro-
duced in the last couple of years the
novelty has worn off and they must now
be judged on something the same foot-
ing as imported films. That, anyhow, is
how audiences will judge them.
Directing is one of the most important
of all factors in the making of good
films. Many faults attributed to other
causes should be debited against the
director. For instance, unconvincing,
stagy and downright poor acting. There is
such a thing as a natural screen actor or
actress, but most are moulded on the spot
by the director. With the opportunity
for unlimited rehearsals of every little
scene before finally filming it, every
scene can, and should, be near perfect.
When they are consistently far from good
the fault almost certainly lies in the
directing, not the acting. Too often
players with the right looks, personality
and ability are loaded down with poor
dialogue and poor directing.
One of the leethipg stages in film pro-
duction in Australia was the importation
of leading players from America. There
is nothing wrong with local talent, as one
or two films have proved. The vastly
different work turned in by a particular
player in the course of a couple of films
under different direction indicate where
the trouble lies.
Too many Australian pictures have
been poorly mounted, with settings serv-
ing purely as an indication of where the
action is taking place and with no thought
of providing an artistic background for
the action. There would also seem to be
little thought of blending characters and
settings, and, generally, the effect has been
a painted figure in a wooden barn or,
perhaps, a wooden figure in a painted
barn.
A consistently good feature of Aus-
tralian films has been photography. It
has been tiptop.
Possibly it is natural enough that most
film-makers here should incline to copy
and imitate Hollywood, but why not
model on the best of Hollywood? A large
proportion of Hollywood films, includ-
ing many of the best genuinely American
pictures, are adapted from American
books. Can’t this happen here? Surely
there is material in such books as
Katherine Prichard’s Working Bullocks *
Vance Palmer’s The Passage, Kylie Ten-
nant’s Tiburon, Miles Franklin’s All That
Swagger — to name a few living authors.
Yet it was given out the other day:
Mr. Clarence Badger, the successful
Hollywood director, who has been in Syd-
ney for some time, was commissioned to
find a story and make a comedy. Mr.
Badger’s search was unsuccessful, so he
himself wrote a story.
The resulting effort is “That Certain
Something.”
Government encouragement of film
production with cash subsidising may be
all very well as an enticement to the pro-
duction of individual films. It does
nothing to improve the quality of the
product, and if an Australian film indus-
try is to be established the product must
be improved.
STAGE AND CONCERT
Melbourne Tivoli
With “Would You Believe It?” Melb.
Tiv. is back to something like its old
standards. Bill starts with a show tent
from which emerge the pinhead China-
man, the skeleton man, the tallest man
alive, the fire-eating African pigmy and
other freaks who have been accidentally
endowed by Nature with the necessary
qualifications for inclusion in a high-class
variety programme.
The rest of the evening is given over
to performers whose specialised skill is
acquired, but just as freakish. The two
fellows and the lady who tear around the
latticed Globe of Death on motor-
cycles, timing their passing and repassing
of one another to a split second; the
cove who maintains a comfortable exist-
ence on odds and ends of pushbikes; the
Sun Yet Yin company of Chinese
gymnasts who swing on their own hair ;
the acrobatic Clydellos and the youth who
potters about on a tightwire are just as
remote from normal standards as the
Celestial gent, with the pinhead.
Another remarkable person is Marie
Hollis, of New York, who puts a body
which deserves better treatment to the
purpose of rhythmical contortion. Lea
Sonia dances and sings, successfully con-
cealing his/her sex till the end of the
chapter; Law Hillman shakes laughs out
of the audience with a doleful ditty;
Eddie Marcel, from the Switzerland
ballet, comperes mainly from a prone
position, and the Tivoli superlatives make
an engaging appearance as Jap glamor
girls with lanterns in an allegedly
Oriental setting.
* * * *
Current bill at Sydney Tiv. comprises
the Tiv. ballet, as stunning as ever, a
microphone, a dozen or so figures from
the broadcasting business, the Littlejohns
in an excellent balancing and juggling
turn and the Leotards, a trio of acrobats,
one of whom twists and turns in truly
amazing fashion while dangling on the
end of a rope held between his partner’s
teeth. Of the radio people, ventriloquist
Mai Verco, with dummy Ginger, and
bird-mimic Alex. Walker seem to be the
most appreciated. An f.a.q. Tiv. show.
* * * *
There was a fair attendance but not a
great deal of enthusiasm for the 439th
concert of the Musical Society of Vic-
toria at Melb. Assembly Hall. Marjorie
Summers’s playing of the Beethoven
Sonata Op. 28 and the Handel recitative
and air from Handel’s “Jeptha,” sung by
Leslie Jephcott, were exceptions. The
three young ladies of the Elizabethan
quartet obliged with sober renderings of
the Beethoven quartet in D major and
the Adagio and Rondo of Schubert. The
indisposition of Beatrice Oakley excluded
a panel of English songs from the pro-
gramme, and Miss Frances Forbes re-
placed them with two Schubert items,
which she sang with more than usual
depth and power for a woman.
ARTBURSTS
“F.S.” goes amongst some prints:
Daryl Lindsay, Keeper of the Prints at the
Nat. Gallery of Victoria, has made a repre-
sentative selection of reproductions in color
of French and English impressionists, post-
impressionists, etc., and has hung them in
the Print Gallery. Cezanne, Van Gogh,
Matisse, Gauguin, Utrillo and the rest would
be surprised to know that they had become
so respectable—a few years ago their very
names were anathema to the trustees. Former
Director Hall once said that they would enter
the portals only over his dead body, and up
to a few months ago there was not an example
of their work in the gallery proper.
But time works wonders, and Melbourne art-
lovers are wondering why on earth they ever
objected to the glowing landscape of Van
Gogh with the bridge and the boats, or the
portrait by the same artist of the young man
in the blue hat and the yellow coat against
the green background, or to the perfectly
straightforward painting of the vase of flowers
by Cezanne, who they had always been told
totally distorted Nature. What is wrong with
Georges Rouault’s strange-looking female in
a fit? After all, she makes a pleasant decora-
tion. And if we are going to condemn Duncan
Grant for his girl at the window, we shall
have to condemn a Persian carpet. If Degas
didn’t paint ballet girls like an academician he
at least gave superbly their air of weariness,
boredom and discouragement, and isn’t that
worth doing?
There are none of the voluptuous nudes of
Renoir in the exhibition, but there is a bowl
of roses, and if Renoir liked to make roses
look voluptuous why shouldn’t he do it? And
if the once-terrible Matisse sets a nude beside
a bowl of goldfish and the girl wouldn’t satisfy
a professor of anatomy and the goldfish would
frighten a Games and Fishery Department in-
spector out of his wits, still the harmony of
color is enchanting.
There are all sorts of aspects of visual
Nature which the impressionists and so-called
impressionists exploited, and Mr. Lindsay has
made a pretty good selection from the gallery’s
collection. Moreover, the reproductions are
magnificent, and as souvenirs of the original
works could hardly be bettered. Some, in fact,
look like originals. Melbourne modernists
claim this move on the part of the gallery as a
triumph for their cause, and in a sense it is.
But their own works aren’t necessarily m the
same category as the artists whom they call their
masters. There appear to be a freshness and a
vitality about a Van Gogh or a Cezanne which
aren’t always present in a show of Melbourne
modernists, possibly because the works of
Van Gogh, Cezanne and their fellow-rebels
were derivative of Nature, while the works of
Melb. modernists are derivative of Van Gogh,
Cezanne, etc.
Whatever may be said against these men on
whom Mr. Lindsay has now put the seal of
official authority, they were certainly experi-
menters. It is an interesting experience to go
from the Print Gallery into the McAllen,
where are collected rows and rows of ancient
purchases of the Felton Bequest. It is like
going out of a workshop or a garden into a
Chamber of Manufactures.
* * * *
The art-lover who goes to see the latest
show of Melbourne water-colorist James
Flett should have his lunch beforehand
—the pictures are hanging in the Le
Meilleur Cafe, Collins-street, and the
aroma of the dishes is apt to divert one s
attention from contemplation of Mr.
Flett’s pirates. Mr. Flett’s interest wavers
between realistic depiction of Nature and
a romantic affection for buccaneers,
swashbucklers and freebooters. When he
paints pirates his brushstrokes become
vague, amorphous and hesitant. He is
much more decided in a few of the
landscapes.


THE SERVICE MAN
Heroism Is Not Enough.
“Nobby II”: On May 22 Mr. Churchill
told the Commons how the Royal Navy
had destroyed 30 vessels carrying 6000
German soldiers to Crete, together with
an Italian destroyer. He added he “did
not expect the news to be other than
satisfactory in view of the forces at
Britain’s disposal.” However, he admitted
that, after the German armada had been
sunk with all hands, “British light forces
and destroyers were attacked in turn.”
German tales were very different;
indeed, every Axis radio throughout the
world blared of British cruisers and
destroyers sunk in the AEgean. On May
26 the German High Command alleged
that seven cruisers, eight destroyers, a
submarine and five M.T.Bs. had been
destroyed by the Luftwaffe and four
cruisers by the Regia Aeronautica, and
that a constant stream of British ships,
one a damaged battleship, was making
for Gibraltar to be repaired.
On the same day Major-General Hey-
wood, fresh from Crete, said in Cairo
that the Germans were having difficulty
in landing fresh reinforcements in Crete
and that the Anzacs were in the toughest
of the combats —“real dogfights, hand to
hand, just the fighting that suits them.”
Australian artillery units which had been
forced to leave their guns in Greece
were taking captured Italian guns right
up to the German positions and blotting
out Junkers point-blank on the ground.
So said Major-General Heywood.
Though he admitted that Canea defences
had been penetrated, the positions at
Heraklion and Retimo were unchanged
and “he thought we would hold Crete.”
While Mr. Churchill had been so
blithely underestimating the dangers and
anxieties of the situation, the largest and
most deadly ship-v.-’plane battle in history
had been drawing to its close in the
AEgean. The toll paid had been all too
heavy, and the hope of holding Crete,
in which so much blood had been fruit-
lessly shed, and controlling the AEgean, in
which so many gallant ships and sailors
now lay, had vanished.
British naval forces had entered the
AEgean on May 20. They placed them-
selves fairly in the German path from
Athens to the island, within a few
minutes’ flight from mainland and island
German aerodromes. They were com-
pelled to do this with almost no aerial
support, save for the fleeting dashes of
heavy long-distance bombers and some
help from distantly-placed aircraft-carriers
which it would have been madness to
bring into that area.
On that night—Tuesday, May 20 —
German E-boats swooped and heavy
bombing began. One stick hit the Juno,
a powerful Javelin-class 1700-ton
destroyer, mounting six 4.7’s and carry-
ing 10 21-inch torpedo tubes —a formid-
able and useful craft. She sank in 70
seconds. British M.T.Bs. also were
bombed, along with a number of British
caiques—they are wooden vessels usually
between 80 and 120 tons.
On Wednesday night, the R.N. got
among the convoy of 30 German caiques
loaded with troops which Mr. Churchill
had mentioned as wiped out. All the pre-
vious day the fleet had been blasted
heavily from the air, but the cruiser
squadron moved daringly northward
almost to Milo, level with the southern-
most point of the Greek mainland and
only about 90 miles from the Piraeus.
At dawn on Thursday, several hours
before Mr. Churchill spoke, the Germans
began to swoop on our ships in heavy
formations, returning again and again to
their aerodromes on the mainland or
Milo and Kythera, only a few miles off,
for fresh bomb loads.
The situation became so serious that
the three big ships of the battle squadron
—Warspite, Valiant and Barham —
steamed in through the narrow Kythera
Strait on the west to try to rescue the
hard-pressed cruisers.
They arrived in time for the main
blast, which began at 5.30 a.m. on May
22. All day the whole sea was shadowed
with speeding wings and torn and churned
into froth by bursting bombs and fall-
ing fragments. Until 8.15 p.m. there
was only one half-hour intermission in
the German attacks, which had been made
apparently with five waves of 100
machines, each of which ceaselessly fol-
lowed the other.
H.M.A.S. Perth, assigned to the job
of sinking a caique early in the morning,
met with a hail of aerial fire, and other
cruisers had to come to her support.
For two solid hours some of the cruisers
at 30 knots under continuous
£«, which they as continuously answered.
splinters from the guns fell on
decks > teann S in them ; and the
firing around noon, when Warspite with
Admiral Cunningham aboard, linked up
with cruisers and destroyers in Kythera
Strait—Malemi on one side the Morean
dromes on the other and land in sight
both ways—reached a crescendo never
before heard in battle at sea There
was no wind; the weather was halcyon,
The battle-fleet started back to the open
sea escorting two damaged cruisers.
At 1.30 H.M.S. Greyhound, another
powerful destroyer of the 1936 vintage,
was pounced upon by a mass of eight
squadrons of the Luftwaffe after she had
sunk a caique. A heavy bomb amidships
made her buckle, and, with a tremendous
explosion, she was swept by a gust of
flame.
Bombers swarmed over her. She went
down, and the Luftwaffe settled like flies
above the two comrade ships which
rushed in under heavy fire to pick up
the survivors. Bombs by the dozen were
dropped into the sea among the struggling
sailors.
The 9000-ton Gloucester—she was
Ramsay’s flagship on the East India station
before war broke out—-moved in with the
new 8000-ton Fiji, which carried 12 six-
inchers and was commissioned only last
year, to protect the smaller ships. At
least a German squadron had now been
detailed to blast each ship in the fleet.
Not a gun in the Aegean that was not
firing, and pandemonium rose as fresh
clouds of Luftwaffe poured out from the
islands of Milo and Kythera into the
narrow seas.
At 4 p.m. Gloucester was hit squarely,
She stopped and became a sitting bird
to the enemy, which soon had her blaz-
ing despite the efforts of Fiji, using every
red-hot gun. It was decided to sink her.
Her crew were taken off in rafts, sub-
jected to a withering fire from above,
Fiji caught a packet all at once fairly
on the bridge, amidships and astern. She
went over on her side, exploded and,
sinking, drowned a canopy of flame which
had sprung up all round her. It was a
miracle that 34 officers and 500 of her
men were saved. In a few minutes two
great new ships, £4,000,000 worth of intri-
cately fashioned metal, were lost to the
Navy, with many of their crews,
The bombing was more concentrated
than in British cities. There were no
soaring fighters to ward it off.
As darkness fell, Kelly, an impudent
1700-ton flotilla leader, and her sister
Kashmir, both new, closed in and
banged away at Malemi ’drome to show
that the Navy had determined not to
take its teeth out of the AEgean until
they were pulled out. The racing Kelly
was hit directly and was gone in less
than a minute. Her tall captain, Louis
Mountbatten, the King’s cousin, was
rescued. Kashmir followed her to the
bottom. Her captain, Tyrwhitt, was
saved.
The majestic battleships, carrying many
scars, the destroyer Kimberley with 250
survivors, went back to their base at
Alexandria. The weary men rolled into
their hammocks—they had not left action
stations for five days,
In effect, two heavy battleships and
several cruisers had been damaged sutfi-
ciently to be sent to dock, and 24,050
tons of naval ships had been sunk. These
Mediterranean losses wiped out a large
pa rt of the margin gained at Matapan.
On the other hand, large numbers of
sea-borne Geermans had been sunk along
with two E-boats and one Italian
destroyer, and some E-boats and an un-
stated number of German ’planes had
been brought down,
In Crete itself, a fierce air-and-land
battle had been raging for days. R.A.F.
fighters, coming into the picture, bagged
five big Jus2’s, and other Junkers on the
ground were seriously damaged ; but three
British machines failed to return,
Maorilanders, British, Australians and
Greeks turned every yard the Germans
advanced into “dark and bloody ground.”
The British P.M. spoke a pendant to
his lighthearted words of May 22, five
days later. History was following the
course it followed in the Norwegian
campaign:
We have been unable to prevent further
descent of air-borne troops on Crete. The
weight of enemy attack has grown daily.
The battle has swayed backwards and tor-
wards in indescribable fury around Canea,
and has been equally fierce around
Retimo and Heraklion, though on a
smaller scale. At the time the latest re-
ports were received, the issue of the battle
for Crete hung in the balance.
Presently Exeter’s gallant sister York
was reported a total loss in Suda Bay.
Friday brought the announcement from
Cairo H.Q. that “in the face of further
attacks by German forces we have with-
drawn to positions east of Suda Bay,’
which meant that Britain no longer held
a naval base in Crete. A naval base was
of no use to the R.N. there in any case
with Germans firmly planted on Crete in
a ten-mile sector a few miles to the
westward at Malemi. By Friday, Canea,
the capital, was in enemy hands and
Italian forces were being landed on the
island.
The Germans will have cause to re-
member the last week of the campaign in
Crete. They had every advantage. They
were operating only a few hundred land
miles from the very heart of their pro-
duction centres. In terms of modern
warfare, they were fighting on their own
doorstep. All their millions of fresh men
and weapons were at instant call.
An R.N. officer estimates that the
Luftwaffe had 1000 ’planes which shuttled
backwards and forwards over the few
miles of water which separated Greece
from Malemi. The British main supply
bases were thousands of miles away by
sea, and the gallant armies of Wavell
were engaged in three other areas. In
one, they were holding back strong Ger-
man and Italian forces; in two others,
they forced surrenders within a fortnight.
And the R.N. had huge responsibilities
outside Crete. Nevertheless, a few thou-
sand tired and ill-equipped Maorilanders,
Australians and British and the ragged
remnants of a couple of Greek divisions
which had seen their Government leave
two capitals held on doggedly for nearly
a fortnight against tremendous mechan-
ised odds.
As in Greece, Crete was won by
mechanised might, numbers, supplies, re-
serves and unlimited ammunition. The
Germans got a foothold at Malemi,
harassing other points along the coast
merely to keep the Imperial forces dis-
persed. Then, as in France, they tossed
in material and armaments until the cor-
don which enclosed them burst from the
sheer pressure of horse-power and armor
plate, at points weakened by constant
machine-gun drilling.
On the cultivated plain around Canea,
the capital, though short of ammunition,
without the sub-machine guns which the
Germans poured in by the thousand,
Anzacs again and again went through the
advance German lines. Forced to retire
from Suda Bay and its naval base, weary
but indomitable troops tramped to the
mountain passes behind, dug in, waited,
formed the same sort of rearguards as in
Greece and held up the enemy while the
bulk of the British Imperial defenders
embarked. Because the line of retreat
was short —the island at its narrowest is
miles wide —and there was less time
available to get men away, and the dis-
tances they had to be carried by sea were
longer than in the Greek evacuation, the
proportion of prisoners was probably
greater than in the Morea and Attica.
The Germans won, but they received a
lesson in what is likely to happen if they
try to play the same game against em-
battled Britain with its millions under
arms and its R.A.F. overhead, and its
navy round its shores. Their own accounts
of the fighting had a sullen note. It was
a victory won over a sea black with their
floating dead, on shores littered with the
wreckages of their sky-fleet and on fields
running with German blood.
On Friday the climax came. The War
Office announced on Sunday:—
After 12 days of what was undoubtedly
the fiercest fighting of this war, it has
been decided to withdraw our forces from
Crete. Some 15,000 of our troops have
been withdrawn to Egypt, but it must be
admitted that our losses were severe.
Although the losses inflicted on the enemy’s
troops have been enormous, it became clear
that our naval and military forces could
not be expected to operate indefinitely in
and near Crete without more air support
than could be provided from our bases in
Africa.
The Germans spoke of having taken
10,000 British and Greek prisoners “so
far,” of a junction of their troops with
the late-comers from Italy, and of the
progress of “mopping up operations.”
On Monday morning the 8.8. C., re-
laying a description from Cairo, said
that the conditions of the evacuation had
been somewhat similar to, but worse
than, those of Dunkirk and Greece.
The R.N. and the R.A.N. and R.A.F.
as usual had done a wonderful job,
standing by, transporting, and bombard-
ing enemy positions until the men were
away. The Germans claimed to have
sunk another two destroyers, damaged
another and a merchant ship and blown
up a small ammunition vessel.
It is no use disguising the fact that our
arms have suffered another severe defeat;
and, apart from the sacrifice of Dominion
and British soldiers and hopelessly out-
numbered R.A.F. crews and machines,
naval casualties are appallingly out of
proportion to the military value of Crete.
According to newspaper accounts,
Australian units are in Cyprus, as part
of a garrison which has received con-
siderable reinforcements, in preparation
for an expected attack on that island.
When the position in Crete had become
hopeless, the Australian Government
made a statement through its Mr.
Spender, but it was silent about Cyprus
and whether it is really proposed to
employ Australians there.
Diggers in Greece.
From Corporal Cliff Dexter to his
father (“Pilot” of The Bulletin):
I was in the Greek business, and I was
lucky enough to get away with an unbroken
skin. After being dive-bombed, machine-
gunned and generally strafed, I decided that
you didn’t have to be a front-line soldier in
this war to run risks.
The news that we were to evacuate the
country came as a terrific shock. We thought
everything was going satisfactorily, and that
internal troubles had been cleaned up; but,
although the Greeks could whip the Italians,
they had been so undermined by Fifth Column
activities and defeatist propaganda that they
didn’t have the heart for a fight with Germany.
We had to move quickly when the order
came. First we had to dump practically all
our gear, and I set out for the evacuation port
in the clothes in which I stood, plus shaving
and washing gear, a change of socks and a few
handkerchiefs —not even my greatcoat. The
hardest part was dumping all the knitted wear
the family had made for me. During the first
day we travelled by train and truck, and ran
the gauntlet of German ’planes. At night we
picked positions among the rocks and just
flopped down in our clothes and shivered.
The following afternoon Jerry sent a flight
of ’planes to bomb and machine-gun the troops’
temporary positions. The whistling bombs were
bad enough, especially when they smashed into
the rocks where we had slept, but I got even
closer to the ground when the machine-guns
started to spray.
That night we embarked, and, gosh, it was
eerie. Every minute we expected ’planes, but
luckily it was a moonless night and we got
away without interruption. It wasn’t quite the
same on the sea-trip because Jerry was well on
the trail, and came down low enough to use
his machine-guns. Still, thanks to the British
Navy, for which you can have nothing but
admiration, we got through on the first stage;
and here we are in a place which the German
wireless chooses to call “The Island of
Doomed Men.”
Jerry visits us daily, but we are nicely hidden
and fairly safe when he scatters his bombs.
For several nights we slept in the open among
the olive-trees, but a terrific duststorm, fol-
lowed by rain, caused five of us to build a gun-
yah of galvanised-iron and old timber, camou-
flaged with mud and branches. So many others
followed suit that the camp was soon shining
with tin. The commandant ordered their re-
moval because of the air-raid danger, so now
our gunyah consists mainly of boughs, while
others are digging in underground. For two
weeks I have lived on bully-beef, canned beans
and Maconachie’s tinned meat and vegetables,
and have thrived on it. We had a real delicacy
when we clubbed in to buy a young goat; it was
sweeter than chicken after what we had become
used to. Last night the authorities came to
light with a piece of frozen Australian beef, so
we could be a lot worse off. For a while the
peasants made a fortune selling us eggs at
five drachmas (21-d.) apiece, but we haven’t
been paid for three weeks, and now money has
run out. Apart from the fact that it’s very
boring, I suppose there are plenty of worse
places we could strike in this sort of emergency,
but I’ll be mighty glad to get on the move
again. [He did, judging by a “safe, well”
message.]
It’s very pretty, especially in the hills. To
quote an old Canadian who has lived here
for a year, there is abundance of grapes, olives
and oranges, but the most abundant crop is
poverty. The near-by towns and villages are
very old and dirty, and you wonder how the
bricks hold together. Some of the hills are
still snowcapped, so you can guess that some
of the mountain streams in which we bathe are
pretty cold. Thank goodness we can keep
our bodies clean, but you should see the filthy
state of my uniform! I must tell you of the
exploits of one bunch of Australians who were
cut off in the evacuation. They made their
way to the seafront, fought their way through
a mob of Germans and grabbed an old sailing
boat. They had no nautical instruments, had
to improvise their own sails and chart their
own course without maps. For two days they
were becalmed, but with amazing stamina they
stuck it out, and after six days they caught up
with us. Even now they can’t imagine how
they did it.
The Iraq Rebellion Ends.
In Iraq, as in North Africa, it has
been shown what Imperial forces can
do when there are real Imperial objects
to be gained and decisions have to be
left to commanders on the spot. An
armistice, asked for by the revolting
Arabs, was signed on May 31.
Moving from Falujah, where there is a
bridge, and the main crossing of the
Euphrates on the Syrian and Palestine


railway routes, troops captured Khan
Nuqta on Thursday—a khan is a place
enclosed by high walls inside which
caravans shelter.
At Ramadi, a few miles north-west of
Habbaniyah on the Euphrates, where
natural positions are fairly strong and
which is the site of a main aerodrome,
the enemy cut dykes and flooded part of
the countryside, making the advance
against their garrison of 2000 or so dif-
ficult. Twice they hoisted the white flag,
only to fire on those who regarded it.
Rashid Ali, some of his Ministers and
the Italian and German Ministers fled.
Then came the armistice. A commission
of internal security ordered all military
groups to surrender their arms to the
Iraq police and resume civilian clothing.
The Regent returned to Baghdad.
At the week-end, bands were still
operating in the north, and the presence
of German aeroplanes in Syria led to
bombing of Syrian aerodromes, includ-
ing Palmyra and Abu Kemal —the main
eastern French military post in the mid-
Euphrates region on the Aleppo-Baghdad
main road. Mosul oilfields are reported
“intact.”
The surrender of the Iraqis and the
fact that, despite all German and Italian
urgings and promises, little help came
to Said Rashid from that quarter and
none from the surrounding Arab king-
doms will have its effect on the whole
Moslem world.
Tobruk Holds Out.
“Ek D.”: In a three-pronged drive in
bad, hot, sandstorm weather on May 26
the Germans succeeded in advancing to
a 30-mile-long line a couple of miles from
Solium inside the Egyptian border. It is
reckoned of small importance; anyway,
little happened subsequently on the
Libyan front. There was “patrol activity,
at times intense,” round Tobruk.
That town, with its mainly Australian
garrison, holds out firmly—it is nearly
seven weeks since the siege started. An
Australian officer of high rank remarked
truly the other day that its defence had
“saved Egypt.”
Every day, fresh tales of gallantry are
told about the fight. A young A.I.F.
corporal, who has died from wounds re-
ceived while rescuing an officer, has been
recommended posthumously for one of
the war’s very rare V.Cs. Last week the
R.N., much as it was occupied elsewhere,
got an 18,000-ton Italian liner carrying
troops to Libya. The enemy asserts that
most of the crew were saved.
Dublin Is Bombed.
“E.D.”: Whether it is part of the Hess
mystery or not, there was no bombing of
London during three weeks after the
stranger arrived, and during the same
period there were only desultory attacks
on British towns.
On Tuesday of last week the R.A.F.
destroyed seven German ’planes on the
ground at Lannion, 50 miles from Brest,
smashed a hangar and left the aerodrome
with flames all round. It also attacked
Boulogne and Cologne. On Wednesday
the Germans made what they called a
“reprisal” raid on Liverpool and other
places. A trawler and a destroyer each
shot down Heinkels. Then came another
lull, followed by an unlooked-for de-
velopment which may have serious re-
actions.
During Wednesday night and Thurs-
day morning many German ’planes flew
over Eire, perhaps as a result of the
Ulster conscription controversy. While
this raged—the proposal was dropped—
Mr. De Valera protested in impassioned
terms, but reiterated his pledge that he
would not permit Eire to be used for
operations against the U.K. The ’planes
were fired on by ground guns.
At midnight on Friday bombers ap-
peared in large numbers over Dublin and
carried out a savage raid. There could
have been no mistake. Apart from the
fact that Dublin is the one big city in
the British Isles in which there is no
blackout, it has distinctive features. The
Liffey runs east and west across it. The
bombing covered a three-mile strip.
One bomb burst in the windows of the
residence of Douglas Hyde, Eire’s 80-
year-old President. Another shattered the
door of the American Legation. Casual-
ties were 27 killed and 88 wounded.
As in the case of previous raids on Eire,
Berlin first said it knew nothing; then
it insinuated that the R.A.F. was to
blame. The Dublin Government is satis-
fied that the bombs were of German
origin.
The Navy Has a Foxhunt.
We’ll catch a fox and put him in a box
And a-hunting we will go!
On Wednesday, May 21, the Lock-
heed Hudsons of the British Coastal
Command reported that one of the new
35.000- ton German battleships was in
Bergen. From Bergen, Wick, below Dun-
cansby Head, near the north-west top of
Scotland, is only 294 miles to the west.
Aberdeen to Bergen is 308 miles.
A new, large bright battleship 300
miles away affects the Navy much as the
sight of a large, streamlined “big red
feller” affects a Quorn pack on a crisp
winter’s day. Hunting the fox is the R.N.
officers’ favorite pastime ashore. Sir
Percy Noble, of the Atlantic Command,
is a noted rider to hounds.
On May 22 the Bismarck slipped out
of Bergen with the Prince Eugen, a
10.000- cruiser heavily armed —
eight 8-inch and 12 4.1-inch guns and 12
21-inch torpedo tubes.
Tally-ho was sounded. The flagships
of the second battle and cruiser squad-
rons —Prince of Wales, one of the new
35.000- King Georges, and the
veteran Hood, 42,100 tons —were out as
a couple, for they were the fastest of
the Home Fleet and must leave the 16-
inch-gun Nelson and Rodney to waddle
behind in any stern chase.
Enemy watchers saw a pleasant sight
at Gibraltar and relayed it a few hours
later to the world with glee. The great
squadron of Sir James Somerville, which
had its hour last July when it chased the
Italians into the Straits of Messina comb-
ing Renown’s 15-inchers out of their
hair, had disappeared. “Fled,” said the
gloating, unctuous voice of Transocean
to the Pacific listeners —“fled to save the
remnants of their fleet in the Aigean
from the blasts of the German bombers.”
Actually, Somerville was bound for the
north to claim a share in the hunt, bunt-
ing fluttering out in the morning air to
his destroyers, his cruisers a grey line
ploughing on the near horizon or scout-
ing off on errands.
On Friday afternoon two 10,000-ton
cruisers, Norfolk and Suffolk—sisters in
power and size to H.M.A.S. Australia
and Canberra—sighted the Germans in
the misty Denmark Straits, steaming hard
toward Newfoundland and the west.
Here, between Nordcap, on the north-
western tip of Iceland, and Angmagsalik,
the Arctic Circle swoops across the sea.
Over a warm current brushing sleeves
with a cold current going south and
west, there is always condensation ; for
more than six months in the year clouds,
low and whirling, cover the sky.
Norfolk and Suffolk were dangerously
close. At six miles, Bismarck’s 15-inchers
could have blasted them out of the water
in a few seconds. But they hung on.
Snow and sleet fell so continuously that
they could sometimes see only a mile
even when there was daylight.
Early that Saturday morning Hood
and Prince of Wales came up together,
a striking contrast to the German ship.
The latter was long and low with an
upcurving bow, a downcurving stern and
her midship structures concentrated to
a round tower —a fast, lean fox with a
chess castle on its back. Hood was 60
feet longer. Her top, from for’ard,
was like a knight’s visor. Below on the
cross trees, always, at sea, a Polyphemus
eye of a searchlight winked broadly, giv-
ing her, from some distance, the look
of being human and alive.
Prince of Wales is a stouter build. Her
armored bridges rise up almost the width
of her beam, a solid cliff, above the
fo’c’sle, ringed with gun barrels —“a tower
of David builded for an armory whereon
there hang a thousand bucklers, all the
shields of mighty men.”
The leviathans opened upon each other
at the favorite range of giants —just over
20,000 yards. A tremendous blast ripped
the sky open. Hood was gone! Gone
was the gallant Kerr, her flag captain ;
gone, too, was L. E. Holland, Rear-
Admiral of the Second Battle Cruiser
Squadron, one of the best gunnery men
in the world. Many Australian naval
gunners bear his brand.
Gone, too, instantly, were all but three
of 1340 gallant men of Portsmouth
and of Devon, many belonging to
families which have had generations in
the King’s service. Gone the cheerful
messes and the swinging hammocks; the
chests on the iron deck; the rattle of the
chains ; the resonant singing from the
communal baths; the shrilling pipes and
the ever-resounding bugles; the shops
where you bought blues and crested note-
paper ; the printing press where they
turned out their dance programmes and
the Christmas cards; the chapel with its
shining cross; the 100 sq. yard quarter-
deck ; the vast wardroom.
But on the Arctic Circle there were
no post-mortems.
Even while the purring announcers of
Hamburg and Berlin Radios were begin-
ning their sneering question “Where is
the invincible British Navy now?” Prince
of Wales was wiping the smoke and blood
of battle from her eyes, for she had been
slightly wounded in the first onslaught,
and the yelps of the distant pack could
be heard as they began to converge from
all over the Atlantic —as choice and
motley a lot as ever hunted behind a fog-
horn, with memories from all over the
seven seas. Some had names which went
back 400 years in the service—Renown,
Repulse, Victorious, and all the cruisers
of the proudest counties. There were
Tribal destroyers galore, and overhead
there were Sunderlands and the American
Consolidated skyships which were born
Gubas and introduced into the British
aristocracy of the sea in a new genera-
tion as Catalinas. The seas hereabouts
are too wide for mere two-engined
Hudsons, but the big ’planes can eat an
early breakfast at Newfoundland, arrive
for late lunch over Wales and if they are
not hungry turn about and dine again on
the other side of the Atlantic.
On Sunday the Germans spoke of a
“short sharp fight” and of a King
George V ship damaged and forced to
turn back. There was no turning back.
The North Atlantic is between 4,000,000
and 5,000,000 square miles in area, and
the Admiralty was out to prove that its .
immemorial control over it had not been
lost because of “a lucky hit.”
Admiral Luetjens and Captain Linde-
man, of the Bismarck, knew the position
well enough. Their escorting cruiser had
found a covert somewhere. Their only
hope of survival was in a clean pair of
heels and misty weather.
Dodging craftily, their vessel went
hurtling to the south-west all through
Saturday with Prince of Wales on her
tail guided by aircraft. Towards evening,
the two big ships were in a brief en-
counter. Bismarck again ran, and, chang-
ing her course, made off towards the set-
ting sun.
Admiral Luetjens decided to go to
earth in Brest, where two other German
heavy craft, the 26,000-ton Scharnhorst
and Gneisenau, have been skulking since
the third week in March, despite the
attempts of the R.A.F. and F.A.A. to
bomb them out.
The run was long and breathless, full
of fire and incident. As the R.N. went
into full cry late on Saturday night, the
’planes of the new 23,000-ton aircraft-
carrier Victorious scored a hit on the
fugitive; but in the morning the two
cruisers Norfolk and Suffolk, the pioneers
in the chase, and Prince of Wales had
lost touch with the enemy once more in
a misty sea.
The hunt spread out. Royal Canadian
Air Force ’planes linked themselves with
the R.A.F. and F.A.A, in a canopy of
exploration over the whole of the
northern ocean from Britain to North
America. At 10.30 a.m. on Sunday, 1700
miles —near the width of Australia —from
where the chase started, the prey was
flushed afresh 550 miles west of Land’s
End, the Englishman’s main point of
hail-and-farewell. The weather was so
bad that ’planes rose from a deck at their
peril.
A little after eleven o’clock the heavy
’planes of Ark Royal picked Bismarck
up again. She had changed her course
easterly, and was travelling full speed,
heading straight for Brest.
H.M.S. Sheffield, standing by, made a
pass at her. So did the ’planes of Ark
Royal early in the afternoon. The aerial
attackers were met with reprisal which
seemed to consist of a belch of flame and
shell from end to end of the ship. In
some earlier encounters with Catalinas,
the flak fire had been supplemented by
the efforts of Bismarck’s own seaplanes.
The British ’planes went off for more
ammunition and returned towards even-
ing. They launched more torpedoes.
Two were seen to get home; one star-
board amidships, the other on the star-
board quarter. The pilots in the clouds
looked down on a badly-wounded battle-
ship spinning in circles like a vixen with
a broken back, with the oil which is the
lifeblood of ships pouring out of her
side and trailing in a wake behind her.
There she lay all night, ringed now
with forces which virtually were her
captors. At 10.42 her admiral sent his
last message:
Ship incapable of manoeuvre. Will fight
to the last shell. Long live the Fiihrer!
In the early hours of next morning, the
Navy came to administer the coup de
grace and collect the German brush.
An hour or so after midnight, the
Tribal destroyers, armed with torpedoes
and 4.7’5, closed in—Maori, Zulu and
Cossack, whose crew had leapt aboard the
Altmark a year ago shouting “The Navy
is here!” They harassed their victim
with swift strokes.
Bismarck moved laboriously on,
stopped, moved on again, still throwing
out gouts of oil and with a fire burning
on her fo’c’sle. It was nearly dawn and
the sea was so shrouded in mist that the
aircraft which went up from Ark Royal
at first streak of day could not see their
mark and returned without attacking.
The destroyers went in again, with the
Norfolk, which had been somewhere near
the enemy ever since Friday and
throughout a 2000-mile chase.
Finally, King George V, with the
C.-in-C, Admiral Tovey, aboard, and the
16in. gun Rodney battered the enemy
vessel into silence in a rough and fog-
touched sea. Dorsetshire slid alongside
with her eight 21-inch torpedo tubes.
In a few minutes, the Bismarck, half a
year old, product of years of toil by thou-
sands of men, valued at over £8,000,000
sterling, was spurlos versenkt at 11 a.m.
Two days before the German Radio had
been telling the people that she was nicht
versankbar —unsinkable. About 100 of
her crew were saved, German ’planes pre-
venting further rescues. They attacked
the fleet and sank the Tribal destroyer
Mashona, with one officer and 45 men.
Other British casualties were 25 killed,
13 wounded.
It was the air units of the R.N.
which inflicted the crucial wounds, as it
was the air units of the Coastal Com-
mand which traced and shadowed the
enemy ship ; but the Air Force could not
have efficiently done the work without the
completely essential co-operation of the
surface Navy, to which they serve as
supplementary gun turrets.
German Radio declared that it had
taken “sixteen of Britain’s greatest ships
to sink the single German” as they “lay
round her in a cowardly ring,” and the
British Navy had then steamed off, de-
liberately leaving the gallant German
crew to drown, “as it always does.”
The world knows enough to judge that
sort of slander.
Events in the Aegean made a pointed
contrast. While a few British aircraft
brought Germany’s greatest ship to a
standstill, three oldish battleships of the
British Mediterranean Fleet —Warspite,
Barham and Valiant —endured for 15
hours, in confined seas in which there
was little room for manoeuvre, the full
onslaught of hundreds of machines from
the Luftwaffe operating from bases only
a few miles away. They carried out the
urgent and vital duties which necessitated
their being there and retired majestically,
battle-scarred but whole.
The comparison speaks for itself.
Mechanically and defensively, German
ships have been as good as British ships,
sometimes better. But neither Germany
nor any other nation except the British
has bred Nelsons, Hoods, Rodneys, Cun-
ninghams, Toveys, Nobles and Hollands.
The first R.A.A.F. fighter squadron,
equipped with Spitfires, has been formed
abroad. A South Australian, Flight-
Lieut. Bungey, has been appointed its
squadron-leader.
* * * *
A son of Field-Marshal von Blomberg
is reported killed in action. His father
was described by Sir Nevile Henderson
as “one of Hitler’s most trusted advisers,
and one of his most intimate and possibly
most beloved friends.” Pa fell from
grace in January, 1938, when he married
“a certain Fraulein Eva Griihn, who was
inscribed in Himmler’s police records as
an attractive lady but of the lighter vir-
tues.” Fall from grace also did General
von Fritsch, who, then Commander-in-
Chief, “notified the Fiihrer that army
discipline could not tolerate the retention
of Blomberg, married to a lady with such
a past, in his post as Minister for War,”
and went on to criticise the Fiihrer’s
foreign policy. Fritsch was succeeded by
General von Brauchitsch, and Keitel
took over “most of Blomberg’s executive
functions, but under the direct nominal
supervision of the Fiihrer.” Fritsch died
mysteriously in the Polish campaign.
Keitel and Brauchitsch now run the
army, and may be running the Fiihrer.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: Nobody could accuse the
announcer of Rome Radio of a lack of
nerve. Hear him on the Amba Alagi
surrender:
Such a glorious episode will live in
history for ever. After a display of un-
exampled military prowess and valor, these
brave men were able to march out with
full battle honors, and their proud de-
meanor was such that it compelled even
the British to present arms to them as they
passed. The episode continues to com-
mand the admiration of the world’s press.
“Svenska Dagbladet” says: “Such an epi-
sode should kill for all time the vile and
stupid libel created by British propaganda
that the Italians are no fighters.”
* * * *
In the navy no man is ever too old
or too high in rank to be in the thick
of it. One recent R.N. casualty list con-
tained the names of three rear-admirals
—J. C. Hamilton, I. B. B. Tower—a great
old naval family the Towers—and E. I.
G. Mackinnon. And they are all men
in the sixties who retired some years ago
and returned to the convoy service.


|$ * distant
K\n^ a '^ . Q pn^' n9 "an
rV PU>;V
, V ' w ° ,rV a pte“S t . S -niert"A» <ue \ -
mp' n( 3 n a uin e •> w on® a nd
9 U t e^f S \. Ve a «<*» At I Wo
’ '\t^^so\«teW S^oolo<
sy/V\V
p u
bvJV
Slove
Kero
TKo^l
S \U^
at
i- m:
.........
SS?SS
our
» SeC , y Sio' -c -
loca 1
STAMPS
100 New Zealand*; all different 8/-
100 Australians, all different 4/-
40 Pacific Islands, all different 4/-
We buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air Lists—Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Kst. 56 Years.)
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
Many of those gnawing, nagging, P™fai
backaches people blame on colds or strains
Ere often caused by tired kidneys—and can DO
relieved when treated In the right way.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tax-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
day or about 3 pounds of waste. _
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
In the blood. These poisons may cause fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting ana
burning, nagging backaches, rheumatic pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights,
swelling, pufflness under the eyes, headaches
and dizziness.
Don’t wait t Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
Waste from the blood. Get DOAN S
ACHE KIDNEY PILES to-day—the remedy
jhat will make you well .and keep you geU.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Governor and Lady Wakehurst
have sent out invitations for the
party to celebrate the wedding of Wing-
Commander Richard Shaw and Joan
Tyler. Joan has been private secretary
to Lady Wakehurst since her former
private secretary’s marriage. According
to the old rhyme, Joan is going in for
health in a big way, for Monday is the
day chosen. The reception is a late-
afternoon one, time 5.30, place Govern-
ment House.
Parliament House, with Labor on the
Government benches for the first time in
nine years, brought streams of the
curious and the congratulatory hurrying
up to Macquarie-street one morning last
week. This was not the official opening
of Parliament, but only, as it were, the
taking over by the new firm. The wives
of many of the new Ministers turned up
smiling and pleased. By and large, they’re
a very attractive group. Mrs. W. J.
McKell, wife of the State’s new leader,
has a profile that is enhanced by a toque.
Both frock and toque were black, and her
furs were fox. With her in the Speaker’s
Gallery were her friends Mrs. C. P.
Brown and Mrs. O’Brien. Mrs. F. J.
Finnan, whose husband represents
Hawkesbury, brought her young daughter
Margaret. Mrs. Clive Evatt, wife of the
Minister for Education, gave Elizabeth
and Clive, jun., time off from lessons to
get a first-hand grip on politics. Mrs.
M. Quirk, our only woman member, had
a little army of her active supporters from
Balmain to surround her at the end of
the morning’s duties. She took them all
off for lunch to Vere Mathews’s cafe. In
the happy party were two of Mrs. Quirk’s
daughters.
Delegates and all concerned with the
second biennial conference of the Aus-
tralian Association for Pre-school Child
Development are having a great run-
about with feet as well as with brains.
By half past nine last Monday morning
groups were assembled at the University
Union ready to rush out to the Lady
Gowrie Child Centre and to various free
kindergartens. At half past three there
was a service in St. Andrew’s; and after
that the Mayor and the Mayoress held
a reception in the Town Hall for dele-
gates and members. At eight o’clock
Lady Gowrie opened the conference in
Union Hall, Mrs. T. A. a’Beckett giving
the presidential address. Yesterday, too,
was crowded with events, including the
president’s lunch for official guests and an
at-home given by Chancellor of the Uni-
versity Halse Rogers and his lady. Lady
Wakehurst was in the chair for the even-
ing session.
Sue Other Gee might prove to be the
dark horse that will romp home winner
in the Red Cross Queen stakes in “the
latter end,” as an old man we knew used
to say. Quite a few votes should be the
result of the party at Retford Hall
(loaned by the Anthony Horderns), which
is under the leadership of Mrs. Claude
Healy and Mrs. Alexis Albert. Then
there’s the amusing “In Camera” show,
also for Sue. This will be made up of
candid camera photographs, and there’s
a section to be known as Family Album.
These will be judged on their humorous
value. They must be authentic, but need
not be the work of the entrant.
Entries come under the headings of
Amateur, Professional, Junior, Family
Album. The Red Cross or Kodak, 379
George-street which firm is giving
most of the prizes—will tell interested
camera fiends all about it. Saturday,
14th, is closing date. The show, which
will be on view in the Australia, will start
on the 17th and end on the 19th, and
at half past five on the final day you can
pay five shillings and come along to the
cocktail party being run by Mrs. R. H.
Bettington in the Australia.
Pretty Midge (Marjory) Nelson, of
Dubbo (she’s the younger daughter of
the R, H. Nelsons, of Dubbo, and
father’s one of the town’s leading
lawyers), surprised her Sydney friends
last week by ringing up and announcing
herself as Mrs. Rogers. Marriage was
one of the now-common suddenly-de-
cided-ons, and St. Stephen’s, in Dubbo,
blessed the vows. Midge wearing an air-
force blue suit and a slouch hat of the
same toning. Husband’s a tall, upstand-
ing lad, and that matches Midge’s slim
height very well. His full name is Francis
Geoffrey Rogers, and his father was Lieu-
tenant-Colonel Rogers of the latest
neutral country of Hitler’s bombing.
Kathleen Donovan, whose Social
Studies, just published by Angus and
Robertson, is being praised on every side,
is as many-faceted as a well-cut diamond.
She’s a graduate of Sydney University,
educated at Sydney Girls’ High and
the Women’s College within the Uni.,
and her M.A. is embellished with first-
class honors. Her economics degree also
arrived wrapped up in honors. She
holds her diploma of education. She is
learned in psychology, economics and
literature, particularly Australian. She
has written poems; she’s a brasshat
among the Ranger Guides, and has
travelled all over the world, having done
a lot of her Girl-Guiding in England and
Wales, and at a camp at Dolgelly, of
which Miss Rudyard Helpmans was the
head, she taught hundreds of Cubs and
Brownies to swim. In fact, swimming is
as easy to Kathleen as acquiring lan-
guages or running a city library—she
trained for that in the Public Library in
Bent-street. Kathleen is a teacher in
the Department of Education, has given
W.E.A. lectures at Sydney University,
and organised the High School Girls’
debating contests which were run in con-
junction with the English-Speaking
Union. Peter Pan photo.
A letter from a former Sydneyite,
Margaret Baxter, who has lived for years
in London, and who is now chairman of
the Women’s War Service Committee of
the Royal Empire Society, tells of a
recent visit of the Duchess of Kent to
the society’s rooms. The Duchess was
particularly delighted with the dainty
and beautifully made consignments of
clothes sent by the women Royal Em-
pireans here for the war and air-raid
victims in England. Another Sydney
woman gives her services as secretary.
She is Edith McLean. Another part of
the work is arranging variety entertain-
ments for overseas and home troops.
There is always a crowded audience.
Margaret’s letter ends; “Our little house
in such a lovely spot (it’s rural England,
with a bluebell-carpeted wood near by)
is in direct route of enemy ’planes trc>m
the coast to London. Almost nightly
they drone overhead. It feels sometimes
as if they must touch the roof; and the
A.A. bombardment makes the houses
tremble. But we know our gallant
R.A.F.! It is an age to live in! ”
Another letter from England says:
“We have had quite an adventurous time
since we last wrote. We have been
bombed out of our own house —from
there we moved into the Carlton Hotel,
which, as you may have seen from the
papers, has been among places hit.
Luckily we were sleeping down in the
grill-room, or I should not be writing to
you now, as our bedroom was simply
matchwood.” Then the writer hurries on
to a description of the family’s new flat.
Just what John Strachey in his new book,
Post D., calls another incident.
Nation Building in Australia is the
title of the life story of Littleton Groom,
written and compiled by his widow with
the help of knight George Knowles
and Mr, FitzHardinge. The lady
has met every notability in Common-
wealth political circles and all the celeb-
rities who have visited Australia for
almost 40 years. She has watched the
founding and the growth of Canberra.
This is a book which all political-minded
people in Australia will want to read.
Angus and Robertson are the publishers.
Falk made this photograph of the Little-
ton Groom lady, but it cannot show
her slim erectness, her fine skin and her
bright eyes.
American journalist Howell Walker, as
good looking as gently mannered, was
the guest of the Society of Women
Writers last week. Howell has travelled
most of Europe and much of Asia as the
representative of the “National Geo-
graphical Magazine.” He is here, he says,
to discover what is the spark that kindles
the torch now known all over the world
as the Spirit of Anzac. To this end he
will do what he did in Europe—-he will
live as much in the homes of the people,
particularly in farm and station homes.
He told in a naive and telling fashion at
the lunch of acts of kindness he had met
in many lands. One painted very clearly
the courtesy of the Irish peasant; the
other that of the intellectual Chinese.
Howell is obviously a young man who
misses very little. Incidentally, he de-
clares that Australian kindness is the
most warm-hearted of all.
Another handsome male to break bread
with the women scribes was Captain
Ardant of the Free French Forces. He
came in company with Mrs. Ivy Moore,
who as president of the “Friends of
France” Club had received messages of
thanks from General de Gaulle for the
interest Australia is taking in the Free
French Movement. Mrs. Moore, inciden-
tally, has been the guest of the Free
French Officers’ Mess in camp. This is a
recognition of her unfailing interest in
France.
Next Saturday, “Euryanthe,” the Weber
composition that is all tears and tombs
and unbelieving lovers, will be the Con-
servatorium opera school’s offering.
Jocelyn de Cardi will be the heroine who
tells in girlish confidence the story her be-
trothed Adolar has made her swear not
to divulge. Eglantine, the sly puss, will be
sung by Isolde Hill and Bertha the village
maid will be Edna Farrow. Producer is
Hilda Mulligan, scenic artist Amie King-
ston. Roland Foster is the organiser, and
Florent Hoogstoel will conduct.
Three centuries of English epigrams
and repartee and a study of their makers
have been culled for the book edited
by Leonard Russell and named English
Wits. Has anybody said anything truer
about some of the art the world is always
being called on to admire than: “No-
thing is so dangerous as being too modern
—one is apt to grow old-fashioned quite
suddenly”? Oscar Wilde said that, though,
it must be added, not exclusively about
painting. What the pen of satire could
do in Pope’s day is revealed in the lines;
Yes, I am proud; I must be proud to see
Men not afraid of God, afraid of me!
And here is a bit of Max Beerbohm that
might well be an exit line for all good
writers and true; “To be outmoded is to
be a classic if one has written well. I
have acceded to the hierarchy of good
scribes and rather like my niche.”
By the time this appears the last crumb
of Law Schools Comforts Fund’s birth-
day cake will be gobbled up. The party
which it adorned was held in the Law
School, Phillip-street, and took the form
of an American grocery tea. You know,
take a gift and buy a gift. Sybil Green-
well, a barrister herself, and president
of the Fund, made and iced the cake.
It was iced to represent a large volume
of law bound in brown with red corners
—and in gilt letters the words “Legal
Digest” (this is what the Fund calls the
circular letter it sends their men regu-
larly), “Vol. I.” It was furthermore em-
bellished with the University crest.
Sybil, as is remembered by literary and
artistic Sydney, for many years used to
make the cakes to celebrate the brilliant
little Sarah Hynes’s birthdays.
Betty Bryant, heroine of “Forty Thou-
sand Horsemen,” was a very excited girl
last week when plans were being made
for her trip to Malaya to appear at the
Singapore premiere of the film. The tak-
ings from the first night will be given to
Malayan war funds. Betty eagerly antici-
pates meeting many Australian soldiers
over there, and hopes, too, to sing for
them.
Great sympathy is being felt for Mrs.
Walter Swinson and her sister Mrs.
Fagioli, whose mother, Mrs. Mary Anne
Griffiths, died last week. Mrs. Griffiths,
a sparkling little lady with a wide know-
ledge of music, was a great inspiration to
her talented daughters in the days of their
girlhood when, as the Griffiths Sisters,
they conquered the London concert
world. For some years Mrs. Griffiths
had lived in Italy with Mrs. Fagioli.
About a year ago they came back to Aus-
tralia. Mrs. Griffiths died at Mrs. Swin-
son’s Turramurra home. Mrs. Muriel
Simpson, of Perth, the violinist of the trio,
predeceased her mother by some years.
Lance-Bombardier Maxwell Buchanan
and Judith Lawry, of Melbourne, made
their wedding arrangements in the space
of two days, so it was just as well that
Judith’s sister, Mrs. Alan Bragg, could
lend her her own bridal frock and
veil. St. Mark’s was the church, the
bride had no attendants, and brother-
in-law Alan Bragg gave her away. Max
is the son of the W. F. Buchanans, of
Delamere, Pokataroo, who came to town
for the wedding. Party followed at the
Alan Braggs’ flat, Mrs. W. S. Lawry
receiving the guests. Gunner Michael
Simpson, of the A.I.F. and Inverell, was
the best man.
The president, Mrs. E. D. Logan, and
the secretary, Mrs. Mason, want all in-
terested to know that the 7th Division
Cavalry Welfare and Comforts Fund
has rooms in Asbestos House at the
corner of York and Barrack streets. The
rooms are open every day, and there are
always machines available. Meetings are
held on the second and fourth Thursday
of each mopth at 2 p.m. There is an
active younger group which meets on
Tuesday evenings. The committee would
like to hear from relations and friends
of the reinforcements of the regiment,
as it wishes to extend its support to
these men whether in camp here or on
service overseas. Telephone 81333. Two
moneymaking ventures in view are the
jumble sale at Newtown markets on June
25 and a card-party at the Legacy Club
on July 23.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
Leather Portfolios
w
For those bulky papers in Black
and Brown Seal Grain Cowhide:—
I(l_eal for Military Requirements.
ICin. x llin.—with 3 divisions.
Price: 52/6
Others: 72/6, 90/-, 97/6.
C. E. KUCHING
PTY.,
LiTD.,
“For Everything in Leather.”
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(near Wynyard Stn.). ’Phone: BWIISS
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO JOHN ALEXANDER DEMPSTER for-
merly of S.S. “Corio” and Albert Park
Able Seaman but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife ENNETTA
HELENA DEMPSTER has instituted proceed-
ings for a divorce on the ground of desertion
during three years and upwards UNLESS
you enter an appearance in the office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court Mel-
bourne on or before the Twenty-sixth day of
June One thousand nine hundred and forty-one
the case may proceed in your absence IF you
intend to defend this suit you must file an
answer in the said office on or before the
Seventh day of July One thousand nine hundred
and forty-one AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that the sealed copy petition and
copy citation in this suit may be inspected
at the office of the Petitioner’s Solicitor.
JOAN ROSANOVE, 440 Chancery Lane,
Melbourne, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
FARRANT.—JACK, died at Balranald on
31st May, 1927. Would his widow or children
please communicate with THE TRUSTEES,
EXECUTORS & AGENCY CO., LTD., 401-3
Collins Street, Melbourne?
TOM MUIR.—WiII THOMAS MUIR, son of
the late James B. Muir, Jeweller, who resided
at Cathcart, Glasgow, kindly communicate with
his mother or with RUSSELL & DUNCAN,
Solicitors, 105 St. Vincent Street, Glasgow?
FARGHER, Charles, who (if alive) would be
aged about 90 years, left his parents’ home
(probably in Carlton) over 60 years ago and is
reputed to have taken casual labour in country
districts in Victoria, or his children.
Also
FARGHER, William Bryant, aged about 66
years, son of Robert John and Annie Fargher,
last heard of in Sydney about 46 years ago.
Would they or any person supplying informa-
tion kindly communicate with NATIONAL
TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND AGENCY
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, 95
Queen Street, Melbourne?
Divorce Notices.
TO YVONNE RUTH” ROY formerly of
Pomona in the State of New South Wales
Married Woman but now of parts un-
known.
TAKE NOTICE that ARTHUR LESLIE
ROY of Railway Station Ouyen in the State
of Victoria Engine Driver has instituted pro-
ceedings against you for divorce on the ground
of desertion UNLESS you enter an appear-
ance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme
Court in Melbourne on or before the 26th day
of June 1941 the petition may proceed in your
absence. If you intend to defend this suit
you must also file an answer on or before the
7th day of July 1941.
VIRGIL B. GILL, Solicitor, Chancery
House, 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 818 of 1941.
BETWEEN ROSE EMMA MOTTLEE Peti-
tioner and
HENRY LANG MOTTLEE Respondent.
TO HENRY LANG MOTTLEE.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ROSE EMMA
MOTTLEE has commenced a suit against you
in this Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the ground of desertion for
three years without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
Fifteenth day of August One thousand nine
hundred and forty-one and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit will be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Twentieth day of May, One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
FRED M. DODD, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Mrs. Churchill’s principal interest in
war-time activities centres in the
Y.W.C.A., for since Lady Halifax left
with her husband for America Mrs.
Churchill has undertaken her job as presi-
dent of the Y.W.C.A. War-time Fund.
Recently she cabled to Lady Gowrie for
further help for the British Y.W.C.A,
This association cares for all women in
uniform and munition workers. Where
centres cannot be opened—on remote
hilltops or lonely moors —the mobile
canteens go. It was Mrs. Churchill who
decided that a smart “hair-do” for women
war workers would help to keep morale
at a high level, and hairdressers go along
as part of the equipment. In spite of this
touch of feminine vanity, “women in Eng-
land today are man-power.” That state-
ment was made by Cr. Coles, M.H.R.,
when he launched the Y.W.C.A. Ser-
vices Appeal for at home and abroad in
Melbourne.
The association is continually being
asked by the Admiralty, Air Board and
other departments to extend its canteen
and hut services as the war zones change
and spread. This entails a vast amount
of organisation, and Australians and
Maorilanders are coming to the fore.
In the Middle East the first residential
club was established at Ismailia for the
nursing sisters with the Army of the Nile.
Several flats in a modern block have
been taken over and nurses may spend a
night out or call in and indulge in “mod.
cons.” sadly lacking in desert camps.
Several huts have been established near
the desert camps, but timber shortage
became a problem. The R.A.F. gladly
helped out by handing over huge crates,
and now nurses and their friends of the
services “dance on aeroplane cases,” a
recent bulletin states. Jean Begg, a
Maorilander, is in charge in the Middle
East. The latest bulletin from head-
quarters says that the Y.W.C.A. looks to
Australia and its near-by Dominion sister
for leaders. Training for leadership is
one of the important functions of the
Y.W.C.A. Squadron-leader Clare Steven-
son, newly-appointed Director of the
W.A.A.F.A., joined the Y.W.C.A. when
she left ’Varsity at the age of 21. Her
first appointment was as senior club
secretary in Sydney ; -from there she was
appointed general secretary at Rock-
hampton.
It is to carry on and extend services at
home and to give a helping hand to
Britain that the Melbourne Y.W.C.A. is
appealing for funds. The objective is
£lO,OOO, of which £6500 will go overseas.
Mrs. Essington Lewis, as past-president
of the Y.W.C.A. and chairman of the
Appeal Committee, loses no opportunity
of furthering the appeal. Last week she
gathered about 70 people in her drawing-
room —although she confessed she hadn’t
70 chairs —and asked Lady Charles to
speak.
This charming Englishwoman spoke in
a conversational tone, using colloquial-
isms and interspersing her talk with one
or two amusing stories. She succeeded
in giving a clear-cut picture of the ordi-
nary woman’s life in England, as distinct
from that of the women in uniform of
which we have heard so much.
Every woman in England today, she
said, from 14 to grandmothers, did some-
thing extra. She herself had been a
member of the Women’s Voluntary Ser-
vice for Civil Defence.
Lady Charles told The Bulletin she
had no special mission. She had gone
to America by sea and from there to Aus-
tralia by Clipper—a trip she wouldn’t
have missed for anything, but which she
didn’t enjoy ; it was too tiring. “I’m sorry
for Mr, Menzies” was her verbal re-
action to long-distance flying. The photo-
graph was taken by Broothorn.
Members of the Work-to-Win Cam-
paign were given an unexpected fillip at
a cocktail party held in their rooms in
Howey Court last week. On this occa-
sion the sailor-Mayor of St. Kilda, Cr.
Lynch, came along to offer a donation of
£2OO from the St. Kilda Patriotic Fund,
plus an interest in the patriotic ball to
be held in the St. Kilda Town Hall on
June 18. Reg Collins, who alluded to his
young brother, John Collins of the Syd-
ney, as a good scout, evidently came
along to say what a stout fellow his
friend Lynch was. It was appropriate
that the only sailor-mayor should wish
to help the navy and the nurses. Pro-
ceeds of the ball will be divided between
Navy House and the War Nurses’ Trust
Fund which is to be established.
The idea arose when a nurse in Darwin
had her leg so badly crushed that she was
unable to return to duty. The commit-
tee considers it is not sufficient to send
nurses comforts, A fund must be avail-
able to assist them to establish themselves
in civil life when they return.
Further offers of help came from the
Retail Motor Dealers’ Association through
its secretary, E. K, Varcoe. These men,
who have lost three-quarters of their busi-
ness through the war, are not moaning;
they are keen to help. Apparently they
are not superstitious. Friday, June 13,
has been chosen as the date for their
Gasket Club Ball to be held in the St.
Kilda Town Hall. Romantics—and
others —will dance to Strauss music by
candlelight, and Carrie Moore (the first
Merry Widow) will dance a “Merry
Widow” waltz.
The war has sent a good deal of local
talent home to roost. One of the latest
to arrive back is Cora O’Farrell, who has
been abroad for the past seven years. After
performing in London, where bombings
were the rule rather than the exception,
facing the hazards of war on the water
seemed all part and parcel of the times,
she said.
Before the war she had just been about
to realise her lifelong ambition of sing-
ing at the great Opera House at Milan.
While holidaying in Italy she was granted
an audition by Gigli, who was favorably
impressed with her voice. But the war
ended all that. Since then she has been
featured in variety shows in London,
and now Australia will be her happy
hunting-ground for a time. Later she
will leave for America to fulfil listed
cabaret engagements there.
Artists are remarkably generous in
giving their services for war-time funds.
An immense amount of work went into
the production of “Waste and Waists”
at the Princess. The large audience, com-
posed mainly of supporters of the Judean
Red Cross, was completely enthusiastic.
The Angliss lady took the stage to thank,
on behalf of the Red Cross, author and
producer Rothfield and all those who
had assisted. She mentioned that thou-
sands of pounds had been raised by this
branch.
Good wishes were offered to Mary
Reid and Dr. Alan McCay following
their visit to the little kirk around the
corner in East Camberwell. At the home
in Broadway of the bride’s parents, Mr.
and Mrs. W. S. Reid, general acclamation
was accorded to the newly-married pair
(now honeymooning at Buxton), to the
’groom’s speech, the presents, the cake
(an architectural masterpiece in square
tiers with decoration of lily of the valley)
and the pictures on the walls. There
many well-known Australian artists are
represented, including Streeton, Charlie
Wheeler (with a portrait of Mary and
Betty as children, which was incidentally
Wheeler’s first commission after the last
war), and M. J. MacNally. One of Mac-
Nally’s landscapes cost Mr. Reid a bottle
of brandy, but thereby hangs a tale that’s
the prerogative of painter and owner.
For their presents to one another Mary
and Alan exchanged respectively a radio
and a cheque. Among gifts from friends
was an agreeable piece of plastic art from
the erstwhile Chief Judge of New Guinea,
nowadays Squadron-Leader F. B. Phillips.
Present at the party, though un-
obtrusively (they being animals of
snobbish instincts), were the family dogs,
small black terriers with decided likes and
dislikes. The ’groom in his speech men-
tioned that his courtship, like that of
other persistent suitors for the hands of
attractive young women, had not been
all a smooth pathway, but for the last
six months he’d arrived on safer ground ;
the dogs were like barometers —they
hadn’t growled once during that period.
Among guests at the wedding were the
Harold Beattys (Mrs. Beatty is the bride’s
only sister; her small daughter Gay
missed all the fun through a visitation
of measles); Lindsay Dawkins, the
’groom’s lacrosse opponent of inter-
University sports fixtures —he has since
been to England taking out degrees in
architecture and engineering and is now
in flight-lieut.’s uniform —and Reg Davis,
also a lacrosse-player. Present also was
Pat Goldman, looking well in black coat,
snappy hat and bunch of violets; she
hopes later in the year to make a flying
visit to the tropical backwater of Dunk
Island and the adjacent isle inhabited by
Yvonne and Val Cohen and their mother.
Mrs. Phillip Sutton, who smiled cheerily
at Athol Shmith’s camera, is a bride of
a few weeks, busily settling into a new
home at Brighton. It is one of those de-
lightful old houses with a “treasure” in
the form of an aged housekeeper who
more or less goes with the house and has
been in the family for years. Not only
do Phillip and his young wife indulge in
a spot of painting—they’re doing the
attic, floor included —but they experi-
ment with furniture making and curtains
“tied up with bits of string and dyed
batik fashion,” all very successfully.
As Betty Taylor, Mrs. Sutton was hos-
tess in the Australian pavilion at the New
York World Fair. She has dabbled in
journalistic work and has written a num-
ber of talks for the Department of Infor-
mation, She will use this experience to
good effect in looking after radio pub-
licity for the Chinese exhibition and
bamboo fair to be held at the Myer
Mural Lounge from June 13 to 27.
The Brookes lady, whose organising
ability is proverbial, is chairman of the
executive committee, so the success of the
exhibition can be taken as assured. Still,
it should not be hard work “selling” this
show to the public. Josh McClelland
has found connoisseurs of Chinese art in
unexpected places. Lawyer Dighton Bur-
bidge is a mine of information in his
spare moments, and George Ewing is
proving a tower of strength on the selec-
tion committee. It will be a comprehen-
sive display of Chinese art and well worth
the five bob on opening day or the
modest shilling for the following fort-
night. Lord Mayor Beaurepaire will open
the show on June 13, and a pageant of
famous Chinese women with Oriental
musical accompaniment will be one of
the highlights of the afternoon’s enter-
tainment. Jennie Brenan is busy train-
ing a Chinese ballet. R.A.A.F. auxiliaries
and Chinese Relief will benefit.
There are a few idealists in our midst,
but, like happy marriages, they are sel-
dom heard of. At Warrandyte, 18 miles
from Melbourne, an ideal has taken shape
and flourished —a democracy within a
school.
Clive Nield and his wife Janet gave up
a very pleasant life in the academic atmo-
sphere of Geelong College to carry out
the idea. The school buildings are situ-
ated on a block on and above
the Yarra in typical Australian bush
country.
This link with the city is important, for
the school as a democracy is run on real-
istic lines. Problems of housing, etc., are
studied at first hand; visits to factories
and mines are part of the broad edu-
cation. Children have a wide choice of
subjects, learning from craftsmen and
tradesmen.
Much sacrifice and hard work have
gone into this venture. “Koornong” is the
embodiment of the best of traditional
methods incorporated with modern ideas
which have proved successful in other
countries, the whole adapted to Austra-
lian needs.
The Red Cross can always use help.
Volunteers are needed to assist with sorting
papers and clean scrap material supplied
by dressmakers and tailors, and to wash
bottles. At present some of the regulars
have to sort metal and move heavy bags,
which is really men’s work. Men who
could help on Wednesday nights or on
any day are badly needed. The depot is
at 684 Elizabeth-street.


WHEN AUTUMN GRASS IS FROSTBITTEN
FEED TRI-CAL-OS BONE FLOUR
TO SUPPLY THE MINERALS
THAT THE
SCORCHED PASTURES LACK
and so enable stock to make the most of the
fodders. Tri-cal-os is a pure bone product
without admixture of any other substance. It
contains a guaranteed minimum of 33 per cent,
phosphoric acid and 40 per cent, lime, and is
the most economical and reliable form of
calcium phosphate for stock feeding. It is
specially processed to ensure maximum digesti-
bility. Feed Tri-cal-os regularly.
Obtain particulars about Tri-cal-os from
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne;
Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; and G.P.O. Box 588,
M
AS v
G.P.O.
Perth.
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
2 (-BI
m
o
■ s
%po>
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
RECOMMENDED FOR LAMB-MARKING
A preparation compounded exclusively from
eucalyptus oils and their by-products.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St.. BRISBANE. Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDAEE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH. WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRU. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Bordan’s Rise.
“Ben C.”: In field wheat contests in
N.S.W. last season Bordan topped the
list in a fairly wide range of districts in
spite of the general poverty of the season.
A South Australian wheat, Bordan
comes from the Bearded Rieti x Ford x
Dan cross made at Roseworthy College
in 1921. It is rather tall, matures late in
mid-season and the straw is fairly strong.
A good yielder under the right condi-
tions, and a good hay wheat, it has a
medium strong grain of satisfactory mill-
ing and baking quality. The head is
long, tapering and with short-tipped
awns, and the grain is large, white and
soft, with a narrow crease.
Since it suits the same type of country
and climate it is best compared with
Ford. It may outyield Ford where the
season is wetter and longer than in nor-
mal Ford areas, but it is not as good for
hay, though better than many other
wheats.
It doesn’t finish quite as well as Ford,
and there may be some pinching of the
grain when the spring is dry; conse-
quently it doesn’t measure up to Ford in
flour yield, which is Ford’s outstanding
characteristic. All the same, the gassing
power of Bordan flour is slightly better
and its gluten content higher, factors
which make it of better baking quality.
No improvement in flour is likely where
it replaces Ford, though there should be
no deterioration. In Riverina, where it
displaces wheats like Yandilla King and
Ghurka, a flour improvement can be
expected.
Bordan beats Ford in resisting flag
smut, and is almost as resistant to stem
rust. It is generally recommended for
mid-season sowing in country like the
N.S.W. central tablelands and for early
sowing in the wetter parts of the west
and south N.S.W. wheatbelt.
Beef and Bulls.
“Beefo”: Hats off to “C. Punch” (B.
21/5/’4l) for his remarks about the need
for keeping up the standard of Australian
beef, and especially for the reference
that “too many expect the Government
to do something about it.”
The future of our beef lies in the hands
of the cattlemen themselves. We’ve
plenty of top-line studs in Australia
and there need be no shortage of quality
bulls. It’s necessary to look to breeders.
With cull cows allowed to breed the
standard of the herd lowers each year, no
matter how good the bulls may be. Even
a small percentage of mongrel-type cows
will soon leave their mark and lower
the standard of the herd.
“Waiting for the end of the war” or
“for Government help” never improved
any herd. Once the present standard de-
clines it’ll take years to get it back again.
And it will decline unless cattlemen get
“down to it.” At present there is a good
demand for stud animals; and if the
experience of last war goes for anything
men with a few good breeders on their
lands should reap a profit when this one
is over.
Manure Costing.
“Blue Wort”: A useful service is ren-
dered farmers by the N.S.W. Agricultural
Department, which ascertains the value
of constituents of artificial fertilisers and
thus enables buyers to know whether they
are being charged a fair price. Under
the Fertilisers Act, 1934, vendors must
state the composition of the goods and
ensure that it is as stated, under penalty,
but no control of prices is exercised. But
the farmer can compare the department’s
price based on unit values with the price
charged and then use his judgment.
The unit value of nitrogen, phosphoric
acid or potash in any fertiliser mixture
is the price of 1 p.c. of the ingredient per
ton of fertiliser. Thus, the unit value of
nitrogen (as nitrate) is £l, and if the mix-
ture contains 16 p.c. of nitrogen in that
form its average selling price would be
£l6 a ton.
Taking some common fertilisers, with
their quoted prices, it works out like
this:
Sulphate of ammonia; Nitrogen (as
ammonia) content, 20.5 p.c. ; unit value,
16s. 2d.; price based on that, £l6 11s. sd.
Most of the prices quoted are £l6 12s. 6d.
Nitrate of soda: Minimum quote, 16
p.c. nitrogen, £ll 15s. 6d.; maximum quote,
15.5 p.c. nitrogen, £22. Price based on
unit value for 16 p.c. nitrogen, £l6.
Bonedust —containing 3.25 p.c. nitro-
gen, 10 p.c. phosphoric acid (citric soluble)
"So I Went in after the dorg and got stuck. Dad."
and 12 p.c. phosphoric acid (citric un-
soluble) : Minimum quote, £7; maximum,
£lO 10s.; unit value price, £7 6s. 9d.
Superphosphate: Minimum quote, £4
195.; maximum, £5 155.; u.v. price, £4
18s. lOd.
Potassium sulphate: Minimum, £lB 10s.;
maximum, £3O; u.v.p., £l9 4s.
Muriate of potash: Minimum, £l7 55.;
maximum, £lB 10s.; u.v.p., £l7 ss. lOd.
Chilean potash nitrate: Minimum, £22
10s.; maximum, £42. •No unit value is
given for potash as nitrate, but, assuming it
to be as high as for sulphate (Bs.), the value
of the fertiliser would be £2l.
The unit values of the constituents
for 1941 are: Nitrogen as blood, as fine
blood and bone, as fine blood, as bone
and offal and fine bone, 195.; as nitrate,
£1 ; as ammonia, 16s. 2d. ; as coarse bone,
13s. 6d.; as castor meal, 14s. 9d. Phos-
phoric acid: Water soluble, 4s. 6d.; as
citric acid soluble in basic phosphate
and superphosphate 7s. 3d., insoluble
35.; soluble in blood and bone, etc., 65.,
insoluble in same 2s. 6d. Potash as
sulphate, Bs.; as chloride (muriate),
6s. lid. These are per ton for 1 p.c.
of the constituent to the ton of manure.
Nicotine Sulphate Drenching.
“Lion”: In B. 14/ 5/ ’4l “J.R.D.”
refers to the fact that I gave sheep 60
c.c. of his formula, viz., lib. bluestone
and 16 fl. oz. nicotine sulphate to
water. This is a misunderstanding.
My formula uses the same amount of
bluestone and n.s. but double the amount
of water, which makes 60 c.c. of my
formula equal to 30 c.c. of his. Sheep
getting 60 c.c. of “J.R.D.’s” formula
would take in about 40 minims of the
pure n.s. drug, which would kill even a
strong sheep. I selected one strong sheep
and gave the large dose. It was dead in
15 minutes.
I put a race of 25 ewes through, using
60 c.c. of my formula on them, and lost
10. Six were very sick but recovered, and
the other nine had no ill-effects at all.
The sheep were only average size and
were probably much weaker than they
looked in the yards. The rest of this
mob took 40 c.c. quite comfortably, 45
c.c. at the next drenching in three weeks’
time, and 50 c.c. in a third drenching
three weeks later.
In getting my 97 p.c. worm kill I
started drenching as soon as the summer
rains brought the bulky feed in January,
and have continued at three-weekly in-
tervals as nearly as possible. There was
no chance of a let-up this season. The
odd 3‘p.c. have never responded, and I
have found it cheaper to destroy them
than allow them to continue to reinfect
the pastures. Another good control is
the practice of putting drenched sheep
into a spelled paddock whenever possible.
The oesophageal groove will not react
to bluestone in a small percentage of
sheep, and it is those sheep which refuse
to respond to drenching. To help in
this matter, I have altered my formula to
21oz. bluestone and 16 fl. oz. n.s. in sgals.
water, given in 5-c.c. shots in doses
varying between 40 c.c. and a maximum
of 60 c.c. for grown sheep, other sheep
pro rata as per previous articles ; also
consider their condition and size, which
is most important.
Starting the Lucerne.
“Liko”: When the first growth of a
new lucerne stand is heavily weed-in-
fested, use a scythe. This gets down to
annuals like wire- and capeweed, cuts
them much closer to the ground than the
mower and thus gives the lucerne a
chance to beat them in the second get-
away. The stuff thus cut can be stacked
or popped into a pit silo for a loader
reserve. Young lucerne rapidly develops
robust roots, and when the weeds are
temporarily checked these get such a
hold on the soil nourishment that the
weeds don’t get a second chance.
The mower should be used only when
the young lucerne has lost its first sappy
tenderness and stands firm enough to
take the knife-cut without tearing of the
stems or ripping of the whole plant from
the ground. Between six and eight weeks
from planting a well-struck stand will
be able to stand mowing, and the cut
gets the weeds before they have time to
seed. By the time the second cut is
reached there should be few annual
weeds in the paddock.
If the young stand is to be grazed
make sure the plants are strongly estab-
lished so that few can be pulled out by
the sheep. Don’t graze if the ground is
wet, or the surface will be compacted.
Graze heavily and rapidly. If the area
is large, use temporary fences to force
the stock to hit small areas quickly, other-
wise they’ll wander round the paddock
trampling down more than they eat. Get
them out before they get down to the
crowns.
Stands established in autumn shouldn’t
be cultivated until the following summer,
when a little harrowing will probably be
useful to break the surface and tear out
stray weed growth. Another harrowing
or two in the following autumn, with a
topdressing of from i cwt - to 2cwt. of
super.—the drier the district the less
super, is needed —should put the stand
on its feet. Its future then depends on
good grazing management, renovation
and topdressing, with judicious cutting.
“Bull-ant Bill”: Once again there’s
talk of ginger as a profitable small-
acreage crop in N.S.W. and Queensland.
It’s a troublesome and chancy thing to
grow. Costly, too. Seed at 6d. a pound,,
fertiliser, labor and the special methods
required for successful cultivation run
up costs of production to around £BO an
acre. The plants are liable to queer, un-
manageable diseases, and very susceptible
to changes in moisture content of the soil.
Without any obvious reason a new plant-
ing will sometimes prove sterile, although
the same strain and sample of seed may
germinate well elsewhere and have,
yielded a good crop on the same land
in previous years under similar conditions.
The market is limited, and low duties
afford no protection against repetition.


v° .
VlNt' s 7 , /A/ *s /'Vo
s.p"'V .^Es."'
de ij ’kS'
pIEW-i
I*P
Built up week by week with a News Sheet and
|,an Index which is brought fully up to date with
each issue. Vine’s Nows Diary is the most important
reference work published in Australia today.
Indeed, it is more than a reference work. It
is a weekly recapitulation of the world’s news,
crisply presented, stripped of wondering speculation
and guesswork, as invaluable to the mail- or two-
mail-a-week man on the land as to busy commercial
executives and professional men.
With Vine’s News Diary readily available, there
need be no argument, no doubt of established fact.
No matter what news reference may be sought, a
glance at the Index locates it in a moment.
“The Bulletin” and other metropolitan and pro-
vincial newspapers throughout Australasia, in the
United States and elsewhere, Public and Parlia-
mentary libraries, Cabinet Ministers, Government
Departments, and a score of others have found
Vine’s News Diary indispensable to keeping pace
with this fast-changing world.
The sturdy, self-locking covers, illustrated above,
are supplied free to subscribers for filing of the
weekly issues.
Keep in step. Be informed. For a sample issue
and further particulars, write to the Manager.
VINE’S NEWS DIARY,
Scottish House, 19 Bridge Street,
SYDNEY.
m
m
&
\*
m
s
m
tM'
tv'
■
Australian Radiotron Valves,
fitted in your set, is your assurance
that replacements are available
when necessary.
AADIOTROA VALVES
will give full tone realism to your radio
AMALGAMATE!) WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
47 York Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
wm
sms
mmmkwlm
mm
asst
Wi ,
111
V. ’ J
.
The “Caterpillar” Diesel D 2 Tractor in this picture
is pulling 21 foot home-made one-way disc harrows,
preparing land for planting corn. It covers 10 acres
per hour, 10 hours daily—or a total of 100 acres per
day. Fuel consumption is 9 pts. of diesel fuel per
hour at 1/- per gallon—so that the average fuel cost
is less than l&d. per acre.
Whatever your farming problem give us the opportunity of
proving, on your own property, the greater economy and
efficiency of a "Caterpillar" Diesel Tractor. Call on your
nearest dealer or write us direct.
CATERPILLAR
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
DISTI.IBCTOJKS:
Victoria and Tasmania: Queensland:
William Adams & Co., Ltd., Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd.,
521 Collins Street, Melbourne. 102 Melbourne St., Brisbane.
New South Wales:
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd.,
Unwin’s Bridge Road, ’
St. Peters. Sydney.
South Australia;
The S.A. Tractor Company,
231 Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
■ -
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0.,
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6 Hot and Cold Water
Double Rooms from 11/-
SYDNEY.
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals ala Carte. ——— Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
of previous swampings by cheap-
labor competitors. China is probably out
of the field just now, but Java grows
a lot.
Outback Occupations.
No. LXXI.
THE FEUD OF THE FENCE .
The ravages of time and weather having
had their will, your west boundary fence
is in a state between complete wreckage
and being drunk and disorderly. Duncan,
whose place is on the other side, is con-
tinually calling you to come and get your
stock out of his place or you are con-
tinually calling Duncan to get his stock
out of your place. There is a lot of
hand-drafting and yard-drafting and
cursing and counting; so one Sunday
you drop over to Duncan’s.
He is a little man with stringy whiskers
and a dirty look, but you’ve always found
him a good neighbor. After a prelimi-
nary skirmish about the weather and the
wheat shoot and lambing and what you’d
both do if you were running the war you
get down to business.
“I was thinkin’, Duncan, we ought t’
stick up a new boundary fence.”
“Oh, you was thinkin’ that, was y’,
Fordcubbin?”
“Yair. We seem t’ be doin’ nothin’
lately but hunt your sheep out o’ our
place and”
“An’ what about your own sheep, may
I ask, Mister Fordcubbin?”
“Aw, now, Duncan,” you say, not
liking that “mister” in his voice and being
as charming as you can to the little runt,
“of course, my sheep must have been
botherin’ you. That’s why I reckon we
could save a lot o’ time and money
if”
“So y’re reckonin’ on puttin’ up a new
fence an’ makin’ me pay half the cost.
Mister Fordcubbin, you know it’s war-
time, an’ a man don’t be havin’ money
t’ spare f’r unnecessary work. That old
fence”
You eye him closely. So he wants an
argument. All right, you decide, let him
have an argument.
“Now look, Duncan, ol’ feller,” you
say. “The fence isn’t worth a cracker.
We can go on dummyin’ an’ patchin’ an’
strainin’ for the rest of our lives an’ it
still wouldn’t be worth a cracker. It was
badly put up in the first place, an’ ”
He rears up off the manure bag he’s
sitting on. “Look y’ here, Fordcubbin,”
he howls, “there ain’t a better fencer nor
me in the flamin’ district, see? I”
“Gripes,” you cut in hurriedly, “I didn’t
know you built it.”
“Well, I did,” he says unappeased, and
goes inside. You wait a while. He
stays inside. You go home.
A. wee k later you call on him again.
“If it’s the fence y’ve come about,” he
says, “y’ can save y’r breath. I’m not
payin’ half of any new fence, so there.”
“Look,” you say, carefully choosing
your words. “A new boundary will save
us all this bother about the stock. You
know, I don’t like t’ see you wastin’ time
chasing them useless sheep of mine out
of your paddock. You’ve got a nice
place here, Duncan ; it would be a pity
if my flamin’ stragglers did any damage.
Another thing, a new boundary will put
ten bob an acre on your property. It’ll
set off that new windmill and tank y’ got,
an’ y’ll have no need t’ be always watch-
in’ y’r crops, an’ that an’ ”
“Y’re not a bad sort, Fordcubbin,” he
says mollified, “but I ain’t payin’ f’r a
new fence when I don’t want one.”
Your patience with the half-grown
hooligan runs out. “Look here,” you
say, “I suppose y’ know that I can build
a fence an’ force y’ t’ pay y’r whack.”
His whiskers rise like a dog’s hackles.
“Force, is it?” he cries. “I’ll have y’
know, y’ big blankard, nobody forces
Aloysius John Duncan t’ pay anythin’
he don’t want t’ pay. Y’re on private
property, Fordcubbin ; y’ better get off
it before trouble breaks, see!”
You quell the desire to take him apart
which surges over you, and you say
calmly, “Well, we’ll see.” And not with-
out dignity you withdraw.
Ten days later you discover some of
Duncan’s sheep in your paddock. You
dispatch Jack to town with the car to
pick up a policeman and the rabbit in-
spector. When they arrive you take them
up the paddock, show them how Dun-
can’s sheep are easily chased back
through the dilapidated fence, confess
amiably that your own sheep are as
frequently being chased back by Duncan,
have them inspect the fence and express
their opinion that it is useless, give them
some refreshment and have Jack carry
them back to the town.
Then you sit down and write a letter
to Duncan, informing him that you intend
to build a new boundary fence as cheaply
as possible, that you expect him to meet
half the cost and that you are thus giving
him due notice of your intention so to
do. You make a copy of the letter, put
the copy away and post the letter to
Duncan.
Weeks go by, during which you and
the boys cut and cart posts and strainers
and stays to the boundary line ; you order
wire from the store and droppers from
the sawmill. You plan to re-erect the
fence in five-chain sections, thus avoid-
ing the necessity for clearing the paddock
of stock.
Comes the morning when you and the
boys go out to start work. Duncan is
there. But he looks cheerful and hails
you like a welcome friend.
He displays great interest in whether
it is to be five or six wires and a barb,
four or five posts to the chain and so on.
You have a feeling that he’s up to some-
thing, but you know your rights, and
send Jack and Tom up the line of the old
fence with sighting sticks.
The work goes on. Duncan appears
occasionally, even stands up a post now
and then and runs a wire. He says no
more about the cost, and you hesitate
to mention it, hoping he’s seen reason.
At last the final panel of barb is stapled
to the last strainer. Duncan is there,
and he starts to laugh. You look at him
hard.
“Hee, hee, ho,” he says ; “now make
me pay for it, if y’ can. That ol’ fence
was put up two feet inside y’r own boun-
dary, Fordcubbin, an’ the new fence is
in the same place. It’s actually on y’r
own land an’ y’ll have a job provin’ it’s
a boundary fence when it ain’t on the
boundary. Hee, hee, ho.”
He goes off chuckling, and you know
the story will be all over the district
before long. You send the boys home
and sit with your back to a strainer,
thinking, thinking, thinking.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4Jd. per line; all others at
2£d. per line.
Double rates to a South Australian for an article in which there is too much
truth.
The Deadly Illusion
Hitler’s victims have themselves pre-
sented him gratis with his most effective
secret weapon, which has functioned
insidiously from the start and is still
with us. Though it has been identified,
debated , condemned, its role as a diabolical
gratuitous agent of the enemy has not
been fully apprehended. It has been
the chief accessory at every one of his
national murders. It has sold the bridges,
opened the doors, yielded up the
defences. Its name is so familiar as to
become a trite cliche. It is “Wishful
Thinking.”
The Nazi confidence trick could not
have worked its black magic time and
again, in the very teeth of experience,
were it not that the victims’ own pitiful
hopes have always baited the trap. It was
the easy German trick merely to tell their
dupes whatever they wanted to hear. No
prior act of bad faith could overcome
that disastrous “will to believe,” that
pitiful willingness to catch at any straw
of assurance, denial or favorably twisted
interpretation. Fear-born wishful think-
ing has put the blinkers on all the dupes,
and the “military surprises” have borne
out the truth as much as the political
coups.
It is being hammered home hard now.
We thought we had learned from his-
tory. Events in the Balkans and Libya
lend suspicion that none of Hitler’s oppo-
nents has done so. Rumor told us of
the enormous masses of German troops
and material in Rumania, awaiting the
hour. We doubted the scope of
their preparations. “Axis propaganda—
numbers grossly exaggerated.” The true
weight of those masses proved to be,
not less but greater than stated. Rumor
told of accumulations of men and
material for a German drive through
Libya. Our naivete here was even more
glaring—“ Alarmist journalistic talk, prob-
ably a feint, they couldn’t get it across
under our noses, absurd!” We know
now that there is nothing too incredible
for Hitler to try. And he has known
from the start of his career that he was
dealing, not with geese, but with incor-
rigible ostriches.
The tragic catalogue covers the whole
period of German renascence. “They will
never make the mistake of invading
Belgium again—even Hitler couldn’t risk
that affront to world conscience.” World
conscience was affronted with impunity;
in fact, the episode is hardly remembered.
Wishful Thinking was the prompter in
every act of appeasement. Men and
nations believed entirely because they
hoped. “No further territorial claims in
Europe” ; “No intention to alter existing
frontiers” ; “No designs on Alsace and
Lorraine —they are part of France for
ever” ; “We do not want any Czechs.”
The world swallowed the baits, because
it wanted them to be true.
It is a terrible thing that the decent
traits of trust, hopefulness, humanity and
good faith should be so cynically and de-
liberately used as weapons of betrayal
and execution. We must know now that
we are up against the starkest realists the
world has ever known, and that super-
human courage is not enough to match
the combined craft and ruthlessness of
the Hun. We must envisage the worst
and act accordingly. Only then will that
boasts of “always winning the last battle”
stand a chance of realisation. At present,
it is but another comfortable, wish-
pandering phrase.— Keel Row (S.A.).
Training Service Men
Military authorities say that it takes
almost 12 months’ training to turn the
recruit into an efficient soldier, which is
one of the reasons why the home defence
training periods have been extended.
Most men who have experience of the
present system of military training will
agree that, if it takes 12 months to make
an efficient soldier under the present sys-
tem of training, the job could be done
in six months or less by a more efficient
and time-saving system. The truth is
that military training camps carry the
accumulated weight of years of routine
and precedent which slow down training
to a snail pace.
The recruit who measures his time in
hours will find that, for every hour spent
in actual training, another hour is wasted
in useless fatigues, routine lectures, cere-
monial parades and special duties. The
fault does not lie with the staff officers
of battalions, who have a syllabus of
training laid down for them which has
to be carried through.
The R.A.A.F., which is unencumbered
by tradition in these matters, is an object-
lesson to the military authorities. After
a few months’ training, air recruits are
flying trainer ’planes, while the infantry
or artillery trainee is still slogging away
at elementary rifle or gun drill and cere-
monial marching ; and while the soldier s
training is constantly interrupted by emu
parades, kitchen fatigues and sanitary
duties, the Air Force has enlisted special
men for those duties so that the trainee’s
time is devoted entirely to training.— Dee
Laney (Q.).
Know-all Magazines
When I feel in need of amusement I
like to glance through old issues
of know-all American magazines of the
type which used to flood this country
before the war. The titles and sub-titles
of the main articles never fail to raise a
laugh. Here are some chosen at random:
Maginot Line —Menace to Peace.
Threat to Germany’s Unfortified Western
Frontier.
The Balkans Mean Business.
Balkan Union of Bulgaria, Greece,
■Rumania Means End of Balkan Powder
Barrel.
Holland Keeps Her Powder Dry.
Is Prepared for Emergency. Won’t Be
Caught Napping.
“Our Invincible Red Army,”
By Marshal C. E. Voroshilov.
“John Bull, I Love You,”
By a Frenchman.
Yet it is from such magazines that Syd-
ney newspapers are buying their war
new 7 s at “a cost of over £4OO per week.”
—Smilax (Q.).
Some Are Risking Both
Why shouldn’t a prospective contri-
butor to war loan be asked to take the
same risks with his loan as a recruit does
with his body (B. 14/5/’41)? Well, it is
possible to guarantee the return of the
one but not of the other. If a man is the
right sort and age and in a position to
offer both his money and his life he does
so willingly and expects that he or his
next-oLkin will some day get his money
back. There are not only two classes of
people, one with only money to offer
and another with only lives to offer;
there are those who have both, and they
are responding well. —A. E. H. (N.S.W.).
On a Digger’s Holding
I am looking after the property of a
farmer who has been in the army from
the outbreak, but I am not doing it very
well, although I am putting in twice as
much work as we estimated (and as he
pays me for).
Every time I visit the property (it
comprises 4000 acres, much of it scrub-
covered) I find that trespassers have been
there —shabby men from the town, with
broken-down motor-trucks, help them-
selves to firewood ; disreputable youths
sneak in to trap rabbits and, failing any
success at that, do all sorts of senseless
damage to buildings, fences and other
improvements (shooting holes in roofs
and tanks is their specialty); one party
of picnickers apparently tried to enter the
house, and failing to do so had their
meal on the roof, where they left fruit
peels, papers and other debris, and even
hung an old kerosene tin on the aerial.
Some come to rob bees’ nests ; one started
a fire which took all the men in the dis-
trict half a day to put out.
But what annoys me most —and causes
the greatest loss to the owner —is that
trespassers invariably leave all the gates
open. The sheep get out into the scrub
and the rabbits get into the grazing land.
It is useless trying to catch the tres-
passers and threatening them, and it
would be futile to charge any of them
with stealing the many sheep which dis-
appear. It would be vain to appeal to
the police—it would take a constant
patrol of at least four men to protect a
property.
My fondest hope is that the owner
may come back unexpectedly, armed with
a tommy-gun. —E. O. S. (N.S.W.).
The National Register
A year or so ago the Commonwealth
Government compiled a National Regis-
ter, supposedly for the purpose of mobil-
ising Australia’s resources in the event of
war. Where has that modern Doomsday
Book got to? Is any use to be made
of it?
In W.A. alone there must be quite a
number of skilled tradesmen engaged in
the unprofitable pursuits of growing
wheat, apples, eggs, etc., commodities
which we shall be unable to export until
the war is over. But so far no one has
arrived to inform these square pegs that
there are places for them in the munitions
drive.
In a country possessed of a National
Register, every skilled man and every
lathe and machine tool not otherwise
urgently engaged should be employed in
the national interest. Small parts of aero-
planes, tanks, guns, could be made in
remote places, then crated and shipped
to the assembly line. Henry Ford and
other car manufacturers used to do this.
In W.A. we stand amazed at the
squabble as to whether Melbourne or
Sydney should be getting the most
munition orders. So far our Westralian
war effort has been largely and compul-
sorily confined to the building, of flats
and workers’ homes. Since the outbreak
of the Blitz at least two small but well-
equipped engineering works have been
sold piecemeal from sheer lack of orders
to keep them going. And that happened
in Perth.—W. C. C. (W.A.).
The Bright Side
Casualty lists are filling columns of
the daily papers. Equally important, but
not as prominently or systematically dis-
played, are the stories of gallantry and
lists of awards.
To my mind these are worth a place
in front-page news. It would be refresh-
ing and inspiring to turn from the forest
of conflicting reports to a few brisk para-
graphs giving details of brave acts of
Australians serving overseas. — Arthur
Falk (Vic.).
National Effort
. We are told that non-essential indus-
tries must be at least curtailed to preserve
man-power and material. If this is a
“Poor old Bluey. He just cant stand bloodshed !”
necessity, isn’t it criminal negligence to
take no other measure save an appeal to
the people? Even while these vain appeals
are being made, a twist of the tuning
knob will bring a hoarse voice roaring
“Bumblefoot now leads the field.”
Money is needed, so why aren’t people
compelled to lend? Further taxation is
necessary, so why isn’t the large small
income” group drawn on? They can
still go to the pictures, have a pot or
two, a couple of bob on the horses. Are
they exempted through fear of causing
hardship, or through fear of incurring
the disfavor of a very large and politi-
cally powerful section of the community?
Appeals for this, that and the other
only affect a sacrificing few and leave
the vast detached majority untouched.
These latter are quite prepared to do the
decent thing, too, but they want to be
sure everyone else is doing it. When the
Government realises that a firm, strong
lead will not bring public oblivion, but
public acclamation, we shall get some-
where.—C. H. (Q.).
“Cost Plus”
The Minister for Munitions has de-
fended the “cost plus” system against
the criticisms of Dr. Evatt, and, in the
long run, he is probably right. Neverthe-
less, I have been privately grinding my
teeth over at least one item that is put-
ting a lot of digits into my own firm’s
bill of costs for munitions contracts, and
that is the travelling expenses of “execu-
tives,” maior and minor, who have been
traipsing about the continent from Perth
to Brisbane in the course of their duties.
These peregrinations mean not only
first-class fares (often the even more ex-
pensive ’planes), but pound-a-day hotels
for the men concerned. It may not be pos-
sible to whittle down on the fares, assum-
ing that the exceedingly frequent journeys
are really justified, but I cannot see why
comparative cubs who have jumped up
from more or less inconspicuous jobs into
temporary affluence should have to be
maintained at Ritz-Carlton standards
every time they have to travel from home
to inspect a few items of machinery.
And there will be thousands of such “ex-
pense reports” covered by the opaque
blanket of “cost.” — Cost Plus (S.A.).
Road v. Rail
Commonwealth commandeering of
motor-trucks for army purposes should
drive a nail in the coffin of the argument
that the rail is of such superior military
value to the road. I cannot imagine the
Government commandeering rail equip-
ment.
It used to be argued that the rail was
the only way to move large quantities of
defence materials and large numbers of
defence forces from one part of this
country to another. The same, though
obsolete, argument was held in Europe,
but Hitler came through in immense
numbers of motor-driven transports
where there was no railway.
The question is largely academic now
since petrol rationing and expropriation
of means of road transport have given
State-owned railways a virtual monopoly.
But the lesson should hold good for the,
future. Perhaps even now it is neither
too soon nor too late to extend some
measure of encouragement to road trans-
port. — Ford (S.A.).
Different Places ; Different Charges
Bought an ounce of ichthyol ointment
at Randwick (N.S.W.) for Is. 3d. When
it ran out I tried a city chemist, who
wanted Is. 6d. Then I got it at Parra-
matta for 6yd. I have since been quoted
Is. 6d. twice, Is. 3d. four times, Is. twice,
9d. once and 7d. three times. When I
asked a chemist why the variation, he
said that my inaccurate pronunciation
was an open invitation to pop on the
price. I’m off back to school before I
go bankrupt.— Jabu (N.S.W.).
“Fred Hopkins”
In answer to a business advertisement
I recently got a letter signed “Fred Hop-
kins.” I made an appointment and met
Fred, who turned out to be a German
refugee whose real name was Hacher-
mann (or something like that). He
voiced great indignation when I asked
him his real name, and showed me his
aliens’ registration card, which, sure
enough, showed his name as given, then
in small letters, “formerly Hachermann.”
Another gentleman of the same nation-
ality, unnaturalised, rejoiced in the newly
adopted title of Walter Raleigh. 1
wonder he didn’t knight himself while
he was at it.
Most of us recognise that the majority
of our European guests are genuine refu-
gees, but it seems a grave error on the


WELL "HERE5 TO'EE
- "S'
HU
# %
hmbb
■ < • *■■■.
mmm
■
iliiii
■
1: V
1*1
m'-
m
■
>
A
CtVOllT
Hi
■
J 9K £8 I
« %
'V- y \
TDDHEYS
OATMEAL STOUT
TOOHEYS, LTD., SYDNEY.
Agents: VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Pbilp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND —Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


part of the authorities to permit, in war-
time, the use of British names by aliens
from enemy countries. ProperganDer
(Vic.).
Red-tape
For red-tape the N. S. Wales Educa-
tion Department is hard to beat. Early
this year many High School teachers
were notified that they would be trans-
ferred to other schools. Announcement
of the changes was not made in the press
until the middle of May —about four
months after ' they took place.— Lyle
(N.S.W.).
Education in Democracy
Every now and again someone revives
the old one about educating the voter to
vote. The latest is “J.M.” (B. 16/4/’4l).
He and the others overlook a very im-
portant thing. Democracy can’t be
taught, because democracy is a system
of checks and counterbalances. Democ-
racy, unlike any other ideology, is un-
conditioned. Education of the kind pro-
posed by “J.M.” amounts to a condition-
ing of democracy.
People should take livelier interest in
what is going on around them, but, un-
fortunately, civics and economics have
ceased to be merely objective studies. It
means little beyond an advantage in qiuz
sessions to. know that Brisbane has one
large municipal organisation, that Mel-
bourne has something like 22, that Syd-
ney and Adelaide have their outer coun-
cils, too. That sort of thing doesn’t help
electors to choose wisely. Nor does an
intricate knowledge of computing rates.
If their teaching has been flavored at any
time by Henry George, for instance, they
will examine all rate problems in the
light of Henry Georgeism.
If you have classes in economics you
■ will find that at the Constitutional Club
you will be taught that the big thing in
government is to reduce taxes and let
the worker go hang. If you go to the
W.E.A. you will be told that the im-
portant thing is to provide social services
for the worker and let the cost go hang.
Of course, at both you will probably
learn to distinguish between fixed capital
and circulating capital, just as you will
learn Gresham’s law or the distinction
between the law of increasing returns
and the law of diminishing returns. The
law of marginal utility .probably enters
into both discussions. But all these things
are something we knew already, but
hadn’t got pat into formulae. None of
them helps us particularly to select our
candidates.
Inevitably “education in democracy”
sharpens conflict of opinion. Just as
inevitably, however, comes the day when
one educating faction overtops the other
through greater power or organisation
or financial resources. Then democracy
is dead. The checks and counterbalances
have gone. Depending on who holds the
means of production, you have totali-
tarianism of one kind or another. — Soap-
box (S.A.).
Democracy in Action
The majority of post-war planners
with their grandiose schemes for re-
shaping mankind are barking up the
wrong tree. The other evening, for a
few hours, I was privileged to become a
member of the most democratic com-
munity on earth, and I was forcibly struck
with the delighted simplicity of the rules
that governed each and everyone’s con-
duct.
As I sat in the well-lighted public
reading-room I mused over the impec-
cable behavior of my fellow-readers.
True, there were large placards that en-
joined “Silence,” but was the presence
of these really responsible for the sooth-
ing calm that prevailed and the hushed
whispers in which occasional snatches of
conversation were exchanged? I think not;
it was the fact that each person realised
that he was enjoying a privilege and
that it would be a serious breach of good
citizenship to act in any way that would
interfere with his neighbor.
Their choice of literature was un-
limited —if they so desired they could
mentally embrace Fascism, Buddhism,
Mormonism, Marxism, Communism or
Douglas Credit. A priest engrossed in
an anthology of verse rubbed shoulders
with a coursing enthusiast trying to track
down an infallible cure for distemper. The
crux of the whole matter was that, what-
ever their own personal opinions were,
they did not attempt either by honeyed
tones or blatant propaganda to foist
them on other people.— Melton (Vic.).
Education in Art
Guy W. Warren (B. 7/5/’4l) is right
about teaching the young how to appreci-
ate pictures. The present tendency is to
allow kindergarten kids to “express them-
selves freely” in form and color with-
out guidance. The results are mostly as
artistic as mud pies. Imagine teaching
“Put the chips on. Sunny.”
youngsters music by encouraging them
to thump the piano “by ear” and with-
out any knowledge of the scales.
Later the children are taught copying
from the flat, to be followed by the
“book and bucket” and the cast. What
is neglected in every stage is practical
perspective such as is used by architects
and by which every object, real or
imaginary, can be represented in three
dimensions with precision.
The preliminary pencil sketches of the
great masters show the use ,of this
method. One by Leonardo da Vinci, of a
vast crowd scene, bears more than a
thousand definite straight lines made by
ruler and T-square. Roofs, pillars,
animals and humans are all drawn exactly
to scale. The finished canvas is regarded
as an inspired work. Rubbish! It was
all schemed out in cold blood in the
light of scientific fact.
Without that method no modern pupil
can vie with such truth and beauty or
even draw a kerosene-case in exact pro-
portion. With it any intelligent mortal
can limn a cathedral and love every line
of it— Slapiton (S.A.).
How They Run
I hope Keith Ross (B. 5/3/’4l) saw
a recent issue of one of Sydney’s Sunday
papers. Over the caption “Winning
Outlook” Acting-Prime Minister Mr.
Fadden and the new N. S. Wales Premier,
Mr. McKell, were pictured with “Winning
Smiles” —“seeing how they run” at Rand-
wick. It is a great pity that the only
sphere in which our political representa-
tives can meet in friendship and co-
operation is on the race track. — Plain
Jane (N.S.W.).
Authors and Money
As to those authors who feel that they
are good, but can’t get a popular follow-
ing (B. 30/4/’4l), records show: (1)
They may battle along till they get some
sort of acceptance, Ijke D. H. Law-
rence and Proust. (2) They may battle
along without it till they die, like Leonard
Merrick, whom the public would not
buy, even though his fellow-authors
combined at last, in a move without pre-
cedent, to boost him up ; or Snaith, so
little known that A. G. Stephens, who
often boosted him, said at last that his
own friends had accused him of invent-
ing Snaith. (3) They can cannily alter
their style, and set their sails to catch the
prevailing wind.
Some 20 years back, I was barracking
for Warwick Deeping and H. C. Bailey
as the two most underrated novelists
living. They were. Their fine historical
romances fell quite flat. So the one
changed to the domestic sentiment of
Sorrell and Son, and the other invented
Mr. Fortune ; and they are two of today’s
best-sellers in consequence. But just
hunt up—if you can find them —Deep-
ing’s King Behind the Throne and
Bailey’s Colonel Stow, and see if those
were not far more worth while as litera-
ture.—S. T. S. (S.A.).
From U.S.A.
“T. McNark” (B. 12/3/’4l) says “laws,
wars and outlaws are handled with an
eye to women in the United States of
America.” If Mr. McNark has ever been
in the States he should know that a
generous proportion of our 141,000,000
population are women —“free, white and
21,” as we say. Since literacy here is
quite high, especially in the thickly-popu-
lated States of Pennsylvania, New York
and Illinois, of course the women vote,
and, for the most part, just as intelli-
gently as the men. Mr. Roosevelt was
elected by Labor, and Labor has its share
of the feminine contingent. In New York
City Mayor La Guardia was elected by
Labor and the women. He is the best
Mayor New York City has ever had, and
his regime is the cleanest politically.
Maybe “get your man” is the creed of
the American woman, but that’s a fair
strategy. But in war —ah! Mr. McN.,
there’s where you fail us. If emotional-
ism is rampant here, as you infer, the
Lease-Lend Biff would never had had to
be debated in Congress. We would have
kissed our men good-bye and sent them
long ago. It is pure cold-blooded realism
that has kept us so far behind the course
of events. Our sympathies have been
from the very beginning with the British
Empire. Fully 90 p.c. of the women I
know —and I know many—are working
for British relief in some form or other.
—Mary M. Coburn (Philadelphia,
U.S.A.).
Women Magistrates
Touching this discussion about the suit-
ability of women as magistrates, Westralia
tried them years ago and was glad
to get back to a good, old-fashioned
male. The climax arrived when a hard-
case kid, having been admonished and
lectured at by the Bench, and persuaded
to promise to be good in the future, was
advised “to kiss the sergeant.”
Women are all right in their place, but
not on the Bench trying kids. When
they lecture and admonish it sounds, to
the culprit, too much like Mum at
home. And the kid’s reaction to Mum’s
lecturing (with apologies to Mum) is
one of irritated boredom, mixed with not
a little contempt. “Jawed at by a lot of
old.women,” was one engaging youth’s
remark concerning his trial.
Westralia now has a man, a parson
who resigned the pulpit to take on what
he considered even more important work.
He knows child psychology all the way
up. Relapses have been reduced to a
minimum, whereas under the rule of
well-meaning ladies relapses were just
about at a maximum.—W. C. C. (W.A.).
Child Endowment
The edict has gone forth that the fifst
payments of child endowment will be
made on July 29. Elsewhere we read
that unemployment figures are the lowest
on record, less than 3 p.c. of the em-
ployable population remaining idle.
During the depression years my parents
maintained a family of four boys on £6
a fortnight. The same struggle was going
on in every worker’s home in Australia.
If we could do without child endowment
then, w,e can do without it now.
Daily we are being asked to invest
every spare shilling in war loans. And the
Government chooses this of all times to
dip into our collective pocket for a pur-
pose which, in the circumstances, can
only be described as sheer waste. — Blue
(Q-).
Electric Cars
There are evidently sound reasons why
“neither Governments nor private enter-
prise are rushing producer gas” (B.
14/5/’4l). But the suggestion that motor-
ists must either provide an alternative
fuel or resign themselves to the horse
and sulky is, fortunately, wide of the
mark. The almost despaired of all-elec-
tric transport era is much nearer tq us
than most people think. From my own
inquiries I find that the use of electric
cars overseas in recent years has been
much more general than we realise —
there were over 6000 in operation in
Great Britain in 1939 and 27,000 in Ger-
many, also some thousands in America —•
despite well-known limitations in range
and speed. But makers of electrics have
apparently been content to sit back and
await electric battery improvements to
overcome these disabilities.
If the claims of an Adelaide inventor
are substantiated —and I believe they will
be—these problems should soon be over-
come. A series of patented inventions,
notable among which is one for a method
of regeneration on the run, have culmi-
nated in the production of an all-electric
car with a range of well over 100 miles
at an average speed of 30 m.p.h. and a
top speed of 50 m.p.h. Recharging bat-
teries is a simple matter of plugging in
to an electric main, plus an automatic
cut-out which switches off the charging
current when the batteries are full. Cost
of charging varies from 9d. to 25.,
according to night or day rates. The
experimental work has covered a period
of 18 months, and the first experimental
model Has been thoroughly tested during
the last nine months over a distance of
6000 miles. A second car, incorporat-
ing all the improvements, will be com-
pleted within a few weeks.
Without engine, clutch, gearbox and
differential the car can be cheaply and
easily constructed in Australia. It should
be possible to put it on the market on
a large scale within a reasonably short
period, all necessary materials being
obtainable in Australia. Electrical
Engineer (S.A.).
The Things That Matter
I listened-in to the speech delivered
by Mr. Menzies from America in which
he spoke of the Australian war effort and
the need for even increased war activity.
The station followed his speech immedi-
ately with “I would like to remind you
of the wrestling match at the Stadium,"
which was followed by “If you are going
to the Harold Park dogs on Saturday
night don’t forget to take your ‘ ’
form paper with you.”
In effect, the station said “Now that
you have had to listen to Menzies’s talk
you want to forget all about it, and go
and enjoy yourself at the wrestling or
the dogs.” Wouldn’t it have been
more appropriate to follow the Prime
Minister’s speech with an appeal for
recruits or war-savings certificates? The
censor might pay attention to high-pres-
sure advertisements over the air for
extravagances like wrestling and dog-
racing.—Eureka (N.S.W.).
Sparing the Trees
A Pithara (W.A.) farmer took up virgin
land and left 10 p.c. of the native growth
for future requirements. He got as
much off his 900 acres as his neighbors
did off 1000. Thus he saved extra plough-
ing, seeding and fertiliser. The 10 p.c.
growth was left on the east side of his
property because of the strong summer
east winds, and the farmer says that if
he were taking up virgin land again he
would leave two strips running north and
south on his property, each strip to be
7 \ p.c. of the acreage. He reckons that
such timber protection would pay better
than the 10 p.c. did,— Culminator
(W.A.),


DILIOUS
s'lnH' n^Mft
', JiM ss i*lv
rses Indian Root Pills
Biliousness! Oh, what an awful feeling!
Troubled sleep, dizziness when arising from a sitting
or stooping position, bitter taste in mouth, and a
furred tongue. Bowels may be loose one day, but
constipated the next. This is brought about by the
natural sewers of the body becoming clogged-up, and
the bile, being denied its rightful channel, is turned
into the blood. All or any of these symptoms may
accompany the bilious condition, and while they exist
the patient’s life is scarcely worth living.
As a remedy for Biliousness, Dr. Morse s Indian
Root Pills enjoy a world-wide reputation. They open
the clogged-up System, stir the Liver, cleanse the
Stomach, and regulate the Bowels.
sum
<
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Sunburn and Windbum. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies. —Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face before
and after shaving will be found
soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Parish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/7i per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from the W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Parish Street, Wellington N.Z.
Price 2/1 per box (six boxes 12/-), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
f
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
C Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
SEND “THE BULLETIN”
THE LADS OVERSEAS—
TO
Special Concession Rates:
12 months . . 15/-
6 months . 8/-
fy'
c°
°K
> V V' < V*'
3 months, 4/- s®'
post free.
c
I^/
£s'.^'


FULL BANDSPREAD
SHORT-WAVE TUNING
Overseas Tuning and Reception Revolutionised! Short-wave
Stations spread up to sixteen times further apart than on
ordinary Receivers! Each Short-wave Band located on a separate
scale! Overseas Stations tuned in as easily as Local Stations.
Foreign Stations logged and re-located instantly and unerringly!
Another outstanding testimony to “ULTIMATE” excellence!
798 verified Radio stations were received on a standard “Ultimate” Receiver
r a r,- ld , S rec ° rd! , N ‘ Shaw uses “Ultimate” Receiver to compile
the Wireless Weekly Short-wave notes! “Ultimate” Receivers hold nine
Champion of Champion Awards in New Zealand! An “Ultimate” Receiver
was used by the Commander R. E. Byrd Expedition to the South Pole! The
°„ c . A ," st l, alia ? Adviser British Broadcasting Commission uses
Ultimate Receivers exclusively! Mr. L. J. Keast (Randwick, N.S.W.)
compiJed the log of more than 400 Short-wave Stations, published in “Wireless
Weekly,’ with a standard “Ultimate” 8. “Ultimate” leads everywhere'
ULTIMATE “MAJESTIC” 9-VALVE AC. GRAND CONSOLE
Featuring Full Bandspread. Dial and Wave Band Indicator, Spinner Tuning Anti-drift
Devices, Automatic Volume Control, Electric Tuning Eye, etc., etc., in addition to
all the modern improvements that have made "ULTIMATE” famous. Special Push-
Pull Audio Output gives (a) Cancellation of Even Order Harmonics resulting in
much higher than average tone quality; (b) High Power Output giving nearly three
times the power of the average set; (c) Heavy Bass Notes are handled in a most
natural manner even at high volume. All five wave bands include a high gain of
radio trequency amplification, resulting in extreme sensitivity. Tone is superb
performance is magnificent The “ULTIMATE” MAJESTIC 9is as near perfection
as human knowledge and skill can make it it is made for those who want the best!
Illustrated literature and full details supplied on request.
ULTIMATE 7-VALVE MULTI-WAVE A.C. MANTEL MODEL
Featuring the new ULTIMATE Full Bandspread, Spinner Tuning, Automatic Volume
Control, Anti-drift Devices. Special Bin. Rola Reproducer in addition to all the
modern ULTIMATE improvements in Radio construction and reception. Special
Low Volume Bass Compensation device gives this outstanding set volume, tone and
performance equal to most average Console Models. Sensitivity of response has
heard to be fully appreciated. Super-plus performance is assured by
ULTIMATE, reputation. Tone is magnificent with full, rich, even, deep, mellow
tone. Compact and ultra-dependable even under the most adverse conditions.
Specially suited for tropical climates and outback conditions. Impregnated against
humidity. The only set of its kind obtainable on the Australian market. "Classic”
Cabinet of beautifully matched and piano-finished contrasting veneers make the
ULTIMATE 7 MANTEL MODEL a truly artistic Radio Set. Investigate the
ULTIMATE before you make a decision— there is not a better Set made! Full details
•n request.
For Special Applications
ULTIMATE 7- or 9-Valve MULTI-WAVE A.C. PORTABLE-MANTEL
A most unusual set—there’s nothing like it on the market. Not an ordinary Portable
but a high-quality artistic multi-wave Mantel Model with easily-attached lid for
convenient transportation. Power is immense, tone is superb, sensitivity is extreme,
performance is almost unbelievable. Take it anywhere current is available—
dependability and satisfaction are assured under even the most difficult conditions!
Ihe ideal set for particularised work, for the hard of hearing, for reception rooms,
halls, meetings, dances, etc. This model is a special adaptation of the ULTIMATE
MAJESTIC 7- and 9-Valve CONSOLE Chassis to portable dimensions. There’s no-
thing like it for convenience l , appearance, durability, dependability and performance.
Removal of front sliding lid instantly transforms this unique set into a most artistic-
looking Mantel Radio worthy of first place in any home. Particularly suitable for
the Pacific Islands wherever 240 A.C. Power is available. Specially protected
against humidity and insects. Fully guaranteed in every way by "ULTIMATE”
reputation!
Newly-released illustrated literature giving full details of “ULTIMATE”
FULL BANDSPREAD Receivers now available post free. Write for it today.
m
111
■■H
11
■mm
m
mhhi
mmsmm
m
I; i
mm
■:;
iiMI
mm
V !:'. 5 ’
■' ■■; ■
■
M
m *m
m
.
Si
'
9
m
'
I
li
ill
r
navnnhiH
&
Ya
:
Sole Australian Concessionaires:
GEORGE BROWN & CO.. LTD., 267 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Distributed in Victoria by J. H. MAGRATH PTY., LTD., 208 Little Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
ULTIMATE Leads Again!
FILL IN AND POST NOW.
GEORGE BROWN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
267 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Please send me without obligation illustrated literature
giving particulars of “ULTIMATE" Full Bandspread
Receivers
NAME
ADDRESS
