

i
■ ; : x '
m
J:
:
r:. ■
i if
m
II
■' :&
5<
, ■
m
' > >
r:
liiH
re
U
.
;
■
r ;: :
mm.
m
m
irfe;
4SS!
■■■l
V iW
1
•;xr :
m
■ I
X
v
m
s^r
.
134*
PEICSE-TIME SKILL MAKES
BETTER WEAPONS OF WAR
Today, as industry turns to the production of high=class
weapons that will bring us victory, it places great reliance
on the skill of the Australian workman, who, in the past
two decades of peace, has proved himself equal to the
world's best.
This skill of labour is producing weapons, that, by their very
excellence will undoubtedly influence the final decision of this
present world conflagration in our favour.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
DESIGNING, MANUFACTURING, MINING AND STRUCTURAL ENGINEERS
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3225.
Wednesday, December 3, 1941.
The Battle in Libya
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


f
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney "Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 341
The Red Page
MORE ALLABOUT.
Mary and Elizabeth Durack, the West-
ralian sister-collaborators who wrote and
illustrated Allabout and Chunuma (pub-
lished at the time by The Bulletin, and
still going strong in other hands), have
now written and illustrated another on
the same lines. The Way of the Whirl-
wind, and the new book-publishing de-
partment of Consolidated Press, Sydney,
has made a most beautiful book of it.
The Duracks’ work has always been
good ; in both its parts —the writing and
the drawing—it has steadily improved.
Both story and illustrations in this latest
book are delightful, and printing and
reproduction match their standard.
That is considering the book as a col-
lector’s piece. It goes 15in. by lOin. over-
all ; the print is large, overrunning
numerous pen-drawings, with 12 large
plates—nine of them in color —inset. As a
collector’s piece there’s nothing wrong
with the price (155.), which compares
more than well with what a like imported
article would cost.
It would be a pity, though, if —like the
work of some Australian poets—it were
to be left only as a collector’s piece. All
books are dear just now, but 15s. is a
bit stiff for a book for children, which
is essentially what this one is.
It is an engagingly told and exquisitely
illustrated story'of two of the familiar
Durack piccaninnies, boy and girl, who
lose their little brother, are taken down
under water by a friendly crocodile to
interview the all-wise Bremurer, gather
that little brother has perhaps been car-
ried off by the whirlwind, who sleeps in
Nowhere, to reach which it is necessary
to find a way to the end of Somewhere.
They are helped by—among others —the
stick insect, the mopoke, a little red man
who fishes off water-lily leaves with a fire-
fly for a light, and a pair of kangaroos,
who give them a wild ride chasing the
whirlwind across country. The telling is
a blend of most accurate abo. and other
Australian nature lore with the traditional
manner of child-story telling and a nice
touch of humor.
Because this is its true nature and pur-
pose, and because as such it is so super-
latively good, it certainly would be a pity
if it were denied its proper audience —
the large one of all Australian youngsters.
It is the opposite of a service to authors
of whatever kind to keep their work
from its right audience by encasing it in
costly special press productions and leav-
ing it at that; Kenneth Slessor and Hugh
McCrae, to name only a couple, are top-
rank Australian poets who in the past
suffered loss of a wider hearing by this
means. Some of Leon Gellert’s poetry
has been read only by a couple of dozen
people for the same reason, and Norman
Lindsay’s classic in child books, The
Magic Pudding, should have been done at
a child-book price from the start.
For these reasons the Duracks should
see to it that their latest book goes into
as inexpensive an edition as possible as
soon as possible. It has all the signs of
one day being described as The Magic
Pudding can now be described. In its
kind it is on classic lines. Further, if
ever there was a true basis for a true and
splendid Australian ballet The Way of
the Whirlwind is surely one. The Whirl-
wind, the dancing Brolgas, the Little Red
Man and the rest seem just about per-
fectly suitable for stage ballet personifi-
cation.
Fishermen at War.
So far, this war has produced nothing
out of the box in creative writing. This
page can recall little else besides a col-
lection of short stories, England Is My
Village, and the chief merit of that was
its documentary content.
It was written by an airman who was
subsequently killed in action, and as a
recording of experience it has since been
overshadowed by the remarkable collec-
tion of broadcast talks by fighting and
bombing airmen Winged Words. This
latter book and Masefield’s brevity on
the rescue at Dunkirk are the two best
books of this war the Red Page has come
across; an agreeable change from the
flood of war-“inspired” books by authors
with an axe to grind—the endless polemi-
cal outpourings, books by European
expatriates, others by authors who fancy
themselves as military or naval strategists,
and all the rest of them ; foredoomed
contributions to tomorrow’s dustbin.
Another of the documentary variety —
Fishermen at War, by Leo Walmsley
(Collins; Angus and Robertson) —now
joins the small shelf with Masefield and
the broadcasting airmen. The author,
who hails from a North of England fish-
ing port, puts on record the splendid
part the fishermen of England are taking
in the war —at their own occupation,
helping to feed Britain in the face of the
worst that winter storms, blinding snow
or Germans can do ; as seamen enlisted
for the duration in the Navy ; or out on
trawlers, trawling these days for mines,
fighting off ’plane attacks and waging
war on U-boats.
The fact that the author is a good
novelist isn’t altogether an advantage to
his job here. He has the flowing fluency
of most of his kind, and he does not
keep strictly to his subject, but at least
he writes far better prose than most
novelists. He lacks somewhat the clean
directness of Masefield ; and in compari-
son with the airmen’s books mentioned
he has the disadvantage of being an
observer, an onlooker, not an actual par-
ticipant. Still, he is a vigorous descrip-
tive writer; his descriptions of rescue
jobs carried out by crews in the English
lifeboat service, in mountainous seas close
in under overhanging cliffs, come close
to first-rate sea literature ; and here and
there he has the happy thought to bring
an actual participant on to the page and
let him talk. One of these, member of
the crew of a trawler, manages one of the
most vivid accounts so far recorded of
the sinking of a U-boat with depth
charges.
The U-boat had got a collier, and the
trawler picked up the survivors. An
Irishman among them “wasn’t half curs-
ing. He shouted out he’d had enough of
the bloody mercantile marine. He was
going to join the bloody Navy and God
help the first U-boat chap he came
across.” Then the chap at the submarine
detector picked up the U-boat’s engine
sound.
“It was ‘stand by the depth charges’ and
in a minute or two we dropped one over.
It was the first time I’d seen one of them
go off, and I don’t mind telling you it put
the fear of God into me. The whole bloody
ocean seemed to heave up.... We dropped
about a score altogether, and every time
one went off the Irishman yelled at the
top of his voice, as though he was watch-
ing a fight and egging the chaps 0n....
“It seemed nowt but a waste of gun-
powder to me: and then suddenly, only
about two; hundred yards astern of us, we
saw a great black-pointed thing heave up
out of the sea. It looked just like a great
whale coming up to blow, for steam or
air was blowing from it, too. It came
slowly, up and up, until you could see
plain as daylight that it was a submarine,
and then, just as though summat had got
hold of it from underneath, it heaved
over a bit and started to go down. There
was a great jet of water and a queer
sucking noise, and that was the last we
saw of her, except that where she had been
the sea all went calm with the oil that was
spread on it.
“And you ought to have seen that Irish-
man? You’d have thought he’d gone off
his chump. He rushes up on to the bridge
and puts his arms round our skipper and
hugged him until the poor cove was almost
senseless. But we were all pleased, of
course, although I couldn’t help feeling a
bit sorry for those poor devils in the
U-boat. They must have tried their best
to come to the surface and get out of her.
and they must have thought they were
going to be all right when she broke water.
And then feeling her sliding back again,
and knowing their chance had gone, it must
have been bloody awful.”
Another vivid picture comes out from
a conversation between the author and
the skipper of a small boat that has been
out destroying reported floating mines.
Having polished off three of the mines by
potting at them with rifles and machine-
guns, they are headed back for port;
I said to him with a sudden jubilance:
“Well, that's a good job done. Three
mines sunk, and any one of them might
have sunk a ship.”
“Aye,” he said. “And with women and
bairns aboard,”
He made a sound as though he had
clenched his teeth with a sudden passionate
hatred, and he repeated with a surprising
vehemence; “Aye. Women and baims. This
isn’t war. Laying those bloody things and
not caring what they hit or who they kill.
Maybe you want to know about the Simon
Bolivar, and what some of us had to do.
Well, I’m saying nowt except one thing
that might make you laugh, but it was
summat that sickened me more than owt
else I saw. It was just a doll, a bairn’s
doll, floating among all that mucky oil,
where we were picking up survivors and
bodies. A bairn’s doll, summat like I’d
given my great-granddaughter only last
Christmas. But no bairn near it, living or
dead.”
The record includes a story of a man
being blown into the air from a ship’s
deck by a bomb, landing in the sea thirty
yards or so away, and surviving ; another
of the skipper of one of these small craft
putting out to sea without the rum ration,
being for days punished by the cook with
food well flavored with paraffin, and then
sighting, riding heavy in the waves, a
full barrel of beer. There are fine ac-
counts of almost incredibly heroic
rescues, of individual small craft waging
private wars with ’planes bombing and
machine-gunning them, of mines brought
up in nets along with the catch, and the
fishermen, rather than lose their catch,
setting coolly to work to try to free the
nets. Minesweeping is clearly described.
The sweeper drags a length of serrated
wire, projecting out under water from its
side. If this strikes a cable mooring a
mine, the mine is forced away from the
ship, towards the end of the “sweep,”
the cable rubbing against the serrations
of the sweep wire, which may actually
sever it. If not, it passes into the crocodile-
like jaws of the cutter at the end, which
snips it as easily as if it was a grocer’s
string. The mine then bobs to the sur-
face, and is sunk by rifle or machine-gun
fire.
The weather conditions in which this
work, the fishing and the rest are done
in wintertime are next door to impossible.
Yet, with a hardihood and an endurance
that could not be believed if they were
not so convincingly and objectively
described, the fishermen of England —on
their own fishing job, on the sweepers,
on the rescue boats —carry on. Like
London, they can take it. A most strik-
ing thing about them is their age range—
at the one end, boys in their teens ; at
the other, great-grandfathers.
In the 1914-18 war the author was a
pilot with the British Air Force in East
Africa. He came out of it hating war.
This time, as a peace-lover, he couldn’t
credit the early stories of German bomb-
ing and machine-gunning of defenceless
fishing craft and lightships. He was able
to arrange with the Admiralty to go and
see for himself; took a trip or two with
mine-hunting trawlers, interviewed many
seamen and so forth, and this book is
the result His finding is that there has
been no exaggeration of these Nazi acts
of ruthlessness and brutality, and his
statement is all the stronger for his own
large humanitarianism, which keeps
breaking in, and his eagerness to give
the German airmen as much credit for
their courage and the like as possible.
A Com.'s Confession.
Already 300,000 copies of Jan Valtin’s
Out of the Night (Heinemann ; Angus
and Robertson) had been sold in America
when the second English edition was pub-
lished last May, the first English edition
having also been issued in May and
sold out at once. The author is a
German who was formerly an active
Communist in his own country, on many
ships sailing the seas, in the U.S.A. and
South America, along the American
Pacific coast, and in China and other
parts of the Orient.
He’s not the familiar disillusioned
Com., like the late Krivitsky and many
another. What smashed him in the end
was not the Ogpu, but the Gestapo.
There is no very strong evidence in the
book that he has renounced his personal
conception of Communism. He is
hag-ridden by the urge common to all
writers to give expression to his experi-
ences, and these are so exceptional and
plentiful that his book runs to more than
650 large pages of close type, without
padding, with practically every sentence
putting something singular vividly on
record, and every page seeing not only
more and more of Communism’s thread-
bare coverings stripped away but more
and more of the author’s own life and
character as mercilessly exposed as if
the job had been done by his worst
enemy.
In effect, he makes one striking point
about the foreign Communist perform-
ance —that, while such success as Com-
munists have had can be credited to
a ratlike cunning in scheming and
utter ruthlessness in carrying the
scheming through, their whole abysmal
flop into their position of today,
in which they could sink no lower
and where nothing could any further
discredit them, is the result of their indi-
vidual and collective stupidity.
One of their typical brilliant perform-
ances: At Hamburg they organised a
general shipping strike. When the
seamen, at the bidding of the Communist
agitators, had left their ships, the Com-
munists were ordered by their own
leaders to inform the Shipowners’ Associ-
ation of their willingness to fill the
vacated posts. Thus, from strike-makers
they were to turn overnight into strike-
breakers, and, moreover, personally profit
by getting the seamen’s jobs. Naturally
there were some cries of “We are not
strikebreakers!” “Comrades,” explained
the party officer, “what the party de-
mands of yon is, not blacklegging. What
the party demands is your co-operation
in a tactical manoeuvre which is bound
to carry Bolshevism more solidly into
the merchant marine Shall we permit
the ships to sail without availing our-
selves of an opportunity to make each
ship a fortress of the Communist party?”
In their great wisdom it could not
occur to them that their shabby action
would naturally make of every dispos-
sessed seaman a bitter enemy of Com-
munism thereafter. The stupid blunders
the same all-wise crowd have made since
this war started, particularly in sabotag-
ing the anti-Axis war effort in all
countries up to June 22, when, to their
intense astonishment. Hitler turned on the
country of their loyalty—these childish
blunderings are familiar enough.
so familiar the stupidity pointed out by
Valtin which led them to throw their
full strength into lifting Hitler into power
in the first place.
Valtin, along with the rest of his
brethren, took orders, did as told, placed
party above opinions or feelings in these
clever manceuvrings. In January, 1931,
that great Communist brain Georgi
Dimitrov issued the instructions Valtin
sums up in a sentence: “United action
of the Communist party and the Hitler
movement to accelerate the disintegration
of the crumbling democratic bloc which
governs Germany.” One Communist
might ask, “Who is crazy—we, or the
Central Committee?” but they did as
they were told, the great idea being that
thus they were preparing the way for
civil war, in which they would be able
to finish Hitler “on the barricades.” The
gangster warfare among themselves con-
tinued, but from then on “the Com-
munist party and the Hitler movement
joined forces to slash the throat of an
already tottering democracy.”
Hitler’s finest involuntary allies were
we, the Communists. Our rank and file,
in its largely instinctive struggle against
the Nazi advance, was checked almost
weekly by the infallibles in our high
councils in Moscow and Berlin. How often
was I admonished by my superiors, and
admonished in turn the comrades working
under my direction: “Don’t concentrate
your efforts on Hitler; hew to the Line;
we must deliver our hardest blows against
the ‘Social-Fascists’ —the Social Demo-
cratic party. They and their trade-unions
must be smashed if we are to win the
majority of the workers for the Dictator-
ship of the Proletariat!”
There were times when that objective
appeared to them to be in sight. “The
year of 1936 promised thunder. A
general strike was in the offing in Eng-
land, and we expected it to shake the
British Empire to its foundations.”
Valtin himself went to England to help
on the good work. It will be found
that nearly all his references to anything
British are derogatory; whatever his
ideological hue may now be, the charac-
ter of him that emerges from this auto-
biography is first of all that of a German
and a German Communist, and he finds
it hard to speak favorably of anything
British. But one British institution, at
least, commanded his respect That was
Scotland Yard, a couple of representatives
of which quickly picked him up without
benefit of amateur Holmesian assistance,
and politely shunted him out of the
country. He was ordered back into the
Lion’s den, only to be again instantly
nabbed. In other countries—most
countries of the world, in fact —he could
get away with his Communistic revolu-
tionary plotting ; not in John Bull’s
island. It still seems to rankle in him.
In the end the Gestapo gathered him
in. He, with the whole Communist out-
fit, had helped the Nazis into power,
and now Hitler turned on them. Many
were shot, many taken and executed,
many more imprisoned and subjected to
tortures so vile that the descriptions of
them are physically sickening. Valtin was
one of these sufferers. He was subjected
to torture in an inquisition lasting one
hundred and one days: “They were one
hundred and one days of bloodstained
blackness teeming with merciless fiends.
Except for one week, I was alone all this
time when not in the company of my
torturers.” For two months he lay in
chains in solitary confinement. Finally,
he broke, and made some sort of a con-
fession. It’s hard to believe that, after
all this and in view of his record, the
Nazis should have thereupon accepted
him as one who could now be trusted
for anti-Communist espionage. At all
events, that’s his story.
None of the matters here touched on
would perhaps account for the huge
sales of his book. They all help; but,
after all, the ground has been well dug
by a score of equally competent and
just as pungent writers. What probably
accounts for the huge sales more than
anything else is the wholesale exposing
of Communism’s seamy sexual side. It
works out at at least one free-for-all
woman to a chapter. This makes it all read
like the memoirs of the late Krivitsky
written by the avid ghost of Casanova.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”— always
“THE SENIOR STORE”
.. . 'Totitbit tle-l/ea.tt6
TOYS FROM
ANTHONY HORDERNS
“THE HOME OF SANTA CLAUS”
Waggon of Blocks, a pull-along toy and
building blocks combined. Finished in
bright colours. At Anthony Horderns'.
Prices 5/6, 6/11, 9/6, 10/6, 11/6
rsas®
mm
Mm&m
%
#
.*
#
WJ£^
Picture Blocks in many designs, bright and
colourful. At Anthony Horderns', Prices,
2/3, 2/9, 3/-, 4/6, 6/3, 8/6 and 10/9
Novelty Pull-along Toy . . ."Trolly Blocks,"
strongly made and well finished. At
Anthony Horderns', Prices .... 5/9, 12/6
Sturdy Hammer Peg Sets teach colours
and precision. At Anthony Horderns'. Prices,
set 2/6, 4/3
Novelty Pull-along Duck with turning head.
Well made and finished in bright enamel.
At Anthony Horderns', Price 3/9
m
Jiyi
■Ah
Boxes of Coloured Cubes, beautifully
finished. At Anthony Horderns'. Prices,
box 2/3, 3/6, 4/6, 6/6
52
mm
//
§
The "Olympic" Building Bricks, beautifully
coloured and finished. Anthony Horderns'
Prices 2/9, 7/9, 13/6
nzr
aSFiSME^*
W
m
WMSXilyy
A
House Building Blocks, in two sizes. Size
lOf inches x 7\ inches. Price 2/9
Size inches x 10 inches. Price .... 4/9
Wood Building Toy, makes
many models. Anthony Hor-
derns', each ... 2/3, 3/9, 5/-
Counting Frame,
similar to illustra-
tion. At Anthony
Horderns'. Prices,
each '... 3/6, 4/S
■j-KKtmwn*
asossoao®®
Novelty Rabbit Cart, sturdy
construction, beautifully fin-
ished, 14 ins. long. At Anthony
Horderns', Price, each ... 5/9
Dolly's Furniture Set, table and four
chairs, all steel construction, ducoed in
various colours. Table: ins. diameter,
height 3i ins. Anthony Horderns', set, 6/9
Novelty Pull-along Boat
of Blocks. Anthony Hor-
derns' .... 4/9# 5/6, 6/11
All Aboard for the
Xl
yVcV° * ~t y e
yo^f
Santa invites all boys and girls to make their
first trip on a battleship, to journey across
uncharted seas right to the very gates of his
Castle in Santaland, where he is waiting to
give them a hearty welcome! Make sure
you come along soon and collect the "happy
surprise" that Santa has put away specially
for you . . . don't forget that Santa wants to
be the first to wish you a Merry Christmas!
m
3
\ \
BOX 27120/ G.P.0., SYDNEY
Toys and Santaland—Second Floor, George Street,
'PHONE M 2401 (Day and Night)


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
d
seppelt's
THE GEORGE, SOUTHWARK.
One of the most unlovely divisions of
London is comprised in that area in-
cluded within the boundaries of the
Borough of Southwark, reached by
London Bridge and the structure span-
ning the Thames bearing its municipal
designation. Though in the nineteenth
and, at least, first three decades of the
twentieth century fully entitled to the
designation “unloveliness” it would not
be wise to speculate as to its future
architectural and social position when
the vast changes modern conditions of
warfare, as represented by aerial bom-
bardment, are remembered. For all of
that Southwark has a rich and pic-
turesque past. Though in the County
of Surrey it was made an essential part
of the City of London, with a jurisdic-
tion as ancient as the reign of Edward
HI (1327-1377). It has figured promi-
nently in the troublous periods through
which the nation has passed and in later
centuries as being the venue of some of
the worst examples of what are now
termed “social evils” the race has ex-
perienced in its evolutionary career
towards that “new order” which is ex-
pected, if not to transform human nature,
at least to remove some of the causes
responsible for its presentation in least
pleasing forms. But Southwark has much
to render its claim to favour admissible.
It contains Guy’s Hospital, perhaps the
greatest endowment ever made, at its
foundation, by a person in private life.
Did not Shakespeare select Southwark as
the venue for his Globe Theatre? South-
wark for its inns or hostelries has
achieved immortality. High Street,
Southwark! What visions the name con-
jures up! The Tabard, the White Hart,
the George, all in this thoroughfare,
though not of equal antiquity. The last-
named alone remains, and perhaps is one
of the most perfect examples of the inns
of from 1650 to 1700 to be found. The
old galleries certainly date from 1660.
But the inn in Southwark renowned for
all time was the Tabard (afterwards cor-
rupted to Talbot), the place of rendezvous
for the pilgrims on their journeys to the
shrine of St. Thomas a Becket at Canter-
bury. Chaucer in his “Canterbury Tales”
has left a still living picture of the per-
sonnel of one of these pilgrimages, a
picture one of the monuments of our
literature.


AT THE ANTI-COMINTERN “CONFERENCE.”
“With these manacles I thee wed.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors;
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252]88; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins Street.
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place. 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months. £1 45.; 6 months. 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (.Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-btate cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign):
12 months £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
CONSCRIPTION THE ISSUE.
Nothing shows more plainly the hollowness of the
Government s position regarding conscription than
the hollowness of statements now being uttered daily
by members of the Government on this issue. Faced
by a dilemma that calls for wisdom, foresight, realism,
courage—the qualities of statesmanship—they are talk-
ing like timid politicians, hollow men stuffed with
wind: on the one hand, calling on Australia almost
pathetically to heed their warnings of impending
threats of calamity; on the other hand, quite patheti-
cally deprecating the advocacy of those who, accept-
ing these warnings as statements of harsh probability
and setting them against obvious facts, contend that
there is only one logical answer, and that it is of the
highest national importance that this answer should
be given now.
The hollow men can’t have it both ways. They
can say that the future of this country’s democratic
way of life depends on the outcome of the fighting in
the present war. Nobody will dispute that. They can
say that the danger of Australia being directly attacked
is extremely grave. Since this is apparently based on
information which is withheld—no doubt necessarily
and wisely at least it cannot be disputed ; and, in any
case, it is best in war to expect, and be ready for,
the worst. They can say these things, and still sound
like statesmen. They don’t say any longer than the
right way to meet the menace at large or the threat
of direct attack is to send no Australians outside Aus-
tralia to fight, though they said this once. They admit
now that the men in Africa and the men in Malaya
are as actually engaged in Australia’s defence as they
would be fighting in Australia. Nobody in his senses
will question this, either. But then they say that,
though Australia’s continued existence should depend
on it, not one man shall be sent to reinforce any of
those front-line defenders of Australia except as a
volunteer.
At this stage the recruiters come in. Their say is
that the recruits have not been forthcoming in numbers
sufficient for reinforcing the A.I.F. even in a com-
paratively quiet period in the fighting. The inference
is plain for anyone to read: if, as is expected, the
fighting shortly becomes severe, the A.I.F. divisions
engaged will have to fight under strength. That, appar-
ently, does not mean as much as it should to the
hollow men, or its prevention by the one democratic
—and it looks like the only—method would be seen
to now, in advance. That would be statesmanship. It
is something not to be expected of men who see
themselves not as representatives elected to lead, nor
even to reflect—for the country in this is in advance
of them—but as helpless to do anything other than
shout warnings that nobody needs and make appeals
that only a minority heeds.
Men temporarily back from the fighting have
something to say. General Blarney, for one, has had
a good deal to say, all of it as grimly realistic as it
was necessary. Asked to comment on conscription
he naturally declined, on the ground that it was a
political matter ; but he said; “The whole show will
have to be all-in to win ; not only our wealth and
industrial effort, but our men and everything else.”
Place that alongside the statements of recruiters and
other authorities, and it can have only one interpreta-
tion. Mr. Hughes, speaking from his knowledge of an
ancient war, has said that enlistments “compare un-
favorably with those of 1914-18,” though Australia
has 2,000,000 more people than in 1914, and though
the threat to national safety is more direct than in
the last war.” The direct result of this has been
described by dozens of fighting men. One of them:
Sometimes we had only four or five men to a
section, and all of them were “bomb-happy.” These
men had to do the work of a dozen men In Australia
you are not fighting the war—you are enjoying it.
“It was numbers we lacked,” General Blarney has
said of Greece. Another of the fighters, back from
Libya:
You cannot make soldiers overnight, and reinforce-
ments are urgently needed. The first batch of willing
reinforcements who joined my unit in Egypt were so
lacking in training that 88 per cent, of them became
casualties of some sort. The lack of training is reflected
in the casualty lists. The training battalions in the
Middle East, where men become acclimatised and accus-
tomed to training in the country in which they will fight,
should be so full that any active A.I.F. unit should be
able to call upon them for reinforcements at any
moment. Those battalions are tragically empty.
No ; deprecating the raising of the conscription
issue is not the answer. The answer is conscription.
It would split Australia,” says Mr. Curtin, as reported
in one newspaper. On another page of the same
newspaper on the same day: “Urgent Need for Men.
Stirring Appeal by Mr. Curtin.” Stirring appeal at
this stage of total war, 1941 pattern, with also an
imminent direct threat declared to be hanging over
Australia which could come from only one direction,
and the recruiting position what it is! Of course’
Australia will “split” on conscription if it is made a
political issue, instead of being put to the country as
an ordinary, commonsense step which would be taken
merely as a matter of course by any threatened but
wisely-led country immediately it became involved in
present-day total war—-as it was in Britain and Maori-
land.
Those who wonder at the general atmosphere of
unreality prevailing in Australia in this third year of
involvement in a total war need look no further than
the “voluntary system” for the explanation. Not even
its supporters can deny that it is a half-measure ; and
while its strongest supporters are the members of the
Government and other politicians that atmosphere of
unreality—acceptance of the idea that the half-
measures that served in past wars can be made to do
in this —naturally will continue. Where people can
see no courageous realism they can have no confi-
dence, and the result of that must be continued com-
placence and inertia.
These characteristics of the Australian scene which
strike returned fighting men with such a shock are
not going to be diminished by displays of inexcusable
ignorance on the part of men elevated to the most
important positions, such as the statement by the
Minister for Munitions and the Navy, Mr. Makin,
that “those bringing forward this vexed question
[conscription] should be reminded that the A.I.F. in
the last war pronounced against conscription.” Subse-
quently Mr. Makin, “after reference to official
records,” corrected his misstatement, but it is no en-
couragement of confidence that such a wild misstate-
ment should ever have been made by one in Mr.
Makin’s position, however stuck for black paint for
touching up a bogey. Actually, of course, the last-
war Diggers voted in favor of conscription on both
occasions.
While he was amongst the official records, the
Minister for Munitions and the Navy should have
gone further. He could have discovered striking facts
bearing importantly on this issue. To supply the
necessary reinforcements for the men already fighting
Australia’s battles —men, many of them, wounded
over and over, and patched up to carry on —recruiters
in Australia in 1918 were called on to raise a total of
98,800 men, or an average of 8233 per month. Actually,
despite resort to extraordinary dodges, the total en-
listed for the first six months of 1918 was 15,989 —
less than the number required for two months. To
work out the actual number of reinforcements that
that would represent the figure must be reduced by
25 per cent., the loss occurring between enlistment and
front line through “wastage” in one form and another.
The result of this failure is described in Vol. V of
C. E. W. Bean’s Official History.
The Australian losses in France between March
21 and May 7 alone were greater than the actual
reinforcements the six months’ enlistment figure would
represent. The “shortage of reinforcements necessi-
tated the beginning of a dreaded reorganisation,” in
which battalions that had established fine traditions in
action, fighting on Australia’s behalf, had now to be
broken up and their men drafted to keep other bat-
talions somewhere up to strength. Battalions dis-
banded under this necessity were the 36th, 47th and
52nd.
It was the 36th that, under Milne, had recently
charged with such magnificent spirit in First Villers-
Bretonneux; the 47th that had penetrated far beyond
the objectives at Messines and had borne the brunt of
both attacks at Dernancourt; the 62nd that, under dread-
ful shelling, had clung to the fragment of trench won at
Mouquet Farm, and had now just emerged from its
most famous achievement in the counter-attack in
Second Villers-Bretonneux. Lieutenant-Colonel Imlay
of the 47th records that, on the day on which the news
of the disbandment was broken to the 47th, informal
indignation meetings were observable on all sides; but
all the officers and n.c.os. were completely loyal to the
larger interests of the A.I.F. and its Allies.
And now, Mr. Makin, Minister for Munitions
and the Navy:
The proudest aspect of Australia’s tradition is that
she has never resorted to compulsion to fulfil her national
obligations.
Prouder to be able to say of a country that it had
never walked out on its obligations. The cold un-
palatable fact of the last war is that Australia did
then walk out on its obligations to the men who had
volunteered to fight its war for it overseas. A great
pity that, through no doubt unavoidable circumstances,
a lot more of those now leading Australia in the
present war —in the Government and the Opposition
—were not on the receiving end where the effects of
that were felt. A thousand pities, because voices on
both sides of the House are now to be heard patheti-
cally deprecating the raising of the conscription issue,
and for those who have volunteered, and are on the
receiving end in this war, pathetic gestures and hollow
words of deprecation make a sorry substitute for
reinforcements.
No More Kid Gloves!
It is no doubt useless to suggest that something drastic
should be done to workstoppers in the N.S.W, coal-
mining industry, but the Government responsible for
the safety of the country should at least try to remem-
ber that everything in the conciliation line has been
tried and has failed.
If Justice Higgins had had his way, something
drastic would have been done in the first world war.
It is 25 years since Justice Higgins refused to deal
with a case in which men employed in the Pelaw Main
colliery went on strike to enforce “demands for
shorter hours and other concessions,” on the ground
that the men were “refusing to supply coal which the
country needs in time of war —coal actually required
for transports.” The Government of the day took
the dispute out of his hands and placed it in those of
a special commissioner with, as his Honor said,
“instructions to concede the men’s demands.” This
was denied by the Government and the special com-
missioner ; nevertheless the demands were conceded.
The concessions had so little effect on the coal-
miners that, when the railway strike came along on
August 2, 1917, they threw themselves into “the
struggle.” Their strike lasted till October 3, a fort-
night after the railwaymen had gone back to work.
There followed other coal strikes (one is admitted
to have cost the union £750,000) and stoppages
innumerable. In the result the industry lost nearly
all its Pacific export trade, which, before the last war
was very considerable, and much of the home market.
Weary of workstoppers’ caprices, Victoria made itself
independent of them, as far as possible, by develop-
ing Yallourn and Rubicon and other enterprises, and
even shipowners with N.S.W. coalmining interests
went in for oil-burners. So output went to pot, and
the process of recovery, interrupted by more strikes
and innumerable stoppages, was very slow.
It was hoped that the present war might make a
difference. In Britain and Labor Maoriland, as respon-
sible Ministers have gratefully testified, coal output has
substantially increased; Mines Minister Webb expects
the Maoriland increase this year to amount to 275,000
tons —11.7 per cent, on 1939 production. But in
N. S. Wales there was a decline from 11,317,300 tons
in 1939 to 9,662,800 tons in 1940 ; and the 1940 figures
included a fair quantity of shale.
The N.S.W. “Industrial Gazette,” a Government
publication, gives the disgraceful explanation. In 1940
coal- and shale-miners were concerned in 382 industrial
disputes out of 434 for all industries —metalliferous
miners had three. In the whole State the number of
man-working days lost rose from 446,483 in 1939 to
1,075,714; of these, 204,284 coal- and shale-miners
were responsible for 962,801. From Jan. 1 to June 30,
1941, the number of mine-working days lost in col-
lieries was 383|. “Lost time per cent, of possible
working time” amounted to 8.9 p.c. “Possible working
time” is 40 hours per week, “bank to bank,” less a
daily half-hour for crib. Though coalmining methods
have considerably improved, the 1940 output was
nearly a million tons less than the output for 1913
(10,414,100), which, of course, was a year of peace.
Communism has a hold on a section of the coal-
miners, and it was thought once more that the sudden
ending of the agitation against “the imperialist war”
might effect a change for the better. State politicians,
for their part, based fond hopes on the introduction
of pensions for old coalminers, financed for the most
part by a taxpayers’ contribution of £BO,OOO p.a. and
a levy of up to 4d. a ton on the price of coal.
There was also the fact that the miners received a favor-
able Commonwealth Arbitration award, which pro-
vided, among other things, for annual leave: one day’s
holiday or holiday pay for every 25 days worked. As it
happened, the coal situation became so bad that cries
for succor were heard from the Premier of South
Australia, an increasingly important factor in muni-
tions production, who said that stocks —for which
S.A. has to rely wholly on N. S. Wales —were run-
ning out. Scarcely had the Commonwealth Govern- '
ment assured him that they would be replenished
somehow when the miners in the Wallarah (N.S.W.)
colliery staged a stay-down strike, and union bosses
darkly threatened that it would be followed by another
general strike.
The stay-down strike lasted 100 hours. It was
alleged to be designed to show that the mine or part
of it was dangerous (staying-down for 100 hours is
surely the most idiotic form of demonstration imagin-
able), and to force an “amendment” of the holiday
clause in the award imposing penalties for crazy stop-
pages ; and this was said to be the object of the
threatened general strike. There was a stoppage in
another colliery “as a protest against the contention
of Mr. Abbott, M.H.R., that the miners due for retire-
ment under the pensions scheme should be kept on
in view of the shortage of man-power and of coal.”
Pensions, it should be said, are £2 a week at 60, plus
£1 a week for a wife and Bs. 6d. for each child under
16, plus Commonwealth endowment of ss. for each
child after the first.
When the Wallarah “committee” came to the sur-
face, it said “We are with our ally Russia, which is
giving its blood to beat Fascism.” Russia’s coalmining
hero is a certain Stakanov, who invented a speeding-
up system. If the Wallarah gentlemen had been Rus-
sian miners, engaged in a stay-down strike in some pit
on the Don, they would have stayed down permanently,
and horizontally.
Dr. Evatt described this stay-down performance as
“utterly mad and utterly bad.” Mr, Curtin appealed
to the Miners’ Federation “in the most positive terms”
for greater production, saying that “approximately
90,000 tons more coal would have been produced in
the last fortnight but for stoppages which were avoid-
able, and, in my view, should not have happened,”
and that “the priority of requests we have from our
Allies cannot be met unless coal is available in greater
quantities for munitions and related production than
has been the case.” But the time for appeals is past.
It should be laid down as Commonwealth policy
that the next and every succeeding stoppage made in
violation of agreements and in contempt of the neces-
sities of Australia and the other members of the
British Commonwealth and their Allies will be met
by disfranchisement of all the parties concerned.
There should also be an instant reduction of all forms
of sport on which gambling is permitted to one after-
noon a week, together with total suppression of
gambling information in newspapers and broadcasts
for the period of the war. There can be no doubt
that horseracing nearly every day and dogracing
nearly every night and the “lot’ry” habit have con-
tributed to the state of mind in which coalminers —
mainly good fellows in the ordinary relations of life,
and heroes when mates are in danger—behave like
sore-headed and reckless narks, whose “utterly mad
and utterly bad” proceedings injure the nation and
every section of it, especially their own.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A PROUD AND SAD FAREWELL.
In November, 1914, H.M.A.S. Sydney, escorting
the first A.I.F. and N.Z.E.F. convoy, sank the German
cruiser Emden in the Indian Ocean, off Cocos.
In November, 1941, Sydney’s equally glorious
namesake and successor, conqueror of the Bartolomeo
Colleoni, was reported “missing, presumed lost,” after
a successful fight with a heavily-armed enemy raider.
The dreadful intelligence was communicated to
the public on Monday, after the relatives had been
informed. It brought sorrow into countless homes other
than those to which husbands, fathers, sons and brothers
will not return. Six hundred and forty-five of the brave
have gone with their gallant ship. In Sydney, their
home port, they had friends innumerable, and the
cruiser, with its graceful lines, was a familiar and ever-
welcome sight.
Noble ship and noble company have been taken
from us at a fateful hour. In Libya, where victory is
necessary for political as well as military reasons, the
great battle, though splendidly fought by the men of
the combined services, is not yet won. In Russia,
Moscow and Sebastopol are in great peril. In the
Near North, the barometer has fallen persistently since
Secretary Hull delivered America’s answer to the
Japanese negotiators, and every country in the
threatened area has increased its preparations for the
bursting of the storm.
For six-and-twenty months the officers and men
of Second Sydney stood between their country and
its enemies. To the grand history of the Royal Navy
they added a deathless chapter of their own. It is
finished, but their name and example live on. Though
perils accumulate, they will pass if the nation meets
them in the Sydney spirit.
“It is for us to be dedicated to the great task
remaining before us, that from these honored dead we
take increased devotion to that cause for which they
gave the last full measure of devotion.”
The Voluntary Way.
Safe in recess, the first hasty instalment of his pro-
gramme adopted with hasty and possibly comprehen-
sible amendments, Mr. Curtin had a crack at the
enemy and the conscriptionists.
There had, he said, been “a full blast of propa-
ganda from Berlin,” beginning with the assertion that
“the Australian Government refuses to introduce con-
scription ; consequently the British have pushed the
Anzacs into the front in North Africa.” The only
Anzacs who are in the thick of the fighting in North
Africa are Maorilanders, whose Labor Government
has had conscription since the beginning of the war,
and who have done a magnificent job; but Mr.
Curtin did not correct the enemy on this score. Instead,
he said, among other things:
I tell the German propagandists that Australian
forces are volunteer forces because they are fighting, as
the whole nation is fighting, for the voluntary way of
life.
“The voluntary way of life!” On the previous day,
it came out that Mr. Winkler, whom Mr. Curtin knew
as a Government publicity officer, had had to quit his
job in a Sydney waterfront workshop because the
almighty Mr. Thornton, Federal secretary of the Iron-
workers, had challenged his standing as a unionist
although his workmates had agreed to work with him.
In the previous week one of Mr. Curtin’s Ministers
admitted that income taxes, Commonwealth and State,
go up to 21s. in the £ (taxpayers’ associations and
people interested in private companies contend that
they go higher still), in the process of introducing
“amendments v which may and may not make the
limit 18s, in the £. And “the voluntary-way-of-life”
speech coincided with the issue of Commonwealth
regulations which impose drastic restrictions on people
who let houses ; one empowers a tenant to require
his “landlord” to “supply a statutory declaration of
the rent on August 31, 1939.” It synchronised also
with a statement by the N.S.W. Minister for Labor to
the effect that “this Cabinet has already taken action
to compel employees of State and semi-Government
departments to join unions,” and that “next year all
employees in trade and industry will be compelled to
join unions.” That’s his way of “fighting” for “the
voluntary way of life.”
But there was also simultaneous publication of
the following:
At the next sitting of the House of Commons, Mr.
Churchill will indicate that his Government [in which
Labor is strongly represented] intends to take power to
compel all men and women, irrespective of age or class,
to carry out the war jobs which it is considered they are
best able to perform. The main principles will be
the raising of the service age to 50, compulsory service
for women and a comb-out of reserved occupations.
Such a measure, adopted in Australia, would be
the best —indeed, the only—way of answering the
enemy.
Monologue on Foreign Affairs.
A debate on foreign affairs was one of the most inter-
esting features of the last Parliament, and the materials
for another were presented to the House last Thurs-
day by Dr. Evatt, who has parts and convictions
which previous holders of the External Affairs port-
folio lacked. But the usual end-of-the-session
stampede was beginning, and, whatever Government
is in office and whatever stage in the world situation
has been reached, nothing is ever permitted to inter-
fere? with that disorderly operation. So, though
highly debatable matter was introduced by the Minister,
debate there was none. Dr, Evatt had the field to
himself.
Parts of the Minister’s speech were very informa-
tive, and in some passages a refreshing Australian
note was struck. Dr. Evatt revealed that “methods of
improving the political organisation of the defence
effort centred at Singapore” had been discussed with
Mr, Duff Cooper. His Government’s view, he said,
was that “Australia has a great and increasing interest
in such organisation, and is entitled to join, on a
footing of equality with the United Kingdom, any
body constituted to deal with political matters of
Pacific concern.” Excellent; and it is also good to
read that the Government proposes an extension of
“the right of legation, which is a mark of sovereignty
in international law.” It has agreed, in principle, to
exchange diplomats with the Government of The
Netherlands, and to confer full consular rank on its
representative at Dilli, having so “direct” a concern in
the “complete political independence” of that Portu-
guese colony that “it could not regard with equanimity
any development which threatened” its “integrity.”
On the ticklish subject of Japan, the Minister
spoke in words which could scarcely have been better
chosen. Referring to the Washington discussions, he
said that his Government was “content to allow the
leadership and initiative in this matter to be retained
by the United States,” For his own part, he expressed
“the hope that the talks will result in an agreement:
if so, a new chapter might begin in the relationships
between the leading Pacific Powers,” but peace in the
Pacific must be “indivisible,” and the Government’s
object was to preserve it “without sacrifice of prin-
ciple, without prejudice to national security and with-
out endangering the solidarity of the Democratic
Powers.” It would be possible “to ease the present
economic restrictions” if the Japanese withdrew their
“fighting forces and equipment from French Indo-
china,” but “all this would be of no avail if aggres-
sion in one particular quarter were to be abandoned
only to be succeeded by aggression elsewhere.” Dr.
Evatt laid stress on the fact that the attitude of the
Japanese Minister to Australia had been “both frank
and friendly.”
Paying a tribute to the Russian people, and empha-
sising that it was “the duty of Australia and Austra-
lians to do all they can to help Russia,” Dr. Evatt
compared Russian stubbornness with the French sur-
render. On that point he said “History has no
parallel to this sort of defection by a great and long-
standing ally who has been defeated by the commqn
enemy.” Unfortunately history has many such
parallels. The Russian Government itself afforded
one when it signed the peace of Brest-Litovsk. In the
long struggle with Napoleon beaten allies of Britain,
Russia among them, not only gave in but declared
war on the United Kingdom to oblige the winner.
Indeed Britain has had few Continental allies which
did not leave it in the lurch when they were licked.
This has been the greatest weakness of Continental
alliances ; and there have been, and are, other weak-
nesses, military, diplomatic and political.
“While we are allies of Russia,” said Dr. Evatt,
“we are still at peace with three eager satellites and
accomplices of Germany, Finland, Hungary and
Rumania” ; and he considers it “strange.” Why should
he when, for one thing, it is only 12 months since
the British representative, supported by the representa-
tives of the Dominions and other countries, caused
Russia to be expelled from the League for an unpro-
voked attack on Finland, then —and still —a fellow-
member? We can’t forget that, nor should we shut
our eyes to the effect of a declaration of war, which
could bring no military gain, on European opinion
and, above all, on United States opinion. As
Sydney “Sun’s” London correspondent points out, the
U.S.A. still has a sentimental regard for Finland, and
we have to consider U.S.A. opinion all the time.
Affair of the Secret Fund.
The inquiry into the affair of the secret fund left
Justice Halse-Rogers, the Royal Commissioner, with
the conviction that “one or more of the witnesses lied
valiantly.” Other witnesses had lapses of memory,
and in going over the evidence his Honor had to
grapple with “an extraordinary series of contradic-
tions” and “thread” his way through “a maze” which
might have baffled a less experienced investigator.
Rejecting “deliberate perjury,” and putting two and
two together, his Honor arrived at the conclusion that
£3OO of public money was, at the instance of Mr.
Fadden, then acting Prime Minister, and Mr. Hughes,
then Attorney-General, paid to Mr. Charles Nelson,
then president of the Miners’ Federation, through Mr.
Joseph Winkler, then Assistant Commonwealth Pub-
licity Officer, for an industrial peace-campaign which
was like the light that never was on sea or land. He
added that the payments were made without the
knowledge of the so-called Australian Democratic
Front, which was set up by Mr. Hughes to “combat
Communism,” and which spent nearly £5OOO of public
money before the present Government closed the
account.
Of Mr. Winkler the Commissioner reported that
he treated that person’s evidence “with the great-
est care and suspicion.” Mr. Winkler, he was satis-
fied, had made a “disclosure to Mr. Curtin” which
was “vindictive and treacherous and probably deserv-
ing of other appropriate epithets,” but on the point
of having seen Mr. Nelson at the Commonwealth
Bank, Sydney, on March 8, 1941, “a vital matter,”
Mr. Winkler was corroborated by Mr. Dawson, a
former Government Publicity Officer, and, though Mr.
Nelson denied the meeting, “I find it impossible to
accept his sworn testimony.” Mr. Nelson denied also
that he had seen Mr. Hughes and sought “help” for
the industrial-peace campaign, and though Mr.
Hughes’s memory was “at fault on more than one
occasion,” and Mr. Nelson’s honesty had “never been
questioned hitherto,” the Commissioner found himself
“driven to accept Mr. Hughes’s statement that the
interview with Mr. Nelson did take place.
Mr. Hughes’s statement were untrue, “it followed that
there was no reason why Mr. Hughes should have
made this money available, particularly as the evi-
dence indicated that Mr. Hughes did not know Mr.
Winkler.”
Mr. Fadden, as well as Mr. Hughes, found his
memory treacherous at times.
Both gave replies which subsequently were shown to
be incorrect. Mr. Hughes made several mistakes and
Mr. Fadden possibly made more. Their testimony as
to matters incidental to the transaction cannot be relied
on. But such mistakes as these do not go to the root
of the matter or touch questions of major importance.
Part of the last sentence may be questioned. The
very unusualness of the transaction in which these
gentlemen were involved should have made for clear
recollection, even in the case of busy men. And it is
strange that both should have thought that a payment
of £3OO to one person would secure peace on the coal-
fields, of all places ; stranger still that neither troubled
to inquire what, if anything, was done for the money.
And the establishment of the alleged Democratic
Front, with society ladies on the committee and a 1916
Hugheselier to do the organising, was fatuous in the
extreme. These and other matters, particularly the
swarming of press-agents in and out of Ministers
rooms, suggesting as it does that the press-agent has
become a power in the land, should have been debated
by Parliament. But the report found its way into Par-
liament when the Ministers and were con-
centrating their energies on getting “home for
Christmas,” and perhaps Easter, and there was no
debate.
So bang goes another £5OOO-odd. How much of
the prodigious war expenditure has been idiotically
squandered nobody knows, and nobody except Mr.
Cameron seems to care. And Mr. Cameron is invari-
ably greeted with angry snarls when he puts it to the
House that, no matter who the beneficiaries may be,
the public is entitled to get fair value when its money
is spent.
Mr. Scully's Headache.
One of the problems the present Minister for Com-
merce inherited from his predecessor was that of wheat,
and already there are signs that Mr. Scully isn’t too
sure which end of the thing bites.
With the harvest coming in he was forced to
admit that “a number of growers had broken the regu-
lations,” specifically those which sought to curtail
production to 140,000,000 bushels. This was the figure
set as the limit to what the Commonwealth Govern-
ment would buy this year under the acquisition
scheme. But the brainwave didn’t hit the authorities
until seeding time, whereupon the Australian Wheat
Board set up committees all over the place presumably
to tell growers where to stop. By the time the com-
mittees got into action the crops were above ground.
Growers were told that they’d only be allowed
to sell an amount of grain based on their previous
crop figures, and that any excess would have to be
cut for hay. But Nature —as was inevitable —took
a hand, and in many parts of N.S.W. at least crops
are below average.
Now Mr. Scully is being told by growers who
were ordered to cut their excess for hay that they
couldn’t get labor to do it. Since there was no other
way to “prevent their crop from maturing” except by
putting a match to it, Mr. Scully is forced to admit
that they’ll be allowed to harvest the excess, after
application to the local committee. Mr. Scully is to
“make a recommendation to the Wheat Industry
Stabilisation Board.” If he expects growers to stop
harvesting while applications and recommendations
follow the usual tortuous channels he’s likely to be
forced into a further admission before long.
Mr. Scully was fresh from a two-days meeting of
the futile Australian Agricultural Council when he
encountered the wheat headache, and he got off the
usual platitudes about “rehabilitation of rural indus-
tries” on a basis of adjusted land values, debts and
other things. Needless to say, the State Governments
are urging the Commonwealth Government to find the
cash for the “rehabilitation.”
Seals and a State Parliament.
From “Nakhoda,” a not-so-“famous” correspondent:
A well-attended meeting held on Seal Rock, off Phillip
Island (Vic.), to protest against the decision of Mr. Bailey to
liquidate 1000 members of the union resulted in uproar. A
motion submitted by the chairman, an old-man seal marked
with the scars of a hundred battles, that a deputation wait
on the authorities to protest against the Chief Secretary’s
proposal and beg for mercy was drowned in a deafening
chorus of barking which scared all the barracouta from Cape
Schanck to San Remo.
When the din had subsided a cocky young seal asked
why they should go cap in hand to Mr. Dunstan or any
of his confreres. The alleged reason for the proposed massacre
was that the seals constituted a menace to the fish supply of
Melbourne. He had just been reading a copy of the “Argus,”
which he had found wrapped round the remains of a crayfish
on the beach at Cape Woollomai, and from what he gathered
the Government of which Mr. Dunstan was the head was a
far greater menace than the seals were. It constituted a
colony of 98 persons, assisted by a vast army of civil
servants, engaged in departments and commissions and on
trusts, boards and committees, to the number of several
thousands, all feeding on the people and handsomely paid
for doing so, although it was generally considered that
they were superfluous, redundant, duplicatory, hopelessly given
to evasiveness, procrastination, loquacity and passing the buck
to their nextdoor neighbor. In fact, if the seals did as little
real work as they did the union would be dead of starvation
in a fortnight; and if the seals slept in the ocean as much as
members slept on Parliamentary benches they would have
long since fallen a prey to the sharks and have extinct
as a species. Taking all these facts into consideration, he
moved an amendment that a deputation of frisky young seals
be sent to Melbourne to propose to the State Parliament that
it should leave them alone and commit hari-kari.
A school of mullet being reported off the Three Sisters, the
meeting was suspended.


“AND IT'S PRINTED WITE WIMBLES INKS”
C.Q. : One of the chief pleasures of
my life in these dark days is now denied
me. For the last two years I have ad-
mired the confident assessments of the
significance of the war news, the analyses
of the various manoeuvres of world states-
men, the prognostications of the expert in
my favorite daily. They were never right
except as regards the most obvious con-
clusions ; they invariably accepted every
conventional, official or traditional view-
point, and every prophecy was rendered
ridiculous by the course of events ; but
the gentleman, with true British pluck,
plugged on undaunted, sacrificing pru-
dence and commonsense in my devoted
service. Then one morning he ceased to
give me guidance. Hoping against hope
that he was sick and the proprietors had
no prophet of sufficient calibre to replace
him, I watched for weeks for his re-
appearance. I have now come to the
melancholy conclusion that he has gone
for good.
* * * «
Oxmead”; In a vast bargain-sale of
objets d’art —including a large part of the
famous Hearst collection—in New York,
the Saturday Evening Post” records that
a middle-aged couple from Ohio secured,
for close on 6000 dollars, a panelled room
of carved oak, with a fireplace, “a
seventeenth-century relic from Standish
Hall, in Lancashire, the ancestral home
of Myles Standish.” Which suggests that
Americans don’t read their most-quoted
poet very closely nowadays. The Miles
(not Myles) of Longfellow’s hexameters
.... Could trace his pedigree plainly
Back to Hugh Standish, of Duxbury Hall,
m Lancashire, England.
Bringing a room from a Lancashire
manor-house to New York, however, was
a mere trifle beside some of Hearst’s
enterprises. He brought a whole twelfth-
century monastery from Spain, at an
outlay of close on a million dollars. The
k no * havi *g Been re-erected,
the forest of packing cases that contain
it is going begging for a mere 50,000
dollars.
* * * *
Strict Veg.”: Obviously “Hamer,”
who discovered late in life (B. 19/11 /’4l)
that water is good to drink but still
prefers beer, had never had his con-
scious warped about alcohol. I was
not so lucky. The first time I tasted
strong hquor was at 19, when I was re-
turning from a skating rink with an
uncle. The night was hot and so were
ai H whenwe reached a pub he said;
ould you like a drink?” Not wishing
to appear a sissy, I said “Yes, I would.”
firffu Se ™ nd f later we were Breasting the
hrsL bar I had seen. “What’ll you have*?”
said m y unde “Same as you” I said.
e minutes later, on our homeward
way I blurted out: “Do you know
uncle, that that is the first time I’ve been
a P U B and had a drink?” “Good God
ooy! he cried in horror. “Why didn’t
you tell me?” Since my relative had
always been held up to me as a pattern
°; righteousness and civic virtue, I con-
cluded that I had committed a cardinal
sin. It took me 20 years before I could
swallow a pot without feeling I was tak-
ing a step towards perdition.
**••••
“C.W.8.”; This war made me a con-
firmed tea drinker, since tea alone made
bully beef and dry, hard biscuits bear-
able. On the third day of the retreat
from Benghazi, we hit Tobruk and an
A.I.F. cove gave me a couple of mouth-
fuls of warm brackish water with a
chloride flavor. I thought it was the best
stuff I’d ever tasted.
* ♦ * *
“Prof”: “Si Anu” (B. 12/11/’4l)
doesn’t seem very upset about the A.I.F.
losing their distinction as the only wearers
of the slouch hat. If he loved and
admired Australia and everything Aus-
tralian as much as I do he wouldn’t take
it lying down. The slouch hat is as much
Australia’s as the tarn o’ shanter, kilt,
sporran, etc., are the Scot’s. It’s the only
article of national dress we can lay
claim to, and we ought to cherish it as
symbol of, and a memorial to, the in-
domitable courage and spirit of the First
and Second A.I.F. It’s looked on with
pride by all patriotic Australians, with
envy and admiration by friendly nations,
and with fear by the enemy. Can’t you
chaps in Malaya kick up hell about it?
* * * *
“L. de R.”; The abo. may be a van-
ished race in Victoria, but the gipsy isn't.
One of the picturesque tribe brought a
breath of romantic lawlessness into the
Boxhill court the other day. He was
clad in a blue uniform covered with gold
braid and epualetted and a peaked cap,
and he confessed to the name of Sperio
Sterio. He gave evidence about happen-
ings at a gipsy camp. His son-in-law,
also a gipsy, annoyed with Sterio’s
daughter, chased her up and down the
highway in a car. The woman was carry-
ing a baby, and when Sterio remonstrated
with him the maddened swain struck at
his father-in-law with a razor. Having
given a graphic description of this domes-
tic fracas, the witness begged the Court
to excuse the assailant, as he was in drink
and didn’t know what he was doing. The
case was dismissed, and defendant, vic-
tim, witnesses and their women and
babies, dressed in their gorgeous rags
and jolly as sandboys, drove off in two
motor-cars.
“Spokeshave”; Tradition credits gipsies
with supernatural powers, but, although
they can practise sleight-of-hand and one
succeeded recently in separating a Mel-
bourne grocer from a roll of 40 notes,
they meet their match sometimes. Two
of the fraternity called on a country
doctor. One of them professed to be
feeling excruciating pains in her inside
and the doctor gave her a shot of pain-
killer to please her. She made a quick
recovery and then went through the usual
rigmarole of blessing the medico’s money.
He allowed her to officiate over his small
change and got it back. Then she asked
permission to bless two dozen small
tubes reposing in a case on his desk.
The ceremony completed, she was making
for the door when the doctor quietly re-
marked: “You’d better give me back
those tubes ; they don’t contain morphia
but a very deadly poison.”
* * * *
“Arralik”: It is hardly fair of
“Pawang” (B. 3/9/’4l) to sneer at the
electro - encephalograph, the machine
which registers the reaction to different
stimuli of different parts of the brain and
thus enables the doctor to localise the
seat of disease. I know a little girl in
Sydney today, who, suffering hopelessly,
was taken to the machine in America
some little time ago, was diagnosed by
it and, being operated upon accordingly,
is now well and happy again. “Pawang”
says that only the “specialist” can assess
the value of this machine or the signi-
ficance of its results. Even if that were
true, what of it? Who else but the
specialist can assess the value of X-ray
shadows ; who else can drive an aero-
plane ; who else can direct on the field
of battle ; who else can print this paper?
I admit “Pawang’s” contention that Shak-
speare did not have an electro-encephalo-
graph and didn’t miss it, but the Bard
did without lots of things we find valu-
able. He was, for instance, unable to
read “Pawang’s” words of wisdom ; his
doctor was not able to prescribe a sul-
phanilamide for him and had never heard
of insulin, or an electrocardiograph or
even of asepsis. Few people will be con-
vinced that the freedom of his times from
knowledge of these matters made Shak-
speare a better man or even a better
writer.
* * * *
“Margin”: “Pitt Street” (B. 12/11 /’4l)
suggests that taxi men with producer-
gas units should not have increased their
fares. He doesn’t take into consideration
that the taxi man probably paid up to
£l2O for his producer unit, and that tyres,
oils, spare parts and repairs have in-
creased considerably in cost the last 12
months. It takes a lot of two bobs to meet
the extra running costs of a taxi these
days. If you have luxury service in war-
time you must pay for it,
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Very sudden results
attended a Brisbane woman’s first effort
in the shoplifting line. At 11.45 a.m. she
was seen to collect 4s. 6d. worth of
pinched goods from the counters of a
Queen - street department store and
start for the door. By 11.47 she was
detained, by 11.55 arrested. She was
lodged in clink at 12.7 p.m. and attended
to by the female searcher at 12.15. The
P.M. commenced to hear her case at
2.30 and by 2.40 she had been fined
£1 4s. 6d.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A gramophone disc with a
recorded conversation has come into an
Adelaide police court as evidence for the
first time in S.A. A ’phone conversation
was recorded through what was described
as “an amplifier” used by a Shareholders’
Protection Association. The P.M.G.’s
share in the transaction being questioned,
it was stated that his department merely
supplied at an annual rental the jack and
plug used for attaching “amplifier” to
’phone. The talk was not very clear, and
as the information was dismissed the
question of value as evidence remains
an open one.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”; Liquid hosiery
bars, providing a full-length pair of
painted-on stockings complete with seam
all in four minutes, seem likely to flourish
as summer draws on. The goods last
two days, can’t ladder and are proof
against showers; and if a lass should
change her mind or take a fancy for a
swim at short notice she can always scrub
them off with soap and water. Should a
hosiery bar be handy at the moment she
can save the trouble by having them
extended up to swim-suit level in order
that no untinted intermediate zones may
attract derisive remarks from the other
cats. But why can’t the new idea be
developed a bit further and do away with
a lot of the cost and bother of “swim
suits”? Some of the modern models leave
practically nothing to the imagination.
* « * «
“Clooter”: A new cure for love-sick-
ness has been put forward by a clergy-
man not long back from welfare work
with the A.I.F. in the Middle East. He
is inviting girls who strike up friendships
with soldiers but don’t wish it to become
anything deeper to tell the soldier the
awful truth before he embarks. “I have
seen,” says he, “what effect broken love
affairs have on men overseas.” He added
that a lot of girls won’t undeceive the
soldier because they’re afraid of spoiling
his final leave. To this the clergyman
answers that if a soldier learns that all
is over before he leaves he gets over the
shock while seasick on the way. It seems
to explain the popular fiction method of
dealing with disappointed swains; almost
invariably the author sends them on a
sea voyage. Anyone who has had a good
dose of mal de mer will agree that there
isn’t much room for grieving, at least
while the distemper lasts. One nail drives
out another, as a French proverb has it.
* * * *
“Plain Bill”: Ever on the lookout for
heart-throbs, Sydney “D.T.” has dis-
covered a lode which looks as if it would
be very payable. It is prospected like
this; —•
FIRST JOBS ON MUNITIONS.
Four women who had never before
done a day’s manual labor are working
in a Sydney munition factory.
Then follow the names and addresses
of these young women, so recently
acquainted with honest toil, and the
reader is told how they “finished work
with fingers patched with sticking-
plaster,” and that one young thing
exclaimed, “I had no idea that work
was so hard!” Says a sympathetic fac-
tory manager: “They work long hours
and are properly done-up when they're
finished.” Heartrending!
* * * ♦
“V. Cluse”; Our drunk was meander-
ing home just before dark the other
night. Up the street a couple of small
boys were playing with a model aero-
plane. It was blue and white and about
18in. from propeller to tail. Just as the
drunk turned into the street they
launched the ’plane, which did a half-
loop, swung across a garden, back over
the street, straightened, zoomed slightly
and landed gently on the drunk’s
shoulder. He gave it a shocked glance,
made a spasmodic swipe at it with one
hand, then galloped into the nearest
house and yelled at the householder,
“Ring up the p’leesh. There’s a flamin’
plague of giant mosh or moshkeeters or
somethin’ just hit Sydney frommer
north.” Then he sat on the verandah
and shuddered until they brought him
strong black tea and pleaded with him
to cease worrying about it.
* * * *
“Craiser”: A thousand or so citizens
paused in their lunchtime peregrinations
along Cpllins-street,
Melbourne. Blarney
had mounted the
“bridge” where
bands play, dam-
sels warble and
notable citizens dis-
course in aid of the
war loans, and was
speaking. He
uttered a grave
warning that the
fate of civilisation
was in the balance ;
that the Empire
was faced by attack
from a man “with
a very great brain”
—namely, Hitler;
that the A.I.F.
needed reinforce-
ments and that he
could not under-
stand how people
in Australia could
go on living the
life they do. Then
he described the
conditions of the
men at Tobruk.
“I’m sure you have
all enjoyed listen-
ing to what Gen-
eral Blarney has
just been saying,”
the chairman said.
“Thank you.”
“Yairs , back in Aussie he breeds the finest ’orses in ’ees State.”
NECK.
It s curious when, our public men appraising
For anything they may have done or said,
How oft we use, for metaphoric phrasing,
The part between the body and the head.
When someone his assured conviction mentions
That only he can save the State from wreck,
We stigmatise his impudent pretensions
With the pungent commentary “What a
neck! ”
When a legislator merits our aspersions
By mouthing hoary platitudes with zest,
By trotting out irrelevant assertions
Or getting aimless hooey off his chest,
We never advocate a gag or muzzle
Should be employed his flow of words to
check.
Although the idiom’s something of a puzzle,
The verdict is He’s talking through his
neck.”
And when some budding Pitt or embryonic
Gladstone (as mostly happens, late or soon)
Meets with the fate that’s pitifully chronic
F ] ops like ? . busted drum or pricked balloon;
When from his eminence he’s rudely stricken,
Washed like some sailor from a storm-tossed
deck,
You 11 note that, even as the hapless chicken
Doomed for the pot, “He gets it in the neck.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Where the devil are We, Prendergast? I never could read these things !”
“Melton”: Suburbanites travelling on
the Brighton (Vic.) line discovered
on a recent morning that a love-
sick swain had made use of a
stretch of galvanised-iron fencing as
an agony column. Splashed in foot-high
white letters appeared; “Darling Honey,
ring please. I love you alone for ever. ’
Passengers eagerly looked for further
communiques and were not disappointed.
A few days later came: “B.R. —You
wrong. Love you alone ever.” Appa-
rently this did not have the desired effect,
for after two days appeared: “B.R. —
You till death,” and the day after: “B.R.
—Love you ever.” Meanwhile the owner
of the mansion whose fence was being
disfigured bitterly objected, and for two
nights constables kept vigil. Nothing
happened. On the third night the
watchers were withdrawn, and when
dawn came it revealed an inscription that
bore a grim note of finality: “B.R. —
Your wish understood. Strangers to
grave. Never watch again. Good-bye.”
♦ * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland, which takes its
war responsibilities with commendable
realism, is already reckoning up its man-
power resources as far as married men
with three children. In the 1914-18 war
the Dominion put 124,200 men into camp
(11.3 p.c. of its mean population for the
period), and is proud that 91,941 of them
were volunteers. On the same scale this
war, in four years, should require 170,000
men. How many have been sent already,
of course, is not disclosed, but the first
compulsory ballot for single men was
on December 4, 1940, when 14,000 were
called up for medical inspection, and
there have been two later drafts of 19,000
each. It is reckoned that the next call
will be for childless married men in
January or February next. It is esti-
mated there are 30,000 of these of mili-
tary age, and when they are accounted
for, 33,000 with one child, 26,000 with
two children and 13,000 with three
children. Whatever befalls, Maoriland
won’t leave its troops unreinforced while
any able-bodied man is obtainable to
reinforce them.
* * * *
“Looby”: Wigs have been curled, red
robes have been dragged from the very
teeth of the moths, and Sydney’s Santa
Clauses are again on the job, beefing out
the usual remarks about spinach-gorging
and running-messages-for-mother to the
pop-eyed kids. Sitting up in state in a
store the other day one Santa was either
distracted by the heat or too new to the
game to keep his mind on his identity.
When a six-year-old dragged him into con-
versation, Santa beamed and responded
mechanically. Then the kid poked for-
ward a wrapped-up finger and said: “I
cut my finger, Santa. Do you ever do
things like that, Santa?” And the flowing-
whiskered Santa cooed indulgently: “Of
course I do, little boy! Why, only this
morning I cut my chin when I was
shaving.”
* * * *
“Arbeep”: Of course Sydney’s flower-
gardens have improved during the dry
spell (B. 12/11/’4l). Millions of plants
are murdered by drowning every year.
But apart from that the flower is the
natural advertisement which the plant
puts out to attract insects, obtain gratifi-
cation by pollination, and ensure the sur-
vival of its species through its fertile seed.
Mother Nature indulgently allows man-
kind to cross and crisscross and “im-
prove” her products, but at the first hint
of bad times her only interest is survival,
and the plants flower and “go to seed.”
* * * *
“D.E.”: W. M. Hughes’s part in the
affair of the Secret Fund (the report vin-
dicated him) reawakened memories of
the ailments that put three Tasmanian
Labor Senators out of action in March,
1917, when Billy had formed a Nat.
Government with the numbers against it
in the Senate. The events are on record
in Ernest Scott’s volume of the Official
War History, and this was the time-
table :
March 1, 6.1 p.m.: Senator Ready
writes his resignation.
March 1, 6.5 p.m. to 10 p.m.: Ex-
Premier Earle goes to Government House,
Melbourne and resigns from Tasmanian
Assembly; Tasmanian Executive Council
nominates Earle as Ready’s successor; the
State Governor advises the Governor-
General by telegram of Earle’s appoint-
ment.
March 2: Earle takes his seat in the
Senate (11 a.m.). Two other Tasmanian
Labor Senators, Guy and Long, fall ill.
Guy telegraphs from a hospital that it is
“absolutely impossible” for him to leave:
Long goes off to Java to “recuperate.”
That leaves the state of parties 17-17, with
the President, a Hugheselier, having a cast-
ing vote.
After that, another Lab. Senator, Wat-
son (N.S.W.), alleged that Hughes had
asked him to “resign and allow the
vacancy to be filled, promising that a
position would be found for me.” Hughes
admitted having made an appeal
son’s “conscience and convictions,” but
denied having offered him a job or “asked
me did money stand in my way.” With
the support of two non-Labor Senators
from Tasmania, a motion that the Ready
and Watson cases should be investigated
by a High Court Justice was carried in
the Senate, but “the Government did not
accept the vote as mandatory and no
commission was appointed.”
* * * *
“Eddy’s Son”: I am sure none of
those newspaper writers who denounce
Army technicians and the Inventions
Board ever worked in a patent attorney’s
office. If they had they
would realise that the
more original and im-
portant an invention is
the less chance it has of
securing recognition from
technicians or backing
from capitalists. In the
first place that sort of
invention almost always
comes from a rank out-
sider. It wasn’t a needle-
manufacturer who in-
vented the sewing
machine, nor was it a
nib-maker who designed
the first typewriter. The
chap who made the first
reaping machine wasn’t
in the agricultural imple-
ment business at all.
Wireless telegraphy came,
not from a telegraph
technician but from a
well-to-do young ama-
teur who had never
tapped a Morse key.
The inherent conservat-
ism of human nature is
all against the rank ama-
teur who wants to teach
the professionals some-
thing new about their
own job. And ninety-
nine times out of a
hundred the conservative
attitude to the new invention is justified.
Melba said about a career as a singer
that not voice but guts was the first
essential. It’s the same with the really
original inventors. They and their backers
have to be terribly persistent.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The law against allowing an
abo. to have liquor has its justifications,
no doubt, but it can be hard in the case
of a civilised citizen. “We are under
the one flag and the one king,” a native
told an Adelaide Court. “I am a muni-
tions worker, and I think I should have
the right to have a drink.” But his bottle
of wine was “unlawfully possessed,” and
he was fined £l,
* * * *
“Go Bragh”: A motorist who had
three women in his car thought of all
the yarns he’d ever heard about lepre-
chauns and such animals on a road near
Ballyclare (Eire) one night recently. He
was tootling along joyfully when a silent
hand reached out of the darkness,
grabbed his car, waved it about in the
air for a bit, then dropped it in a tree.
The man and his startled passengers
clambered out and climbed down the
tree, wondering whether they ought to
pray or bolt. Daylight showed the car
still in the tree, and from it floated a
barrage balloon which had evidently
broken loose in England and drifted
across the sea. The trailing cable had
snagged the car and lifted it up. Soldiers
shot the balloon down, but it wasn’t
finished then. It fell across high-tension
wires and put Ballyclare out of electricity
for a time.
“Tuart”: The Italians used to do a
brisk trade in the export of Gorgonzola
cheese to Australia. They won’t regain
it after the war, for excellent Gorgon-
zola is now being made in Australia, and
is on the market at a shilling a pound
less than the pre-war price charged for
the Parma article. The process of manu-
facture was thought to be a trade secret,
but a patient Australian experimenter hit
upon the right combination. As a matter
of fact, the increasing British demand
for cheese instead of butter has led to
improvement in quality in both Australia
and Maoriland, and cheese that would
satisfy any epicure can now be bought
cheap.
* * * *
“K.P.”: Federal Health Minister Hol-
loway’s scheme for X-ray caravans to
examine all Australian schoolchildren
for t.b. signs has much to recommend it,
but the catch is that no arrangements
exist for treating any considerable num-
ber of new cases which it might detect.
For years past specialists and practi-
tioners alike have complained about the
scandalous shortage of suitable institu-
tional accommodation for victims of
tubercular diseases in all States. In-
fected children require particularly care-
ful treatment, dietary and otherwise, for
arrest of the disease, and there are few
private homes where this can be given
with any reasonable prospect of success.
Systematic instruction of parents and
initial treatment of children with regular
examination afterwards would require to
be made available on a probably exten-
sive scale. About one in 25 of all deaths
from tubercular disease (2656 in 1938)
occurs under 15, but from 20 onwara a
sharp rise to double that proportion
takes place in each successive five-year
age-period of the years of maximum effi-
ciency. Many of these are undoubtedly
due to the lighting-up of latent infec-
tions persisting from childhood by some
incidental lowering of body-resistance.
* * V *
“J.H.M.A.” explodes a legend:
Queer traditions relating to early Australia die
very hard, as a recent “S. M. Herald contri-
bution attests. It is about Solomon Wiseman’s
old home on the Hawkesbury River (N.S.W.),
standing close to where he established his ferry
well over a century ago, when he was Civil
District Superintendent of the iron-gangs em-
ployed in the construction of the Northern
Road connecting Sydney and the Hunter Valley.
“The next point of interest,” says the writer,
“is the place of execution. Local tradition
places this across the river, some distance along
the old Gosford-road, and names it Hangman s
Rock; it is simple to climb up to view the
hole in its ceiling through which the con-
demned were said to have taken the final
plunge.” Of course this is nonsense. Here or
elsewhere when convict gangs were employed
in road-making or other public works summary
capital punishment was never inflicted by local
authorities, though plenty of flogging was.
Occasionally a sentry might shoot an escaping
prisoner, but serious crime was always dealt
with in a court of criminal jurisdiction at the
nearest centre where periodical sessions were
held—in this case it would have been Windsor
or Parramatta, or even Sydney. Neither super-
intendents nor military commandants in their
capacity as magistrates were permitted to inflict
punishment except for comparatively trivial
offences.
“Half a pound of mincemeat, threepenno'rth of catsmeat, two Mings on
Beau Vite each Way, and all up on a sirloin of beef.”
“BLACKOUT” HEFFRON.
Some patriots carve their names for exhibition
On any project they’re concerned about,
Leaving them there for future recognition.
But Heffron’s not that kind of politician,
His forte is blacking-out.
What does he care though generals advise him
Of sounder safeguards to fend off our foes?
A whole lot more than those who criticise
him—
And this consideration fortifies him —
He’s confident he knows.
When perils loom to windward and to leeward,
Who is there that inspires a trust so free
As one, to storms and hurricanes inured,
Who qualified for office as a steward
Aboard of ships at sea?
Firm in this faith, he stages his seances,
But when the next election comes about
And voters congregate to back their fancies,
There’s quite a few who’ll hardly miss their
chances
Of blacking Heffron out!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
Equal to the Finest
Imported
Sold only in BOTTLES
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
Safe and Profitable—
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s” criticism (26/I/’3B). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office; Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoiua ; A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Paringa Building, 13 Bindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia : Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
ROOM ONLY” DAILY TARIFFS
Singles - 5j- to 101-
Doubles - 8/-to 18/6
Suites, Family Rooms, Full Catering
Services
S. D. HORNE - MANAGER
T H £
VICTORIA
PALACE
Af€LBO(/RR€S
MOST POPULAR ¥fOr£l
k Next Town Hall * Little Collins Street
"c 3 41^
POLITICAL POINTS
Curtin, Chifley and Dr. Evatt emerged
from the brief session at Canberra with
cubits added to their stature, at least as
Parliamentarians. In the Senate Ashley
gave some evidence of having a mind of
some quality and a back that will not
bend to bureaucrats. Of other Ministers
the hope is expressed—with charity in
some cases —that they will justify their
appointments.
Opposition Senators, who are in the
majority, passed some income-tax amend-
ments which were accepted by the Gov-
ernment. Others were objected to, and
after “an informal conference of man-
agers,” all members of the House, the
Senate did not press them. Allan Mac-
Donald, the Westralian, protested in
vain that the Senate had been “placed
in a false position,” which was true, and
urged that the Senate owed a duty to
itself to refuse to be “a plaything of
the House.” It owes a duty also to the
public, but other gentlemen just looked
at the business paper and the clock and
went on with the “business.” As usual,
all hands caught their Big-City trains in
plenty of time.
The second-last week of the session at
Canberra had a familiar feature, a
“substantial Thursday-night exodus of
members who knew that both Houses
would be sitting on Friday” (“S. M.
Herald”). Fadden’s attempt to get
penalty rates of war-time company tax
reduced came on that Friday, and was
defeated by five votes, 29 members being
absent, though a few (“Independents”
Coles and Wilson among them) were
paired. Among the missing were those
“outstanding” U.A.P, candidates and
devoted Fadden Marr and
McCall, who didn’t trouble to get pairs.
They should be permanent absentees
after the next election.
Sydney dailies and weeklies have
broken out into a rash of competitions.
One competition to which they do not
refer and for which they offer no prize,
though they are all in it, is a fence-sitting
competition ; subject, conscription. For
a thrilling moment it looked as if “S. M.
Herald” would be the first to descend,
but Granny remained up aloft with her
contemporaries. If conscription could
be placed in the same category as form-
at-a-glance supplements and nearly-naked
girl outbreaks things would be different,
but it is not a circulation stunt.
Knight, the N.S.W. Minister for Labor,
told a Newcastle gathering of union sec-
retaries that the Sydney Government
would introduce a bill providing for com-
pulsory unionism. Nobody thought to
ask Mr. Knight whether he supported
compulsory military service in order to
defend compulsory unionism.
The battle of the sub-parties goes on
in Victoria. The U.A.P. is at outs with
the U.A.0., and the A.W.N.L. is holding
its fire till “the men settle their differ-
ences.” Meantime on the Agrarian front
the Dunstans have flared up again against
the U.C.P. Central Council; the latter
“ordered’ it to bring on a “certain
measure” and was told that the Dunstans
wouldn’t be “dictated to.” Only Cain
and his Laborites seem at peace, like the
little boy under the bed while his parents
have it out.
It is getting on for a year since the
McKell mob promised to build ships and
give dairy-farmers supplying the city
market more for their cow-fluid while
reducing the price to the consumer. Not
a tap of work has been done on any
McKell ship, and people interested in the
milk trade have been told to possess their
souls in patience until “Parliament” has
ceased resting from its “labors,” which
will be February 25 at the earliest.
A Sydney flapper paper was at pains
to explain that the Royal Navy couldn’t
give Alan Cunningham’s soldiers 100 p.c.
assistance in Libya because there is no
port from which it could operate. There
is no port from which the Royal Navy
could operate between the northern tip
of Norway, and the Franco-Spanish fron-
tier. All are in the enemy’s possession,
and many are just ruins. That didn’t
prevent the flapper paper and other Syd-
ney sheets from demanding “a Western
offensive to help Russia,” which would
have meant frightful and useless slaughter
of British seamen and soldiers. Of course
flapper-paper editors, commentators and
professors wouldn’t have been in it.
Sydney “D.T.” on a new weapon:
We do know the gun has stood up to
severe tests, has proved better than other
guns now in service. Let us see how it
works under battle conditions. After that
we can talk about modifications.
“We,” “Us” and Co. won’t be on the
business end of the thing “under battle
“The N.S.W. McKell Government is to make trade-unionism compulsory.”
This volunteer stuff is all right for you 'ellows, but when it’s finished you’ve got
to join a union.”
conditions.” That sort of thing is re-
served for the A.I.F.
The Lithgow (N.S.W.) coroner had a
word for a growing evil when inquiring
into the death of an infant found in a
biscuit-tin in a railway tunnel;
People seem to be doing away with
children as a matter of course; child
murder is going to be the downfall of this
country.
By far the worst aspect is the flourishing
trade in killing the unborn, of which
thousands are murdered for every one
killed after birth.
“Half the young men called up for
compulsory military training are apply-
ing for exemption.” Thus Armstrong, the
N.S.W. Senator, in Sydney last week ;
and he went on to say that “these young
men are unwilling to ask their wives,
mothers or other dependents to struggle
along on military pay.” “Federal mem-
bers,” he proceeded, “spend three-
fifths of their time seeking exemp-
tion for men.” Then they could
be much more usefully employed.
If Armstrong is one of those mem-
bers, he must give quite a fifth of
his time to the Parliamentary duties, for
which he is paid £lOOO a year. He is a
Sydney alderman as well as a Senator.
The Bulletin has received from the
Apple and Pear Board a “draft state-
ment” which begins, “Many things have
been said of apple and pear acquisition:
Many of these are ill-founded ; still more
are incomplete ; many folk have been un-
wittingly misled.” On the same day
Commerce Minister Scully mentioned in
Canberra that the thing looked like cost-
ing £1,600,000 for the 1941 season. Pos-
sibly Scully has been “unwittingly mis-
led.”
President Roosevelt, great gentleman
that he is, has apologised to Chile for a
foul attack on the President of that
Republic, published in the magazine
known as “Time” or “Slime.” The
article appeared when the Chilean ruler
lay dying: it mentioned that he was
“reported ill,” and asserted that he was
spending “more and more time with the
red wine he cultivates.” “Slime” has be-
come notorious for attacks on the private
lives of its aversions, regardless of sex,
and in this respect, and others, has set
a rotten example to provincials in other
countries, Australia among them.
“Time’s” unspeakable attack on the
President of Chile (since dead), described
by Mr. Roosevelt as “a disgusting lie”
and by the U.S. Ambassador to Chile as
“a notable contribution to Nazi propa-
ganda against the U.5.A.,” draws atten-
tion to the fact that it was reprinted in
a Sydney Sunday paper, the “Tele-
graph,” which publishes “Slime’s” war
stuff “by special arrangement.” It has
been asserted that the rights cost £20,000
(Aust.) p.a., and whether they do or not
they must be making a bit of a hole in
dollar exchange. It is a matter that the
Government should now consider, especi-
ally as it seems to have an honest regard
for the interests of Australian writers.
Before the Sunday paper made its agree-
ment with “Slime” it was publishing a
much better war review written in its
own office.
That sarcastic brute Cameron again,
this time on the publicity given by Forde
and the flapper-press and the films to the
Owen gun:
Will the Army Minister ask service chiefs
whether it is advisable to give the enemy
advance information of the surprises in
store for him?
All Forde could say in reply was that
he would “consider” the Cameronian
request.
Playford is now the only non-Labor
Premier left. His side has been in control
since 1933 and looks like keeping going
indefinitely; indeed, S.A. has only one
Labor man at Canberra —Munitions
Minister Makin. The youngest head of a
Government, Playford has, in his three
years as Premier, addressed five gentle-
men as Prime Minister.
In the case of a fiend who attacked
a girl on a Sydney-North Coast train,
and who got 14 years, it came out that,
among other sentences, he had served
one of 18 months for the same sort of
crime. Leniency, like virtue, appears to
have its own reward.
Martin, the N.S.W. Attorney-General,
says he has a law-reform programme
which will necessitate the introduc-
tion of “over 100 measures,” and
will “probably take 15 years to imple-
ment.” Anyone who has had experience
of litigation in N.S.W. will agree that
there is a dreadful mess to be cleaned
up ; but long before half the term has
elapsed the “Parliament” responsible for
the dreadful mess —and heaps of others
—will have become only an unpleasant
memory.
In Maoriland, as Finance Minister
Nash told the Curtins, much to their
embarrassment, practically everyone in a
job pays ls.-in-the-£ wage tax, as well
as ls.-in-the-£ social security tax. This
is the position in Canada:
In June, 1940, a national-defence tax was
imposed on practically everyone receiving
wages or salaries. The rates were 2 p.c.
and 3 p.c. In July, 1941, these were raised
to 5 p.c. and 7 p.c. In addition taxes on
personal income have been sharply in-
creased; e.g., a childless married man on
$l5OO who paid nothing in 1939 pays $75
this year. Five times as many people as
before the war now pay income taxes of
all kinds.
In Australia the number of people pay-
ing income tax is less than before tfie
war.
Melbourne City Council is to spend
£lOO on a panel of photographs of 19
former Lud Mayors by way of com-
memorating the city’s centenary next
year. Lyall, chairman of the Town Hall
committee, said the panels would be of
great historic interest and value. He
and the other city dads ought to be told
there is a war on.
It came over the cables that the
U.S.S.R. Government is taxing bachelors,
working women and childless couples 5
per cent, of their earnings, in addition to
previous imposts. Women’s organisations
asked the Government at Canberra to tax
bachelors in its supplementary Budget,
but “the request is not likely to be con-
sidered seriously.” The Government’s
preferences run to a marriage tax —or
did until a storm blew up. It doesn’t care
for storms.
A lieutenant in the N.Z.E.F. included
in his income-tax return £453 paid by his
employer to make up the difference be-
tween military pay and ordinary salary.
The Taxation Department taxed the em-
ployer on the £453 and tried to tax the
lieutenant at the rate on £lO2B, military
pay plus £453. He appealed, and Justice
Fair (appropriate name) found for him
on the ground that “payment was made,
not in respect of employment, but out of
a sense of appreciation of public spirit,”
and “that took it out of the category of
income or salary.” A just judgment that
should be noted, for some shabby little
State Government is sure to try this form
of double taxation in Australia.


ALL OUT OF STEP BUT JACK.
“Britain, the U.S.S.R., the U.S.A. and Maoriland have conscription, and Britain is about to call up all able-bodied men and women for war work.”


1*35.
FLO WEB
SCISSORS.
Outs and holds
the stem of
flowers. 6 jins.
Chrome-plated.
9/6 each.
CHRISTMAS GIFTS
POST FREE
FOR CASH
No. 3 IMPERIAL MODEL ROLLS
SAFETY razor. This Rolls Safety
Razor lias one holjow-ground blade, a
boning device on one side and stropping
on the ol her. Thus it enables you to
keep the blade always keen and ready
for use. 57/6.
IMPROVED EMPIRE MODEE WIL-
KINSON SAFETY RAZOR with
double stropping gear, strong frame and new
blade holder. This is a self-stropping Razor,
without removing the blade from the frame.
Metal box complete with 2 blades, 30/-.
15— GILLETTE ARISTOCRAT
RHODIUM-PLATED RAZOR
in chased nickelled box with
10 blue steel blades. 23/6 each.
1059—Good
Quality Shaving
Brush, mixed
Badger and Bristle,
Horn Handle, 8/6.
W. IN O. BAK E R
Em
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEM S
Captain Joseph Burnett, commanding
H.M.A.S. Sydney (he succeeded Captain
Collins six months ago) was born at
Singleton (N.S.W.) 41 years ago and was
one of the first Jervis Bay graduates,
Captain Collins being a class-mate. He
went to sea in 1916 as a middy, and saw
war service in the battle-cruiser Australia.
His captaincy dates from 1938. He was
Deputy-Chief of the Naval Staff at the
Navy Office, Melbourne, before he took
command of the Sydney.
The men of the cruiser Sydney came
from every State of the Commonwealth.
Nineteen officers and 229 other ranks
hailed from N. S. Wales, 10 officers and
155 other ranks from Victoria, three
officers and 89 other ranks from West-
ralia, five officers and 51 other rank c
from South Australia, three officers and
39 other ranks from Queensland, one
officer and 35 other ranks from Tas-
mania. In addition four Englishmen, a
Scot and a lad from Singapore were on
the ship’s books.
On December 6 John Thomas Lang
will have had 28 years’ continuous mem-
bership of N.S.W. Assembly, and on
December 21 he will be 65. Billy Dunn,
who was in two Lang Ministries, arrived
earlier than the Big Fellow—on October
14, 1910 —but Dunn was out of Parlia-
ment for three weeks in 1911, and from
May 18, 1932, to May 10, 1935 ; so Lang
is technically Father of the House. An
occasional rumble was heard from the
old volcano last session, but it soon
subsided.
Australia’s fourth V.C. is Arthur Roden
Cutler: 25, lieutenant, 15 stone, 6ft. sin.,
graduate of Sydney University and holder
of its “blue” for swimming and rifle-
shooting. He is the only artilleryman in
A.I.F. history to win . the Cross. His
father and uncle were Kings’ Prize win-
ners at rifle-shooting ; his two younger
brothers are in the forces ; his widowed
mother lives at Manly (N.S.W.) with her
only daughter. Young Cutler was an em-
ployee of the N.S.W. Public Trustee, but
he had a bush background which stood
him in good stead in his few brief days
of fighting in Syria during the terrible
struggles for Merjayoun and Damour
Wadi. He was described as absolutely
fearless, and he hunted tanks as other
men hunt tigers. But at Damour, lead-
ing a line along an exposed position, he
caught an explosive bullet in the knee,
and he is on his way home, minus one
leg.
Ex-Premier McPhee is a candidate for
Franklin at Tasmania’s Assembly elec-
tion. McPhee was the one Australian
Premier who held his post throughout
the depression period, and he retired
from State politics in 1934 in a blaze
of glory ; but his luck didn’t hold when,
three years later, he tried to become a
Federal member. Born at Yan Yean
(Vic.), he served his time as a printer
and ran a business college before public
life claimed him. He is rising 64.
Sergeant F. E. Bateman, officer-in-
charge of the inquiry section of Vic-
torian Police Headquarters, who has
just retired after 11 \ years’ police ser-
vice, has the unusual distinction of hav-
ing won the Valor Badge twice. Once
he arrested unarmed a gangster who fired
four times at him with a revolver and
then tried to carve him with a razor.
One of Melbourne’s most versatile
sporting figures for many years, Flight-
Lieutenant Roger Henderson, R.A.F.,has
been killed while on service in England.
In boxing he was just short of being
first-class, he was Australian squash rac-
kets champion in 1932, he excelled in
lawn tennis. Royal tennis, cricket and
golf, and owned and raced many horses
locally. One of his brothers, now in the
army, was A.D.C. to Sir Winston Dugan,
Governor of Victoria, and a twin brother
was killed in the current war.
Frith alleges that the accompanying
design is the frontispiece of a work
created at Tamworth (N.S.W.) about 52
years ago and labelled William James
Scully. The subject is now Federal Min-
ister for Commerce and the happy ex-
pression is perennial, its owner being the
most popular representative the Gwydir
W. J. SCULLY.
has had and holder of the record for the
“largest electoral mail in the Federal
House.” The Minister’s parents were
farmers, and he graduated into State poli-
tics after a course at bush schools and
on the business ends of such instruments
as axes, shovels, wire-strainers, wheat-
loaders and other gadgets used by bush-
workers. From the State he stepped into
the Federal ring in somewhat notable cir-
cumstances, taking with him his love for
fast dogs and fast horses—he was 20
years a N.C.A. judge, and is keen on
trotters and gallopers—a love he can't
serve too well now, since he confesses
to never having been so busy before in
his life.
Lieut. lan Penn Boucaut, recently
awarded the D.S.C. for “good service”
during the sinking of a U-boat by H.M.
trawler Lady Shirley, is grajidson of
knight James Boucaut, an old-time S.A.
Judge. Born in Adelaide 32 years ago,
Lieut. Boucaut qualified in law at Adel-
aide Uni. in 1930, and practised for some
years in Westralia. Lieut.-Commander
A. H. Callaway, of Sydney, who receives
a D.S.O. for his part in the same action,
was in command of the trawler.
Archie Howie becomes president of the
Sydney R.A.S. in succession to S’Sam
Hordern. Member of the S.C.G. Trust and
president of the Jersey Herd Society, he
is a past-president of Sydney Chamber
of Commerce and was Lud Mayor for a
couple of years. He owns a pretty high-
quality Jersey stud out at Navua, on the
Nepean River, and has always been a
good R.A.S. worker.
Maoriland’s two-year-old Social Secu-
rity Commission, which administers
pensions, hospital finances and medical
services, is to have as its second chair-
man (vice J. H. Boyes, who becomes
Public Service Commissioner) H. Digby-
Smith, formerly Director of the Social
Security Department. The new chair-
man, a civil servant of 35 years’ standing
and an amiable, well-liked man, comes
in from the Pensions side. He held a
commission in the Otago Regiment,
N.Z.E.F., and served abroad from 1915
to 1919. The new S.S. Director, B. F.
Waters, is another Pensions Department
man —he joined in 1913. He also served
with N.Z.E.F., 1916-19, coming back with
three stripes.
Moderator-elect of the Presbyterian
Church in Maoriland is the Rev. John G.
Laughton, of Whakatane, superintendent
of Maori Missions. He was chosen, for
one reason, because the centenary of
Maori Missions (1943) will come within
his term. Born overseas, Laughton
has been in M.L. for close on 40 years.
He was won the confidence of the Maori
people completely, and now that Father
Becker is dead it may be said (the Maoris
admit it) that the only two people who
can speak Maori perfectly are Apirana
Ngata and John Laughton.
On his way back from the Hub is
Bruce Foster, a clever young Melbourne
aeronautical engineer. He was in the
Civil Aviation Department in Melbourne
and resigned to join the firm of Arm-
strong-Whit worth. He has had the job
of searching crashed German machines
for any new features of construction.
Francis de Witt Batty, whose Human
Nature was recently published in Sydney,
is Bishop of Newcastle (N.S.W.). Lon-
don-born, he was educated at St. Paul’s
School and Balliol College, Oxford.
Ordained at the age of 25, he became
chaplain to Archbishop Donaldson, of
Brisbane, in 1904 and “Francis New-
castle” 27 years later. He’s 62.
The earnest visage here depicted by
Counihan belongs to Ernest Buckmaster,
whose “Jolly Swagman” won the £5OO
prize at the Victorian National Gallery’s
competition. A Victorian State School
product who started off as an
apprentice signwriter and was soon
painting 30ft. figures on brick walls,
he attended the National Gallery
School and there got his grounding
in art principles from Bernard Hall,
amplifying that training by two tours of
European galleries. In 1926 he held his
E. BUCKMASTER.
first successful show at Melbourne
Athemeum. A later one attracted the
attention of a patron, C. Steele, who
bought every picture and thus enabled
it;.* t
the young artist to travel. Since then
Buckmaster has occupied himself exclu-
sively with landscape and portrait paint-
ing. Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Adel-
■;? /-cU, • j,i ’ TT . . ’ ~
aide, Castlemame and the Hinton collec-
tion have examples of his work, and in
1932 he landed the Archibald Prize. His
latest nnVe winner the swawoie sittino nn
latest prize-winner, the swaggie sitting on
the bank of a river, was painted at mgnt
under daylight globes during a period
when the artist was plumbing daily at his
new house at Mount Evelyn.
Wing-Commander Norman Brearley,
until the current war started managing
director of W.A, Airways, and now
playing a leading part in R.A.A.F. train-
ing in S.A.. was born at Geelong, Vic.,
WING-COMMANDER BREARLEY.
51 years ago. He pioneered air-mail
services in Australia. In the 1914-18 war
he served as an officer in the R.F.C.,
winning the D. 5.0., M.C. and A.F.C. and
retiring with rank as major. In peaceful
times he recreates with golf and tennis.
Into the Silence:
At Sydney, Dr. Langloh Parker Johnston,
for 30 years hon. dermatologist at Sydney and
St. Vincent’s Hospitals. He was one of the
pioneer users of radium in Australia, and the
Commonwealth Government sent him to Europe
to buy the first important supply for this
country.
At 85, Father J. B. Becker, missionary priest
in the northernmost part of M.L. He once
quelled a Maori rebellion single-handed. An
authority on the Maori language, he compiled
a prayer-book and hymn-book for the use of
his brown disciples.
At Christchurch, M.L., 85, Phineas Selig,
for 30 years manager of the Christchurch
“Press” and for 13 years president of the N.Z.
Newspaper Proprietors’ Association and the
Trotting Conference. He was born in Mel-
bourne, son of a Rabbi. His first job was as
copy-holder in the Government Printing Office
in Wellington. In 1881 he founded the “N.Z.
Referee,” and when this paper was bought by
the “Press” Co. remained as its editor.
At Southport, S.Q., aged 85, Matthew Heeb,
Queensland-born pioneer shipwright and road-
builder. Sixty years ago he and Ernest Beiliss
opened up the Beechmont cedar country, raft-
ing logs down Nerang Creek to Southport for
shipment to Brisbane. Working single-handed in
Southport he built the 50-ton schooner Seagull.
At Baffle Creek Matthew built vessels of up
to 52 tons. At 73 he built a 36ft. auxiliary
craft which two young Dutchmen navigated to
Singapore and back to Brisbane.
At Point Cook, at 47, Group-Captain Roy
King, C.O. at R.A.A.F. headquarters and one
of Australia’s most dashing fliers in the last
war. His tally of German ’planes brought down
was 23, and for his leadership of the Fourth
Squadron in France he got the D.S.O. and the
D.F.C. He had served in Palestine with the
Camel Corps and the Light Horse. King was
with the Larkin people in civil aviation for a
time and then founded the petrol-pump manu-
facturing firm of Shipman and King. He had
held his last command for four months.
From an old friend:
Ex-Prim in ister Chris Watson’s first job in
Sydney was as groom in Lord Carrington’s
stables (now the Conservatorium of Music). He
arrived after the Dunedin printers’ strike in
1886 with many other comps, from Maoriland,
having served his time on the Oamaru “Mail.”
Writer gave him a “fratae” on the “Evening
Globe” when Traill, of Bulletin note, was
editor. Under Watson’s leadership Federal
Labor failed to carry out a promise he had
made to Alfred Deakin; that sickened him of
Labor politics. He married twice. He played
R.U. football and was a swimmer in his early
days; later golf, bridge and a trusteeship of the
Sydney Cricket Ground were spare-time occu-
pations.


SIX-20 POPULAR
BROWNIE
11/3
1
:
J
L®
i
SIX-16 BROWNIE
JUNIOR
19/3
SIX-20 FOLDING
BROWNIE
49/6
WmsMSM
:
i
.
rv-^
C3l
■
■_
m
5i5»
■
I
H
St"
mm
v
**
r
Load with
Kodak Film
These are the days when Australia cannot have too
many snapshots for it’s snapshots that keep the
distant ones closer. There is no other purchase that
costs so little yet gives so much. See the fine display
of British-made Gift and Holiday Kodaks at all prices.
Of all Kodak Dealers and
KODAK (A/asia) Pty. Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Pertn,
Hobart, Launceston, Toowoomba, Townsville,
Rockhampton, Cairns, Newcastle, Ballarat.


ABORIGINALITIES
B. A. Ker ’: “You know, I must have
a rotten memory for faces,” Joe confided
on his return from a trip to the city.
"I’ni walking down a street when a
ginger-headed bloke stops me and swears
“Well get through the old stuff much quicker this Way”
he knows me face real well—just can’t
place me, but didn’t I use to knock
around Wagga or Weemala—or was it
down Mildura way? ‘No,’ I says, ‘l’ve
never been more than 50 miles away from
U s g 2°u, , befo / e ’ and the u° nly led ’
headed bloke I can remember was a
feller named Bluey Birks. Thats it ! he
famlv yefls._ Mungoola! 1 m Bluey
slpk?;5 lpk ?; f .. I urtcrriijptccl Joe s story: You
dirint fall for that trick did you? Joe
S art o d ‘ t D °nt y°U it lfiin k he was ,Bluey
b€ U ask i Of course not. I
SCOff o ed - You didnt end him money, did
y ? U , ? , Joe rephed ’ ratker
shaken; I jobbed the poor coot for
pounding our cow before he left in 1928!
_ * , ,* _ . * *
Mat s Mate ; Touring Gippsland per
boot. Mat was hailed on the Maffra-
road by a dog-tired cocky who offered
him a job. Generally Mat shied away
frorn the milk-extracting profession, but
he thought a quid or two might speed his
travels, so he accepted the 30s. a week
and tucker, and was driven to the farm,
Work began at once and went on till
about 9 o’clock that night, when the
cocky showed Mat his room. We turn
out about four m the mornin , he said
and retired. But he was back in the
room half an hour later peering anxiously
at his new hand, who was flat on his
back and breathing in great, hurried
gulps, his chest pulsating like a frog s
throat. The alarmed agriculturist shook
Mat awake crying, Hey, wassa matter?
\ou crook ? ’ Mat sat up. “I’m all
right,” he said. “Then what was y’
breathin’ so hard an’ fast for?” “Well,”
came back Mat, “if I gotter be up again
at four me only chance is to sleep as
quick as I can t’ get enough, see?” Then
silence descended on that farm in the
lonely Gippsland hills.
* * * *
“P.P.”: We acquired a substitute cook
once (B. 26/11/’4l), and soon decided
to do our own cooking for a somewhat
similar reason. Everything was all right
while he was in the hut, but we took him
on a droving trip, and when he pulled
up the first night he opened the tucker-
box to get his pipe, matches and tobacco,
shaving instruments and a pair of socks.
* * * *
“Homfrey Beale”; If you’re a Motuan
(New Guinea) native it’s no use living a
good life and thinking to get away with
it in the hereafter unless you have a hole
in your ear. It doesn’t matter a bad coco-
nut whether you’ve been a bishop or a
bandit —if you haven’t had your ear
punched downstairs you go in the form of
a three-legged wallaby, where you are
pursued through eternity by hounds of
much swiftness and long teeth. If you’ve
had your ear drilled, even though you’ve
scoffed your wife’s mother, you go to
Raka, “the place of plenty.” On entering
Raka things are a bit awkward at first,
for you are placed on a sort of gridiron
and toasted over a slow fire to make you
light and ethereal, and then deprived of
your nose by having it bitten off by an
archangel. After that you settle down, and
according to the message shouted by the
dirava through the hollow bamboo teons
ago, “meet old friends, plant, fish, hunt
and never know hunger.” It doesn’t say
anything about thirst, but possibly there’d
be a pub somewhere,
* * * *
“old-timer”: The boss was a proud
man the morning the new thoroughbred
stallion arrived. A special box had been
built> stocks of special feed laid in and
t he stallion’s running yard done up with
bag buffers on the posts, new wires, all
the burrs cut and carted off and so ’ on<
A nd somewhere on the road from the
outstation old Jimmy, the recognised
horse judge of the district, was coming
in to survey the station’s new acquisi-
tion. The boss was like a kid going to
a birthday party: he was all nerves and
cuss words that morning, and took what
amounted to a procession into the town
to meet the train. “Wait till old Jimmy
sees him; wait till Jimmy sees him!” he
chortled, as we eased the equine aristo-
crat out of the horsebox and down the
ramp. He was certainly some horse, and
he knew it, stepping proudly and pranc-
ing and glaring at us common sheep-
nurses with a supercilious eye With
the proud boss leading him, we ambled
along the road for home and halfway
met old Jimmy. Jimmy pulled up and eyed
the wonder, what time the boss went into
a eulogy. Jimmy walked round the
animal, stood off him, ran a hand round
his points, then slowly got back on his
own nag, the boss skiting all the time,
At last Jimmy got a word in. “Didja
say he was imported?” “Too right ”
said the boss; “imported all the way
from England. Ain’t he a hummer,
Jimmy?;” Jimmy looked at the stallion
again. “You got it mixed,” he said
coldly; “he’s not imported—he’s de-
ported.” It was five and a half days
before anybody heard the boss speak
again.
* * * •
“Sailor Bill”: A yellow-eared (or
Lewin) honeyeater fell helpless at my
feet when I was walking in a N.Q. scrub,
It had more than 50 small green beans,
each like a miniature sausage, sticking
firmly to it. When I removed them the
bird was able to fly again. In the vicinity
were numbers of the “sausage” bean
plants.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Melbourne’s small fry are
mourning the death of Princess Alice,
who passed away peacefully at Wirths’
after a few weeks’ illness. She was
claimed to be the oldest Indian elephant
in captivity, having been born in 1789
in a northern province. She made her
first public appearance known to history
at an age when most actresses have long
been in retirement. She was attached to
Regent’s Park Zoo, and one of her dis-
Anguished passengers was King Edward
VII. She was well past the century when
she came to Australia in the train of an
English circus. Wirths’ acquired her
after she had fulfilled an engagement with
Wonderland City, Bondi. The first time
I met the Princess was at midnight at
the Elizabeth Street-Collins Street inter-
section in Melbourne. She had a white
headlight and a red tail-light, according
to the City Council regulations for pachy-
dermatous traffic, and she showed a better
appreciation of the traffic lights than
many Melbourne citizens. During her
service with the Greatest Show on Earth
she trundled hundreds of tons of equip-
ment along thousands of miles of Aus-
tralian highway, doing her stuff in the
ring twice daily, and was never known
to hold a stopwork meeting. She was
privately cremated by a Footscray boil-
ing-down works —the whole three tons
17cwt. of her.
* * * *
“Turoar”: The talk in the barber’s
saloon was about weight-lifting. Sam
Bullock, sitting in the corner, listened
with a dour expression while the gather-
ing severally and jointly attested to mag-
nificent feats of strength on the part of
known and unknown heroes. Then Sam
spoke. “Would you call half a ton a
good lift?” he asked. The assemblage
agreed it was a damned good lift, and
wanted to know who the superman was.
Sam spat bitterly. “Well, I don’t know
who he is,” he said, “but the swine lifted
half a ton of wood out of my backyard
the other night.”
* * ♦ *
“Sur Cingle”: For sheer cheek I hand
the thistle to the little rock wallaby of
the Flinders Ranges (S.A.). There used
to be thousands of them in the Myrtle
Springs Hills, from the Aroona water-
hole—lately in the news as a water-
supply for projected work on the Leigh’s
Creek brown coal —to the head station
where, in the ’29-’3O drought, they used
to share the morning bran mash with the
fowls. Waiting for kangaroos by moon-
light in the Old Myrtle gorge I saw
plenty of them. The water rose to the
surface of the gorge floor only at night,
and the big fellows, knowing the few
spots where fresh water was available
among the many salt springs, dug shallow
holes in the gravel. The wallabies
worked a regular racket. After a ’roo
had excavated sufficiently a wallaby
would appear. After it had indulged
in annoyance tactics a few of its cobbers
would come along and join in. In sheer
desperation the ’roo would charge and
chase one of the nuisances, upon which
the other wallabies would settle down
to drink, finally hopping off, leaving the
’roo to lap up what was left.
* * * *
“Dan Druff”: With my mother and
sister I was rowing along the Darling
from Bourke, and we were delighted with
the beauty of the massed pink breasts
of thousands of galahs as they sat at
the riverside to drink. They didn’t move
unless we rowed very close to the flock.
Then suddenly from the middle of a
big crowd came a welcoming and very
pleased, if rather hoarse, voice crying,
“Hullo, Mother! ” Evidently a cage
escapee had thought he found a resem-
blance to an old friend in my mother’s
white locks.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: As the weather warms
the semaphore crabs get busier on every
S.Q. mudflat exposed by the retreating
tide. Squatting near the entrance of
foot-deep burrows, periscope eyes always
alert for danger, the gentlemen of the
race lead an idyllic life of scraping tucker
into their faces with one big nipper and
beckoning to lady friends with the other.
When one has eaten enough he brings
both nippers into the come-hither line of
business, standing up on long legs and
working them at full stretch in quick
jerks. When a strolling damsel takes
notice —she, modest creature, wears small
dainty nippers and doesn’t demean them
by beckoning—she sidles across to the
swain, shares a spot of his mud dainties
and submits to his dalliance. Another
oomph-artist of the tidal flats is the
fiddler crab, who rubs one big red nipper
across the other as if he were playing a
’cello. More pugnacious than his sema-
phoring relative, he is always willing for
a spot of all-in scrapping if a rival should
attempt to short-circuit an approaching
pick-up. When tired of love and war he
retires just inside his burrow entrance,
blocks it with a claw and enjoys a nap.
* * * *
“Narrin”: The schoolteacher, new to
the Murray, had made the discovery that
tiger snakes favor dead trees, and he spent
most of his Saturdays happily paddling
a pram boat among the drowned gums
in a lagoon. One day, passing within a
few yards of an old shell of a tree, he
saw the usual inch or two of greenish-
yellow belly showing through an opening
in the outer layer of decaying wood.
Quietly he shipped oars, raised the shot-
gun, and let fly. In three seconds two
pieces of snake hit the water. Five
seconds later the chalky dived after them.
When he broke surface the cloud of bees
pouring from the shattered trunk de-
scended in righteous wrath. Only after
playing submarines for a quarter of a
mile did he shake ’em off. Yes, the kids
got a holiday out of it.
* * * «
“G. Roper”: That old bush axiom
(B. 5/11 /’4l) that a horse was worth a
fiver for every time he’d roll right over
when unsaddled must have originated in
W.A., which of all sections of this con-
tinent seems the most liberally supplied
with sand. With the bush-horse especially,
sand has a diabolical knack of getting into
the equine innards, and by the complex
structure of the said innards it has a hard
job to get out again. Thus, when a horse
rolls right over, the mere action of gravity
causes the dense pack of sand to fall out
of the deep bends of the intestines, from
which not even the most drastic purges
would move it, into higher parts where it
has a chance of being passed along. Out
in the back of beyond, where the party’s
safety depended on keeping all the nags
in decent trim, and every one of them was
more or less sanded through close crop-
ping of the scanty grass of the sand
plains, it was the custom for four of us
to get hold of the rolling horse and see
that he did go right over. More, we tried
to keep him on his back for an appreci-
able moment or two, just to make sure
that his internal sand cakes had a chance
to drop. The horse that doesn’t get down
and roll is headed for an early demise,
* * * *
“Splash”: You’ll hear it said in parts
of dry W.Q. that many six-year-old
children have never seen rain, and those
who assert it consider it no exaggeration.
But cold statistics give it the dash of cold
water. Actually, not one rainfall-report-
ing station in Queensland has had a
wholly rainless year. A couple of them
in the s.-w. area have each had an odd
year of less than an inch ; but there isn’t
one station in which a baby couldn’t
have been baptised on the yearly fall
caught in the gauge. Lowest for a year
that I know of was Davenport station,
on the Diamantina, During 1905 it had
five points, all of which fell on Dec. 5.
THE OLD BUSH TRAIN.
Her progress, shrill and crying,
Made kookaburras laugh;
Ihe soldier-birds came flying;
the magpies gave her chaff;
The whip-birds’ startled lashing
. R ;an S through the bush again,
When, down the rough track dashing,
hach wheel a steel disc flashing,
R a cn truck like thunder crashing,
Went the old bush train.
The dingoes in the distance
Would listen, standing still,
t° her sobbing pistons
Toil noisily uphill;
Aud when they saw her coming,
They ran with might and main
Away from hot wheels drumming
And shaking funnel humming
And all the mystic mumming
Of the old bush train.
’Tis long ago, I fear me,
Since she came puffing past. . .
Yet now she seemed just near me,
I heard her whistle’s blast,
And fat-topped funnel spraying
Red sparks that fell like rain . . .
Twas just_ two lyre-birds playing,
Their mimic powers displaying,
Till I could see the swaying
Of the old bush train.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“Hold it! Wait till I say paid for”
“Nagheer”; Bush history, too, repeats
itself. Pulling up at the Dingo Flat
Hostelry, I found its hostess in a condi-
tion of flustered annoyance. “Them
swindlin’ swaggies should be took up by
the pollis,” she announced wrathfully.
“Not half an hour ago one cheated me
out of a pint of beer, an’ even now I’m
not quite clear in me mind whether he
did or not. Come in sayin’ he felt crook
an’ wanted a stiff rum, so I poured out
a nobbier of me best O.P. He took a
sniff at it, gives a snort an’ sez it wouldn’t
settle on his stummick, an’ would I mind
if he had a pint of beer instead. So I
give him the pint, an’ when I was goin’
to put back the rum he swiped the
beer an’ makes for the door. ‘Here,
what about payin’ for it?’ I sings out.
‘Pay, be jiggered,’ says he. ‘Didn’t I
give yer the rum for the beer?’ ‘But you
didn’t pay for the rum,’ I says. ‘Well,
I didn’t have the rum, did I?’ says he,
sniggerin’. ‘What’re y’ roarin’ about?’
An’ before I could get me wits about
me to call Kate from the kitchen with
a broom off he goes grinnin’.” I gave
her what I could recall of W. T. Goodge’s
40-year-old verses chronicling The Guile
of Dad McGinness and his nefarious
change-ringing performances on Kanga-
roobie Riley’s spirituous and malt
liquors, but it brought no consolation.
* * * *
“Frosty”: Shiver me timbers if I don’t
think that “Cap’n Niloc Einnif” (B.
12/11 / ’4l) must have done his seafaring
on a scow in Darling Harbor. Belay
there. Mister, and blow down the voice-
pipe to any first-voyager. He’ll bet you
that a chain-messenger is run from the
capstan or windlass to the pump.
Skipper, your ration of Nelson’s blood is
hereby reduced.
* * * *
“Taylor Ville”; The newest lessee of
our Murray reach came from the city.
He made camp on the outside bank of
the big Broken Cliffs bend, and at once
staked out three drum nets, wings open-
ing down river, in the shoal water in
front of his tent. There was a gentle
current running, and the river was slightly
murky—ideal conditions for the drums.
About a week later Gallop McGuire
drifted down in his flat boat, loaded to
the gun’ls with camp gear, rabbit traps
and dogs. Making camp at the bend, he
soon got acquainted with the fisherman.
“Gettin’ any?” he asked. “Not a flamin’
thing in the blasted nets all this week,”
exploded the disgusted cod-yarder. Gal-
lop squinted down the bank at the drum
stakes. “Wouldn’t it be a better idea if
y’ turned y’ nets round the other way?”
he asked mildly. “Well, y’ see,” the new-
chum condescended, “they’re s’posed to
open downstream so’s the fish swimmin’
up’ll blunder in.” “Yair,” said Gallop,
“that’s right. But y’ see you’re in a
flamin’ backwater.”
« # * *
“Ngaire”: “A nice lot of pigs you’ve
got there, Hori,” said Bill the dealer.
“Yes, py korri, it’s time I sell him, too ;
the wahine he want a fur coat,” grinned
Hori, the district’s only progressive native
farmer. Bill went forward for a closer
look at the sleek mob of Berkshires
adorning the fattening pen. “But what
have you done with their tails?” he
asked. “Oh,” laughed Hori, “I cut him
off —t’at my earmark, eh?”
* * * *
“Arev”: Bill Jupp was busy at the
separator when the well-dressed stranger
appeared. “Good morning,” he said,
“I’m the new inspector.” Bill wiped the
back of his hand across his perspiring
brow. “Aw, good day,” he said. “You’ll
find everything all right here. Just have
a look around, inspector. See, this sepa-
rator’s as clean as a new pin. The cans
are kept spotless and you could eat off
the floor. And there’s not a cleaner
milking shed in the whole of Bungaroop.
If the kids finish their milking and their
part of the shed isn’t clean, I make ’em
go back and tidy up, even if they miss
school. That teaches ’em. They don’t
like being kept home.” The caller
nodded. “But isn’t there trouble when
they stay away from school?” Bill
winked. “I get the wife to write a note
saying they were crook or something.
The farm comes before the school, and
you can’t say there’s anything wrong
with the dairying.” The visitor nodded
again, then became brisk. “Well, the
dairying is all that you say. Clean uten-
sils, clean dairy, clean milking shed. But
that’s the dairy inspector’s business.” Bill
stared. “But aren’t you him?” The
other shook his head. “No ; I’m the
truant inspector. Good day, Mr. Jupp.
You’ll be hearing from the department.”
* * * *
“Dim”: It was a terrifically hot day
on the tobacco farm out from Mareeba
(N.Q.). As the agent for the fertiliser
firm drove from the bush track which
served as a road he was somewhat taken
aback to come on the young owner
ploughing, clad only in waistcoat and
boots. Laughing, the agent pointed to
the garment. “Why bother about the
waistcoat?” he said. “Gripes,” replied
the ploughman, “a bloke’s got to have
somewhere to keep his tobacco and
matches, hasn’t he?”
* * * *
“Cubberlie”: The camels I used to
know on the Great Australian Bight were
fond of mulga, as “Edjudina” says (B.
12/11/’41); but I never knew them to
touch quandong when there was sandal-
wood to be had. And there usually is san-
dalwood in mulga and quandong country.
* * * *
“N. Sylvester”: Throw-nets don’t seem
to be used much off Australian beaches ;
in hundreds of miles of roving I have
only struck one, and that was within 50
miles of Fremantle. The day was hot;
pilchard, whiting and good-sized mullet
were swimming lazily in the beach shal-
lows in scores of schools. The fisher-
man was a southern European, his net
a parachute sort of an affair about 16ft.
across, the rim well weighted with lead.
To the centre was attached a long length
of snapper line. Laying the net out care-
fully on the sand so as to be sure of no
tangles, he picked it up by the centre
and, after a few twirls in the style of
throwing a lariat, let go. Out it flew,
spreading like a parachute, then dropped
flat on the water. The leads took it down,
fish diving to escape were meshed, catch-
ing behind the gills ; and so, by means of
the cord, net and catch were brought
ashore. Working along a well-stocked
beach the operator was able to fill a big
basket in no time. But amateur attempts
to cast met with failure. Like throwing
the lariat, there was a knack in it, the
tyro being unable to get the net to
spread. With a fine mesh garfish can be
taken this way in hundreds, since the gar
on hot days has a particular habit of
cruising around with his beak just break-
ing the surface. Although usually re-
garded as a Mediterranean fishing device,
the throw-net is also favored by the Nip-
ponese. The Jap in Australia, however,
seems to prefer the seine net,
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: It was getting on in the
afternoon, and the bloke cutting burrs
in the paddock next to me had worked
down close to the fence, so I called out
to ask the time. He took a squint at
the sun, then at the surrounding country
and answered, “Well, it’s after five, but
it ain’t six.” “No?” I inquired. “No ;
I always knock off at six, an’ I ain't
knockin’ off just yet.”
* * * *
“Gryllus”: I dislike spreading scandal,
but circumstances suggest a moral lapse
on the part of the male member of the
magpie household which has owned this
neighborhood for some years past. Two
infants were in the nest when I took a
look while Father and Mother had been
lured away together by their passionate
addiction to cheese-rinds. Three weeks
later they escorted those two infants to
the daily banquet outside the kitchen
window and stoked the squalling nuis-
ances with all the self-sacrificing parent-
craft of their kind. Then—here entered
suspicion—an evidently older third
youngster appeared one day, obviously
disliked by Mother, even to the extent of
knocking it about and driving it away,
but assiduously fed and tended by Father.
He beats off the legitimate offspring if
they attack it together, screams at them
to “shurrup,” and has even been seen
to make a pass at Mother when she tried
to snatch a beakful intended for the in-
truder. I would prefer to think that it
is some orphaned young relative whom
he has adopted from sheer goodness of
heart, but Mother’s wholly disapproving
and self-righteous attitude has some
deeper cause than mere objection to bur-
dening the household with another
mouth. But I rejoice to see that, even
if he has stepped aside from the path of
marital morality, he is doing his best
to atone. No more can be expected
from any erring parent.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Cockies’ methods of
christening their stock are a study. There
is the matter-of-fact fellow ; his horses
are invariably Baldy, Nigger, Taffy,
Ginger, Dapple, etc., according to the
animal’s visible characteristics. Then
there is the conservative school whose
disciples cling to the traditional equine
handles such as Punch, Nugget, Major
and Prince, while cows are the stereo-
typed Daisy, Beauty, Peggy and so on.
The facetious type crops up occasionally.
Hence the draught Phar Lap or the jet-
back Snowball.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Around the W.A. coast
from Capricorn to the Bight one comes
across the silver eel, a fellow not much
more than a couple of feet long at its
largest, but a dynamo when hooked, and
guaranteed to tie a fishing line into more
knots than any other denizen of the sea.
Even when cut to segments, often neces-
sary in order to save a valuable gut line
and get on with the job of fishing, it will
still squirm. When taken in a dip net
though, it soon dies on exposure to the
air. Is without scales, but is not at all eelish
when cooked —rather favors the whiting
and similar delicate fish. Then there’s the
huge reef eel, once the terror of skin
divers. Ten to 12 feet long and as thick
through as the calf of a man’s leg, with
a huge maw and teeth capable of biting all
the flesh off a man’s biceps in one snap,
it is savage only when disturbed, which is
mostly when a suit diver goes poking
around the piles of a deep-water jetty
or an old wreck. But in the old days,
when the diving boys were urged to rake
around the off-shore reefs in search of
pearlshell, many fatalities credited to the
shark were really due to the eel. It will
take a hook baited with a big mullet and
then put up a fight like that of the
original sea serpent. A bit dry when
fried, but provides the ideal shaped cutlet.
“Never mind , dear. If I can afford it We'll go to the mountains next year.
THE FINDING.
Old McGinty was dead, drowned deep in the
river
That flowed ’twixt the pub and the town;
For his body was found in the backwash at
■ dawn
Where the water was oily and brown.
So the Coroner sat and the witnesses came —
All who’d last seen McGinty alive—
They told of the drinks he’d taken that night
Ere he plunged to his last one-way dive.
Then the Coroner studied a sketch of the place
And went down to the bridge painted white;
Then returned to the court and his finding he
gave
On the tragic event of the night.
“A life has been wasted,” he said, low and
grave.
His emotion he scarcely could hide,
“And I hereby suggest, to avoid further loss,
That the pub be moved over this side.”
N.S.W.
OLD-TIHER.


Devoted to a
Single Purpose
F
OR more than 63 years The Trustees Executors & Agency
Company Ltd., whose foundation marked the inception of
corporate trusteeship in Australia, has devoted itself to
one single purpose the care and management of the
property of its clients.
Throughout the period of its operation, it has provided the
impartial advice and assistance of a permanent corporation as
Executor, Trustee, Attorney, Agent and in other capacities of a
fiduciary nature.
The appointment of the Company as Executor or Co-Executor
of your Will ensures continuity in the execution of the trust.
Service is prompt, sympathetic and efficient. Ample security is
provided and fees are fixed and moderate. Consult your
Solicitor or write or call for further information.
03
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
>omf
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST.. SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £958,760.
BOARD OP DIRECTORS;
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ; D. Stuart Murray; John Fordyce:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S*. Cohnan.O.B.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS':
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ; W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager; W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes,
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
d
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Amalgamated Wireless
Nominal
June, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. s«vet serves,
1927.. 39,036 Nil 13,88625,150 21,^94
i ( ,^ tab^ h r lent account disclosed, £49,795 28,501
„°V,, 70 * 7 22 6 p.c. = 43,96123,297 3,464 25,037
■ o£. establishment exes., £717 .. 24,320
19 w •:* 108,3 1 6 8 P-C-= 59,543 28.73120,052 4,268
written off establishment exes., £H .. 4,257
„ To Re- Nominal
, oon o/cnt. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
toot ’ 8 t’ 283 8 P-c. = 59,543 24,740 20,483
IQO, •* 22’, 1 ? 8 2, » ” 44 - 657 14,539' 35,022
” ” 55 > 821 21,338 56,360
- 1933 ’ ' tll’oo 2 8 ” ” 59 > 543 22,629 78,989
1934.. 137,934 10 „ „ 74,428 63,506 142,495
Staff fund. £5OOO 137 495
1935.. 119,824 10 p.c. = 74,428 1 „„ „
Staff fund, £15,000 . . f 30,396 167,891
11 p ' c -= 81,870 27,831 195,721
4937 • . 125,794 12 „ „ 89,313 36,481 232,202
4938 " 130 ’ 198 12 „ „ 89,525 40,673 272,875
1959. . 132,578 10 ~ ~ 89,035 43,543 316,418
From suspense account, £22,800 .. 339,218
22!?" 202’o 79 10 p ' c - = 90 > 511 1 9 , 9 68 359,186
1941.. 133,089 10 „ „ 90,511 42,578 401,764
The importance of speed in war today
makes efficient wireless and radio com-
munication essential to success of in-
numerable operations, extending from
the forward areas of the battlefield back
to and including the base or home coun-
try from which the force in the field is
replenished in every respect.
Because of this and other things, Aus-
tralia has reason to be proud of the
achievements of A.W.A., whose commu-
nication, manufacturing, technical and
scientific services have enabled it to make
important contributions to our war effort
in several fields. Not more than 20 p.c.
of the works’ output is now sold
for civil use. All commercial aircraft
operating over Australian air routes are
fitted with A.W.A. radio installations,
and so are the ’planes of the Dutch line,
flying between Australia and Batavia.
The co.’s laboratory and engineering
staffs are engaged almost entirely on
experimental and development work in
connection with the national war effort.
The Beam service—opened in 1927
which cheapened and quickened commu-
nication between Australia and the rest
of the world, handled 26 million paid
words last term. This exceeded the
highest pre-war total of all Australian
international traffic handled by wire-
less and cable services combined,
The Beam picturegram service,
which enables pictures of happenings in
Britain and elsewhere to be published
here within a few hours of their occur-
rence, has been further improved and
continues to do well.
Though public wireless communication
with ships at sea and use of the radio-
telephone to London and elsewhere
ceased at the outbreak of war, radio-
telephone connection was recently set up
with the Philippines, and the co.’s coastal
stations are continually on the job. Also
A.W.A.’s good Australian-made equip-
ment continues to be installed in ships all
over the world, and its Marconi Wireless
School is still turning out operators for
the R.A.A.F. and other fighting services.
Though manufacture for ordinary com-
mercial purposes is on a reduced scale,
broadcasting and wireless transmission
and receiving sets and paging, announc-
ing and entertainment systems and hos-
pital equipment are still being turned out.
The broadcasting station, 2CH, is receiv-
ing increased support, but it is doubtful
whether it yet contributes anything worth
mentioning to the pool.
After allowing an extra £24,121 for
depreciation (£104,033) and making a
bigger but unspecified provision for taxa-
tion, the net result of the year’s trading
was £22,610 better at 14.7 p.c. on capital,
compared with 12.2, 14.9, 17.4, 16.9, 14.7,
16.1 and 18.5 p.c. back to 1934. The
div. was kept at 10 p.c., and the £42,578
that remained lifted reserves to £401,764,
subject to patents of £85,811.
Balance-sheet figures further reflect in-
creased activities:
1933. 1936. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £744,283 £744,283 £905,106 £905,106
Sundry creditors 259,143 240,287 412,277 654,886
Freeholds .. 297,677 377,243 609,389 632,718
Plant, etc, ) 563 040! 570,159 609,794
Stocks f 395,253 379 369 540)15 . 6
Beam service 159,647 171,495 179,718 182,328
Book debts .. 139,636 259,058 317,164 424,728
Cash, etc. . . 282,080 137,362 150,036 186,362
Patents .. 93,000 93,000 85,811 85,811
To add £23,329 to the book value of free-
holds, mainly on account of the factories,
carry an extra £160,827 of stocks, in-
crease debtors’ balances by £107,564 and
cash, etc., by £36,326, the board went
outside for a further £242,609. The im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£432,456, excluding shares) was
£62,058.
The market, which likes the co.’s post-
war prospects, prices the f.-p. pound
shares at 575. as against 50s. a year ago,
despite rapidly-mounting taxation. The
return at 575. is 3.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The net tangible cover is
visibly 265. lid.
J. Fielding and Co. (Sydney)
To
Net Re— Re—
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £
1931.. 16,180 10 p.c. = 14,950 1,230 105,191
1932.. 39,684 15 „ „ 22,600 17,084 122,275
1933.. 32,496 15 „ „ 27,000 5,496 127,771
1934.. 46,153 15 „ ~ 27,000 19,153 146,924
Reserves capitalised, £lB,OOO .. 128,924
1935.. 49,425 15 p.c. = 30,000 19,425 148,349
1936.. 48,269 15 „ „ 30,000 18,269 166,618
Reserves disappear, £lOOO .. .. 165,618
1937.. 52,980 18f p.c. = 37,968 15,012 180,630
Assets revalued, £75,000 .. .. 255,630
Reserves capitalised, £29,214 .. 226,416
1938.. 54,701 15 p.c. = 35,057 19,644 246,060
1939.. 56,136 15 ~ „ 35,222 20,914 266,974
1940.. 69,527 15 „ „ 35,387 24,140 291,114
1941.. 63,375 20 „ „ 47,182 16,193 307,307
For cardboard boxes, cartons, corrugated-
fibre containers, etc., few can touch Field-
ings in the matter of either efficiency or
quality. This acorn that has grown into
an oak had its beginnings in 1905 just
below the “Wild Cat’s” present home in
George-street, Sydney. Headquarters are
now housed in an island block in
Chalmers-street, while an associate caters
for the Melbourne trade.
It was the war of 1914-18 that over-
came prejudice against paper containers
and gave the co. its big chance, and pres-
ent conservation of tinplate and timber
has created further opportunities in food-
packing and other directions which may
prove better than evanescent. Plant, writ-
ten down to an insignificant figure, is
kept abreast of every modern develop-
ment out of earnings ; hence, in a large
measure, past prosperity and present
muscle. Though depreciation chipped
off last term was cut from £23,636 to
£15,955, it was equal to 64 p.c, of the
book value of plant at the end of Sep-
tember and 9.8 p.c. of plant and free-
holds combined.
Last year’s larger profit was the out-
come of harder work, both on Govern-
ment and ordinary trade account, and
the only limit to present production
appears the capacity of the plant and
availability of raw materials. These come
mostly from the local mills, at present
faced with the problem of obtaining waste
products. On the £235,913 of capital,
over half of which has come from re-
serves, the £63,375 (up £3848) runs out at
26.8 p.c., compared with admitted earn-
ings of 25.2, 23.9 and 23.4 p.c. for the
three years before. Shareholders par-
ticipated in the better showing to the ex-
tent of a shilling bonus, paid from invest-
ment revenue and making 20 p.c. for the
year.
These figures provide further indication
of the investment merits of the scrip:
1930. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital £149,500 £236,913 £235,913 £235,913
Creditors ~ 17,531 53,648* 82,045* 115,320*
Freeholds .. 42,046 153,639 136,830 137,782
Plant, etc. .. 33,600 25,532 25,205 24,900
Stocks .. 26,434 33,675 43,087 40,028
Book debts, cash
and investm’ts 186,119 352,635 412,796 476,473
* Including provision for taxation.
Expansion of £63,677 in the omnibus
item debtors, cash and investments sug-
gests that the lift of £33,275 in the debt
was due to taxation included therein,
which “it is hoped will prove sufficient.”
Apart from manufacturing premises, free-
holds comprise a string of well-let Syd-
ney properties which have been further
written down on the depression prices at
which they were acquired.
With the last not heard from the tax-
gatherer and outgoings in other ways ab-
sorbing more of takings, 775. is now being
offered for the shares, against 85s. 9d. a
year ago. Still, there was a handy mar-
gin between last term’s earnings and dis-
tribution, and if the bonus continues the
yield will be 5.2 p.c. Other benefits
appear a matter only of time. The back-
ing is visibly 465. in net tangibles; a
shaking-out of internal provisions would
probably set-off most of the market
valuation of goodwill.
Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends ~
Pref. To Re-
Sept., Profit. 64 p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves.
£/ £, £,£>£>
1931. .147,934 8125 9 p.c.= 98,316 41,493 127,226
Added goodwill, £52,000 .. .. 75,226
1932..191,105 8125 10 p.c.=110,000 72,980 148,206
1933. .182,118 8125 10 ~,,110,000 63,993 212,199
1934. .186,748 8125 10 ~,,110,000 68,623 280,822
Deficit.
Depreciation reserve deducted from
plant in balance sheet, £366,139.. 85,317
1935. .209,707 8125 10 p.c.=110,000 ), n
Written off. £41,031.. ..J 50 ’ 551 34,766
Reserves.
1936. .226,529 8125 12 p.c.=132,000 7 OQ , ’
Written off, £41,113.. . . | iu,525
"""SSC TtllSi
1938. .295,770 8125 14 p.c.=154,000 \ Q Q 178
Written off, £43,682.. .. j 8y * ybd 178,489
1939. .280,984 8125 14 p.c.=154,000 7 7 , sn , OQ ,
Written off, £47,055 _ f 71,804 260,293
, — I—Pref. 1 —Pref.
64 (p.e. 6 p.c. Ordinary.
1940. .250,940 8125 1031 14 p.c.=164,000 1 ... ...
Written off, £44,476 j 29d,blU
1941. .219,249 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 ) ... ...
Written off, £43,945 j jyo > 28y
A year of 35 p.c. newsprint rationing
left Australia’s largest newspaper organ-
isation with revenues apparently more
buoyant than ever. The adverse profit
movement was due entirely to the inroads
of the Treasury, for which £150,617 (up
£108,869) was set aside, including £10,617
underprovided in respect of the previous
term. And the board says the amount is
no more than likely to be asked for
under the Chifley Budget.
The co. puts out a half-score or so
publications in its home city, chief being
the “Herald,” evening broadsheet with an
unchallenged field, and the “Sun,” a
morning paper boasting the largest daily
circulation in the Commonwealth. Broad-
casting interests are another front-line
avenue of income in these times of re-
stricted newsprint, and associations exist
with the “Courier-Mail” (Brisbane) and
“Advertiser” and “News” cos. of Adel-
aide. Also, the co. is a prime mover in
the newsprint venture on the Derwent
(Tas.), now through teething problems,
but which expansion promises to keep a
capital-seeker rather than a div.-payer
for a considerable time yet.
Following the outbreak of war, news-
gathering, paper and publishing costs
rocketed alarmingly, and payments to
employees who have enlisted have tacked
another £25,000 a year on to outgoings.
But smaller papers brought economies of
production, and advertising rates were
adjusted. Since July last the paper ration
has been further cut to 40 p.c. of pre-
war consumption; however, the Mel-
bourne man now has to pay 2d. instead
of l£d. for his paper, and that aggregates
no niggardly sum on “Herald” and
“Sun” circulations.
After striking off £43,945 for deprecia-
tion, the board last term admitted
£175,304 (down £31,169) of profit from
all sources, or enough to satisfy the prefs.
and then show 13.9 p.c. on £1,100,000 of
ord. capital. Depreciation allowances,
however, have long been in excess of
normal requirements for the purpose, and
are therefore included with profits in the
first table and then written off. On that
reckoning, there was sufficient to hand
the ords. 17.7 p.c., compared with 24.8,
26.1 and 22 p.c. for the three years be-
fore, and the div. was kept at 14 p.c.
Financially, the co. presents a solid
front:
1931. 1936. 1940. 1941.
Stock.. £104,679 £150,729 £416,322 £326,911
Debtors,
etc. .. 89,116 214,911 189,316 175,891
Shares in
other cos. 478,316 337,840 726,985 890,868
Cash, etc. 92,172 39,556 16,933 132,179
Liquids £764,282 £743,036 £1,349,566 £1,525,849
Liabilities 103,657 138,496 115,540 162,646
Surplus £660,625 £604,540 £1,234,016 £1,363,203
Freeholds,
etc. . . 331,711 421,364 465,456 468,958
Machinery
and plant 445,513 320,721 238,052 198,439
Net
assets £1,437,849' £1,346,625 £1,937,524 £2,030,600
Movements in last year’s figures were
mainly connected with the investment of


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated ny
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
GUMMMHTTEED
By THE
government of new south wales
AND
NOW OPEN
#
SYDNEY METBOFOLITAN WATER SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE ROARD
£900,000 LOAN
A GILT-EDGED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT
INTEREST PAYABLE HALF YEARLY FREE OF
EXCHANGE.
SECURITY READILY MARKETABLE AT ALL TIMES.
SUBSCRIPTIONS PAYABLE BY INSTALMENTS
IF DESIRED.
Debentures or Inscribed Stock. Minimum Subscription
£5O, Interest accrues immediately from date of
payment to the Bank.
£3 3
PER CENT
PRICE OF ISSUE! PAR
CURRENCY: 14 YEARS
Loan Underwritten by J. B. Were & Son, Melbourne and Sydney.
APPLY WITHOUT DELAY TO
Any Office of the
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
or
The Head Office of ihe
SYDNEY METROPOLITAN WATER SEWERAGE & DRAINAGE BOARD
or
MEMBERS OF RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGES
£70,000 in War Loan and a further
£163,883 in shareholdings, mainly in
respect of the paper venture —by work-
ing down stocks, all financed with addi-
tion of only £47,106 to the outside debt.
Past prosperity and the strength of
present ramifications prompt the market
to pay 51s. 6d. for the pound ords., which
buys an immediate yield of 5.4 p.c. and
suggests that, with taxation as it is, no
serious interference with the div. is looked
for. The 6i p.c. and 6 p.c. prefs. both
yield 4.6 p.c. at 28s. 6d, and 265. respect-
ively. Visible backing of the net tangible
cover is £l4 6s. sd. firsts, £6 Is. Id.
seconds and 255. 3d. ords.
Sunshine Gold Development, on the
Mandated Territory’s principal alluvial
field, met with little luck in the year to
September. Two floods had to be con-
tended with, interfering with production
in the main workings for three months,
and a landslide carried away portion of
the Baiune water-race. Moreover, the
period was one of overburden removal in
order to get at the values in the deeper
gravels, from which the market is look-
ing for benefits in the current term —ironi-
cally, droughty so far. In all, overburden
accounted for a third of the 350,000 c.y,
sluiced last year, and diminution in the
gold yield from 69600 z. to 29330 z. sent
net earnings tumbling from £33,661 to
£6292. The shilling div, (against Is. 6d.)
took £3708 more than the profit claimed.
From net cash resources of £8382 at
Sept. 30, another 6d, has meantime gone
out.
* * * *
An opinion by J. P. Kenny 18 months
back that the A 1 Consolidated, at Gaff-
ney’s Creek (Vic.), should continue re-
munerative, but was unlikely to produce
the high averages of the now-exhausted
No. 11 main and intermediate levels at
greater depth appears to be bearing out.
An expressed hope at the same time that
the South A 1 dyke offered a favorable
field of development hasn’t been realised.
This and the impoverished zone encoun-
tered on No. 12 horizon were disappoint-
ing features of last year’s development.
But the gold has been shown to live to
the No. 13 floor, and, though values
aren’t so good, a lot more work remains
to be done to determine the prospects.
As labor permits, the hoist shaft will be
put down another sink of 120 ft. in ground
practically untouched by the old co.
Since the end of August the average of
recoveries (excluding concentrates) has
been 10.6dwt., against 12.6dwt. for the
year previous and over an ounce for the
12 months before that. So last year’s
55.-a-share div. is in doubt, despite two
shilling distributions since the close of
accounts.
* * * *
From S. R. Hosking, of Q.S. Mines,
N.L. (Adelaide):
One reads “Hg” (B. 19/11 / ’4l) with mixed
feelings—pleasure that someone outside ttiei
battling few, and chagrin that circumstance in
Australia is such that those people are few,
can realise that mercury production in Aus-
tralia is of strategic value.
The query “What is wrong?” can be
answered very simply— want of capital. That
query should have been “Why the want of
capital?” The answer is that mercury mining
as an investment is not understood in Aus-
tralia, especially because of the inability of the
company to submit a report from an experi-
enced mercury mining engineer, since that man
does not exist here. The next obvious course
was taken —an application for the interest of
the national Government —and here are the re-
sults: —
October, 1939. —The Government could
not be interested —even in contracting for
the purchase—because it was calculated that
Spain was anxious to send her mercury here.
February, 1940.—Consent under Capital
Issues Regulations was refused to a proposi-
tion arranging for an experienced mercury
mining engineer to be brought to Australia
for reporting and advising.
June, 1940. —Notice to make a proposition
under National Security Regulations cover-
ing “necessary expenses” under which the
Munitions Department could act —not pro-
ceeded with because an inspection was de-
sired. The report on that inspection was not
calculated to assist in getting mining interests
to co-operate, although from scraps of the
report given the company it was estimated
that every ton of earth removed bad averaged
5.751 b. of mercury.
April, 1941. —Circular was issued by import-
ing interests advising of the readiness of the
Supply Department to finance importation of
mercury.
Is it hard, therefore, to understand why capital
is not readily available?
* * * *
Development at First Hit, Menzies
(W.A.), has disappointed, and, though
there are “many favorable indications”
in the present leases, the board is adopt-
ing a “realistic attitude” and keeping its
eye peeled for another suitable interest.
Pennyweight drop in recoveries (13.3dwt.)
and lift from 695. lOd. to 735. lid. a
ton in all costs except taxation reduced
the surplus available for dividends from
£22,377 to £16,512 in the year to October,
but the handout was kept at Is. a share
(£18,643). With estimated payable posi-
tive and probable ore down to 12,280
tons (22,775 a year ago), the future of
distributions is uncertain. So far share-
holders have had back £69,911, and could
see £17,350 in the till at October 31, sub-
ject to taxation. Success to date has been
the result of a bold development policy.
» * * *
Coolgardie Brilliant (W.A.), after early
unsuccessful ramblings at Coolgardie,
Yalgoo, Lennonville, Mt. Magnet and
Kingston, has taken enough out of the
Wiluna East property acquired a couple
of years back to announce a maiden
threepenny distribution on its 400,000
issued shares. On a throughput of 1000
tons or more a month, profits took a dip
in the early part of 1940, but the
recent surplus, including sands, has been
something better than a pound per ton
of ore milled. Co. recently took a gamble
on the Linden mine, plant and 20,000
tons of sands for £3500. Some critics
reckon that in paying out before acquir-
ing larger cash reserves the co. has be-
come too big for its golden boots. How-
ever, the directors argue that the
gambling stage has now been passed, and
there is sufficient backing in the shape of
ore reserves to give shareholders more
and more as time rolls on.
» • * *
Phoenix Mines broadcasts that in the
seven months to October 31 Central
Norseman (W.A.) cleared off £145,500 of
the advances made it by Gold Explora-
tion and Finance for initial development
purposes and that the liability should be
completely wiped out before next March,
thus paving the way at last for divs. on
its £75,000 (19 p.c.) share interest. The
substantial earnings of Central Norseman
over the past two years have gone mainly
back into the mine, where there was
350,000 tons of 7dwt. ore in sight at the
end of March.
* * * *
Mt. Charlotte, Kalgoorlie, on
which Wiluna has taken an option, has
been talked about a good deal since 1935,
when the rising price of gold drew
attention to prospects. Hannan’s Hill, a
local concern, gave an option to Mt.
Charlotte, a London co., which did some
boring and then gave an option on its
option to Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie,
which also bored and then pulled out.
Later Mt. Charlotte and Hannan’s Hill
became involved in litigation over the
option. The Privy Council decided that
the property should go to Mt. Char-
lotte.
* * * *
Liquid resources of South Kalgurli
(W.A.), apart from stores £16,566, remain
equal to about half the present market
for the scrip. They include investments
(market value, £74,939) £69,106 stg., cash
£14,761 and bullion unrealised £5572.
Discoveries of new makes of ore at the
1500 ft., 1600 ft. and 1700 ft. levels in the
South Kalgurli and Hainault blocks last
year gave the mine badly-needed sup-
plies of high-grade stuff. They also
enabled the management to report for
the first time for years an increase both
in tonnage and grade of ore reserves.
* * * *
Central Gold Mines (W.A.) for the
year to June 30 earned only £517 after
deducting £lBB6 for income tax. Co. has
a quarter-interest in the Cox’s Find mine
at Erlistoun, beyond Laverton. As future
prospects look hopeless, salvaging has
begun. It is expected to take six months,
during which certain diamond-drilling
will be undertaken in the vicinity. The
show, which sparkled at first, has been
sick for some time owing to flattening
of the ore-body and erratic behavior at
depth. Current assets of C.G. figure at
£8709, against which stands a tax liability
of £lBB4.
* * * *
From London:
The Treasury’s blunt refusal of consent to the
exchange of the goldmining holdings of six
De Bernales .London cos. for shares in three
of his Westralian concerns didn’t surprise
Throgmorton-street. At meetings of four of
the London cos. the exchange proposals were
passed without question or comment, except
that at one gathering someone muttered a few
words and handed the chairman a writ. Be-
fore being put to the vote and carried at the
two other meetings (Commonwealth Mining
and Gt. Boulder Finance), there was some dis-
cussion, mainly on the clause indemnifying the
directors in respect of the costs of any actions
brought against the cos. or the directors. The
chairman pointed out that the articles of
association contained the usual indemnity
clause to be found in the articles of most
British public cos. —that no indemnity could be
given to directors beyond that which the law
allowed them. An amendment moved at the
Commonwealth meeting that the clause indemni-
fying the directors should be excluded, and an-
other at the Gt. Boulder Finance roll-up that
directors be protected only so far as they are
entitled to indemnity under the existing articles,
were defeated by a large majority on a show of
hands. As directors held proxies for an over-
whelming number of shares, demands for polls
were not proceeded with.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
THE INVASION MADNESS.
[Condensed from New York “Times,” this de-
ounking of the suggestions made by H. G. Wells and
scores of famous fireside fusiliers that Britain should
aunch an invasion on the Continent was written by
. ,, h ° mas » described as follows by the N.Y.
imes : “The writer of the following is a well-
'nown military historian and analyst. He was attached
to General Headquarters in France during the 1914-18
wa *. an T*’ after the Armistice, was assigned to duty
a the Peace Conference. He has conducted courses in
military history at Columbia University, and has con-
tributed numerous articles on military subjects to
penouicals.”]
In both America and Britain admiration for the
spirit of Russian resistance led consistently to over-
optimistic interpretations of the course of the cam-
paign. The sharp disillusionment that followed is
partly responsible for the action of a large labor union
organisation in making a formal demand on Mr.
Churchill for “opening up a Western front as quickly
as possible,”
The outcry for a counter-offensive to relieve the
pressure on Russia springs from a generous impulse,
but it rests also on mistaken assumptions due to these
optimistic misconceptions earlier in the campaign.
H. G. Wells, in an article in the “Times,” brushed
aside the much-talked-of invasion of Britain” and
called for preparing a whole series of British counter-
offensives, ready to strike “at the neck of Denmark
or Brest or Bordeaux or Trondhjem or Murmansk or
Morocco or Spain.”
All this rested on an utterly fanciful notion of the
balance of forces in the West. Mr. Wells affirmed
confidently that the trained man-power of Germany
was becoming exhausted. “The pincers are closing in
on her.” “She will, I guess, try to dig in on the Rus-
sian front. Will the Russians let her?”
This buoyant vision should have been dis-
solved by the offensive which advanced to
the gates of Moscow —but it still persists.
Actually, there has been no opportunity
for a British counter-offensive: from the
very first this idea was a sheer illusion.
Hitler’s turning against Russia did not draw
off the German forces stationed to guard
the front against England. According to
British estimates these amount to more than
25 divisions ; and as a large number of new
divisions were formed in preparation for the
Russian campaign, Germany could evidently
gather an effective superiority of forces in the
East, and yet leave enough in the West to
face Britain on fairly equal terms.
It is doubtful if there are 25 fully-
equipped divisions in the British Isles. At
the outset of the war Britain undertook to
form between 30 and 35 divisions, excluding
those from the Dominions. Even if all these
are now armed and equipped, they have had
to provide the basis of the armies in Egypt
and Syria, and the forces newly stationed in
Iran, at Singapore and in other garrisons
overseas. The remainder have to provide
the combat forces guarding about a thousand
miles of coastline in the British Isles. It seems
clear that there is no surplus of troops in Britain for
experiments in invasion.
In the air, the British at first could carry out raids
over Germany by day, but German fighting ’planes of
the newest and fastest types soon appeared, and the
British had to return chiefly to night-bombing. Today,
according to British estimates, about half the newer
types of fighters are thus on guard in Germany. At
any rate, the strength of the German combat ’planes
actually encountered by British bombing raids is
enough to deal promptly with any impromptu inva-
sion of the Continent.
Norway and Crete demonstrated the folly of
attempting to move troop transports into an area
swarming with enemy ’planes. This rules out any
idea of landing on a coast out of easy reach of British
fighting ’planes—that is, Norway, Brest, Bordeaux and
others of Mr. Wells’s “30 or 40 possible weak points.”
As things stand now there are no “weak points”
along the coasts of Western Europe. The German
divisions on guard there may be widely scattered ; but
between trains and motor transport they could be
concentrated upon any given point faster than a sub-
stantial invading force could be landed. Their ’planes
could gather more rapidly still, and within 24 hours
additional squadrons would be en route from Russia.
In 1914, with the French co-operating, it took
about five days to land the five divisions of the B.E.F.
To attempt any real landing on a hostile coast, with
the present balance of forces in the air, would mean
the loss of the troops and material involved, and the
sinking of some hundreds of thousands of tons of
shipping. Only from America could the tonnage thus
sacrificed be made up, and a fiasco would inspire
little enthusiasm in America for turning over addi-
tional tonnage to the British. The “bridge of ships,”
the whole working apparatus of aid to Britain, could
be shattered at one stroke by an invasion adventure.
The present reinforcement of the Russian front
by first-class fighting ’planes and pilots is a more effec-
tive aid than any shadow-boxing display of a Con-
tinental invasion—a stunt which could be completely
ignored by the German armies in Russia.
The demand for a new Western front implies
also a singular illusion as to the stocks of arms and
equipment Britain now has available. Viscount Gort’s
dispatches have revealed the inadequate equipment of
his army in France in May, 1940. Yet, except for
what had been sent to Egypt, this represented all
Britain had produced up to the outbreak of the war,
plus the output during the next eight months. Even
so, it had not been possible to equip fully the new
divisions then under training in England. The muni-
tions for the army in France had also been shipped to
France, and large depots were gradually built up in
Normandy.
All this, except for a few ’planes, was lost in the
evacuation from Dunkirk. The stocks then on hand
in England did not suffice to rearm the divisions
rescued from Dunkirk. Nearly 1,000,000 rifles and
about 1000 75’s were turned over from the United
States. Until they arrived the country was more or
less defenceless.
After Dunkirk the British war industries had to
start practically from scratch. The defection of the
French armies in Syria and North Africa was almost
equivalent to a second Dunkirk ; the British Army in
Egypt had to be greatly increased, and an immense
new burden fell upon the war industries of Britain.
Since then they have had to replace the material lost
in France, to arm and equip the new divisions form-
ing in England and cope as best they could with
greater demands from the Near East.
During the next twelve months about 90 p.c. of
this vast rearmament had to be produced in Britain.
The orders placed in the U.S.A. in 1939 were on no
such scale; new orders following the Lease-Lend Act
could not come into production promptly; and no
plants in the United States are tooled up for the
—London “Daily Mail”
“I HAD A COMRADE”...,
production of many standard items of British equip-
ment, such as 25-pounders.
The shortage of tanks and ’planes which led to
the British defeat in Libya revealed the excessive
load thus placed upon British war industries. More
recently American tanks and ’planes have appeared
on the scene. But tanks badly needed for U.S. divi-
sions would never have been relinquished except to
meet a critical need; the fact that the U.S. Govern-
ment was willing to send them is a fair index of the
gap that remains between present needs and present
British production. The Chief of the U.S. Air Corps
recently pointed out that the Egyptian front “was
being completely refurnished with American aircraft
as rapidly as possible.”
The demand for “the immediate opening of a
Western Front” assumes that British arsenals now
have on hand the reserve stocks of guns and tanks
and material called for by such an undertaking. Far
from this being the case, British production, even
British and American production together, has not
been able to equip adequately the Near East, Singa-
pore and other sectors. The U.S. effort at sea is just
beginning, and will draw more and more heavily upon
present resources in tonnage and material.
An invasion of the Continent would mean a costly
and inexcusable military fiasco. In respect to ship-
ping and material it would mean, no less certainly,
cutting short the stream of supplies so critically needed
by Russia.
At sea and in the air the British can continue
their offensive, but operations on land must be on
the defensive for a long time to come. The turn to
the offensive will be made possible by the joint efforts
of British and American production. It will come
when an effective superiority of ’planes and tanks and
material can be brought into play in a given sector —
when Hitler’s antagonists can have control of the air
day by day.
As was the case in Libya, this will depend, not
on statistical totals of ’planes, old and new, but on
the production of superior types: long-range fighters,
fast bombers and a whole array of ’planes which will
outclass the present German types. To this goal
fortunately our own aircraft industries are directing
their efforts, and there is no reason to fear they will
not be successful.
Uncle Sam v. Nippon.
(Condensed from a November “American Mercury
article by James R. Young.)
General Eugen Ott, Hitler’s ambassador to Tokyo,
and 3000 Nazi military, cultural and economic agents
—hundreds of them working with diplomatic immu-
nity—are exerting pressure in every possible way to
force Japan into a war with the United States, against
which the Nazi emissaries have gathered the fanatical
young army officers and the militaristic youth move-
ment leaders into a united front of hate.
The Conservatives are fighting desperately to
neutralise this enormous Nazi pressure. Among them
are the powerful admirals —well-educated and widely-
travelled men who know that their navy will have
to bear the brunt of a struggle with the United States
and that it is no match for the U.S. Navy.
The industrial leaders and the realistic Elder
Statesmen also see inevitable disaster in entering the
war on the side of the Axis. Japan is not prepared to
withstand a major air attack, to survive an effective
blockade, to fight an economic war, or to manufac-
ture the armaments necessary for a long struggle with
a great Power.
Japan’s large cities are the most vulnerable in
the world to aerial bombardment. Incendiary bombs
could, within a few minutes, start one of the greatest
catastrophies in history.
It would be equally simple to bomb Japan’s indus-
trial centres out of production. The vital plants are
close together, most of them of light and inflammable
construction. Their power plants are large and vul-
nerable. Osaka is a city of four million with huge
cotton, rayon and chemical plants. Its power plant.
valued at close to a billion dollars, supplies
80 square miles of factories. One well-
executed raid against these objectives would
bring Osaka to a standstill. The same is
true of Nagoya, with its 70 acres of air-
plane and automobile factories, and of
Kobe, with the principal Japanese dock-
yards. Replacements for the Japanese Navy
and Air Force could be cut to a trickle by
successful air attacks on these cities.
Japan’s railways are extremely vulner-
able. Competent military men estimate
that the ’planes from two American aircraft-
carriers could cripple Japan’s rail trans-
portation system for months; Japan has
neither the roads nor the trucks to switch
to motor transport in any large degree. This
nation of 73 million has fewer motor
vehicles than the State of Mississippi.
Experience in Europe has shown that
the only really effective protection against
the bomber is the fighting ’plane. Of these
Japan has very few. The whole Japanese
’plane industry, employing about ten thou-
sand men and women —three thousand less,
incidentally, than are working in the Glenn
Martin plant in Baltimore pro-
ducing only 150 of its quota of 250 units a
month.
Most of Japan’s five thousand ’planes
are obsolete or obsolescent. Competent military
authorities are convinced that an air offensive operat-
ing from Siberian, British, Dutch and Philippine bases
would annihilate or ground the Japanese air forces
within a few weeks.
A blockade of the Japanese islands could be made
air- and water-tight. Every Japanese port is within
easy range of Russia, and the exits from the China
Sea would be under the bombs of American, Dutch
and British air patrols.
The combined heavy industries of Japan, Man-
churia and Occupied China are producing no more
than one-fifth of the volume being turned out by the
plants of Cleveland, Ohio, alone. Japanese technicians
have not been able to help in %his dilemma. They
have devoted themselves to the mass production of
articles of inferior quality, never to the designing of
the precision machinery which Japan has always im-
ported. Range-finders and other fire-control appa-
ratus for Japan’s Navy came from Vickers, ball-
bearings from Sweden. But now Vickers no longer
delivers, and Swedish works cannot deliver fine-quality
steel.
Neither police nor censors can prevent soldiers
returning from China telling their relatives and friends
the dreary truth about the war. And such tidings
spread rapidly. The Japanese like to talk, to debate
and to read. A great school system has raised the
nation to a high level of education: it is 95 p.c.
literate. People so educated are quick to recognise
failure. The military leaders promised them the sub-
jugation of China in five months. Five years have
gone by and the job is far from completed. Thou-
sands of small white boxes have brought home the
ashes of friends and relatives killed in battle.
Meanwhile, economic misery has reached a stage
that modern Japan has never known before. Thou-
sands in the pyrethrum business, tens of thousands
in the porcelain industry, thousands on camphor
plantations, a hundred thousand making Christmas-
tree ornaments and toys, stevedores on transpacific
docks, children and parents on tea plantations—all
are without work. There is no Brazilian, Egyptian,
Indian or American cotton for tens of thousands of
girls in the spinning mills. The silk industry, employ-
ing millions, is dying. That is only part of the
reckoning.
The military faction promised that Japan’s day
for expansion, for conquest and prosperity, had come
with the European war. The era of Anglo-Saxon


BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy,
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
(Incorporated in New Zealand),
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Mudford, Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
20 Investments in One!
Your purchase of FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES secures a “spread” of investment over 20
leading Australian Companies listed on the Stock Exchange.
You also obtain a yield, at present prices, of around 5 % per
annum, and your investment is safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees: Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Booklet No. 1 gives full details. Your copy posted free on request
to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE ... MARINE ~.
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
co-operation, wrote the Tokyo papers, was over. Then
President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill
met, dramatising their unity. Every level of Japanese
society could comprehend the meaning of this gesture ;
it blasted the hopes of statesmen and street-sweeper
alike.
* * * * *
Failure of a Pact
(Condensed from “United Stales News” editorial
comment.)
The so-called Axis Treaty whereby Berlin, Rome
and Tokyo were bound together was a product of
shrewd diplomacy at Berlin. It was never accepted
wholeheartedly by Japan.
It appealed to Berlin as a means of perplexing
the United States and possibly immobilising the U.S.
Fleet in the Pacific or, in the event of war, diverting
needed shipments of war supplies from the Atlantic to
the Far East.
It appealed to Japan as a means of forcing the
United States to recognise legally the Japanese en-
croachments in China and the so-called New Order
in Asia.
Thus far it has failed to accomplish any of its
objectives. Supplies are being shipped in greater
quantities than ever to Britain by America, and the
United States Fleet has not been compelled to worry
too much about protecting the Atlantic, which task
has become largely a matter of air patrol and auxiliary
craft, releasing the powerful battleships and heavy
cruisers for action in the Pacific.
Likewise, the Axis treaty has not scared the United
States into making any humiliating concessions with
respect to the Far East. On the contrary, it has only
served to bring China and America closer together,
and it has started a flow of money and war supplies
to the Chinese.
So nothing really has been gained by the Japanese
military party in their pressure on the moderates and
the liberal elements in Tokyo. Long-headed business-
men and liberal leaders in Japan know the value of
sea-power, and they do not see Hitler as yet crippling
the British Fleet or as likely to gain ascendancy in
the Atlantic, inasmuch as the United States is virtu-
ally allied with Britain. It might be added that the
American Government will have built a navy in a
few years which will be bigger than all the other
fleets of the world combined. Japan cannot match
the U.S. naval building programme.
Japan has never won a major war without the
aid of Britain or America. In the Russo-Japanese war
of 1904 the Japanese had material support from
American bankers, and this meant an uninterrupted
flow of supplies. In the First World War Japan had the
British Fleet on her side in the Pacific, and there was
no chance of an attack on her by any hostile force.
America until recently sold Japan the munitions and
weapons used in invading China.
The practical problem for Japan to decide is
whether she wishes to risk her whole future on a sense-
less conflict with America, Britain and Russia. She
is not as well prepared as the United States in either
air-power or sea-power for the adventure, and Hitler
cannot be of much aid to her.
We [Americans] have no good reason to fight
Japan, except in the event of an attack. We have
been and still are friendly to the Japanese people.
Our regard for them has been manifested on more
than one occasion. We like the Chinese, but we have
no hate in our hearts for the Japanese, and rather
admire their business acumen and simple customs.
If there is ever a war between America and Japan
it will be due to the initiative of the military elements
in Tokyo who may brush the moderates aside and
gamble desperately on the outcome. Japan has been
told in unequivocal manner that the policy of the
United States in the Pacific is exactly the sarpe as in
the Atlantic. Americans mean to preserve the free-
dom of the seas and intend to fire on any hostile
ships or ’planes which interfere with that mission.
The alternative for Japan is to continue to seek
a peaceful formula. Economic partnership between
America and Japan and China in developing Far
Eastern resources is desirable. America has the capital
and the will to do it. Japan can gain far less by war
than by letting the Axis pact die a slow death and
stopping her Nazi-inspired sniping on American policy.
Trade with Japan could then be resumed. This is the
decision which most Americans pray that Japan will
make, not only for her own sake but for the future
peace of the world.
*****
(From an article by the New York “Times” Washington
correspondent.)
Between Japanese requirements of raw materials
and their sources in the Southern Pacific is ranged
a British Fleet. If the American Pacific Fleet were
added to that naval wall between Japan and funda-
mental war-making resources, the Japanese Navy,
whatever its “itch” for war, would find a fearful
barrier.
It might not be necessary at first to do much
more than join the U.S. Fleet to Britain’s on those
seas, even if Japan should strike northward at Siberia,
in order to assure that the Japanese would soon run
out of materials. With American oil and other-
exports also barred, Japan would be placed in the
dilemma either of expanding its military activity with-
out long-term stocks, or giving battle to the American
and British fleets in the far Pacific.
This is and always has been the broadest base on
which is founded the hope that Japan will never go
beyond the bluffing stage. Those who do not find it
a satisfactory base, however, have these arguments:
The Japanese claim to have a one-year supply
(though much is low-test) of gasoline and fuel oil.
Their Navy is excellent and has confidence that Ger-
many and Italy can prevent a British-American con-
centration of strength sufficient to hold the far Pacific.
The Army is arrogant and powerful in government.
A sudden campaign of interference with American
ships carrying supplies through the Pacific to Russia
may force the United States to attack instead of merely
blocking access to the south.
Time will settle the argument, perhaps soon. But
—New York “World-Telegram.”
JAPANESE LULLABY.
the import-trade statistics of Japan support the hope-
ful group. For recent months it has been impossible
to collect them in enlightening totals and categories.
Yet this much is known: —
In 1940 Japan imported from the Netherlands
Indies 3,994,365 barrels of petroleum products, raised
the monthly average in 1941, took 22,793,000 barrels
from the United States in 1940, and last February
sought from the U.S. 3,000,000 barrels monthly. In
August the United States shut off the export of high-
test gasoline (aviation fuel) to Japan. But in the
last available statistical period of 1941 the U.S.A.
was still exporting scrap, tinplate, cotton, aluminium,
raw cotton, lumber and hides and still buying
silk. When and if Japan moves with the Axis these
sources of her existence, this fuel for her military
machine, will disappear.
Paying for Lend-Lease.
[Condensed from an article in “United States News,”
statements in which can usually be taken as U.S.
Government official.]
Tangible benefits are expected from the U.S.A.’s
huge lend-lease appropriations as a result of negotia-
tions now under way. Master agreements are being
discussed with all Governments on the lend-lease list,
and basic terms governing transfers to Britain already
have been sent to London for study. Definite, specific
contracts are not being drawn, but broad arrangements
are being made to provide some form of repayment.
The Lend-Lease Act authorises the President to
make any terms he deems satisfactory and to arrange
for repayment “in kind or property, or any other
direct or indirect benefit.” Indications are that in-
direct benefits will loom large, although the Presi-
dent has stated that agreements “provide that the
country involved shall pay some portion of the cost
of defence articles transferred.” The portion to be
repaid depends in large measure upon the country’s
ability to pay.
The agreement proposed for Great Britain is
known to be flexible, containing no hard and fast for-
mula, but this does not mean that lend-lease officials
are giving away American-made war materials with
no strings attached. A member of the British Ffouse
of Commons, in fact, recently described U.S. defence
officials as “hard bargainers.”
In any event, close count of every penny advanced
is kept both by the U.S.A. and Great Britain. A huge
bookkeeping organisation is developing to keep track
of every gun, ’plane, shell and pound of food trans-
ferred. One definite requirement is that the British
bear as much of the direct financial burden as
possible. Most British holdings in the U.S.A. have
been sold for $3,000,000,000 in war orders, and the
bulk of the remainder — $600,000,000 — has been
pledged as security for a $425,000,000 Reconstruction
Finance Corp. loan.
Another definite consideration involves future
air and naval bases that the U.S.A. might want for
defence. The last exchange brought the United States
eight Atlantic bases for 50 over-age destroyers. If
more bases are required, the Administration is ex-
pected to place a higher value on them and write off a
portion of lend-lease funds. A rupture with Japan,
for example, might make a British-owned base in the
Pacific extremely valuable to the U.S. Navy.
A third possible repayment could be in the form
of valuable military information and secret defence
devices. It is generally presumed that the U.S.A. and
England are sharing each other’s military and naval
secrets and it is not unlikely that the President would
attach important value to this exchange.
Post-war tariffs and trade agreements are other
items of value that are being explored. The British
Empire, for example, controls much of the world’s
supply of rubber and nickel, and U.S. negotiators are
trying to get British assurances that these commodi-
ties will be sold to Americans at reasonable prices.
Equitable shares in world markets for British, Ameri-
can and other producers, along the lines of the
Roosevelt-Churchill “Atlantic charter,” are other bene-
fits expected from lend-lease aid, although cash values
would be hard to determine.
Lend-lease policies, in fact, constitute one device
to avoid headaches of the last war arising from cash
loans. The Treasury still has Britain down for
$5,650,000,000 in unpaid war loans, and the Adminis-
tration has no intention of repeating this experience.
Instead, the U.S. Government now is paying atten-
tion to less definite but equally valuable commitments,
such as trade concessions, access to needed raw
materials and international shipping agreements. In
general, lend-lease aid is being used for a twofold
advantage: (1) to resist the Nazi advance now, and
(2) to secure the U.S.A.’s position as a World Power
in any post-war adjustments.
Russian War Analysis.
(Condensed from an article by the editor of London
“Nineteenth Century”)
Every day we have been told that the German
advance into Russia is being “held”—and every day
the German advance has continued. It is true that
many observers believed the advance would be more
rapid, because Russia would, they supposed, collapse
politically and morally. This has been falsified by
events. But the fact remains that the military achieve-
ment of the Germans is one of the greatest in the
history of warfare.
The Russians do not seem to have thought in
terms of a general offensive at all, but only of a
general strategic retreat that would inflict maximum
losses on the enemy while keeping their own forces
intact, although they must have realised that they,
too, would suffer heavy losses. But the Germans suc-
ceeded not only in advancing at a prodigious speed on
a front of immense length, but also in giving con-
tinuous battle. In the First World War the Rus-
sians showed a mighty offensive■ spirit. They invaded
Germany and penetrated far into the Austro-Hun-
garian Empire and into Turkey. For three years the
front moved to and fro, broadly and over vast spaces,
with victory now on one side, now on the other. In
the present war the German front has moved in one
direction only—and with a speed unequalled in the
last war—while every victory of strategic importance
has so far been won by the Germans.
It is true that the German achievement still lacks
finality.- We do not know what the German losses
are. They are certainly heavy, and it may be that we


shall see a weakening of the German effort and a
strengthening of the Russian. But appearances allow
few hopes of this nature.
It has been and is still—widely assumed that the
Germans counted on an easy and early decision. It is
asserted that if Hitler had known how costly the Rus-
sian campaign would be he would never have under-
taken it; that he only did so because he believed
Russia would collapse under the shock of the first
onset. It seems very doubtful whether these assump-
tions are correct. Hitler may have hoped that he
would be able to obtain political and economic con-
trol of Russia without going to war—and, indeed, Stalin
went very far in meeting his wishes. It is credibly
reported that Hitler demanded the demobilisation of
the Russian Army under the supervision of German
officers. If this were so it would seem that Hitler did
not wait for the reply to his demand, but struck while
it was being considered in Moscow. In any case he
took the Russians by surprise, as Stalin declared at
the beginning of the campaign. Hitler thereby gained
that prodigious initial success which created a founda-
tion for his subsequent successes. It would appear
that he had made up his mind to take no chances and
that he was resolved to destroy Russia as an armed and
organised Power and reduce her to the status of a
vassal-ally.
Hitler had given years of thought to the Russian
problem and never believed that it was easy of solu-
tion. He may have underestimated the patriotism of
the Russians and overestimated the hostility of the
Ukrainians to the central despotism. But that he
believed the final conquest of Russia would be difficult,
and that war with Russia would be very hard and ex-
tremely dangerous, seems quite certain. He used to
say so openly in conversation with friends and foreign
diplomats before the outbreak of the Second World
War. It is also evident that, whatever mistakes Stalin
may have made, the policy of playing for time was a
sound one.
The campaign, so far, has shown Hitler to be a
military genius of the first order. We have been told
again and again that “the Blitz has failed” and that
Hitler’s original plans have miscarried. If the term
"Blitz” means accelerated and intensified warfare of
the most comprehensive kind, it has certainly suc-
ceeded in Russia, at least until now.
It may be that Hitler and his commanders were
surprised by the great prowess of the ordinary Rus-
sian soldier, but they do not appear to have been dis-
concerted for a moment and have adapted themselves
with remarkable speed to every new situation. Their
discipline, endurance, skill and courage show that the
Germans of the younger generation are in no way
inferior as soldiers to their fathers who fought in the
First World War.
It would seem that they are systematically destroy-
ing the Russian armed forces. If they succeed so far
that these forces are compelled to retire to where they
will be cut off from their main sources of supply, then
the greater part of the German forces will be avail-
able for warfare against Great Britain and the Empire.
The German advance along the northern coast of the
Black Sea is a threat to one of the key positions of the
Empire, namely, the region south of the Caucasus,
where Russia, Persia and Turkey meet. The Caucasian
range is now the principle strategic frontier of the
Empire. To hold that frontier is absolutely vital.
It is no exaggeration to state that the continued
existence of the Empire would become very doubtful
if the Germans were to cross that frontier and dis-
locate imperial defences in the Near and Middle East.
If the Germans are able fia establish themselves per-
manently in that region it will be the end of the
Empire. Imperial relations with Turkey and with
Persia are, therefore, of decisive importance, and
imperial foreign policy is no less important than
imperial strategy—the many recent indications that
imperial policy is amateurish and irresolute are pro-
foundly disquieting.
If the Empire is lost, then all is lost—including
Russia. To weaken the defences of the Empire so as
to strengthen those of Russia is not to help Russia at
all. Poland, although overrun, is not lost as long as
the Empire is not. Russia is not lost if her people
prove to be as indomitable as the Poles and do not
compound with the enemy—and if the Empire is not
lost.
It is inconceivable that Russia, if she is unable to
stem the German invasion, should escape internal
change. Indeed it would seem that change has begun
even now. Communist doctrine has receded into the
background. The increasing tolerance shown towards
religion and the tremendous emphasis on patriotism
are sure signs of deep-seated psychological change.
If the Germans bring the military operations to an
end they will try to promote the total dissolution of
the present Russian State with a view to converting
Russia into a vassal-ally. The Russians can hardly
avoid dissolution unless they show very great internal
flexibility and resistance. The present bureaucratic
despotism is unsuited to the altered conditions which
unsuccessful warfare will impose, and must transform
itself or perish. The Russian national spirit is every-
thing now—if that is kept alive, whether under leader-
ship of Stalin or of Timoshenko or of some person
hitherto unknown, the Germans will, in the end, have
failed, no matter how victorious they are in the field.
Vichy’s Confused Divisions.
[The writer of the article here condensed from New
York “Herald Tribune” is a French scientist recently
arrived in the U.S.A., his name being withheld because
his family is still in France. He analyses the so-called
Vichy Government as not a Government in any positive
sense at all, but as a tangle of contradiction, division
and opposition.]
What is it that France wants? What does the
Vichy Government intend to do?
A great many answers are given, all founded on
a general illusion: they attribute to the Vichy Gov-
ernment a common outlook, a concerted action that is
entirely non-existent. One forgets, too often, that
official France no longer views political problems in
the light of international politics but in that of inner
class conflicts, tendencies and factions.
All the former political structures have broken
down. Public opinion is apathetic ; it has become
accessible to all kinds of solicitations through unhap-
piness, indifference and weariness. The real struggle
is between the actual holders of power and their com-
petitors who are protected by the occupying forces,
such as the Parti Populaire Franfais of Jacques Doriot,
the Rassemblement Populaire Fran?ais, etc. These are
men or social groups that until now had been com-
pletely kept out of the Government.
Behind all these men —petty bourgeois, embit-
tered by actual hardships ; rich industrialists, naively
ready to consider Hitlerism as a rampart against labor
claims ; promoters, adventurers or gangsters, eager to
get rich in the shadow of a great social upheaval;
politicians, ambitious men whose gift for treachery
was not sufficiently rewarded by the Parliamentary
republic—behind all these men march despicable but
very active minorities, especially in the Paris district.
The Germans rely upon such groups, and openly sup-
port them against the Vichy Government in order to
establish in France the framework of a Nazi popular
party. And in Vichy there are just as many factions
as there are Ministers.
With the royalist faction and the police gang
there are two groups within the Vichy Government
whose fight against each other becomes ever more
acute and more ruthless: the navy and the army.
There is absolutely no doubt that Admiral Darlan has
worked with cool and resolute decision toward total
collaboration with Germany. Such an attitude can be
explained partly by his character and personality,
partly by the social and political faction to which he
belongs, both as a leader and as a product, and which
he represents in the Government: the navy.
With Darlan the navy came to power. France
had been governed by soldiers ; she had never yet
been directed bv sailors. The French Navy represents
—New York “Herald Tribune.
THAT PROMISED BEARSKIN COAT.
a closed caste which, for more than a half-century,
has lived outside the French community. And it is to
these men without any experience, without even any
notion of public affairs, who look upon all the poli-
tical and social evolution of France since Louis XVIII
as if it had never existed, who, with the exception of
the squadron engaged in the evacuation of Dunkirk,
did not fight in this war —it is to these men that the
most difficult task which has ever confronted a states-
man has been entrusted.
The French Navy is, by tradition, anti-English,
and now, by accident, pro-German. Its Anglophobia is
easily explained by historical facts. It is more difficult
to analyse its Germanophilia. The French Navy is
recruited from among the small nobility and the old
provincial bourgeoisie, stubbornly loyal to the tradi-
tions of monarchism or ultra-conservatism. In Brittany
and Vendee it is not unusual to see families where
for years the men have been naval officers. Such
families, isolated from the changes in French society,
in their provincial manors or on board their battle-
ships, have obstinately refused to recognise them. The
mediocre living conditions of the small gentleman-
farmer or of the navy officer have embittered them.
From the beginning the French Navy and the
Nazis had two traits in common: their anti-Semitism
and a bitter hatred for the capitalist system of the
banks, such as is often entertained by families im-
poverished through gambling on the market. There-
fore, when the war broke out, the reaction of a great
many naval officers was that this war was not their
war ; the France which had undertaken it was not their
France. It stood for all they detested.
The tendencies of the army have been different.
It is in the army, or rather in certain of its elements,
that the most active sympathies for the De Gaulle
movement are to be found. General Weygand’s attitude
has been dictated by exclusively military considera-
tions. As soon as the armistice was concluded he,
together with General Huntziger, began to work at the
reconstruction of a future French force, neither of
them being in the least concerned as to whether this
force would be utilised against Germany or against
England. Their sole purpose was to forge the instru-
ment. With this in mind, they undertook to build up
an army—a smallish one, it is true—in the only corner
of the world where it was possible for them to do it—
North Africa. Two things could be written to General
Weygand’s credit: his strong personal hostility toward
Admiral Darlan; and his desire to preserve a
maximum of independence for North Africa in order
to pursue there his work of military reconstruction.
The sum of these contradictory tendencies and
bitter conflicts constitutes the very much misnamed
“Government” of Vichy. Never, even at the worst
phases of Parliamentarianism, has France suffered
from so much contradiction, division, opposition and
incoherence as now under her new so-called authori-
tarian regime. This does not allude to the deep divi-
sion between the French people and its leaders,
between the nation that listens to the British radio and
the chiefs who want to collaborate [with Germany].
What is spoken of here is the Government, not the
nation. But the division existing between the members
of the Government is as deep as the one which sepa-
rates them from national opinion. One cannot insist
enough on this point; there are no “Men of Vichy,”
there are only men in Vichy, each trying to give
France the kind of orientation that is passionately
desired for France by the faction or by the caste
which sent them to power.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
Col. Josiah Wedgewood, M.P., when he came
lecturing to America to make sentiment for any kind
of union or any kind of Anglo-American alliance,
said: “From the war in which accounts between
Britain and America are now getting somewhat mixed,
the step forward to a common army, navy and air
force—and taxation to pay for them—is not far dis-
tant.... We have in Great Britain all to gain by a
union, and the invitation must come from America.”
For that the embarrassed British Government called
him home. Common taxation by a supreme Govern-
ment, which would be laid on, of course, according
to the ability of each nation to pay, is something you
would not stress in the hearing of the richest country,
especially not just before a meeting of the President
of the United States and the British Prime Mimster
at sea, in the course of which the British Prime Min-
ister hoped to get the signature of the President of
the United States to an Anglo-American alliance for
the duration of the war to destroy Hitler. —“ Saturday
Evening Post.”
* * * * ♦
In the face of the rapid progress of Nipponese
activities in pearl fishing in the waters near Australia
and the Netherlands East Indies, the pearl industries
of Australia and the Netherlands East Indies are
declining and the Australian and N.E.I. Governments
are reported to be planning to monopolise the pearl
industry as before. It is worthy of note that Nippon’s
pearl fishery activities in southern waters continue
to prosper, despite such hostile policies. The activi-
ties of the Nippon Pearl Co. in exploiting the natural
resources of the southern waters are extremely im-
portant, being closely related to Nippon’s southward
expansion.— From ‘‘Nippon Today and Tomorrow,
1941,” published in Osaka, Japan.
$ H: $ $ $
Inside and informed view [in the U.S.A.] is that
this war is to be a very long one ; that it is to become
a war of endurance, with eventual sea control as the
stake. Europe is bottled up and slowly starving for
raw materials. Japan is bottled up, is starving some-
what faster, and is in very bad shape. At the same
time the U.S.A. and the British Empire are drawing
on most of the resources of the world ; are able to
use the seas as broad highways to markets. The result
is that these two sea Powers gradually are gathering
strength, after a late start, while land Powers gradu-
ally are using up their strength. They are drawing on
reserves of man-power and materials, while the U.S.A.
is building them. Victory over Russia would not solve
Hitler’s problems ; it would not end this war. As
best-informed officials of the U.S. Government see
the picture, Stalin will keep up the fight even if Hitler’s
armies press eastward from Moscow. Hitler will need
to defeat British-Russian forces in the Caucasus, over-
run the Near and Middle East, and gain Mediter-
ranean sea-control before the Nazis can hope to reap
rich rewards out of Soviet Russia. Even then it is
going to take from two to five years of development
to realise returns from Russian industry and agricul-
ture. Hitler now holds sway over 400,000,000 people.
He controls all of Europe and European Russia. But
his people are living on a lower standard than ever.
Promised riches are not appearing. Much of Europe
is bordering on anarchy. Ahead is the effort to break
out of the shackles that sea-power creates. —“ United
States News.”
* * * * *
A private newsletter that does some very good
reporting says the wrappings were pretty thick around
these [U.S.- Japanese] negotiations. It says the pro-
posed agreement has these points: One, Japan, Great
Britain and the United States all to get out of China ;
two, the United States to recognise Japan’s puppet
State of Manchukuo ; three, loans and trade conces-
sions to Japan in both North and South America ;
and, four, Japan to renounce the Axis. It adds that
the President, who must have discussed it with the
British Prime Minister, is fearful of the effect of seem-
ing to appease an aggressor, and is for that reason
holding back. We suppose that on the part of Japan
the temperature of the conversations will rise and fall
with the tide gauge of two battles—one in Russia and
one in the Atlantic. — "Saturday Evening Post.”


/
/I
ijii
Wmmmm
\ 1
mL i I
W J i
I
S*
m 3
f I
L A' . ‘
m
i
' < |i ;#
c
Y
.JSff
$***>
\
>
M
mm
*m
m
mm
m
. . .
A
m
I
m
■
y
m
-w—«•»■* **
i
is
/»
,i ■
wmam
4'x
t/
y’
... , S ' ' ''■&:/•%• ' A' , S
.
;
✓ ■
'
:
:
< . • •
V & 'y : ' * '< V --\ ■'
' •':■ : ■■■■.■■ ' • :
“ , _ _ '/
y : A / * ; '• ' i
: I/
f; £/ ' J, , - ' 9 '''/V ,'' x Mr ?'?SA ''s/y&'/U \ & ? * W* ,
i4 *'
.
- „ y>i /. .//y-^: - '# 5 <„«/
- <. 4 , ' ' v 5
*: y g y.s^... . *
:■
; •
j}.oi u*m+
■ 1 I —■
rich, sustaining value of sun-
ripened oats — that is what you get in
every health-bringing glass of Oatmeal
Stout. It nourishes —it strengthens without
fattening.
m m
TO
EYS
OflMfll STOUT
"There's New life in Every Boftle
/✓
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents: VICTORIA —Goldsbrougb, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL, Q’LAND-Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA)—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth,
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart,
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd,, Launceston.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £32,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,900,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
PREVENT BONE-CHEWING—FEED
Do not wait for evidence of bone-chewing and then seek a remedy.
Feed Tri-cal-os Bone Flour to prevent it and other bone troubles.
Much of our pasture lacks essential minerals, which the stock must
have and which they seek when they chew bones. Tri-cal-os is the best
and most reliable source of these minerals—calcium and phosphorus—
for all livestock feeding. Tri-cal-os contains a guaranteed minimum of
33% phosphoric acid and 40% lime. All stock take to it readily.
CoJL:..
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
All particulars from Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, N.S.W.; G.P.O.
Box 4058, Melbourne; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane;
G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Queensland
Insurance Go
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney,
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TOGRAZCOS."
Black Disease.
“Bungaree”; Start to control black
disease now. It is caused by a germ
which, though it may be carried around
in the animal for years without causing
harm, attacks when the liver tissue is
damaged by immature fluke. Possibly if
all liver fluke were eradicated sheep
would be in no danger from black disease.
Control is got through reducing fluke,
the three phases being dependent on each
other for success. They are; (1) blue-
stoning swamps and marshy areas, creeks,
etc. ; (2) drenching the sheep to kill
mature fluke ; (3) inoculation with black-
disease vaccine.
Until the fluke has emerged from the
snail host it cannot infect the sheep, so
eradicate the snails. Swamps should be
drained to contract their area. Run off
stagnant water, and over all marshy
areas broadcast powdered bluestone at
the rate of 251 b. per acre. Mix one part
of bluestone snow to three parts o'f sand
and broadcast 1001 b. of the mixture per
acre.
Running streams should be treated by
hanging a bag containing bluestone
crystals just under the surface of the
water where the stream enters the prop-
erty. Have the job done before the end
of December.
Carbon tetrachloride drench will kill
all mature liver fluke in sheep. Single
strength c.t. (one part to four parts
paraffin) is effective, but by using double
strength (two parts to three parts paraffin)
large stomach worms will also be wiped
out. A 5 c.c. mixture of either for all
sheep over six months is sufficient. If
larvae are still being picked up or imma-
ture fluke are in the liver, drenching must
be repeated. If the snails are killed by
bluestone this will reduce the larvae wait-
ing to be picked up by the sheep, but
drenching must continue while larvae are
about.
Black disease vaccine has saved mil-
lions of sheep. Though the combined
use of bluestone and carb. tet. is highly
successful if properly used, factors exist
which often prevent benefit. The vac-
cine, however, protects sheep against the
disease for at least 12 months and it is
claimed that a second dose the following
year will give sheep immunity for life.
Inoculation should be done as soon as
possible after shearing, when the sheep
can be inoculated under the slack skin
of the back or ribs and the shorter wool
allows the job to be done much more
quickly. An intelligent combination of
the three methods should give 100 p.c.
results against black disease.
Irrigated Pastures.
“Elmore Road”: Tests with fertilisers
on irrigated pastures on G. Major’s farm
at Cohuna, northern Victoria, showed
that 4cwt. of superphosphate an acre gave
the biggest increase of yield as hay—
-27.6 p.c.—over unmanured plots.
The tests showed that it isn’t always
necessary to plough up and fallow an old
lucerne stand before sowing pasture. If
grading and check-banks are good, a
light scarifying and the mixing of pasture
seed with the manure at top-dressing time
will do the trick. The rate should be
about 101 b. of perennial rye, 51b. of
cocksfoot and 21b. of white clover an
acre. Under irrigation this will replace
the lucerne as it dies out.
Major, who was working with G. B.
Rayner, an agrostologist of the Victorian
Department of Agriculture, had a species
trial. Perennial rye was sown by itself
in a strip, then in separate strips with
Italian rye, cocksfoot, Timothy, meadow
foxtail, Phalaris tuberosa, and Kentucky
blue grass. There were other strips of
perennial rye sown with some of the
clovers. P. rye and white clover made
the most vigorous growth ; of the grasses
only cocksfoot persisted, P. tuberosa and
Kentucky blue did well for a time, the
rest soon faded. Of the clovers only
strawberry survives, the trial having run
for eight years.
On the portion where the manure tests
were conducted a complete mixture of
There MUST be some way to eat this fiamin stuff.”
the grasses and clovers was sown, and
there is now a good pasture of p. rye and
white clover, with cocksfoot and straw-
berry clover showing up. The tests show
that in such districts the four essentials
to a good pasture are superphosphate,
per. rye grass, white clover and water.
Growth reaches its peak in spring, hangs
on well in summer and falls away rapidly
in winter.
To maintain dairy-herd production in
such a district, it is necessary either to
find some pasture that will persist in
winter or provide supplementary feed-
ing with oats or maize, either as straight
fodder crops or for conservation. This
can be helped by cutting some of the
meadow hay in spring and stacking or
ensiling it. If the pasture doesn’t make
sufficient growth in a normal spring to
provide hay it either needs better water-
ing or the fertilising system is weak.
Don’t cut the same paddock for hay each
year.
Trying to hang on to summer pasture,
either to sell some as hay or to let it
out as agistment for sheep, isn’t recom-
mended. The summer gives the pasture
its chance to build up by seeding and
have its own fertilising effect on the soil,
as well as improving root growth, for the
following winter. Some northern Vic-
toria country cracks in summer, and a
good pasture cover stops it drying out.
Flogging out a summer pasture with
either mower or jumbucks is dangerous.
N.S.W. Wheat.
“Ben Cubbin”: The N.S.W. north-west
wheat country was badly served by the
weather this season, yet crops entered
in the R.A.S. contest yielded remarkably
well. Rain over the growing period was
poor ; out at Pallamallawa it was about
a third of normal, and from June to
October there wasn’t a useful shower in
the area.
A Tamworth crop of Ford topped
the poll, its evenness helping it to beat
three crops of Eureka. The Ford, grown
by D. G. Barwick, is likely to go 41
bushels, and at Tambar Springs, Qiiirindi,
and Gunnedah are three Eureka stands
tipped at 38, 40 and 42 bushels.
Eureka and the Pusas did well in the
contest —there were 15 districts, which
means over 100 crops—and two of Cail-
laux got in, Ford providing the rest with
the exception of a Bencubbin crop in
fifth place at Werris Creek.
Good Pusa samples are likely to com-
mand premiums from local millers for a
year or two, but growers in search of
seed should make certain of its purity.
One Pusa crop failed to measure up to
the standard set for seed purposes.
Maize in Gippsland'.
“Y. Dent”: The Orbost (Vic.) maize
trials this year made several things clear,
one of the most important being that
seed from varieties which had yielded well
in the mother crop somewhere else did
no good. The obvious lesson is that
maize must be acclimatised. There are
still far too many barren stalks and
faulty, poor-yielding cobs, which means
that seed selection must be kept up andi
improvement made constant.
Sixteen strains were tried at Orbost,
four of them from N. S. Wales. These
four, though each had done well in its
own district, evidently felt the change of
environment. The consistent types,
Cornplanter, Funk’s Yellow Dent, Reid’s
Improved, Kruge Corn, Goldmine,
Hickory King and Silvermine were again
prominent, the highest yielder being
G. H. D. Russell’s Reid’s Improved with
95 bushels an acre, next best being John
Lynn’s Kruge Corn with 90.4 bushels.
A N.S.W. Murrumbidgee White plot;
yielded 85.2 bushels, and a Wellingrove
strain from Glen Innes 89.5.
From October to May the rainfall was
2308 points, sufficient for a record crop
if evenly distributed over the growing
period. It wasn’t, there being serious
lacks in October and March ; still the
test crops did well.
Hints for the Farm.
“Jayem”: To wash super, bags and
make them suitable for grain, turn them
inside out, make a small hole on one
side near the mouth and thread about
30 at a time on fencing-wire. Draw them
into the middle of a tank and let them
soak for three or four days. Then hang
out to dry.
“Mullengah”: To get a quick strike of
Kikuyu plough the ground before the
Kikuyu roots are planted. Space the roots
3ft. apart in furrows 4ft. to 6ft. apart. If
roots are closer the area will become well
grassed earlier. Graze small areas in
rotation, and put the pigs on to a new
area immediately the grass is eaten down.
Dennis only starts to root when pastures
are short.
“Ninety-nine”; “S plod g e r” (B.
29/10/’4l) complains of burr trefoil
tainting milk. If he pours in a few drops
of mineral oil they will rise to the top
and bring the bad taste with them. Skim
off the oil then and troubles are over.
“Huxave”; One of the best kitchen-
garden fertilisers is common soot. Scoop
enough out of the chimney to fill a 21b.
oatmeal bag. Tie the bag at the top and
soak in a bucket of water for 48 hours.
Two pints of the liquid to 2gals. of water


gjyyrsr
EYE Loino!
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
M. A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd., King St., Sydney
■J
DIP CIV electric fence
Diu OIA CHARGER.
Standard Model, £6/12/0. Battery Extra.
Be luxe Model, £B/14/6. Battery Extra.
The new Be Luxe Model gives greater
efficiency in low rainfall areas.
Send for FREE illustrated leaflet.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE CO.,
207 George Street. SYBNEY.
Better Way to
deal with
Blowfly Strike
Graziers all over Australia are finding it best to
use Way-Bio strike preventive which does not
scald and cannot wash out.
Way-Bio is the result of scientific treatment of
many species of Eucalypts in a specially-
designed plant wherein the compounding of
their active principles has produced the most
positive of all blowfly strike preventives. It
heals the wound without scab-formation, pre-
vents re-strike, is non-poisonous and is harm-
less to sheep and fleece.
Use Way-Bio when crutching to prevent strike
or re-strike and to save sheep already struck.
Saves time and money, since sheep once treated
are safe for the whole “danger” season, and
its use costs less than one penny per sheep.
Order Way-Bio from your regular wool-house
or station supplier, or write to the Manufac-
turers, W. K. Burnside Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
and Sydney.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
SYDNEY OFFICE MANAGER: A. M. MURDOCH.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES', LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
'* HO'-
IST-
Wmmr
Hi
.3*o
W
W-jfe '
Australian Radiotron Valves,
fitted in your set, is your assurance
that replacements are available
when necessary.
fifiDlOlfiOll VALVES
will give full tone realism to your radio
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
“FORRERS”
Self-Oiling Pump
MOTOR OR ENGINE DRIVE
100 LB. PRESSURE OR
230 FEET ELEVATION
CONTINUOUS PERFORMANCE
24 HOURS A DAY WITHOUT
ATTENTION.
A rs!i
We are Sole Distributing Agents for
Forrers Pumps in every State in the Commonwealth except
Queensland.
John IKnks &Sqn PfrW
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
AND AT 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
f*” 4 '
□
mmsm.
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from
Double Rooms from
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone; 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio; Grancentral. G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
promotes rapid growth, leaf and stem
development.
“C.V.”: To restore fertility to soils
on which crops of sorghum, maize, oats
and sugarcane have been grown, sow
Poona cowpeas in October. In the
autumn, turn the cowpeas under and
sow phalaris.
Outback Occasions.
No. 12.
WHEN DOLLY Gor LOOSE.
The occasion when Dolly, our old
school mare, upset all tradition by bolt-
ing with the three of us aboard is worth
recording. Dolly was a half-draught;
she was always fat come drought or
high water, and none of us could remem-
ber a time when Dolly wasn’t about the
place.
She was the odd-job mare. If there
was water to be carted, manure to be
taken up the paddock, a dead beast to
drag away, a bit of ploughing in Mother’s
garden and so on, Dolly always got
the job. She used to stand around the
kitchen door most of the time waiting
for bits of bread and other titbits, and
Father swore that she listened to all we
said and then went and gossiped to all
the other horses about it. Sometimes at
night* we’d hear a giggling sort of neigh
up the paddock, and Father would reckon
it was Dolly telling the others something
funny about us. It used to make us kids
feel uncomfortable till we got older and
realised Father was a bit of a leg elon-
gater.
Well, when our sister started going to
school it meant Dolly had to carry the
three of us. Father built a special sort
of saddle with three sets of stirrups—
you could have sat an entire bush school
class on Dolly’s back, it was so broad —
and we’d jog off the four miles every
morning and back again in the afternoon.
One afternoon we were ambling home
when Dolly saw a bit of new couch grass
on the road and went to get it. Gener-
ally, that was recognised as her privilege
—to snatch titbits along the road—but
this day our brother was in a hurry and
he kicked Dolly and jerked the bridle.
Somehow the throat-dash hadn’t been
fastened properly, and when Dolly tossed
her head at the jerk the bridle came off.
All four of us were so astonished that
nobody moved or spoke for several
seconds. Then our brother said, “Look,
I’ll have t’ slip off her t’ get the bridle
on ; you kids hang on ’cos she might
swerve away a bit.”
Our sister grabbed me tight round the
waist, because just then Dolly did swerve
and before our brother could get ready.
He got off in a bigger hurry than he
meant, and landed plump in a patch of
saffron thistles. Dolly looked round at
him and then back at us two still sit-
ting there. As she saw it, when the bridle
was off she was free ; and though it was
a bit unusual for it to come off in such
a place, still off it was. So Dolly turned
across the road and broke into a canter.
I suppose she thought that if we liked to
stay on her back that didn’t alter things ;
she wasn’t responsible for our actions.
Our brother got up out of the saffrons
and yelled and ran after us. Dolly can-
tered harder, making up through the
scrub to a ridge. Our sister and me
bounced about and hung on, and soon
our brother was well behind.
“If y’ scream,” I said, “I’ll clout y’.”
So our sister got a tighter grip on me and
kept quiet. Dolly must have been think-
ing it was a bit tough to have to cart a
couple of kids about when she was let
loose, so she stopped, thought and set
down on her rump. We slid off, of
course, and then the mare got up and
cantered off again. We picked bindees
out of ourselves and waited till our
brother came running up the ridge. He
was panting and blowing, and when he
saw us he got wild and said “What didga
let her go for, y’ galoot?”
I didn’t say anything, and he leant
against a tree and blew for a while, then
he said, “We’ll have t’ catch her or
Father’ll go crook.” Then he discovered
that he hadn’t stopped to get the bridle,
and made me go back to the road and
look for it.
When I got back we told our sister to
stay there and us boys went off after the
mare. We chased her up and down that
ridge, across the road and back again,
but she wouldn’t let us get near her.
Every now and then she’d stop and look
at us in a funny way, as much as to say
“A fair go is a fair go, what’s the game?”
Then we’d close in and off she’d go
again.
After a bit we turned it up and went
back to get our sister and go home. But
we couldn’t find our sister. We yelled
and shouted and ran about through the
scrub and climbed trees and everything,
but not a hair or hide of that kid could
we find. Then our brother said one of
us would have to go home and the other
stay there, and I would go home. I
didn’t want to go home —nobody wants
to carry bad nevys —and what with one
thing and another our brother clouted
me and I cut him with a stick. Then I
sat down and cried, and my brother went
off into the scrub, and the bush took on
a menacing attitude and a couple of
crows flew over, cawing, and I thought
it would serve them right when they
found me with my eyes picked out.
After a bit I got up and went down to
the road and started home, but hadn’t
gone far when Father came tearing up
in the car with two other men and
Mother. Dolly had galloped home, and
they saw her at the gate with the saddle
on, but no bridle and no kids. Father
and the men went up in the scrub and
found our brother and sister, and we all
went home. The other men went home
and our brother and me waited for Father
to go crook, but all he did was pat our
heads and say that he hoped we’d always
see that a horse’s gear was shipshape in
future because you never knew with
horses, especially faithful old things like
Dolly.
“They’re like women,” he said, look-
ing at Mother and laughing. We didn’t
know why he laughed, but we laughed,
too, because Father winked at us in a
way that made us feel like conspirators
or something.


THE OTHER FELLOWS MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4gd. per line; all others at
2£d. per line.
A Victorian critic of cost-plus is placed first this week.
Cost-Plus
“Jae’s” defence of cost -plus (B.
19/11/’4l) is theoretically sound, but as
one who has been on the inside I would
like to add some marginal notes. Few
systems do not leave some loophole for
abuse, deliberate or incidental, and cost-
plus is no exception. In spite of “Jae’s”
confident assertion, departmental audit-
ing and scrutiny of profits do not root
out the main trouble, which is wastage,
particularly of man-hours.
Some enterprises which, in their peace-
time activities, were geared up to high-
pressure standards (the tub-thumper’s
“soulless mass production”) seem to have
lost the incentive to get the last ounce
out of the available elbow-grease now
that the Government foots the bill for all
labor costs plus. No more does the
assembly-line-drive keep the men on their
toes in the interests of dividends. As
several old hands have told me, with a
wry grin, “Things are different now —in
fact, some fellows are having quite an
easy time.” Some operations on muni-
tions work call for closer attention and
a slower pace, admittedly, than were
spent on peace-time production, but that
does not apply all round.
Then there is the scandal of so-called
“specialists” commanding salaries be-
yond anything they could have hoped to
qualify for under normal conditions. The
scarcity of technicians has set their price
above rubies. The candid opinion of the
worth of some of them, expressed by
men more experienced than themselves,
is explosive. I know of one young fellow
getting £2O a week where top price in
peace-time was little more than half that
sum. As the bill is not footed by share-
holders, however, the incentive to get full
value for money is not strong.
That an easier time in the factory and
inflated salaries and lavish “expenses” to
staff bring their logical proportion of
“plus” to the firm may or may not be
a contributing factor to the state of things
that has called forth criticism. I do
know, however, that the bitterest criti-
cism I have heard has come from men
whose positions were sufficiently high up,
and inside, to know what they were talk-
ing about. The problems of man-power,
production and finance being what they
are, it is a pity that it is costing us, piece
for piece, such a devil of a lot more in
cash and labor for our weapons than it
is costing the Hun. — Carrageen (Vic.).
Who’s for Conscription?
When this page was made up there had
been only one opponent —a lady:
Of what use to argue “conscription-for-
abroad” and fly that “Australia for the White
Man” motto? The views of white men in
Australia are diametrically opposed to yours
on this score. This is the Promised Land, isn’t
it? Think what you are doing to Australia
before you advocate the draining of its life-
blood and the extinction of its people.—J. R.
(N.S.W.).
Now for supporters —all men:
I am very glad we have one magazine in the
country which is not afraid to print the truth.
I refer especially to “The Need for Men” (B.
19/11/’4l>. That article should be displayed in
every Australian home, and every Australian
should be made to read it.—W. S. (N.S.W).
Warm and adnfiring congratulations upon
“The Need for Men.” With complete all-round
fairness and sympathetic understanding it strips
the political machines of every vestige of real
sincerity of war-purpose. At the same time it
does much-needed justice to many thousands
of decent military-age Australians who would
welcome compulsory service but conscientiously
consider themselves held from volunteering by
civil-life responsibilities and duties of one kind
and another. —E.S.J. (Q.).
Just to express my warm approval of and
gratitude for your timely advocacy of conscrip-
tion. The politicians themselves have done
much to keep alive the opposition to this form
of compulsory service; just because they feared
to lose an election they weakly pandered to the
timidity and selfishness of electors. Menzies
lost a great opportunity when he failed to take
his courage in both hands and stand up for
this form of national service. We now beckon
to the U.S.A. to assist us. Its leaders can
puncture our war balloon by the simple ques-
tion: “If you think you are in peril, why do
you not adopt that form of compulsory mili-
tary service which all the countries called upon
to enter upon a death struggle with Germany
have deemed necessary?—D. G. (Vic.).
Those who have volunteered have done so from
a variety of motives. Those who have not volun-
teered have doubtless weighed their own motives
and do not wish to be soldiers. Few have
objected to conscription for home defence—
call it compulsory service or training or what
you will, it remains conscription. We now
have conscripts in our camps in their tens of
thousands. Fair average Australians, the large
majority wish to do their share and rightly
resent abuse and insults from those who do not
appear to be doing anything at all. The first
step towards conscription for service anywhere
is to clear the air with regard to overseas
and home service. There can be no proper
planning of the disposition of our military
forces without putting them on the one footing.
The question, too, is bound up with the ques-
tion of paying for the war. It does not seem
just to send the eligibles away to fight and,
when the war is over, to tax them to pay
interest to the non-eligibles who stay at home.
This is a feature which must not be overlooked.
We have had a fair sample of the so-called
“voluntary” system. Every mean-souled,
bumptious “patriot” is trying to coerce men
into joining the A.I.F. Economic pressure, in-
sidious recruiting campaigns, “shaming men into
it,” differentiation, jeers and insults —what good
is all this to our country? What should be a
duty by legal obligation has become a kind
of game of beggar-my-neighbor. Conscription
is and always has been the truly democratic
way.— Conscript (N.S.W.).
In one of your excellent leaders on conscrip-
tion you mentioned the fact that the A.I.F.
had voted in favor of it. In view of Mr.
“ Brethren, I'd turn every sword into a ploughshare and, after that,
every shell into shellgrit.”
Makin’s bad blunder an extract from the
Returned Soldiers’ 1937 Year-book should be
published for the edification of that gentleman
and of those who accepted his “reminder” that
“the A.I.F. had pronounced against conscrip-
tion,” and who may not have seen the correction
he had to make. At the first (1916) referen-
dum, polling in France began on October 16
nnd occupied approximately one week. At the
second (1917) referendum, polling was con-
cluded on December 12. In both cases the
Diggers voted before the Commonwealth vote
was taken, and, contrary to the general belief,
on both occasions recorded “Yes” majorities:
For. Against. Informal.
October, 1916 .. 72,399 58,894 2520
December, 1917 .. 103,789 93,910 1978
—F. A. M. (N.S.W.).
I very heartily congratulate you on your
editorials on conscription. Both articles were
in my judgment as strong and unanswerable
as they were timely, and I believe you have
done the whole community a fine service in pub-
lishing them. I am satisfied there is no fairer
way of getting the recruits for our fighting ser-
vices—recruits urgently needed. My eldest boy
is serving with the A.I.F. overseas, and his
statements clearly indicate where he and his
mates stand on the conscription issue.—Mal-
vern (N.S.W.).
, Every Australian worthy of the name is be-
hind you to the limit in your advocacy of con-
scription for service overseas with the A.I.F.
Immediately Australia entered the war a Gov-
ernment with any backbone would have im-
mediately imposed conscription on the country
and at the same time pegged wages and salaries
as well as incomes to their pre-war level. Then
there would have been equal sacrific by every
section of the community and men of military
age would have had no inducement to stay at
home and take full advantage of the chance to
profiteer on their labor in the munition and
other factories. This war is being fought for
national freedom, but the personal freedom of
every Australian is also at stake. One cannot
imagine a more despicable individual than one
who is prepared to allow the burden of fight-
ing for his freedom to be done by another.
Let us have conscription and let us have it at
once. — Centaur (Vic.).
Congratulations on your stand for conscrip-
tion, the only fair way of keeping up overseas
reinforcements to which Australia is definitely
committed. With the desire of the press in
general merely to feed the people on Pap and
Pleasantries, it is distinctly to your credit that
you should have come out fearlessly in ad-
vocacy of what everybody who is prepared to
give a thought at all knows to be just and
inevitable. —C. N. O.C. (N.S.W.).
The Policeman of Europe
“A.R.C.” asks (B. 12/11/’4l) whether
it is wise to refuse to consider any pos-
sible outcome of the war other than to
smash Hitlerism. All that Hitler seems
to have done by his efforts and the Ger-
man blood he has poured out is to make
himself the policeman of Europe. If
Stalin had succeeded in stemming the
German hordes and reversing the situa-
tion, then Stalin would have had to be-
come the policeman. If any other nation
invades that part of Europe which Hitler
has made his beat it will again have to
be the policeman.
Being an international policeman is one
of the most thankless and deteriorating
jobs imaginable. The French gained no-
thing but universal hatred when they
acted as Europe’s policeman under
Napoleon, and they suffered from chau-
vinism and mental flatfoot for genera-
tions afterwards. The Scandinavian people
kept out of the European madhouse
longer than any other race and suffered
no disadvantage thereby. They were not
less liked but more liked in consequence.
As they didn’t have the excuse of mind-
ing other people’s business they could
concentrate on their own, and they pro-
duced some of the finest of the world’s
art, literature and music. Not being busy
trying to do good to other people they
had time to do good to themselves, and
the developments they produced in edu-
cation and sociology were an example to
every other nation.
But the desire to boss others is so in-
grained in human nature that they would
probably have made themselves into
policemen if they had had the same
opportunity as Hitler. —L. L. (Vic.).
“The Banks”
A. D. B. Rowley (B. 5/11/’4l) over-
looks the fact that the banks have to pay
cash to the Government for bonds taken
up. They do not merely credit the Com-
monwealth Treasury’s account with the
amount involved. On the other hand,
they have to draw on their cash reserves,
or on their balances with the Common-
wealth Bank to pay for the bonds. It is
not a case of a book entry costing
nothing.
Deposits in the banks are showing an
increase because of the more general em-
ployment at good wages, and general
business activity brought about by Gov-
ernment spending. Current account
money must automatically increase. If
the Government obtained all its require-
ments by taxation and loans from the
public, the deposits under the control of
the public in the banks would be smaller.
The Government calls on the banks to
take up loans to bridge the gap between
the amount raised and what is needed
for war expenditure. The banks are able
to find the money by discouraging ad-
vances for purposes other than those
helping the war effort and taking up
Government bonds instead.
The expenditure of this extra money
must cause an increase in bank deposits,
as Mr. Rowley points out. This is un-
avoidable under the circumstances and
does not necessarily mean inflation unless
all economic resources are fully employed
already. There is a tendency to infla-
tion, however, and an English writer
(A. H. Gibson) holds that it would be
less costly in the long run for the Gov-
ernment to pay higher rates of interest on
long-term bonds, so that the public
would get a return in line with other in-
vestments, Under such conditions com-
pulsory loans would be justified. Larger
subscriptions by the public for bonds
would mean a reduction of deposit funds
with the banks. The extra yearly cost
would not be a real burden as the same
people are taxpayers and interest-
receivers. The banks would not be called
upon for direct subscriptions for loans
and the Government would benefit. Mr.
Gibson says “A greatly increased volume
of money owned by the community ac-
celerates the disease of inflation, and
therefore tends to increase Government
expenditure for war requirements.”
As a contrast to Mr. Gibson, Mr.
Rowley advocates free-of-interest loans
by the Commonwealth Bank to the Gov-
ernment. Not only would this course
leave the volume of bank deposits of the
public undiminished, and subject to in-
crease by consequent Government expen-
diture, but it would also leave the de-
posits of the trading banks with the Com-
monwealth Bank unlessened so that the
movement towards inflation would be
hastened. There would be a call for in-
creased currency issues with the usual
depreciation and general harmful results.
Mr. Rowley and his fellow monetary re-
formers would be well advised to “hasten
slowly” with any proposed changes from
present methods lest they cause injury
to the very people whom they seek
to benefit.— Festina Lente (W.A.).
Florence Nightingale Today
According to “Nakhod a” (B.
19 /11/’4l) the attitude of the crowd to a
march of nurses is one of reverence.
Most nurses wish the reverencing crowd
would show its appreciation in a little
more practical form. To qualify as a
trained nurse a young woman must start
with a fair standard of education and
complete a course of five or six years,
during which small pay, long hours, hard
work and a semi-military discipline is
the universal lot. At the end of that
period, if her practical work has been
satisfactory, her conduct exemplary and
her examinations successful, she is per-
mitted to tend the sick and the injured
on these terms:
Fee £3 3s. per week. Nurses must be
allowed eight hours for rest in addition to
two hours daily for outdoor exercise (i.e.,
14 hours on duty). Nurses on a chronic
case to have one day off a month or pay-
ment of £1 Is. in lieu thereof. When a case
lasts for more than a year a nurse is en-
titled to a week’s leave.
— A.T.N.A. list of terms.
Showing how much more important it
is to serve beer than to heal the sick,
barmaids in my State work under these
conditions:
Wages £4 3s. per week of 44 houss, eight
hours a day. All work in excess of these
hours to be paid for at time and a half.
The employee shall be entitled to a day
and a half-day off in each week. All work
done on eight specified holidays to be paid
(for at overtime rates. The employee
phall be entitled to two weeks’ holiday
on full pay each year.
—Bar Attendant’s Award.
Perhaps this is a sign of the times.
After all, did not the P.M. say, “I refuse
to regard beer as a luxury”?— Smilax
(Q-). “
Superfluous
Like State Parliaments, the Australian
Agricultural Council is a superfluous
organisation. Its members, representa-
tive of the State and Federal Govern-
ments, may be experts, they may be
earnest, and they may make valuable
recommendations, but that is as far as
they get. No provision has been made
to implement the recommendations of
the council, and they are forgotten soon
after the meetings.
It costs money to bring men together
for the meetings, and the men themselves
waste time that could be devoted to work
that would get them somewhere. Actu-
ally, the council has no executive autho-
rity and none of the Governments takes
any notice of its decisions.
Possibly, the new Minister for Com-
merce (Mr. Scully) will spare sufficient
time to consider the advisability of
scrapping the council. If it goes no one
will care greatly, and the money saved
will be so much more for the war effort.
—Cow Time (N.S.W.).
Settlements in the Saltbush
“Lyle” (B. 12 /11/’4l) may be sound
in his warning of the dangers of closer
settlement in the Western Division
(N.S.W.); but there’s something magni-
ficently wrong in the statement attributed


to Sydney Upton that, between the Lach-
lan, Murrumbidgee and Murray, “there
is one block here 700 miles by 400 miles.”
The whole area between those rivers
wouldn’t run to a fifth of such a block.
—G. A. B. (N.S.W.).
An English Example
Once again England has taught us
another needed lesson. Very great suc-
cess has been achieved, by County War
Agricultural Committees, in their efforts
to transform derelict land in many dis-
tricts of Britain into productive farms.
Many centres of Australia should follow
England in this regard. In S. Queens-
land, and on the Northern Rivers of
N. S. Wales, there are thousands of acres
of derelict coastal land which, if drained
and handled properly, could be trans-
formed from rubbish into good proper-
ties. The sooner Australia appoints some
War Agricultural Committees the better
it will be for everybody. —N. (Q.).
Wolf! Wolf!
General Blarney wants to know the
cause of the feeling of unreality about
the war which he has found so wide-
spread in Australia. He might find the
answer in the fable of the boy who cried
“Wolf! Wolf!”
In this year alone the press, backed
up by the Government, has reported a
crisis in the Pacific no fewer than 11 times.
The first of these reports was received
by the country at face value; the second
and third with suspicion ; the rest with
apathy, if not downright disbelief. And,
after all, why not? None have been
more solemn and more frequent in their
warnings than Messrs. Curtin and Forde,
yet in the week ending November 15,
which saw the latest and apparently the
deadliest crisis break, these two leaders
reported to their party:
That they had refused the army’s re-
quest to call up the 35-45 years age group.
They were considering reduction of the
militia’s period of training from six to three
months.
They would give consideration to the
question of the number of Home Defence
men to be kept on permanent service.
They would order a comprehensive in-
vestigation into “call-up hardships”—this
latter in reply to a barrage of protests that
Area Officers were refusing requests by
Ms.P. for exemption of men from military
training.
W. K. D. (Q.).
Prisoners of War
It was mentioned (B. 5/11 /’4l) that
many of our Internment Camp Regula-
tions were identical with the International
Conventions of 1929 relative to the treat-
ment of prisoners of war, and that con-
sequently Australian prisoners in Italy
and Germany should be receiving the
same treatment and privileges extended
to enemy aliens interned here. So they
should ; but it is doubtful if they are.
On October 25 the Central Red Cross
Bureau at Melbourne published the fol-
lowing requirements (presumably of the
Italian and German prison camp authori-
ties) regarding mail to prisoners:
Letters must consist of one ordinary
sheet of paper. Writing may be on both
sides.
Only permissible enclosure is an un-
mounted photograph, of a personal nature,
small, and with a minimum of writing.
A letter-card, Christmas or picture card
may not be sent.
Only news of a strictly personal nature
may be given in a letter or postcard.
It is inadvisable for any one person to
attempt to send more than one letter or
postcard a week. This advice is given to
avoid delay in transit by too large a dis-
patch of mails.
Letters and postcards may be sent airmail
at sender’s expense. Letters are ss. Bd.,
postcards 2s. lOd.
As mail from home is the most import-
ant thing in life to a prisoner, it is inter-
esting to compare the corresponding sec-
tions in the Australian National Security
(Prisoners of War) Regulations, which
govern the treatment of enemy prisoners
of war here:
Reg. 30 provides: (1) Letters and re-
mittances of money.... and postal parcels
addressed to prisoners of war from places
outside Australia, or dispatched by them
to places outside Australia.... shall be
exempt from postal charges. (2) Presents
and relief in kind intended for prisoners
of war shall be exempt from all import and
other duties and free from charges for car-
riage on railways.
Reg. 34: The camp commandant may
institute such local examination of letters,
postcards and parcels dispatched by or
addressed to prisoners of war as he may
think fit, but care shall be taken to ensure
that communications are not delayed un-
duly.
Reg. 35; Subject to censorship no
limit shall be imposed on the number of
letters and postcards a prisoner of war
may receive but he shall not be per-
mitted to receive pictures, postcards or
drawings of a suspicious or objectionable
nature.
Reg. 36: Subject to these regulations
prisoners of war may receive parcels con-
taining foodstuffs and other articles in-
tended for consumption or clothing.
Other regulations provide that books and
music may be sent to prisoners and for
the dispatch of power of attorney, wills
and other legal documents.
The comparison is made more striking
by the report that, following complaints
that Australian prisoners at Benghazi have
been ill-treated (overwork and poor food
are some of the complaints), the Minister
for the Army has called for an investiga-
tion and the Red Cross has wired Geneva
to intervene. The Australian regulations
are clear; —
The food ration of a prisoner of war
shall be equivalent in quantity and quality
to that of the soldiers at the camp.
Collective disciplinary measures affecting
food shall not be imposed.
The duration of the daily work of
prisoners shall in no case exceed that per-
mitted for civil workers of the same locality
employed in the same work.
Prisoners of war shall not be required to
perform work which is, unhealthy or dan-
gerous.
-D. (Q.).
The Last of the Line
Already in this war the death of a
soldier has brought an additional tragedy
in the death of a family name. It would
be a fine thing if the sister, in such a
case, on marriage could legally give her
maiden name to a son.
British royalty for centuries has con-
sidered the female blood to be equal to
the male. In lower social strata surely
British law could permit a family name,
or title, to descend through the female
line, a line that after all has more of the
direct blood than that of a male only
distantly connected. — Mrs. P. (S.A.).
What THEY Think
Everyone over here is very -sick of the
whole set-up at home. What with strikes
and stopwork meetings it makes one
think that a touch of Hitler would be the
best thing for them. In one of the last
“Suns” I saw that some crowd want the
basic wage raised to £5. Those very men
would be the first to throw up their arms
and cry in horror if we all decided to
stop work for 24 hours and ask for an
extra 2s. a day. As one Tommy said to
me after seeing some of the “Suns” and
comparing the Australian and American
news, “It seems that America is more
part of the British Empire than Aus-
tralia.” I don’t think he is far wrong.
The Government over there sees that the
strikes are soon put to an end. —QX
(Abroad).
Marriage Loans
It isn’t fair to compare modern couples
with our grandparents (B. 19/11/’4l)-
To suggest that our grandparents “never
required any ‘sops’ to encourage them
to settle down” may be right, but living
conditions were different then. People
were content to cool butter by burying
it in flowerpots, and to ice water by hang-
ing a bag up in the shade ; they were con-
tent because they knew no better. If
they wanted music they grabbed the
accordeon and gave it hell—and didn’t
have to pay a yearly listener’s license
which (in exchange for world-wide in-
terests) even they might have considered
a good bargain. What couple except a
very dopey one doesn’t want a good ice-
box, if not a refrigerator, today? Such
items, essential to health and to our
advanced (but in no way ostentatious)
modern ideas of comfort, cost money
which would probably have bought a
couple of horses for grandpa.
Then there’s all the rest of our modern
home comforts and radio, etc., to say no-
thing of more elaborate schemes of in-
surance, hospital funds and so on, all
of which are good ideas but have to be
paid for in hard cash.
To live as our forefathers did would
be to slip backwards. And for them to
have lived as we today should live means
they’d have certainly needed “encourage-
ment” in addition to a stout heart and
willing hands if they wanted to settle
down. Marriage loans can’t be classed
as a charity stunt. Until price-levels fall
or wages rise, or some miracle Govern-
ment produces a perfectly-run State,
loans will be mere necessities. —M.
(N.S.W.).
Uniforms for Domestics
On 4 /11 / ’4l Sydney “Herald” gave
prominence, on its leader page under the
heading “Shortage of Domestics,” to a
statement by a Mr. Bellemore, Under-
secretary of the Department of Labor
and Industry, that “if domestic work
were recognised by the military authorities
as war work, and if domestics were per-
mitted to wear uniforms to give them the
status of war workers, there would not
be the present shortage of domestics.”
Did anyone ever read such piffle in
war- or peace-time? Most women
engaged in domestic work have too much
sense to adopt such a futile suggestion
even if it were supported by the “military
authorities,” but that need not deter Mr.
B. from making other bright proposals
towards a greater “war effort.” He and
Percy Spender between them might evolve
something really natty in the way of
uniforms for mistresses. They will be
the real heroines if they can afford to
pay for “help” after Chifley and McKell
have finished with their incomes.— Malik
(N.S.W.).
Tuppence Ha’penny
It is just 30 years since an Australian,
by sticking to his guns, brought about
Empire penny postage.
A 1941 Australian Government can
think of a way of reducing the use of
postal facilities by making the charge
2 yd.
Brilliant commercial intelligence!
d.d.(Q).
A Glass of Wine
Winegrowers have long pleaded in vain
with successive N. S. Wales Governments
to amend the State Liquor Act so that
unfortified wines may be sold with
meals in approved restaurants. They
argue that the Liquor Act permits hotels
(which are mainly interested in the sale
of beer) to sell all kinds of liquor with
meals until 9 p.m., but denies restaurants
the right to sell even light wines to
diners. They also contend that, as the
export of wine has virtually ceased be-
cause of shortage of shipping space, it
is all the more necessary to promote
home consumption if their industry and
vineyards are to survive.
Further, the industry has reached its
present proportions largely because the
Repatriation and State authorities settled
hundreds of ex-Diggers on irrigation
farms and financed and advised them to
plant wine grapes. As a result the M.I.
areas alone, with 25,000 tons of grapes
this year, produces over 90 p.c. of the
Ma State’s vintage, and another heavy
crop is in sight.
The noisy prohibitionist minority has
recently raised Cain in the daily press to
the effect that the Act should not be
amended until “after the war.” These
patriots are helping to kick the old
Digger in the neck. The Second A.I.F.
is fighting, among other things, for civil
liberties ; must these boys return to find
that our wowser-ridden politicians are
still frightened to allow Australians to
eat and drink in the manner of civilised
people in other lands? — Yabbie (N.S.W.).
The Teacher’s Place
Logic nowadays has fallen into dis-
repute, reason is never referred to,
oratory and even humor have gone, we
build up a bogey or a hero, little phrases
like “leave the pupils to themselves”
usurp the place of wisdom. As your art
writer (B. 3/9/’4l) points out, this coolly
assumes that the highest art is a product
of instinct, that training is destructive of
the artistic sense!
Now our modern artists by distorting
form, etc., seem to have developed a de-
ceptive or bluffing technique. We ordi-
nary mortals gaze or gape at a picture,
and wonder what it is all about, there
being nothing like it on the earth or
under the sea. It conveys no message, so
perhaps, like a hieroglyphic, it may em-
body some profound mystery or the
workings of an inscrutable mind. We
may be in touch with the infinite, but
then comfortingly one reflects that now
and again these moderns come down to
earth in the daily press, that their inter-
pretations of current situations are not
subtle —are, in fact, very ordinary—these
super artists being just of the same clay
as the common or garden journalist or
teacher.
Recently some travellers returned from
an expensive trip supposed to be in the
cause of education. With them they
brought children’s drawings from dif-
ferent parts of the Empire. The Gov-
ernor opened the show, and we gazed
with industrious or simulated apprecia-
tion. In the drawings, environment didn’t
seem to count for much; in fact, the chief
influences seemed to have been the
familiar comics and films.
Well, some day some comparatively
uneducated man may find out that
random influences, spectacular appeals
are not the true bases of art or other edu-
cation, and that after all there may be
something in teaching.
The good teacher helps development,
raises the ordinary, gives the original
something on which to build, represses
humbug and charlatanism, yet we are
gravely told he is superfluous.
Why were we left to ourselves? Why
did not someone give us lessons in color
and color shades? Here we are insen-
sible to the beauties of nature ; when we
see a beautiful authentic picture we doubt
its reality!
For untold ages man was left to the
working of the subconscious, the dream
and other Freudian influences. He didn’t
go very far. Then great teachers, the
greatest of the human race, appeared,
and the reaction to them was civilisation
as we know it. The greatest of all
teachers did not leave the little children
to themselves. —M. McC. (N.S.W.).
“Put your shirts on at once—you look like a lot of navvies!


Want to reduce the
cost of Your motoring?
True economy comes only when your
spark plugs are giving strong, hot
sparks. When fuel is burned
completely you get full value
in speed, power and brisk ac-
celeration. Let new Champion
Spark Plugs bring this true econ-
omy to your car’s op-
eration. They actu-
ally pay for
themselves in
fuel savings.
Factories,
Feltham,Eng. |
Windsor, Can. j
Toledo, USA. j
I
SS'Vp
\
lA\\h
\m
m
a im
mm
m
CONTAINS SILLMENT
THE MIRACLE MINERAL
Sillment seals Cham-
pions against trouble-
some leakage, at the
shoulder and past the
center electrode, com-
mon to ordinary spark
plugs. This patented
feature corrects rough,
uneven and wasteful
engine operation
caused by leaky, over-
heated spark plugs.
Install new
Champion Spark Plugs!
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.; F. E. Loxton, Esq.;
Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., 0.M.G.; E. E. D. White, Esq.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
HIRE PURCHASE LAW IN N.S.W.
by
J. B. COLLIER, Esq., Barrister.
A comprehensive and practical work explaining the new Hire Purchase Act
which completely revolutionises all Hire Purchase transactions in N.S.W.
The work contains the full text of the Act, with notes and working examples,
also a Summary of the new provisions, notes on requirements in other States and
a draft Hire Purchase Agreement illustrating clearly the new requirements of the Act.
Fully indexed. 130 pages.
15/- (postage extra)
From the Publishers —
BUTTERWORTH & CO. (Australia), LIMITED
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. Tel. 81293, 81446.
OurserviceDepartment
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to jell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Man, 38, accounts and storebeeping exp.
large island firm, seeks bookkeeper’s and/or
storekeeper’s position on large Queensland or
NSW station. Previous exp. with cattle,
sheep and horses. Must be outback, loneliness
no disadvantage. January-February.—2956.
Dental mechanic seeks position in Brisbane.
—2963.
To buy Marine Propellers, by Barnaby; state
price and condition. 2965.
To buy artist’s color box (oils) and materials.
—2964.
To buy Vol. 9 of Encyclopedia Britannica
(ninth edition); state price and condition. —
2962.
To buy holey dollar and dump.—2961.
To buy files of “The Australian Women’s
Weekly” " previous to 1939. —2957.
Information regarding the late Oswald Blox-
some, one of the first settlers in the New
England district, N. S. Wales, and his descen-
dants. —2960.
Information Sought.
What is the distance by water from Sydney
to New York ? —2954.
There are numerous routes. Via Cape of
Good Hope the distance is 13,306 nautical
miles and 15,322 statute. Via Magellan Strait
the figures are 12,779 naut. and 14,716 stat.;
via Panama and direct, 9691 and 11,160; via
Panama and Tahiti, 9811 and 11,298; via St.
Vincent and Capetown, 13,402 and 15,433 ; via
St. Vincent, Cape of Good Hope, Adelaide
and Melbourne, 13,734 and 15,826. Using
the Suez route, the trip covers 13,455 naut.
and 15,494 stat. miles.
* * * *
Which of the stanzas 31 to 34 of “Adonais”
refer to Shelley himself, and which, if any, refer
to Keats? —2953.
That Shelley was describing himself in all
three stanzas seems the most tenable hypothesis.
English public opinion at that time regarded
him as a subversive influence, the English
Courts had ruled that he was not a fit and
proper person to have the education of his
children by his first wife Harriet, and he was
living practically ostracised in Italy. Hence
“herd-abandoned deer” would be an apt de-
scription. He called himself “the wounded
deer” in a poem he wrote to Jane and Edward
Williams about this time.
* * ♦ »
Any information regarding American charity
known as “The Hundred Cases” ? —2969.
It is called the Hundred Neediest Cases
Fund and was established by the New York
“Times” about 30 years ago to assist in the
rehabilitation and restoration to self-support
of those in want. The newspaper issues appeals
in December of each year, and to date its
readers have contributed well over five million
dollars to the cause. Ten New York charity
organisations take part in the appeal, designate
the 100 neediest within their knowledge and
supervise the distribution and application of
the- contributions.
* * * *
Method of curing and smoking fish in small
quantities? —2898.
Immediately after catching the fish clean them
well, wash thoroughly in cold salted water,
drain, and when quite dry rub each fish inside
and out with common kitchen salt (if fish are
very thick split them open right down). Leave
in salt 24 hours, then mix 2oz. salt, loz. salt-
petre and loz. brown sugar (or larger quanti-
ties in proportion) and rub into fish. Lay
them on large dish, cover with fine salt, leave
two days, turn over and repeat. Do this daily
for three days longer, then drain and smoke in
smoke-house or -box for 24 hours. Before use
soak to remove salt.
* * * *
(1) In what Australian waters is pearl-shell
fished for? (2) Any commercial operation of
trochus-shell ? (3) Any information regarding
the Royal Commission on the pearl-shell indus-
try ?— 2967.
(1) Pearl-shelling is carried on in the tropical
waters of Queensland, the N.T. and W.A.
The pearl oyster is found in the northern and
western coastal waters from Cape York to
Shark Bay, a shoreline of over 2000 miles.
(2) The value of Australian trochus-shell ex-
ported during 1938-39 was £34,166. (3) It was
originally determined, in accordance with the
White Australia policy, to restrict and ulti-
mately do away with the employment of Asiatic
labor in the pearl-shelling industry, and it was
proposed that after December 3l, 1913, no
more permits to bring in Asiatics for the pearl-
ing fleet should be issued. However, in view
of the disorganisation of the industry during
the last war, the time was extended to June
30, 1918, after which permits for Asiatic
labor were to be issued only in cases where
the diver and tender of a boat were Europeans.
The Royal Commission was appointed in
March, 1912, and presented its final report in
1916. It did not consider it advisable or
profitable to attempt to transfer the industry
from Asiatics to Europeans or that the White
Australia policy would be weakened or im-
perilled by allowing the industry to continue
as then conducted.
* * * *
When was the N.S.W. Department of Main
Roads formed, and from what sources does it
derive its funds? (2) What classes of roads
does it support? —2980.
(1) A central authority, which is now the
Department of Main Roads, was created by
legislation early in 1925 for the purpose of
providing improved and uniform standards of
construction and maintenance of the principal
roads, and to administer Government subsidies
for work on these roads. Its funds are derived
principally from taxation of motor vehicles, con-
tributions by the Commonwealth Government
from the proceeds of tax on petrol, direct
contributions by councils and special (not
statutory) assistance by the State Government
by way of loan moneys or special grants from
revenue funds. (2) Five classifications of roads
receive assistance from the central authority:
State highways, which are principal roads be-
tween the coast and the interior or throughout
the State and connecting with such roads in
other States; trunk roads, or roads which, being
secondary avenues or road communication,
form with the State highways and other trunk
roads a framework of a general system of inter-
communication throughout the State; ordinary
main roads, which are used principally by
through traffic between towns or important
centres of population and which, with the
State highways and trunk roads, form part of
the general road system throughout the State;
secondary roads, or roads in the metropolitan
area of Sydney which carry a substantial amount
of through traffic, relieving neighboring main
roads; developmental roads, which are serving
to develop a district or area of land by im-
proving or providing access to a railway station
or a shipping wharf.
* * * *
I will shortly be putting my property in
agents’ hands for sale. Any tips that may help
me steer clear of commission trouble? —3010.
Most of that sort of trouble can be avoided
if you use a little business caution. For in-
stance, if the property is given to several agents
you should in each case state in writing that
you will pay commision (amount named) only
to the agent who introduces the ultimate pur-
chaser. When the contract is signed, notify
all agents by letter or advertisement that the
property is sold. Should you decide to raise
your price after putting the property in several
agents’ hands notify all agents, stating the in-
creased price. If you neglect to do this and an
agent who has not been informed of the new
price brings a buyer to inspect at the old price
you will be placed in a position from which
it may cost you something to escape. It is also
advisable, if an agent introduces a buyer who
does not then close the deal, for you to de-
cline to negotiate with the same buyer through
another agent later on. If you make a deal
through the second agent you will probably
have to pay commission to both. Therefore it
is best to be off with the old agent before you
are on with the new.
* * * *
How to remove stopper that has become
fast in a crystal wine decanter? Have tried
heating without success. —2946.
Wring a rag out of hot water, wrap it round
the neck of decanter while holding stopper with
ice-cold wet rag. If this fails, put warm
sweet oil around stopper, leave for a day,
then repeat hot-cold applications.
* * * *
How to get rid of earthworms which are
throwing up casts and spoiling the evenness
of a couch-grass lawn ? —2983.
Top-dress the affected; lawn with one of the
many manurial insecticides, then water heavily.
Another treatment is to lime the grass thickly,
followed the next day with a heavy brushing
with a coarse broom, and the following day
give a heavy watering. Three treatments at
weekly intervals will often be sufficient. If
this treatment is unsuccessful, replace the
affected turf with fresh squares.
* * * *
I wish to grow a protective hedge at a Syd-
ney seaside suburb. (1) What shrubs are suit-
able ? (2) Other methods which can be em-
ployed ? —2970.
(1) Coprosmas and durantas are strong-grow-
ing evergreen shrubs which thrive near the sea.
Planted 3ft. apart, with care they will grow to
Bft. high and stand heavy pruning. The
coprosmas are Baueriana (green foliage), Baueri-
ana variegata (green and silver foliage) and
Lucida (green); the durantas are Plumierii (blue
flowers), Plumierii alba (white flowers) and
Plumierii variegata (silver and green foliage).
(2) Erect a split post-and-rail fence and nail
on it laced hoop-iron or heavy wire-netting.
On this grow climbing plants such as bignonias,
dolichos and convolvulus. Set them in, kero.-
tins or hardwood boxes or rich soil, and by
the time the containers decay the climbers will
be established.
* * * *
Method of cleaning the hood and side cur-
tains of a car with ammonia? —29lo.
Add just enough cloudy ammonia to water
to make it milky and “soft” to the feel; wash
with fluffiess rag and finish with chamois.
Polishing the curtains with Brasso and the
hood with shoe-polish will give a good finish.
* * * sfc
Recipe for preserving passionfruit in liquid
form ? —2912.
Make a syrup of three cups of water, three
cups of sugar, three teaspoons of citric acid
and boil for five minutes, add pulp of 12
passions, take off stove and beat till seeds are free
from pulp. When cool, strain and bottle.
Keep in cool place. Two tablespoonfuls in a
glass of water make a very nice drink.
* * m
(1) In a cricket match the batting side needed
two runs to win with six wickets in hand, when
a wicket fell in the middle of the over with one
minute to play. Was the umpire correct in re-
moving bails showing play had finished? (2)
What is the regulation weight and size of a
cricket ball? —2958.
(1) The Marylebone Cricket Club’s note on
Rule 13 of the Laws of Cricket reads: “If
a wicket fall within two minutes of ‘time’ the
umpires shall call ‘time’ unless the incoming
batsman claims his right to bat for the time
remaining.” (2) The ball should not weigh
less than 5-Joz. nor exceed s£oz.; the cir-
cumference must not be less than 8 13-16th in.
nor more than 9in.
* * * ♦
What are the ages of English boxers Net
Tarleton and Jack (“Kid”) Berg? When did
they begin boxing, and have they finished their
careers? What championships did each win?
—2729.
Tarleton, 35, began boxing in 1926 and Berg,
32, in 1924. Both are still active, Tarleton
being featherweight champion of Great Britain.
Berg held the British lightweight championship,
1934-36, and was outpointed by Ernie Roderick
early last month. Berg also held the world’s
junior welterweight title, 1930-31.
* * * *
Is Billy Conn still light-heavyweight cham-
pion of the world, or did he vacate that title
to fight Joe Louis for the world’s heavyweight
championship? If Conn did this, who is the
present light-heavyweight champion ? —2404.
Conn had to relinquish his title when he
signed articles to fight Louis. Gus Lesnevich
(whom Ron Richards outpointed in Sydney in
1938) is now recognised as light-heavyweight
champion of the world.
Orief Answers.
F.R.M.: See that the location of the path-
way is thoroughly drained and that no water
is allowed to acccumulate underneath the con-
struction after it has been laid. If it is on dry
sandy soil no special attention is needed beyond
digging to a depth of about 4in. or Sin. and
ramming until the excavation is thoroughly
compacted. If the soil is moist or likely to
become moist through seepage dig it out
to about lOin. or llin. and fill with enough
ashes, clinkers and broken brick or stone so
that after ramming the excavation is about Sin.
below the proposed surface J.E.W.: The
colors carried by those Melbourne Cup winners
were; Catalogue, cerise, gold spots and cap;
Wotan, pale blue, gold collar, cuffs and cap;
Marabou, royal blue and white stripes, yellow
sleeves and cap; Peter Pan, orange and green
hoops, green cap; Phar Lap, red, black-and-
white hooped sleeves; Carbine, black, white
sleeves and scarlet cap.... Mrs. A.J.: Depends
on what is meant by “valuable deposit.” If
you refer to some mineral, ownership, with
certain exceptions, notably gold, is usually vested
in the owner of the land. If not a mineral,
do not quite understand what protection you
need... .M.J.G.: Steep genuine beeswax in
pure turpentine (enough of each to make a
paste like soft ointment) and bring mixture to
blood heat by standing container in hot water.
Apply thinly to scratched surface and rub
vigorously with a swab of flannel till polished.
Apply and polish daily till scratches disappear.
M.W.M.: There is no likelihood of the sweat
stain being removed (except by cutting it out).
Better buy another pair of pants E.P.C.:
One of the dry ochres or chromes would blend
better with whitewash... .J.A.C.: In order to
legally change your name you would have to
file a deed poll with the Registrar-General at
the Titles Office, Melbourne. There is a small
fee....E.A.: Write to the Officer-in-Charge,
Munitions Employment Bureau, 132 George-
street North, Sydney Carper: Yes, the titles
of the Fanning and Hewitt pictures (B.
26/11 / ’4l) got mixed. These things do happen
occasionally.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused: —•
L.O’D.:
Join up and fight, you able men,
Join up, join up, join up !
Put all your strength into the fight.
And drink from Victory’s Cup.
J.H.: —
We are the greatest soldiers.
And possess the greatest fleet;
Our airmen are unbeaten,
And they challengingly hold the sky.
So as Germany now opposes us
She 'will be the next to die.
... .W.S.G.: Feeble and fallacious... .A.C.:
Send it to the lady W.J.; Slipshod
G.A.D.: Much too late M.E.D.: After
reading “In the Dark” most people would be.
F.F.C.: “The Captain’s Missus” over-
works the long arm of coincidence J.K.R.:
Ruined an otherwise pleasant day....P.F.:
Father Christmas always turns up in the guise
of a long-lost parent about this time....
W.F.P.: “The Pet Rabbit’s Death” wrung tears
from us, but no cash T.W.: “Never, Never.”
No, never R.P.V.-H.: Referred that sword-
swallowing gentleman on to the chief chucker-
out... .J.H.: “Holiday” a long way 0ff....
V.8.R.: “The Speedster” hurtled through the
front door, down the corridor and into the
w.p.b Curves: Promising; a little more
experience should help... .N.R.W.; A very
dull rigmarole C.R.M.: It’s all still a mys-
tery. .. .L.T.D.: Not tempted by “The Road
to Perdition”... .DJ.P.: Not quite bad
enough to be published as a shocking example.
) ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.L.W.: Why so wiggly a line? ... .J.8.D.:
You’re a little young yet. Try us again when
you get to high school C.S.: A feeble jest.
B.K.: Three drawings in three entirely
different styles, all painstakingly copied from
three of our regulars—No! M.0.P.: Same
old drunk with same old crayfish T.R.S.:
It’s on record that Napoleon had to tickle
himself to raise a grin over that gag W.E.:
Humorless, all of them R.L.D.: You’re
doing well with the landscapes; have another
look at the figures in the foreground H.P.:
Map-makers might be interested F.R.S.:
Can’t see that sinister-looking burglar getting
anything out of our safe J.E.F.: The female
figures all look as if they’ve been lifted out of
a dress-shop window... .M.C.: Afraid it’s
hopeless; try some other way of earning a
living, brother.


im
33
m
£
'LLf>
YES- ikey
had everything
while he lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD. A
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. V. PE<BKINS, General Manager.
28118
32/6
A 238
Special Broad Last Shoe
If broad feet have made it impossible for you to
get a shoe that is really comfortable, try this
new Abbey Shape; you’ll be more than satisfied.
Made especially for men with broad
feet, this Abbey Shoe is exceptional
value. Made with a plain stitched
vamp and cap, in highly polished
Black Calf. Stocked in full and half
sizes in wide fittings. Order TODAY
while stocks last.
ABBEY
i SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
All Types of Luggage Stocked
!
OVERNIGHT BAGS
Calf Leathers, Outside Pockets.
.45/-
English Frame
C. E. KITCHING
319 George Street, Sydney.
(Near Wynyard Station.)
PTY.
LTD.
SMOKE-OH!
“They frequently went together to the old
stye dances.” — “D.T.”
Pigging it with the rest of the revellers.
4* 4* 4< 4*
“He signed the pledge, but abstinence did
not suit him. He became thin, a shadow
of his old self.” — “D.T.”
A teetotal wreck, in short.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“For several days after the party he felt
hopelessly confused and dizzy.”
—Magazine story.
Must have been a stunning party!
4* 4> 4 1 4*
“After all, he told himself, it was hie own
house, and he was master.”— Woman’s paper.
Hic-xactly! The man had come home
drunk!
4* 4 1 4* 4>
“Some men, allergic to alcohol, develop a
rash even after having one glass of beer.”
—Medical journal.
4> 4> 4* 4 1
“As his wife raved, he remembered how he
loved to play marbles when a boy.”— “D.T.”
Probably feeling that he still had to
knuckle down.
4 1 4* 4* 4*
“Ronolive appeared to be hopelessly out of
it when she got into top gear and sailed round
the field to a forward position at the home
turn, where she went wide.” — “Sporting Globe.”
Metaphorically speaking.
“Shave for me, ’aircut for Mary!”
“He stood confused, mouthing unintelli-
gently, mumbling strange sounds.”
—Short story.
The poor devil had forgotten to put
his teeth in.
Many a woman knows that a bare-
faced lie has whiskers on it.
“The bull escaped while being driven to the
arena for the bullock-riding contest.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
And only just in time.
4* ❖ 4*
“A U.S.A. conference hopes to standardise
the length, breadth and holding power of
clothes pegs.”
This will necessitate measuring the
pulling power of a pair of X.O.S.
bloomers in a north-east gale.
■J* 4* 4* 4*
“As a former Boy Scout he was sceptical.”
— “Sun.”
Scouted the idea.
Second Thought.
“Curled eyelashes are favored by Holly-
wood.” — Fashion note.
Oh, Daphne is a glamor girl
With carmined lips, so sweetly smiling.
From shaded eyelids witching, curl
Mascara’d lashes, dark, beguiling.
Veiled are those eyes. Ah, shall I stay
To meet that bright glance? Dare I
linger ?
Nay. While there’s time I’ll get away —
For fear she’ll curl me round her
finger !
Q.
I know a lot of fellows who
Get this way on the amber brew.
For when, they have one little spot
They then get rash and have a lot!
NAT.
Personal Tragedy.
“Women lifesavers may soon guard our
beaches.” — “Daily Telegraph.’ 1 '
Grave-eyed, he was reminiscing to a
friend:
“I met her during the war, just after the
women took over the life-saving jobs. I
got into difficulties at Bondi one day, and,
if it hadn’t been for her, I wouldn’t be
here now! Yes, she saved my life just
as I was going down for the third time!
I’ll never forget it!
“After that we got pretty friendly. 1
tried to show her my gratitude as well
as I could, taking her around, and buying
her presents. In fact, I felt so indebted
to her that I finally married her.
“So now I wish to hell that she’d let
me drown!”
N.
Defiance.
You shay I’m the worse — hie —for liquor.
I declare that you’re jush telling liesh !
Whash more, my dear friend, I sinsherely
intend
To blacken — hie —both of your eyesh !
In fac’, I would wipe out the insult
Right here in the midst of the streetsh,
But you’re far too afraid to come to my
aid
By ashishting me — hie —to my feetsh !
T. W. N.
Hosts and Hostages.
With Christmas almost upon us you’ll
doubtless be interested in a couple of
hints for the coming festivities. Indeed,
the host of the future neglects them at
his peril.
Between drinks your guests will be
ready, eager for a little spirited fun and
games. For just such a moment there is
nothing better than “Flat Forfeits.” You
need only a second floor or higher flat.
The game begins by the host putting on
his heaviest boots. He then springs high
into the air and lands with a crash on
the floor. The guests follow suit, keeping
time to suitable music. The length of
the game must be carefully judged and
should be stopped immediately on any
waving of the walls. Sooner or later the
tenant of the flat downstairs will speed
upstairs. Any guest is then permitted to
dong him. Your neighbor thus Pays the
Forfeit.
After this you will find that the even-
ing takes care of itself and you won’t
have to worry about it at all, until you
appear before the magistrate next morn-
ing. What happens then is out of your
hands, anyway.
H. H. W.
An Inside Story.
“Because the taxidermist of the National
Museum was in Melbourne on holidays.
Princess Alice, famous Wirths’ Circus elephant,
had to be cremated.”
Nobody could blame any taxidermist
for thus arranging to take his annual
vacation immediately prior to the demise
of a pachyderm. And who could regard
his action with more sympathy and un-
derstanding than I?
One morning a huge pantechnicon
drew up before the door of my suburban
shop. A man beside the driver stood up.
His was truly a striking figure. He
could have been aptly described as a fair
and square man. Fully five feet high
and of the same width, he had a mop
of snowy hair. He was dressed quietly
in yellow duck kilts and a sporran and
a bottle-green Astrakhan lumber jacket,
over which was slung a bandolier. Leap-
ing to the ground with remarkable agility,
he made a deep obeisance before me.
As he looked up I recognised the much-
photographed features of Jock McMandel-
baum, the famous pledge fancier and
big-game hunter.
A bluff fellow, he came to the point
immediately. He asked what would be
the price for stuffing a rhinoceros he
had shot in Africa and had brought over
in cold storage.
“What for?” I asked.
“As leedle as possible,” he replied.
“But why don’t you go to a taxider-
mist?” I asked.
McMandelbaum’s face went a deep
violet with the intensity of his emotions.
“Ah did, mon,” he burst out after he
had mastered them. “But the thievin’
blank vanted to char-rge vhat vould have
pought a whole herd o’ the beesties. ‘Na
muckle!’ Ah told him. ‘Ah vill go else-
vhere!’ And here Ah am.”
“But I’m only a horsehair-sofa-stuffer,”
I protested.
“Veil,” he said, “if you can stuff horse-
hair sofas surely you can stuff a simple
thing like a rhino!”
Well, business was a bit slack, so after
a couple of hours haggling over the price
I agreed to give it a fly. He had the
animal in the pantechnicon. My work-
room was 10 x 6, about the same size
as the rhino.
I could have squeezed it into the
room, but it would have left me only
the corners to work in ; also, the carcass
would have filled the window and blotted
out all light, and the squeezing to get it
in might have taken the hair off. There
was only one thing for it—the lounge-
room in the attached residence.
After much heaving and straining we
eventually managed to get the rhino in
on rollers, wedging it between the palm-
stand and the gramophone.
After McMandelbaum had gone I
turned to Basil, my assistant. He is a
long, thin, nuggety fellow who lisps with
a double hiccup. “Well,” I said, “we’d
better get it finished before Mrs, Bohn-
dome gets home. You know how she
hates untidiness. Just chock his mouth
open with something while I ram the
horsehair down.”
“But what about his inside?” asked
Basil. The original ideas my assistant
gets sometimes positively startle me.
“By Jove!” I said. “But surely the
fellow would have had the decency to
gut his own animal before asking me to
do the job!”
Basil carefully felt the rhino all over.
“No,” he announced. “There seems to
be just as much of him as the one in
the zoo.”
Now I am not one to dingo a con-
tract I have entered into. Moreover,
there is a broad streak of iron determi-
nation running through me. I had gutted
flathead on my fishing excursions. You
simply slit across the gills and down the
stomach. I instructed Basil to go ahead
by this method, using a sharp meat-
chopper.
It must have been about half an hour
later, the while I was puzzling out how
I was to get the horsehair down into the
rhino’s legs, assuming they were hollow,
that I looked up to see Basil with a wor-
ried look searching among the folds of
the animal’s neck.
“What are you looking for?” I
snapped.
“His gills,” he said.
At great length I explained that only
the mammalian fishes have gills. He’d
have to slit the animal’s throat and then
hack it straight down the gizzard to the
tail. I made him wait before commenc-
ing, though, while I got the toilet basin
from the bedroom to put under it. I
was taking no risks of spoiling the new
Wilton-pile carpet.
I had almost forgotten the sound
of Basil’s steady chopping as, down
on my hands and knees with my
tape-measure, I was calculating the
cubic yardage of horsehair I’d need.
Suddenly Basil must have a
soft, yielding bit of the under-belly,
for there was a rushing, gluppy sort
of sound, and a second later I was
engulfed. Fighting my way up through
about seven miles of convoluted intes-
tines, I rose to the surface with a kidney
the size of a baby’s bathtub clinging to
my right ear. Basil had slipped off with
the sudden internal collapse of the rhino
and was sitting up to his chest in innards.
Wildly I looked around. A chair was
just floating out the door, and what looked
like the animal’s lights was settling
slowly on the turntable of the almost
submerged gramophone.
It was at that instant that the wife
walked in.
BO.


i!U!
L~
WITH WHICH IS AMALGAMATED
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
A thorough, comprehensive and efficient service
—founded on traditions of more than a century of
sound Banking—combined with a progressive policy and
extensive organisation, enables THE COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LIMITED, to offer every facility for
the transaction of all classes of Banking Business.
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.; Robert Vicars.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors - . . , T „
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS GOTLAND
PFPTL TT DOYLE A. E. BO.ND vv *
° E V T WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Business,Rollery,etc
Sangara Rubber Plantations
Yet another radio-advertised rubber
outfit from New Guinea is after money.
Or, at least, a Mr. H. Godfrey-Smith is
after money on its behalf. It appa-
rently owns or leases land said to be
suitable for rubber-growing at Sangara,
near Buna, on Papua’s northern coast.
The set-up of the thing is difficult to
follow owing partly to the fact that the
co.’s medium, Mr. Smith, has so much
to do with the outer world and the co.
itself so little. It’s a case of “Meet Mr.
Smith” most of the time. Mr. Smith
even suggests that you authorise him to
buy acres of Sangara rubber lands for
you, provided, of course, that you in-
clude a cheque for at least a deposit—•
at the rate of £75 an acre.
Douglas Stuart Wylie is also in-
volved in the proceedings somewhere. He
is a director of Sangara Investment Co.
(incorporated in Papua) and secretary of
Sangara Rubber Plantations (incorpor-
ated in Papua). Which company has to do
with what is not explained in Mr. Smith’s
booklet; Mr. Smith, indeed, is so given
over to enthusiasms about the uses of
rubber that he hasn’t devoted much space
to information that might be of real and
relevant value to the speculator. But,
although this paper doesn’t know much
about Mr. Smith, it remembers the name
of Douglas Stuart Wylie quite well. A
Douglas Stuart Wylie was a founder of
Smith, Wylie and Co. back in the early
1920’s (the Smith of that firm was H.
Landon Smith, not the present hyphen-
ated Smith), and this was the co. that
had most to do with the formation and
bond-selling campaign of N.Z. Perpetual
Forests. Mr. Wylie later on broke away
from these associations and became in-
terested in Putaruru Pine and Pulp. A
lot of people who put money into Puta-
ruru have not been entranced with results
to date.
There are other people concerned with
the official affairs of the Sangara cos.,
of course. There are directors, “trustees
and agents (the W.S. Investment Co.,
Ltd.),” and the usual officers, auditors
and bankers. But from the possible
speculator’s point of view the immediate
landscape is overshadowed by Mr. H.
Godfrey-Smith. On his letterhead his
name is printed in posterlike capitals.
Where it isn’t “with the compliments of
Mr. H. Godfrey-Smith” it’s “yours faith-
fully, H. Godfrey-Smith.” But his tele-
graphic and cable address isn’t “God-
smith” but “Dugwy.”
If you want to get in touch with Mr.
Smith, here’s one way. Write to him and
say you heard his rubber plantations
glamorised on the wireless. Ask him for
“more.” Most likely he’ll send you a
letter enclosing a booklet entitled “Land
of Wealth and Opportunity,” plus “a
pamphlet by Mr. Frank Clune,” plus a
price list of rubber acres, plus an applica-
tion form for rubber acres. In one such
letter he offers to call, and suggests that
you may call on him. But, if you do
want a date with him, ring him first, be-
cause he is “often engaged with outside
appointments.”
It seems, however, that you can take a
short-cut into Sangara rubber acres by
signing both the application form (en-
closed) and a cheque and dropping them
in the post. If you did that it would be
very unbusinesslike. Because the whole
of the data supplied in “Land of Wealth
and Opportunity” assays only a fraction
of the information a prudent investor
would want to see before considering put-
ting his money into a thing of this kind.
And if he saw all the information he
wanted, of course, there is always the pos-
sibility that he might decide to do other-
wise than invest.
If the booklet sent out by Mr. Smith
was anywhere called a prospectus it could
be correctly described as disgraceful; but
it is not called a prospectus. It is
simply called a booklet. As a booklet
of rubber notes and history it has points
of interest. But on the matter of profits
to be made out of rubber it is
rather too emphatic without being pre-
cise. It says, for instance, “Rubber
offers itself as one of the most promising
and profitable fields for investment in
the whole world. Profits are so large as
to seem incredible. This booklet will
indicate them to you.” It adds that “Not
even oil—that other mighty essential of
the modern world—possesses the abso-
lutely unchallengable position of rubber.”
Also, “Rubber—and the growing of
rubber—offers you the opportunity to
share in the immense profits of a com-
mercial pursuit which is still in its in-
fancy ” There is a lurid heading in
the booklet; “Not Lasseter’s Lost Reef
—or King Solomon’s Mines—just a
Papuan Rubber Plantation.”
The price is £75 per Sangara acre, on
terms. On prices ruling at October 10 an
“estimated annual return upon maturity”
of £4O per acre is estimated. There is also
some talk of “return not less than 44 p.c.
until maturity”—once the £75 is all paid.
People who are so much as interested
in the proposition put up by Sangara,
Mr. Godfrey-Smith and the W.S. Invest-
ment Co. should pause to consider the
activities of Koitaki Para Rubber, an
industrious Sydney co. with plantations
in Papua. Koitaki has been in the
rubber-growing game for many years —
Sangara mentions this, with some his-
tory —and it has benefited from the fact
that its production is readily imported by
Australia. It had 2243 acres of rubber
planted on June 30, 1083 acres being in
production, and it had a paid capital of
£75,214. The ord. shares could be bought
at 225. 6d. in Sydney, which is at the
rate of under £3B an acre. Put in an-
other way, at £75 an acre for the produc-
ing trees, you get almost an additional
acre not yet bearing, but well on the way.
And last term Koitaki paid a 10 p.c. div.,
compared with 12y p.c. in the preceding
term and an average of 5.7 p.c. over the
past 10 years. But, strong and well-estab-
lished as Koitaki Para Rubber is, it is
not paying divs. at the rate of £4O an
acre or anything like it. It would require
exceptional circumstances and prices,
even in favored Papua, to give reasonable
expectations in the region of that figure,
and exceptions, of course, are not the
rule.
There has been a rash of Papuan
rubber - growing flotations in Aus-
tralia over the past few years. After
The Bulletin had criticised one recently
the manager of a rubber co. in the Malay
States wrote in pointing out that it was
possible to buy into first-class div.-pay-
ing rubber properties in the F.M.S. at
less than £4O sterling an acre. But, quite
apart from the rubber industry itself, or
the profit possibilities or otherwise
attached to the Sangara co.’s steeply-
priced plantations, the mode of approach
to the intending speculator through
H. Godfrey-Smith is unconvincing and
objectionable.
It is suggested in Canberra that in the
first half of next year the Loan Council
will be on the market for between £5O
million and £7O million of new money.
Such an operation would dwarf the
money-raising activities by the council of
the last two occasions. The first of the
1941 loans asked for £35 million, and the
recently-filled loan required £3O million
of new money, the conversion of £7O mil-
lion being the principal thing. The large
loans forecast for 1941 arise as a matter
of course from the refusal of the Curtin
Government to use taxation in many of
the instances where taxation should be
used. Treasurer Chifley declines to tax,
in terms of money, the large body of
wage-earners who must be taxed in terms
of effort and output. From the point of
view of realities he should tax in terms
of money in order to get the effort and
output by the most direct and efficient
means. But so far Canberra Labor has
chosen to indulge in political kidstakes
rather than shape up squarely to realities.
It prefers to borrow where it could tax
without in any way reducing the living
standard more than it will have to be re-
duced even if borrowing or inflation, are
indulged in out of Labor’s preference.
Borrowing to finance non-reproductive
expenditure is wrong. The loan remains,
without any asset to earn the where-
withal to pay the interest. Yet by bor-
rowing the immediate burden of war is
not in any way lightened. We have to
contribute the materials and labor to
carry on the war in any case. It is only
sensible that we contribute the legal
tender—the money—to these things as
well. Legal tender floating round in ex-
excess of the values that remain after
shooting a large portion of a year’s labor
at the Germans means that we have in-
flation. And inflation means a following
depression. Labor’s war-finance policy
has post-war depression written all over
it. And it is a poor thing to serve the
immediate effort that is demanded.
* * * *
In the House of Representatives last
week the Government accepted an
amendment to the War-time (Company)
Tax Bill increasing the minimum rate of
earning on capital from 4 p.c. to 5 p.c.
Previously Mr. Fadden had endeavored
to have it lifted to 6 p.c., without success.
(The Fadden Budget retained the exemp-
tion at 8 p.c., with 4 p.c. steps in tax.)
The Senate later forced into the bill a
clause to limit the operation of the tax
to six months after the war. Mr. Chifley
had previously indicated to the Lower
House that this was not acceptable. Mr.
Fadden tried to get the steps of increase
lowered from 6 p.c. to 5 p.c., but his
motion was defeated.
An amendment to the main new in-
come-tax bill provides for a rebate of
tax to individuals or companies where
the combined Federal and State income
tax rises to above 18s. in the £. Instead
of being allowed in full as a deduction,
calls paid to mining and afforestation cos.
will be subject to a rebate of one-third
the rate of tax. Husband-and-wife in-
come tax will be limited to income from
assets transferred from one to the other,
and each will be assessed separately but
at a combined rate of tax.
* * * *
Regulations to introduce a war-time
licensing system to Australian trading
banks were gazetted in Canberra last
Wednesday. They mainly deal with the
Commonwealth Bank’s right to requisition
the trading banks’ “surplus deposits” at
a low rate of interest, the Common-
wealth Bank’s direction of advances and
investments, the restriction of bank
profits to 1936-39 levels, and with pub-
lication of bank balance sheets, etc. Mr.
Curtin said the regulations were planned
primarily to achieve the two following
purposes:
First, to ensure that the investment and
loan policy of the banks will accord with
the general principle laid down to govern
civil investment, thus closing a major gap
hitherto existing.
Secondly, they are designed to prevent
the war financial policy of the Government
increasing the profits of the private banks
and providing the basis for an unsound
expansion of credit.
The regulations more or less follow out
the recommendations of the banking
commission, with the exception that the
Treasurer is given more authority than
the commission recommended. They are
for the duration of the war. The Prime
Minister’s remarks about preventing “un-
sound expansion of credit” have rather an
ironic sound in view of the pattern the
Budget of his own Government takes.
$
In a good year the total earnings of
every company, individual and institution
in Australia would work out at less than
£3 a week for every man, woman and
child in the country. For each of the
3,000,000 income-earners it works out
at under £6 a week. “Comes the new
order and we’ll all be on £lO a week”?
It doesn’t look like it.
3fC * * *
Shareholders in Strand and Pitt-street
Properties have agreed to sell their
interest in the freehold for £6OOO. The
mortgagee is the buyer. The Strand co.,
which had a checkered career ever since
it was floated about a dozen years ago by
the Australian Investment Trust, is to
wind up voluntarily. Another large prop-
erty deal has lately gone through in Syd-
ney. Freehold Estates Pty. has bought
the Imperial Arcade from City Free-
holds for £600,000. City Freeholds, the
chief ord.-shareholder in which is Joynton
Smith, is paying off its pref. shareholders
at the average market price registered
over the last 12 months. The purchaser
has also bought the interest of Ruben
Uther’s trustees in 178-180 Pitt-street.
* * * *
Thompson’s Engineering, of Castle-
maine and Melbourne, is an unlisted
Victorian concern that is doing a big job
of defence work. Production last year
was on a substantially increased scale,
and profits, after setting aside £10,166
for depreciation but making no provision
for taxation, was £25,299, against £7153
in the previous term, when £7918 was put
aside for depreciation. Capital is £51,255,
but the outside debt totals £393,000. Pref.
divs. paid amounted to £1875. Making
no provision for an ord. div., the carry-
forward is £36,658, out of which heavy
but unascertained taxes will have to be
met. The co. is a capable builder of
mining machinery in peace-time, and its
products are widely known.
* * * *
Clyde Engineering, a Sydney shop well
known for its railway-carriage construc-
tion, has also been engaged on Govern-
ment work on a considerable scale. But
it made a loss of £15,969 for the term
to June 30 last; that was after writing
off £35,872 for depreciation. In the pre-
vious term the loss was £31,819, when


BRAN BALER’S
SS
m
PENS
i
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BKANDAOJiR * CO, I MI. BIRMINGHAM, UNO
<b T *
*
the
HAND OVER YOUR WORRY
The business of this Company is not only to relieve its clients of worry concerning
the future administration of their estates, but if desired to undertake for them
the efficient conduct of their personal business during lifetime, thus, those living in
retirement, or those whose professional duties are all-absorbing, can hand over to
the Company the supervision of investments and property, the preparation of income
tax returns, collection of rents, payment of rates and taxes, etc., with consequent
relief of mind, and positive assurance of competent, conscientious administration.
Full details of this service are contained in a special brochure entitled Hand Over
Your Worry" which will be forwarded free on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
TELEPHONE : B 7901 Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
TRIED a 77TS LATELY?
YOU'LL APPRECIATE THE
ERESH VIRGINIA TLAVOUR
I
iiii
N\ V
M
3;^
EXPRESS
OUALITI
liiiiiii
■
THREE SEMENS
MVRGVNV&
IcXGARtTTtS
V- i! .T.
Hi
■
r
St&te€x?KlSS
proo uct
y#
* THREE SEVENS *
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
VISCACELLE-WRAPPED FOR FRESHER FLAVOUR
no provision for depreciation was made.
The Clyde concern has been having a
rough passage for a period, but there
are possibilities of a change for the
better. A process of cleaning-up among
book values is going on that is absorb-
ing past provision for depreciation and
present trading surpluses. Shares in
the co. are not officially listed, but un-
officially they stand around ss. 6d.
« $ $ *
The sharemarkets were a little easier,
on the whole, last week, with turnover
slow. Broken Hill Prop, slipped back
from 375. 6d., ex div., to 375, Australian
Consolidated Industries ords. have been
weak at 435. 6d. Brewery shares relaxed,
Tooth in particular, and Barriers were
irregular but well below the prices paid
when first news of the U.S.A. lead-pur-
chase arrangements came to hand. Zinc
Corp. was on offer at 625. 6d., and except
for the taxation position—not improved
by the Chifley Budget, which disregards
taxes paid by British cos. with Australian
shareholders—these shares would have
particular attractions. As long-term pro-
positions they look interesting in any
case. The mine is opening up well.
North B.H. shares were available at 395.
9d., and South’s at 245. Mt. Lyell, the
Tasmanian copper show, has been com-
paratively firm since its annual figures
were published, even though the profit
claimed was down £13,777 after provid-
ing a slightly increased sum for taxation,
and the div. was reduced.
Howard Smith has been a particularly
steady stock. Last week it was still being
bought at 21s. 9d. Shipping shares as
a whole have been fairly firm. Cement
issues have perhaps been the steadiest
of all in 1941. Bank shares have been
dull as a result of the gazettal of the
regulations controlling much of their
activities, but there has been no panic.
There was a good shock provision in
the prices being paid even before the
Labor Government assumed office. Aus-
tralasian Paper has staged a smart re-
covery from the 335. being paid a few
weeks ago. There were sales at 365. last
week.
Malayan tin issues have been sold on
an increasing scale since the taxation of
overseas divs. became so solidly a part
of the Budget. Malaya is buying much
of the Australian offerings, though Aus-
tralian shareholders with small incomes
might find that the argument prompting
many larger shareholders to sell is not
so forcible in their case. Emperor (Fiji)
gold scrip has also been sold heavily, but
there has been a pick-up in the price here
after its first sudden crash.
* * * *
Sydney Water Board is on the market
for £900,000 of money at £3 1 Is. 3d. per
cent. Last time the rate was £3 15s. per
cent., term 14 years, at par. Present term
and price are the same. The yield now
offered is novel in that it is adjusted to
a sixteenth of one per cent., but it is
maintained at well above the prevailing
yield from Consols. I. B. Were and Son
have underwritten the issue, which should
be favorably received.
* * * *
Final div. by British Tobacco is of the
reduced amount of 1 p.c., making 9 p.c.
for the year, compared with 10 p.c. last
term. An interim quarterly in respect of
the current year is of 2 p.c. Usually
there are five distributions at this rate,
including the special final now reduced
to 1 p.c. Rationing of sales and taxa-
tion have probably affected profit-earning
considerably. The ords are at 425. 6d. on
’Change.
* * *
R. A. McWilliam, who reckons he can
improve on the past methods of running
the business, is seeking the support of
shareholders in P. and G. Finance, Syd-
ney, to requisition a special meeting of
the co. for the purpose, inter alia, of
appointing inspectors under Section 118
of the Companies Act.
* * * *
At the meeting of Herald and Weekly
Times, Ltd., Melbourne, chairman Theo-
dore Fink said that Canadian newsprint
costs were now double pre-war prices
landed in Australia, entirely because of
increased freight, insurance and exchange.
Canadian and U.S.A. basic prices have
not risen so far.
Commonwealth Government is to
advance up to a further £20,000 to Papuan
Apinaipi Petroleum. Repayment is to be
a first charge against profits, the Gov-
ernment will participate in earnings in
the proportion its loan bears to capital
for 10 years after the advance is repaid,
and there is to be a Government nominee
on the board. When the venture becomes
profit-earning, 5 p.c. interest is to be paid
on the advances, and the Government is
to have “pre-emptive rights to buy oil
at prices considered reasonable.”
* * * *
There was activity in Bradford Cotton
ords. shares last week. After sales at
prices down to 375. 3d., recovery to 38s.
3d. took place, and finally there was a
firming at around 38s. The present div.
is 10 p.c. p.a., and prospects look bright.
Though it has made progress over the
last three or four years, the co. is not
overcapitalised. Even at the present rate
of manufacture, output of the Australian
cotton-spinning and -weaving industry is
still well behind consumption.
* * * »
Last year’s wages bill in N. S. Wales
was £2ll million, compared with £l9O
million in 1939-40 and £lB4 million in
1938-39. Increase over the last pre-war
year is 15 p.c. Of the total wages paid
in 1940-41, seven-eighths was paid to
workers covered by the Workers’ Com-
pensation Act.


THE SERVICE MAN
H.M.A.S. Sydney Gone.
“Nobby II”; The last news of
H.M.A.S. Sydney came from the enemy.
A number of German sailors were picked
up. Their story was that they came from
a heavily-armed merchant raider, which
Sydney had sunk by gunfire.
There was, after that, dead silence
from the Australian ship. The Govern-
ment waited anxiously, and after a time
took the press into its confidence, but de-
layed publication of the news till hope
seemed to have gone and all the relatives
of the 42 officers and 603 men aboard
had been notified. Meanwhile, exten-
sive quartering of the ocean had been
made by aircraft without result.
On December 1 the Prime Minister’s
mournful statement was published:
Information has been received from
the Australian Naval Board that H.M.A.S.
Sydney has been in action with a heavily-
armed enemy merchant raider, which she
sank by gunfire.
The information was received from sur-
vivors from the enemy vessel, who were
picked up some time after the action.
No subsequent communication has been
received from H.M.A.S. Sydney, and
the Government regrets to say that it must
be presumed that she has been lost.
Extensive search by air and service units
to locate survivors continues....
While regretting the loss of a fine ship
and her gallant complement, the people of
Australia will be proud that she and they
upheld the traditions of the Royal Aus-
tralian Navy and completed her glorious
career in successful action against the
enemy.
Sydney was a modified Leander
(Amphion) cruiser of 6830 tons ; length,
552 feet; speed, 32£ knots. She carried
eight six-inch guns. She or sisters of
her mother classes, including Perth and
Hobart, had figured in every great en-
gagement of the war with distinction,
and her own record was splendid.
Under one of the first Australian-
trained captains to command an
H.M.A.S. ship, J. A. Collins, who took
command on Nov. 11, 1939, she served
the first months of the war in Australian
waters, sailed for the Mediterranean on
April 22, 1940, and returned home in
February, 1941.
In the meantime she had covered her-
self with glory. She was in the bombard-
ment of Bardia on June 20, 1940. She
helped to sink the destroyer Espero a
week later and rescued some of that
ship’s crew.
She was in the battle van off Calabria
on July 9, when the Italian fleet was
chased home by Cunningham’s watch-
dogs. On July 19, with a destroyer escort,
she came up with the cruisers Bartolomeo
Colleoni and the Giovanne delle Bande
Nere, of her equivalent class. Sydney
and her small escort of destroyers hastened
to close. The second Italian ship made
off and her superior speed got her away.
Sydney sank the Colleoni.
Later the cruiser was on convoy, took
part in several small actions and bom-
bardments, and was attacked from the
air again and again. She assisted to
transport the first Allied troops to Greece
before she came back to her home port
for recommissioning. Captain Joseph
Burnett —like Captain Collins, one of
the first graduates of the Jervis Bay Naval
College to rise to the rank of captain —
took command in May, three months
after her return.
In the interval of her absence her
crew had turned from a keen, boyish lot
into hard and husky war veterans.
Their divisions were proud of their repu-
tation as one of the world’s best gunnery
ships, and their spirit and calmness in
action were typified by the remark of
their captain in the Colleoni battle when
the Italian ships were first sighted:
“The men may just as well finish
their breakfast,” he said; “we should
have almost an hour.”
Finish their breakfast they did without
spoiling their aim, and when the battle
was joined at 19,000 yards they scored
the first hit on the Bande Nere.
Sydney had a special place in the hearts
of Australians. She was the daughter of
the Commonwealth’s first cruiser to be
blooded in battle at Cocos against the
Emden. Naval ships never die, and their
traditions and treasures are heired with
their names to descendants, like those of
human beings. She was the first ship
to score in a major operation in the
present war ; the first to be captained in
a major battle by an Australian, born
and trained, backed by an almost en-
tirely Australian crew firing Australian
ammunition.
In world-wide naval warfare, there
must be casualties among ships as among
men, and the Commonwealth as a whole
has every reason to be thankful that so
far ship losses have been so small, since
the performance of the Australian Navy
has been so great and the conduct of
crews so valiant.
But ships can be replaced, men never
in a personal sense. The gallant Burnett,
a native of Singleton (N.S.W.), executive
commander of the Canberra when she
was Rear-Admiral Lane Poole’s flagship.
Deputy Chief of the Naval Staff for a
time after war broke out, was one of the
two or three Australian-made officers
who would undoubtedly have been
among the first to rise to Australian flag-
rank and perhaps the command of the
Fleet. He leaves a wife and three young
children —two sons, of whom the elder
will shortly take up his father’s running.
The commander, Edmund Wyburgh
Thruston, D.S.C., was an Englishman of
the R.N. He had come into the R.A.N.
in 1935 and had been with Sydney since
a year after her coming to her home port
had earned his promotion to commander
in her. The rest of the wardroom mem-
bers were partly R.A.N, and partly R.N.,
but the crew were almost wholly Aus-
tralian.
All Australia mourns. The Bulletin
lives in the centre of that part of
Sydney which sailors frequent and in
which they take their pleasures when in
port. It feels deeply the loss of the men
who were a few weeks ago laughing every
day at the cartoons in its window, passing
gaily about near-by streets with their
womenfolk.
Every one of the relatives of these
great fighting men now vanished has the
sympathy of the management and staff,
some of whom themselves have naval
sons and relatives.
Increasingly Serious.
“Fong Tsz”: A week full of warnings
that Thailand had been invaded, that
Thailand was about to be invaded, that
war between U.S.A. and Japan was only
a matter of days, ended with President
Roosevelt, calm as ever, at Warm Springs,
Florida, and with the Japanese Premier
Tojo, at Tokyo, addressing a meeting
which celebrated the anniversary of the
entente cordiale with Wang Ching-wei’s
Government. He said there were “many
undesirable elements round eastern Asia
which must be rooted out,” and that
“British and American exploitation of
eastern Asia and the Communist menace
must be purged with a vengeance.”
American marines left Shanghai with
three U.S. river gunboats. Heavy
Japanese naval movements in the south
were reported. Tens of thousands of
Japanese were noticed by correspondents
entering Indo-China. Singapore wel-
comed another of its almost weekly
batches of reinforcements.
There is no disguising the fact that
the situation has become nasty, with the
whole Orient standing armed and expec-
tant and rumor-mongers applying their
conscienceless technique.
Mr. Roosevelt said on Friday that the
U.S. would not tolerate more Japanese
aggression and that China and Indo-
China must be freed. The next move,
he said, was up to Japan.
But, despite this statement and despite
General Tojo’s belligerent speech, warn-
ings from “Australian observers” in
Washington discounted the suggestion
that war was “a matter of days.”
Tobruk Bursts Its Bonds.
“Ek Dum”: Reporting of the earlier
stages of the Libyan battle was very little
above the standards of those day-to-day
historians of the Russian war.
Major-General Fuller remarked in Lon-
don that “G.H.Q. of Broadcasting House
had embarked on a campaign of words
bearing but a remote resemblance to
the sober announcements from G.H.Q.
Cairo.” The public had been told that
“the enemy had no chance of recovering
from the smashing initial blow,” but
Cairo “never released such desirable in-
formation.” Incidentally, capture of a
8.8. C. reporter and several correspon-
dents and newsreel men is claimed by the
enemy.
It is now clear enough that in the
first week of battle the Germans and
Italians were not “surrounded” in any
force. They appear to have been obliged
by their inability to take Tobruk to estab-
lish main lines somewhere north and
south of that fortress and perhaps behind
it so as not to risk a break-through from
the port on their rear. Between those
positions and the border there was 60 or
70 miles more or less no man’s land,
with some strong concentration points,
mainly for supply. Strong advanced
positions along the frontier lines —Sol-
ium, Bardia, Capuzzo, Halfaya Pass, Sidi
Omar —formed the basis of a defence line
holding the jump down of the escarpment
on to the Egyptian desert plains and the
routes to the main Tobruk and Cyrenai-
can approaches.
The British objective was to infiltrate
this country with three main drives, while
isolating the border positions. One of
these was to be made by the Maorilanders
on the northern seaboard plain with Mus-
solini’s Via Imperiale, which is mostly
in sight of the sea, and a loop road
through Gambut, a few miles inland near
the escarpment. Another went along the
top of the escarpment down Enver
Pasha’s old Trigh Capuzzo to Sidi
Rezegh, 10 miles east of El Adem aero-
drome, which, in turn, is 10 miles s.-e. of
Tobruk’s inner perimeter, where Musso.’s
road enters it near Sidi Mahmoud.
A third drive of British and S. Africans
pushed 50 miles south of the escarpment,
which is a narrow shelf dropping on that
side into the desert a bit less sharply than
it does on to the plain on the north.
This grabbed the El Gubbi aerodrome
on the Tobruk-El Adem-Jarabub road, 35
miles from Tobruk perimeter, A drive
from Jarabub made for the Benghazi-
Tripoli road 400-odd miles away.
The advance on the escarpment reached
Sidi Rezegh in short order.
And the Maorilanders’ progress in the
northern sector was swift. At dawn on
Nov. 18 their lorries had been rolling
back the rusty wire on Musso.’s dis-
carded border south of Sidi Omar. Three
days later they had their Wurst und
Kaffee gratis in Capuzzo. On Nov. 23
they were in and past Bardia and rolled
into Gambut. They had all the enemy
positions from Sidi Omar to Solium sand-
wiched between themselves and Egypt.
Their front north of the escarpment had
advanced by the middle of the week till
it was level with Sidi Rezegh, which is
12 miles as the crow flies from the coast,
nine miles from Musso.’s coastal road.
Tobruk, seeing the fighting from its
outer defences —17 miles in a direct line
to Sidi Rezegh and the N.Z, front —sent
out a sortie, but withdrew it as prema-
ture.
The first British forces to reach Sidi
Rezegh found the position untenable.
However, by Nov. 24 the whole of the
country east of Sidi Rezegh and between
the coast and the Sherezhen-El Gubbi
road had been thoroughly infiltrated.
Sidi Omar, the southern end of the
enemy Libyan border position, was in the
hands of the Indians.
All round Sidi Rezegh the battle
had been especially fierce. The storm
of the attack on the escarpment
burnt along the 10 miles westward from
there to the vast El Adem aerodrome.
This, in a few hours, was dark and bloody
ground, after a cavalry charge of the
mammoths of the rival Panzer divisions,
50 to 60 aside, which formed up on either
side of the field and rolled into each
other in medieval style, meeting in the
centre of the field and fighting it out in
clouds of smoke and flame, till the whole
aerodrome was littered with molten steel
boxes and the charred remains of bodies.
Cairo H.Q. reported next day:
Tank casualties have been heavy on both
sides....it is impossible to estimate actual
losses The British forces which sallied
from Tobruk consolidated their positions
and took 2000 prisoners. In the frontier
area more than 1000 prisoners have already
been taken, and many more are coming in.
The first news given of the drive
across the desert in the extreme south
from Jarabub showed that this was no
raiding party. The drive was made by
a full Indian division —the fifth. It had
flung itself 230 miles across the desert
to Augiala, where it was only 150 miles
from the only road artery of the Axis
between East Libya and Tripoli.
Cairo paid homage to the continued
ascendancy of British aircraft and to
the excellence of its co-operation with
the ground forces.
A week after the battle began the drive
everywhere was still from the British side,
though many of the claims put forward
in the earlier stages by 8.8. C. and
the correspondents —such as the taking
of 15,000 prisoners—had proved unsup-
ported. The German and Italian main
forces were not surrounded. They
claimed that they still held Bardia, which
seems to have been retaken. They were
strong enough to confine a very strong
force in Tobruk, with no weakening of
their investment save on the eastern side.
They had been able to organise a de-
termined attempt at envelopment on the
southern side of the escarpment in the
El Gubbi region.
The Italians claimed 5000 prisoners
and the capture of a general at
Solium. There, they asserted, the Sayoia
division was “holding back three British
divisions with iron resistance”; more-
over, the Ariete Division and the
Germans had “completed the encir-
clement of and wiped out the British
22nd Armored. Brigade.” This sounded
too much to believe, but Cairo admitted
that the South Africans, the first of very
strong reinforcements to reach Sidi
Rezegh and to be deployed, had been
heavily outnumbered and had needed
to put up a desperate struggle against
vastly superior forces until the arrival
of British armored units relieved the
pressure and put the German tanks to
flight.
When the Germans attacked the Spring-
boks at dawn with a line of charging
monsters the latter were laagered with
400 vehicles, which had to be cleared
to make way for the British tanks to
get in. In a moment the desert seemed
full of departing lorries. Then the P. 8.1.
did their best, with the support of British
artillery, running forward into a hail of
machine-gun fire as the German Panzers
thundered down on them, firing every-
thing they had. Some tanks sent up
streaming columns of smoke; some
crashed in ruin almost at the muzzles of
the British guns. The occupants who
lived left for the desert, scattering, chased
by the fire of the machine-guns. Presently
a roar shook down yards of escarpment,
and British tanks threw themselves
pell-mell into the enemy flank. The
enemy milled away over the sand hotly
pursued. The infantry and the gunners
threw themselves down exhausted regard-
less of the flaming ruin round them.
From all over the countryside many
transport vehicles began to reassemble.
Next day the horrible business was
repeated at dusk by 100 Panzers, after
the Germans in an all-day battle had suc-
ceeded in breaching the British line from
the north in the S. African sector. By
sheer weight of metal the Germans
forced their way into the heart of the
S. African position. The Afrikanders,
in groups, held out. Down came the
British rescuing tanks again, a smaller
force, but enough. Forty-five German
tanks were wrecked. The South Africans
had 1200 casualties.
Away from the south, the rattle and
clang of further armored fighting. More
Afrikanders wielding the tin-opener on a
four-dozen order of very lively canned
Germans and Italians. That attack was
not driven home to a test. The Italians
rolled warily and noisily round Smuts’s
men, jackal-wise, jackal-noisy. British
artillery opened up. The jackals went
home.
On November 26 one correspondent
averred that “only a small proportion
of General Rommel’s 280 tanks are now
mobile. There are,” he added, “more
Italian tanks than German, but the
Italian 13-ton tank is not considered dan-
gerous.” Nevertheless, not only had the
German-Italian attacks in the Rezegh-
E 1 Adem area continued, but German
forces had been strong enough to hold
the border regions on the Sidi Omar-
Sollum line, and even to attempt a heavy
diversionary raid in that direction, which
took a lot of frustrating. A third of these
raiders’ tanks were wiped out. M.L. and
other reinforcements fighting their way
westward were only achieving progress
in the face of stiff opposition. And after
five days’ incessant fighting, the British
armored units, renewed by these acces-
sions, needed thorough reorganisation
before they were in shape to attempt
further development of the Sidi Rezegh
battle. Sidi Rezegh was in German hands.
However, the Indians of the Jarabub
force, with S. Africans and British, now
had the Giallo oasis near Augheila, a
good thing to think on because of the
place’s water resources.
From within Tobruk pressure was
being exerted on the east, and a hole
was being bored in the siege lines. And the
R.A.F. and its imperial squadrons, in-
cluding the R.A.A.F. Tomahawks, were
distinctly on top. Enemy losses were
known on November 26 to be over 120
machines for the first week’s fighting,
against 41 British. Dozens of enemy
tanks and motor vehicles had fallen
victims to bombs in low-level attacks.
The towns along the enemy-held littoral
had been heavily and incessantly blasted,
with road communications between them.
In all the confusion about this time,
which was marked by a two-day lull,
extraordinary things had begun to
happen, as they were bound to where


movement was day and night long,
the combatants were caked in dried mud,
and the smoke of battle clung to the
damp earth over the whole of 2500 square
miles of scarped and rutted battleground.
Things such as a lorry-load of Nazi troops
wandering into a British concentration
and staying there under the impression
that they were with their own men, and
British transport jogging happily un-
molested through an enemy encampment,
and a subaltern going out with a small
truck and coming home chauffeured by
several Germans in an impressive-looking
tank.
It happened that November 26 was a
busy night for the advanced, rested and
now reinforced Maorilanders on the
plain and escarpment edges in the very
van of battle. They snatched Sidi
Rezegh back rudely from the Hun. They
pounced on one of the best enemy posi-
tions in the outer besieging ring of
Tobruk, at Bir el Hamed. A bloody
struggle continued into the early hours
of November 27, lighted with the
smouldering of vehicles. More smoke
rose up in the east where, 60 miles away,
the mopping up of Rommel’s border
raiders by the British had begun near
Sidi Omar.
At dawn on November 27 below the
escarpment, between Sidi Rezegh and the
Tobruk perimeter, the Maorilanders saw
tanks. This was no novel sight.
They gazed sourly at them. The
drivers of the visiting delegation popped
heads out of turrets and peered through
the gloom at the Maorilanders.
The sun rose on a great sight. The
advance guard of the “doomed garrison”
of gallant Tobruk had eaten their way
through their besiegers. There was much
shaking of hands at Edduda, 17 miles
from Tobruk town, that morning, for the
first objective of the campaign was about
to be achieved.
Tobruk is a strongly fortified centre.
In considering its importance it must be
remembered that our 9th Division, when
it established itself there —inside about
300 or so square miles of country behind
an outer’defence line 32 miles long from
sea to sea —was ill equipped and had not
an interior landing-ground worth sixpence
for aeroplanes; and, in any case, almost
no aeroplanes at the moment. Yet it
held out. It was a thorn which the enemy
couldn’t extract.
But with free communication with the
east Tobruk must become not merely a
thorn but a spear charged with lightning.
General Cunningham’s forces are operat-
ing over 200 miles of particularly vulner-
able communication line on which every
move is visible to the enemy.
With Tobruk no longer besieged, or
even with a sufficiently broad path of
ingress and egress assured through the
enemy lines, the general can pile supplies
and men directly into the heart of the
fighting from the sea. If El Adem
aerodrome is added and Gazala further
down the coast cleared of enemy influ-
ence, General Rommel and his Italian
colleague (who is supposed to be his
senior in command), are near the end of
their lease of Marmarica, unless they
have larger forces than expected tucked
away in Cyrenaica.
The Tobruk lines had not broken
easily. There was a desperate artillery
duel. Tanks, under an Irish colonel with
his head stuck out of a turret under a
large flag, fought their way through to
the escarpment with gun support. Four
enemy positions—“ Butch,” “Jack,” “Jill”
and “Tiger” the Australians had named
them —the most dreaded sector on the
eastern line, were swept under in a
quarter of an hour. (“Our lads coom
oop champion. Nowt stopped • ’em,” said
a Liverpool man.) And while all the
shindy was in progress, “beleaguered”
Poles on the western side of the peri-
meter walked savagely into the Italians,
so that they might not spare reinforce-
ments. The thrust was far heavier than
the Italians and Germans expected. Be-
side the tanks brought in by the R.N.,
the breakers-out had German tanks and
guns repaired and left behind by the
A.I.F. The gap they made was 3000
yards wide.
Next day the Cairo spokesman an-
nounced that the eastern perimeter of
Tobruk had been almost cleared of the
enemy holding it.
On the border, despite help from the
Navy and thrilling charges by grim Maori
formations which ate into Solium’s de-
fences, the enemy was still holding the
Halfaya-Sollum positions, though his rov-
ing thunderstorm of tank and gun in
that region hurled itself fruitlessly against
the British lines. Its operations became
futile, and the British edged it north-
westward of Gambut, close to the coast,
isolated from all its associates.
The breach in Tobruk’s prison wall
became five miles wide. There was at last
something like real investment of the
German-Italian divisions within the Sidi
Omar-El Gubbi-Tobruk area, with the
struggle for the Sidi Rezegh corridor
down the Trigh Capuzzo towards Mekili
still earnestly and bloodily in progress.
The two armored German and one
Italian divisions seemed to have amal-
gamated. General Von Ravenstein, in
command of the 21st German Panzer
Division, had been captured with 600
men.
The British and Indians at Giallo, re-
watered and refreshed at the oasis after
their long trek across the southern desert,
had cut the Tripoli road and reached the
Gulf of Sidra, below Benghazi.
It seemed that the enemy forces at
Sidi Rezegh near by must soon be im-
mobilised for want of fuel, and those in
the Egyptian border positions for want
of water, though the heavy showers a
few days earlier probably prolonged their
agony.
All these forces are, however, in strong
positions, mainly along the escarpment,
and they showed no signs of willingness
to allow themselves to be winkled out
save at extreme cost.
Junkers 525, of which the Germans
have large supplies, are bringing rein-
forcements and supplies across the Medi-
terranean. The Luftwaffe in N. Africa
was much strengthened during the week.
But tanks and more tanks and anti-tank
weapons and ammunition and specially
trained men are the enemy’s crying needs.
The position at the end of a desperate
11 days was in favor of the British Im-
perial forces. Their troops were pouring
into Tobruk, preparatory to the opening
of the western defences of the town and
the opening of a new phase along the
Derna road.
Moscow and Rostov.
“Ek Dum”: With the freezing of the
ground and rivers the Russian cam-
paign has reached what might be called
its Moscow phase. In Finnish sectors
last week there was only artillery acti-
vity. Around Leningrad the war was
one of sortie and raid and artillery fight-
ing, but there was no major activity.
In the south there were reports
throughout the week of smashing vic-
tories by Marshal Timoshenko. The daily
press discovered the German phrase
Kessel und Kettel and translated it
as “wedge and encirclement.” Kessel
—literally kettle, is a hunting term.
To “kessel” game is to beat it into
an enclosed space. A “kettel” is a latch
or little chain on a door.
Timoshenko’s movement seems to be
a glancing drive into the mass of German
defence in depth, as was his previous
drive on Smolensk, followed by an attack
across the Don on the Azov Sea side.
The suggestion of an A.A.P. man that
“if Timoshenko is able to press the
wedge home he may scotch the German
operations against the Caucasus or at
least delay them for months” is over-
optimistic. But he could cut off large
forces in the Crimea and in the Rostov
sector if they could not retreat in time.
The drive originated near Voroshil-
grad, 100 miles or so north of Rostov.
On Nov. 28 it was reported to have cut
into the German front for 70 miles —into
somewhere near the Stalino region. When
its greatest momentum seemed to be
developing, the enemy released troops
from the Kursk front, about 200 miles
to the north, for service about Moscow.
The Moscow front is the decisive
centre. Here the greatest struggle of the
war —the fiercest and most extensive fight
since the battles of 1918 in the last war —
is in progress. The German plan seems
to be a methodical investment in depth
built up from an outside shell which
forms a segment of a circle with its
convex side round Moscow. The outer
horns of this segment are near Tula, 110
miles south of the centre of the
capital, and Kalinin, 120 miles or so
north. Inside the northern and north-
western walls of the segment layers of
occupation have been built along the
frontal line of the Kalinin-Moscow rail-
way as far in as Klin, 50 miles from
the centre of the capital. The front
further south then follows a road system
which runs round Volokolamsk-Mojaisk-
Maloyaroslavets-Seppnkov. Thence the
line runs to and down before the Tula-
Moscow railway. The inner part of the
German skin was, on Nov. 28, 60-70
miles from the centre of the capital at
its furthest penetrating north-east point.
Pressure has been increased on all
parts of the central front, and on
November 27-28 two new movements
began to build a little more length on to
the segment both north and south. Klin
was claimed by the Germans as a prize.
North of it they at the same time began
to throw out a bulge astride the railway
towards the Stalin Canal at Dmitrov, 45
miles away, and in a few hours it was
making serious progress. By reaching
Dmitrov Von Bock can not only
threaten communication with Archangel,
one of the most important supply ports,
but also with a main route of the Trans-
Siberian line.
Simultaneously a new movement had
developed at the Tula or southern horn
of the investment. From the Kursk-Orel
sector forces were detached to drive
across the railway which connects
Moscow via Tula to the new temporary
capital at Kuibishev on the Volga. This
line appeared actually to have been cut.
Tula, with its 290,000-odd people, bit-
terly and closely attacked already from
the west, was threatened with complete
envelopment in the outer layers of the
German advance. A few more miles
and the bulk of Moscow’s eastern com-
munications would be threatened. Actual
investment of the city is not likely until
it is as deep in the scissor as possible
and until the blades have bored an appre-
ciable depth, so as to make the final bite
as large as possible.
The city itself seems to have enormous
defences which must be mopped up yard
by yard, but close defence for the suffer-
ing inhabitants must be an appalling
experience, Moscow is a city of great
central squares and palaces, surrounded
by a wide ring of closely-packed dwell-
ings. The ordeal of the people under
shellfire and continuous bombing is
enough to make humanity shiver with
horror.
By November 30 the Germans claimed
to have definitely made a breach in the
Moscow defences proper and, in the
Mojaisk area, to have closed in to within 22
miles of the Kremlin. They did not suggest
that this meant the prospect of imme-
diate capture. They emphasised that the
Russians still lay in a wide belt of tank
traps and bunkers covered by artillery
and bristling with A.T. and machine-
guns. The Russians claimed to be
counter-attacking successfully both on
the northern and southern horns of the
advance.
On Saturday the German High Com-
mand announced that the Russians in
the extreme south had “used every
device to defeat the occupation of Ros-
tov, even to the point of inciting the
unfortunate population to attack the
occupying troops, contrary to the usages
of international law.” The position had
become such that Marshal von Kleist had
'“decided to evacuate the centre of the
city in order to inflict on its people the
punishment which was their due in
accordance with the dictates of inter-
national law.” Later bombardment was
mentioned briefly, and the earlier an-
nouncement was still being made on
Sunday night. It struck a new note in
German bulletins.
Some time after the first German state-
ment Moscow Radio announced that Von
Kleist had been driven from Rostov and
then from Taganrog, 60 miles west, and
was in desperate retreat to Mariupol, 100
miles away, with cavalry “hard on
the heels of the fleeing and disorganised
remnants of his forces.” The Red Army,
it was declared, would not give the enemy
time to reorganise.
This was hailed as the greatest Russian
victory of the war. The Russians claimed
5000 Germans killed and 52 field guns,
10,000 shells, 90 A.T. guns and 100
machine-guns taken. These figures are
scarcely consistent with strong resistance
by the Germans or with the city being
abandoned as a result of irresistible
attacks by several divisions during a 24-
hour battle. All the same the defenders
have seen the heels of a retreating enemy,
and that must be accounted a good sign.
On Monday London reported that
waves of bombers and German artillery
used at close range were carrying out
savage reprisals on Rostov.
According to the Russians 49 divisions
are being used by the Germans in the
attack on Moscow. While the retreat of
Von Kleist was in progress they reported
that heavy German attacks were being
pushed home “desperately” but fruit-
lessly against Sebastopol in severe
weather.
Whatever has happened in the Don
area, Moscow is the crucial battle for
the moment.
After being locked away in western
Abyssinia amid the towering peaks of
Gondar since last February, the final
remnants of Musso.’s “legions of
Ethiopia” surrendered last week to an
attack by Indian, S’African and West
African units, which turned the southern
flank of the defenders after entering the
almost inaccessible town of Gondar itself.
The Italian commander, General Nasi,
had about half Italian and half native
troops, and, although seasonal rains and
the awfulness of the terrain had a great
deal to do with his ability to hang on,
he earned “honors of war.”
German ’plane losses since the begin-
ning of the war have been 6166, accord-
ing to the Air Ministry, excluding those
lost in the Middle East, Poland and the
Low Countries. From January 1 to
October 31, German losses over the Reich
and occupied countries were 1426 against
1311 British machines. In the Middle
East, losses were: German 617, British
378.
* * * *
Two British submarines, Tigris and
Trident, have sunk eight German supply
ships in the Arctic Ocean and damaged
five others.
H= * * *
Manufacture of a “large number”
of six-pounder anti-tank guns is to be
begun by General Motors-Holdens and
about 40 S.A. sub-contractors in a “few
months.” They are a much more vital
weapon than the Tommy gun, and the
Minister for the Army might do well to
put a little of his driving power behind
the effort to produce them quickly.
* * * *
The Commonwealth has acquired a
tidy parcel of 5800 war prisoners, whose
keep is entirely a charge on the British
Government. We are on the right side
of the ledger—on last reckoning in Sep-
tember, the Axis Powers had or were
believed to have 4063 Australian
prisoners in their camps.
* * * *
The tough, cheerful lot of Diggers, who
are on leave from Darwin and had their
pictures on the screen last week, belied
the meanings of the peahen press about
their supposedly sad and uncomfortable
lot. The wishes of a dozen of them
expressed was summed up by one of
them: “We don’t want comforts, we
don’t want anything except to get over-
seas and have a go at the Hun.” One
or two I have met also have sounded as
if, failing a Hun, a boo-boo boy would
be better than nothing to “have a go
at.”
* * * *
Gallant little Malta has weathered 972
air raids, which have killed 344 and seri-
ously wounded 685 of its population and
wrecked 2552 houses. The population,
which has been under complete conscrip-
tion for months, suffered no injury to
its fighting spirit, and has baffled both
Italians and Germans.
* * * *
The Reichsmarine has been enjoying a
wonderful regatta in the Mediterranean
and Atlantic last week. It “hit very
heavily” the 26-year-old Queen Lizzie —
31,000 tons —so well known to Diggers
of Gallipoli, and “destroyed” Dragon,
one of the five 4800-ton cruisers which
accompanied Hood and Repulse on their
voyage round the world in 1924. One of
the sights of that voyage was the tall
Fairbairn poking her bows into the rag-
ing Tasman at full speed and coming into
Jervis Bay a few hours later hauling an
inebriated-looking Jap steamer behind.
The Jap’s cargo of zinc had gone through
the bulkheads. Another British warship
was reported as having been torpedoed
the day before. The Admiralty denied
the sinking of the Dragon or one of her
class, and did not confirm the other
stories.
• * * •
“X.M.”: Britain’s new man-power
legislation will virtually embrace men and
women of all ages. Comprehensive and
entered on, no doubt, with a lighter heart
by the Government, since experiences in
Libya are proving that compulsory-
service men can be just as gallant and as
eager to risk their lives in battle as volun-
teers. One journal discovered that this
is “the most comprehensive measure, in-
volving the individual, in British history.’
It may be the most extensively applied,
but there never has been a time when
British rulers have not claimed the right
to collar, by some means, whatever man-
power was needed for foreign wars.
Henry 111 conscripted women for ser-
vice in France.
* * * *
R.A.F. bombers out of Britain, heavy
and light, had a busy week, beginning
with attacks by Stirlings on a Dutch
coast convoy. The raiders were inter-
rupted by a cloud of Messerschmitts, of
which one was shot down for certain and
two more “probably.” Brest and Cher-
bourg were heavily attacked on Nov. 25,
and on Nov, 26 Emden and other centres
in n.-w, Germany were beaten up by a
select body of visitors. Naples was
heavily raided on Nov. 27.
* # ♦ *
Some Dominions appear to be pleased
with and proud of their Prime Ministers.
S’African Union gave its Jan Christian
Smuts £140,000 on his 71st birthday. The
old warrior, who is the only unknighted
officer and King’s Counsel to become a
field marshal in a British Army, handed
it to the national war fund for the benefit
of the Union forces and their depen-
dants.


NO PRICKING
NO PRIMING NO PUMPING
Hot instantly. Only one fuel
Kerosene. New long life
wool wick. No expensive burn-
ers to replace. See your local store.
BSOLUTELY
■ SAFE and
SILENT
LANE'S
GENUINE
/#" •/
BLUE .FLAME
KEROSENE STOVE
Cs
E 1869
CRAVENA
IfaiU oppuciatt tkut
ctddaluUnq (puMAf-
-jfq***y*f/
mm
MADE
SPECIALLY
I 0
PREVENT SORE
THROATS
SUNDRY SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
Education for the Concert Audience
“Avon” offers some tips;
The A.B.C. having completed the most im-
posing and expensive part of its task of musical
uplift for 1941—there will be no more big
orchestral concerts this year—it may be worth
while to consider the part the mere listener
plays or ought to play under the steady stream
of musical culture nowadays directed upon him.
It is inescapable. It was possible to evade the
player-piano, to sidestep the gramophone, but
against the radio the struggle is hopeless.
Everyone has to listen to a great deal of music
and can hardly avoid hearing a good deal of
good music.
The philosophical thing to do, since music
must be listened to, is to endeavor to appreciate
it. There are people who derive from it the
most intense pleasure. Some were born that
way; others acquired the faculty of appreciation.
It is a faculty that almost anybody can acquire,
and the means of setting about acquiring it are
well known.
Music, especially great music, is above all
things a language, and a language devoted to
the expression of emotion. It is necessary and
valued as a means of expression because by its
use things can be said and ideas can be con-
veyed which could not be said or conveyed
by words, by pictures, by nostalgic colors, by
any other means save music alone.
Every great composer has learned the
grammar and syntax of musical speech, but his
method of expression is his own, and it is
necessary to learn it to understand it. And to
learn and understand it is necessary to appreci-
ate the processes of musical evolution —to
follow, to give a very restricted instance, that
ever-widening and -deepening stream that runs
from Haydn through Beethoven and Brahms.
The means of musical education open to the
non-executant listener are, in these days, varied
and effective. But, whatever means may be
availed of, nothing can take the place of studied
and deliberate listening. Many people have
acquired a very real and useful knowledge
of music by repeating some worth-while classic
on the gramophone until its notes have been
memorised, its idiom mastered and its purport
grasped. The humble piano-player has not
only taught many people many essentials about
music, but has proved (this will sound like
blasphemy to some professors) a very good in-
structor in piano-playing.
Radio, of course, provides on tap at most
times a flood of music, and also, in such sessions
as that conducted by Lindley Evans from a
Sydney national station on Sunday afternoons,
gives exactly that sort of instruction the lis-
tener most requires. Evans takes a symphony
or a concerto, puts it on the operating table,
dissects it into themes, motifs, movements or
(illustrated on the piano) shows the wheels
turning round in the orchestration, and then
plays a first-class recording of the work or
part of the work studied. Nobody could listen
attentively to Evans’s sessions for six months
without learning a great deal about music.
Bernard Heinze’s orchestral concerts for school-
children, where similar methods are used, are
another valuable educational agency. It’s a
pity they’re not given at night when adults could
benefit by them.
Books can help. An excellent handbook is
Keith Barry’s Music and the Listener (2s. 6d.).
There’s a Pelican book, You and Music, by
Christian Darnton, packed with theoretical and
historical data. More expensive tomes are
Sydney Harrison’s Music for the Multitude,
chatty in style and packed with anecdotage.
Most valuable, because of- its inspiring quality,
the tremendous, sincere enthusiasm of its
American writer and the clear perspective of its
judgments, is the recently-published Toscanini
and Great Music, by Laurence Gilman. And
extremely helpful to all listeners, even those
who feel they know all about music, is a
Pelican publication that doesn’t say a word
about the art — Literary Taste, by Arnold
Bennett. Bennett defines classics and the proper
attitude towards them and cuts the ground
from under the feet of the “I know what I
like” school of criticism.
* * * *
Sydney Royal’s stage is once more
peopled by the solidly mortal fairies and
no less spritelike peers of “lolanthe.” It
is one of the best of the Gilsullivan
pieces, and scenes are particularly suited
to the present company—everyone has a
good solid part to get his or her respec-
tive teeth into. Menzies is the “very
susceptible Chancellor” ; Gregory Stroud
and John Fullard do the noble earls, and
do ’em very well; Maxwell Oldaker and
Viola Wilson are Strephon and Phyllis ;
Richard Watson has a good sort of song
in a brief part as the sentry, and Evelyn
Gardiner looms and booms as his admir-
ing fairy queen. The lolanthe role is
one that could be done to pass almost
unnoticed, but Peggy Shea lifts it well
up to anything in the piece.
* * * *
The only fault about the Gong pro-
duction of Moliere’s “The Learned
Women” at Kelvin Hall, Melbourne, was
a tendency to treat the play as if it was
some sort of antique. Actually it was
fresher, more up to date than any modern
play seen in Melbourne for a long time.
The blackslapping of the two poets and
their subsequent quarrel, done well by
Leon Robert and Charles Susman, might
have been a satire on recent art move-
ments in Melbourne. Ida Glasser, Mane
Archibald and Sally Maxwell were the
learned female ignoranti whose species is
far from being extinct yet, and Nancy
MacMillan was the girl who objects to
being sold into marriage. Leo Cash was
excellent as the henpecked husband, and
Ida Glasser filled the bill as his domineer-
ing partner. Sally Maxwell was the sister
who projects her feelings on to all the
males about her and deems them to be
amorously inclined in her direction.
There was good comedy in Louis Posner’s
notary who draws up the marriage settle-
ment. Like Shaw, Moliere doesn’t need
much assistance from the actor, and
Harry Marks, as the bedevilled lover,
would have been better advised to let the
lines do the playwright’s job for him
instead of sawing the air like a demented
semaphorist.
* * * •
It is reliably reported by the usually
well-informed Oriental columnist Sundree
Sho that members of the Sydney Water
Board who witnessed the severe storm
(with thunder, lightning and heavy down-
pour) in the finale of the first half of the
new Tiv. show “Applesauce” have set
up four boards with sub-councils and
appointed a select committee to investi-
gate the suitability, advisability and pos-
sibility of establishing a catchment area
in the upper reaches of Castlereagh-street.
Objections raised by the Railway Depart-
ment, which has large holdings in the
vicinity, have been met by pointing out
that damage by water is the least con-
ceivable risk in a well-conducted catch-
ment area.
Meanwhile the proposed site is occu-
pied by the noisiest and brightest of
recent Tiv. shows, Bob Dyer compering,
Evie Hayes trilling gladsomely, Will
Mahoney goat-acting, John Dobbie lend-
ing weight, the best bunch of vaudeville
people for some time doing their in-
credible feats, and the Tiv. ballet present-
ing a pretty strong argument for the
Oriental custom of printing names, ad-
dresses and telephone numbers of the
chorus in the programme.
♦ * * *
“Thumbs Up,” London’s latest war-
time tonic, was poured down the throats
of a full house at Melbourne His
Majesty’s in large, continuous doses by
doctors Clem Dawe, Eric Edgley, Don
Nicol and assistants, and was swallowed
without apparent effort. Chief merit of
the concoction was that there was a
bit of everything and not too much of
anything in it. There were even some
fragments of Tschaikowsky in “Swan
Lake Reflections,” in which the ladies
and gentlemen of the ballet cavorted in
front of a sheet of water on which slided
a couple of swans as big as the late
lamented Princess Alice, of Wirths’
Circus. There is always a bitter base
about the best prescriptions, and this was
provided by some of the singers, but
the old familiar Kentucky melodies made
“Grandfather’s Follies” very charming.
One of the cleverest bits of fooling was
“The Dance of the Veils” done by the
amazingly acrobatic Marcella trio dressed
as ancient Gyppos. It brought the house
down.
* * * *
Adelaide amateurs are ending the
season strongly. A new “Labor Youth
Theatre” at the Trades Hall gives a
thoughtful Russian “Life is Calling,”
gloomy but effective in its contrast of
elderly patience with middle-aged enthu-
siasm. As contrast, for the Playbox
Theatre Lloyd Prider produces a jolly
musical comedy, “Short Pants.” Its
nature is sufficiently indicated by its title,
but as played it is worthy of a bigger
stage than was available. And the Little
Theatre, with Frank Gunnell producing,
gives Ackland’s light, Micawber-like
comedy, “After October.”
ARTBURSTS
Joe Holloway’s Sketch Club, which is
holding its third annual show in its
Parker-street (Haymarket) studio, Syd-
ney, evidently provides very con-
genial surroundings. Most of the mem-
bers are unknown to fame. But Garrett
Kingsley, Lance Solomon, Cliff Pier and
H. Nevill Smith do some of their paint-
ing there, and their work, with some of
Joe Holloway’s very graceful flower
pieces, gives a sort of professional back-
bone to a show from which nothing
offered has been excluded. There is
promise in the work of many of the
members, but space permits only of a
word of commendation to William
Roberts, whose color sense makes every-
thing he touches delightful; Alex. A.
Edwards, whose “Boatshed” is charming ;
Charles McKervey, who shows a
strongly-painted still-life ; P. J. Donald
and Les Turnbull, who show a flair for
portraiture and C. H. Wise, who experi-
ments successfully in more than one
field.
AT THE TALKIES
“Kipps,” at Sydney Embassy: Michael
Redgrave, Diana Wynyard and Phyllis
Calvert in the H. G. Wells story of a
draper’s assistant who inherits a tidy for-
tune, tries to live up to it, picks a
snooty wench for a wife, but ditches her at
the last moment for the country maid he
made eyes at in his youth. A well-made
film with some nice acting and a few
laughs from Arthur Riscoe, but it takes
a long time for very little to happen.
Support is the “Crazy Gang” in “Gas-
bags,” a lumbering, slapstick comedy,
which, when it does raise a laugh or
two, raises ’em to the roof.
* * * *
“Sun Valley Serenade,” at Sydney
Regent: About an American jazz band
which adopts, without inspection, a Nor-
wegian refugee and gets, instead of the
expected infant, a stunning little blonde
of 20 summers or more. She attaches
herself to the pianist of the outfit and
manages to bust his romance with a
crooner and snare him for herself, with
her winsome ways and her ski-ing and
her skating. Sonja Henie, of course, and
as graceful as ever ; John Payne is the
pianist and, for them that likes such
things, the jazz band is—half a tick —yes,
Glenn Miller’s.
* * * *
Together with another tale of Schu-
bert —this one with Alan Curtis struggl-
ing a bit as Schubert and the person-
able Ilona Massey giving the show
whatever merit it has —Sydney Century
has “Conquest of the Air,” an interest-
ing documentary piece on the evolution
of flying. Though a full-length feature,
it manages to maintain the concentrated
interest of a short, as it traces aviation
from early theories and free balloons up
to the perfectly controlled machines of
today.
* * * *
Give Boris Karloff a grim mansion on
a wind-swept headland and enough weird
and wonderful laboratory gear and he’ll
cook up a nightmare choice enough to
freeze a Polar bear in its tracks. He is
at present poking a tentative finger into
the hereafter in “The Devil Com-
mands,” at his customary haunt, Sydney
Capitol. On the same bill is “Cash and
Carry,” another of the Ann Sothern
“Maisie” films and as lightly entertaining
as its predecessors.
* * * *
The film version of “Room for Two,”
at Sydney Victory, is disappointing —
players and film-smiths seem to have
confined themselves needlessly to the
limits of the stage. Frances Day and
Vic Oliver are the principals, and they
make pretty heavy going of it.


MAY
SIGN
BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS
BE DANGER
pf Tire 3 Kidneys
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don’t just complain
Ing about them. Nature may be warning you
that your kidneys need attention.
The kidneys are Nature s chief
tag excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints
dav or about 3 pounds of waste.
It the 15 miles of kidney tubes and! filter 9
*SS%BS S3£i
there Is eomethlne wro» e with
your kidneys or bladder. fm*
y rinn’t waitl Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes fiuah poisonous
watte from the blood. Get DOAN o
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
&at wiU »ake you well and keep you well.
SPORTING NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR A LOVELINESS.
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "Pilot's" Understudy)
Anything is likely to happen in a field
of moderate stayers, and Beamish’s defeat
of Portfolio and Elbe in the Fund Han-
dicap at Moonee Valley on Saturday was
a complete boilover. His starting price
of 20 to 1 reflected his chance on latest
form, but his trainer, H. Kilfoyle, said
subsequently: “I told my rider, Preston,
that Beamish had only to reproduce a
trial he did during the week in order to
win.” Stable connections had the market
to themselves, and Beamish obliged by
shooting to the front about three fur-
longs from home, quickly setting up a
winning break, and ending with four
lengths to spare. He is by Marconigram,
a sire of stayers, and staying apparently is
his forte. Beamish raced originally in
Tasmania, where he is owned by two
brothers, G. H. and H. P. Keach. H.P.
is overseas with the A.I.F.
Portfolio, a stable-mate of the Oaks
winner, Primavera, had no chance with
the winner, but he can be placed to ad-
vantage now that many of the better-
class horses have begun summer spells.
Elbe made up considerable ground to
finish third.
• •••••
Beginner’s luck was associated with
Reception’s success in the Benefit Handi-
cap. He is the first horse raced by “Miss
M. Dural,” for whom trainer H. Freed-
man purchased him for 500 guineas in
Sydney during the spring meeting. Satur-
day’s win was worth only £175 in prize-
money, but Reception started equal
favorite at 4 to 1, and some nice bets
were landed when he won from Red
Morn and Charming Lady.
Like Beamish, Reception is by Mar-
conigram. He hit the front early, fought
off challenges by Bow Tie, Rambler and
Atorna, and still had something in reserve
for the finish. His last win in Sydney
was at seven furlongs, and, being a good
weight-carrier, he may be hard to beat
again at his next appearance. Isonomia’s
sixth was a fair effort for a horse who
requires a longer distance than six fur-
longs.
Red Morn is one of the most remark-
able old horses in Melbourne. Now in
his ninth year, he has broken down in
each leg at different stages of his career,
but, despite more than one “retirement,”
keeps on coming up for more. His re-
tention of form is a tribute to the ability
of his owner-trainer, J. Besanko, for
whom the gelding has been a worth-while
money-spinner.
David Innis affords a shining example
of the “horses-for-courses” theory. His
success in the Benevolent Highweight was
his third in his last four starts at the
Valley, and the only surprising phase of
his win was his starting price of 8 to 1.
Badger, who had ridden him in his pre-
vious wins, was required for Sireston,
and Mornement was substituted. While
Sireston finished last, David Innis hit the
front before two furlongs had been cov-
ered, was not headed subsequently and
lasted long enough to win by half a head
from Pannade. David Innis is a five-year-
old gelding by David from a Woorak
mare, and, like many of his sire’s stock,
may do well as a jumper later. He has
not raced over hurdles, but has shown
promise in schooling lessons. Royal
Jubilee, an eight-year-old entire, showed
a glimpse of his old form in finishing
third, and might go well if started at Bal-
larat this week.
Pannade and Deliberate can be nomi-
nated as two of the unluckiest Melbourne
horses in training. Pannade has recorded
three, and Deliberate four successive
seconds, and, both being in heavy-betting
stables, it would be interesting to know
just how much they have cost their fol-
lowers and the public. Weight of money
forced Pannade’s price from fives down
to favoritism at 9 to 4 on Saturday, and
Deliberate, who was beaten half a head
by Danae in the first division of the
Relief Trial, started equal favorite at
3 to 1. Pannade’s rider, V. Hartney, was
doubly unfortunate. After the race he
was suspended for one month for caus-
ing interference.
Horses drawn wide at the mile starting-
point at Moonee Valley are generally at a
big disadvantage, but Danae, who drew
15 but started closer to the rails because
of two scratchings, jumped away smartly,
cleared away from the field at the two
furlongs and defeated Deliberate in a
“camera” finish, with Mr. John third. A
filly by Christopher Robin from Emerald,
Danae is a half-sister to the useful but
unlucky Evergreen. A spectacular plunge
on the former N.S.W. gelding, Bellarado,
misfired badly. Piloted by apprentice C.
Sanderson, one of the smallest boys
riding, if not the smallest, he was backed
from 33 to 1 down to sixes, but dropped
right out after being well placed to the
three furlongs.
«•••••
Londoner, a three-year-old Piccadilly-
Fairy Mag gelding, won his third succes-
sive race when he defeated Dark Thorn
and Rosmarine in the second division
of the Relief Trial. More will be
heard of Londoner, who, although not
outstanding in looks, seems sure to im-
prove. He races in the same interests as
imported Keelie.
. • • * •
H. Badger, premier jockey for the last
three years, moved one win ahead of
J, Purtell for the current season when he
piloted Blue Valley to a decisive win
from Carruca and Lar Toba in the
Juvenile Handicap. His job was made
easier when Lar Toba, sharing the lead
with Carruca, shied and dropped back
several lengths between the three and two
furlongs, but Blue Valley won so well
that it is unlikely that incident made any
difference to the result. Blue Valley, who
looks susceptible to further improvement,
has raced only three times for two wins,
and is a bargain at the 325 guineas he
cost W. V. and J. O. Manton, owners of
the Toorak Handicap winner, Sun Valley.
He is by Manitoba, and his dam,
Taurica, is a half-sister to Heroic.
Trainer H, Freedman accepted with
Merridale and Bluebeard for the Appeal
Hurdle, but elected to run Bluebeard and
had the satisfaction of seeing him defeat
Atticus in the last stride. Bluebeard lost
ground at several jumps, but his pace on
the flat stood to him, and, with more
experience, he should develop into a first-
class hurdler. He has raced over hurdles
only three times for a fall (at his first
attempt) and two wins. High Wave,
best backed horse in the race, although
he started at a slightly longer price than
Naverino, finished a moderate third.
* * * •
Manitoba, sold earlier this year to
W. J. Smith, of St. Aubins Stud (N.S.W.),
for 4000 guineas, has been represented
by three winners of four of the 20 two-
year-old races run on metropolitan
courses in Melbourne this season. Blue
Valley (two), Lar Toba and Chatfield
have boosted his stocks. Blue Valley, at
325 guineas, being the only one of the
trio sold as a yearling. Hellespont, stand-
ing at Northwood Park, Seymour (Vic.),
has already succeeded in siring two smart
gallopers, Haros (300gns.) and Leahero
(400gns.) in his first stud season. Both
are Flemington winners, and studmaster
A. G. Hunter is assured of a strong
demand for Hellespont’s yearlings next
autumn.
Enfield, like Hellespont, has made a
successful start at the stud with the Mari-
byrnong Trial Stakes winner, Great
Britain, and the Ottawa Stakes winner,
East End. Great Britain cost 850gns.,
but East End was bred by her owner.
Enfield is a valuable addition to St.
Albans Stud, where Gay Lothario has
had such outstanding success.
* * * *
Beaulivre’s record of 1.1 H for the
Canterbury Park six furlongs, in Sep-
tember last year, is probably one that
may stand for some time. It looks a
hard six, and last Saturday the effects of
the dry weather made it literally harder
still. These circumstances considered, the
performance of Sir Andrea in running
the journey in second division Encourage
Stakes company in 1.13 made this New-
castle-owned and -trained grey gelding
by Andrea-Sargood appear a galloper of
some quality. Beating Sweet Auburn and
Cadger, he won by over six lengths, lead-
ing all the way.
In novice company at Randwick a week
earlier Sir Andrea ran the six furlongs
in 1.11, equalling Radical’s time in that
day’s main sprint event. What his Can-
terbury time really meant is shown by
comparison with the time for the divi-
sions of the main sprint there. Cer-
tainly these were sprints under highweight
conditions, but then Sir Andrea’s 8.5
was a fair sort of weight for his particu-
lar race, too. In beating Awake and
Status in the first division of the High-
weight Handicap, Insignia took 1.14 (to
Sir Andrea’s 1.13), and Bruce Wood, in
beating St. Pancras and Brazandt, took
1.15. Sir Andrea’s time was also a second
better than that taken by Rapture in win-
ning the first division of the Encourage
Handicap from Sponsor and Kaloola.
Since opening his four-year-old win-
ning account at Wyong on November
3 Sir Andrea has made it four in a row
for the month, with two of the wins on
Sydney tracks. A strongly-built dark
grey, he is trained by R. L. Cashman for
Messrs. M. J. and G. Cameron.
Considering the dry, hard state of the
going on all tracks just now, it is remark-
able how well some Sydney trainers are
able to turn out their horses. Among
others, this notably applied to the appear-
ance of W. Kelso’s Peter Pan-Grallina
three-year-old gelding Panurge. An up-
standing black in good condition will
always take the eye, but this chap looked
in extra fine fettle. Unlike some of the
others —Gigli, for example, looked
splendid, but ran poorly—Panurge ran
right up to his appearance. He was
admirably ridden by W. Cook, who also
was in fine fettle on the day. Drawn
wide in the nine-furlongs Trial Stakes,
he was urged along by Cook to get near
the lead in the first furlong. Even so,
Cook could not get him on the rails, and
so had to run one or two horses wide all
the way. Making for the curiously
awkward turn into the straight he lost
some ground, but Cook rode patiently,
and, called on to make his run in the
straight, Panurge responded like a true
stayer, finishing on the outside to beat
Plimsol by a length and a half, with
Innisfail third.
■ • • • • ♦
Panurge ran the nine furlongs in 1.54,
and Early Bird took the same time in
winning the Campsie Handicap from
Beaucaire and Tetreen. It was Early
Bird’s first win for about a year ; she car-
ried the steadier of 9.8 and won well,
so she may have at last struck her true
form. If she has she will be heard from
at Randwick. Beaucaire’s second was a
striking performance. Though no match
for Early Bird over the last bit, he
showed out boldly all the way, leading to
the last half-furlong and then sticking it
out well.
The promising apprentice A. Gollogly
tried to steal the main event, the 1 mile
3fur. Canterbury Handicap, on Kurra-
wid, and very nearly brought it off. For
most of the way he was out 12 lengths
or so, and when challenged by Mischief
in the run home had enough left to make
a dead-heat of it, with Cable Boy a dis-
tant third. Kurrawid looked as if the
run would improve him.
Though burdened with a 71b. penalty,
Mr. F. W. Hughes’s small chestnut filly
Easy Mark (The Marne-Speak Easy) was
too good for the rest in the Two-year-old
Handicap, beating Box Ridge by a length
and a half, with Royal Blue third. Box
Ridge, a brown colt by Fox Earth-Bam-
bina, ran a trifle awkwardly, and can be
expected to do better.
As well as his winning ride on Pan-
urge, W. Cook rode the winners of both
divisions of the Highweight Handicap
and also the winner of the first division
of the Encourage Handicap.
* * * *
American crooner Bing Crosby’s very
shapely chestnut filly Miss Hua had her
second race outing in Crosby’s colors
and adornments at the Hawkesbury
Club’s meeting at Rosehill last week and
again won extra well. Eased up nearing
the post, she cantered in in the fillies’
division of the Two-year-old Stakes in
time only quarter of a second outside the
course record for 4} furlongs (57sec.),
held jointly by several good horses, in-
cluding Reading.
. . . • i •
If the quality of this first winner of
his is a fair representative sample there
should be good bidding for stock by the
Australian sire Hua next time it is up
for inspection. Miss Hua is a neat and
compact piece of goods who, by her
shape and her galloping ability, should
develop into a fair sprinter. She shared
top weight (8.7) with Oriole, also by an
Australian sire, Oro.
»••••*
Orderly, a somewhat angular bay colt
by Equator-Spic and Span, won the colts’
division as easily as Miss Hua won hers,
though in half a second slower time. That
was due to his erratic running up the
long straight. He lumped top weight
(8.12), giving 101 b. each to the Excite-
ment-Blue Gown gelding Royal Blue,
second, and The Mame-Vladoviok geld-
ing Kansas, third. Despite his burden.
Orderly shot out to a four or five lengths’
lead from the outside barrier position,
and that was as close as the others ever
got to him.
* * * *
Some of Sydney’s experienced jockeys
have had it brought home to them
recently that the stipendiary stewards
are awake to “tricks of the trade.”
At one time apprentices were blamed
for most of the trouble that hap-
pened in races. If a horse suddenly
dropped back and interfered with those
behind it, some apprentice would prob-
ably be put on the map for “carelessness,”
whereas an older jockey was responsible
for the squeezing that sent the appren-
tice’s mount back or caused it to run
about. To anyone who had a fair idea
of what took place, it was occasionally
amusing to hear some older riders rail-
ing against “those apprentices.”
* * * *
Results of the three-year-old races
and the principal handicaps in Sydney
and Melbourne this season have not
caused many sires to be outstanding in
number of successful representatives.
Victoria Derby and Melbourne Cup
winner Skipton has given the honors to
Marabou as sire of the best performer,
but Manitoba had three valuable races
credited him, and Veilmond, Windbag
and Law Maker two each. Veilmond’s
important winners were Velocity (Caul-
field Cup) and Rimveil (Epsom Handi-
cap) ; those of Windbag were Primavera
(Oaks) and Throttle (Williamstown Cup);
Tea Cake (Caulfield Guineas), Sun
Valley (Toorak Handicap) and Kelos
(Wakeful Stakes) scored for Manitoba ;
and Laureate won the Rosehill Guineas
and A.J.C. Derby for Law Maker.
Other winners of good races were Burra-
bil, Cantala Stakes, for Burnewang;
FOR MENTONE.
(Before Acceptances .)
(By Our Melbourne Representative .)
Murray Handicap: Blue Valley
or Prince Danilo, 1 ; Balcrest, 2 ;
Gay Roi, 3.
Manumbar Handicap: Silver
Light, 1 ; Law Student, 2; Rustee,
3.
Mordialloc Stakes: Reception, 1 ;
Operatic, 2 ; Red Morn, 3.
Epsom Cup: Isonomia, 1; True
Flight, 2 ; Keelie, 3,
Parkdale Welter: Pannade, 1 ;
Iridium, 2 ; Portico, 3.
Cheltenham Handicap: Alternate,
1; Mercury Bay, 2 ; Triton, 3,
FOR RANDWICK.
TO-DAY, WEDNESDAY.
Trial Hurdle: Glittering Flame,
1 ; Tartanus, 2.
Maiden Nursery: Peach Pie, 1 ;
Antelope, 2 ; Idle Chatter, 3.
Flying Handicap: Brazandt, 1 ;
Kingsdale, 2 ; Astrid, 3.
Milperra Handicap: Serenata, 1 ;
Santa, 2.
Encourage Handicap: Cadger, 1 ;
Angus, 2 ; Panel, 3.
Farm Welter: Jymjon, 1 ; Breeze,
2; Red Bruce, 3.


The strong
shouldered
edge bears
the 10ad...
Mi
AA
A
D
GILLETTE
SHOULDERED
EDGE
Three distinct angles in the sharpening process
of every Blue Gillette form a strong steel shoulder
which bears the load. That is why every Gillette
serves you longer and shaves you cleaner . . .
But you must treat the delicate edges fairly. Not
even the wrapping is allowed to touch the edges
of a Gillette when it is packed hold one to
the light and see. Unwrap the blade carefully
and hold by the ends do not touch the edges.
A little care in this regard will give you many
more delightful shaves.
USE
GILLETTE
BUY
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
AND SAVE STEEL
Gillette sets 2/8\ to 48/6. Blue Gillette Blades 5 for l/7\ *
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
Missing Friends.
TO THOMAS MEEK formerly of Banjerang
in the State of Victoria Laborer but now
of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife AGNES
OTILLIA MEEK has commenced proceedings
for divorce against you on the ground of de-
sertion during three years and upwards. Unless
you enter an appearance in the office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court of Vic-
toria at Melbourne within .twenty-one days ot
the appearance of this advertisement and file an
answer in the said office within thirty-five days
of the appearance of this advertisement the
case may proceed in your absence and you may
be ordered to pay costs.
P. J. RIDGEWAY, 379 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
PATRICK MURPHY, son of James Murphy,
of Barrack Street, Carlow, Eire, is requested
to communicate with DIBBS, CROWTHER
& OSBORNE, Solicitors, 16 Barrack Street,
Sydney, when he will be advised of something
accruing to his benefit.
WILLIAM HEWART SLEEMAN (or William
Hewat Davey or William Hewat Davey Sleeman
or William Hewat Sleeman Davey), aged about
74 years, born in Victoria, or any person
knowing his whereabouts, please communicate
with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 14 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., in connection with the
estate of Cornelius John Davey, deceased.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 925 of 1941.
BETWEEN ADALINE MARY HIAM Peti-
tioner and
JOHN ANDREWS HIAM Respondent.
TO JOHN ANDREWS HIAM late of Ken-
sington.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ADALINE
MARY HIAM has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
your desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Twentieth day of February next and in the
event of your not so doing within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED the Twenty-first day of November,
a.d. 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
HAROLD MUNRO, Petitioner’s Solicitor,
81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 851 of 1941.
Between george Clifford hastib
Petitioner and
STELLA LOUISA HASTIE Respondent.
TO STELLA LOUISA HASTIE late of Lind-
held TAKE NOTICE that the said
GEORGE CLIFFORD HASTIE has com-
menced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a dissolution of mar-
riage on the grounds of desertion for three
years without just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Twenty-fifth day of February One thousand
nine hundred and forty-two and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition hied herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-seventh day of Novero
ber, 1941.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
E. R. TRACEY & CO., Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. __
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
No. 2081 of 1941.
BETWEEN KATHLEEN KENT Petitioner and
EDWARD ROY JAMES KENT Respondent.
TO EDWARD ROY JAMES KENT late of
Glebe near Sydney in the State of New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said KATHLEEN
KENT has commenced a suit against you in
this Court and is applying for a dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or ex-
cuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Twentieth day of February next
AND IN THE EVENT of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-seventh day of Novem-
ber One thousand nine hundred and forty-one
(1941) ' (L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. P. METCALFE & CO., Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 185 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
STAMPS
100 New Zealands, all different V-
-100 Australians, all different ’/“
40 Pacific Islands, all different */-
We buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air Lists —Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Est. 56 Vears.)
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1645 of 1941.
BETWEEN VIOLET CLARA PARSONS Peti-
tioner and
WILLIAM HERBERT VICTOR PARSONS
Respondent.
TO WILLIAM HERBERT VICTOR PARSONS
late of Willoughby.
TAKE NOTICE that the said VIOLET
CLARA PARSONS has commenced a suit
against you in this Llonorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground that you have without just cause or
excuse wilfully deserted her and without any
such cause or excuse left her continuously so
deserted during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twentieth day of February 1942 and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-fourth day of November,
1941.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
R. J. M. FOORD, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Gladstone Chambers, 90 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1949 of 1941.
BETWEEN MARY ELIZABETH ROBERTS
Petitioner and
WILFRED GEORGE ROBERTS Respondent.
TO WILFRED GEORGE ROBERTS late of
East Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY
ELIZABETH ROBERTS has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the ground of deser-
tion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse The Petitioner confesses that
she had committed adultery AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of the Court on or before the Ninth day of
January 1942 and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this 21st day of November, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
CLIVE CLARKE, Solicitor for Petitioner,
79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1636 of 1941.
BETWEEN ANNA CATHERINE WILLIAMS
Petitioner and
EDWARD WILLIAMS Respondent.
TO EDWARD WILLIAMS late of Sydney in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ANNA
CATHERINE WILLIAMS has commenced a
suit against you in this Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Twentieth
day of February next AND IN THE
EVENT of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-seventh day of Novem-
ber One thousand nine hundred and forty-one
(1941).
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. P. METCALFE & CO., Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 185 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1978 of 1941.
BETWEEN EILLEEN AMELIA STRANGE
Petitioner and
JOHN WILLIAM STRANGE Respondent.
TO JOHN WILLIAM STRANGE late of
Nubba in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EILLEEN
AMELIA STRANGE has commenced a suit
against you the abovenamed John William
Strange in this Honorable Court and is apply-
ing for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
that you have without just cause or excuse
wilfully deserted her during three years and
upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Twentieth day of Feb-
ruary One thousand nine hundred and forty-
two and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further time
the Petitioner will proceed and the suit will
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-first day of November,
194 L (L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
PRITCHARD, MARSLAND & CO., Solici-
tors for the Petitioner, 12 O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
BE YOUNG
and VIGOROUS AGAIN
'Doctors soy your virility and vig-
our depend greatly on your Hor-
mone . Glands. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
extract.' Will definitely rcjyve*
note you and banish weakness.
Price 10/6. Write TO-DAY.
MEN!
T.JONES £ CO
B 21
CLANQ
TOM 1C
CHiSiUIST, 310 George Street, Sydney.
Yours Truly, the Moonee Valley Cup, for
Siegfried ; Dashing Cavalier, the Metro-
politan, for Constant Son; Chatham’s
Choice, the Canterbury Guineas, for
Chatham ; and All Love, the Hobartville
Stakes, for Double Remove. In Brisbane
Bucolic won the Queensland Cup for
Buoyant Bachelor. It would therefore
seem as if a yearling buyer who fails to
purchase something by a sire he fancies
does not need to be greatly concerned
if he has to turn to another.
M.Q. and Rafferty
The umpteenth meeting of Ron Rich-
ards and Fred Henneberry at Sydney
Stadium last Thursday night ended in
the familiar way—Fred disqualified for
butting. Fred was taking the father
of all hidings when he resorted to the
billygoat tactics in the thirteenth round.
Before the fight had gone halfway his
left eye was cut, and it continued to
bleed freely; but it’s doubtful if that
hurt him half as much as Ron’s upper-
cuts to the jaw. Over the years of their
meetings Ron has evolved this punch
specially to deal with Fred’s head-in style,
and since he perfected it Fred hasn’t had
an earthly with him.
* * * *
A controlling body would not permit
the making of matches such as that which
served “Young” Gildo up to Vic Patrick
at Sydney Stadium. Gildo —as game a
little fellow as ever came from the Philip-
pines—shaped like a light of other days
when he was last in Australia. Sydney
Stadium served him up to the Australian
champion—a champion, too, in the full
strength of his youth and specially noted
for his devastating punching ability. Of
course, the game old codger was no
match for his youth and strength, and
the miserable business was called off in
the seventh round.
Miscellaneous
For Queensland v. N. S. Wales at Bris-
bane, young McGinn, who sends down
fast stuff, got Fallowfield (0) and Mc-
Cabe (8) in his first over. Queensland had
made 334 (Cook 68, Brown 56, Raymer
50 n. 0.), and N.S.W. replied with 310
(Livingstone 46, Chegwyn 61, Powell 47).
Then Lindwall, the new N.S.W. express,
bagged three Queenslanders for 19, and
the home side was in trouble. Brown
(69) and Raymer (77) improved its
prospects, putting on 81 for the sixth
wicket. The innings closed at 249
(O’Reilly 6-89), and N.S.W. had a couple
of hundred to get with eight wickets in
hand when this report closed.
* * * *
Jack Badcock, after assisting S.A.
cricket since 1934, has gone back to
Devenport (Tas.) to take over his father’s
farm (he has been rejected by the
A.1.F.). Badcock ended brilliantly in
Adelaide with 127 and 140 in good club
matches. He is likely to keep for a
good many seasons his distinction of
being the last man to make a Test cen-
tury in Australia —the final match against
Allen’s XL


LOST HORIZON .... MR. CHIPS
AND NOW
RANDOM HARVEST
By James Hilton.
James Hilton’s new novel, Random Harvest, has headed the list of best-sellers for
several months in America, where over 100,000 copies have been sold. Critics
have ranked it with his other famous books, Lost Horizon and Mr. Chips; and
some even consider it better —which is high praise indeed. It is a tender and moving
story, plainly and simply told, in which the interest never flags right through to the
last sentence; and it is safe to say it will appeal to readers of all ages, tastes and sexes.
Australian edition, price 8/6; posted 8/101. Of all booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD., Publishers, MELBOURNE.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH; Temple Court, 409-413 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
THE GREATEST
OF Ail
PROUDS
SDH CUSSIS
fnduJe alairinYourHexfAiFHampi
m
4
l : m.
er
SEND this truly thoughtful "comfort" ... a pair of Prouds
Military Goggles, with specially ground, and polished lenses
and leather side shields to protect the eyes from dust, grit, sand
and glare. Each pair is in a staunch metal case. Prices are from
6/6 ... at Prouds' Optical Dept., 2nd Floor, where you may also
choose from many fashionable Sun Glasses for women, priced
from only 2/6.
VS**
WILLSON Imported Military Goggles with Dr. Crookes' Lenses and Q/ fL
Leather Side Shields, strong frame V O
WILLSON Imported Military Goggles with Dr. Crookes' and Feuzal Q//»
Lenses and Leather Side Shields * O
w
WILLSON Imported Goggles with Willsonite Lenses and Leather Side IC/
Shields •
SUN GLASSES FOR
S MART WOMEN
o«
Buy a pair for the week-end from
Frauds. See the large display of ultra-
smart designs. Typical of the new
trend: Frauds White Daisy Sun
Glasses with Dr. Crookes’ A/f.
American soft blue lenses .... nr O
PTY
LTD
PROIIDS
Jewellers, Watchmakers, Silversmiths
THE CLOCK CENTRE OF SYDNEY
CNR. KING AND PITT STS., SYDNEY
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
Circus in Brisbane
“Old A.W.U.”: Billed as the Queens-
land Trade Union Congress a circus has
been showing at Brisbane Trades Hall.
It began by adopting a “new war policy”
—“complete collaboration between the
Governments of Britain, Australia and
the Soviet Union,” founded on the fol-
lowing programme:
Government to: Take over all war in-
dustries and remove private control of war
organisation; grant a greater trade-union
control of all jobs; improve price control,
restrict profits and maintain living stan-
dards ; grant complete freedom of organisa-
tion, speech, press and assembly of all
anti-Fascist bodies; remove from all essen-
tial positions persons of Fascist views.
Comrade McDonald (Ironworkers) sup-
ported this. Spokesmen for the Theatri-
cals, Clerks and Storemen opposed
it with an amendment supporting the All-
Australia Trade Union Congress resolu-
tion of 1939 and 1940, which pledged the
union movement to work for swift and
complete victory. The amendment was
outed by 42 to 36, whereupon Comrade
O’Brien (A.R.U.), the light of crusade in
his eye, succeeded in a resolution that
“Congress should take measures to force
the Federal Government to use its fullest
influence with the British Government in
order to initiate another war front against
Hitler in Western Europe.”
Comrade O’Brien starred again in Act
2, when the ban of Labor’s Q.C.E. on
Taylor and Marriott, Ms.L.A., was con-
demned by 47 to 26. The performers got
a bit mixed between the Australia-Russia
Association, various Aid to the Soviet
committees and the Australian and
Soviet Fellowship League. Comrade
O’Brien challenged a presidential ruling,
there was a show of hands and the vote
was 40 all. So they had a division and
83 votes were recorded against 78
answers to the roll. So they had a scrutiny
and found one more vote —a vital vote —
than delegates. So they had another
division and Comrade O’Brien triumphed
by 42 to 40.
In Act 3, staged at the City Hall with
Prof. Duhig as ringmaster, McO’Brien
galloped to triumph after triumph. There
were resolutions of protest against the
ban on Marriott and Taylor, demands for
their “instant” reinstatement and a
guarantee of endorsement for them as
candidates, a “threat” to the Q.C.E. to
obey within 14 days or a “State-wide con-
ference of workers’ delegates” would be
called as a protest against the ban on the
Australian-Russian Association. Taylor
and Marriott got an illuminated address
and the ringmaster sailed in with the re-
markable statement that the ban on the
A.R.A. was a “Hitlerite trick to cover
falsehoods with an air of sanctity by
defaming intended victims with the Com-
munist brand.”
Act 4, back at the Trades Hall, saw
O’Brien and McDonald busy again.
President Harvey had, in his opening
address, commented on the “non-partici-
pation of Russia” in the first 17 months
of the war, claiming that a Russian
attack then could have prevented Dun-
kirk, the enslavement of millions of
European workers and the horrors en-
dured by the Russian people in the past
five months. Furiously labelling this as
a “gross libel” against the Soviet, and
declaring that it would create disunity in
the Labor movement —nobody saw the
joke—and “militate against the Anglo-
Soviet pact,” Comrades O’Brien and
McDonald had it deleted from the
address by 45 to 32.
At this stage, feeling badly in need of
refreshment and a chance to relieve his
feelings, your correspondent retired.
“Dick Tafone”: Three generations of
Queenslanders will lose a friend of their
childhood when the Little Primer is re-
placed in January by the Education De-
partment’s new Preparatory No. 1. The
Cat will no longer be on The Mat with
A Rat, but the new introduction to the
dangerous art of reading will be written,
illustrated, set up and produced wholly
in Queensland with all the latest improve-
ments in child psychology behind it. An-
other sound development is the illustra-
tion of Primary Correspondence School
papers for outback children with well-
drawn sketches in color.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Since their bosses in Syd-
ney heard that stickfast poultry-fleas had
got into Queensland province the stout
fellers at the border who carry out the
onerous work of flouting Section 92 of
the Commonwealth Constitution have had
a tidy job on hand. The first action of
the Macquarie-street pundits was to pro-
hibit the passage into Noosouth province
of any dogs—even the hitherto sacrosanct
racing hounds —also cats, pigeons and
poultry, unless accompanied by a square
yard or so of sworn declarations and cer-
tificates that they had never even heard
of the infected area. Now the weary
border watchers are wondering whether
they wifi have to sit up all night to chase
back tom-cats as well as watch all day
for dogs. Also, whether the pigeons may
be shot if they refuse to come down
when summoned in the name of the law.
Hs * * *
Foil, when Minister of Information,
had what is called a “good press.”
Ashley hasn’t yet, but it doesn’t seem
to worry him, and he has already made
it evident that he can take care of him-
self when tackled. In Foil’s time the
Chief Censor had a standing assignment
at Canberra to censor the Parliamentary
debates. Deciding, very properly, that
Parliament should be master in its own
house, Ashley handed over this job to
Speaker Nairn (an old pressman) and
the President of the Senate, with him-
self as a sort of Court of Appeal. Bris-
bane “Courier-Mail” called this a “grave
mistake,” the “substitution of political
control for a trained non-political
officer.” Whereupon Ashley:
The “Courier-Mail” is a paper with
which Mr. J. Williams, former acting
director of my department, is associated in
a prominent executive capacity. I appreci-
ate that I may have had the benefit of this
gentleman’s advice officially, if he had not
decided to resign the position of acting
director immediately after touring the
Netherlands East Indies with Senator Foil.
“A personal attack,” retorted the
“Courier-Mail,” properly stung. “A time-
worn political dodge.” An “innuendo,”
fully answered by the fact that “Mr. Wil-
liams, having agreed to serve as acting
director for three months, served for
seven and left the department only after
a permanent director was appointed.” The
controversy must have been thoroughly
enjoyed by Menzies.
* * * *
“Gada Badela”; Brown Brother has
had a convincing demonstration of
“white pfeller Guvamani” justice in the
matter of 89 acres of Papuan land re-
sumed for Government purposes. Hold-
ing that the land had no use other than
for agriculture, the Central Court of
Papua awarded its native owners £454
compensation. Geita-Sebea, headman of
the villiage concerned, appealed to the
High Court of Australia ; Justice Starke
discharged the compensation order and
remitted the matter back to the Central
Court for a new compensation award.
His Honor remarked that the Adminis-
trator might appropriate the money to
the natives’ permanent welfare rather
than allow it to be wasted on geegaws,
beads and colored clothing. On this
point the native opinion of what contri-
butes to his welfare and that of the High
Court might differ considerably.
* * * *
“Balander”: Cattle is still the N.T.’s
main industry. From April to November
15 this year 62,853 head passed through
Rankin River alone on their way into
Queensland, 32,411 of them from the
Barkly. In the same period 298 herd
and stud bulls passed into the N.T.
through the river, 119 of them for Barkly
stations. It has been a fair year for cattle,
but most of the northern meatworks,
except those canning stored stuff, have
finished operations for the season.
* * * *
“Norther”: Ludwig Nudl, a mining
engineer who has lived in the N.T. many
years, claims the discovery of rich copper
deposits up the Daly River. Leases for
360 acres have been applied for, but the
spot is said to be hard to get at and big
capital is needed. There is a hint that
B.H.P. is interested.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Although there were gloomy forebod-
ings lest the R.A.A.F. 1941 Revue should
be so refined as to escape altogether the
hilarity that cheerful vulgarity alone can
achieve, the fear proved fleeting. Those
who came to shudder remained to guffaw.
Air Chief Marshal Burnett was one wide
smile, and daughter Sybil could have
tied her grin in a bow at the back of her
head, especially when jokes about air-
men’s messes were being given an airing.
A touch of the sombre reality of war
was introduced by the singing, by the air-
men’s choirs in surplices, of a hymn for
airmen. But in a minute all solemn
thoughts were chased away by the male
ballet disguised as ballet girls, pantees,
frills and all. Mrs. “Dicky” Williams
was telling latest news of Air Marshal
“Dick,” now in London, and Mrs. Drake-
ford, wife of the Air Minister, chatted
about her daughter’s coming wedding.
She has four girls, and one was with her,
looking nice in pale blue.
All roads have led to Guide House,
Yarra Junction, since the Australian
Women’s Army Service officers, 30
strong, began their school there last week.
Lady Gowrie dropped in on Wednesday
and was enthusiastic about everything,
especially the lovely rhododendrons grow-
ing round the house. A fair number of
the trainees wore Guide uniforms, and
others were practical in skirts and
sweaters, no uniforms of the service be-
ing available. They’re a mixed grill:
tall, short, businesslike, blue stockingish,
Plain Jane and even No Nonsense. All
are fit as fiddles and cheerful as trout.
As their joint and several qualifications
would fill a shilling novelette, they don’t
need to suffer from a feeling of inferior-
ity, nor* do they.
“Positively a snowball” is how Mrs.
Knox Knight is describing her superabun-
dance of dolls for the Airmen’s Welfare
centre exhibition and judging this week.
Di. Duff Cooper, when she saw them,
said she couldn’t let the chance go by,
and sent on another, and while it was
being unwrapped to the chorus of “ohs”
and “ahs” with which women always
seem able to glamorise the tall blonde’s
slightest effort, Mrs. Stan Crick’s contri-
bution arrived from Sydney and was in-
stalled in a conspicuous place in doll-
dom. By the hail of dolls which descends
daily on the commitee arranging the ex-
hibition every woman who ever loved a
doll seems to have hers locked in a
drawer against marauding children, wait-
ing for such a day as this week’s. Even
the first doll ever seen at a Royal Show
is having its second time on earth, and
will find old friends such as the early
colonial doll at the new rendezvous.
Signs are that Portsea will again be
crowded for the big season, beginning
just before the New Year. Mrs. Jack
Manton, the former Pat Wenzel, is
already casting an eye on her wardrobe
with a view to its being in step with the
colorful beaches there ; when she stays at
the home the Wenzel family possesses in
one of the most delectable parts of the
Biarritz of Port Phillip. Her sister, Mrs.
Geoffrey Cohen, will be at Frankston,
hard by, which pleasant spot will also be
marked “standing room only” by the time
1942 is ushered in. Macedon will be,
under the calm of the ages which its
stately gums give it, seething with house-
parties, such folk as the Frank Clarkes,
Herbert Brookes and G. J. Coles being
faithful to it in their spacious country
squire fashion.
Although the Quad, up at The Shop, is
heavy with anticipatory sighs of the
about-to-be-ploughed, and those who next
year go down to the world’s highways
from their old Alma Mater, Keith
Macartney wanders there, blissfully ig-
noring the glances of students of Eng-
lish, whose papers he has corrected, while
he elaborates plans for more theatrical
productions. This year he has pulled off
a few goods things, and “Dear Brutus,”
at the week-end, crowns his 1941 efforts.
Always astonishing how people manage
the mileage to the Union Theatre, but
they do. Perhaps the open spaces for
parking and the really padded theatre
seats mean something. Even students
crowd the Union Theatre every Friday
night for movies, instead of going to
town for them.
What’s the attraction of business? Not
in a big way with £50,000 cheques and
the like, but across the counter in 6d.
lots These thoughts arise from a visit
to the stall \Uiere Mrs. A. V. Pope, from
India, sold the cast-off hats of the rich
and great (otherwise Used Models) for
five bob or thereabouts. They are further
suggested by the news conveyed by Mrs.
Tristan Buesst (Marie Mackinnon) that
Mrs. M. L. Baillieu will be in the retail
meat trade for the Market Fair that’s
adoing on December 12. All in a good
cause, but chops are chops, especially on
a hot day. The business methods of the
former Betty Willsallen will, no doubt,
involve the use of persuasive eloquence,
but it’s hard to imagine her shouting the
wares as they do in the meat market.
By the marriage of Joy Newman to
lan Mein last week the W. Pulteney Mein
family has become an entirely married one,
and has gone some way towards estab-
lishing a record of good looks. Consider
the facts. Sisters of lan are Mrs. Maurice
Nicholas, formerly Phyllis Mein, and
Mrs. Alan Stuart, who was Alison Mein,
both brunette lovelies. Brother Dal mar-
ried the film star Kathleen Rhys, and
Joy is not behind the family average of
charm. The whole family keeps its
loyalty to the countryside in spite of the
fascinations of town, and Joy will be as
pleased to settle down in her station home
in N.S.W. as the average girl to live in
the purlieus of Toorak. Broothorn made
this picture of Mrs. Mein.
Joan Lindsay, Joan Weigall that was,
daughter of one of Victoria’s Supreme
Court Judges and wife of artist Daryl
Lindsay, has just brought off a major
triumph, the writing of The Story of the
Red Cross. Husband Daryl was respon-
sible for the illustrations, both made and
gathered, and when at the publishers
they, with J. P. Beveridge, showed the
fruits of their labors in the completed
de luxe and ordinary volumes the chorus
of congratulations rose above the sounds
that denote a cocktail party in progress.
The idea of a party at the publishers had
this advantage, that the men whose work
had been put into the printing saw it.
They stood outside and cheerily directed
latecomers to the right door, with the
injunction “Get in or you’ll miss the
eats!”
From Sydney
Sorrowful homes are set in all of Syd-
ney’s suburbs. The news of the dis-
appearance of H.M.A.S. Sydney has
ringed this city with sad wives and
mothers, and there is not a woman who
does not grieve with them. Newtown,
Pyrmont, harborside suburbs and almost
every corner of Sydney were represented
in the warship’s brave company.
Petrol or no petrol (for the week-end),
crowds motored to Admiralty House
on Friday night. Music was the enter-
tainment, and the Junior Chamber of
Commerce had organised it for the bene-
fit of the Y.W.C.A. Services’ appeal.
Cards were one guinea each, and as both
drawing-rooms were filled with guests it
looked as though the Junior Chamber of
Commerce had stepped straight into
Big - Business. Flower compositions of
hydrangea and gladioli had rich effect.
Flame gladioli sprayed from great
Chinese bowls. The green curtains were
drawn, and all of the night that came in
was the fresh breeze blowing from Port
Jackson.
Lady Cowrie’s graceful frock was of
mulberry tulle and ivory moire, and Lady
Wakehurst’s parchment taffetas were
effective with her creamy skin and dark
hair. One vice-regal group sat in each
room during the concert. Dorothy Helm-
rich was the night’s singer. Her opening
number was Purcell’s “When I Am Laid
in Earth,” and then she sang “O Death,
Rock Me Asleep,” which tradition says
was composed by Ann Boleyn the night
before her voice-box was separated for
ever from her diaphragm.
A Haydn and a Debussy work were
the Sydney String Quartet’s offerings.
Peter Cooper was the night’s pianist.
There were three or four groups of Fair-
faxes in the audience, including the really
musical Miss Fairfax. There were
Y.W.C.A. representatives, among them
Miss L. M. Fowler. Killara Music
Club was well to the fore, and Margaret
Gillespie, Mrs. Hope Gibson, Mrs.
Harold Bott and Mrs. McCartney were
among the North Shore line music-lovers.
Mrs. Edye with daughter Stephanie,
Phyllis Parkinson and Joan Holman were
among the many.
China’s new Minister to Australia Dr.
Hsu Mo, his wife and daughters seemed
impressed with the wealth of talent
shown by their compatriots in Australia
at the Town Hall concert on Saturday
night. A choir of girls and boys sang
in musicianly manner and with warm
feeling the National flag song, while over-
head that emblem glowed among the
flags of England, Australia, Holland and
other friends. A girl with a warm speak-
ing and singing voice told the outline
of the song she was about to sing. It
concerned the lament of the refugees in
and around Chungking each longing
for the corner he had called home in that
vast land.
There was a dragon dance, in which
the friendly and glittersome monster
gambolled all jade, gold, emerald and
the blue of Pekin glass. There were sym-
bolic banners, jade lanterns and a great
golden dragon as stage decorations. The
dragon was Sydney’s old friend from
sesqui-centenary days. It had been re-
habilitated with gold leaf by sculptor Mrs.
Michael Hall. With her husband she sat
in the audience. In the Ministerial group
were the soomto-depart Consul-General
Pao couple, Dr. Tuan and India’s Trade
Commissioner Dr. Saksena and his wife.
The concert was to benefit the Chinese
War Relief Funds, and radio and vaude-
ville stars, the Police Choir, singers,
pianists and members of the Burlakov
ballet added their talents to those of
young China.
This is a Max Dupain photograph of
Rachel Cameron, a Brisbane girl, now
one of the leading ballerinas in the Kir-
sova ballet season at the Minerva. Rachel,
before coming to Sydney and Helene
Kirsova, was a student of ballet in Mel-
bourne.
During her all-too-brief life the Rachel
Forster Hospital for Women and
Children was one of Mrs. F. J. Davy’s
chief enthusiasms. The hockey girls of
N.S.W. wish to perpetuate the memory
of their former loved secretary by equip-
ping in her name the laboratory of the
new Rachel Forster. To help their fund
dancer Irene Vera Young and mezzo-
contralto Brigid Clarke will give a recital
in the Con. on December 16. Pianist
Dagmar Roberts will also star. Plan is
now open at Nicholson’s.
Glittering pageant of War Prisoners’
Relief Day was the procession of Syd-
ney’s Police and firemen. How dazzling
of helmet the latter were—-they made
one think of the casques knights wore of
old. The police dogs, too, were in the
picture, and a sign that advised giving
dough to the graceful Zoe who was doing
her tricks in the cause met with silvery
response. Martin-place was a burble of
excitement from early morning. The
monster dip (it took about £540, a
worker whispered) was cleared out by
four o’clock. The Caledonian Market
in the Town Hall (and no greater flower
beauty has ever been seen in the city)
netted £l6OO. Frank Albert bought a
£lOOO button. An anonymous giver
handed in a cheque for hundreds. Hap-
piest small girl in Martin-place was she
who won a Christmas ham for mother.
Altogether £13,000 will help the Red
Cross to keep, on sending its weekly
parcels.
A little boy from Manly has burst into
the starshine of V.C. winner. He is six-
foot-five-inch Lieutenant Arthur Cutler,
and his bravery during the Syrian cam-
paign is a theme which should have a
special minstrel to do it justice. Courage
must be his very being. It is now told
of him that at 18 he helped save a friend
from being cut off by a shark from the
beach and safety at Bondi. The hero s
mother lives in Addison-road, Manly.
Arthur is a B.Econ. of Sydney Uni.
His followers in Sydney celebrated
General de Gaulle’s birthday in the way
he would like best. That is, they raised
funds for the Free French movement. A
concert at the Conservatorium crowded
out the old Macquarie-street establish-
ment, and in miniature the Cross ol
Lorraine was flown proudly by men and
women. Young French-Australian gins,
smoothly-dressed and coiffed, showed the
audience to their seats. Other equally
smart lasses handed out programmes.
Henry Segaert, Belgium’s Minister Pleni-
potentiary to Thailand, was the night’s
hit in the audience. Not long returned
on furlough from Thailand, Sydney’s old
friend made an entry that had all the
effect of being preceded by banners. With
him was his equally popular wife.
Daughter Mrs. Brenac, whose husband,
Andre Brenac, leader of the Free French
movement in these parts, is out of town,
was in the official group, which included
Chief Justice Jordan and his lady. The
Bertie Kellys, the Moxham and Poynter
ladies, the Louis Duplatre couple, and
principal of the Fort-street Girls’ High
School, Fanny Cohen.
Loud applause greeted the programme
of French music and song provided by
Mrs. Goossens-Viceroy, pianist Alex-
ander Sverjensky and violinist George
White. There were handclaps, too, for
Clive Evatt who, as Minister for Educa-
tion, spoke first in English then slowly
in French. But Heather Ferris, from the
Fort-street Girls’ High, put a star on
our linguistic banner by her impec-
cable accent as she read a message from
the children of Australia to those of
France.
People whose great-grandparents lived
“just about where the G.P.O. is now” ;
or as far out as Pott’s Point when the
few homes there were surrounded by
acres of ground ; people, in short, whose
forebears were pioneers or early settlers
are delighting in the photographs of old
houses and public buildings now on show
at History House. Here are bits of
charm and early ruggedness from every
State in the Commonwealth. Tasmania
is shown to have had a Theatre Royal
over 100 years ago. Evidently the drama
was as much alive then in Australia as it
is in our own times. The winners in the
competitive sections will be the richer
for copies of an etching by Geoffrey
Ingleton. From the Rural Bank come
pictures of many historic homes.
Until March there will be no more of
the Lunch-time Club concerts which have
filled History House with enthusiasts
during the last season. The last con-
cert had Archbishop and Mrs. Mowll as
guests of honor. The club’s president,
Margaret Gillespie, has great plans for
next year. Margaret is also a committee
member of the flourishing Killara Music
Club.
Mrs. Greg McGirr, just back from
Adelaide where she was a delegate to
the Catholic Women’s Conference, tells
with delight of the garden beauties of the
S.A. capital. The University women gave
her a lunch where the flowers charmed,
also the artistry of the woman graduate
who, failing petrol, hiked to the party
—her bag popped into a basket on the
handlebars —the basket lacquered the
same shade as her hat. An afternoon at
the Heysen home was filled with color,
too. The Heysens are particularly fond
of fuchsias, and in a float bowl these
flowers were thickly massed. Begonias,
too, were lush in house and studio. Even
the dog-kennel had to be artistic. It is
made of a scooped-out tree-trunk, rather
barrel-like in shape. This rests on what
once were the tree’s strong and gnarled
roots. When the puppies arrive a step
is placed at the kennel’s entrance.
The drawing-room of the Carlton held
a capacity audience one night last week
when Ramji Ram Saksena, Trade Com-
missioner for the Indian Government in
Australia, spoke on his country’s part in
the war effort. He certainly knew his
ground. Besides having been a Profes-
sor of Economics at Allahabad Univer-
sity, he has been attached to the Central
Board of Revenue, the Customs Service
and the Finance Department. Mr. Sak-
sena comes to Australia by way of Japan,
where he was Trade Commissioner for
three years. Apart from the speech, the
event of the entertainment was a poi
dance, its graceful exponent being
Marama Toki, “Talking Chief” Noho
Toki welcomed the Indian visitors in tra-
ditional Maori fashion.


THE FAT MAN
By GAVIN S. CASEY.
THE pub was comfort-
able and quiet enough.
There was plenty of
talk, but no yelling.
There were parties drinking
and yarning over their own small affairs, the horses,
their work, bits of town gossip. Half a dozen were
playing cards at a table in a corner, and Tom and I
were sitting against the wall with a couple of pots.
We were just killing the night, because floods had
held up the north country train and we wouldn’t be
able to get out of the town till next day. It was slow,
but it was comfortable enough. At least, it was for
me. Tom was younger and more restless.
He went over to the notice-board on the wall.
There was a poster for some dogracing that wouldn’t
happen for three days, and one for a charity flower
show that had happened three weeks earlier. He
came stampipg back, looking disgusted. “Hell,” he
said. “These towns are all right to do business in
and then get out of.”
“This’s all right,” I said. “Take it easy and enjoy
your beer.”
Tom gave a disgusted grunt, and then the fat
bloke came in and things brightened up a bit.
I—J E bowled in as if he had a lot of work to do
1 * and things on his mind, but was willing to drop
them for a while to be with the boys.
He was well dressed and wore a couple of rings,
and had flinty eyes set in soft, sagging flesh. He
looked mean in spite of his size and his red face, and
he looked arrogant and well aware of having a lot of
power. He hauled out a roll of notes a kangaroo
couldn’t jump over, but he didn’t buy for the bar. He
took a cautious look around, and roped in about
half a dozen men who were at his end and bought
for them. A lot of the rest started moving closer,
and a lot of the general talk died out while the mob
listened to him. The barman got busy, and in about
five seconds a fine, defiant-looking blonde barmaid
came in and leaned over the counter.
“Who’s the big joker?” Tom asked one of the
chaps.
“Jerry Halliday,” he said, as if that was enough.
“Who the hell’s Jerry Halliday?” Tom asked.
“He runs the bettin’ shops here. He’s a good
sort.”
“Hell! He doesn’t run ’em all, does he?” asked
Tom. “Surely you’ve got more than a couple in a
town like this.”
“He runs the big ’uns,” the man explained. “The
ones where all the mob go.” He drifted away to see
if he could get any closer to the fat man, and Tom
and I sat there watching the crowd of them.
I thought it was pretty pitiful, the way most of
the decent, hard-working fellows in the pub clambered
around, bursting to attract some attention from the
fat cove. Not that I object to s.p. men, or don’t give
them a bit more than their fair share of my screw as
a rule. But being a spectator instead of in the game
probably made it different, and, anyway, this one was
a noisy, blustering swab. He was putting on a great
show and generally maintaining his right to be con-
sidered “a good sort,” but from where I was sitting
it all looked as hollow as hell. His fellow-townsmen
were falling for it all right, but I could see that it was
business first and all the time with him. He seemed
to irritate Tom, too, but probably it was mainly
jealousy where Tom was concerned, he being just
about the right age to be jealous of anyone who
could afford to be arrogant.
“Small-town stuff!” said Tom disgustedly.
“Wouldn’t it make you sick?”
There was a sort of subdued cheer because the
fat man had ripped out his cheque-book and was
making a donation to one of the local football clubs.
His own success went to his head a bit then, and he
did buy for the whole bar. Tom looked as if he
might walk out, but I dug him in the ribs and he
stayed. I’ve got to dislike a man for more than
being fat and full of swagger before I dislike his
beer, too.
“You fellers just passin’ through?” the fat man
said. “You ought to stop here a while. There’s worse
places than this.”
“Yair. She’s not such a bad place. You could
go a long way and not find a better mob than we
got here,” said one of his echoes.
“Hell!” said Tom in a strangled whisper, sink-
ing his pot in a couple of swallows that nearly burst
his throat.
“Cheer up, son,” I mumbled.
After the drink, the fat man told a smutty joke
with long white whiskers on it, and everyone laughed
like hell. Then he roared good-byes all round, told
the barmaid he’d see her later, and dashed out into
the night,
“Good old Jerry! He’s the bloke to come to
light when any of the clubs want a few bob,” said
the man who had got the cheque.
“He does more for the town than the nobs we’ve
got on the council,” said someone else.
Tom had his eye on the barmaid.
“Y* won’t do no good with her,” leered one of
the crowd who was about thirty years too old for
Tom to belt in the kisser. “Y* might as well lay off.
She’s Jerry Halliday’s girl.”
“Christ! Let’s get out of here,” said Tom.
WE walked along to the next pub, but our luck
was out. The fat man was there, roaring and
flashing his rings, and keeping all eyes admiringly
on himself. He was buying a drink for the police
sergeant, the sergeant wearing a foolishly respectful
look. Tom got one glimpse of him and dragged me
out; then we found a dance and bought our way in,
and filled in an hour, during which Tom forgot some
of his troubles putting over his city-visitor line on one
of the local lasses who was easy on the eyes.
It bored me pretty much, and after a while I got
him to break away for a couple more drinks. We
found a pub where the fat man wasn’t, and had them
in comfort. We wandered back to the dance feeling
a lot better, but when we got there Jerry Halliday had
arrived. He was sitting with the flapper who had
been making a fuss of Tom, and Tom started to grind
his teeth.
He barged across the floor, and the next thing
I knew four of the town chaps-were holding him and
the fat man was hanging on to his left ear with a hurt
look on his face. Tom’s move looked like an unpro-
voked assault on a neutral, and it wasn’t popular. It
took me some time and a lot of talk to straighten
things out, but when I did Tom was ready to go back
to the pub, anyway. We did some steady drinking
while I listened to Tom’s troubles, and the fat man
must have chosen another bar when he wanted a
refresher.
But we ran into him again later. When they
finally decided to shut even the back door of the
pub it was on the wrong side of midnight, and we
were pretty muzzy. We’d killed the night all right,
and we were hungry. The town had gone to bed,
and its long, silent main street was depressing, but
lights still showed in one of the four restaurants, and
we made for them. The owner of the place looked
as if he wanted to close up, but he couldn’t, because
we were there, and so was Jerry Halliday, with the
reckless-looking blonde we’d seen in the first hotel.
“If you are REAHLLY a spy , I have a secret you might like to possess .”
He’d managed to get a good load of liquor during the
evening, too, and they were quarrelling pretty fiercely.
“Givin’ you a fair go’s one thing,” he was say-
ing. “I always done that. Have I or haven’t I?”
“Your idea of a fair deal!” she sneered. “D’you
think I’m as cheap as the sort you’re used to?”
It sounded interesting, but when we came in the
fat man scowled at us, and they barked at each other
in lower tones for a while.
“Good enough for him,” said Tom triumphantly.
“I hope she gives him hell!”
She did, and she finished up by stamping out on
him. The fat man let his head collapse on his arms
and sat quiet for a while. He must have managed
to get through a lot of drink during the night, and
he still had a couple of bottles on the table in front
of him. The Greek started to clean up the restaurant,
or anyway to make it less grimy. Tom and I dug
around hopefully and a bit uncertainly among the
last gristly bits of our tough steak. The last street
lights went out, and everything was quiet, Then the
fat man suddenly sat up
and gave tongue. “What a
swine of a town! ” he said.
“He always gits like
that late at night. Don’t
take no notice,” whispered the Greek, who was near
our table.
Anyway, we would have agreed.
“Ain’t it a swine of a town?” insisted the fat
man, drunkenly. “Ain’t it the worst place you was
ever in, Tony?”
“My oath!” the Greek said. “She’s a pig of a
place.” He winked at us.
“I bet you got some money in the bank, though,”
said the fat man. “You got your corner, ain’t you,
Tony?”
“You got a few shillings put away, too, p’r’aps,
Mr. Halliday,” the Greek suggested.
“Yair, but what’s the good of it?” asked Halliday
aggressively. “What’s the good of sugar in a bloody
hole like this?”
The fat man glared around, but though he looked
angry he didn’t look arrogant, like he had done. He
looked puzzled and confused and drunk and silly. I
even felt a bit sorry for him, and looking at the
bottles on his table had made me thirsty. He spotted
us, and his scowl changed to a dopey grin.
“Hello, boys, come over here,” he said. “Come
an’ have a drink.”
I was pretty thirsty, and, as I’ve said before, I
don’t have to dislike beer just because I don’t think
much of its owner. Anyway, I didn’t feel so hostile
to him now he was shickered and on his own, and I
was a bit under the pump, too. I kicked Tom in the
shin and started to go across. Tom stopped where
he was, looking black. The fat man screwed up his
eyes, peering at Tom.
“Gripes, it’s you!” said Halliday. “Gee, son, y’
don’t wanter feel like that about a girl. You stoppin’
here? I’ll get you something choice for tomorrow
night, see? There’s plenty o’ sweeties here, an’ I
know ’em all.”
“Come on, Tom. Forget it and have a drink,”
I said.
Tom started to come, looking pretty sulky.
“Hell!” said the fat man. “She didn’t mean
nothing to me. I got plenty. Got the shock o’ me
life when you got so wild about it. You could have
had her if y’d gone about it quietly, son. On’y I got
a reputation to keep up in this town. You know
how it is.”
He winked, and Tom showed signs of getting
human. I dare say he was young enough to be a
bit flattered, to imagine himself one day with plenty
of girls and a reputation to keep up somewhere or
other. The game looked a bit better, and I poured
some liquor. But the fat man had reminded himself
about the town.
“Ain’t it a cow of a joint?” he asked miserably.
“Maybe there’s better, and maybe there’s worse,
too,” I suggested.
“None worse!” he grunted. “Look at it.” He
waved his fat fist towards the night and the black,
silent, dusty street.
“I was a athlete one time,” he said after a while,
with disgust and hatred. “It’s only ten year since I
was number four in the Upper River eight, down the
(Continued on next page)


city. Gawd, we used to have some times, them days!
Did y’ ever know any o’ the crowd from the club?
They was the boys for anything that was going, and
I was one of ’em, 1 can tell you. Don’t suppose they’d
know me if they seen me now.”
You couldn’t tell him it was the ten years, and
a lot of things inside himself, and not the town, that
had changed him. I felt sorry for him.
“Them women,” he said suddenly. “What do
they want bar what they can get?”
Nobody answered him, and he took a good swig
of his liquor. “It’s a swine of a town,” he said with
finality.
The Greek had cleaned up all the tables except
the one we were at, and was waiting patiently. I
poured out the last of the grog, and we sank it
gloomily, and I got up. The fat man got up, too,
staggering a bit. He wasn’t too good. We got out
into the silent street, where you could smell the trees
just outside the town.
“It’s a cow of a place, all right,” said Tom, look-
ing a bit superior. “I feel sorry for you, having to
live here.”
“It’s no good to a man,” said Jerry Halliday,
scrambling into his car. “I used to be a athlete
once.”
He looked as if he wanted to say more, but he
didn’t. There was a little interval of silence, and
then he pulled out the choke of his car and turned on
the ignition. He sagged in the seat, with his clothes
wrinkled and his mouth loose with drink and fatigue.
He switched on the headlights, and they blazed along
the wide street, gleaming on the jerry-built shop
fronts,
“Look at it!” he grunted for the last time. “Did
y‘ ever see such a dump?” Then he started his motor
and drove off with a wave.
In the railway yard an engine chuffed heavily
and started moving. We walked towards the pub
where we were staying for the night, and neither of
us said anything for a while. Then Tom said:
“Christ, I’m sorry for the poor fat old cow now!”
So was I, and I was sorry for young Tom, too,,
DOCTOR
HARRY
By MARGARET TRIST.
I CAN see Doctor Harry as plainly as if it had
been yesterday. Instead, it was years ago. I can
see every line on his thin dark face, the controlled
set of his sensitive mouth, the almost unearthly
glitter of his brown eyes. I can see the tall silk hat
and the frock coat he so incongruously wore. I can
see his long, tightly-trousered legs coming elegantly
over the verandah railings. The gate above the steps
was always tied securely to prevent the smaller chil-
dren tumbling down, and Doctor Harry was never
one to humbug about opening gates.
‘A fine welcome this is,” he would roar. “Come
here till 1 cut off your heads and stow them away in
my bag.”
With a shriek every child who could climb rail-
ings would make off down the paddocks, leaving a
perturbed mass of babies and toddlers wriggling on
the floor. My grandmother, a sprightly, spruce old
lady, would appear and snatch up what at the time
would be her favorite among her grandchildren or
great-grandchildren. Being an old lady with a mind
of her own and an aptitude for prejudices her choice
varied from day to day.
“Shame on you, Doctor Harry,” she would call.
“What needs you must come here frightening inno-
cents out of their wits.”
Doctor Harry would put down his bag and seize
the grubbiest, most ill-favored child and start a war-
dance, the tails of his coat flying, his long legs kicking
nimbly. The child would scream. All the children
would scream. Doctor Harry would whoop. Mothers
and aunts would come running from all directions.
“At your age!” would snort my grandmother.
“This place is one upset from the moment you come
into it till you go away.”
Doctor Harry would stop suddenly. By this time
he would have danced his hat off. He would put up
his hand to smooth his hair that at over sixty was still
thick and very black. “Am I to take it then,” he
would say, “that I am not welcome?”
“Indeed,” would say my grandmother, “and what
other way could it be taken? Truda, set out the
Sunday tea-servite, and, Jenny, see that the tea is
good and strong. Would you come into the parlor,
Doctor Harry?”
“Not if the last breath in my body depended on
it,” Doctor Harry would say, and would set out gaily
for the kitchen, my grandmother following, protesting,
in the rear.
A fearsome place was that parlor, a small dark
room with fast-closed windows, cluttered and lined
with the treasures my grandmother had acquired in
the course of her lifetime. The kitchen suited Doctor
Harry better, or rather an annexe off the kitchen that
was open on two sides. Here there was a big table
where the family took their midday meal on hot days.
One side gave a view down over the paddocks, miles
and miles of them, stretching away to the edge of the
earth it seemed. On the other side thick grapevines
gave coolness and shade and protection from wind.
It was at this table that Doctor Harry liked to sit.
He would pull a chair out from the table, sit on it
sideways and thrust his long legs out in front of him.
His bag and hat would be carelessly dumped on the
green plush tablecloth. My grandmother would dart
forward, remove the bag and hat and carefully smooth
the ruffled plush.
Soon the plush cloth would be exchanged for one
of white linen, with insets of crochet roses and a deep
crochet border. The Sunday tea-service was of fine
white fluted china with a band of pink edged with a
thin line of gold.
“You mind how you take a hold of it,” my grand-
mother would warn Doctor Harry, and deliberately
set a thick white cup in my grandfather’s place, look-
ing all the time at Doctor Harry to let him know
that this would happen to him, too, if he so much as
looked harshly at the Sunday service. But Doctor
Harry liked china, just as he liked fine glasses out of
which to drink, and the port and brandy that had
been hidden away for years and years in the cellar
that was my grandfather’s joy.
The tea would run out of the teapot newly-
brewed and strong. Cream rose immediately on the
top of it from the richness of the milk. Doctor Harry
would get down to business, sinking cup after cup,
boiling hot. He would eat slice after slice of brfead
and butter spread thickly with tomato jam.
“It’s not often you get bread the like of that.
Doctor Harry,” my grandmother would say proudly:
“Pooh,” would answer Doctor Harry. “Eat better
bread than this three times a day every day. This
would be all right, say it wasn’t sour.”
“Indeed!” would snort my grandmother. “Well,
you stop eating it this instant.”
“Who are you calling monkey face?”
“Wouldn’t like to offend you any,” would grin
Doctor Harry, and eat on undeterred.
One by one the children would return from the
paddock, sidling shyly into the kitchen on their brown
feet, taking up a position which gave them security
plus the advantage of being able to cut and run should
the necessity arise.
Once tea was finished the real business would
begin. Doctor Harry, armed with the mysterious con-
tents of his bag, would inspect each child in turn.
Some came eagerly, knowing that part of the medicine
consisted of a sticky and lurid-looking sweet called
raspberry drops ; some took to the paddock and had
to be hunted down and dragged back, screaming wildly
and kicking at everyone and everything within range.
I can still see the look on Doctor Harry’s face as he
held the recalcitrant down with one hand and jabbed
at him or her with whatever kind of instrument
he held in the other hand.
While the examination was in progress Doctor
Harry would be deadly serious ; as soon as the last
child had been given the last raspberry drop and sent
on its way, he returned to himself. With my grand-
mother he would set out to walk round the garden.
It was a big old garden, each large bed stuffed
to the limit —roses blooming beside geraniums ; phlox
and pinks and petunias filling every available space.
Mint ran wild by the garden taps. Red, white and
pink roses clambered together over arbors ; full-blown,
their petals scattered as the wind stirred. Two bougain-
villaeas sprawled across a trellis, their colors clashing
magnificently. My grandmother and Doctor Harry
would quarrel incessantly as they walked, arguing
about the name of some flowers, boasting of blossoms
they had produced, questioning each other’s veracity.
The afternoon would lengthen as they walked, the
sun would go, leaving them still arguing in the cool
dusk.
Sometimes then Doctor Harry would go ; other
times he stopped, and when everyone else had gone
to bed he and my grandmother and grandfather would
have dinner together. You would hear the china clink-
ing, the sound of bottles opening, glass ringing against
glass. Soon Doctor Harry would start to sing. “The
Harp That Once Through Tara’s Halls” would rever-
berate through the house, float out on the night and
rise to the stars. He would go away still singing.
“Poor Harry,” my grandmother would say when
he had gone.
“A queer cuss,” would say my grandfather.
I CAN still see Doctor Harry as he was then —
*■ the lines on his face, the glitter of his eyes, his long-
fingered hand rising to neaten his thick black hair. I
could not have seen him more than half a dozen times,
yet his memory remains clearer with me than does
the memory of my own people. His memory is the
only real thing from what seems now an unreal life.
A life generously sprinkled with grandparents and
uncles and aunts and cousins and brothers and sisters.
Babies and babies and babies! Could there really
ever have been so many babies? Could so many shiny-
faced, brown-legged children ever had existed? A
life where no new baby crowded out the last one ;
no matter how many, there were still places waiting at
the long table. It seems unbelievable now that this
life ever was. I would have forgotten it long ago
only for the memory of Doctor Harry.
I went back recently to the little town where
Doctor Harry had practised. I had heard he was
living there still, a very old man, long retired.
The day I arrived I walked along the main street.
Each shop had a half-closed door. It reminded me of
a faraway Saint Patrick’s Day when Doctor Harry
had gathered a buggyload of us children and brought
us to see the procession. Each shop had had a half-
cloced door then. Doctor Harry had moved among
the crowd, greeting, snarling, quarrelling, his long legs
jerking him from place to place, the tails of his frock
coat flying, his silk hat awry. He had jigged as the
band played, signalling to us to jig too. “Shame on
your grandmother,” he had thundered when he learned
we did not know how to, and had proceeded to teach
us there and then. Then the procession had moved off
and he forgot the jig in his efforts to cheer it on.
Suddenly he had turned to a stranger standing near
him, and started a quarrel which roared fiercely till
the procession was well past us and the crowd, dis-
persing, had set out after it. One minute Doctor Harry
was there beside us, gesticulating wildly, the next he
was gone. A chance glance showed his coat-tail dis-
appearing inside the hotel door. He came out half an
hour later singing “The Harp That Once Through
Tara’s Halls.”
But today was not Saint Patrick’s Day. Soon I
learnt the meaning of the half-closed doors. A small
funeral passed wearily along the dusty street. A drab,
unspectacular funeral, hardly warranting even the half-
courtesy it was getting. The doors opened almost
before it had gone.
I wasn’t curious about the funeral. I noticed it
only because there was nothing else to notice. It
wasn’t till later I remembered it.
A scrap of conversation floated to me in the
street.
“He’s dead at last. Buried this morning.”
“Dead and buried. Well, I guess that won’t suit
old Doctor Harry. If 1 know anything about him he’ll
rise up in the night and yowl. Pretend he’s a banshee
or some such.”
Doctor Harry was dead. I had returned only in
time for his funeral. A shabby funeral. Doctor
Harry wouldn’t have liked it at all.


Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
df
Dr. F. W. Norwood, D.D.
■•Ptimanism is sound psychology
an<l an admirable system of mind-
training. It teaches that man has
the key to his own career.”
Pelmanism is a scientific training.
It substitutes good and faithful
habits of mind and memory for
slovenly and fearful ones. Thus it
promotes steadfastness, definiteness
and continuity of effort
Pelmanism is endorsed publicly by
more than 100 Prominent People.
Pelmanists are found in practically
every calling.
Pelmanism is permanent in its effect
on the Mind, Memory and Person-
ality.
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Coarse.
Approved by the War Office.
There are over half a million
Pelmanists, of whom more than
44,000 have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established
in Melbourne for over 33 yea^s.
d
fd
DELMANISM offers help in the solution of personal problems, but its main purpose is
A to train the individual’s powers so that he will be effective in all his movements, so
that everything he does will be well done and produce the effect he intends it to produce.
The result is seen in the multifarious acts attendant on earning a living, in his social relations,
in his recreations, in his inner life and in his outward contribution to the tremendous effort
the Empire is now making.
INTO whatever channel the energies of men and women may be directed, by whatever
means they earn a livelihood, and however they may make manifest their intention to help
in the common effort, the development of certain qualities is necessary to full effectiveness.
"These are:—
Perceptive Faculty
Concentration
Self-control
Judgment
Decisiveness
Will-Power
Self-confidence
Initiative
Organisation
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
P ELM AN ISM develops these qualities. It develops them quickly and permanently. It
creates desirable and serviceable habits of mind and of will that continue and strengthen
as time goes on. Thus Pelmanism is not so much a study as a training designed to
strengthen the mind and character and enlarge the personality as a whole. It succeeds because
it trains the conscious and the subconscious alike so that every faculty will, when called
upon, contribute its share in making a good performance of anything that has to be done.
We give extracts from a few letters from many thousands received by the Institute in Melbourne.
DOCTOR: “Pelmauism has shown me how to observe
instead of merely seeing.”
TEACHER: “Increase in my powers of Concentration
and Memory. Increase in Self-Confidence. Greater
interest in people and in my surroundings.”
CEERK; “I have just received my Diploma in
Economics at the Sydney University and I am grateful
to the Institute for showing me how to use my mind.”
STAFF CAPTAIN: “I want to thank you for your
attention and express the hope that I may keep in
touch with the Institute in the future as the occasion
offers.”
SHEEPFABMER: “I have kept an account of the
time spent on the Course. It amounted to a shade under
three months and the average time per day—lo minutes.”
ENGINED RIVER: “It is with a wonderful sense of
ability and security that I face the future.”
AIRCRAFTSMAN: “My memory is improved, my
concentration developed and I am a better observer.”
PRIVATE; “I have developed Will Power, Observa-
tion and Memory. I feel that I can step into the future
with both feet firmly planted on the path to success.”
SOEDIER (ENGINEER): “Yesterday I learned that
promotion, and to a higher rank than that which I had
expected, is coming my way in the near future. I
attribute my promised advancement to Pelmanism. It
was only the benefit I had already gained from it which
carried me through at .”
SOEDIER: “I was one oi three to be promoted out
of a class, of thirty selected for special training.”
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy of “The Efficient
Mind,” 76 pages, post free. Your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential
communication; we have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.)» Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelmau Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Telman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
143
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
f
' For local office
see Page is
s _ address
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
* 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-).
SEND “THE BULLETIN” TO
THE LADS OVERSEAS—
Special Concession Rates:
12 months 15/-
6 months .... 8/-
3 months . 47-
post free.
[O'
C o '
6>
' *O-* .-- ..•- .■••-^4-


'■vm
j&H
8»
S 3
gw
ill
RP
mh
‘&tfrfrf&oP
m
mmm
m
ft
Hit
<;*r
ws
it
I
s\
i
»i
«
sis
fl»'i
srs
saws
'
/I
ai
. )f
Urn
m
.-. -■
te-w-mm
I
Dvi
I
■v
1$
is ".
.
iiM|w^ji)i^
ri
m
ft
Jyj
I
*5»
jsiffisgfe;-- ..jgp
88
Yellow RIVER. Not the Yellow River
of China—just any one of the many 'yellow’
rivers of the Tropics* Man has always
settled as near water as possible* To him it
has meant life, and it is due to this instinc-
tive reasoning that many rivers have been
venerated as Gods Father Tiber and
Mother Ganges, arbiters of life and death.
The peoples who dwelt on their banks
had no means of realizing that the
same waters from which they drew their
life brought also death, killing them in their
thousands because they or their animals
polluted them with the bacteria of cholera,
dysentery, typhoid and other plague-
causing diseases.
Even in Australia, amid all the amenities of
civilization, rivers and reservoirs, particu-
larly under drought conditions, could
threaten the health of dwellers in our towns
and cities, were it not for the availability
of Chlorine and its compounds. Fearful
epidemics may be caused by infected drink-
ing water. Diseases may be spread by
contaminated swimming baths* Fortunately
these dangers have been reduced to a mini-
mum by the use of Chlorine and Sodium
Hypochlorite for the sterilization of water*
Credit for the first systematic use of Chlorine
for this purpose is due to the late Sir
Alexander Houston, who employed it during
a severe epidemic of typhoid at Lincoln in
1904* He applied to the water Sodium
Hypochlorite, and his successful treatment
attracted attention all over the world* Later
on the use of Chlorine gas in place of hypo-
chlorite solutions was developed and is the
method mostly favoured to-day. At the
other end of the scale Chlorine is applied
with equal efficacy to all stages in the dis-
posal of sewage, a problem which in towns
and municipalities all over Australia, has
been solved by the economical application
of Chlorine* I.C*LA*N*Z* manufacture both
Chlorine and Sodium Hypo-
chlorite, and are always
ready and willing to advise
on their application in the
treatment of water*
aas
S»B
if
“Behind the Empire - Throughout the Empire”
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND
ZSiVI)
NEW ZEALAND LTD.
Subsidiary Companies
ALKALI (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
NOBEL (A/ASIA) PTY. LTD.
1.C.1
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES (N. 2.) LTD.
