

.
p
■
yfif 1
■
til
mm
f
I
j ' 'c. iv ' " '
"■HHVV I
m
MR
e'd all .
une him/
DO IT
THERE
DO YOUR PART!
Support Betty Bryant, The Allied Liquor Trades Queen.
The Bulletin
"The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—No. 3200.
Wednesday, June 11, 1941.
A Campaign in Syria?
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


urn
• in*
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE .
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 141
The Red Page
Hemingway as a Novelist .
There is one scene, 30 pages long, in
Hemingway’s new novel of such extraor-
dinary power and beauty, lifted by the
writer’s skill from the reporting of brutal
fact to the high plane of tragedy, that one
feels that here at last the author of the
experimental A Farewell to Arms and
the essentially trivial Death in the After-
noon has fulfilled the promise of all his
previous works, and that that fulfilment
is a piece of real literature. As a novel,
For Whom the Bell Tolls (Cape ; Angus
and Robertson) is uneven, and one serious
flaw, undermining its whole length, makes
it very shaky; but of the quality of the
one great scene —a narrative of the out-
break of the Spanish Civil War as epito-
mised in a village—there can be no ques-
tion, and there are other incidents more
directly related to the plot of the novel
(the heroic defence of a hilltop; the
blowing up of a bridge ; the attempt to
provoke a suspected traitor into fighting
so that he will not have to be shot in cold
blood) equally convincing and almost
equally moving.
It’s not very difficult to see why For
Whom the Bell Tolls, apart from the
fact that every writer improves with
practice, should be by far the best of
Hemingway’s writings to date. It is about
the Spanish war, and Hemingway is,
more than anything else, a war novelist.
On him, as on Robert Graves and Sieg-
fried Sassoon (as on everyone who saw it
at first-hand), the Great War left its mark
ineffaceably.
Graves (who shares with Hemingway
a distaste for the highfalutin and a taste
for plain speaking, an attitude of mind
which likes to regard men as the sports
of fate and to describe them eating, drink-
ing and making love under the storm-
clouds of great events) came out of
the war saying Goodbye to All
That and caused a sensation. Public
interest in him, while he has been writing
his excellent novels of ancient Rome and
of the American Civil War, and while
his purely literary reputation has grown,
has steadily waned. I, Claudius and
Proceed, Sergeant Lamb are in reality
just as much a comment on the war of
1914—further analyses of what Graves
observed in 1914-18, projected into history
—as are To Have and Have Not and
Death in the Afternoon, but Hemingway’s
indefinitely prolonged “Farewell to
Arms” has never lost its sensational qual-
ity as has Graves’s interminable “Good-
bye.” Why? Because Hemingway has
affected to approve of violence and bru-
tality. That is “news.”
When the Great War was over and the
farewells to arms had to be made, Hem-
ingway was without a theme. At the
back of his mind, as his unremitting pre-
occupation with violence proves, he felt
that there was still some comment to be
made on war; that war was so tremen-
dous a theme that nothing else was worth
his while. But there was no war. Search-
ing for a substitute, Hemingway turned
to big-game hunting ( Green Hills of
Africa) and to bullfighting ( Death in the
Afternoon). In the introduction to Death
in the Afternoon he admitted that he was
looking for some consummation of his
Great War experiences;
The only place where you could see
life and death, i.e., violent death now that
the wars were over, was in the bull ring,
and I wanted very much to go to Spain
where I could study it. I was trying to
learn to write, commencing with the sim-
plest things, and one of the simplest things
of all and the most fundamental is violent
death.
If one were considering Hemingway’s
prose style, it would be worth discussing
at some length the case of a man who,
trying to begin with the simplest things,
is capable of saying he commences with
them. But the point to be made here is
that all the way up to For Whom the Bell
Tolls Hemingway has been wanting to
write another book about war and, hav-
ing no war, has accepted a number of
unsatisfactory substitutes. Green Hills of
Africa, though there was too much
labored “toughness” in it, was a good
about big-game hunting: but it
wasn’t a masterpiece on war. Death in
the Afternoon, a nice piece of writing,
splendidly pictorial and pleasantly humor-
ous, was, after all, no more than a good
book about bullfighting; and bullfight-
ing is not war. Despite Hemingway’s in-
tention to explore and expatiate on some
mysticism of death in that book, he
couldn’t make bullfighting into anything
more than a circus, a sideshow ; when,
forgetting that he wanted to treat it as a
microcosm of war, he tried to present it
as a great tragedy, he was (remembering
Lear) merely being silly ; when he tried
to present it as a triumph of animated
sculpture, surely under his surface tough-
ness he was being as arty and as precious
as is Neville Cardus when he tries to de-
scribe a cricket match as a sonata.
In these two books, Green Hills of
Africa and Death in the Afternoon, Hem-
ingway wandered away from his track.
They were immensely popular, it is true,
for Hemingway was not the only man
to whom the Great War had been an ex-
citement that did not work to crisis.
Hemingway made the factual reporting
of bloodshed his stock-in-trade, and the
Americans lapped it up.
Had he continued with these books
about the killing of animals as sub-
stitutes for books about the death of
men in battle, he could not have attained
great stature as a writer, however wide-
spread his contemporary influence. The
substitute isn’t the real thing, and a book
about the substitute is far from the real
thing. Perhaps, in the search for new
substitutes for war, growing more and
more difficult to find as the obvious theme
of animal killing was worked out, he
might have sunk to the level of his imita-
tors and joined Steinbeck in leaping to
American favor with a book about a
half-witted pervert who makes a habit of
squeezing-in the heads of mice and
puppies.
But Hemingway, whose preoccupation
with violent death is, of course, perfectly
legitimate in a novelist, has never been
tinged with sadism. Even in the substi-
tute books there is only realism ; horrors,
yes, because there are horrors in life, but
no lingering over them, no gloating and
no slobbering. Avoiding the pitfall of
sadism, Hemingway seemed for a time
as if he might fall into another trap that
has ended the career of a good many
promising contemporary novelists —the
descent down the slope buttered with
sentimentality into Leftism. To Have
and Have Not (ominous title!) is almost
a good yarn about a modern buccaneer;
and it is also very close to a fairytale
for Leftists about a pore suffering crook
and a lot of wicked rich people, with the
not unfamiliar moral
Ain’t it all a Weedin' shime!
That was how matters stood until For
Whom the Bell Tolls was written. Hem-
ingway could only repeat what he had
said about the killing of animals or go
over to the Left. He wasn’t a Conrad
interested in man against the elements;
his only real interest was in man amidst
war. The outbreak of the Spanish War
gave him his chance. In For Whom the
Bell Tolls he has written an excellent
book on the war, much the best piece
of reporting yet done or likely to be
done on it.
His characters —an American hero,
various gipsies and Spaniards—are on the
Republican side, but it is not a partisan
book. Hemingway is concerned with
portraying men and women under the
stormy sunset of war, and the one burning
sky hangs over the people of both sides.
So careful is he, indeed, to explain that
his American hero, Robert Jordan, is
not a Communist that he becomes comic.
Hemingway’s most penetrating com-
ment on the Spanish war as a whole, and
on what distinguishes Spanish war from
war in most other countries, is the simple
statement that the Spanish peasant, unlike
all other peasants, is habitually bored.
Out of boredom springs cruelty ; and out
of continual small cruelties, the peculiar
ferocity of war in Spain.
Perhaps deliberately to stress his im-
partiality, Hemingway’s big scene is a
story told by a Republican against the
Republicans. Nobody, says the half-
gipsy woman Pilar, really knows anything
about civil war until he has seen it break
out in a village where everybody knows
everybody, where families are divided and
where personal grudges are responsible
for as many murders as are political
differences. In Pilar’s village, after the
assault on the barracks and the shooting
of the civil guard, some 20 “Fascists” were
imprisoned in the Town Hall with the
priest. While the prisoners confessed and
knelt praying with the priest, Pilar’s
husband, Pablo, organised a very pretty
execution for them. From the Town Hall
to the cliff above the river, Pablo arranged
the villagers in two long parallel lines,
placing each man at just such a distance
from his neighbor as would give him
room to swing the flail, club, pitchfork
or reaping-hook with which he was
armed ; one by one, the prisoners were
to run the gauntlet and, dead or alive at
the end of their passage through the
flails and clubs, were to be hurled over
the cliff to the river. Pilar tells the
story:
These lines were quiet and it was a clear
day, as today is clear, and there were
clouds high in the sky, as there are now, and
the plaza was not yet dusty, for there had
been a heavy dew in the night, and the
trees cast a shade over the men in the
lines and you could hear the water run-
ning from the brass pipe in the mouth of
the lion and falling into the bowl of the
fountain where the women bring the water
jars to fill them.
Only near the Ayuntamiento, where the
priest was complying with his duties with
the Fascists, was there any ribaldry, and
that came from those worthless ones who,
as I said, were already drunk and were
crowded around the windows shouting
obscenities and jokes in bad taste in
through the iron bars of the windows.
Most of the men in the lines were waiting
quietly and I heard one say to another,
“Will there be women?”
And another said, “I hope to Christ, no.”
Then one said, “Here is the woman of
Pablo. Listen, Pilar. Will there be
women?”
I looked at him and he was a peasant
dressed in his Sunday jacket and sweating
heavily and I said, “No, Joaquin. There
are no women. We are not killing the
women. Why should we kill their
women?”
And he said, “Thanks be to Christ, there
are no women, and when does it start?”
And I said, “As soon as the priest
finishes.”
“And the priest?”
“I don’t know,” I told him, and I saw
his face working and the sweat coming
down his forehead. “I have never killed
a man,” he said.
“Then you will learn,” the peasant next
to him said. “But I do not think one blow
with this will kill a man,” and he held
his flail in both hands and looked at it with
doubt.
“That is the beauty of it,” another
peasant said. “There must be many
blows.”
Pilar is wearing a three-cornered hat,
taken from one of the murdered soldiers.
One of the peasants objects to it and she
hands it over to him: — y
“Give it to me,” he said. “It should ba
destroyed.”
And as we were at the far end of the line
where the walk runs along the cliff by the
river, he took the hat in his hand and
sailed it over the cliff with the motion a
herdsman makes throwing a stone under-
hand at the bulls to herd them. The hat
sailed far out into space and we could
see it smaller and smaller, the patent leather
shining in the clear air, sailing down to
the river.
The first of the prisoners comes out
on to the steps of the Town Hall, ready
for the flails and the leap into space
above the river.
Someone said, “Here comes the first
one,” and it was Don Benito Garcia, the
Mayor, and he came out bareheaded walk-
ing slowly from the door and down the
porch and nothing happened. He passed
between two men, four men, eight men, ten
men and nothing happened, and he was
walking between that line of men, his head
up, his fat face grey, his eyes looking ahead
and then flickering from side to side and
walking steadily. And nothing happened.
The mob had not yet learned to kill.
But a man who had a grudge against the
Mayor hit him at last; others hit him,
and at last he went over the cliff. An-
other man, a millowner, comes out to
die and finds that he cannot walk for
terror. Ashamed for him, a peasant
clubs him where he stands.
Then Don Frederico dropped his hands
and put them over the top of his head
where the bald place was and with his
head bent and covered by his hands, the
long thin hairs that covered the bald place
escaping through his fingers, he ran fast
through the double line with flails falling
on his back and shoulders until he fell, and
those at the end picked him up and swung
him over the cliff. Never did he open his
mouth from the moment he came out
pushed by the shotgun of Pablo. His only
difficulty was to move forward. It was
as though he had no command of his legs.
With this terrible drama now in full
career, Hemingway piles agony upon
agony. It is not easy reading, but it is
not sadism. Set so magnificently between
the hall and the river, it is the tragedy of
civil war so clearly and starkly set down
that one seems to be watching it happen,
not reading about it.
As each victim appears, his character
is analysed with a merciless exactness
that beyond question lifts the passage
from reporting to literature. The terror-
stricken Don Frederico is followed by
Don Ricardo, who, like some of the
French aristocrats going to the guillotine,
lashes the mob with his scorn and dies
heroically. It is magnificent, but it is
bad luck for the prisoners who follow
him, for his defiance has awakened the
mob’s anger. After him comes a wealthy
playboy, a fake hero who has always
hung around the bullfights and who now
intends to imitate Don Ricardo’s valor;
his nerve fails him, and the mob’s anger
is changed by his cowardice into sadistic
cruelty. The scene ends with a massacre,
because the crowd, at first reluctant to
kill, has now- developed such a lust for
blood that it cannot wait to destroy its
victims one by one.
Setting, action, writing and understand-
ing of human nature are all eauallv un-
pressive in this chapter, making it a
classic piece of war writing and proving
that Hemingway is indeed worth listening
to on the reactions of men and women
to the violences of war ; and proving, too,
that his powers have matured since the
days when he strove too obviously for
effect in A Farewell to Arms.
Apart from this and a scattering of
passages of only a little less intensity,
there are two other factors that make
For Whom the Bell Tolls by far the best
thing that Hemingway has yet done: one
is that he has learned to create characters ;
and the other is that his frank treat-
ment of sex, a blend of beauty, tenderness
and humorous realism, is something both
true and original, not to be found
in any other, contemporary novelist.
Although the love story running through
For Whom the Bell Tolls —that of the
Yankee hero and a Spanish girl who has
been horribly treated by Franco’s Moors
—is filmish and has not the note of
authenticity of the love affairs of And
Quiet Flows the Don and The Don Flows
Home to the Sea (of the two disciples
of Tolstoy, Hemingway and Sholokhov,
the Russian is easily the better all round),
it gives Hemingway a chance for some
really good purple-passages and also for
some excellent outbursts of comedy or
pathos from the ageing, jealous gipsy-
woman, Pilar. Hemingway’s bawdiness
is at least up-to-date, not a fake like
Joyce’s echoes of the roaring of Rabelais.
Pilar is an unforgettable character. So,
too, is her husband Pablo, once fhe
bloodthirstiest anti-Fascist of the lot and
now, partly because the acquisition of a
few horses by raiding has given him the
timidity of the man-of-property, partly
because it is in the Spanish nature to
become sullen and treacherous, turning
into a coward and a traitor. There are
minor people, notably a gipsy who will
leave any sentry-post if he gets a chance
to chase a hare, just as well portrayed.
Why, then, if there’s so much good in
it, isn’t this a good novel? Because the
whole isn’t equal to the parts. The story
covers three days and three nights during
which Robert Jordan is preparing to
blow up a bridge with the aid of Pablo,
Pilar and the rest, and during which time
the complex emotional stresses set up by
Jordan’s arrival among the guerrillas are
to reach their climax. The story of
Pablo and Pilar is good. But Hemingway
fails to convince the reader that the
blowing up of the bridge is of any great
importance. Nor, finally, does he con-
vince one that the love affair, which ends
in tragedy, is of any importance or even
is real.
Why? Because Robert Jordan is the
great Hemingway Oaf; the strong, silent
man; the “dumb ox”; the “animal-
hipped,” animal-headed, animal-dumb
Hemingway Hero all over again. He is,
of course, the mask of Hemingway him-
self, the great suffering savage who usually
appears in Hemingway stories as “I.” He
is not Hemingway, for Hemingway can
think ; but he is a projection of Hem-
ingway, a ventriloquist’s idiot dummy
whom Hemingway carries wherever he
goes. Here he is, still prattling the baby-
talk he learned from Gertrude Stein, and
spoiling Pilar’s great narrative by his
totally unnecessary comment:
Pilar had made him see it in that town.
If that woman could only write. He would
try to write it and if he had luck and
could remember it perhaps he could get it
down as she told it. God, how she could
tell a story. I wish I could write well
enough to write that story, he thought.
What we did. Not what the others did to
us. He knew enough about that. He knew
plenty about that behind the lines. But
you had to have known the people be-
fore. You had to know what they had
been in the village.
In a Dickens novel the hero isn’t some
gigantic shadow of Dickens with his
brains left out; a Scott novel isn’t about
a big, dumb alter ego of Scott; a John
Cowper Powys novel is perhaps chiefly
about a projection of John Cowper
Powys, but the projection is a genuine
personality with his brains left in. It
would be much better if Hemingway
could remove himself entirely from his
novels. If he can’t do that, he will have
to present something better than this
simple American Frankenstein if he is
ever to write a convincing novel.
Hemingway’s reputation is built up on
three things: his obsession with violence ;
his use of simple words and short sen-
tences ; and on this fake “tough guy”
who is always his hero. For Whom the
Bell Tolls shows that when he has a war
to write about, his interest in violence
can be made into genuine literature; his
simplicity of language (he is trying to do
what Lawson did in Australia, what
Wordsworth had to do after Milton
and Pope —to restore vitality to litera-
ture by using the spoken language instead
of the written) works very well except
when it degenerates into the pseudo-
simplicity of the Stein-prattle; but the
Hemingway Oaf is wholly bad. If he
isn’t Hemingway, he’s nobody. And he
isn’t Hemingway.


‘'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every act.
FAMOUS# LOW PRICES
“THE SENIOR STORE’
iiiiiilli
... v
Z-
/
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
One of the war time facts which we
must face is the inevitable rise in
prices. Present world conditions, all
tending to shortage of supplies, indi-
cate that future prices will be higher.
Therefore, take advantage of our Half
Yearly Genuine Sale to save. Here are
just a few Mercery bargains selected
from hundreds. Be wise .. . and stock
up without further delay.
Natural
All Wool
UNDERWEAR
It will pay to buy a plentiful supply of
this cosy Underwear at this saving.
Natural all wool in a lightweight that
many men prefer to wear all the year
round. Undershirts with short sleeves.
Underpants are ankle length. Sizes, 34
to 42 in. chest or waist. Anthony Hor-
derns' Regular Price 8/6
Sale Price \ 6/11
• Mercery.—Ground Floor, George St. Freight
paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and
seaports in the Commonwealth .
MEN’S PYJAMA SUITS
Pyjamas, this cold weather, need to be warm and
comfortable. These are. They're made in our own work-
rooms of striped British Flannelette. Various designs. In
small, medium and outsizes. Anthony Horderns' Regular
Price, suit 15/0
Sale Price 13/g
17'6 Men's Striped Pyjamas at 15'9
Here s warmth, style and unusual value in Men's
Pyjamas. These are made from soft cosy Horrockses'
British Flannelette in pleasing striped designs. Small,
medium and outsizes. Anthony Horderns' Regular
Price, 17/6. Sale Price 15/9
Strife
34
Save 1/- per pair on these All Wool Fancy
Cashmere Half Hose. Latest check and overcheck
designs on Grey, Navy, Fawn and Brown
grounds. Sizes, 10 to inches. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price, pair 3/6
Sale Price, pair 2/6
11'6 Men's Business Shirts now at 9'6
Reduced 2/- each for thrifty men. These Business Shirts
are mad© in our own workrooms from a reliable wearing
British Poplin in striped designs. Made with V cased front,
gauntlet cuffs and two detached fused collars. Sizes, 14 to
17-jj in. neck. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 11/6
Sale Price 3/6
16'6 Men’s Business Shirts now 14'6
Business Shirts made of British Poplin with V cased front,
double cuffs and two detached fused collars. Assortment
of neat blue striped designs. Sizes, 14 to 18in. neck. An-
thony Horderns' Regular Price, each 16/6
Sale Price, each 14/6
'PHONE: M 2401 (DAY OR NIGHT); BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


PER HIS MAJESTY’S MAILS
By MARGARET TRIST.
i i r\ NNETTE,” screamed Grandmother at five
f \ o’clock in the morning, “get up quickly or
/ \ we’ll be late.”
Annette jerked herself awake. The room
was still murky. A fresh breeze blew through the
open doorway from the porch. A beam of sunlight
glowed on the far wall. Grandmother stood on the
mat by her bedside and fumbled with her corsets.
Annette giggled.
“Get up,” reiterated Grandmother thickly, her
chin against her chest, her breath held resolutely.
Annette bounced out of bed and began to
scramble into her clothes. Grandmother breathed
freely at last and then beat fiercely with her closed
fists on the dividing wall to wake Uncle Henry and
Aunt Maudie. “Sleeping their heads off and us hustling
fit to bust,” she said indignantly.
Annette nodded gravely, though, of course, she
knew as well as Grandmother that there was no need
for them to be ready till eight o’clock at least.
Uncle Henry went round the verandah in his
pyjamas and lit the fire. Then he hurried into his
working clothes and went off to milk while Aunt
Maudie prepared breakfast. By that time Grand-
mother was fully dressed in her best black crepe de
Chine, carefully covered by an Assam-silk dustcoat,
and her black, satin-covered hat with the pink lining,
which she had tied on with a large silk veil. She got
all her things and placed them by the front steps,
then paced the front verandah distractedly. Aunt
Maudie put the finishing touches to Annette, tied the
ribbons of her hat and the sash of her frock and
did up the buttons of her shoes with a buttonhook.
By seven o’clock they were ready. Annette sat
on a stool beside the luggage and clacked her tongue
against the roof of her mouth. Grandmother walked
up and down. Uncle Henry, burning with impatience
to start his day’s work, mooched round the garden
with a Dutch hoe looking for weeds. The shadow
of the house still lay across the home paddock, a
dense, dark oblong etched on the dew-wet grass.
Beyond, the sunshine spilled over the paddocks. The
trees in the reserve glowed golden and red and green,
dark shadows among them giving warmth to the
sunshine.
At half-past seven Grandmother said “That man’s
going to be late. I feel it in my bones.”
“But he’s always punctual,” said Aunt Maudie.
“He’s not due for another half-hour.”
“The sitting-room clock is slow,” said Grand-
mother.
Aunt Maudie went and looked at the sitting-
room clock ; then she went to the clock in the dining-
room, then to the one in her bedroom, finally to the
“Have you got any beer on the oven ?”
one in the kitchen. She came back in triumph.
“They’re all the same, Mother.”
“Well, they’re all wrong,” said Grandmother. She
took her own watch from the little pocket at her waist
and shifted the hands on half an hour.
“The clocks have always kept good time,” Aunt
Maudie replied.
“Well, they’re wrong this time,” Grandmother
insisted.
“You wouldn’t think they’d all go wrong to-
gether,” remarked Aunt Maudie.
“And why not?” demanded Grandmother.
That was beyond Aunt Maudie. She did not
answer but called Uncle Henry over. “What time
does it look like by the sun?” she asked.
Uncle Henry pushed back his hat, then screwed
his eyes. He contemplated gravely for a while. “About
half-past seven or eight,” he said.
“There,” said Aunt Maudie complacently.
“There! ” exclaimed Grandmother in triumph.
“What did I tell you? The clocks are half an hour
slow.”
Aunt Maudie, taken by surprise, said nothing.
Grandmother bounced off to put all the clocks on
half an hour.
When all the clocks and Grandmother’s watch
each said half-past eight, Grandmother sat down sud-
denly on one of the verandah chairs and with great
decision took off her hat. “I’ve got a sinking feeling,”
she said. “I’ll have to have a cup of tea.”
“I’m sinking, too,” said Aunt Maudie, and hur-
ried to the kitchen, where the kettle was all but boil-
ing. Annette and Grandmother and Uncle Henry fol-
lowed her.
The tea had just been put upon the table when
Mr. Wilkins, the mailman, drove up to the kitchen
fence. “Whoa-up! Whoa-up!” he cried to all and
sundry. “Well, here’s a pretty kettle of fish. Too
early for the old lady, no doubt. Still sleep-
ing in her bed at this hour of the day. Things are
coming to a nice pass. Sheridans’ ain’t the place
it used to be.”
“Indeed!” exclaimed Grandmother, darting out
to the verandah. “I’ve been up and dressed and wait-
ing for you these three hours. Why were you late,
Tom Wilkins?”
“Late,” bellowed Mr. Wilkins. “Who’s saying
I’m late? I’m a quarter of an hour early. See here,”
he pulled out his watch and held it up, “I’m not due
till eight o’clock, and here it is wanting a quarter to
the hour.”
“My clocks,” said Grandmother, “have all
sounded half-past eight.”
“Sakes alive!” exclaimed Tom Wilkins. “Your
clocks have got the snakes. Things are bad when the
Sheridans’ clocks don’t keep the time. This here
watch of mine was checked at the post office three
o’clock this morning, and it’s right to the tick.”
Aunt Maudie came to the rescue. She never
sided with an outsider against her own family, however
right she knew the outsider to be. “There’s tea poured
for you here, Tom Wilkins,” she called, ignoring the
matter of the clocks.
Grandmother trotted off for her hat, pulled it on
skew-whiff, tried to tie the veil round it and couldn’t.
Then she went flying hither and thither with the veil
trailing from one hand and clasping her handbag and
gloves in the other. It was then she remembered
that she had packed her money in the bottom of the
carry-all. Frantically she undid the straps and started
bundling out the clothes.
“Mail must start at eight sharp,” said Tom Wilkins,
emerging from the kitchen with the remains of his
tea dripping from his moustache. “His Majesty’s mails
can’t be late.”
“Damn and blast his Majesty’s mails,” grumbled
Grandmother, groping vainly for her money.
Tom Wilkins stood perfectly still waiting for
somebody to be struck dead. Annette stood still, too,
aghast at Grandmother’s daring.
Aunt Maudie came from the kitchen. “Have
you lost something, Mother?” she asked.
“Have I lost something?” Grandmother’s voice
rose querulously. “What do you think I’m doing if I
haven’t lost something?”
Aunt Maudie came forward to help in the search.
“Remember that you’ve got your money sewn in your
inside pocket,” she said placidly and in a low voice
to evade the ears of the inquisitive Tom. Grandmother
sank to the floor, hat awry, her face flushed and damp
with perspiration.
Tom Wilkins started to carry the luggage out to
the buggy. There were Grandmother’s carry-all filled
to bursting point, three crammed paper hatbags, a
small suitcase, a wooden box packed with home-made
soap, a biscuit-tin filled with eggs, a sugar-bag of
oranges and a quantity of bulbs and plants made into
a damp earth parcel. “A week or a year, is it?”
demanded Tom Wilkins.
Annette went with him to the buggy, and he lifted
her on to the high back seat. She felt a long way
up sitting there—a long way up and very alone. She
clung tightly to the seat with her thin brown hands.
Aunt Maudie’s thick, clumsy, but kindly fingers
restored Grandmother’s luggage to rights, put on her
hat straight and tied it securely with the veil. Then
she helped her into the buggy. Grandmother sat erect
on the seat beside Annette. Her hands trembled as
she clasped the knitted silk bag in her lap. The flush
had gone from her face, leaving it haggard and very
tired. Her eyes were sunken, her mouth indrawn.
A wisp of wet hair hung beside her face. A pang
went through Henry and the fear of her that had
been in him all his years left him for ever. “She’s
grown to be a poor old woman, like any other poor
old woman,” he thought.
Tom Wilkins jumped to his feet, gathered up the
reins, doffed his hat, bowed, replaced his hat, lifted
the whip high in the air. “His Majesty’s mails” he
shouted, and, with a jerk which shook the old lady
and the little girl in the back seat, the horses jumped
away.
They were off—a walk, a swerve, a trot, then a
gallop. Hand-waves, shouted farewells, forgotten
messages flung at the last minute, the padding of
hooves and the roll of wheels as they galloped through
the big gate —Uncle Henry walking behind to shut
it—and then the wide flat road of the reserve. The
horses dropped to a canter. The trees danced past,
curtsying and jigging in the sunshine, all bunions and
humps and gnarls and friendly outstretched arms that
sometimes scraped gently against the roof of the buggy
as they passed.
nr HE buggy went roll and clatter over the roadway.
I Annette looked out at the world through the side
curtains. They passed the little old house where Aunt
Maudie’s mother and father lived with their two eldest
sons. A little, old, grey house, stuffed with little, grey,
old people, sheltering under friendly gums. Between
there and the river were several neat white houses,
vine-wreathed and comfortable-looking, dairying
places mostly. Grandmother sniffed as they passed
them. She still held fast to the idea that the country
would only run sheep, and thirty years’ prosperity on
the part of the dairy-farmers had done nothing to
diminish her faith. The buggy swerved down a slope
and clattered briskly over a white bridge. The Con-
damine flowed sparingly under it. They swept up the
rise on the other side, passed Old Murphy’s, Young
Murphy’s and Clayton’s, and on to Paddy Flynn’s
Halfway Hotel. Tom Wilkins drew in at the side of
the road, tied the reins to the front of the buggy
and jumped to the ground. “Business,” he told
Grandmother briefly, and winked broadly at Annette.
Then he bounded on to the verandah and disappeared
through the swinging blue doors.
He was gone a long time. His Majesty’s mails,
Annette and Grandmother waited more or less
patiently in the buggy. The horses moved restlessly,
stamping their feet, swashing their tails. The hotel
looked frizzled and blistered in the morning sunshine.
The deck-chairs on the verandah were bedraggled and
uninviting. A strong smell of cabbage pervaded the
air. Three ragged children ran out to look at the
buggy, hung their heads and ran away again. A car
passed on the road. The stillness was hot and heavy.
Annette and Grandmother dozed against each other.
They were roused by Tom Wilkins’s shout of
“His Majesty’s mails” and the jerk of the buggy as
the horses clicked to attention. Then off again over
the flat road, on and on past several houses, a belt
of timber, a clump of pear; on and on, and then
at last the iron roofs of the town houses shimmering
under the early-afternoon sun.
They pulled up at the post office. Tom Wilkins
got down his mails and went inside, leaving Annette
and Grandmother in the buggy. The street was broad
with a stony footpath on each side. People straggled
along the footpath and looked incuriously at the buggy


and at Grandmother and Annette peering from inside
it. Cars passed on the roadway; a butcher boy on a
horse rode by; a baker in a rumbling cart went
along ; a man on a bike, several sulkies. Tom Wilkins,
who had disappeared into the post office, emerged
through the doorway of the Commercial Hotel.
At the other end of the main street was a big
shop with “Matthew Sheridan, Family Provider”
written across the windows, but Grandmother did not
want to go there. Uncle Matthew’s house was in a
side street about five minutes’ drive from the post
office. It was built low on the ground with wide
verandahs. There was a shady garden and Aunt
Jane standing welcomingly at the gate. “Thank the
Lord!” said Grandmother when the buggy pulled up
in front.
/E’RE not flash by any manner of means,” said
*y Aunt Jane as she led Grandmother and Annette
along the verandah, “but you’ll find everything clean
and comfortable, and I hope to your liking. And if
you don’t, I’ve done the best I could. A woman only
has one pair of hands, as I’ve told Matthew day in
and day out these twenty years. ‘Get a girl in to
help,’ he says, and not another word. Get a girl,
indeed! And how can any slip of a girl be of any
use, I ask you?” Aunt Jane paused dramatically at
the door of the room. “There’s so many things a
woman must do herself, girl or no girl, that a girl’s
barely any use. I was thinking that our Florrie would
be some use in the house. She had a fair passion for
housekeeping. What good did it do her though?”
Again Aunt Jane paused. She looked at Annette
questioningly through her spectacles. Annette blinked
and shook her head hesitantly,
“She went and married at eighteen,” Aunt Jane
went on, “just like that! Quick as a flash! All over
before any of us really knew what had happened. She
comes home one night and she says ‘Mother, I’ve got
a surprise for you!’ ‘What is it?’ I asks. ‘Guess!’
she answers. ‘You know I never was no good at
guessing,’ I answers her back. ‘Well,’ she says, ‘l’m
going to be married.’ Just like that. You could have
knocked me down with a feather!” Aunt Jane finished
emphatically. She stood glaring at Grandmother
and Annette.
“Dear, dear!” said Grandmother.
Aunt Jane stood a second longer, then passed on
into the room. It was a small room with a square
of highly-polished brown linoleum in the centre of
it, two single beds with thin mattresses and identical
white honeycomb quilts, a corner wardrobe, a pine
dressing-table and washstand.
“We’re not flash” began Aunt Jane again.
“It’s very nice,” broke in Grandmother firmly.
“Very nice indeed. Come, Annette, take off your
shoes and your hat.”
Grandmother took off her own hat and busied
herself with the luggage. Aunt Jane stopped to help
and rendered a monologue on the woes of her various
children, her poor old mother’s failing health, her
own gums, which the dentist said had pyorrhoea, and
which the doctor said had not —and whom was one to
believe? And all the money they charged!
“Lord bless me,” she said suddenly, “you must
be dying for a cup of tea. I’ll pop off to the kitchen
and make it. Soon as you’re ready, come along. I’m
a great one for a cup of tea myself. ‘Mother,’ Florrie
used to say to me, ‘you’re a holy terror on the tea.’
Fancy a girl calling her mother ‘a holy terror.’ I’d
never have dreamed of such a thing. Never said a
word out of place to my mother, I didn’t. Of course
she’s old now —eighty-nine, and the lumbago nearly
plagues her to death. Dreadful, isn’t it, to be that
age and pestered with lumbago? I’d think being
eighty-nine was enough in itself. As I said to Matthew
only the other night ‘l’d rather die young than live
to be a bother to my children.’ Oh, well, there’s no
telling when we’re going to pop off, is there? There
was Mrs. Bert Barry at the guild meeting the Thurs-
day before last, hale and hearty and fit as a fiddle,
and when she got home there was her husband
stretched out dead on the floor —dead and cold on
the floor. Oh, well! Oh, well!” She sighed and
steamed off through the doorway.
They had a cup of tea in the kitchen among
Aunt Jane’s scrubbed and scoured and polished dishes.
Then Grandmother went to rest for a while and Aunt
Jane took Annette to see the town.
Aunt Jane held Annette’s hand firmly and towed
her along. “You’re so like your poor dear father,
our dear brother James,” she said, looking intently
at Annette, “that it does me good to look at you,
and it makes me sad, too.” She sighed heavily.
I J NCLE MATTHEW’S shop was dark inside and
smelt of bacon and leather and mothballs and
calico. Uncle Matthew was weighing up sugar. He
appraised Annette and shook hands with her gravely.
His brother James he remembered as being “soft.”
The kid, no doubt, took after him. A funny little
thing, something reminiscent of the old girl in her
prime. He offered her sweets from a glassed-in case
on the counter.
Having removed her hand from the red fleshy
hand of her uncle as quickly as possible, Annette
“Don't haul it in yet —I've lost my costume !”
looked at the sweets. They had been on display a
long time and the warmth of the day had made them
melt. “No, thank you,” she said.
Uncle Matthew looked at her, then burst into a
laugh that rumbled away through the shop. “Fancy,”
he shouted, “a kid that doesn’t eat lollies.” He
laughed again and slapped his legs in delight.
Annette waited until his merriment had subsided.
“I eat some lollies,” she said with dignity.
A shade of annoyance passed over Uncle
Matthew’s plump red face. He looked questioningly
at his wife. They both shrugged and pursed their lips.
As soon as they were out of the shop Aunt Jane
said “I will take you now to see the church and the
recreation grounds.”
“That will be nice,” Annette replied politely.
At the corner before the church Aunt Jane met
some friends and they stood talking. To Annette it
was all very boring. She was referred to as the
daughter of “our deeply-mourned brother James.”
Phrases such as “She was all her father had,” “We
must do our duty by her” came regularly. She stood
on one foot, then on the other. She kicked up dust.
She got down on her haunches and drew with her
fingers in the dirt. She jumped. She jigged. She
rubbed against the fence. Suddenly, fiercely, she
wanted Grandmother, The dirty, dusty huddle of
houses and shops was the loneliest place in which she
had ever been. She wanted to run to Grandmother
and beg her to find Tom Wilkins and get him to take
them home. She wanted Aunt Maudie and Uncle
Henry and her flowerpots under the grapevines. She
tugged at her aunt’s hand. But Aunt Jane merely
patted her fingers and told her to be a good girl.
Annette sat down in the dirt and wept. The tears
rolled down and were lost in the dust. She sat and
watched them till they ceased to flow. The sun was
beginning to set. A cool breeze had sprung up.
Annette put her arms around her knees and hugged
them for company. Then she laid her head on her
knees. She had been up since five and the travelling
had been wearisome.
“Look at the poor lamb,” the voice of one of
Aunt Jane’s friends broke into her doze.
“Well, I never,” gasped Aunt Jane, seizing Annette
and bundling her to her feet. “Whatever took you to
sit down there? We’ll have to hurry along.”
It was too late now for the recreation grounds
or the church. “We’ll see them tomorrow,” said Aunt
Jane.
'T' OWN turned out to be a very dreary place. Aunt
* Jane scrubbed and polished and talked all day
long. Grandmother lolled in a deck-chair on the
verandah and looked with disgust at the dusty road
and the people who went past and stared inquir-
ingly at her. Annette wandered round the garden. It
was a nice garden, but it lacked the grapevines and
the flowerpots. When she got tired of wandering she
sat under a pepperina-tree and pulled the skin off the
sticky pink berries and sang “Upped and died” softly
to herself.
At night they sat in the long dining-room. Aunt
Jane darned socks, Uncle Matthew read the paper
aloud and Grandmother and Annette dozed in their
chairs. At nine o’clock Aunt Jane made weak cocoa.
At half-past nine Uncle Matthew folded his paper,
placed it in a bag marked “Papers” that hung on the
wall and stood up. “Early to bed and early to rise
makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise” he quoted
and laughed roundly. Aunt Jane laughed with him.
Then without asking by your leave or anything else
he dimmed the lamp and put it out. All of them went
to their rooms the best way they could in the darkness.
Once in bed Annette shed a few tears for the
plain-encircled house that she loved, and Uncle Henry
reading in the kitchen, and Aunt Maudie sitting alone
on the verandah, and the pots waiting for her upside
down under the grapevines. Then she slept soundly,
worn out with having nothing to do.
When they had been there two days it seemed
like two years. Grandmother regretted having an-
nounced her intention of staying a week. She fretted
and fumed. She paced the verandah. She lolled in
the deck-chair. She tossed restlessly in her narrow
bed at night. Then she grew terrified that rain might
come up and prevent their going home at the end of
the week. She took to watching distractedly for
clouds.
On Saturday night they went to the pictures.
Grandmother had not been before. Neither had
Annette. Aunt Jane explained everything to them in
detail. She read out the conversations thrown on the
screen and supplied herself what she thought they
were saying when it was not thrown on the screen.
As far as Grandmother could see, all that mat-
tered was that the hero could leer towards the heroine
and kiss her soundly at the finish. Grandmother said
“Ack” disgustedly, and squirmed.
There were two pictures. The first one, accord-
ing to Grandmother, was bad. The second, unbeliev-
ably, was worse. Annette curled herself up in the
canvas chair and went to sleep. Grandmother
wriggled and coughed. Her right leg went to sleep.
She got pins and needles in her left foot. She got
unaccountable itches in inaccessible places. She tried
vainly to unlace the front of her corsets. The pictures
went on and on.
“Came the dawn,” read Aunt Jane. “Margaretta,
my own. My sweetest. My adored.”
Mosquitoes buzzed. The heat in the closed iron
building was intense. “There must be a storm coming
up,” worried Grandmother.
“Margaretta, come to my arms. Do not elude me
any longer,” sighed Aunt Jane.
“Oh, kiss her. Kiss her and be done with it,”
fumed Grandmother.
AFTER an unbelievably long Sunday and Monday,
Tuesday morning came at last and brought Tom
Wilkins to cry out “His Majesty’s mails.”
It was fun, thought Annette, to be bowling along
the reserve with the morning wind in her face and
the clean eucalypt smell of the gums in her nostrils.
It was fun the way the sunshine danced over her and
over Grandmother. It shone, too, on Tom Wilkins’s
back, and on the tails of his horses, swishing glossily
as they trotted along. Everything was clean and sweet
and enduring. No more flat streets and drab, flat
houses. No more hotels or recreation grounds or
picture shows. No more people with shrewd eyes and
squinting minds. No more pepperinas leaning drearily
over straggling fences. Only gums growing twistily
up in the sky, and brown earth and paddocks and the
house coming into view through the trees, a quiet
old house, tranquil as the morning, with its oblong
shadow cast on the dew-wet grass in front of it.
Aunt Maudie was at the big gate. It was one of
the times Annette loved Aunt Maudie, loved her
bulges and her placid eyes and the cotton-wool tied
to her spectacles and the slow way she opened the
gate, while Tom Wilkins’s horses stamped their feet
in impatience.
While the buggy waited for the gate to open
Annette clambered down and, when it had passed
through the gate, she ran to Aunt Maudie, helped her
shut the gate and walked with her to the house. She
took Aunt Maudie’s hand and she kept on saying
stupid things, but it was nice to be with her again.
“That will be twenty-five bob,” said Tom Wilkins
cheerfully, piling the luggage on the verandah. Grand-
mother paid him and he stamped off towards the
kitchen, where Uncle Henry was preparing tea.
The womenfolk went inside. Grandmother took
off her hat and hung it on the brass hook behind her
bedroom door. “If I ever leave this house again I’ll
want my brains brushed,” she said.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
d
Seppelts
BISHAM ABBEY
Much of the beauty that is England’s is to be found on the upper reaches of the Thames, and happily within a short distance of London.
Take Bisham Abbey, less than thirty miles from St. Paul’s Cathedral, with its fine beech groves, from which rises the old grey church
tower. The Abbey and the church stand on a smooth lawn beside the silver Thames, in whose placid waters they are reflected. In the
reign of Stephen (1135-1154) the Manor of Bisham was given by Robert de Ferrars to the Knights Templars, who built a preceptory there.
When this order was disbanded the Manor passed into private hands, and in 1338 William Montacute, Earl of Salisbury, to whom it then
belonged, founded a priory on the site of the preceptory for canons of the Order of St. Augustine. When Henry VIII carried out his
pious design of abolishing the monasteries and sequestering their revenues, the Abbot, unlike his brother of Reading, was “comfortable,”
and his fate was as singularly “lucky” as that of the other was unhappy. He accepted the “Reformed Religion” and a Bishopric (St.
David’s), married, and had, it is said, five daughters, each of whom became the wife of a bishop, rather wonderful if true. Of the old
Abbey itself all that remains is a gateway, serving as the entrance to the present mansion, of the Tudor period, erected by Sir Edward
Hoby. It is a stately-looking specimen of the manor house of the time. There is a tradition Queen Elizabeth made it her temporary
residence when she was “secluded” there, under the guardianship of the Hoby family, for three years. The old ivy-covered conventual
church is far more interesting that the “Abbey.” In it many celebrated men were interred. The body of the founder of the priory was
removed from Cirencester by his widow. His son William, Earl of Salisbury, one of the warriors of Poitiers, was laid beside him. The
catalogue of famous men buried here in the fifteenth century is a remarkable one, and gives a rather startling idea of the state of the
nobility of England then, when a little retired place such as this was a depository of so many men of rank, all of whom came to an
untimely end. Thus, Thomas, Earl of Salisbury, died at the siege of Orleans in 1428 ; Richard Neville, Earl of Salisbury and Warwick,
beheaded at York, 1460 ; Richard Neville, “the King Maker,” killed at the Battle of Barnet, 1470, and his brother John, Marquis of
Montague, who fell in the same fight, and Edward Plantagenet, son of the Duke of Clarence, beheaded in 1499 for attempting to escape
from confinement. Here was provided a lesson on worldly greatness upon which the monks might well moralise. Over their remains
magnificent monuments were erected, but they were destroyed when Harry Tudor “started the dissolution game.” Few places will charm
the oversea visitor more than Bisham.


RETURN FROM DOORN.
“The ex-Kaiser [German for “Caesar”] is dead in exile.”
“Ha! Who comes here?
Art thou some god', some angel or some devil?
Speak to me what thou art.”
“Thy evil spirit, Adolf.”
“Why com’st thou?”
“To tel! thee thou shalt see me at Philippi.”
[With apologies to Shakspeare.]


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors;
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
MEAiJ OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street.
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0. ),
W ellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad :
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, I Is.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
CAMPAIGN IN SYRIA.
When only part of the appalling story of the cam-
paign in Crete was known, Melbourne “Argus”
dashed in with a proposal that his Majesty’s forces
should go into Syria. It saw “welcome signs” in the
“continued British bombing attacks on German-
occupied aerodromes in Syria and the extension of
attacks to Sfax, in Tunisia” ; but these “attacks,” it
said, “need to be supplemented in the former case
by land operations which would drive the Germans
and Vichy French out of the mandate.”
Extension of the war to Syria had still greater
attractions for “S. M. Herald.” Surveying Syria from
its Hunter-street office, the “Herald” saw it “ripe and
overripe for invasion.” There “the ignoble Dentz”
was “left with a diminished, demoralised and dis-
sident force to act as caretaker and receptionist for
the incoming Germans” ; and it had become merely
a question of who was to “get there first.” We, of
course; the situation “plainly” demanded that “we
forestall the Germans in the occupation of Syria, even
if it means an open breach with a covertly hostile
France, and even if it imposes a fresh and heavy strain
upon our military and air resources.” Nothing about
the strain upon our naval resources ; but then the
Navy doesn’t advertise and never has much of a press.
The “Daily Telegraph” was as ardent as its
senior contemporary. “Britain Should March Into
Syria” it shouted. It was sure that “there is no
heart in the French Syrian Army” (“the men
are too frightened to oppose the Nazis and
have no stomach to fight the British”) and that
“the Arabs would be more responsive to a British call
to arms if —for once —we got in first” (the Arabs in
Iraqi were not particularly “responsive to a British
call to arms,” and we did get in first in Greece and
Crete, without doing any good for ourselves or for
the Greeks or Cretans), and it insisted that “we can’t
afford to draw back from a fight with reluctant '
French.” And it approvingly quoted the “Daily Mail”
—as keen now on fighting the French as it was in the
Fashoda days, though in Poincare’s time it became
notorious for its “Hats off to France!” cry.
At the same time the “D.T.” mentioned in a
second-page article, printed without any editorial com-
ment, that “Australian soldiers not yet accounted
for in the Crete campaign totalled 3599” —3599 out of
6486. The information had appeared in the previous
night’s “Sun,” together with an official statement of
the number of “missing” N.Z.E.F. soldiers —2800 in
Crete and 2200 in Greece. Reflection, if any, on
these grave revelations did not prevent the “Sun”
from coming out with a We Must Act in Syria
article, and declaring that “no consideration of
France’s feelings should be allowed to delay the blow.
In the way of vicarious sacrifice nothing can daunt
the “Sun.”
Meanwhile the “military correspondent of the
“Daily Express,” owned by Lord Beaverbrook,
who when Minister for Aircraft Production issued so
many rosy statements and estimates of output, an-
nounced General de Gaulle’s arrival in Palestine, and
hailed it as “an indication that one of the decisive
battles of the war is imminent.” Two French engi-
neers who had reached New York “to buy materials
for General de Gaulle’s forces” were quoted as say-
ing that the De Gaullists will “fight even their own
brothers.” This recalled Mr. Churchill’s own account
of what happened at Dakar last September. ~
Emissaries of General de Gaulle, flying the Tricolor
and the white flag to show their French nationality and
peaceful intentions, attempted to lahd at Dakar. They
were fired on and seriously wounded. Batteries at Dakar
fired on one of General de Gaulle’s ships that were
standing by to render General de Gaulle support if it
were needed.
They also fired on British warships, and there ensued
the action in which H.M.A.S. Australia suffered
superficial damage” and lost her seaplane, with a crew
of two. Mr, Churchill proceeded:
General de Gaulle’s forces unsuccessfully attempted
to land. When it became plain that only a major
military operation would secure the fall of Dakar, it was
decided to discontinue hostilities. This decision was taken
because it had never been the policy of his Majesty s
Government to enter into serious warlike operations
against Frenchmen who felt it their duty to obey the
commands of the Vichy Government. General de Gaulle
was very anxious that he should not cause bloodshed
among his fellow-countrymen.
The anxiety that restrained him then has evidently
ceased to operate. There has been a revolution in
his policy and in that of his Majesty’s Government.
On Sunday “Free French troops, with the support of
Imperial troops, entered Syria and Lebanon,” whose
“liberty and independence” have been guaranteed by
the British Government and the Free French General
Catroux. “This is the best news we have had for a
long time,” the Telegraph” carolled. It can
only be hoped that this exultation will be justified
by events, and that, in spite of what happened in
Greece and Crete, we can muster aircraft enough to
chase all opposition ’planes out of the Syrian skies.
It is claimed that the occupation of Syria is neces-
sary to protect Cyprus. On the face of it, there is
no greater military necessity to defend Cyprus then
there was to defend the Channel Islands. Australians
were told weeks ago by the newspapers, but not by
their Government —the Government is always weeks
behind in these matters —that there is a strong Aus-
tralian force in Cyprus. If this is true, and if it is
equally true that, as the position stands, they cannot
be sufficiently protected against the Luftwaffe which
scourged the armies out of Greece and Crete—the
“Daily Mail” declares that the island has not a single
fighter aerodrome —the Australian Government should
insist on our men being withdrawn to a zone where
they can be sufficiently protected against the Luftwaffe
and where their fighting quality will have a real
chance, as soon as ships can be sent to take them
away.
After a meeting of the Advisory War Council on
Thursday it was announced that Ministers and Labor
members were “agreed upon the stark necessity for
adequate air protection of Australian and other Empire
troops,” and the public was assured by the Prime
Minister that “every possible step will be taken to
avoid a repetition of defeats.” This did not mean
that the Government had exercised its right to veto
the employment of Australian troops in Syria, but
if “adequate air protection” was not guaranteed that
should have been done ; and it should be done in
respect of Cyprus if sufficient air power is not avail-
able there. Certainly the nation, prepared as it is to see
its sons take warranted risks, will not tolerate another
bloody sequel to Greece and Crete —those ill-starred
campaigns in which, because a vital factor was miss-
ing, our soldiers, conquerors in North Africa, had to
take dreadful punishment and suffer the loss of nearly
half their numbers, though in the defeat that was
certain from the beginning they were great.
But protection of our soldiers against useless suf-
ferings and sacrifices should not be the only concern
of our Government. Throughout its history Aus-
tralia has owed its immunity from invasion to the
Royal Navy. It has a definite interest in seeing that
the Royal Navy is reserved for its historic functions,
which are of paramount importance, instead of being
wasted in foreign adventures and being tried too
high because it is expected to do too much. And
Australia has earned the right to make such repre-
sentations. . .
Australian warships are serving in the Mediter-
ranean with a part of the Royal Navy which Nelson
himself would have been proud to command, and
which has in Admiral Cunningham a commander with
the Nelson touch. They have been present at all its
victories, and have shared all its dangers and the
incessant soul-trying strain which Mediterranean ser-
vice entails. At deadly risk to the ship and the ship’s
company, many of the soldiers from Crete were car-
ried to a place of safety by H.M.A.S. Perth. The
Germans claim that she was sunk ; this is denied, but
it is admitted that she was hit, and that four of her
men were killed and three wounded.
Since the unfortunate series of Continental cam-
paigns began the noble service to which the R.A.N.
belongs has, by its superb skill and daring, plus the
grand seamanship and courage of the auxiliary ser-
vices under its control, saved nearly 400,000 soldiers
from death, wounds or captivity at great cost to itself.
The exact number of its dead and wounded has not
been stated, nor is there a complete list of ships dam-
aged or of casualties incurred in rescuing the armies,
but it is on record that an aircraft-carrier, six
destroyers, three submarines, five trawlers, a sloop
and a store ship were sunk in Norway ; six destroyers,
six minesweepers, eight trawlers, three drifters, two
armored boarding vessels, a gunboat and one or
two other small ships” at Dunkirk ; four destroyers
in Greece and three cruisers and four destroyers m
Crete. What a different aspect the Battle of the
Atlantic would present if these stout ships and the
gallant souls who went down with them were serving
still i What black ingratitude it would be and what
dire' calamities it might bring if we gave the Navy
another enemy, an enemy with a still-formidable fleet!
Need for Fighting Men.
Three items of news published on the one day last
week dovetailed to represent a knotty pattern of this
war (1) Mr. Menzies, returning to a favored theme,
said: “Victory in the Middle East when it begins to
come will be a slow and hard-fought thing. The
reason is.not that the enemy can put into the field
more men than the Empire can, but because the
enemy has machines and the Empire has not. (2)
The Director-General of Recruiting, Major-General
Lloyd, announced that the monthly quota for A.I.F.
enlistments in Australia had been increased from
8000 to 10,000 men ; “this is the minimum require-
ment for A I F. reinforcements.” (3) It was estimated
that in the taking of Crete “18,000 German lives were
sacrificed” and that “the mass destruction of enemy
’planes was terrific.”
To take this knotty pattern to pieces and examine
its parts: (1) Mr. Menzies on a recent earlier occa-
sion said: “If any of us are left who want to talk m
terms of numbers of men and let us
abandon the habit while there is still time.” This,
then, is the face of the war as' Australia’s war-time
Prime Minister sees it. On the face of all the evi-
dence up to date, is it a sound view? Is it not a
typical civilian, non-combatant view? Do soldiers
the men who have to do the fighting and those who
lead them, thus far against heavy odds, against over-
powering weight of numbers in men, ’planes and
equipment —do these men share that view? Certainly
not a single soldier can be quoted in support of it.
The only possible interpretation of the P.M.’s pro-
nouncement, “The reason is not that the enemy can
put into the field more men than the Empire can,” is
plainly that the Empire now can effectively put into
the field as many fighting men as Germany can put in.
How does that square with hard facts?
(2) Major-General Lloyd, as an experienced sol-
dier and as Director of Recruiting, is evidently under
no illusions as to the importance “of numbers of men
and divisions.” He sees the urgent necessity for con-
siderably increasing the quota in order to ensure the
needed supply of reinforcements., The alternative, as
anyone who has been in a war knows, is the same
crowd of men going up the line time after time, their
morale inevitably affected by lack of proper rest, by
the feeling that they are not getting a fair go, by the
knowledge of the weight of numbers against them, and
by other related causes utterly foreign to home-front
workers getting three meals a day, beds to sleep in and
generally enjoying normal life. The voluntary system
faces Major-General Lloyd with a tough enough job.
He is not being assisted by deprecating the importance
of numbers of men and divisions, by the continual
glorification —direct or implied—of very lucky factory
hands ; the continual shifting of the emphasis of im-
portance from the front line to the home front. Mr.
Menzies and other non-combatants will wake up to
this in time, if the war goes on, with more and more
onslaughts of the German numbers of men and divi-
sions to be met, as in Greece and Crete.
(3) Reports of the German losses in Crete gener-
ally admitted them to be “staggering.” “Of the highly-
trained parachutists who ‘opened the ball’ in Crete, a
terrible toll has been taken, and very few survive.”
Besides parachutists, there apparently were at least
two divisions of air-borne troops employed—most
carefully trained specialist troops, selected for their
fighting qualities, who had been held in reserve since
Holland was invaded. These men, in the bitter hand-to-
hand fighting suffered very heavy losses, and there can
be no doubt that these two divisions, which form the
striking force for an air-borne attack, will require
very considerable reorganisation and re-equipment before
being ready to play their part in another operation like
that of Crete.
The German air losses “appear to have been out of
all proportion to the results achieved.” Destroyed
machines were numbered in hundreds, were said to
“litter the beaches.” To these would have to be added
the numbers shot down by the Navy. “No combatant
Power can afford to lose machines at the rate Ger-
many has lost them in Crete.”
About half of all that must be written off as pal-
pable assumption. The fact stands, however, that the
German losses in men and machines were consider-
able. The fact also stands that the Germans took
Crete. And it is also fact that whenever there has
been occasion for it the Germans have used the sheer
weight of numbers, in men and machines, regardless
of cost. They will continue to do so. It seems the
limit of wishful thinking to believe that they will not
also continue to succeed unless they are faced by
approximately similar weight of arms, assessed, despite
the non-combatant advice of Mr. Menzies, in numbers
of men and divisions, and, of course, what has to go
with men and divisions —arms, ’planes, tanks and the
rest of it.
There would seem to be a curious inability to
think of an army as a unified whole. It is thought of
in separate parts, with the greatest division of thought
between the part of the army that operates on the land
and that which operates above it in the air. They are
as much one as are infantry and artillery. To say
that lack of air forces lost the battle of Crete is only
to say that the defending army was incomplete, and
was therefore overcome by weight of numbers, land
and air combined. The fighting must have been very
savage, the defence effort sublime, but the sheer
weight told.
It must make the average man think hard about
Mr. Menzies and other problems when he considers
this repeated situation of inadequate numbers oppos-
ing and fighting gloriously against overwhelming odds
—against the numbers of men and divisions that the
Germans are able to throw, and are prepared to
throw, into battle to secure victory. Not to appre-
ciate all the implications of this would be to accept
the myth of the Germans as unbeatable fighters. They
have crushed their way to victory after victory by
the weight of numbers. Against some countries the
mere threat of that weight was decisive ; against real
fighters—admittedly the world’s best—the weight itself
has had to be used, and the cold hard fact is that
it prevailed.
This is a time, as Mr. Menzies rightly insists, for
facing cold hard facts. Does he himself face up to an
especially cold one when he implies that the Empire
can put into the field as many men as Germany? The
great bulk of the Empire’s armed man-power strength
is in Britain. It is held immobilised there by the
threat of invasion. While that state of things pre-
vails, is there any realism whatever in that statement
of the P.M.? Of the Empire’s total armed forces of
some 5,000,000 men, about 4,000,000 are in Britain,
the rest widely scattered. A percentage of Germany’s
armed forces, too, is immobilised, threatening Britain
with invasion and policing the occupied countries of
Europe. But the great bulk of the German Army of
about 4,500,000 men can be put into the field just
when and where its leaders desire. An American esti-
mate has put the effective fighting strength of the two
countries as: Britain, somewhat less than 50 divisions ;
Germany, 250 divisions, at least 125 of them first-line


combat tjroops. The importance of that weight is
surely by now written only too plainly on the face of
trampled Europe.
There are various theories about how this war is
going to be won, and any of them may be right.
President Roosevelt sees it as a struggle for control
of the seas, with the lengthening of Germany’s land
lines in Europe a definite weakening of Germany.
Obviously he looks forward to when, perhaps next
winter, the blockade will begin to have serious effects
on the Continent. Elsewhere the war is seen as a
struggle for mastery in the air. The tendency gener-
ally is to depreciate or disregard Germany’s land suc-
cesses. The hope implicit in all this is that the war can
be won without terrible land battles having to be
fought. It is said over and over that Britain has more
men than enough already under arms. It is not ad-
mitted that immobilised troops are not effective troops.
Britain has more than enough troops already ; there-
fore, it is inferred, Britain does not need American
troops.
Meanwhile —since this topic was last touched on
here —the Germans, clinging to the conception of the
importance of numbers of men and divisions, have
had yet another victory. They are not going to stop
at that; and, when they move, they will have to be
met by available weight of men and arms. Without
any question it is time to face up to cold hard facts.
It is time to think of the modern equivalent of “the
thin red line” facing the grim fact of the German
weight of numbers over and over. It is time to think
of these men who are doing the fighting, and who
presently will be in the thick of it again. It is time
to do something about strengthening them in every
possible sense of the word. Above all, surely it is time
to stop telling America, in particular, to stand out,
that it’s all right, we don’t want their men, the import-
ance of numbers of men and divisions being a hoary
old jest, as witness what it costs the stupid Germans.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Time Is Precious.
When people who hope for a victory over the dic-
tators are down in the dumps they turn to the White
House for spiritual refreshment, and never in vain.
In a very dark hour of the war they were cheered
and uplifted by these words;
I wish to reiterate in the most emphatic terms that
we have been making every possible effort for the
Allied armies to obtain aeroplanes, artillery and
munitions, and this Government, for as long as the
Allied Governments continue to resist, will redouble
its efforts in this direction. Every week that goes by
will see additional materials on the way to the Allied
nations —material supplies in ever-increasing quantities
and kinds.
A most explicit undertaking and the sincerity of the
man who gave it cannot be questioned. But it happens
to be twelve months old. The sentences formed part
ot Mr. Roosevelt’s reply to the last despairing appeal
of the unhappy Reynaud.
It is disheartening to read that military aircraft
production in the U.S.A. declined from 1427 machines
in April to 1350 in May. Strikes and shortage of
metals are blamed for the slump, but neither figure
gives the enemy cause for anything but crowing.
German military aircraft production is reckoned in
the U.S.A. War Department itself at 3000 a month
and German productive capacity at 6000 a month.
Still more disheartening was it to read that Mr.
Roosevelt, after “a conference of four hours” with
Mr. Winant, the U.S. Ambassador to Britain, who
bore an urgent personal appeal from Mr. Churchill,
“told the newspapers that Mr. Winant’s report was
so detailed that several conferences might be neces-
sary.” Several conferences! About the same time
Mr. Shinwell, the well-informed Durham M.P., was
describing “Mr. Roosevelt’s statement that Britain is
losing ships three times as fast as she is building
ships” as “a triumph of understatement —the real
position is very much worse.”
The young Napoleon had a simple explanation
for the success of his first campaign in Italy. He
beat the Austrians, he said, “because the Austrian
generals did not realise the value of time.” Does Mr.
Roosevelt? Can there be an Aulic Council in Wash-
ington? Certainly if the President’s glowing promises
are to be redeemed there is not a moment to be lost.
Stand Up, Ehrenfried!
Newspapermen who know Mr. F. Ehrenfried Baume,
late of Sydney, have followed with considerable
amusement, though without astonishment, his per-
formances as a Fireside Fusilier. During the last
two or three years Ehrenfried has been in favor of
fighting not only the Axis Powers, but almost every
other country in Europe, except the U.S.S.R.; and
not even the U.S.S.R. can be accounted safe from
his terrible pen. “Bash ’em!” is almost invariably
Ehrenfried’s prescription when foreigners become diffi-
cult or are scared into a course of action of which this
“famous war correspondent” disapproves. The fight-
ing services are, of course, to do the bashing, but
Ehrenfried always stands ready with profuse advice
while the operation is in progress, with applause if it
succeeds and with invective if it collapses.
On May 21 a new Sydney paper for which
Ehrenfried collects foreign news came out with a
thrilling headline: “Invasion of Crete Fails. Rea'd-
ing down, you came upon the line Complete Nazi
Defeat,” and the statement that “Major-General
Freyberg, V.C., and his men have already wiped out
most of the invaders, and it is only a matter of hours
until the invasion becomes a complete German defeat.”
That was Ehrenfried in one of his optimistic moods.
Ehrenfried the Ruthless showed up in another article,
headed “Kill All Crete Invaders,” and containing these
sentences: “Every Nazi parachutist in New Zealand
uniform should be shot dead ; if the New Zealand
Government does not make a formal demand the
people of N.Z. should.” In the retrospect, it is by
no means certain that enemy troops landed in Maori-
land uniforms. It is certain that if Ehrenfried’s injunc-
tion had been obeyed there would straightway have
been a ruthless massacre of Maoriland prisoners taken
in Greece —upwards of 2000.
One of Ehrenfried’s pet theories is that the Navy
isn’t doing enough. In an Ehrenfried-controlled sec-
tion of a weekly paper, an alleged “naval correspon-
dent” demanded to know why “we hadn’t sent a
powerful squadron” to “bombard Salonika,” and
asked “oneself isn’t it worth while risking the possible
loss of a few battleships?” Loss of “a few battleships”
—and “a few battleships” were risked in Crete waters —
would very probably mean the end of British naval
supremacy in the Mediterranean and spell irremedi-
able disaster to the British Imperial armies in the
Mediterranean zone; and in the “few battleships”
thousands of splendid seamen would go down to a
dreadful death. But these considerations did not
deter the “naval correspondent” from coolly suggest-
ing these sacrifices, nor from erasing from what he
is doubtless pleased to call his mind memories of
Taranto, Cape Matapan, the sinking of the Bar-
tolomeo Colleoni, the great sweeps through the Middle
Sea, the protection of innumerable convoys, the bom-
bardment of Genoa and the Navy’s great share in the
advance from Mersa Matruh to Benghazi, He had
the gall to write this;
Perhaps the most striking feature of operations in
the Eastern Mediterranean for months has been
apparent failure to make our sea-power felt effectively,
except in the somewhat negative sense that it has pre-
vented any appreciable interference in the withdrawal
by sea of our ill-fated Grecian expeditionary force.
“The somewhat negative sense”! It is safe to say
that there is not a soldier among the survivors of the
campaign in Greece who will ever forget what the
Navy did there. Letters expressing undying admira-
tion for and gratitude to the officers and men of the
senior service are arriving in Australia by the hun-
dred. At Dunkirk, in Mr. Churchill’s words, “the Navy,
using nearly 1000 ships of all kinds, carried over
335,000 men out of the jaws of death.” Greece and
Crete have repeated the splendid story, begun in Nor-
wegian waters, of skilful and daring seamanship, of
fearful risks taken and of great sacrifices undergone
to the end that British Imperial armies might be saved
—and saved they were.
“Every man back in Egypt is fully conscious of
the heroism and personal sacrifice of the Navy that
made his evacuation even remotely possible.” That
was an official war correspondent’s postscript to the
campaign in Crete. What was Mr. F. Ehrenfried
Baume’s?:
Naval protection could only be purchased at a heavy
price, but should not we have paid that price, if neces-
sary, to avoid a possible defeat? The feeling grows
again—despite successes like that of the Bismarck —that
until the ships of the Royal Navy are regarded as battle
units, and not as defensive show pieces, there will be
other Cretes and things of which Nelson never thought
when telescopes could be glued to blind eyes.
“Defensive show pieces”! No real Australian who
knows what Australia owes to the Navy could descend
to that level. Ehrenfried is not an Australian by birth
or training, and any other country that wants him
is welcome to him.
Sex Crimes.
Handing out a sentence of 15 years to a ruffian con-
victed of rape —his victim was 11 years old —Queens-
land Justice Macrossan remarked “I can only ensure
that for a long period you will not be able to repeat
this offence.” A charge of an attempt on another
child was not proceeded with. The Crown Prosecutor
observed that violent sex crimes had increased
“alarmingly” in the past 12 months. This is true, and
the remark could be given an Australian application.
In more realistic times, before ill-balanced males
could buy sexy literature and have undraped females
shoved at them by the illustrated press and motion-
picture films, before the country was infected with
sexy negro dancing and a namby-pamby attitude
towards criminals, rape was ranked with murder as
deserving the death penalty. In cases like the Queens-
land horror it should carry a life sentence in the
strict meaning of the term. Meantime, it would prove
interesting and possibly profitable if some Judge would
follow the example of a country magistrate and try
to get from the accused some idea of the kind of
literature he buys, what form of entertainment he
prefers and what sort of home-life he had.
Change in Java.
“Feng-Shui”: A wandering correspondent remarked
the other day on the almost incredible sight of the
immense Surabaya naval base, with thousands of
natives clad in sarong and baju, sandals and topee,
constructing motor-boats and servicing submarines,
cruisers, gunboats, destroyers and merchantmen,
where formerly they pottered about their ricefields or
tapped rubber-trees in the white man’s plantations.
It ran counter to his Australian prejudices to find that
anything but the minimum of effort could come out
of the tropics.
The wandering correspondent had apparently for-
gotten his own Queensland. And if he had gone a
bit further into the island he would have found evi-
dences of an older and possibly even greater effort in
the ruins of the temples of Boro Budur and Prambanan
and the hundreds of remains of temples, monasteries
and convents of the Buddhist-Brahmanic persuasion
scattered all over the island, from the plains to the
summits of 9000-foot volcanic mountains. These are
evidences of a gigantic effort, especially as the popu-
lation of the island, which is now 45 million, was then
more in the region of 2,000,000. That this handful
of people should have produced such a mass of archi-
tecture in which every stone is exquisitely hand-
carved postulates a high degree of culture, and the
high degree of culture postulates some extraordinary
individuals or group of individuals who were capable
of stimulating a race of hereditary peasants and helots
along the lines of artistic expression so that their
whole life seems to have centred in building. The
life of their descendants 13 centuries later, after
the arrival of the Portuguese and the Dutchmen,
centred in the bare struggle for existence.
Now it begins to centre in industrial development
and military preparation. Inasmuch as these islanders
produced such extraordinary results in the past, there
is no reason why they may not be capable of produc-
ing equally extraordinary results in the future,
although in a different direction. And, including the
Buitenbezittingen, or Outer Possessions, there are
upwards of 70,000,000 of them. The immense archi-
pelago of 100,000 islands covers an area wider than
Europe and as long as the United States, and con-
tains more of the relevant materials for making a com-
mercial, industrial, maritime and aerial nation than
does the Japanese Empire.
If it had been the Japan of 70 years ago that the
Australian press correspondent had been surveying,
he would never have foreseen the present Japanese
Empire. Japan was then a nation of artists, crafts-
men and poets, and fighting was the domestic recreation
of a privileged aristocracy. Then British naval guns
thundered over Shimonoseki, and Japan awakened to
the necessity of becoming inventive. She went to
Europe as a pupil and Europe taught her all her
tricks. She became inventive to such purpose that
in a few generations she was measuring her strength
with Russia, then regarded as a military colossus. In
resisting European aggression she changed from a
nation of artists into a nation of businessmen and
soldiers.
There is no obvious reason why the Javanese
should not work a similar transformation and turn
themselves from a nation of coolies and coconut
growers into a nation of manufacturers and exporters.
The Australian correspondent says that the Surabaya
naval base is Ike a city, part on the surface and part
underground, with its own police system, ambulance
service, telephone exchange, radio centre, gas-instruc-
tion school, railways organisation, underground air-
raid shelters and concrete pillboxes inside and outside
workshops and yards (where 2000-ton vessels are
building), anti-aircraft batteries and outer defences. In
fact, a bit of Europe dropped holus-bolus by the
Java Sea, where the bat-winged outriggers still sail out
on the land breeze and in on the sea breeze as they
did in the days of Boro Budur.
The Japanese took half a century to do what the
Dutch in Java have done in 18 months apparently,
but there is nothing extraordinary in this. It is the
modern tempo. ■
"Champions of the Workers."
The champions of “free speech,” “civil liberties, right
to strike in war-time, alliance with Russia and any-
thing and everything except, apparently, the defence
of the Empire against the gravest threat it has ever
encountered have been heard from again, this time at
the Melbourne Congress of the A.C.T.U., where they
mustered no fewer than 71 delegates to vote against
a motion of full support for the war effort.
That they were defeated by an affirmative vote
of 128 is nothing to crow about. The majority ought
to have been twenty to one. A British congress of a
similar nature, held amid the tragedy and destruction
of air-raids, and where you can t buy more than a
shillingsworth of meat a week, affirmed a resolve to
carry on to the last shot by 2,430,000 to 19,000.
The old familiar tactics —like the tacticians,
largely imported—were present at the Melbourne
affair. Amendment after amendment was put forward
in efforts to defeat the motion, the strategy being, as
many unionists know, either to talk the thing out of
time or drag in side-issues and cause discussions until
those who were to vote would be too confused to
know what they were doing. Intimidation was also
there:
When voting on the amendment was announced,
a section shouted threats at delegates, and there was an
answering cheer from the moderates.
Thus do the “champions of freedom” seek to
enforce their brand of freedom on their fellows.
Strange and remarkable were some of the views
'expressed. “Comrade” Wright (Sheet-metal Workers)
wanted a “democratic peace imposed by ‘peoples’ of
the belligerent countries.” How? “By breaking the
power of millionaire owners of banks and industry.
“Comrade” Thornton, of the Ironworkers, “bit-
terly attacked” supporters of the war-effort; Trade-
unionism will perish for ever unless workers are
prepared to fight now for their existence.
“Comrade” Thornton was nominated for presi-
dent, and got 73 votes against the 135 for A. E.
Monks, a moderate.
To some people the Wrights and Thorntons
might appear to be harmless cranks. No crank is
harmless when he bosses trade-unions like the Sheet-
metal Workers, the Ironworkers or the Waterside
Workers, whose “Comrade” Healy spoke for "Com-
rade” Wright’s amendment refusing support for the war.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
"Let her sniff a good rich exhaust and she'll run for miles."
“Blue P.”: The lag in recruiting for
the A.I.F. seems to be chiefly apparent in
Sydney, the Australian city most afflicted
with the New Journalism. There, little
nptice has been taken of the personal side
of A.I.F. casualties, whereas in the news-
papers of other capitals whole columns
are given over to brief personal sketches
of the men, often with their photo-
graphs. Thus they are elevated to their
rightful place as defenders of the nation,
and the effect on young fellows still
thinking about enlisting must be import-
ant. In country newspapers, too, every
i i , M, , T j ’ •
local man killed, wounded or missing gets
his due meed of appreciation. But in
Sydney pictorial columns the Digger,
splendid specimen of manhood though
t r, • l u l • «
He so often is, nasn t a nope against
bare female flesh. Flapper-mad city rags
ought to get hold of copies of
papers like those published at New-
castle, Broken Hill, Grafton, Tam-
worth and Wagga, which the New
Journalism would probably dismiss
as “hick raps f™ tip sticks” A
as n ~. K ra § s irom me sucks. A
study Of them shows that true journalism
is still alive and doing a good job with-
out the aid of comic strips and signed
Utr coif
articles by self-opinionated writers of
whom nobody takes any notice.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: Our drunk, on the scoot
in town, cobbered up with a large, sun-
burned, capable member of the A.I.F.
from the back of Brewarrina or some-
where, and the pair of them were pretty
molo when they entered our street. Out-
side his home, our drunk paused and
said, “Loo’ here, we berrer not go in ;
my missus’ll go for ush.” The A.I.F.
declared, with alcoholic bravado, “It’sh
y’r own home, ain’t it? Leave ’er t’
me!” Thus fortified, our drunk led him
to the door. His wife, smiling charm-
ingly, took both inside, gave them a hot
meal and chatted away to the A.I.F. most
pleasingly. “Gripes,” he said on leaving,
considerably sobered, “y’re a good sort,
missus. Pity y’ got a bloke like him
for a nusban’.” Whereupon he grabbed
his former host, shook him severely and
growled, “You better look out. Treatin’
a woman like her like that.” And he
went back to his camp, while our drunk,
himself also sobered, went wearily into
the living-room to await the wrath which,
though postponed, was still to come.
» * * *
“Pab D.”: I’d heard of those soldiers
in the 1914-18 war who arrived home in
Australia before the telegrams announc-
ing their coming were delivered, but I’d
always taken the yarns with a grain of
salt till I was told of the case of a
woman whose soldier had gone overseas.
She decided to return to her old calling
of nursing in the hope of following her
husband and, possibly, joining him. She
passed on the high seas the ship which
was bringing her invalided man home.
* * * *
“St. James”: Private “Ribs” Murray,
the Digger who married that Greek girl,
was in Sydney about 18 months ago. I’d
known him in Westralia, so he naturally
headed straight for my residence, only
to learn that I had a bride. “Well, I
hope marriage’ll work out all right for
you,” he said ; “but it wouldn’t for me.
You don’t catch me giving half
my tucker away to get the other half
cooked.” If he reads this par, he can
hear me laughing,
* * * *
“Feng-Shui” indulges in some lingual
suppositions:
I suppose, judging by experiences in the 1914-
1* , war ’ . tbe .^ gers . w j!| . come back frol fi
Malaya with additions to their vocabulary, such
as f ana boleh tid’apa, apa macham and chelaka.
“Kaseh stengah lekas, boy,” is also bound to be
included. A few will no doubt penetrate into
th ° higher reaches , of the language, where they
win nna as complex 3. grsnimsr 3. n0. syntax.
refinements of expression and literary allusion,
as in English or any other European language,
If they mix with the Malay aristocracy on
paflo aK'Stoff be!
cause royalty doesn’t sleep — it slumbers. Bazaar
Malay, which is the lingua franca of Europeans,
Chinese and Tamils, as well as of Malays when
spealong to foreigners, bears about the same
re ] a tj on to Malay proper as abo. pidgin in
Darwin does to Shakspeare’s English. It
serves its commercial purpose: but the edu-
,cate4 Malay regards its use by a white man who
has been long resident in the country as insult-
j ng anc j an unwarranted exhibition of the idea
of racial superiority Milch dates from the days
when old Singapore hands advised every young
En S lisb bank clerk and shipping employee who
Sfona™.”'™ * P ' ng
* * * •
“Spokeshave”: As Priminister Menzies
says, this is a people’s war. In the show-
case of one of Collins-street’s most
fashionable photographers appears a
group portrait of Lieut. H. J. Wallace,
the Earl of Bective and Private J. John-
son. Private Johnson is a magnificent,
smiling, full-blooded Australian abori-
ginal.
* * * *
“Clooter”: That perennial pest the
youngster who won’t eat has got into the
news again, inspiring Dr. Clements,
Director of the Australian Institute of
Anatomy, to blame the fashion, habit
or craze for small families. This, he
holds, produces the “nervous” child,
made so by the concentration of its be-
getters on one or two objects of parental
devotion, the nipper getting the idea that
the universe was created for its sole
benefit and reacting thereto. Dr.
Clements said that one of the commonest
complaints doctors heard about children
was that they wouldn’t eat, and it was
a nutritional problem. It needn’t be. A
child that is offered good tucker at which
it turns up its nose should not be fussed
over, nor should the family doctor be
called in. The remedy is to exhibit over-
whelming indifference on the subject and
let the kid get really hungry. It will
be time to seek medical aid if the kid
doesn’t get hungry, a rare occurrence in
the young.
* » * »
“0.P.”: It was inevitable that some-
body’s wireless set would lead to gun-
play sooner or later, though most of us
expected it to develop between neigh-
bors, rather than between brothers, as
happened in Sydney. A younger
brother fired at his elder over the
question whether the set should be
switched on or off, and found him-
self in the Criminal Court as a
result. There the elder made a con-
fession of bullying and the charge was
dismissed, the pair leaving the court
arm-in-arm. All the same, the acquittal
shouldn’t be taken as a precedent next
time the bloke next door puts his noise-
box on full volume because he wants to
work in the garden and hear it.
♦ * * *
“W.E.R.”: The boss not having arrived
three of us watched a flapper in another
office across the alley dolling herself up
for the day’s work. Her hair gave her
some trouble, but she finally got it just
right. All through this performance a
semi-bald male person in the same room
worked at a desk. We wondered at his
patience. When she was finished with
the mirror he arose, went to it, combed
what hair he had, pinched something on
bis chin, stroked his brows with a licked
finger, then solemnly returned to his desk.
Mockery, vanity or unconscious imita-
tion?
* * * *
“Sing 9”: Leacock’s millionaire of
Scottish extraction who inherited from
his forebears their “rugged fear of the
police” has a lot of soulmates in Sydney.
Recently, crossing a suburban inter-
section, the rear of my car was smacked
by a speedhog. He didn’t wait to see
how many had been killed or injured, but
clapped on the pace and was out of
sight before I could get a dekko at his
number, I asked a shopkeeper standing at
his door to give me his name. “Don’t you
take my name,” he almost shouted ; “1
won’t be mixed up in it.” I tried to
explain that it was merely for use in an
insurance claim, but he became almost
hysterical, so I took his name from the
shopfront and crossed the road to three
men waiting by a bus stop who must
have seen everything. They wouldn’t even
tell me the name of the street. When I
persisted one of them said, “Look, mister,
we didn’t see anything, see?” and all three
walked away up to the next bus stop.
Apparently had I been killed the entire
locality would have out-oystered the
oyster when the police began making in-
quiries. After that experience I’m not
so prone to criticise the police for being
unable to find out things.
* * * *
“Bo”: Displayed in the window of
a Sydney store I saw some cut-price mer-
chandise labelled “English razor blades.”
The front of each blue->and-white packet
bore the legend “Edelstaal Scheermesje,”
the sides were labelled “10 stuks.” One
could almost hear the honest Sheffield
workman saying to his factory mate
“Bah goom, choom, these yere edelstaal
scheermesjes of ourn are sharp an’ all,”
or the foreman roaring a Geordie up
with “Eh, laad, dost want to be more
careful; art awny puttin’ nine stuks in
they theer packets?” Versatile place,
Sheffield!
* * * *
“Bumpk”: I see that an American pro-
fessor has invented a new type of think-
ing machine that calculates the motion
and stresses of ships in a head-on sea
and offers the hope that seasickness will
eventually be as unknown as the dodo.
He submits, allegedly for the first time,
mathematical equations for heave and
pitch, and by applying his formula to ship-
designing he hopes to eliminate heaving
and pitching. But what about rolling?
I am a pretty good sailor and can hang
on to my dinner as well as the next man,
but I gave up the struggle on an old
knife-edged Messageries Maritimes liner
when she alternately toppled on her star-
board side and then on her port in the
long surges of the Gulf of Tongking en
route from Hong Kong to Saigon. And
how would he deal with the case of a
young woman of my acquaintance who,
while merely walking down a jetty to
go for a cruise in Port Phillip, was fright-
fully sick?
* * * *
“Jarrah Jack”: I’m in partial agree-
ment with both “Bulong” (B. 21/5/’4l)
and “Youanmi” (B. 28/5/’4l) as regards
Westralian goldfields place-names. Un-
fortunately I am not one of the
pioneers who were on the fields with
Bayley and Ford and Paddy Hannan.
My association dates from a few years
later, but even then old-timers still re-
ferred to “The Hannans” and “The
Bulong,” and, if they came from the
Murchison, to “The Cue,” “The Day
Dawn” and “The Cuddingwarra.” Many
years later a society for something or
other set about altering place-names or
the methods of spelling them. Its worst
performance was “Cuthbert,” which had
been “Cold an’ Wet.” Still, it might have
chosen “Pansy.”
* *
“Utua” gives a very early glimpse of
Australia’s largest bloat:
When Lachlan Macquarie first saw Sydney
it was a straggling and untidy village of hovels
and mean streets. A plan prepared in 1807 by
James Meehan, Assistant Surveyor of Lands,
shows what it was like. The town reached south
only as far as the present Park-street, with no
Sussex- and no Elizabeth-street. King-street
went west only as far as Clarence-street, and
Market-street was in existence only between
Clarence and George streets. Another drawn in
1822, at the end of Macquarie’s reign, shows
the centre of Sydney laid out as it is now, with
the exception of a few modern alterations like
Martin-place. Of the buildings Macquarie and
Architect Greenway put up in 11 years the list is
imposing. It includes the hospital in Macquarie-
street, the Commissariat Stores by Sydney
Cove (recently demolished), the King’s wharf
in the Cove, the lighthouse at South Head,
convict barracks in Hyde Park, military bar-
racks on the site of Wynyard railway station
and the square above it, the Western-road toll-
house beyond the Haymarket, carrier barracks
and Government stables, the Benevolent
Asylum, the Supreme Court, the Governor’s
stables (now the Conservatorium of Music)
and St. James’s Church. And for the first time
the town was more or less efficiently policed.
* * * «
“Bob Punter”: Buying a dozen snap-
dragon plants, I had from my plant-and-
seed merchant sound and convincing
argument why Fritz is eventually going
to get it in the neck. I remarked on how
healthy his pansy plants looked. “Yes,
beauts.,” he said. “This’ll be about the
last year of them, too, till the war’s fin-
ished. No seeds.” “What,” I said, “do
you import ’em?” “Most of ’em come
from the Continent,” he told me ; “Swit-
zerland. They hand-fertilise ’em —y’
couldn’t get ’em to do that here. Peasant
labor. A couple of young chaps had a
go at it here. They ran into five years’
drought. America’s the place! Must be
a wonderful country. Y’ know how fine
snap, seed is? Y’ can just see it. Fine as
dust. Well, Americans quote it by the
hundredweight—as many hundredweights
as you like! An’ they’ve got as many as
190 different varieties of pinks alone!
By the hundredweight! That country’ll
win the war. Make no mistake about it,”
THE ROMANY LASS.
O the gipsy jane that you meet sometimes,
Even in these enlightened climes
A world away from her age-old beat,
Is ever a package of sly deceit.
Of all the arts that may cozen dough
From the kick of a guileless Gorgio
There’s precious little she doesn’t know.
So harden your heart and hold aloof
If she ever offers to bless your oof.
By some occult process you can’t explain,
Some sleight-of-hand or legerdemain.
She’ll take her toll of the ready mon.
O’er which she’s breathing a benison.
Into her keeping the stuff will stray
From bag or wallet or porte-monuaie
If for one split second you look away,
The while she’s spilling her magic tosh
Over the folder that holds your splosh.
You may cross her palm for some fee-fo-fum
With a crisp two-bob or a humble thrum,
And she’ll take a whirl at the Endor biz
And give you the worth of—whichever ’tis.
But when her powers on your bunce she’d try,
Though it’s wrapped in coverings don’t comply
With the wheedling wish of the Romany chi,
Lest you find that a witch’s blessing’s worse
In its quick results than a witch’s curse.
You may turn your cash when the moon is new
And, unless you’re blithered, no harm ’twill do.
You may give it a chance to bear some fruit
Where gee-gees scamper or greyhounds scoot.
But I’ll say it’s due for a faster flit,
My trustful friend, if you ever permit
A gipsy orison over it.
Let a Romany lass once bless your pelf
And it’s odds that, later, you’ll curse yourself!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Colonel Bungstarter”: No tonnage of
Nazi bombs has been able to dint the
Cockney sense of humor. To the
shattered ruins of a terrace, just wrecked
by a stick of Hitler-eggs, came a fussy
A.R. warden with the standard string of
questions for first-aid assistance. “Any
seriously injured?” he inquired. There
were none. “Any aged and infirm per-
sons?” None. “Any pregnant women?”
he continued. After a brief silence a
drawling feminine voice remarked in ripest
Cockney from the dusty little crowd:
“Coo, mister, you are in a blinkin’ ’urry.
We’ve only bin ’ere about ten minutes!”
* * * *
“Craiser”: A few months ago I met
the postmaster of our township in a
brand-new A.I.F. uniform. “Well, I’m
off,” he said, “and thank God I’ve done
with the post office.” The other day I
met his daughter. “How’s your father
getting on?” I asked her. “Oh, fine,”
she answered. “We’ve just got a letter
from him and he says he’s been detailed
to the postal unit.”
“Captain Pintle”: Amongst the
responsibilities laid upon masters of British
vessels is that of rendering assistance to
“every person, even if such person be a
subject of a foreign State at war with his
Majesty, who is found at sea in danger
of being lost.” It means that should a
U-boat or fighting ’plane attacking an
unarmed fishing craft or hospital ship
come to grief by accident the skipper of
the craft attacked will be for it if he
doesn’t do everything possible to pick up
the U-boat or ’plane survivors. His only
defence is that of serious risk. Thus
section 6 of the Maritime Convention
Act of 1911. Bicknell, L, of the London
Admiralty Court, has expressed appre-
ciation of the way in which that law is
being loyally obeyed, “at times in very
difficult circumstances” Why not? We
are the only real people of the sea and
we make our laws accordingly, taking the
sea as the universal foe from which
Britons must save any man, however
unworthy.
* * * •
“P.S.”: The millennium has arrived.
A Sydney paper has published a large
picture of a female film star, fully-clad
and proudly nursing her new-born baby!
* * * *
“K”: It’s sad —terribly sad. Here’s
Sam Brummel, four years shy of the
sixty mark. He’d been wearing out Los
Angeles pavements for years selling in-
surance. Then his personality caught the
eye of a lady with lashings of boodle.
Upshot was that Sam was “leased” by
his accommodating spouse to his admirer,
who sported a married moniker if no
husband. So Sam passed 12 months in
captivity, while his wife collected £3125
which the other lady coughed up for the
pleasure of Sam’s company. At the
expiration of the lease Sam, going to
collect his divvy, found his wife had
skipped with the dough, and the Court
to which he took his grievance frowned
on his claim. Now radio or the movies
seem to be his only safeguard against
total loss.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: According to Victorian educa-
tion officials, education in Victoria is not
dominated by the examination fetish
mentioned by N.S.W. Education Minister
Evatt. I should like to think so ; but
a boy I know went up before a board
of examiners for a branch of the muni-
tions industry. He has more than usual
skill in more than one direction —carpen-
tering, moulding, tool-making and -using,
and can grasp a mechanical problem
better than many tradesmen. “Have you
a leaving certificate?” asked his exam-
iners. “No, I haven’t,” said the boy.
That finished him for the war effort.
* * # »
“Zake”: Reading an American account
of the slaughter of the enemy in Greece
(“colossal,” “incredible,” “stupendous”) I
was somehow reminded of Pozieres. I
once thought the ultimate in din had
come when I mingled in that
affair. A little over a year later I stood
in the support trenches near Hell-fire
Corner and heard a 12in; naval gun give
the signal for the barrage which presaged
our First Ypres. That lot made the
Pozzy noise seem like kids’ crackers.
These Yank blurbers ought to take a
leaf out of Masefield’s book on Gallipoli.
* * * *
“Q.A.Z.”; If there’s one thing that
irritates me more than the vaporings of
the smart young men of the flapper press
it’s the columns of “social” guff and what-
not written by the female of the species.
Hearken to one, using valuable paper
to tell Australians “their lacks as lovers”
“By arrangement with the Apple and Pear
Board, Oscar Popinov will play the
‘William Tell' overture !”
“Keep your eye on its tail, Prendergast—that's where the sting is!"
—the article, is, of course, illustrated by
a photograph of American, if not Holly-
wooden, origin—and kicking off with the
profound observation that Australian
males are lucky. Lucky because they
live on a continent far removed from in-
vaders who might bring with them and
leave behind standards and technique which
would certainly challenge their ingenuity
and be apt to stir them out of their in-
born laziness and cocksureness.
Next, there was a crack at the land man:
When the Bushie goes a-wooing he
brings along a bag of “lollies.” These he
clutches in a hand which has had a hasty
dab of lavender water smeared on it in
order to disguise his calling.
And, finally, a hint for war-time economy
to cocktail-suckers:
We saps of Aussie women, who have
only just begun to cotton on to the
Yankee technique, are just now waking up
to the knowledge that orchids get you
further than frangipanni, and that mink is
more flattering—even to the boy-friend
who buys it—than water mole.
Yes ; it’s the 22nd month of the war.
* * H= *
“Spokeshave”: I was struck with the
suggestion of Dr. Mackeddie, vice-presi-
dent of the Victorian Nat. Gallery trustees,
that two Sydney surrealist pictures should
be accepted conditionally on their being
put in a special chamber. This system used
to be in force at the Naples Museum and
worked to the satisfaction of all and sun-
dry. You entered the place with your wife
or sweetheart and, after inspecting the
section devoted to the art objects salvaged
from Pompeii and Herculaneum, you
passed a locked door. Immediately the
guide put on a solemn expression and
nudged you in the ribs. You then dropped
behind the convoy and had it explained
to you that a coin slipped in the hands
of one of the custodians would give you
access to unmentionable delights. Having
got rid of your companion on some pre-
text or other you edged up to the official,
slipped a lira into his hand, and immedi-
ately a key was produced, the door was
opened, you passed inside, it closed be-
hind you and you heard the key turn in
the lock. You then turned, to discover
that the patricians of Pompeii
and Herculaneum had tastes in
art very similar to those of
1941 patricians.
“Nig’s N’gumba”: From Calabar Pro-
vince, Nigeria, comes this poser, put to
a District Commissioner by a local chief:
“How is it that England, France and
Germany can have a war whenever they
like, but should we wish to fight another
village the district officer brings his police
and stops us?” The D.C. muttered some-
thing about the natives not yet having
reached the highest degree of civilisation,
and let it go at that.
“Bumpk”: Having just
passed through one of
Melbourne’s department
stores, recently redecorated
in the modern mode,
where I was so dazed,
blinded and bemused by
the glitter of aluminium
and mirrors reflecting
1,000,000 c.p. of electric
illumination that I could
not locate the razor-blade counter, I am
inclined to agree with N. Pemberton
Billing, who says that the blackout has
been proved a failure in England, inas-
much as it throws into relief the most
prominent features of a landscape, such as
lakes, reservoirs and rivers. lie recom-
mends its abolition and the substitution of
sky illumination which will dazzle the
enemy bombers and provide daylight con-
ditions for our fighters. Victorian author-
ities are following official English practice,
and Geelong is priding itself on its first
blackout, which was 100 p.c. efficient.
But Sleepy Hollow has a particularly dis-
tinctive coastline, a river system and
other geographical features, and an in-
vader who could not locate it would need
to have his head read.
* * * *
“Emdee”: The rector of our suburban
parish, being on holiday, his Sunday-
school class was taken by a young woman
parishioner. As she entered there came
in a cracked voice, sotto voce, “Hell! Its
a woman!”
* * * »
“Cauboy”: Reported that Michael
Powell and Emeric Pressburger are to
make a film in England based on the
life of Shakspeare, with Clemence Dane
as collaborator. He will be a brave or
singularly complacent actor who takes
the part of the Swan of Avon. According
to John Masefield, just a very few facts
are known about the life of Shakspeare,
the rest being romantic legend. Of the
extant portrait busts, he said, they show
a vapid, dolichocephalous creature who
could not possibly have been like the
alleged subject. We do know, however,
from his sonnets that the Bard was lame,
ill-favored in appearance and lacking in
all the graces that distinguished the young
nobleman who was his successful rival
for the favors of the Dark Lady. As
his own description of himself runs
directly counter to the popular opinion
that he must have been a sort of matinee
idol, the actor who takes the part will
have either to violate the prejudices of
the public or be untruthful. Probably he
will be the latter and the role will be
handed to some actor of the Leslie
Howard type. During his last tour of
Australia pianist Wilhelm Backhaus re-
ceived a cable from Hollywood offering
him the part of Beethoven in a projected
picture of the life of that composer. He
refused, saying that all Hollywood could
do with the mighty Ludwig was to show
that part of him which he had in common
with any suburban greengrocer.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Pacifism passes, and
that good old strident hymn “Onward,
Christian Soldiers,” is in vogue again
When the pacifism wave was at its crest
it fell into disfavor; but last Sunday, as
was walking home, it was being sung in
two churches passed on my way. And
when I switched on my wireless the same
buoyant melody, boisterously choired at
a camp service, came over. Recollections
of how in my boyhood days we kids
used to regard the lusty singing of tha
hymn as a crimson patch in the chill
grey of church service makes me glad ot
the rehabilitation. Sullivan wrote the
fine, vigorous tune.
CHINESE FOOTBALLERS.
.
Though the fact is too arresting to admit the
That'S “Srif wherein we live is out of
joint,
Arbitrary prohibitions on athletic expositions
Would be palliatives quite devoid of point.
Lo,S Mtio'n y recreatlon 15 ess ' n( ‘ al a
And as needful for a doctor as a docker.
And it takes you for a moment from grim
Celestials playing
Soccer.
You may see from Stadium bleachers husky
And "the tames oi'theifopposing vis-i-vls
Or huge wrestlers, hunks of muscle and of
meat, for mastery tussle
And occasionally dong the referee.
But such jousts, howe’er enthralling, tend to
There’s Another 6 shot that’s waiting in the
locker
For our sporting cognoscenti — and there’s
When C a°«am W S Af’tTkded up for
Soccer
Queer to think in bygone ages that their race
WtotheSfot thf heavens could divine
Wheh our forebears, pelt-clad bodies, hunted
fer their scran with waddles,
Or accumulated acorns for their swine.
Steeped for long in mild complacence, now
they’ve staged a brisk renaissance,
Shown they’re up, as one might phrase it,
“to the knocker,”
When from poppy- and from tea-land, towered
The/Tave'come to'^ake"Caucasians on at
Soccer.
See them chase the bounding leather, ranged
With of hacks and
raps,
Oft as not opponents tricking—while their
countrymen are kicking ,
Even harder, one expects, against the Japs!
May their forwards and their wingers rattle in
more frequent stingers
And each back display his mettle as a blocker,
May Confucius’ sage monitions stimulate their
Now e the b Chin S a lads are facing us at Soccer!
N S w
IFORD.


10 for 10d. 20 for 18
E 1865 -
It’s their extra touch of quality -
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
-um*
-V;:. 5
PREVENT S(
POLITICAL POINTS
The belated enthusiasm for an Imperial
War Cabinet is rather amusing. When it
was here suggested early in the war, no
support was forthcoming from Great
Dailies, and some were hostile. Now
every daily in Australia and a good many
in Britain are demanding an Imperial
War Cabinet and, for the most part,
they seem to be trying to convey the im-
pression that they have been demanding
it all along.
There were nine and ninety accounts
of what Hitler said to Cudahy, the former
U.S. Ambassador at Brussels, but there
seems to be a fair measure of agreement
on one point—that Adolf had a go at
our Mr. Menzies. One version:
No one has ever heard any Germans say
that the German frontier is on the Missis-
sippi, but Mr. Menzies has declared that
Australia’s frontier is on the Rhine. I
have decided to send some Australian
prisoners of war to the Rhine to let them
get acquainted with the frontier atmo-
sphere. _
So Hitler has a sense of humor —of the
sardonic sort, with a streak of cruelty
in it. It was Baldwin who said “Our
frontier is on the Rhine,” and there is no
record of Menzies having given the luck-
less sentiment an Australian application.
Lyons may have done so in one of his
“Tune-in-to-London” moods.
Should there be lawsuits enough, Aus-
tralians may get Dakar-fizzle facts which
their Parliament has not demanded and
their Government has not furnished. In
another Probate-Court action touching
the death of one of H.M.A.S. Australia’s
seaplane men, the widow produced an
official letter to the effect that, “although
a number of airmen engaged in the same
operation as Australia’s aircraft crew
were saved and were in enemy hands,”
her husband was not among them. The
“enemy” is presumably Petain’s France.
Last Friday “S. M. Herald” was
assuring its readers that “there is only one
course to follow—invasion of Syria with-
out further delay.” This conclusion was
based on an A.A.P. message from Lon-
don. It consisted of 21 paragraphs, half of
which began with “it is reported that”
and the rest were just as doubtful. The
only thing on which the A.A.P. was
definite was an official French denial of
(1) the presence of Axis troops in Syria
and of (2) a 8.8. C. assertion that French
naval bases were to come under German
control.
It was like old times —or what seemed
like old times —to read what British
editors, leader-writers and “diplomatic
correspondents” wrote about the heroic
misadventure in Crete. For an awful
moment it looked as if one indignant
scribe was about to criticise Churchill,
but he restrained himself by a great
effort, as did the others without ap-
proaching that dangerous ground. All
hands must bitterly regret that Cham-
berlain is no longer here to be saddled
with the whole blame.
“If the Nazis came to Australia and
dropped bombs, what would the Commu-
nists do?” asked Dr. Lloyd Ross at the
Melbourne A.C.T.U. conference. The
same as they would do in Russia, run
for their lives!
A surplus of £5597 was budgeted for in
Queensland. All receipts, especially
taxation, are up and revenue for 11
months was £19,021,481, expenditure
£18,327,014, the difference being an im-
provement of £425,100 on the corre-
sponding period of 1939-40. So the Gov-
ernment should finish with a handy
balance which will be handed over to
the Commonwealth for war finance —if
the moon turns green.
Victorian Ministers are hinting vaguely
that unemployed-relief tax will go, it
having been disclosed that unemployment
has ceased; but nobody believes that
the thing won’t reappear under another
name. An excuse will be found in the
fact that the Government has to find an
additional £350,000 for Holt’s child
bonus as an employer of labor on a
large—too large—scale.
Expressing satisfaction at the an-
nouncement that the Commonwealth will
erect an ordnance factory in a Victorian
provincial district —cost, upwards of
£BOO,OO0 —Premier Dunstan complacently
remarked that the State Government was
providing the site free, “in keeping with
its policy of decentralisation.” Seventy
acres of land is a cheap price to pay for
“This is my final offer, Curtin. You join the Ministry and Percy’ll
make you a lieutenant-colonel.”
an industry to which the State Govern-
ment will duly sell electrical-supply, rail-
way, tramway and other facilities. And
it took a war for Dunstan and co. to
realise even that much.
Three State transport moguls having
agreed, Australians may in future travel
by car over those parts of their country
dominated by the Sydney, Melbourne
and Adelaide Governments without hav-
ing to obtain permits and labels certi-
fying them as sane, tick-free and innocu-
ous before crossing imaginary borders.
Carriers and other commercial men, how-
ever, will not be allowed to break State
transport-strangulation laws, and the
matter of third-party insurance risk has
to be attended to. The latest “conces-
sion” won’t stop the growing demand for
Commonwealth control of transport,
which should have been adopted the day
war broke out and retained for all time.
British Labor has no illusions about the
war. By a card vote, 2,430,000 to 19,000,
it affirmed its determination “to fight
until Nazism and Fascism have been
overthrown.” It recognised that trade-
unionism would be the first casualty if the
war were lost. Simultaneously, Australian
coalminers downed tools because some
youths objected to compulsory training
for home defence.
Jealous for the reputations of their
States, or perhaps for their own political
reputations, various superfluous legis-
lators are picking at each other and at
Canberra over the publication of unem-
ployed figures. Queensland’s Mr. Cooper
won’t have it that the Canberra assess-
ment of 21,780 unemployed is fair to
Queensland and alleges that the same
authority’s N.S.W. figure of 20,408 should
be more like 40,000. It never seems to
occur to these gentry that the unemployed
are Australians, whether they are out of
work in Queensland or N. S. Wales.
The still-new Labor Government in
N.S.W. intends to make third-party in-
surance compulsory for motorists.
Stevens and Mair both promised it
before McKell, but both were much too
busy with asparagus plans and the like
to get on with it. McKell himself will
have to wrestle with the fact that petrol
rationing and the high cost of every-
thing motorists have to pay for, State
charges especially, are fast reducing the
number capable of taking out third-party
insurance.
A Mr. Coull, secretary of the Vic-
torian Liquor Trades’ Union, told the
A.C.T.U. Congress that “the time has
come when the working-class should take
control in this country.” Four of the
six States have Labor Governments, a
fifth State Government is kept in office
by a Labor party, and Labor has a strong
hand at Canberra, What does the man
really want?
The question of closing down the
“A.B.C. Weakly”—losses, round £60,000
—is, it seems, listed for Cabinet discus-
sion “if time can be found to deal with
it.” Time can always be found for spend-
ing the people’s money, but seldom for
saving any.
“Prospects of a State National Govern-
ment seem to be as dead as the dodo,”
complains Hollway, leader of the Vic-
torian U.A.P. “As dead as the U.A.P.”
might be a better simile.
Hollway sees in the A.L.P. decision to
nominate for all Assembly seats a “Labor
Blitz” on the Country party. Sheehan,
the State A.L.P. president, denied the
impeachment and was supported by the
Parliamentary “leader,” Cain, who in-
sisted that no “crisis” was developing ;
“we” were merely “making preparations
in advance so that our candidates will be
as widely known as possible.” As if any-
body gives two straws for provincial
candidates at this stage of national
affairs!
Westralian gold production, which in
the eight years 1932-39 increased from
605,561 fine ounces to 1,214,238 fine
ounces, declined nearly 40,000 fine
ounces during the first four months of
1941. It is for the most part an effect
of the 100 p.c. British tax on the profits
of Westralian companies with London
offices in excess of figures for a year
arbitrarily fixed. Great Boulder is the
worst sufferer. That company has not
only ceased to pay dividends (it paid
three in 1939), but has had to borrow
over £lOO,OOO to pay taxes, and Aus-
tralian shareholders have in a twelve-
month or so seen the market value of
their scrip slump from 10s. lOd. to 4s.
lid. The decline in gold output affects
Britain as well as Australia, and it was
expected that Menzies would make repre-
sentations on this score to the British
Government, specially mentioning Great
Boulder. If he did, he has presented no
report.
Young Mr. Holt is up. “Scientific in-
vestigation of economic and other prob-
lems is planned.” There is to be a con-
ference of University staffs at Canberra;
there is to be a conference of State offi-
cers at Canberra ; there are to be several
sub-committees ; there is to be —but why
go on? Enough to know that Young Mr.
Holt, having been up, has sat down again.
It must be hard to be the president
of Sydney Water Board in these ’ere
times of stress and strain. The gentle-
man had been constantly assuring the
city that it was down to its last pint of
water because of a nasty big drought.
Then blowed if one of his own members,
a Mr. Mander, don’t up and say:
The shortage is due, not to the lack of
rains, but to the lack of ample storage.
Someone ought to take that member out
to one of the dams and duck him.
On a now almost-forgotten sideshow:
We must hope that in the paradise of
brave men the knowledge is mercifully hid
from them that they died in vain.
The writer was Dean Inge.
The Federal Man-power Committee
notes that rural districts may provide
munition workers —because rural workers
have a great deal of “manual dexterity”
-—while certain of the unskilled unem-
ployed could be used as farm workers.
What that committee needs to learn is
that there is little room for unskilled men
on a modern farm, and that it is ridicu-
lous to expect city laborers to leave city
award wages for farm wages.
Mair, now leading what is left of the
Opposition in N.S.W., is in holts with the
Federal Man-power Committee over the
number of N.S.W. unemployed. Thirty
thousand, the committee says; Mair
denies it. A thousand in Broken Hill
is the committee’s estimate ; Mair’s is 453.
When Premier, Mair refused to allow
State Government employees to give
evidence before the committee. It shows
how great minds work —or does it?
The Council of Civil Liberties in Mel-
bourne is all broken up because “thou-
sands of innocent alien refugees from
England” are interned in Australia. “The
authorities will not release them, even
on the best of recommendations,” the
secretary wailed. The country is far too
interested in the fate of members of a
Council for Australian Liberties —the
A.I.F. —to be worried about foreigners
who, after all, are getting free board and
lodging in perfect safety.


FETTERATION CEREMONY.
“Hitler is expected to proclaim a Federation of Europe and to declare that there is no longer any need to continue the war.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 805 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SVTWEY OFFICE 279 George Street
111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.B.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
PRODUCTION HIGH; STOCKS AND LABOR
RESERVES LOW.
WAR’S STIMULUS AND TAX.
June Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE-BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
(Incorporated in New Zealand),
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Mudford, Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
PERSONAL ITEMS
Reported missing. Lieutenant Carl
McGibbon Jess, 21-year-old son of
Lieutenant-General Jess, chairman of
the Man-power Committee and one of
Australia’s most distinguished soldiers in
the 1914-18 war. Born in Surrey, when
his father was at Camberley, Carl was
educated at Hale School, Perth, and Mel-
bourne Grammar. From the school cadet
corps he graduated into the Royal Mel-
bourne Regiment and joined the A.I.F.
with a commission in July, 1940. He was
with the A.I.F. garrison at Tobruk, and
was recently reported as leading sorties
that fetched in many prisoners.
Reported missing, Lieut. W. R. Mann,
second son of knight Frederick Mann,
Chief Justice of Victoria and Lieut.-
Governor since 1936. Lieut. Mann was
educated at Geelong Grammar, joined
the A.I.F. at the outbreak and was in
the Greek adventure. His father was a
lieutenant in the 4th Australian Imperial
Rifles in the Boer War.
An old pal pays a tribute:
His friends, who are legion and include most
ot the denizens of The Bulletin office, will
rejoice that the Commonwealth Literary Fund
“3 s „ hacl d lO g°°d sense to confer one of its
£250-a-year fellowships on J. H. M. Abbott.
Jack, a son of knight Joseph Abbott, some-
tune Speaker of N. S. Wales Leg. Assembly,
was educated at The King’s School, Parramatta,
a circumstance which seems to have given his
imagination a historical bent. Service in the
First Australian Horse in the dust-up with
Kruger widened his already broad tolerances
and understandings and extended his vocabu-
lary. He has always found it fairly easy to
sell his writings on any subject, and has gradu-
ally discovered that his closest affinities lie
with the period of Macquarie’s regime in
N. S. Wales and the sort of characters who
flourished then. To take a stroll with Jack
Abbott thorugh Sydney streets is to see the
ghost of a town that lived 100 years ago.
His literary style bespeaks a precise and logical
mind, a shrewd eye for character and a positive
horror of mawkish sentiment, but there isn’t a
kindlier-hearted soul in Australia, and certainly
very few so gentle in judgment of the other
fellow’s shortcomings.
James Leo Geraghty, swung by the
political pendulum into the North Sydney
Assembly seat, keeps the pub at Crow’s
Nest, and is proud of his record as an all-
round sport. Among juvenile athletic
championships he won the All Schools’
J. l. GERAGHTY.
and the Boy Scouts’ at 15. When he was
22 he won every event in the N. S. Wales
Railways and Tramways’ athletic pro-
gramme, including the 50 yards swim.
Started work as an apprentice at Eve-
leigh workshops, and later became a
pillar of the Amalgamated Engineers’
Union. Went into the hotel business 15
years ago. Now he’s sportsmaster of the
N. Sydney Police Boys’ Club and a patron
or vice-patron of almost every sports
club in his district.
A person or persons unknown lifted
Harold Herbert into the Leonardo da
Vinci class during that
painter’s absence as
official war artist in
Egypt by pinching one
of his pictures from a
show at the Mel-
bourne Athenaeum.
Herbert’s painting is
valued at a modest 40
guineas and the hunt
for the stolen land-
scape isn’t likely to
assume international
proportions. Anyhow,
if the thief had told
the artist that he
liked his work, Her-
bert, who is a gener-
ous soul, would prob-
ably have given him a
picture for nothing.
Books will be writ-
ten by prison-camp
escapees after this
war as they were after
the last one. In the
meantime one has
arrived in Melbourne
whose story is worth
at least a par. He is
M. J. Keely, a youth
of 19, who left Aus-
tralia in the Commis-
saire Ramel, which
was sunk by a raider,
and became a prisoner.
He was put aboard
a captured Yugoslav
ship after five weeks, and finally landed
in an Italian prison camp in East Africa.
Here he starved and thirsted for three
months, making one bid for freedom with
four others, only to be recaptured. His
captors vanished when British troops
were reported in the vicinity. He is re-
turning to the sea.
Died of pneumonia at 54 in Melbourne
General Hospital, Edward John Ryan,
V.C. Born at Tumut (N.S.W.), he went
to the 1914-18 war with the 55th Bat-
talion. When Foch launched an attack
on the Hindenburg Line on September
30, 1918, Ryan was one of the first men
to reach their objective, a trench. Ger-
mans broke through and began bombing
from the rear, and when every officer and
n.c.o, had been wounded Private Ryan
gathered a few men together and rushed
them at the enemy with bomb and
bayonet. Only three men were left when
they reached the German position, Ryan
with a bullet in his shoulder. The dash
of the attack saved the situation. •
From the little school at Dudley, in the
Newcastle (N.S.W.) district, 93 ex-pupils
went to the 1914-18 war, and two
won the Victoria Cross—Sergt. William
Currey, of the 53rd Battalion, and Capt.
Jeffries, of the 34th. The Jeffries-Currey
Library in the school, to perpetuate the
memory of these two and their 91 com-
rades, was opened recently, guests of
honor being the parents of Captain
Jeffries (now dead), Sergeant Currey (now
M.L.A. for Kogarah) and members of
the old 34th and 53rd, The headmaster
who initiated the memorial, the P, and
C.A. president who handed it over to the
Education Department, and the inspector
who accepted it were all ex-service men.
Drivers of Cobb and Co.’s coaches
were a tough lot, and worthy fathers of
the lads who are now driving mechanised
transport. Cobb drivers surviving in Vic-
toria gathered the other day at a Collins-
street cafe to reminisce about the old
days. President of the club Frank Smiley
is both one of the most active and one of
the oldest. He is 84, and it is 64 years since
he started handling the ribbons between
Warrnambool and Colac. Other white-
haired Jehus present were D. Dallis, E. T.
Aisbett and George Dairs.
Ely Eliot Palmer, Uncle Sam’s new
Consul-General in Sydney, was born in
Providence (R. 1.), where a wandering
Australian made the “Providence Jour-
nal” one of the best daily newspapers
E. E. PALMER , Consul-General for the U.S.A.
(Modelled by Frith.)
in the world a couple of decades ago.
Consul-General Palmer looks and sounds
as if he had been born into the diplo-
matic service, but he arrived there only
after grooming in three universities, in-
cluding Paris. After marrying a Canadian
girl, he was drafted to Paris just in time
for the 1914-18 war. Spells in Washing-
ton (D.C.), Madrid and Bucharest fol-
lowed, but since 1929 the Consul-General
has been in Canada —first at Vancouver
(8.C.), then as counsellor to the dele-
gation and Consul-General at Ottawa.
Recently he has been in Syria, where he
met General Weygand and General
Dentz. He is 53, and has been in the
consular service since he was 23.
The Maoriland leader who fought the
rearguard action over the historic fields
of Greece was a native-born Fernlander.
Brigadier Edward Puttick, who is just
50, spent most of his boyhood in
Oamaru, where Waitaki High School
finished off his education. The Brig, was
early in the 1914-18 fray. He left as
captain of the M.L. force that took pos-
session of Samoa in 1914, then joined the
Rifle Brigade as captain and served with
it in France, becoming a major in 1916.
The following year he took over com-
mand of the Third. Brigadier Puttick left
as second in command of M.L.’s first
echelon in the present war.
W. J. McKell, now N.S.W. Premier,
looks as if he could take care of himself
in any sort of argument. He is not old
enough to have received any scientific
instruction from the eldest of his boxing
uncles, Herb McKell, who died in early
manhood after having fought as a welter-
weight in Australia (he was champion)
and South Africa ; but he must have got
some from Herb’s brothers, Billy (also
champion in his division, Bst. 71b. to 9st.)
and Jack. All three were wanderers and
much above the ordinary pug. in intelli-
gence. Herb was his own press agent,
and Billy and Jack could tell capital
stories of their experiences in outback
townships that have long ceased to be
wild.
Colonel W. E. Kay, D. 5.0., V.D., for-
merly of Sydney’s Macquarie-street, is
reported “missing, believed killed” in
Greece. His A.I.F. hospital was the one
from which seven doctors and 150
A. men remained to care for
wounded who couldn’t be got out. Dr.
Kay was a captain in the 2nd Field Am-
bulance at Gallipoli, and served also in
France, finishing in command of his unit.
After that war he practised in Macquarie-
street, specialising in surgery, and main-
tained his connection with the Army as
Assistant-Director of Medical Services,
First Division, A.M.F. He enlisted at
the outbreak of this war and was given
command of the sth Australian General
Hospital. Bowls occupied his leisure —
he was a member of the Waverley club
for 20 years.
Edward Wheewall Holden has done it
again. In a decade he has fostered the
merger between Holden’s Motor Body
Builders and General Motors, nursed
through vicissitudes the cellulese-cum-
pulping enterprise, which should soon be
figuring as a lusty infant in the south-east
forests of S.A., and brought off the
£600,000 cotton textile industry for S.A.
in concert with a Manchester cotton
crowd whom he visited in England two
years ago. No wonder Adelaide press-
men say of him, “Give us this
day our daily Ted.” Bank of
Adelaide and cement and brush cos. are
other directorates, and he’s an M.L.C.
and a former president of Associated
Chambers of Manufactures, Canteen
business supervision has been his war
specialty. Born in 1885, he took his
B. at 20.
There is a Westralian on Wavell’s staff
—Major-General Selby. A Duntroon
product, he was in Gallipoli with the 11th
Battalion, and after the war became a
British Army officer, serving in Britain,
Egypt and India. His promotion to his
present rank is recent, so he must have
earned it by excellent service. Wavell is
a good picker.
One can’t go very fair in any direction
in the business world of Adelaide without
knocking up against Howard Watson
HOWARD LLOYD.
Lloyd, the subject of this Coventry dia-
gram. He was born in Adelaide 73
years ago, and went to St. Peter’s College,
of which he is now a member of the
board of governors. He is chairman of
the boards of Bank of Adelaide and
S.A, Brewing Co., senior partner of
H. L. and A. E. Ayers and a director of
cos, whose interests include insurance,
gas, steamships and stock agency. Likes
golf and still plays a sound game of
tennis. He was knighted in 1937.


GUARANTEED
FOR TWO YEARS*
FREE SETTINC_^^
-
ft*
CRAIG & AITHEN, 654 George St., Sydney
The keen, hollow-
ground Pin in
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. A 11
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle, 12/6
Blade size 2in.
POST FKEE.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
sii Iff min'V>-
m ill
oi i
m
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all room.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“One sure method of preventing gas getting
into the house.” — A.R.P. leaflet.
Refuse to pay the bill.
•i* 4* 4* 4*
“Black will be fashionable this winter.”
—Fashion note.
Some very smart eyes will be worn by
supporters of both Footscray and Col-
lingwood footballers.
4- 4* * *
“First prize in this raffle will be a painting
donated by a prominent surrealist.” —Social par.
Still, the cause is so good that tickets
are still expected to sell.
4* •!* 4* 4*
He touched me when he spoke of
troubles sore ;
He touched me for a jim.
He went away —I see him now no more —
’Twos touch and go with him.
H. M.
“On the eve of his wedding he figured in a
boxing contest.” — Sports writer.
A prelim,?
4* 4‘ 4* 4*
“Lady Neith Had Screw in Foot.”
—Sporting headline.
The punters’ screws were in the
bookies’ bags.
4 1
“Ross had not been a day in the new
office before he kissed one of the typists.”
— Woman’s paper.
Making a fresh start.
•I- 4* -I* 4*
“Wanted, cook-general. Good wages; re-
spectable family, five days a week.”
They get off the chain at the week-end.
The only difference between a phil-
anderer and a parson seeking a wife is
that one has a good eye for a girl and
the other has an eye for a good girl.
“When the deacon was lit up there was great
rejoicings.” — North Coast ( N.S.W .) paper.
Not, however, by his wife.
4. 4* 4* 4>
“Another German Offensive.”
— “Sun” heading.
He’d be a freak if he weren’t.
“Pull over to the kerb!"
“It was a proud moment for the bride when
she put the veil on her head that had been
her grandmother’s.” — Suburban paper.
Proud, no doubt, since she could truth-
fully boast of having an old head on
young shoulders.
4* *S»
“The sacrifices of the Diggers in the Great
War were made to insure that the ‘A.B.C.
Weekly’ would be published and circulated in
a British community.”
—Letter in the “A.B.C. Weekly.
And, by the way it’s heading, it looks
as if the sacrifices were made in vain.
4* 4*
“A woman in U.S.A. while playing bridge
was dealt a hand containing 13 clubs.”
— “World’s News.’
Asked by her incensed partner after
they had lost the hand why she had only
called one diamond, she replied that it
was to let him know she was weak m
that suit.
Adaptability.
“Can you place your hand on your heart
and say ‘Yes, my arms are just the right pro-
portion’?”—Woman’s paper.
Indeed, I can. My arms are strong
In sinew, bone and muscle.
They’re neither short nor yet too long,
And willing in a tussle.
And I affirm in zealous haste
And fearless of correction,
Whate’er the size of any waist
My arm fits to perfection !
P. O. M. C.
Banishing Troubles.
“Parents who banish children from the house
are storing up trouble for themselves later on.”
— Woman’s paper.
You want to save the curtains from
being torn, the piano keys from being
walked on and the best ornaments from
being smashed, so you send the kids out
of the house.
Later, when you go outside to get
them in, you find eight palings pulled
from the fence to make a fire on one of
the flower-beds ; all the dead leaves from
the heap you swept up reshowered over
the lawn because they played weddings
and needed confetti; and the fowls let
out into the lettuce-patch. The kids them-
selves have wandered, and finding them
takes six hours and the co-operation of
several police-patrol cars.
Kids in the house might be a trouble,
but sending them outside brings trouble
right home to you.
ELM.
Odd-job Day.
Sunday’s a day of rest, ’tis true ;
It’s proved by this most simple test:
On week days you’ve some work to do,
On Sunday, though, you get the rest.
ELM.
Egging ’Em On.
“By means of artificial daylight hens are
tricked into working a night shift to increase
egg production.”
Poor, bewildered hens! One egg was
considered a fair working day once, but
now they are forced to crowd two days’
work into one for the purpose of feather-
ing their owner’s nest. It is not unlikely
that the roosters may decide that a sys-
tem which forces their hens to lay to-
morrow’s egg tonight is not worth crow-
ing about and throw up the sponge.
Lacking applause from the roosters, the
hens will lay off the speed-up racket and
leave their owner to brood over his
chickens coming home to roost in the
shape of poor returns.
D. MCM.
To An Acquaintance.
You’re eternally providing us with what
you call “improvements” —
That is, yours —which Waved should
adopt for beating “pincer” move-
ments,
And can speak for hours on “Blitzing”
or terrain where it is rife.
But, considering' your knowledge, sir, of
warfare, it’s a wonder
That the strategy you boast you’re master
of should let you blunder
In your unavailing efforts to resist a
hostile wife /
T. W. NATHAN.
A Matter of Speculation.
(Exclusive to the “Moon” and
B.A.N.A.N.A.)
WASHINGTON, Thursday.
When Senor Segarnio Spiggoti, Charge
d’Alfaires of the Central American
republic of Parabola, was leaving the
White House today, it was noticed that
he was chewing his cigarillo. This obvi-
ous sign of extreme agitation has given
rise to considerable speculation in semi-
official circles as to what passed between
him and the President. The view has
been expressed in quarters close to the
White House that the message he took for
his Government was a momentous one.
NEW YORK, Friday.
According to the Washington corre-
spondent of the N.Y. “Daily Views,” the
capitol is seething with rumors following
the scene when the Parabolan Charge
d’Affaires dashed out of the White House
yesterday in an ungovernable rage.
Observers point out that the Axis has of
late been putting pressure on Parabola,
and it is reliably learned that the Presi-
dent sternly warned Senor Spiggoti that
any tendency on the part of the republic
to play Hitler’s game would be viewed
with grave displeasure.
Nazi Tourists in Parabola.
NEW YORK, Saturday.
According to the usually well-informed
columnists of the N.Y. “Blather,” Messrs.
Brew and Beerson, what has now become
known as the Spiggoti affair, is fast de-
veloping into a major sensation. Senor
Segarnio Spiggoti has long been sus-
pected of Nazi sympathies, and it is
notorious that he has a huge portrait of
the Fiihrer hung in his patio. Various
unconfirmed reports from Gorgonzola,
the Parabolan capital, point to the pos-
sibility of an extensive infiltration of
Nazi keymen and technicians under the
guise of tourists. These, it is stated, are
being spirited away to the interior of
the country as soon as they arrive.
{Exclusive to the “Moon” and
8.A.N.A.N.A.)
WASHINGTON, Sunday.
The Spiggoti affair has taken a dramatic
turn with the disclosure from reliable
sources that Hitler’s personal agent, the
notorious Horst Bliidtikranck, has placed
27 million Reichsmarks, believed to be
the Fiihrer’s entire personal fortune, in
the Bank of Parabola. It is thought that
the succession of German victories has
so unnerved the superstitious Nazi leader
that he is making preparations to flee.
NEW YORK, Monday.
In a striking commentary in the N.Y.
“Hooter-Tribute” the veteran columnist,
Stark Mulligan, says that any Latin-
American nation that flirts with the
Teutonic monster should be told where
it gets off. He demands that the Admin-
istration invoke the Monroe Doctrine
and divert 300 warships from the neu-
trality patrol for a demonstration in
waters which are being fished for trouble
by friends of our enemies.
{Exclusive to the “Moon” and
8.A.N.A.N.A.)
WASHINGTON, Tuesday.
White House officials are maintaining
a rigid silence over the Parabola episode,
but it is known that relations between the
two countries are strained to breaking-
point. Some informed quarters go so
far as to predict that supplies of horse-
hair underpants and Martini-Henry rifles
which were about to be sent to Parabola
under the Lease and Lend Act may now
be withheld. In his fireside talk on
Thursday the President is expected to
make a reference to Parabola that will
startle the world.
WASHINGTON, Wednesday.
According to Messrs. Allslop and
Hinter, the famous columnists, whose
predictions of Presidential actions have
in the past proved extraordinarily
accurate, Senor Spiggoti has returned to
Gorgonzola with what is virtually an
ultimatum. They say that the roar of
rage from the Wilhelmstrasse when their
plot was exposed indicates the extent of
Nazi intrigue in
Parabola. They
demand the imme-
diate nationalisa-
tion of the cloth-
ing, film and chew-
ing-gum industries.
NEW YORK,
Thursday.
Dorothy Sobson,
in a message to her
seven million
readers, urges the
nation to keep a
cool head in this
supreme crisis. She
says that if the
A d m i n i s tration
were to make a
bold gesture
against Hitler that
sadistic tyrant, real-
ising the inevita-
bility of his defeat,
would quickly
reach a stage
of defeatism that
would seriously
crack the Nazi
edifice.
{Exclusive to the “Moon” and
8.A.N.A.N.A.)
WASHINGTON, Friday.
Amazement, tinged with uneasiness, has
swept America following the President’s
omission in his fireside radio talk yester-
day of any reference to Parabola. Today
at his press conference, when the subject
was broached, the President smiled
blandly and said, “Sure, boys, I guess
I’ve heard of Parabola. They tell me
they’ve taken on our ball game down
there.”
{Exclusive to the “Moon” and
8.A.N.A.N.A.)
GORGONZOLA (Parabola), Saturday.
The Parabolan Minister for Siestas, in
a speech to the Friends of Democracy
League, praised the efforts of the U.S.A.
and Parabola in preserving freedom. In
particular he stressed the excellent work
of the Charge d’Affaires in Washing-
ton. He revealed that Senor Segarnio
Spiggoti had a habit, when he was par-
ticularly well pleased with his efforts, of
chewing his cigarillo instead of lighting
it. The Minister told League members
that he had that day received a cordial
message from the President of the U.S.A.,
in which he praised the spirit of demo-
cratic co-operation between the two great
republics.
Bo.


ABORIGNALITIES
“B. A. Ker”: Baldy must have known
something when he chose that place to
jib, for Bert had hardly flicked out the
“persuader” when an acid female voice
shrilled from the verandah of the only
house within a mile: “Don’t you dare
whip that poor animal or I’ll report
you!” His guns thus spiked, the driver
spent the best part of a rain-soaked hour
in trying to convince the moke that half
a ton wasn’t an excessive load for a
draughthorse. But when the spinster,
wearing a mack., brought out a handful
of sugar for “the poor overworked dumb
animal,” Bert exploded. “Is that lan-
guage necessary?” frigidly inquired the
lady when the air had cleared. Bert
nearly choked. “Necessary!” he roared ;
“I’ve kidded to ’im, led ’im, pushed ’im
and pleaded with ’im ; I’m soaked to the
skin, out of ’bacca and ’ungry as a bear.
Then you ask me if that language is
necessary! O’ course it ain’t necessary,
but ain’t a man entitled to some
pleasure?”
* % * H:
“Bohemian”: I came across Henare
stumping. He had one end of the chain
attached to the stump. Next to the
stump, as a trusty anchor, was his 18-
stone wahine. Then came two well-
nourished daughters, then two hefty sons.
But the culmination of the living chain
attracted me. The end of it was attached
to the rear of an ancient, engineless car.
Attached to the car were shafts, with the
neddy yoked up. “Why not attach the
horse direct to the chain and save the
weight of the car?” I asked Henare.
“What! An’ let him see te chain an’ te
’tump?” replied Henare. “He no pull
at all t’en. But when I put him in te
shafts he t’ink he in te dray. So when
I crack te whip an’ say ‘Pull,’ he pull. Te
wahine pull; te boys an’ te girls pull;
everybody pull like hell, an’ out come te
’tump! ”
“O. W. Waireki”: “T’at Hone sneak
anything,” complained Cutti, the Maori
road-gang worker. “He even get away
with all my froth foam this morning.”
“You mean he pinched your home-made
beer?” I asked. Cutti shook his head.
“He come with a bucket an’ scoop into
it all te soap foam I have worked up in
te basin for soaking,” he said. “T’at te
second time he skim te wash dish, be-
cause he too tight-hearted to buy soap
flakes.”
■* * * *
“Ophir”; There may be danger in
keeping a snake company down a well
—l’ve been in that position a few times
during my life —but the risks of being
bitten are actually slight provided you
are above the snake —say with your foot
in the bucket, a couple of feet from the
bottom —for Joe can’t strike upwards.
He has to arch his neck to hit down or
on the level, and in a well he can’t
usually rear sufficiently high up to allow
him to hit down.
* * * *
“R.H.P.”; “I’m kickin’ round with a
bloke once,” said Alf, “who useter wear
a ole bowler what a cocky give him. It
was too big for his melon, and it come
down over his ears. One night we make
it up to rat a orchard with another cove
wot had a pony and trap. We were a
bit windy about the job, as the John
around there was a bit of a snooper, an’
he’d had an eye on us. Well* we get
there, and each fill a sugarbag with
apples. Me china and me started for
home, leaving the bloke with the horse
and cart to catch us up when he had
got his issue. Crossing a bridge, I looked
back and see the cart coming over the
hill. ‘Here comes the trap,’ I bellered
into me cobber’s ear. The silly cow
jumped a foot into the air, heaved his
apples into the ditch and went for the
lick of his life down the road. I yelled
out to him, but he couldn’t ’ear me owin’
to the hat over his water-wings. I had
to chase him about a mile before I could
catch up to him to bawl at him that I
meant the cart was cornin’ and not the
flamin’ copper. Before I could get me
dial out of his ear the unreasonable cow
caught me a beaut, under the chin. He
reckoned it was my fault that he lost his
apples through me not speaking dis-
tinctly.
* * * *
“Old Camp”; Various Bulletin
writers’ hopes and doubts regarding the
canning of mutton make me wonder.
Forty-five years ago there was more
tinned mutton than tinned beef con-
sumed on the fields of the Golden
West. And that mutton was good. Roast,
boiled, corned, spiced and also done
into collops made of a mutton mince.
I recall making a bid one day for two
cases of Miner’s Lunch. The chef who
“Well, I reckon you’ll make the Weight for Satlurdee.”
designed those tinfuls was a culinary
genius. Each one was a gamble. Some-
times it would be four mutton sausages,
a couple of spuds and a big onion. Next
time it might be several chops, the in-
evitable spuds and the never-failing
onion. Slices of liver also found place.
Oddments of carrot occasionally added a
zest. And there were instructions that
if the meal was desired hot the can should
be immersed in boiling water for not less
than 15 minutes. Tripe also could be
had in tins, for the nearest butcher was
100 miles away. Tinned bunny was
not despised, yet today they debate the
canning of jumbuck. Get back to your
soldering iron, my brothers!
* * * *
“Hanko”; We were all set for a bit
of post-splitting when the question of
wedges cropped up. “Cripes, yes,” the
boss said, turning to Choom. “Duck
over to the seventy-acre an’ git that bag
uv wedges I left there. They’re under
the big grey box.” At last Choom hove
in sight, trotting and unburdened. “No
big grey box in field, sir,” he puffed.
“Only owd fruitcase with great black
beetles an’ all underneath un.” It was
almost an hour before we got going after
that.
* * * *
“Swanlo”: Like the seaplane, the peli-
can appears heavy in the take-off. But
once in the air it seems to float without
much effort. Invariably the birds get
about in a flock which may vary from four
to twenty. Rising, they climb in wide
circles, each circle looping in with the
one preceding it. Thus they seem to be
wasting energy as compared with the
direct flight of most other birds ; yet with-
in a short time they will have heaved
away and disappeared beyond the hori-
zon. The outspread wing is peculiar,
Most birds have one index feather at each
wing-tip, but the pelican has five, appar-
ently of equal length. This gives the
wing a square, comblike appearance, but
it must be of considerable value in bal-
ancing the load the bird so often carries
in its bill. Watching the pelican land
one is again reminded of the seaplane,
Slowly it volplanes down ; reaching the
end of the last circle it comes rushing
down in a power-dive to the selected
landing place. Then, just on the point
of plunging, power is shut off, wing tips
are tilted back and the big fowl makes a
perfect three-point landing.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: The waiting-room had a
polished wood floor, across which the
slater made towards me. I bent down
and flicked it back a yard. Recovering,
it made for me again. Repeated the
flick in the same direction. Same result,
Then flicked the thing away at right
angles. Unhesitatingly it made for me
again. Flicked it in another direction,
Back it came. So I got up and moved
my chair away. The slater kept on,
passed the spot where the chair had been,
reached the skirting, climbed it and van-
ished into a crack. How’s that for a
bump of location?
* * * *
“Timberloo”: Whilst expressing grati-
tude to “Colonel Bungstarter’s” Professor
Ananias Bull for his lucid exposition of
how the wedgetail eagle fared for proven-
der prior to the advent of the jumbuck
and the bunny (B. 14/5/’4l), I fear that
1 must call the savant to task for his in-
exactitude in describing his eagles as tear-
ing logs apart with their “bills.” Did the
professor never hear the story of Jack
the Sailor who invested in a poultry-
farm? Watching his mixed flock of ducks
and hens feeding, Jack was disgusted to
note the advantage in gobbling that the
duck’s bill possessed over the fowl’s beak.
Taking his sheath knife he proceeded to
sharpen all the ducks’ bills to a point,
announcing that the principle on which
his farm should be run was: “Pick for
pick, and no shovelling.” Certain water-
fowl, including ducks, and the duck-
billed platypus have bills. But the fowl
of the barnyard, of the air, and even the
flightless runner of the plains, have beaks.
# * * *
“Wang”: “I’m carryin’ the knot one
time lookin’ fer work,” recounted Dan,
“when I meet a mounted John lookin’
fer an escaped bloke. He’s big
with a brown moustache, a descrip-
tion which’d fit hundreds of chaps,
meself included. That night I’ve
jest dossed down under a bridge
when another bagman comes along an’
makes his doss ; he’s a big bloke with a
brown walrus mo. I can’t sleep, an’ I
hear him tossin’ about restless. I roll
over, an’ take a peek at him. He’s sittin’
up an’ eyein’ me orf. He must ’a’ tumbled
to me watchin’ him, for he flops down
an’ pretends t’ sleep; playin’ possum.
As soon as daylight comes I off, quick.
I look back when I’m a quarter of a mile
away an’ see him goin’ for his life in
the opposite direction. About a mile on
I meet the John I’d seen the previous
day, an’ tell ’bout the bloke. ‘That’s
him!’ he says. ‘Come with me,’ an’ orf
we set back. We’d gorn half a mile when
we bump inter another John with me
room-mate. Well, the upshot of it was
neither of us is the cove they’re after,
so we decide t’ stick t’gether. A coupla
hours later we strike a pub, an’ finish
up that afternoon molo along with an-
other bloke we’d struck in there. We’re
squattin’ under a tree a bit away from
the shanty when we sees a coupla
mounted Johns cornin’. As soon as he
spots ’em the bloke we’d met in the pub
gives a yelp, an’ starts t’ duck orf. We
grab him. ‘No,’ we says, ‘one in, all in!’
The Johns tear up an’ clap the bracelets
on him. We’re complimented next day
be the Beak for capchurin’ a dang’rous
criminal an’ we’re handed a quid reward
each. An’ the day after that the same
cow fines us a quid each for gettin’ shot
on the reward.”
* * * ♦
“Formic”: “Entemol” (B. 28/5/’4l)
omits one of the ant’s good deeds—its
work on the cattle tick. The cattle indus-
try would be impossible in tick country
in the coastal tropics otherwise. A hen
tick lays anything up to 5000 eggs, of
which about 80 p.c. are fertile. Ant
nests abound in any cattleyard, and no
cattleman would think of disturbing
them.
* * * *
“Gab”: The boss and I had been
working in the far paddock, hand-feeding
sheep that had been hit pretty hard by
the drought. About 40 had died the
previous night, and the boss was a very
worried man when we went back to the
house for dinner. The mail had just
arrived and the boss went through it.
There was, as well as the usual bills, a
letter from a firm we had been buying
sheep food from. In it they asked the
boss what was the best tucker he knew
of for starving sheep, obviously expect-
ing him to give them a testimonial,
Ordinarily the boss, by nature a courteous
cove, would have obliged, but by this
time the worry over the sheep had put
the edge on his temper. Grabbing pen
and paper he wrote: “I have always
found that green grass when fed to
starving sheep gives every satisfaction. —
Yours sincerely, J. Bullswool.”
* * * *
“Aratta”; “Talkin’ o’ fertile ground,”
said Nar-nar-goon Ned. “I’ll back the
particler part of Gippsland where I come
from. One drought time me an’ a mate
gets a job bringin’ a mob of about five
hundred sheep down from Noo South
Wales. It’s tough goin’ fer the poor
brutes—there’s hardly a blade of grass
along the route ; but they manage t’ keep
alive somehow. Nearin’ our destination
we camp on a bare patch of land near
the Tarwin. An’ that night we had the
first rain fer munce, a steady soakin’
downpour that lasts all night. I’m
wakened next mornin’ be me mate yellin’
hysterical, an’ rush outa the tent t’ find
him starin’ at our flock of jumbucks.
There they wus, ev’ry one of the mob,
standin’ from five t’ eight feet in the
air, all bleatin’ piteous. Then we see
what’s happened. The rain had soaked
into the mass of all sorts of seeds stuck
in their belly wool, an’ the rich soil they
wus lyin’ on had caused the seeds t’
shoot up herbage so fast an’ strong that
them sheep had no chance agen it.
Course, I’ll admit they wus weak;
but”
SKY SHEARING.
It’s shearing time in the sky tonight, and the
star-sheep must be shorn
Before the shepherd sun lets fall the sliprails
of the morn.
The frost has ground a thousand blades to
hurry up the job;
And now the Dog Star, drove by drove, is
mustering the mob.
He drafts them briskly to the yards, bell-
wether, lamb and ewe,
Where pots of shadow-tar are set with brand-
ing-irons of dew;
The work begins in earnest now, the wool —
all highest grade —
Rolls back in oily waves of silk before each
flashing blade.
The four winds are the pickers-up, and so with
quip and jest
The white cloud-clip is baled in mist and with
a rainbow pressed;
On comet trucks the wealth of wool speeds
down Orion’s road
To where the yellow freighter moon is waiting
for her load.
Back at the shearing yards the fun is furious
and gay
As drove by drove the sheep are dipped along
the Milky Way:
Then bearing shining brands of dew they surge
and drift and jam
Back to their far familiar fields, bell-wether,
ewe and lamb;
And when the shepherd sun lets fall day’s
sliprails from his hold,
The star-sheep will throng meekly through to
morning’s secret fold.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


“Old-timer”: Harry was camped one
night in the hut at Moonlight on his own,
a trio of dogs being tied up outside.
Sometime in the hours when the com-
bination of moon and frost aroused in
them the age-old desire to voice their
kind’s sorrow for ever having accepted
the domination of man, the tykes opened
up. Harry awoke and roared at them
from his bunk. After a couple of min-
utes’ silence the performance resumed.
Harry heaved himself up and roared at
them from the open door. This produced
a longer silence. When they started
again he pulled on boots and overcoat,
sallied forth and cracked his stockwhip
about their ears to punctuate and em-
phasise his vocal display. Fully an hour
went by before they started again. Harry
thought hard in the darkness of the hut;
then he went out, got the choristers,
brought them to the hut, chained them
up in various parts of it, took his blan-
kets and, pausing at the door to remark,
“There, y’ crimson flamers, howl y’r car-
mine insides out. I got t’ have some
sleep,” made for a clump of belar up be-
hind the tank, where he snored in com-
fort till the dawn.
* * ■ * *
“Munjong”; A picnic having been
arranged in a nor’-west W.A. town, the
John had the alternative of leaving his
only prisoner without the protection of
the arm of the law or taking him along
to the festivities. Only one decision was
possible, of course, and his charge made
such a hit with the revellers that there-
after on any pretext whatever he was
brought out of “gaol.” Once, feeling
rather tired, he urged his guardian to
make tracks for home. “Aw,” said Mick,
throwing him the keys, “don’t be so
damn’ lazy. Let yourself in for a
change!”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow was put
on the transhipping gang at Terowie
(S.A.). One night, when they were shift-
ing wool from the narrow- to the broad-
gauge trucks, the boss came bustling
along, eyed the line of trundling hand-
trucks, grabbed a wool-hook and backed
up to a truck, pulled a bale on to his
shoulders and carried it across to the
other truck. He had carried three when
the crib-whistle went and all hands re-
tired to tea and smoke. Now Mat is a
pretty hefty sort, with a pride in his own
strength, and he went and had a look at
those bales. They were filled with bulky
fleeces, not tightly pressed, probably from
a shed where the contract balers had an
easygoing boss. Mat spent a few minutes
among them and then joined the mob at
crib. That over, they got back to work
and the transhipping boss again backed
up to the truck and pulled a bale on to
his shoulders. It flattened him, and two
men had to assist him to his home. Mat
watched him off the premises, then
hopped up on the truck and manhandled
the three bales of locks he had placed in
position back to their rightful place.
“Teach him,” he remarked to the aston-
ished checker, “f save his strong-arm
stuff for the pub bar.”
* * * »
“Zanthus”: Speaking of the years a
blackboy may spend before showing even
an inch of trunk above ground (B.
7/5/’4l), I think a little study of the
botany of King’s Park, Perth, will give
some idea. Swan River pioneers soon
discovered that the blackboy was an
excellent fire-kindler and quite a good
substitute for coal. Naturally the sup-
plies adjacent to the then village were
the first to be taken, and one can readily
picture the axes swinging all over Mt.
Eliza, now King’s Park, until every burn-
able fragment of Xanthorrhoea had dis-
appeared. And that would be close to
a hundred years ago. Nowadays the
Xanthorrhoea grows profusely in that park.
But one would need to search well to
find a trunk a foot high, so long have
the seedlings of a century ago taken to
attain to any visible height. So long,
in fact, that some botanists have declared
the King’s Park blackboys to be a species
of ground blackboy, incapable of growing
a trunk, although they conform in every
“Remove this tortoise, Eric — it's making me giddy.”
particular with the blackboys of other
districts. However, having kept tab on
these alleged ground blackboys for about
20 years, I am convinced that inside a
few centuries, if the park is still there,
they will be showing sufficient height of
trunk to confound those botanists’
theories.
Jfc ♦ *
“Bumpkin”: The report that the U.S.
liner Siboney picked up in the Atlantic a
three-ton lump of ambergris which is
expected to be worth more than the liner
reminds me of a Melbourne citizen’s ex-
perience. Wandering along the foreshore
near Portsea he stumbled on a greasy
lump of something and vague notions
flitted into his head that he had in his
hands a fortune. He hurried home to
his wife, but she diagnosed the substance
as mutton dead for a long time. He threw
it in the woodshed and went off, much
discouraged, to the pub. An hour later
he came staggering home. “Where’s that
stuff?” he shouted. “I gave the publican
a description and he says there’s no doubt
it’s ambergris and worth a couple of
hundred.” “It’s gone,” said the wife.
“How could it go?” he shouted; “it
couldn’t walk.” “Well,” said his wife, “it
was smelling out the woodshed, so I gave
the dog a sniff of it and let him eat it! ”
* * * *
“Drover”: We’d been trying to get a
mob of 1200 Hereford bullocks to take
on a flooded channel, but the stirred-up
bovines would ring near the water’s edge
and refuse to enter the water, though
they hadn’t had a drink for 24 hours.
Time and again we’d break the ring and
work the bullocks back before putting
them to it again, but each time they drew
near to the water’s edge they’d start their
capers again. When they’re in the mood
Herefords can be stubborn, so the boss
suggested another stunt. Calling for
Binghi to bring up the plant horses, the
boss unsaddled and, slipping off his
clothes, jumped aboard again and drove
the loose horses close to the water, leav-
ing the abo. to hold them there. We
then cut off about 50 of the bullocks
and drove them down to the horses, at
the same time forcing the lead of the
big mob to string towards the channel.
As soon as the boss saw the lead draw-
ing near, he and the blackboy set the
mixed mob of horses and bullocks for
the water, and, to our amazement, they
took it on first pop. The rest was easy,
and with a lead given the strung-out mob
followed. A surprising feature about the
crossing was that none of the bullocks
attempted to drink until the mob had
reached the shallow water on the other
side. The swim was the best part of a
quarter of a mile.
* * * *
“Blue’s Boss”: Was interested in “Billy
See’s” sermon on cats and dogs that can
be taught to respect their owner’s live-
stock (B. 4/6/’4l), but he’s got that dog
wrong that went from its sentry-go on
one poultry-farm to another farm to do
its chook-slaying. The doubling back
was not inspired by the dog’s desire to
see if he had been found out. He’d merely
regarded the prize as a legitimate trophy.
He hid that chook from other dogs and
he doubled back to make sure no canine
had watched him with a view to prac-
tising the gentle art of what the Yanks
have dubbed “hi-jacking.” In other
words, pinching the loot from the pincher.
* * * *
“Colbun”: We had a lot of trouble in
persuading Old Joe to use the three
electric-light points we had put into his
cottage, but he is quite proud of them
now. I asked him today why he hadn’t
wanted them. “Must’ve bin that there
song me brother ’Enery useter sing,”
replied the old boy with a twinkle, and
piped up:
Come all ye now an’ listen ter
The things wot we will see
When the world gets lit from end ter end
By eel-lek-trissertee.
“There wuz a lot more verses I can’t
reckerleck, but one of ’em wuz about
brides ’avin’t’ wear masks so’s the neigh-
bors couldn’t see their blushes or startin’
yarns about ’em if they didn’t blush.
Didn’t seem decent t’ me —not so much
“If all flesh is as grass , Tummas, old Jan should make brave size ’ aysiack .”
the brides but things y’ do
yerself an’ don’t want
anyone t’ see yer doin’.”
I thought I’d heard of all
the old bush songs, but
the “eel-lek-trissertee” ditty
is new. Can the Council
supply any more verses?
* * *
“Arltunga”: He may
be right about an unshod
man being tenderfooted
just prior to dawn, but
where did “Murlonga” (B.
14/5/’4l) get that notion
that the abo. favored
the attack - before - dawn
strategy? Aboriginal wars
are now mostly a thing of
the past, but observers of
yesterday seem to agree
that, while Binghi could
be most treacherous in the
matter of private murder,
he conducted his inter-
tribal conflicts with some-
thing of the chivalry of
the European Middle
Ages. A casus belli having arisen, the
disputant tribes adjourned to a recognised
convincing ground and there thrashed
the matter out. And it was common,
before the actual melee, for individual
champions to step out and, with all the
recognised formula of challenge and
insult, try their prowess before the
assembled armies. Battle having been
finally joined by the main bodies, a few
casualties, not necessarily fatal, were
considered sufficient to satisfy honor,
and the armies, still hurling insults,
would then draw off, perhaps to fight
another day. So recent an observer as
Alfred Searcey (In the Australian
Tropics ) tells of witnessing just such a
battle near the Alligator Rivers in the
N.T. That such doughty warriors would
rise from their warm couches and march
across country in the wee small hours
just to attack an enemy tribe —no!
Binghi learned such tricks, if he ever
practised them, from the white man,
particularly the police. And the fact that
such police tactics were invariably suc-
cessful shows that they had no part in
the abo.’s own conception of war.
* * * »
“Buckstein”; When were the tracking
powers of the aboriginal first recognised
and utilised by the dominant whites?
Early New South Wales and Victorian
chronicles appear to be rather silent on
the subject, the blacks being considered
rather more of a nuisance than an object
of study. In the gold-digging days Vic-
toria certainly employed native police,
but these do not seem to have been
trackers. Even when the Kellys were out
and it was decided to use trackers to
uncover the outlaws’ hiding place it was
necessary to bring natives from Queens-
land for the job. In the West, however,
the native’s ability as a tracker was early
recognised. The first case was that of a
gardener who went hunting out from the
infant settlement of York and certainly
would have perished had not the
blacks volunteered to bring him in. A
few years later Lieut. George Grey em-
ployed an abo., one Kaiber, to track a
settler supposed to be lost in the vast
jarrah forests of the W.A. south-west.
Less than a year later surveyor J. S. Roe
employed two Swan River boys in
rescuing the remnants of Grey’s own
party, lost on the way from Shark Bay
to Perth. After that the W.A. trooper
was seldom without his attendant tracker.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: That yarn of Rafferty’s
rescuing Too (B. 21 / 5/’4l) recalls the
tragic episode which darkened Andy
Grogan’s life for years. He and Boomer
Joe were due to leave camp next day for
a period of well-moistened civilisation,
when an old man Too blundered into the
yard which they had just completed and
somehow managed to shut the gates on
himself. They lassoed him, with shouts
of glee dressed him up in the old clobber
which they were going to replace with
new in town, turned him loose, and
roared with delight as he fled dementedly
over the landscape trying to get rid of
the unwanted attachments. The joke
lasted them all the way in to Brannigan’s
pub, and they breasted the bar still full of
it. Andy reached to a vest pocket for
the roll of notes which they had collected
by special arrangement from the man-
ager a week before as a safeguard against
being lambed down for the entire joint
cheque. His face paled. “Gor’struth,
Boomer,” he gasped, “it’s in me old
weskit wot we shoved on t’ the flamin’
Too. And the cheque, too!” When the
weary pair returned a week later with
another cheque for the balance after a
150-mile ride and days of fruitless hunt-
ing for £2O-worth of waistcoated marsu-
pial, Brannigan got it all.
THE AIR-MAIL.
The bush is silent as the stars
That stare around her shoulder;
Soft whispers from her river-bars
In bushland magic hold her.
Faint as the drone of far-off wind,
Blown through bare trunks, unsightly,
A murmur comes, as though behind
A storm it travelled lightly;
And, ’mid the stars new stars arise
As ships o’er ocean carry,
Lifting along the lonely skies
Too swift, too true to tarry.
No shape is seen amid the stars,
As the bushland shows her shoulder;
No clumsy craft heaven’s beauty mars;
Only the skies enfold her—
Yet we have seen the air-mail pass;
Her moving lights speed darkly
As portents in a shadowed glass
Greet eyes which see too starkly.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


Devoted to
Single Purpose
F
OR more than 62 years The Trustees Executors & Agency
Company Ltd., whose foundation marked the inception of
corporate trusteeship in Australia, has devoted itself to
one single purpose the care and management of the
property of its clients.
Throughout the period of its operation, it has provided the
impartial advice and assistance of a permanent corporation as
Executor, Trustee, Attorney, Agent and in other capacities of a
fiduciary nature.
The appointment of the Company as Executor or Co-Executor
of your Will ensures continuity in the execution of the trust.
Service is prompt, sympathetic and efficient. Ample security is
provided and fees are fixed and moderate. Consult your
Solicitor or write or call for further information.
os
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
cwu/o&f&ncu 'ffumpany --
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £957,320.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) D. Stuart Murray John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) W. D. Stewart R. T. Hilder
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones Manager: K. M. Hughes
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M 4383.
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
86371.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Wunderlich Ltd.
, Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit.* 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ L*
1931 . 14,542 5600 5 p.c. = 22,000 99,231
Prom specific reserves. £16,337.. .. H 0,458
6.6 p.c.
1932.. 11,409 5232 5 p.c. = 22,000 99,635
From specific reserves, £10,051.. .. 109,686
Additions to plant, etc., £9917.. ■ .. 99,769
5.9 p.c,
1933.. 15,725 4714 5 p.c. = 22,000 88,780
Written off Vic. tile iactory, £19,750.. 69,030
Premiums on new shares, £3748 .. 72,778
From specific reserves, £1503 .. .. 74,281
5.4-7 p.c.
1934.. 22,446 8140 5 p.c. = 22,000 66,587
Written off buildings and machinery,
£33,076 33,511
1935.-28,355 10,363 4 p.c. = 17,600 392 33,903
Written off plant and buildings, Deficit.
£38,361 4,458
Reserves.
1936.. 40,738 10,363 4 p.c. = 17,600 12,775 8,317
6-7 p.c.
1937.. 57.563 10,669 6 „ „ 26,400 20,494 28,811
7 p.c.
1938.. 58,875 11,200 7 „ ~30,800 16.875 45,680
1939. . 59,804 11,200 7 „ ~30,800 17,804 03,490
To staff fund, £3OOO . . . . .. 60,490
1940. . 62,520 11,200 7i p.c. =33,000 18,320 78,810
To staff fund, £3OOO . . . . . . 75,810
1941. . 74,553 11,200 8 p.c. =35,200 28,153 103,963
To staff fund, £5OOO 98,963
Extra tax provision, £lO,OOO .. .. 88,963
*After deducting bonuses to staff.
The co.’s shares are probably the most
representative market indicator of con-
ditions in the building trade, on which
its earnings principally depend. Largest
and most successful of its kind in
the land, the business is widely spread
throughout the Commonwealth and
Maoriland, turning out that architec-
tural terra-cotta so popular for public-
building facades, tiles, showcases, shop-
fronts, asbestos-cement (Durabestos)
sheets and a long list of other building
materials and whatnots.
Over the period covered by the latest
accounts the Commonwealth Statistician
computes the average monthly value of
all building permits in the six Australian
capitals combined at £2,265,000, com-
pared with £2,236,000 in the year that
went before. But those figures appear to
tell only part of the story, excluding as
they do Government building and per-
mits issued under the National Security
(Building Control) Regulations, which in
December imposed a general building
limit of £5OOO without specific Treasury
consent. Activity seems to have reached
its peak towards the end of 1940;
but it has been well maintained since,
despite the restrictions mentioned. In
Maoriland similar brisk conditions have
prevailed, though there has been a shaip
falling-away since December.
For Wunderlichs the year was the most
prosperous ever, the board writing the
net result £12,033 higher at £74,553. That
was after striking off a liberal £36,678
(up £2066) for depreciation and setting
aside £60,603 for income and land taxes,
disclosed for the first time. After hand-
ing the prefs. their full contract rate of
div., 14.4 p.c. remained for the ords., as
against 11.6, 11 and 10.8 p.c. in the three
preceding years. For a long time the
policy was to distribute profits as they
were earned; but in accordance with
recent conservatism only an additional
half-point (8 p.c. in all) went out last
term. To look after “possible increases
in taxation,” another £lO,OOO is tabbed,
raising that provision to a robust-looking
£105,852, while staff funds receive £5OOO
—provision for employees has long been
a cornerstone of Wunderlich policy.
Reinforcement of the co.’s foundations
has been a feature of the past half-dozen
years. In that period finances have bene-
fited by the retention of £103,421 of de-
clared profits, while £165,120 has been
written off for depreciation out of earn-
ings, most of which has been reinvested
in modernisation of plant:
1933. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £520,000 £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Staff funds . . 39,700 31,700 30,601 28,519
Creditors . . 111,919* 127,665* 107,878* 154,971
Tax provision 95,852
Freeholds . . 380,142 362,629 318,703 327,630
Leaseholds . . 801 777 200 130
Plant, etc. .. 242,990 198,703 158,307 149,741
Stocks . . 109,490 162,034 188,873 282,053
Book debts . . 33,901 98,939 118,623 181,566
Cash, invest-
ments, etc... 6,436 5,918 56,328 66,016
* Including tax provision.
Apparently apprehensive about the future
of supplies, the management accumulated
stocks (£93,180 higher); larger trading
produced a growth of £62,943 in credits
to customers. Most of the apparent im-
provement of £118,718 in the surplus of
more or less liquids (£374,664) reflects
disclosure of tax reserve, previously
lumped with sundry creditors.
Just before the books closed the build-
ing limit was reduced to £3000; but
home-construction shouldn’t be greatly
affected. Despite the cost-inflation fac-
tors at work and the growing inroad of
the national effort into building resources,
both of labor and materials, the margin
between last year’s earnings and distribu-
tions has lifted the market for the pound
ords. to 21s. 6d. from 19s. 6d. a year
ago. At the higher price, immediate
yield is 7.5 p.c. The 7 p.c. first, second
and third prefs. at 235. 3d., 21s. lid. and
225. 9d. return 6, 6.4 and 6.1 p.c. respec-
tively. The net tangible cover is 245.
ords., £l7 4s. 6d. firsts, £l6 4s. 6d.
seconds and £7 12s. 3d. thirds, which
aren’t subject to N.S.W. statutory reduc-
tion.
Bond’s Industries, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re— Re—
Dec., Profit.! Dividends. serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £
1930.. 20,151* 7 p.c. = 2948 17,203 17,203
1931.. 4,413 5 „ „ 4262 151 ) , 9 -
Transferred to taxation reserve, £5OOO } '
From inner reserves, £57,000 .. )
From tax reserve, £2026.. .. I ofi
Loss.! 1
1932.. 71,284 Nil J
Deficit.)
1933.. 176,830 Nil 176,734
From inner reserves, £31,018 .. .. 145,716
1934.. 31,378 Nil 177,094
Forfeited shares, £l3B .. .. .. 176,956
Surplus debenture interest, etc., £4615.. 172,341
Profit.!
1935.. 5,878 Nil 5,878 166,463
1936.. 11,559 Nil 11,559 154,904
1937.. 7,381 Nil 7,381 147,523
Surplus cancellation debentures, £1954.. 145,569
Debenture interest written back, £1236.. 144,333
1938.. 14,473 Nil 14,473 129,860
Surplus cancellation debentures, £2245.. 127,615
1939.. 36,647 NU | 22,647 104,968
Prov. stock fluctuation, £14,000 ) ’
Reserves.
Capital reserve taken in, £166,167 .. 61,199
Forfeited shares, £3l . . . . . . 61,230
Assets adjustment, £3042 .. .. 58,188
Debenture interest arrears, £42,816 . . 15,372
1940.. 67,822 10 p.ci =13,034 » aH , alr , n
Prov. stock fluctuation, £12,000 j o»,iuu
* Eight months,
f Excluding capital reserve ( £166,167) till 31/12/’39.
! After payment of debenture interest, etc.
An outstanding recovery. It was due
to 30 p.c. increase in turnover following
Defence Department demand for cotton
knitwear, woollen hose and other of the
co.’s products; extensions at the Went-
worthville cotton-spinning plant came
into operation too late to assist greatly
the output of condenser yarn, for which
there is a ready market. Revival, however,
had been initiated even before outbreak of
war by the board’s policy of plant re-
newal and improvement, combined with
overhaul of both manufacturing and
selling sides of the organisation.
Other features of the accounts now
presented are (1) adjustment of fixed-
asset values to a level £33,766 below in-
dependent valuations —allowing for
depreciation reserves of £200,954, it
necessitated striking off a further £3042 ;
(2) writing-off of a p. and 1. debit of
£105,107 against a capital reserve of
£166,167 created in respect of freeholds
when the present co. took over ; (3) elimi-
nation of debenture interest arrears of
£42,816, mainly from the same source ;
(4) resumption of dividends after eight
years ; and (5) Treasury approval of a
par £lOO,OOO share-issue, three for four.
There was a spring of £73,994 in gross
earnings (£256,928). Including unstated
taxation and £26,473 (down £2107) for
depreciation, exes. (£161,330) absorbed
£40,670 of the increase. On debentures
(originally 7 p.c., they were reduced to
£5 Bs. 6d. p.c. under the N.S.W. Interest
Reduction Act) a full year’s interest at the
minimum statutory rate called for
£27,776, as against £20,500 (4 p.c.) in
1939. The net result thus stepped up
£31,175 to £67,822, or 52.1 p.c. on share
capital as it stood at the end of the year.
Shareholders were handed 10 p.c., and
another £12,000 was earmarked against
fluctuations in stock-values —a post-war
safeguard. That left £42,788 to benefit
the lay-by, now £58,160. No provision
was made for War-time (Company)
Tax, which is likely to be a weighty
item if debentures, the funded trade
debts of the old Bond co., aren’t treated
as capital for assessment purposes.
Now consider these figures:
1933. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £86,442 £102,806 £112,806 £130,275
Debentures* . . 529,747 525,206 515,413 658,229
Mortgage . . 109,786 93,771 76,715 76,715
Overdraft . . 122,099 87,072 56,529 155,499
Sundry creditors 30,312 16,696 43,767 118,417
Freehold . . 320,920 322,150 325,983 275,633
Plant . . 212,754 192,033 174,841 270,495
Stocks . . 226,034 227,833 222,488 393,606
Book debts . . 128,602 98,168 138,604 164,568
Cash, etc. .. 10,426 4,010 4,510 6,027
* Including accrued interest.
How much of the £50,350 drop in prop-
erty and rise of £95,654 in plant was
due to assets adjustment and how much
to additions, etc., isn’t apparent. The
stock lift of £171,118 is associated partly
with the carrying of £78,466 worth of
raw cotton security stocks for the Com-
monwealth Government. It necessi-
tated further outside assistance of
£173,621 net. Excluding the debenture
arrears to be paid (grouped with deben-
tures in the sheet), more or less liquids
exceeded the mortgage and floating debt
by £213,570 when the books closed, or
£24,979 more than a year earlier.
From 4s. in 1940, the pound shares
zoomed to 14s. 6d. at the beginning of
1941 and to 325. 6d. prior to the presen-
tation of accounts. At 265. 9d. ex rights,
which have a market around 6s. 3d., the
yield from 10 p.c. divs. is 7.4 p.c. The
£lOO debentures, which rank after mort-
gage and overdraft, have advanced from
£5l 10s. to around par in the last two
years. Allowing for arrears of £8 7s. 4d.,
yield on £5 Bs. 6d. interest is 5.8 p.c.
Including new issue, book values give a
net tangible backing of 245. 9d. for the
shares and £156 6s. each debenture.
Under present conditions, sales are
likely to continue to be governed only
by production, and the proportion of
cheap outside money employed suggests
the possibility of some attractive returns
to shareholders —and perhaps to the tax-
gatherer. But return to a peace-time
economy is likely to revive intense com-
petition unless the management can suc-
cessfully enter less-exploited fields of
cotton-goods manufacture.
Younghusband, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 1.181 n p.c. =18,750 225,027
1032.. 19,177 0 ~ ~ 15.000 4,177 229,204
1933.. 10,081 5 „ „ 12,500 226,785
1934.. 19,292 7 „ ~ 17,500 1,792 228,577
1935.. 12,334 6 „ „ 15,000 225,911
1936.. 26,969 8 „ „ 20.000 6,969 232,880
Share premiums, £75,000 .. . . 307,880
1937.. 32,389 10 p.c. = 25,000 7,389 315,269
1938.. 36,054 10 „ ~ 37,500 313,823
Cost new share issue written off, £1337.. 312,486
Cost new branches w/o, £2200 ) oi«
1939 .. 27,662 ’ll p.c. = 30,000 )
Share premiums, £20,000 . . .. 327,948
Share-issue underwriting, £1750 . . 326,198
1940.. 43.236 8 p.c. = 37,333 5,903 332,101
1941.. 37,736 6J „ ~37,708 28 332,129
Seasons and prices are the two main
factors affecting earnings ; and it was the
former that were contrary last year.
Lambing opened encouragingly; but
winter rains failed to eventuate, and the
co.’s stock turnover in n.-e. Victoria and
the N.S.W. Riverina came to a million
pounds less, despite the favorable influ-
ence of British purchases on prices. Thus
although a record quantity of wool was
handled profits slipped £5500.
The co. has been in the wool, grain,
produce and livestock business for over
half a century ; and it was a proprietary
concern for a long time before that.
Since the close of accounts in 1937 share-
holders have put up £470,000 of new
money —£125,000 (at par) in the last
term —including £95,000 of premium
capital. But though business has shown
great expansion so have the risks, and
profits haven’t near kept pace. While
10 p.c. was a comfortable matter four
years back, 6\ p.c. (down \\ p.c.) was
difficult of achievement last year.
Here is as much statistical trading in-
formation as the report discloses:
Wool Sold, Exes., p.c.
Bales. Gross. Ex'es., etc. of Gross.
1930.. 58,795 114,864 85,800 74.6 p.c
1931 . 91,587 78,019 76.838 98.4 „
1933.. 90,068 84,598 74,517 88.0 „
1935.. 69,360 92,232 79,898 86.6 „
1936.. 94,719 113,443 86,474 76.2 „
1938.. 79,515 140,500 104,446 74.3 „
1939.. 74,750 127,718 100,056 78.3 „
. 1940.. 84,711 190,561 147,325 77.3 „
1941. .111,281 199,778 162,042 81.1 „
For the 1940-41 season, offturn of wool
from the shears is expected to be only
little below the previous term’s record
3,669,000 bales. Younghusband’s turn-
over was also assisted by absorption of
Gow and Gow (N.S.W.) and Macarthur
and Macleod (Vic.), gross earnings, after
provision for bad and doubtful accounts,
lifting £9217. Contributing to the sharp
spring of £14,717 in administration, etc.,
charges were increased wool-storage costs
and £2OOO additional provision for taxa-
tion (£17,000). On average capital,
despite the assistance, of £332,129 of re-
serves, the profit was only a fraction over
6.5 p.c., compared with 9.4, 6.9, 9.6,
12.9 and 10.7 p.c. back to 1936.
Finances indicate the extent of recent
stretching out:
1937. 1938. 1946. 1941.
Paid capital. . £250,000 £400,000 £500,000 £625,000
Liabilities .. 368,968 384,699 693,451 354,986
Premises & plant 179,877 193,465 212,855 223,094
Book debts, etc. 756,316 910,699 1,331,433 1,085,677
Investments, cash,
etc 9,005 9,005 9,0'05 19',005
Merchandise . . 4,039 4,015 6,555 20,087
Last term, helped by the new capital and
lightening of debtors’ balances by
£245,756 —a reflection of prompt settle-
ments by the Central Wool Committee —


Ford Motor Company of Australia helped to
pioneer the development of Australian auto-
motive manufacture with the establishment of
a key plant at Geelong, Victoria and branch
factories at Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide and
Perth. Sixteen years ago the Company envisaged
the future growth of its operations, and the
gradual extension of its plant, equipment and
facilities, as part of a long term plan to
serve the peace-time needs of the Australian
motoring public .
0...
an
d TODAY!
TODAY employment has been found for thousands
of Australian workers. Over £5,670,000 has been dis-
tributed to-date in wages, and more than £1,500,000 has
been spent on equipment and plants at important centres
throughout the Commonwealth. For production and
service operations 5,000 Australian made primary and
secondary parts and products are used and to date Ford
purchases exceed £12,500,000 in value.
9
TODAY these highly developed automotive manu-
facturing facilities of Ford Motor Company of Australia
have been organised to aid the nation to produce
in quantity the essential equipment for mechanised
warfare.
TODAY 9 thousands of highly trained, skilled opera-
tives are bending all their energies to speed this vital
work. The experience of Ford engineers, toolmakers,
draughtsmen, fitters and turners is being applied to tasks
undreamt of in past years. Mechanised units for
transport and combat purposes, machine tools for the
provision of other workshops, precision made equipment
of many kinds are being produced in an endless stream.
•
In Canada, England, Australia, New Zealand, South
Africa, India and Malaya the companies which form
the British Empire Ford organisation are behind the
men who serve on land, sea, in the air and the factories
of the Home Front.
m
vm
mmmvm
mmimm
■ iiii
m
mm
vS;Xviv- • ■,•;•.. .•XvlS^-:
Australian produced Army vehicles now on active service “somewhere in the Middle East.”
FORD MOTOR COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(Incorporated in VictoriaJ. FACTORIES AT GEELONG,
SYDNEY, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
FIB2R-481
the debt was cut by £338,465. Advances
and other odds and ends still exceed the
£1,000,000-mark; what proportion is
against broad-acres and what against
wool, produce, etc., and therefore self-
liquidating, the board doesn’t say. In-
cluding the item, the more or less liquid
surplus (£769,783) improved £116,241.
The British wool contract continues
for war’s duration and one clip there-
after, but lack of shipping is already pre-
senting storage difficulties. The same
shortage of shipping space has also
brought trouble for lamb- and mutton-
raisers, and killing for export has been
temporarily suspended. Winter rains are
needed in most of the area in which the
co. operates, too, although stock are at
present in reasonable condition.
In the current term the new capital
should be more fully productive; but
maintenance of the 6i p.c. div. will call
for £2889 more than was netted last year.
In the market the pound shares fetch 235.,
compared with 245. 3d. ex rights a year
ago. At the lower figure the immediate
return is 5.6 p.c. The cover is 30s. Bd.
Mark Foy’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends \
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Loss. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
£ £, £, £ £
1931.. 20,806 16,374 Nil 223,330
Reserve adjustment, £4500 .. .. 218,830
1932.. 37,652 Nil Nil 181,178
Capital assets reserve, £lO,BOO .. 197,978
1933.. 19,391 Nil Nil 178,587
Feb.,
Capital assets reserve, £lO,BOB .. 189,455
1934.. 7,390 Nil Nil 182,065
Unexplained reductions, £2885 .. 179,180
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £1792 .. 177,388
Profit. 5J p.c.
1935.. 2,642 15.123 Nil 104,907
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £lOl7 .. 163,890
5 p.c.
1930.. 54,341 54,011* 5 p.c. = 27,018 137,202
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £385 .. 136,817
Added Tax Reserve, £2OOO .. .. 138,817
6 p.c.
1937.. 00,025 16,374 6 p.c. rr 32,422 11,229 150,040
Profit sale property, £827 .. .. 150,873
Written off Target Mills, £16,734.. 134,139
1938.. 61,564 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 12,768 146,907
1939.. 62,005 16,374 6 ~ „ 32,422 13.209 160,116
Net addition tax reserve, £30,000.. 190,116
1940.. 60,003 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 11,207 201,323
Net addition tax reserve, £26,084 .. 227,407
1941.. 68,642 16,374 8 p.c. = 43,229' 9,039 236,446
* Includes £40,367 arrears paid in ord. scrip.
The value of Sydney retail sales has
been on the flood since the third quarter
of 1933. The increase last year seeped
into every department of Foy’s business,
and the improvement has been more than
maintained in the current term. Indeed,
because a shortage of certain types of
worsteds and other woollen goods may
later develop because of defence require-
ments, frenzied buying of clothing,
etc., by the Sydney populace, set
in last week. This hoarding is to be
deprecated by individuals no less than
corporations, against which, incidentally,
penalties may be invoked. Among other
things, it (a) hastens a real shortage of
goods for civilian consumption, (b) in
effect robs a large section of the com-
munity which can’t afford to buy ahead
of requirements, (c) adds fresh obstacles
to the already difficult path of price con-
trol, and (d) invites irritating Govern-
ment rationing.
At the beginning of the year Foy’s was
well stocked up with merchandise which
it was able to offer at very competitive
prices. Indeed-helped, no doubt, by its
Target Woollen Mills, which are being
increasingly taken up with defence orders
—it seems to have experienced less diffi-
culty in replenishing supplies than many
other retailers. Moreover, increases in
employment and incomes have been
mainly among those classes for which
the co.’s Museum-station stores particu-
larly cater, and, compared with Canadians
and Britishers, the response of Australians
to savings campaigns hasn’t been parti-
cularly auspicious. The spring in gross
earnings (£454,272) was £39,550 ; ol the
£30,911 rise in exes. (£385,630) tax alloca-
tion of £70,000 accounted for all but
£10,911, so general outgoings were well
controlled.
On ord. capital the £68,642 (up £8639)
of profit represented 9.6 p.c., allowing
for the 272,902 prefs., compared with
g, 8.4, g.l and 8 p.c. for the four pre-
ceding terms, and div. goes up from
6 p.c. to 8 p.c. At 19s. 6d. ord. yield is
8.1 p.c., which suggests that the market
looks for something less in the curren
term, when taxation and costs thi eaten
to press more heavily and stock replace-
ment to create problems. Still, city pur-
chasing power should remain high, despi e
the uncertain outlook for many of our
(Continued on next page.)


Incorporated
by Royal Charter
in 1835.
<3
m
1 835
The liability of the
members is
limited.
THE BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA
Paid-up Capital £4,500,000
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the Bank) 2,500,000
Currency Reserve (used in the business of the Bank) . , . . 2,000,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter . . . . 4,500,000
£13,500,000
ONE-HUNDRED-AND-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
DIRECTORS OF THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
WITH THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR TO OCTOBER 14, 1940.
PRESENTED TO THE PROPRIETORS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING,
HELD ON THURSDAY, MARCH 27, 1941.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance-sheet as at October 14 last, with
the Profit and Loss Account for the year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills
current, for British, Australian and New Zealand rates and taxes, and making a transfer
to the credit of Contingencies Account, out of which account provision for all bad and
doubtful debts has been made, the net profit for the year amounted to £266,106/9/11.
To this has to be added £237,106/4/- brought forward from the previous year’s account,
making a total of £503,212/13/11. From this, £114,187/10/- was paid as an Interim Dividend
on September 27 last, and the Directors have now appropriated a further sum of £146,812/10/-
to pay a Final Dividend of 4/6 per Share, less Income Tax af 5/6 in the £, making, in all,
£261,000, equal to 8/- per Share, less Tax, and representing for the year a distribution at the
rate of 8 per cent., less Tax. There will remain £242,212/13/11 to be carried forward to the
next account.
The Dividend will be payable, in London, Australia and New Zealand, on March 28.
The Reserve Fund has been increased to £2,500,000 by a transfer of £25,000 from a
Contingencies Account.
The Directors have to record with much regret the death, on October 20 last, of their valued
colleague, Mr. Horace Peel.
The Directors retiring by rotation are: The Hon. Geoffrey C. Gibbs and Rt. Hon.
the Earl of Midleton, K.P., P.C., who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Auditors, Messrs. Deloitte, Plender, Griffiths and Co., offer themselves for re-election.
E. GODWARD, Chairman,
4 Threadneedle Street, London, March 17, 1941.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FROM OCTOBER 17, 1939, TO OCTOBER 14, 1940
Balance brought forward from October, 1939 ~ .. .. .. .. .. .. £237,106 4 0
Fioflt for the year to October 14, 1940, after deducting Rebate
( £8142/9/10) on Bills current at Balance date, and after making a
transfer to the credit of Contingencies Account, out of which account
provision for all Bad and Doubtful Debts has been made .. .. £ 1,500,396 19 11
Less:
I. —Charges of Management—Australia and New
Zealand —
Salaries and allowances at 248 Branches and
Agencies .. .. .. .. .. £575,173 4 9
General Expenses . . . . . . . . 133,219 10 4
London —-
Salaries and allowances . . . . . . 23,184 18 8
General Expenses, including Directors’
remuneration .. . . . . . . 41,658 8 1
ll.—Rates and Taxes—
Australia, New Zealand and London ..
£773,236 1 10
. . £461,054 8 2
1,234,290 10 0
266,106 9 11
£503,212 13 11
From which deduct—
Dividend paid September 27, 1940 .. .. .. .. £114,187 10 0
Dividend payable March 28, 1941 . . .. ~ .. 146,812 10 0
261,000 0 0
Balance carried forward per Balance-sheet
£242,212 13 11
BALANCE-SHEET, OCTOBER 14, 1940.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation
Deposits at Interest
Current Accounts . .
Bills Payable, Drafts in Transit
and other Liabilities, includ-
ing provision for contin-
gencies
Acceptances for Customers, as per
contra
£2,722 0 0
24,021.303 10 5
20,437,134 4 2
5,243,529 0 2
272,232 15 2
£49,976,921 15 11
Capital;—
900,000 Shares
of £5 each
fully-paid ..£4,500,000 0 0
(There is
under the
Charter a
reserve lia-
bility of the
Proprietors of
£5 per Share.)
Reserve Fund
(used in the
business of
the Bank) . . 2,500,000 0 0
Currency Reserve
(used in the
business of
the Bank) . . 2,000,000 0 0
Dividend pay-
able March
28. 1941 . . 140,812 10 0
Profit and Loss
Account
Balance . . 242,212 13 11
__——— _ 9,389,025 3 11
£59,305,940 19 10
A. H. BULLOCK, Accountant.
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion, Government Notes
and Cash Balances . . . . £7,220,011 4 7
British Government Securities.. 2,195,067 17 7
Australian and New Zealand Gov-
ernment Securities and other
Investments , . .. .. 10,822,967 14 10
Bills Receivable and Remit-
tances in transit. . .. .. 2,240,953 1 6
Advances on Securities and other
Assets 35,798,920 10 10
Liability of Customers for
Acceptances as per contra .. 272,232 15 2
Bank Premises and Sites in
Australia, New Zealand and
London at Cost, less amounts
written off .. .. .. 809,793 15 4
Note. —The Australian and New
Zealand assets and liabilities
are included at the par rates of
exchange and the net difference
which would have arisen had
they been converted at the rates
ruling at the date of the
Balance-sheet is covered by
Currency Reserves.
£59,365,946 19 10
G. O. COWAN, Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE PROPRIETORS.
We have examined the above Balance-sheet with the books of the Bank in London and
with the Returns received in London from the Branches in Australia and New Zealand. We
have verified the Cash Balances, Bills of Exchange, Investments and Securities held in London.
Owing to postal delays, certain of the customary Returns from Australia and New Zealand,
including particulars concerning the Securities held against Advances and other information
in regard thereto, have not yet come to hand. Subject to this remark we report that we have
obtained all the information and explanations we have required, and that, in our opinion,
the above Balance-sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the
state of the Bank’s affairs, according to the best of our information and the explanations given
to us and as shown by the books in London and the Returns received from the branches.
DELOITTE, BLENDER, GRIFFITHS & CO., Auditors.
London, March 12, 1941.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
H.M.D.: (1) Public-utility investments are
no longer among the assured-income type.
Adelaide Steam or Queensland Insurance
should turn out much better in the long run,
though immediate yields are somewhat less.
(2) Co. doesn’t send along balance sheets these
days, but there has been improvement in its
affairs, though divs. aren’t yet forthcoming.
Vestibule buyers offer Bs. for the scrip, which
you might be advised to take in view of past
performances.
PATENTS. —Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hvdraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. k G. Building, ElizabetH
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists,
—Advt.
v * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Aevi.
exports. The prefs. at 20s. Bd. offer 5.8
p.c. income. Book value of the cover is
28s. 9d. ords. and £3 16s. lid. prefs.
Finances have been put on a sounder
basis:
1932. 1936. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £772,902 £813,269 £813,269 £813,269
Liabilities . . 390,054 337,823 382,740 321,599
Property . . 731,386 723,352 728,044 726,389
Plant, etc. . . 163,320 145,427 118,125 101,555
Stocks . . 399,943 362,370 456,462 438,169
Book debts . . 36,716 79,961 105,223 114,690
Cash, etc. ■ .. 12,769 11,024 13,876 20,312
With surplus earnings, reductions of
£18,293 in stocks and £18,225 in fixed
assets enabled £30,000 to be cut off the
mortgage and £31,141 off other indebted-
ness. The more or less liquid surplus
(£251,572) thus strengthened £58,751.
New looms are being installed at the
Target Mills. War-time activity here
may be a helpful stabilising source of
income.
From London: Proposed concession on
British excess-profits tax to goldmine-
owners is conditional on a mine increas-
ing its gold output above what has yet
to be determined as its normal produc-
tion and on the assumption that the
mine will be worked out during the
period from 1946 to 1990 if it didn’t
increase its production. The concession
will be on a sliding scale, varying from
30 p.c. if the life of the mine would nor-
mally end during 1946 to 1950 inclusive
to 5 p.c. if it would be worked out
during 1971 to 1990 inclusive. The con-
cession is generally regarded as unsatis-
factory and impracticable by the financial
press, a section of which has and is still
throwing bricks at it and the tax. Here
are some of the missiles:
“Financial Times.” —Further consideration
in the city of the excess-profits-tax wasting-
assets concession included -in the Finance Bill
tends to confirm the unfavorable impression
created by the first reading of the measure.
“Investor’s Chronicle.” —We see little sense
of justice in the scheme. It is a hit-or-miss
affair which requires an army of expert mining
engineers and accountants, which it may well
be impossible to obtain, to work it. It will
encourage juggling with reserves, lead to gross
anomalies, and fail to maximise output. It is
up to Parliament to persuade the Treasury to
think again.
“Financial Newj.” —The excess-profits tax
represents sheer confiscation of all war-
increased profits, and strikes at the efficiency
of the entire national effort. It encourages
waste, inefficiency and evasion. Voices raised
against it are powerful; they include Lord
McGowan, whose experience of finance in in-
dustry as head of the largest British concern
registered under the Companies Acts is un-
rivalled. They also include Sir George
Schuster, whose position is pre-eminent not
only as an economist but as one who has had
first-hand experience in public finance.
Claude de Bernales’s latest is a 70-page
brochure, titled “Primary Production and Taxa-
tion,” addressed to the shareholders of Gt.
Boulder Prop, and others. It contends that the
Australian gold industry is seriously handicapped
by lack of proper encouragement through ill-
advised taxation. Documents in connection
with Gt. Boulder’s proposed change of domi-
cile from London to Australia are reprinted.
One hitherto unpublished is addressed to the
Chancellor of the Exchequer, and is signed by
De Bernales as “Late Chairman” of Gt.
Boulder Prop.
* * * *
Mines Under-Secretary Telfer’s latest
yearly report computes the value of
Westralia’s mineral output for 1940 at
£13,226,478, or £893,509 more than in
1939. Gold production, 1,191,481 fine
oz., was 22,7650 z. less. Increased outputs
came from four fields and decreases from
13. Value of the production at
£12,698,391 equalled 96 p.c. of that of
all minerals. Tonnage treated (4,291,709)
was a record. Average value per ton of
ore treated declined from 24.655.
to 22.855., calculated at the old
price of £4 4s. lid. per fine oz., but pres-
ent prices more than double this esti-
mate. Coal realisations topped the other
minerals score with £364,500, followed
by arsenic £59,977, silver £34,934, asbes-
tos £14,534, gypsum £14,082, antimony
£10,184, felspar £7OOO, tin £5174, and
scheelite £1960. Mining dividends paid
decreased by £317,175 to £1,059,936. War
enlistments and internment of workers of
enemy origin mainly accounted for a re-
duction of about 1000 in the average
number of men employed. Prospectors
continue to be assisted on a liberal scale:
8606 have been helped since the incep-
tion of the scheme in June, 1933, and
over 300 were receiving aid at Dec. 31.
To that date cost of the scheme came to
£260,852. Refunds from successful pros-
pectors aggregated £50,195. Once pay-
able gold is struck assistance stops,
the progress of the prospector is not* fol-
lowed. Thus the scheme is responsible
for a much greater production than
official figures indicate. Expenditure in-
curred under the Mines Development Act
in rendering assistance to needy mine-
owners and the industry generally in
1940 totalled £40,263 ; in 1939 it was
£47,458.
* * * ❖
Phoenix (old Bayley’s Reward) and
Spargo’s Reward, on the Coolgardie
field, are described in a Mines De-
partment report as improved mines.
Phoenix is said to have increased its ore
reserves considerably, and is about to
push up its output, last year 72240 z.
from 27,000 tons. Spargo’s Reward is
credited with good developments and an
improvement in grade. Ore reserves are
estimated at 15,500 tons positive of
6.9dwt. grade and 11,500 tons probable
going 7dwt.
* * * *
Fresh-water as well as beer consump-
tion on the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile is
high. Quantity of the former purchased
from the State Government by mine-
owners during the six months ended
March was 288,539,000 gallons, the bulk
of which cost from 4s. to ss. Id. per
thousand gallons. Lake View and Star
was the largest consumer.
$
Dividends from goldmining in West-
ralia continue on the down-grade.
Though gold output was only 39,8000 z.
less, distributions for the first four months
of 1941 at £135,862 were under half the
amount paid for the corresponding
period of 1940. British excess-profits
tax has stopped some mineowners,
notably Gt. Boulder, from paying out
and caused others to draw in their con-
tributing horns.
w * * *
A few Australian silver-lead investors
are interested in Burma Corporation, of
which Percy Marmion, a Westralian, is
chairman. Latest directors’ report (for
quarter ended December) estimates
surplus of revenue over operating ex-
penditure at £218,475. Taxation is
reckoned at £99,615 and depreciation at
£8752. Burma Corporation is the pre-
historic Chinese-worked mine which
H. C. Hoover and the late F. A. Govett
floated in London in 1906.
* * * *
With the handy local price of £lB5 for
tin concentrates at Herberton (N.Q.), the
difficulty at present is to get ore. All
the main producers are down, though
Canberra put through a small rich ton-
nage earlier in the year. However, its
prospects are not bright, as latest pros-
pecting work is off the tin, though spar
lode with slime tin is showing. Diamond-
drilling has been carried out at the Rain-
bow without result. It was formerly
one of the richest mines on the field. The
Bradlaugh is prospecting with fair en-
couragement, and a couple of small
parcels of high-grade oxide have helped
things along. On the whole, the Her-
berton section of the field is making a
poor showing compared with near-by
Irvinebank, in which the Gordon stands
out as a consistent producer.
* * * *
The Mt. Clearview mine, Pentland
(N.Q.), is now producing, about 30 tons
ore being at grass. There are two reefs,
with the better values sticking to a for-
mation averaging 12in. A crosscut is
being driven to open up the 7ft. reef,
but this seems to have averaged only a
few ’weights in past operations. Still,
there are isolated shoots in it that touched
an ounce for limited crushings. This is
the show that Bob Little stuck to through
thick and thin ; he discovered it some
30 years ago.
* * * e
The Tyrconnel mine, Hodgkinson
field (N.Q.), is putting up a brave show-
ing on a monthly output ranging from
400 to 500 tons of 3dwt. to 4dwt. ore.
There was slight improvement in the
last monthly crushing, 394 tons produc-
ing 107 oz. bullion. With the Minnie
Moxham, just reopened, the Tyrconnel
has been the biggest producer on the old
field. Unfortunately, the 3oz. ore
common enough in its halcyon days of
the last century appears to have van-
ished. Dr. R. L. Jack always wrote in
eulogistic terms of the Hodgkinson.
* * * *
Current term of Arahura Gold Dredg-
ing (M.L.) has opened encouragingly.
Working surplus for the first two months
was £22,580, as against £75,500 for the
whole of the year ended March, during
which three shilling divs. went out.
Another shilling payment is set down for
June 28.


DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should he expected to become you”
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY '
(Incorporated in Victoria')
2 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
The Symbol of
Security !
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Bratldon, K.B.E. (Chairman) ;
(Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C. ; James Kidd ; A.
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J.
Colin A. Sinclair
E. Heath, C.M.G.;
G. H. Shipway.
ESTABLISHED 1834. .
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL. PAID UP £4,739,012 10 I)
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL, 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.O.
leneral Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T,
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
SALE BY PUBLIC AUCTION,
AT 128 COLLINS STREET, HOBART.
MONDAY, 7th JULY, at 2.30 p.m.
FREEHOLD WELL-KNOWN HOBART LICENSED HOTEL.
IMPERIAL HOTEL
138 COLLINS STREET, HOBART.
Substantial 4-storey brick
building, lounges, bar, 94
guest bedrooms, staff quar-
ters, Lift. Much accom-
modation has been recently
remodelled.
This site occupies a val-
uable position in the city
centre. Area about 1 rd.
113-10 per.; frontage 66ft.
8in., depth 120ft,, width at
back 139ft. or thereabouts.
This licensed freehold will
be offered for sale, furn-
ished, as a going concern.
Stock and stores at valua-
tion
Furniture inventory,
terms, and fuller details
from the
Auctioneers in conjunction:
L 'f- &
vopoc**"*
EDNEY MOORE PTY. LIU.
128 COLLINS STREET, HOBART.
FREEMAN, DUFF & CO.
148 COLLINS STREET, HOBART.
SOLICITORS: MESSRS. A. B. & C. CRISP GILL & HARVEY,
144 COLLINS STREET, HOBART.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
City Mutual Donnybrook
It used to be said that the City Mutual
Life was a “one-man company.” George
Crowley was so closely identified with
its affairs —for 43 years he was chairman
or managing director —that in Sydney, at
any rate, it was difficult to get a deci-
sion on anything affecting the co. that
was a bit out of the ordinary unless
George Crowley attended to it. He was
an unusual man with unusual ideas. He
made some venturesome investments, and
in good times his society paid extraordi-
narily high bonuses.
Now the City Mutual’s affairs are re-
ceiving undue publicity because of con-
tests for seats on the board. Matters to
do with control of the society have been
in and out of court for 12 months or so.
Two “receivers and managers” were ap-
pointed because the illness of one director
(Dr. Wall, since dead) made it impossible
to hold a meeting pending the election
of further directors; three former direc-
tors, including the managing director, had
been held by the Courts to be not validly
elected. These “receivers and managers” —
unfortunate terms, in the circumstances —
circulated policy-holders “confidentially’’
in a way that has caused consternation
to some. A copy of a report on the
investigation into some aspects of the
society’s affairs sanctioned by the Court
—William Bennett, managing director,
says it was granted on an ex parte appli-
cation —has been sent out.
Milton F. Johnson, Chartered Accoun-
tant (Aust.), the investigator, says in the
course of his report to the “receivers and
managers”;
I have investigated (a) aviation risks car-
ried by the society; ( b ) freehold properties as
appearing in the balance sheet of the society;
(c) loans on mortgage.
Policies were issued to aviators at the ordi-
nary rates of premium, without any extra pre-
mium for the risk involved... .At the outbreak
of war the issue of aviation policies was dis-
continued.
Mr. Johnson ascertained the total
premiums received on all the aviation
policies and set them off against the
total claims paid, as follows:
Total premiums received, 1935-40 .. £84,213
Less total claims .. .. £42,987
Surrenders .. .. .. 629
43,616
Surplus of premiums over claims.. £40,597
Mr. Johnson notes that
the total liabilities under aviation policies are
£596,632, and, though the premiums received
in 1935-40 exceed the claims by £40,597, in
addition to the claims the aviation business
would need to be charged with its share of the
expense rate before arriving at the net result.
Mr. Johnson isn’t an actuary, and his
comments here, relevant as far as they
go, are of restricted value.
As regards freehold properties the
report is more important:
f have made an examination of the records
relating to these and find that, since the society
acquired them, there has been a very consider-
able shrinkage in the values of a good many of
the properties. The freeholds in N.S.W. stand
in the books on Dec. 31, 1940, at £1,940,225,
and a comparison of the various valuations re-
corded, with the book values of the respective
properties, shows that, in the cases where the
book values exceed the valuations, such excess
amounts to a total of £230,007.
The total values in the books for all States is
£2,448,720, but from the information available
the differences between valuations and book
values outside N.S.W. is small, the excess in
the books being only £1844. Thus, taking the
figures of head offices and branches, the grand
total of the overstatement of values is £231,851.
As a set-off against this excess in book values
there is the question of reserves, which affect
the position to an important extent. Mean-
while, it is worthy of note that the net income
received in 1940 from the freehold properties
in all States totals £117,201, which, calculated
upon the book values quoted above of
£2,448,720, shows a return of 4.78 per cent,
per annum, without providing for depreciation.
As to loans on mortgage:
These appear in the books on Dec. 31, 1940,
at £3,649,465 for all States, and the amount
quoted includes interest owing. I have scruti-
nised the major portion of them, including all
the larger ones, so that it may be said my in-
vestigation is fully representative.
While there are a great many which can be
classed as good, there are also a large number
which have fallen into a very unsatisfactory
state, the interest is long overdue, and in many
cases the society has ceased to charge inter-
est....
Thus, it must be realised that, comprised in
the total abovementioned, there are many debts
which must be classed as bad or doubtful, and
in going through I have noted the various
amounts which in my opinion must be so re-
garded. They total £408,600, and in my view
that figure is a moderate estimate of the sum
which should be considered doubtful or bad.
There are two loans about which I am
unable to make any estimate [Lennon’s Hotel
(£255,000) and the Hobart Bridge (£235,250)].
At December 31, 1939, there were the fol-
lowing reserves available:
Reserve for contingencies .. .. £452,950
Reserve for equalisation of bonuses 100,000
Interest reserve .. .. .. .. 235,000
£787,950
Taking the estimated excess book values
beforementioned, viz:
Freehold properties .. .. .. £231,851
Loans on mortgages 408,600
£640,451
and setting off against them the reserves of
£787,950, it will be seen that there is a surplus
of reserves amounting to £147,499.
Mr. Johnson raises the question of
whether the reserves are available for the
purpose suggested. There should be little
difficulty. He concludes:
Considerable caution will be necessary in
order to avoid injuring the society in the eyes
of the public, for, from my observations, the
institution is a good revenue-earning under-
taking in spite of the matters pointed out here,
and therefore it seems to me a matter of im-
portance to safeguard the interests of present
policy-holders.
In a subsequent circular to policy-
holders William Bennett, managing
director, does not take' particular
exception to the accountant’s report,
but he expresses objection to (amongst
other things) the method of its
presentation, with commentary, by G. E.
Bryant and O. J. McDermott, the “re-
ceivers and managers.” Bennett believes
the City Mutual to be in “a sound and
flourishing condition.” He says so after
publication of the investigators’ report.
He has had a long experience in life-
assurance matters.
Allowing for all overvaluations men-
tioned by the accountant, the figures pre-
sented by the City Mutual indicate it to
be actuarialjy solvent. There is no need
tor policy-holders to take any rash action.
Their claims should be met in full when
due. They may have to put up with cuts
in bonus rates, but all bonus rates are
down now, anyway. It would be of value
to have a consulting actuary’s report at
this stage.
As to who is responsible for mistakes
in the investment of a portion of the
office’s funds one might have to search
back a long way. The N.S.W. mora-
torium has been a factor. Some of the
mistakes may be more recent. In any
case, it is hard to say who was or who
wasn’t to blame.
If it has been the intention of Bryant
and McDermott to make out a case
against Bennett —they say “in fairness to
ourselves, as directors of the society.,..
Mr. William Bennett... .did not inform
the board of the overstatement in values
referred to in the report of Mr. Johnson’’
—the case has not been made specifi-
cally or clearly. In reply, Bennett has
said: “All members of the board, includ-
ing Bryant, McDermott and O’Neill, have
from time to time inspected the proper-
ties of the society and were fully aware
of the amounts at which the same stood
in the books of the society.” Also, “I
recommended [in 1934] that the society
should prefer investment in Government
stock to mortgages... .with the result
that mortgages at Dec. 31, 1939, showed
only a very slight increase since 1934,
whereas Government stock increased
from £1,956,142 to £2,914,874.” And
there the argument stood at the time of
going to press. An election of directors
is to take place in July.
Such, apparently, is the demand for
spelter—at the co.’s last annual meeting
chairman Colin Fraser said the stuff was
being absorbed in increasing quantities—
that Electrolytic Zinc is issuing 400,000
new £1 ords. at par. Capital is wanted
to finance plant extension, though the
periodic calls on the co.’s purse for its
extension into new subsidiary enterprises
is indirectly a factor. The new issue will
be in the ratio of 16 for 104, offered to
both pref. and ord. shareholders. The
co. last year earned 17.3 p.c. on its capi-
tal and paid an all-round 14 p.c. div.
Though production figures aren’t available
nowadays, output has probably increased
with the demand. How the shipping
shortage is now affecting the co. it is
hard to say, but eight months ago con-
sumption was expanding not only on
account of direct munitions requirements,
but also for related industrial purposes.
Colin Fraser then expressed the opinion
that “in the after-war period, when con-
ditions may rule which we cannot today
picture, refined zinc and the by-products
which accompany its production" will
continue to be in strong demand.” On
announcement of the new issue, Sydney
quotations for the ords. rose from 495.
3d. to 50s. 6d. on the morning call, turn-
over being substantial. Noon sales rose
sharply to 525. 6d., afternoon turnover
to 54s Highest quote this year was
545. 6d.
* * * *
The sad story of Monier Industries,
Ltd., of Sydney, had a little interest
thrown into it last week when Hume Pipe
Co. offered to take over the show on
the basis of one Hume share for every
three Monier shares. Paid capital of
Monier Industries is £50,000, so the offei
represents 16,666 Hume shares, recently
at 12s. 6d. in the sharemarkets. If the
Monier business were sold at its break-
up value, the directors say, there would
be something between 2s. and 3s. a share
in it. Formed in 1936 to acquire the
State Monier Pipe Works, Monier Indus-
tries paid £35,942 for the undertaking.
The shares rose gaily to 275. 6d. early
in its career. Since then the co. has losl
more money than it has made. On the
day Hume Pipe’s offer was announced
an optimist paid 7s. for a parcel of
Monier Industries scrip. Mr. McKell
proposes to reopen the N. S. Wales State
Insurance Office, but it doesn’t seem to
be part of his policy to give back to
Monier Industries shareholders the
£35,942 paid to the N.S.W. Governmeni
and to put the works under State control
* * * *
Tableland Tin’s No. 1 dredge at Return
Creek, Mt. Garnet (N.Q.), resumed work
on May 8, and up to the end of the
month 73,000 c.y. was treated for 18.85
tons of tin concentrate, equal to .571 b.
per yard. The co. recently raised £BO,OOO
of pref. capital.
* * * *
Maryborough Knitting Mills (Cuttle).
Ltd., of Victoria, had a very good year
to March 31. Net profit was £16,468.
after providing £3246 depreciation on
fixed assets totalling £35,015, compared
with £10,597 in the preceding term. As
m the year before, £lOOO was transferred
to the staff provident fund, which now
stands at £2OOO. On total capital the
{Continued on next page.)


SEND FOR THIS BOOK . . . . .
The "Talk "That 'Tew Men Want”
Whether you have already made your Will, or whether
you have postponed the matter, it is suggested that you
write for a copy of the book, " The Task That Few
Men Want.” It will be sent to you free of charge. It
is a book which outlines a practical plan for ensuring
the protection and security of your interests, and the
faithful execution of the wishes your Will expresses—
without risk and without placing any burden on others.
BURNS PHILP TRUST CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET
SYDNEY
V/.VSO .VA'S^/
Think of your
Pur®© as well
as your jj|i
Palate wf
mmy
■
fiSs /dense/
my/s/WM,,,,.,. ys a!nn c*. f
mLSLISs*. -a. po.„
Meiro-Goldw
yn
S^TEgiPHESS
CIGARETTES
~353.-
AVsol^® lfl PR'OV,
»w their qualities
TIPPED
CORK
1127-5-41
-the secret i s the
333 s blend
/flus
choicest Virginia
Tobaccos
c °kk r,£ puw!
»-7d., 18-1/2
THE
lIMITCn iNSURANCE
UI II IkU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON. T. O, REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager, Asst. Gen. Manager,
net return is equal to 28 p.c. A div. of
Is., plus a bonus of 6d., has been
declared on all shares (written down to
9s. in 1931), representing a shade under
17 p.c., though less than 8 p.c. on the
capital originally subscribed. In the
three preceding years Is. a share was dis-
tributed. Last term the co. put out 30,842
new ords., which brought in £13,876, used
largely to reduce the debt and add to
stocks (£74,555, up £8226). An associate
co., Interknit Hosiery, at Clunes, is now
substantially engaged in making socks for
the services. On ’Change buyers offer
12s. 6d. for both classes of Maryborough
scrip without attracting sellers.
* * * *
Ord. shares in Warrnambool Woollen
(Vic.) are at 13s. In the term to June 30,
1940, a p.c. div. was paid on all scrip,
showing a present yield to buyers of
10 p.c. In the four years to June, 1940,
the average distribution was 4\ p.c. In
ordinary times capital (£150,000) was too
large in relation to earning power; much
of the plant was bought at high prices
during the 1920’5, and almost ever since
it has been a struggle to keep a moderate
flow of divs. going to shareholders. The
co. now is in a comfortable financial
position, though earning power is still
low. But defence contracts are giving
sales a strong fillip at present. It isn't
a fillip, however, that can be relied on
with confidence. Plant additions now
would be costly, and possibly of debat-
able value in a few years’ time.
* * # ♦
The div. (2i p.c.) from Australian
Motorists’ Petrol Co. (N.S.W.) was a
half-yearly interim, suggesting 5 p.c. p.a.
It is the first div. declared by the co.
since its formation five years ago, though
the undertaking has been on a profit-
earning basis for the past three years.
Business expansion called for substantial
bank accommodation. Paid capital until
recently was £339,710 in 344,610 £1 ords,
and 8500 £1 deferreds, less £13,400 un-
paid, but in March last 100,000 6 p.c.
prefs. were offered and taken. For the
year to June, 1940, 8.8 p.c. was earned on
total capital. After the prefs. are looked
after, and both ords. and deferreds get
7 p.c., 25 p.c. of any residue profits
belong to the deferreds, in which control
is vested. Buyers offer Bs. 3d. for the
co.’s ords. without attracting sellers.
* * * *
The sharemarkets weren’t overpleased
with the distribution of 4d. per 10s. lOd.
share made by Amalgamated Textiles,
which works out at 6.2 p.c. p.a. It was
the first distribution since 1937. Ex div.,
the scrip stood at 7s. 6d. last week, equal
to this year’s lowest price. The highest
figure reached was 9s. Id. In the last
completed term the co. earned £31,569,
equal to 10.2 p.c. on paid capital, and
since then there has been no slackening
in demand for woollen textiles. The co.
has three mills —at Orange, Albury and
Goulburn—and in ordinary times keen
competition has made the weight of over-
head exes, feel particularly heavy. War
contracts have been a godsend to this
co., as they have been to many woollen
concerns. The woollen industry,
especially in Victoria, was, before the
war, decidedly overcapitalised.
* * * *
Some Australian manufactures are in
wide demand in countries near to us, also
in places further away. Apart from
Empire defence requirements, it seems
that there is a big export market avail-
able for our woollens, and that every-
thing we can make in this line can be
sold. Woollen mills in all parts of the
Commonwealth are working to capacity,
though there is a scarcity of blankets
within Australia. This state of affairs
seems to arise out of an Empire policy
to sell every saleable thing that can be
dispensed with in the British Isles or its
dominions and colonies in order, firstly,
to obtain dollar exchange, and, secondly,
to secure markets for the post-war period.
Exports of British cotton goods to coun-
tries outside of Europe in the last fiscal
year were 12 p.c. higher than pre-war.
* * *
In 1939-40 Maorilanders earning be-
tween £2OO and £3OO a year totalled
63,348, and earned 31.8 million in
assessable income. Of this amount £29.3
million was exempt from taxation. Tax
paid by the group was £435,186, equal to
1.4 p.c. of the total income of the group.
In the £3OO-400 class there were 52,978
taxpayers, £24.2 million in incomes, £2O
million in exemptions and £648,294
(2.6 p.c.) in taxation. Skipping the
remaining groups up to £lOOO, in the
£lOOO-2000 class we find 5162 taxpayers
earning £6.8 million, receiving £1.7 mil-
lion in exemptions and paying £962,057
(14 p.c.) in taxation. This group is the
most productive of revenue in the whole
scale, and though it is wide in its range
there are only 8.2 p.c. of the number of
taxpayers when compared with the
£2OO-300 class and less than 20 p.c. of
the income.
The £lOOO-2000 class in N.Z. is draw-
ing attention to the virtual escape of the
£2OO-300 people. Undoubtedly a light
rate of tax on the lower incomes would
yield comparatively high revenue. As
it is, the field of tax has had to be
extended over the four years to March
31, 1940. The number of taxpayers has
almost trebled, the assessable income has
doubled (so have exemptions), and the
tax assessed has trebled. Since war broke
out a ls.-in-the-£ tax on all incomes has
been introduced, plus a 15 p.c. super-tax
on incomes in excess of £2OO.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
MIDDLE EAST ARAB PROBLEM.
(Condensed from an article by C. L. Sulzberger
Ankara correspondent of New York “Times.”)
Many of the faces seen in the Middle East during
the last war are still visible in these parts. Ibn Saud—
King Abdul Aziz of Arabia —now is a far more
powerful independent force outside his own domains.
Abdullah, the puppet prince of Transjordan, proud
in the knowledge that in his veins runs the Prophet’s
blood, has been playing in with the British and await-
ing developments. Nadji Chevket, who was a fezzed
officer in the Sultan’s army, again is in Turkey, this
time seeking to aid his Arab faction. Herr’Von
Hentig, the hardworking, persuasive diplomat who
was beginning his expert’s career out here a quarter
of a century ago, and who has been seeing the evil
fruits of his secret visit to Syria and Iraq sprout
forth; Franz von Papen, no longer commanding a
detachment of Turkish troops as in the previous war,
but seeking to strangle the country in his skein—all
these again are figuring in this persistently reminiscent
drama.
From the point of view of winning this war,
domination of the Middle East, as in the last war, is
of vital importance. For England control of this
area safeguards the Suez Canal against land attack
from the north and protects the long Red Sea coast-
line leading toward India. Ascendancy over Iraq
ensures the freedom of British shipping in the Persian
Gulf, affords central bases on the chief air route to
the Orient, and allows British enterprise a free hand
in the vast oil deposits which now are strategically
essential as the pipelines pump fuel for the Mediter-
ranean fleet westward to Haifa.
For Germany these same reasons are applicable
in reverse. If the Reich is able so to weaken Britain
that she is forced to withdraw from the Mediterranean
area, fear of a successful naval blockade is largely
obviated, and, simultaneously, shrinking German
stores of oil would be immeasurably bolstered.
These are the fundamentals of the situation which
may just be beginning to develop or which may be
throttled at its inception by strong British action. But
until the war ends it is certain that the Axis will con-
tinue to inoculate the disease of rebellion in Arab
veins.
The war in Iraq resulted largely from British
neglect of the latent turmoil in the Arab world which
constantly is stimulated by active Axis propaganda.
The Arabian peninsula is fertile soil for the sowing of
dragons’ teeth. Tribal wars are the rule rather than
the exception, particularly in the central Bedouin
area, where fighting is regarded as a relaxation in a
dour life of monotony. Rivalries of small emirates
and sultanates on the Persian Gulf and Indian Ocean
coasts with the inland tribes are traditional. The
contest of Ibn Saud’s fierce fanatics, who are seeking
to impress a union on Arabs and force obedience to
their savagely puritanical Wahari version of Islam,
and the easier-going Hashimite family, who, driven
from Hejaz, are trying to continue their aspirations
from Bagdad and Amman, continually threatens
stability.
Most publicised of all the discordant elements is
the Arab-Jewish jealousy in Palestine, which gives
Hitler’s propagandists a neat trump as they emphasise
their own Nuremberg decree, which in itself did more
than anything else to render this question acute by
forcing the emigration of Jews from Europe.
Into this fertile soil for trouble Hitler has un-
loosed a collection of agents. German gold has been
circulating through the Arab world from Bagdad.
German propaganda blares across the Arab lands
from Bari and from the Reich itself, where a renegade
Bagdad newspaperman has established an extremely
clever series of radio broadcasts. German agents,
such as Herr Schwoebbel, a Beirut-educated diplomat
who until recently was press attache in Athens, are
beginning to prospect new fields for intrigue.
The principal fear of Britain is that these agents
will facilitate the spread of the localised war. If
Rashid All’s sect manages to spread the conflict among
their adherents in Afghanistan ; if it is true that Von
Hentig has arranged for extension of insurgence
through Shammar tribesmen to Syria ; if student riots
at Beirut and Damascus represent mass sentiment; if
the exiled Mufti of Jerusalem is able to incite dis-
turbances in Transjordan and Palestine —then a major
problem will result and it could conceivably prove a
crucial blow to beleaguered Britain.
It is unquestionable that the Germans are labor-
ing mightily to see that just this happens and are
hoping that the British will be unable quickly to crush
Rashid Ali. But despite the occupation of Greece’s
key /Egean islands German ’planes bound for Iraq
would probably be forced to land in Syria and troops
would necessarily march in by way of Syria, Turkey
or Russia. The French in Syria assert that they will
not permit through passage, and they still have 50,000
men remaining of the famous Weygand army. Turkey
is adamantly insisting that she will not permit the
entry of foreign troops, and it is clear that Russia is
in a similar position, with Stalin increasing his powers
in order to face a possible emergency arising from the
ambitions of his dangerous partner, Hitler.
It appears at present inevitable that, if the Arab
trouble continues, eventually the entire Middle East
and probably Turkey, possibly Russia, will be engulfed
by war.
New Playthings of Mars.
(Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post’’ article .)
Twice in this war the British and their Allies
have been on the offensive, once in Ethiopia and once
in Libya, and the results were brilliant, notwithstand-
ing the fact that in Libya they had to be abandoned
for the sake of a desperate defence in Greece. In
both cases the enemy was Italian, and therefore in-
ferior. Allowing for that, the lesson remains ; and
the lesson is that only in these two campaigns have
the British been able to use the terrible weapons of
today for what they are for. They are for offence
primarily, not defence ; and, beyond all military con-
siderations, this is a fact of tremendous political
and social importance.
In the evolution of weapons, which is continu-
ous, there is a cycle. By alternating phases the advan-
tage passes from offence to defence and back again.
When defence is superior, there is an impasse ; there
may be even peace in the world. Then with new
weapons the offence gains the advantage and the frus-
trated conqueror rides again.
What brought the World War before this one to
a stalemate and reduced it to a war of attrition was
the superiority of defence, and what gave the defence
its advantage more than perhaps any other one thing
was the automatic machine-gun. But the machine-
gun had one weakness. Fire-power and protection
it had, but no mobility. For protection it had to be
dug in, or entrenched. Imagine now giving it mobility.
The tank does that. The tank has the fire-power of
machine-guns and cannon, it is protected by its own
armor, and it can move with the speed of a horse.
For 20 years the high militarists of both Great
Britain and France thought only in terms of defence
—the continuous front, the impregnable wall, the
British Navy and the Maginot Line. The advantage
of defence was as three to one, and it could be proved
by theory. There was more wishfulness than science
in it, and, moreover, it was popular doctrine. Believ-
ing it, people could feel secure and at the same time
limit their outlays for armament. The tragic fact
was that the superiority of defence had passed its apex.
—“Time and Tide,” London.
TO SPITE HIS FACE.
The next phase was coming ; and, again, only the
Germans saw it.
The tank is but an illustration. What has made
the tank possible is the same thing that has so revolu-
tionised the art and science of war that strategy and
tactics now are in a fluid state. And that is the
internal-combustion engine. Besides making the tank
the greatest offensive weapon ever designed, it has
made the airplane possible, as a flying-gun platform,
as a missile weapon of fantastic mobility, as a means
of invasion from the sky, and as an eagle’s eye for
both the army and the navy. It has solved the prob-
lem of moblity for artillery. It has enabled a motor-
ised attacking force to strike when and where it will,
thus giving the offence mastery of two crucial elements
—namely, initiative and surprise. It has made possible
the iron march.
Captain Paul W. Thompson, in the U.S. “Infantry
Journal,” presents a study of what happened last
summer at Sedan, where France was lost. It is based
on two technical military articles printed in Europe,
one by the German Lieutenant-Colonel Soldan, and
one by the Swiss Colonel Daniker. They agree on
what happened there.
The French believed the Ardennes Forest was an
impossible terrain for large-scale operations and put
out of their minds the thought of a break-through at
that point. The Germans, knowing what the French
believed, took advantage of it. The force that broke
through, says Lieutenant-Colonel Soldan, was “a com-
pletely motorised force,” and the number of motor
vehicles of all kinds was 45,000; and this
was “the first instance in history in which motorised
units supported by aircraft attained a large-scale suc-
cess against a major enemy.” The armored and motor-
ised force, he says, has the ability to fight and win
battles by itself, independently of all other ground
forces, and this is so because it includes every neces-
sary kind of weapon within itself, and the effective-
ness of its weapons is enormously increased by its
mobility and speed.
New weapons modify the art and practice of war-
fare. Upon these weapons the Germans have founded
a new strategy and a new tactic, and the first word is
offence.
What now is happening has happened many times
before in history, but never without changing political
geography and shaking the social structures of the
world. Science, invention and technology have con-
tributed to produce new weapons—the most frightful
that man has ever had in his hand—and they are
such, unhappily, as to give the offensive a definite
superiority. The first to see that fact clearly, and to
exploit it, would be the aggressor.
We have now to face the truth that in the present
phase of the cycle defence is the weaker position.
What follows is that the defence, if it can, will take
the offensive. For a while, therefore, it may be that
the only answer to a tank will be a more formidable
tank, and to an airplane a faster one with more fire-
power ; but, unless at last man shall utterly destroy
himself with his own weapons, his ingenuity will find
other answers, and mechanisms and devices now un-
known will restore to defence its rightful advantage.
Hoover: “Questions of Peace.”
[ln delivering to a representative gathering of
American youth organisations the address from which .
these condensed extracts are taken, former U.S. President
Herbert Hoover mentioned that in the last war he
favored America’s entry, and claimed that he now spoke
as “neither a pacifist nor a militarist, but as an analyst.”
His present outlook lies somewhere between that of those
who favor isolationism and that of those who favor
active U.S. intervention. His stand is largely based on
his emotional conception of humanitarianism. In this
he has a larger following than may be generally realised,
and his views, therefore, have some influence and are
worth noting.]
Whether we [Americans] take the final fateful
step or not, we have already made positive appoint-
ments with destiny. One is that we will sit at the
world’s peace table.
America yearns for peace in the world. The
freedom of men comes only in peace. It diminishes
in war. The abolition of poverty and want comes
only in peace. Poverty and want increase in war.
Yet the world does not know, and we do not
know, how world peace can be made and maintained.
The world does not know, and we do not know, how
in the face of steady world impoverishment we are
to abolish want.
We do not see our way. Today, over these ques-
tions, we are frustrated, confused, unhappy and fear-
ful. Our unity of ideas extends only to a resolve to
defend ourselves and a fervent wish that the struggling
democracies shall win.
My purpose is not to offer a panacea for these
confusions and problems, but to stimulate thinking.
The failures of the last war to achieve peace root
not only at Versailles, but also in the forces generated
in the war itself. They rooted deeper than that. They
rooted in age-old hates and in the fires of Imperialism.
The World War was the first total war of modern
history. It was the first great war after the mechani-
cal age.
Perhaps the most striking difference of total war
from the old wars was that formerly armed men
fought only against armed men. There were certain
chivalries and sportsmanships. There was a real
desire to keep women, children and non-combatant
men apart from its shocks. In total war the basis
has shifted in large measure from war between armed
men to war by armed men upon civilians.
In the last war for the first time systematic and
organised terrorisation and killing of civilians became
a part of this strategy. Cities, villages and homes
were ruthlessly burned. Unarmed seamen and inno-
cent passengers were drowned without a chance. Fire
and explosives were rained on women and children
from the skies. Three times a day among 300 million
people wherever a family gathered to eat they had less
because of the enemy. Nowhere in Europe were
people free of fear for their lives on land or sea.
In the course of that total war there developed in
the civil population on both sides three fierce and
total emotions. These were hate, intolerance and a
spirit of exalting crusade. From the sufferings of
civilians blazed first indignation, and finally a fanatic
hate. It enveloped the minds of every man, woman
and child. And this hate was not directed solely to
leaders of nations; it was poured upon every individual
of the enemy nation. Soldiers fighting on the front
held far less hate than civilians at home.
The democratic Governments had no need to
impose restraints on free expression. The crowd
howled down the most objective statement, the most
constructive criticism. They denounced it as the paid
voice of the enemy. And intolerance went further.
It persecuted inoffensive citizens.
The third great emotion of that war was a crusade
of ideologies, of philosophies of government and of
life.
To show how deeply these total emotions domi-
nate total war, I may recall that after this had gone on
for over two years in the last war President Wilson en-
deavored to bring about a negotiated peace. His
representatives sought my views on its practicality. I
felt that hope of negotiated peace was futile. The
civilians on both sides cried out in hate and suffering
for vengeance and crushing victory. I advised that
no statesman or leader dared propose the necessary
compromises which must be the basis of negotiated
peace. And this proved to be the case.
One of the emotional and intellectual currents of
the last total war was a constant striving to find for-
mulas for peace that would make total war impossible
again. The people of the democracies wanted armies
and navies reduced if not abolished. They were reso-
lute that some method must be found for justice
between nations.
A thousand ideas came forth. Thousands of
meetings, speeches, conferences debated these lofty
ideas. We had a daily reiteration of our high aims.
Indeed within them was the hope of a better world.
With all these ideas and these emotions we went
to the peace table. But hate sat at that table. Reason


Pure Shellfishness!
f? M
rjf ift-il
t£.
luM
There’s nothing like a
Guinness with Lobster
GUINNESS
Sole Supervising Agents for Australasia: —
SWIFT & COMPANY, PTY., LTD., 26-30 Clarence St., Sydney . . . 87377
could not be restored in the face of total emotion
and total suffering.
Today, whether America joins in all-out war
or not, we will sit again at the peace table whenever
it comes about.
The ghastly failures in peace-making and in eco-
nomic life after the last i " tal war may be excused
on the ground that those who led the world were
groping in the dark without the lamp of experience.
We have had that experience. And these failures rise
now with great questions that must be answered.
Peace must come from the prosperity and the
hearts of men. It cannot be held for long by machine-
guns.
The immediate questions which arise are these :
Are we giving aid simply to assure the indepen-
dence of Britain and the others who are fighting
against aggression? Or are we extending our view
to remaking the world?
How are we going to hold down destructive hate
that makes constructive peace so difficult?
How are we to keep alight compassion for the
injured and starving?
How are we going to settle the relations of the
20 races in Europe?
How are we going to secure that liberty and free-
dom and democracy be accepted by those races whose
whole racial instincts rebel against it? Are we going
to police the world?
How are we going to save a world ravaged by
famine and pestilence?
How are we going to restore economic prosperity
to an impoverished world?
How are we going to assure the proper elbow
room for growing people?
How are we going to find refuge for the
oppressed?
In fact, how are we going to make a peace that
will be a permanent peace?
Parachutists and Invasion.
(Condensed from a New York “Times Magazine” article
by Richard Stockton.)
Reports as to the successes attained by English
parachutists in Italy are conflicting, but apparently the
men were practically all killed, wounded or captured.
Some parachute units in this war have been com-
pletely wiped out, and that is to be expected. It’s in
the nature of the work, particularly in the case of sac-
rifice missions, where the ’chutists may be deliberately
sacrificed in order to achieve, for example, the destruc-
tion of an important facility.
Not everyone can be a parachutist. Because
of the danger in the work only volunteers are ac-
cepted, and, because the parachutist must fight on
the ground usually against great odds, only veteran
soldiers, who have been thoroughly trained in other
arms of the service, are permitted to volunteer. When
they do volunteer, they find that there are many more
volunteers than there are vacancies, because it is ex-
citing, adventurous work and they get extra pay.
So the parachutist must be strong and agile,
which means not too old. The early thirties are about
the top limit. Since most parachute attacks are likely
to be in country and against objectives which the
parachutists have never seen, every parachutist must
be able to read a military map with accuracy and to
interpret aerial photographic maps so well that even
shadows tell a story.
When the picked man starts his training as a
parachutist he must wonder if he has joined an army
or a circus. Acrobatics and tumbling are stressed,
and advisedly so, for the parachutist must learn how
to land and how to fall on the ground without being
hurt. He may start with some jumps from platforms,
at a height of only five or six feet. That seems easy,
but it will give quite a jar, especially if he does not
know how to land.
Expert instructors illustrate the art of landing
relaxed, letting the knees give, and falling so as to
escape injury. When this technique is mastered, then
comes a higher jump. If the equipment is available,
a drop in a controlled parachute harness may be used
to accustom the novice to that form of bump. The
Germans are said to prefer to have the first jump
made from a ’plane. They believe that the tower drops
are not enough like actual conditions to have much
value.
The day of his first jump is a memorable one
for the parachutist. The first jump takes a particular
kind of courage. Men of proved bravery have found
themselves unable to make the leap. There are re-
corded cases where soldiers in a falling airplane have
refused to obey the pilot’s orders to bail out, and
have crashed with the ’plane when others jumped and
landed safely.
All first-class Powers are creating units of para-
chute troops and air infantry.
It is said that Germany has built 28,000 gliders,
each capable of carrying 14 soldiers with their
weapons and equipment, two gliders to be towed
behind a transport ’plane or bomber. Theoretically,
that would mean that Germany could transport
400,000 air troops, including parachutists.
In an invasion of Britain German parachute and
air troops would not be alone or first in the attack.
British Home Guards and army troops, not only in
the selected landing spots, but perhaps, first, in places
selected to create diversions, would be subjected to
such a preparatory bombing as war has never seen.
Every available ’plane of the reliably estimated 18,000
first-line German aircraft would strive to break the
defensive power of the Royal Air Force, the British
Navy and the ground defenders. Only then, when it
was felt that resistance was weakened, the air invasion
might commence.
Parachute troops, from ’planes protected by
German fighter ’planes, might attempt to seize, clear
and hold landing fields, to pave the way for air troops.
These would land on the seized fields and move out to
create confusion and weaken morale by destroying the
communication systems, the supply systems and facili-
ties without which the British defensive forces would
become impotent. Invasion from the skies is insuffi-
cient of itself, but it might be the element which
would enable the main attack to achieve success.
Imaginative? Not at all. If it were imaginative,
there would not be defence ditches in English fields,
obstacles to prevent the use of roads as landing run-
ways, and the Home Guards everywhere in Eng-
land. As to whether it will succeed or fail depends
on unknown factors of “invasion from the skies”
against a strong nation which has prepared against
such an eventuality.
Is Britain Turning Socialist?
(Condensed from a New York “Times Magazine” article
by Geoffrey Crowther, editor of London “Economist.”)
It is reported here in London that American
opinion, or large sections of it, expects England to
“turn Socialist” under the pressure of war ; that the
—Rochester “Times-Union" U.S.A.
SWORD OF DAMOCLES.
old tradition of conservative England is unlikely to
survive.
How far is this expectation correct?
When Americans read that in Great Britain trade
unions are one of the most influential elements in the
Government they conclude that something very radical
is happening. Actually, the reverse is the case. Trade-
union leaders are elderly gentlemen who want to get
higher wages for their members but otherwise wish
to change nothing. Even Ernest Beym, for all his
energy and forthright phrases, is fundamentally con-
servative
Anything may happen in a war, and if Great
Britain were defeated in this war after a long period
of starvation and air bombardment there is no telling
what temporary collapse of the social order there
might be. But nothing of the sort seems in the least
probable now. What does seem more than probable,
almost certain, is “revolution” in ways of thinking,
Englishmen have had a very serious shock to discover
the plight they are in. .
In the war of 1914-18 the great majority hoped
and expected It would be possi b)<ito get back to
pre-war when it was all over. Ihis time no one
cherishes that hope. There is a mood of self-examina-
tion and self-criticism in England today which has had
no parallel in modern times. No element in British
society is exempt from analysis, and wherever a case
can be made out for change there will be change.
The “revolutionary” temper is not running along
any of the neat grooves of the ideologies. Isms have
been at very strong discount ever since Ribbentrop
and Molotov signed their pact in, August, 1939. For
years British politics have been pulled to the right
and left by imported doctrines. But that’s all over
now ; doctrines of foreigners are of little interest.
Intellectually, Great Britain has turned in on her-
self ; she has rediscovered her own tradition of em-
pirical reform. It is not perhaps a very logical system
or a very dramatic or a very ostentatious one. But
with its doctrines of freedom of responsibility it has
done more for the material advancement of mankind
and the liberation of the human spirit than any ism
ever invented. Britain’s “revolution” will proceed in
the British tradition. It will move by trial and error.
It will carefully keep intact its continuity with the
past. But it will be neither grudging nor timorous.
In what direction will this wave of “British revolu-
tion” —that is, of rapid progress by evolutionary means
—proceed? Will it be in the Socialist direction —that
is, toward greater equality of wealth and wider inter-
vention of government in economic affairs?
I doubt very much whether England will follow
the leadership of professed Socialists. The Labor party
is not at present a very lively or vigorous organism. Its
trade-union elements have almost reached the terminus
of their ambitions, while its so-called “Socialist intel-
ligentsia” is still dazed by the collapse of its Marxist
religion.
These disabilities could be surmounted if the
Labor party contained a large number of competent,
hard-headed, shrewd, realistic politicians. But it does
not. Nothing has been more noticeable in Winston
Churchill’s Government than the personal mediocrity
of the Labor leaders. Some of them have been down-
right failures and the best of them haven’t risen above
the level of average competence. It is not among
Labor leaders that men of elastic mind and fighting
temperament have shown themselves.
I would advise anyone who is interested
in future British politics to put a note of inter-
rogation in his mind against the idea that the
Labor party is a rising force. There is more
evidence for saying it is a spent force which
may play a large role for some decades to
come because of the powerful machine it
commands. But it has not shown itself capable
of spawning new ideas for a new world.
Leadership is far more likely to come from
those young men of technical and professional
competence who are staffing the new Minis-
tries and learning about public affairs at first
hand. Many of them are businessmen in the
sense that they have made livings in business,
but they are not men of property.
In party politics they would probably
adhere in greatest numbers to that section of
the Conservative party most opposed to the
Baldwin-Chamberlain tradition of pandering to
every interest that is vested.
So there is little chance of the red flag
being substituted for the Union Jack, “The
Internationale” for “God Save the King.”
Nevertheless, the trend of events will inevit-
ably be toward many of the ideals the Social-
ists have cherished. For example, the prin-
ciple will soon formally be recognised (it is
already accepted in practice) that a citizen of
the British democracy is entitled to certain
fundamental rights in the economic as well as
in the political sphere—to a standard of nutri-
tion as well as of freedom, to good housing
as well as the habeas corpus, to the right to
work as well as the right to vote. And if the
maintenance of this standard of fundamental
rights costs money, then money will naturally
be levied from those who have it. There will thus
inevitably be ah approach to greater equality of
incomes, but the driving force will be the desire to
“level up,” not to “soak the rich.”
Economic and social equality is the aim of social-
ism and it will inevitably also be the aim of post-war
Britain. The Socialist method is that of intervention
by the State in economic affairs, and this, too, will
be characteristic of the next phase in British history.
But here again it would not be because of any
theoretical prepossession for State ownership and State
control, but because of the impulsion of necessity.
British economy is being twisted out of all recogni-
tion by the forces of war ; the State will inevitably
have to undo its own work. Moreover, every year
makes it clearer that the technique of large-scale pro-
duction, working in a small island, is changing the
nature of the old antithesis. The choice now is not
between individual competitive enterprise and central-
ised organisation by the State ; it is between cen-
tralised control by the State and by private trust.
The object of the new order or ideal that is grow-
ing up in England is the welfare of the citizen, not the
glory of the State. It is based on the emancipation of
the individual; its method is consent after discussion ;
it has nothing in common with the slave theories of
National Socialist Germany or the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics. It is the application to the eco-
nomic sphere of government of the people, by the
people, for the people.
I think a better name for it would be democracy.


SPORTING
SOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVE YOUR HAIR
A LOVE LINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Saturday’s racing at Randwick was
interesting, and productive of some sur-
prises. The books have had some bad
days this season, but results on the last
two Saturdays have left them without
any cause for complaint. The first two
races were won by favorites, but two
of the next four were at 25 to 1, and
another at 14 to 1. There was so little
demand for Bland Princess or Red Sails
that their respective tote prices were just
short of 54 and 26 to 1. Bonny Loch’s
machine return was at the rate of
to 1. The attendance was a little over
21,000, and the tote turnover for six
races £32,026, against £27,070 for seven
last year.
Hydra, nicely handled by J. Thomp-
son, was a shade too solid for Winnipeg
at the finish of the George’s River Handi-
cap. On Account was the early leader
from Winnipeg, Tarn and Hydra, but
Winnipeg had a slight advantage over
Hydra and On Account soon after
entering the straight. On Account was
first to weaken, and in a great finish
Hydra beat Winnipeg a head. Rod-
borough, after commencing well, dropped
back to near the rear at the half-mile,
but made such a good run in the straight
that his chance appeared a winning one
30 yards from home. However, his
effort had taken so much out of him that,
right at the judge’s box, he was scarcely
doing as well as the first two.
Rimveil, who was prominent opposite
the leger, was fourth, followed by Glori-
ous and Caesar, who looked very bright,
though a bit above himself. He will be
all the better for his race, as will Winni-
peg and Rimveil. Cut off at the start,
Radical never threatened danger, and,
while the company was too good for
Tarn, the early pace was too fast for
Glorious.
Red Sails’s form in the race won by
Brazen Lad at Moorefield the previous
week did not point to him as the prob-
able winner of the Homestead Handicap,
but Randwick is evidently more to his
liking than the smaller track. Lockray,
who led at the six furlongs, was first
into the straight, but he is still a long
way from his best, and could not respond
when tackled by Red Sails. Red Sails
went on to win comfortably from St.
Andrew, who has seemingly worked up
to a weight that puts success just beyond
him.
Lord Valentine, as usual, did well in
the run down the straight, though without
ever looking better than a minor-place
getter. Always well placed, Early Bird
was a good fourth, and her return to the
winning list is not far off. Feminist had
the benefit of 51b. allowance, but did
not shape sufficiently well to suggest that
she will add to her credit account before
she is retired. Nor did Mabson do as
well as on some recent occasions, and
backers will have to wait a little longer
before Dewar returns to his best. He
and Hilarious were not possibilities at
any stage. It was the same with St.
Constant, notwithstanding he had the
assistance of McMenamin. However, he
is rapidly getting into good racing con-
dition, and his turn for another win may
not be long in coming.
Brazen Lad was in a good position
at the turn, but tired. Owner Hughes
bought Red Sails for 75gns. principally
with a view to stud services, and that
horse did service last year.
From the time King Otho lost his rider
near the six furlongs the Hurdle Race
resolved itself into a match between Duke
Claro and Generous Gesture. Duke
Claro led from the mile to the turn, but
Generous Gesture always appeared able
to go up to him, and from the final
hurdle was a bit too good for Duke
Claro, though the latter ran well. There
was nothing of merit in Shot Gun’s third,
and the only runner that might have
challenged the winner was King Otho,
who was running third and moving up
smartly when his mistake disposed of
him. Punarua finished a long way from
the winner, but there is still hope for
him as a hurdler.
At 5 to 2 early for the Nursery Handi-
cap, The Champion shortened half a
point, but closed at threes, second in
demand being Re-Double, a good-look-
ing gelding by Double Remove, while
Antagonist was another well in the bet-
ting. Redbreast, who did the pace-
making, had sufficient lead at the leger
to make the race look a fair thing for
her, but though The Champion lost
ground through running out wide inside
the last furlong he finished too strongly
for Redbreast. Chatham’s Choice, who
also failed to keep a straight course in
the run home, was a fair third, followed
by Antagonist, who, as he was badly
served at the start, is worth following.
Re-Double also commenced indifferently,
and may do better at his next outing.
The Champion is a brother to Spear
Chief, and is trained by G. Price for
E. R. Williams, who gave 1300gns, for
him. Considering the failures of so
many yearlings sold at high prices be-
cause of their relationship to good per-
formers, any buyer who goes to over
lOOOgns. for a youngster deserves a good
return. Owner Williams looks like get-
ting it.
Bland Princess commenced smartly in
the Trial Handicap and was not after
headed. Half a mile from home Angus,
Dusky Morn and Royal Land were close
enough to Bland Princess to beat her if
they had been good enough, but from
the straight entrance she gave them no
chance, winning easily from Angus and
Royal Land, who dead-heated for
second. Haran and Rhythmic were
fairly prominent turning for home, but
they had nothing to do with the finish,
though the former ran fourth. Rhyth-
mic’s form was short of that shown by
him in his previous races, but it is fair to
say that he was badly placed soon after
barrier-rise. Bland Princess’s previous
win was at Ascot last November, when
her tote dividend was at the rate of 25
to 1, but she easily beat that on this
occasion, paying nearly 54 to 1. She is by
Madagascar from Princess Cadena, by
Valais from Cadena.
Bonny Loch was seen at his best in the
Welter Handicap. Turning into the
straight he ran past Bramol, Shem and
Knight Folly, and from that on was a
sure winner. Marengo, who is now
trained by C. Ryan, was a fair second,
though without ever really threatening
Bonny Loch. He promises to be as good
as at any time in the past. Snow Queen
narrowly gained third place from Shem,
who looked like getting second com-
mencing the last furlong, but, hard ridden
most of the way, weakened in the last
20 yards. Aristocrat was fifth, but, a
long way back after going two furlongs,
never looked like realising the hopes of
his backers, nor did Veiled Witch, who
was slow in getting away. Salivant, an-
other slow beginner, did not get in it,
and of the unplaced lot those most worth
keeping in mind are Shem and Knight
P II
y ' , * « *
Harley, bought in Sydney last year
for 500gns., advanced to G.N. Hurdle
favoritism after his easy defeat of
Bureaucrat and Allanius in the York
Hurdle at Flemington on Saturday. His
success with 9.11, or 51b. more than his
original National’ weight, was a striking
performance, as he raced fairly wide
from the mile to the turn, and could have
substantially increased his winning
margin of three lengths had Meenan
ridden him out in the last furlong.
The V.R.C. handicapper naturally did
not overlook Harley’s brilliant display,
He exercised his rehandicap rights to the
extent of 61b., but Harley’s race on Satur-
day was only his second over hurdles
since last winter, and his natural im-
provement may more than offset the in-
creased weight. He will be ridden again
in the National by Meenan, and, as that
rider will probably have the G.N. Steeple
mount on Cheery Jack, he looks to have
bright prospects of repeating last year’s
double when successful on Cheery Jack
and Blackford. Incidentally, Harley’s
trainer, Des McCormick, won last year’s
Australian Hurdle-Steeple double with
Kevastar and Dark David. “G. Capes-
thorne,” owner of Harley, is still in India
on business, but will be back in Mel-
bourne before the National is run.
Bureaucrat looked dangerous when he
challenged Harley coming to the last
jump, but it was soon apparent he had
no chance with the winner. He carried
41b. more than his National weight, how-
ever, and probably will derive benefit
from the race, but improvement will be
necessary to beat Harley. Allanius, a
good performer in the Western District,
failed after having every chance, but he
was by no means disgraced, and may be
all the better for his first experience of
Flemington hurdles. Horses make mira-
culous improvement at times, but the
form of the unplaced division on Satur-
day does not warrant discussion from a
National viewpoint.
Backers experienced more thrills than
they anticipated in a spectacular race for
the Hopetoun Steeplechase. Bridge of
Dee, favorite, and Solecism, second
favorite, fell, and it was left to Brightello
to win rather impressively from Sarno
and Nevizes. Bridge of Dee was badly
placed when he crashed near the mile,
and it is doubtful whether he would have
won in any circumstances, but Solecism
was going so freely in front that success
for him seemed assured until he toppled
over at the third-last fence. This left
Nevizes in front, but he did not finish
in a style which suggested much chance
in the National, and eventually was cut
out of second money by rising-12-years-
old Sarno, who is not in the big race.
Sarno, whose latest racing has been done
in Tasmania, was sold for a “song” not
very long ago, but Saturday’s placing
was worth £lOO, and apparently there is
still plenty of life in him.
Brightello might not have won had
Solecism stood up, but that possibility
did not detract from the merit in his per-
formance. He was badly placed and
under pressure early in the race, but rider
J. Regan saved every inch of ground, and
Brightello gradually improved his posi-
tion. He had the race won over a fur-
long from home, and, as Saturday’s win
followed his success in the Warrnambool
Grand Annual Steeple, obviously he is a
better horse than this time last year. He
looks better, too, and, considering that he
finished third with 10.10 in the last G.N.
Steeple, is nicely handicapped on the
same mark this season. He cannot be
rehandicapped for Saturday’s win, as the
Hopetoun is exempt from G.N. penalty
conditions. Highland March, previously
considered as a G.N. possibility, dis-
appointed, and neither Dark David, from
the same stable as Highland March, nor
the Adelaide gelding Grantley was im-
pressive.
High Title was no match for All Love
in the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes, but
his defeat of a smart field of open-com-
pany sprinters in the Royal Handicap
stamps him one of the most brilliant
two-year-olds in Australia. He was
always a warm favorite, and, with a dis-
play of sheer speed, ran his opponents
off their legs in the early stages. He had
a lead of four lengths about a furlong
from home, but, although the judge de-
clared he wound up with that margin to
spare from Burrabil, High Title tired
perceptibly toward the finish, and actu-
ally looked to win by about a length, with
El Golea, who came home strongly, a
close third. It was an amazing perform-
ance, and High Title is the first juvenile
to win in open company at Flemington
for many years. All Love ran badly
against the older sprinters in the Oak-
ieigh Plate, and Pandava was probably
the last two-year-old to be placed in open
company at a principal Melbourne
course. He was placed in the Hawks-
burn Handicap at Caulfield in season
1937-38.
Sprinting is always likely to be High
Title’s forte, and the fact of his not being
entered for either the Caulfield or Mel-
bourne Cup indicates that his connections
are of that opinion. Trainer Fred Hoy-
sted, however, does not rule out the pos-
sibility of his being a Derby runner if
his early spring form warrants it, but
High Title is to continue to be trained
as a sprinter for the time being, and it
is noteworthy that he has been entered
for the Cantala Stakes, run over a mile
on Victoria Derby day. At the moment
he looks more of an Oakleigh Plate or
Newmarket prospect, but, whatever his
future, the Duke John-Paper Flower colt
has already been a rare bargain at his
yearling cost of 250gns. His seven starts
have yielded five wins, a second and
£2625 in stakes.
Reg, a Lo Zingaro-Lull colt owned by
his breeder, Sol Green, recorded an easy
win from Lugano and Prince David in
the Rothsay Handicap. He hit the front
soon after the start, and, not headed sub-
sequently, was still going strongly at the
finish of the seven furlongs. This was
Reg’s first win, and the probabilities are
he will develop into a fair stayer. Lugano
also finished well enough to suggest he
will repay following, but even-money
favorite Gay Revelry disappointed his
backers. Excuses were possible for him.
No. 20 at the seven-furlongs barrier was
a big initial disadvantage, and Gay
Revelry, a slow beginner, did not have
the pace to get across and take up a
position near the rails. Hopelessly placed
early, he was about six horses wide
rounding the turn, and it would have
taken a better horse than Gay Revelry to
overcome that handicap. In the circum-
stances he did really well to finish fourth,
and there are distinct possibilities asso-
ciated with this John James colt.
A stirring finish for the Sandringham
Handicap saw West Wind outstay Son of
Aurous to win by a head, with Ellison,
who was conceding all his rivals a start
from the two furlongs, a neck away
third. The race was run at a muddling
pace, and both West Wind and Ellison
were a long way out of their ground for
the greater part of the trip. West Wind,
a four-year-old mare by Posterity-Lady
Zephyr, has revealed promise on several
occasions, but her form on Saturday was
the best of her career, and further suc-
cess may come her way during the winter
meetings. She is trained by Lou Robert-
son for C. Robbie, but was not entered
for either of the Cups. Son of Aurous
showed his best form for some time, and
at the time of writing it was contem-
plated sending him to S.A. for the Adel-
aide Birthday Cup, to be run next Satur-
day.
“Scobie” Breasley, who had won
earlier on High Title and West Wind,
looked certain to complete a winning
hat-trick when Sun Valley, his mount
in the Buckingham Handicap, held a
clear lead a furlong from home Sun
Valley, however, weakened under his
steadier of 9.7, and the lightly-weighted
Carlton, improving vastly on his form at
his previous start, finished strongly o
make a dead-heat in the last stride,
tion of Carlton’s surcingle, which broke
loose during the race, fell to the ground
after the gelding passed the winning-
post, and lay there unnoticed for some
time. But its weight was negligible, an
Percival weighed in correctly.
shaped well in third place, bu
favorite, Fur Trader, was forced to cover
a fair amount of extra ground, an
weakened to finish fourth.
* * * *
The winnejr of the Hurdle Race at
Randwick on Saturday does not incur
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT.”
Hurdle Race: Gold Pan, 1 ;
Generous Gesture, 2 ; Xerxes, 3.
First Nursery Handicap: Mel-
vale, 1 ; The Champion, 2; An-
tagonist, 3.
June Plate: Caesar, 1 ; Winnipeg,
2 ; Creditor or Micawber, 3.
Royal Mile: Marengo, 1 ; The
Squire, 2 ; Rodborough or Rathlin,
3.
June Novice Handicap: Corolla,
1 ; Dusky Morn, 2 ; Qui Va La, 3.
Ellesmere Handicap: Early Bird,
1 ; Fearless, 2 ; Lord Valentine, 3.
SECOND DAY—MONDAY.
A.J.C. Hurdle Race: Gold Pan,
1 ; Blackie Miller, 2; Bringa or
Windjammer, 3.
Winter Plate: Fearless, 1 ; Red
Sails, 2 ; Cable Boy, 3.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
(At Moonee Valley.)
(Before acceptances.)
Maiden Hurdle: Fearnought, 1 ;
Larissa, 2 ; Isambard, 3.
Juvenile Handicap; Pierre, 1 ;
Colonus, 2 ; Clivedon, 3.
Williamstown Steeple: Lockslea,
1 ; Solecism, 2 ; Nevizes, 3.
Port Phillip Hurdle: Our Boy, 1 ;
Boisterous, 2 ; The Stork, 3.
Point Cook Handicap: Grand-
son, 1; Pantoon, 2 ; Gay Invader,
3.
Esplanade Welter: Denis, 1 ;
Portico, 2; Bluebeard, 3.


a penalty for the A.J.C. Hurdle Race ;
and there is no penalty attached to the
Winter Plate for a win on the first day
of the meeting.
# * * *
Medieval Knight (Gay Crusader-Hasty
Love) has been sold to go to Maoriland.
He has sired some smart gallopers, the
best being Flying Knight.
* * * •
In Maoriland the Canterbury J.C.
(Christchurch) chairman recently ex-
pressed himself in favor of reducing
racing, but as it brings in a big revenue
it is improbable the Government will
favor that idea. Possibly Maoriland
could dispense with some of its minor
meetings, just as we could in N.S.W. ;
but though many people have an idea
that racing should be dropped entirely
during the war such drastic action in
Australia would be quite unnecessary.
Despite all its troubles England still races,
and it is worthy of note that King George
is not among those who believe it should
be stopped. He had some runners at a
Nottingham meeting early this season,
and scored two thirds.
* * * *
The Duke of Gloucester Cup, a race
for amateur riders, run at Timaru
(Maoriland) last month, had an unusual
ending. Norse won, but it subsequently
transpired that a gentleman’s license had
not been issued to his rider by
the County District Committee, though
it had been recommended. The outcome
was that Norse was disqualified and
Auctor was placed first, Taxpayer second
and Fundy Bay third. It was reported
that an appeal was probable.
af * * *
Miss K. O’Mara reminds Sydney
owners that entries for the Grafton Cup,
£6OO and £5O trophy, Ramornie Handi-
cap, £3OO, and C.R.J.C. Handicap, £250,
close on Monday, June 23. A liberal
freight allowance should further help to
make visiting horses numerous.
* * * *
All Love is not in any of the important
spring handicaps. Her absence from the
Caulfield and Melbourne Cups naturally
caused comment, but while her trainer
says he believes she will stay, because
of two strains of Carbine (through Spear-
mint) in her pedigree, he is opposed to
running a three-year-old filly in such a
severe race as the Melbourne Cup.
Unless you go some distance back All
Love’s pedigree on the maternal side
does not suggest great staying possibili-
ties, and in the spring there are some
valuable three-year-old races short of a
mile and a half. The Caulfield Guineas,
of 2600gns. is one. Whether All Love
runs in the A.J.C. Derby possibly
depends upon how she acquits herself in
some of her earlier races. She has won
at the longest distance she has attempted,
but, though there is no doubt as to the
speed of Double Remove’s progeny, we
shall have to wait until the spring to
be able to form a fair idea as to their
staying powers. If there is reason
to believe they are going to be up to the
average in that respect, they may, as a
whole, make even better prices at next
season’s yearling sales than they did
at the recent one.
* * * *
Streamline, winner of the Great
Northern Steeplechase at last week’s
Auckland meeting, is an all-rounder in
the jumping business. At Hamilton last
month he won the Waikato Hurdles,
1| mile, with 11.1, and lost his lead-
bag immediately after passing the
winning-post. It was picked up by the
clerk of the course, and passed through
other hands before eventually being put
on the scales. The trainer of the second
horse took exception to this on the ground
of irregularity in weighing-in, but his
protest was dismissed.
Circumstances alter cases. A punter
who is abroad with the A.I.F. recently
wrote me as follows: “Whenever we
backed a winner in Australia the red
flag could not go up quickly enough.
Nowadays we hate the sight of it. It
means: Enemy aircraft operating. We
feel like hoisting a green flag as a pro-
test ! ”
* * * *
The question was recently raised as to
the fastest mile and a quarter ever run
in Maoriland. Bronze Eagle is accorded
that honor with 2.2 f at Riccarton (Christ-
church). Manolive and Remarc share the
Australian record, each having put up
2.2 at Flemington.
* * * *
There is a lot in racing that is pleasant
and much that is paltry. We all have
pet aversions, and mine include those
individuals who hang about owners and
trainers on racecourses when they think
there is a win in sight. It is done by
some who should really avoid that sort
of thing, but it is surprising the extent
to which some men will demean them-
selves in the hop© of winning a pound or
two. It has more than once caused me
to remark to a trainer; “You must have
a chance today. I have noticed So-and-so
and So-and-so hanging about you.”
Opinions differ as to how much is
gained by asking trainers’ opinions, but
it has always been my idea that any
man who is a regular racegoer, and has
an average knowledge of form and con-
dition, fares better if he acts on his own
initiative. As a rule the betting market
assists in telling him whether an owner
or trainer fancies his horse.
* * * *
In Sydney racing stables shortage of
labor is manifesting itself, and in some
stables an increase in wages has been
necessary to retain men. If this becomes
general, owners may have to pay more in
training fees, and that idea will not appeal
to some. Still they can scarcely expect
a trainer to carry the extra charge. Even
at £3 10s. a week for a horse there is not
much profit in the business now for a
trainer, though he may have a large
team, and a substantial increase in his
wages sheet is going to make things tough
for him unless he is winning races. I
may add that I have no fault to find
with the employees if they can get a
little extra.
* * % *
When I. Pike resumes riding it is to
be hoped success quickly comes his way.
There is little against the possibility of
his riding as well as when he retired, but
if he does not score a few wins at an
early stage the demand for his services
is likely to drop. As a trainer he has
had experience of that kind. “Nothing
succeeds like success” is an adage that
applies strongly in racing. In my Sunday
morning walks about Randwick it has
always amused me to see the number of
cars in streets adjoining the stables of
trainers who were having more than their
share of luck, while there would not be
a car near the stables of men who were
not turning out winners. The latter could
console themselves with the hope that
their turn would come, and that perhaps
a year later all the cars would be in front
of their stables. Some trainers properly
assess the position, and are prepared for
a loss of alleged friends when they strike
a lean time.
H= H= * *
Quick thinking must enter largely into
the make-up of jockey McMenamin. We
have riders who can work their way out
of trouble after getting into it, just as
there are others —good horsemen, too —
whose chances of success are almost
nullified if they are at all unlucky early
in a race, but it is most unusual to read
of McMenamin getting into a position
that spoils his mount’s chance. At times
the erratic course taken by horses or
their riders must tell against others in a
race, and it takes quick thinking to avoid
trouble. McMenamin would appear to
have that desirable faculty developed to
a marked degree.
* * * *
P. H. Osborne still has a good Grand
National Hurdles candidate in Boisterous,
but it is unfortunate that, owing to lame-
ness, his more experienced representative,
Valhalla, will not be a runner for that
race. In the absence of Valhalla,
Sydney’s best chance of a win may be
with Blackie Miller. At his last run over
hurdles at Randwick, Blackie Miller won
decisively at two miles and three furlongs
in heavy going. He subsequently had
a walkover. The A.J.C. handicapper
makes the difference between Cheery
Jack and Blackie Miller slightly less
than the V.R.C. handicapper, and the
former’s opinion must be respected.
Although Blackie Miller is only rising
six, he has had a lot of hurdling experi-
ence, and his wins in jumpers’ flat races
prove he has a fair share of pace.
* * * *
High Title was too good for the older
horses in the Royal Handicap at Flem-
ington on Saturday, but, though the judge
gave the winning margin as four lengths,
general opinion put it at considerably
less. It was, however, a good effort, as
High Title carried 101 b. over weight-for-
age and beat some good sprinters, these
including El Golea, who, however, had
171 b. above the scale. It is unusual
nowadays for two-year-olds of class to
run in open handicaps, even towards the
end of a season, but in Sydney it was a
common practice in the earlier days, and
they had a full share of success at Rand-
wick. It surprises me that owners of
two-year-olds not quite first-class do not
race them to a greater extent in open
sprints in June and July. Handicappers
are generally inclined to be lenient
because of their age. At two years
Crossfire won a Doncaster. High Title is
in the A.J.C. and Victoria Derbies, and if
he should not prove a stayer there are
other races in which his pace will give
him chances.
* * * *
Difference in weight often makes con-
siderable difference in times for races
on the same track the same afternoon.
For instance, Bland Princess, with 6.7,
ran a mile in the Trial Handicap in 1.37-|,
while Bonny Loch took 1.38| in beating
a much stronger field in the Welter Han-
dicap at Randwick on Saturday. He,
however, had 10.0.
* * * * ;
Cheery Jack jumps hurdles brilliantly,
but as he has not yet competed over the
bigger jumps it seems to be asking a lot
of him to win the G.N. Steeplechase
with 12.5. Nevertheless, he is among
the favorites. Flemington is an easier
steeplechase course than in the old days,
but Cheery Jack will be set a stiff task
for a green steeplechaser. He may have
a run in a steeplechase before the
National, but if he does and is unsuccess-
ful he will not hold his position in the
betting market. My idea is that two he
will be troubled to beat are Brightello
and Solecism. The latter was going com-
fortably in the lead when he fell at the
third-last fence at Flemington on Satur-
day, and Brightello, who eventually won
easily, is much better now than when
third in last year’s National with 10.10.
He has an additional 51b. this time.
* * * *
When entries closed for the A.J.C.
“young” races last week there was a drop
in numbers as compared with previous
years. It would, however, be safe to bet
that runners for important two- and
three-year-old races will be quite as num-
erous as in the past. Now that stakes
are of a fixed amount and are not swelled
by forfeits and sweepstakes, it seems to
me somewhat of an imposition on owners
to have to nominate for Derbies and St.
Legers from 16 to 22 months before they
are run. It is an old English custom, but
one from which Australian clubs could
now reasonably depart.
* * * *
Two-year-olds in G. Price’s stable have
been named as follows: —
E. J. Watt:
Baroda, b. c., by Bulandshar-Cereza.
Abydos, b. c., by Hellespont-Adored.
Riverton, ch. c., by Midstream-Society.
Mundane, b. c., by Bulandshar-Visage.
Gold Tide, ch. f., by Tiderace-Fintry.
Mrs. E. J. Watt:
Roman Law, b. c., by Law Maker-Romaine.
W. Longworth:
Sea Victory, br. c., by Phaleron Bay-Hunt-
ing Lodge.
Sir S. Hordern and W. A. Winter-Irving:
Lady Hamilton, br. f., by Enfield-Faithful
Lass.
Miss C. McCann:
Babillard, br. c., by Talking-French Model.
E. R. Williams:
JE gean, br. c., by Hellespont-Tasty Pie.
Metaxas, br. or blk. c., by Enfield-Balkan
Star.
Gasooka, b. c., by Winooka-Ann Veronica.
Faust, b. c., by Manfred-Nem Song.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Patrick v. Morgan
Vic Patrick (9.134J v. Tod Morgan
(9.12H packed upwards of 13,000 into
Sydney Stadium last Thursday night, with
an overflow crowd of thousands who
could not get in standing outside listen-
ing to a loudspeaker broadcast of the fray.
The scrap was the tale of age and
experience wilting before youth and
strength, plus fighting pluck and ability.
Hitherto, Patrick, now just turning into
the twenties, had never been in the ring
long enough to allow a true estimate of
his quality. He had bowled ’em over
one after another in a round or two. On
the occasions when opponents had sur-
vived some rounds longer, he had always
been so much on top that it had looked
in each case only a matter of time
before the inevitable finishing punch,
usually a left placed under the ribs on
the right of the body.
Against Tod he shaped splendidly from
the start. Tod was foxy, scored well in
close and used defending elbows cleverly
to guard his innards ; but, for all his
boxing cleverness, he found it difficult to
carry the fight to Vic, who was actually
outboxing him. At the bell ending the
second round, something appeared to
pass between them that may have had an
effect on subsequent developments.
Having to walk past Tod to get back to
his corner, Vic suddenly hesitated and
glared angrily as if something said had
got his goat. From then on he fought
with added relish. Tod fought for the
body in an evident attempt to get Vic’s
guard down, and landed some fair
punches. However, they hardly troubled
the young chap at all. In return, Tod
had his right eye damaged above in the
first round and his left ear cut in the
second, and both bits of damage became
progressively worse, the eye looking nasty
and troublesome at the end of the fourth
round.
In the fifth Tod performed extra-
ordinarily unlike Tod. He came out
wading in like an ordinary slather-and-
whack mixer. Vic stood up to him,
punching short and fast with both hands,
ripping in short lefts to the ribs and to
the head. The strong way Vic was now
fighting there could be only one end to
such tactics on Tod’s part, and, after a
particularly torrid few seconds’ mill, he
collapsed to the canvas. Vic went a yard
or two towards a neutral corner, but was
moving in restlessly as Joe Wallis started
counting. He was behind Joe. Tod
lay curled on the floor till the count was
about halfway, then began pulling himself
together. At “eight” he had partly risen,
but was still squatting low near the floor
when Vic shot forward from a bit behind
Joe’s right side and let go a couple at
Tod’s head. Joe at once crowned Tod,
who thus had it on a foul.
Unless Tod learnt something in the
four-and-a-half rounds, or unless some
accident happens, there cannot be much
doubt about the likely outcome if they
meet for the lightweight title, which Tod
has held for years. Vic had the better
of things in practically every respect,
except, perhaps, in the finer technique of
defence. He fought gamely, calmly and
strongly, and to this, next time, would be
added a wall of confidence.
Footbrawl
The 15,000 who went to West Foots-
cray to watch the locals play Melbourne
saw something like a Blitz in the second
quarter, when the Scraggers, by fast and
dazzling play, rattled up 11.5 to 1.5. For
the first time this season the solid Mel-
bourne men were reduced to a rabble,
while the flying ’Scrays poured ball after
ball through the sticks. In the third
Melbourne recovered and reduced the
lead to five points in a fierce onset
that verged on a Donnybrook at times;
but they tired, and Footscray went on
to a win, 20.12-14.20, that has set every
other club thinking.
The Blues continued their come-back
against Collingwood, shading the visitors
all the way in pace and aerial work,
’Wood managing to get within cooee of
them only in the last spasm. Carlton,
13.21; ’Wood, 11.16.
Richmond, at home to Hawthorn, left
full-back Crane to keep the Haw-Haws
out while its rucks and forwards knocked
up 17.15 to 8.14. It was much the same
at North Melbourne, where the harried
St. Kilda side watched the locals belt up
a big second-quarter lead and go on to
win, 17.12-8.14.
The Geelong leatherchasers bumbled
around the Fitzroy ground like wool-
blind wethers looking for the gate, giving
’Roy its second win for the season by
17.14 to 10.15. At South Melbourne
Essendon was first out of the barrier, led
round the back, at the turn and up the
straight, to canter in by 13.18 to 8.13.
Footscray, Carlton, Richmond and
Essendon are now the leading four, with
Melbourne next and the rest some-
where in the distance. Carlton and Mel-
bourne are to meet on King’s Birthday.
The other three leaders have what should
be easy jobs ahead next Saturday.
* * *
Sydney Uni.’s Rugby Union team beat
East 9-8 and St. George 24-23. Both
games were won with clever tries just as
the bell was ringing, and on Saturday
the students repeated the performance at
the expense of North, 16-15. The
Northern forwards are a hard-working,
consistent lot, and they gave their backs
a grand share of the ball. The side
scored five tries and held a good ad-
vantage, 15-11, just before time; then
came another of the students’ snap-
scoring bursts, and it was all over, ’Varsity
was superior only in kicking, for all
North’s attempts went wide, and some
were very poor.
East, beaten only by the leaders, is
in second place. It won a rough-and-
tumble match with Parramatta 14-m7. A
Donnybrook was fought outside the
touch-lines ; it was drawn.
With Keith Windon, of the R.A.A.F.,
in the forwards, Randwick showed its old
form against Gordon. The score-board
recorded the sort of result the Greens
have been long striving for —35-3 (eight
tries to one)!
Manly v. Drummoyne was keenly con-
tested. The Villagers won by 9-3. St.
George put on 16 points against West;
then hung on while their visitors notched 8.
* * * *
Preceded by the usual “Sun” blah, two
Rugby League teams from the country
descended on Sydney last week to play
city sides. At half-time the first country
team had two points and the second
three; the city chaps were 20 and 31.
The farces ended with the scores 44-21
and 40-21. Perhaps the war has affected
the quality of country football. It doesn t
seem to have embarrassed city football
to any grievous extent.
* * * *
The Chinese Soccer team defeated
Northern Districts at Newcastle (5-3) and
Granville at Clyde (7-4) on the following
day Sunday. Commercialised sport has
great hopes of Sunday football in Sydney.
Sunday games, it seems, are played “for
charity,” but before long charity will
, begin at home.


:¥?:>¥
V \:V'A'-::
Al
Gillette
SHOULDERED
EDGE
mmmm
MvV' / * v W
Only Gillette machines
can make this long-life blade
Only Gillette’s own machines, with their micro-
sensitive adjustments, can give three angles in the
formation of the cutting edge. And only those
three angles, forming a sort of shoulder or buttress
behind the cutting edge, are strong enough to give ■
a really long shaving life. Mind you, no edge is
strong enough to stand rough handling, but if you
will remember never to touch the edges (especially
when unwrapping the blade) and always to lather
richly, you will get even longer shaving comfort
per blade.
USE
GILLETTE
BUY
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
AND SAVE STEEL
Gillette Sets 2/7\ to 47/-. Blue Gillette Blades 5 for 2/7.
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
SUNDRY
SHOWS
ARTBURSTS
Meldrum and His Disciples
An exhibition of the work of Max
Meldrum and some of his past and
present pupils is at the Velasquez, Mel-
bourne. It goes without saying that the
standard generally attained is of a high
order. With a teacher like Meldrum,
who on the catalogue quotes the saying
of John Constable that “in such an age as
this, painting should be understood, not
looked on with blind wonder, but as a
pursuit, legitimate, scientific and mechani-
cal,” a student who accepts his view-
point has no chance of getting away with
a shoddy, tired, indifferent or preten-
tious statement.
The criterion is set in Meldrum’s own
panel of pictures, which includes his
Archibald Prize portrait of last year, a
portrait of Professor Skeats, of the Mel-
bourne University, resplendent in his
academic regalia, some Olinda and
Eltham landscapes, souvenirs of other
parts of Victoria, and still-life, but none
of the French landscapes. Every picture
reflects some particular aspect of Nature,
and the mood of a landscape, bright or
sombre, is caught with the same sureness
with which a good psycho-analyst catches
the emotion of a patient or a writer the
feelings of a particular character. There
is no confusion of motives, but the effect
of something immediately felt and ren-
dered with all the skiff of long apprentice-
ship and then left to tell its message.
A quality similar in kind, if not in de-
gree, is present in the work of such older
pupils as Ida Meldrum, Alma Figuerola,
Colin Colahan (now in England), John
and Mary Farmer, Archie Colquhoun and
others ; and the same may be said of
newer pupils like John Heath, Peter
Glass, Graeme Bell, W. Veal and Nellie
Govett.
But the most arresting panel amongst
the pupils is that of Clarice Beckett.
This artist, who after being a pupil for
several years painted assiduously at
Beaumaris for 20 years, scarcely ever
wandering further than half a mile from
the front gate of her parents’ house, died
a few years ago, leaving hundreds of ex-
traordinary little pictures which dispose
of the notion that those who range widest
see most. A bit of tarred road and
motor headlights gleaming through even-
ing mist or a couple of bathing boxes
and a line of breakers was all the sub-
ject-matter that she needed, and she made
more interesting pictures out of them
than an R.A. out of a dozen royal
sitters. There are a dozen of her glow-
ing, opalescent landscapes in this exhi-
bition, and, being pieces of Nature seen
through the unprejudiced eyes of an un-
usual artist, they look stranger than any
“modernist” picture.
Considering the quality of the paint-
ing it seems curious, since Meldrum is a
trustee of the National Gallery, that
there are so few pictures of his pupils in
that institution and not a single one by
Clarice Beckett.
$ $ * $
Australian Art Society
At Farmer’s, Sydney, the Australian
Art Society holds its fifteenth annual
show. Most of the society’s pillars are
exhibitors, and the general effect, as ever,
is sane and cheery. Rhys Williams is
represented by half a dozen vigorous
oils, most delectable of which is “The
Old Farm.” But these canvases show
no advance on previous performances.
Possibly they don’t post-date last year’s
offerings, for at least one of this year’s
batch is dated 1928.
Garrett Kingsley is much less graceful
than usual in his stylised nudes. Posing
in both “A Book of Poems” and “The
Crystal” is strained and artificial. Jer-
rold Nathan’s best offering, “The Bath
Robe,” appeals technically, but is no
more than pretty. John Salvana, in his
big “Burragorang Valley,” has made an
effort towards a crisper style with some
success. D. M. Brookes and Jos. Holloway
show fair senior-student grade stuff.
Among the water-colorists Wm. Whit-
ney is to the fore with half a dozen
competent, colorful sketches. F. S. Davis,
more and more, apparently, under
Japanese influence, scores with “De-
serted Wharf” and “Rain in the North.”
About the best still-life in the show is
Muriel Waddy’s “Javanese Fan.” There
is strength of line and power of percep-
tion in Thorah Johnston’s sketches of
Asiatics.
* * * *
Thomas H. Bone is showing 42 water-
colors of even, if not high, quality at the
Melbourne Athenaeum. He is immedi-
ately from Adelaide, but hailed origi-
nally from Bendigo, where the veteran
A. T. Woodward was his teacher —his
subsequent inspiration evidently was
Harold Herbert. While lacking that
artist’s technical slickness, he has all his
admiration for the picturesque in Nature.
He strikes a deeper note sometimes, as
in “Morning Sunlight,” but for the most
part his pictures lack substance. “Memo-
rial Garden to Pioneer Women of S.A.”
gives an idea of the layout of the monu-
mental statue Ola Cohn carved out of
a solid block of stone in Melbourne.
* * * »
“F.S.”: Victorian National Gallery
trustees came to a sensible decision after
a Blitz of an. hour’s duration when they
accepted, by six votes to three, Eric
Thake’s “Salvation from the Evils of
Earthly Existence” and James Gleeson’s
“We Inhabit the Corrosive Littoral of
Habit” from the Contemporary Art
Society. Basil Buffer Murphy, in moving
for acceptance, said he couldn’t make
head or tail of the two Sydney surreal-
ists’ pictures, but they were possibly the
work of sincere artists trying to do some-
thing conventional ones couldn’t, news-
paperman Keith Murdoch capping this
with the suggestion that if the pictures
were hung for three months the trustees
would be given ap opportunity of finding
out the public’s reaction. A typical
“Herald” man’s reason. Nevertheless,
that was more honest than the usual
pretence of art-selection committees that
they are omniscient.
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Pagliacci”
A.B.C. made a half-hearted endeavor
the other evening to present “Pagliacci”
visibly at Melbourne Assembly Hall, as
well as orally over the ether. Listeners
had it all over lookers, inasmuch as there
was nothing to prevent the sounds con-
juring up in their minds the appropriate
images of Canio, Sylvia, Beppo and the
unhappy Nedda, or supplying them with
the requisite Italian scenery. But there
was everything to prevent the lookers
doing the same thing. The Assembly
Hall has a bleak, cold, pseudo-Gothic in-
terior better suited for a temperance
society conference than a disputation be-
tween impassioned lovers the stage is
not a stage but a dais, and the acoustics
are out of tune with an orchestra and
grand-opera ensemble.
Pauline Bindley, Alan Coad, William
Herbert, Arnold Matters and Heddle
Nash showed there was plenty of vocal
talent for the purposes of opera, and
Brearley conducted with intelligence.
But the A.B.C. ought to go out of
the business of presenting visual grand
opera until it decides to do it at least as
well as it has been done time and again
at His Majesty’s Theatre. Otherwise all
it will earn is brickbats from opera-
lovers. But the music was excellently
transmitted, and A.B.C. listeners all over
Australia were given a treat.
♦ ♦ * *
There was more music amongst the
pictures at Melbourne National Gallery
last week, and only half the multitude who
wanted to listen could be accommodated
in the Stawell. Instrumental music was
appreciated more than on any previous
occasion, the Victorian String Quartet
(comprising Frank Thorne, Bert Pettifer,
Mischa Kogan and Mederic Fraillon)
being both individually and collectively
in admirable fettle. They were heard
in the exquisite Quartet No. 18 in D of
Mozart, and the swaying, exciting “Novel-
letten” quartet of Frank Bridges, but
roused the most enthusiasm with their
final item, the quartet which Rimsky-
Korsakov, Liadov, Borodine and Glazou-
nov appear to have written as a syndi-
cated effort in honor of Belaieff. Each
section had its individual characteristics
and brought out an excellent perform-
ance from the players. There was no-
thing wrong with the songs Violet Somer-
set rendered, but if she was in good form
the acoustics of the Stawell must be
inimical to singers.
AT THE TALKIES
. . „
Footsteps in the Dark
In this Sydney Mayfair item Errol
Flynn has a spell from sword-waving,
swashbuckling adventurer costume roles
and has a crack at a modern comedy
part. The film has a murder-mystery
plot which is too feeble to stand on its
own legs, and the filmsmiths have concen-
trated on comedy to carry it along. Errol
supplies that ingredient to great effect as
the wealthy uppah-stratah figurehead of
a financial investment firm who escapes
boredom by leading a double life as the
author of popular thrillers, loaded with
satmc comment on his own social class.
Through his detective-inspector cobber
becomes involved in tracking down a
murder, which he duly does in the tradi-
tional manner. Most of the way its
choice comedy.
Errol makes a good fist of a comedy
part, and should please both those who
normally like him and those who
might have been getting a bit tired of
him as a Knight in Shining Armor.
* * * *
Elsa Maxwell, who is something in the
way of a female Robert Benchley,
appears in “Public Deb. No. 1” at Syd-
ney Century, and probably had a fair
bit to do with other sides of the produc-
t*on' events it deserved better
leading players—acting ability is not a
strong point with either George Murphy
or B ren da Joyce, who figure in the main
roles. But the film makes bright enter-
tainment with the support tendered by
Elsa herself, as herself; with Mischa
Auer as a pecuniary Communistic butler ;
with Charles Ruggles as a millionaire
with a penchant for long taxi trips ; and
with a few appearances of the charming
dial of Maxie Rosen bloom,
* * * *
“Back Street,” showing at Sydney
State, is a rather turgid piece which did
f b e rounds some years ago with Irene
Dunne and John Boles in the main
r6les and caused an un p receden ted boom
. businesses connec t ed with handker-
... , ~ , . . . . ...
chle£s a " d an V otl ; er whatnots m o which
woin f, n lachrymate. This latest edition
18 a tear-starter—which, of course,
lh e ladies Jove but it s a considerably
better presentation than the earlier one,
mainly owing to good directing and nice
acting from Charles Boyer and Margaret
Sullavan as the business magnate and
his mistress. Richard Carlson, Frank
McHugh and other sturdy supporting
players improve it.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE BANGER SIGN
Qf Kidneys
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don’t just complain and do noth-
ing about them. Nature may be warning you
that your kidneys need attention.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
in the blood, causing _ nagging backaches,
rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, swelling, pufflness
under the eyes, headaches and dizziness. Fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning show there is something wrong with
your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
Waste from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
that will make you well and keep you well.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The weather did the right thing by the
W.A.N.S. and turned on a perfect June
morning for their march through the
city. This made a striking opening to
their week. Four thousand W.A.N.S.
and affiliated sisters were on parade, and
under the noonday sun last Friday they
stepped out in their greens and blues and
khaki, chins up, arms aswing. As they
passed the Town Hall, where Lady
Gowrie took the salute, even military
blokes looked a bit impressed, and Lady
Wakehurst looked pleased.
The way of the procession (from
Martin-place, along George-street) was
lined with thousands. Around about 12
mothers and young sisters predominated,
but by a quarter to one big brothers,
fathers and boy friends were helping
pack the barriers. There was Mrs. Snell-
ing, marching like a veteran at the head
of her command. There was pretty
Mabel McElhone, stepping out at the
head of the V.As., wearing their new
winter coats for the first time. Watch-
ing these fledglings of the V.A. move-
ment from the Town Hall steps were
Miss Rosa Piper and Dr. Frances Mac-
kay, Assistant State Controllers. Near
by stood Dr. Ardill Brice, all in grey.
Glossy with silver fox was the black
suit worn by Miss Evans, of the A.T.N.A.
With her was Mrs. Heffron, wife of the
Minister for National Emergency Ser-
vices. Her short coat of dyed squirrel
and clover-pink frock were good com-
panions, Down at the saluting base her
husband stood with the wife of Premier
McKell, whose pine needle green frock
was topped by a terra-cotta velour hat.
Mrs. A. C. Godhard, who had helped
found the movement, was there, very
smart in her blue uniform. Mrs. Bever-
idge, of the C.W.A., wore a tailored top-
coat that had a real field-marshal air.
Mrs. Walton’s hair shone golden under
her Air Force cap. Mrs. McKenzie, of
Signallers fame, was among the inter-
ested ; so was Lorna Byrne, the Rural Red
Cross Queen, who for one glorious hour
of crowded strife had topped the poll
when the McGarvie Smith Institute had
smacked down in one hit £4OOO for hef
candidature. The Julius lady, Mrs. M. J.
O’Neill and Mrs. Lynch were others in the
small army of women in uniform who
stood about the Town Hall steps, fuchsia-
red carpet under their feet, the blue sky
overhead.
The pre-school child and his develop-
ment was one of the burning topics of
last week. Delegates and enthusiasts to
the number of 400 gathered daily at the
University to discuss how the child could
better be trained to take his place in this
so rapidly changing world. There was
no lack of good brains and good speakers
among the conferrers. Three who caught
the ear were Prof. Ashby, of Sydney
University, Paul McGuire and Dr. H. S.
Wyndham, of the Department of Educa-
tion. Favorable comment, too, was
aroused by the speech of Peter Board.
Dr. Ashby’s “Education for Insecurity”
was provocative in title, commonsense in
matter as relating to post-war conditions.
One passage was worthy of any of those
great Athenians who lived in the shadow
of the Acropolis: “Resolve to keep alive
that free spirit through hardship and
scorn of what, in the old economic world,
was thought to be failure.”
Mrs. T. A. a’Beckett, tall and alert in
black costume and furs, seemed delighted
with the attendance at Wednesday’s
lunch. The whole of the conference was
held in the University Union—lectures
in the hall, lunches and dinners in the
refectory. In the stilly sunlit days of
early June the setting was perfect.
Through the windows of the hall could
be seen trees and growing greeny shoots,
and that was appropriate, since the ear
was listening to the problems of growing
intellects. The walls of the refectory
are set about with paintings by good
artists. The Hospitality Committee was
under the expert leadership of Mrs. J. C,
Windeyer.
Just to put something of joy into
things in general, Kay Grant (better
known as Nell Grant Cooper) has
brought out another book of verse. It
is called It’s ’Ard to Keep Straight in
the City, and it puts a permanent into
the curl of Kay’s It’s ’Ard to Go Wrong
in the Suburbs. Kay has cast an X-ray
eye over her little world, and the results
are amusing and pertinent. The 45 or
so sets of verse deal with soldiers, girls,
bores and various aspects of this thing
called love. “How Trite—and How Right
You Are!” will appeal to every-
one who has been maddened by the
“I’m not artistic, I always say, but I do
know a picture I like,” or “I’m forget-
ful of names, but I do know the face”
type of friend. “Came the Dawn” will
raise the rueful laugh in countless slug-
abeds who live outside the city boun-
daries. The small book, which is dedi-
cated to the troops, is set about with gay
sketches by Jean Cullen.
One of the most notable figures in
Australia’s music world was Madame
Christian, who died recently at St. Vin-
cent’s Convent, Potts Point, of which reli-
gious community she had been a member
for nearly 47 years. In religion she was
Sister Mary Paul of the Cross, but
wherever good singers were gathered in
Australia she was known as Madame
Christian. Her celebrated teacher,
Manuel Garcia, lived till he was 101.
Madame Christian was 93 at the time of
her death. Until last year she gave sing-
ing lessons at the Garcia school, as she
had named the St. Vincent’s Convent
School of Music, in memory of her old
teacher.
Madame’s parents were English, the
place of her birth Quebec, Canada. It
was at the Royal Academy of Music,
London, that she studied with Manuel
Garcia, but her throat became affected by
the climate and she came to Australia
in the sailing ship J. M. Joshua. Then
two important things happened. She
became at one of the Melbourne colleges
the teacher of the teen-old Melba, and
she toured Australia with Charles Santley.
They were the two star artists at the
opening of the Sydney Town Hall. Ger-
trude Concannon, Molly de Gunst, Ella
Caspers, Kate Rooney and Carrie Lance-
ley are a few of Madame’s students who
have reached fame, if not the starry
heights of Melba.
Enith Clarke is a pianist Rockhamp-
ton (Q.) can be proud of producing.
Enith, as a youngster before study at
Sydney Con. with Sverjensky had be-
stowed the ultimate polish, had pleased
northern audiences. A.B.C. listeners all
over Australia are now familiar with
her work in solo recitals and play-
ing with orchestra. She will be heard
on June 17 over the national stations
playing with the Phyllis McDonald sextet.
The fun of last week was the curry
tiffin for Sue Other Gee’s Queen candi-
dature. The curry was made from the
secret recipe of a powerful Indian rajah
or from the powerful recipe of a secret
Indian rajah. In any case, for one shil-
ling you could mount to the gallery of
the Town Hall and look down on the
reactions of the curry-jugglers. For two
shillings you could be an active con-
sumer. Over 3000 lookers-on and per-
formers pushed their way into the Town
Hall. But not at once. This was no
brawl. There were three relays and one-
way traffic. At one time the queue
stretched from the Druitt-street steps
right along George-street. All the Red
Cross importants and Frank Albert were
there eating their curry and washing it
down with soft drinks or milk. If all
was clear profit, as is rumored, Sue has
another diamond in her diadem.
Bertha the village maiden wasn’t nearly
the simpleton she first appeared when she
peeped and turned the listening ear on
those who were plotting against
Euryanthe. Instead of in the first in-
stance running off and filling in the
necessary forms telling the secretary of
the Lord High Executioner or the then
equivalent of Scotland Yard of the dark
deed that was being cooked, she dallied
about making garlands and stepping in
the dance till almost too late. Then,
however, up she spoke. A full tide of
corroborative evidence was then poured
forth by the villainess Eglantine, who
failed to laugh off the burden of her
crime even on her wedding morn. About
to gather in the wages of her sin, she
weakened, and in gangster parlance
“came clean.” Thus Euryanthe and
Adolar, her young man with the long
sword and no faith at all, are united.
There are still two nights to go of this
story of crime and intrigue flavored with
mysticism and set to Weber’s music.
Saturday’s audience at the Con. ate it up.
Frankly this Letter’s sympathy was with
the wrongdoers, Isolde Hill (Eglantine)
and Lysiart (Sydney de Vries). They
certainly set things going, and gave the
ladies and the gentlemen of the Court
something to chat over, Isolde sang
and acted in superb fashion. Jocelyn de
Cardi was a sweet-noted and maidenly
Euryanthe who watched her step so care-
fully that, even though dragged off by her
betrothed Adolar to a mountain gorge
and then left wandering in the wilds, she
could pop up in the third act spotlessly
attired in the same frock. Raymond
Nilsson sang well as the tenor who was
worried between the spirit of a sister
who could not rest in her tomb and a
sweetheart accused by his rival.
For the second year in succession
Mrs. James Law is the secretary behind
the Fellowship of Writers’ Ball. Known
usually as the Authors’ Ball, this year it is
called “the Henry Lawson Memorial,”
and the profits go to building a stone
seat at the intersection of the two main
streets of Mudgee. All around Mudgee
is known to lovers of Australian litera-
ture as Lawson country, just as lovers of
Hardy speak of the Hardy country. The
site has been given by the Church of
England. It has a garden setting and a
background of farmland and range. The
committee has asked for a suitable in-
scription for the seat. Many quotations
from Lawson himself have come in.
Among them inevitably appears “When
your pants begin to go.” Falk photo-
graph of Mrs. Law, whose husband is
away overseas with the A.I.F. Hordern
Brothers’ ballroom and June 27 are the
place and the time.
Harry Tighe, whose play “Intrigue,”
set in the Court of Louis XIV, is now in
rehearsal by the Phoenix Players, is that
rare playwright who does not attend the
rehearsals. He very wisely leaves it to
the producer. Up till last week he did
not know the color scheme of the dress-
ing nor the design of the sets. Camou-
flage nets and their making are now his
interest, in addition to the hooked rugs
which he makes so well. His rugs have
made over £lOO during the last 18 months
for charities and various war efforts.
Sydney journalists will hold a fancy
dress carnival at David Jones’s ball-
room on July 12, partly for their own
benevolent fund and partly for war com-
forts funds. They have already helped
to provide a field ambulance and a field
kitchen for the A.I.F. and are actively
working for Red Cross funds. Their
annual ball is usually quite an event.
Somebody with theatrical experience
will have to get loose on Sydney’s outdoor
fairs. What was wrong with having flower-
and fruit-sellers grouped about the Archi-
bald Fountain, a few sellers of lavender
in old English dress strolling across the
sward and a few gipsy kerchiefs and
swinging skirts to add to the color of the
day at the W.A.N.S. Fair in Hyde Park?
The W.A.N.S. had worked hard, and
the stalls were well stocked with the work
of their hands in the way of jams and
aprons, needlework and cunningly-dressed
dolls. There was what Lemmy Caution
would call a “very old-fashioned-looking”
Lenci baby doll, her plumpness encased
in mignonette-green. Peeping out of a
basket was a white Persian kitten all tied
up with blue ribbons. About one o’clock
attractive and alert W.A.N.S. formed a
guard of honor for their president, Lady
Wakehurst, who inspected them and then
declared the fair open. Lady Gowrie had
already been there in the morning. Uni-
versal godfather Frank Albert dashed
along with a cheque for £lOO to help the
afternoon along. Minister for Education
Clive Evatt, who feels he will have to
address the W.A.N.S. as “my sisters,”
was a speaker.
The Society of Women Writers will
step into the war effort on July 15 with
its card party. Hitherto, each member
of the committee has been busy with
individual efforts ; now they will see what
they can do as a society. David Jones’s,
in George-street, will twang with the con-
centrated energy of bridge, mah jongg,
rummy, up-the--river and snakes-and-
ladders players on the great afternoon.
In fact, it will be possible to play any-
thing but a musical instrument. There’s
to be a film shown a week or so previous
to the party, and anyone anxious to help
the S.W.W. effort and at the same time
to view London’s historic buildings prior
to the Blitz should make a point of
coming to the film showing. Among
prizes for the lucky will be a book plate
by Mrs. Bertha Maxwell.
By Friday the bookings for the Muni-
tions Queen Ball were causing a little fur-
row of perplexity on the brows of the
organisers. Even the capacious Town
Hall could scarcely have squeezed an-
other dancing couple on to its floor.
The tables around which were
grouped parties between the dancing and
during the high spots of entertainment
bristled with the toys of the munition in-
ventor’s imagination. Amid the warlike
designs entered for the competition were
battle-cruisers miniature, of course —
anti-aircraft guns and a model aeroplane
whose bombs were lipsticks. Of this
“Laugh while you may and may
the Blitz never strike you,” Mollie
Vaughan was the secretary and
Margaret Maher the organiser. Cheque,
which must have been for a considerable
amount, went to the Munitions Queen
(Jo Keed) in the Red Cross competition.
Patron knight Philip Goldfinch was
among the hundreds present.
The Manly Star Younger Set has
organised its annual ball in aid of the
War Veterans’ Home. This will be held
at the War Memorial Hall, Raglan-street,
Manly, on Saturday, June 14. Robert
Taylor is president, Terry Brooks secre-
tary and Don Chambers the treasurer.
Tickets are 4s. 6d.
This afternoon at the Australia friends
are helping the Free French Forces by
paying 3s. 6d. to drink tea and listen to
sweet music.
Raymond Hanson, a newly-fledged com-
poser, is to give a recital of his own com-
positions in the Conservatorium on July
29. The works include sonatas, concertos
and lyrics. An unusual feature of the
concert is that the instrumentalists and
singers will all be males. The Red Cross
will benefit.
Mrs. Harry Herron, president of the
Strathfield and Burwood Women’s Spit-
fire Fund, was delighted to hear from
the British High Commissioner that the
following cable has been received from
London: “Much appreciate gift of £3750
(Aust.) for Spitfire Fund subscribed by
women of Strathfield and Burwood. —
Winston Churchill.”
Australian author Paul McGuire is as
forceful a speaker as he is a writer. His
speech at the Wednesday lunch of the
Pre-School Child Development Confer-
ence was a battle-cry to Australia to
shake off its age of innocence and,
becoming adult, recognise that the evils
of war may and could stretch their wings
above our island paradise. Paul, who
is sturdy of figure, has the sort of head
the Edwardian novelist might have de-
scribed as leonine. Not that his locks
are. They are barbered quite a la mode.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM
6AM
6KG
6GE
Perth ....
Northam. .
Kalgoorlie
Geraldton
500 watts
2000 watts
500 watts
500 watts
St. George’s Hse.j St. George’s Tee., Perth
Personal and Missing Friends.
TOM MUIR.—Will THOMAS MUIR, son of
the late James B. Muir, Jeweller, who resided
at Cathcart, Glasgow, kindly communicate with
his mother or with RUSSELL & DUNCAN,
Solicitors, 105 St. Vincent Street, Glasgow?
FREDERICK WILLIAM FIELD, formerly of
Timaru, New Zealand, last heard of in Sydney
in December, 1939, is requested to communi-
cate with the undersigned to his advantage.
Will any person aware of Mr. Field’s present
address, please supply same?
ALEX. BELL,
District Public Trustee for Timaru, N.Z.
Divorce Notices.
TO ROBERT FOTHERINGHAM formerly of
Prahran in the State of Victoria now of
address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife LILLIAN
ELIZABETH MAY FOTHERINGHAM has
instituted proceedings for a divorce on the
ground of desertion during three years and up-
wards UNLESS you enter an appearance in
the office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court Melbourne on or before the Twenty-
sixth day of June 1941 the case may proceed
in your absence IF you intend to defend this
suit you must file an answer in the said office
on or before the Seventh day of July 1941.
MELVILLE & MELVILLE, 118 Queen
Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
TO ARTHUR JOHN PERRY formerly of
Creswick in the State of Victoria Laborer
but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife JESSIE
VIOLET PERRY has instituted proceedings
against you for divorce on the ground of de-
sertion Unless you enter an appearance in
the Office of the Deputy Prothonrtary at
Ballarat on or before the Twenty-sixth day
of June 1941 the case may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs.
R. J. GRIBBLE & HOLLWAY, Lydiard
Street, Ballarat, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Melbourne
Chatter
The association which works, for the
welfare of the 2/11 Regiment turned up
the collars of its warmest coats and came
out in the chill night for a meeting held
at. Anzac House. Expectations were
high, for chairs were at a premium, and
all was well with realisation, for the over-
flow stood in the passage until the end
of the evening. Stoically the pals of the
2/11 went through the tribulations of
smothering coughs—the outsiders were
one up there, for they could turn their
faces to the wall and have a good splutter
when choking seemed a hairbreadth
away.
The meeting was skilfully conducted by
the occupant of the chair, Mrs. L. R.
Stillman, who read a letter signed by
Col. Stillman and other officers stating
the comforts most urgently required by
the regiment on active service. Mainstay
of the programme was Mrs. Alan Vasey,
who gave without notes a colorful disser-
tation about India. An indication of the
way in which she got her talk over was
the remark “All our watches have
stopped” from a soldier’s father in the
audience when Mrs. Vasey inquired
about the time and how much further she
had to go. The 2/11 Association has
already sent abroad £3OO in money and
kind, and an impromptu collection at
the meeting netted £ll in pennies and
small silver.
Biggest event of the dancing season,
the American Ball, will take place this
year right on the bull’s-eye, Fourth of
July. Members of the American
Women’s Auxiliary, propaganda experts
all, are already issuing their beflagged
tickets and their dodgers with a dash of
color and a sentence from Roosevelt’s last
speech—“if our children and our grand-
children can say of us ‘God bless you,’
sufficient will be our reward.” Though
there’s little we can do at the moment
for the buds of the future, there’s
always the Children’s Hospital for today,
to which the American women are one
and all fairy godmothers. In the 10
years of its existence this auxiliary of
Uncle Sam’s has presented the institution
with £5600 odd.
The Auxiliary had a party at Menzies
in honor of its tenth birthday complete
with cake and preceded by a meeting
about the do on the glorious Fourth.
Old-timer present who was elected trea-
surer for the tenth year in succession
was Mrs. S. J. Prytz, who in between
bites of her slice of iced cake talked
about the year the Auxiliary was born,
an event which happened without fuss
or frills or stir upon the horizon. It
possessed 16 members, who among them
raised £37 to buy materials for garments
for the hospital’s young inmates. Organ-
isers of the ball are Mrs. Jim Clymer
and Mrs. Judd Holt and ticket secs. Mrs.
Willfred Race, Mrs. Herbert Allen and
Mrs. Earl Minert. As Mrs. Allen
already does five days a week at the
Showgrounds canteen she’s going to be
rather short of spare time till the Fourth
has come and gone.
East off the mark are the organisers of
the A.C.F. Radio Party drive which takes
possession of July 22. Tactfully, bespoken
members of the committee waited until
St, Vincent’s appeal had closed and then,
after lying low for some 48 hours, met
at the Lady Mayoress’s instigation in the
Town Hall Council Chamber for, first of
all, fortification with tea and simplicity
fare —more in tune for this epoch than
the array of cream cakes of halcyon days.
Afterwards plans were explained, office-
bearers announced and early parties
booked. These need not necessarily hap-
pen on the 22nd, but can be registered if
held a few days beforehand. As for
other radio parties, there are quantities
of prizes for hostesses and guests. Some-
body will win a case of cutlery, some
guest somewhere will become the owner
of a yapping Peke dog. An exchange for
some other form of animal life could
doubtless be effected if the winner doesn’t
dote on Pekes, pedigreed or otherwise.
Jewellery is on the map and banknotes
are among the numerous smaller prizes.
. Mrs. Beaurepair© took the chair at the
first meeting, receiving support from
organiser Kitty McEwan, recently plucked
from Blarney House for mayoral patriotic
activities, and from hon. secs. Mrs. St.
J. Curwen, May Angliss (who filled a
few pages with shorthand notes) and
Mrs. E. M, Dye. Present were two
women in uniform that suited them —
Beth Cuthbertson, who is an A.I.F. nurse,
and Mayoress of Caulfield Mrs. Morris,
in Red Cross apparel. Among her good
jobs is that of running the canteen at the
Caulfield racecourse camp upon the site
of the panoramically glassed-in luncheon
room.
Inset, bride of Saturday afternoon
Edith Anderson, now Mrs. George Kir-
wan. She’s the younger daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. C. R. Anderson, formerly of
Terangaville, Kerrisdale. After the
honeymoon the address of the newly-
married pair will be at 30 Queen’s-road,
at George’s erstwhile bachelor apartment.
Edith’s flat was on the floor below, and
among other possessions she is moving
upstairs is her carpet. According to the
pair themselves, George is marrying
Edith for her carpet and she’s marrying
him for his superior view, a panoramic
aspect of city and bay. Athol Shmith
photograph.
A bride in brown —one of the shades
which suit her particularly well—was
Edith Anderson when, with husband
George Kirwan, she received compliments
and good wishes at the cocktail party at
Menzies which followed the wedding at
the little kirk in Punt-road, South Yarra.
Edith managed to get all accessories of
hat, shoes, handbag, etc., to tone exactly
with her maple syrup ensemble in vel-
veteen made with flared skirt, touch of
lace at throat and little coat with nipped-
in waist and embellishments of fur.
Later in the evening when she went
dancing at the Embassy with ’groom
George, matron-of-honor Eileen Lane
and her husband Charlie and a few more
friends, Edith’s apparel was a beauteous
dinner gown of off-white crepe with
effective design at the waist of beads and
embroideries.
At the cocktail party mother Mrs.
C. R. Anderson and Kathleen did the
honors with assistance from brother Bert,
who gave his sister away. Father C. R.
Anderson sent love by letter and wire
(he’s convalescing from an illness up in
N.S.W.). The newly-married pair went
to Sydney for the first part of their
honeymoon, but if they keep to their
original plans they’ll be spending next
week-end shooting the breakers further
north at Surfers’ Paradise.
Among guests at the wedding cocktail
party (they were mostly relatives and
intimate friends) were the recently-
married Shem Newmans and Harold
Brockhoffs. Harold, who was George’s
best man, is taking his Bonnie up to
Buller as soon as the first snow falls
for her first acquaintance with ski-ing.
From Koo-wee-rup for the wedding were
the John Saddingtons, they having
shelved their responsibilities for a few
hours by parking their three offspring
with various neighbors, and they’d have
coped with much more complicated pre-
parations for the sake of seeing pal Edith
on her marriage day.
Another achievement on the part of
the small but efficient Blue Wings Air
Force Auxiliary (composed of nine
female feathers only) was a cocktail party
at the Theatre Lovers’ Club. This auxil-
iary seems to know by instinct how many
people to cater for, like some kind of
second sight, for friends of members are
a casual lot and seldom answer their in-
vitations. Round about 100 turned up
eventually at 121 Flinders-lane, having
successfully explored the way to that
basement. Attached to the food (which
didn’t run out, although, as always, a lot
of hungry people made the buffet serve
as their dinner) was president Mrs. Wally
Tunbridge. Her better-half was at his
usual job behind the trestle tables of the
liquid refreshments, where he had sup-
port bright and early from Paul Lohan.
Hon. sec. for the party was Mrs. J. Dicka-
son (her husband was in a captain’s
uniform). Another assistant of calibre
was Mrs. K. M. Doe (her husband was
away in camp).
Among lucky-wheel prizes was a farm-
yard of chickens, each bird done up to
kill in crinkly paper and colored ribbons.
Later came auctioneering of the leftovers
by George Mackay and Stan Earl.
Among guests who enlivened proceed-
ings by their presence were the Arthur
Milners (ex of many places, including
Peru), Noel Paton, of the Ethel M. Dell
villain moustache, and Allan Crouch, who
with his wife has recently come from
Mildura to live in Melbourne (son Jeff is
in the A.I.F. and Joan’s doing social
science).
Mrs. Isobel Green was there and re-
ceived with open arms an offer from the
Blue Wings to do the catering for her
Pay Party on June 21 in aid of expenses
for the Military Ball to be held on 27th.
The P.M. brought back for his sister a
brocade evening bag, part of luggage
allowance to spare in Honolulu. By an
odd coincidence, the material in the bag
matches identically a dress length of
metal brocade which Mrs. Green has had
in her possession for a couple of years.
A coincidence with a twist in its tail
was the announcement of clothes-ration-
ing in England falling right into the lap
of the winter sales in Australia. All
within a few hours Melbourne women
read of the frugality their sisters in
Britain must practise henceforward and,
with coupon numbers dancing before
their eyes, grabbed their marketing where-
withal and made for the city, thrift in-
stinct hot upon them. Most concentrated
rush is towards dress materials. Prices
are high, “bargains” are things of the
past, but both retailers and general public
of shoppers seem satisfied with the rush
of business.
To be married at John’s, Toorak, on
19th are Elizabeth Riggall Poulton and
Hugh Russell Coldham, known respec-
tively as Betty and Rusty. Betty (Athol
Shmith photograph) will be given away
by papa, Flight-Lieut. Norman Poulton,
R.A.A.F. She’s 19, is an old girl of
St. Catherine’s, and after leaving school
tried her hand at nursing but aban-
doned all thoughts of that useful but
arduous career after a brief few weeks.
Rusty, who is a solicitor in Ballarat,
has a home in that town. Betty for the
time being is in Melbourne, running from
sale to sale in quest of furnishings, linen
and trousseau.
An elaborate wedding took place on
Saturday, with Myra Marsh and Lieut.-
Col. Haines in the leading roles. The
couple were married at St. John’s with
profusion of flowers, red carpet, choral
service and guard of honor outside the
church, and afterwards over 300 people
were entertained at Menzies. The bride,
who is the younger daughter of the late
Mr. and Mrs. James March, of Princes
Hill, wore white satin with flowing train,
tulle veil and orange-blossom coronet,
and was attended by two ’maids in blue
and two small flowergirls. The ’groom,
who is the son of the late Major F.
Haines and of Mrs. Haines, of Caulfield,
had support from brother-officers Lieut.-
Col. Munday and Major S. Scott.
A show at the Velasquez, catalogued
as by a group of representational
painters, included pictures by Mel-
drum, all four Colquhouns, John
and Mary Farmer, Clarice Beckett
(who died several years ago), Alma
Figuerola and John Heath. Beards
were present, but not in large numbers.
Pleasing picture among the onlookers was
Mrs. Jock Tuckfield, in slate-hlue coat
and hatless —because early in the piece
she found a matching color unprocur-
able, and later, since news was to hand
of transfer to Townsville, winter hats,
like fur coats, became superfluous buy-
ing. Her husband Jock is now a pilot-
officer, and his brother Ken writes in-
teresting letters from Scotland of life in
the R.A.A.F. and precious time off in the
family circle of wife and small daughter.
Synchronising with the Meldrum-Rep-
resentational show was the exhibition of
water-colors at the Athenaeum by T. H.
Bone, of Adelaide. School holidays
caught up with the artist, and he was
back on his job as an S.A. High School
teacher. The show was opened by Ola
Cohn, pal of art-student days, with A. T.
Woodward, of Bendigo.
Much appreciated was an earful of
“Pagliacci” in the Assembly Hall —actually
a behind-the-scenes presentation for the
general public by the A.B.C. The Com-
mission feels that there’s a section of its
musically-minded listeners which prefers
to do its appreciation through two senses
rather than one —even if it does mean
leaving the tire on a wintry night.
Orchestra and vocalists were arranged as
they are in the studio and the audience
saw as well as heard the announcer (or
maybe he’s known as the compere) in
action with the mike.
Prices are moderate-for these presen-
tations, of which “Pagliacci” is second in
the series, but applications have to be
made early for seats. Heddle Nash,
Pauline Bindley (deputising at almost the
last moment for Thea Phillips), Arnold
Matters, William Herbert and Alan Coad
were the soloists and Montague Brearley
conducted orchestra and Wireless Chorus
augmented by the University Operatic
Society. Performers, who had a mini-
mum of elbowroom on the small plat-
form, were in contrast to the audience
in evening dress —the female singers wear-
ing a variety of styles in all the popular
colors.
Awarded the M.C., Lieut. Peter Robert
Gilmour. He was born in Melbourne
and educated at Melbourne High and the
University, where he qualified as a civil
engineer. He was working for the British
Phosphate Commission at Nauru and
Ocean Island when the war gong sounded.
H. W. Kent, who is arranging the
Chinese art exhibition at Myer’s, Mel-
bourne, is a leading authority on the
ancient arts of our Celestial neighbor.
A Melbourne Grammar product, he
started in shipping, and then joined the
Butterfield, Swire firm in China. There
he spent all his leisure time poking round
Chinese temples and graveyards and con-
versing with Chinese savants. The ex-
perience he gained enabled him to spend
his small savings in accumulating a col-
lection of Chinese pottery and porcelain
which is estimated today to be worth
£25,000. He presented it to the National
Gallery, and the trustees appointed him
honorary curator of ceramics.
There was an interesting meeting when
the Messerschmitt was unveiled at the
Town Hall, Melbourne, last week. Dr.
Clyde Fenton encountered Flight-Lieut.
Carroll, both in the uniform of the
R.A.A.F. When the Flying Doctor
vanished in the N.T. in September, 1937,
after ministering to a patient, it was
Carroll who ended a seven-day search
in an Air Force machine by finding
Fenton in the desert.


THE SERVICE MAN
Crete, Greece and After.
“Ek Dum”; Troops are still struggling
out of Crete. In mountain country, full
of gorges and of people who will go
to any lengths to put a sprag in the
German wheel, many may still have a
chance. The decision to evacuate was
taken on May 28 ; on May 31, 10,000
troops, mainly Australians, N.Z. and
British, were got out. This number
swelled to 15,000.
Mr. Spender has given the staggering
Australian losses. Before the Germans
invaded the island there were 6486 mem-
bers of the A.I.F. there —nearly half a
division. Of these 2886, including 218
wounded, were brought away ; but the
Minister admits the “probability” that
“a large number of Australian troops
were cut off in the north”:
There is no indication of what propor-
tion of the 3599 missing men are prisoners
of war, what proportion died in action,
and what proportion may possibly have
escaped by means other than those pro-
vided by the R.N.
There was also “extreme difficulty in
withdrawing troops from the Retimo
area” —halfway between Suda Bay and
Heraklion. Mr. Spender added that “of
the total losses a large number are
prisoners of war.” The Germans claim
12,000 prisoners—Booo “British” and 4000
Greeks.
Mr. Nash, the acting Prime Minister
of Maoriland, said on June 3 that “some
thousands” of Fernlanders, including 761
wounded, had arrived in Cairo, but 2800
were “unaccounted for and were, prob-
ably correctly, designated as missing.”
The lack of plan and foresight about
the defence of Crete seems to have been
the salient feature of the campaign. Dare-
devil, fight-to-the-last-gasp courage is a
magnificent quality. But a daredevil
alive and with his unit is an asset; dead
or captured in a forlorn hope he is a
complete loss to the army.
When the attack on Crete began the
Australians were organised as a single
unit. They were hurriedly distributed
over more than 70 miles of North Cretan
coastline, so that there was no chance
of rallying as a force again when the time
came to evacuate. The Commonwealth
acting official war correspondent in Cairo
quotes an Australian brigadier as saying
that, by the time the A.I.F. was called
upon for service in Suda Bay area, he
had two Australian battalions left under
his command, which came up to support
the Maorilanders. They fought their way
back into olive groves side by side and
hid among the trees at night. Next
morning, Germans advanced with mortars.
They were held till noon.
Then the weary Australians and Maori-
landers retired inch by inch all after-
noon, all night, and saw dawn come up
with snipers picking them off from the
flanks.
The brigadier and his Maoriland oppo-
site number decided that men could not
fight all day and retreat all night; so
they began the kind of action which is
always a last desperate remedy. N.Z.
troops would act as rearguard, stalling
off the Germans; A.I.F. would retire.
Enzedders would retire through Aus-
tralians, who would become the rear-
guard. The leapfrog process would be
repeated —this in daylight, with over-
whelming air-power overhead and fresh
German troops with an unthreatened rear
pouring in every hour or so to relieve or
strengthen the attackers.
And the retiring units could not hasten.
They, a mere handful, now were them-
selves a rearguard on whose holding
power escaping thousands behind them
depended for safe evacuation.
The second night, halfway to embar-
kation point, the gallant little band and
their two brigadiers heard that the
evacuation was in progress.
They had orders to hang on to a posi
tion and to be ready to stay there for
72 hours. They had a few Brens and
light tanks which proved a deciding
factor and blocked a vital gap. Food
supplies were so light that the rear bat-
talions got only half a meal per day per
man for the last two days.
Suddenly, 24 hours short of their
expected sojourn, reinforced by men who
had been appearing in bunches out of
the gullies from all directions, they were
ordered to embark.
Major-General Freyberg, C.-in-C. on
the island, was so hard pressed at one
stage that for two hours he and his staff
lay flat in a valley while German ’planes
overhead poured down a hail of bullets
on them, trying to bag a near-by A.A.
battery.
The stories of the rank and file all
have the same ring of hopelessness and
gallantry—a crew which had a German
two-pounder dropped to it from the
skies; a sergeant who led his section to
safety through fastnesses he had never
seen ; a Wollongong (N.S.W.) man who
walked with his mates through the moun-
tains. For the last three days they had
only a slice of bully beef with two biscuits
each to eat: —
Not far behind, the New Zealanders
were fighting a terrible rearguard action.
One night they were relieved by Austra-
lians. The boys did not leave one wounded
man behind. They commandeered donkeys
to carry the wounded. Water was like
gold. Often the men punched the radiators
in broken-down cars and drank the con-
tents. They reached the coast and waded
up to their necks to waiting boats.
Mr. Fraser, the Prime Minister, was
in Egypt when the Maorilanders arrived,
tails up. He was agreeably astonished
at their physical condition.
The R.N. and R.A.N, bore the brunt
of the evacuation. The first men in the
Heraklion area were shipped on May 28
by three cruisers and five destroyers,
which took a horrible pelting from the
air. H.M.A.S. Perth bore a large part
of the burden of taking off Dominion
troops on May 29. She came in as near
to shore as possible with three gang-
ways down. The men were ferried swiftly
from shore in flat-bottomed boats, each
holding 50, until she had loaded 1200.
But though she was bombed for seven
hours continuously one day and 13 hours
the next, she suffered comparatively
little damage, and the German tale that
she had been sunk proved a furphy. The
Orion brought back 1100, fighting off
several attempts to sink her.
“Even greater than at Dunkirk,”
veterans of that immortal episode said
of the Navy’s work in Crete.
The official Australian correspondent
says that 1000 German ’planes were used
in the attack. It was an all-air war on
one side during the decisive phases, and
a war fought from ground and water,
with virtually no air protection, on the
other.
This is the vital factor in determining
the value of the costly and humiliating
lesson, and emphasises the urgency of
the inclusion of air units as a necessary
integral part of all expeditions.
With the growth in the size of
machines, the increase of their speed,
larger and larger air-borne German
armies will be carried over great distances
from now onwards until means can be
found of meeting them aloft and pre-
venting their landing or dropping effec-
tive numbers of troops. And means can
be found.
Crete has proved something for the
Germans so deadly and valuable that
it now seems insanity that they should
have been conceded the chance of ex-
perimenting on so convenient a testing-
ground for their methods. It would have
been far better to abandon Crete and
force them to try out their theories over
the long stretches of the Mediterranean.
This conclusion sticks out of every mili-
tary comment on the brief and disas-
trous, albeit glorious, campaign.
Up to the time of their success in
Crete, the German knowledge of air-
borne land warfare, operated across a
stretch of water with a strong navy in
between was only theoretical. Now, in a
perfect laboratory, the enemy has proved
his theories. He knows how and when
the thing will work, what methods he
must employ in future, what he must
discard.
He has received, indeed, one of the
most valuable bits of information that
could be conceded to an enemy by an
unwary adversary.
The arrival of straggling troops and
small groups from Greece at points of
safety is still being reported. The Com-
monwealth official war correspondent
during the week wrote the epic of a
colonel and 300 men who made an escape
which seems fantastic in its daring. The
party travelled 100 miles by land. Once
it was actually faced by Germans on the
road at night, but it was saved by the
presence of mind of an Aussie who mut-
tered what were probably his only words
of Greek, “kali nita”— good night. It
must have seemed to everybody in the
party an epitaph rather than a greeting ;
but the Germans let the lads pass,
taking them for Greeks, They reached
a port, got fishermen to take them
to an island from near Lamia, and,
finding Germans and 12 A.I.F. men
there, bolted for Skyros, the 12 A.I.F. men
with them. Adding some Maori-
landers, they set off on a new voyage in
a small boat, with a quarter of a tin of
bully beef per man per day as ration,
sneaked down the Turkish eoast past the
Dodecanese, were picked up by a Nor-
wegian tanker with a crew which had
escaped from Norway via Russia and the
Black Sea, and reached Cyprus.
Egypt to Greece and Back.
Gunner Fred Kelso, sometime of
The Bulletin, to his mother, Mrs.
William Kelso, of Rand wick:
I should like to see Greece again—in other
circumstances. As we moved towards the front
the people waved and the women called down
blessings on us ; and it was the same when we
came back. Some Greeks may be traitors, but
the great mass of them are good people.
And there are sights I shall never forget.
The Acropolis, with the Parthenon; the theatre
of Dionysus; those hills and trees and the vil-
lages and fields! Full of color it all was, with
myrtles in bloom, daisies and masses of red
poppies, ikons by the roadside; and over all
the bluest of skies.
But those dive-bombers with black crosses
on the tail! If I never see one again it will
be too soon.
When one attack came I took cover behind
a well in a clump of trees; and a queer thing
happened. Just above me in a tree sat a cuckoo,
and between the crashes of the bombs it
sounded its loud note. Birds seemed un-
affected by the thunderous warfare of man. In
Libya, after violent barrages, birds would sing,
and it was the same in Greece; larks, nightin-
gales and that humorous little cuckoo.
The dive-bombers pursued us to the ships;
but the Navy was too good for them. What
a service! No wonder we are proud of it.
The Navy and the Merchant Navy carried on
as if it were all in the day’s work.
Crete was our first stop. Time has stood
still there; I suppose our arrival was the most
exciting thing that happened in the island since
the time of Minos. We found the countryside
very like that of the mainland, and the hills
covered with snow.
As soon as they could they carried us away
and “Alex.”—beautiful Egypt!—was just like
home. When we left the boat the Church Army
took us in hand; tea, coffee and cocoa were on
tap and biscuits and chocolates handed round.
I had a spot of shell-shock and was sent by
train to hospital. We arrived late at night and
were drafted to our wards, handed pyjamas and
put between sheets on real beds. After hiding
under olive-trees and sleeping on the decks of
boats it was almost too great a change. We
must have been wonderful-looking objects. I
hadn’t washed or shaved for weeks.
Next morning the Red Cross people came
round with fags, razors, soap, shaving soap,
toothbrushes and paste, and a dillybag to hold
all. And now the old sights, smells and sounds
(“eggsacook,” “orange in basket —very sweet,
very clean”) have become familiar again.
I should have said that our returning boat
was half-full of nurses, Aussie, N.Z. and
British. I take off my hat to those girls. The
contrast between them in their trim uniforms
and tin hats and us ragged, unshaved men to
whom they talked so pleasantly must have struck
our seamen. But all hats go off to the Navy
and the Merchant Navy.
Syria Invaded.
“Ek Dum”: At 2 a.m. on Sunday,
June 8, Free French and British Imperial
forces —Australians among them, news-
papers declare crossed the Syrian
border from Palestine.
General Catroux commanded the
Free French ; General Maitland Wilson,
the British Imperial forces. Numbers on
our side were not stated, though Vichy
said 20,000. Vichy is claimed to have
45,000 men, one-quarter to one-third
white, with tanks and a small supporting
air force, including fighters.
The British Government stated that last
July it had warned the world that it
would not allow Syria to become a base
for enemy operations against countries in
the Middle East which Britain was
pledged to defend.
The statement continued:
In spite of this clear warning the
Vichy Government, in pursuance of its
policy of ■ collaboration with the Axis
Powers, has placed air bases in Syria and
Lebanon at the disposal of Germany and
Italy and supplied war material to the
rebel forces in Iraq. German infiltration
into Syria has begun, and the Vichy Gov-
ernment is continuing to take measures of
which the effect must be to bring Syria
and Lebanon under full German control.
Saying that it could not be expected
to tolerate such actions, “which went far
beyond the limit of co-operation” laid
down by the armistice with Germany,
the British Government associated itself
with a pronunciamento issued by General
Catroux to “the inhabitants of Syria and
Lebanon.” He said he had come to put
an end to the French mandatory regime
and proclaim the republics of Syria and
Lebanon free and independent, “able
either to form yourselves into separate
States or to unite in a single State.”
The Vichy Government pronounced
the invasion “unjustified aggression
against the French Empire.” It de-
clared that there were no German troops
in Syria and no German ’planes except
four which were damaged. Exultant
Berlin denied any infiltration.
There was little detail of the invasion
except that heavy fighting was taking
place on the edge of the high Jebel
Druse, a rough mountain tract sitting
like a star in the elbow of the mandate
border south-east of Damascus. There-
abouts Gamelin hammered the Druses
into submission in 1927.
The railway runs along the western
flank of this mountain country through
a valley of which the seaward fence is
formed by the eastern foothills of Mt.
Hermon. Damascus, the Syrian French
metropolis, is 75 miles or so by road and
rail from the Palestine border. Railway
and road from there go on, via Aleppo,
to Istanbul and thence into Europe. The
aerodrome at Mezze, outside Damascus,
was bombed on Sunday.
About 100 miles or a little less from
Damascus on a branch line to the coast
is Beirut, the main port; 40 miles to the
north of this is Tripoli, where the oil
pipeline reaches the Mediterranean.
Aleppo, if the Germans make a bid
for it, via Latakia or some other northern
point, or direct with troop- and tank-
carriers, is the vital area. From Aleppo
roads run in all directions, many of them
ideal for mechanised use, and there is
much country round about it where
heavy ’planes could crash-land, as the
Germans did in Crete, more easily than
in that island.
Aleppo is backed by strong defence
lines in rugged mountain country a
couple of hours’ run away to the north
beyond Afrine towards the Turkish
border. It is about 60 miles from the
Mediterranean coast, to which it is joined
by good roads.
When the British and Free French
forces set out on Sunday morning they
had over 300 miles to go over defended
country to reach Aleppo.
On Monday it seemed that the attacks
from Palestine were being made with two
armored and tank forces supported from
the air, one driving through the edges of
the Jebel Druse country towards Damas-
cus, the other along the coast towards
Beirut. Vichy reports said that a British
battleship, two cruisers and five destroyers
were co-operating in the coastal attack
south of Beirut. Vichy also mentioned
a drive along the pipeline from Iraq
towards Homs and Tripoli. If this were
successful, it would cut the Mandate m
halves and bring the invading forces
within 130 miles of Aleppo.
Vichy on Sunday admitted two raids
on the aerodrome near Beirut. The
first, it said, caused little damage ; the
second lighted small oil-tank fires. There
also were attacks on ’dromes at Palmyra,
Rayak, Mezze, near Damascus, and
Neras.
Vichy claimed that its troops were
holding up the British and Free French
advance in the south, and that “three
enemy ’planes had been shot down” and
several armored vehicles destroyed.
Tough Work Ahead.
“Ek Dum”: Events are moving in
more than one part of the Mediterranean
zone.
Major-General Dobbie, the Governor
of Malta, who some time ago declared
martial law on his own responsibility,
remarked at the week-end that the island
was facing the possibility of invasion. He
added that Malta was more capable of
resisting invasion than Crete, and that
“the Government and fighting forces are
doing their utmost to ensure that Malta
gives a good account of herself, and I
am confident we will succeed.” Which
suggests that he looks on an air-borne
attack as a foregone conclusion.
Malta has everything that Crete lacked,
on the ground at any rate ; plenty of
A.A. guns, underground shelters galore,
unlimited artillery, universal conscrip-
tion, ample listening posts and a terrain
crisscrossed every few yards by stone
walls and boulders which make landings
by troop-carriers a perilous business.
If Malta had been an easier nut to
crack, the Germans would have tried an
attack long ago. It is easily the best-
equipped naval base of the three in the
Mediterranean —the only one fully able
to deal with the largest types of capital
ships.
On the Tobruk-Sollum front, S’Afncans
are arriving. One batch travelled 3000
miles through sandstorms and blinding
heat from East Africa. The S African
Air Force has already appeared in the
sky over Tobruk, and early last week it
brought down a Henschel co-operation
machine. At both Solium and Tobruk
activity on the ground has lately been
limited on both sides. Great heat is being
experienced in this region. The Italians
claimed to have captured, near Bardia,
an officer and men who had escaped
from Crete in a motor-boat.
The most important development of
last week was a natural sequel to the


\ W-i 33
m
• • they
had everything
while he lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND CENERAUNSURfINCE CO.ITD. A
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Mingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
SADDLER
MADE
HORSE
rugs ?#>
Yv
WITH “
“STAYS-ON” Ik A J
FITTINGS.
(Ulus. Right.) \
With Hind-leg yj J mfl
Strap Fittings, 2/6
less per rug.
•
All Flax Navy Canvas, fleecy check
lined.
sft. 6in 85 / 6
sft. 9in 88 / 6
6ft 91 / 6
-¥■ ====== ★
18oz. Imperial White Duck, fleecy
check lined,
sft. 6in 43/9
sft. 9in 44/9
6ft 46/-
Postage, 2/9 per Rug in K.S.W.
WAITHER *. STEVEMSOH ■
"35 CEORCEST. SYPHeTI
rr.r?
capture of Crete. While R.A.F. bombers
were blasting Benghazi on Wednesday
evening, a large formation of Germans
crossed the sea from Malemi and spent
14 hours over Alexandria. They killed
150 and wounded 200 and wrecked many
buildings. The Egyptian Government
says it will pay damages for the destruc-
tion of life and property from German
and Italian funds it has seized.
On Friday night, the Germans were
back again, despite the Egyptian protest
to Berlin against the bombing of neutral
populations. Several bombs were dropped,
considerable damage was done and it was
feared that the casualties were heavy.
One German ’plane was shot down.
By comparison with the London raids
the duration of these attacks was short,
but they have proved that Port Said,
Alexandria, Mersah Matruh and Tobruk
are all now faced with menace from a
new base of operations.
Over Northern Europe.
“Aileron”; The R.A.F. was far more
active than the Luftwaffe over northern
Europe during the first week of the
month. Desultory German raids over
Britain did little damage and caused few
casualties. But the R.A.F. began with a
visit to Berlin and n.-w. industrial centres
on Monday night, made a low-level raid
on Le Havre and on an aerodrome near
Cherbourg on Tuesday, losing a machine.
On Wednesday night a high rising
moon brought raiders to the Midlands,
where Birmingham and another town had
attacks. London had an alert, but there
was no raid. The Germans claim to
have bombed harbor works at Chatham.
R.A.F. and F.A.A. scoured all the enemy
North Sea coasts, repeatedly hit a ship
off Norway and blew a 500-tonner out of
the water at Zeebrugge —a 3000-ton ship
was noticed partly under water- outside
the harbor. A trawler added a Heinkel
111 to the R.A.F.’s bag of six enemy
’planes over Britain on Tuesday. London,
which has been almost completely left
alone since May 10-11, had its first day
raid since April 22 on June 6, and there
were slight raids elsewhere.
An Australian - manned Sunderland
brought down a German seaplane in the
Bay of Biscay on Thursday, and Maori-
land’s new Spitfire squadron drew its first
blood. Its squadron-leader, who had put
“Cobber” Kain through his early paces
and worked his passage to Britain, de-
stroyed a Junkers 88.
On Friday night a single bomb was
dropped in London. There was slight
enemy raiding elsewhere. The R.A.F.
attacked shipping and Channel ports, par-
ticularly Brest. The Luftwaffe, which at-
tacked a Channel convoy, claimed to
have sunk two ships of 27,000 tons off
Scotland. Since March 12 the R.A.F.,
mainly in daylight attacks, has destroyed
83 enemy ships and damaged 72 others.
Changes in Commands.
“Ek Dum”: Sir Arthur Longmore, the
St. Leonards (Sydney) boy who since war
began has borne the brunt of R.A.F. deci-
sions for the Mediterranean zone and
beyond, has been named Inspector-
General of Training in Britain. The
change may have been made either to
give a tired man a rest or to apply
Mediterranean experience to training in
general.
Longmore’s second in command, Air
Marshal Tedder, succeeds. He is a ver-
satile fellow who took a B.A. in the
History Tripos at Cambridge, joined the
Colonial Civil Service and was posted to
Fiji, returned to join the Dorsetshires in
1914, served in France and Egypt, and
commanded the old 207th Squadron at
Constantinople in the troubles of ’22-23.
He has been Director of R.A.F. Training
in Britain, and C.-in-C. Air in the Far
East, He married a Sydney girl—Rosa-
linde Maclardy.
As the new Deputy C.-in-C. in Cairo will
be “Peter” (Roy Maxwell) Drummond,
the Westralian, who becomes an acting
air-marshal, the command will retain its
Australian flavor. “Peter” enlisted as an
A.I.F. private, joined the R.A.F. in 1916
and won the D.S.O. and bar and M.C.
Chief of Staff at Heliopolis before war
broke out, he laid out most of the Middle
East air routes. Drummond has—or had
recently—other Australian offsiders, not-
ably Arthur Flower, group-captain last
year but due for promotion. Flower
hails from Bemboka (N.S.W.), and rose
to eminence by the same route as Drum-
mond.
Acting Air Vice-Marshal Norman Bot-
tomley has become Britain’s new deputy
chief of the Air Staff. He has been
senior air staff officer of the Bomber
Command, and his last pre-war experi-
ence was in command of No. 1 Indian
Bomber Group for three years—he
gained the D.S.O. and was mentioned in
dispatches during some of his border
service on that job.
Acting Air Marshal Arthur Harris,
who has been appointed for “special
duty,” served with the Rhodesians in the
last war, and graduated into the R.F.C.
Three new military commands, all with
C.-in-C. rank, have been made to un-
specified posts. Lieutenant-General Hain-
ing, Vice-Chief of the Imperial General
Staff, has one-. He has held command of
the Operations and Intelligence at the
War Office, and succeeded Generals
Wavell and Dill in command in Palestine
before the present war. He was G.O.C.
of the British Western Command 1939-
40. Major-General William Platt, com-
manding in the Sudan since 1938, and
much involved in the successful Abys-
sinian business, goes to a special com-
mand.
A very interesting appointment on the
“secret list” is that of Lieutenant-General
James Handyside Marshall-Cornwall,
a Royal Artilleryman with a brilliant staff
record in the last war and a remarkable
series of qualifications, which give pro-
phets plenty of scope for guessing.
He was with the Americans during
1917-18 for part of their service, and
holds the United States D.S.M. He was
at the Peace Conference. He served with
the Black Sea forces, and was one of
the commission which fixed the present
European borders of Turkey. He was
in Shanghai on special service, and was
military attache in Berlin, Stockholm,
Oslo and Copenhagen. In 1937-38 he
was chief of the British Military Mission
to Egypt; then he became head of the
British Air and Coast Defence at the
War Office. When last heard of he was
back in Turkey.
H.M.A.S. Perth, which was in the thick
of the TEgean operations, came off
remarkably lightly considering the work
she did—she “transported many thou-
sands of men from Crete to safety.” Our
cruiser was hit by one bomb of the hun-
dreds hurled at her and four ratings were
killed—Leading Cooks W. B. Fraser
(N.S.W.) and N. T. Smith (N.S.W.),
Stokers H. Straker (N.S.W.) and H. C.
Smith (Vic.). Three hands were wounded.
* * * *
It is stated officially that there are now
heavy Imperial forces defending Cyprus.
How heavy is not indicated, but from
Nicosia, the capital, it is reported that
“the towns have assumed a military ap-
pearance.” A large number of the troops
are admitted to be A.I.F. men, but there
are no details, save that they are at battle
stations, and every road, port and aero-
drome closely guarded against surprise.
The C.-in-C. is a British general.
* * * He
More Italian troops have been mopped
up in southern Abyssinia. In a battle
at Omo 3000 Europeans and 1000
Eritreans were captured by East and
West African troops.
* * * *
In Iraq fighting has ended. On June 4
Cairo Headquarters stated that troops
had been sent by air and motor to Mosul,
which was under control within two
hours of their arrival, though some A.A.
resistance was encountered. It is not
known whether the pipeline is operating,
though the oilwells appear to be intact.
A series of riots accompanied by looting
were put down in Bagdad without diffi-
culty, and the new Government seems
to be firmly in the saddle.
» * * *
The safe arrival overseas of A.I.F. men
from “all States” is announced. The Vic-
torian contingent was the largest to leave
Melbourne in a single embarkation. A
considerable force of R.A.A.F. men and
nearly 100 nurses went with the convoy,
* * * *
Great things are expected from the new
steel indoor shelters which have been
put into use in Britain after several
months of experimenting. The shelters
are made both to carry weight and to
deflect debris. They had their first big
test in a raid on Merseyside. Two adja-
cent houses were struck and collapsed
on top of ground-floor shelters, which
easily withstood the crashing weight.
Four grown-ups and two children were
afterwards rescued, none the worse save
for bruises.
* * * *
With its customary care for the veri-
fication of facts, the Admiralty announced
the sinking of three German supply ships
and an armed trawlel* supposed to have
mothered the Bismarck.
* * * *
Two K.C.Bs. were handed out to com-
memorate the R.N.’s great job in the
Greek evacuation. One went to Rear-
Admiral Pridham-Wippell, whose de-
stroyers were with Sydney when she sank
the Bartolomeo Colleoni and with Cun-
ingham at Matapan. The Rear-Admiral
held destroyer commands for many years
—he was off Palestine in the last war.
The other decoration went to the enter-
prising Canadian-born Tom Baillie-
Grohman, who, now a rear-Admiral,
has made some long voyages and many
acquaintances in Ramillies, one of the
Royal Oak’s sisters. He is a destroyer
expert, and he commanded the Boys’
Naval Training Establishment before the
war.
* * * *
It is now scarcely believable that
Admiral Cunningham, already fully
occupied, voted for accepting so serious
an addition to his responsibilities and
risks as the Greek adventure entailed,
though it has been said or implied that
he was a consenting party. Perhaps his
attitude was modelled on that of his
master Fisher when the attack on the
Dardanelles forts was decided upon by
the Asquith Government after Fisher
had made his opposition known to
Asquith and Churchill. “Fisher,” as was
written afterwards, “sat and listened to
the men who knew nothing about it and
heard one after another pass opinion in
favor of the venture to which he was
opposed.” He rose intending to resign
there and then ; but, as he himself wrote,
“I reluctantly gave in to Lord Kitchener
and resumed my seat.” Looking back on
the episode, he pronounced it “the duty
of any officer, however highly placed, to
subordinate his views to that of the Gov-
ernment unless he considers such a course
so vitally antagonistic to his country’s
interests as to compel him to resign.” He
said also; “When sailors get round a
council board, they are almost invariably
mute. The politicians who are round
that board would never have got there
if they had been mute.”
* * * *
Flight-Lieutenant Bob Bungey, of
Glenelg (S.A.), goes from the R.A.F. to
command the first Australian fighter
squadron formed abroad —it is equipped
with Spitfires. At Adelaide High School
he captained the football team and was
a keen swimmer and cricketer; then he
worked for an insurance firm. He went
to Point Cook for training for a short-
service appointment to the R.A.F., getting
his wings in June, 1937. A couple of
months later he was in England. He
is 26.
♦ * * *
“Pawang”: The Germans may have
doped parachute troops in Crete with ben-
zedrene to stave off fatigue, but it is highly
improbable that the phenomenon of
bodies turning pea-green after death,
reported by a British officer, was a chemi-
cal effect of drug-taking. There is no
drug known that could produce quite as
startling a change as that and not com-
pletely incapacitate the user. A possible
explanation of the greenish hue would
be that the bodies of the parachutists,
dead before they reached the ground,
were dragged for long distances. Bruis-
ing would give a green appearance.
» * * *
“Ek D.”: No old military tradition
in Australia? In 1848 Private George
Henry Wright, aged 19, enlisted in the
12th Line Regiment at Weedon, in Buck-
inghamshire. In 1860 they discharged
him in Sydney with a good-conduct
badge. In 1915, clutching the old man’s
“parchment certificate,” Private S. Mar-
shall, a grandson, turned up in the 2nd
Battalion, A.1.F., in which the largest
member of The Bulletin’s family, Tom
Purcell, served. He fought his way
through Pozieres and Bullecourt, won the
M.M. in a bombing raid, was wounded
in Sept., 1917, taken prisoner in March,
1918, and given a platelaying job by the
Hun round St. Quentin, Guise and
Frederichsfelde. He turned up in Eng-
land to celebrate the Armistice in hos-
pital, having escaped via Holland. His
son, 18 years of age, has joined the
R.A.N.
* * * *
Though it didn’t achieve flaring head-
lines in the boo-boo press, the “Japan
Times and Advertiser” paid a nice
tribute to the Anzacs in Crete;
They proved that modern manhood is
not decadent. The Japanese admire courage
and self-sacrifice and grant • particular
honors to the fighters in Crete.
* * * *
Sturdy English voice describing Lon-
don’s Labor conference to the Empire :
“The Mayor of Westminster, who was
to have welcomed us, was unfortunately
killed at his post in a raid. Queen’s
Hall, where we were to have met, has
been destroyed. We might, perhaps, have
chosen a quieter place to meet. But we
don’t let Ttler say where we are to meet
—we meet where we like.”
• * * *
Perth “Sunday Times” has published
some very vivid letters from Stan O’Brien,
a veteran of 1914-18, who was well up
in the rush to be in the present war. A
former Perth councillor, he is a son of
Con O’Brien, an early Murchison iden-
tity and M.L.C., who himself left a pros-
perous Perth pub to join the First A.I.F.
Of his voyage to Greece, Stan O’Brien
wrote: “We got over 0.K., but in the
ship behind us our ambulances and ten
of our men copped it, and she went down
in 10 minutes, blazing.” Arrived in
Greece, the O’Brien unit found “the
towns full of Germans walking the
streets, German cafes, German Consul
and all.” He was in the Piraeus when
“Jerry ’planes came over in waves, and
Australian ambulance men had to help
with the job of finding the dead and
dying under the debris of sheds, build-
ings and ships.”
The orderliness of the day before had
given way to a mass of rubble and destruc-
tion. Ships had either been sunk or were
drifting round the harbor, blazing fiercely
and setting fire to everything they came
in contact with. Next morning, 170 tons
of T.N.T. went up and shook Greece
from end to end; the reverberations echoed
and re-echoed through the islands of the
zEgean for fully a minute, and the air was
black with bits of everything. The people
of the Piraeus docks, unlike the Londoners,
had no conception of things like this. The
kids clung to the Australians and wouldn’t
let them go.
That and the subsequent strafing ex-
plained why the Pineus couldn’t be used
during the evacuation. When last heard
from O’Brien had survived the campaign
and was ready for another.
* * * *
“Ek Bum”: Nobody who has not seen
it can vision the immensity of the Singa-
pore base —or rather bases. The whole
island bristles with fortifications ; so do
the islands round about. The base proper
and its accessories cover an area of
approximately 21 sq. miles. The largest
guns—l Bin.—throw a shell weighing
33201 b. for a practical range of 30-odd
miles, at which distance they can pene-
trate a foot of ordinary steel armor. The,
underground oil storage carries nearly
enough oil to supply Australia for a year.
The big graving dock could hold nearly
70,000 men standing shoulder to shoulder
on the bottom. It is not purely a British
affair —Malaya has provided a very large
proportion of the construction cost, and
Maoriland has helped. The Common-
wealth did not contribute—its building
of a navy constituted its share of the
general defensive scheme. Total cost was
nearly £50,000,000.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ,
F. B. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C-M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the world, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
An automatic self-contained sanitary system
which can be installed by any handyman.
No water supply required.
•NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Gives modern sani-
tation at small cost.
lUHlUII:
Efficiency, mechanism and long
life fully guaranteed.
Price, £lB/8/- f.o.r. Sydney.
Including sales tax and crating.
Write Dept. B for illustrated pamphlet.
i Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.
1 26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Approved by the
Board of Health.
v v
SAVE MONEY
\
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
|| NEW
CHAMPIONS
■
; m
Si
GARAGE
u
-
CHAMPIONS
REDUCE THE COST
OF MOTORING
Install new Champions and get
strong hot sparks that ensure
complete combustion of the
fuel. Less carbon. More speed
and power. And much more
economy. Champions save
you money!
An Empire product
—made in Windsor, Can.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Woman (N.S.W.) wants work in the country
picking fruit, beans, peas, etc. —1234.
Housekeeper (Sydney) desires position in
country. Refs. —1588.
Educated man (55), non-drinker and active,
wants occupation in Sydney—part-time or whole
time—office, shop or outdoor work. —1191.
Experienced clerk-bookkeeper, Sydney, ex-
pert figures, wants temporary work, Saturdays
only.—1214.
Young man, 20, five years’ Bulletin ex-
perience and training in leading Sydney art
schools, wants position as artist or journalist.
Refs.— 1274.
Dental surgeon, Continental and Australian
exp., seeks position Brisbane. Refs. —1245.
Married man, 41 years of age, seeks position
as station manager.—1590.
To buy back numbers, complete, of “Scien-
tific American”; also Line Charts for Engineers,
by W. N. Rose. State price.—1584.
To buy back numbers of “The Year's Art.” —
1586.
To buy Potts on Pigs. —1589.
To buy If Summer Don’t, by Barry Pain. —
1252.
To buy good second-hand books by Aus-
tralian authors. Lists and prices.—9561.
To buy National Geographic Magazines,
April, May, December, 1933, and April, Novem-
ber, December, 1935. —1201.
To buy novels by E. M. Forster, except A
Passage to India; also Max Beerbohm’s writings!
—1251.
To buy The Promotion of the Admiral and
Other Stories, by Morley Roberts. —1266.
Information Sought.
(1) What was the value of gold in the U.S.A.
Treasury in 1939? Any figures to give an im-
pression of what this amount of gold would
look like? (2) What are the size and value in
dollars of the gold bar used for monetary pur-
poses? (3) Where is the chief Government
storage vault in the States? —1582.
On June 30, 1939, U.S. Treasury gold was
valued at 16,110,079,000 dollars. Made into
a bar it would be about 50ft. long, 25ft. high
and 21ft. wide. (2) 400oz. gold bar, the
largest made, is most frequently used for
monetary purposes. It is about 3Jin. wide, 6Jin.
long and 1-Jin. deep. Its value, at 35 dollars a
fine ounce, is approximately 14,000 dollars.
(3) The main storages are at Fort Knox and
San Francisco.
* * * *
(1) Did Byron write an erotic poem entitled
“Arabella” and was he banished from England
for having written it? (2) Where can a copy
of this poem be obtained or seen? —1211.
(1) Nobody now thinks Byron wrote the
poem, and he was not banished from England.
His reasons for leaving had nothing to do
with “Arabella.” (2) Typewritten or dupli-
cator copies of the poem sometimes get into
circulation, somebody having thought it worth
while to keep it going.
Sft JJC * ♦
(1) The February number of “The Home“
publishes a large portrait of the Duchess of
Windsor inscribed “Her Highness the Duchess
of Windsor.” I understood that, royal status
having been denied her, she was only “her
Grace.” Has royal status been granted to
her? (2) In what respect does the title “her
Highness” differ from “her Royal Highness” ?
— 1 3605. „ . . .
(1) No. (2) It does not exist as a British
title. As a foreign title, it is always associated
with royalty.
* * * *
What official positions are occupied by (1)
Sir Phillip Game, (2) Lord Nuffield? — 1287.
(1) He is Commissioner of London Metropoli-
tan Police. (2) No official position.
* * *
Was General Allenby’s wife with him on his
Palestine campaign during the 1914-18 war ?
—1018.
She was for a time.
* * * *
(1) Is an M.B.E. conferred on a person with-
out his or her knowing or is he or she asked to
accept it first? (2) Can an O.B.E. be con-
ferred on a woman ? —9638.
(1) It could be. In practice the recipient
usually is told. Sometimes the King exercises
his prerogative and personally confers a title.
(2) Yes; women may and do receive all de-
grees of the Order of the British Empire.
* * *
From what Queensland towns do cattle
drovers leave for South Australia and other
Stales ? —1220.
Assuming that you mean with cattle, most of
them leave from the south and south-west. It
would be hard to name any particular towns,
as that would depend on their geographical
position. Cattle destined for Adelaide market
would be driven to the nearest railway and
there loaded on trucks, one or two drovers
accompanying them on the train. In the south-
east, owing to tick-control regulations, the
cattle must pass through recognised dipping
stations. Study a map of Queensland and
make a list of centres from Camooweal south to
Cunnamulla and east to the Tweed.
* * * *
(1) Approximate cost of caravan properly
built and on a properly-made chassis (not
made up with car parts from a car-wrecker),
with best-type hitch ? (2) Name of a dealer
in second-hand caravans? (3) Cost of ship-
ping caravan from Eastern States to Perth ?
1335.
(1) A new 10ft. two- or three-berth trailer
caravan would cost £155, or £225 for a 14ft.
four-berth. (2) Try R. J. Rankin, Caravan
Park, 21-31 Missenden-road, Sydney. (3)
Cost of shipping two- or three-berth caravan
to Perth is £18; four-berth, £25. Posting
leaflet.
* * * *
Information regarding Benjamin Boyd and
his pastoral scheme at Twofold Bay in the
eighteen-forties ?• —1032.
Boyd arrived in Sydney in 1842 and opened
a branch of the Royal Bank of Australia, which
he had founded in London. He entered the
whaling industry, making his headquarters
Twofold Bay, where he founded the twin town-
ships Boyd Town and East Boyd. His main
object was to develop a pastoral enterprise,
using Boyd Town as the shipping centre for
the Monaro Plains, to which he constructed a
road. Under pastoral license he took up 800
sq. miles of country along the Murray between
the Ovens and the Campaspe and several
blocks near Deniliquin. He imported blood-
stock, and for labor, both on the Murray runs
and at Boyd Town, he employed Kanakas,
being the first man to import them to Australia.
They were ill-treated by overseers and got out
of hand, and the Government ordered their
deportation. For a time Boyd’s many enter-
prises flourished and Boyd Town was a regu-
lar port of call for vessels trading between
Sydney, Melbourne and Hobart. In 1849 the
whole business crashed, and a few years later
the bank with whose funds the affair had been
financed was wound up. Shareholders, in addi-
tion to losing their capital, had to make up a
deficiency of £BO,OOO.
* * * *
Details of Thomas Sutcliffe Mart’s commer-
cial enterprises in Australia? —1585.
Mort came to Sydney in 1838 and was em-
ployed as a clerk and salesman by Aspinall,
Brown and Co. In 1841 he helped form the
Hunter River Navigation Co., which later de-
veloped into the Australasian United Steam
Navigation Co. The Aspinall firm collapsed in
1842, and Mort started independently as an
auctioneer and woolbroker and experimented
in exporting cured meat to England. This
project failing, he initiated the firm of Mort
and Co., enabling the small grower to realise
on his wool quickly. He promoted the first
railway line in N.S.W. (Parramatta-Sydney),
and formed the first Australian goldminmg
company. About this time he realised the ne-
cessity for a large dock at Sydney and com-
menced excavation of Mort’s Dock. Turning
to agriculture he established in the N. S.
Wales south coastal district the Bodalla farm
(14,000 acres, later increased to 38,000), which
greatlv influenced the development of Austra-
lian dairying. In the early ’sixties he floated
the Peak Downs Copper Mining Co. in Q’land
and the Waratah Coalmining Co. at Newcastle,
N.S.W., and enlarged his docking business, ex-
cavating at Balmain a dry dock from which the
Governor Blackall was launched, up to that
time the largest steamer built in Port Jackson.
He also established a shipyard and works for
the manufacture of steam engines, railway car-
riages and machinery, and this enterprise de-
veloped into the Mort’s Dock and Engineering
Co. He resumed his early work aimed at send-
ing meat to England, this time experimenting in
freezing and thawing meat. He established a
slaughterhouse and freezing works at Lithgow
and ice works at Darling Harbor. He chartered
a steamer for the frozen-meat trade, investing
£BO,OOO in the venture, but the refrigerating
machinery broke down during the voyage, and
this failure prevented further experiments.
Mort died at Bodalla in 1878 just as his project
of sending frozen meat abroad was established.
¥ * * »
How much does it cost to bring a grape (for
dried fruits) sultana block into bearing—say 20
acres? — 1515.
Cost of bringing a 20-acre sultana block into
bearing would be: Clearing, fencing, deep
ploughing, grading and harrowing, £200; con-
crete channelling, £130; vines, marking-out
and planting, £150; trellising, £360; house,
£400; racks, £500; total, £1740. In addition
must be put the cost 9! care and attention and of
interest, plus the initial cost of the land. The
native timber largely indicates the value and
productive potentiality of the soil for sultanas,
and may be graded downwards as follows;
Pine, sandalwood, belar and undulating deep
mallee soil. Water permits for the purpose of
establishing new sultana areas are not now
available, and it would be necessary to acquire
land to which a permit has been allocated in
the past. Communicate with J. M. Ward,
Superintendent of Horticulture, Department of
Agriculture, Melbourne, for further advice.
Brief Answers.
G.S.: A.B.C. cannot supply the words
P J.A.R.: Commentaries on wrestling and
boxing matches are not at present broadcast by
A.B.C. stations in Queensland. The results
of matches are, however, given in sporting
sessions, and resumes of outstanding boxing
matches are broadcast from time to time.
Address your other question to the M.L. broad-
casting authorities... .R.A.G.: In most Aus-
tralian schools it is sufficient to show qualify-
ing cards F.A.C.: (1) Glenarvon, Perth,
Tasmania. (2) No; she has not yet been pub-
lished in book form.... A.D.E.: The “Pacific
Islands Monthly”... .J.V.D.: There is no
reason under the Geneva Convention Act, 1938,
why the Red Cross should not join with the
Australian Comforts Fund in raising funds if
approval is given by the Red Cross Society.
... .X.Y.Z.: Recruiting will be opened for the
armored units of Ist Armored Division about
the middle of July. Notice will appear in the
press shortly beforehand. Enlistments will be
made at any recruiting centre H.L.: Full in-
formation in the Navigation (Examination of
Engineers) Regulations, obtainable at any Cus-
toms House, Mercantile Marine Office, or at
the Marine Branch, Department of Trade and
Customs, 35 Wills-street, Melbourne, C.I,
price Is. 6d J.F.: “The Merry Widow”
has been filmed. Maurice Chevalier and
Jeanette MacDonald played the leads....
D.J.C.: The person in charge of a steam-engine
or boiler used on or for the purposes of any
farm, vineyard, garden or orchard or for the
exclusive purpose of providing a supply of water
for private use is not required to hold an
enginedriver’s or boiler attendant’s certificate.
For details as to a course of study and also
as to fees payable to obtain one of the certifi-
cates mentioned, application should be made to
the Board of Examiners for Enginedrivers,
Mines Department, Melbourne... .J.T.F.; It
applies to members of the forces and their
female dependants. Information insufficient
to give any further advice... .J.J.H.; (1) No.
The appointment of executors is essential. (2)
Yes. The will must be properly witnessed and
signed by two witnesses at least. (3) No. But
if he signed the will as a witness he would be
disqualified from taking any interest under it.
C.D.: If what the father did amounted to
a proper transfer of the property to his son,
the son is entitled to do what he threatens
C.S.; (1) The label is merely an intimation of
the lowest price at which the shopkeeper would
sell the article but is not an offer to sell.
Tender of the price, therefore, would not
create a contract and the shopkeeper cannot
be forced to sell if he does not wish
to do so. (2) You may demand it but the shop-
keeper is not bound to comply... .M.S.E.: Do
not know of any such Commonwealth Act....
T.Q.: It can be done, but the banks frown on
the practice J.R.: There are laws governing
the public exhibition of cinematograph films
which must be complied with. The notice
referred to contains the terms of the contract
under which the films are hired and creates
rights and liabilities as between hirer and
owner J.E.; Yes, duty is payable in both
States A.D.; Do not know of any provision
of the Liquor Act preventing him from doing
so, but the Licensing Inspector may regard
it unfavorably...-L-J-S.: Consult a patent
attorney, or get in touch with Patents Office,
Perth, W.A., or Canberra, A.C.T E. 8.: (1)
If they are permanently affixed to the ground
or building so as to become fixtures, no. (2)
Yes 0.L.N.; (1) and (2) Procedure is
governed by rules or constitution of associa-
tion. It is trot customary for a chairman to
do these things, (3) Yes. (4) The Law and
Procedure at Meetings in Australia, by P. E.
Joske (Law Book Co. A/asia, Ltd., Sydney).
. ...M.A.P.: C takes the whole estate....
R.P.R.: Get in touch with the Q’land Agri-
cultural Department, Brisbane, and the N.S.W.
Department of Supply and Development, 80
Pitt-street, Sydney... .M.A.8.: Don’t care to
express an opinion. Why not inquire of some
of the pupils?... .J. 8.; “Amathea” was pub-
lished in book form. Angus and Robertson,
Sydney, can supply a second-hand copy....
.... J.D.McG.: Communicate with the Deputy
Commissioner of Taxation, Brisbane, setting
out fully the circumstances in which taxpayer
is being transferred to Port Moresby... .M.W.:
No research has been carried out on the de-
struction of the earth-burrowing yabbie (En-
gceus). Suggest fumigation be tried. Bisul-
phide of carbon would be suitable for this pur-
pose as the entrance holes of burrows are readily
accessible. Directions for the use of the
medium should be obtainable from the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Victoria.... M.H.: Can
find no references to modern anthropometric
surveys which would give a valid comparison
between the average heights of mature Germans
and Australians. Practically the whole of the
available information of this kind relates to
schoolchildren... .J.P.T.: Weekly payments
should be at the rate of 30s.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
D.F.:
Let’s talk about Herr Rudolf Hess
Who from his country flew.
Why did he fiy? I must confess
I do not know. Do you?
M.O.: “Oh, to see the dawn of day!”
And oh, not to see a poem about it....8.P.:
Dig ’em in; they may help the vegetables....
8.A.F.: Commit “Captain Starlight’s Spirit”
to the flames L.M.: Promising, if you’re
young. But don’t say “verdant vales” if you
mean green valleys... .K.MacL.: A bit more
attention to technique and you’d score....
A.D.P.: “Assist me, all ye Muses bright.”
Apparently they didn’t... .D.8.0’C.: “A Scien-
tific Tragedy” is also a poetic one...
“Surrounding bush does equal quiet yield.”
That use of “does” does rapid return necessi-
tate A.E.M.; When the correctness of the
sentiments is equalled by the incorrectness of
the rhymes, the answer is the w.p.b L.D.F.:
Send it to the lady A.T.S.: Every time we
see “dying zephyrs” we think it’s “dying
zebras” M.A.L.: Try a woman’s paper.
W.MacD.; The usual travel poem
H.R.: Lame... L.C.8.: “Annabel” has charm
but she needs a polish... .M.S.K.: “Ho then, a
wanderer’s life for me!” For the poem, too.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.R.N.: Smudgy sketch of two Hottentots
beside pot in which is elongated missionary!
No! ... .8.K.; Echoes from the past....
R.W.H.: Had you lavished the same loving
care on the rest of the drawing as you did
on the pot of beer it would have been a cer-
tain winner... .H. 8.: You seem to have made
the exhumation of old jokes your life’s work.
. ...A.8.; At scratching you’d make an abo.’s
dog look a novice W.G.: Drawing and joke
have been given dignified and reverent burial.
Arthur N.: No use for microscopic draw-
ings in ordinary ink on foolscap paper. Spread
yourself on a good cartridge paper with Indian
ink J.H.: Put in a lot of time drawing
hands and arms from life ... .E.C.: “War gave
me the inspiration for this.” Yes, Hitler’s got
a lot to answer for... .F.M.C.; Is it a res-
taurant or a flying-boat? ... .John; Alas, you’re
no Augustus.


With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Write
NOAV for this amazing new
treatment.
T. JONES &, CO.,
CHEMISTS.
319 George St., Sydney.
gdf
DIAGNOSE
YOUR
HOME:
C
(Oi
Does it suffer from
no guest room
o
, cracked or dingy walls ?
g
, . . inadequate storage
space?
dfg
. . . no verandah?
m
v:..
. , . too many
“shared” rooms?
CP)
&
ft
, . . no recreation or play room&
Cm
Is*?
© Modernise your home with Masonite ! It’s amazing what a Masonite
partition or extra wall can do; what changes can be wrought by the
simple use of inexpensive yet life-enduring Masonite boards. They
are grainless, splinterless, rigid and strong; can be worked with
ordinary tools, used “natural” or finished in any desired colour.
Masonite boards can be curved, tooled, bevelled, made to conform
with any design. You can get full details (and samples) from The
Colonial Sugar Refining Company (Building Materials Division).
ARCHITECT PLEASE!
For a small modernisation job,
your own ideas plus the prac-
tical experience of your builder
will be sufficient. For more
extensive alterations (and cer-
tainly if you are building a new
home) employ an architect.
An architect will save you far
more than the moderate fee he
will charge you.
THE REMEDY IS
HEEE
MAZ6-41
Masooite boards are made in Australia from
Australian timbers hitherto thought commer-
cially useless. They possess the advantages
oi wood without its disadvantages. Masonite
is used ior both modernisation and new con-
struction; for floors, counter tops, lor “tiling**.
tor partitioning —in fact, tor “1,000 uses".
HIT
PRESDWOOD . . . TEMPERED PRESDWOOD
QUARTRBOARD DE-LUXE . . . TEMPRTILE
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD, (Building Materials Division) i/crej. Melbourne Brisbane . . Adelaide . Perth
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
“Dungeness”: For weeks the sinister
shadow of The Skull hung over Innisfail
(N.Q.). In a peanut vendor’s basket
appeared a dread, mysterious note: “The
Skull Is Ready to Strike. Watch Your-
self.” To a group of young players in
the local park came a masked figure an-
nouncing itself by that dire name. They
pursued it, but only a written message
fluttered back as it vanished with a
hollow laugh into the impenetrable
thickets surrounding the municipal rub-
bish dump. The message read: “The last
one was not meant to be The Skull but
This One Does. Unless this Note is
Passed Around Something will Happen
to Someone. The Skull Is On the Waugh
Path.” The Skull struck. Bike tyres
were hacked or deflated. Stones fell at
night on roofs. A startled citizenry
hastily organised the Black Aces to con-
front the Terror, and, armed with shang-
hais, a mounted party set out for The
Skull’s favorite haunt at Goondi, up the
river, to end the fearsome thing for good
and all. Then some nark of a John got
butting in, and a number of male Innis-
fail citizens between 10 and 13 reckon
that it wasn’t fair of Dad to use the
buckle-end of his belt.
* * * H'-
“Norther”: If the trouble over em-
ployment of enemy aliens can be settled,
sugarmills north of Proserpine should be
crushing this week to meet the arrange-
ment for emergency stocks and possible
early shipments abroad. Mill men
demanded that enemy aliens signed on
should be replaced by British-born
workers where possible and that next
preference should go to friendly aliens,
though what constitutes a friendly alien
isn’t stated. Cutters supported the move.
An A.W.U. spokesman noted with some
surprise that, though naturalised or un-
naturalised Italian workers were the bone
of contention, nobody seemed to be
objecting to cutting cane grown by
Italians, naturalised or otherwise. At
Gordonvale a sign-on of 443 cutters in-
cluded 351 British, 65 Italians, eight
Greeks, 16 Yugoslavs, a Swede, a Russian
and a German.
» ns * •
“23-4”: Corps Commander of the
Queensland R.S.L. Volunteer Defence
Corps is A. C. Dibdin —“Mr.,” since the
corps officers have no military rank. He
has been on the State Council of the
R.S.L. for many years, is assistant-
manager of Australian Estates, chairman
of the Kingsholme Committee, and presi-
dent of the 42nd Battalion A.I.F. Associa-
tion. He came back from the last war
with a commission to become C.O. of
the 31st Infantry Battalion of militia at
Townsville and is now on the officers’
reserve.
* * * *
“Poi-poi”: J. E. Baines, who was first
Taxing Master of the Queensland
Supreme Court, and held the position for
42 years until he retired in 1932, has
passed out at 84. He got his law train-
ing in Melbourne and Brisbane. He was
popular as a singer of Irish melodies,
some of which he composed, and was a
past president of Queensland Irish
Association. In his youth he shone at
amateur boxing and afterwards he fre-
quently refereed tourneys in the old Bris-
bane Gymnasium.
* * * *
“W.K.D.”: Queensland public ser-
vants’ decision to demand overtime rates
and a special bonus if called upon to
protect public buildings in an air-raid has
done something more than disgust A.R.P.
volunteers. It has made thinking men
realise that the public service has reached
that natural stage in the evolution of a
bureaucracy when the bureaucrat no
longer regards himself as a member of
the public, but as one of a privileged
caste, unwilling even to participate in
the nation’s war except upon special
terms not applicable to the masses.
This attitude is, of course, the inevit-
able result of years of pandering to the
“For the last time —will youse kids come an take y'r castor oil!”
public service by vote-catching poli-
ticians. Those in charge of recruiting
might well ask themselves what effect
this decision, by a class largely exempted
from service, will have upon young men
who are asked to give everything for
five bob a day.
* * * •
“Balander”: Wanderers on the banks
of the Mary River, near the dredging
company’s £6OOO dredge, got a shock
when the outfit suddenly tore loose from
its moorings, capsized, blew up and sank
in the flood. Escaping compressed air
is blamed.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: With the slump in copra
Mandated Territory planters are turning
their attention to timber, the New
Guinea walnut having developed an Aus-
tralian reputation as a first-class cabinet-
making wood. Buyers are offering good
prices, and since the beginning of the
year exports have got well on towards
two million super, feet. Other timbers,
including a species resembling mahogany
in grain and texture, are under promising
experimental trial. In German days ex-
tensive use was made of New Guinea
timbers, and that forceful person Bulo-
minski had some handsome furniture
made from them for his house at Kavieng
by Chinese craftsmen. The ceiling carv-
ings in the old club at Rabaul were also
made from locally-grown woods, to-
gether with much of the furniture, and
the clubhouse itself was built from them.
* * * *
“Balander”: The Commonwealth
special committee on power alcohol has
it that a ton of sugarcane can produce
135 gallons of p.a. Nobody has yet stated
how much a ton of wheat would produce,
but the committee foresees the use of
wheat and a possible Australian produc-
tion of 50,000,000 gallons of p.a. a year,
sufficient to provide a 15 p.c. admixture
with petrol. By duplicating shifts in dis-
tilleries working purely on cane, the
present gallonage per annum, the com-
mittee says, can be doubled immediately,
needing an additional 30,000 tons of cane
to supplement molasses
supplies. On the basis
of a 15 p.c. addition of
p.a. to petrol, added
cost of the fuel would
be about 2d. a gallon
over the landed duty-
free cost of imported
petrol, the added
alcohol paying no duty.
Production costs of p.a.
will vary according to
locality, and the aver-
age will be near' 2s. a
gallon, which could be
spread by the mixture
with petrol. All the
same, the committee
holds out no hope that
p.a., even though manu-
factured here in greater
increased quantities,
will ever be able to
compete with imported
petrol in price.


Srs
lys
&
ROOF
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
pr ' ' "
S?.CBK
l»
:• ~-,•
mm
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wheat as Stock Food.
“B. Cubbin”: Wheat has slightly more
carbohydrates in the form of starch, more
crude protein and much less fat than has
maize. It is low in mineral matter, but
so is maize.
Wheat should be supplemented by
something like lucerne chaff, rich in lime
and protein. One of its disadvantages is
that the grain becomes pasty when
chewed. It can be fed to horses if they
are brought on to it gradually. Given
suddenly, it will cause digestive troubles
and laminitis.
Feed wheat ground or rolled and mixed
with bran or chaff. Make sure the grain
is clean and free from mould. Starting
from very small amounts, up to 71b. a
day may be fed.
For cattle feed wheat has been proved
the equal of maize for milk production.
Dairy cows fed on it should get also lin-
seed meal or bran or other protein-rich
supplement. Ground or rolled grain is the
best, fed in a bulk like wheaten chaff. A
good mixture is four parts ground wheat,
one part bran, one part linseed meal
added to the bulky food. Amount de-
pends on the class of cow and her milk
production. If lucerne chaff is avail-
able, cut out the bran and linseed meal.
Calves could have two parts ground wheat
to one part linseed meal.
Wheat is a valuable concentrate for
sheep. When there is roughage, about
21b. per head each day, scattered in hard
ground or placed in bag troughs, makes
a good ration.
As a pig fattener wheat is up with maize.
Clean and non-mouldy wheat, rejected
by millers through being pinched, makes
splendid pig food. Again it should be
ground or rolled, or it may be soaked
and fed as slop with skim milk or dry
with green lucerne. If there isn’t milk
or lucerne, add 5 to 10 p.c. of meatmeal.
A “Protein Drought.”
“Bungaree”: Dry grass lacks protein
and phosphate. While these are neces-
sary for all classes of sheep, young sheep
must have them to build frame and
muscle and to grow wool. In addition
to keeping up her own strength and grow-
ing a fleece, a ewe needs extra nourish-
ment to meet the demands of the lamb
she is carrying. During the two months
prior to lambing this demand is parti-
cularly heavy, and the job of producing
milk makes another call.
Mineral licks alone are of little use.
Protein is the important thing. Cheap-
est and best way to supply it is in pro-
tein-rich concentrates such as blood-
meal and meatmeal, but, as these pro-
ducts are highly unpalatable in their
natural state, some care and patience has
to be exercised in their feeding. Stock
should be brought on to them gradually
by sprinkling a little meatmeal or blood-
meal among the salt in the salt trough.
Sometimes, where sheep are unaccus-
tomed to trough feeding, it is necessary
to make up a mixture of salt, oats or
wheat, linseed meal and pollard, with
perhaps a little molasses, introducing the
meatmeal gradually. As the sheep take
to it, decrease the other meals until they
will take the meatmeal straight—loz.
per day is sufficient, although a breeding
ewe should be allowed more.
Meals should be fed in covered
troughs; they will putrify if they get
wet. A lick containing calcium and phos-
phorus should be available under dry
pasture conditions. Salt, dicalcic phos-
phate or boneflour, and calcium car-
bonate are all that are necessary. Don’t
waste money on sulphur, iodine and other
unnecessary ingredients. Molasses is
useful as a laxative and to encourage milk
flow, but is scarce at present.
Tetanus.
“C.P.”: The tetanus germ is often pres-
ent in soil or manure. It develops only
when air is excluded ; therefore a wound
in an animal should be kept open to allow
drainage and to let air in. All wounds
should be thoroughly cleansed and dis-
infected.
Horses and sheep are more susceptible
to tetanus than other domestic animals,
and it pays to keep the stables clean.
Keep an eye open for glass, nails and
other objects likely to inflict wounds.
Hooves should be watched for cracks,
“Sorry, Dad, but File goiter be back in camp by six.”
into which the germ may find its way.
Lamb-marking should be done, if pos-
sible, in fresh, temporary yards in the
paddock. If not, make sure the place is
clean and disinfected.
Veterinary tetanus antitoxin is avail-
able at low cost and should be used when
a wound threatens danger. Immunity
can be obtained with the vaccine tetanus
toxoid. The dose for a horse is 10 c.c.
and the cost is small. A second injection
a year later will protect the horse for life.
If tetanus has occurred on the farm it is
a good idea to vaccinate all horses.
Eureka’s Headway.
“B. Cubbin”: Eureka, the rust-resis-
tant wheat that came out of New Eng-
land (N.S.W.) and is giving great promise
for short-fallow country with high
summer rains, was only six years from
fixation to recommendation.
Tests for a stem-rust resister began in
1929, and only three Kenya wheats and
the American resistant parents came out
well from the thousands tried.
The following year numerous crosses
were made, among them one with Flor-
ence, which showed good results. This
progeny was again crossed with Dundee,
primarily because of Dundee’s strong
straw, a necessity in districts where lodg-
ing was prevalent, and the result was so
promising that the breeding period was
speeded up by growing two generations
in one year, one autumn-sown and the
other spring-sown. From these came
Eureka and Euieka
Eureka was a selection from K en Y
x Florence x Dundee cross, and was
named in 1938. It is an early mid-season
maturer with good general agronomic
quahties, having the stem-rust resistance
of Kenya, the early maturity and good
baking quality of oience w .
resistance, and the good yielding ability,
straw strength and moderate resistance
to flag smut of Dundee. '
It matures about the same time as
Waratah, earlier than Ford and a little
later than Geeralying', Gular and Pusa 4,
and has medium height. Heads are
brown oblong and of medium density ;
grain is vitreous and white, but with the
Dundee touch of amber and tendency
to mottling. It finishes well and holds
its grain, except under very dry harvest
conditions, when some shattering may
occur Milling and baking qualities are
high, being almost as good as Gular in
flour yield, gluten content and quality.
Since its release Eureka has made fairly
rapid progress in popularity in stem-rust
districts. It doesn’t appear to suit the
south owing to its susceptibility to sep-
toria. It is recommended for mid-season
sowing in country like the N.S.W. north-
west and for late sowing on the cooler
fringe of such countrv
Root Rot in Maize.
“Y. Dent”; Root and basal stalk rot
is about the most serious maize disease
in Australia. Crop infections of up to
30 p.c. are common and up to 70 p.c.
is not rare on old maize land. A bad
feature is that the disease isn’t usually
noticed until after the cobbing stage,
when the ears are fairly well developed
—then premature ripening and death of
the plants tell of infection.
Pull up such plants. If the roots and
the stalk just above them are rotted, with
a pronounced reddish-purple color, you
know the worst. A pinkish-white mould
among the rotted tissues is the spores of
the disease, which is a parasitic fungus.
The fungus persists from season to sea-
son, hence burning of all old stalks is one
means of control. It should be the first
job after harvest. Avoid using the disc
to chop up the stalks into the soil. It
restores humus, but it helps the fungus
to carry on.
Crop rotation is another good way to
beat the disease, and close seed selection
is a big help. Ears showing the slightest
sign of infection should be thrown out.
Remember seed selection is a waste of
time if the selected seeds are sown on
land into which old stalks, possibly dis-
eased, have been worked.
Seaweed Manure.
“Bull-ant Bill’s” story:
Three years ago Jock McNab, then a
fisherman at the SQ seaside village
wbere this family takes an occasional
holiday, sold his boat and paid real
mone y f or a £ ew acres c f bull-oak sand
fid back from ocean beach .
His s CQ J bbers reckoned he couldn ’ t be a
Scotchman or he , d have ha d more
s£nse Nqw Jock t profitab l e
mixed . vegetable farm in the distri ct, with
strawberries and pines also doing fairly
. fruit . trees COI L in „ aIon „
and fruit trees coming along,
/t that particular spot some swirl
of currents heaps the beach with seaweed
for weeks at a time, and where Jock
came from seaweed has been the staple
manure for centuries. Rich m phos-
phates, nitrogen and potash, with a high
proportion of organic matter, it is, un-
like animal manures, entirely free of
weeds, pests or disease. Mechanically, it
improves the absorptive quality of light
soils, retains the ground water in dry
times, and protects against erosion,
Added to the compost heap it accelerates
the breaking down of vegetable refuse
and increases its manurial value. An un-
limited supply costs him nothing except
the labor of hauling for a few hundred
yards. And, instead of massacring all the
bull-oaks in the hearty Australian
fashion, Jock left trimmed windbreaks
and planted more to hold the sand from
drifting.
Hints for the I* arm.
“Mt. Boppy”; If the crop to be ensiled
is very succulent, a large amount of juice
will be liberated in pit or tub silo. Cover
the bottom of the silo with hay about a
foot thick, and stack the greenstuff on it.
The hay absorbs the juice.
“Canbelego”: Lucerne must have well-
drained soil. If there’s too much mois-
ture in patches, the crop will die out or
scald and be replaced by weeds or
grasses. Chief danger is along back-
water channels of river flats, where the
water-table may be maintained too long
at a harmful level.
“Bundalinga” Oats are excellent for a
sow suckling a litter, but don’t give them
to young growing stock or their high fibre
content may cause digestive troubles.
Oats make a good grain supplement for
pigs after they have reached about 801 b,
liveweight. The grain is high in carbo-
hydrates, and should be fed with skim
milk or meatmeal. Oats can be cut green
and fed to all classes of pigs, or can be
grazed. Oaten chaff, damped down, can
be used as a supplement for green feed
in dry seasons.
“Jayem”: Don’t put dairy utensils
straight into boiling water or the high
temperature will cause the albumen to
coagulate and to stick to the metal in a


a.
That
is the
Star
For Sheepowners
to follow. It guides the clip to the
“Mecca” of good service—the wool stores
of
Wiiichcombe,
Carson, ltd.
Selling Brokers, Sydney, Newcastle
or Brisbane.
Their warehouses in each centre provide
the most effective facilities for the success-
ful appraisement of the clip. Offices—
Winchcombe House, Bridge St.. Svdnev
10 AVatt St., Newcastle; 99-101 Eagle St.’,
Brisbane.
BRITSTAND
GRADER-DITCHERS
Does everything for which you previously
needed a Grader AND a Ditcher, and DOES
IT BETTER. Makes drains over 4' deep, and
banks over 4' high. Good for maintaining,
also station roads, shifting drift, etc. Over
10,000 Grader Ditchers in use in America.
Hundreds already sold in Australia. Your
money refunded if you agree to part with
it after 2-days' trial. Write to-day for free
illustrated leaflet.
Procurable from . . .
E.S.C.A. Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland
British Standard Machy. Co. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W,
British Standard Machy. Co. Ltd., Melbourne,
Victoria
William Adams & Co. Ltd., Adelaide, S.A.
William Adams & Co. Ltd., Perth, W.A.
HOT IMMEDIATELY!
No Messy Pricking, Priming or Pumping.
The genuine Lane's Thermil Blue
Flame stove outdales all pressure
stoves. It gives instant heat. No
noise and it's absolutely SAFE !
One fill of kerosene
lasts 8 hours and the
stove is entirely odour-
less. NO expensive
burners to replace and
HALF THE PRICE of a
pressure stove 1 See
your local Store.
LANE'S
GENUINE .1'
erniu
LENT BURNING ~
n
/IwVrru/i
AT FULL PRESSURE! ... To keep her war industries going at top
pressure ... to maintain a full head of steam ... these are Australia's
constant concern to-day. And in achieving these objectives, just as
important as fuel to the furnace is proper financial service . . .
By helping in this way, the Bank of New South Wales is playing
its full part in maintaining production of Australia's essential war needs.
BANK
m
NEW SOUTH
)•' •
WALES
m
sank
'v
SBSC
thin, often invisible film in which bac-
teria will thrive. Wash the utensils in
warm water to which washing soda or
other alkali has been added. Scald them
in boiling water, and put in a clean place
to dry. Don’t wipe with cloths —the
heat of the water will dry them off.
“Mullengah”: Try raised floors made
of heavy pig netting, slatted timber or
perforated metal in the calf pens.
Covered with about 6in. of long straw,
the floor provides a warm, dry bed for
the calf and lessens the dangers of colds,
pneumonia and some types of scours.
Make the raised floor movable so that
it can be lifted to clean and disinfect
the drainage,
“Sheepo”: Drenching sheep with
phenotheazine presents difficulties —the
mixture thickens quickly unless continu-
ally stirred. Ph.-t. can’t be used in a
drenching gun; a funnel with a wide
mouthpiece is necessary. Too expen-
sive for most owners, ph.-t. might find
favor with owners of studs, but apart
from its cost a lot of time is occupied in
drenching. The mixture needs careful
handling and may stain wool. The
funnel must be wiped continually to free
it from stain.
“Ovis”: The C.S.I.R.’s new boric-acid
and Bentonite fly-dressing (B. 28/5/’4l)
needs to be rubbed in when applied to
dry fleece. Experiments with it at Can-
berra are not yet complete. On 22 arti-
ficial strikes and 43 natural strikes, most
of the maggots were dead inside 10
minutes, but a few hardy ones hung on
for 24 hours. There were no fresh in-
festations, and strike wounds healed
well. The coating of dressing came off
usually in the second week and wool
began to grow again at once. The dress-
ing did not seem to irritate and there
was only one case of sepsis. A second
experiment gave much the same result
as the first, and the only thing which
seemed to remove the dressing was heavy
rain. Fleece did not seem to be affected.
“Nagheer”; An Australian record is
claimed for a cattle pumpkin exhibited
at the Beaudesert (S.Q.) Show. When
“picked”—a job which required two men
and a truck—the massive vegetable
weighed 204f1b., but vicissitudes of
climate and travel reduced it to 190flb.
by the time it reached the official scales.
Its family history dates back to seed
obtained 34 years ago from a neighbor in
two pumpkins selected for quality rather
than size. Careful cultivation on rich
river flats and further seed-selection have
developed the strain to its present port-
liness.
“Bull-ant Bill”: Queensland has lost
its claim to the title of Bananaland. From
July, 1940, to March, 1941, northern
N.S.W. consigned 930,519 cases of the
fruit to southern markets. Of these
315,677 came from the Tweed district,
260,270 from Brunswick, 224,780 from
Coff’s Harbor and 169,792 from the Rich-
mond. Including 13,155 cases grown in
Forgan Smith territory, but consigned
from Tweed areas, Queensland only man-
aged to get 154,239 cases away on the
fruit trains. N.S.W. now has 18,598
acres under crop, .1238 more than last
year ; 2049 growers have more than one
acre in bearing and 1619 less than an
acre.
Outback Occupations.
No. LXXII.
A Recollection.
A lot of people think you bought the
bagger for your old chaffcutter to save
time, or to be up-to-date or stop waste
or something. Not even the wife knows
the real reason, although she might have
guessed if she’d given it any thought at
the time.
It was back in the days when the boys
were little fellows, still going to school,
double-dink on the old brown mare.
You’d bought the chaffcutting plant
second-hand at district sales, the engine
when Tommy Field sold out and the
cutter from old German Charlie Schultz
when he lost his leg and had to retire
from farming.
There was no bagger, so you built a
floor, put a corrugated-iron wall round
it, cut a bag-hole and attached spikes to
hold the bags. The cutter used to throw
the chaff on to the floor and you’d stand
in the bag fixed in the bag-hole and rake
the chaff in with u wooden rake, stamping
till the bag was full. That way, with
young Jack feeding the machine, you
could cut the week’s chaff on a Sunday
afternoon.
Then came the dry spell in 1928 and
you suddenly found the old plant to be
a goldmine. You and Tommy Wilson
bought up all the hay for 20 miles round,
carted it to the cutter, bagged it and sold
it at big profits. But you had to do all
the bag-hole work because Tommy had
a stiff leg from the time the draught stal-
lion sat on him at the local show.
Sometimes you can still feel the way
you felt after tramping each bag, lugging
it from the hole, inserting another, tramp-
ing it, lugging it out and so on. It got that
way in the end that when you sat down
to meals your legs kept trying to go up
and down, and in the town on a Satur-
day some people thought you had St.
Vitus’s dance or a meat-ant in your pants
or something. But you tramped dog-
gedly on and the heap of bags mounted
and the district kept on buying your chaff
and the rain stayed away. Tommy Wil-
son skited round that you were the best
bag-hole tramper in the country, and
twice before you could stop him he’d
backed you for a fiver and you had to
turn out on a Sunday and tramp for a
couple of hours to save Tommy losing
the bet on a forfeit.
You wouldn’t have done it, of course,
only Tommy would make the bets jointly
in your name and his and you were up
for 50 bob if you refused. In the end
you warned him that if he made another
bet you’d close the plant down.
Well, you tramped your way steadily
through the early summer of that year
until you found yourself praying for rain
as eagerly as anybody else. But the money
was good and the missus bought new
things for the home and the kids got a
pony each for school. You got a new
pair of boots when the old ones broke
down under the tramping.
Then came that great Saturday when
the missus informed you and Tommy, as
she brought out morning tea, that the
parson and a lot of other people were
coming for the afternoon and you'd have
to stop chaffcutting and join in the fes-
tivities. She reminded you again at lunch,
but you got into the bag-hole afterwards
and forgot it because you were cutting
some hay for old Sandy McSnitch, who
was in dire need of feed, and you were
anxious to get as much done as possible.
That hay had been cut in a season when
saffron and corkscrew were bad and the
sheaves were full of it. Tommy kept
letting out curses as he fed the machine,
and occasionally you had to stop stamp-
ing and pick barbs from your anatomy.
Then the missus arrived, furious, and said
the visitors had come and what were you
thinking of.
So Tommy shut off the engine and went
home and you made for the back door
and got into your room without being
seen. There you unwound the hessian
strips off your boots, had a quick wash,
and changed in a hurry. Then you joined
the party in the living-room.
The parson pumped your hand and
the ladies tittered and some of the blokes
looked sheepish and the missus called
you to hand round the cakes and things.
You took a plate of cakes in each hand
and offered them to the parson’s missus
and then made to step over to Mrs.
Naughton. But you remained poised,
one leg raised, because you knew some-
thing had happened.
The people all looked at you and your
face went hot. You couldn’t get that leg
down. You gave your missus a frantic
look and she said, “Go on, dear, they
won’t fall.” She thought you feared for
the balance of the cakes on the plates,
and went back to her kitchen.
“I—l —me leg,” you said.
About then it dawned on some of them
that all was not well. Somebody took
the cakes and the parson took your arm.
Bill Walters looked at your raised leg.
“Push it down,” you said. “It’s stuck.”
Walters gave you a funny look and
pushed the leg down. Your other leg at
once doubled up and you fell into Mrs.
Naughton’s ample lap. By some effort of
will you rolled free and pulled yourself up-
right by the table. But one leg remained
obdurately off the floor. There you re-
mained, poised like a blue crane, while
the party eyed you and threw quick looks
at each other. It wasn’t cramp, because
you felt no pain. After a bit you tried
to hop round the table, but both legs im-
mediately went in and out like a jerky
steam-engine. So you sat down, desper-
ately trying to stop their freewheeling.
By this time someone had brought your
wife back from the kitchen and you were
helped to bed.
Next day you were all right again. You
tried to make the wife understand, but all
she could say was even if you and that
Wilson had to have whisky at the chaff-
cutting it was no excuse for you to be-
have like that. You gave up the job of
trying to make her see that it was Wil-
son’s whisky and you had never had any
of it, but one of the kids had found the
bottle, half-full, hidden in the hay, and
circumstantial evidence was too strong,
though Wilson himself swore fervently
that you had had none of it.
You paid one of the town blokes to
work in the bag-hole after that and, the
following year, you bought the bagger
for the machine. But every time you
think of it your legs involuntarily give
a faint twitch, as though they wanted to
start going up and down.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4Jd. per line; all others at
2Jd. per line.
A Queenslander’s statement of a fact pregnant with significance goes on top this
week.
War-emergency Legislation
In the four years of the last war the
whole of the war-time emergency legis-
lation of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment was contained in one slim volume
of a few hundred pages. After 21
months of this war the special war-time
Acts alone run to over 400 pages, and
the regulations and proclamations
thereunder to another 2000 odd, and
all of them are being constantly added
to. The index alone to the Law Book
Company’s War Legislation Service
covers 77 pages.
Admittedly war legislation today neces-
sarily covers more ground than it did
in 1914-18, but those whose business it
is to keep abreast of the legislation can-
not but think that haste and lack of full
consideration have been the cause of
much of the prolixity. In proof of this,
the National Security (Prices) Regula-
have been amended and altered no fewer
than 12 times, the Aliens Control Regu-
lations 10 times, Liquid Fuel Regula-
tions seven times, and Land Transfer
Regulations five times. Most of the
other regulations have been amended
at least once, and in nearly all cases the
amendments have been necessary to close
some loophole left in the original regu-
lations, or to arrive at the same result
as was intended by the first regulations.
The effect is that it is now one of the
trials of the businessman’s life to spend
hours mastering a set of regulations
affecting his business, only to find that
they have been altered overnight.—
Solicitor (Q.).
The Indispensables
“Whereas it appears to be necessary for
the defence of the Commonwealth and
the effectual prosecution of the war to
exempt from military service persons en-
gaged in the following occupations.... ”
With these words, the list of exempted
occupations was introduced, including:
Wireless announcers, wireless-station
managers, brewers, trade-union executives
(25 years or over); cinema-machine
operators, cinema-theatre managers, pro-
fessional entertainers, sports-ground curators
(35 years or over); cash-order collectors
(30 years or over); photographers (25 years
or over); chefs (35 years or over).
Being only a struggling lawyer I am
not, and don’t expect to be, exempted
from service; but it is a hard blow to
learn that as a civilian I am of less use to
my country’s defence than an announcer,
a “professional entertainer” (does this
include teacup-reader?), a trade-union
boss or a t.-p. collector.— Smilax (Q.).
What would make A.I.F. recruiting
more popular (B. 28 /5/ ’4l) would be an
immediate stop to the advertising of jobs
for men of military age. If every adver-
tisement of a vacancy for male help (of
every sort) had to bear the message “No
man of military age need apply,” there
would be more applicants for vacancies
in the A.I.F. — Auntie Blah (N.S.W.).
Nazi Psychology
The psychiatrists of the world have ex-
celled themselves in analysing Hitler and
his lieutenants. With one accord they
make the mistake of assuming that the
“cases” are abnormal. Tlmy fail to see
that the “circumstances” are responsible
for the growth of Nazism and that the
mentality of the despots differs little from
that of the average man or woman.
The power to do ill deeds makes ill
deeds done. A beggar on foot or on
horseback is the same beggar. A woman
may henpeck a husband or persecute a
whole religious sect according to her
opportunities. Henry the Eighth would
not have emulated Bluebeard if he had
not been born to the purple. Salome was
fortunate in having a kingly father, an
executioner and a platter handy. Hitler
would not have been raised from the
gutter if Germany had not possessed a
muckraking Parliament, and he would
not have conquered Europe without a
plentiful supply of Quislings at strategic
points.
The Nazi gang were mere men in the
street to begin with. We have men of
their kidney in our own streets, ready to
organise basher gangs and storm troops
at short notice. All they require is the
same set of circumstances that favored
Hitler and co. —a spineless Government,
a general strike, an idle mob and a sup-
ply of rubber truncheons.
Nazism is not a German copyright,
neither is the temporising, vote-catching
political system that gave the opportu-
nists their opportunity. Nazism is here,
camouflaged in many cunning ways, but
generally posing as the friend of the poor
and oppressed. Our local psychiatrists
should get busy analysing our local in-
cipient Hitlers and the circumstances that
suit their mentality. The European psy-
chologists waited till the brown shirts
and bludgeons appeared.— Stable Door
(S.A.).
European Crusades
Much has been said and written lately
about the urgent need for more ships,
more ’planes, more tanks. None will
deny that the need for these things is
urgent, but it has been urgent ever since
the war began, and it will continue to
be urgent as long as the war lasts and
possibly for some time afterwards. Sud-
denly to discover it now implies an in-
credible lack of vision by somebody or
other or a desire to switch the mind of
an anxious public from the shortcomings
of its leaders.
Those same leaders would do much to
rehabilitate themselves in popular opinion
“The careless cows , they might've hit us !”
if they began at once to press for an
Imperial War Cabinet, the formation of
which would relieve the Australian public
at least from the fear that, though the
production of the needed instruments and
munitions of war be stepped up five- or
tenfold, they will not again be thrown
away in such hopeless gestures as the
expedition to Greece.
The uncomfortable feeling persists in
Australia that the British War Cabinet
is still obsessed with the notion that the
Empire is willing to lend its men and
materials freely, not in a great effort to
preserve the Empire, but in crusades. This
British—perhaps it would be better called
London — outlook is clearly expressed by
Wickham Steed, a 8.8. C. broadcaster,
who seems to be looked upon by some
people as a person almost divinely in-
spired. In one of his orations Mr.
Steed opened with these words:
To believe in the resurrection of France
is an act of faith. To hope for her re-
newal is a form of piety which every lover
J,°v fi 0 g f ht the r f?e e e r
lom ot fnd the
allies of the British cause.
So lonn as that attitude of mind per-
sists in high British circles so long will
the risk remain of British and British-
Dominion lives being gambled on crusad-
ing expeditions which the Empire cannot
now afford and should never again
attempt Only an Imperial War Cabinet
ran knock some sense into the European
heads of these crusaders—O. T. (N.S.W.).
Preference
I was interested in “Menin’s” plea (B.
28/5/’4l) for the Government to give
an indication of the extent of preference
to returned men after the war. But what
of those who are serving in Australia?
As a member of the R.A.A.F. I am one
of them. I enlisted for overseas service,
but for reasons of policy, with which 1
agree, I am being retained in Australia
to help train pilots and others. I was in
a reserved occupation, but I resigned to
get around that. In doing so I surren-
dered about two-thirds of what I was get-
ting in the way of pay.
This is the point. From what I have
been able to learn we will not enjoy any
of the benefits of returned soldiers,
sailors or airmen after the war is over,
and there are several poftits on which the
Repatriation Act docs not cover us. Will
provision be made to provide us with
jobs or help us to make a living? I am
not greatly worried about that, for I have
a trade which will at least keep me off
the breadline, but how about thousands
of others? — Teleco (Vic.).
In one respect the conduct of the
present campaign resembles the strategy
of the last. Again we have grandiose
schemes of social reconstruction being
mooted, while we hear very little of the
first great “Job Ahead” —the suitable
reception of the broken heroes and the
healthy heroes who will return.
Now is the time to decide that the
maimed, the halt and the blind shall not
be dependent on the cold charity of
button days, and that the hale and hearty
returned men shall not find their places
permanently filled by the fair button-
sellers. — The Present Job (S.A.).
Petrol Drums
Why doesn’t the Government take the
petrol drums it needs instead of asking
for them? Within one mile of where I sit
tonight there are over 200 drums stored in
sheds, yards and even under haystacks.
Most of them have been there since last
„ . , c . .
September and very many of them have
not yet been opened. It should be an
offence to have on hand more than one
month’s supply of petrol, according to the
ration scale, and an offence to retain a
drum for more than a month or six
weeks.
The simplest and most effective remedy
is confiscation. By taking over, through
the companies concerned, all drums and
contents, if any, that have been held tor
over six weeks the Government would
obtain all the drums required, greatly sn-
crease the reserve stocks of petrol and
would, perhaps, bring home to pleasure-
loving and selfish motorists the fact that
there is a war on. Shanks (Vic.).
fiasco
I don’t wonder that the recent Sydney
effort on behalf of the Mayor’s Comforts
Fund was a flop. In fact I’m delighted
to have the assurance of the Mayor him-
self that the recent (Mayoral) concep-
tion of a “P°P ular ” appeal will be the
last of its kind. . ,
I saw the exhibition in Martin-place,
and what an exhibition it was! A
mixture of Wild West, buffoonery and
twaddle. A stranger viewing the scene
would conclude that if it were really a
specimen of popular appeal then at
least half the population of Sydney must
be nitwits.
Do the authorities (including the re-
cruiting folk) really think that we Aus-
tralians are incapable of responding to
any appeal which is not “put over” like
a circus? — Martin-place (N.S.W.).
Almost every day we buy buttons and
raffle tickets on all corners, subscribe to
this and that war fund and then, in addi-
tion, are expected to play around at the
far-too-many carnivals.
I walked through the Martin-place mob
this last time and wondered if the wheels
were worth spinning the rent-money on.
A tin of minties (even if I won it)
wouldn’t sweeten the landlord much, so
I resisted the temptation. It isn’t fair of
the authorities to cuss the people for what
they call “lack of patriotic interest.” The
man with money doesn’t have to wait for
a carnival day to lend his support. And
as for us other poor coves, we do all we
can towards the war effort in the form
of taxes, etc. — Elm (N.S.W.).
Wheat
The Royal Commission on the Wheat
Industry sat for well over a year; it
painstakingly collected all the evidence
available at a cost of about £30,000. At
the conclusion Herbert Gepp issued
a report containing, among other things,
the statement that “the wheat industry,
directly and indirectly, gives employment
to more persons than any other industry
in Australia.” I quoted that statement in
my par. on “Wheat” (B. 23 /4/’4l) and
“D.C.Q.” (B. 14/5/’4l) condemned it as
“sheer, absolute, blanky rot,” quoting
yards of figures to prove that the wheat
industry is not as important as the pas-
toral industry.
Among other things, he quoted that
the pastoral industry employs 47,000
people as compared with wheat’s 43,600.
This, of course, does not include indirect
employees. The wheat industry easily
makes up the difference here in three
directions. In wheat-farm machinery fac-
tories (there are no shearing-machine fac-
tories covering an entire suburb, as
does the McKay Sunshine factory); in
transport industries (a record wheat har-
vest is the only factor that can give the
N. S. Wales railways a profitable year);
and in farm supplies (note the size,
pnmher and activity of towns in wheat
districts and compare the villages of
pastoral districts).
His other statement, that the guaran-
teed price of wheat will be a tax on the
community because trading will not
return to normal “inside a
decade,” is typical hide-
bound conservatism. They
said the same during the
last war, and were con-
founded in post-war years
by the greatest boom the
Australian wheat - farmers
ever experienced. Block-
aded, war-torn Europe will
be hungrier than it has ever
been before, and the prob-
lem of paying for the wheat
will be a small thing com-
pared with the present
one Of meeting the colossal
daily cost of carrying on
the war. — Soe (N.S.W.)
“Tompion’s” proposal (B. 23/4/’4l)
to close down or convert to grazing half
of our wheat farms during the war has
one misconception and one shortsighted
suggestion. He is wrong about the
danger of greatly increased wheat pro-
duction (due to the guaranteed price)
in the fertile areas. The Wheat Board
has gone to a great deal of trouble to
ensure that no more than the average of
the last four years acreage is sown. The
board knows that some farmers are
attempting to expand their acreages
(3,000,000 acres is the excess area claimed
in the Commonwealth), but it has the
power to deal with them and is threaten-
ing to use it drastically.
Moreover, it would be the worst kind
of temporary expedient to keep only
Mallee farms producing wheat. That is
just where the decrease in production
should be effected, because there it is
uneconomic and unreliable. Now is the
time to rehabilitate the Mallee, and other
marginal areas, by removing all the un-
successful farmers and giving them jobs
in munition factories. Their land could
be used to enlarge to a decent living area
the holdings of the remaining men, who
would then be able to practise a more
diversified form of farming.
Then there are hundreds of other farms
which would benefit greatly by being
“abandoned” and “neglected” while their
owners made munitions for a few years ;
all the overstocked, overcropped and
eroded farms would recover marvellously,
and respond so well on the return of
the owners that they would profit, and
not lose, through their absence.
The snag is that the Government would
not be able to provide sufficient factories
for all the farmers, plus the men who
normally depend for a living on the
farmers’ activities. Even now they can’t
cope with the position. Two farmhands


r
sfesasp* r
SBBBBBWBBtiM^^g
UCj
By Appointment.
No. 1 Quality:
Unlined . . 40/6
Lined .... 43/-
Super-Suede Quality:
Unlined .. 55/-
Lined .... 57/6
The Woodrow is a striking
example o£ the high standard set
by English craftsmen, and is a
guarantee of quality, perfect style
and, above all, durability. In all
weathers these English Woodrows
will retain their shape and smart
appearance. There is no better
value for money.
‘t/^oodfotaT
v ' Hats
ALL FIRST-CLASS HATTERS AND STORES.
INTERESTING FACTS
The Rural Bank, established in
1899, is a national institution, self-
dependent, controlled by a perma-
nent board of three Commissioners.
Its aim is to enable farms and homes
to be acquired on easy terms. It has
played an important part in consoli-
dating the position of our State and
Commonwealth.' Although operat-
ing under a Government guarantee
it has at no time been a charge on
the State. On the contrary, it has
built up reserves (invested outside
the business) exceeding £1,700,000.
Branches are established at represen-
tative centres, where Fixed Deposits
are received and cheque accounts
opened for all sections of the com-
munity.
OF NEW
R U R At&B A N K
H WALES
Head Office: Martin Place, Sydney.
5 Commissioners:
C. R. MeKERIHAN (President), H. ROGERS, P. KEARNS.
Your Bank—Serving You, Serving the State.
m SIND/HC IT TO SCHU7IBILL ■
IHti SUCUUSt IHRABBITS
* ACCURATE WEIGHTS * HIGHEST PRICES
EXPERT CLASSING ★ LIBERAL ADVANCES
Write for Market Reports and Labels
WOOL AND PRODUCE BROKERS
FAT & STUD STOCK AUCTIONEERS
STORE, STOCK AND PROPERTY
SALESMEN
1 B E
Telegrams:
REET. SYDNEY
Sjf d ney. Telephone: 8W4341.
NOCK & KIRBY’S
THE NEW FIVE-INCH
“GREAT SCOT” LATHE
EASE OF OPERATION
IS
OUTSTANDING FEATURE
This is a special heavy duty precision lathe which has been
designed for use in Production Shops, Machine Shops, Garages,
etc. Inspect this new model at our 417 George Street Store,
Tool Department, Ground Floor, or write for complete speci-
fications now.
AUTOMATIC CROSS FEED
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED
HEAD STOCK CONE
Sin. CENTRES
FULL SET CHANGE
WHEELS FOR ALL
STANDARD THREADS
2ft. 4in. BETWEEN CENTRES
VIBRATIONLESS
HIGH-SPEED PRODUCTION
BENCH LATHES
BUILT TO STRICT TOLER-
ANCE LIMITS
CASH PRICE .... £125-0-0
NOCK £ KIROV LIB
Postal Address. ..BOX 4250 Y G.P.O. SYDNEY


Cripes, startin’ to hook ’em! I'll ’ ave to see
the pro.”
and a share-farmer from my district went
to the city determined to make muni-
tions. The hands ended by slushying in
a hotel and the share-farmer came back
to the country—to trap rabbits. —E. O. S.
(N.S.W.).
One of the most amazing statements I
have ever seen on the “0.F.M.” page was
“Benn’s” “There’s always land” (B.i
21/5/ ’4l). The examples he gives of
men finding “good land farther out”
occurred 50 to 80 years ago. He ought
to realise that that process cannot go on
indefinitely in a country once it has been
thoroughly explored. The tremendous
demand for land (there were 800 appli-
cants for one block made available in N.
S. Wales) is one proof that the limit has
been reached in most parts of Australia ;
another is that in every district men are
trying vainly to make a living on land
which the earlier settlers rightly regarded
as unsuitable for cultivation.
The limit has been passed in many
places. In western Victoria there are
hundreds of square miles of man-made
deserts, where wheatgrowers have cleared
land which should never have been
touched ; the gaunt mallee roots, six feet
high in the air, are a sight which should
fill with shame every complacent Aus-
tralian who talks about “exploiting our
limitless natural resources.”
In “Benn’s” own State (S.A.), thou-
sands of farmers eke out a precarious
existence sowing wheat on sand, which
is as likely as not to blow away with the
crop before it is harvested. People
wouldn’t be doing things like this if there
was “plenty of good land available.”
It is fatuous to speak of closer settle-
ment as the solution ; or of closer settle-
ment providing its own markets. Far too
often closer settlement would only mean
a change in production from a nationally
profitable article like wool to a nation-
ally unprofitable article which has to be
subsidised. At present the production of
sugar, rice and wheat is compulsorily re-
stricted, because of limited markets. That
should be a convincing proof of how
closer-settlement production soon out-
strips its markets. — Reefun (N.S.W.).
Hospitality
I visited one of Sydney’s biggest hos-
pitals the other night, and arrived
10 minutes before visiting hour. With
about 50 other poor cows, I stood out-
side the well-guarded gate in the bleak-
est of winds. The only shelter was a
tram-shed near by, but it was already
filled with cynical souls who knew the
ropes. Why hasn’t every hospital a wait-
ing-room (or shed, if that’s the limit of
hospitality) inside the grounds? Either
that, or enlarge the pneumonia ward.—
Sneezy (N.S.W.).
Equal Pay for the Sexes
There are more ways of holding up war
effort than chucking spanners about. One
of the most effective is to keep politicians
so busy handing round loaves and fishes
that they have no time
left for such unpleasant
tasks as making the
wheels go round.
The child-endowment
scheme mpst have been
worth a battleship to the
enemy, and the demand
for equal pay for the
sexes may be worth a
’plane-carrier to Hitler if
the agitators get a hear-
ing. Already some of
the politicians are toying
with the idea of getting
their baskets ready for
another handout of
benefits that cost them
nothing. It is more
blessed to give gener-
ously to the multitude
than to receive criticism
for incompetence, and
we may another
scandalous competition
between the parties in
the distribution of other
people’s money.
The proposal to equal-
ise the pay envelopes is
illogical and uneconomic.
The male wage is based
on the assumption that
the man supports a wife
and family. The female
wage cannot be meas-
ured by the same stand-
ard even if red-tape is
used. If flappers and
spinsters are granted the
increase the necessity for
marriage will cease to
be, the birthrate will
flop, the cost of living
and of production will
soar, foreign competition
will be encouraged and
unemployment will in-
evitably follow.
But these considerations are trifling
beside the fact that hundreds of function-
aries will waste precious time “exploring
avenues” and adjusting claims while they
should be helping to win a war that
■ threatens the lives of the wage-earners as
individuals and the existence of the
nation as a whole — Stop the Rot (S.A.).
\ .
Australian Books
Of course, the average Australian is in-
terested in his own country and reads
with avidity anything concerning it that
is set out in a manner at all optimistic
(B. 14/5/’4l). Watching Westralian
libraries I note that it is difficult to keep
anything by Idriess on the shelves. People
like his books so much that they steal
them. My library has replaced Lasseter’s
Last Ride a dozen times. Buchanan’s
Packhorse and Waterhole disappears in
the same way. Likewise Basedow’s
Knights of the Boomerang. All good
books.
The trouble in the past has been that
most Australian books were written by
exiled Englishmen to whom Australia was
a land of droughts, dead sheep, fires,
fever and general misery. Such stuff
filled their writings, and bred in the
Australian-born an abhorrence of such
books. Actually Australia has a fine and
adventurous history even though it ex-
tends back only 300 years. And the
average Australian is densely ignorant of
such history. Well-written accounts of
Australia’s past have been withheld from
him, although he would read them with
avidity.
And what applies to the books ,by
Englishmen in exile also applies largely
to A.B.C. In almost every key posi-
tion there sits an exiled Britisher. Thus
Australia is daily given a programme
that to an outsider must seem as though
it were delivered to a suburb of London.
Interesting Australian talks, etc., are ex-
cluded in favor of encyclopaedia stuff
about any other part of the world. —
Currency Lad (W.A.).
School Art
“Why can’t schools include in their
curricula a course in art?” asks Guy W.
Warren (B. 7/5/’4l). God forbid!
When I see the results produced on their
pupils by schoolteachers and university
professors who teach aesthetic subjects I
am reminded of Chekhov’s story of the
boy whose professor father set out to
teach a kitten to catch rats. Releasing a
rat in front of the kitten he urged it to
chase it. When the kitten refused he
smacked it. After repeating this pro-
cess for a long time he gave it up and
decided the kitten was a sow’s ear. One
day, when it had grown into a cat, a rat
suddenly appeared in the kitchen. The
cat trembled with fear and then rushed
off in the opposite direction.
Mention philosophy to the average
graduate of Melbourne University and
his face will be suffused with a look of
pained boredom. Try to talk about
Shakspeare to the average Melbourne
citizen who has passed through a State
school or a college and he thinks you are
trying to insult him. All that teachers
have done is to surround those subjects
with unfortunate associations for their
pupils, just as Chekhov’s professor sur-
rounded rats with unfortunate associa-
tions for the kitten. Why wouldn’t they
do the same thing for art? —F. S. (Vic.).
Taxing Lottery Prizes
The amount of lottery prize-money (B.
14/5/’4l) reserved for distribution is
already no great proportion of the
total amount collected.- The Govern-
ments concerned keep back from distri-
bution sufficient to cover running costs,
agents’ commissions (in some States), and
a profit of over a half-million a year on
the business. The profit is used to finance
in part the hospitals of the States con-
cerned, a laudable work which must be
continued and provided for whether the
nation is at war or at peace.
Suppose Mr. Spender or the Govern-
ment did adopt The Bulletin’s suggestion
and “blotted out the lottery business in
one act,” the money so lost would have
to be raised by further State taxes or
by Commonwealth grant, and I don’t
think that The Bulletin would approve
of a State levying further taxation or ask-
ing for an outright grant from the Com-
monwealth.
The alternative suggestion of turning
the lottery offices into War Loan offices
run by the Commonwealth with a distri-
bution of but one per cent, as prize-
money for the gamble is unsound. It
was found in “a foreign State” a few years
back that by raising the first prize in
its lottery from £5OOO to £6OOO so many
more subscribers were attracted that it
was possible to increase the number of
drawings because the lotteries were filled
so much more quickly. That experience
is an indication of what might follow if
the amount of distributable prize-money
were reduced to one per cent.
A moderate tax on prize-money would
bring in some much-needed revenue, but
if a prize-winner of £40,000 were to be
taxed at the rate of 14s. in the pound
such a lottery would never be filled. —
O. H. (Q.).
Half-measures
Politicians are queer birds. In piping
days of peace they often overstep their
authority, do quite a number of things
that are not constitutional, and flagrantly
take the law into their own hands. Then,
paradoxically enough, when war comes
and unlimited power is conferred upon
them, with the one stipulation that they
use that power towards welding the
nation’s war effort into a solid whole,
they are dead scared to do anything dras-
tic in case it upsets a certain section of
the community.
During the week, readers of the daily
papers were amazed to see a half-page
advertisement appealing to petrol users
to return empty drums as it was essential
to the defence of the country that an
adequate number of these containers be
refilled and placed in strategic dumps for
use by our air force and mechanised
units. One could hardly imagine the
ruthless devils that direct the activities of
the Luftwaffe making any such namby-
pamby request. Why don’t the powers
that be wake up to the fact that 90 p.c.
of Australians are solidly behind any
move the Government makes, however
revolutionary it may be, so long as it will
help us win the war? The other 10 per
cent, can be brought into line if our legis-
lators take off their kid gloves.— Melton
(Vic.).
“Round the Clock”
Australians do not appear to have
realised that the Battle of the Atlantic
is being fought in every porf in the world
visited by British shipping. Time saved
in discharging and loading cargoes in
Melbourne or Hong Kong may be just
as effective as the sinking of U-boats.
When slackness, stupidity or cupidity at
an Australian port keeps a British vessel
there a day longer than necessary, the
work of the U-boats is being done for
them by British subjects.
There is something wrong with our
use of the available man-power in Aus-
tralia. Able-bodied men are still em-
ployed in making and selling innumer-
able goods the public could well do with-
out, while ships are forced to waste pre-
cious hours of daylight in idleness be-
cause there is insufficient waterside labor
to work round the clock in Australian
ports. The British Ministry of Shipping
has instructed that, wherever they may
be, British ships must work 24 hours a
day when discharging and loading cargo.
What happens when they get to Aus-
tralia?
Waterside workers in Melbourne, and
presumably other Australian ports, are
paid much higher rates for night work
than for day work. Not only is the
amount of labor offering insufficient to
enable British vessels to work round the
clock while in Melbourne, but the men,
naturally enough, rush the highly-paid
night work, and if there is enough of
it to go round none offer themselves for
the day shifts. Moreover, the rates for
nightwork are so high that many of them
elect to work only two or three nights
a week. Thus we get the ludicrous spec-
tacle of a vessel working feverishly
through the hours of darkness and lying
idle through the day. All concerned —
stevedoring companies, Harbor Trust,
Customs and master carriers—complain
of the increased costs involved for every-
one, but the really serious matter is the
delay to the ship and its effect on the
outcome of the Battle of the Atlantic.—
S. F. F. (Vic.).
Greasy Wool
Certain farm industries in Australia are
in difficulties because of restricted ship-
ping space—the products cannot be
transported overseas. Yet we still per-
sist in sending greasy wool abroad, when
30 to 50 per cent, of the weight is repre-
sented by dirt, vegetable matter and
grease. If the wool were scoured in Aus-
tralia, a third less shipping space would
be needed to carry it overseas.
We must be sending at least 12,000
tons of good Australian soil overseas
every year. Another aspect is that ex-
perts calculate that work would be found
for at least 500,000 people if we pro-
cessed our wool from scouring to card-
ing in this country. —Two Strand
(N.S.W.).
The Digger Spirit
In the papers I have received from
home I’ve seen many references to the
way the boys sing when going into
action. Well, I’m only a lowly sapper
and perhaps have not seen as much action
or been in the thick of it like the news-
hounds that cable such bullswool home.
But most of the boys are quiet and grim,
and if there’s any talking it’s about the
job on hand or ahead of us. If a man,
not knowing whether he’ll be alive or
dead within a few minutes, goes forward
singing into action, he’s either weak in
the head or has no nerves at all.
I saw what I think is the true spirit of
Diggers and the British in general. After
a “show” the mate and I were guiding
the mob, including prisoners, back
through the minefield when a utility
truck travelling very slowly came along.
Three wounded were lying on the floor
and a fourth stretched his right leg across
the tailboard as he sat sidewise on. I
noticed his leg was just about shot off.
He saw me and said as he raised his
hand, thumb up, “We belted the blankards
anyway! ”
It’s funny to think of a fellow’s mates
back home striking for more pay at a
time like this. —Sapper (Abroad).
Producer-gas Plants
Despite publicity, petrol restrictions
and appeals to patriotism the producer-
gas plant is still a rarity on our streets.
Fears concerning excessive cylinder wear
have been alloyed by experts’ pronounce-
ments, fuel supplies are assured and the
problem of bulk has reached a satisfac-
tory solution, but the major bar of exces-
sive cost still remains, and until it is
brought down to a reasonable level the
motorist will stick to petrol.
Two acquaintances with reasonable
mechanical skill recently have constructed
units which are giving satisfactory ser-
vice at a cost of £l4 and £l5 10s. respec-
tively. Thus after allowance is made for
labor and overhead it seems that the
factory price should not exceed £3O a
unit. Motorists who could afford the £B5
preferred to spend it in another second-
hand car in order to qualify for addi-
tional ration tickets. And I don’t blame
them. —Barwon (N.S.W.).
Tax on Sport
I’ll leave it to the statisticians to esti-
mate the amount that could be added
yearly to Australia’s war funds if the
sporting fraternity were compelled to
contribute an extra five per cent, to en-
trance fees. Few punters or patrons would
object to paying an extra penny in the
shilling. To the sporting meetings could
be added all games or gambols where en-
trance money has to be paid, as well as
picture-shows, wrestling, boxing and, in
fact, the whole box and dice that come
under the realm of entertainment.
Australians are fortunate that distance
from the battlefields permits indulgence
in sports and entertainments ; it’s only
fitting we should contribute and keep on
contributing to funds that are urgently
needed.— All For It (N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
CYPRUS DE LUXE
15 Jewel Precision
£5/10/-
Watch.
f
Specially tested to stand tropical conditions.
Waterproof, Shockproof, Rustproof.
Fully Guaranteed. Watch Repair Service.
DIAMbND
& WATCH
SPECIALISTS
gdf
112 MARKET ST
SYDNEY.
OPR DAVIDJONES
LATEST RADIO SETS
£2O Below Retail Price.
You can buy direct from factory if
no Century Agent in your District,
and thus save up to £2O on retail
prices. Marvellous tone, sensitivity
and economy; world-wide reception
brings overseas news direct to your
home. Absolute satisfaction is
guaranteed by FREE TEN DAY
TRIAD TO INTENDING PUR-
CHASERS. Illustrated catalogue of
Battery and All-electric sets post
free on request.
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
TYPEWRITERS
of every description
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
g
FROM £5 UPWARDS.
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States—See ’Phone Book.
FINE TOBACCO!
Whitelaw’s Famous Import
Blend Number One.
A fine quality leaf which could not be purchased
anywhere at less than 24/ per pound. Despite
new duties, WHITELAW’S SPECIAL POLICY TO
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS enables us to offer this
tobacco at the lowest price consistent with its fine
quality. Save yourself the middleman’s profit-
buy direct and enjoy an extra fine quality smoke,
expertly blended, fragrant, cool, and satisfying.
Your money back if not satisfied. Send crossed
cheque or money order. (If cheque add exchange.)
Available in Ready Rubbed Fine Cut or Ready
Rubbed for Pipe, ilb. 9/3 delivered; 11b. 17/6
delivered. James Whitelaw and Co., Factors,
Importers and Blenders of Fine Tobaccos, 160
Oastlereagh Street, Sydney. (Note new address.)
Bankers: Bank of N.S.W., Head Office.
WINCHESTER
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
2- 750 ft. range, each .... 15/-
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 17/6
Complete with Batteries. Postage Extra.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
FAT, FLABBY
STOMACH
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The GOVERNA BELT supports
correctly the delicate organs,
and, by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes waistline
fat and bulge with every move
you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAL OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will
be Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of
bulge and strain gone . . .
OR NO COST ! Write for full
illustrated details of 7 DAYS’
TRIAL OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
dfg
Write
for
Price
List.
THE “ABERDEEN” (Regd.)
“Adjusta” Patent Com-
bined Leg and Surcingle
HORSE RUG
Can be put on and
fastened up in i a
minute. Impossible
for rug to come off.
The animal has per-
fect freedom, as the
fitting is self-adjust-
ing. Heavy check
lined, IJ-inch plated
breast-strap and lea-
ther on wither. All
sizes and qualities
from 25/- to 51/-.
From all leading stores and saddlers.
SMITH COPELAND & CO. PTL, LTD.,
SYDNEY.
DEHORNING
Get rid of
Horns BEFORE
they start!
One application of
HAYES CHEMICAE
DEHOBNEK
Dehorns without bleeding
any calf up to two months.
Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from
its mother for 30 minutes. An easy, cheap, humane
method. Price per pot sufficient for 35 to 50 calves,
6/6. Large size for 210 to 300 calves, 30/-.
HAYES VETERINARY Post Free.
COMPANY, 3SI Queen St., Brisbane.
St m
i K
SERVICE FOR
THE DEAF!!
Mr. R. A. Noedl, L.1.8.5.T., wishes to announce
that he is able to render a most efficient service
to all afflicted with Deafness, no matter what
type or style of Hearing they may be using.
"ELECTRAVOX" SUPREME
The sensational Hearing and small, compact and
of amazing clearness. Batteries used in the
Electravox are obtainable anywhere.
R. A. NOEDL L.J.8.5.T.,
The Block, 438 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone: MA3774.
TILLEY LAMPS
dfg
For the Farm, Camping
or Fishing.
British-made Kerosene Lamps
providing a steady 300 c.p. light
without flickering and without
smoke or smell.
Model EXIOO (illustrated)
can be used as a Storm
Lantern, Table Lamp or Hanging
Lamp. Reflector slips off when
not required. Burns for 10
hours on li pint.
Price, 67/6 complete.
Write for catalogue of Radiators
and all types of lamps.
Obtainable from your local agent or
W. Kopson & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
376-382 Kent Street, Sydney.
MA6336.
tSb
DIP CIV electric fence
DIVJ OIA CHARGER.
Saves 80% on fencing costs and will last
a lifetime. Absolutely stockproof. Send
for FREE descriptive leaflets.
SINGEE WIRE FENCE CO.,
207 George Street, SYDNEY.
S.A. Agents:
Goldberg Bros., North Terrace, Adelaide.
BOBBHDB
PORTABLE UNITS
By
Briggs & Stratton.
A small, compact
Petrol Electric
Generator, with
everything a car
engine has.
300 WATTS 12 VOLTS
Running cost 1/ per
week.
Details gladly posted.
AMPLION Ptu.Ud
ANYWHERE
A N VT I M E
For Home Lighting.
Battery Charging.
Will operate twelve
25-watt lamps.
Runs 12 hours on
Igal. of petrol.
382 Kent Street,
Svdnev. N.S.W.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
dfg
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4Jin. knee pads. 3in. thigh
pads. 4jin. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
f
i
'Vj
L.EABN VENTRILOQUISM
quickly —my new method
teaches it thoroughly in very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the VENTRILO you can imitate many kinds cf
birds, animals, etc. Everything for ONE
SHILLING, including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw your voice.
FRFF Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
Tricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
173 Pitt St., Sydney. 52 Swanston gt., Melh.
to PREVENT INFLUENZA
CARRY IN YOUR
POQKETI
OR HAND-BAG
f
THE LENITIVE INHALER is always
ready for use. Instantly relieves throat
and nasal troubles, dears the head like
magic, cures catarrhal headache. It will
surely ward off influenza Infection and
save you from colds and coughs. Preven-
tion is better than cure ; always carry it
with you and use it whenever you feel
the slightest irritation in throat or nose.
Easy and pleasant to use. Only 1/6, with
full directions and Six Months’ Refills,
post paid. Money back if it fails. Try
it at our expense. It may save your life.
THE UNION COMPANY,
399 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
BATTERIES DIRECT AT
WHOLESALE PRICES.
Cut your costs in half. Every
type of wet battery for car, truck,
cycle, radio, home or theatre lighting
approximately fifty per cent, cheaper
than retail. Marshall Batteries are
entirely new throughout and guarani
teed in writing. Our 16-page cata-
logue on how to choose and look after
batteries is yours for the asking. The
Marshall Battery Mfg. Co., 38-42
Harbour Street, Sydney.
Form a Group!
Join a Group!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
SOME COMMON SENSE
M*""*
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Climbing
toWAto
ET
Amazing New Imported
CLIMBING TOMATO!
BEAUS FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001 b. per plant. Large,
red, smooth tomatoes. Climbs
12-20 feet. 2/6 packet posted,
PURE WHITE HEALTH
TOMATO!
For Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
etc. (100 per cent.
NON-ACID!) Sup-
MP>U^|
f ' |
L.J
erb flavor! Disease free! Drought proof!
MAKES DELICIOUS JAM. 2/6 Packet, posted.
gdf
15-DAY TIMBER KILLER!
Kills all trees, roots to top, large
or small, In 15 DAYS! New method,
NO RINGBARKING NECESSARY!
Prevents Suckering. Will not in-
jure the soil. 5/0 Tin, Post Frea
N.S.W. SEED CO., 75 George St., Sydney.
CHARCOAL GAS
“ATOMA” PARTS
for the man with limited capital.
The complete unit weighs only 120 pounds and
parts required are: 1 Hopper Lid, 19/6; 2 Filter
Lids, 27/—; 1 Cleaning' Door, 13/6; 1 Grate, 8/6;
1 Tuyere, £2/13/6; 1 Mixing Yalve, £5; 1 Mani-
fold Adaptor, 12/6; 1 Idling Vent, 15/6; 1 Drip
Tap, 6/6 ; 2 Water Unions, 4/4 ; 101 b. Lining Com-
pound, 7/6; 41b. Steel Wool, 8/8; 21b. S'isal or
Rope Fibre, 2/6. These parts may be bought sepa-
rately if desired. Complete list is accompanied by
Instructions and Blueprint which makes assembling
so simple that very little mechanical knowledge is
needed. TOTAL COST IS £l3/19/6.
For Further Particulars Write or Call
ATOMA ENGINEERING CO.,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
gdf
LAMBS SAVED
Mu mam; —Sale—and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback—fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection —No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAEOUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
Also LAMB DE-TAILER, £3/5/-. From all
agents or the distributors: HAIN &
SEARIGHT, 19b O’Connell Street, Sydney.
AROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,'
FLIES, OR INFECTION
By Using the
One hand holds Cord—
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient-
1
t*.
ism
OILSKINS
for long:, bard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of our
oilskins are our
best advertisement.
Hughes’ Tropical
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Write for Free Catalogue and Samples.
A. J. HUGHES
(Established 1893),
1218 BEGENT STBEET. SYDNEY.
“GOLF SHOTS"
by JIM FERRIER
IS NOW ON SALE.
Over 100 photographs of the
champion in action reproduced
from a slow-motion film.
Every shot fully explained.
Price only 3/- per copy from
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Ply. Ltd.
Box 252 188, G.P.0., Sydney, most
Newsagents or your Club Pro.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
11/6r41 (See Page 32)
Mr.. Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your "Wants" to the Service Department, ‘The Bulletin
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


THE BROKEN HILL ASSOCIATED SMELTERS
PTY. LTD.
BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED
■
PRODUCERS OF:
LEAD: OUR BRAND IS WORLD FAMOUS
GRADES : SOFT pic, assay, corroding, SOPER-REFINED, and tellurium
BHAS lead is used in storage batteries, in white lead paints, in cables for
telephone systems, in pipes and sheets for plumbing purposes, in antifriction
alloys, printers* alloys, solders, antimonial lead, and other products too
numerous to mention.
ANTIMONIAL LEAD:
Produced at l*ort Kembla on behalf of BHAS Pty. Ltd. by the E. R. and
S. Co. of Aust., Ltd. This antimonial lead is of a high degree of purity;
it possesses first-class casting qualities and excellent physical strength.
SELLING AGENTS for Antimonial Lead:
Mr. H. B. MARKER, c/o BHAS Pty. Ltd., 360 Collins Street, Melbourne. M. 4381.
AUSTRAL BRONZE CO. PTY. LTD., O’Riordan Street, Alexandria, MX, 1091.
SILVER: Refined (bar and granulated)
THE COMPANY PURCHASES SIIVER-LEAD ORES, LEAD DROSSES. ETC.
ON SPECIALLY FAVOURABLE TARIFFS.
Head Office: 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Smelting Works: PORT PIRIE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
bhas
LONDON:
Australian Ore and Metal Co.
95 Gresham Street, E.C.2.
ADELAIDE:
c. s.
62 Brookr
SYDNEY:
R. N. Kirk & Co.,
25 O’Connell Street.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING
COMPANY OF AUST. LTD.
BLUESTONE: “ESA” Brand
for Spray Mixtures for Fruit Trees and Vines,
for Treatment of Footrot in Sheep,
for Wheat Pickling.
Our booklet, “Better Yields by Spraying,” has been
of great assistance to Farmers and Orchardists.
Copies will be sent gladly on request.
Agents in all States:
ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD.
BEARING METALS: “Graphine” Brand
Highest Grade Cadmium-Base , Tin-Base and Lead-
Base Alloys for all Engineering Purposes .
Our Antifriction Bearing Alloy Booklet is a practical
manual for Engineers. It says clearly and concisely
how to select the right alloy and how to run it up. It
also gives an account of the principles underlying the
use of bearing alloys. Copies of this useful book will
be sent gladly on request.
The Company’s technical experts will be glad to
advise customers on bearing metal problems.
FOR AGENTS SEE PANEL ON LEFT.
PRINTERS’ ALLOYS
BEST QUALITY
Agents for Bearing Metals and Printers'
Alloys:
Melbourne:
Mr. H. B. Barker,
c/o The Electrolytic Refining & Smelting Co.
of Aust., Ltd.,
360 Collins Street. M 4381.
Sydney:
Austral Bronze Co. Ply., Ltd.,
O’Riordan Street, Alexandria. MX 1091.
Adelaide:
A. Noble & Son, Ltd.,
79 Grenfell Street. C 2231.
Brisbane:
Bell’s Asbestos & Engineering (Aust.), Ltd.,
156 Edward Street. 85025.
Perth:
Bell’s Asbestos & Engineering (Aust.), Ltd.,
336-340 Murray Street. 89791.
We Purchase: GOLD BULLION,
ORES of Copper and Precious Metals
We Settle Promptly at the Best Available Rates
Write fo our
Registered Office: 25 O’CONNELL ST..SYDNEY. 5637 i.
Melbourne Office: 360 COLLINS ST. M43si.
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
■Phone Port Kembla 72.
