

HAPING Australia’s Industrial
m ■ Progress J.. |" ' ”
B.HLP. Steel in its many forms fills Australia's need
for the metal that gets, things done. The great
tonnages of quality iron and steel produced at The
Broken Hill Proprietary’s Newcastle Steel Works
give Australia an assured supply of the essential
materials for the development and defence of the
Commonwealth.
The high quality of B.H.P. Steel and the fact that
it is available at the world’s lowest prices forms
convincing evidence of the industry’s efficiency and
service to the nation.
The value of the B.H.P. enterprise in peace time
is only exceeded by its vital importance in the
extraordinary circumstances caused by war.
mmmm
—r~s ——s
L '
. *mr. m
i 1 I, i i
As an avenue of employment the Australian iron and steel industry
must be ranked of major importance, as it gives direct employ-
ment to more than 33,000 persons, whose wages total yearly
nearly £10,000,000.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited not only produces
iron and steel, but owns and operates its own steamships and
coalmines, and most of the raw materials used in steel-making
are obtained from properties under the control of the company.
Above is shown section of the Newcastle Steel Works blast furnace
plant, which produces more than 15,000 tons of iron per week.
B.H.P. PRODUCTS
include
Pig Iron, Steel Ingots, Blooms,
Billets, Rails, Flats, Angles, Rounds,
Squares, Beams, Channels, Plates,
Reinforcing Bar, Tee and Bridge
Rails, Spring and Alloy Steel, Cold
Rolled Bright Strip and Box Strap-
ping, Octagons and Hexagons,
Wire Rods, Toluol, Solvent Naphtha,
Ammonium Sulphate, Foundry
Coke, Coals, Steam and Roasting
Coal, Household, and Bunker Coal.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.
Iron and Steel Masters —Mine Owners Colliery Proprietors —Ship Owners
Head Office: 422 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Iron and Steel Works: Newcastle, New South Wales.
Branches at; Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and London.
Iron Ore Workings: Iron Knob, South Australia.
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3209.
Wednesday, August 13, 1941.
Retreat to Tobruk (Page 4)
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


I
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
IQpp illustrated Penm»nship Prospectus explaining
i,our Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydmy Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B, 141
The Red Page
The New Diggers Speaking
When a contribution comes into this
office scribbled in pencil on crumpled,
transparent paper, such a rough bit of
copy that it has to be typed out before
one dare offer it to Wild McHaggis of
the linotype, it has to speak up pretty
strongly for itself to get a hearing. And
Rule No. 2 is that covering letters, how-
ever insidious, cut no ice at all.
But the first word on the present scrap
of paper is “Libya,” followed by “A.I.F.
Abroad.” Which makes a difference.
And the covering letter by the sergeant
with the poetic nom de plume of “Desert
Rat” is worth printing as well as read-
ing;—
Enclosed are a few verses that I send
to you with apologies to the man who wrote
the original. about Queensland years ago.
They are inspired by four months’ scrap-
ping with Jerry in the desert. Re certain
expressions in the verses: “Fou” is a Jerry
spotting ’plane that flies over our-lines;
it is armor-plated, and though we can’t
do it any damage we always blaze at him,
and I think he has a bit of a laugh at
us! The “Tommies” christened him;
“Fou” means “clownish” or “freak.”
“Whispering Willie” is a light kind of Jerry
howitzer, with low velocity, that takes a
long time to come, something like a
mortar; it has a horrible whispering sound
and is naturally very much disliked.
“Onions,” of course, are “flaming onions,”
used by Ack-Ack.
The sergeant bursts into song. Maybe
the ballad’s on the rough side, but so is
Libya:
There was another paragraph to the
covering letter, one that’s sincerely
appreciated:
I would like to mention that The Bul-
letin is very popular, over here, and is read
and re-read as long as she holds together.
I have also run into the “Woman’s Mirror”
here and spent one afternoon reading all
the recipes and trying to make believe that
there would be no bully-beef stew for tea!
All the boys arc in great heart here, but
will be glad to get home again.
Both in style and spirit, the sergeant’s
poem is typical of the verses that are
blowing into this office from the Middle
East and Malaya. Some are tragic;
some, usually the best-written efforts,
have the grim but sturdy realism, lit by
flashes of beauty, that was characteristic
of the war poetry of 1914-18 ; some are
filled with homesickness for Australia,
some are filled with the strangeness and
excitement of foreign countries ; the great
majority are cheerful, factual ballads that
arise as naturally among soldiers as the
bush ballads sprang up in the early days,
having, if not • polish and depth of
true poetry, the merits of realism and
humor and the great merit of genuineness.
Here’s another spirited tribute to the
pleasant clime of Libya, and not a bad
ballad either —a parody of Henry Law-
son’s “The Shanty on the Rise” which
shows that Tip Kelaher hasn’t forgotten
Australia in his new address:
If it’s any comfort to the gents in the
pillbox, some of the Australian camps
aren’t exactly beds of roses either. Any-
how, there’s a notorious “Ode to Darwin
Town” (anyone who objects to the tropi-
cal coloring of this version of an old
Bulletin outburst can fight it out with
the lady who passed it on to us):
Set out so forcibly, Darwin’s amenities
command a certain amount of respect;
but it’s Libya, undoubtedly, that really
takes the bun. Private “Bok Rowe,” his
testimony:
Macaulay, or Sir Evelyn Wrench or
somebody, once said that the chief value
of verse among primitive communities
was that memorable incidents, given the
stability of rhyme and metre, could be
preserved and passed from person to
person. Whoever said it was doubtless
referring to the Hottentots or the Saxons,
but it applies equally well to the Diggers,
for, if they can’t safely be called primi-
tives, they do live under those primitive
conditions that cry aloud for the ballad-
ist. For instance. Driver “Frick” on the
“Good Shootin’ ” of Bill Bright:
“Frick’s” ballad was sent on to The
Bulletin by the Royal Auto Club of
Victoria, the bard having introduced him-
self to the club as the driver of an
ambulance it donated to the A.1.F.:
It. has, therefore, occurred to me that you
will be doubtless interested to receive news of
said vehicle. .
Well, for a start, it is at the war, and doing
good work. She is still in good condition and
all in one piece, practically.
One moment —oh, yes, my pal the A.M.C.
orderly just thought the desert had got me.
I was counting the shrapnel holes in the side;
there are six in one side and two in the front.
I can’t make it out, for the enemy doesn’t attack
the Red Cross. One sliver of hot steel about
half an inch thick by about five inches ploughed
through one side and out behind the driver’s
seat, fortunately when the driver was scratch-
ing holes in the rocky ground and the other
occupants had also gone to earth.
You may now read my poem which I have
just written, hoping you will like same. If so,
would some member be so generous as to send
it to The Bulletin in my name and let me
know what insulting remarks are made in their
comment. I know they won’t accept it, but
their criticisms amuse me greatly.
Wrong, brother; we’ve printed it.
Though it would have been all to the
good if you’d enclosed a stretcher for
the “Answers to Correspondents” man.
Which serves for a reminder that there
is a ballad, by a stretcher-bearer some-
where about, Stan Pinson, formerly of
Manly, on “Our First Stunt”:
There’s more of the ballad, but on the
thin side, so it might as well stop at the
“Iti’s.” A true ballad needs to be tied
to some definite incident, as “Frick’s”
was, and as is the next one by Sergeant
Terry Ring, who saw the troops come
back from Greece. The verse came with
a note from the Australian Army Ord-
nance Corps Welfare League:
He couldn’t understand at first when they
returned, instead of being worn out after their
experiences and wanting to lie down and rest,
they immediately made for the canteen, and
after getting a stock of bottled beer they im-
mediately started to play a game of Swai or
“two-up,” as it is called. He was so impressed
with their indomitable spirit and courage that
he wrote this poem, “The'Digger”:
Here and there among the rough-and-
ready ballads and songs of the Digger
unpractised in versecraft comes a
smoother piece written by some poet with
a familiar name. There isn’t room for
them all in this article, so J. Alex. Allan’s
“Fields of Palestine,” for example;, has
been held for publication elsewhere in
The Bulletin.
Apart from the handful of writers who
already have something of a reputation,
there are others, some of whose work has
occasionally seen print in The Bulletin,
who are writing war poems of real
quality. A. G. Austin’s “Near Dawn”:
Sergeant Eric Irvin’s “And Thou, Too,
Farewell”:
Signaller Maurice Biggs on the “Spring
Offensive, 1941”:
Other men who have had a go at
“serious poetry” have failed so far to
produce a complete poem as good as
those quoted ; but all these Digger verses
are true and the men who write them
are sincerely moved, so that even in a
verse which is rocky as a whole there is
nearly always a flash of something
perilously close to real poetry. Gunner
Maurice Leask “on leave at Hill 69,
1941”:
A verse from Sergeant Paul Buddee’s
“Put Out the Lights,” written during an
air-raid at Tobruk:
From another Tobruk verse. Driver
K. F. Hogarth’s “Return”:
The next of these extracts was written
in Base Hospital, Palestine, by lain
McDougall,
From the literary point of view, the
comment on this as an epitome of the
New Diggers’ verses is that it comes
closest to poetry when the overwhelming
drama of battle exalts the mood and the
language; when it is not so exalted, its
chief merits are its sincerity and its spirit.
Any comment on the spirit, other than
the “Desert Rat’s” “all the boys are in
great heart here, but will be glad to get
home again,” is superfluous.
Oh, Libya, thou land of pests!
With Nature’s wiles one never rests.
And Jerry shows his nasty ways
By shelling us for days and days.
The C.Q. sends the rations short
And drinks the rum, we’ve always thought;
Of our C.O. I cannot speak—
We have a new one once a week.
The moon it shines so awfully bright
That Jerry snipes with ease at night
And makes us jump and swear with fright
And cry, “You squarehead! Come and fight!”
We live in holes dug in the ground,
Where moles and rats and fleas abound;
There’s flies and ants and nasty “chats”
And big black beetles, large as bats.
There’s Messerschmitts and good old “Fou”
(We always have a pot at you).
And “Whispering Willie” wends his way,
And where he’ll land no one can say.
And Verey lights go up at night;
They are a most “delightful” sight!
And raiding bombers come and go
To be chased by “onions” to and fro.
There’s booby traps, and tangled wire
To be erected under fire.
So, Libya, now rest content,
You’ve all the evils ever sent.
Now this land is hot and dusty,
And it isn’t worth a hoot;
It would take a million acres
To support a bandicoot!
Out towards where the escarpment
Reals beneath the lower skies,
My mates and I are living
In a pillbox on a rise.
Well, it wasn’t built for comfort,
But to stand some heavy knocks;
The ventilation’s not hygienic
And it smells of sweaty socks.
At night the sand fleas eat us,
And by day we have the flies ...
A delightful little mansion
Is this pillbox on the rise.
Wc live on army rations:
Bully beef or beans or stew,
Some “mungaree” and margarine
And Nelson’s evil brew.
To stretch and sleep in comfort
Wfe would need one twice the size,
But we’ye got to be contented
In this pillbox on the rise.
Oft the Sigs. drop in upon us
When they’re running out their lines—
They’ve got them stretched about the place
Like blanky pumpkin vines;
They sit and smoke and yarn a while
And tell the latest lies;
We have our little gatherings
At the pillbox on the rise.
It is not a fast existence,
But we’ve heard a bomb or so.
And when the Ack-Acks open up
Come out and see the show.
Now Smithy’s quite disheartened,
But he’d better dry his eyes—
He won’t be always waiting
In a pillbox on a rise.
But someone’s got to man it
And I guess we are the mugs.
While we dream of leave in Alex.,
And of beer in foaming mugs;
And if the worst should happen
We’ve a job that’s quite man-size—
Defending Aussie and Egypt
In the pillbox on the rise.
This bloody town’s a bloody cuss;
No bloody trams, no bloody bus,
No one cares for bloody us,
So bloody, bloody, bloody.
The bloody roads are bloody bad,
The bloody folks are bloody mad.
They even say “You bloody cad!”
So bloody, bloody, bloody.
No bloody clouds, no bloody rains;
All bloody stones, no bloody drains;
The council’s got no bloody brains,
So bloody, bloody, bloody.
And everything’s so bloody dear,
Two-apd-nine for bloody beer —
And fs it good? No bloody fear!
So bloody, bloody, bloody.
The bloody flicks are bloody old,
The bloody seats are always sold.
You can’t get in for bloody gold,
So bloody, bloody, bloody.
The bloody dances make me smile,
The bloody bands are bloody vile,
They only cramp your bloody style,
So bloody, bloody, bloody.
The best bloody place is bloody bed
With bloody ice on bloody head,
And then they think you’re bloody dead,
So bloody, bloody, bloody.
And if we wish to see the land,
As travellers we must,
No need to move around at all,
It comes to us in dust.
So in the course of half a day
We see a continent.
No wonder Moses went away,
And all his garments rent.
“If you throw down your arms we will do you
no harm,”
Said a leaflet the Luftwaffe sent down,
So that night we went out, gave Jerry a clout
And pinched two hundred Wops off the
clown.
Occasionally, too, from out of the blue ,
Came Stukas all covered with crosses,
But these flew such a height that they caused
us no fright;
It was Musso. who suffered the losses.
Which grew bigger and bigger, and then one
day a Digger
Who goes by the name of Bill Bright
Was having some fun with an anti-tank gun,
When a Hun tank came into his sight.
The boy cheered like hell as he pumped out
those shells
Like he knew every good gunner orter.
By the time he was done with his anti-tank gun
One more Jerry tank wouldn’t hold water.
Now the tank was dead mutton, and when
Bill, like a glutton,
Had started off signing his name
By parting the hair of the tank bloke out there,
Came a bloomin’ great nose-diving ’plane.
Now Bill was no shirker, but a very fast
worker,
You’ll agree this was quite a sensation,
For aii anti-tank gun at a nose-diving Hun
Can’t get the correct elevation.
He had just one shell left, so with movement
so deft ,
It was slipped in the breech then and there;
Hit the tank with a smack, took a turn, doubled
Then ricochetted up in the air.
Now this is the end of the story, my friends—
Twas the end of the Stuka as well.
For Bill has gone back to join the Ack-Ack,
And the pilot went up on Bill’s shell.
It was Saturday night in the “boozer”
When the word was passed around
That our convoy would leave next morning
When we heard the bugle sound.
At four ack emma we were out of bed
Before the sun arose;
The breakfast was stew, and not so hot,
And work was on the nose.
W'e travelled through the desert.
Known to us now as Sinai,
And hour after hour
Saw nothing but sand and sky.
At least we reached our barracks,
A place named Mersa Matruh,
Where Cleo and Antony used to make love,
And the Duke and Duchess, too.
W’e had a lot of “Iti’s” there,
And didn’t like the hicks,
So we stood around and smoked and yarned
While those mugs swung the picks.
What matter if he wrecks a town!
What matter if he’s drunk!
You’d have no bloody town at all
Without his grit and spunk!
Just have a crack at going through hell
’Midst shrapnel, Huns and Wops that smell,
And “carrying-on” whilst cobbers fell
Like the Digger.
We saw him once six hundred strong
Come back three-fifty shy;
We didn’t see him mope for long—
He joined a game of “Swai.”
Tired, hungry, full of pain,
Tattered clothing, throbbing brain,
But game to join the fray again,
The same Digger.
So drink on, Digger, drink your fill.
Join your wench in song,
Fight tomorrow, fight until
Right conquers Wrong.
Live and love, and drink, and bet.
For solely through a Digger’s sweat
Can we hope to conquer yet —
On, Digger, on!
Near dawn —and stark black trees outlined
Against the brightening sky; no sound.
No movement, just the trees defined
Against the sky.
A small chill wind along the ground
Brushes the grass but fails to stir
The trees. It passes without sound
Among the grass.
Near dawn —a new day to be faced
By men who sleep here; for a while
Forgetting death their mission, haste
And fear their foes.
Near dawn; and now the day comes back
As near the earth the faint wind dies
Beyond the trees, each one a black
And twisted cross.
Then tell me, Phaedrus, did you think that day
We sat beneath an olive-tree in peace
The winds of Time would blow, all beauty
cease,
And manhood’s flower vanish with the dust?
Beauty is timeless, and renewing earth
Brings forth hei seed before the eye of death
Has noted his new victim’s final breath.
For death is old, but beauty ever young.
And those who die now for their country’s
good,
And those who died when Greece was at her
prime:
They are the ones whose stronghold against
Time
Still stands, and, standing, tells their victory.
For you must know, dear Phaedrus, and the
gods
Will bear me out, that everything is planned.
Wc fall, that those who follow us may stand
With head held high to meet a brighter sun.
And from the ashes of the sacrifice
Steps phoenix virtue, calling to the years
An end to mourning and to empty tears
For youth who smiled and said the world
good-bye.
In where the smoke runs black against the
snow.
And bullets drum against the rocks, he went,
And saw men die, with childish wonderment —
Where bayonets glitter in the sudden glow,
And sleek shells scream, and mortars cough
below.
There tanks lurch up and shudder to a halt
Before the superb apger of the guns:
Then flares go up—Sic rattle of a bolt —
Rifles stutter —and voices curse the Huns . . .
And then he jerked and toppled to the ground,
His ears too full of aoise, his eyes of light;
His scattered cartridge-clips glint brassy-bright:
A Vickers cackles madly from a mound . . .
Oh, where the red anemone brims over
To swarm in brambled riot down a rise,
There we will lay him, lay you widow’d lover,
And wipe the poor burnt face and gently cover
The look of startled wonder in the eyes . . .
Let Beauty come, let her alone
Bemoan those broken lips with kisses from
her own!
No change! The age-old jackal wails,
The poppy dies and blows;
The peasant, as in Bible times,
Reaping and singing goes.
Put out the lights,
Let darkness reign supreme.
Put out the lights,
Hide glint or radiant beam.
Put out the lights
Of cities one by one;
Let horror fall from evening skies
And horror greet the sun.
But must I dwell with memories, must I taste
The bitterness of sweetness left to waste,
Nor ever have one chance more to repair?
Not Death, but this I fear, so understand,
Dear ones I loved, and you my native land;
Remember and forgive should Fate declare
“There’s no return!”
Yes; the doctors all agree
That the Army’s done with me,
And my pleading only seems to be in vain;
They’re going to send me back,
’Tis good-bye to Jim and Mac,
And I’ll never see the good old crowd again.
But I’ll see them when I dream
And to me they’ll always seem
To be charging through the gunsmoke and
the steel:
As they charge they raise a cheer.
In dreams again I hear
The sounds of battle and ray senses reel.
No, I never will forget,
And I’ll back ’em, you can bet,
Though I’m not tile sort to make a lot ot
jaw;
When they storm their next redoubt,
My spirit will fly out
And I’ll fight beside ray good old mates once


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —the Salt of Business
/ /
/ j
/> x /
\ V /
/ \
/ /
r
> /
//x . /
7 / \ X 7
> (
\ \ f r '
x \/ / \ s
Xj ' x
X /
' x
\ ' /
X /
/ . x
X ,
m
x V
/ ,
y / 7
“THE
SENIOR
STORE”
' ✓
'/' / \ y
/
'A
(\ / / \ ' / / / ''
/'A/, K\ /A ; < .
\ / X\// \ \ / ' V ' /- V / X
' 7 „ < \ / \/ / \\//\ X / X \ /
v \ / 'v S /. . / \ \ ✓ ' / \V/ / ' N /
X V ' v ' x,/ A' /,-\ x /, v \ / < • ;
X ,x < S / \X/ / '\ 7 /> \ / A X /\ x >
v \v/\\i\ / A y<' V'/ Vy \
/ V / xX/ ///) v , • > ,A X / X / X
\\ //Ox VV \V/\yA\ /
vV / /'/' \ / %/ /' X
/ >.( *7l' •>. X./-W x,
vyx\,yxOJLw.\ ;v 7 >'V V 7/ •
x < \ / \\ 7 /X ' /Ox 7 N
< X . < Xx/ / X x/ / ‘ v 7 /X V
; 7 \ \ /
. 7 V \ / X X / v./
/ \ /Ax / X '
/ / 7 \ v 7 7 X X /X
: / X >/ / X X / /X X
X 7 \ ; / \V / • ■
\Z 7 ''- x / ./x ;■ (
) <' \‘V 'x\ Z/x\ /
7 X /
proudly we hail ....
the timber which stands
wfi
supreme amongst Australian
Cabinet Timbers
Enjoy in your home the charm of Cedar Furniture ... of modern design,
yet retaining the finer features of period detail, adding a decor of
graciousness. This Furniture represents the highest standard of workman-
ship and finish. Every piece is of solid cedar, back panels are screwed and
framed, and draw runners and bottoms are screwed throughout. All
polishing is done entirely by hand. When you buy Cedar Furniture from
Anthony Horderns’... you buy Furniture that will endure the test of time.
• Furniture—Third Floor. Delivered free only within our delivery area.
G-Piece Cedar Dining Suite , comprising Sideboard,
5x3 Table and 4 Ladder-Back Chairs, with drop-in seats covered
in fabricoid. Price £ 68/15/-
Chest of Drawers
with fret work in solid
cedar. Size, 3ft. 6in.
Price .£l9/19/-
Cedar Book-
case, 6ft. high
x 38 ins. wide.
Price . £ 27/2/6
Cedar Fireside
Stool, with beautiful
imported tapestry cover-
ing, in various colours.
Price 7°/~
ANTHONY
’Phone: M 2401
Day or Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Box 2712 C, C.P.0..
Sydney


RETREAT TO TOBRUK
“I saw these things, was part of them as an ordinary soldier—
knowing nothing of the whys and wherefores or of the general
picture, acting under orders.”
By I. O.
I . "I E had dug holes in the face of the desert,
\A j shaping them carefully like graves. We lay
VV in them for most of the day and, fearful of
being lost in that desolate, featureless country,
did not wander far at night. They closed round us
as we slept and from their sides little rivulets of
sand trickled down to cover us as we moved uneasily.
Each day the ’pi® ll6B came. They dropped an occa-
sional bomb, then flew very low over our positions
and studied us carefully, thoughtfully machine-gunned
us as they passed and then rose a little into the sun.
For three days the wind blew from the south. At
the end of the third day it changed and blew from
the west and drove back again the sand which covered
us as we lay in our holes, buried us beneath its shift-
ing weight, filled our eyes, our noses, our hair. El
Agheila was thirty miles in front of us, Benghazi a
hundred and thirty miles behind. For nearly three
weeks we had been waiting for the Germans to come
along the single road which led from Tripoli. That
night we commenced our withdrawal.
In the darkness the big trucks lumbered up to
our positions. There was no moon, the stars were
hidden and the trucks showed no lights. All that
night we travelled back ; back along the black road
which we had thought was to lead us to Tripoli. It
was cold and we shivered as we grew colder in the
darkness. Behind and before us, we knew, the long
lines of lorries, laden with cold, wondering soldiers,
stretched for miles, fumbling and feeling their way
through a cheerless night along a road which threat-
ened disaster at every yard. The silent convoy did not
stop when one of its vehicles ran off the road and
plunged over the built-up sides into the blackness
beyond. Accidents were a commonplace in those
lines of transports ; overturned and abandoned vehicles
marked the tracks. When one of the big covered
wagons left the track with a sickening plunge and the
sound of breaking springs we scarcely roused our-
selves, and we were glad it was not the one in which
we were riding. We crept on. This was the seventh
such night in succession our driver had spent, and
towards dawn he slept for a moment and we, too,
thudded jarringly over the edge, lurched horribly,
struggled desperately at an appalling angle and, even
as we felt our hearts leap, were back on the road
once more.
As the first light came we spread our lorries over
many miles of flat country near Ghemines and dis-
persed them widely against air attack and dug, each
of us, his shallow “grave” and lay and waited for the
day to pass. We were cold and hungry and were not
very interested in the enemy ’planes which flew over
us and bombed Ghemines, setting fire to the petrol
dumps. That evening we froze again as we waited
for midnight when we would get under way. As we
lingered in the darkness we were frightened. We had
not come to Libya to run away, and we wanted to
stay and fight. We did not know where we were
going or why, but running made us afraid.
The big convoy moved slowly through Benghazi
in the dawn. It turned east past Benina aerodrome,
where Australian airmen watched the slow, heavy
lines in silence, and where the burnt-out skeletons of
shattered aircraft marked the site of past battles;
crept, truck after truck, laboriously up the escarpment
and again dispersed on the green slopes at Er Regima.
Here the grass was green and soft —and we had not
seen grass for a long time—and there was fresh water.
We could lie on the grass in the sun and we could
wash ourselves. Beneath us Benghazi lay on the
coastal plain ; a white-walled town by the sea, its
avenues of Australian gum- and wattle-trees reminders
of home. In Benghazi life went on much as it had
always done. This was no town oppressed by a ruth-
less conqueror, and only the five o’clock curfew served
to remind its citizens that they were a captured people.
Looking down on it from the defensive positions we
occupied along the escarpment, we waited again for
the Germans to come. Thick scrub and deep ravines
hid us from view. We expected desperate fighting
in that rugged country, hand to hand, savage, primi-
tive fighting. We were proud of the armoied brigade
which was then ranging the country ahead ol us ovei
which the enemy would advance.
The Germans came swiftly along the coastal road,
smashed through our armored troops and approached
Benghazi. For two days we watched the destruction
of dumps in the town by our engineers, and listened
to the ceaseless explosions which marked their pass-
ing. By night the flames rose high in the air and it
seemed that the white walls themselves were afire.
While we waited we talked of the fighting to come.
Finally we knew that the enemy was in Benghazi and
that we could expect attack in the morning.
That night we were
ordered to abandon our posi-
tions and to fall back to the
escarpment at Barce, fifty
miles away. The battalion
was gloomy as it marched in
during the remainder of the
night and the next day in
scattered, dispirited groups.
Assembled near El Abiar
we waited for our transport to return and carry us
on. It had taken out the first battalion of our brigade
and now waited for it to come for us. We did
not think that we would escape from this posi-
tion and we regretted that we had left our line
along the escarpment. Information was scanty and
unreliable, but the scattered remnants of our armored
brigade, which we could see hurrying back along the
road, told us all that we needed to know. Instead of
being confined to the coastal plain below, the enemy
had outflanked us and was spreading rapidly around
our positions. The third battalion of our own brigade
was still in position near Benghazi. It met the first
rush of the enemy tanks and the infantry behind
them as we hurried back to Barce.
The darkness was the blackness of a dream. Fifty
miles of road were choked with fleeing vehicles and
men. There was no dispersion ; nothing mattered but
to get back. The armored tatters cursed all other
drivers and their own ; motor-cyclists choked their
way through the dust, which lay a foot thick on the
road ; staff cars tried to pass the blundering lorries.
When speed was all that mattered the best that could
be achieved was ten miles an hour. It was dark and,
in spite of the crush, very lonely on the road that
night.
In the early hours of the morning Barce seemed
on fire —the roar of exploding dumps, the crackle of
flames, leaping fire against the dark sky. The Senussi
were looting the town, white-clad figures running
hither and thither in the confusion, shooting, stab-
bing, robbing the Italians who had been their masters.
Barce was a warning. Everything counselled haste.
The night was urgent and full of fear. We scrambled
into our new positions and looked down on Barce as
we had gazed upon Benghazi. Fear left us. We were
no longer a rabble hurrying, disorganised, through a
country strange to us, not knowing where the enemy
was, when he would fall upon us, how great his strength
was, where he would strike next, hunted by the fear
which springs from doubt and leaps to lusty life in
panic and confusion ; this time we would fight. Two
battalions of our brigade were intact and the third,
against all hope and all reason and in spite of the
fight it had already fought, still a force to be reckoned
with. There was to be no running away.
The day, calm and clear, passed without incident
and night came again. We saw no sign of the enemy.
Night came again and still all was quiet, and the next
day. At nightfall we received orders to fall back. The
men were stunned and ashamed. Disappointment and
shame made them quiet as they climbed once more
aboard the trucks and fear again flickered into life.
Beside us great food and petrol dumps were burning
high into the night and the pall of black smoke hung
low and slowly rolled away. The silent convoy was
ready to move, long, silent lines of silent trucks quietly
waiting for orders. All the time the great dumps
burned and their flames lit our faces.
One hundred and eighty miles of road lay before
us. Our orders were purely verbal, passed hastily
down the line of the convoy from driver to driver;
“Make for El Gazala. On no account take the
main coastal road through Derna. Go through
Matuba! Good luck! ” The lorries passed along the
road, and two of us who were to come behind and
check the convoy on its way watched them go. As
the last of our battalion disappeared, we filled our
battered car with petrol from one of the many drums
still intact on the still-smouldering dumps; then we,
too, took the road back.
There was no moon and the road was choked
for a hundred miles. Fear filled the night. We knew
nothing of the enemy. Mobile German advance ele-
ments added to the horror of the withdrawal. Ger-
mans dressed in our uniforms and speaking perfect
English misdirected our convoys towards Derna,
where German forces were waiting for them, along
tracks where machine-gun posts met them with fire.
Few of us knew the road, and those who did were
confused by the blackness and the milling mass of
vehicles which was struggling back. Beyond the cross-
roads the stretch to Matuba was a nightmare. It
struck straight across the desert; was thick with
boulders and dust. In our haste we lined the road
with our abandoned transport.
As we two, well in rear of our convoy, left
Matuba behind us, two of our battalions were scatter-
The Area of the- Withdrawal —
from El Agheila to Tobruk.
ing into hopeless positions astride the main coastal road.
We passed through the first of these, and they might
have been at home so unconcerned they were. They
laughed as they smoked and waited —in country over
which armored fighting vehicles would roll like an
avalanche. Their colonel told us cheerfully that our
battalion was further back and advised us to hurry
as the Germans were not more than three miles behind
us, laughingly indicated two enemy tanks on the
horizon and changed his tommy-gun to his other
arm. A few scattered pieces of field artillery were
ranging as we went our way.
We found our battalion at El Gazala, and that
position also we abandoned as soon as night fell. The
enemy was closer now. During the daylight hours
we had watched his most advanced units on the edge
of the escarpment in the distance.
Our men were frozen when we arrived at Acroma.
They descended with difficulty from the trucks in
which they had travelled the twenty miles from
El Gazala ; twenty miles in five hours. The cold bit
them to the bone. They were tired, too —tired to the
point of exhaustion ; and their hearts were as heavy as
the packs they carried. Thick darkness was round
us all. We must take up another defensive position,
we were told. We looked at one another and straggled
off into the night, reconnoitring country we did not
know and could not see, somehow forming a “front.”
For three days and two nights we stayed at
Acroma. Enemy ’planes became active again and we
were bombed and machine-gunned. Some of our
trucks blundered into fields of Italian thermos bombs
and were blown up. We learned to tread warily
amongst the stones and sand, and our eyes grew tired
watching for the approach of enemy tanks. Reports
of enemy movements on all sides of us flowed in. We
“stood to” behind our stone sangas and “stood down”
and then “stood to” again.
Survivors of the disaster at Mekhih struggled into
our area in hunted groups to tell how a brigade had
been surrounded there and had fought against heavy
odds and had then attempted, with lumbering con-
voys of heavy lorries, to escape. It had tried to turn
back, faltered in confusion, broken up and then been
scattered by the enemy mobile - units. We knew, too,
that we had lost many good men in the withdrawal
from Barce. One of our sister battalions had lost
almost two hundred of its strength, including all its
senior officers. Many smaller groups were missing.
We knew nothing except that they had not got
through.” We supposed they had been surprised by
enemy mobile patrols.
Everything combined to make us gloomy and
uncertain. Late on the third day, the enemy artillery
opened on our right flank, but the heralded attack did
not come, and that night the weary procession started
again in the darkness. Dawn saw us back inside the
defences at Tobruk and the battalion, exhausted, slept
through the morning beneath a blinding sandstorm.
Under cover of that storm, still raging in the after-
noon, we took up a position on the Tobruk perimeter
and knew that our withdrawal had ended.
With the town of Tobruk as its centre a semi-
circle, of radius approximately six miles, stretching
from the sea on the Derna side to the sea on the
Bardia side, marks the line of the perimeter. It is
heavily wired, with an anti-tank ditch fronting the
wire in parts. Inside the wire is the line of the
“posts,” placed every few hundred yards. Nothing of
them is to be seen above ground, but beneath is a
series of heavily-concreted rooms and corridors. They
were built by the Italians years ago. Now we took
them over with all their vermin and filth, and the
Germans came confidently against us.
Early in the afternoon, two days later, the hill
in front of our wire seemed to move. The Germans
came steadily down the slope, moving confidently and
slowly. Behind the hill we could see the lines of their
transport disgorging the motorised infantry which they
bore. Our guns opened and we saw the shells burst-
ing with dreadful effect amongst the moving ranks of
men and the hurrying convoy lines. On they came
until at last the attack wilted and failed before our
wire. The next afternoon they came again in the
same way. and again our shells drove them back. That
night in the darkness they breached our wire and
filled our tank ditch at the same spot and, in the
furious morning, came through.
First the tanks smashed through our posts and
ran amuck inside our defences; infantry flowed ovei


our positions like a wave. The fighting was fierce and
dreadful. Above us, battling ’planes fought just as
fiercely. A Hurricane spun out of the fight to crash
in a cloud of dust and a sheet of leaping flame. Then
the enemy began to fall. Five were down in as many
minutes; down to the same crashing dust cloud, the
same leaping sheet of flame. One, losing height with
every spin of his propellers and trailing his pathetic
plume of smoke, limped over our lines. Another
came, lurching home, and falling. Its pilot, silk
billowing above him, fell at our feet.
The battle on the ground went on in the dawn.
One of our companies went into counter-attack with
the bayonet. The men laughed and talked as they closed
with the enemy and their bayonets were dreadful to
see. The enemy felt that dread; they cried for mercy
as those men they had pursued for four hundred
miles fell upon them ; then they fled, scrambling back
in terror through the hole they had made in our wire,
and their tanks followed them out, except for those,
burnt and broken masses of steel, which remained
within our defences.
On battlefields bodies lie in strange positions.
We took our dead and buried them in soldiers’
graves. The German dead, too, we buried in the
silence which followed the battle.
So ended our withdrawal. Our men forgot the
mistakes which had caused their retreat, forgot the
discomfort and misery of those days which lay behind
them and settled down to fight. Day after day they
were to go on repelling the enemy’s attacks, living in
sand and dirt, longing for water, of which they had
all too little, laughing as they spoke of being “sur-
rounded,” cursing the enemy aircraft coming at them
in thirties and forties and fifties with bombs and
machine-guns, sallying forth at night and harrying the
enemy in the darkness. To Tobruk they had fallen
back ; at Tobruk they stayed and knew that, in their
staying, they slowly drained from him all the enemy’s
strength in the wastes of Libya.
FIELDS OF PALESTINE.
Orange grove and sycamore, black-faced sheep and
lambs,
Feeding over lush fields that were Abraham’s;
Pastures where the mole throws hill on hill deployed,
Where the stilt-legged camel stalks, sneering at the
void—
Stalks and draws the dragging share, while the red
earth rife
Curls and falls like slit hide from the flaying-knife;
Black tents in green glades, stealthy eye and hand,
Hawk-Face and Sheepskin-Coat spitting in the sand . , .
Caring naught and counting naught of the years that
plod
The fair fields of Palestine, known to time and God.
Sudden spring and split rock, where the soakage spills
Fanwise down the foreheads of bald Judean hills;
Laced trails where goats hang and the heights abide
Grey with olives, stepped with stone, sheer and
stratified;
Heat that dies on gapped walls, the brown lizards gone.
Doves of mist up-fluttering from valley clefts anon;
Flat roofs on vined slopes, far slopes that float
Swathed in sunsets many-hued as was Joseph’s coat —•
Tyre-red and chrysoprase, jade and malachite—
Quiet hills of Palestine, waiting for the night.
Daub walls, noisome streets, dogs and camel bells,
Broken columns, halter-worn, round the Roman wells:
Hobbled fore to hind foot, little asses feed
Through the scattered blue-gums down by Deir Suneid;
Grey beards and hookah-pipes round the courtyard
edge,
White teeth and bleary eyes by the sarba hedge:
In the Arab schoolhouse Abu Hassan scrawls;
On the wind-ribbed oat-patch a secret shadow falls,
Quartering with cruel eyes fields our fathers knew—
Vultures over Palestine, hanging in the blue!
The coast road of Palestine, where the winds have
whirled
Footprint-filling sands across the spoor of all the world,
Bearing, under seared noons or frank stars mild,
Roman, Greek and Saracen, Mary and the Child,
Priest and pursy Pharisee donkey-borne, with breath
Puffing “Can a good thing come from Nazareth?”
Wind-hollowed hummocks jut skyward, and beneath
Scimitars of shadow slide slowly from the sheath:
Writhing, looping, straightening, south and seaward
plying—
The old road of Palestine, like a serpent dying!
There the horses’ hoofs drummed, closing on the bridge,
Here the Turkish trenches ran, facing Gaza Ridge;
Still the line of rail strikes, white and hot and thin,
Thrusting at the wadi’s flank like a javelin:
Sand and clay and gopher-holes, fallowed furrows sown
Here with broken shards of shell, here with broken
bone:
See the blood of yare men, jesting as they rode,
Red in rathe anemones by the spring bestowed—
Swaddled in the sweet earth, shorn of old regret.
The dead men of Palestine, learning to forget!
Palestine.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.
THE TREE
By DENNIS DUGAN.
FROM where the men were sitting they could
see the rusted roofs of the mill buildings on the
spur which ran out from the mountainside
below. Beyond were the square stacks of
freshly-sawn timber, and up the mountain towards
them ran the tramline —crude wooden rails laid on
rough billet sleepers.
The men spoke little. They wore nothing above
their waists and the warm sun shone on their bodies
—brown and muscled and smudged here and there
with black streaks where they had rubbed against a
burnt log. The taller of the two put down the pint
mug he had drained of strong black tea and took a
long pull at the butt of his cigarette before tossing
it into the fire.
“How’s it going?” he asked.
“Must be just on time,” the other replied, glanc-
ing towards the mill. “There’s Dick.”
A man, small in the distance, was walking
towards the winch building at the mill below. He
disappeared beneath the roof and shortly afterwards
there came the shrill sound of the mill whistle. It
was one o’clock.
The men rose. The taller took his axe from a
stump and walked on up the slope. The other emptied
the billy over the fire and then kicked the red soil
over the ashes until they were completely covered.
He placed the billy and pannikins on the stump with
the coats, got his axe and followed the other.
In the falling area the taller man drove his axe
into the trunk of a tree and listened to the sound it
made. He did the same on the other side of the tree.
“Sounds 0.K.,” he said.
The other nodded.
The tree was a mountain ash, 200 feet high and
22 feet round at the height of the tall man’s head.
The first branch was 80 feet up and the trunk was
“Do you know that woman?"
“Know her? We were interned together at Koala Park.
straight and clean as a ship’s mast. The bark was
almost white in color, with just a hint of green.
They commenced cutting the holes for the climb-
ing boards. They worked facing each other on the
same side of the tree. Their strokes were sure and
accurate and the axes bit deep.
About eight feet up the tall man started cutting
the scarf. He stood easily on the four-inch board,
and after every few strokes he stopped to clear the
cut of chips. The other knocked his board securely
into the deep hole he had cut and then placed a plank
across from his board to his companion’s. On the
opposite side of the tree he built a similar staging
about a foot higher.
By the time he had finished the scarf was already
a couple of feet wide at the base line. Climbing to
the staging on the chopping side he commenced work
on it, facing the other and swinging his axe left-
handed.
The axes swung rhythmically and great blocks of
cut wood flew from the tree. The men wasted no
effort, but neither appeared to hurry. When the base-
line of the scarf was about four feet across the taller
man stopped and jumped down from the staging. He
picked up two laths, pointed each end and about six
feet long. Back on the staging he stood with his
back to the tree and placed an end of each stick in
the extremities of the cut. Then he brought the other
ends together in front of his body so that he stood in
a triangle formed by the backline of the cut and the
two sticks.
He looked along the line in which the apex of
the triangle pointed. It was the line of fall and was
free of stumps or rocks which would split the tree if
it fell across them. He looked up at the heads of the
trees on either side of the line of fall and then threw
the sticks to the ground. “Should do,” he said.
Both men got down and went round to the other
side of the tree where the staging was already erected.
The taller man climbed up and the other passed up
the seven-foot M-toothed saw. It bent in graceful
curves as they handled it, and the freshly-filed, razor-
sharp faces of the teeth gleamed cruelly in the sun.
The second man climbed up. With sure strokes
of his axe he made a narrow horizontal cut in the
trunk, about six inches above the lower surface of the
scarf on the opposite side of the tree, then he drove
the axe into the tree below the cut so that the head
was secure at exactly the height of the cut.
They placed the saw in the cut, the blade resting
horizontally on the head of the axe below. They
commenced to saw; short strokes at first, gradually
getting longer until the back edge of the saw had
disappeared into the trunk of the tree.
The work proceeded steadily. The men did not
speak, but once, as if by mutual consent, they stopped
and wiped the sweat from their eyes with their fore-
arms. As they got closer to the scarf they stopped
again and the smaller man took his axe from below
the saw cut and picked up an iron wedge from the
climbing board. The other held it while he drove it
into the cut.
They commenced sawing again. There was an
ominous crack from the tree and they stopped.
“Look out below,” shouted the taller man.
Cleaners who were cutting the branches from trees
felled in the morning and sawing the trunks into
lengths which could be handled by the winch looked
up and moved from the line of fall. They saw a dozen
or more trees fall every day, but they still watched
each one with fascination.
The* two men began sawing again, unhurried, un-
excited. The cracks commenced again, sharp like rifle
fire, and the saw cut began to widen, slowly at first
and then more quickly as the head of the tree gathered
momentum. The men jumped from the staging, the
taller one taking the saw, and ran in the opposite'
direction to the fall. They pressed themselves against
the trunk of another tree*
The falling tree made no sound until its branches
began to hit the. ground. Then there was a of
sharp cracks, and almost before the ear had heard them
the earth shook as the trunk buried itself in the under-
growth with a sound like an explosion which echoed
in the hills.
Branches broken off as the tree fell through the
heads of others descended about the two falters. Two
hundred feet up the heads of the near-by trees were
still swinging, and the trunks were swaying like the
masts of a wave-tossed yacht.
The men walked over and began pulling the
staging from the stump. The tall one looked down
along the fallen tree trunk. “Nice stick,” he commented.
“Yeah, must be all of 5000 feet,” said the other.
The top of the stump was clean where the saw
had done its work and the alternate dark and light
rings of seventy years’ growth showed plainly from
the heart to the sapwood.
It was twenty minutes to two.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
d/tfh’d lidie f ia f ie mellowncJSxmdlmiqjuefi
Seppelts
ST. MARY'S, MONKEN HADLEY.
Towards the end of the first quarter
of 1941, a lover of “old historic
buildings” asked how long after the
war was concluded would it be
before a complete list of churches
destroyed by Nazi aerial bombs
would be published. He received
the laconic reply “Wait and see.”
That the toll has been heavy is, how-
ever, admitted. There are some old
churches all must hope will come
unscathed through the ordeal of
brutal destruction Nazism let loose.
One of these is the fifteenth-century
beautiful edifice of St. Mary, at
Monken Hadley, in Middlesex, ten
miles north of London. It practi-
cally stands in what was once the
forest of Enfield Chase, deforested,
however, in the eighteenth century,
and today occupied by the residences
of fairly prosperous London business-
men, though “trade and manufac-
turing” has made definite encroach-
ments in the neighborhood. The
tower of this lovely structure, with
its angle turret crowned by a crosset,
meant in bygone times to hold a
blazing torch, which served as a
beacon light, is its most distinguish-
ing architectural feature. Close by
the Battle of Barnet, which marked
the crushing of the Red Rose of Lan-
cashire in April, 1471, was fought, in
which struggle Earl Warwick, “the
King Maker,” fell. A high stone, or
obelisk, marks the spot where
he fell. Hume relates that, con-
trary to his usual practice, Warwick
fought on foot, determined to
show his army he meant to share
the same fortune with them. He
was slain in the thickest of the fight,
his brother experiencing a like fate.
The Church of St. Mary has wit-
nessed much that has been fateful
in the history of Britain, and, there-
fore, the Empire.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62. —No. 3209.
Wednesday, August 13, 1941.
STEALING THEIR THUNDER.
“Labor politicians, union leaders and Friends of the Soviet were not allowed to go aboard the U.S.S.R. ship in Sydney Harbor. . . .Sir Thomas Gordon gave the Soviet
visitors a party in the Gold Room of the Wentworth. The Lord Mayor, Sir Victor Wilson, managers of several shipping companies, the secretary of the U.A.P. and
the secretary of the Young Men’s Hebrew Association were among those present.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252- George Street, Sydney; Box
2521BB; ’Phone B7971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.O.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly : 12 months, £1 4s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 16s.;
3 months, 8s. To members of the Services Abroad;
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign) :
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2s.;
3 months, 11s.
LENGTHENING SHADOWS.
Though it is not true that the unexpected always
happens, it has happened with staggering frequency in
this strangest of wars.
Only 17 months ago Daladier announced that a
Franco-British army of 50,000 men stood ready to
proceed to Finland to fight alongside the Finns against
the Russian invaders. Within four months France
was a fallen State and Daladier a prisoner of the Gov-
ernment that signed the capitulation, and Oran had
witnessed the first of several Anglo-French encounters
which were to culminate in the campaign of Syria.
Now Finland is fighting Russia again as an ally of
Germany, and is virtually in a state of war with
Britain, which has a military alliance with the Moscow
Government; and an Anglo-Russian attack on the
Finns may be undertaken. Indeed, if it doesn’t come
off, amateur strategists will be bitterly disappointed.
Of course a descent on Finland is not the only
adventure which amateur strategists are urging. They
demand “action” in any quarter where they think
British and Dominion troops can be employed, and
American writers seem to be as eager for such exploits
as the geniuses of the Sunday press. One section of
the tribe would prefer an invasion of Sicily or Italy,
though nothing would be more likely to revive the
drooping spirits of the Italians and give a patriotic
character to a war which millions of them seem to have
disliked from the beginning. But most of the zealots,
though ready for any sideshow, would rather have a
campaign in some other part of Europe, it doesn’t
matter where —France, Holland, Belgium and Nor-
way have been suggested, as well as Finland—or in
some part of Asia—lran perhaps—“to help Russia.”
In the present state of the war, any such military
gamble might, and probably would, lead to another
and worse Narvik, Greece or Crete, if not to another
Dunkirk. In any case, it would mean another dan-
gerous diversion of ships and seamen from the vital
routes which their numbers are barely sufficient to
maintain, and another costly sacrifice of both. But if these
considerations ever occur to the amateur strategists,
they dismiss them with a lordly wave of the hand.
One of these worthies, the ineffable Baume, has
had the face to proclaim from London that “two
years here as a war correspondent [!] have taught me
that the British Army controllers and politicians are
too invasion-conscious.” The engagements at which
this “war correspondent” was present he doesn’t men-
tion, but he condemns “the British Cabinet” on the
score of its “orthodox views about the invasion of
Europe,” and its contention that “Britain is the
Empire’s heart and more important than any huge
military operation on the Continent,” saying, with
characteristic modesty, “I disagree, as do millions here.”
As authorities superior to the British Cabinet
and with vision transcending its outmoded view that
the defence of the homeland is paramount, this “war
correspondent” sets up “well-informed Russians,” who
“told me that Hitler’s predicament needs implement-
ing by Britain as well as Russia. In short, a war on
two fronts must be established during the last eight
weeks of summer and late autumn.” And because “the
British Army controllers and politicians” did not
straightway let these Russians determine their policy
for them (“they said they were worried about the
lack of shipping”), they “irritated Russian opinion in
Britain” —actually “irritated” it! What were these
irritated Russian gentlemen up to in Britain during the
period of Stalin’s nefarious arrangement with Hitler?
Doubtless egging on the native Communist, glorifying
the invasions of Poland and Finland and spitting
venom at the heroic nation because it wouldn’t call
off “the imperialist war,”
The last German war was a war on two fronts,
and in 1917 the western front was maintained by the
armies of Britain, the Dominions, France and Bel-
gium, plus several divisions of Americans. This did
not save the Russians from defeat in the field, and
Stalin’s predecessor himself gave up ‘ the fight and
traded away large slices of the Czarist Empire in the
Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. There is no possibility of
establishing a western front on the 1917 scale, nor
could British military occupation of a necessarily
small part of the Continent, even if made good, pos-
sibly save Russia if the Red Army cannot save it by
its own exertions. Vastly more important to Russia
in its peril than any military adventure or feint could
conceivably be is British assistance on sea and in the
air, and this is being rendered generously and with
powerful forces, whatever amateur strategists may
insinuate to the contrary.
Britain has, in effect, been helping Russia since
the very beginning of its own German war. Before
ever the Luftwaffe turned east British airmen and
British gunners had shot down thousands of its best
men ; and though machine losses can be made up
quality of manhood is another matter. For five
months the R.A.F. has held the battleships Gneisenau
and Scharnhorst in French ports, as idle as painted
ships upon a painted ocean. And since June 22 it
has struck heavy blows at the morale of the German
civil population, as well as .relieving the pressure on
the Russian Air Force, which without its aid might
have been knocked out altogether.
The Royal Navy and the Fleet Air Arm have
done more. Between them they have destroyed hun-
dreds of thousands of tons of enemy warships and
millions of tons of enemy merchant ships, many of
which, but for the Silent Service, could and doubt-
less would have been used for amphibious operations
against Russia. Had the Bismarck and the Graf Spee
and a few of the sunken cruisers, destroyers and
U-boats been afloat on June 22, they could have made
short work of Russian sea-power in the Baltic. In
October, 1917, a much inferior German naval force
took part in the capture of the Baltic islands Osel,
Moon and Dago, scattering the Russian warships
guarding them, and setting the battleship Slava on fire.
A much greater expeditionary force could have been
convoyed in safety by the mighty ships that the Royal
Navy and its bombers have sent to the bottom. Even
the Italian Navy could have given the Russians heaps
of trouble in the Black Sea if Cunningham’s ships
and seaplanes had not shattered its striking power.
Non-combatants of both sexes have grown sud-
denly and strangely sentimental about the U.S.S.R.
It is improbable that their feelings are shared by the
men of the fighting and auxiliary services, who, because
the Stalin Government sold the democracies in August,
1939, fancying in its cleverness that it was buying
immunity and easy conquests and eventual Bolshevi-
sation of the exhausted combatants, victors and van-
quished, were left to fight Germany and Italy without
assistance. Nor is it likely that they would go joy-
fully into any adventure designed by newspaper
strategists “to help Russia.” On the contrary, they
must muse long and bitterly on the fate of their com-
panions, so many thousands of whom have died for
the Empire, when they recur to the statement of the
Ministry for Economic Warfare that in 18 months
Germany received a million tons of oil from Russia.
Australia has other reasons for rejecting this
Russophile sobstuff. They were informed by their
Mr. Menzies that the Anglo-Russian arrangement was
a “pact,” and that as a “pact” it had been referred
to his Government and approved. He did not call
it an “alliance” (though Mr. Churchill did), nor has
he placed it before Parliament. It was with astonish-
ment that Australians read, on the authority of its
Minister of the Navy, that “the Empire and Russia
are allies,” and that “in practice, if not technically,
the alliance covers problems in the Pacific.” With
equal astonishment and greater concern they learned
on the same day from the London “Times” that “Rus-
sian possession of Vladivostok is of such vital import-
ance in the common fight against Hitler that a
Japanese attack there is as much an attack against
Britain as against our Russian allies.” This when
the war map of European Russia, though obscured
by the vaporings of Left-Wingers and other wishful
thinkers, shows dangerous German penetrations in
vital regions, when even Moscow has admitted a loss
of 600,000 men (and that was before the Germans
claimed sweeping successes in the Ukraine), and
when it becomes a question whether the Rus-
sian soldiers can stand up indefinitely to the dread-
ful punishment they are taking or the civil popula-
tion to the hideous suffering and ruin it must be
enduring in the invaded- provinces, and whether the
Government, which can scarcely have “liquidated”
all its internal enemies, is capable of contending with
foreign invasion and civil strife, if that should arise
and the possibility should never be dismissed.
Any threat to a British possession is a threat to
the whole Empire, and should such a threat be
implemented by military action the whole Empire will
resist it. Whether a Japanese movement into Thailand
will be construed as an act of war depends upon the
attitude of the United States, and that has by no
means been clearly stated. Indeed the U.S.A. has
thus far been satisfied with half-measures. Certainly
Mr. Cordell Hull has said that “any Japanese move
into Thailand will be considered as a step menacing
American security,” but he did not go so far as Mr.
Eden, who declared on the same day that “anything
seriously threatening the security of Thailand will
threaten the security of Singapore.’ This does not
mean that the U.S.A. is not ready to take up arms for
the defence of Thailand, but if it is not so ready the
Empire cannot be expected to tackle another power-
ful enemy there single-handed. It can do so only if
the threat in Thailand is of such a nature that an
attack on Singapore will develop out of it as a matter
of course. In that case—considering the measures
that Washington has taken against Japan and influ-
enced the Empire into taking and considering that the
Anglo-Japanese alliance was abandoned because the
Americans objected—it will have a clear right to call
for a full measure of American support.
But there is absolutely no evidence that the
Americans are prepared to defend Asiatic Russia
against a Japanese attack, nor is it even remotely prob-
able that they would agree to do so. The Dominions,
for their part, while ready to defend British posses-
sions in Asia and resist any attack on the Dutch East
Indies with all the strength that they can muster,
cannot be expected to hurl themselves into a con-
flict of imperialisms in Asia without full discussion of
what the future may bring. If Dominion status means
anything, it should mean that no British Government
can launch them on the dark sea of Oriental power
politics without their consent.
Saying that the situation in the Near North had
become “most critical,” Mr. Menzies cancelled the
tour of South Australia and Westralia on which he
had embarked and asked his colleagues to gather in
Melbourne for a special meeting of the Full Cabinet.
Dr. Evatt and Mr. Cameron, two men who command
the respect of their fellow-legislators and the people,
suggest that Parliament should be summoned forth-
with. This had not been done when The Bulletin
went to press, but done it must be. Throughout the
war there has been too little consultation of Parliament
in matters that vitally concern Parliament and the
nation.
Front Line in Asia.
It says something for the fighting quality of Diggers
that anybody reading newspaper comments on them,
either here or abroad, could get the idea that they
are to be numbered by the million. A New York
newspaper lately referred to Australia as “anchor
man” in the probably impending Pacific struggle, and
Australian newspapers accepted the figure of speech,
Australia’s bulk on the map making both the term
and the role seem appropriate.
Considered without comparisons with other
countries, and as a voluntary effort, Australia’s
man-power figures in this war can be reckoned
fairly good. Mr. Spender, as Minister for the
Army, mentioned numbers in a speech full of
resounding phrases, such as “the glow of determina-
tion,” “come what may” and “ringing proof that we
mean to keep control of our own destiny, in our
own, and no other, New Order.” More than 160,000
men, he said, have enlisted in the A.1.F., and a militia
force of 250,000 is available for home defence (Depart-
ment of Information figures are “nearly 200,000” in
the A.I.F. and 428,000 under arms, Voluntary Defence
Corps included, with another 150,000 militiamen
called up). As well, the R.A.A.F. Selection Board
has accepted its 200,000 th R.A.A.F. volunteer, though
the number actually enlisted is reckoned at 120,000.
Not at all bad as a national effort on a volunteer
basis, especially when considered against the back-
ground of an industrial effort in which, in the P.M.’s
phrase, “miracles have been performed.” But all
these figures need to be considered in relation to
Japan, the country to which Mr. Spender was refer-
ring. The consideration will call for a microscope
and some dissecting.
Mr. Spender’s army figures total 410,000 men —
quite a respectable force. Japan has lost more than
twice that number —probably more than three times
that number —in casualties in the war against China. It
still has more than three times that number engaged
in that war, and a reserve fighting strength of any-
thing up to 4,000,000. It has also, according to Cap-
tain Hideo Hiraide, Chief of the Naval Intelligence
Section at Imperial Headquarters, “400 warships and
4000 naval aeroplanes ready for battle at any moment.”
The object here is not to suggest that Mr. Spender’s
410,000 are to have the job of stopping that lot; the
aim is wholly to re-establish something like a sense
of proportion in national and political thinking. Con-
tinuing with Mr. Spender’s figures, the 410,000 need
next to be dissected. More than half the number are
militia, and these are specifically conscripted for ser-
vice in Australia. For service overseas —vide Mr.
Menzies, vociferously echoed by Messrs. Curtin, Evatt
and pretty well everybody else bar the soldier-
politician Mr. Cameron —“we are committed to the
voluntary system.” That leaves at the very most
the balance of 160,000. This figure also breaks up
under the microscope. A large proportion of it is in
the Middle East, and appears to have its hands full
there. Also, 11,000 casualties have been mentioned.
Stating the real number available for Near North
service would not be so comforting as Mr. Spender’s
mouthful of figures, but it would be honest. Con-
sider the number trebled by the virtue of fighting
quality, and it would still look insufficient if what is
feared comes to pass. Fortunately, there are other
troops besides Australians on the job. Still more for-
tunately—if so it turns out —American interests in those
parts may bring in Uncle Sam’s Navy and troops. Even
so, the job ahead that inspired Mr. Spender’s mag-
nificent phrases would be of a size requiring every bit
of the positive and possible strength in sight.
Once it got going the call for increased man-
power contribution might wake even Australia’s poli-
tical leaders to the starkest realities of war. They
actually believe they are aware of those realities now.
They realise nothing at all to what they might presently
realise. Where the lot of them stand is summed up
in their belief that Australia’s man-power part in this
war —even in the possible war apprehended by Mr.
Spender —can be left to those who care to volunteer.
Such are political foresight, wisdom and courage in
Australia, mid-1941, with the threat of war in the
Near North closer than ever before!
That is one of the things Australia needs to be
made aware of —that that politically comfortable and
nationally dangerous position cannot possibly be held.
If this war that threatens in the Near North breaks
out, Australians must accept that they are committed to
fight in it as in defence of their country itself. That
means the extension of national service to include at
least that Near-North area. This will be inescapable
if war breaks out there: if Australian political
courage was half as strong as Digger courage, the
extension would be made now.
Another thing that should be made clear is that
the future as well as the present is involved in these
necessary shifts in Australia’s position. Three cer-
tainties appear to stand out: (1) Australia must hence-
forth consider itself committed to its own and Empire
defence in those Near-North borderlands of Asia ; (2)
it follows that Australia must be permanently a mili-
tary Power of sufficient strength to exert itself in
maintaining its policy in Pacific affairs, the days of a
military force of 1500 “permanents,” three cruisers,
Parkhillian fancy-dress platoons and Scullion suspen-
sion of national service and decimation of a miserable
little defence establishment being gone for ever; (3)


in order to implement these imperatives, the country’s
population must somehow be doubled or trebled.
That much, at least, is plain if, in Mr. Spender s
words, Australians are to “give ringing proof that we
mean to keep control of our own destiny.” It means
that those days of basking at ease on this Pacific
paradise are gone for good. Australia has taken on
overnight, and somewhat against its easygoing will,
the appearance and the responsibilities of a nation.
Living up to that status is not going to be any easier
in the further future than living up to commitments in
the Near North may be in the near future, and in both
cases the job is not one that can be shunted off on
to a willing section of the community. It will
have to be shared in by all sections. “All sections'
is not a Spenderish figure of speech: the “new world”
to come after this war is not going to be so easy
for quite a lot of sections of the community, includ-
ing those whose leaders are the most fervent advocates
of leaving the fighting of the country’s wars to
volunteers,
PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Tiger. Tiger"....
Mr. McKell, the Sydney Premier, is a very nice
fellow, and has a very active press agent and very
warm friends on the newspapers—“capitalistic” no
longer. One of them saw Mr. McKell “fighting like
a tiger” at Canberra for the huge loan programme
he carried to the Loan Council. There is really
nothing tigerish about Mr. McKell, and if his admirer’s
account of him reaches the Mediterranean zone there
will be a lot of cheerful Digger laughter in Tobruk.
With the beginning of the third war year in sight,
the Commonwealth Treasurer has tb prepare a Budget
which will require the raising of £360,000,000, and
heavy peace loans are falling due —£13,469,900 of
four per cents, in London (only £8,153,100 is to be
converted, sinking fund and the Commonwealth Bank
being relied upon for the balance) and £73,000,000
in Australia, of which £45,000,000 represents State
debts. Nevertheless, the State Premiers had the face
to ask the harassed Mr. Fadden to find £39,500,000
for them and their “semi-Government authorities.” Mr.
McKell put in for £10,000,000 for a Government
“works programme” (“to assist the Commonwealth,”
he had “revised this from £12,000,000”) and £6,163,000
for “semi-Government works,” and the schedules
tabled by other Premiers were almost as fantastic.
Mr. Brown, the Commonwealth Co-ordinator-
General of Works (formerly Mr. Brown of the Post
Office), reported on these pleasantries. He said that
the Commonwealth itself would need £3,482,000 for
defence works and the like, but that the State Govern-
ments and “semi-Government authorities” wouldn’t
require anything like the amounts they specified. He
recommended the raising of £17,756,200 for Common-
wealth and State works, and £6,957,700 for “semi-
Government” jobs. Mr. Fadden pleaded that Mr.
Brown was foolishly generous and that £20,000,000
was the absolute limit. His representations convinced
the Premiers of S.A. and Tasmania, and this enabled
him to give a casting vote for £20,000,000. Ten
million would have been more than sufficient. Out
of the £20,000,000 the Commonwealth is to get
£2,639,000, N. S. Wales £7,405,000, Victoria £2,453,000,
Queensland £3,122,000, S.A. £1,820,000, Westralia
£1,297,000 and Tasmania £1,264,000.
Unless a friendly newspaper has done him wrong,
“Tiger” McKell was heard growling that “certain
features of his social programme”— i.e., election bird-
lime —“paralleled the war effort.” His press agent
should really expand this theme in an article addressed
to the men of Tobruk.
Paternalism in a Hurry.
Mr. Curtin belatedly discovered last week that people
who are drawing the Holt child bonus are losing
their income-tax exemption of £5O per child after the
first, and was exceedingly wild about it. “Child
endowment,” he protested hotly, “has nothing to do
with taxation and should have nothing to do with it.”
If the Government persists in this policy it means
that....a man on £6OO or £7OO a year gets nothing
out of it at all.
There are no arbitration awards for men on £6OO
and £7OO, and if they are to come under a Govern-
ment child-bonus scheme without a catch in it taxa-
tion there must be. The catch in the Holt scheme,
as was here pointed out three months ago, is that
the Government pays such people child bonus and
extracts from them the equivalent or more in income
tax. And it is useless for Mr. Curtin to plead he
didn’t think the extraction process would apply to
deductions from the current year’s income.
Mr. Fadden’s reply to the astonished and indig-
nant Leader of the Opposition was effective up to a
point. He quoted Mr. Holt as having said in his
second-reading speech that so much would be raised
by a payroll tax and “something more than £2,000,000
will come from the abolition of the income-tax deduc-
tions for each child after the first.” But Mr. Fadden
himself was unconvincing when he said that “the
details of revenue and expenditure for the child-
endowment scheme were thoroughly examined when
the legislation was before Parliament,” and that “the
effect of the scheme on taxpayers and all classes was
thoroughly understood at the time.” Said details were
not “thoroughly” examined, nor is the effect of the
scheme “thoroughly” understood even yet.
The fact is that a rush job was made of a thing
that called for careful planning and thorough debate.
That it received in neither House, nor was time
allowed for public opinion to recover from the sur-
prise sprung on it (the form of paternalism improvised
had not been proposed in the election programme of
either party) and express itself in protests—for
example, against the egregious form of taxation
adopted—or constructive suggestions or both.
Mr, Holt’s second-reading speech on the Child
Endowment Bill began at 10.57 p.m. on March 27,
and was over in 25 minutes. He was followed for
another 25 minutes by Mr. Anthony, who in that
time moved for a payroll tax of £2 10s. in the £lOO and
“explained” the Payroll Tax Assessment Bill. The
debates were adjourned, and on April 1 Mr. Curtin
took up the running on the Child Endowment Bill.
He spoke for 36 minutes, and other speakers con-
tinued for about 65 minutes ; one was an opponent,
Mr. Duncan Hughes. On the following day, the
“deliberations” were completed in a little over four
hours, the committee stage taking two hours.
On the Payroll Tax Assessment Bill Mr. Curtin
spoke for 23 minutes and other gentlemen for a little
less than two hpurs. Though the bill contained 70
clauses there was no discussion in committee; a
motion that it be reported without amendment was
declared carried by the chairman. To this procedure
Mr. Cameron, who had criticised the measure vigor-
ously, objected, as did other members, but there was
no recommittal. Another hour or so saw the bill
read a third time, and the Payroll Tax Bill went
through all stages within five minutes.
So much for the “deliberations” of the House.
In the Senate, the Child Endowment Bill was ex-
pounded by the Minister, Mr. Leckie, in 14 minutes,
and discussed for another three hours and a quarter.
Then it was reported without amendment and read a
third time. The two payroll-tax measures occupied
Senators for just on an hour and a half. The Senate
is pleased to call itself a House of Review.
If this sort of thing goes on, Australia will
degenerate into a bureaucracy with a democratic label.
Forty Millions.
A radio talk which might have been reported in full
was given by F. S. Daly, Director of Ordnance Pro-
duction, on August 3. Most papers did not print it
at all, and Sydney “D.T.” rated it lower as a news
item than Mr. Heffron’s blackout of some Sydney
suburbs.
Mr. Daly said that Australian munition-making
had reached giant proportions. Hundreds of machine-
gun carriers had been delivered to the army and hun-
dreds more were being produced. The anti-tank gun
being made in Australia was one of the most impor-
tant war weapons, and the time taken in the Com-
monwealth to produce it was a record for celerity.
Then he revealed that Australians had evolved a
new process:
It has resulted in manufacturing orders from the
Imperial authorities totalling £40,000,000.
Forty millions was the value of a more than
modest wool clip in years within the last decade.
Given politicians who are inspired by something more
than craven fears or mean envy of successful enter-
prise and union leaders who are not merely work-
stopping nuisances, Australia should become one of
the world’s great industrial countries after the war.
Gentlemen, the Press!
Handing out a verbal lashing to those responsible for
strikes and stop-work meetings, the Prime Minister
had something to say about the way in which such
things and political teacup-tempests are reported:
If one is to judge by the newspapers the most
extraordinary phenomenon ever witnessed in a country
at war is taking place. Is what is published what the
people like to read? Do people like to read of political
intrigues, industrial irresponsibility and groups of selfish-
ness?
To which Brisbane “Courier-Mail,” which is among
the better-balanced dailies, replied that if the press
ignored the things mentioned it would present a false
account of the state of the nation.
If people are disturbed by the reflection of public
affairs mirrored in the press the sooner will the causes
of their disquiet be attended to.
What is objected to is the manner of the report-
ing. Any secretary of any union, whether it be the
Netting-fence Whitewashers’ or the Hamburger
Hawkers’, can get the wildest vaporings off his chest
and be assured of black headlines. If he’s silly enough
to challenge the Government —challenging being a
popular pastime at the moment —he may even get a
leader.
The case of the hunger-strikers is as good an
illustration as any. Anybody reading the newspapers
that let themselves go over them could have been par-
doned for supposing the nation to be on the brink of
revolt and the Government mounting machine-guns
at Canberra—until the whole business fizzled out.
The newspapers claim that they give the public
what it wants. Whether a nation engaged in war can
afford to have its press magnify passing and unimpor-
tant things out of all proportion, thus helping to drug
the public mind into a belief that all is well and “V
for Victory” a winner, is another matter. In drawing
attention to it, Mr. Menzies has done no more than
his duty, though his stricture is likely to have no more
effect on those for whom it is meant than raindrops
on a frog puffed up with its own conceit.
Annual Blisters.
“Tuart” : If I were an Englishman in receipt of
income from 90 or more counties in England, Wales
and Scotland, each of which has its own administrative
authority, I should have to make out only one income-
tax return, and I should know at the beginning of
the financial year what the tax would amount to.
Being an Australian, drawing income from two States,
N. S. Wales and Victoria, I have to make out three
income-tax returns —one for each of the two States
and one for the Commonwealth. And I never know
what I have to pay till I receive four assessments,
which, taxation bills being introduced at any old time,
neVer arrive till late in the financial year; and more
than one have been delayed till the financial year has
closed. Unlike the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Aus-
tralian Treasurers don’t care tc 0 straws for the fram-
ing of domestic budgets.
Most of my income is earned in my home State,
N. S. Wales. The rest comes from a family property
in Victoria. The Victorian Government levies what
it calls “ordinary tax” on this income, and, because
it is derived from property, exacts double the rate
it charges on what it calls “earned” income. This
it does in respect of all property income, in effect
penalising people no longer capable of “earning
income for having been thrifty. Still, Victoria does
provide police protection for the property, and I recog-
nise my obligation to pay something for this service
and to contribute to the general cost of provincial
government —though in Victoria, as elsewhere, this
is excessive.. And, in my case, Victoria doesn’t impose
a second tax for unemployed-relief. That is done
by N. S. Wales, which makes me pay on this properly
income nearly as much as Victoria charges, although
N. S. Wales maintains no police in Victoria and
renders me no service whatever. It even makes me
pay on the tax I pay to Victoria, though if I lived
in Victoria “relief” tax would be an allowable deduc-
tion from income subject to “ordinary” tax, and, as
now reduced, would be only about one-seventh of
what N.S.W. extorts from me. And, of course, I pay
two State taxes on income derived in N. S. Wales. .
The Commonwealth, for its part, allows all State
income-taxes as deductions from taxable income. It
is much the fairest of all the taxing authorities, and
in respect of income it should be the only one. And
it could be the only one if the Government exercised
its Constitutional powers to make waste paper of all
State income-tax measures.
This legalised swindle of taxing incomes from
other States without rendering the slightest service
to the taxpayer has been going on in N. S. Wales
for upwards of ten years. Those victimised would
far rather pay the money to the Commonwealth
for war purposes than suffer the legalised swindle to
go on, especially as they know that part of what they
have been bailed up for has been cast into the sink
of insolvent State enterprises. They looked for some
measure of justice when Mr. Fadden proposed to
make income taxation uniform ; and the public un-
doubtedly wants it made uniform, for the public,
among other things, realises how unspeakably silly it is
that tax-deductions from the same amount of income
should differ in every State, and that in war-time.
But the State Treasurers wouldn’t have uniform taxa-
tion of incomes, and Mr. Fadden, being without
intestinal fortitude, has surrendered to their provincial
selfishness and greed.
So I suppose I shall have to go on making out
three income-tax returns and awaiting the pleasure of
three Treasurers and three separate departments, and
examining four assessments, and posting four cheques,
and cursing the whole demented procedure and outfit,
reserving a special imprecation for the “relief'-tax
bandoleros in N. S. Wales.
The Vqnishing Irishman.
“S. Gumm”; A Bulletin contributor mentioned a
fact which must have occurred to many people, though
I never before saw a reference to it in print—you
don’t see the Irish immigrant now. When I was a
boy he was a feature of the Australian landscape
wherever you travelled, and the farther out you went
the greater his proportion of the local population.
On the Westralian goldfields in 1901 there were
so many Irish and their influence was such—most ol
them were fine adventurous types with a great reputa-
tion for bushmanship and raateship—that two of
their number, Hugh Mahon (afterwards a Minister)
and J. W. Kirwan (since President of the State Leg.
Council), were elected members for the two gold-
fields seats in the new Commonwealth House, and a
third, Ned Harney (afterwards a member of the
Commons), who had transferred from Coolgardie to
Perth, became one of the six Senators. Nowadays the
Irish-born politician has become almost as rare as
the Irish-born policeman, who used to dominate the
force, and the mercurial boy from Dublin, Kerry or
the Wicklow hills comes no more.
The Commonwealth Statistician, in a belated
review of the 1933 census (I suppose it is not his fault
that it is belated), gives some striking details of this
decline. In 1901, when the population was 3,773,801,
there were 184,470 Irish-born persons (92,254 males
and 92,216 females); 48.88 per 1000. In 1933, though
the population had grown to 6,629,839, there were
only 78,652 Irish-born persons (41,576 males and
37,076 females); 11.86 per 1000. On the other hand
Scottish-born persons increased from 101,970 (58,892
males and 43,078 females) to 132,489 (73,488 males
and 59,001 females) in the 22 years, and English-
born persons from 378,887 (221,664 males and 157,223
females) to 486,831 (268,849 males and 217,982
females). Says the Statistician:
The reduction in the number of Irish-born recorded
at each successive census is of more than passing interest.
Between 1891 and 1901 the decrease was 43,228 persons,
in the next 10 years 43,105 persons, in the next 10
years 35,368 persons and in the last 12 years 27,345
persons, a total for the 42 years of 149,046 persons,
or nearly two-thirds of the number of Irish-born residents
in 1891.
Of more than passing interest it is. Especially as
it is certain that the next census will show a further
decrease. For emigration from Eire, even to the U.S.A.,
has almost ceased since Mr. De Valera made it a
country “the world forgetting, by the world forgot.”
Eire may have been the gainer. I question whether
this is true of the Irish race, and I am sure it is not
true of the countries which it used to enrich with its
vigorous stocks. "


Sociey
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Wodgil”: On the authority of one of
those rags that never come out without
a picture of a semi-nude minx on the
front page, the Jitterbug is Sweeping Aus-
tralia. Somehow, it reminded me of a
fellow who started a dance joint in Perth
in the first year of the last war. He had
plenty of money, and he spent it like
water on interior decorations and fur-
nishings and advertis-
ing and all the rest;
and he induced the
Governor, an amiable
old retired brasshat, to
come along on the
opening night, which
was free to “society.”
His Ex., complete with
staff, beamed on the
vast expanse of dead-
heads, and blithered
something to the effect
that people inclined to
brood on the war
be better em-
ployed than in shuf-
fling about a waxed
floor, dancing being an
ideal preventive of war
strain, and so on. This
was too much for Perth,
which was taking the
war seriously, and it
was made so obvious
to his Nibs that he had
outraged public senti-
ment that he did not show up in the joint
again. Neither did “society,” save for a
few casual and daring specimens, and
within two months the proprietor had
sacked his staff and turned off the lights
for the last time. And now the Jitterbug
is Sweeping Australia, If true, it is no
credit to Australians, but I don’t believe it.
* * * *
“Gee”: Sydney’s “Sunday Telegraph’s”
double-page pictorial blurb illustrating
how its mighty organisation reproduces
“Time” boasts that all news in “Time” is
absolutely “last minute” and is radio-
phoned from New York at 6 a.m. Aus-
tralian time (presumably on Saturdays).
But a facsimile of the ’phone bill for one
call bears the date July 17 —a Thursday.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”; According to my romantic
morning daily, Australia’s press delega-
tion to Java has discovered that war has
even come to Bali —“famed in film and
song as the ‘Lost Paradise,’ ” Gun em-
placements guard the aerodrome, large
bamboo obstructions are ready to prevent
enemy aircraft landing and armored cars
and natives in jungle-green uniforms
stream through the streets, Bali’s respite
from war has lasted only a generation.
Under its native rajahs it was ever in
internecine conflict, and when the Dutch
started to restore order they found the
gentle Paradisean a doughty fighter.
What the Dutchman dreaded was giving
the' final coup de grace to a heroic
enemy because it involved slaughtering
his women and children. This was the
puputan. When a beleagured garrison
had fired the last shot in its locker the
gates of the fortress would open and
there would be a frenzied rush of women
and children hotly pursued by their sons
and husbands armed to the teeth and
drugged into a state of amuck. The
Dutchmen gave up being chivalrous when
they found that the price they had to
pay was being cut to pieces, so most
Dutch victories were won over the bodies
of the juvenile and female population.
No doubt the women had little reluctance
to join in a puputan, because when their
husbands were killed they were obliged
to fulfil the Hindu obligation of suttee
and jump from a platform on to the blaz-
ing biers of their spouses.
* SJC * *
“Dodger”: City people are dabsters at
rolling up to free shows like those pro-
vided by council men digging up the
street, dogmen on tall buildings, fire,
fights and accidents, but all the same
they can mind their own business. In
one of Sydney’s most crowded suburbs a
policeman placed two drunks under
arrest. They resisted violently, so vio-
lently that the cop, though he landed the
goods, came out of it with several in-
juries. By the time police reinforcements
arrived there were 400 onlookers, but not
one attempted to aid the Law. It cost the
riotous blokes just on £l5 apiece in fines
and costs.
5H sj: # &
“Koorawatha”: Finis was written to a
bush tragedy with the finding of Des-
mond Clarke, a toddler who wandered
off into the heavy Pilliga scrub around
Bugaldie in north-west N.S.W. last Christ-
mas. The little fellow was with some
“A Warden, are y ? Well, prepare yourself for a blackout !”
grown-ups close to his home and left
them to return to it. By midday search
parties were combing the scrub, and
they kept it up, sometimes 300 strong, for
a month, but the only clues found were
a hat and shoe. A mounted police in-
structor, a good bushman, who was on
holiday in the district, got extended
leave and led 75 horsemen for weeks
through the sand, the foothills of the
Warrambungles and the silent bush. A
police bloodhound covered over 250 miles
in eight days in vain, and day after day
in the saddle, and again at night, the
lost child’s 75-year-old grandmother
played her part. The usual theories
sprang up and police watched travellers
and ran down rumors in western towns.
In the end the searching ceased and the
bush closed on the mystery. A few days
ago a blacktracker took some cadets out
for a practical demonstration. In a
washaway on the hillside miles from
Bugaldie the trackers stumbled on the
pathetic remains, half-buried in silt. The
Pilliga is the sort of country Lawson
wrote about in “The Babies in the Bush.”
* * * *
“Pawang”: I see that the psycho-
logists are getting more and more into
the British army, and it is confidently to
be expected that the fashion will be
copied in Australia, According to a
recent dispatch from London, among the
“intelligence” tests put to new recruits
is to choose an ending to the following
sentence: “A vegetable is to a flower
as a carrot is to a swede donkey rose
cauliflower.” The Readers of Psycho-
logy of Cambridge University found it
curious that four men out of five chose
“donkey” as the answer. But perhaps
the recruits were pulling the examiners’
legs.
* * # *
“Capricorn”; When “Snarker” (B.
30/ 7/ ’4l) says that almost everybody in
Sydney says “somethink” and “anythink”
and “nothink” he exaggerates heartily.
In respect of those words, the true Aus-
tralian usage (and Sydney is the centre
of it) is, as near as simple spelling can
get to it, “sump’n’,” “nuth’n’,” “enth’n’.”
The usage “Snarker” quotes is Cockney.
It is a peculiarity of vulgar Australian
speech that “i” as well as “g” is dropped
from “ing” endings, leaving only a vague
“n” sound, as, for example, “runn’n”
(running), “meet’n” (meeting). The Eng-
lish always sound the “in’ ” distinctly.
Another peculiarity of Australian speech
is the slurring of such little words as
“it” and “if” and “at.” Compare a
casual Aussie’s rendering of “1 made a
run at it” (the last three words would
be slurred into something like “runt’t”),
with Choom’s staccato “rcon attitt.”
* * * *
“Algebra”: “Mideast” (B. 30/7/’4l)
says the Australians in the Middle East
are credited with coining the word
“acker” for piastre. An Air Force pal
gives me the real derivation. To the First
A.I.F. a piastre was a “disaster.” A
disaster is an accident and an accident
is naturally an “acker.”
$ »
“Neil”: Will Lawson in his tribute to
Harry Hawker (B. 30/7/’4l) errs in
attributing the failure of Hawker’s trans-
atlanlc flight to a broken feed pipe.
The actual cause was an accumulation of
rust and sludge in the cooling system,
caused in Hawker’s opinion by the nightly
draining of the radiator during the long
wait in Newfoundland. This caused the
radiator to boil dry. The engine was
running perfectly, and it was ironical for
Hawker and Greive to have to admit
defeat for the sake of a few gallons of
water with the Atlantic a few feet below
them. The machine used was not an old
Vickers bomber but a ’plane designed
and built by T. O, M. Sopwith for the
Atlantic attempt, powered by a 360-h,p.
Eagle VIII Rolls-Royce engine. Alcock
and Brown succeeded in the Atlantic
crossing a few months later in a Vickers
Vimy (Rolls-Royce engined) biplane,
* * * *
“Clacker”: What some fellows will do
to evade military service and what others
will do for money was exemplified in a
Sydney case. A 25-year-old single man,
called up for training, had a cobber lately
married. The bachelor suggested that
he should go through the marriage cere-
mony with his cobber’s wife to evade the
call-up. The cobber was willing, the
consideration being a couple of quid.
The lady wasn’t keen on the propo-
sition, but her husband got round her
and the “marriage” was duly celebrated,
hubby being on hand to collect his cash
and, maybe, see there was no funny busi-
ness. Pinched for bigamy, the evader
told the Court that he had done it be-
cause his fiancee, whom he had since
married, wouldn’t help him. The Judge,
having only to deal with the bigamy
charge, told both young men what he
thought of them and released them on
bond, adding that, had the charge been
brought under the Defence Act, it would
have been different and hinting that the
bond needn’t interfere with steps the De-
fence authorities might consider neces-
sary,
«*:!:«
“S.T.S.”: Russia’s war effort has had
one minor but interesting effect in Aus-
tralia. There has come back into
religious services the sentence of thanks-
giving for “our Allies and the success
that has hitherto attended their efforts’’
which was quietly dropped about a year
ago as sounding really too ironical.
* * * ♦
“Gryllus”: The average human brain
is about 300 times heavier than that of
an average rat, but in the practical busi-
ness of competing for a living man is the
rat’s humble beast of burden and pro-
vider. The rat shares his home, eats
his food, destroys his possessions, infects
him and his domestic animals with a
dozen serious diseases. Rat-damage in
pre-war Britain was estimated at over
£1,000,000 weekly. An estimate made
in Brisbane some 30 years ago sug-
gested commercial rat-losses of over
£25,000 yearly. Ships are built with
special attention to doing away with all
shelter for rats and fumigated regularly,
but man’s masters continue to travel by
them as they did in Roman galleys and
the ships of old Tyre. Fossil remains
show that they predated mankind on
earth. Probably they will watch the last
of our kind freeze and starve to death
in a glaciated world after they have eaten
his last bit of tucker. Then they will
eat him
V * * *
“Manly”: “V. Cluse’s” tame drunk
would have been exceedingly happy in
our salubrious subbub the other evening.
During the week citizens had organised
a drive for a mile of pennies for some
patriotic fund, and all the footpaths had
been marked with two-inch white lines
about nine inches in from the gutter.
Came closing time on Saturday night and
all the Village drunks emerged from
their alcoholic haunts, stood and stared,
first in bewilderment and then with
muddled pleasure at the white lines.
There were murmurs to the effect that it
was “Flamin’ deshent of counshil to give
a man shumpin to shteer home by,” and
thereafter, in any of the half a dozen-odd
streets of the town, could be seen a
couple of revellers negotiating the white
lines with more care, though perhaps with
less success, than Blondin on -the rope
across the Niagara, The only known ex-
ception was one surly, bleary-eyed fellow
who rigorously avoided the lines, swear-
ing that they were “Trapsh set by flamin’
coppersh to catch man after he’sh had
few drinksh.”
“F.S.” remembers and reflects:
I made the long journey from Vladivostok
to Petrograd just before the last war. In a
third-class carriage on a peasant train which
I shared for four days with a cross-section of the
Russian people, there were a Russian major and
his wife and family. Every evening the major
got out a portable bath and bathed his youngest
baby while the rest of his compatriots clustered
at the door of the compartment and clucked
and goo’cl at the sturdy infant.
In another compartment an old man who was
going to end his days in the Crimea was
coughing his lungs to pieces. He had the un-
alloyed sympathy of the whole compartment.
‘There was no ventilation, and an English
engineer, reviewing it from the point of view of
modern hygiene, was purple with indignation.
“These Russians ought to be taught a lesson,’
he told me; and, having considerable influence,
he wired to Moscow and demanded that the
consumptive should be isolated. The authori-
ties wired back: “Isolate the Englishman!”
He was provided with a first-class carriage,
which was hitched on our train, and in this he
sat in solitary splendor till the end of the
journey.
To the Russians his behavior was as incom-
prehensible as the major’s washing his baby was
to him. But everything in Russia was incom-
prehensible from the point of view of modern
Western culture. I had had my head stuffed
full of pictures of Siberia as a gloomy, hostile
land where the Czar sent his criminals and his
political opponents. But trucks were constantly
passing us loaded with peasants to make
Eastern Siberia into a garden, and at the
slightest provocation and without any word
spoken they would burst into song, taking parts
and keeping perfect tempo without a conductor.
Their sonorous voices would have graced any
choir in an Australian cathedral. It was the
same with trucks going west loaded with soldiers,
for Russia’s mobilisation was just beginning.
In a restaurant on a hill outside Moscow I
saw a British Embassy official being given a
luncheon send-off, and there was the blue-
bloused and belted choir of giant Russian
singers singing the same unaccompanied folk
songs that have persisted through centuries of
tradition.
In Moscow I found half-starved, semi-naked
refugees from some famine-stricken province
huddled around the street shrines at midnight,
but I found, also, more spontaneous friendli-
ness and kindness than I had ever encountered
in efficient, organised, industrialised countries.
When the peasant soldiers went to war they
went with obvious reluctance and made a com-
plete mess of it. I judged that they didn’t
want to be soldiers —they preferred to be back
home singing.
What changed a nation of singers into a
nation of soldiers? Is it the system, as so
many assert, or is it that the Russian is a
stubborn fighter only when he is defending his
own homeland?
AT CANBERRA.
“Statistics recently published give Canberra much
the highest birthrate of any Australian city.’’
At Canberra, our country’s pride,
The city by Molonglo’s side,
The site and seat of government
For this our island-continbnt,
Point for which statesmen hit the breeze
In session-time as thick as bees.
They’ve yet a higher, worthier claim
Than civic eminence to fame.
They keep their cradles full, you know,
At least comparatively so,
At Canberra.
At Canberra, perhaps because
Their staple job is making laws,
It might be thought they wouldn’t appraise
The need of other things to raise.
Yet figures show in this respect
They rightly rank among the elect
As horticulturists, it’s known
They’re in a class that’s all their own;
And you may find a show as swell
Of human buds and blooms as well
At Canberra.
At Canberra the rafters ring
With voices deep and menacing
In halls where dialectic wars
Are waged by Reps, and Senators.
But in the mornings, all around,
The infant trebles sweetly sound.
The schools are crowded, big and small,
The kindergartens most of all. ,
No burg so fruitful on the map,
Surely a feather in the cap
Of Canberra.
At Canberra, where tulips grow,
P.Ms. and Speakers come and go.
Laws, regulations and decrees
Pour out as swiftly as you please.
But here’s a surely wanted lead:
In filling what’s our keenest need
All sister cities she outbids.
The most important product’s kids
At Canberra.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“5.W.5”: So “Dhas” reckons “Banjo”
Paterson didn’t compose “Waltzing
Matilda” because lon Idriess heard a
version of it in boyhood (B. 23/7/’4l).
About the end of 1895 “Banjo” went to
Longreach, a lean, dark, sharp-faced fellow
of good build. I distinctly remember him
asking where he could find the “never-
never.” During that trip to C.Q. he
travelled on to Winton. When at Dag-
worth station, then owned by the Mac-
Pherson brothers, the terms “coolibah,”
“jumbuck,” “billabong” and “walzting
Matilda” took his fancy, and he wrote
the words of “Waltzing Matilda.” Miss
MacPherson, a sister of the Dagworth
owners, set it to music. Paterson and
Miss MacPherson may both have been
plagiarists, though that’s unlikely, but
their effort was produced when Idriess
was five years old.
* * * *
“Arev”; “Ec” (B. 23/7/’4l) knew a
man who had seen some of Sir John
Moore’s soldiers in 1809, and asks
whether anyone can beat that. Here’s
my hand up. My dad, 85, tells that his
grandmother often talked of having seen
Nelson—and Nelson died at Trafalgar
in 1805.
* * - * *
“Pitt-street”: This war must have been
a turn-up for professional photographers,
who, to judge by the noises they made,
found their business pretty seriously
threatened by the irruption of street
photographers that broke out a few years
ago. The populace, snapped whether it
wanted to or not, suddenly found it
could get all the pictures of itself it
wanted for a bob or Is. 6d. simply by
walking down the street. And often the
”Only another Week, dear, and our vacuum-cleaner will be back.”
pictures were better likenesses than the
stiffly-posed and retouched ones that
came out of studios. Now those same
studios are chockablock with enlarge-
ments of service men and women, and
the pro. smiles again.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Melbourne taximen
carried out a one-day strike the other
day and 1000 vehicles were withdrawn,
a skeleton service
being provided to
deal with emergen-
cies. In their own
defence the men say
that it is not an
attempt to get public
sympathy over petrol
rationing but a
method of manipu-
lating the shortage,
which leaves them
with only enough
juice to drive their
chariots for three
days weekly, and
they intend to make
it a regular feature.
The result was a
harvest for wagons,
buggies, hansoms
and other decrepit
survivals from a
slower and possibly
happier era. Just
before the present
war there was still
one hansom practis-
ing in Melbourne.
Its ancient driver
would draw up in
front of the King’s
or His Majesty’s,
secure in the belief
that there were
youths who would
try to recapture the spirit of the naughty
’nineties by hiring the old contraption
to take them to supper.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Bales of wool do not sug-
gest romantic adventure, but two which
started from Maoriland have interested
even businesslike Bradford, On the
homeward voyage the ship caught fire
during heavy weather. After a couple
of strenuous days the fire was mastered,
but the two ba&s had been washed over-
board during cargo-shifting operations to
get at it. The soaked jumbuck overcoat
burst the bale-bands and came ashore in
the Bahamas in bits and pieces spread
along miles of rocks and beaches. Local
beachcombers had never seen raw wool
before and didn’t know what it was, but
gathered up 9501 b. of it on spec and
took it into Nassau in two huge bundles.
Nassau citizens decided to present it to
the Lord Mayor of London’s Air-raid
Distress Fund. Reaching England it was
transferred to the Wool Controller, who
sent a cheque for £6O to the fund. The
wool was converted into 500 yards of
overcoating for .troops, and the people
of the Bahamas were thanked officially
for their sympathy and help.
* * * V
“Captain Pintle”; I was admiring the
V for Victory on my paper when the
steward brought in a couple of overseas
letters. The A.I.F. son was enjoying the
life except for being set back for Gyppo
customs duties on parcels posted from
home. “Tell the family to cut them out,
Dad,” he wrote, “and get Mother to
shut off those local societies of hers.
They are very kind and I like the gifts,
but I can get the same things at a quarter
of the price from the bazaars, where
the Gyppo Post Office sends the stuff
the chaps won’t pay duty on. The Red
Cross is doing great work, and it is
better to hand presents over to them or
the Comforts Fund.” The younger,
latest Second Mate in a family sca-
history of two centuries, began his letter
with: “If you get this V business in Aus-
tralia, try to make the silly cows under-
stand that it’s for Vigour, Vim, Vitality,
any-damn’-thing to speed up supplies for
"Mind the step, my dear!"
back loading and give ships a quick turn-
round. The Navy blokes will attend to
the Victory part, none better, but it’s up
to the safe-ashore lads on the big pay to
keep us cargo-bruisers pointing for the
places where the job of protecting their
hides is really being done. Any blankard
who can’t be made to see it is ‘V for
Vermin,’ and needs squashing.”
“Spokeshave”: The “V for Victory’
campaign has invaded the citadel of art
in Melbourne. A late example occurred
in an art school. Going the rounds
of the easels while the model was rest-
ing, the master stopped, staggered, in
front of one pupil’s picture. “What
is the matter with your eyes, man?” he
stuttered. “Didn’t the girl have her legs
crossed? Why don’t you paint the pose
as you see it?” “Oh,” said the pupil,
“that’s the V for Victory inverted!”
* * * *
“Nakh”: I see that teachers at the
N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation council
object to the Minister of Education tak-
ing from them the blessed privilege of
caning their pupils on the ground that it
would be impossible to carry on without
that implement of instruction in the many
schools where classrooms are over-
crowded and playgrounds inadequate.
When I was a boy I had the misfortune
to attend a church school at which some
potential A 1 Capone had formed a gang
and terrorised the other pupils. The
only means of self-preservation was to
curry favor with the gangster leader, be
elected a member of his court and be-
come a terrorist in your turn. The youth-
ful gangsters were outside the law, and
the teachers who used the cane were in-
side it, but they all believed in the same
thing.
* * * *
“Colbun”: Even German thorough-
ness backed by Nazi brutality cannot
prevent the visible expression of con-
tempt for their
failure to invade
Britain by the be-
trayed peoples
whom they hold
down in Europe. An
Amsterdam book-
seller displayed por-
traits of the Dutch
royal family in his
shop window and
w'as ordered by the
German police to
remove them. He
replaced them by a
huge picture of Herr
Hitler surrounded
by numerous copies
of a cheap hand-
book, How to Swim.
In Paris the gamins
follow German
troops calling out
“Plop-plop-plop” and going through the
motions of swimming. A popular joke
in Holland is about a German officer
at The Hague who asked a passing Dutch
boy why the big seventeenth-century
statue had been erected to Admiral de
Ruyter. “B-b-because he d-d-d-defeated
the E-e-english,” replied the boy, who
happened to be a stutterer. “Oh, d-d-did
he?” mocked the German. “Y-y-you
d-d-don’t w-w-want to c-c-copy me,”
replied the boy. “Y-y-you w-w-want
t-t-to c-c-copy him!”
“Colonel Bungstarter”: About the time
that “Polonius” (B. 30/7/’4l) was pay-
ing his third Bulletin sub. I lost the
school essay prize on account of spelling
Immortal William’s moniker without
the central “e.” My authority for omit-
ting it was a Master of Arts with high
honors in English literature, a former
inspector of schools, then a professor in
an Australian university. But who is to
judge? F. Howard Collins’s Author and
Printer gives it as “Shakespeare (William),
abbr. Shak.; -ean, not the many varia-
tions.” The Pocket Oxford Dictionary
defines: “Shaksperian, -keeper- (-ks-), a.
Of, as of, Shakspere.” The symbols used
for the name in the Shelton shorthand in
which Samuel Pepys wrote his diary—
and he didn’t think much of the Bard s
plays—make it Shaxper. William’s only
signature of which I have seen a repro-
duction —I fancy, the only known one-
might be almost anything beginning with
Sh and waggling off into squiggledom.
* * * *
“Nip”: “The invasion docks at Brest
and Le Havre were blasted last night” ;
“R.A.F. blasts Ruhr” ; “Rhineland again
blasted” —and so on ad infinitum. I
protest. Haven’t the cable editors and
subs, ever heard of “devastated,”
“pulverised,” “shattered,” “smashed,’
“wrecked” or “laid waste”?
* * * »
“K.P.” : A realistic touch is added to
Home Guard first-aid training in Britain
by the use of imitation wounds made of;
wax or papier mache and strapped on.
They are painted to resemble the genuine
article and their effect aided by torn
clothing dyed to represent bloodstains.
Facial make-up suggesting internal
haemorrhage, shock, concussion, and
similar conditions is added as required
and “patients” are trained to give accurate
imitations of delirium, hysteria and the
disturbed breathing characteristic of
certain kinds of severe concealed injuries.
The idea is to accustom trainees to the
actual look of what they will have to
deal with when the real thing comes
along, and the results are described as
“very satisfactory.” Similar methods
have been introduced into Malaya by the
Medical Auxiliary Service, whose super-
intendent is an Australian, Mrs. C. G.
Howell.
* * * *
“Clooter”; It was perhaps to be ex-
pected that Sydney, the most American-
ised Australian city, should become in-
fested with slot machines. Public atten-
tion was first drawn to the poker-
machines in Lang’s time as Premier;
since then not so much has been said,
though “one-armed bandits” can be
found in almost svery club building,
whether it be a golf club or just
“Frank’s.” An enormous sum is removed
from the citizens by these mechani-
cal leeches every week, and, not satisfied
with the adult’s dollar, the things have
now fastened their hooks into the young
male, several arcades having opened up
stocked with penny-in-the-slot machines.
Here gather the office boys and the mes-
sengers in their hundreds, and a great
flow of coppers has set in towards the
pockets of the individuals running
them.
FIFTY-FIFTY.
“The president of the Sydney Feminist Club, Mrs.
P. A. Cameron, said that women’s organisations
in N.S.W. would strongly protest if tobacconists gave
preference to men smokers in the present shortage
of their wares-”
When woman first essayed the art of blowing
The clouds which Raleigh taught our race to
puff
And learned the way to set the smoke-wreaths
going—
A task she mastered readily enough—
One very often heard it wasn’t owing
To any real liking for the stuff
She’d mostly left, since Stuart times began,
(With disapproving sniffs) to erring man.
A cigarette, it couldn’t be confuted,
Helped feminine attractions to enhance;
New, graceful gestures were thereby recruited
To capture many an admiring glance.
Manoeuvred piquantly, it constituted
An adventitious aid to elegance
By stressing lady smokers’ various charms
From ruby lips to nicely-rounded arms.
Scarce forty years have fled —what soul pro-
phetic
The consequence could ever have foreseen!
Since first the sex, acclaimed by pens poetic
The brightest jewels on our terrestrial screen,
For reasons once regarded as aesthetic
’Gan to experiment with nicotine
By adding to the cargo in its bags
A quantum suff. of gaspers and of fags.
And now? It’s clear, whatever pulpit-thumpers
May snort, or jaundiced Pharisees avow,
Who hold that knitting pullovers and jumpers
For womankind is sedative enow.
He who would rob Miladi of her bumpers
Is bound to raise a devil of a row.
Sauce for the gander, you’ll from this deduce,
Must eke be sauce henceforward for the goose.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £32,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,900,000.
M. C. Alder, A.LA.,
General Manager.
rg?
!S
■>
$
LAN ES
HOT IMMEDIATELY!
No Messy Pricking, Priming or Pumping.
The genuine Lane's Thermil Blue
Flame stove outdates all pressure
stoves. It gives instant heat. No
noise and it's absolutely SAFE !
One fill of kerosene
lasts 8 hours and the
stove is entirely odour-
les s. NO expensive
burners to replace and
HALF THE PRICE of a
pressure stove ! See
your local Store.
GENUINE •#'
ernu^
B.
jjwmd
BLUE
FLAME
STOVE
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
. Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
POLITICAL POINTS
Menzies was in Adelaide and doing
famously in the oratorical line when he
received “certain cables” which called for
“immediate attention.” He straightway
called off the tour which was to have
taken him to Westralia and summoned a
special meeting of the Full Cabinet in
Melbourne. He did not mention a special
meeting of Parliament, though that is
at least equally important.
W. M. Hughes, his certificate;
Australia, as the Empire country most
closely affected by Japanese policy, has
exercised an effective voice in moulding
Empire policy towards Japan.
Or has it just “exercised” a faint echo of
the voice that breathes through Eden?
The Excrescences had the gall to ask
the Loan Council for £39,500,000. They
are to get £17,361,000, and it is at least
£7,361,000 too much. McKell actually
put in for £18,163,000 “to carry out the
policy on which we were elected.” He
is to get £7,405,000. All Redfern will
roar for this!
Sydney “Sun,” which saw McKell
“fighting like a tiger” for his State’s
“rights” at the Loan Council, quoted him
as saying, after the hullabaloo:
It is an infamous state of affairs that
a couple of mendicant States, with popula-
tions comparable only with that of the city
of Sydney, should be able to deny the
people of Sydney facilities.
After which Playford (S.A.) “clashed”
with him. Declaring that he was not “a
filibuster disappointed in his share of the
loot,” the “Tiger” returned to Sydney
growling about “revised” taxation.
The Victorian anti-s.p. bill got through
after a succession of what the papers
call “stormy scenes.” It gives the police
power to arrest on the spot anybody
caught betting who refuses to give name
and address or gives them falsely. And
the debate was the medium of giving
Chief Secretary Bailey a shock, for Cain
(Lab.) warned him to listen to Cain if
he wanted to keep on being Chief
Secretary. Bailey listened.
“I take my hat off to the seamen,” said
Webb, the Maoriland Minister of Labor,
speaking in Parliament —“the men who
take our ships through minefields and
other dangers.”
There has not been one day’s hold-up
on any ship trading with New Zealand
since the outbreak of war.
The same could be said by an Australian
Minister, and it should be said. Prefer-
ably by Menzies.
Announcing his departure for the Loan
Council meeting at Canberra, Victoria’s
Mr. Dunstan adjourned his “Parliament”
till be got back. Instead of objecting,
said “Parliament” promptly downed tools
and rushed off to —er —help the war
effort.
When somebody asked F. W. Eggle-
ston, the Australian Minister to China,
how be was going to like it, he mur-
mured something about preferring the
stink-bombs of Chungking to the stink-
bombs of Australian politics. The in-
evitable State politician, Tonkin (Lab.,
North-east Fremantle), touched on the
raw, asked his Government what it in-
tends to do about it. Mr. Milling-
ton, whose solemn exterior conceals a
dry humor, said it would “consider the
matter.”
A conference of Friends of the Soviet
is to be held in‘ the Sydney Town
Hall. Lud Mayor Crick is to preside at
a preliminary public meeting. There is
none of this sort of nonsense in Mel-
bourne. When the Australia-Soviet
Friendship League asked the City
Council’s town hall committee for the
use of the hall, that hard-headed body
cogitated and replied coldly that “Russia”
was “in the war simply through force of
circumstances” and had “opposed assist-
ance to Britain until now.” The chairman
said he would never be a party to allow-
ing Communists to use the hall, and not
even when the shining example of Crick
was held up to it would the committee
yield.
Though it’s a short and pleasant walk
from Sydney’s Macquarie-street yap-shop
to Government House, all but a dozen or
so of the 90 members were taken there
in a fleet of cars to present that idiotic
anachronism the Address-in-Reply. Mac-
donald, of Mosman, who was a 1914-18
Digger padre and knows what petrol-
saving means in this war, was one of the
walkers. Said Clyne, the Labor Speaker:
“I do not think the stage of economy
“In Bali, Senator Foil, who is leading a press party through the N.E.I., drank beer
from a gokd-encrusted glass and nibbled peanuts from a silver plate.”
“I’ll really have to introduce this style at Canberra .”
has been reached when members and
officers of the House should have to
walk to pay a formal call.” People will
remember the wicked waste of fuel on
an empty show, and that in a desperate
situation, when McKell tries to bleed
them for the taxes he is threatening.
The August bank holiday was cele-
brated as usual in England, and some of
the papers were indignant. What would
they have said could they have been spec-
tators of the scene in Sydney? There
the absurd anachronism, cancelled last
year by the Mair Government, was sanc-
tioned by McKell, and all Government
offices took the unnecessary holiday and
there was racing at Randwick. It ought
to have been one of the busiest days of
the year for the taxation people, but they
shut up shop, too, McKell permitting.
What that gentleman did is not recorded,
but he churlishly refused to waive his
“right” to impose two income taxes to
admit of the Commonwealth substituting
one income tax for ten, and he had the
effrontery to demand £10,000,000 of loan-
money so that he could “honor” his
election promises.
Wilson, M.H.R., told a Swan Hill
(Vic.) crowd that as soon as Parliament
meets he will move that “immediate
steps be taken to move a considerable
proportion of war industries into rural
areas well back from the coastline.” Mr.
Menzies will no doubt apply for an
armistice while the moving is done.
Sydney’s Lud Mayor Crick jerked him-
self out of the throes of composing “V
for Victory” songs to complain that van-
dals had defaced many buildings with
the letter V “scrawled in an undignified
way.” This was not aimed at “advanc-
ing the psychological uplift of the cam-
paign.”
We must find a * sensible constructive
policy to cope with the problem.
Finding a sensible Lord Mayor might
help.
Abuse and cocksure amateur strategy
are the main features of English Sunday
papers, as presented to Australia in cable-
grams published on Monday, and on
their list also are astrology and sensa-
tionalism. Fraser, the Maoriland P.M.,
has had a nasty experience of Sunday-
paper reporting. Visiting Manchester,
and referring to the situation in the China
seas, he was alleged to have said that
“before long hell may be let loose in
New Zealand,” and that “our people
will fight to the last to save their native
land.” Fearing that the furphy would
reach his Dominion, he advised Nash, his
deputy, that it was “a complete misrep-
resentation” —he said “nothing of the
kind.”
Fadden and McKell are “exploring”
ways and means of raising more revenue.
It never occurs to either to cut down
useless expenditure, nor do their explora-
tions ever diverge from the heavily-beaten
track to dead men’s property and living
men’s income. And both are blind and
deaf to the unblushing boast of one of the
concerns engaged in a sordid traffic that
lottery prizes are free of Commonwealth
and State taxes. Since tax on legitimate
income seems likely to go to 15s. in the
£, if not higher, Fadden should take at
least ss. in the £ of lottery prizes. And
people who can afford to bet on horses
and dogs can afford to pay taxes —tote
and betting-tickets— to the Government
which has the war on its hands ; and
that Government should strike at the
s.p. plague by vetoing all racing broad-
casts, at least till the war is over.
The only newspapers that squealed
about newsprint rationing were Sydney
“D.T.” and “S. M. Herald,” and they
joined forces to attack Harrison, the
Minister of Customs, and Menzies. With
£7OOO provided for taxation in 1939-40
and £20,500 in 1940-41, the “D.T.” out-
fit announces an increase of net profit
from £25,427 to £53,346, and an increase
in the distribution among ordinary share-
holders (chiefly Packer and Theodore)
from £14,375 to £40,250. “S. M. Herald,”
which is a family concern, was chal-
lenged by Menzies to publish its profits
for 1940-41 and previous years. It won’t.
The Sydney solicitor who “fought for
the release” of the hunger-striking Com-
munists has been asked to oppose
Spender in Warringah at the next elec-
tion, come it soon or late. No friend
could have done the asking. The gentle-
man would be sure to lose his deposit.
McKell has “solved” the complicated
Sydney milk-price problem by promis-
ing suppliers a subsidy of 2d. a gallon
for two months. Mair says that when
he was asked to do something of the
sort he was advised that it would be “un-
constitutional.” Withdrawing his gaze
from the constitutional hurdle, McKell
burbled something about “reforming”
the Milk Board. Not only the Milk
Board but the whole Parliamentary outfit
needs reforming out of existence.
Sydney’s Minister for Labor, Hamilton
Knight, proposes to bring farm employees
under the Arbitration Act and give them
an award. Working a farm on a 40-hour-
week basis, with overtime and all the
trimmings, should be extremely interest-
ing, especially when the wheat is ripe
and storms threaten, or when the crows
and flies start working overtime on the
lambing ewes.
After all the fine talk of the McCahills,
of Sydney, the much-advertised Govern-
ment shipbuilding project is very low
down on their legislative list. It looks
as if North Coast and South Coast people
will have wooden ships afloat long before
the McCahills lay their first keel.
How these State politicians love them-
selves! Baddeley, the Sydney Minister
for Mines, solemnly informed the press
that he was going to visit the Newnes
shale-oil field “to stimulate and to re-
invigorate production.” Nothing was
ever stimulated or feinvigorated by a
visit from a State politician, except a
Government school about to get a holiday
out of it.
Reconciling the Poles and the Russians
is not going to be so easy as Eden and
his press admirers bargained for, though
one of the latter airily announced that
Anthony had brought it off or all time.
In a broadcast on the signing of the pact,
Sikorski, the exiled Polish Premier, re-
called that Prussia and Russia in 1795
and in 1939 had proclaimed the extinc-
tion of Poland and the Polish name, and
said history had made nonsense of both
proclamations. To this “Izvestia” replied
testily that Sikorski’s parallel was false
and that “the Russo-Polish frontiers
cannot be regarded as immutable” ; and
it had the face to add that “the Soviet
occupation of Polish territory in 1939”
— i.e., the bloody invasion of a stricken
State —“gave strategic advantages which
frustrated the German Blitzkrieg against
Russia in 1941.” In the terms of the
British guarantee to Poland, Britain can’t
accept any Moscow grab of territory that
was part of Poland as recognised by the
League, and it has not undertaken to
do so.


“NONE BUT THE BRAVE”-


BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £1 / 2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
(Incorporated in New Zealand),
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Mudford, Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ? If the answer
is “No," just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., ITD„
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.O.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia; Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
ECZEMA
Sensitive people feel eczema:
acutely. The continued irritation,
the unsightly eruptions and the
uncertainty where the trouble will
next spread makes them feel almost
ashamed. '
Eczema is not due to dirt, but to the fact
that certain skins react badly to various
forms of irritation (internal or external)
and poor general health increases the
liability.
Since there is a great tendency for eczema
to spread and to become chronic, early
local treatment is imperative, and the best
salve for this purpose is DOAN’S Oint-
ment. It penetrates to the true skin where
the inflammation lies, is antiseptic and
healing and quickly allays the irritation.
DOAN’S Ointment is also good for other
itching skin complaints and for the relief
of piles. Buy a tin to-day, but, be sure
you get DOAN’S.
Doans Ointment
PERSONAL ITEMS
Will Ogilvie is an A.R.P. warden at
Selkirk (Scotland). The poet is 72. In
a letter to R. G. Lackey, a N.S.W.
Northern Rivers stipendiary steward,
he says his native Scotland has stacks of
reception committees waiting for Ger-
man parachute troops. Lackey is a
son of the Lackey who once owned
Nelungaloo, where Ogilvie worked as a
jackeroo and wrote Bulletin verse. It
is now the home of H. K. Nock, who was
M.H.R. for Riverina and Assistant Minis-
ter until September last year, and, very
much reduced in area, is given over to
wheat and English Lincoln sheep.
A recent recruit to the A.I.F. in Mel-
bourne is Kenneth Menzies, the P.M.’s
elder son. He is 19, was educated at
Geelong College and was prefect there
and house captain. He has been follow-
ing in father’s footsteps by taking an
arts and law course at the University of
Melbourne.
Latest to win a D.F.C. in the war in
the air is Pilot-Officer Brian Lawless
Duigan. He was born at Colac (Vic.),
and educated at Geelong College. After
a few years’ engineering in S. Africa, he
joined the R.A.F. in England. Since then
his time has been filled with bombing
raids on Germany and in flying aircraft
to the Middle East. On one occasion his
machine was shot down on to a besieged
aerodrome in Iraq. Duigan has a flying
brother on active service and an uncle
who was a flight-commander in the last
war. One of the first successful aero-
planes to be built in this country was the
joint product of the uncle and his
nephew.
A. E. Keegan, just appointed Business
Administrator of all Commonwealth
munitions factories in Victoria, was born
in Bathurst (N.S.W.) 59 years ago—
Keegans have been there for 115
years. He was educated at Bathurst
Christian Brothers’ College and started
A. E. KEEGAN.
his business life as an accountant.
After serving with country stores, he
joined up with Wunderlichs as keeper
of the books and finished up as
chief executive officer and a director to
boot. He broke a2O years’ relationship
with the firm that makes ceilings to go
to Melbourne in 1932 as general man-
ager of Noyes Bros., in which he now
holds a directorate. A six-foot Irish-
Australian, he used to play golf but has
given it up in favor of gardening.
“Ek Dum” surveys the latest captive
of Frith’s art:
Lieut.-Colonel L. P. Crouch, M.C., Royal
Tanks Corps, might easily turn out to be as
important a visi.or as the Commonwealth has
had for a long time. On him, as commandant
LIEUT-COLONEL CROUCH.
(Modelled by Frith.)
of the two great tank and .armored and
mechanical fighting schools for officers at
Puckapunyal and Seymour, the quality of the
leadership and efficiency of the Commonwealth’s
first armored division largely will depend;
and on the armored division might depend
the success or failure of any A.I.F. campaign,
in or out of the Commonwealth. Viewed as a
piece of human engineering the colonel is a
compact, high-speed unit, of well-streamlined
profile, but with sufficient chord across the
temples to assure that he would be unlikely to
become unstable in high wind or loose mud or
blood. He appears to be powered with a couple
of banks »of highly flexible brain cylinders
efficiently connected to a front-wheel drive
which gives him remarkably quick and smooth
pickup and muscular co-ordination for a man
who admits to 43. Only the best material,
it seems, was used in his construction. When
he hurried out of Sandhurst at 17 to join
the machine-gunners in France, and out of the
m.-gs. into the tanks in October, 1916, he could
scarcely be described as properly “run in,” but
neither the Hun who wounded him nor
various hopeful opponents of the army boxing
contests nor yet the climate of the Indian North-
West, where he spent two hard-bitten terms
(nearly nine years in all), succeeded in damag-
ing either his contours or his constitution. In
the interval between his two Indian terms he was
an instructor at Sandhurst. He arrived in Eng-
land from India in time for a trip to Namsos
Fiord. In personality and, conversation he
strongly resembles E. R. G. R. Evans of the Broke
-—alive every minute, interested in everything
around him and especially in tanks and
humanity, and himself very unassuming and
human.
Air-Marshal Williams having been
detailed to London to take charge of
R.A.A.F. headquarters, another distin-
guished airman takes his place as Air
Board Member in Melbourne. Air-
Commodore William Hopton Anderson
was Melbourne-born and educated at
Melbourne Grammar. He joined the
R.A.A. in 1911, served right through the
1914-18 war, part of it with the A.F.C.,
was mentioned in dispatches and earned
a D.F.C. and a Belgian order. Since
1936 he has commanded several squad-
rons, and when the European cloud-
burst happened became Air Member for
personnel. Lately he has been officer
controlling the central area.
Dead at 85, after having lived in re-
tirement in Sydney for seven years, W.
H. O’Malley Wood, who for 27 years
was associated with the control of the
N.S.W. Government Savings Bank and
its developments, one of which was the
lordly building which closed its mighty
doors in Lang’s time. He was one of the
Commissioners from 1907 to 1920, and
president from 1920 to 1928, when he
retired for the first time. When an
attempt was made to re-establish the bank
in 1931 he was again
chosen as president,
and when that
attempt failed
Wood was then
named president of
the Rural Bank,
which attended to
the functions of the
N.S.W. Savings Bank
left to the State after
the savings bank de-
partment had been
transferred to the
Commonwealth in-
stitution. He was
president for a year.
After the last war
there were two Mil-
lens in the Senate,
and both were much
above the Senate
average, which,
except in the first
two Commonwealth
Parliaments, has
never been particu-
-lar I y high. Both
Nationalists, good
fellows and interest-
ing speakers, they
were not related.
E. D. Millen, a jour-
nalist from N.S.W.,
was the first Min-
ister of Repatria-
tion ; he died in
1923. J. D. Millen,
who remained in the
Chamber till 1930, followed his name-
sake the other day. A .mining engineer,
educated at Toowoomba Grammar and
Sydney University, J.D. was a Mt.
Bischoff man before his election for Tas.
in 1919. As director of Amalgamated
Wireless —he held other directorships,
and was advisory engineer to Vacuum
Oil —he made no mean contribution to
the success of that great Australian
enterprise.
Those who want to know anything
about court procedure in Victorian courts
call for “The Book of Daniel.” It is the
unofficial title of the book of instructions
for clerks of courts compiled in 1909
by just-dead Daniel Berriman, for 20
years a holder of that office in Victoria,
later the leading magistrate of Melbourne
and for five years city coroner. He col-
laborated with John Quick in The Vic-
torian Magistrate. Berriman was born
at Ballarat and educated at its college ;
he acted as warden of its goldfields and
codified the laws connected with mining.
He was given the task of investigating
departmental methods of caring for
neglected children in N.S.W., Victoria and
Queensland.
The Armytage Prize for medical re-
search at Melbourne University goes this
year to Dr. T. E. Lowe, who specialises
in heart diseases. He is a son of Justice
Lowe, the new Chancellor of the Uni-
versity, is a captain in the A.A.M.C. and
a senior lecturer at his Alma Mater. The
prize is open to competition and has
been won very rarely.
Franklin George Barnes, inventor of
the degaussing device which must have
saved hundreds of thousands of tons of
shipping and countless lives from destruc-
tion by magnetic mines, is a 48-year-old
Queenslander, a son of G. P. Barnes,
one-time M.L.A. for Warwick. He was
in England in connection with other
military inventions when the first mag-
netic mine was picked up in the Thames
on November 22, 1939, and his applica-
tion for a patent for his means of coping
with such attacks bears the date
November 28, 1939. F. G. Barnes’s
eldest son is with the A.I.F. abroad and
his brother, L. W. Barnes, holds a com-
mission in a training battalion.
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide has lost a really
great journalist of the past in Fred
Robertson, at 83. He joined the “Adver-
tiser” under Barrow at 14; 20 years
later he had become Langdon Bonython’s
right-hand man, and helped him to make
the paper a power in the land. He often
ran the “Advertiser” himself during his
chiefs absence in the Federal Parliament
or on world tours. Robertson was
credited with 10,000 leaders when he
retired in 1930. Living for his work
only, and hating limelight, he was
singularly little known outside the office.
But when the local Institute of Journalists
was founded it elected him as its first
president.
First principal of Dookie Agricultural
College (Vic.) Robert L. Pudney is dead
in Auckland (M.L.), at 85. After estab-
lishing Dookie in 1887 he took charge of
Longerenong (Vic.). He turned up teach-
ing to take on sheep-farming in M.L. in
1892.
James Francis Dowling, secretary of
the R.S.L. in S.A. since 1936, was born
at Farina (S.A.) 48 years ago, and had
20 years in the National Bank, ending
as manager at Unley. He was a Q.M.S.
in France in the 1914-18 war, serving
with the original Third Division Artil-
lery, and was mentioned in dispatches.
A good organiser and administrator, he
J.F. DOWLING.
has added 5000 members to the R.S.L.
in four years. Plays golf and bowls
and often takes a part for the Adelaide
Repertorians.
“M.H.8.” supplements a reference to
a friend;
Referring to “Cauboy’s” remarks concern-
ing the second symphony concert in Melbourne
and Una Bourne’s part in it, let me say that
Miss Bourne was Melba’s solo pianist not
only in Australia but on tours in England.
Her gramophone records had a tremendous fol-
lowing in England and abroad —in fact, when
records sold more than they do now her sales
topped the list for pianists, becoming the envy
of many more spectacular performers. When
Busoni fell ill at Manchester, where he was to
perform, it was too late to cancel the concert,
and the concert agents sent Una Bourne up to
take his place. Naturally the audience was dis-
appointed, but that feeling quickly changed
and ended in a tremendous ovation for the
pianist, not only for her magnificent perform-
ance, but because she had played Busoni’s
entire programme exactly as it stood, without
altering one item, a feat which few pianists
could accomplish.


Form a Group!
Join a Group!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
DURABILITY
%
&
tn
“BIRKMYRE”
WATERPROOF TARPAULINS
This famous canvas is mode in Scotland by British Labour. It
is truly British and will never let you down. THOROUGHLY
WATERPROOF, ALWAYS FLEXIBLE and DEFINITELY
STRONG, it gives years of satisfactory service. Obtainable
from reputable makers. If difficulty in getting supplies is
experienced, write Wholesale Distributors:
GOUROCK ROPES AND CANVAS LTD.
(Incorporated in Scotland.)
BRISBANE MELBOURNE SYDNEY
SMOKE-OH!
The Mercer Began It.
As I war sitting drinking hox
I heard the crowing of the cox
Above the turmoil of the dox
And chiming of the city clox;
I saw the girls in summer frox
Go tripping by in troops and ft ox
Watched by admiring Jims and Jox,
I loved the light upon their lox.
If any fellow jeers or max
I’m ready with some good hard knox;
I’ll rub his head against the rox
And give him shivers, creeps and shox.
Arnold Wall.
4* 4* 4*
“There was great excitement when Clarissa’s
queen was beaten by Jim’s ace. Then tension
snapped as Ted came to light with the poker.”
—Short story.
Not a hot one, surely!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Alderman said he was convinced that
the vandals were irresponsible dolts who ought
to be flogged, and so were his colleagues on
the council.” — Suburban paper.
Reactions at the next meeting are
awaited with interest.
4> 4* 4* 4<
“Our visitor described in detail the appear-
ance and habits of the native birds she hoped
to sketch, but we assured her we had never
seen any in these pants.”— Woman’s paper.
Except the kookaburras, who have
appeared in some film shorts.
“New way to stop child’s cold.”
— Advertisement.
Tell him that if he sneezes again he
can go to school and that if he doesn’t
he can go to the pictures.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“There is a difference between marmalade
and jam-making.” — Woman’s paper.
The first is bought at the grocer’s;
the second’s what starts the rows at home.
4> •b 4*
Drowns Everything.
A siren they call her. It isn’t because
She has beauty to make you rejoice.
Or voluptuous ways. No. It’s just that
she jaws
In an awful cacophonous voice!
K.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
Britain seems fairly safe from inva-
sion. Hitler has not made a friendship
pact with her.
4* 4« 4< 4*
“Please tell me how to stop a brass jar-
diniere from going black.” — Woman’s paper.
Certainly, dear. Paint it white.
•'<
“Most husbands like to make themselves
scarce when their wives start spring-cleaning.”
— Woman’s paper.
They prefer to take a carpet out into
the backyard and beat it —to the nearest
pub.
•j*
“After the recruits have been medically ex-
amined, their blue forms are sent on to head-
quarters.”—Suburban paper.
Why don’t they have a radiator in the
rooms these cold days?
“Wot about stayin' up'ere till we get a rise of a quid?"
“Lady attributes her lonely complexion
to the invariable use of lemon and milk as an
astringent.” — Woman’s paper.
Must be a complexion that is out on
its own.
•i* 4* 4*
“The secretary, Mr. , was well known
to all, and it was fortunate that with the more
stringent petrol rationing they would not be
able to see so much of him.”
—Narracoorte {S.A.) “Herald.”
Our candid press.
4* 4*
“When you buy a new stove, should you get
one with three, four or more burners?”
— Woman’s paper.
Depends on Mrs. Next-Door. If her
stove has three burners, you get one
with four,
•Sr «I* *|» 4*
“I have known a foolish young man to make
himself hopelessly intoxicated just to find out
what it was like.” — Temperance lecturer.
A blackout test.
i» &
“His appearance led Mona to believe that
he was the gardener.” — Short story.
Perhaps he looked seedy.
»J» 4*
“Write ants and borers exterminated cheaply
and efficiently.”— Ad. in Q’land paper.
There should be a lucrative sales-field
among sub-editors.
4* •b 4* 4"
“How did people amuse themselves fifty or
sixty years ago?” — Article.
By telling each other the jokes we hear
on the radio today.
“Busy people like spaghetti because it’s so
handy.”— Advertisement.
And economical. What you don’t eat
can be used for tying up parcels.
The Spud Wakes Up.
“Potatoes to burn in Victoria.”
—Sydney weekly.
O humble Spud, we treat you most
unfairly. We praise you now and then,
but very rarely. We skin you, chip you,
boil you, bake you, mash you. In posh
hotels and dingy dumps we hash you.
You’ve served us well, O Spud, but we
are sinners, for all we do is serve you
with our dinners. The humblest name
in any menu’s bracket, your heart must
often break within your jacket. And when
the price of you cuts funny capers, we
write rude words about you in the papers.
When gluttons praise you we don’t argue,
but your grower swears when of you
there’s a glut! And now, O Spud, the
final blow approaches, as on Victoria
your horde encroaches . . . You’ve been
too meek, O Spud, much too unshaken,
but now at last your anger will awaken.
They’ve “spuds to burn!” Such treat-
ment will inspire . . . and set your eyes
aglow with righteous fire!
MURPHY.
Alarming.
“In sleepily reaching for an alarm clock to
shut it off, you may knock it off the table.”
— “World’s News.”
Knew a fellow who broke three clocks
in this way, and every time he had a
flat-out argument with his wife. In the
end he experimented by chaining the
new alarm clock to the table by the
bed. Next morning at 6 a.m., he auto-
matically reached over to turn it off.
A few minutes later his wife was putting
iodine on where the indignant rooster
pecked his arm.
ELM.
Profit and Loss.
“A Newcastle (N.S.W.) company reports a loss
of sevenpence for the half-year ended June 30.”
“Gentlemen,” said the managing
director, “1 regret to inform you that we
wound up the half-year with a loss of
sevenpence. I had hoped that we would
show a slight profit or, at worst, finish
all square, but”
“Mow’d it happen?” demanded a share-
holder with a Churchillian jaw.
“Well, to be perfectly frank,” the
managing director explained, “the deficit
is due entirely to an oversight of mine.
Forgetting my loose change one morning,
I buzzed for the office-boy, told him to
take sevenpence from petty-cash and slip
out and buy me a packet of cigarettes.
Well, after canvassing 101 tobacconists
between King’s Wharf and Mayfield, the
lad landed back with the fags all right
but I forgot to”
“Where’d he get them ?” chorused the
shareholders excitedly.
“That, gentlemen,” said the managing
director with a sinister smile, “is my
secret!”
P.O.M.C.
Not According to Hoyle.
“Members of the crew of the Soviet ship in
Sydney said they were avoiding Left Wing
organisations. Only working wharf-laborers
were allowed on board; Mr. Ward, M.P., and
Senator Ashley were refused permission.”
—“D.T.”
“Shipping magnates, knights and bankers
attended a reception to the officers of the ship.”
— “Sun.”
The Red Revolution, pride of the
Soviet merchant navy, had just berthed
at a Sydney wharf. Built in 1904 as a
wood-burning paddlewheel, it had been
modernised under the fourth five-year
plan to a single-screw coal-burner. Since
then it had had a bathroom fitted and
was now the last word in luxury
freighters. The crew even had hammocks
to sleep in.
Up to a few months back the captain
and officers slung their hammocks with
the A.Bs. in the fo’c’sle, the only bunk
on board being reserved for the ship s
political commissar, but since the
cemented-with-blood bonds came unstuck
and the new line-up resulted, slight con-
cessions had been made to Demos,
News of the vessel’s arrival caused a
pandemonium of joy at the room of the
Comrades of the Workers’ Republic
Union. Tovarish Jerry, the president,
pulled the hammer-and-sickle flag out, a
forest of clenched fists went up and
the “Red Flag” was sung. Tovarish
Rube, the vice-president, suggested an
immediate march to the ship to frater-
nise with the representatives of their
spiritual home.
“Yes,” said Tovarish Jerry. “Order
a couple of taxis. Rube. We want to get
there before the mob from the Trades
Hall swamp the ship.”
As they piled out at the wharfside a
strange sight met their gaze. Two of the
most ardent admirers of the Workers’
Paradise were being run down the gang-
plank by a burly Soviet seaman. From
the deck, looking down approvingly, was
an officer. As the too-persistent un-
wanteds were tossed neck and crop into
the roadway the officer sang out “Good
on ye, mon! Gr-r-rand work, Ilyitch!
We dinna want nae mair o’ yon bletty
Reds cornin’ aboord. Och, aye! If onny
o’ them gie ye mair trouble boot them
doon the gangwa’, ye ken!”
The deputation of welcome from the
Comrades of the Workers’ Republic
Union marched up to the ship’s side,
confident that they of all in Australia
must be received with open arms. But
they were turned back. Thinking there
must be some mistake, they tried again,
and this time were bounced off the wharf
by strong-arm methods. The Comrades
were stunned. It was impossible that
they who had worked so hard and so
lovingly for the Great Cause could be
so churlishly treated.
But Ossa was about to pile on Pelion.
Tovarishes Jerry and Rube were
just dusting their pants when a couple
of huge black limousines purred to the
kerb ; as the chauffeurs opened the doors
there alighted from each a figure resplen-
dent in morning clothes and carrying
gloves and cane. The Comrades imme-
diately recognised Sir Hamish McHaggis
and Sir Tammas Blawdon, the ship-
ping magnates. Tovarish Rube nudged
his companion. “They’ll give these
bloated capitalists short shrift, you see,
comrade.”
As the two knights approached the
foot of the gangway there was a stir on
deck, the ship’s band broke into the gay
strains of Moussourgsky’s “Song of the
Morgue” and the captain nearly fell down
the gangway in his eagerness to reach
the bottom. There he bowed profoundly,
shook hands and ushered his visitors
respectfully on to his ship.
Tovarish Jerry almost choked. “I’ll
see the captain if I’ve got to climb the
anchor chains,” he swore. “Wait here,”
and in a second he had gone. About
twenty minutes later a figure came hurt-
ling down the gangway propelled by a
large boot. It was Tovarish Jerry. When
he picked himself up he turned to the
ship, shook his clenched fist, then turned
and limped over to his companions with
stricken face.
“Did you see the captain, comrade?”
asked Tovarish Rube.
“Yes,” Tovarish Jerry replied brokenly.
“Outside his door I listened as he
toasted his capitalistic visitors and —my
God, I still can’t believe it —when the
chief engineer caught me he was making
an Empire-unity speech!”
BO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wippegong”: Now is the season when
the city bloke grabs his girl early on a
Sunday morning, loads himself with a
gaudy knapsack, a shiny billy and prob-
ably some instrument to torture tunes
with, and, joining others similarly
minded, sets out for a “hike.” Clear of
the suburbs, they leave the train and go
clattering along some road, plucking the
wrong flowers and later pelting them
away, while the birds, seeing the rabble
from afar and hearing it from further,
drop into the gully or take to the ridge
for the day. Saw a party who’d been
caught by rain any bush nipper could
have predicted. They dragged up the
hill in a long line, looking like chooks
when the drought breaks, and near the
top were overtaken by a couple of
cobbers who looked even worse. Mud
to the knees, they squelched along
steadily, the water from their hatless
heads trickling on to ground-sheets but-
toned tight under the chin and bulging
over mysteriously humped backs. The
mixed mob, probably pleased to chiack
somebody else in the same pickle, spurted
and kept pace with them to the station,
where the mates withdrew to privacy and
soon reappeared brushed up and clad in
clean, dry sports togs and shoes, all
traces of recent discomfort hidden in
their neatly-buckled packs. A ukulele
virtuoso paused in the act of wringing
out his mauve beret. “My Gawd!” he
muttered, “there’s ’ikers an’ ’ikers.”
* * * *
“Propalong”: “Balander” (B. 9/7/’4l)
reckons the jumbuck, “the least pampered
of any domestic animal,” tops the sala-
mander class. The inference is mislead-
ing. The most highly evolved of all our
four-legged slaves, the prad, is by far
the toughest. “Balander’s” western
boundary rider could tell.him of stages in
the heat when sheep in a slowly-moving
mob throw a sixer and expire, while the
old hack, behind in the dust, carrying a
man, 30-odd pounds of saddlery and
other odds and ends, just plods along
secure in the knowledge that later on
frosty mornings will come when he can
get a spot of revenge by dumping his
rider good and hard.
* * * *
“Moonta Bloke”: In picking Oswald
Pryor’s Cousin Jacks for sawing a log
on lop of the pile “Poli” (B. 16/7/’4l)
himself slips. What’s wrong with the
process? I’ve sawn logs that way dozens
of times. Can’t one saw halfway through,
then turn the log over and finish the cut
from the opposite side? Not only does
leaving the log on top of the pile save the
heavy labor of juggling it on to the saw-
horse, but it also safeguards against split-
ting off a big tapering slice, a method
of Jog-sawing anathema to every good
mine cap’n. Also it avoids jamming the
saw, a matter difficult to prevent even
when using the best of saw-horses. Leave
Oswald alone where*mining is concerned
—like the late Edward Kelly, he knows
his work.
* * * *
“Cobran V”: The wagtail isn’t the
only bird that’ll adopt you (B. 6/8/’4l)
—not on the plains, anyhow. One of
the first to arrive will be a soldier-bird,
full of shrieking excitement as he bobs
about in the treetops and watches you
get the tent up. Put out a bit of bread
and jam and he’s yours—or you’re his,
I’m not sure which. Sometime that after-
noon there’ll be a lot of giggling and scold-
ing and the twelve apostles will arrive.
Cake (yes, cake!), crumbs, cheese, fat
—anything edible will do them. But they
drop in only for a call, seldom staying
Jong, though turning up almost every day
at the right time for handouts. The sol-
dier differs from Willie in that he stays
close to where the jam is, whereas Willie
follows you or darts ahead as you make
up the paddock; he’s after the insects
disturbed by your passage through the
grass. The jays don’t advertise their
presence, but they’re about, as you’ll dis-
cover when you come home at night to
find the fat tin raided and the butter
jar cleaned out.
* * * *
“Ngaio Pa”: Sorry to see The Bul-
letin use the hybrid name “ti-tree” for
our well-abused tea-tree. I struck it
again the other day in “Glenarvon’s”
“Overture” and it broke the idyllic spell
in bits. It is too much to expect any
Australian to call the shrub by the Maori
name manuka ; apparently it was named
tea-tree by Australian settlers as it was
sometimes found a substitute for tea.
Have seen it used here in M.L. for the
same purpose, as well as a cure for
dysentery, and a pretty awful drink it
makes. Apparently the misnomer grew
simply enough from the real Maori
moniker for the cabbage-tree. This is
ti-tiri; and that’s dinkum Maori, not
mong-tongue.
*-* * *
“B. A. Ker”: The conversation had
drifted around to clever dogs, and what
some of those mongs had done made
Daley's historic dog which rounded up
“ Dot-dot-dot-dash !”
the blowfly into the bottle appear medi-
ocre. But old Ted silenced ’em all. “I
was drivin’ home in me sulky one night,
trottin’ pretty fast, when suddenly the
offside wheel runs off, and the next thing
I’m flyin’ through space. I regains con-
sciousness to find me dorg Bluey lickin’
me face. The wrecked sulky is wrapped
around a stump about a quarter o’ mile
away, the pony ain’t in sight, and a
norrible pain tells me that me leg’s broke.
‘Well, Blue,’ I says, ‘it’s up to you.’ I
gave ’im ’is orders, and d’ y’ know what
that dorg did?” “Went home for help?”
suggested somebody. “Brought your
horse back so you could ride?” was an-
other guess. “No!” said old Ted, “he
just gambolled around waggin’ his tail
like a blasted fool, and I had to stop
there till a search party found me next
morning! ”
» * * *
“Hanko”: The boss went to the ver-
andah and stared across to the roadside
mailbox. “Is he coming?” I shouted.
“Yair,” the boss said, sauntering back
in, “he’s just gettin’ through the bottom
fence.” We yarned a while. The boss
fidgeted, got up, went again to the ver-
andah. An explosive remark brought me
out to have a pike. Choom was still
getting through the bottom fence! Even-
tually he managed to rip clear of the
middle barb and came limping house-
wards. “Got cotched oop in fence an’
all,” he moaned. “Rent hole in breeches
an’ ” “All right, all right,” the boss
snapped, snatching the bundle of mail
from him. “Take time orf next Sundee
ter build a flamin’ stile fer yerself.”
* * * *
“Surfboat Bill”: “You lifesavers of
t’ day are a lot of pansies compared with
the mob that useter be around,” said Joe
the bowhand when the mob came streak-
ing out of the water yelling that there’s
a big Jacko waiting out past the first
line of breakers. “We had a joker named
Speedy who useter pull stroke oar when
we copped the championship in the old
white boat. Talk about tough! We go
out after Johnnies one afternoon and
get among some school stuff, but after
a bit o’ liveliness the Noahs get wise an’
head fer other fields. Well, we sit there
fer nearly two hours without gettin’ a
bite, but all faces light up as we see
three big dorsals • knifin’ along towards
us. We grin too soon, fer them jokers
are old hands and just start cruisin’
around at a safe distance from the boat.
Suddenly Speedy, up in the bow, jumps
on the deckin’ an’ takes a header in. He
swims back under the boat, climbs up
on t’ the stern an’ before we can say any-
thing he rushes up t’ the bow again and
does the same thing. As he starts back
on his third trip I recover enough t’ ask
him what the hell does he think he’s
doin’. He hops up on the bow again an’
turns round with a disgusted look on
his dial. ‘Y’ stupid blankards,’ he says.
‘The Jackos won’t bite, so I’m berleyin’
’em! ’ ”
“Aragun”: “We’re all stackin’ cases o’
sundries in the big store,” said Toerags,
the freezer hand, “an’ Spuds, the fore-
man, is standin’ over us an’ gettin’ dead
sarcastic ’cos the cases are gettin’ knocked
about a bit. One o’ the heads was
showin’ a coupla good sorts through
Siberia, and ’e sings out t’ Spuds, ‘Ai
say, old fellow, go easy with those adjec-
tives,’ ‘That’s wot I’m tellin’ the useless
gory blankards,’ roars Spuds, without
lookin’ round, ‘but a crimson man might
jist as well tork t’ the blank-dash wall.
They’ve broke three o’ the flamin’ things
already.’ ”
* $ * *
“Sam Slick”: I suppose it’s easy for
“Maori B.” (B. 16/7/’4l) to wax sar-
castic regarding the ornithological errors
of N’York journalists (I Jet the mild exag-
gerations regarding the stockwhip feats
pass, because if it was a circus turn in
Ringlings’ show it would have to be well
out of the ordinary), but how many Aus-
tralian newspapermen could pass even the
most modest exam, regarding the U.S.A.?
F’rinstance, can “M. 8.” define the gila
or the gopher? Can he say why the
Indians , used to call soldiers “long-
knives”? Can he give the tribes that
used to produce peculiar and unearthly
ululations by clapping the hand over the
mouth and howling? Can he give the dif-
ference between a wolf and a wolverine?
Or name the tribes that constituted the
five Indian nations of what is now
Canada? That’ll do for a start. And he
has a great advantage over the Yank
boys, since Australia for many decades
has been flooded with Wild West litera-
ture, which gives the answer to all the
foregoing, while America has had no
similar chance of learning about Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
“Flying Lizard”: The talk was of
suicides. “I nearly done meself in once
up at Ingham,” said Lanky. “I was
goin’ pretty strong with a widder who
’ad a nice little cane farm an’ a fair
wad in the bank, but like a goat 1 bites
’er for a tenner to buy a ring and she
wipes me cold. Peelin’ despondent, I
goes down to the river. There’s a limb
of a big tree hangin’ out over the water,
an’ I ties a rope round it and ’itches the
other end round me neck. Then I drinks
’arf a bottle o’ disinfectant and pulls me
gun out. I was goin’ to make a cert of
it. I jumped orf a stump out over the
water, an’ put the gun up an’ pulled the
trigger, but I fired a bit ’igh an’ the
bullet cut the rope. I got a bellyful o'
salt water and ’eaved the poison up.
Spare me flamin’ days, if I ’adn’t been a
good swimmer I’d ’a’ drownded.”
*
“The 0.D.”: “Propalong,” in his dis-
sertation on breaking-in horses (B.
6/ 8/ ’4l), could have gone further and
said ponies are never reliable. I’ve seen
them play up after a decade in service,
and it’s an axiom in my part of the
country that “a big horse is all right, but
ponies is like wimmen—y’ never know.”
Exhibit A is Jimmy, 14 years old and
broken to saddle and harness since he
was two. You could ride round sheep on
Jimmy every day of the week and drop
the reins over his head anywhere in the
paddock and find him there an hour
later. But try it on a Sunday and you’d
have to walk home. Jimmy hated towns.
He’d carry you till he dropped in any
direction except towards houses. Once
he sighted them he’d pigroot, jib, shy,
bolt and even lie down to get out of
going among them. And in the morn-
ings, when the yards were full of
draughts, hacks, colts, fillies and tooth-
less pensioners, which of them was it
started squealing and booting and stir-
ring up the entire equine force to revolt
and assault? You’re right. Yet once
you had the bridle on James would eye
you blandly, cast a contemptuous glance
at the milling mob and follow you with
beatific docility.
* * * *
“N agheer”: Thargomindah (s.-w.
Queensland) is boasting about the new
bunyip in Dynevor Lake, some 22 miles
from the town and about equidistant
between Brisbane and Adelaide. Chased
by a postal inspector and a station
manager in a boat, the creature fled into
the reeds bordering the now-extensive
area of rain-diluted salt water. They
described it as resembling a seal, but
others of the 20-or-so people who claim
to have caught a glimpse of it vary in
their ideas between a turtle, a wild pig,
a sea lion and a musk duck, with a
majority opinion in favor of plain, ordi-
nary, old-fashioned bunyip. Size varies
between a bulldog and 4ft. in length, both
on the small side for bunyips. But
Thargy’s 290-odd citizens are unanimous
on one thing—the scandalous neglect by
the Government to provide rail services
nearer than Cunnamulla, 136 miles east-
ward, thereby robbing the place of the
profitable business which could have been
brought in by parties of wealthy sports-
men bent on bunyip-shooting.
BIDGEE WHALERS.
The world was wide in other days, the world
was wide and free
Along the tracks of Riverine from Yass to
Koorakee,
And though there’s width and freedom yet lor
those who’ll seek and find,
It seems the marching years have left the ways
I loved behind.
The yarns we told, the pubs we knew, the camp
within the bend.
The lots of time we had to spare, the pants we
used to mend,
All that is gone, with ’lastic sides and “thumb-
nails dipped in tar,”
And so 1 often wonder where the ’Bidgee
whalers are.
By standards of suburbia a sinful tribe were
Who hoarded not in worldly goods but lived
from day to day.
They gave no tribute to the laws by city-
dwellers made,
They owned no man their master, never rent
or taxes paid.
They paddled down the river reach and
“battled” river towns,
Careless alike of time or cash or frontage-
owners' frowns.
They knew the lore of fish and bird, red dawn
and evening star,
And 1 cannot help but wonder where the ’Bidgee
whalers are.
Their speech was very seldom, and they mostly
Jived alone
With a crossbred, cranky hound for mate that
others would disown.
But some could talk of English schools and
wars in which they’d been,
And some bore scars and tattoo marks not won
in Riverine.
And house-bound men looked down on them
as outcasts of their kind,
But envied in their secret hearts their liberty
of mind.
Theirs was the freedom of the west, their pram-
boats roamed afar,
And now I often wonder where the ’Bidgee
whalers are.
Perhaps along the shadowed Styx their lonely
camps are pitched;
With night-lines set and pipes alight and wind-
breaks trimly hitched
They’ll watch old Charon and his punt and hail
him, full of cheek,
To ask if he’s on contract now or working by
the week.
And now and then they’ll pull up camp, not
sure what they intend,
Going “nowhere in partickler, just moochin’
roun’ the bend.”
Or perhaps they’re down in other parts where
sinners fry and char;
.1 doubt it, though I wonder where the ’Bidgee
whalers are.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIME.


“Wang”; “I strike a one-horse town-
ship one afternoon,” related Dan, “an’
find that all the population of the place,
’cept those at the pub, is away at a sports
meetin’ bein’ held in a paddick a quarter
of a mile away. As I can’t join the happy
throng at the pub, bein’ broke, I decide
t’ have a look at the sports. I’m moochin’
along when I hear noises cornin’ from a
clump of trees near by, so I make me
way over. There’s a coupla blokes there,
each with his back hard up agen a tree,
an’ with his feet a coupla feet from the
ground. They’re cursin’ an’ kickin’ the
trunks with their heels, an’ yellin’ t’ be let
go. They look ’s if they’re skewered t’
the trees ; but when I look closer I find
they’re hangin’ there, with rope tied
round their briskets an’ hooked over
spikes driven inter the trees about six
feet up. I’m starin’ at ’em when a big
Johnop with a coil o’ rope over his
shoulder comes along draggin’ a sozzled
party. He drops the drunk, cuts off a
short length of rope, passes it across the
bloke’s chest an’ up under his armpits,
knots it behind an’ then lifts him up an’
hooks him on to a spike in a tree, same
as the other two. Then he grins as he
sees me lookin’. ‘The lockup’s full,’ he
ses; ‘this is me overflow cooler.’ He
shakes a finger waggish at me. ‘Don’t
you go an’ get tanked,’ he ses ; ‘there’s
plenty more trees an’ spikes! ’ By cripes!
It’s about the on’y time in me life I’m
glad I wus stone cold.”
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Not only sheep can
thrive without water (B. 30/7/’4l). Dur-
ing a drought period in s.-w. Queensland
we took a job “moonlighting” bullocks in
a sixty-square-mile paddock that was
literally a prickly-pear forest. In due
course we mustered and yarded eighty-
odd, all prime fat, and when forwarded
to Brisbane they topped the market.
There’d been no rain for over 12 months
and there were no waterholes in the
paddock. One look at their tongues dis-
closed the source of moisture that sus-
tained them—their tongues resembled
pin cushions. Strangely enough, the pear
thorns apparently didn’t cause them any
inconvenience.
* ♦ * *
“Nor’-west”: As a school for marks-
manship I know of nothing to beat
kangaroo-shooting. A hole right in the
centre of the back
would considerably de-
tract from the value of
a pelt, so the good
shooter always aims
low near the root of
the big tail, a shot that
nearly always breaks
the spinal cord, or high
up under the forearm
where the heart is.
Some prefer the head,
maintaining that a
bullet through the brain
is effective in bringing
the quarry down no
matter from what direc-
tion the shooter is com-
pelled to fire. Thus,
with a dead shot on the
job, there is no useless
maiming or escaping of
wounded animals, for
merely to wound and
have the animal taking
to frantic flight means
the loss of the entire
mob, since all the rest
will take alarm and be
off. But a good shot
may pick off a score
before that happens. At
the first few cracks of
the rifle, the mob will
pause in their feeding,
but the fact that one or
several of their number
have collapsed causes
them no concern, since
the Too is naturally an
animal which lies down
much of its time. Nor
does the scent of fresh
blood affect them as it
does most other
animals; quite indif-
ferent to the red pools
gathering around them,
the survivors crop on at
the more or less scanty
herbage. A hunter thus
can take leisure in
selecting his marks,
picking off the big
bucks and other good
skins ; and, if he takes
a long view of his pro-
fession, sparing the
does and the younger
bucks necessary to carry on the mar-
supial race.
;J: jj» $
“Sailor Bill”: Was burning against an
oncoming bushfire when I found that
what looked like a large piece of
bleached wattle-bark between the two
walls of flame was actually a stone cur-
lew sitting on its eggs. Despite being hit
with pelted stones it wouldn’t budge.
Expecting to see it fly at the very last
moment I watched the flames converge
on the spot. But before I could get to
it to carry the bird and its eggs to safety
the flames swept over it. Later I found
its charred body still on the two cracked
and discolored eggs.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: That old-timer mak-
ing money out of a useless water-race (B.
16/7/’4l) reminds me of a couple of
the same stamp out Kalgoorlie way.
Tired of chasing alluvial, Jim and Jilza
took up one of those abandoned leases
so much advertised by the W.A. Mines
Department. On registering they found
themselves men of property, owners of
"Stop foolin' an' get on with the job."
"Sep Wants to find out if his tin-hat is shrapnel-
proof."
everything inside the four pegs—shafts,
dumps, etc. So they were interested when
one day the local Roads Board arrived
with a string of drays and began loading
road metal from the big diorite dump
at the far end of the lease. They kept a
tally, and on the thousandth load
presented the bill, making the reasonable
charge of sixpence a load. The board
got a terrific shock, for it had been under
the impression that the lease was still
abandoned and the road material was
its merely for the taking—a method
of roadmaking economy widely practised
on many a W.A. goldfield. But on be-
ing given the option of replacing the
stuff, which would have cost just about
10s. per load, the board paid up. That £25
kept the storekeeper in a good humor
until the battlers’ first crushing went
through. After that they generously
advised the Roads Board to cart away
the whole darned dump if it wanted to.
* * * *
“Bene”: If poet Jim Grahame, who
has been domiciled in the western
Riverina for upwards of half a century,
knows neither the color of the plains of
Hay nor the desert-pea when he sees it,
as “The 0.D.” avers (B. 30/7/’4l),
there’s some excuse for G. B. Lancaster,
who in Pageant had a fox “baying the
moon” in Van Diemen’s Land a century
back. And it’s not to be marvelled at
that artist Jolliffe can portray a possum-
infested dwelling (B. 23/7/’4l) set in a
treeless waste and yet evade the censor.
* * * *
“Capricorn”: Binghi plasters himself
with mud more to render himself incon-
spicuous to game, as
regards sight and
smell, than as a pro-
tection against mos-
quitoes. To beat
those insects he
camps as far away
from water as pos-
sible and keeps a fire
going, preferably
one made from
cypress pine. When
he can’t get out of
range of the stingers
he builds a special
gunyah of hooped
saplings and paper-
bark, which he
makes pest-proof. I
once did a spell in one of these mosquito-
humpies when separated from civilisation
and my swag in floodtime on the Daly
River (N.T.). I shared it with five bucks,
seven dogs and a smouldering fire. It
was a tunnel-shaped structure, about Bft.
in length, 4ft. in width, 2ft. in height.
Last one in had to pull a big sheet of
bark down over the front and fit it snug
to walls and floor. It was certainly mos-
quito-proof. Any mozzie that Had been
fool enough to venture in would have
been suffocated instantly. I stuck it for
about an hour, then crawled out to
endure the infinitely lesser misery of the
mosquitoes,
* * * *
“Gryllus”: The pup’s excited barking
led me to investigate the clump of thick
tall grass which was attracting his young
attention. In its cool, shaded centre,
nippers held ready for action, was a big
bluish yabbie. The nearest waterhole
was half a mile away, the nearest creek
three miles, yet here was Astacopsis, a
gill-breathing water-dweller, healthy and
full of fight. The explanation was that
he was sheltering for the day during the
overland trek in search of new waters,
which is a common habit of his race and
explains his early appearance in newly-
dug dams far from any other water.
Their gills are protected against evapora-
tion by bony covers, and for the journey
they choose dull, damp weather, parking
during the daytime in some damp, cool
place if it is not raining. But what
instinct guides them on the journey is as
unsolved a problem as the reason why
such a number of eels have emerged from
abyssmal depths in the Pacific Ocean,
travelled immense distances by sea,
ascended a river and then climbed a
600 ft. plateau in order to reach the
swampy waterhole on Smith’s place.
* * * *
“A.D.T.”: A splitting headache, a low
fever and other symptoms not incon-
sistent with the aftermath of a first-class
bender can be acquired simply by put-
ting in a day’s work on the Old Austral
cattleyards, at the junction of the Ran-
kine and Georgina (Barkly Tablelands,
Q.). That’s all limestone country. After
the cattle have been worked a few
minutes the dust rises in clouds —to say
you can’t see your hand in front of your
face is often a literal fact. Those float-
ing particles get into a man’s nostrils,
throat and lungs, and by sundown any-
one new to it will be a cot case. Strangely
enough, next morning he’ll be as chirpy
as ever he was in his life and look on
the day’s work as a grand thing. That
day in the yards is a sort of tonic. But
it won’t work a second time. A man
has to have a spell away from the things
for a month or so before he gets the
effect again.
sj! * * »
“Propalong”: Ran into a station-hand
out from Morgan (S.A.) the other day
on top of a full-blown, double-rigged
Texas saddle. It’s wonderful what a
spot of glamor will do: this lad must
have spent at least £l4 for the privilege
of punching sheep on a cumbersome tub
about three times as wide in the waist as
an Australian saddle and as many
times less comfortable and safe. Of
Spanish parentage, the American saddle
is a relic of the days when a man
needed a bulkhead fore and aft to meet
the impact of a draught-horse-driven
lance. And it hasn't improved much
since medieval times. The Australian
stock saddle, on the other hand, is the
latest thing in saddlery, the product of
centuries of evolution and improvement.
It is the last word in safety and com-
fort. And Australian workmanship is
second to none. I’ve seen a 20-year-old
Uhl saddle in which the kneepads were
as firm as iron. I ought to know ; I’ve
been thrown against ’em.
* * * *
“Arev”; As Bill Jupp came up from
the ploughing he could hear voices in
the living room. “Blast it! ” he said
under his breath. “Visitors!” Bill looked
at his dungarees, his soiled hands and
muddy boots. All he wanted was a little
dripping to use as grease. He couldn t
go inside without making himself agree-
able, and if he went in like he was he’d
be roared up when they had gone. Bill
scraped the mud off his boots, washed at
the tankstand, then wondered whether
his dungarees or the old tweed suit under-
neath were the more presentable. Per-
haps, after all, he could sneak in the
back door, go to the kitchen safe and
get out again without being heard. He
decided to risk it. Cautiously he crept
to the door. Feminine voices came from
the sitting-room —probably one of the
committees from the township. Presently
he’d hear Mum with her best company
voice, and that would give him an idea
as to the identity of the visitors. Hold-
ing his breath, Bill peeped in the door-
way. Mrs. Jupp, who was stringing
beans, looked up. “What are you creep-
ing in like that for? You gave me a
fright.” Bill frowned and glanced to-
wards the inner room. Then Mrs. Jupp
laughed. “You old goat?” she said. “It’s
the new wireless set.”
APPEAL TO THE INDIGENOUS.
“A proposal that silver foxes and weasels he intro-
duced for fur-farming purposes is being investigated
by the Commonwealth Government.”
Our agriculturists for long have snorted
Whenever mention has been made ot those
Boneheaded boobs who years ago imported
The rabbit, starling, hare and fox—all toes
Of rural toilers, whether it’s from being
Just lousy or from robbing crops or nests.
The question now is whether we’ll be seeing
The introduction of, and then the freeing
Of, one more brace of pests.
Considered by so many far from “tony”
(Mostly by women who “discriminate ),
Our subterranean mutton’s coat is “cony”
Or sealskin, as the fashion may dictate
But “local” silver-fox or mink! It’s doubted
If any social heavyweight would squeeze
Her chassis into fur that hadn’t sprouted
Upon some animal that simply shouted
It came from overseas.
In any case, why go to all the trouble
Mink-yielding weasels to acclimatise,
When Fashion, as unstable as a bubble,
May next year vote it something to despise?
And if it’s just a case of nomenclatures
Appealing (though to men it’s just the bunk),
Judging by" the remarks'of charming natures
Hurled back and forth across our Legislatures
We won’t go short of skunk.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
.irwr*' -y-
-: |
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type, with iron
body and gunmetal fittings; also
made of gunmetal throughout.
The ideal valve for Boiler Blow-
off, as it is leakproof, simple.
easily operated, quick acting, straight blow through and no Stuffing
Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No attention required after
being installed, as it is self-grinding in action. All valves tested to
6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our Bulletin and let us
quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
Around 5 p.c. Annual Yield
with Safety
Your investment —even as little as £2o—in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
gives you an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies yielding, at
present prices, around 5 c /o per annum. Moreover, your investment is
definitely safeguarded by Custodian Trustees: Union Insurance Society
of Canton, Ltd.
Now is your opportunity to share in the increasing activity of Industrial
undertakings. Write for Booklet No. 1, post free, on request to the
Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
Dividends, Written
June, Profit. 81 p.c. Off. Reserves.
£ ' £ £ £
1931.. 441,816 402,810 4,424,226
54 p.c.
1932.. 253,860 260,646 4,417,446
5 p.c.
1933.. 259,077 236,950 20,000 4,419,573
1934.. 256.731 236,951 20,000 4,419,353
1935.. 203,937 236,951 25,000 4,421,339
6 p.c.
1936.. 298,227 284,341 25,000 4,410,225
64 p.c.
1937.. 342,041 308,035 25,000 4,419,231
7 p.c.
1938.. 365,975 331,730 35,000 4,418,476
1939.. 377,454 331,730 35,000 4,429,200
74 p.c.
1940. . 389,492 355,426 35,000 4,428,260
194] . . 384,589 355,426 35.000 4,422,429
On the home front the two central
problems of the day are diversion of in-
dustrial output from peace-time to war-
time needs and the financing of the war
effort. In both these matters the Aus-
tralian trading banks, backed by a strong
and well-directed central bank, are play-
ing an important part by providing cheap
money and assisting to direct the flow
of investment and spending from non-
essential into essential channels. Men
have been taken out of their normal
productive employment and transferred
to the fighting, administrative and supply
services; and the demand for replace-
ment of personnel in these services grows
stronger as the war continues. So, to
meet the increasing call for strictly war
goods —arms, munitions, uniforms, equip-
ment, etc. —as well as the needs of the
civil population, the rest of the com-
munity will have to work harder and
produce more than it used to. Also, the
demand for essential war materials has
now become so urgent and vital as to
call for some sacrifice in consumption,
and therefore in the standard of living, on
the part of those not engaged in the fight-
ing services. Failure to make this sacrifice
can only retard development in our own
armed forces of the power necessary to
overthrow the enemy.
Money and credit play an important
part in the war effort, because they pro-
vide the means of paying for goods and
services required. The usual means by
which purchasing power is transferred
to the Government are taxation, loans
and central-bank credit. So far as finan-
cial stability is concerned, taxation is the
most important factor. It helps to retard
the rise in prices and profits and to
diminish the volume of claims on the
future that can be established by pur-
chase of bonds. Loans mop up savings,
but interest and sinking-fund payments
thereon constitute a charge against future
production. Greatest danger lies in ex-
cessive use of credit, with resultant in-
flation of prices and profits and decline
in value of money, which means that
those with fixed incomes and specific
amounts of capital payable to them at
future dates bear more than their fair
share of the burden. Among the great-
est hypocrites in advocating an all-in war
effort are Governments which increase
instead of reduce their civil expenditures.
The banks are well equipped to play
their part in a more intensive war effort.
Sale of most of our export surpluses to
Britain, Government spending on war and
other account locally, and pump-priming
and other activities of the central bank
have bumped up deposits with the trading
banks and reduced the demand for ad-
vances. Also, the weight of money, has
pressed down interest rates, enabled war
commitments to be financed at low cost
and made possible heavy taxation and
loan-raising without hamstringing indus-
trial and other production.
Now consider the 107-year-old C.B.S.’s
balance-sheet figures:
1939. 1940. 1941.
Notes .. .. £13,602 £13,590 £13,580
I*ills - • • • 1,154,948 1,476.896 2,031.214
Deposits* .. 53,713,813 55,457,470 56,530,020
Liquids . . 20.895,574 24,621,625 26,647,627
Advances .. 42,114,246 40,488.339 40,080,147
Premises, etc... 1,206,620 1,182,982 1,186,200
* Including provision for contingencies.
An expansion of £1,072,550 in deposits
was accompanied by a contraction of
£408,192 in advances and a growth of
£2,026,002 in liquids—of total liquids,
£15,466,951 (up £1,867,440) represented
Government securities, etc., including
short-dated Treasury bills. When, the
books closed, liquids amounted to 45.4
p.c. of liabilities to the public as against
43.2 p.c. and 38.1 p.c. at the two pre-
ceding balances. Advances were 70.8
p.c. of deposits compared with 78.4 p.c.
two years earlier, and the co. was hold-
ing £6 7s. lOd. (up 3s. 7d.) of the public’s
money for every pound of its own.
The contraction of £4903 in declared
net earnings was due to taxation. The
profit (£384,589) was 8.1 p.c. on the
£4,739,013 of share capital, or 4.2 p.c.
on capital and reserves combined. The
div. was kept at 7\ p.c. Neither the
excess-war-profits tax nor undistributed-
profits tax will apparently affect the co.
At £l7 15s. (£l6 13s. a year ago) the
£25 shares paid to £l2 10s. (the balance
is a reserve liability callable only in the
event of liquidation) return 5.3 p.c. on a
p.c. div. basis. The cover is £24 3s. 3d.
in net tangibles.
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
Added Capital
To Re- and Re-
Jime, Loss. Dividends. serves. sei'ves.
1931.. 4,053 3 p.c. = 12,000 605,184
Profit.
1982.. 12,795 3 ~ ~ 12,000 795 605,979
1933.. 19,315 4 „ „ 16.000 3,315 609,294
1934.. 31,738 6 „ ~24,000 7 , 7 „ a r ,- n o 9
Provident fund, £2OOO j o,na 610,
1935.. 47,372 7 p.c. = 28,0001
Provident fund, £2OOO 1 13,872 628,904
Staff bonus, £3500..
1936.. 51,514 8 u.c. = 32,0001
Provident fund, £2OOO 1 14,514 643,418
Staff bonus, £3000..
1937.. 54,745 8 p.c. = 32,000 7 „ n 7 . R
Provident fund, £2OOO \ 20)745 664)163
Provision contingencies written
back, £5OOO 669,163
1938.. 62,686 10 p.c. *= 40,000 ]
Provident fund, £5OOO | 13,686 682,849
Staff bonus, £4OOO . . J
1939.. 56.121 9 p.c. = 36,000 1
Provident fund, £2OOO 1 13,121 695,970
Written off premises, £5OOO )
1940.. 58,345 9 p.c. = 36,0001
Provident fund, £2OOO 1 15,345 711,315
Written off premises, £5OOO j
1941.. 61,454 9 ,p.c. = 36,000 ]
Provident fund, £5OOO [ 15,454 726,769
Written off premises, £5OOO J
* Includes 2 p.c. diamond jubilee bonus.
At 285., the Mercantile’s pound shares
paid to 16s. yield 5.1 p.c., which is a
solid return these days from a sound and
progressive underwriter. The 63-year-
old business is strongly entrenched
in the Commonwealth, with agencies
spreading out over the rest of the world
as well, while there are reserves of
£326,769 backing the £400,000 of share
capital, £152,250 of which has already
come from that source.
With thoughtful caution, the board
promptly reinsured all overseas war risks
in full at the outbreak of hostilities,
and the same conservative policy has
been followed since. Thus, while
war-time lifts in insurable values have
had a favorable influence on premium
income and an extra £22,452 of gross
premiums (£700,060) was gathered, re-
tained premiums last year amounted to
only £8563 more;
Not Ex- I.css Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1920. £177,683 £67,212 £94,083 37.8 p.c. 52.9 p.c.
1930.. 362,202 194,895 157,446 53.8 „ 43.5 „
1933.. 232,712 110,573 122,917 47.5 „ 52.8 „
1935.. 237,374 85.963 125,437 36.2 „ 52.8 „
1936.. 250,010 91,517 128,273 36.6 „ 51.3 ~
1937.. 275,763 113,760 130,825 41.2 „ 47.4 „
1938.. 294,595 118,702 137,382 40.3 „ 46.6 „
19.39.. 300,940 134,204 135,922 44.6 ~ 45.1 ~
1940.. 306,541 134,981 137,110 44.0 „ 44.7 „
1941.. 315,104 131,798 146,685 41.8 „ 46.5 „
Though that was more than offset by
heavier outgoings, mainly in respect of
taxation, etc. (£6341 higher at £46,793),
a more satisfactory claims experience
enabled an improvement of £2171 in
the surplus from underwriting (£36,621).
The other £24,832 (up £937) of profit
shown came from interest and rents, the
final result being £3109 higher at 15.3
p.c. on capital—9.l p.c. from underwrit-
ing and 6.2 p.c. from rents, etc. —as
against 14.6, 14, 15.6, 13.6 and 12.8 p.c.
to go back to 1936. Of the £61,454,
£5OOO was sent to provident fund and
another £5OOO Vritten off premises, leav-
ing £15,454 to plough in after meeting
the 9 p.c. div.
Policy-holders can see stout cover for
their contracts:
1931. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £400,000 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Sundry creditors 20,668 215,000 222,877 250,789
Tax provision 6,000 18,000 25,000 30,000
Freeholds, etc. 412,968 485,384 488,912 486,709
Mortgages . . 19,256 14,745 23,160 21,283
Public securities,
etc 319,963 364,149 373,970 396,920
Book debts . . 67,614 68,212 74,048 79,665
Cash, etc. . . 0,051 23,479 24,102 50,980
When the books closed net tangibles of
good quality equal to 230 p.c. of the
year’s retained premiums were on view,
which is about half as much again as
is usually considered conservative. The
addition to cash was to offset an added
liability in respect of outstanding claims,
etc. Other funds that became available
were directed towards assisting the
national effort on the financial front.
Standard Portland Cement, Ltd. (Syd.)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. • Dividend. serves, serves.
1931.. 39,451 54 p.c.= 27,459 11,992 53,709
1932.. 22,257 4 „ ~ 19,970 2,287 55,996
1933.. 42,810 6 „ ~ 29,955 12,855 68,851
1934.. 56,666 7i „ ~ 37,444 19,222 88,073
1935.. 52,134 7 „ „ 34,948 17,186 105,259
1936.. 42,973 7i „ ~33,450 9,523' 114,782
1937.. 44,881 8 „ ~31,952 12,929 127,711
1938.. 59,853 10 „ ~39,941 19,912 147,623
1939.. 48,233 10 „ ~39,941 8,292 155,915
1940.. 41,147 9‘i „ ~37.943 3,204 159,119
1941.. 40,150 9 ~ ~ 35,946 4,204 163,323
Capital outlay at the start got out of
hand, but the co. has nevertheless given
a good account of itself. Thanks to
liberal depreciation and conservative dis-
position of profits, the £169,000 of debt
with which the co. kicked off has largely
disappeared, £99,851 of capital has been
repaid and a handy accumulation of
liquids built up. All that after substan-
tial outlay in keeping plant up to a high
pitch of efficiency, which counts for much
in this class of business.
The works are on the Mudgee line,
150 miles from Sydney and not far from
the Kandos plant. Capacity of 120,000
tons p.a. has never been reached, demand
as a whole in N. S. Wales never being
much more than half the industry’s
potential. Limestone, coal, shale and
water are found almost on Standard s
doorstep; with early Government con-
tracts, it helps explain the rapidity with
which the business got on its feet.
For the year to June, 1940, Australian
cement output recorded little change at
864,900 tons. In the aggregate, defence
requirements since appear to have made
up for, any slackening in State demand,
particularly in the southern States. The
decline in Standard’s earnings is mainly
a combination of war-time costs and
taxation ; a 35.-a-ton cut in selling prices
affected 1940 figures, too. Last term’s
showing was £997 lighter at 10 p.c. on
capital, as against 10.3, 12, 14.9, 11.2
and 10.7 p.c. back to 1936, and div. was
lowered from 9j p.c. to 9 p.c. Deprecia-
tion of £25,000 charged compared with
£30,000 the previous year and £40,000
in 1940.
There has been further modernisation
of the chief earning asset in the tug-o’-
war with costs:
1927. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Faid ca;pital. . £466,691 £399,406 £399,406 £399,406
Creditors .. 169,248 43,150 35,767 38,509
Freeholds and
plant . . 522,335 328,711 397,061 408,517
Investments . . 35,009 35,009 35,009' 35,009
Stores a n d
stocks . . 35,774 38,399 53,459 86,132
Book debts and
cash ... 22,160 209,439 126,736 89,551
In four years apparent new plant, etc..
outlay has run to £177,558, of which
£135,000 has been recouped from depre-
ciation allowances. Last term’s net ex-
penditure was £11,456, reflected in a
decline of £7254 in the more or less
liquid surplus (£137,174, excluding invest-
ments, which represent scrip in the co.’s
coal supplier, Kandos-Coomber Mining
Co.).
At 19s. 6d., the same as a year ago,
the market buys a yield of 7.4 p.c. from
the f.-p. 16s. shares on the basis of 9 p.c.
divs. The cover is 225. 7d. in net tan-
gibles.
John McGrath, Ltd.
, Dividends
Piet'. Re-
June, Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 3,725 5000 10 p.c. = 15,000 79,507
8.3 p.c.
1932.. 15,438 4150 fi „ „ 9,000 81.849
1933.. 11,921 0 „ ~ 9,000 84,770
1934.. 12,607 7 ~ ~ 10,500 80,877
1935.. 16,001 8 ~ ~ 12,000 90,878
1936.. '16,611 ;0* „ ~ 15,000 92,489
Bad debt reserve disappears, £7500.. 84,989
1937.. 19,659 12 p.c. = 18,000 86,048
1938.. 25,831 12 ~ ~ 24,854 87,625
1939. .• 26,642 12 „ ~ 26,724 87,543
1940.. 22,548 10 ~ ~ 22,500 87,591
Profit on sale of assets, £3120 .. 90.711
1941.. 15,786 7 p.c = 15,750 90,747
The Chevrolet agency, before General
Motors undertook its own wholesale dis-
tribution about the end of the ’twenties,
proved a bonanza. Since repaying its
expensive pref. capital, the co. has con-
tinued to maintain a healthy rate of divi-
dend out of its N.S.W. and Queensland
franchises for Hillmans and Humbers
and from income from subsidiary and
other investments, on the exact nature
and profitableness of which the careful
board is reticent. Far the largest of
these is Commercial Steels and Forge
Co. (Aust.) Pty. —earlier this year it issued
£lOO,OOO of new capital, and looks to
have a peace- as well as war-time future
—a sub-contractor to Commonwealth
Aircraft Corp.
With evaporation of new-car demand
through war and petrol-rationing, Mc-
Grath’s wasted no time in adjusting the
business to altered conditions, though
savings so far haven’t compensated for
loss of income. During the last term
the assembly and bodyworks section was
disposed of at a profit on book values of
£3120, which was dispatched direct to
reserves, and the Newcastle and Towns-
ville (N.Q.) branch offices and show-
rooms, etc., shut up. In the result de-
clared net earnings were left £6762 lighter
at £15,786, practically the whole of which
was absorbed by the reduced 7 p.c. dis-
tribution. That includes earnings of the
subsidiaries, which have been engaged in
work of a national character and all
balanced on the right side, only to the
extent of actual dividends declared.
Depreciation in the parent’s accounts was
£2596 less at £634.
Here is as much as published finances
disclose;
1937. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Capital . . £150,000 £225,000 £225,000 £225,000
Mortgage 11,000 20,000
Overdraft .. 30,141 40,497 18,327
Other liabilities 40,193 45,580 45,604 34,066
Freeholds, etc. 33,429 41.222 63,144 70,396
Fittings .. 14,876 7,921 7,842 5,598
Stocks .. 122,100 136,091 132,595 76,725
Debtors .. 70,199 141,273 90,636 32,204
Cash . . . . 327 235 238 2,241
Investments .. 70,550 87,550 104,316 191,650
Stocks and debtors have been heavily
worked down over the past two years,
all without visible mishap; £114,302
available from these combined sources
last term was invested mainly in Com-
mercial Steels, The book value of share-
holdings lifted £87,334, and the parent’s
guarantee of the pups’ overdraft from
£3019 to £35,978. A swag of capital still
lies frozen in car stocks; but these
should be useful when the vanguard of
the inevitable replacement demand comes
along. Including stocks but not invest-
ments, more or less liquids exceed the
debt by £57,104.
At 285., the pound shares, visibly
covered by net tangibles of 285.. yield
5 p.c. from 7 p.c. divs., with prospects


INVENTORS. —Have vou an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A \tf. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Svdney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES &. COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt,
BALANCE SHEET OF
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited
( Incorporated in Victoria under the ‘‘Companies Act 1890”)
AT 30th JUNE, 1941.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £5,000,000 (Divided into 300,000 Preference Shares of £lO each and 4,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10s. each).
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
Issued Capital—
-211,735 Preference Shares paid in cash to £lO per share £2,117,350
4,000,000 Ordinary Shares paid in cash to 10s. per- share 2,000,000
4,211,735
Reserve (used in the business of the Bank)
Exchange Adjustment Reserve (used in the business of
the Bank)
Profit and Loss Account
Notes in Circulation
Bills Payable and Other Liabilities, includii
Contingencies
Government Deposits—•
Not Bearing Interest
Bearing Interest (and Interest accrued)
Other Deposits—
Not Bearing Interest
Bearing Interest (and Interest accrued) ..
£6,600,152 10
6,184 0
0
1,606,203 8 0
Balances Due to Other Banks ..
Contingent Liabilities (as per contra in regard to obligations of Customers and
others on Letters of Credit, Drafts, Guarantees, etc.)
35,719,725 18
24,665 4
2,287,904 10 11
£46,244,835 12 6
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Australian and Reserve Bank of New
Zealand Notes, Cash at Bankers and at Short Call in
London
Short-dated Commonwealth and New Zealand Treasury
Bills
British, Australian and New Zealand Government, Muni-
cipal and Other Public Stocks and Debentures (at or
under market value)
Bills Receivable in London and Balance of Remittances
and Drafts in Transit
Notes and Bills of Other Banks
Balances Due from Other Banks
Stamps
Bills Discounted and Other Advances (less provision for Bad and Doubtful
Debts) 27,141,332 15 3
Bank Premises, Fixtures, Fittings and Furniture (at cost, less amounts
written off) .. .. .. .. •• •• •• •• 1,307,781 0 0
Other interest in Land (at cost, less amounts written off) 5,220 0 0
Contingent Assets comprising Liability of Customers and Others on Letters of
Credit, Drafts, Guarantees, etc., as per contra .. .. -. .. 2,287,904 10 11
£46,244,835 12 6
(The Balance Sheet figures are stated in Australian currency.)
3,915,972 19 10
1,845,000 0 0
6,845,772 5 6
1,832,099 16 1
711,249 4 8
330,581 5 10
21,921 14 5
£15,502,597 6 4
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries and Allowances —Head Office and 543 Branches and Agencies
(Including Directors’ Fees, £2737 18s. 3d.) .. .. .. .. £682,742 16 9
„ Rent and Other Charges .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 189,620 1 9
Net Profit for the Year .. .. .. .. .. .. 258,110 2 4
£1,130,473 0 10
To Reduce Bank Premises .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £35,000 0 0
„ Interim Dividend at 4 per cent, per annum on Preference Shares paid
February, 1941 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 42,347 0 0
„ Interim Dividend at 6} per cent, per annum on Ordinary Shares paid
February, 1941 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 66,666 13 4
„ Balance .. .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. •• 232,802 10 8
£376,816 4 0
By Amount of Profits, after deducting Interest Accrued on Deposits and
Rebate on Bills Current, and after making a transfer to Provisions for
Contingencies, out of which account an amount has been provided for
Bad and Doubtful Debts, fluctuations in investments, and other con-
tingencies, and after making provision for Income, Land and other taxes £1,130,473 0 10
£1,130,473 0 10
By Balance from last Year i °
„ Net Profit for the Year .. .. .. .. .. •• •• *.58,110 2 4
£376,816 4 0
By Balance .. .. .... .. .. .. • • • • • • £232,802 10 8
I, PERCY FREDERICK GRAHAM GORDON, General Manager of The Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the Reserve, the
Exchange Adjustment Reserve, and accumulated profits are used in the business, and that the accompanying Balance Sheet and Statement of Profit and Loss of the Bank are, to the
best of my knowledge and belief, true in every particular. . „ , , T h;cijd 'ci • ~ „ .
Names, addresses and occupations of the persons who are the Directors of the Company at the date of tj l ® at r e l l l e , n^^
WILLIAM HOWELL SWANTON, Merchant, Melbourne; ARTHUR SYDNEY BAILLIEU, Investor, Melbourne; WILLIAM JAMES BYRNE, Solicitor, Melbourne; WILLIAM SYDNEY
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the Parliament of Victoria rendering persons
making a false declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury. .
DECLARED at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 26th day of July, One thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
Before me—R. L. G. McCOY, P - F * G - GORDON.
A Commissioner for taking Declarations and
Affidavits under the “Evidence Act 1928.”
We. JOHN LANGLEY WEBB, WILLIAM HOWELL SWANTON and WILLIAM JAMES BYRNE, of Melbourne, being Directors of The Commercial Bank of Australia,
Limited, do hereby certify that in our opinion the foregoing Balance Sheet is true and correct, and is drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state oi the Company s affairs,
and that the Statement of Profit and Loss exhibits a true and correct view of the results of the business of the Company for the year.
On benali oi trie xioarcij
' JOHN L. WEBB,
W. H. SWANTON,
W. J. BYRNE.
Dated at Melbourne this 26th day of July, 1941.
59813
9/1 " J 0 Z 'POl JW » 01
It’s their extra touch of quality
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
y S8888S&& :
m
M A
E S P E CIALLY TO PREVENT
If the recent spread of ramifications turns
out as anticipated.
Britain has renewed its lead contract
with the Broken Hill companies for the
12 months from August 31, agreeing to
take 90 p.c. of the original contract ton-
nage (13,875 tons a month), less any in-
crease in Australian and export sales
during the 12 months. Original contract
price was £lB 16s. 7d. a ton, f.o.b. Port
Pirie, subject to adjustment each half-year
in accordance with production costs.
* * * *
Eric Campbell’s strictures on policy at
Mt. Morgan, Ltd., came on the brink of
a reversal of form, as the estimated
working surplus of £12,437 for the four
weeks to July 30 indicates. For the past
month all the workings around the 450 ft.
level— e.g., No. 14 winze—which contain
considerable reserves of 6dwt. ore and
which were cut off earlier in the year
through more or less continuous wet, are
now available, and shareholders can look
for cumulative better returns. The batter
of overburden on the west side of the
opencut has been so far receded under a
ratio of 11 to 1 that the reserves from
450 can now be drawn on to a much
greater extent. It will have an immediate
upward effect on gold recoveries, while
the mine is also producing more copper
than at any previous period since its
reopening—this partly owing to bodies
of copper ore unearthed in the over-
burden section during removal. Mt.
Morgan recoveries should be worth
watching during the next few months.
* -Is * ♦
A Mines Department report draws
attention to the magnesite deposits in the
Marlborough district (C.Q.). Only one
deposit is at present being worked in a
small way, but veins of exceedingly pure
magnesite up to 3ft. wide are common.
Analyses show 97 to 99 per cent, mag-
nesium carbonate, which would be hard
to beat anywhere in the world on the
score of composition. The deposits lie
athwart the main northern railway, some
60 miles north of Rockhampton, so the
location isn’t disadvantageous.
* * * •
South Kalgurli (W.A.), which showed
working profits little changed for the
year to March and cut its interim from
Is. to 9d. stg. per share, is paying a final
of Is. Bd. (less tax of 6s. 2.6 d. in the £1),
as against Is. 6d. in respect of 1940, so
the full year’s distribution is a penny
down. Recent developments in the South
Kal. block have been all to the good,
with beneficial effects on ore-grade. Con-
cerning the Hainault section, where 93,800
tons of ore was in sight a year ago and
which has been vigorously developed
since, policy has been to broadcast only
at the annual meeting.
X ❖ * *
Norseman G.M. (W.A.) is still labor-
ing under a rod partly of its own making,
and a difficult labor position isn’t helping
any. In its latest four-weekly period the
co. just about managed to break even
before paying for development or allow-
ing for gold-tax rebate, which amounted
to £5257 for the March quarter. At 6988
tons latest crushing from Norseman com-
pared with an average of 8300 tons for
the year to date, while Iron King through-
put (2587 tons) was also 1500 tons down
on the average. Resumption of divs.,
which ceased to flow in June, 1940, still
appears to be something well away in the
future.
* * # *
Pilbara (W.A.), with gold at Marble
Bar, Bamboo Creek and Nullagine, tan-
talite at Wodgina and Tabba, tin at
Moolyella, and asbestos and mica else-
where, is anxious to have fresh capital
as a permanent boarder. Comet, near
Marble Bar, tops the gold score, but
several shows at Bamboo Creek are doing
well, while a recent Mines Department
report says the Blue Spec, at Nullagine,
though a somewhat refractory proposi-
tion, may turn out right if water for
treatment can be located. Development
of tantalite, tin, asbestos and mica is said
to be held up for want of money. There
are some lead deposits on the field, too.
* * * *
Faced with a near-empty cashbox,
Freney Oil (W.A.) proposes to double
present paid capital (£79,350 in f.-p. 6s.
shares) by the issue of 264,500 new shares
as paid to Is.—the discount is in keeping
with the present sharemarket. Share-
holders are assured that all neces-
sary geological conditions for the under-
ground storage of oil have been encoun-
tered, and latest report refers to fine-
grained sandstone being stabbed by the
drill 3890 ft. below the surface. The
idea is to get down to 5000 ft.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
EUROPE—JUNGLE OF HATREDS.
[Condensed from an article by C. L. Sulzberger in
New York “Times Magazine” giving a grim, sweeping
picture of the countries of Europe as they are today,
most of them under Nazi persecution, in daily fear
of it, or in the grip of a reign of terror in which old
hates are let loose and murder has become a common-
place.]
As Adolf Hitler pushes his armies deeper into
Russia he is doing more than conquer new areas of
Europe ; he is extending that union of hate which has
been growing ever since the Fuhrer started on the
road to conquest. The material results of his soaring
aspirations are already plain—a Europe swept into
ruins, a Europe with its vast and intricate industrial
scheme dedicated only to the spread of destruction,
with its fertility ravaged to a bare penurious level of
subsistence, its peoples subdued to the dull bonds of
slavery and ignited by terrible internal passions.
What effect the explosion between Russia and
Germany can have upon this incipient league of
mutual detestation is impossible to say. Scarcely
hidden beneath the military efficiency of the vicious
spread of dictatorship are the anarchic seeds of a
reign of terror. Who can say how much the tremen-
dous political Fifth Column of the Comintern will be
able to exploit this dangerous situation as a military
weapon?
Will the Pan-Slavs of the Balkans and Central
Europe be able to create disorders behind the lines ;
or is the deadly Gestapo too efficient a weapon of
Hitler’s new brand of Pan-Germanism? Will the
secret cells of Communism, with which Europe has
been so assiduously dotted, flourish now in the rich
soil of bombs and destitution? Will the vague tenets
of Marxism, so strangely warped at Moscow, unite
the bitterly discordant elements of the Continent?
Can a carefully engendered anti-Communistic senti-
ment temporarily cause the great bloc of European
anti-Fascists to forget their differences ; or will this
latest war add new coals to that subterranean furnace
already eating out the solid structure of the Continent?
This hatred which is eating into the Continental
soul is directed not only against the autocratic con-
Sueror. Part of the tactic which has enabled his
omination was to encourage and foster a network of
mutual antipathies which have festered in the
European peoples for centuries. Pent-up discords
which had gradually disappeared as civilisation in-
stalled itself as a habit are once more rampant; fear,
envy, strife and detestation are replacing orderly de-
velopment as Europe is becoming a cruel jungle.
Today the Bulgar brutalises the Greek in the
peaceful villages of Thrace. Torture, pillage and hang-
ings are becoming commonplace as Sofia graciously
accepts the gift of Hitler for which it exchanged its
pretensions to liberty. Serbs in Macedonia are once
more subjected to the heavy yoke of their half-Slavic
cousins. The mixed Macedonian population is wit-
nessing the inception of a new reign of terror. Once
more Macedonia is being made to live up to its title
of “bloody land.”
Italian and Bulgar are shedding blood in the
decaying streets of holy Ochrida* where ancient Pan
is supposed to have roamed and Cyril, Methodius and
Clement taught Christianity to the early Slavs. Croat
terrorists in the north are celebrating the greatest hey-
day since they collaborated in the assassination of
King Alexander seven years ago, brutalising the Serbs
and the Jews with whom the great majority had
habitually lived in peace. Hitler’s Hungarian puppets
are busily shaming the name of St. Stephen, for whose
crown they have reclaimed the Vojvodina and Banat,
and are restoring the boasted Magyar citation with
bullet, knife and hangman’s noose.
Provinces of Yugoslavia are returning to those
habits of turmoil which existed so long when robber-
patriot bands wandered about the mountain forests
slaughtering and raiding Ottoman Turks. Thousands
of armed Chetniks, living off the soil, are still fighting
their own specialised Balkan type of warfare against
the Italians, Hungarians, Bulgarians and their Ger-
man masters, dping their utmost to render difficult
the gradual and mechanical extinction of the concepts
of South Slavic national independence.
But the armies of the Axis continue methodically
to establish their beloved “New Order.” Mass murder
once more has become a Balkan commonplace. Photo-
graphs already are being smuggled out, showing pen-
dant bodies of men and women —students, teachers,
priests, officials.
With cynically deliberate efficiency, Axis propa-
gandists have used puppet agents to spread hatred
among friendly peoples. Paid Moslem Bosniaks have
turned against their Serbian neighbors and the proud
people of Montenegro have been humbled by Italian
trickery. Croat, Serb and Dalmatian have been
sucked into a whirlpool of fratricide conceived by the
evil mind of Paul Joseph Goebbels.
Hungary’s “calm acceptance” of the “New
Order,” so joyfully publicised in the prostituted Buda-
pest press, may have been* signalised by increasing
Communism, the forced draft of labor, the persecu-
tion of the Jews and Liberals, the discontented mur-
murs of housewives as food stocks are whisked off
to Germany. The proud Magyar has been subjected
to a trio of unpleasant masters; his own cheap
medieval nobility, unprincipled local Nazi leaders, and
traditionally inimical Germans, whom he is warned
by his national proverbs to mistrust. In Rumania —
whose recent national history is like a recital of the
plagues of Job —riots, murder and intrigue continue
beneath the dark cloak of fear. The unhappily allied
Governments at Budapest and Bucharest, now fighting
Russia, denounce one another bitterly as cruel terror-
ism reigns in both halves of that integral province of
Transylvania which Hitler found it convenient to
divide,
Europe has become completely Balkanised in the
worst meaning of the word. The evil methods, tradi-
tions and instincts of that bloody area’s saddest period
are übiquitous on the Continent.
In Poland, already largely forgotten by a world
grown sick of horrors, more than 18 p.c. of the popu-
lation has been eliminated by the Germans. Such as
remains is now functioning in various unhuman capa-
cities —factory robots, agricultural quasi-cattle,
economy labor battalions supporting the families of
their German bullies or sheer drones mutely awaiting
disposition under the terrifying Nazi machine for
assassination of the soul.
The brutal bullying of Czechs in the “protec-
torate” is slowly breaking down this sturdy people,
used by tradition to silent resistance. Grain from
Bohemian fields moves northward while the sullen
population labors in vast factories to produce tanks,
aircraft and guns under a revived system of galley
slavery.
Sweden, which ever chooses the “middle way” in
politics as well as in sociology, exists in a frightened
fog of freedom, guarding the spark of spiritual inde-
pendence while Norwegians suffer that version of life
conceived by Alfred Rosenberg, accepted by Quisling
and induced by German occupation. Danes see the
whole of their little country follow the disputed prov-
inces of Schleswig-Holstein , into the German maw.
The Nazis are already beginning to view Holland as
the mere homeland of Germanic tribes, and Belgium
is being bartered on the counter in order the more
easily to induce the French to accept Hitler’s co-opera-
-New York “World-Telegram.”
IN THE GERMAIN INDUSTRIAL AREAS.
tive terms. People of Alsace and Lorraine are either
forced to accept the German yoke or struggle to exist
in penurious France, while German emigres from the
eastern continent take over their homes.
Switzerland lives in constant terror that, when it
is no longer useful to Germany as an international
clearing house for money, trade, espionage, news and
the Red Cross, a partition order will be given. Por-
tugal—Britain’s last Continental ally save Turkey—is
dreading a similar moment.
Italy, which sacrificed her peace and prosperity
to Mussolini’s mad effort to expand in a land which
he himself described as “a collection of rock gardens
and sandpiles,” is now a barely disguised Nazi colony.
Spain, still rent by wounds and dissension fostered by
early Axis power politics, is at present hovering on
the borderline of possibilities when it will again benefit
by this deathly friendship.
Perhaps the most tragic situation of all exists in
beaten and bewildered France, where puppets and two-
faced politicians contend in betrayal of the unhappy
birthplace of democratic theory. Families are divided
between sympathy with the British Allies and the
Free De Gaulle-ist forces, and the spiritless tenets held
within the boundaries ruled by Vichy—between deso-
late occupied territories and Himmler’s prison camps.
U.S. Eyes East Indies.
[This review of Nippon’s East Indies dealings over
the past year or two and of U.S. interest in them is
from a New York “World-Telegram” article ]
Japanese dealings with the Netherlands East
Indies is a long story of Tokyo’s effort to dominate
the business life of the 60,000,000 people in the rich,
tropical Pacific island empire of the Dutch. The
U.S. State Department keeps a wary eye on the highly
explosive situation.
Before the outbreak of the European war the
East Indies were a fat market for Japan—so much
so that during the depression years the Dutch authori-
ties had to restrict imports from Japan because they
were simply flooding the market. Despite this, even
as late as 1937 Japan sold there 124,438,000 guilders’
worth of goods and bought only 42,229,000 worth. As
a seller it far excelled Holland in its own possession.
It also excelled the United States. As a buyer it
ranked away below Holland, Singapore and America.
Japan was not then much concerned about its
oil supply, because it could buy what it wanted from
the United States. But the European war made
the Japanese fear the American oil market might no
longer be available to them.
In April, 1940, Japan proclaimed it would “pro-
tect” the Indies from any nation seeking to take
advantage of the war situation. Holland promptly
thanked Japan, but said it would look after its own
property.
When in May, 1940, Hitler conquered Holland,
Japan again reaffirmed the desire to maintain the status
quo in the Dutch East Indies. Almost immediately
thereafter the Tokyo Foreign Office notified the Dutch
Minister to Japan that it desired abrogation of the
restrictions of Japanese exports, a guarantee of a
minimum amount of supplies from the Indies and
a conference on economic relations.
Japan sent a new delegation to Batavia in
December, 1940, after previous negotiations had failed.
The delegation brought a formula very much like the
one Hitler imposed upon Rumania. Japan demanded
oil concessions in Borneo, the right to explore the
outer islands in search for possible valuable resources,
the right to exploit these with Japanese labor, the
entry of a considerable number of doctors and dentists
for the Japanese colony, the right to participate in
the development of air lines in the Indies and, finally,
extensive fishing concessions along the coasts.
The Dutch showed that their reputation for stub-
bornness is well-founded. The Japanese got nowhere.
So recently [June] they announced a break. They also
left open what they would do about it.
That is where the American hand of
Cordell Hull, Secretary of State, comes in.
The Japanese had already been warned by
him of American interest in the Dutch East
Indies. On April 17, 1940, Hull, with not a
little sarcasm, said he noted with interest
Japan’s concern for maintenance of the status
quo in the Dutch East Indies. Then he fired
this shell: “Intervention in the domestic
affairs of the Netherlands Indies or any altera-
tion of their status quo by other than peace-
ful processes would be prejudicial to the
cause of stability, peace and security, not
only in the region of the Indies but in the
entire Pacific area.”
On May 11, 1940, Hull, citing a note to
Holland by America, Japan, Britain and
France declaring their resolve to respect the
rights of Holland, said; “The American Gov-
ernment assumes that each of the Govern-
ments which made commitments about the
status quo in the Pacific will continue to abide
by those commitments.”
On a number of occasions also Hull
indicated that America would not OK. the
proposed “New Order” concerning which
Japanese politicians spoke so glibly.
* * * *
Japanese-American Trade
[Despite restrictions already operating,
Japan was this year still carrying on with the
U.S.A. the considerable trade indicated in this
New York “Herald Tribune” item. That was
prior to the recent drastic U.S. economic
action against Japan.]
During the first quarter of this year the
United States sold $32,808,000 worth of goods
to Japan and imported products valued at $29,006,000.
The United States sold Japan $227,204,000 in
goods in 1940 and in return bought $158,376,000
worth. Of the imports raw silk composed 67 p.c., or
$105,000,000.
The extent to which the Japanese bolstered their
war production with purchases in the United States
is indicated by the following facts, taken from Depart-
ment of Commerce reports:
Lead (pigs, bars, etc.): Japan bought 8,341,000
pounds in the first quarter of this year, in comparison
with 3,893,000 during the same period of 1940. This
metal is used extensively in the munitions industry.
Gasoline: A total of 1,097,000 barrels was
exported to Japan in the first three months of 1941, in
comparison with 282,000 barrels in the comparative
period of 1940. Japan is dependent for gasoline
entirely on imports, and the fuel is rationed strictly.
Practically all of the gasoline goes to war uses.
Lubricating oils; Exports to Japan totalled
364,000 barrels in the first three months of this year,
in comparison with 130,000 barrels in the comparative
period of 1940.
Borax: A total of 10,758,000 pounds was pur-
chased by Japan in the United States during the first
quarter of 1941, in comparison with 7,196,000 pounds
in same period last year. Borax is used as an anti-
septic and as a flux in soldering.
Other purchases by Japan in the United States
during the first quarter included 824,000 pounds of
cattle hides, 11,000 tons of wood pulp, 33,030,000
pounds of refined copper, 5,945,000 pounds of copper
scrap, 2,274,000 pounds of carbon black, power-driven
metal-working machinery valued at $1,342,000 and
iron and steel semi-manufactures totalling in value
$9,009,000.
# * * * *
Vladivostok Tempting
(Former Tokyo correspondent Wilfred Fleisher, in New
York “Times.”)
The temptation of gaining a foothold in eastern
maritime Siberia with its port of Vladivostok, which
the Japanese long have considered a pistol aimed at
the heart of Japan, probably will prove too much for
Japanese militarists to resist very long. If the Russians
are defeated quickly—in a month or two—the Stalin
regime may fall'and the Japanese may not be bound
any longer by a non-aggression pact with a non-
existing regime.
It is likely, too, that if the Stalin regime collapses
there will be revolution and disorder in Russia and


STRENGTH IN EMERGENCY
QfrX a-ivcU-
BRANDY
Siberia on a large scale and the Japanese might con-
sider this a menace to the safety of the contiguous
territory of Manchukuo. Large numbers of Russians
might attempt to escape into Manchuria or northern
China. The Japanese might argue then that it is neces-
sary for them to take measures to protect their terri-
tories by going into Siberia to “re-establish peace and
order.” .
Japan may be freed now from any menace or
Russia falling on her back if she should launch a
drive in the region of the southern Pacific, but the
danger to the north is too great for her to overlook,
and the southward drive always has been dangerous
enough, since it has threatened to bring Japan into
war with the United States.
Japan cannot now be indifferent to the danger
of a German expansion across Siberia, bringing the
Nazi forces to within close proximity of Japan. This
is a development the Japanese can view only with
anxiety. Nazi conquest may not stop in Siberia.
There has been no evidence that Hitler’s appetite is
ever satisfied.
Russian War Commentary.
(Indwell Denny; New York "World-Telegram.")
The Churchill-Roosevelt policy of supporting
Russia against Hitler may create more American unity
than had existed, though the German-Russian flip-flop
has made Americans more wary of shifting European
alliances, as the non-interventionists emphasise. Still
there is no evidence that it has weakened the popular
demand for material aid to Britain.
* * * * *
(From Chicago “Tribune.”)
Joe Stalin’s new allies in London and Washing-
ton haven’t asked him what his war aims would be
if with their aid he should succeed in driving the
Nazis out. If he should have military success, he
would certainly have some pretensions. What would
become of other countries if Russia should become a
major element in the overthrow of the Nazi control of
Fvurope?
It is probable that, if Hitler should destroy Rus-
sian military resistance, Stalin would be a refugee
with his commissars, somewhere in Asia. He would
be an uneasy refugee. A great many people would
like to have revenge on him personally, in memory of
his victims. Presumably, the Red revolution would
come to an end and with it the union of so-called
Soviet republics. Some of the States emerging from
the dissolution would undoubtedly be Nazi dominated
and brought into the Hitler economic combination.
Lenin’s experiment, begun in 1917, would be ended.
The alternative to this would seem to be a long
war, with increasing prospect that the picture would
be reversed. Then, Stalin would say what was to
happen, and that is what might interest the people in
London and Washington. If their ally demanded his
rewards in Europe, what do they propose to do about
it? It would be ironic to enter into treaties with him.
He fully agrees with Hitler that agreements are to
deceive and delude the other fellow. They are made
to be broken. Adolf and Josef share the same beliefs
as to good faith and obligations. If the Reds could
march into central Europe, would Mr. Churchill and
Mr. Roosevelt be prepared to throw Stalin out and
free the occupied lands of his commissars and secret
police?
* * * * * *
(New York “Sun.”)
The facts are in reality quite simple; Russia is
fighting today not for democracy nor against Nazism,
but for the Soviets’ self-preservation. Therefore we
must not confuse that common cause of resistance to
a common enemy with the cause of encouragement
to the Communist party. That party suddenly reverses
its stand on the war because Stalin has reversed his;
it will reverse it again if—as is not altogether impos-
sible—the Stalinist regime should be replaced by a
non-totalitarian system. We can be - friends with
Russia the nation, whatever its regime, so long as it
defends its independence ; we can never be friends
with Communism.
sa » * * *
(Joint statement by the U.S. organisations the Com-
mittee to Defend America, Fight for Freedom Inc.,
Legion for American Unity and Friends of Democracy
Inc.)
Communists are agents of a foreign Power no
less than are the agents of Hitler. We realise that
Hitler is our greatest enemy, possessing a military
machine which must be destroyed if our civilisation is
to survive. Therefore, we favor aid to Russia while
she is resisting our common enemy. But we abhor
Communism. We call upon all Americans to help in
the great fight against Nazism and at the same time
to help keep the Communists from spreading their
poisonous influence in our country. We have nothing
to gain and everything to lose if we give heed to those
Dr? Jekyll and Mr. Hyde characters the Communists
and their fellow-travellers who take their orders from
the betrayed partner of Hitler. We are disgusted with
the performance of American Communists, who
changed their line, again and again, whenever the
foreign policy of the Soviet Government required a
new line.
JJ; * * * *
(New York “Times” correspondent.)
From the purely economic viewpoint, the
Ukraine, the Caucasus and White Russia are of poten-
tially great value. In peace-time nine-tenths of Russia’s
grain exports come from the Ukraine, a region teem-
ing with sugar, corn, wheat, coal, iron and almost
all the Soviet’s valuable manganese mines.
Although in recent years Moscow has established
new industrial plants at Sverdlovsk and Chelyabinsk
on the eastern slopes of the Urals and built up fac-
tories in Central Asia, there are great numbers of
machinery-manufacturing plants and steel mills in the
Ukraine, particularly around Kiev, Kharkov, Odessa
and Dniepropetrovsk.
White Russia is rich in livestock, grain and that
traditional German staple potatoes. The Caucasus is
renowned not only for its largely undeveloped oil
facilities, but for its endless wealth of copper, fur and
forests. Throughout these areas of Western Russia
are vast numbers of livestock, fields of flax and thou-
sands of acres of oleaginous plants that could relieve
Germany’s fat shortage.
Germany is in position to give these regions
equipment to assist in their development. Machinery,
electrical parts, tools and chemical products have
always been high on the Soviet import list.
If the Caucasus should eventually be taken over
it is certain that even the most extensive Soviet sabot-
—New York “Herald Tribune ’
A FRIENDSHIP IS ARRANGED.
age before evacuation could not effectively impair the
petroleum output for more than a year.
On the face of these facts it would appear that
if the,German armed forces can thrust the Russian
troops sufficiently far eastward the Reich would gain
such tremendous stocks and facilities that it would
become indestructible and undefeatable. The greatest
granaries of Europe would be open. The Nazi war
machine would have inexhaustible new resources on
which to draw and new communication routes would
open up against the British blockade.
While this may perhaps eventually prove to be
the case if Russia collapses, the problem is far more
complex than appears on the surface. When, during
the last war, Germany controlled the Ukraine and the
entire area almost to Rostov, it proved of disappoint-
ing value. The traditional Russian transport difficul-
ties stumped even the German genius for organisa-
tion. Production fell as a result of sporadic guerrilla
warfare and the disinterest of the peasants in working
for the enemy.
Such factors are bound to be of importance again.
The Russian personality is gifted with latent sabotage
possibilities that amount to more than sheer laziness,
and these are fostered by the Communist methods.
But more fundamental difficulties exist.
First of all, if Germany wishes to avert famine
in Europe by shipping Soviet food and wealth west-
ward she will probably create famine in any occupied
parts of Russia, thus in the end destroying the goose
that might lay the golden egg. This year’s crops in
the Ukraine are bound to suffer enormously during
operations. The Soviet agricultural output depends
largely on tractors —and therefore oil —because of the
mechanisation of agriculture. Last year Russia ex-
ported only 1,000,000 of her 52,000,000-ton oil output,
though in 1937 she sent abroad 6,000,000 tons when
she produced much less. The difference is occasioned
far more by expanded agricultural needs than by stor-
ing of war reserves. If oil is not distributed to thou-
sands of tractor stations in time this year, there will
be famine in Russia, not to speak of Europe.
The Germans are obviously aware that their gains
from the conquest of Western Russia could scarcely
be realised this year and it is clear that they hope
merely to better their position for a long war. But
aside from the probable ineptitude of the Russian
peasant in adapting himself to German methods, huge
problems of organisation face the Germans before they
can make the Communist system produce anything
like its present output and get even as much out of
their conquest as they used to obtain from the Moscow
economic pact.
Collectivised agriculture presents an extraordi-
narily complex problem in readjustment. If Moscow
withdraws from occupied areas the managers and key
men of the collective farms, the peasants will be
unable to operate their mutual properties, and it is
impossible to make any imme-
diate shift to small holdings of
land. Some sources estimate the
Germans would have to import
behind their army 250,000 agri-
cultural managers, bookkeepers
and foremen. Allowing for war
damage, which must consider-
able, there would have to be
a tremendous overhaulage of
tractors and repairs of communi-'
cations along which fuel could be
transported.
Even if the Red Army were
forced to withdraw from the rich-
est Soviet areas, any sort of suc-
cess in sabotage, abetted by the
normal destruction of warfare and
the natural lassitude of the Rus-
sian peasant, already sufficiently
confused by adaptation of strange
new scientific systems, might cause
the Reich to find the task of bene-
fiting from these conquests in
time an insuperable one.
* * *
(An oilfields engineer, in Man-
chester “Guardian.”)
German requirements of oil
are mainly for good lubricating
oil, of which there has been a
shortage for some time.
Crude oil is useless for any
purpose unless and until it is re-
fined. R.A.F. bombing attacks
on oil targets have shown how
vulnerable refineries are to even
small-scale bombing. Destruc-
tion of refineries and of pipelines
would surely be the first move on
the part of defending troops if
there were a possibility of losing
such important points, vitally
necessary to the enemy.
Drilling and producing equip-
ment is easily destroyed in the
oilfields, and even if it were not
damaged irreparably the invading
troops could not use the crude oil.
The Russian refineries at Odessa,
Kherson (on the River Dnieper),
Krasnodar, Grozny and Baku
would quickly be destroyed by the Russians to pre-
vent their falling into the hands of the Nazis, and
even if the oilfields themselves were captured intact
the crude oil must be sent to refineries—over great
distances —for treatment.
German output of refinery plant is so limited that
there are not sufficient materials even fully to repair
plants damaged in Germany. How then could the
Nazis transport refinery equipment over thousands
of miles and erect it in or near captured oilfields and
thus produce the urgently needed refined products?
Even if such equipment were available long-range
R.A.F. bombers could be used to smash up any newly-
erected plants, as we have bases from which these
bombers could operate to any part of Europe or
Asia to which the Nazis can penetrate in their search
for supplies of petroleum products.
*****
(New York “Herald Tribune ”)
Every isolationist spokesman has seized, exactly
as Hitler undoubtedly intended and hoped that they
would do, upon the argument that, because Communist
Russia has been driven into the ranks of Hitler’s
enemies, the United States can have nothing more to
do with the great democratic effort to halt and destroy
the ravening menace of Hitlerism.
Mr. Lindbergh, making himself a mouthpiece and
dupe of this phase of the Nazi strategy, says, with
cold jocosity: “We have been asked to defend the
English way of life and the Chinese way of life. We
are now asked to defend the Russian way of life.
Not one of these assertions is so. The one thing
which has ever been asked, or is now asked, of the
American people is that they defend the American


way of life by those means which are practically effec-
tive and while there is still time to tro it.
To Mr. Lindbergh the “cruelty, bloodshed and
barbarism” of Soviet Russia are “without parallel in
modern history.” This also is not so. Every Com-
munist attack on religion, life or freedom, every Com-
munist cruelty, has in fact been fully paralleled and
often enormously exceeded by the unspeakable atrocity
of Hitlerism. But that is beside the point. A Hitler
victory over Russia and Britain means, in the coldest
calculation of probabilities, the triumph of totalitarian
barbarism throughout the world. A victory of Great
Britain, the United States and Communist Russia holds
out no such prospect. Even if Communist totalitarian-
ism survives the strain in Russia, the fact that it would
only do so in association with victorious democracy in
Britain and the United States would give it no such
untrammelled prestige and power as success would
bring to Nazi totalitarianism. An essentially demo-
cratic world would still be possible. This is not a
matter of ethics or ideology or theory ; it is a matter
simply of the practical facts of the practical situation
before us.
* * * * *
(New York “Times.”)
Of all the roles that Hitler has chosen to play,
for the sole purpose of getting what he wants from
a credulous world, none is more fantastic than his
role of White Knight leading the civilised people of
Europe on a holy crusade against Bolshevism, with
France, Spain and other nations invited, or com-
manded, to send token forces to this “holy war.”
Hitler, the erstwhile pal of Stalin, clothed with gleam-
ing armor, and heralded, with loud blasts from
Goebbels’s trumpet, as the savior of mankind from the
dark forces of Communist destruction!
The fraudulence of this whole manoeuvre can be
demonstrated by two simple tests. In the first place,
let anyone who is now tempted to regard Hitler as a
crusader against Bolshevism ask himself who invited
Bolshevism into Central Europe. Who made the pact
of August, 1939? Who conspired with Stalin to
destroy Poland, the best bulwark against a western
spread of Russian influence? Who, if not Hitler?
In the second place, still more important, let the
sarpe person ask himself what real difference there is,
anyway, between the Bolshevist system of Stalin and
the National Socialist system of Hitler. Both are
demonstrated enemies of established religion. Both
demand worship of the State, headed by a supreme
“Leader,” who becomes essentially a god. Both permit
not the slightest deviation from a party “line,” under
threat of excommunication or extermination. Both
suppress minority opinion by such methods as Star-
Chamber trials, torture, concentration camps and secret
murder. Both treat human rights as non-existent and
make human beings the mere slaves of an all-powerful
and self-perpetuating oligarchy. What difference can
it make to the churchman or the businessman or the
working-man or the farmer whether he is ruled by
Bolshevism or by National Socialism?
What vital difference exists between the two at
bottonv—except that the one (German) is in much
better position at this moment than the other (Rus-
sian) to attack Britain and break down the defences
of our Western World?
The purpose of this flood of Goebbels-created
propaganda, picturing Hitler as the White Knight of
Christendom, is plain enough. This purpose is to
divide our counsels and to paralyse our will. We
[Americans] ought not let ourselves be fooled at so
critical a moment by a strategy so obvious. This is
the time to give our ships the protection of our Navy
and to throw into the Western Front, on Britain’s side,
every ’plane that we can spare.
Darlan and Weygand.
(Condensed from a London “Times” article by a French
correspondent.)
Leaving Laval out of count, as he is still in dis-
grace, the most important man in France is Francois
Darlan. He has never forgotten the heavy damage
inflicted on his ships at Mers-el-Kebir, nor the impli-
cation that his word was not to be trusted. Darlan
has convinced himself that England is doomed to
defeat in spite of massive American support. And
though he probably, at first, did not intend to betray
his country, but simply to obtain, through collabora-
tion, the best possible terms from Germany, he has,
under repeated pressure from an unscrupulous enemy
who alternately flattered or threatened, ended by sell-
ing himself body and soul to his country’s conquerors.
Darlan knows full well that Hitler intends to
annex all the north and north-east of France up to
the River Somme, in addition to Alsace-Lorraine.
But, like all those men who, after compromising with
honor, find themselves finally committed to the most
dishonorable acts, he is trying to palliate his many
traitorous surrenders by making them as profitable
as possible. For many months he played a waiting
game. The moment was not ripe, and Laval had
been ignominiously dismissed for having sponsored
a policy similar to his own. Yet, on assuming power,
he immediately secured the dismissal of the patriotic
Ministers who had brought about Laval’s fall; and
this was the signal for a new process of disintegration.
Darlan’s early preoccupation was to conceal the
nature and extent of French collaboration with the
enemy, as nine-tenths of the French nation were
violently opposed to it. He tried to convince his
countrymen that he was adhering to the terms of the
armistice, although he was covertly giving Germany
every assistance. But, subjected to increasing German
pressure, to the blackmail of want and to the haunt-
ing fear of reprisals exercised on the 2,000,000
prisoners used by Germany as a weapon of extortion,
he gradually threw off the mask. After violently
attacking Britain, whom he accused of wanting to
starve France and cut her off from her empire, he
threw in his lot deliberately with Germany, thus bar-
ring France’s sole avenue to liberation.
General Weygand remains as inscrutable as the
desert. His loyalty to Petain is unassailable and he is
no friend of Darlan, whose ambition he strongly con-
demns. He has, doubtless, never forgiven the British
for having, as he maintained, afforded him so little
support in the battle of the Somme. But to assume
that he would now take up arms against his old allies
may prove unwarranted. Weygand was Foch’s
favorite pupil, and he knows that the marshal would
never have countenanced such an act of treason. Now
that Petain is losing credit, Weygand is the one man
in France who still commands universal respect.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
Every official move at Washington brings the
United States nearer war. The security markets con-
tinue to act as if they had become reconciled to such
an eventuality.— B. C. Forbes, financial commentator
in isolationist New York “Journal-American.”
*****
President Roosevelt says we haven’t much in the
way of surplus bombers, tanks, etc., to provide imme-
diately by lend-lease to Russia. But, he says, we do
have available extra stocks of clothing and shoes. If
Bolshies over there are like our home-grown Com-
mies the one commodity they need most is soap.—
New York “World-Telegram.”
* * ❖ * *
Of the women and girls who constitute 60 p.c. of
the labor employed in a new 25-pounder field-gun fac-
tory in Wales, only 5 p.c. had had any previous factory
—Lynchburg “News,” U.S.A.
CONVERSATION IN TOKYO.
experience, the remainder being shop assistants,
waitresses, clerical and domestic workers, dressmakers,
and about 10 p.c. were without any definite occupa-
tion. — London “Times.”
* * * * *
Although many European nations are on the
verge of starvation, the carryover of wheat in the
four exporting nations this summer should exceed
1,000,000,000 bushels, which is about twice normal
world import requirements. Whether the war con-
tinues or not, present production will far exceed
import needs, except for a possible spurt in purchases
during the immediate post-war reconstruction era.
Canada alone last year produced sufficient wheat over
and above domestic requirements to fill 75 p.c. of the
world’s normal import needs. — New York “Journal
of Commerce.”
$
Protestant Episcopal clergymen in the United
States have responded in such numbers to questions
about American participation in the war that their
views reflect an interesting and significant section of
religious opinion. The “Living Church” mailed a post-
card to each Episcopalian bishop, priest and deacon
in the country. Within two weeks replies had been
received from approximately 50 p.c. of these. About
36 p.c. said they favored immediate American entry
into the war on the side of Great Britain. About 79
p.c. said they would favor American entry into the
war provided it was the opinion of the President and
Congress that American participation was necessary
to prevent German victory. In answer to the blunt
question “Are you a pacifist?” only 293 clergymen,
about 10 p.c., answered in the affirmative. — New York
“Sun.”
* * * * *
This is a war for democracy only insofar as
democracy recognises the rights of peoples to freedom
and independence, and to use their labor and the soil
on which they live for building up their own lives.
Were the Russian Government three times as bad as
it is. Hitler would not be justified in conquering
Russia. Were the German Government even worse
than it is, nobody would be justified in attacking Ger-
many and trying to enslave her people. Nobody
did attack Germany. Germany attacked others. This
war is to stop her from doing so. That’s the issue.
And there is nothing confusing about it.— Dorothy
Thompson ; New York “Post.”
*****
New York “Daily Worker” boasts it sold 30,000
additional copies of the first issue that came off the
press after the German-Russian war started. Modestly,
the paper tells how the people, hungry for “authentic
news of the new happenings in Europe, reached en-
thusiastically for the ‘Daily’s’ analysis.” The Com-
mies are notoriously lacking in a sense of humor. So,
of course, it never occurs to them that laugh-loving
Americans bought the paper for the same reason they
buy tickets to the circus to see an acrobatic clown
reverse himself on a tightrope.— New York “World-
Telegram.”
* * * * *
“Lindbergh, leader of the Fascist youth of the
United States, is tall and handsome. He pours out
the patter which the misguided Fascist youth like to
hear. Among the natural supporters of American
Fascism is our great army of idle women. To these
sheep without a shepherd Lindbergh has always been
a demigod.”— Dr. Frank Bohn, chairman of the
German-American Congress for Democracy.
*****
A warning against wishful thinking in regard to
Japan and the China War has been given by a British
observer lately returned from Japan. The drain of
the war is enormous. A million and a half soldiers
have been held in China for three years, but the
people at home in Japan are ready for suffering, and
the new National Spirit Mobilisation Movement is
helping to promote this preparedness. He could see -
no signs of revolution in Japan and thought the
people would suffer a great deal before that happened.
—Manchester “Guardian” London correspondent.
* * * * *
It takes John Bull a long time to forget he’s a
gentleman. But when he does, all the gorillas in
creation can go take a back seat. The indications are
now that John Bull, having had his monocle knocked
off, his nose punched, his eye blacked, his shirt torn
off, his hat thrown in the mud and his seat kicked,
is about to abandon Christian charity and go mop
up the earth. So far, John Bull has been too fair.
Hence Norway, Dunkirk, Greece and Crete.
Now come the chapters entitled North Africa,
Cyprus, Asia Minor and Suez. If John Bull isn’t
really so mad he’s got the blind staggers, he’s
sunk. But if he is, Herr Hitler is going to think
hell and the Sahara both have blown up in his
face at once, — Los Angeles “Times.”
\ * * * *
The news that the King and Queen have
encouraged the formation of a pig club for
members of the Royal Household at Windsor
and that this is the 1000th pig club formed in the
past year sets the seal of achievement on the
work of the Small Pig Keepers’ Council. —■
London “Times” leader.
* * * * *
The Nazis in Czechoslovakia are regarded
with seething hate. “Every Czech has a knife
and knows what to do with it when the day
comes,” is typical of the prevalent feeling. It
is said that the Czechs in every locality keep an
account of their Germans so as to know where
to get them when the hour of reckoning strikes.
One wonders here, as in every occupied country,
what will come of all this hate which the Ger-
mans are fostering wherever they go. The best
thing to hope is that present hate is a necessary
security valve for oppressed people, and that it
will vanish when they regain their freedom, when
they can find an outlet for their energies in posi-
tive work for their own country and world peace.
Such is the view expressed here and there by
elderly and more thoughtful Czechs. For the
Czechs are not inherently bloodthirsty, but democrats
by nature. They will live and let live in peace. But
if the Germans should be called upon to pay in blood
for their adventure they will certainly have them-
selves and their gangster methods to thank for it. —
From a London “Times” article by a correspondent
recently in Prague.
* * * * ![!
Lord Halifax granted an interview in which
he explained the lessons he has learned from Hitler’s
success in Crete: “Crete has shown the military
experts of the world the difficulty of parachutist land-
ings upon an island, even by a nation with prepon-
derant air power, which Germany was able to muster
off the coast of Greece.” The deductions of Lord
Halifax recall this comment by an eminent country-
man of the Ambassador’s: “Perhaps it is true that
Lord Halifax does enjoy the privilege of a daily con-
ference with the Almighty—but isn’t it strange that
his Lordship comes out of these conferences so con-
sistently ill-advised?” — New York “Daily News.”
* * * * *
Too long have the Americans been hiding com-
placently behind the admittedly tough fibre of the
British people. “They are wonderful,” we say. “They
will never give up.” It is true that they are wonder-
ful ; but it is not true that they can hold out for ever'
if their position greatly worsens.— New York “New
Republic.”
* * * * *
I know how blessed are the meek
And all about that “other cheek.”
I’m well aware we ought to pray
For those who hate us —every day.
I know it’s wrong to make misuse
Of naughty words in vulgar use;
And yet when all is said and done,
I really loathe the bloody Hun.
— A. C. R. Carter; London “Times.”
* * * * *
Plans are being worked upon in Washington to
accumulate huge reserves of nonperishable foods and
to look far enough ahead to assure cargo ships to
take foods to a starving and demoralised European
population of more than 200,000,000. This food, it
is conjectured, will not be sold, but will simply have
to be given away with both hands. — Hallett Abend ;
New York “Times.”
* * * * 4c
A report issued by the German Ministry of Labor
shows that over 2,000,000 foreigners are now employed
in German agriculture, mining and industry. War
prisoners and civilian workers of Polish origin are
employed chiefly in agriculture, while Netherland,
French, British, Norwegian and Belgian prisoners as
well as civilian workers from occupied countries have
been assigned principally to mining and industrial
enterprises.— New York “Times.”


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2271 of 1940.
BETWEEN AGNES HOWLETT Petitioner and
REGINALD HOWLETT (also known as
Reginald Blackburn) Respondent.
TO REGINALD HOWLETT (also known as
Reginald Blackburn).
TAKE NOTICE that the said AGNES HOW-
LETT has commenced a suit against you in this
Court and is applying for a dissolution of mar-
riage on the grounds of desertion for three
years without just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Court on or before the Fifth day of
November One thousand nine hundred and
forty-one-and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had from the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Eighth day of August, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
S. D. RATNER, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 654 of 1941.
BETWEEN AILEEN MATILDA HAND Peti-
tioner and
JOHN JAMES HAND Respondent.
TO JOHN JAMES HAND.
TAKE NOTICE that the said AILEEN
MATILDA HAND has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion during three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Fifth day of Novem-
ber One thousand nine hundred and forty-one
and in the event of your not so doing within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eighth day of August One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-one.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
L. M. STEWART, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Macleay Buildings, Smith Street, Kemp-
sey; by his Agents, MESSRS. J. T. RALSTON
AND SON, Solicitors, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The first settlers’ only means of grind-
ing grain were two or three small iron
mills, worked by hand. In 1793 two millers
named Baughan and Wilkinson got busy
with man-power mills worked by con-
victs. The late Norman Selfe, C.E., de-
scribes the trial of the two quaint con-
traptions devised by these pioneers. “In
December, 1793, the rival mill houses
[erected a little south of Bridge-street on
the old Marine Parade] were ready for
their tiled roofs, and on the 10th of
March, 1794, the first trial of Baughan’s
mill was made. It was driven by nine
men, who walked in a circle like sailors
round a capstan head, and, after it got
into good working order, ground fifty-
three pounds of wheat in seventeen
minutes. Wilkinson’s second mill was
started at the end of April, 1794, and
was much larger than his first one at
Parramatta, being worked by six men
instead of two, who, instead of going
round in a circle as with Baughan’s mill,
walked inside a large wheel like squirrels
or white mice in a cage. (The diameter
of this wheel was 22 feet.)” Wilkinson s
device was a failure, but in 1795 Gover-
nor Hunter brought out a windmill in
H.M.S. Reliance, which was erected on
the present site of Sydney Observatory,
and began to function at the beginning
of 1797. It could grind a bushel of wheat
in ten minutes.
OUT OF THE
PAST
J-H-M- ABBOTT
Three Graves
NINETY-FIVE years ago there
stood in the bush on the north side
of Sydney Harbor a little pioneer
church that served the spiritual
needs of a scanty and scattered con-
gregation of Anglicans: It had been built
on the outskirts of metropolitan civilisa-
tion, close to the Lane Cove-road. For
nearly two generations the fine building
of St. Thomas’s Church of England has
occupied the site of the original edifice.
It is surrounded by a large enclosure
which ought to be a churchyard with
many old tombstones —but isn’t.
St. Thomas’s Churchyard lies about
a mile to the northward, and in the years
that have gone by it has become an old
and populous cemetery. Within its rect-
angular limits, surrounded by a closely-
built suburban area, are many monu-
ments containing the records of more than
one man who helped to make Australian
history. Three of these are very notable.
One, near the entrance to the burial-
ground, is that of Alexander Berry, South
Sea pioneer and founder of the N.S.W.
Shoalhaven dairying industries. .A pyra-
mid of dressed stone, shadowed by
cypresses, stands within a square, stone-
walled enclosure, and its sides are in-
scribed with the names of Berry himself,
his wife and that of hjs partner, Dr.
Wollstonecraft, after whom the North
Sydney suburb has been named. The
story of the great man who lies within it
is intimately bound up with the stories
of early Australia and Maoriland, and
is well enough known to most Austra-
lians to need no recapitulation here.
Berry’s tomb is situated on the eastern
side of the cemetery, and far over on the
other side is a railed enclosure contain-
ing a striking monument to Ellis Bent,
who came out with Macquarie as Judge-
Advocate of N.S.W. in 1809 and died in
1815. On it is superimposed a curious
memorial to Major John Ovens, whom
Governor Brisbane appointed Chief
Engineer of the colony in 1821. He died
in 1825 and was buried on Garden Island
in Port Jackson in the same grave as
Bent. Bodies and monuments were trans-
ferred to the churchyard soon after it
was opened as a burial-ground. Bent had
first of all been interred in the old
George-street cemetery, where Sydney’s
Town Hall stands now.
Both men rendered signal service to
Australia. Macquarie’s dispatch of
January 16, 1816, bears eloquent tribute
to Bent’s faithful, indefatigable and able
administration of justice during the whole
of his public career, and of Major Ovens
Brisbane wrote to Lord Bathurst, Secre-
tary of State for the Colonies, “under the
solemn impression that no public officer
here has rendered me the same essential
service, the Colony such genial benefit, or
imposed upon the Mother Country such
a heavy debt of gratitude.”
The other grave is that of a man who
not only did much for Australia, but had
a distinguished record in the Royal Navy.
He lies in the middle of the cemetery,
and on each side of him are the remains
of two seamen of H.M.S. Pearl, who lost
their lives in the Santa Cruz group, in
the Western Pacific, on the occasion when
he met his death.
Captain James Graham Goodenough
took command of the Australian station
in 1873, with the rank of Commodore,
and found himself at once occupied with
South Sea Island affairs. He had to
report on the proposed annexation of the
Fiji group, and then to take Sir Hercules
Robinson to complete it and install Sir
A. Gordon as Governor. In 1875 he
went to the New Hebrides to promote
friendly relations with the natives, and
after some amount of success in his mis-
sion proceeded to the Santa Cruz group
with the same object. On August 12 he
was treacherously wounded with a
poisoned arrow, which brought on
tetanus, and he died at sea on the 20th.
The bodies of the Commodore and the
two seamen were brought to Sydney and
interred here in the old churchyard.
Before his death the Commodore had
absolutely forbidden any reprisals being
made against the natives who had caused
it. The plot in which he and his two
seamen lie is kept in perfect order and
neatness by the Admiralty.
Incidentally, close to the Commodore
is the grave of Conrad Martens, so
neglected as to remain a standing re-
proach to the artistic community of
Sydney.
John Shortland
ON January 10, 1798, Governor
Hunter wrote a dispatch to the
Duke of Portland, Secretary for
the Colonies, part of which was
this: \
“I have now to inform your Grace
that on the fifth day of September last,
as our largest and best boat belonging
to Government was on her way to the
Hawkesbury River, carrying thither a
few stores, and to bring from thence some
articles wanted here, she was taken pos-
session of by a part of the crew, assisted
by a few men in another boat, who
threatened the life of the coxswain and
all who dared to oppose them. They put
him and three others ashore at Broken
Bay, and went off with the boat we know
“ 'Elp, 'elp! Fetch ladder, quick!"
not whither. And as another party of
those villains went off sometime after
in another boat, and the very men who
were landed from the first as unwilling
to go were a part of the second gang, I
am of opinion that it had been a long-
concerted plan. Not having any fit vessel
to pursue upon such an occasion, I dis-
patched two row-boats, well armed ; the
one went about sixty miles northward
along the coast, and the other forty miles
southward, but without success, a gale
blowing soon after the escape of the
second boat, which obliged the officer in
pursuit to land upon the coast. There
is every reason to believe that the last
party have perished, as the vessel was
very feeble. Most of these people were
of the last Irish convicts.”
Lieutenant John Shortland, R.N., was
in command of the boat that went north,
and was one of a remarkable West
Country “service” family, six members
of which had a share in the colonisation
of Australia and Maoriland. His father
had sailed as Naval Agent aboard the
Alexander, storeship, with Captain Phil-
lip in the First Fleet, and had afterwards
done much to assist and encourage the
maritime survey work of Matthew Flin-
ders upon these coasts. His brothers,
Thomas, Willoughby, Edward and Peter,
had distinguished naval careers and a
great deal to do with the exploration
of the South Seas.
Though he did not succeed in finding
the runaway convicts he was after, Short-
land found the estuary of the Hunter
River. With professional terseness he
afterwards sent an account of his dis-
covery to his father. His letter is dated
“H.M.S. Reliance, Sydney Cove, Port
Jackson, September, 1798,” and it is
probable that Governor Hunter made a
mistake about the month in his dispatch
to the Duke of Portland, and should have
made it “August” instead of “September.”
“About a twelvemonth since,” he says,
“I went on an expedition in the Gover-
nor’s whaleboat as far as Port Stephens,
which lies 100 miles to the northward of
this place. In my passage down I dis-
covered a very fine coal river, which 1
named after Governor Hunter 1
daresay in a little time this will be a great
acquisition to this settlement. The shori
time I remained at the river we had rain,
which prevented me doing as much as I
otherwise should.”
After an active and more or less dis-
tinguished naval career Shortland finished
up by engaging simultaneously four
French frigates whilst commanding
officer of H.M.S. Junon. He sighted
them on December 13, 1809, flying
Spanish colors. Approaching them, he
found himself speedily involved, with a
crew of only 200 men, in a hot fight
with ships armed with 120 guns and
carrying 1400 men. For over an hour
he battled with them until half his crew
were killed and he was himself covered
with wounds. In the end he was com-
pelled to surrender to these overwhelming
odds, but not until his ship was so hope-
lessly knocked about that her captors
set her on fire next morning. Shortland
was taken to a French military hospital,
where he died on January 21, 1810. His
gallant fight induced the French to accord
him a public funeral with full military
honors. A pub and a park carry his
name today in Newcastle (N.S.W.) at
the mouth of the river he found so long
ago.
Vampires on the Danube.
“Nobby II”: A lighthearted group ot
men from H.M.A.S. Vampire returned to
Australia on their first leave for two
years. They arrived unheralded, escaping
the notice of dignitaries like Lud Mayor
Crick, who grew so excited over the visit
of a British-built U.S.S.R. freighter, and
scattered before even a single boo-boo
boy could ask why they had not been
lined up for politicians and bumbles to
operate on.
Some of them had a tale to tell un-
equalled in the naval annals of the war.
They were part of a body of 100 volun-
teers who were sent off from Malta with
the blessing of the Admiralty on the most
perilous of ventures. They were to pene-
trate the Dardanelles and. Bosphorus,
and make their way the whole length of
Rumania and Bulgaria to Turnu Severin,
which is on the Yugoslav border and
only about 150 miles from the Hungarian
border, whence the German invasion of
Yugoslavia started. They were to take
with them an unobtrusive cargo of 100
tons of high explosives, with which they
were to blow the cliffs of the Iron Gates
into the Danube, thus blocking all Ger-
man traffic to the Black Sea.
It meant a mere 2000-mile journey by
sea and strait and river with their load
of jelly packed in flat-bottomed oil
lighters. The Vampires had to pass some-
how through the Dardanelles and the
heart of Istanbul and the Bosphorus.
They actually got to within 50 miles of
their objective after a voyage 900 miles
inland, up a river loaded with German
traffic, through a number of big ports,
passing within about 30 miles of Bucha-
rest.
Then some Rumanian nark spotted
them and reported them to the German
consulate. The Germans broke into a
yell of anguish which echoed round the
world; but their yarn seemed so im-
probable that nobody believed it. It
was no more improbable than the actual
fact that the heroes of the exploit got
away intact. They regarded the whole
business in a purely episodic light—all in
the day’s work in the life an Australian
seaman lives on an 1190-ton destroyer oi
ancient vintage which has been used as
“bait for the enemy shore batteries off
North Africa” —luring them to fire, so
that H.M.S. Terror (now no more) might
turn her 15-inchers on them —and which
is officially credited with sinking seven
submarines, with four possibles, and a
schooner, and with having brought down
three aircraft.
Some of the highlights of Vampire’s
campaigning in the Middle East were the
battles of Calabria and Matapan, 52
days transporting wounded during the
advance into Libya, evacuation duty
in Greece and Crete and incessant con-
voy work, sometimes carried on under
heavy bombing.
Her last two trips were in and out of
Tobruk. Because the “beleaguered”
town was bombed regularly just after
breakfast, lunch and tea and enemy
bombers were waiting for targets when-
ever there was a clear night, the journeys
into harbor with fresh men and materials
had to be made before the moon rose.
In the last visit, the little ship went out
with a fouled blower which sent up a
shower of sparks as an indicator to the
Junkers overhead. She got away un-
scathed. She had no bomb damage to
show for her two years’ experiences,
although on one occasion a splinter killed
a gunner.


C. D. MACLURCAN: Managing Director
Ul
I
SYDNEY
Stay at the Wentv/orth, and enjoy the REAL hospitality for which
this hotel is famed. The Wentworth is dose to business and social
centres yet free from traffic noises. Modern appointments include
new bedrooms with telephones, private bathrooms and toilets.
TARIFF: Room and Breakfast from 13/6, inclusive from 20/-. Our
tariff remains constant the year round; we do NOT follow the
policy of increasing tariff during Christmas. Easter or any other
season.
STAY AT THE WENTWORTH
Who Is Your Trustee?
Poes he possess the knowledge and «» »' “ OC '
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to. act as Executors and Trustees.
Ibis company offers unexcelled trust service combining security and experlenc
ims vompany u with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
0 E. FRIEND F. N. YAEWOOD THOM^ S f£S
CEOIL E H V D °T yLE WHITTLE. Manager. * * £ Aslant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
ill Vi
is:
df
The keen, hollow-
ground Plu ni
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perf e c 11 y
tempered. All
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle,
Blade Size Sin. and 2in. Please
size when ordering.
POST FUEE.
12/6
specify
CRAIG & AITIiEN, 054 George St., Sydney
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Post-war Credits
Australia may have resort to compul-
sory loans in the shape of “post-war
credits” ; this is the Keynes idea of get-
ting over the unpleasantness of asking
the lower-income-earners to contribute
to the war effort in straightout taxation.
The exemption for Federal taxation pur-
poses was fixed by the 1940-41 Budget
legislation at £2OO after failure on the
part of the Government to have it re-
duced to £l5O. Actually, the direct taxa-
tion burden on most incomes under £8 a
week is not heavy, and if the system of
post-war credits is adopted it may be
applied to incomes well in excess of £4
and £5 a week.
In effect, these compulsory loans, now*
operative in Britain, are temporary
taxes; they reduce the income-earner’s
capacity to spend for the duration of the
war, transferring some of his purchasing
power to the Government for defence
purposes, but restore the buying power
to the income-earner when the war is
over. As the money and what it has
been spent on has gone down the sink
of war waste, it would be far better to
treat the levy as a straightout tax, but
“politically” this is apparently undesirable.
The reaction will come after the
war. Then there will be a sudden release
of stored-up purchasing power, and there
will be serious dangers of post-war in-
flation. Certainly the war will be over,
and we may not be so vitally concerned
about the disorder produced by booms
and slumps; but don’t let us forget
that when we were in the throes of the
last depression the general feeling of the
multitude was that war was nothing com-
pared with slump.
Post-war credits, though they have
their disadvantages when compared with
straighout taxation, are better than either
public loans or credit-expansion so far as
prosecution of the war, our immediate
aim, is concerned. They convert public
spending power into Government spend-
ing power more directly than any other
financial method except taxation. It is
production rather than money in itself
that a Government wants in order to
pursue a war, and the taking of purchas-
ing power from potential spenders means
the diversion of production to the Gov-
ernment.
The after-the-war reversion of spend-
ing power to the people should coincide
with the resumption of civil work by the
munitions industries, which will hurriedly
have to look for customers other than the
Government, and to that extent will be
an anti-deflationary measure. But after
the Great War it was found that it wasn t
the first couple of years that were the
hardest. Without the stimulus of any
deferred spending there was a two-year
boom in the British Empire which so
deluded some people that they were led
into the snare of thinking it was a new
order” or something, and a large propoi-
tion of Australian public cos. made the
mistake of watering their capital. The
.majority of them took many years to
rebuild their earning power to anything
like 1918-21 levels. Dividends looked
miserable in relation to the enlarged
capitals.
Britain’s post-war credit problem will
be greater than Australia’s should Aus-
tralia adopt the Keynes system. Britain’s
economy will have to cope with the
release of enormous war-damage insurance
payments as soon as the conflict is over.
What these will actually amount to can
only be guessed at; but at present levels
of tax the post-war credits from wages can
be stated approximately at £125,000,000
a year. In addition, there will be the
release of 20 p.c. of the excess-profits tax
charged on companies. It should be very
clear that, since all the post-war recon-
struction necessary as a result of war
damage, neglect and obsolescence cannot
possibly be carried out in a year or two,
insurance payments will have to be
spread over a period, probably being
made contingent on the completion
of a contract to rebuild. Payment of
post-war credits, though a smaller
matter, will also probably have to be
spread over a period, one reason being
that for a time after the war reconstruc-
tion of industry will be more important
than a quick return to unrestricted civil
spending on luxuries as well as necessi-
ties. But will the people see it that way?
Eric Campbell, formerly a big gun in
the co. himself —he resigned from the
board in June, 1938—has circularised
shareholders in Mt; Morgan (Q.), criticis-
ing the activities of the present board and
seeking re-election. He objects to various
things, and claims that overburden values
have failed to provide enough money to
finance capital expenditure, thus keeping
profits back from shareholders. He also
speaks of “fruitless experiments,” and
says that in the last three years mine
production has been valued at more than
£2,500,000, ore being depleted to that
extent, while ord. shareholders have re-
ceived only £58,000 in divs. The board
has replied that while Campbell was
associated with the co.' the overburden
ratio was only about 3 to 1 and the
grade of ore milled 4.3dwt. gold and
0.63 p.c. copper, whereas during the term
to June 30, 1940, the overburden ratio
was 9.9 to 1, the gold content 2.53dwt.
and copper 0.70 p.c. During the year to
June 30 last the overburden ratio was
10.8 to 1, gold content I.67dwt. and
copper 0.66 p.c. As the overburden ratio
averages 3 to 1 spread over the life of
the mine, the last couple of years have
clearly been preparatory to getting at
the ore on the 7,000,000-ton scheme previ-
ously approved, and later on there should
be periods when the overburden ratio
will drop from above-average to below-
average. “Mining and milling of ore
under the 7,000,000-ton scheme has really
just commenced,” the board says. Over-
burden has had to be removed whether
payable or otherwise; 75 p.c. of the
material dealt with over the past three
years has been overburden. Ore reserves,
it is stated, are still approximately
7,000,000 tons. The Mt. Morgan open-
cut, shareholders should remember, is a
major mining problem, and it has made
the mine distinctly one of delayed
x'ewards. Some reward should not be
long in coming now.
* * * *
Lease-lend is taking vague shape —a
very “departmental” sort of shape. It
will be a complicated matter; already it
is announced by the Minister for Customs
that “import licensing and lease-lend
administration of imports will be in-
extricably interwoven.” To anyone who
has had to get a license for ordinary
cash-and-carry imports that has a rather
horrible sound. “Inextricable” has often
been the right word even with ordi-
nary dealings. The “Government
hopes to obtain a comprehensive range
of civilian requirements” under the
scheme. It isn’t sure whether these will
include petrol or tobacco, U.S. and Aus-
tralian officials are endeavoring to “clarify
principles.” When goods are for civilian
use, they will be subject to Customs duty.
A new division of the Customs will handle
lease-lend. It will have its central office
in Sydney, and will be known as the
Division of Import Procurement. Be-
sides lease-lend licenses and priorities, it
will administer ordinary licensing and im-
port rationing. Price-control powers will
be strengthened. Shipping of ordinary
goods may now be delayed owing to
priorities for specially-required goods. A
list of priorities will be announced. The
U.K. Government, apparently as the
prime “lessee” of the goods, will ask for
a “certificate of essentiality” from the
Commonwealth before authorising lease-
lend exports of civilian requirements from
the U.S.A. to Australia, If Australia is
to get any real benefit out of lease-lend
it is to be hoped that it is not all offset
by tangles of red-tape and official
cumbrousness. But, one hopeful thing
about the picture as it stands, it looks as
though preference will be given to things
not available from Australian factories.
That is an aspect that should never be
lost to sight.
* V * *
The higher div. of Mort’s Dock
(Sydney), from earnings of 11.2 p.c. on
capital, includes 2 p.c. bonus, making
8 p.c. for the year altogether, compared
with 6 p.c. last year. Average distribu-
tion since 1936 has been p.c., with a
period of poor returns before that. The
war has helped Mort’s Dock, but in any
case activity along the Sydney water-
front had been increasing. Mort’s is
interested in general engineering and the
electrical trades as well. The share-
market has taken the co.’s scrip to above
par since the div. was announced.
Though it may be that the directors were
wisely cautious in labelling the increase
in the div. “bonus,” the long-term out-
look of Mort’s Dock should be improv-
ing in view of the shipbuilding activity
now evident in Australia. And if Aus-
tralian industry as a whole doesn’t show
great expansion after this war is over, it
will principally be because we haven’t
handled the economic side of things
Up to date we have done
rather well.
The increased div. of the Australia
Hotel, Sydney, was not a surprise to
anyone who has been in the elaborate
pub during recent months of the war. It
is a great meeting place for soldiers
and their ladies, and on the accom-
modation side it attracts such visitors as
Sir Evelyn Wrench, who said he was
paying 555. a day. Handy position and
modern layout have helped the Australia
at a time when some other pubs have
been finding the going harder than usual.
The div. has gone up from 7 p.c. to
74 p.c., and the shares have lifted to 21s.
Hi *
Castlemaine Perkins Brewery in Bris-
bane has improved in market status in
recent weeks. The 12s. 6d. shares have
lifted to 20s. 9d. Whether Brisbane’s
big brewery has participated in the export
trade brought about by war isn’t known,
but this trade is important at present,
though probably not as important as
Jackett, N.S.W. M.L.A., believes. In
the Assembly last week the member for
Burwood stated that the liquor trade had,
over the last 18 months, “received the
best treatment of any industry in the
country,” adding that in spite of the
shipping shortage the trade had got as
much as 60 to 70 p.c. of cargo space.
“I suggest,” he said, “that there has been
more liquor sent over to soldiers than
would drown them.” Mr, Jackett was
particularly referring to N.S.W. and its
Government’s liquor reform.
* * * *
John William Shaw McArthur was
charged in Sydney last week with having
conspired with O. A. Bridgewater, Arnold
Lovel and William Bryce to defraud
Thomas Kannard, Thomas Carey and
others, between June, 1940, and March
31, 1941. Bail for McArthur was fixed
at £2OO. He was arrested on August 4.
se * * *
From W. A. Oakley (N.S.W.):
Reconstruction of the N.S.W. Department of
Labor seems to be needed. As far back as 33
years ago I was asked by the Government to
make a collection of clays suitable for the manu-
facture of pottery, porcelain, tiles, earthenware
and cement. I was awarded the Gold Medal
Reward for the collection in the Franco-British
Exhibition, 1908. Following this a pottery firm
imported machinery and a ceramic expert from
Europe. • In view of this preliminary activity,
the fact that we are still without an adequate
table-china or porcelain industry is remarkable.
W& have in N. S. Wales deposits of kaolin,
china, porcelain and tile clays equal to the
best in Europe; but for the want of proper re-
search they are still dormant in the ground.
The present represents a great opportunity to
any enterprising manufacturer.
* * * *
In its recently-introduced Budget the
Maoriland Government appropriated
£600,000 for the cultivation of flax, as
against a vote of £350,000 to assist the
local production of steel. Under an
agreement lately concluded the United
Kingdom Government will buy the linen
flax produced from 25,000 acres duting
the war period and a year thereafter.
Prices have been agreed upon for the
1941-42 and 1942-43 seasons. It was
anticipated a short time ago that the
first season’s crop would yield 3000 tons
of fibre—from 14,000 acres. While the
stuff has been growing factories were
established in the Dominion to treat it,
and Britain’s grading expert came out to
attend to his end of the job and tram
Maorilanders in the matter of grading.
Most of the flax is being grown m the
South Island. Linen, important to the
British aircraft industry, has become
doubly important since the Baltic coun-
tries were overrun.


Newsagency Wanted.
ADVERTISER interested in the purchase for
cash of a good sound Newsagency, Book-
seller’s, Stationer’s business, Southern Queens-
land or Northern Rivers, N.S.W., preferred.
Persons interested forward all relevant par-
ticulars to 305, Advt. Dept., Box 252188.
G.P.0., Sydney.
BRANDAUER’A
w.
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BBAHDAOIK * CO. LUL BIRMINGHAM. EKO
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE |
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL, PAID UP £4,739,012 10 •
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL .. .. .. 4,739,013 10 •
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman):
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A, Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.O.
General Manager: C. DarvalL
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout;
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
k>
.X-Xv. .
i’ll never
say ‘No’
to 333 V
\ I
2&ysp6*sei
/
H
mm
mW ■
IB
a?
EXPRESS
t*TE
1296-8.41
The secret is
the 333’s blend
fjufi choice
* Virginia
tobaccos
CORK TIPPED
and pl a I •
9-7 d., 18-1/2
Also Hot fifties f
e miare hundreds
A development of importance last
week was the announcement that the
Federal Budget gap between expenditure
on the one hand and taxation and ordi-
nary loans on the other might be as much
as £90,000,000. This, apparently, is the
result of a lift in projected defence out-
lay from £250,000,000 (the previously
quoted figure) to £280,000,000. How is
the gap to be.financed? It is Australia’s
biggest political problem. If we must
spend over £250,000,000 on defence in
1941-42, then let us acknowledge that we
have spent it and cut our losses imme-
diately by levying direct taxation. Canada
is providing over two-thirds of its war
expenditure from taxation. Can’t we do
the same? We are nowhere near that
ratio up to the present.
jj: * * *
Coal is now “regulated” ; the terms
were gazetted last Friday. The Common-
wealth plans to “rationalise” the industry.
Nobody seems to be pleased. Profits by
owners may be limited to 8 p.c. p.a. Both
owners and miners last week criticised
the appointment of N. Mighell as coal
commissioner on the ground that he had
no previous experience in the industry.
The commissioner will control the pro-
duction, treatment, handling, supply, dis-
tribution, storage, marketing and use of
coal. He can fix prices, open new mines,
reopen old ones and close uneconomic
pits. He may “set up such a system for
the compulsory disposal of coal as he
believes will enable him effectively to
control distribution and at the same
time give a fair return to the owners.
* * * *
Giving evidence before a Select Com-
mittee on Prices and Profits in Mel-
bourne, C. C. Peace, formerly in the
Federal Taxation Department, said that
failure of the Government to control
and tax adequately the excess profits of
monopoly corporations had caused
“grave public unrest.” Private cos. were
treated extraordinarily harshly, but big
Stock Exchange concerns were taxed on
a much lower scale. Peace suggested
that some tax rates had been imposed
as a matter of expediency rather than
equity.
*** . ♦
A new angle on the National Security
regulations was brought before the public
eye last week when Advanx Tyre and
Rubber, of Sydney, was fined £4 on each
of two charges of paying an employee
wages in excess of a specified rate. The
Crown stated that the regulation had been
made to prevent trafficking in skilled
workmen at a time when skilled labor
was needed urgently for defence work.
As most defence contracts were on a
cost-plus basis, higher wages would, in
effect, be paid by the Commonwealth,
while the employer would collect his per-
centage on the inflated cost. Advanx.
it was stated, employed a man at £6 15s.
a week when the maximum wage allow-
able was £6 4s. The co. pleaded guilty,
stating that it had wrongly interpreted
the regulations. The employee had been
receiving £6 15s. a week before joining
Advanx.
A. T. Richardson and Sons, engineers,
of Melbourne, were fined £2 on a charge
of having, while engaged in the manu-
facture of aircraft parts, paid a fitter a
higher marginal rate than specified. The
prosecution averred that the present
scarcity of skilled tradesmen led to em-
ployees being induced to change jobs by
the promise of higher wages by other
manufacturers, thus disorganising indus-
try, Defendants said that they had no
intention of luring men away from other
jobs.
* * * *
Olympic Tyre and Rubber has shown
a net profit of £87,108 for the year to
June 30, compared with £75,152 in the
preceding term, when £45,000 was set
aside for war-profits tax, against £26,500
in the latest period. Earning power of
the business appears to have made no
great movement either way on the figures
disclosed ; though, before providing for
war-time profits tax, profit in the latest
year amounts to £113,608 compared with
£120,152 in 1939-40, depreciation allow-
ance in 1940-41 was £12,998 higher at
£28,878, The ord. div. drops from 144
p.c. to 134 p.c. The Australian motor-
tyre industry has been doing an increas-
ing export business, and in the Common-
wealth military requirements are offset-
ting the drop in civil demands. In
Olympic’s case the manufacture of insu-
lated cable has brought new avenues of
activity. Shareholders are to be offered
116,000 new ords., one for five, to be
called up over a period of 18 months.
« v- * *
Returns of land owned at midnight on
June 30, 1941, are due to be lodged at
Federal Taxation offices by August
31. Returns must be lodged if the land
owned or leased is of an unimproved
value of £4OOO or more and irrespective
of whether it is improved or not, or
whether held in city, suburbs or country.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
A sensational jumping season, in which
Our Boy, Cheery Jack and Methuen pro-
vided highlights, ended with another stir
at Flemington on Saturday. Brightello,
backed from 5 to 1 to favoritism at 7
to 2 for the Australian Steeplechase, gave
such a shocking exhibition that the
stewards inquired into his running. Ex-
planations of the parties concerned were
accepted.
Brightello jumped indifferently, showed
no dash between fences, was hopelessly
placed throughout, and finished last of
the seven runners to complete the course.
He was about 60 lengths behind the
winner, Laveur, and pulled up distressed.
Evidence disclosed that he had contracted
a cold soon after his win in the A. V.
Hiskens Steeple two weeks earlier, but
apparently had responded to veterinary
treatment, and was considered fit to race.
The vet. gave evidence at the inquiry,
and other witnesses testified that they
had put money on Brightello on behalf of
the stable connections. Brightello’s
trainer, D. Mcßae, stated subsequently
that he had had the gelding examined
again before the race,'and that he in-
formed the stewards of the circumstances
before the start.
Laveur gave most bookmakers a
“skinner” when he ran home an easy
winner from Sachem and National Debt.
His starting price of 25 to 1 reflected his
chance on latest form, but he was always
well-placed, ran past the pacemaker,
Lockslea, at the top of the straight, and
wound up with eight lengths to spare.
Laveur is a nine-year-old gelding by Sil-
vius from Lave-a-Fond, and several
years ago was presented by the V.A.T.C.
chairman (Clive Leonard) to J. Mulcahy,
senior. The latter passed him on to his
son, who obtained week-end leave from
his militia camp to saddle him for Satur-
day’s race. Mulcahy, junior, has found
Laveur a splendid money - spinner,
especially at Moonee Valley, but a couple
of years ago it seemed likely that the
gelding would never race again. His off-
hind tendon was almost cut through in
an accident at Mentone, but veterinary
treatment, combined with a spell of about
six months, resulted in his recovery.
N. Bracken, who received a lucky
eleventh-hour ride on Laveur, a horse he
had never ridden before, expressed the
opinion that his mount had it won all
the way and could have gone to Lockslea
at almost any stage. Lockslea’s rider, F.
Dummett, disagrees with Bracken. Dum-
mett considers that Lockslea had the race
won when he broke down at the second-
last fence, and that it was a particularly
game performance that enabled him to
complete the course and finish fourth.
Sachem, who seems fated to keep on fill-
ing minor places, appeared to have every
chance, and National Debt, whose price
eased from 7 to 2 to 7 to 1, was troubled
by 11.7 on a heavy track.
Recent negotiations for the sale of
Gold Strand to India fell through, and the
colt rewarded his owner’s perseverance
by leading practically throughout the mile
of the Chatsworth Plate. He won easily
from Royal Peter and Baji, and, if his
immediate form warrants it, his owner
may consider starting him in the Caulfield
Guineas and Victoria Derby. Improve-
ment, of course, will be necessary, as he
carried only 7.0 on Saturday, but his per-
formance contained good staying promise.
He is by Portofino from Rolvan Queen,
and was bred by his owner, W. G.
Hughes, a Melbourne sporting pressman.
A winner at Randwick when raced on
lease by J. T. Jamieson, he has won two
races since Jamieson returned him to
Hughes. Gold Strand was not nominated
for either of the Cups.
Palencia, a lightly-weighted candidate
for the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups,
recorded the best win of his career when
he defeated Gay Invader and Swettenham
in the Malakoff Stakes; He had run un-
placed over a similar distance, \\ mile,
at Flemington a week earlier, but there
was sufficient backing for him on Satur-
day to force his price from 15 to 1 to
eights. Dashing round the leaders on
the turn, he quickly established a win-
ning break, and was able to withstand a
strong challenge from Gay Invader.
Palencia was ridden by N. Percival, who
left for Brisbane the following day to
fulfil engagements on Lady Buzzard, on
whom he won the Brisbane Cup. Foun-
tain, fourth, was a disappointing favorite,
but Prince Ariel will do better when he
does not have to make his own pace.
Cumulus, winner of the first division
of the St. Aubin Welter, was a martyr
to kidney trouble a couple of years ago.
According to her lessee-trainer, L.
McCann, she almost died, but veterinary
treatment cured her eventually, and she
has developed into a useful stake-winner.
Well-backed on Saturday, she loomed up
on the outside about a furlong from
home, where there was little between
Contact, Air Speed and Dark Felt for
the lead, and outstayed Contact to win
by half a neck. Lusson shaped well
enough in third place to indicate that he
might repay following, and, although
Dark Felt weakened into fourth position,
there is still hope of his living up to the
promise contained in his third to Lucra-
tive in the Victoria Derby. The im-
ported horse Ballycummins, who started
second favorite to Contact, finished last.
In winning the second St. Aubin Welter
Shutone added to the many successes
gained by trainer F. Godby for inter-
state owners. Shutone, a five-year-old
gelding by Shakuni, is owned in S.A., and
was the medium of substantial support.
Ridden confidently by J, Purtell, he ran
to the pacemaker, David Copperfield,
about two furlongs from home, and won
stylishly from Watchguard, who cut
David Copperfield out of second money.
Marcius, backed to favoritism at 7 to 2,
failed to flatter his backers, but he was
chopped right out when going for an
inside run rounding the bend, and that
completely settled his chance. Portico,
winner of his two previous races, had
every chance, but weakened over the last
furlong.
Winterset, purchased several months
ago for 350 guineas, won his first race
for “H. J. Ascot” when he defeated
Virile and Lynton in the Arkaringa
Hurdle, worth £2BO to the winner. He
and Amnesty established a long lead
early, but Winterset drew away between
the six and five furlongs, and was not in
danger of defeat subsequently. Well-
backed Naverino forfeited his chance
when he almost fell at the hurdle oppo-
site the judge’s box. He went down on
his nose, and, although his rider, Douglas,
made a splendid recovery, the mishap
seemed to knock all the steam out of
Naverino, who finished last. Ronalla
made up considerable ground to finish
fourth, and may be a near-future winner.
Solecism justified his short-priced
favoritism for the Knowsley Steeplechase,
but almost “sold out” when he blun-
dered at the third fence in the lane. It
was the only mistake he made, and, re-
covering quickly, he gave a faultless ex-
hibition for the rest of the trip. Leading
throughout, he easily withstood a chaL
lenge from Sir Trac, and won comfort-
ably from that gelding and Wildwood.
* * * *
As with every other Sydney racecourse
nowadays, Rosehill received its full share
of support on Saturday. Betting was
brisk, and as six of seven favorites were
beaten, and two outsiders won, presum-
ably results favored the books, though
some will not admit that at any time. We
often hear comparisons of big bettors —
bookmakers and punters —of the past
and present, but I have no hesitation in
saying that, at suburban meetings, old-
time leviathans would have been stag-
gered if requested to lay bets that are
now common with several prominent
bookmakers,
• • • • • •
In the Flying Handicap Martheus
emphasised the occasional difficulty of
following form. He won brilliantly at
Randwick about six weeks ago, and then,
though backed, ran a poor race at Can-
terbury, and a moderate one at Rand-
wick. On Saturday he was a winner from
the time the field settled down. He
quickly outpaced Reception (meeting him
only 41b. better than a week earlier)
and Brazandt, and was not fully extended
to win by two and a half lengths from
Early Bird, who was being hard ridden
when second-last approaching the turn,
Martheus, who equalled the Rosehill
record of 1.12, is evidently one of those
sprinters that do much better when they
have matters their own way in the early
part of a race than when they have to
fight for the lead. Reception did not do
so well as at his two previous starts, and
was probably feeling the effects of those
hard runs.
Figures and form pointed to Gundagai
for the August Handicap, and, waiting
on Triggerman and Trade, Mark until
the turn for home, he quickly settled Ti ig-
german after entering the straight. Not-
withstanding Gundagai scored so easily,
the time, was only a quarter-second
behind Silver Standard’s Rosehill record.
A 31b. penalty increases Gundagai’s
Warwick Farm Spring Handicap weight
to 7.5, and he should take a lot of beat-
ing in that no matter how he may fare
later on in the Metropolitan with 7.3.
Although there were only five runners
for the Three-year-old Handicap it was
an interesting race. Linemond and
Parsing made the running from Kimbell,
and when the first-named showed slightly
in front entering the straight his backers
expected him to come right on. How-
ever, he responded weakly when tackled
by Kimbell, and then, when the latter
looked a winner, he was vigorously chal-
lenged by It’s Funny, a dead-heat
resulting.
As It’s Funny was giving Kimbell 201 b.
it was a good effort on his part, and per-
haps he may have to be taken into
account for some of the set-weight three-
year-old races. At any rate, he appeared
to dispose completely of Linemond as
a possibility for any of those. It’s Funny
is a strongly-built colt, and since the
death of I. W. Cook, senior, has been
trained by his son. This was It’s Funny s
third successive win, and as his record
for nine starts is four wins, three seconds
and twice unplaced, for £1460 prize-
money, he has done well for a 375gns.
yearling. He is by Constant Son from
Roscome, by Rossendale from Comic, by
Absurd. Going further back on the
maternal side, his pedigree includes some
good stayers. ....
Levraut was reckoned unlucky not to
have won when fourth in Grand Fils’s
race at Randwick earlier in the week.
The result of the Granville Novice Stakes
tended to prove the correctness of that
idea. Third to Winzone and King’s Park
at the straight entrance he led a furlong
from home. A little further on Indian
Emperor looked to have a chance of
catching him, but at the winning-post
Levraut was doing the better. Levraut
looks a horse that might shine in welters,
and, with 9.1, did three-quarters of a
second faster time than that put up by
Connette (8.1) in the Parramatta Handi-
cap later in the afternoon. Panabil and
Plimsol ran well enough to make them
worth following, while Gigli’s bad posi-
tion at the starting-post settled him.
Brumaire, though favorite, never got in
it, and so far has not produced in public
the pace he shows in private. However,
owing to bad behavior he was sent to the
outside at the barrier.
Frampton and Gold Rush shared
favoritism for the first division of the
Maiden Handicap. Neither worked into
a winning position at any stage, and after
Gabriel and La Junta, who did most of
the pacemaking, had shown the way into
the straight, a 25-to-l chance in Winooka
Girl wop by two lengths from Will
Rogers, who had not raced since last
August, and was bleeding on his return
to the weighing-yard. Petasus made a
fair showing, as did Daystar, and neither
should be long in getting out of the
maiden division.
Airdrie and Peruke, the popular selec-
tions for the second division of the
Maiden Handicap, were complete failures,
being the last two to finish. Peruke
was the early leader, but Airdrie was
always a long way back. Cadger, a solid-
looking Silverburn gelding, evidently
found Rosehill more to his liking than
Kensington earlier in the week, and,
finishing well, won nicely from Scarlet
Valley, who made up ground from the
turn. Sparklet was an indifferent third,
and very little ahead of Wellesley, Gormic
and Hariform.
The Parramatta Mile saw Connette
score her third successive win, and as
she again finished brilliantly it is prob-
able she will stay. Galliard and Many
Ways were having a great tussle when
Connette ran up to them a hundred yards
from home, and though the result did
not emphasise Galliard’s Derby chance he
will be useful in handicaps. Don Byrne
was not lucky in running, but even if
more favored in that respect could not
have beaten Connette. Dawn Mary,
after being fairly placed for a long way,
tired in the straight, and Omapo could
not raise a decent gallop, being one of
the last two up to the straight entrance.
Connette is by Constant Son from Bru-
nette, by Magpie from Winsome Queen,
by Comedy King.
* * * *
FOur-year-olds have such a good record
in the Metropolitan that it is not surpris-
ing Lucrative is in strong demand for
the coming one, especially as he has
shown himself at home on Randwick. He
has a pound less than Beau Vite success-
fully carried last year, and his credentials
include the V.R.C. Derby, A.J.C. St.
Leger and Sydney Cup, the last-named
with w.f.a. and in the record time for
the race of 3.20 He is at Randwick,
and, as he looks to have done well since
the spring, the odds are in favor of his
condition being all that could be wished
by the beginning of October. Anyhow,
eonugh will be seen of him in public be-
fore then to give a fair idea as to whether
success in the Metropolitan with 31b. over
weight-for-age is beyond him. In the
last 21 years the following four-year-olds
have won the Metropolitan:
Pershore .. .. 7.8 Regal Son .. ••7.6
Sir Andrew .. 8.6 Waikare .. ..8.1
Bard of Avon .. 7.4 Young Crusader 6.11
Star Stranger .. 8.9 Sir Regent .. .. 7.2
Jocelyn . . .. 8.4 Royal Chief .. 8.13
Loquacious .. 8.11 Beau Vite .. ..9.4
Cragford .. .. 7.5
* * * *
In 1907 and 1908 the Epsom and
Metropolitan double was won by Melo-
drama and Mooltan. At his first win
Melodrama had 8.7, and 9.0 on the
second occasion ; while in his two years
Mooltan carried 6.13 and 9.2. Despite
his substantial rise he won his second
Metropolitan easier than his first. What
has happened once may again be possible.
Last year’s Epsom and Metropolitan
winners, High Caste and Beau Vite, have
respectively gone up 81b. and 71b., but
as the w.f.a. scale allows for 31b. im-
provement in High Caste and 51b. in
Beau Vite at the different distances, it
cannot be claimed that either has been
unduly penalised.
Both are good weight-carriers, and so
many horses have won the Epsom with
over 9st. that it would not be a great
surprise if High Caste again added to the
number. At Randwick in the autumn
he was below his best —possibly he was
feeling the effects of the racing he did
in Melbourne—but he returned from his
recent spell looking particularly bright.
It is asking a lot of topweights to win the
Epsom and Metropolitan, but the double
of High Caste and Beau Vite is far from
being money wasted. Neither is better
treated in the Melbourne races than in
Sydney. It must be added that since
Beau Vite resumed work he has not en-
tirely pleased some of the Randwick
critics —trainers and others. However,
F. McGrath has no misgivings. When
I questioned him on Saturday as to Beau
Vite’s progress, “Couldn’t be doing
better” was his reply,
* * * *
At the recent meeting of delegates at
the Maoriland Racing Conference remits
dealing with the moving or optional
starts as against the present mandatory
start were lost; and a proposal that in
jumping races carrying a stake of £4OO
the maximum weight should be 12st. was
lost.
# * * *
Record time for the Epsom Handicap
is High Caste’s 1.351, and like most other
races of importance it shows the extent
to which our horses have improved in
speed in the last 40 years. Up to 1901
the fastest time was Sequence’s 1.381,
and on that occasion, though carrying
9.4, he fairly lost his opponents. That
time was not beaten until Silver Hamp-
ton did 1.381 in 1910. Amounis was the
first to get inside 1.37, recording 1.36-},
and in 1938 King’s Head cut a quarter
second off that. Those racing men who
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(Before acceptances.)
Laluma Handicap; The Trapper,
1: Gold Strand, 2; Skipton, 3.
Plenty Trial Handicap; Victory
March, 1 ; Havers, 2; Knight
Templar, 3.
Melrose Steeplechase: Mustella,
1 ; Sachem, 2 ; Dorset, 3.
Glenara Handicap : Gay Invader,
1 ; Prince Ariel, 2 ; Rivette, 3.
Kiata Handicap: Tea Cake, 1 ;
Aurie’s Star, 2 ; Unishak, 3.
Argyle Welter: Shutone, 1 ,
Retnuna, 2 ; Rex Buzz, 3.


T. J ONES E CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
OFFICER TYPE MILITARY
OFFICIAL PATTERN
• Abbey quality and Abbey
value are combined in this sturdy
boot. Features include high
military leg, heavy double sole
and stout upper of genuine ooze
calf with calf lining throughout
and waterproof tongue.
The same boot in Zebu Leather, 48/6
ABBEY shoes
316 George Street,
224 Pitt Street.
BOOT
47/6
OOZE
CALF.
believe that horses of 30 or 40 years ago
could gallop quite as fast as those oL :
the present day stress the different
methods of horsemanship and faster
tracks, but the Tod Sloan style of riding
was generally adopted by our jockeys
some time before Silver Hampton made
his record. So far as track improvement
is concerned, some men who have been
associated with Randwick over a long
period doubt whether it provides much
better galloping ground than 30 years
ago. It is probable, however, that it is
faster, but not to the extent of the differ-
ence in lengths between 1.35 i and 1.381-
* * * *
Should Reading return to form, and
as he is only five there is no reason why
he should not, what a great chance he
would have in either the Metropolitan or
Caulfield Cup. In the former his 8.12
is 21b. less than he carried when
second to Beau Vite last year. He
also has 8.12 in the Caulfield Cup.
The w.f.a. scale allows for 51b.
improvement in him at the Metro-
politan and Caulfield Cup distances since
last spring, and if he does anything at all
of account during the next five weeks the
odds now offering against him for both
those races will shorten very consider-
ably.
* * * *
Betting on the A.J.C.’s big handicaps
of the spring is light, and practically
confined to doubles. Lightness of busi-
ness is not surprising considering the
cramped prices on offer against the most
fancied combinations. Session and
Freckles are on top in the Epsom, and
the backer who takes the odds offered
against either with Lucrative as the
second leg must be hungry for a bet,
seeing the meeting does not commence
until October 4. On Monday the order
of horses most in demand was as follows,
and it would not be safe to bet that
some of those mentioned are certain
runners:
Epsom Handicap.
Session, Freckles.
High Caste, Evergreen.
Rimveil, Panchio.
High Rank, Reading, Remarc, Valve.
All Veil, Sun Valley, Winifred, Ensign,
Broadcaster.
Metropolitan.
Lucrative.
Pandect, Veiled Threat, Gundagai.
Remarc.
Beau Vite, Dashing Cavalier, Binnia Hero,
Reading.
Caulfield Cup.
Kindergarten.
Tranquil Star.
Beau Son, Lucrative.
Gundagai, High Caste, Royal Comet, Veiled
Threat.
Melbourne Cup.
Beau Son, Lucrative.
Beau Vite, Kindergarten.
Pandect, Yaralla.
Murmuring, Tranquil Star, Tidal Wave,
Veiled Threat.
Apostrophe, High Road, Lugarno, The
Champion, Yodvara.
* * * *
Yaralla’s owner was not greatly upset
by his defeat at Randwick last week.
“He was giving away a lot of weight,”
was his comment, and 281 b. to Beau Son
was certainly something substantial. Even
at that disadvantage Yaralla slightly
disappointed. He scarcely fought on as
well as expected when Beau Son ran up
to him, and even if McMenamin had
ridden him right out he could not have
defeated Linemond for second. Never-
theless Yaralla’s failure does not put him
into the background for his spring en-
gagements. Beau Son is a medium-sized,
well-balanced colt who looks as if he
might stay, even though some of the
critics fault him on the score that he
is too straight in front. He did his last
week’s task in really good style, and
while it is unnecessary to say anything
about his sire, Beau Pere, his dam, Banita,
should throw stayers. She is by Dark
Legend from Balilla, by Gay Crusader
from Miss Wise, a granddaughter of
Sceptre.
* * * *
If a St. Aubin’s-bred filly does not
win the Gimcrack Stakes for W. J. Smith
it should not be for lack of representa-
tion. They may not be all in training,
but the owner named has 15 in that race,
the sires represented being Beau Pere,
Hua, Midstream, The Buzzard, Enfield,
Brueghel and Kuvera. Smith has not
done nearly so well in the Breeders’
Plate, having nominated only three —two
by Beau Pere and one by Hua.
Owner Cooper adopted a wise policy
in sending Gold Salute to Melbourne.
With most of the best horses now in
Sydney Gold Salute will stand an excel-
lent chance of paying expenses by win-
ning a w.f.a. race or two at an early
date. The Underwood Stakes at the
Williamstown meeting to be held at
Moonee Valley on August 30 carries
£7OO first money, and it does not seem
as if the chestnut will strike strong oppo-
sition. Presumably the Memsie Stakes,
nine furlongs, will be run at the V.A.T.C.
meeting in September, and the Mel-
bourne Stakes, one mile, at the V.R.C.
meeting in October. Both are valuable
stakes, and as the V.R.C. handicapper
gave Gold Salute 9.11 in the Cantala
Stakes he, for one, is evidently of opinion
that few Melbourne-trained horses would
have a good chance against him at eight
or nine furlongs at weight-for-age.
Before he left Sydney Gold Salute’s
track form indicated that he would be at
his best for his first run in Melbourne.
* * * *
As the Victorian Chief Secretary has
recommended to the V.R.C. that racing
inquiries and appeals should be open to
the press, and most of Melbourne’s lead-
ing trainers favor the idea, it may be
given a trial. It has been the practice in
Queensland for years, and occasionally
some trainers, owners and jockeys wished
it were not so, as thpir associations in
betting matters have been revealed to the
public. No fault can be found with the
suggestion of legal representation for
trainers and jockeys at appeals. There
are trainers and jockeys who, consequent
on not grasping the import of questions
asked them, are always liable to get
themselves into a tangle.
* * * *
Four-year-old mare Duvach (Fox-
bridge-Sunny Song), who came to
Sydney with Kindergarten and Monte
Christo, did a lot of racing in Maoriland
last season. She started 20 times for
eight wins and seven minor places.
Duvach is really good at six furlongs, and
at her last start won the Mt. Eden Handi-
cap at the Avondale J.C. meeting with
8.11 (minimum 7.0) in 1.12-J-. ' Early in
the season she won the Gordon Handi-
cap, six furlongs, with 7.8. at the Auck-
land R.C. meeting, beating Kindergarten
(8.8) three-quarters of a length. She has
also won at seven furlongs.
* * * *
All Love and Reading galloped five
furlongs at Rosehill on Saturday, and
without being thoroughly extended did
1.3. Of the two All Love looked the
more forward in condition, and she will
not be far from her best on Saturday
next if she is started for the Cape Sol-
ander Handicap at Rosebery. The maxi-
mum weight for that race is 9st. and the
minimum 7st., the distance being six fur-
longs. Reading wears a healthy appear-
ance, and moved freely.
* * * *
I. Carey, who trained Street Arab,
winner of the Maiden Handicap at Ken-
sington, prepared several good ponies in
the old days, and when he joined the
registered division won, among other
races, the Doncaster Handicap with
Karuma, Street Arab looks like staying,
and if he should work up to Sydney Cup
standard—a lot to anticipate—he would
not be the first horse so named to win
that race. Street Arab, who was by The
Jeweller, won it in 1903. Sydney Cup
winners include two Realms, one in 1893
and the other in 1907. The first was
owned by S. Hordern—father of the
present knight—and the other by L. K. S.
Mackinnon. The latter owner’s Realm
also won the 1906 V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdles and the 1907 Australian
Cup.
* * * »
In the Dwyer Stakes, 1|- mile, at
Aqueduct (New York) on June 21 Whirl-
away further confirmed his claim to be
reckoned America’s outstanding three-
year-old. He had three opponents, one
being Market Wise, whom he beat in the
Kentucky Derby. As on some previous
occasions Whirlaway hung out entering
the straight, and, after he won by a length
and a quarter from Market Wise, a pro-
test on behalf of the latter was dismissed.
The time was 2.3 f. The value of the
race was $8075, and increased Whirl-
away’s winnings to $244,186 (approxi-
mately £73,355). Subsequently Whirl-
away was weighted at 9.6 for America’s
richest three-year-old handicap, the
Yankee Handicap, carrying $25,000.
Nearest him were Bold Irishman and Our
Boots, 8.10, and Robert Morris and
Market Wise, 8.9. It was announced
Whirlaway was not to run, but the fore-
going figures give a fair idea of how
much he is rated superior to America’s
next best.
* * * *
J. Wren’s Murmuring, who has arrived
in Sydney with the A.J.C. Derby in
view, cost 2000gns. as a yearling. A
winner at seven furlongs at Flemington,
he has form to recommend him as a
potential stayer. He is by Bulandshar
from Tea Tattle, by Tea Tray out of
Bouvardia, whose sister, Freesia, threw
an Auckland Cup winner in Cheval de
Voice.
* * *■ *
Kindergarten’s withdrawal from the
Metropolitan did not occasion surprise.
In that he had to concede 71b. to Lucra-
tive, Australia’s best three-year-old colt
of last season. Kindergarten is good, but
it is doubtful whether any of his wins
could be rated 71b. better than that of
Lucrative in the Sydney Cup. In that
race Lucrative carried 8.2. He gave the
A.J.C. Derby winner, Pandect (third),
41b. and beat him over three lengths. In
the Caulfield Cup Kindergarten and
Lucrative have 9.2. Kindergarten was
the principal prize-money winner in New
Zealand last season, his 10 wins, two
seconds and a third returning E. N.
Fitzgerald £7330. That owner won with
seven other horses, and finished the
season with £9913 to his credit, which
put him a long way ahead of E. Hay,
who was second with £3755.
« * * *
Australia’s principal racing clubs have
done their part in contributions to patriotic
and war funds. Since the commence-
ment of the war the A.J.C. (Sydney) has
distributed £35,315, and the V.R.C. (Mel-
bourne) £26,000. With the clubs men-
tioned doing so much for war work any
interference with them would be some-
thing to be deplored, but elimination of
some of the minor meetings near Sydney
and Melbourne would not be a great loss.
* / * * *
It is of interest to read that dogracing,
which became popular in America a few
years ago, is now practically dead in that
country, Florida being the only State in
which it is indulged to any extent. After
all it is not surprising to hear it has
passed out of favor. Even its most ardent
advocates can scarcely contend it is any-
thing more than “something to bet on,”
or that in a big city it breaks the possible
monotony of many people’s evenings.
A racehorse or trotter whose competitive
days are over can be useful in some
other sphere, but that cannot be said of
a greyhound.
M.Q. and Rafferty
In a dull encounter at Brisbane
Stadium on Friday night, lightweight
champion Vic Patrick wore down Len
Fay to win on a technical k.o. in the
tenth. Fay fought on the retreat, and
really wore himself out trying to escape
damage. When the ref. called it off the
Victorian was not so much hurt as ex-
hausted.
* * * *
Inspection of a wide range of Ameri-
can boxing comment shows the scribes in
complete agreement that the Louis-Conn
title fight was one right out of the ordi-
nary. At the end of 12 rounds Conn
was “bright-eyed, dancing, prancing,
recklessly audacious.” The ref. and both
the judges agreed that at that stage Conn
was ahead. He had outboxed Louis ; now
he went in to outfight him —the only way
in which he could have lost. At that
game Louis, with a couple of stone ad-
vantage, was too much for him. Conn
ran into a heavy punch, and, though he
tried gamely, couldn’t pull himself to-
gether again.
Louis’s version of the scrap, given in
an interview last month, was that he had
Conn in the third and again in the fifth,
but couldn’t finish him: “It was Conn
who beat hisself. He fight hisself out in
the twelfth, and then I finish him in the
thirteenth. Anyhow, I know I ain’t as
good a fighter as I used to be.”
* * * *
Jim Molloy, a welter who hails from
England, made his first Leichhardt
appearance last Thursday night, and
proved the sort of scrapper they like at
that address. A tough, game, two-fisted
fighter, with a fair idea of boxing, he
made a draw of it with the similarly-
equipped but much stronger-looking
Newcastle lad Tommy Hunter. A good,
solid mill. Jim Frazer (9.6) rendered
Ernie Underwood (same weight) hors de
combat in the fourth round.
Footbrawl
The V.F. League’s match-of-the-day
on Saturday took place at Richmond —
Tigers v. Essendon. In a staggering first
quarter the Tigers went through the ’Dons
like a patrol from Tobruk through an
Italian post and shot eight clear goals
to 1.2. Essendon pulled itself together in
the Same Old’s way, but atrocious kicking
dogged its efforts. It was 10.2-4.11 at
half-time, and 12.7-7.14 at the last
change ; then the ’Dons staged a grand
final burst but failed to get there by
seven points—l4.ll-12.16.
About the only other game of interest
was between Footscray and Collingwood.
’Wood was better in the air, and ’Scray
forwards stood flatfooted for golden
chances. Collingwood, 10.21 ; Foot-
scray, 7.10.
North Melbourne broke away with a
two-goal lead at Carlton, whereupon the
Blues spat on their hands and got into it
to kick the day’s highest score, 25.19.
North weighed in with 17.15. Seventy-
six scoring shots in 90 minutes is fast
work.
• ••**•
Fitzroy and Sowth was a fast, ding-
dong affair, with the scores even to the
last quarter. Then ’Roy went on to win
16.17-11.14. At Geelong the locals
played Hawthorn to see who kisses Polly,
and the Haw-Haws won the doubtful
honor, going to last place on the list
with 19.15 to Geelong’s 22.12.
- • • • •
Melbourne went to St. Kilda wearing
black armbands for Barassi, rover and
forward, killed in the greater game at
Tobruk —he was for 14 years a Mel-
bourne man. Saints led early, but Mel-
bourne soon overhauled them and ran
out winners by 14.17 to 12.13,
Richmond and Melbourne are certain
to be in “the four.” The other two will
come from Essendon, Collingwood, Carl-
tpn and Footscray—’Scray is still a possi-
bility, since it should beat North next
Saturday, whereas Collingwood has to
meet Melbourne.
!» * 4! *
Saturday’s Sydney Rugby Union
matches furnished surprises. Parramatta
beat East (11-9), Drummoyne staggered
Manly (17-11) and West scored its second
win in 15 matches, running rings round
St. George (34-8).
East, all along a strong fancy for the
premiership, proved inferior in forward
play to the fiery Parramatta lot, though
the visitors’ backs managed two tries to
one, Parramatta was pressing most of
the time and a couple of penalty goals
gave it victory. The success (and Manly’s
failure) gives Parramatta a good chance
of making “the four.” With two rounds
to go University and East are sure. Rand-
wick is third and Parramatta and Manly
are together, fourth.
The forwards won for Drummoyne
also. The Villagers scored only one try
to four —17-11. Uni. put on six tries
to North’s two (27-8), and Randwick
made it six tries also, but Gordon got
three (26-14). West in its brief burst of
glory ran up eight tries to the Saints’ one.
* * * *
Though there’s no Rugby “competi-
tion” among Sydney’s G.P.S. during the
war matches are played to schedule.
King’s (beaten once —by “Shore”) and
“Shore” (beaten by St. Joseph’s) shared the
honors this year. St. Joseph’s was beaten
for the first time in seven years—by Scots
and again by King’s.
» * * *
Sydney’s Rugby League has no
“minor premiers” this season. East,
Balmain and Canterbury-Bankstown
finished the preliminary rounds level with
nine wins apiece. St. George, with eight
and a draw, makes up “the four.”
Lieut. Hugh Purse, killed in action, was
an athletic star of Brighton Grammar
School (Vic.). His father was a Mel-
bourne football captain and played for
Victoria in the 1908 “carnival” side.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The Overseas League wrapped itself to
the ears and sallied forth on an arctic
night to No. 9 to welcome the Wrenches,
a couple whom the cold didn’t seem to
affect —maybe they’re so used to bombs
and air-raid shelters that mere cold
doesn’t mean a thing. On arrival Lady
Wrench tossed a black coat from a lame
dinner gown and later proved herself a
speaker of moment. Less vigorous but
equally sincere was Sir Evelyn’s oratory
—where he drifted towards idealism his
wife was down to earth with the facts of
life and such verbal illustrations of the
pluck of the British people as one
League luncheon at Vernon House. The
upper storeys were on fire, the staff
arrived late because their homes had been
bombed during the night, but 100
members and friends were expecting
lunch that day and they weren’t dis-
appointed. Both Sir Evelyn and his wife
handed so many compliments to J. C.
Farrin Webb that he felt a blush mount-
ing to his cheeks. He and Stephen Morell
at the white-tie table had official sup-
port from their respective wives.
But for the perseverance of the
R.A.A.F. auxiliaries this town would give
cold comfort to the Air Arm of the ser-
vices. As thing are the boys in blue
can always find some place to warm the
cockles of their hearts. At the auxiliaries’
annual meeting at the Oriental it was
announced that in 12 months £4700-odd
had been distributed among A.F.H., the
Welfare Bureau and the Locker Fund.
Amongst those present were Lady Dugan,
“Lady 8.,” Mrs. James McEwen, Mrs.
Eric Harrison, Mrs. Knox Knight and
Mrs. E. A. Daley (the last two members
are, since Sybil Burnett became a
W.A.A.A.F. and a Flight Officer, doing
most of the interviewing at the Bureau).
The Air Chief Marshal came to the meet-
ing and announced himself impressed by
the number of verbal bouquets distributed
among members present.
Planned for the future, chewing-gum
and razor-blade parties, of no kindred
to either razor gang or ex-chewers of
the discarded article which clings like
glue to the shoes of the public. Object
is to help the troops abroad. Major
J. W. Dent, A.H.Q. Commissioner of the
Salvation Army, speaking at the first
meeting of the newly-formed Red Shield
Links of Service Auxiliary, stressed the
needs of the troops from chewing-gum
(which Red Shield men carry right into
the front lines) to mobile canteens. Con-
verted trucks can be used and £350 will
provide an all-service canteen unit.
At this stage of the meeting Major
Dent must have felt a warmth around his
heart, for his “straight-shootin’ ” speech
went over well. His hearers also appreci-
ated the fact that only one and a half
per cent, of Salvation Army donations
goes in expenses, and raised hands with
offers of cheques for the appeal. Among
Major Dent’s stories is one of the Salvo,
man who carried a concertina to Crete
in a nosebag around his neck, afterwards
worth its weight in gold for keeping up
the pecker of the troops.
The new Red Shield Auxiliary is the
ex-Blamey House Women’s Auxiliary, on
its pink ear, its resignation having been
accepted by the Blarney House men’s
committee, who wanted no female within
the doors, whereas the women hoped for
a hospitality bureau and girls in the
canteen. Although vanquished, the women
left their influence behind in refreshing
decor of walls and furniture, a vast
change from the original poorhouse
picture in shades of mud and putty.
New office-bearers elected at the meet-
ing were: President, Mrs. Jim Fitzgerald ;
vice-presidents, the Fraser lady and Mrs.
Russell Clarke; hon. secs., Mrs. E. J.
Kennon and Mrs. Morris Sallmann ; hon.
treasurer, Mrs. G. Christian. Reading
the younger set report Paddy Wilkinson
got a laugh with an ingenuous assertion
that “We at once transferred all our food
to Red Shield House.”
Profusion of hyacinths, of Baillieus
and of French champagne attended the
Gantner-Myer wedding. Every white
hyacinth in the country was booked up
weeks ago for the display at the recep-
tion at Mrs. Sidney Myer’s home, Cran-
lana. Wind and rain presented no prob-
lem, for coconut matting protected light
slippers from wet pathways and the mam-
moth white-satin-lined marquee was re-
plete with heaters, a fountain, crystal
chandeliers, lights in the hearts of
cypress-trees and (instead of cold grass)
carpets and a temporary dance floor.
As Bohemian as the candles in bottles
upon the supper tables was the welcome
to the Lord Mayoral couple at the Vic.
Artists’ Fairy Tales Ball, “You’re rather
early” being the impulsive greeting from
a flustered committeeman. But the pair
were quite equal to the occasion, and
went off amiably in search of a fortune-
teller and a lightning portrait-sketcher.
Floor and music were no great shakes,
but the posters, principally the work of
Marjorie Rankin, Harry Fern and Mrs.
Clive Stephen, were lively fun —most of
them being modern version themes of
fairy tales and nursery rhymes.
Prizes, respectively a pair of crystal
swans and a radiator, went to Mrs. Isobel
Green as a witch upon a broomstick
(having trouble with her false nose ; it
had to be urged into a glass when liquid
refreshment was needed) and Peter Rud-
dock as the Mad Hatter. Among others
present were Captain and Mrs. Donald
Pryde, Wilfrid McCulloch as an Alpine
climber, plus everyday accessories of
A.I.F. boots and shirt, Marie Manniche
as a Danish peasant, Berna Nairn as
a Hawaiian, Wing-Commander Reg
Francis, Lieut. Bill Rodie, Flying-Officer
Martin Houlihan and Elsa Stenning as
a devastating Fatima. Evelyn Gardiner
came along after G. and S. to say a few
words about British morale—the dance
was in aid of Bombed Victims’ Fund.
A Dickinson Monteath camera caught
this glimpse of Mrs. Keith Halley, who
will sell peppermint creams and other
tasty trifles at the Red Cross premiere of
“Fantasia” at the Savoy next Friday, for
by Disney decree first nights of the film
in every capital city must be for patriotic
or social service. Mrs. Lina Bryans and
Mrs. Garnet Curwen, who did the pub-
licity, sold numbers of guinea seats by
telephone, after which 10s. 6d. and 7s.
6d. reservations have presented no
problem whatever.
Produced at Koornong school in the
frosty open air of Warrandyte on Satur-
day evening was “This Is America,” a
mixture of song and folklore —funda-
mentally a way in which the new educa-
tion teaches history. Staff and children
devised the presentation, painted the
scenery and made most of the costumes.
In between times the children sang
spirituals and their own adaptations of
old American melodies. After a prologue
on the Ozark Mountains, came a Koor-
nong version of the “The Devil and
Daniel Webster,” a vastly ambitious
effort for raw talent, but the young
players enjoyed themselves, and the audi-
ence by general consent esteemed interest
value higher than in many amateur
theatrical inflictions —and all in spite of
the cold and the morass underfoot (open-
air entertainments really should take
place in summer).
Braziers stoked by small boys in gum-
boots prevented the whole of the minia-
ture Hollywood Bowl from turning into
a block of solid ice. The projection
house was an ingenious arboreal device
after the style of Polynesian tree-dwell-
ings. Intervals were devoted to popcorn,
and afterwards hot dogs and coffee were
produced at the top of a curly mountain
pathway. By the time the moon rose,
visitors’ eyes had become almost as
accurate as the children’s in negotiating
slippery bush tracks connecting the vari-
ous school cottages. When any con-
gratulations were offered to principals
Clive and Janet Nield (always addressed
by the children by their Christian names),
credit was handed on to the children, but
the couple were delighted to accept con-
grats. upon the arrival of their new baby.
From Sydney
The opening of the Forces’ Reading
Room in Hunter-street was a cheery and
sherry affair. Minister for Education
Clive Evatt did the say-so between five
and six o’clock. There was a fire leaping
brightly at the lower end of the long
room on the ground floor. This room
has two levels—a drop of two shallow
steps leads to the spot where the easy-
chairs and fireplace promise contentment.
Higher up are the mental stimulants,
books and magazines.
The curtains on the windows hang
green and graceful from their brass fit-
tings. Margaret Walkom, a committee
member, whispered with pride that they
are of hessian, cleverly dyed. All the
services and the merchant marine will be
welcome at the rooms every day from
ten in the morning till ten at night.
Highbrows may say that Sydney lags
behind the other cities of the world
musically, but in one thing at least visit-
ing composer and conductor Anderson
Tyrer says this city leads. In his 14
years of travel around the earth he had
never heard of a lunch-hour music club
till he came here. He said that at last
week’s Music Club’s concert in
History House. But Sydney has two.
There’s a Friday one at the Collegium
Musicum also. These concerts at
History House are a grand mixture of
friendliness and music. First you pop
in at 12.30, have a sandwich-and-coffee
lunch upstairs, and then drink in harmony
on the ground floor.
The Anderson Tyrers were guests of
honor at the recital. He was talk-
ing (under pressure) about his “Dr.
Faustus,” which was the much-discussed
work of the A.B.C. Town Hall concert
last night. “Dr. Faustus,” like most of
Mr. Tyrer’s compositions, was in whole
or in part written at sea. Directly he
steps on a ship, whether it is because he
has more leisure, or because of a sea-
faring Danish forebear, he feels the
urge to make music. And what is more,
he can always wheedle the loan of the
chart room on the captain’s bridge for
the deed. Mrs. Hope Gibson represented
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra women’s
committee. Una Gibson, William
Krasnick, Victor McMahon and Eunice
McMahon supplied music as gentle and
bright as spring flowers on green grass.
Margaret Gillespie, who is an inspired
hostess, introduced everyone to the people
he or she wanted to know.
Last Friday evening film actress Betty
Bryant became the bride of Maurice
Silverstein, who is one of Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer’s men. The two were
made one by Miss R. Orr, regis-
trar of Waverley. Betty charmed
all who saw her in her pale-grey
frock with its full and pleated skirt.
Her hat with its high crown and
minute brim was cyclamen-toned and
cyclamen-veiling trimmed. Joan Bell,
Yvonne Ledez and Joan Symonds
’maided. M.-G.-M.’s Australian manager,
N. R. F. Freeman, was best man. Step-
father J. Patterson, of Waverley, squired
Betty to the pact-signing. Later Mr. and
Mrs. Patterson received at the Hotel
Bondi.
Mrs. Arthur Scrivener and Mrs. Harold
Bott arranged the music afternoon for
the Mayoress’s clothing fund, which re-
sulted in a crowded drawing-room at the
Town Hall. Dulcie Blair, Mildred
Hill, Dorothy White, Constance Pick-
worth, Hazel Kelso King and Dickie
McLachlan were the music-makers.
Hazel not only sang, but had made
her own songs. She is developing
her talent for song-writing, and her musi-
cal conceptions of Herrick’s “To Julia’s
Clothes” and Padraic Colum’s “Cradle
Song” were much praised. Olive Kelso
King is a writer of verses that stay in
the memory, so perhaps soon there will
be poems by Olive set to music by Hazel
Kelso King.
The mannequin parade at Prince’s last
week started with nighties and such, and
went on with suits for the morning stroll,
frocks for afternoon occasions and
swooping dresses for the evening. Frocks,
hats and furs were such as to charm the
fancy of the 400 or so women and men
(yes, there were quite a few men) who
gazed and later nibbled the appetising
brioche in the cause of the Free French
appeal. Some imagination was displayed
in the choice of names for the sartorial
creations: Mimi Pinson, La Fayette,
Malmaison (though nobody can ever hear
that without hearing the husky voice of
the charwoman in Travers’s “Rookery
Nook”: “ ‘Malmaison,’ it’s called, and
everybody knows that means bad
house”) and Bagatelle. Free France in
the Pacific was exemplified in Tahiti and
Noumea, two evening frocks. The
show was run by Mrs. Bertie Kelly, Mrs.
Andre Brenac, the Moxham lady and
Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere. Heather Mc-
Leod and Eve Playfair sold programmes.
When Speaker of the Assembly Dan
Clyne pulled away the Australian flag
on Wednesday night last, there was
gentle Rod Quinn, looking down on the
Fellowship of Australian Writers’ Club.
Presently, when the poet rose up in the
flesh and stood by his portrait, so
naturally limned by artist Hayward Veal,
it seemed members of the Fellowship
could see what a “speaking” likeness
this was. Started off by president Frank
Davison, eulogies of the poet permeated
the atmosphere, and Dan Clyne and
Arthur Crocker swept the audience back
to the poetical ’nineties, when The
Bulletin backed the winners of the
poetry stakes. Will Lawson had written
a poem for Rod’s great occasion, and
Dulcie Deamer declaimed “The Camp
Within the West.”
Mrs. Jane Bernays is on the golden
trail once more. As secretary for the
women’s committee of Scots College
Parents and Friends’ Association she is -
out with her little pick (it’s really a
fountain-pen) to knock off a nugget or
two to buy equipment for the R.A.A.F.
One of the nuggets will materialise from
the “Spring in the Air” fashion parade
to be presented by Anthony Horderns’ at
the Trocadero on August 26. Megan
Edwards, star of “That Certain Some-
thing,” will be leading lady of this show
also. Megan, though you can’t tell it
from this photograph, is wearing a very
smart suit of slacks. To be remembered
that the season’s note will be beige—-the
shade has been cribbed from the little
Mexican ponies. Promised, too, are
dramatic reds, oranges and emeralds.
There’s to be a concert for Air Force
House at the Australia on Thursday, the
21st. Mrs. Robert Dixson is the organ-
iser ; Mrs. Graham Pratten the secretary.
Lady Wakehurst has promised to be
there.
The maps painted so carefully and
beautifully by ancient cartographers must
charm all visitors to the Map Exhibition
in David Jones’s Market-street gallery.
The borders are even more absorbing
than the depicted lands and seas. Here
are angels blowing fair winds from the
north, the south, the east and the west.
Here are tiny figures robed, turbaned,
sometimes with umbrellas, sometimes
with fans representing the inhabitants of
the exotic lands so far away from the
home of the navigators of old. Here
is Australia, upside down. Here are
notes and little drawings for the “Bene-
vole Spectator.”
The pictures show Etna in full blast,
buildings being toppled into the sea by
the moving earth, the ebb and flow of
the tides. One map of the world has a
circular border which is a calendar; on
this all the Saints’ Days are marked
very prominently. In a corner of one
of Pieter Goos’s maps there’s a lady
riding a dolphin. Here are maps of
middle-age—such as the embroidered
one of the Pacific minus Australia, done
by Mrs. Cook before her husband had
discovered this' land. If any hint had
reached the lady that some other in the
same line of business as her captain had
sighted such a spot, she ignored the hint.
There is one so much of our times that
on it is marked the spot where the Bis-
marck was sent one hundred fathoms
deep by the British Navy.
The exhibition was opened by Lady
Wakehurst. Its organisers were Mrs.
Hargrave and Mrs. Mary Irvine. Its
committee’s president is the Halse Rogers
lady. It benefits the Malta Relief and
the Australian Flying Doctor services.
The night of Thursday, the 21st of this
month, is marked on the calendar of the
members of the Old Sydneians’ Union.
With their best girls they will dance 'at
the Trocadero. For the first time there
will be debs, at the Sydneians’ Ball—
Sydney’s Mayor and Mayoress will
receive them. The Salvation Army War
Comforts Fund will gather in the golden
harvest.


MACMILLAN BOOKS
THE VOYAGE
By Charles Morgan
A story of a French winegrower and his love
for a celebrated dancer. The scene is France
of the 1880’s.
The James Tait Black Memorial Prize has been
awarded to the author for this book, as the
best novel published in 1940.
Price 11/6; posted 13/-.
THE MAN ON MY BACK
By Eric Linklater
All who have enjoyed Linklater’s novels will
wish to read this book, which is his auto-
biography.
Price 16/-; posted 16/9.
THE SAVOY OPERAS
By Sir W. S. Gilbert
Complete text of the operas, 1875-1896, in
one volume.
Price 14/6; posted 13/3.
Selected Operas, Pirst Series —
Trial by Jury, Patience, Yeomen of the Guard,
Gondoliers.
Price 3/3; posted 3/7.
Selected Operas, Second Series—
H.M.S. Pinafore, Pirates of Penzance, lolanthe.
The Mikado.
Price 3/3; posted 3/7.
These books may he obtained from booksellers;
ivholesale only from
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE AND PONDON, W.C.3.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM
6AM
6KG
6GE
Perth ....
Northern. .
Kalgoorlie
Geraldton
500 watts
2000 watts
500 watts
500 watts
Tee., Perth
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s
I . ho use
woD ON SHOPS.
. 'TV»V« s^a^"’
ncci •** W the
e a n n ° u
effort. ««>,
Co*** 000
tjs%m
Uhrtl^Sl
■'St"/'-
/
..and it’s wonderful how much
you can do for so little-when you
USE MASONITE
® The Federal Treasurer, concerned with war
economy, has put the brake on new building.
But his edict will not unduly handicap those
who perceive what practical miracles of modern*
isation (in both homes and business premises)
can be achieved with the most versatile of all
building materials—Masonite. These steel-strong,
easily worked, conveniently-sized boards—avail-
able in densities and thicknesses for every
interior requirement are undoubtedly the
paramount building investment of the war years.
Not only durable. Masonite is infinitely adapt-
able to every architectural design, finish and
it Masonite boards are made in Australia from
Australian timbers hitherto thought commer-
cially useless. They possess the advantages
of wood without its disadvantages. Masonite
is used for both modernisation and new con-
struction; for floors, counter tops, for “tiling".
for partitioning —in fact, for **l.ooo uses".
treatment. They make possible a type of
modernisation which will still be up-to-date
when the war is forgotten. You should have
samples and details. Get in touch with the
Building Materials Division of The Colonial
Sugar Refining Company.
d
PRESDWOOD .■. TEMPERED PRESDWOOD .
. QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
TEMPRTILE
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD (Building Moter.gls Division) Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perth
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
Probably because they’d heard
something from former visitors, the
ratings of the U.S. cruisers Northampton
and Salt Lake City hardly gave the ships
time to berth at Brisbane before most
of them were racing ashore. There they
were swamped by the younger female of
the species, and no Australian service
man on leave in Brisbane that night and
looking for a girl was in the race. State
“heads” were caught short by the un-
announced arrival, but it didn’t take them
long to set the junketing going, and soon
the newspapers were declaring that the
welcome “equalled that extended to the
U.S. squadron last March.” To press
inquiries as to the reason for the visit
Rear-Admiral Taffinder, in command,
replied “We’re here because we’re here.”
Australians put their own construction
on that, and the Americans were given
the freedom of the place, the State Liquid
Fuel Control Board even promising to
find them “an emergency issue” of petrol
tickets for the R.A.C.Q. sightseeing cars.
The ships came from Honolulu.
» * * 3?
“Norther”: T.I. pearling lugger skip-
pers are finding it hard to get native
crews. Lugger pay is about £3 a month,
and that much or more can be got in a
week ashore. Murray Islanders, who
have the best reputation as workers, are
particularly scarce, as a lot of them are
working on T.I. road jobs.
* * . * *
“Bada”: A patrol is now pushing in-
land from Wide Bay (N.G.) on a punitive
job against the Makolkol crowd that
raided Rakan village. Finding the killers
is a tough job.
* * * *
“23-4”: Ingham Court struck some-
thing new in objections to military ser-
vice. A naturalised subject, called on to
explain why he hadn’t attended for medi-
cal examination, referred the Court to the
National Security regulation under which
naturalised aliens are not allowed to pur-
chase land, and said that if he could not
own a home in the country he didn’t see
why he should have to fight for it. It
cost him £8 6s. in fines and costs, but
he left an uncomfortable feeling in that
court.
* * ♦ *
“K.L.0.”: Jens Sorensen is dead
in Brisbane at 102. He left Denmark at
35 and arrived in Queensland in time
to get a job on the Brisbane-Ipswich rail-
way construction, after which he knocked
around for a bit and then took up land
near Mt. Coot-tha. He was still able to
work when he retired at 80. In 1864
he was classed medically unfit for mili-
tary service in the war between Denmark
and Germany,
* * * as
“T.H.”: A team of Victorian bowlers
on the green at Tweed Heads watched
their skip trundle a bowl towards the
jack. They gasped as an Sin. fish fell
from heaven, landed in front of the bowl
and deflected it clean off the rink. The
bowler picked up the wriggling fish, held
it while the other players got rid of their
astonishment and then pitched it into
the Tweed. Before it reached the water
it was snapped up, probably by the same
gull that dropped it. The end was de-
clared dead, like the fish.
3P * * $
A good man put the milk-bucket down
when Charlie McGrath passed over the
other day, nearly 80. Over 40 years
ago, as assistant to John Mahon, he took
a travelling dairy round Queensland to
wean farmers from the tar-barrel and
muddy-stick method of making butter.
McGrath coached a few hundred students
at the Queensland Agricultural College,
Gatton, Later he was appointed an in-
structor at large, director and judge and
held other administrative posts of high
calibre.
* * * *
“23-4”: When the Australian-made
Bristol Beaufort bomber begins its tour
of Australia it will be under the com-
mand of Captain T. R. Young, a Bris-
bane man who has been flying for 20
of his 42 years. He joined the R.A.A.F.
in 1921, and after three years at Point
Cook got into commercial aviation, work-
ing with Edgar Percival, Later, with
Jack Tracy and Ron Adair, he joined
Qantas and was engineer-in-charge of its
Brisbane flying school. His 11,000 flying
hours include a world record for com-
mercial flying of 3000 hours on the one
machine. This was spread over 2\ years
and the ’plane ran 99 p.c. to schedule.
* * * •
“J.K.”: Australia’s first ginger factory
is to be built at Buderim Mountain.
About 50 growers have formed a co-
operative and expect to market 150 tons
of finished product next year. Australia
uses about 1250 tons a year. The stuff’s
hard to grow and costs about 3d. per
pound to produce. The co-op. expects
"You Wait!”
a return of 5.7 d. Average yield is about
six tons an acre.
* * * #
“Hyer”: Jim Clyne, of Ulva, is dead.
Nobody was sure of his age, but he had
some good stories of the early days of
Maryborough and Gympie. He once
managed Pinkenba meatworks, then ran
the Burketown show before joining
Fletcher and Storey in the Torrens Creek
works. After the partners sold out Clyne
took up The Springs, near Aramac, sold
that and went on to Ulva about 20 years
ago. He started it with sheep, but rank
growth and dogs were too much, so he
switched to cattle, coming back to sheep
a few years ago. A breezy bloke, he was
a voracious reader and a straight critic
of books and their writers.
* # *
“Poi-poi”: A firebreak 400 miles long
is something to write home about, and a
Townsville correspondent has done it.
He claims it is being ploughed with a
25-horse team in the Hughenden country,
where a rich season has brought the
danger of extensive grass fires. North-
west of Townsville many more breaks
are being made.
* * * *
“Balander”; If a report from Mucka-
dilla, out from Roma, is true, the dreaded
spur-throated locust, the curse of Africa,
has reached Australia, A paddock of
young wheat vanished in a few minutes,
and the report has it that the pests are
gobbling up belar, sandalwood, ironbark.
wilga, lapunya and other
scrubs, which suggests they
are something vastly dif-
ferent from the grasshoppers
that swept the south in the
summers of 1934-38. They
wouldn’t tackle timber; in-
deed, they changed course
whenever a timber-line was
met. The Roma insects are
reported to be clustering on
trees so thickly that solid
branches break with the
weight and a “Government
entomologist is making in-
vestigations and experiment-
ing with poisons.” If they
are the real thing it’ll take
more than a Government
entomologist to stop them.
“Si Arm”: “Uramao” needn’t wonder
(B. 30/7/’4l) how the Empire’s airmen will
adapt themselves to the daily routine of
civilian jobs when peace comes after the
thrills and adventures they are having
over Europe. Monash was just as good
an organiser of the Victorian Electricity
Commission as he was of an army.
Most of his officers, good subordinates
in the military service, became good sub-
ordinates in private or public service. Of
the V.Cs. I knew one became the man-
ager of a big film circuit, and another an
oil magnate.


THE SERVICE MAN
"Hushed at the Vital Hour?"
“Fong Tsz”; Sir Ernest Clark,
Governor of Tasmania, said at the week-
end, “speaking with knowledge and re-
sponsibility,” that “Australia is now in
much more danger than Britain.” Sir
Ernest is not a service man, and service
men with equal “knowledge and respon-
sibility” may not go all the way with
him, but. Mr. Menzies regards the situa-
tion in the Near North as “most critical.”
On Wednesday Mr. Eden said that the
British ambassador had “pointed out to
the Japanese Government that someone
in authority in Japan was endeavoring to
manufacture a case for Japanese inter-
vention in Thailand” ; and the ambassador
had declared that such a step would “in-
evitably cause a most serious Anglo-
Japanese situation.” Mr. Eden added
that a threat to Thailand would be a
threat to Singapore. The same day Mr.
Cordell Hull, in Washington, declared
that the United States was interested in
the integrity and independence of Thai-
land, and that a Japanese occupation of
Thailand would be regarded by his Gov-
ernment as menacing American security
and endangering American territory in
the Pacific.
The immediate response to this was a
declaration by Mr. Ishii, the Japanese
Cabinet spokesman, that Japan’s relations
with Thailand were peaceful and that the
fears of Messrs. Eden and Hull were
created by their own conjectures, and
unwarranted. He said that Japan had
no desire for a joint defence agreement
with Thailand; all it wanted was
economic co-operation and a linkage of
currencies.
The Thais are a curious people,
modern-minded and usually underrated by
those who have not been in close contact
with them. They have a greater flair for
mechanical things than most Orientals —
they have had one or two of the world’s
best motor racing drivers —and they can
be either very friendly or very stubborn
and determined. They have a country
the very nature of which is in itself a
strong defence. The Thai army and air
force were modernised before that of any
other Far Eastern nation except Japan
—at one stage the Siamese air force was
at least the equal of the Japanese in
number and quality. So soon as it be-
came clear that Thailand was to be con-
sidered the test case in the Far East, Mr.
Pan Anonda, Director-General of Com-
merce, remarked that Thailand contem-
plated no special treatment for any power
and that Japan had not approached Thai-
land for preferential trade treatment.
A couple of days afterwards Bangkok
Radio announced:
Thailanders will never retreat. They will
defend their country to the last drop of
their blood. Thailand does not need the
protection of any power.
A Thai Minister, Luang Vichitau Vada-
karn, reported this on Friday after a
Cabinet meeting. He said Thailand
would impose no censorship. All through
the Orient, radios and papers rumbled
abuse and rumor. The theme of Japan-
ese argument mainly was that what agree-
ments Japan came to with other coun-
tries was Japan’s own concern. “What,”
asked Tokyo Radio, “would Mr. Cordell
Hull have said if Japan had interfered
with the United States occupation of Ice-
land, or with the Anglo-American
arrangement for the establishment of
bases in the British West Indian islands
and Newfoundland and the exchange of
strategic points in mid-Pacific?”
The obvious answer is that the United
States is not a member of an aggressive
totalitarian alliance, and that, anyway,
Japan has no interests either in Iceland
or the West Indian islands, whereas
America not only has vast investments in
the Far East, especially in oil, rubber and
metals, but also has the responsibility of
maintaining its trade routes and of pro-
tecting the Philippines. They are within
a few hundred miles of Japan’s latest
venue of operations.
A further accusation that Britain and
the United States have “interfered with
the Batavia Government” and that “if the
Indies were only independent they would
co-operate with Japan” answers itself. If
Japan is free to protect Indo-China, John
Bull and Uncle Sam certainly have every
right to back up the colonial territory
of Britain’s allies the Dutch.
Argument, however, matters little in the
face of action. Everywhere, in China
and Manchukuo as well as Indo-China,
Japan is reported to be mobilising
resources and man-power and moving
troops and naval and air units. Every
strategic point in Indo-China has been
occupied—Mr, Ishii says “for adequate
defence only”—by substantial forces of
soldiers. And there have been stories of
clashes between Japanese and Soviet
troops.
In Bangkok on August 5 it was officially
announced that the Thai eastern tank
corps headquarters had been established
in the recently-ceded area along the Cam-
bodia frontier, and only 35 miles from
Siem Reap, where the Japanese estab-
lished themselves on the previous day.
Troops, too, have been pouring into
Singapore and into Burma, and it has
been made clear that any invasion would
be resisted by the A.I.F. and British
and Indian troops, and by the might
of the R.N., R.A.F. and R.A.A.F.
which have been based on Singapore.
Britain and the United States have the
strongest defensive units ever assembled
by European Powers in eastern Asia.
The Dutch East Indies is almost fully
mobilised. Apart from our own naval
and air units, two American 9000-ton
cruisers—Northampton and Salt Lake
City—entered the Brisbane River last
week. One carries 10 8-inch guns, the
other nine. They are slightly stronger
in gunpower than the Australia and Can-
berra. The Navy Minister says that they
are not the only ones in the proximity
of the Australian coast. And the Philip-
pines have been placed on a war footing.
It is a situation in which Britain and
her Dominions are largely in the hands
of others —one which is not less un-
pleasant and dangerous because it
depends for its outcome largely on the
mutual reactions of Japan and the United
States.
While Japan disclaims warlike inten-
tions, some Japanese moves suggest
preparation for the worst. Japanese have
been called home from the ends of the
earth. The reason given for the exodus
from the Commonwealth is that the freez-
ing of Japanese credits makes it impos-
sible for Japanese business to be carried
on. The fact remains that arrangements for
the evacuation began before the Indo-
China affair, which was preceded by the
homing from England of M. Shigemetsu,
the Japanese ambassador in London,
with most of his co-nationals in Britain.
The evacuation from Britain was laid to
the account of the bombing. Most British
communities already have been removed
from centres of likely trouble along the
China coast. Americans have been with-
drawn from Shanghai, and are about to
be withdrawn from Japan.
Evidently the extent of the Japanese
losses in China has been exaggerated. All
the same, Japan faces a serious economic
situation. The recent rains which swept
the countryside did millions of pounds’
worth of damage, swamping out fields,
roads and towns. Reports of metal and
fuel shortages which are reaching the
outside world are too authoritative to be
disbelieved, though they are probably
exaggerated.
Before the P.M. referred to the situa-
tion as “most critical,” Mr. Menzies
defined the Australian attitude —he had
been invited by a Japanese pressman to
say something which might pour oil on
the troubled waters;
We in Australia still pray for peace in the
Far East, and still offer no cause for
offence to our great neighbor in the north.
We are still standing almost hushed at the
most vital hour in the history of Australia.
It is a vital hour, because the next few
weeks may well determine the future course
of policy in this country Australia has
never had a Government which has not
had peace in the forefront of its policy,
but Australia has never yet been prepared
to place herself in a position in which she
would bargain away her own integrity and
show a want of courage or capacity to de-
fend herself.
Australia is certainly in a strong posi-
tion of defence, and its isolation is a
great asset. But Australia can take no
chances, and, if war should come in
southern Asia, there its front defensive
lines must be laid down with every ounce
of available strength. War must be kept
off this continent at any cost.
The Thailand situation is very danger-
ous. The whole Far Eastern situation is
complex and mixed. On Sunflay night
Tokyo Radio adopted a belligerent tone.
It was said that Britain was sending
troops to the Thai border with the deli-
berate intention of luring Japan into con,
flict; that Britain was, in fact, “working
out a well-thoughf-out plan to lead, Japan
into war” with herself and the United
States. Australian news was repeated at
length, and it was stated that the Austra-
lian papers, “as usual,” were giving vent
to the “wildest surmises and worst fears”
about Japan’s intentions, and, since it was
believed that the United States was
obliged to defend Australia, Uncle Sam
was being urged to take a stronger stand.
In Moscow, the announcer said, M.
Losovsky had stated that there was no
truth whatever in newspaper reports that
Japan had made demands on Russia, in-
cluding the demilitarisation of Vladivos-
tok.
In the midst of all the flurry the be-
lated Japanese liner Kasima Maru
arrived on Saturday. When the Indo-
china crisis developed, she had turned
north. Her identification marks were
painted out. There was a nightly black-
out. Dutch patrol aircraft passed over-
head, and a Dutch destroyer party paid
a call on her.
The Kasima Maru brought to Sydney
the new Japanese Consul-General, M.
Itsuo Goto. This gentleman said that his
country would have been scarcely likely
to send him to Australia had it contem-
plated war against Australia. He did not
think Japan had any warlike aims against
the Commonwealth, and he felt sure that
nobody wanted war in the Pacific. Also,
he knew nothing of the impending depar-
ture of large numbers of his nationals
from Australia, but added that if there
was no trade it was, perhaps, useless for
Japanese engaged in trade to remain.
The future movements of the Kasima
Maru are described as “indefinite.”
Uncertainty in Russia.
“Ek Dum”: Only the event will show
whether the first week of August saw
another stage of the German invasion of
Russia completed. There are no inde-
pendent observers. Military missions and
friendly foreign correspondents are no
more welcome at the Russian battle-front
than Friends of the Soviet are upon
Soviet ships in Sydney. For many months
before June 22 the Moscow censorship
was such that virtually all important
newspapers and newspaper groups had
withdrawn their correspondents. There
are still foreign writing men in Moscow,
but they take their tune from Moscow
Radio.
The Germans established their tech-
nique in the Greek campaign. They not
merely severely discouraged neutral cor-
respondents, but closed the German fron-
tiers and cut off communications by tele-
phone and telegraph as well -as radio to
prevent news leakage.
Developments in the past week failed
to support newspaper and wireless stories
that the Russians were launching vast
counter-attacks and that the enemy was
hard put to it for excuses to explain his
devastating losses. The Germans claimed
to be winding up a great battle of “anni-
hilation.” Mention of geographical
names showed that their armies had pene-
trated to within 50 miles of Kiev on two
sides and to within a few miles of the
Moscow-Leningrad line —at Kholm, north
of Vitebsk; but the significance of these
facts was discounted.
Much more attention was given to a
Losovsky assurance that the “German
army” had “begun to disintegrate” and
was “nearing ruin and rout,” and to
Red Army reports —incidental to claims
of the smashing of division after divi-
sion—that the enemy had had to throw
in old men and boys (“in one sector
junior cadets from Berlin took part in
the fighting, and most of them surren-
dered”), and that prisoners taken at Bye-
laya Tserkov, 45 miles south of Kiev —
where the German-Hungarian armies
had evidently advanced 70 miles in three
days—had “subsisted on cats, dogs and
field mice and been tortured by thirst.”
The first rift in the lute was a subtle
change in the wording of Russian com-
muniques. They began to speak of battles
“in the direction of” Smolensk and vari-
ous other towns. It became only too
clear that painful possibilities outlined
on this page last week had become sorry
realities. The Germans were not only
dangerously close to Kiev but were also
at Uman, 120 miles or so to the south (as
the Hungarians had suggested a week
previously). They had cut the railway
system of the south-western Ukraine. If
they had not actually cut the main line
from Kiev to Odessa they were approach-
ing positions where the cutting could be
done. Obviously they were not in the
region south of Kiev in only tenuous
strength, because reports from both sides
stressed the magnitude and intensity
of the battles which were going on there.
It was also admitted that fierce battles
were in progress at two points on the
Dniester for bridgeheads over the river.
One of these drives was aiming to make
straight for Uman, which is only 100
miles from the Dniester. The other
sought to force a crossing at Tiraspol,
about 50 miles from the river mouth. A
crossing here would immediately threaten
the great naval port of Odessa. It would
also threaten Odessa’s railway communi-
cation with the Dnieperstroy region and
other sources of armament supply, and
with Moscow itself.
The whole of the Black Sea coast west
of the Crimea was in jeopardy. The Ger-
mans held Koresten, a rail junction, 100
miles north-west of the Ukrainian capital
itself. South-east of that their spearhead
was at Korostyshev, 50 miles from Kiev.
Another was battling on the southern
railway at Byelaya Tserkov. Another
strong body was 70 miles to the south
again, and the other two forces were
forcing the Dniester between that point
and the sea.
Berlin Radio asserted at mid-week:
Our divisions have now encircled Kiev.
Everything is ready for the final attack....
So far our armies have not seen the city:
only the Luftwaffe. A Panzer division got
within 12 miles of it, but tanks cannot cap-
ture this strongly-defended modern fortress.
The position on the central front was
not more reassuring. The Germans
claimed on Wednesday that they had won
“the decisive battle for Smolensk,”
though no outsider was able to assess its
significance, save from one or two geo-
graphical facts. One break-through to
Kholm and a second to Roslavl, south of
Smolensk, might be the poking out of two
new horns intended to cut the Moscow-
Leningrad railway on the north, and the
main feeder lines from the Dnieperstroy
region to the Moscow region in the
south ; and to curl round Moscow, which
the Germans continued to assert would
be theirs this month.
Moscow suffered several air raids.
These, it was stated, had done little
damage, because of the excellence of the
A.A. defence, the press giving credit to
“a new electric detector, invented in the
U.S., which can instantly and accurately
locate enemy ’planes 50 to 60 miles
away.” It was suggested that this inven-
tion might be presently sent to London
for the benefit of the uninventive English.
The yarn was somewhat spoilt by the fact
that the only radio-location system of the
type which is known to exist was in-
vented in Britain and Australia, though
it is being manufactured in U.S.A., which
has been given the benefit of British
experience.
As for the Leningrad sector, a “Times”
correspondent described the German pro-
gress as “snail-crawling.” The terrain,
he wrote, was difficult; the Russian re-
sistance fierce. Finns coming down from
the north had taken a long time to over-
come long distances. The Russians had
thrown the Germans back north of Lake
Ilmen —100 miles south of Leningrad—
and in the Kholm marshes, another 100
miles south.
The “Times,” while discounting the
German High Command’s claims as
“extravagant,” summed up with a salu-
tary warning: —•
It would be very unwise either to be-
little the extent of the enemy’s advance—
he has reached a point in the Smolensk
sector nearly 500 miles from the demarca-
tion line in Poland —or believe his ener-
gies have been spent. He still has abundant
resources in men and material. He is still
profiting from the effect of his treacherous
attack. He may still have very unpleasant
surprises in store for our allies and our-
selves.
Mr. Attlee, the Lord Privy Seal, said
at this stage that, despite German claims,
the road to Moscow was far from open,
Kiev remained a bastion of Russian de-
fences, and there were features of the
present phase of the war which “make it
difficult for even the most philosophical
of us to prevent cheerfulness drawing in.”
Everybody, he proceeded, had been stirred
by the Russian resistance, and Britain
was taking urgent steps to furnish Russia
with supplies. And no time had been
lost in making contact at places like
Kirkenes and other northern points where
physical contact with the Russians was
possible. The burden of the blockade of
Finland from the far north rests on the
Royal Navy. Without British sea-power
the Axis would be pouring to the Mur-
mansk and Archangel coasts, as well as
operating extensively in the Baltic and
the Black Sea.
On August 5 the battle of statistics
began anew as the German High Com-
mand announced that it was ready to
begin a third and decisive offensive.
Hitler’s headquarters reported:
Since the outbreak of war, 895,000
Russians have been taken prisoners, and
13,145 armored fighting vehicles, 10,388
guns and 9082 aircraft have been captured
or destroyed. Russian killed and wounded
far exceed the number of prisoners.
Moscow replied that Hitler was an-
other ; that, in fact, the Germans had left
30,000 dead alone, besides many thou-
sand wounded, in a single Estonian town.
The High Command statement of general
losses was a “lying fairy tale.” The Ger-
mans, Moscow said, endeavored to
explain the German losses by creating a


Personal and Missing Friend.
PUGH. —Would any person knowing the where-
abouts of the child or children of ARTHUR
PUGH (brother of Ann Eliza Pugh of England),
who lately resided near Sydney, communicate
with HARWOOD & PINCOTT, Solicitors, 472
Bourke Street, Melbourne?
MclNTYßE.—lnformation is wished by V. F.
MASON, F.C.A., Chartered Accountant, Eliza-
beth House, c/o Elizabeth and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne, Australia, as to AUBREY
CAMPBELL McINTYRE, whose last address
was care of Taupiri Coal Mines, Ltd., Huntly,
New Zealand, and who is a grandson of the
late Peter Mclntyre, Shirt Manufacturer,
Glasgow.
legend that there was a powerful Stalin
Line which had to be forced, whereas
“no special Stalin Line existed.” This
conflicted with extracts from “Red Star,”
cabled on July 13, which referred to the
Stalin line as a “complicated system of de-
fence in depth with underground fort-
resses,” running for 1100 miles. “Red
Star” added that the line was largely
completed in 1933, but since then
had been greatly strengthened. Fort-
resses were “only a part of the system,
which is 75 miles deep in some places
and has an average depth of 25 miles.”
As for losses, Losovsky gave them as
follows: Over 1,500,000 Germans killed,
wounded and prisoners, 600,000 Russian ;
6000 German tanks lost, 4000 Russian ;
6000 German aircraft accounted for, 4000
Russian; 8000 German guns, 7000 Rus-
sian.
Later in the week the German High
Command claimed that Germans and
Rumanians in the Ukraine had captured
the remains of the Soviet 6th, 12th and
18th armies, with the commanders of the
6th and 12th — 103,000 prisoners, 317
tanks and 858 guns. They estimated
total Russian losses in the battle at
200,000. They added that their captures
60 miles south of Smolensk included
38,000 prisoners, 250 tanks and 359 guns,
the rest of the forces being “annihilated.”
The outside world has no way of
checking the claims of either side.
On Thursday night and again on
Friday Russian air squadrons raided
Berlin. One account says they used R.A.F.
maps, and certainly R.A.F. operations
paved the way for the dashing and dar-
ing performances. It seems that 36
bombers from the Estonian coast were
used in the first raid, and that the second
was a “reconnaissance,” though some
bombs were dropped. The Germans de-
clared that the raids did not penetrate
the centre of the city. They admitted
some damage and civilian casualties, and
no doubt they suffered more than they
acknowledged.
Briefly summed up, the position on the
various Russian fronts had at the begin-
ning of the present week again moved
in favor of the invaders. The Finns had
reached a point halfway down on the
eastern side of Lake Ladoga and were
engaged in fierce fighting on the western
side. The German forces had reached
Narva (Estonia) in force, and the enemy
claimed that Russians still to the west of
this point, including those in Tallinn,
were “encircled.” Russian naval forces,
however, still control the Gulf of Fin-
land, thanks to the great services ren-
dered by the British Navy prior to the
attack on Russia.
In the Smolensk sector the front had
lengthened out north and south and had
been advanced somewhat towards Mos-
cow.
The spearheads from Kholm southward
suggested the existence of something re-
sembling a continuous front. It seemed
that all the territory inside the old Rus-
sian border for at least 100 miles, from
Novgorod, in the north, to within a few
miles of the Black Sea, was in German
hands.
In the Ukraine the Germans and
Rumanians between the Dniester and
Bug rivers claimed to have reached the
Dnieper, which swings eastward from
Kiev, and to be marching towards
Nicolaiev, at the mouth of the Bug, 70
miles east of Odessa, on the Black Sea.
They were thus threatening Odessa with
“encirclement.”
The British Effort.
“Aileron”; The intensity of the air
war is illustrated by the announcement
of the Air Ministry that in the last three
months the Axis-has lost 1057 ’planes in
combat with British fighters, bombers
and A.A. guns—93B German, 119 Italian.
British losses were 661, In July the
R.A.F. made 70 attacks on German and
76 on German-occupied towns. In the
Middle East, the Imperial air forces made
126 attacks, brought down 410 enemy
machines and lost 285.
The German figures do not include the
Fleet Air Arm’s bag or machines shot
down by ships at sea.
Attrition continues steadily, though
thunderstorms, lightning which picked
off trailing aerials, clouds, headwinds,
rain and snow have hampered operations.
Mannheim, Frankfort-on-the-Main and
Karlsruhe were the most regular targets
of the Bomber Command last week. The
first raids were made by “heavies” using
a full load of the biggest bombs on issue.
Damage was widespread. Factories and
railways at the great depot and junction
of Aachen and Ostend were plastered,
and a Beaufort bomber, coming home.
picked up a large supply ship off the
French coast and knocked some chips
off it. Blinding rain fell all next day over
the Channel, but the Blenheim patrols
were out. They caught a supply convoy
and hit a ship heavily ; they caught also
some German patrol ships and scored
three direct hits on them ; and they made
low-level attacks over one of the largest
German aerodromes in northern France,
near Cherbourg.
After the second attacks on Wednes-
day, Mannheim—a city about half as big
again as Brisbane but more concentrated
and in a river fork, which makes it an
unsurpassable target—was described by a
raider pilot as a “hell’s kitchen.” Rail-
way yards flamed, warehouses acted as
torches for others in a howling gale, and
Karlsruhe “looked as if the whole of the
industrial quarter were on fire.”
The squadrons came home through
weather more seasonable for January
than for the eve of the grouse season,
with sleet beating round them and ice
forming on the wings of their machines.
Later in the week the raids continued,
reaching as far afield as Hamburg and
Kiel, and along the Dutch, Belgian and
French coasts.
The centre of attraction, however, was
over the Channel—near the stratosphere,
it would seem—where persistent sweeps
by large circuses of Coastal Command
fighters never fail to bring down victims.
Mainly these sweeps are carried on in
daylight, though two-engined fighters
hover over German-held aerodromes at
night waiting for unsuspecting victims to
switch on their landing and identification
lights, when they pounce on them.
On Saturday afternoon 18 enemy air-
craft were destroyed in daylight sweeps
for the loss of 10 British—a typical day.
An R.A.A.F. squadron has been operat-
ing among the Channel adventurers for
the past few weeks and has drawn blood
and petrol four times. On August 10,
the Australians’ dozen machines found
themselves among 100 Messerschmitts
while on a bomber protection voyage.
The Germans tried to cut the bombers
off, but the Australians stayed among
them, shot down five, damaged others
and drove off the rest.
One section of four machines headed
by Flight-Lieutenant Finucane —an Irish-
man lent to the R.A.A.F. —had 30 Mes-
serschmitts on its hands for 25 minutes.
The first, which the leader attacked, blew
up after being hit by a burst square amid-
ships. Said Finucane, “All the squadron
was pretty busy, though we had most of
the luck.”
More R.A.F. machines become avail-
able every week. And the deeper the
Germans move into Russia the heavier
will be the wear and tear on the Luft-
waffe, provided the Russians maintain
pressure against their advance.
German raids on Britain have con-
tinued remarkably light. A few odd
’planes flew over the southern and eastern
counties during the week, and an occa-
sional one as far afield as Scotland ; but
without doing any substantial damage.
Even the routine “reprisal” raid for one
of the heaviest attacks which the R.A.F.
has yet made on Berlin had not material-
ised at the week-end.
Mr. Atlee, Mr. Churchill’s deputy in
the House, remarked on Wednesday
that, though the Battle of the Atlantic had
not been won, the enemy had not been
able to advertise a single claim for suc-
cessful U-boat attack between July 11
and July 28. Although U-boats had in-
creased during the spring, so had counter
measures. The face-saving jubilation of
Goebbels, who told the world how, in the
last week in July, U-boats sank 140,000
tons of British shipping, including a
destroyer and a corvette, in a convoy off
Biscay, was mere hot air.
The balance of destruction appears to
have swung or to be swinging rapidly to
the British side. In the North Sea and the
Atlantic, the R.A.F. in July sank 69 ships
of 291,000 tons, and in the Mediterranean
23 ships of 103,000 tons. Of the 7,000,000-
odd tons available to Germany and Italy
when war broke out, 3,500,000 tons had
been sunk up to June, and enemy ship-
yards have been constantly harassed.
These shipping losses put the Axis in a
position which can be saved only by
securing land supplies.
Mackay Comes Home.
“Ek Dum”: All military forces within
the Commonwealth are to be placed
under single control and direction, along
with all their operations. The Common-
wealth thus comes into line with Britain,
where the Chief of the General Staff,
General Dill, devotes himself to the
broad issues of administration and is con-
cerned with all fronts, and Sir Alan
Brooke acts as C.-in-C. Home Forces.
General Brooke’s Australian opposite
number, as “General Officer Command-
ing-in-Chief” within the Commonwealth,
will be Major-General Iven Mackay,
K.8.E., who will be given the same rank
as Lieut.-General Sturdee, C.0.G.5., and
will be superior in regard to operations
to the G.O.Cs. of Districts but subordi-
nate to the Military Board.
The Commander-in-Chief, of course,
of all Australian defence forces—under
letters patent issued on October 29, 1900 —
is the Governor-General; a somewhat
peculiar position, theoretically, since the
Governor-General is responsible for his
actions only to the Imperial authorities.
The King does not hold an analogous
position in Britain, though he is Admiral
of the Fleet, Field-Marshal and Marshal
of the R.A.F.
General Mackay is essentially a fight-
ing man. On Gallipoli he was mostly to
be seen somewhere on a firestep, and he
held a trench on Lone Pine alone for
two hours after all his men had been
killed. He left the Peninsula with field
rank, found himself a lieut.-colonel, men-
tioned in dispatches, with D. 5.0., in 1916,
and by the end of 1918 was brigadier of
the Ist Infantry Brigade, A.I.F,
After his return from the war he com-
manded infantry brigades until 1937,
when he took over the 2nd Division, now
commanded by Major-General Lloyd.
He was placed in command of the 6th
Division of the new A.I.F. on April 4,
1940, and his leadership in the Libyan
campaign earned him his K.B.E. and an
enthusiastic mention by Mr. Churchill
in the House of Commons. He will go
down to history as “Mackay of Bardia.”
And Mackay’s hand it was that put the
bar across the entrances to Thessaly when
the Germans poured down through the
Monastir Pass, and that held them in
check while the retreat from Olympus
was organised.
He fully realises the ambition that the
man chosen for his new job should have
experience of 1941-type war. No general
on the British side has seen more at first-
hand. Mackay’s successor in command
of the 6th Division will be Major-General
E. F. Herring, D. 5.0., M.G. He went
overseas in 1939 as 0.G., R.A.A. He
is a Rhodes scholar and a K.C.
“Aileron”: Changes made in the
R.A.A.F. are described by Minister
McEwen as “probably the widest
and most significant in R.A.A.F, his-
tory.” A northern command is being
formed, and there are to be four
E.A.S. training groups No. 1 at
Melbourne, embracing Victoria, Tas-
mania and southern Riverina ; No. 2 at
Sydney, to cover all N.S.W., except some
northern parts of the State; No. 3, Bris-
bane, to include all training units in
Queensland ; and No. 4 for S.A. Perth
arrangements will be unchanged. Com-
modore A. T. Cole, who held the Eastern
command in Sydney, has been appointed
to one of the first of the new operational
commands. Acting Air Marshal Williams,
the R.A.A.F.’s first Commander, who,
when war broke out, held the administra-
tive control of the great British Coastal
Command, returns to England to look
after the interests of Australia and Aus-
tralians who are drafted into the R.A.F,
under the Empire Air Training scheme.
Empire Air Scheme men in the R.A.F.
in future will wear the word “Australia”
on an upper arm of their uniforms.
Maorilanders have carried the name of
their country from the start.
* * * *
Maoriland’s first V.C. goes to Flight-
Sergeant James Allen Ward, N.Z.R.A.F.,
who climbed out of the cockpit of a
Wellington bomber on July 7, dug holes
in the wing for a foothold and put out
a fire which had been caused by the ex-
plosive bullets of a Messerschmitt. He
tied himself to the ’plane with a rope and
carried not only his parachute but an
engine cover with which he smothered the
flames. Most men would have found it
hard enough to stay on the wing, which,
in any case, might have turned into a
furnace at any moment.
* * * ♦
“Ente Marid”: Save for a few desultory
sorties on both sides, most of the Medi-
terranean activity last week was on sea
and in the air. Germans and Italians
bombed Malta, Alexandria, Suez, Cyprus
and Tobruk, but in a fashion which sug-
gested that the raiding parties were
reconnaissance units which had taken
along a few bombs for luck, R.A.F.,
F.A.A. and R.N. operations were on an
entirely different scale. Two aerodromes
at Comiso and Gerbini, in Sicily, were
heavily bombed and machine-gunned.
The R.A.F. ranged as far as Sardinia
and along the North African war zone
from Gondar, the last remaining Italian
outpost of importance in Ethiopia, to
Tripoli, which had more than one dust-
ing on Saturday night three large fires
were started there and, while explosive
caches went off in cheering succession,
flames were seen licking all round the
city’s powerhouse area. R.A.F. Blen-
heims joined with the F.A.A. to attack
Bardia, scoring hits in the motor-transport
yard, and heavy bombers blasted Derna
and Benghazi, and Eleusis and Corinth
in Greece. The F.A.A. on Friday re-
turned to Sicily to look Catania over, and
bombs damaged a 2000-ton vessel at the
quayside.
In raids on an Italian convoy between
Sicily and the African coast, the F.A.A.
sank a ship of 8000 tons and another
of 6000 tons with torpedoes in a convoy
of six which had destroyer escorts. Next
morning, R.A.F. Blenheims chased the
remaining four off Sfax (Tunisia), hit
another 8000-tonner with two heavy
bombs and probably sank her, and badly
damaged another 6000-tonner. And a
Dutch submarine, co-operating with the
R.N., sank a supply ship in the Medi-
terranean.
* * * «
Because 75 British and Indian officers
captured in Syria have not been accounted
for. General Dentz and 35 French officers
have been interned. It is reported from
Beirut —no authority given—that while
the armistice was being arranged the
British officers, who included some of
the Royal Fusiliers taken at El Quneitra,
were transported to Greece by French
’planes and handed over to the Axis.
Several thousand French troops have been
allowed to leave Syria since Dentz’s in-
ternment.
* * * *
Shoppers in Sydney on Friday night
were horrified to hear newsboys yelling
“Australian troopship bombed and sunk!
Australian troopship bombed and sunk!
Pape’!” With a cold hand on their
hearts they hurriedly bought the papers
and read “A New York report states that
the Georgic, with Australian troops
aboard, has been sunk near the Suez
Canal.” Next morning they read that
the liner had been damaged by enemy
action, but that all of the crew were safe,
except one, and there had not been
troops aboard. But rumor had flown
fast and far through the night. This
playing-up of unsubstantiated reports
should be stopped.
* * * *
“Ek D.”; It is alleged in the Sydney
press that a “doomed battalion” of
soldiers left behind in Crete is fighting
overwhelming forces of Germans until it
is wiped out. Very painful reading
for relatives of Australians and Maori-
landers reported missing in the island
and not yet listed as prisoners of war, and
the authorities should do something about
it. If official confirmation can be got it
should be obtained and published without
delay. If the story turns out to be a
furphy, the authorities should say so and
let the public fix the blame,
* V * *
“X.T.”: Captain Margesson, the Sec-
retary for War, said last week that in
Greece there were 24,100 British troops,
of whom 16,442 had been evacuated;
17,125 Australians (14,157 evacuated) and
16,532 Maorilanders (14,266 evacuated).
In Crete there were 14,000 British (7130
evacuated), 6450 Australians (2890
evacuated) and 7100 Maorilanders (4560
evacuated). It was impossible, he de-
clared, to say how many missing men
were prisoners. His figures for the A.I.F.
don’t square with Australian figures. On
June 19, Mr. Spender said that General
Blarney had advised that 17,236 officers
and men had embarked from Egypt and
11,285 had returned, making losses of
5951 —2275 in Greece and 3676 in Crete,
against the British Minister’s estimate of
2968 in Greece and 3560 in Crete. Mr.
Spender had given different estimates
previously.


Are "Worn Om" Spark Plugs
making your car
slow and noisy?
Incomplete combustion
due to faulty spark plugs
results in carbon deposits
noisy “carbon knocks”
and general all around
poor performance. New
Champion Spark Plugs
provide complete com-
bustion and give you
the best in speed,
power and smooth
motoring. They
will pay for
themselves in
fuel savings.
Factories,
Feltham, Eng.
Windsor, Can.
Toledo, USA.
Mm
%
(P
CONTAINS SILLMENT
THE MIRACLE MINERAL
listaß
Champion Spaik Pings!
new
Sillment seals Champions
against troublesome leak-
age, at the shoulder and
past the cetiter electrode,
common to ordinary
spark plugs. This pat-
ented feature corrects
rough, uneven and ivaste-
ful engine operation
caused by leaky, over-
heated spark plugs .
THE
IDEAL
TRAVEL
LAND
SOUTH
AFRICA
This romantic land of beauty,
contrast and interest offers an
unforgettable holiday.
Information obtainable from all offices of
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England),
Agents lor South African Hallways throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
Leather Portfolios
m
For those bulky papers in Black
and Brown Seal Grain Cowhide:—
Ideal for Military lleijuirements.
IGin. x lliw.—with 3 divisions.
Price: 52/6
Others: 72/6, 90/-, 97/6.
C. E. KUCHING
PTV.,
Ml).,
‘For Everything in Leather
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(near Wynyard Stn.). ’Phone: 8W7138
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
WORTS.
Good job waiting for a man over military
age used to living in bush and capable of
supervising and paying men on jobs like tank-
sinking, etc. Wages high and keep provided
for right man, whose fares will be paid for
interview at Sydney.—2l9o.
Senior confidential stenographer and secre-
tary, exp. in chemical and engineering work,
wants position with Melbourne firm. Refs.—2lsB.
To buy pianoforte solo “Au Clair de Lune,”
by Debussy.—2ls6.
To buy sesquicentenary book Australia,
1708-1938 7 1 69
To buy For Murder Will Speak, by J. T.
Connington.—2l6B.
Words of recitations “The Stockman's
Daughter,” “The Stockman’s Pledge,” “Peter
Mulligan's Wallaby Drive,” “Old Blue Station
Horse,” “The Drunkard’s Dream,” “The Flea-
bitten Grey,” “For the Sake of His Gippsland
Girl,” “Where Silvermine Fell” and “Girl at
Ross’s Farm ” 159
Words of Verse containing lines:—
I’m Slii.lV Snake the Snorter
To Pale Face show no quarter
—2152.
Information Souaht.
, ~
(1) At what age does a returned soldier from
the last war become entitled to an old-age pen-
sion ? (2) What is the maximum in property
and cash that a returned man and his wife may
possess and still be eligible for the pension ?
—2079.
(1) At 65. No exception is made in the case
of returned soldiers, although they may, if
between 60 and 65, apply for a service pension
to the Deputy Commissioner, Repatriation Com-
mission, Chalmers-street, Sydney. (2) The In-
valid and Old-age Pensions Act provides that,
where a pensioner has property (including cash)
other than the home in which he (or she) per-
manently resides, the rate of pension otherwise
payable shall be subject to a deduction of £1
for every complete £lO by which the net capi-
tal value of the accumulated property exceeds
£5O. Where the net capital value exceeds £4OO,
no pension is payable. In the case of a husband
and wife, except where they are living apart,
pursuant to any degree, judgment or order, the
income and property of each are deemed to be
possessed by both in equal shares.
* * * *
Are there any considerable areas in Australia
where crop- and fruit-growing or any other
kind of agriculture is carried on with an annual
rainfall of 25 in. or under ? Minimum rainfall
required for such agriculture ? —1836.
A 25in. rainfall is too low for citrus pro-
duction. Stone fruits can be produced on an
annual rainfall of 25in., provided it is distributed
fairly throughout the year, with perhaps the
heaviest falls during spring and summer months,
A 25in. rainfall is, generally speaking, too low
for the successful production of pome fruits,
There are, however, exceptions, particularly
where a good proportion of the rainfall occurs
during the growing season. The whole of the
wheat produced in N. S. Wales, with the excep-
tion of a few districts in the eastern fringe
of the wheatbelt, is grown in areas where the
average annual rainfall is under 25in. In the
same districts several other crops are grown,
especially oats, barley and lucerne. The lowest
average annual rainfall.isT3.B2in. in the Hillston
district. In wheat districts in S.A. and W.A.
the annual rainfall is below 13in., the greater
proportion falling during the growing period.
* * * *
A ward rates, conditions and general duties
of a station bookkeeper (both sheep and cattle)
in Queensland I —lB9l.
Minimum rates prescribed by the Station
Hands’ Award for book- and storekeepers are:
Southern Division, £3 9s. a week with keep;
Northern Division, £3 14s. with keep. The
ordinary working hours are 44 a week and are
worked on six days. If an employee is re-
quired to work on Sunday he must be allowed
equivalent time off on one day in the following
week. The award does not set out the duties
of a book- and storekeeper, but he is usually
required to keep all the necessary books and
records in connection with the station and also
to look after the store. In addition, he is
usually required to fulfil various other duties,
the nature and extent of which vary considerably
on different properties. Foregoing rates ot
wages apply to either sheep or cattle properties..
* * * *
What can I do to protect peach-trees from
frosts? Js it true that the early-morning sun
causes damage to a frosted plant? —2oos.
There appears to be some basis for the theory
that injury is increased by the exposure ot a
frosted plant to sunlight, but frost is still the
main cause of damage and frost protection
shoLlk j be the first consideration Frosts are
caused by the radiation of heat to the sky on
calm, clear nights, so protection can be obtained
either by covering the plants or installing
heaters. Covering would be out of the ques-
tion in your case; some protection might be
obtained by growing large shelter trees such as
Cupressus lambertiana, but it would not ex-
tend beyond the first one or two rows of fruit
trees . trees cou i d be planted on the south
and east s i de . Your best method would be
tbe use G f bea ters at the rate of one for every
two trees; oil heaters are probably the most
effective and are obtainable from Egan and
williams, Oakleigh, Vic.
* * * *
(I) What is the difference between carded
wool and “drawings” ? Can I buy them? (2)
Can any kind of three-ply wool be used in
a knitting machine? —l96l.
Carding is the process following the thorough
scouring of the fleece in which the wool is con-
verted from a mass of loose fibres into a long,
continuous web known as a sliver, somewhat
s imji ar i n appearance to a sheet of wadding,
As tfie wool leaves the machine in this form it
j s wound into a large ball for convenient hand-
jj ng _ E i s then dyed, and the next process is
combing, the object of which is to separate the
] ong and short fibres. The combing opera-
tion also helps to make the fibres lie parallel
in a twistless ribbon form about fin. in diameter.
The wool is then wound into a ball form,
which is known as a wool top. Drawing is the
next process and is necessary to reduce the twist-
less ribbon thread of wool to a definite weight
or thickness; all operations from then on until
the spinning stage might be termed “drawing”
or “reducing” operations. Wools in the various
stages of manufacture cannot be purchased
through normal retail channels; further, carded
wools or drawings would not be suitable for
hand-knitted garments of any type, as it is neces-
sary for all yarns to be spun and twisted cor-
rectly so as to provide strength. That would
apply particularly to garments for hard-service
wear. (2) Three-ply wools can be used in knit-
ting machines of wide-gauge capacity,
* * * *
(1) What are the judging standards in N. S.
Wales for show and decorative carnations ? (2)
Definition of a novice exhibitor? —2ll6.
(1) Here are the Royal Horticultural Society
standards. Show types: Form, four points;
color and size, three points each; calyx and
freshness, one point each; total, 12 points,
Decorative types: Form, color and size, three
points each; calyx, freshness and stem, one
point each; total, 12 points. (2) Novice de-
notes a person who has never won a first prize
for a flower or group of flowers which he or
she is exhibiting at any show held by the R.H.S.
of N. S. Wales.
Brief Answers.
C.F.; The problem of perpetual motion is a
mechanical problem. There have been no
fundamental new developments in the prin-
ciples of mechanics during the last 2000 years.
. ...F.J.H.: Fifteen with last card, in play,
scores three —two for 15 and one for “g 0”....
H.G.L.: (1) You would have to consult the
files of an American publication such as
“Variety” or “Vaudeville” (now defunct) to get
historical data on the subject. (2) The accom-
plishment seems to be still Very highly esteemed
in the U.S.A., where it is certainly regarded as
a form of music... .R.A.S.: (1) B is entitled
to eight holes —six for three of a kind and two
for making 31. (2) D is entitled to four holes
for the run, and another hole if his card is
the last to be played... .R.0.R.: To claim de-
pendants’ allowance for his mother the airman
must allot at least 3s. a day of his pay for her
maintenance, if she has no other income the
full dependants’ allowance of 3s. a day becomes
payable, in addition to allotment. If she re-
ceives any other income, exclusive of allotment,
the grant of dependants’ allowance is reduced
below 3s. a day according to amount of income.
Usually a net income of £2 2s. or more a week,
exclusive of the allotment, would debar a
person from the grant of dependants’ allowance.
Dependants of airmen are entitled to the same
allowance as the dependants of soldiers, and all
such allowances are assessed on the same basis.
J.K.: Can’t trace writer mentioned; the
files of The Bulletin are available for inspec-
tion 0.G.E.: (1) Employment Officer, Com-
monwealth Aircraft Corporation, Fishermen's
Bend, Victoria. (2) M. Douglas, Aircraft Pro-
duction Commission, Fishermen’s Bend. (3)
and (4) Inquire at Army H.Q., Victoria Bar-
racks, St. Kilda-road... .Seaman: Write to
the New Guinea Agency, Commonwealth Bank
Buildings, Sydney... .M.M.: “The Artist” is
printed by the Building Publishing Co., 20
Loftus-street, for John Young, 3 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney... .A. 8.: Both ideas are already
on the market... .J.R.M.; Those who have
tried it reckon it’s not worth the trouble....
J.P.: Actual cash in use in Australia is under
£100,000,000. Bank deposits represent sums
owing, not cash. Most of the “money” in
Australia is represented by sums owing, sums
due and various kinds of property. Money is
only needed on settlement day, and even then
payment is mostly made by cheque, which may
mean the transfer of a debt from one person
to another rather than the passage of actual
cash J.V.K.; Planing might remove the
marks if they are not deep; otherwise know of
no method to remove them. .. .CJ.M.L.:
There should be nothing wrong with the re-
volving variety... .8.K.; Know of no method
of restoring toothbrush hairs... .S.M.: No, the
yarn has been refuted again and again....
R.8.M.; He holds the King’s Commission as
an officer of the Australian Military Forces.
J.C.: Angus and Robertson, Sydney....
G.K.W.: Australian Etiquette, by Lillian M.
Pykc, 2s. 3d. posted from the publisher, J.
Pollard, 495 Collins-street, Melbourne....
P.J.R.; Rubber, artgum or stale bread would
have removed “grubbiness,” and fuller’s earth
the grease, but inkstains once soaked in are hard
to move. In any case, if you have already
tried soap and water the marks can be re-
moved only with acid, and that will do more
harm than the stains... .A.McC.; The “Aus-
tralian Woman’s Mirror,” Box 252188, G.P.0.,
Sydney, has one or two in stock; or you could
try the big department stores in Sydney....
J.C.: Pronounced “Joll-yon”... .J.McC.: The
Amateur Stage, by F. F. Brotherton and A. R.
Hobbs, Bs. 6d.; The Minor of Acting in
Practical Lessons, by Janet Duff, 4s. 3d., both
from Angus and Robertson, Sydney... .T.M.C.:
Rates of pay in the Australian Army Nursing
Service are matron-in-chief 225. 6d. a day, princi-
pal matron 205., matron 17s. 6d., sister 10s., staff
nurse Bs. 6d C.W.8.: Handy Hints for the
Farm can be had for Is. from The Bulletin
office... .J.W.A.: The office boy reckons the
horse pulled the cart... .C.M.L.; Not much
hope; she could apply for a cadetship on one
of the big dailies... .E.F.R.; Ciano is usually
described as a blonde—-a type common in
Rome G.H.-H.: Bobby Breen is still alive.
L.F.: Write to the Air Ministry, Munitions
Board, London, W.C.2....
X.Y.Z.; (1) Toowoomba area, Brisbane area,
Gympie area; the Toowoomba area is being
used by one L.H. Regiment. (2) Any fit male
between 20 and 45 who is not within the age
groups called up and who has a suitable horse.
(3) No, subject to medical fitness M.R.:
The I.C.S. course would be as good as any.
....F.J.R.: Gary Cooper, Franchot Tone and
Richard Cromwell were the three main players
in “The Lives of a Bengal Lancer” W.J.F.:
No record C.H.: Cannot say if any other
ship has such a library. Write to the Mitchell
Library, Sydney A.J.L.: Yes, a deduction
of £2 10s. a year would be made... .Patriot:
Write to the Secretary, Munitions Department,
83 William-street, Melbourne, stating nature of
work wanted and qualifications M .F.T.: (1)
Might be available at the Public Library, Adel-
aide. (2) The treatment of prisoners of war
is governed by the Prisoners of War Code,
which is an amendment to The Hague Agree-
ment. The present international agreement
is based on the Geneva Convention, but does
not cover civil internees. (3) There are none.
. ...T.C.: Apply to the research officer at the
nearest large public library... .J.C.: Question
beyond the scope of this department... .P.A.:
If the six feet of earth that has been piled
around the bole is allowed to remain it will
soon kill the tree. If the soil is removed
immediately to the original level and a dry
stone wall about three feet from the bole built
around it, the tree should be all right... .Y. 8.;
Photograph is of a baseball match played at
Sydney Cricket Ground on January 3, 1914,
between Chicago White Sox and N. S. Wales.
Match was won by visitors by 10 runs to one.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused;
W. 8.:
Hitler, the brutal and bloodthirsty fiend,
Bobber of! neighbors’ most treasured ravines,
Killer of all good people hold dear,
And shockingly vile throughout his career!
N.W.:
There’s a price on your head, Adolf Hitler,
And this applies to all your gangster crew.
\o matter what your game, we shall belittle you
And without a doubt you’ll meet your Waterloo.
W.R.E.:
Votive visionaries verbal
Vivifying vituperation—
“V!” vibrating visibly,
Vaticinating Victory ! ! !
. ...T.D.F.: Pallid... .T.1.P.: You’ll do it yet.
... .T.McC.; Cluttered with cliches... .M.J.F.:
How would you “gloze her regal sweep of the
surrounding leas”? .... J.F.: Larry was one
of the good patches... .S.W.: C105e....
J.W.C.: No need to deny that man is measured
by “the glories his voluble linguals refract.”
Nobody ever suggested such a thing... .E.O’C.:
This is no place for the Fairy Queen....
E.G.H.: “Narrabri” closer J.E.: “Let me
wander towards the sunset.” With pleasure....
A.McM.: On the flat side... .M.C.McK.: A
theme; but you treat it too despairingly....
G.T.H.: Listen for something “mumbling with
a muddy mutter” in the postman’s bag; it'll
be “Rain” returning....M.K.: We have a dim
recollection of having seen another poem, some-
where, some time, in which there were bees,
trees and a breeze. . . .A. 8.: A grin 5.0. M.:
Like the spirit; but ’‘Give me the wireless text-
book!” is hardly a poetic ejaculation J.K.:
Elementary.... .G.D.; Thistledown..,.M.P.:
Come again when you’ve divorced the e1f....
D.M.: Nearly... . W.C., E.1.L., P.E.R., M.V.G.,
A.G.G., E.J.G., N.H., G.8.T., D.H.G., M.W„
D. J.S. and A. 8.5.: Misfires... .T.J.M.:
Piffle... .K.W.P.: Not up W.R.: Both
feeble J.M.S,: You didn’t wring much
humor out of it. ...M.F. de S.: Of family
interest only M.C.L.: Astonishing set of
convenient coincidences threaded together with
purple patches... .F.M.C.: Thanks for com-
pliment, but sketch doesn’t quite make it
P.N.: What’s it all about? ... .N.L.R.: Stilted
humor... .W.E.L.: We’ve no niche for it, but
you should be able to unload it on a daily — .
R.F.0.: Crude melodrama... .K.S.: Kinder-
garten stuff J.AJ.; Not bad satire, but not
quite good enough 1.A.M.; Fair, but ortho-
dox....R.C.: Disjointed... .F.8.N.: Well oil
our beat M.C.K.: It didn’t miss by much.
. ...M.H.S.: First got within coo-ee; other far
too thin F.L.; Now, if you'd only picked on
a plot that is submitted only twice a week
W.C.: Too long-drawn-out... .J.P.; The humor
is mostly overwritten.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.G.: “My friends consider I have artistic
talent” ; you dissemble it, then, with remark-
able ingenuity J.M.: A deadly sameness
about all the figures... .R.W.N.: Mass of swirl-
ing lines through which something faintly re-
sembling a bearded horse is barely visible....
L.L.; Who told you a pair of scanties flutter-
ing on a clothesline was funny?.. . .S.Y.:
Lumpy figures, antediluvian gag CJ.fi.:
Your line suffers from pernicious anaemia
E. : Figures suspended in space now wander-
ing in the nebulae of lost hopes 1.M.5.:
Your tones need to be more sharply defined
G.S.D.; Slapdash L.H.S.: That dog would
go bandy if it chased the goanna more than
two yards F.D.; Gent, with swivelled neck
talking to lopsided, goggle-eyed giant in a swamp
or haystack or something declined H.V.:
Nourish your angular bathing belles and try
again at a more appropriate season.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. •
F, E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
r.ff P r« the fnlloct facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
m
■m:m.
m
m
BLUE GILLETTE BLADE
MADE IN ENGLAND
Use the edge
A 1
GILLETTE
SHOULDERED
EDGE
with the shoulder behind it
Behind each keen cutting edge of a Blue Gillette
blade there is a long steel shoulder, formed by
three distinct angles in the sharpening process.
This shoulder is there to bear the load under which
the ordinary blade would yield. Result more
clean, smooth shaves for your money. But do
treat the edge fairly. So carefully do Gillette pack
their blades that not even the wrapping is allowed
to touch the cutting edge hold one to the light
and see. So avoid touching it yourself. Unwrap
the blade carefully, always hold it by the ends, and
you’ll get still more shaves per blade I
USE
GILLETTE
WAR SAVINGS
.CERTIFICATES,
AND SAVE STEEL
Gillette Sets 2/7\ to 47/*. Blue Gillette Blades 5 for 1/7.
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., iBi Clarence Street, Sydney
SIMDRU
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Cauboy” is enthusiastic;
In the whole of its commercial career it is
doubtful if Melb. Princess ever put on a play
as good or as intelligently acted as Clemence
Dane’s drama of the Bronte family, “Wild
Decembers,” produced by Lucy Ahon and per-
formed by the Old Grammarians’ Dramatic
Society. A factual rather than impressionistic
play—though no fact about the Bronte family
could be uninteresting—the drama opens at
the most famous parsonage in English history
with the three daughters of the Rev. Patrick
Bronte upset and agitated at the growing
naughtiness of brother Branwell, getting sacked
from clerkships and taking to dram-drinking in
the village. It then moves to Brussels, where
Charlotte is upset and agitated over her love
for Monsieur Heger, her Belgian tutor, the
jealousy of his wife and the spying of madame’s
hireling.
She returns to Haworth and more agitation,
brother Branwell having taken to drugs, while
the Rev. Patrick is going blind and Emily and
Anne are clandestinely courting the Muse of
poetry. There is more upsetness and agitation
when the three girls get their work anonymously
published and wake up one morning to find
themselves famous. This adds fresh fuel to
Branwell’s self-pity, and he starts taking a
header toward neurosis, while curate Nicholls
falls in love with Charlotte and disgusts the
Rev. Patrick. Emily declines into consumption,
Anne dies and the Rev. Patrick becomes
Dot Rankin,
dishwashing as
“Sally,” at
Sydney Royal.
Eric Bush
dithering, and
Don Nicol os the
Duke of Czecho-
govinia.
blinder, Branwell is crossed in love and tyrannises
over what remains of his distracted family by
becoming suicidal, while Charlotte becomes the
victim of another conflict, being torn between
her traditional belief that she should look up
to her lover and her awareness of the obvious
fact that she can’t look up to someone who is
abysmally below her. The final scenes were
the least convincing.
The play was admirably staged and amazingly
well put over.
* * * *
The audience at the opening of Sydney
Tiv.’s latest offering, “Ballyhoo,” was
rather disconcerted when the main
warbler of the bill started singing with-
out the customary microphone. When,
however, it realised that she could
manage quite capably without those
chromium-plated jack-in-the-boxes which
seem to have become the standby of
vaudeville, it settled down and applauded
her in no uncertain manner. For the rest,
one of the brightest men on a good bill is
Eddie Gordon, with an incredible shock
of orange hair and equally incredible,
baggy suit, and who, without uttering a
word, was positively voluble. The audi-
ence seemed to regard his line as some-
thing new; actually, it’s pure clowning,
as old as the hills and almost always funny
on the rare occasion when it turns up.
Another chap who draws a good quota
of guffaws is Rebla, a particularly dexter-
ous juggler who manages his business
with acute boredom, which mood was
delightfully expressed when he wearily
knocked aside an extra classy juggling
turn with tennis balls, remarking in tired
disgust, “I’ve never seen so many bloody
balls in all my life.”
# H= *' *
Melbourne Philharmonic’s concert
production of Gounod’s “Faust” at the
Town Hall on Saturday, with the Mel-
bourne Symphony Orchestra, Bernard
Heinze conducting, was emphatically a
success, as the house could probably have
been sold two or three times over, and
by half-time, when the crowd streamed
into the foyers, there was little doubt of
its artistic success into the bargain. The
Philharmonic Choir of 300 voices, the
Melbourne Symphony Orchestra and a
£20,000 organ were features of an impres-
sive performance. Alan Eddy was black-
visaged Mephistopheles, towering several
hands higher than the Dr. Faustus of
Heddle Nash, whose beautiful voice
flowed through the proceedings. Thea
Philips, as Marguerite, had a sure touch.
* * * *
Latest chamber music concert at the
Victorian National Gallery was also the
best. Soloists were in top form. Pianist
Joyce Greer got a very warm reception
for her playing of Scarlatti, Bach, Mozart
and Chopin, and Heddle Nash’s strong
tenor was heard in a lot of Handel,
Mozart and Quilter, It was the most
responsive audience that the Stawell Gal-
lery pictures have looked down on since
the beginning of the series,
# * * *
Latest Gilsullivan revival at Mel-
bourne His Majesty’s opened with the
traditional “Gondoliers” and was fol-
lowed by the equally traditional “Pirates,”
preceded by “Trial by Jury,” others of
the canon in due order. Houses packed
and enthusiastic. Ivan Menzies cuts his
distinguished capers, Evelyn Gardiner
airs her unsullied contralto, Sara Gregory
is arch and nimble, Peggy Shea improves
with acquaintance, Gregory Stroud is as
vocally sound and resolutely frisky as
ever, Viola Wilson, Bernard Manning,
Vincent McMurray and Richard Watson
are all in the picture, while John Fullard
remains in front with a tenor which
challenges comparison with the long line
of past singers of “Take a Pair of
Sparkling Eyes,” etc. Orchestra and
chorus fulfil the expectations of even the
most exacting old-timers. Lighting could
be improved, but it never was any good,
in present commentator’s experience.
ARTBURSTS
It has always been possible to under-
stand the pictures of John Eldershaw
without standing on one’s head, physically
or mentally, wherefore eminent critics
have found in his work a lack of pro-
fundity. Mr. Eldershaw’s latest show, at
the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, does
nothing to counter that charge. He is
a good draughtsman, thoroughly under-
stands water-color technique, never for-
gets the elementary rules of composition,
and persists in turning out impressions
of landscape which convey to the not-too-
psychic beholder the same pleasurable
feelings as impelled the artist in his choice
of subject. There are some nice travel-
pieces from England and Italy in the
current show, but the best of the bunch,
as ever, come from Tasmania. “Bridge
at Pontville” and the exquisitely simple
“Old Mill Building, Hobart” are in the
very best Eldershavian tradition. The
oils, as usual, prove that this painter
should stick to water-color.
* * * *
Flower lovers and amateur photo-
graphers have been delighted by a show
at Kodaks, Sydney, of photographs of
Westralian wildflowers by Miss Hilda
Wright, A.R.P.S. These have been
colored by hand, but both the original
photography and the painting have been
done with such artistry that the usual
objection to such a combination cannot
be brought. Miss Wright’s object seems
to have been an accurate botanical record
of the western State’s surprising variety
of native flowering plants, and in this
she seems to have succeeded admirably,
but these pictures, in addition, are all
inherently beautiful.
* V * *
A map show for patriotic causes at
David Jones’s Market-street store, Syd-
ney, surprises by reason of its wide scope
and excellent organisation. It has drawn
many officers, who have in these times a
much more than academic interest in
cartography. Every sort of map is repre-
sented, and there is a complete demon-
stration of the methods of and the
appliances used in surveying, map-
draughting and map-printing. Some
huge German maps are a reminder of
Teutonic thoroughness. Prettiest maps in
the show were printed in France—except
that the colors are clean and beautiful
and splendidly contrasted, they could pass
as modernist “abstractions.”
AT THE TALKIES.
“Ziegfeld Girl,” at Sydney Liberty,
is all about three women who achieve
what appears to be the highest
ambition of American womanhood
of the time by getting parts in the
Ziegfeld Follies. Thereafter it’s a moral
tale of how one faltered and fell into a
tub of champagne and diamond bracelets,
how one nearly faltered but saved her
bacon by throwing in the stage and re-
turning to her spouse, and how the other
never faltered and so became the leading
lady of the show. Judy Garland (best of
the bunch), Hedy Lamarr (a pretty piece
of scenery) and Lana Turner are the
three, with James Stewart (getting more
and more like Stepin Fetchit) as the
honest truck-driver who turns crook
when his girl friend takes to the stage
and then turns honest again when the
time comes to rescue her from the cham-
pagne, etc. The story is hardly bearable,
but it’s supported by the Garland’s lively
warbling and by some of the most lavish
stage displays seen for a long time. Pity
they weren’t in color.
* * * *
“Back in the Saddle,” at Sydney Capi-
tol, has crooning cowhand Gene Autry
as foreman of a ranch which is bound
for the rocks because the owner is giving
all his lime and oof to city lights and
women. Mr. Autry rescues owner from
city and gets him back to ranch just
in time for some willing stoush between
cattlemen and miners. F.a.q. entertain-
ment of its kind. Support is “San Fran-
cisco Docks,” a routine murder piece in
which the histrionic ability of Burgess
Meredith is entirely wasted.


YOU ARE CONFIDENT ABOUT FEEDING
qJ^-GxJLCm
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
to valuable stock; this mineral supplement is a pure bone
product containing a guaranteed minimum of 33 /c
phosphoric acid and 40% lime and is specially processeo
to ensure maximum digestibility. Regular use or
Tri-cal-os enables stock to maintain production at the
highest level.
Obtain all particulars about Tri-cal-os from —
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne;
G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Blowfly Strike Prevention
SAVE YOUR SHEEP—FOR LESS THAN ONE PENNY EACH!
Way-810 Blowfly Strike Preventive kills maggots, does not
scald, cannot evaporate or wash out. It heals raw patches
without scab formation, prevents re-strike, is non-poisonous
and harmless to sheep and fleece.
Sv° dUned 1 plSft wliereln'the cSpoSing
properly used, costs less than Id. pei sheep treated.
Way-Bio
BLOWFLY STRIKE
PREVENTIVE
Obtainable from
SIAj stock and station
AGENTS AND EARGE
STORES
or write to the manufacturers —
\V. K. BURNSIDE Pty., Etc!.,
Melbourne and Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRU. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Stud Export.
“Duke of Derrimut”: Importers of
stud stock could have supported “Gene-
ticist’s” case (B. 23/7/’4l) for the raising
of the export embargo on stud sheep.
The Argentine, Brazil, the United .States,
Australia and a host of other countries
could have testified to the need for con-
tinued infusions of the same blood if
the quality of flocks and herds is to be
maintained. The annual drafts of Eng-
lish-bred Shorthorns and Herefords are
largely taken by overseas breeders year
after year. Buyers are reconciled to the
necessity of regular return to the foun-
tain head of beef breeds. A great breed
is not like a lump of clay that may be
moulded to a shape which it will retain.
It is plastic only in the sense that rubber
is plastic; release the pressure and it
reverts to its former shape.
Every great merino stud flock has its
regular customers for rams; men who
return to it for infusions of the same
blood that they have found profitable in
the past. The breeding of stud rams is
a separate and different business.
“Geneticist” is quite correct. There
is no doubt that a valuable export busi-
ness in merinos awaits this country.
There would never be competitors or
even serious rivals. The history of stud
stock breeding has surely established that.
A Pasture Mixture.
“J. Ayr”: One of the best temporary
pastures for fertile country where winter
rain is reliable is a mixture of Italian
rye and red clover —used as a supple-
ment to permanent winter pastures and
to replace winter cereals when rotation
becomes necessary. Two years of good
grazing and a third of lighter grazing can
be got from the rye-clover stand. It
reduces costs by eliminating the yearly
cultivation and sowing necessary with
cereals and the gathering of green crops
in wet weather.
Keep to soils of high fertility. A good
stand can be established on fair soil, but
you’ll need a fertiliser with a liberal
nitrogen content. Use a summer fallow
and plough it in late spring. Hold
summer rains by shallow workings and
keep down weeds. If a second plough-
ing is needed, make it shallow and early
enough to allow the seedbed to settle
down into a natural firmness by the end
of February.
Sow in early March, adapting the
mixture to suit local conditions from a
basis of 121 b. Italian rye and 31b. red
clover and lewt. to 2cwt. super, per
acre. A late sowing defeats the object of
getting the sward away in time to provide
winter feed. Cover the seed lightly with
a netting harrow or ordinary harrow
turned over as a smoother. If in doubt
about the compactness of the seedbed,
follow up the drill with a roller.
Feeding off may begin six or eight
weeks after germination, according to
progress. Early grazings should be quick
and light, periods of not more than an
hour till the stand is strong. Don’t let
the sward get away too strongly or the
rye will smother the slower clover and
you’ll have a rye pasture all winter, the
clover not showing up till spring and
summer.
After the first short grazings, don’t be
afraid to give the stock their heads on
it, as you’ll need to get as much back into
the soil as you can through manure
droppings. In the second year the stand
will need topdressing with super. 'or
super, and sulphate of ammonia.
Italian rye-red clover makes good hay
or ensilage, and for this the paddock
should be closed in September and cut
about Christmas. Many dairymen agree
that the mixture is best of all to keep up
winter production. Some are satisfied to
sow it between the rows of maize or
sorghum, thus having good grazing after
the cereal is harvested.
Silage Hints.
“R.N.”: If you intend to use some of
the green crop for silage this spring don’t
let it get overripe or dry or it will lose
some of its food value. Don’t cut when
it is too succulent, as the juices may be
squeezed out when the silage is pressed ;
give the plants time to become fixed in
leaf and stem.
Whether in tower or pit, the silage
must be well-packed and all possible air
excluded. When filling, distribute the
heavy and light stuff so that it will bind
“ Woi'll I do if We're invaded? Same as Stalin, o' course— scorched earth."
evenly and without air suction. One
result is better leaf and stalk proportion
when feeding out. Press evenly and
firmly and at all parts, but don t overdo
it at the edges.
If a new pit is to be put down, site it
on ground that runs water off quickly,
either a slight elevation or a slope. When
estimating the size, work on the mean
side, as it’s far better to have a bit of
crop over than a bit of silo and nothing
to put in it. A pit 55ft. by 20ft. and
sft. deep should hold about 100 tons.
Don’t regard cutting the crop and filling
the pit as a spare-time job ; it must be
started and finished in the one operation
for best results.
A lot of weeds that stock won’t look
at when growing in the paddock become
tasty as silage, so you needn't worry if
there seems to be a lot of wild lettuce,
black oats, billy buttons and other rub-
bish in the silage crop. Even stinking
love grass has gone into pits successfully.
Healthy Spuds.
“Subber”: Spuds are a favorite with
eelworms, whose efforts can be seen in
stunted and yellowing foliage, with some
wilting and even dying plants. Other
signs are round, irregular swellings on
the tubers themselves. Spuds planted in
light, sandy soil get it worst.
Watch the seed potatoes and discard
any showing symptoms. Rogue out any
plants that show signs after the crop
comes up. If the paddock is infested, a
crop rotation with oats, barley, maize,
sorghum or onions will starve the pest
out. A bare summer fallow is a cheap
and effective preventive, generally getting
rid of eelworms in a single season. But
the soil has to be worked frequently,
even weekly, and always after rain. This
causes the eggs to hatch and the young
worms to starve.
Eelworms can be spread by con-
taminated implements. Thoroughly clean
ploughs, scarifiers, etc., that have been
working a doubtful paddock before
putting them into a clean one. Feeding
infested spuds to stock will also spread
the pest. Boil all such feed beforehand
and don’t throw discarded spuds and
plants on to the compost heap.
To repeat: Bare summer fallow or
rotation with immune crops stands alone.
Asparagus Culture.
“Huxave”: The cultivation and canning
of asparagus are being boosted in N.S.W.
Need for conserving dollar exchange is
one reason ; favorable comparison of
local canned product with overseas
brands, another. Leeton is prepared to
handle large quantities and Sydney
canneries are out for the trade.
Asparagus-growers should educate Aus-
tralian housewives to the fresh vegetable.
In U.S.A. fresh asparagus is sold at about
six cents a pound. The U.S.A. grows the
bulk of its asparagus crop in reclaimed
peat swamps, ideal for the purpose. Aus-
tralian experience is that soils that are
deep, sandy, well supplied with organic
matter and of good water-holding capa-
city almost equal the peat swamp. Some
of the heaviest Australian yields of
asparagus have been produced at Leeton.
The free-working soils of the Murrum-
bidgee country produce an excellent
sample.
Asparagus is a permanent crop that
produces profitable yields for anything
from eight to 12 years. Expert soil pre-
paration at the outset is of greatest im-
portance. In this country no serious
disease has attacked the crop.
Among the Bees.
■‘Mudgee”: Bee-farmers ought to be
getting hive material ready for the coming
season. Any damage to the hives in use
should be repaired and a good coat of
paint applied to places exposed to the
weather.
Second-hand material for hives often
brings in brood disease unless extra pre-
cautions are taken. Sterilise it thoroughly,
particularly the cracks where the spores
find shelter. After the hive is knocked
together, go over the inside with a blow-
lamp, scorching it well; covers and
bottom boards also. Or dip the lot for
at least a half-hour in boiling water con-
taining a pinch or two ol caustic. Treat
new frames the same way.
Sound, new-type frames from last
season should be scalded and cleaned ot
wax slum-gum before being dipped in
the light caustic lye. Bury any debris
likely to attract working bees in search
of propolis material.
The country needs more beeswax.
Scrape every possible bit you can find
together, melt and refine it. If you
haven’t a wax press try this: Put a sound
sugar-bag in a kero.-tin and fill the
bag with wax and broken-up comb to
within 2in. of the top of the tin. Tie
the mouth of the bag, put in enough
water to cover the wax and heat slowly
until the lot melts. Have ready a board
a half-inch smaller than the square of
the tin. Stand the tin on a hard spot,
put the board on top and press down
with a heavy bar until the melted wax
is squeezed out of the bag. Then weight
the board down and leave until the wax
that has oozed above it is set.
Refine by heating the block of bees-
wax slowly until it melts, then strain it
through muslin or hessian into a mould
the inside of which has been lightly
smeared with glycerine to make removal
of the wax easy.
Hints for the Farm.
It pays to specially earmark
all twin ewe lambs, as well as ewes that
give birth to twins or triplets. By retain-
ing both lots, a higher lambing percent-
age can be obtained.
“Jayem”: A cheap and useful trough
for feeding hay to sheep can be made
from wire netting. Attach lengths of
3in. sheep netting to the insides of posts
on similar lines to bag feeders. Use


f
TIMBER KILL - '» !
Kills largest trees in FIFTEEN
DAYS from roots to top. New
method. NO RING-BARKING!
Prevents suckering! Eradicates
BLACKBERRIES! 3/6 tin, posted.
amazing climbing tomato (isft.).
BEAKS HEAVILY FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields SOOIbs. Sow NOW. 3/6 packet.
N.S.W. SEED CO., 693 George St., SYDNEY
*
Another reason why the
RED CROSS
needs your help!
;iV
H 5 4-
mm
M
MM
Over £50,000 wanted for services in camps and hospitals
Sick sailors, soldiers and airmen
in Australian Base Camps are
looked after constantly by the
Red Cross. Last year this Red
Cross Service cost £37,000. This
year’s cost will greatly exceed
£50,000. All camps and hospitals
are supplied free of charge with
linen, hospital furnishings and
equipment, pyjamas, sox and
slippers, tennis shoes, matches,
cigarettes, fruit, tobacco, pipes,
literature, groceries, sweets, writ-
ing paper, cards, games and thou-
sands of personal comforts. The
Red Cross also establishes and
furnishes recreation huts for in-
valid sailors, soldiers and airmen.
These services must go on!
Give HELP give NOW
ST'S URGENT
Authorised by the Central Council of the Australian Red Cross Society . 13
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
FEDERAL LAND TAX RETURNS NOW DUE.
Returns of land held at midnight on tho 30th June, 1941, are required to be lodged on or before
the 31st August, 1941.
Land Tax Returns must be submitted by persons resident in the Commonwealth when the total
unimproved value of land held is £4OOO or over and by or on behalf of absentees when the unimproved
value is One Pound or over.
Where change of value or holding has taken place since the 30th June, 1940, Form “C” should be
used. Where no change has taken place, a declaration (Form “CA”) to that effect is sufficient.
Where land is held in more than one State the returns should be forwarded to the Deputy Federal
Commissioner of Taxation, Box 769 G., G.P.0., Melbourne.
Forms of return and full information may be obtained at the principal Post Offices or at Federal
Taxation Office, 3rd Floor, Government Savings Bank Building, 21-23 Elizabeth Street, Sydney—
postal address, Box 4046 W., G.P.0., Sydney.
Penalty for late lodgment 10% Additional Tax—minimum £l.
Penalty for failure to lodge returns—£loo.
NOTE: Perpetual Leases (from the Crown) without revaluation or with the right of purchase, must be
included in the return.
N. GEBRANS,
Deputy Commissioner of Land Tax.
H¥3A ¥ HOMO
pv*** ftv s»ta
df
Atmospheric changes affect seal.
Coating burns off filament.
Vacuum declines with age.
Vibration upsets balance.
Heat injures insulation.
Gases upset stability.
Tiny grid wires warp.
Joints are strained.
REVALVE WITH
RADIOTRON
AUSTRALIAN MADE .... ALWAYS AVAILABLE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), ltd.,
47 York Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless. Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
msm
HOTEL
GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11 /-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte.
Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines).
Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
about 40ft. of netting, tied at the top to
a height of 3ft. 6in. to a cross wire, which
in turn is fixed to upright posts. Have
the bottom of the troughed netting no
more than 12in. from the ground. Dis-
tance across the top, about 2ft. Sin. Cut
the sheaf bands and put the hay into the
feeder. There will be little waste.
“Canbelego”: Best method of grazing
a pasture is to eat the sward down in
three or four days with a large number
of stock, remove any rough growth with
a mower, and shut the paddock up until
the sward is ready for grazing again.
Subdivide the pasture into small pad-
docks of about five acres each. In the
flush season stock will be unable to cope
with the growth when it is at the best
grazing stage —3in. to 4in. high—so
several paddocks can be shut up and
then mown for hay or silage. In that
way the pasture helps the fodder con-
servation programme. Give the pasture
an adequate application of super, every
year, and harrow it after every grazing
to make use of animal manure.
“Yeno Ham”: If animal droppings are
not broken up with pasture harrows after
every grazing, rank growth develops.
Harrowing will tear out a percentage of
the grasses and clovers, but helps in the
end to thicken the sward.
“Large White”; Now’s the time to put
by a tank or two of maize, wheat, barley
or sorghum. Before sealing it up, kill
the weevils. Use carbon bisulphide, 4lb.
to 51b. per 1000 cubic feet. The c.b.,
being heavier than air, works downward,
so pour the required quantity into a
shallow vessel placed on top of the grain,
place the lid in position, and leave for
36 hours. Air the grain for a few hours,
then seal again.
“McJ.”: Surest sign that a cow is
within a day or so of calving is when a
hollow suddenly appears in her rump,
between the hip and pelvic bones. When
you see that in a forward cow or heifer
keep her in the home paddock.
“Mullengah”: Don’t turn heifers off
the bucket unless there is plenty of good
feed available. Supplementary feeding
pays after they are weaned. Give them
the run of good pastures at all times,
and keep an eye on them to see that they
are doing all right. Lack of good feed
early is the reason why so many under-
sized dairy cows are seen. ,
Outback Occupations.
No. LXXXI.
LOVE’S YOUNG DREAM (2).
Your eldest son is in love. He is rising
20. The lady is a schoolteacher at the
Five Mile rising 30. You’ve never seen
her, but your missus knows all about her.
As far as can be ascertained, she has
never encouraged the silly young goat,
but because she is kind and lively and
not bad to look at he and sundry other
colts of the district circulate round her
like crows round a fat lamb caught in
a fence. Since nothing can be done with
her, you face the job of tackling him.
You try indirect methods.
“Gripes,” you say, you and Jack work-
ing together up the paddock on a new
fence, “ain’t it marvellous the way the
young blokes chase that Miss Mellin over
at the Five Mile?”
“Is it?”
“Yair. Y’ know, Jack, she’s pretty
near thirty. She’s too long in the tooth
for the lads. Wouldn’t y’ think they’d
wake up t’ themselves?”
Jack moves on to the next posthole.
You ram the post and go after him.
“Yair,” you add, “you’d think they’d be
satisfied t’ hang up their hats to girls
more their own ages, wouldn’t you?”
Jack drives the bar down and says
“What, them silly bits o’ chitters? She
can run rings round ’em.”
“Aw, p’raps she can. Old Doll can
run rings round the rest o’ the plough
team, but—but” You stop, not sure
you’re getting at it the right way.
Jack says “Look, Dad, if you must
fish for similes for heaven’s sake get your
mind off horses or cows or ploughs an’
things.”
This steadies you. Work goes on while
you do a little thinking. Then you try
another tack.
“Look, Jack, you’re pretty well a
grown man now. Let’s be straight about
it. She’s nearly 30. That means in ten
years’ time she’ll be 40, an’ that’s middle-
age. You’ll be 30, still a young man.”
A strange look comes over his young
face. He lifts his eyes to the sky, sends
a gloomy glance round the farm and
says “If I’m alive then.”
The look of him and the tone are too
much. You chuckle, then laugh, then
burst into a roar. You hold on to the
post and give full play to your amuse-
ment. Jack turns a bleak eye on you,
his lips twist contemptuously and he goes
on with his work.
When you’ve subsided he says grimly
“I didn’t mean that. 1 meant I’m joining
the A.1.F.”
You’re paralysed with astonishment.
You look at him, this tall, clear-eyed
youth, and suddenly realise that he is very
like a man. You’d never thought much
about the war, but here it is suddenly
in your back paddock, its hand on the
shoulder of your son. You grip the
shovel and force it into the earth, saying
“But —but —well, oughtn’t you wait a
little longer?”
He laughs. The old reckless Jack-
laugh that has been missing lately.
“Listen,” he says, “this is for you an’
nobody else. I was over at the Five Mile
last night. She showed me her engaged
ring. He’s a captain, somewhere in the
Middle East. She prays for him every
night. That’ll do me. Too flamin’ right
it’ll do me. If he could go away an’
leave a woman like her, what am I doin’
loafin’ round here?” He picks up the
bar and drives it deep into the ground,
growling, “Blasted Germans ; they might
knock the poor cow before I get there!”
It’s a bit above you, so you say “Carry
on, Jack ; I want t’ go down t’ the house.”
Down at the house you say to the
missus “I’ve been talking to young Jack.
He Wants t’ enlist.”
* She sits down in a chair and looks
out of the window while tears come.
You put your arm across her shoulders
and stand, silent. You’ve been together
over 20 years and there isn’t any need
to say anything. Presently she sighs,
wipes her face and says “I suppose we
can’t stop him. I’ve been waiting for it.
It’s a wonder it didn’t come before this.”
“No,” you say, your own voice not
too steady. “We can’t stop him.”
After tea that night you get young
Jack aside and say “Well, son, your
mother an’ me’ll agree t’ you joinin’
up. We’ll miss you, of course, but we
realise the country needs you. It’s worth
savin’, an’ so is the Empire.”
He grins a bit and says “Well, thanks.
Dad. I don’t know what makes me want'
to go, but all the other blokes are goin’
one by one an’ I’m fit enough. I reckon
I didn’t think of it till Miss Mellin came.
You oughter hear her talk about it!
Makes y’ feel like tacklin’ the flamin’
German Army on y’r own.”
Then he disappears into his room, to
emerge a few minutes later dressed in his
best. “See y’ later,” he says, making for
the stables.
“Where has he gone?” the missus
wants to know.
“Over to see that schoolteacher,” you
grunt, somehow wishing you could wring
the schoolteacher’s neck. She had no
right to claim him when his mother was
upset like this. But there isn’t anything
to do about it.
About midnight you awake to the
sound of singing. Jack is beefing out a
chorus as he comes stamping into the
house, “ ’Struth,” you think. “What’s
she done now?” You get up and go
outside.
“Dad,” he says, “me an’ Ettie Thomp-
son’s goin’ t’ be married before I go.
Ol’ Thompson said we could. Gripes,
things are lookin’ up!” He goes to bed.
Out of the seas of amazement you
somehow paddle to the raft, climb
aboard, pull the blankets over your head
and doze, seeing visions of a 30-year-old
female schoolteacher digging postholes
while Ettie Thompson marries a captain
in the A.1.F., and you and old Thompson
open up young Jack’s head with a cold
chisel trying to see what’s inside.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
2fd. per line.
For a thought-provoking statement of a personal experience of birth control, an
Australian who writes from Fiji is awarded double rates.
One Child
When we married we had absolutely
no thought of evading our duty as poten-
tial parents. In fact, to be quite honest,
that aspect of the business did not occur
to us.. We thought of the future in terms
of ourselves, a home and a nebulous
background of children. But, because my
wife was’ just a little panicky and because
we both felt a desire to feel our feet
firmly established in married life before
taking up the duties of parents, we
adopted a carefully-considered contra-
ceptive.
The lapse of a year found us both
eagerly awaiting the first signs of parent-
hood. Nothing happened. For a year
or more we hoped ; then, in despair, my
wife consulted a doctor. Nothing really
wrong was the verdict, but a minor opera-
tion might help. The operation over, it
was nearly another year before we were
able to anticipate the happiness of parent-
hood.
With our first safely in arms we, as
we thought wisely, decided to space the
arrival of number two. In this we were
only too successful. Number one is now
nine years of age. My wife has, of
course, been to a doctor ; so have I. We
are both quite normal and healthy. All
we can do is to keep on hoping.
Somewhat similar cases have come to
our knowledge which would seem to
point to the harmful effects of certain
contraceptive measures, even those
recommended by supposed authorities.—
Aussie in Exile (Fiji)..
Men v. Machines
“Strategist’s” opinion that Mr. Menzies
is right and The Bulletin’s editorial—
usually sane —dangerously . wrong also
requires amending. If anything, The
Bulletin and “Strategist” both have the
right idea. Men and machines are needed.
It is wrong to say that the German
army’s sweep through the Netherlands
was opposed by some seven million armed
men mistakenly labelled “Allies.” “Lia-
bilities” would be a more accurate term.
We know now that behind our precious
Allies lay an unseen army, and a very
deadly one. The whole Allied communi-
cation system was ridden by Nazi
agencies, which did their job only too well
for our purposes. Flas “Strategist” missed
items like the removal of demolition
charges from the Moerdyk Bridge
across the main estuary of the River
Maas, one of the most important strate-
gical points in the whole of the Nether-
lands, just before the German hordes
arrived there? There were doubtless
plenty of other similar happenings
throughout the campaign.
Another point that needs correcting is
the assertion that “a few Hurricanes and
Spitfires saved England when 1\ million
men failed.” Such an assertion is one
of those deadly half-truths which should
be strictly avoided. Behind the R.A.F.
fighters lay British sea-power, and not
all our R.A.F. could have saved England
had not the navy kept the enemy confined
to the air. He dared not try conclusions
on the sea. Had Hitler possessed some
real and vital command of the coastal
waters around Dover, a different story
would have been told.
The Bulletin does well to call atten-
tion to the urgent need for men; it’s a
pity “so many are so deaf and so few can
hear.”— A. T. Sage (Tas.).
Insurance of Soldiers
The Douglas Shire (Q.) Patriotic Fund
put a proposal up to the insurance cos.
and the Federal Government for the pay-
ment of premiums on the insurance
policies held by members of the fight-
ing forces in the present war. It was sug-
gested that the insurance cos. apply the
percentage of the profits distributed as
bonuses to payment of premiums on the
policies held by service men. The pro-
posal was placed before the cos. and
before E. M. Hanlon, Q. Minister for
Health and Home Affairs, but it was
turned down. Mr. Hanlon said that he
could not agree to the proposal because
the State insurance undertaking had to
be run on business lines.
Now. lapsed policies represent profits
to any insurance undertaking. What sort
of a State enterprise is it —what kind of
a business is it —that will take its profits
out of the misfortunes of the poor and
the patriotism of our soldiers?
When the Government of this country
stands up to its job and protects the
soldiers against such racketeering and
treats them in accordance with their
deserts there will be no occasion for
recruiting drives. I am an hon. recruit-
ing officer and I know what these boys
think about the whole business. —M. S. B.
(N.Q.).
Repatriation
As our fighting forces are demobilised,
returned men will find themselves in
desperate competition for jobs, and. many
of them will remain out of work unless
some effective plan for their employment
is evolved. The onus is on the repatria-
tion authorities to make an extensive
survey of this potential problem.
It must be borne in mind that a sub-
stantial number of the new Diggers were
more or less unemployed prior to their
“ Please , mister, christen me poddy Winston Joseph De Gaulle."
enlistment. On return to civil life these
men will lack both the technical training
and the practical experience to qualify
for jobs. If repatriation is to fulfil its
purpose it must assist them. They
should not be left to eke out an existence
on the dole as they did before the war.
They and their dependants must be as
well provided for as regular wage-earners,
even though it mean a general all-round
reduction in the basic wage to meet the cost.
The public is anxious that the repat-
riation machinery shall operate smoothly
and efficiently, assisting our men in a
manner that will tangibly express our
gratitude to them. — Blue (Q.).
“More Than Wild”
I am more than wild with “Hon,
Recruiting Officer” (B. 23/7 / ’4l) over his
sarcastic remarks about a regiment (the
15th A.L.H.) that has always been an ex-
ceptionally good one. “Ridiculous offer,”
was it? Why? Is it ridiculous for a
well-trained body of men who know
each other and understand each other,
from C.O. to fatigue men, to want to
enlist in a body, to stick together in war
as in peace?
Does “H.R.0.” know that the regiment
went to Armidale for three months’
strenuous training, at the conclusion of
which somewhere about 90 p.c. went to
the A.1.F., not as a body, but in groups of
lifelong cobbers in many cases, to enlist?
Because of the stupidity of recruiting
officers (hon.) these men were not allowed
to get into any A.I.F. unit together with
the exception of the Kyogle troop. They
were the holders and breakers of all
Australian records for team shooting
with Vickers machine-guns, and they did
get into a unit together—yes, a Pioneer
unit, to learn how to use shovels. At the
same time a machine-gun regiment,
A.1.F., was looking amongst untrained
men for 50 machine-gunners.
“What was there to stop these men
enlisting individually?” says “H.R.0.”
For nearly four months this regiment,
with the other regiments of the 2nd
Cavalry Brigade, was in camp at Mait-
land. On nearly the last day of camp,
when everyone was extra busy with pre-
parations for breaking camp, along came
a recruiting officer. There were nearly
100 men in my squadron alone wanting
to enlist, but, as the facilities for medical
exams, and enlistment were so limited as
to have taken my men the best part of
a busy day, I told them they would have
to wait till they got home. They did this,
and again are being called up individu-
ally, and again we shall see pals who
wanted to fight side by side being drafted
into different units without a chance of
getting together.
And, “H.R.0.,” don’t go too far with
your slur about “the traditions of the
regiment being all piffle” ; I may be back
in Maitland one of these days and
For your own information we no longer
are issued with bows and arrows, but if
you read the war news you will notice
that in Syria the mechanised army was
using any horses it could get, and as
riders it had good old Light Horsemen
of whom Harry Chauvel is justly proud.
The men of the Northern Rivers Lancers
are not “remaining amongst the rabbits
of the Rivers” (I’d like to see you about
that, too), but any who are unable to go
will be only too pleased to debate
the matter with “H.R.0.” Though
militiamen generally are referred to these
days as “tin soldiers,” don’t forget that
they have trained thousands of men for
the A.I.F. and are worthy of better con-
sideration than such idle talkers as
“H.R.0.” hand out— The Fingal Lancer
(N.S.W.).
Enlisting on the Goldfields
Over the radio in W.A. and in the
local press men of the goldfields are
being constantly urged to join the A.1.F.,
R.A.N. and the R.A.A.F. Such urging
is entirely unnecessary. All that is re-
quired are the facilities to join. As things
stand it costs £2O at least in fares, loss
of employment, board, etc., for a man to
find out if he is eligible for enlistment.
A friend of mine wrote to me to say
his application to join the A.I.F. had
been accepted. Fie threw his job in and
went to Perth ; he is now back on the
’fields, having been rejected as “unfit.”
I have personally seen this man do a
hard day’s work underground, and at the
end of it race up 140 ft. of ladders. So
if he was unfit how is anyone to know
that he is fit? Another case is of a
man who threw his job in and went to
Perth to enlist. After some time we re-
ceived a wire from him asking for his
job back. This man tells me that after
a lot of being sent from one place to
another he was finally told he would be
accepted after he had had an operation
for hernia, at his own expense. He had
this operation, and then, being broke, had
to have a job till called up. He assured
me that the whole affair cost him £7O.
A townsman can find out about his
eligibility without a fraction of the incon-
venience. Surely it should be possible
either to establish recruiting offices at
country centres or Jet a mobile outfit with
an army officer and a doctor make a
periodical tour. — Akrabo (W.A.).
A Continental Campaign
Having had a slight, very slight, mili-
tary training, I know the preparation and
planning required to manoeuvre a fully-
equipped battery into position ; I am
able to appreciate the attention to detail,
hard work and brains needed to
manoeuvre a field regiment; I can only
guess at the large scale co-ordination re-
quired to place a division in the field, to
feed it, supply it with ammunition, re-
move its wounded and give it mobility ;
but the giant organisation and dove-
tailing of all services that must be neces-
sary to keep a fighting army corps in
the field for a single day is frankly be-
yond me. That is the reason 1 see red
when armchair strategists and wireless
commentators, without a day of military
experience, blithely demand that whole
armies be transported across hundreds ot
miles of dangerous waters to fight on
enemy-occupied territory.— Smilax (Q.).
Westralia’s Grievances
Federal authorities responsible for war-
equipment contracts don’t do much to
appease the feelings of those Westralians
whose vision is towards separation—
despite the lull in that campaign these
last few years, the idea is still prevalent.
Westralians don’t mind contracts going to
eastern manufacturers where the raw
material is available—it would be so
much waste of time and money sending
it across the Bight to be made up and
sent back. But that cannot apply to
wooden equipment like the bodies ol
lorries, drays and other things, and,
despite promises, these things still come
across to the western military establish-
ments.
The quantity of wood in a lorry is of
little consequence, but there is a lot ol
work in the fabrication, and it represents
an appreciable operation which would
benefit some struggling factory. The
western manufacturer has his worry with
an always higher basic wage than prevails
in the eastern States, and where he can
he helped he should be, if only to
strengthen a general Commonwealth out-
look. Some day the movement for one
Parliament will become insistent and
Westralia’s support may be a deciding
factor. —Adsum (W.A.).
Men Who Know
It’s good news that a few officers of
the Second A.I.F. are to return to Aus-
tralia to give our home defence army the
benefit of their knowledge of warfare as
it has been waged this time. Technique
is vastly different from what the First
A.I.F. knew, and, although training
manuals and memoranda have their uses,
it is the spoken word of the man who
was there that counts.
It is to be hoped that there will be
sufficient officers and n.c.os. to cope with
the large lump our home defence army
now amounts to. It is also to be hoped
that the officers will include members of
our Staff Corps of Duntroon-trained pro-
fessionals and that their replacement over
there by other Staff Corps officers will
give a reasonable chance to all regular
officers to gain war experience. It seems
wrong to allow a proportion of Staff
Corps officers to remain indefinitely with
the A.I.F. while others are presumably
destined to see the war through in Aus-
tralia.—Ubique (N.S.W.).
Taking Over B.H.P.
I might believe that this would be the
remedy for our industrial ills in the heavy
industries, were it not for the fact that
the history of State-controlled industries
in this country is directly at variance with
that view. In my State, the moulders
have just resumed work after a strike in
the State-controlled Ipswich railway
workshops (their boss a Labor Govern-
ment), a strike which the Minister foi
Railways called “unjustifiable in any cir-
cumstances but, in the special war cir-
cumstances, dreadful. And State public
servants have three times voted that, if
called upon to protect Crown property
in the event of an air raid, they should
receive a special bonus and overtime
rates. No, State ownership does not
mean industrial peace. Even here in
the north we have heard of Victorias
State-owned Wonthaggi mine and its his-
tory! —W. K, D. (Q.).
A Land' of Plenty
Squeals that the average Australian
worker (B. 16/7/’4l) couldn’t afford a
breakfast of baked apple (with apples
3d. a pound), custard (custard would cost
4d.), a lamb chop and a bit of bacon,
plus a couple of slices of toast and a glass


/ /
1860
/ /
PROGRESS: 81 years ago, Mr. J. C. W. Nicholson
laid the foundations of a business that has now
attained such eminence that the name Nichol-
son's is synonymous with music: and accepted as
the standard by which all Musical Merchan-
dising is judged ! The world's leading overseas
•manufacturers of quality musical instruments,
have appointed Nicholson's Sole N.S.W. Agents:
thus enabling the firm to eschew anything other
than the finest lines procurable in a select
market.
So it is that Nicholson's have been able to build
on the old foundation of quality a magnificent
new building which will become the Musical
Centre for Sydney's Cultural Community
t
bar
RECORD
m
m
m
m
m
BUM
ill
IM
Mi
WttßC
li
<yv.
II
<e-
t
*
$
\
/ ptxrujdlJUf cuaAaxrumxje tke Comf&£etioiV
flluMcul LesiMe
416 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY. M 2041
WITH PARDONABLE PRIDE, WE INVITE YOU TO VISIT THE MODERN HOME
OF SYDNEY'S MUSICAL CENTRE: AND SURVEY THIS CONCRETE CONFIRMATION
OF OUR FAITH IN THE FUTURE OF MUSIC .
PI
ISS&SS&ffMi
m
m
m
S£ CTio N
r ADi o
Dept
fßuiCdinq a !
A
\
19 4 1
\ \
ACHIEVEMENT: That the Directors of
. Nicholson's were wise in religiously adhering to
\ their policy of "Quality above all" is proven by
the fact that of the 49 pianos in the Sydney
Conservatorium of Music, 48 arc from the House
of Nicholson!
Further proof of Nicholson's rock-like prestige is
provided by the choice of the Austalion
Broadcasting Commission, whose studios ore
equipped with an equally overwhelming
percentage of Nicholson's Fine Pianos: and
such celebrated educational institutions os the
Church of England Girls' School, Scots College,
King's School, and Cranbrook College to
mention just a few which are exclusively
equipped by Nicholson's!
$
DANIEL
CRAWFORD’S
GENUINE OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
“A lolly good idea ”
You’ll enjoy the mellow flavour of
this rare blend of
DANIEL
CRAWFORD’S
GENUINE OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
IHSEHPINCIT TO SC4WTEBEU-
fm snc/Aust unuaursms
* ACCURATE WEIGHTS * HIGHEST PRICES
★ EXPERT CLASSING * LIBERAL ADVANCES
Write for Market Reports and Labels
SALESMEN
1 BENT STREET. SYDNEY
Telegrams: Schute Bell, Sydney. Telephone: 8W4341.


of milk, make me sick. I have lived on
this continent nearly 60 years. 1 was bom
in a skillion and have never earned much
above the basic wage, often less. Yet to
me Australia has been a land of over-
flowing plenty. Never have I been
economically short of a good feed, a roof
and a bed. I have reared five children,
an , ! hey ’ ve alwa y s bad as much as they
could possibly eat. And always have I
had at least the equivalent of a bacon-
and-eggs breakfast, with other meals up
to the same standard.
And since I ceased my wanderings and
settled down steady with the long-haired
mate never has the week-end been with-
out its forequarter, sometimes a leg, of
lamb or prime mutton. Sometimes pork,
sometimes a 61b. Muscovy drake. Why?
Simply because I long ago realised that
Australia contained millions of acres and
have refused to allow any Government or
municipality to herd me into a Surry
Hills or a Woolloomooloo or similai sink.
I have demanded at least a quarter of
an acre out of the millions and a hutch
of my own. Then a shovel and a few
seeds and a pen of poultry. Nor have I
given any study to the Sport of Kings,
uor delegated to the books the spending
of the bulk of my earnings. Nor have I
looked too fondly on the beer—l prefer
Australian wine, and get more flavor and
as much alcohol out of a 3d. glass of
* a w th rr o ?w f A a t 9d ' Pint ° f S OPPY beeF ‘
W. C. C. (W.A.).
From Montreal
This is Canada calling. Just thought
I would drop you a line of commenda-
tion for your fine newspaper, several
copies of which I have received through
a friend of mine in Montreal. This friend
has a brother in Queensland who sends
The Bulletin
I like your frank discussion of the war
situation! your interesting stories and
other remarks, and particularly your very
armisine cartoons
My wife and I have met a number
of Australians serving with the R.A.A.F.
and training with our own Royal
Canadian Air Force under the Empire
Air Training plan (New Zealanders, too),
and without exception we have found
them pleasant young men. We have enter-
tained some of them at our home and
we find that the Australians, New
Zealanders and Canadians get along fine
together.
We Canadians salute Australia. God
bless our Empire and give us victory
over the forces of evil!—Russell D.
Hammond (Montreal).
Abolition of the Cane
.. , T ri wt i
It seems a pity that N. S. Wales
Mimster for Education Evatt should
descend to the level of what appears to
be a cheap stunt at such yearly stage
in his Ministerial career. By h ls P re_
cipitate and ill-advised action in sum-
manly abolishing corporal punishment m
N. S. Wales schools he has offended
against the canons of etiquette and
commonsense.
The desirability or otherwise of the
move is not a matter of individual ideal-
ism or judgment, but one of practica-
bihty and the obvious preliminary would
have been that of consultation with the
teaching body through its official organ.-
sation-the Federation-before arriving
at a , deC ‘ S, ° n - i al ( b u dy \'i V * b ' C , 1 g ad ,y
would have supplied the Minister with
valuable data on the subject, was com-
pletely ignored It could, for instance
have told him that the corrat approach
to his desirab e solution would be through
a considerable reduction in class loads,
with a complete revision of the obsolete
and unfair inspectorial system. These
steps, together with the reorientation of
the examination system, are indispensable
preparations for the. removal of “anti-
social” punishments.
It is strange that a man whose earlier
career brought him into contact with
anti-social adults in our criminal courts
should not realise that in certain circum-
stances corrective and punitive measures
are unavoidable and necessary. Does he
really think that his “family” (as he pub-
licly christened the school population of
N. S. Wales) does not include, for in-
stance, children who bring street-corner
obscenities to their school or wantonly
destroy school and civic property, steal
from classmates and otherwise act in an
anti-social manner? If so, he should
complete the job by entering into the
homes of pupils and prevent parents from
following Solomon’s precept.
Having exorcised the evil spirits thus,
Mr. Evatt can look forward to the early
closing of our halls of justice—and to the
millennium, which should arrive very
soon afterwards. Unfortunately the
Minister’s idealistic psychology is of the
type frequently encountered in people
who have had no experience of the reali-
ties of the question at issue.—B.Ec.
(N.S.W.).
Volunteer Teachers
A thump on The Bully’s back for
“The Volunteer Teacher” (B. 30/7/’4l),
bld what can be done about it? I quote
my own case because I know it best,
Seventeen years’ service, reached second-
highest classification group, have had
much success and boundless pleasure
handling boys, and normally would go
ou t nex t year j n c fi a rge of a staffed
country school to begin the final climb to
the top. But over the years I’ve had a
hobby through which I’ve developed suf-
ficjent technical skill to have been ac-
cepted for active service, despite age
limits, and am waiting call-up.
Why not? Perhaps lam “of more
value to the nation as a trained teacher
than as a volunteer soldier” ; but I’m
hoping otherwise. To me the resource-
fuj application of peace-time skill to
de f ence purposes is an essential in any
v i r iJ e nation—and that goes for every-
body j n h. We’ve heard enough drivel
about beating swords into ploughshares
and spea rs into pruning-hooks ; national
existence now depends on beating them
back again> pretty quic]dy> Maybe I’m
one G f wrong people doing the right
thinking,” mentioned somewhere lately;
does that justify my switching to the
“wrong thinking”?
And tbe “ ne w order” afterwards? Most
D f those yapping about it will have little
t 0 do with buildin 8 for an V worth-
while change must come from a long-
sighted educational policy ; make young-
sters practise more self-government and
learn its problems and its possibilities ;
pdeh overboard the white collar job
fetish and through handcrafts and manual
skill restore the self-reliance of the indi-
vidual; and so on. Hitler knows the im-
portance of catching ’em young and we
bave t 0 beat him there, too. There are
Pj**? ° £ t . each "? “
of developing citizens who will be more
sceptical of renting theorists and Jess
mob-minded than so many are today.
with them lies a heavier responsi-
b.hty-and a greater opportunity-ton
with most politicians. In the meantime
-*?!'> an / f^ n g. would ‘ eave h b ,'S
se ?dl>ng s jo deal with a scrubber bull
* h ' cbhad br< *“ m t . e y e . n l£
hat his youngsters might have to repair
the damage and rebuild the fence with-
his help. R.A.A.F. v
'N.b.w.;.
.
Gift of the Gabble
As one who has been on the studio end
of the microphone as a “casual,” I should
like to point out to “P.0.M.C.” (B.
23/7/’4l) that the main reason why script
j» “| abb ' ed r fte mi , k ?- is * a !
the A.B.C. folk have no regulation pace
f or talkers. Ordinary conversation pro-
ceeds at the rate of about 120 words a
m j nu t e bu t script submitted to the Com-
mission is seldf)mj if everj timed to a
definite standard schedule calculated at
words per minute spoken. If a script is
tOQ lon F for the allotted period (usually
u minutes) it is liable to be faded out,
sQ a talker, especially a nervous one, is
ap t to speak too fast. There is also an
ur g e t G avoid pedantry by speaking too
s i ow j y .
“The leisurely unseen voice” is, of
f j he (ect radio talk
jt \ ~ t a|l to achieve this in
unnatural atmos /here of the studio,
Jt WQuld probably much bett er if all
talks were delivered from a standing
iti As thi s are one is seated ,
P comfortably, and I have yet to
di J j twh o ’ ne shou , d be seated
~ It J certain { y does not increase the
ffl j £ a “armchair-chat” atmo-
r iLuoromm tvtcw'i
sphere.-MICRQLOGUE N.S.W.).
„
Costless Credit
There is a wise old saw that translates
from the Latin, “One fool can deny more
in one hour than one hundred wise men
can prove in one hundred years,” apropos
of which there are at least two Sydney
dailies pursuing an editorial policy of
inflation of the currency guised as “cost-
less credit,” “credit expansion,” etc. There
are as many as six known methods of
inflating the currency besides the actual
printing of paper money, and their effect
is ultimately identical, each being a
species of the genus inflation,
There are a great number of fools in
human form, and the chances are that a
section of the press has allotted itself the
dubious honor of voicing their brain-
storms, the idea being perhaps that an
easy following of numerous monetary
morons is preferable to competing for
the allegiance of the more stable citizens.
By its very nature Democracy is a
struggle against ignorance and lassitude,
and it is regrettable that the same system
allows its weakest spots to be nurtured
by an irresponsible press, whose real
object should be to enlighten, not to
cloud an issue.
Basically, money is a convenient com-
modity to effect an exchange of goods
and services. It is essential that it be
kept quantitatively in relation to such, and
it is the job of high banking officials and
economists in the coincidental interest
of their firm and country to see the safety
margin is not overstepped either way. If
money becomes quantitatively in excess of
the output of goods and services, like any
other commodity of which supply exceeds
demand it immediately cheapens itself,
with disastrous consequences to the com-
munity, which relies in every aspect of
its commerce, manufacture and primary
production on the stability of the cur-
rency of the realm.
The only way the supply of money
could be increased in safety would in-
volve increasing the supply of labor, by
more work and/or harder work per unit
of the population. This would in turn
give rise to an increase in the supply of
comodities, which in turn demands more
labor and so on, giving us an upward
spiral till the available stock of labor or
raw material was exhausted. Let those
disciples of more money and less work
ponder this severe logic and relinquish
the daydream that you can have your
cake and eat it too. — Peak (N.S.W.).
Libraries
We Westralians point with pride to
our correspondence system of education
for the outback child. Its simplicity and
efficiency have helped thousands of chil-
dren and, in supervising the children,
hundreds of parents. It has a library sub-
scribed for a fair part by the parents —-
not large enough, true, but excellent as
far as it goes. The books are generously
sent out to suit each child’s taste, and
everything is done to foster a love of
books and a desire for learning.
It seems the natural thing for the
Public Library to carry on this good work
for the child when reaching adulthood.
But, in my experience, the very opposite
is the blind policy in this State. Not one
book can the outback person obtain
from our Public Library. There is no
service to help the isolated seeker after
knowledge. Reference or technical books
on any subject are unobtainable. In S.A.
people can join the country service of
the Public Library free of charge, and
the railways carry the books at cut rates.
The service is even advertised.
There is a box-scheme in W.A. doing
very good work in country centres on
certain planned lines. But to the isolated
student doing original work (in the way
of writing) or studying a special subject
to better himself in his employment this
box-scheme is useless. Besides which it
operates only in its own season. There
is also a Readers’ Counsellor at the Uni-
versity and an adult education library
is beginning (Carnegie Trust Fund), but
neither fits the bill for the isolated out-
back person studying and needing special
references. —Zuzu (W.A.).
Creative Writing
The scientific and technical writing
which Charles Halbert (B. 2/7/’4l) places
above creative writing is generally very
ephemeral. What few such efforts attain
a life of any length owe their survival
to qualities other than their practical
merits —particular literary excellence, or,
in the case of some scientific works (Dar-
win’s Voyage of the Beagle is a good
example), because they are also interest-
ing records of travel. A treatise on, say,
medicine or poultry culture or shipbuild-
ing, written a century ago, has no appeal
today, because it is out of date.
A similar oblivion is not the lot of the
great creative writer, whether poet, dra-
matist, novelist. His works give pleasure
to and influence men long ages after
they were penned. Homer flourished
nearly three thousand years ago, but his
Iliad and Odyssey are printed today.
More than five centuries separate
Chaucer from us, and he wrote an Eng-
lish so different from ours that it is
almost a foreign tongue, yet his poems
are still read and by no means only by
students obliged to do so. Shakspeare
will be read and acted so long as the
English language lasts. Thirteenth-cen-
tury Dante is a best-seller in Italy and
that country’s representative author, and
three centuries after Cervantes’s death
his Don Quixote continues to make
“boys laugh, young men think and old
men weep.”
The creative writer is the interpreter of
the spirit of a people, of an age in its
history or of one or other of the classes
that constitute its social fabric. In the
words of Carlyle: “Truly it is a great
thing for a nation that it get an articu-
late voice, that it produce a man who
will speak forth melodiously what the
heart of it means.”
No factual can fill such a role.
It is the function of the creative writer.
—Tom (N.S.W.).
Books
Of the making of books there is no
end. Every modern city has its public
library, the walls lined with a mosaic
composed of priceless gems of literature.
The huge institutions are haunted by a
few high souls, each interested in some
tiny detail of the vast scheme of mural
decoration. All the ologies and isms, all
the arts and sciences are represented, so
that he who can afford the time to stop
running and sit down may read.
No human mind can now claim all
knowledge for its province. It would
require a thousand years for a thousand
modern Bacons to map out its frontiers.
There is sufficient wisdom within one
building to enable mankind to make this
sad old earth a paradise, and still the
printing presses are turning out volumes
faster than shelves can be built to accom-
modate them or catalogues indexed to
classify them.
Much learning has become a danger-
ous thing. Man, the eternal child, revels
in fables but flies from encyclopaedias.
He prefers games to philosophy, fiction
to history and comic strips to immortal
dramas.
Those who long for world peace might
be justified in praying for the advent of
a dictator who would call a halt to the
making of books for a millennium dur-
ing which the surfeit of knowledge could
be processed to bear at least the sem-
blance of wisdom. During that golden
age students could earn their hire by
eliminating mere verbiage and preserv-
ing only such things as are pure and of
good report, simplifying the obscure and
reducing to simple factors the intermin-
able sum which must be solved if life
on earth is to be other than a vain
struggle for survival. — Worm (S.A.).
Wanted —Better Labor Orators
Latterly, through the radio, we seem
to have been hearing all sorts of Labor
men ladling out guff about the dignity
of the working classes and the great
work being done by the A.C.T.U. and the
rest of the alphabet. They all seem to be
woefully incompetent speakers, and only
the desire to have all points of view
makes me suffer them to the end.
There seems to be an opening for a
new profession: Ghost Talkers. The
Ghost Writer is a well-known figure in
American life and elsewhere. For all I
know they may have ghost talkers in the
U.S.A., but I haven’t heard of any here,
and there seems to be a crying need for
them.
What is the use of putting a bad
speaker on the air to boost a cause?
Why be so subservient to the weird super-
stition—closely allied to word-magic, by
the way —that a “name” must broad-
cast? “Mr. W. T. Thumpit, general
secretary of So-and-So, who has been
closely associated with the movement
since 1899,” and so forth. Who cares
about Mr. Thumpit? If they want to
puff him, then have a special session
and give fair warning so that we can
tune in elsewhere if we want to. What is
wanted is somebody to put over propa-
ganda about the movement in a way that
will make it tell; a first-class radio
speaker, trained to the job. Not an
announcer, who is trained to keep all
emotion from his delivery, but a dinki-di
broadcast spellbinder. — R. H. Gordon
(W.A.).
Electric Prodders
I thought the use on stock trains of
those barbarous instruments of torture
electric prodders had been prohibited,
but they are still in existence.
Recently I saw a train drover using one
on a bullock that had got down in a
truck. Repeated prods failed to get the
unfortunate beast to its feet; all it did
was to bellow with pain at each vicious
jab. If the meatworks companies or any
owners knew what a deleterious effect
prodding with these devices had on meat
they’d see no train drover was permitted
to use one. Constant prodding with
these instruments not only causes bad
bruises ; it causes the meat to show a
black appearance when dressed. And
by rendering a down beast more or less
immune to the pain it defeats its own
end. Electric prodders should be pro-
hibited. — Beefo (N.S -V.)
Sauce for the Gander
Now that the cut in petrol has Drought
car-owners down to half or even less of
their normal consumption, the registra-
tion on cars should be reduced by half.
In my case I pay £lO for a car. This
car is in town or on a main road about
five times per year, and every time it
is a case of sickness, business or to help
the war effort. I am sure the Govern-
ment would not lose so much money if
the registration was cut, as more car-
owners would register their cars. •
K. T. M. (N.S.W.).


'
n*
Sir Herbert Barker.
“Benefit beyond com-
putation can be se-
cured by all who will
follow the directions
given in the Pelman
Course. It is impos-
sible to speak too
highly of it.”
Pelmanism is a scientific training.
It substitutes good and faithful
habits of mind and memory for
slovenly and fearful ones. Thus it
promotes steadfastness, definiteness
and continuity of effort.
m
£
Canon Hannay.
(G. A. Birmingham.)
“Pelmanism is vahir-
able to all men and
women . . , the re-
sults endure. Habits
of mind are formed
which are of the very
highest value in life.”
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so that we
are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us. We see
more, and we see it more quickly and accurately. In consequence, there
is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire exact knowledge,
remember it and recall it as required. We learn to trust our sense
perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is then open
and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and woman. The
more important of these qualities are
Observation Self-Confidence Concentration
Will-Power Judgment Initiative
Decision Organisation Social Ease
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices and
useful data of every kind.
The Exercises are pleasant and each has its special purpose. The Pelman
Course is a real training, its primary object being to create good habits
of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly ones, to train the
conscious and the subconscious so that every faculty will, when called
upon, contribute its share in making a good performance of anything
that has to be done.
From several thousands of letters received from men and women doing all
kinds of work in Australia and New Zealand we give the following of recent date:
Aug. 14th, ’4O.
Since starting Pelmanism I have improved
immensely in various ways. This Lesson
(Concentration) was very informative. I was
always under the impression that concentration
was fixation of thought. —Printer ( Vic. ).
April 22nd, ’4O.
As an example of what Pelmanism has done
the following might be of interest. For the
past week I have been working on a subject
which for the past twelve months almost drove
me to despair. Today I succeeded in obtaining
the maximum percentage in an oral examination
which lasted over two hours. I had no fears,
felt perfectly confident and felt a tinge of regret
when it was over. I was thoroughly enjoying
myself. —Officer (merchant ship).
March sth, ’4O.
Enclosed you will find my work sheet for
Lesson 12.
I must enclose a few lines to express my
gratitude for the information and advice con-
tained in this Lesson 12. From it I have
obtained the solution to a problem which I’ve
tried to solve in various ways, but without pre-
vious success. Had this been the only benefit
derived, this Course would have been worth
while. —Clerk (Vic.)
March Bth, ’4O.
I forward my last work sheet with a feeling
of regret. This Course has been a great pleasure
for me, and 1 have enjoyed the reading and study
immensely. I complete it with a feeling of satis-
faction and enlightenment, and know that I have
received far more benefit than I had imagined
possible.— Lady Bookkeeper (Q’ loud) .
Feb. 15th, ’4O.
My casual memory is almost infallible. I note
important details to be done at specified times,
but rarely need to rely on these written notes.
I seem now to have an automatic mental “remem-
bering” device.— Bank Officer ( Vic .).
Feb. Ist, ’4O.
With the help and encouragement of Pelmanism
I realised that 1 possessed artistic-owm-business
talent. Soon after completing the Pelman Course
I found a place in Radio as cadet announcer.
Today, about six years later, I am the manager
(station named). Pelmanism is largely respon-
sible for all this.
You have my permission to show this letter to
anyone really interested in your splendid Course
of—The Way to Live! —Manager (O’land).
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy of “The Efiieient
Mind,” 76 pages, post free. Your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential
communication; we have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory arid Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
I)r. F. W. Norwood, D,l>.
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system, of
nyind-training. A
proper grasp of it
would save any life
from futility. It teaches
that man has the key
to his own career.”
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
Dame Sybil
Thorndike.
“Pejmanism givers a
mental clarity and
quality of alertness
that, secs opportunities
and uses them rightly
Pelmanism is endorsed publicly by
more than 100 Prominent People.
Pelmanists are found in practically
every calling.
Pelmanism is permanent in its effect
on the Mind, Memory and Person-
There are over half a million
Pelmanists, of whom more than
44,000 have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
The Headquarters of the Felman
Institute are in l>ondon.
The Institute has been established
in Melbourne for over 33 years.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training , without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
To the Pelnjan Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 blinders Lane, Melbourne,
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mindl”
Name
Address
134
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
KiiiS
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
* 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
* For local office address (Subscribers living outside Australia and New
see Page 8. Zealand should send 30 /-.)
SEND “THE BULLETIN”
THE LADS OVERSEAS—
Special Concession Rates:
15/-
12 months
6 months . 8/
3 months, 4/-
post free.
/
*
TO
' 0
(&'
• of
c,C x \o°


Today’s Engine
IN TOMORROW’S CAR
The life of your engine cannot be judged by its year or
model, but on its capacity to do its job . . . and to keep on
doing it.
Cars of the oldest vintage can still be good cars and per-
form faithfully, providing the engine has been able to with-
stand the wear and tear of constant use.
The secret of engine efficiency is to reduce friction to the
absolute minimum and the answer to that is lubrication.
Not just oil, but Purr-Oil the finest and most perfect
lubricant known to science.
These are not times for chancy experiments or slaphappy
methods.
If you’re going to keep the new car new or keep the old car
on the road, then don’t gamble with oil insist on Purr-
Oil the perfect lubricating oil, selected and refined to the
highest standard by the Independent Oil Industries Pty.
Limited.
Independent Oil
Industries Pty.,
Limited
PURR
OIL
Federal
Road,
Glebe
Marketers
’URR-PULL and PURR-KOLL Motor Spirit.
p.a
