

a.
|OH
a tm «
*
If it is a matter of wireless apparatus for
naval, military or air force purposes; for marine or air
communications; for mobile or fixed aids to navigation;
for broadcasting; for any application whatever to practical
requirements . . . A.W.A. manufacture it.
To-day, as in the earliest days of wireless experiment,
A.W.A. are pioneers in design and leaders in technical
efficiency.
K
Hk
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
Buy War Savings Certificates
“Too Lat! Too Late!"
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3229.
Wednesday, December 31, 1941.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Learn
siory Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.” 3
My Name
My Address
y.B. 341
The Red Page
Australian Poetry Today.
Coast to Coast, Angus and Robert-
son’s anthology of recent Australian
short stories, was published just over two
months ago; it has already gone into its
second edition. Since short stories are
generally believed to be pretty well as
hard to sell as poetry, this seems the best
of omens for the companion verse an-
thology, Australian Poetry, 1941, which
has now been published by the same
firm.
Australian Poetry, 1941, originated in
the same way as Coast to Coast, from an
article on the Red Page suggesting that
there should be annual anthologies of the
best short stories and poems written in
Australia—partly in order to preserve
valuable work that might otherwise be
lost, partly to demonstrate what good
work is being done by living writers,
and partly simply for the pleasure of
seeing good books published in Aus-
tralia. Angus and Robertson took up
the Red Page’s suggestion and intend to
carry on the anthologies annually as a
contribution to Australian literature.
The Red Page review of Coast to
Coast took the form of notes by the
selector on the stories chosen and on the
principles on which they were chosen.
Australian Poetry, 1941, is similarly
treated here.
From the material offering, a year’s
Australian poetry, half a dozen antholo-
gies, widely differing in tone and outlook,
could have been constructed. There’s
an obvious temptation to choose poems
that are “typically Australian”; there’s
the war; experimental poetry and tra-
ditional poetry ; the verses of the sur-
viving balladists, and the verse that most
successfully follows the latest English
fashions; the light, pretty lyrics that
decorate the women’s magazines, and the
products of the subconscious minds of
undergraduates at the universities ; poetry
about machines, poetry about nature ;
a book to encourage young writers, a
book of the well-known Names: empha-
sis on any one of these would make an
interesting anthology, but it couldn’t,
since there are good writers of all schools,
make the sort of anthology Australian
Poetry is intended to be—the year’s best
poems by the best practising poets.
What was the solution? Open the
door wide and let poems of all sorts
in together, cheek by jowl and chirp
by scowl?
That would probably have made a hor-
rible hodge-podge of a book; and in
any case it was intended to make the
anthology exclusive rather than in-
clusive : keep it small and keep it good.
Either through the deliberate exclusion
of competent writers who submitted work
not up to their known standards, or
through ignorance of good work that had
been done by unknown or rarely-practis-
ing poets, there might be unfortunate
omissions. But there would always be
the next year’s anthology in which to
make amends.
Nettie Palmer, who intended to bring
out a similar anthology and who grace-
fully retired to give the Angus and
Robertson venture a free field, indicated
some further difficulties in an article in
a magazine; should poems be included
that had already appeared in anthologies
or verse magazines? There was also
the problem of poems dating back a
year or two before late 1940 and early
1941. None of these things seemed to
matter much. As long as the anthology
kept broadly to the spirit of the title,
the only thing that mattered was the
quality of the poetry.
The Names came in, not because they
were names, but because they write good
poetry. Shaw Neilson, Robert D. Fitz-
Gerald, Furnley Maurice, Brian Vrepont,
Kenneth Slessor, Mary Gilmore—wel-
known names make up a good proportion
of the 30 or so poets represented. Shaw
Neilson, in a mood of Irish charm:
But I being wrong in the reason and dull over
money,
It S 1 honey 3111 Want l ° bc tellin S’ aII in the green
But the young writers, too, are repre-
sented. Max Harris has his amusingly
satirical “Mad Jasper” who, high on the
parapet of the skyscraper, recalled how he
had always longed to be lost in the
crowds, in the safety of trains and pubs,
And now high up in the morning’s pall
saw he’d never been down to the street at all.
In anguish mad Jasper loosened his grip
and established one true relationship.
The war is in—not because war poems
are topical, but because Furnley Maurice,
thinking about the futility of beauty in
war-time, the necessity of closing one’s
eyes to “Apples in the Moon,” writes
such a fine poem of lamentation:
The screaming rocs come lower than low
Shedding black blasts from steeple to station
And under the ruinous thunders timidly flow
The dark unwaking silences of desolation.
Pyres of smouldering love and law!
Plato to Christ ashes, all ashes!
And because the contemplation of “1918-
1941,” two great wars in a lifetime,
moves Robert D. Fitz Gerald to the pre-
cisions of thought and subtleties of versi-
fication of:
Distant the guns are and no wind veering
has brought them into hearing, nor yet in these
lands
do they bawl between hills as between a pair of
hands;
but there’s what we were bred to ... and
strange it is then
to be lifting our sons up to watch the marching
men.
T. Inglis Moore, Rosemary Dobson,
Betty Riddell and Myra Morris are other
contributors whose verses relate to the
war.
And, of course, Australia is in, too.
Here there was bias in the selecting. Not
that any poem was chosen simply be-
cause it was about a gumtree or a gibber
plain or the abos.; but where a poet sub-
mitted several contributions of equal
merit as poetry, one perhaps specifically
Australian in spirit or imagery and the
I others not, the choice naturally went to
the Australian piece.
From Brian Vrepont, for example, the
lovely “Apple Tree” that first appeared
in “Meanjin Papers” was omitted in
favor of two splendid landscapes—the
which, besides being specifically and
strongly Australian, seem in their curi-
ously easygoing, conversational style to
be something new in writing in this
country. How to tell a story in verse
without losing in poetic woolliness the
strength and precision of the prose short
story is one of the great problems of
contemporary poets, and Vrepont (in-
fluenced, perhaps, by Browning) seems
well on the way towards a solution in
such a poem as “The Net Menders,” be-
ginning :
I came upon them by a strip of sea,
In a drizzle of rain mending their fishing-net,
Four swift brown hands, and lean with industry,
Shuttling the thin twine skilfully in-out, repair-
ing the fret
Of rock-jag, shark-tooth and thresh;
He, tense as a mackerel, strong and agile,
Sea-eyed and grim as a rock, turned, and his
smile
Was as the wonder of sunshine on sea-rock,
His fingers harping the net-mesh ;
She on the sea-side, facing the land, took stock
Of me leisurely nearing, through half-shut eyes.
‘Defence,” I thought: but her mouth relaxed,
went sweet
And soft as a sea-flower, her hand’s enterprise
On the sea-side of the breaks in the net
Rippling the strings of the two-sided harp o’
the sea,
And I thought, “Here is where sea-melodies
meet,
Mending the breakage of earth-and-sea-fret,”
And the strange great grace of simplicity came
on me.
If they had angers in them, these two by the
sea
Australia finds a voice again in Harley
Matthews’s “Return of the Native,” in
which the “rain-bird,”
His voice complaining,
Full of some brighter place he can’t forget.
Perched alone on a fence-post when it’s rain-
ing,
cries “Me. Me, Poor me. Me! ” Again
in Norma L. Davis’s Tasmanian land-
scape “Bush Born”:
, , Rose-tinted in their pride,
Flesh of my flesh, the hills rise, and my blood
Burns in the waratah on the mountain side.
The leap of my pulses beats through the sing-
ing flood
Of cool bush water that blazes a silver trail
Where saurian logs sprawl evilly in the mud—
The green slime seeping like poison from each
scale,
Their blunt snouts darkly sunken in back-
wash holes,
Peering from eye-knots never shuttered by sleep.
Yonder the sun spills past the crayoned boles
Of giant gums
Australia again in Paul Grano’s
Look! Look! See, the kingfisher comes—
Ihere where the white log splits the pool.
O the blue flash of him like from a thunder-
cloud !
In Tom Rose’s “The Stone”:
Within the hollow of this stone
The lean blacks, crouching, ground
Their nardoo roots; and this alone,
Their epitaph, a stone I found
Upon a high and windy place.
Flung against the sky’s face.
In Ernest Moll’s “Rabbit-skinner,” Rex
Ingamells’s “Memorandum,” Mary Fin-
nan’s “Drought” and Leonard Mann’s
“Black Girl” ; most beautifully in Eve
Langley’s “Native Born”:
{ft a , w hitc gully among fungus red
Where serpent logs lay hissing at the air,
1 round a kangaroo. Tall, dewy, dead,
i>o like a woman, she lay silent there.
Her ivory hands, black-nailed, crossed on her
breast.
Her skin of sun and moon hues, fallen cold.
Her brown eyes lay like rivers come to rest
And death had made her black mouth harsh
and old.
Incarnate, lay my country by my hand:
Her long hot days, bushfires and speaking rains,
Her mornings of opal and the copper band
Of smoke around the sunlight on the plains....
Because they were selected on their
quality as poetry first, and their Aus-
tralianism second, there should be no
appreciable gulf between the poems
quoted and the less specifically Aus-
tralian verses. Taking, say, the lyrical
Australian evening of Kenneth Mac-
kenzie’s
My children in the luscious golden dusk
alone with moths and timeless minutes play
as the bridge between the two sorts of
poems, it is easy enough to pass from
the physical landscapes to the mental
landscapes of Kenneth Slessor’s “Sleep,”
Ronald McCuaig’s odd lyrical satire
Beauty and the Beast,” Peter Hopegood’s
mystical “Fisherman” where the gods fish
for men—
For, tug, slack, tug, they play us skilfully.
The thing we careless men call growing old
is being slowly hauled from depths that hold
all that is dear to youth and infancy;
to H, M. Green’s allegorical “Fairy Tale”
in ingenious consonant-rhyme ; or to the
possibly “difficult” but certainly inter-
esting contributions of A. Lester Mc-
Intyre, F. John Blight and James Mc-
Auley.
The book, then, is intended to have
this unity and this appeal: that every
poem in it is good poetry. There are, of
course, degrees of “goodness” ; there is
a deliberate bias towards verse that re-
flects the spirit of Australia ; but as far
as was possible the verses were chosen
purely on their quality as poetry.
How, in these days of clashing theories,
when every man’s metre is some other
man’s poison, is anyone to know a good
P oen l from a bad ? Middleton Murry’s
definition of poetry is more or less the
principle that was adopted. A good
poem, a true poem, he says, is
the communication of an entire experi-
ence. Whether the poet’s thought be what
we should ordinarily call a thought, or
what we should ordinarily call a percep-
tion, he possesses it in its whole living
actuality, and not as a vague schema or
skeleton. It is rich with its own emotional
flesh and blood. It is warm experience.
Further, it seems to follow that it is an
obvious misnomer to call this experience,
which the poet possesses and communicates,
either emotional experience or intellectual
experience. Either name involves a radical
impoverishment of the experience itself;
it is neither the one nor the other. Nor
again is it both together. It is itself one
thing, sui generis. We can no more sepa-
rate its two elements of soul and body in
the more familiar unity of the living man,
to which the unity of the poetic experience
has evident and suggestive analogies.
A good poem, then, is the communica-
tion of an entire experience; and it
glows with a life of its own. By that
twofold test, one of the simplest poems
in the book, James Devaney’s
The evening gleam of still waters
Can halt the feet that roam
As if the soul in its long homelessness
Came suddenly home.
is true poetry, and something of the
same quality, it is hoped, will be found
in all the others.
Wild Man .
Here are the reviewer’s notes on a new
biography:
Pages 93, 94 and 97—hashish ; 98—
taking off clothes; 104—drink, unpopu-
larity, “worked better under influence”;
Jl4—asleep in street; 148 —the incred-
ible ; 150—clocks ; 206 —asleep in dust-
bin ; 207—chanting Rimbaud in the
nude ; 217—bright intervals ; 225—sculp-
ture ; 246 —strangling academic painter;
263—setting tablecloth on fire ; 264 —
enough money; 276—insult to Renoir;
288 —gesticulating at tram ; 293 —sing-
ing and weeping; 295—final binge ; 296
—death ; 300—Jeanne’s suicide ; 301—
swoop on pictures; 304—Simone’s death ;
318—side of beef.
Obviously, this is not a life of Queen
Victoria. Amedeo Modigliani, the painter
who drew his girls with necks like the
necks of bottles, was the wild man ; the
notes are on Charles Douglas’s Artist
Quarter (Faber), a combined life of Modi-
gliani and history of Montmartre and
Montparnasse in the mad years from
1900 to 1920.
Artists are notoriously a bad lot: they
wear their hair short, don’t drink beer to
excess, and set a horrible example of in-
dustry and perseverance. But for anyone
who wants a picture of the lunatic fringe
of art, here it is. Modi, as they called
him, outshone Baudelaire, easily (and
literally) outstripped the earnest sinners
of England’s Naughty Nineties.
Of Italian-Jewish origin, he came to
Paris “a modest and abstemious young
man” with a promising though by no
means striking talent for conventional
painting. There was a sudden change:
Andre Utter says that one night at an
alcohol and hashish orgy chez Pigeard,
Modigliani suddenly gave a yell and, grab-
bing paper and pencil, began to draw
feverishly, shouting that he had found “the
Way.” When he had finished he trium-
phantly produced a study of a woman’s
head with the swan neck for which he has
become famous.
In the world in which cubism was just
giving way to surrealism, a man who
could paint a woman with a neck such as
no woman had ever worn, or who could
paint a portrait that was “not remotely
a likeness but a picture of my beautiful
soul,” was well on the way to success ;
add a taste for hashish and a habit of
being arrested in conveniently conspicu-
ous places, and Modi was made.
The only trouble with him was, accord-
ing to Douglas, that he couldn’t take
either his drugs or his drinks. The Mont-
parnassians had no objection to his sleep-
ing in the gutters, or in a pub dustbin
when somebody dumped him there; no
objection to his attempting to strangle
an academic painter who argued that
academic work at least “brought home
the bacon”; but they didn’t like him
setting fire to the tablecloth to draw
attention to himself at a restaurant; they
were embarrassed at his whim of throw-
ing off his clothes at a certain stage of
drunkenness and making a scene in the
nude; they didn’t like the hysterical
quarrels he invariably forced upon his
company.
He was neglected by the world, was
Modigliani’s constant complaint and ex-
cuse. But Douglas points out that his
pictures soon began to sell —quite enough
for his needs if he hadn’t thrown the
money away on drugs—and would have
sold still better if he hadn’t made a prac-
tice of insulting his buyers. A summing-
up by a woman who knew him well:
Owing to the fact that he had t.b. and
also drank a lot, and therefore had hang-
overs, I expect Modi had some pretty
miserable moments. But during the time
when I knew him there were certainly
bright intervals in his life and many periods
when he seemed as happy as the rest of us.
For this reason I cannot help thinking that
some of the accounts given of his uni-
formly tragic existence are rather exag-
gerated. A man may live quietly for months
without anyone noticing it; but if then he
breaks out and gets roaring drunk, as of
course Modi often did, then everyone re-
members and records it. Non-recognition
of his genius by the dealers and the con-
noisseurs probably afflicted him more deeply
than lack of money. But before he died,
when Zborowski took him in hand, his
pictures began to sell fairly well. In fact,
the money he made in his last ymn prob-
ably hastened his death.
The Modigliani stories, though illumi-
nating as a commentary on his work,
have too much of the taint of the patho-
logical to be pleasant reading. But some
of the incidental anecdotes of Paris
Bohemia are classics of their kind. The
reference to “the incredible” in the note*
was applied to Apollinaire’s invention of
cubist poetry—“whether seriously or as
a joke is not known. In any case, he
produced ‘cubist poems’ which wei*e
solemnly copied, or learned by heart, by
his impressed audience.” A specimen:
Your red face, your transformable biplane
into hydroplane,
Your round house where a sour herring
swims—
I must have the key of eyelids!
Happily we have seen Mr. Pinando
So we’re all right as far as that goes.
Then there are the “clocks.” One Bibi-
la-Puree, a crony of Verlaine’s, was asked
for help by a youth desperately in need
of money. Bibi was broke. He remem-
bered that “there is upon the mantelpiece
in nearly every hotel bedroom in Paris ,a
clock that has never been known to go,”
Bibi engaged a room in a hotel; pinched
the works of the clock; then complained
that he didn’t like the view from his win-
dow, moved to another room, pinched
the works of the clock there, complained
about the view again, moved to another
room —and so on till the infuriated pro-
prietor threw him out. Then he went off
to a friendly “fence” and sold the booty.
And the “side of beef”—that’s another
good story. Soutine painting a side of
beef for two days, three days, then dis-
covering that the rich greens and purples
of decay were infinitely more adorable
than the reds of fresh meat; painting on
and on at the ripening carcass; defying
the neighbors and the sanitary inspector;
a model, whom he painted at intervals
when the beef overpowered him, standing
guard over the carrion to keep the flies
away.
What would the aunt of the gardener
have thought of such goings-on?


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —the highest ideal
“THE SENIOR STORE
Start the New Year Well
WITH A DESK CALENDAR
AND A UNIVERSAL DIARY
\
am*
m
m
asiS??
&
iii n
SI
MS
mu
m.
■am
Pv\
\9<H
yvtoi
\^«s
OPM
-•;;,^U»CW
0 POt
jsttswi
OKt
No. 42.—Showing three days to
a page. Size 13 ins. x 8 ins.
Universal Desk Calendar
A handsome and economical convenience you will
need every day of the year ... a ''Universal'' Desk
Calendar suitable for office and home use. Ample
space is provided for notes of appointments and
similar memoranda. At the foot of the page the
date is repeated and details are given of the number
of days which have passed and the number to the
end of the year ... a most useful feature. An
appropriate quotation is given for each day and
holidays, anniversaries and movable festivals are
also included. Base is 7\ x 4i inches, made of
moulded plastic, fitted with metal arches. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price 4/3
Refills. Price 1/9
0^
W.
MX
m
\s^
No. 44. Showing Blotter and
Memoranda Pages.
• Stationery Second Floor.
Delivered free only within our
delivery area.
No. 43.—Size 10 ins. x 8 ins.
UNIVERSAL DIARIES
Available in Three Sizes
Made specially for Anthony Horderns' . . . the Universal Series of
Office Diaries for 1942 are extremely useful to the business man and
woman. Good quality paper only is used.
The No. 42, large size ''Universal'' Diary is admirably suited to the
business executive. Ruled three days to a page, which allows ample
room for entries, appointments and everyday activities. Adequately
fitted with blotting paper at front. Size: 13 x 8 inches. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price 57-
Save yourself the worry of keeping figures and important facts in your
head, by using the intermediate size "Universal Diary," No. 43. Size:
10 x 8 inches. Fitted with memoranda space and ample blotting paper
at front. Ruled three days to a page. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price
The small size, No. 44, 8 x 5 inches, has all the features of the larger
size Diaries, and is indispensable for general office efficency. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price 3/-
f
'PHONE M 2401 (Day and Night)
FAMOUS LOW
PRICES
Post to BOX 2712 C. G.P.0., SYDNEY


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
f
Seppelts
BURNING OF NEWGATE (OLD ST. PAUL’S IN BACKGROUND) IN. 1666.
It is questionable whether the visitation of fire London was subjected to in 1666, making all due comparative allowances, was more
disastrous than those she experienced by Nazi aerial bombardment ere the twentieth century had run half its course. Photography has
made the terrific and appalling scenes” of the “present visitation familiar, at least in part, to most people, hence it is hardly matter
for surprise a certain amount of curiosity has been aroused relative to the spectacle presented practically three hundred years ago. That
it was sufficiently dreadful old illustrations have made clear. The picture above presents the scene in an area “bombed and blasted” in
1941, though happily with New Newgate and Wren’s “Great Church” saved. The old Newgate, depicted in flames, was built by Sir
Richard Whittington, the hero of the nursery and pantomime romance, in the fourteenth century to replace what was even then described
as “a miserable dungeon.” There is something strikingly reminiscent of scenes the years 1940-41 were to witness in contemporary accounts
which have come down to us from 1666. Thus these lines from a tract published by the Rev. T. Vincent, M.A., an eye-witness, might
pass muster for what occurred “but as yesterday”:
Oh, the miserable and calamitous spectacle, such as haply the world has not seen the like since the foundation of it, nor to be
outdone till the universal conflagration of it. All the sky was of a fiery aspect, like the top of a burning oven....the fall of
towers, houses and churches, was like an hideous storm, and the air all about was so hot and inflamed that at last one was not
able to approach it.”


“NEXT, PLEASE!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney; Bo*
Victoria : Newspaper 247% Collins S.ree,.
'si 23 b Adelaide Brisbane.
New Zealand: (opp. G.P.0.)
London: 1 Hare Place. Street, London. E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
weekly f APDRESS P DRE 5 S IN Australasia,
LdZePJate cheats.? to'coum/y
fS, £A/D ™ °6™omhs® r i6s h :
Half Overseas ° F ™ E SBEVICES Amo “ :
n°moJhs e £2 “7, ““““Overseas (Foreign) ;
3 monZ hs 6 " *•;
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth New Zealand. Papua. Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
Jl oLI places 4 Kingdo 2 t per copy. To
SQUEALERS AND BELATED
CONVERTS.
Australians have been accused by Britons of being
squealers. It is not true of the nation —no indictment
levelled against a nation ever is—but it is true of a
small section, and the worst examples, who lead all
the rest, get their living in newspaper offices.
The war is, of course, their stock subject, and if
anything goes wrong or seems to be going wrong in
a 27 the vas f war zone they squeal their heads
ott. Some of them even squealed when the first round
of the Libyan campaign against a powerful and well-
prepared enemy defending positions of great strength
ended indecisively, and spat venom at the men alleged
to be responsible for deficiencies which had no exist-
ence and for methods of fighting which were not prac-
tised. When in the course of events the squealers
were proved wrong in every particular and it was
demonstrated to the world that the fighting services
had done and were doing a magnificent job in Libya,
not one word of reparation, much less contrition,
came from them. Instead, they relegated the Libyan
campaign to a subordinate place in their news columns
and turned to themes which they found congenial.
And they found plenty. Thailand, the sinking of
Prince of Wales and Repulse (concerning which Mr.
Cameron, in a speech which startled the House, de-
nounced “the eternal gabbling of the press,” as exem-
plified in the record of their progress from Capetown,
though Mr. Churchill did some of the “gabbling”),
the retreat from the North Malayan airfields, the
tragic and soon-revealed insufficiency of fighter-’plane
support and the hopeless plight of Hong Kong. From
that doomed city there came no squealing, nor did
any come from Canada, whose soldier-sons —their
commanding officer among them—were dying at their
island posts ; and the U.S. marines who held Wake
for 13 days after it should have fallen seem to have
been cheerful to the last. But squeal after squeal
issued from Sydney newspaper offices, and when the
C.-in-C. at Singapore and Mr. Keith Murdoch, cabling
from London, revealed that Malaya was short of
fighter ’planes “and other essentials” because fighter
’planes “and other essentials” had been sent to Russia
the din became tremendous.
Not that the squealers objected to fighter ’planes
“and other essentials” having been sent to Russia.
Far from it. This was part of their “policy” of Aid
to Russia —aid which, if their accounts of the defeats
which the Russians are inflicting on the Germans are
only 10 per cent, true, was never needed. They de-
manded indeed that many more fighter ’planes and
crews should be sent to Russia, and that “a second
European front” should be “opened” by Britain,
which was to ferry at least 10 divisions, with all their
requirements for a long campaign, to some unspeci-
fied Continental port in the hands of the enemy and
find enough air-power and sea-power to guarantee a
successful landing and safeguard their operations as
they developed. It was even suggested that the A.I.F.
should be dispatched to the Caucasus.
It is to Mr. Churchill’s credit that he did not
accept this programme. It is to his credit also that he
realised the importance of the second Libyan cam-
paign (the first saw victory turned to defeat, save at
Tobruk, by the political transfer of the victorious
forces and thousands of their companions to Greece,
and thence to Crete) and gave his sanction to pre-
parations which have proved sufficient. He never-
theless must be held responsible for helping Russia,
which did not need help, at the expense of Malaya,
and for not recognising that the defence of Malaya
was vital to the maintenance of essential supplies, of
Anglo-American supremacy in the Pacific, of the
security of the Netherlands East Indies and the two
southern Dominions and of British prestige in Asia.
Yet what right have Australian newspapers or
Australian politicians to rail? It was they who helped
to give Mr. Churchill the immense powers he has
exercised, with results so unfortunate in so many
cases. It was with their consent that the supreme
direction of the war, not only political but military,
and the fate of this Commonwealth were placed in his
hands. Under the spell of his eloquence and the domi-
nation of a provincial spirit which should have expired
the moment Dominion status was granted, they forgot
Gallipoli, forgave him for Dakar, North Africa, Greece
and Crete, accepted his Russian alliance and let him
have his fling always and everywhere. There was
only one consistent objector in these parts to his
supremacy in all things relating to the war— The
Bulletin.
Apr \ 1 ’ Mr. Chamberlain made a number
of changes in his Cabinet. For one thing, he dropped
Lord Chatfield, the only Minister with a service train-
ing, and named Mr. Churchill Minister for Co-ordina-
tion of Defence, as well as First Lord of the Admiralty.
“S. M. Herald/’ echoing British newspapers, protested
that this would not leave Mr. Churchill “as free as
he should be to devote himself to the reconciliation of
strategy by sea, land and air.” Said The Bulletin :
British Cabinet alterations may be no concern of
the Dominions, but the Dominion Governments have
a right to be consulted about the conduct of the war,
and about peace and post-war policy. Consultations
with High Commissioners are not sufficient. Relatively
to France and Britain, the Dominions are more important
than they were in the last war; for one thing, then-
white population is more than half that of France.
In the last war they were represented by their chief men
in the Imperial War Cabinet and on the Supreme War
Council. They are not so represented this time, and
they should be; and the sooner the better.
That was written before the Germans invaded
Norway, though it appeared when the invasion was
in progress. During the subsequent week Australia
was fobbed olf with scraps of official reports and of
Churchillian narrative, signifying nothing beyond an
unfounded optimism, and this denial of information
to a people “hungering for precise and trustworthy
accounts of what had happened and was happening”
was the subject of an article headed “Not Nearly
Good Enough” (April 17, 1940):
The Australian Government has a right to be kept
informed of the progress of events and a duty to keep
the public informed. What is more, Australia should be
consulted about and take its share of responsibility for
war policy. There is an urgent need for the resuscita-
tion of the Imperial War Cabinet, and the Dominions
should be continuously represented on the Supreme War
Council.
Mr. Churchill likened the attack on Norway to
Napoleon’s invasion of Spain, and predicted that the
consequences would be equally disastrous to Hitler.
He promised that “all German ships in the Skaggerak
and the Kattegat” would be “sunk.” Before the full
story was told—it revealed, among other things, that
the one fighter squadron sent to Norway had been
wiped out in a few hours — The Bulletin came out
with an article headed “Australia Must Be There”
(May 8, 1940):
The Follow Britain “policy” must be abandoned once
and for all. It has come to mean following France as
well as Britain. New blood is obviously needed on
the Allied War Council, and the Dominions can and
should supply it. They have a right to demand repre-
sentation on the council by at least two voting members,
together with representation of each Dominion in the
Imperial War Cabinet, the revival of which has become
imperative. If the other Dominions won’t come in, Aus-
tralia should act alone. The Australian Government
cannot allow the fate of its fighting men and perhaps the
fate of its nation to be decided by persons from whose
councils it is excluded.
There had been a meeting of the Supreme War
Council at Paris (April 22-23), after which it was
given out that “new decisions, designed to guarantee
effective co-operation in all cases by Britain, France,
Norway and Poland,” had been arrived at. There was
“no mention of any of the Dominions” (May 1, 1940),
“though the smallest Dominion is making a more
effective contribution to the common cause than
Poland.”
The Dominions are not represented on the Supreme
War Council. They have not even been asked to send
representatives to an Imperial War Cabinet, though they
were in the last war, when even Newfoundland (popu-
lation, 250,000) _ received this measure of considera-
tion.... The British and French war leaders have need
of such counsellors from the young nations. Dominions’
participation in their discussions would correct a rather
obvious tendency to over-concentration on the affairs of
Europe. For three of the Dominions, the situation in
the Pacific, of no direct consequence to Poland or
Norway, is all-important. Dominions’ representation in
the Imperial War Cabinet and on the Allied War
Council would keep these essential facts before them,
and provide safeguards against another Gallipoli and
against the overburdening of the Royal Navy, in which
the R.A.N. and the Maoriland squadron are serving,
and which is our shield as well as the Motherland’s.
All the Dominions should be admitted to the Imperial
War Cabinet, and North America and Australia at least
should have voting members on the Allied War Council.
And there is no time to be lost.
The Nazis walked through the Netherlands and
left Rotterdam a hideous ruin;
It has been given out that Britain, France, Japan
and the U.S.A. have agreed to maintain the status quo
in the N.E.I. There is no mention of Australia in the
consultations preceding the agreement. A familiar
omission.
The surrender of the Dutch has, in effect, brought
the stark realities of conquest and international politics
to Australia’s front doorstep. It has become more
necessary than ever that Australia and Maoriland should
be represented in the Imperial War Cabinet and have
at least ohe voting member on the Allied War Council
(May 22, 1940).
The enemy crossed the Meuse and hacked his
way towards the Channel coast. Without consultation
with the Dominions, Mr. Churchill offered the de-
moralised rulers of what was left of France a political
union with Britain. It was refused, and the French
surrendered. Thereupon The Bulletin wrote that “the
Governments of the Dominions must no longer be
content to leave everything to Mr. Churchill, Mr.
and Mr, Duff Cooper” (July 3), and suggested
that “at a time when Australia has an expeditionary
force in England, and another in Palestine, whose
Syrian flank has been left in the air, perhaps even
Mr. Curtin would now admit that it is necessary that
Mr. Cameron should be sent to London to speak for
Australia.” Again on July 10 it urged “the Aus-
tralian and Maoriland Governments to claim their
fair share of representation on the War Council, which
was so recently called Supreme.” It urged them also
to “press for a revival of the Imperial War—or
Defence —Cabinet” ; and it suggested, “with respect,”
that “the chairman of that Cabinet should be his
Majesty the King.”
There is no constitutional impediment. It is in fact a
prescriptive function of the sovereign to assume the
leadership of his subjects in time of peril.
“Mr. Churchill never understood the Dominions,”
it was here written on July 24, 1940 ; “and he and his
associates have never even bothered to invite their
Governments to join an Imperial War Cabinet, much
less sit in the Supreme War Council alongside the
representatives of Poland and Norway. The
Dominions are twentieth-century, and he cannot rise
above his conception of them as eighteenth-century
colonies.”
On August 5, 1940, Mr. McEwen, in his capacity
as Air Minister, attempted what was apparently meant
as a defence of his Government’s subservience to Mr.
Churchill. He asserted that “no consultation could
be more intimate than that which exists between the
Australian Government and the Government of the
United Kingdom.” To this The Bulletin replied
(August 14):
Since the German conquests in Western Europe
have raised questions of moment to the Commonwealth
in its own neighborhood, the questions of Java, Sumatra,
Timor, Dutch Borneo and New Guinea, and others
which have been mentioned and still others which may
develop, Australia needs much more than mere radio-
phone talks. It needs active and able representation in
an Imperial War Cabinet and on the Allied War
Council; and it has in Mr. Cameron a man who could
give it that quality of representation, with a well-
accredited member of each of the fighting services to
assist him.
Mr. Cameron would not be overawed by his associ-
ates, nor would he take to London that blind faith in
the infallibility of British official information and in the
capacity of British politicians to do all the thinking
required to be done for us which is cherished by some
of his colleagues.
The parties were then preparing to go to the
country. Australian representation in London was not
an issue at the general election held on September 21,
1940. It was not even mentioned in the policy speech
of Mr. Menzies or in that of Mr. Curtin. These facts
were evidently noted in London. From time to time
Ministers were asked in Parliament whether they in-
tended to follow the precedent voluntarily established
by Mr. Lloyd George, with results to which the first
World War Prime Minister has borne handsome testi-
mony in two of his books. The replies were, as a rule,
evasive, but on one occasion Mr. Churchill rapped
out an abrupt “No, sir.” This attitude was meekly
accepted by Australian city editors and politicians,
and though The Bulletin went on campaigning for
the dispatch to London of a man with a clear head
and a straight back, representative of and responsible
to the Australian nation, returning to the subject after
Dakar, and before and after Greece and Crete (in
which the air fiasco of April, 1940, was repeated, with
melancholy additions, at the expense of our own sol-
diers), the only support it received came from some of
the country papers.
Now all the papers are roaring for what 99 per
cent, of them had no use when it was of prime
importance. Mr. Keith Murdoch, who has newspaper
interests in most of the States, has constituted him-
self leader of the band:
Mr. Churchill dominates much too greatly those
around him. This has virtue, but also an unhappy
effect of giving undue reach to a mind which is capable
of misjudgment. The P.M.’s influence over strategy has
undoubtedly been profound but the position of the
fighting service leaders has been weakened by poli-
ticians. They have become more the instrument of a
Minister’s decision and are, to begin with, his choice.
Here you may read Prime Minister for Minister.
Another questionable result of Churchillian predomi-
nance is preference of those whose claims are inadequate
—I am referring to those outside the service. Occasionally
these are so surprising that they mean that Mr. Churchill
has been misinformed or has not judged wisely.
Mr. Churchill himself would stoutly dissent from
the view that he is Atlantic-minded, but none can
claim that he has handled the Dominions well or
has shown breadth of sympathy when the Dominions
Secretary is not in the War Cabinet and the Dominions
were omitted from speeches about the Japanese.
A il stralia shou l d request immediate entrance into the
War Cabinet and the placing of experts on a Council of
Defence.
Had that or the equivalent been published 20
months ago in all the Murdoch papers, and in those
others to which Mr. Murdoch has the entree, it would
have had value. As things are, it comes too late.
Too late, too late”—the refrain of Rossetti’s sad
verses, quoted in C. E. Montague’s “Disenchantment.”
And it is too late to send a Minister to Singapore
as a brake on Mr. Duff Cooper. Not words but fighter
’planes and crews are the all-in-all in Malaya, and
neither Mr. Duff Cooper nor any of Mr. Curtin’s col-
leagues can make them out of jungle mud.
But since the direction of the war in the Pacific
must now be centred in Washington, it will be neces-
sary to send a Cabinet Minister, preferably with
advisers from the three services, to that city ; and
Dr. Evatt, who is personally acquainted with the
President, looks the best choice. Though he will be
unable to speak with the authority which a Minister
accredited to Mr. Churchill would have derived as a
representative of his Majesty, the King of Australia,
he should be a useful intermediary between the Com-
monwealth and the Republic, whose President has
gallantly assured Mr. Curtin that “the safety of your
great Commonwealth” is “a definite essential in every
plan of defence and in every plan of offensive action
against our common foes.”
That assurance was given in reply to a goodwill
message sent from Canberra to Washington over the
new direct radio-telegraph service. Addressing his own
people on the following day, Mr. Curtin said “Aus-
tralian external policy will be shaped toward obtain-
ing Russian aid and working out, with the United
States as the major factor, a plan of Pacific strategy,
along with British, Chinese and Dutch forces.” He
said more (for example, “Without any inhibitions of
any kind, I make it quite clear that Australia looks to
America free of any pangs as to our traditional links
of kinship with the United Kingdom”), and he seems
now to realise—as most people did when they read
the message—that he said too much,


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Past Vast Year.
In the world-wide sweep, spread and import of its
extraordinary events, the year that has just ended has
been one of the greatest in all history. It has wit-
nessed the involvement in the war which Germany
started in 1939 of all the three remaining World
Powers. Now all the continents are drawn in, a vast
area of the earth’s surface, all the seas and the air
above are battlefields.
The extension of the war into the Pacific is too
recent and the position in this area too obscure for
anyone to say what may yet develop here. Penang
and Hong Kong have been lost and Manila declared
an open town —grimly significant. All the same there
has been an intensifying of the already stern resolve
to so shatter the strength of the aggressor nations that
their lust for war will not plunge the world into
another bloodbath for a very long time to come.
Brought in at this late hour perforce in its own
defence, the United States has been given that inspirit-
ing call as its slogan by President Roosevelt.
The same increasing resolve has been the inspira-
tion of Britain’s colossal war effort at home and
abroad, on the seas and in the air, right through the
war from 1939 onward. It inspired the grand re-
covery of London from the German attempt to burn
out that heart of the Empire on the night of December
29, 1940, and the subsequent superb defence of London
against the German daylight attempts to fire that city
last January ; it was the inspiration of the British, Aus-
tralian, Maoriland, South African, Indian and other
Empire forces in the magnificently successful fighting
which, this time last year, wrecked the Italian army
and empire in Africa. It sustained these forces when,
as defenders, their strength whittled down by the
call for support in Greece, they were driven back to
the border of Egypt. It inspired them in holding out
in the siege of Tobruk from early in April to December
—a new record for history. It saw them through the
savage fighting against overwhelming odds in Crete
and in the seas surrounding that tragic island. It is
now, a year since the first Libyan successes, again
inspiring the hard fighting which has driven a large
German and Italian mechanised army back over its
tracks through Cyrenaica.
Through all this —and with it the taking of the
initiative in Syria, Iraq and Iran —the morale of the
whole British Empire side, in all its aspects, has
been nothing short of superb. Indeed, the year has
brought out nothing more striking, nor of greater
importance. Even where there have been grave
mistakes, and despite the overwhelming disadvantages
under which they have fought, in numbers, tanks and
’planes, our troops, seamen and airmen have shown
a toughness of morale which not even such disasters as
the sinkings of Hood, Ark Royal, Prince of Wales and
Repulse have in any way been able to shake.
The Battle of the Atlantic, with greatly reduced
sinkings of British ships and increased sinkings of
U-boats, and with a no-longer-neutral America actively
participating, is going well. Attempts to beat Britain’s
splendid Navy in the Mediterranean and gain control
of the Suez Canal have failed. Aircraft production in
the U.S.A., Britain and Canada has reached a point
where monthly output exceeds Germany’s. From being
hopelessly inferior in tanks, the British-U.S. side is
now making strong headway towards parity. With the
involvement of Russia and the United States the very
dangerous disparity in man-power has been overcome.
In regard to that tightening of ties which have at
times seemed severed but have pulled taut and safe
on real tests, the year saw yet another most striking
development —the practical elimination of the time
factor between Britain and the United States, and in
other quarters also. This brought about what amounts
to a revolution in political relationships. Four days’
time between Britain and the U.S.A. has been cut to
less than one ; for political and diplomatic purposes
they are now as good as joined lands.
What is more. General Blarney, Australia’s war
leader, could leave the front and return for a fort-
night’s discussion at home at a crucial time of the
war, a thing hitherto unheard of and impossible. And
General Wavell, through the same elimination of the
time factor, could personally conduct war on a front
extending over 2000 miles.
As in this past year, the war will have its disasters
in unpredictable 1942. But disasters are not defeat.
The way will be hard, it may be long, and it will
surely be terrible. But this side that is bent on
smashing the Axis power to ruin will begin 1942 still
growing stronger and stronger, and its morale was
never higher.
Malaya, Past and Present.
“Feng-Shui” : Australian newspapers expressed aston-
ment at the initial success of the Japanese infiltration
tactics in Malaya. They marvelled that, while British
troops were massed on the highways, the enemy
entered the villages behind them, having used jungle
tracks with which he was obviously familiar.
There is nothing astonishing about the thing. I
don’t suppose anybody knows less about his imme-
diate surroundings than the average white resident
of Malaya.
With tropical equipment issued to him in London,
he comes out, a young graduate from an English
public school or college with all his prejudices thick
upon him, under contract to a firm which grants him
leave of absence every three or four years and a pen-
sion on retirement. He regards his new environment
only as a place that will enable him to earn a salary
and live more or less on the same scale as his taipans.
He sits down somewhere and proceeds to make his
surroundings as much like his home town as it is
possible to imagine. He regards any man who can’t
find the club, the hotel and the golf course all-sufficing
and becomes fascinated by the native life around him
as a crank, if not a madman. He ends by becoming
bored to distraction, blaming his boredom on the
country. Twenty or thirty years later he shakes the
dust of the place from his boots for the last time, and
goes home with a tropical liver and precisely the
same prejudices as he brought with him.
The question might be asked: What about men
like Brooke and Raffles? They were different. Yes,
they were; but in those days J.B. wanted an empire
and didn’t have it. He was like a young man in love
who wants a girl and feels desperately insecure
until he has got her. Not having a tropical
empire, the Japanese is like that young man. I
daresay that long before the present outbreak little
Japanese savants were studying up Malaya, reading
all the books about it, learning the language and plot-
ting and planning how to win the lady. No doubt,
they had squads of experts snooping around the
country or working on plantations —no white man
can distinguish between a Chinese and a Japanese
wearing the same costume without a great deal of
practice.
In the meantime, the young Englishman is lying
in his long chair in the club at Ipoh, Klang or Kuala
Lipis, sipping his whisky stengah, swearing at the
“boys” and bitterly complaining that he hasn’t the
conditions for leading an interesting existence. How
otherwise can it be explained that, after years of alleged
preparation and with their immense resources, the
people who were in possession of the country were
caught napping? Evidently they didn’t even contem-
plate a land attack on their fortifications, although
plans and specifications for such an attack had been
published in Japan long before the invasion.
The Prophet Curie.
In 1935 J. H. Curie, writer of some of the best travel
books published in the last half-century, revisited
Sydney. One of his friends in these parts was James
Edmond, of The Bulletin, whom he once described as
the cleverest journalist in the world, but Edmond had
been dead two years. Another friend, still op deck,
was R. W. Robson, the able editor of the “Pacific
Islands Monthly,” and to Robson he opened his heart
about the trouble he saw looming up for the
“Another great European war,” said Curie, “is
inevitable, and its effect on European civilisation will
be calamitous. It will be largely a war between aerial
navies, and the destruction which will be wrought by
bombs from aeroplanes will be something that at
present almost baffles description. Such a calamity—
and it is almost upon us —will destroy much of
European civilisation, as you know it; yet this mad-
ness of nationalism is driving steadily on to war.”
“Madness of nationalism,” Robson repeated.
“Yes,” Curie said ; “and it is largely the creation of
the great ‘popular’ newspapers —concerns which, for
the most part, are largely overcapitalised, and which
in consequence bend all their energies and thought to
the making of dividends, and subvert to that end the
primary purpose of newspapers, which is to lead and
mould public opinion.”
They sacrifice all considerations to that of gaining
circulation. Their main, and, indeed, only, purpose is
to excite the people, to whip up public interest, so
that newspapers may be bought; and how easy it is to
do this by scares, alarms and excursions in inter-
national politics!
Ninety per cent, of the civilised peoples of the earth
do not want war. They want only peace and compara-
tive comfort and freedom from anxiety. And how easy
it would be to create such a world, now that science
has come in such a large measure to our aid! There are
international societies working to that end; yet all their
efforts, over a period of years, can be destroyed in a
day by one pinheaded, irresponsible newspaper pro-
prietor trying to work up circulation with an ill-informed
sensational article playing on national or racial pre-
I can see no remedy for it. What individual
or Government will dare to interfere with “the liberty
of the press,” even though the press—or a section of
it —is driving the world to self-destruction?
On that visit —his last —Curie did not have a par-
ticularly good press, except in Adelaide. In that city
he held forth, in the hearing of reporters, on the sur-
passing merits of South Australian wine.
"Scorched Earth."
As part of the general heresy hunt begun when the
Japanese, who couldn’t fly, bomb, sail, navigate or fight
(see any flapper paper), got a footing in northern
Malaya and the British evacuated Penang, you could
read this in any daily paper:
British press commentators are demanding to know
why a scorched-earth policy was not adopted in North
Malaya and at Penang before British forces withdrew.
Local writing boys, facile imitators, promptly
echoed the cry. One of them suggested that it was
criminal to leave in Penang the “food stores of a
population of 250,000 people”—if they were left.
“Scorched earth,” of course, has been a catch-
cry since China and Russia adopted it against in-
vaders, Those who call for it in British possessions
show how far they have got away from British ideals
and British notions of duty.
In Penang, for instance, out of a population of
250,000 people, only 2000 or so are Europeans and
2500 Eurasians. The rest are Malays, Chinese, Indians
and others. Total destruction of sanitary, water and
other facilities and foodstuffs would have meant for
most of the inhabitants hunger, thirst, disease and—
what is still important —a loss of faith in the British,
who, though peahen cacklers may not admit it, are
still the paternal guardians of the irreconcilable racial
and religious mixtures of such places as Penang.
To have left the island barren of food and ameni-
ties would have had a tremendous effect on the natives,
an effect that would have reverberated throughout
the Orient and given the Japanese propagandists in-
valuable material.
Another aspect of the British reluctance to destroy
possessions which they may have to leave is the con-
firmed British belief that the evacuation is but a tem-
porary necessity. No true Briton believes that we
have left Penang or Hong Kong for any longer than it
will take us to get it back again, as with British
Somaliland. Chinese and Russians have their own
conceptions of these matters. They may be right con-
ceptions from the Chinese and Russian standpoint.
But to the British, life and property (also the word of
an Englishman) are precious, as the boo-boobs would
quickly discover if somebody wanted to burn their
homes and destroy their foodstuffs.
"Defections."
“D.E.”: It is odd that a man so well-read as Dr. Evatt
should have committed himself to the statement that
“History has no parallel to the defection of France.”
The story of British wars is a melancholy record of
such defections.
In the first world war there was the Treaty of
Brest-Litovsk, by virtue of which the predecessors of
Stalin not only made a separate peace with the Central
Powers but agreed to deliver up to them Poland,
Courland and the Ukraine, on both sides of the
Dnieper, to recognise Finland, Estonia and Latvia as
separate States, and to pay an indemnity of 300 mil-
lion roubles. Under duress i Rumania also made a
separate peace with the Central Powers. Both were
saved by the Allies they had quitted.
In the wars against the French Republic and
Empire there was a long series of “defections,” and
sometimes they were very sudden. On June 20, 1800,
“a treaty of subsidies was ratified in Vienna between
Austria and England, stipulating that the war should
be vigorously prosecuted against France and that
neither of the contracting parties should enter into a
separate peace.” On February 9, 1801, the beaten
Austrians, without reference to Britain, signed a peace
“confirming” the French annexation of the Low
Countries, the lonian Islands and great parts of Italy,
except Venice (that they kept for themselves), and
retaining what was left of the subsidies for their own
use.
On September 8, 1805, Britain, Austria, Sweden
and Naples formed the Third Coalition against France.
On September 21-, Naples was out of it, having signed
a treaty of neutrality with France. On December 26
Austria, defeated once more, signed another peace,
this time handing over Venice to the French and
ceding historic Austrian territories, the Tyrol among
them, to the sovereigns of Bavaria and Wiirttemberg,
whom Napoleon had in the bag. The Fourth Coali-
tion of October 6, 1806 (Britain, Russia, Prussia and
Saxony), had a similar issue. Within two months the
Elector of Saxony had become Napoleon’s ally and
defeated Prussia had subscribed to the Berlin Decree
declaring the British islands in a state of blockade.
And so it went on for inglorious years. Not till
1813 could Britain ever be certain for any length of
time whether Russia, Austria and Prussia were allies or
enemies. In the shifting arrangements they made with
the Governments of France and Britain, they con-
sulted their own interests, first, last and all the time.
Britain has no alliance with the U.S.A.—merely
an association. But considering the history of the
Republic and the spirit of its people association is
enough.
Proposal for Two New Orders.
Whoever was responsible for the institution of the
decoration known as the 0.8. E. didn’t go far enough.
It is a fine thing to mark the services of prima donnas,
party hacks, rabbit inspectors, pig-board members
and other elements, but those who set out to enlighten
us by the printed word shouldn’t be overlooked. For,
them there should be some special decoration, parti-
cularly since it has been written:
I had a friend, a friend, and he,
He kept the German from the sea.
He died protecting you and me.
Thank God he’s not an 0.8. E.
Obviously, a person who has kept his finger on
the pulse of human affairs, who has visited foreign
countries and inspected their national facets, who has
been under the bed or in the clothes press when pacts
have been signed, who has, in short, been inside
every place and every thing and then has, in his own
jargon, given his people the “low-down” on these and
a multitude of other matters, should be entitled to a
decoration of some sort.
In point of time the first to qualify since the end
of August, 1939, would be one who has written
volumes entitled Inside Liberia, Inside Liechtenstein
and so forth. He wrote from Moscow of the Russo-
German pact:
A clause has been inserted in the pact with Germany
to provide that it should become nullified in the event
of either signatory attacking a third Power.
This, he assured us, was because “the Russians
wish to dispel ideas that Germany is now at liberty
to attack Poland.” That there was no such clause has
nothing whatever to do with the argument. The fact
remains that this person was inside and is now
outside. .
Since then many others have served their country
and humanity in a similar manner. They have been
discovering “strategy,” urging offensives, con-
demning “old school tie” methods, raising heroes one
day and tearing them to pieces the next. Tirelessly
and incessantly have they worked. They revealed that
the Japanese couldn’t fly their flimsy machines, that
their eyesight was so bad that they couldn’t aim bombs
straight—in short, as a Sydney newspaper poster put
it, “Japan Has a Lousy Air Force” —that they were
bogged in China and on the verge of collapse at home.
One of the gentlemen, an American, visited
Hawaii in October this year, and reported “Naval
and land preparations here are magnificent and there
are no apprehensions regardless of what crisis develops
or how soon.” . .
Undoubtedly some form of decoration is merited
in such cases. Indeed, there should be two forms,
the 0.8. F. and the 0.8. L. All that remains is to
decide who has earned the and the 0.8. F.,
and which should take precedence over the other.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Fanny Featherbrain”: It has beei
discovered and it s a really important
discovery, girls—that a really good hair-
do bucks up one’s courage frightfully. If
n girl has to rush down to an air-raid
shelter in the middle of the night and
she has a nice perm, she will be ever so
much braver than a frump with her hair
in a bun or tied up any old how. Of
course, there are some nasty sarcastic men
who say you won’t care how your hair
looks if a 500-pound bomb hits the corner
of your street, but that’s silly, because
a girl always wants to look her best, even
more so in a shelter, where there are sure
to be some nice boys. At any rate,
the man who made the discovery ought to
know what he’s talking about, because
he told a Sydney “Sun” reporter. He
says ever since lapan came in he’s been
rushed for perms., and he thinks it’s a
marvellous idea. And so do I — l’m going
to have a Viennese roll with a back lattice
effect. It’s the very latest and cheap, too
—only twenty-five shillings!
* * * «
“D.E.”: I have been listening to a
young A.B.C. gentleman’s recommenda-
tion of books for seasonable reading.
Being a Modern Reviewer, he naturally
showed a marked preference for Russian
novels of the gloomiest description. With
these he bracketed the latest work of a
lady, described as Australia’s best
novelist, who, since she went to Russia,
seems to have lost whatever sense of
humor she ever possessed, and the recent
lucubration of a Mr. Wintringham— not
much of a writer, but with a certain
vogue among English Reds. For Mr.
Wintringham fought in Spain with the
well-stoushed International militia (“the
greatest fighting force the world has ever
seen”), and has notions about organising
the Home Guard on Spanish Red lines
and perhaps turning the defeat of in-
vasion into a beautiful British revolution.
These celebrities having been lauded, the
young gentleman was reminded of
Macaulay by another talker —it was a
lit’r’y dialogue. Macaulay he evidently
considered hopelessly old-fashioned and
dull; anyway, he mentioned in a superior
fashion that he had never been suffi-
ciently interested in Macaulay’s History
of England to open the volume, though
there had been one in the family library.
Then he has denied himself a rare
pleasure, if he is capable of appreciating
it. If he had read Macaulay he mightn't
think so much of Mr. Wintringham.
There are passages in that History which
have stuck in my memory for 40 years;
word-pictures that are little master-
pieces: Charles the Second dying “with
the Host sticking in his throat,” and the
pathetic sequel to Sedgemoor:
It was four o’clock, the sun was rising, ,
and the routed army came pouring through
the streets of Bridgewater.
To the devil with Mr. Wintringham! I
am going back to Macaulay again.
* * * «
“T.Mc.”; Because it came out in evi-
dence that a 20-year-old apprentice who
had committed suicide had been working
J 1 hours a day for five days a week, a
Sydney coroner declared that “un-
doubtedly long working hours caused this
young man to take his life.” Rubbish!
There are thousands of Australians who
have worked much longer hours for long
periods on end, and at present many
thousands are fighting day and night
without any breakdown in their mental
balance. Of all the excuses found for
youthful neurosis this must take the plum.
* * * *
“Ologist”: I’ve been struck lately by
the frequency with which such phrases
as “rather unique,” “somewhat unique”
and “very unique” appear in print. The
word “unique,” as Fowler points out, is
applicable only to what is in some respect
the only existing specimen, the precise
like of which may be sought in vain.
That gives a clean line of division between
it and the many adjectives for which
some writers tend to substitute it —“re-
markable,” “exceptional,” “rare,” “mar-
vellous” and the like. “In the qualities
represented by those epithets,” says
Fowler, “there are degrees ; but unique-
ness is a matter of yes or no only ; no
unique thing is more or less unique than
another unique thing, as it may be rarer
“What do I care what the Benghazi County Council thinks!”
or less rare.” He adds that the adverbs
that “unique” can tolerate are “quite,”
“almost,” “nearly,” “really,” “surely,”
“perhaps,” “absolutely” or “in some
respects” ; and it is nonsense to call any-
thing “more,” “most,” “very,” “some-
what,” “rather” or “comparatively”
unique.
* * * *
“K.”: Since early Jap successes brought
the threat of war close to our shores the
jitters have been expressed in many ways,
from the blue-funk attitude of the
flapper-press to the panicky exodus from
Sydney ; but the chemist in our suburb
testifies to the best effort yet. A middle-
aged woman came in and got two small
bottles of lysol. Yes, one was for her-
self and the other for her daughter, in
case of a Japanese invasion.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Penang Island, now oc-
cupied by Japanese forces, is close
enough to Province Wellesley to be mis-
taken for a portion of the mainland. It
was founded by Captain Light, father of
the Colonel Light who founded Adel-
aide. Light married a Portuguese Eura-
sian, a daughter of the Sultan of Kedah.
A very unusual individual, like his
offspring, he is alleged to have induced
the lethargic native to clear the jungle by
firing a bag of dollars into it from one of
the cannon of the East India Co., which
employed him. Penang flourished, like
Singapore, out of the commerce of the
free traders dispossessed by the monopo-
listic policy of the Dutchmen until it
contained upwards of 250,000 of the most
polyglot population in Asia. It is the meet-
ing point of two streams one from
British India and the other from Further
Asia. It is a charming spot, graced with a
tall peak which seems in places to rise
sheer from the water. From its summit
you can see the mountains of the Malay
Peninsula running into Thailand. The
Japanese presumably hold the flat plain
which runs 40 miles inland to the foot-
hills, beyond which are almost impene-
trable mountains and aboriginals who
used to trade with the Malays by bring-
ing the produce of the forests down to
the plain and leaving it to be collected,
The Malay trader in due course came
and took it, leaving behind salt, brum-
magem knives, beads and so forth,
Neither party to the transaction ever saw
the other, though a Penang Englishman,
regarded as a crank by his fellow-Eng-
lishmen, used to live half the year
amongst these shy people and said they
were much easier to live with than his
iFj o d ‘- Whoever holds Penang
holds the Straits of Malacca.
t(T * , ‘ * * * . .
Lao-dah : One of the war mysteries is
the evacuation of Penang, apparently with-
out a struggle. “Famous” correspondents
allegedly in the know told us that it was
one of the chain of major fortresses
which Britain had placed across the path
of a potential invader, and this conjured
up in the minds of people who were
acquainted with the place images of a
Malayan Hong Kong or Gibraltar, the
island presenting similar physical char-
acteristics. As it is the natural and only
highway between Further and Western
Asia one naturally supposed that it would
dominate the near mainland with big
guns. Apropos of nothing in particular, a
young griffin who had lived on Penang
for six months without once leav-
ing his regular beat between his office,
his quarters, the cricket club and the
Penang Club adjacent overheard two of
his colleagues talking about a contem-
plated visit to the mainland at Kedah.
After listening in bewilderment for five
minutes he blurted out: “What do you
mean—mainland?” “Over there,” his
friends retorted, pointing to the moun-
tains of the peninsula. “What,” exclaimed
the griffin, “you don’t mean to tell me
I’m living on an island ?”
* * * *
“Si Anu”: Civilian evacuation in the
Near North is an individual matter. A
medical mission which went to Pontianak
in Dutch Borneo to attend the victims
of Japanese air raids found the capital
of the province completely deserted, the
native population having taken to the
jungle. I once accompanied a British
Resident on a raid on a Dyak village on
the other side of the island to apprehend
a native murderer. There was not a soul
in the village when we got there, and the
fires under their ricepots were still burn-
ing. We sat down with our squad of
Sikh policemen and waited. Nobody
turned up ; you might just as well have
looked for a needle as a Dyak in the
jungle. We starved for a week, while
sounds of feasting came nightly from
the forest. Finally we retreated to the
beach, and as our launch steamed off a
horde of indigenes came down to wave
us farewell. Subsequently it got around
the village that the Goopernemen had
no intention of executing the entire popu-
lation but only wanted the accused for
trial according to the odd principles of
British justice. When that sank in he
was handed over.
“Nakhoda”; My Melbourne morning
newspaper informs me that the Japs are
up against the head-hunting Dyaks of
Borneo, bloodthirsty creatures, as used
to the jungle as the mousedeer and as
fierce as tigers, who were used by the
celebrated Rajah Brooke to subjugate
rival hunters of heads. So they were, but
that was a century ago, and now they are
tame suburbanites who play Soccer and
listen to the radio. Even 30 years ago it
was hard to find a headhunter on the
island, and when 500 American tourists
turned up and demanded a real
Bornean show like they had seen on the
m ovies only one aged specimen could
he founds anc j he had forgotten all about
jt. The district officer came to the rescue
and dressed up 50 respectable townsmen
) n outfits from the Government museum,
an d they did the tribal dances, or what
they thought were such, to the Yankees’
intense satisfaction. But the inhabitant
0 f Sarawak knows as much about head-
hunters as the inhabitant of East Mal-
vern knows about bushrangers. In any
case, the Japs are used to headhunters,
having had acquaintance with the real
thing in Formosa,
* * * *
“K.P. : With all courtesy to “W.C.R.”
( B - 17/12/’4l), Ferrell’s Law be blowed
in relation to the involuntary movements
of individual human beings. If, as he
states, “the direction of the earth’s rota-
tion explains” why the majority of people
who enter a building tend to veer to the
left, how can it possibly operate if they
are moving from east to west or vice
versa —that is, directly in the plane of
rotation? The effect of right- or left-
handedness in causing individuals to sheer
involuntarily to the side on which it is
easier to use the preponderating hand has
been checked by many thousands of ex-
perimental observations in Europe and
America, and tallies closely with the pro-
portion of right- and left-handed people
in the observed localities. The inherent
tendency to follow the crowd explains
apparent individual exceptions during
mass-movements. If there were any real
rotation-influence we’d be running round
in circles, every other living thing with
us, and bushmanship would be an impos-
sible accomplishment. And, if it really
is due to Ferrell’s Law, why don’t
Northern Hemisphere crowds veer in the
opposite direction to ours, as cyclones do?
* * *
“Palette”; The world war seems to be
knocking out a lot of minor enmities.
Latest evidence of this is to be found
in Melbourne, where a manifesto pro-
claimedly issued by “We, the Artists of
Victoria,” asserts that “artists of all
shades of opinion can and must come
together to bear common testimony to
their opposition to German Fascism.”
Practical objects behind the manifesto are
the organisation of a big exhibition to
which every Victorian painter shall give
or lend a picture, proceeds to go to
patriotic funds, and an offer to the Com-
monwealth Government of the services
of all artists not already in uniform.
Organisers are Harold Herbert and Bul-
letin contributor Noel Counihan, and
the manifesto was signed by such
diversely-viewed persons as Jimmy
MacDonald and Arnold Shore, Max Mel-
drum and Trompf (of poster fame),
Ernest Buckmaster and Adrian Lawloiy.
Never was seen such a concourse of lions
and lambs, doves and serpents, and it
deserves a cheer. I
HARD ON SUNDIALS.
To save some daylight in these times of stress
Our clocks into our service we impress,
Make them collaborators for a while
In mild deception and in gentle guile—
A harmless trick, by general consent,
A justifiable expedient. *
Yet there’s one register of hours that glide
Itiat can’t be tinkered with or falsified.
Had they the gift of speech. I’d give a bit
To gather what the sundials think of it.
Solaria the Romans called the things
Devised to mark Time’s never-halting wings
In forums and in market-places set
Wherever busy merchants mixed and ’met
Or crowds converged in surging fellowship
lo hear the politicians give it lip
•Hiey never ventured doubts or sought to know
It the solarium was fast or slow,
Or clashed with others in the neighborhood,
Because —it’s obvious—it never could.
Slowly but steadily they fade away,
These quaint survivals from a vanished day
and outdated and antique,
All-but museum pieces, so to speak.
Yet some essential merits still are theirs:
They never call for winding or repairs,
They fill their age-old role without demands
tor regulating care at experts’ hands.
What knowledge they possess they give von
straight, J
Reliable, if inarticulate.
Oh, yes, I grant the limits to their powers;
1 know they can but “count the shining hours.”
And yet withm those limits, if you please.
They ve been infallible for centuries
Now one I often pass may get a shock
lo realise, when gauged by watch or clock
It s lost its punch, it’s out of joint, because
Of arbitrary, artificial laws.
Though it s inanimate, I feel a craving
To get a sundial s slant on “daylight saving.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Loo”: You can always be sure of a
row at our butcher’s. For one thing, he
expects you to do as you’re told. If you
order a bob’s worth of fillet he’ll slap
a slice on to the scales, squint at it and
then bark “One and six!” If you pro-
test that you wanted only a bob’s worth,
he’ll roar indignantly. “Well, what do
you think I’m going to do with the
ends?” However, he didn’t have an
answer to an answer when I was in his
shop last. In came a cranky-looking chap
with a “Turf Guide” sticking from one
pocket. “What did you call that steak you
sold me yesterday?” he called above the
Saturday-morning roar of traffic, voices,
choppers and so on. The butcher recog-
nised the cranky cuss and yelled back
“That was skirt steak! Good, tender skirt
steak. Why?” The cranky one sniffed
and roared out “Skirt steak, eh? Well,
you must have cut a bit too deep, because
you gave me the blasted boots!”
* * * *
“Hamer”: Let me in with ray claim
to be an infantine discoverer of the joys
of intoxicating liquor. There had been a
dinner party' in my parents’ home, and,
a mere toddler, I woke up to wander
into a deserted dining-room where half-
emptied glasses were left at each place. I
wandered round the table finishing off
the remainders in those glasses, and, since
there had been whisky and beer, as well
as several kinds of wine, a pretty mixed
cocktail must have been assembled in
my innards. They found me leaning
over a chair-seat sleepy drunk, with a
half-cigar in my hand as an indication
that I had tried to do the spree properly.
“W. Bidura”: My introduction to the
Demon Drink was when four of us, all
aged between 16 and 18, found an aban-
doned bottle of port on a vacant allot-
ment. We eyed it and each other in a
breathless sort of way, then Duffy, our
accepted leader, pulled the cork and took
a swig. He coughed and tears burst from
his eyes, he shook his head, gasped, looked
sheepishly at us and then took another.
When my turn came I took the stuff
carefully, having been warned by the
previous gasps and coughs. I suppose I
absorbed a cupful, gaining in courage
and stature in the gang’s eyes since I
didn’t gasp and, after a spell, having
assumed Duffy’s mantle, took some more.
It was a few minutes later, walking home,
that a bolt of lightning hit my boots,
rebounded up through my system and set
the street lights performing evolutions.
I grabbed a fence and hung to it grimly
as the world turned right over, urging
myself to hang on no matter what hap-
pened. Then my stomach left me, and
the hollow inside caught fire and I went
blind. When sight was restored I was
in bed at home, being fussed over by an
anxious mother and frowned at by a
suspicious father. Ever since I’ve stuck
to beer.
* * * *
“McNark”: Sydney “Sun’s” Malaya
man records a story about a Scottish
bank officer that rings true because of
the hero’s nationality. A Kota Bharu
officer of the Mercantile Bank of India,
he found himself cut off by the enemy,
so bundled up the bank’s more portable
assets and headed up the Kelantan River
“You understand that we shall require corroborative evidence of your story that you sank a ship.
in a sampan.
Thence he plunged
into the jungle, and
for a week some-
how battled his
way over the moun-
tains until he came
on a railway line in
friendly territory.
There he was
picked up by a
train and carried
to Singapore,
where he handed
over everything of
value but the
bank’s building and
joined the volun-
teers, nae doot con-
vinced that maybe
knockin’ off a thoo-
sand o’ yon wee
saffron de’ils would
repay him for sae
muckle clamjam-
phrie,
* *
“Pawang”: One
of the minor bene-
fits of the present
crisis has been the
wholesale cancel-
lation of school
break - up speech
nights. It has been
my melancholy
duty for years past
to peruse head-
masters’ speeches, and I have yet to read
a single new idea in their perorations.
The worst of them sounded like company
promoters boosting their academies as
investments. The most modem launched
diatribes against the examination system,
but patted themselves on the back for
their seminaries’ successes at examina-
tions. I was talking to an ex-public-school
man and happened to criticise the
statement of another ex-public-school
man who holds a high official position.
“Oh,” said his friend, “don’t think the
worse of him for saying that. He doesn’t
believe it. He has his tongue in his
cheek.” Perhaps he learned the art from
his headmaster at school speech nights.
* * * *
“K.P.”: A pathetic characteristic of
people who have lost their sight during
adult life is their anxiety to know the
correct time. Repeater watches and
striking clocks are more or less expen-
sive, and an ingenious lad of my acquaint-
ance has got over the difficulty for his
mother, irremediably blinded some
months ago in a car smash. He took out
the glass front of a cheap, round-pattern
kitchen clock, shortened the hour-hand
by half an inch to make it clearly dis-
tinguishable by touch from the other,
and cemented small discs of coarse sand-
paper to the dial at XII, 111, VI and IX.
The ring and legs of the clock-frame
locate XII and VI, and by feeling the
position of the long and short hand re-
spectively in relation to the rough discs
and each other she can now tell the time
to within a minute or two.
* * * *
“Hamer”: I knew Norman Campbell
well, both as a writer and actor, but
never considered him a really “prolific
writer.” Apart from my own record,
which included the use of 38 pen-names
at one period, there were Harrison Owen
(who went to London), Edward Dyson and
others who spilled ink really vigorously.
“Bill Bowyang,” still, I think, in, North
Queensland, wrote terrifically when there
was the opening for “specials” ; and
Randolph Bedford drove his typewriter
like a demon when he had a writing
mood upon him. One day when I called
to see Randolph he was locked in his
room, and through the keyhole said he
“Makes a man feel a fool having a launch and no petrol .”
was writing three stories for The Bulle-
tin and was not to be disturbed. When
I saw him next day he had not only
written the three stories but sold them.
jj: * * *
“Bouquet”: One of the sights long
admired by Sydney suburban train
travellers was the beautiful displays of
crepe myrtle at Stanmore and Burwood.
Regretful sighs ware heaved when those at
Stanmore were ripped up, though garden-
lovers were puzzled as to why, seeing
that they didn’t encroach on the lines or
drivers’ visibility and could always be
kept in hand by that heavy pruning which
is so necessary if they are to give the best
results. But grateful glances were still
reserved for those at Burwood. Just now
these shrubs are coming to their best, so
what better time could there be to burn
off the grass which surrounds them? Mr.
Hartigan’s zealous gangs applied the
match, the grass is now no longer a
danger should midsummer, drought-bred
fires occur —and neither is the crepe
myrtle. It has become a wilted mass of
burned foliage and trunks.
» * * *
“Zake”: “Zake,” junior, rising eight,
was conducting a post-mortem on Christ-
mas outside the back fence with Teddy,
next-door’s wide-eyed six-year-old. “Santa
brought me these! ” the household’s hope-
ful boasted as he displayed a Meccano
set and small golf sticks in a tartan bag.
“What did Santa bring you?” As he
clicked his new air-gun Teddy’s cherubic
features assumed an expression re-
sembling as closely as possible James
Cagney’s toughest. “Santa! Gee! ” he
said scornfully. “Do you still fall
for that stuff? I woke up to that long
ago. But I let ’em think I expect him
to come down the chimbley— me ole man
seems to get such a kick out of it!”
*» * *
“Adelaide”: Domestic drama in
Adelaide: —Prologue: A couple have 14
children. Act I: Their silver-wedding
day arrives, and the husband starts to
celebrate —by the quart. The wife, a
teetotaller, takes fly-poison. Act II: She
is charged with attempted suicide. Case
adjourned. Act III: General Christmas
getting-together. He signs a t.t. pledge.
She promises to swear off poison, and is
released on a bond —with a warning that
if she does kill herself the Court will deal
with her severely.
* * * *
‘S.T.S.”: The law against lotteries in
S.A., the State with registered betting
shops, means what it says. A tram
conductor has been fined £lO for
running a “Mother Goose Competi-
tion” and his wife £2 for selling tickets.
He explained that the idea was for the
Tramways Social Club to buy Christmas
hampers for each of its men enlisted and
in camp, and that he had been running
a similar thing at Christmas for years
without ever keeping a penny for him-
self. But the local Law had had its toes
trodden on, and it kicked.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: I am still wondering
why they did it. When I heard that the
Victorian Nat. Gallery authorities were
packing away their treasures in prepara-
tion for possible air raids I hastened up
to the institution to see what it looked
like under the new dispensation. The
Verdun Gallery, once crammed with
priceless objets d’art from every country
and past century, stretched empty and
desolate before me, its glass-cases con-
taining nothing but the labels so sugges-
tive of the vanished effort of dead crafts-
men and artists. Except at the far end.
There were a Japanese military saddle,
weapons and suits of samurai armor, a
Buddha and other articles from ancient
Nippon.
* * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland’s Turnbull Library,
opposite number to Australia’s Mitchell
Library, owes in a very definite and direct
degree a large proportion of its historical,
resources to its founder, Alexander Turn-
bull. He was a man of very wide inter-
ests, devoted to the idea of assembling the
very fullest records of Maoriland’s early
history. An instance of his enthusiasm
has just come to light with the arrival
at the library of the manuscript of a his-
tory of the Pollard Opera Co. by W. S.
Percy, remembered by old playgoers as
for years the juvenile organisation’s lead-
ing comedian. Turnbull has been dead
for many years, but before he died he
had a chat with Percy, who was visiting
Wellington with one of the Firm’s cos.,
and put it to the comedian that he ought
to write such a history while memories
were fresh and sources of information
abundant. Percy did not then fancy
himself as a • writer, but the idea sim-
mered, and the success of his self-
illustrated Strolling Through Scotland,
published a few years ago, emboldened
him to embark on the Pollard saga. One
result of the arrival of his MS. in Welling-
ton is that the history is being rapidly
supplemented. For instance, the chair-
man of the Wellington Woollen Co., W.
H. P. Barber, has arisen to recall that his
dad, who came from England as a
bandsman with the 65th Regiment, was
the first conductor of the very first Pol-
lard co. —it was reconstructed on various
subsequent occasions.
ODDS ON CAPRICORN.
The punters that follow the Zodiac
Find auspicious form on the heavenly track,
Hitching their weekly wagons of hope
To a star cast high in a horoscope.
Trusting that mighty suns who race
Over unpaddocked plains of space.
Hurdling the ages with hooves of fire,
Shall gallop to win them their heart’s desire;
And, predestined from old, the starry host
Shall carry their colors past the post,
At Randwick (once it was Warwick Farm),
Through the power of a wild, fantastic charm
That turns the cosmos to tipster’s gazette,
With the firmament beating the books for a bet!
N.S.W.
T. INGLIS MOORE.


KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
Flush Out Poisonous Waste
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get
rid of 3 pounds of waste matter, the 14 miles
of kidney tubes and filters become clogged
with poisonous waste and the danger of acid
poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition is a danger signal and
may be the beginning of nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles, puf-
flness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Frequent or scanty passages, with
smarting and burning, show there is some-
thing wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes and filters.
Don’t delay 1 Ask your chemist or store!
for DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS .. .
used successfully the world over by
of people. They give quick relief and will
help to flush out the 15 MILES of kidney
tubes. GET DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS at your chemist or store,
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds *.o meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 26/1 /’3B.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney,
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices ;
Victoria : A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Austradia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindlet Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia : Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Jsl'6
SInS I?AS Bl* tol ett .
s.«
I
■ Ml
tin
I Next Town Hail - Little Collins Street
POLITICAL POINTS
Curtin’s Boxing Day (“all of us are
combatants ) broadcast to the nation was
full of good things felicitously expressed.
He tailed to sustain the form in his
New Year message; on the contrary,
some of his stuff was distinctly unhaonv
to say the least:
We know that Australia can go and
Britain can still hold on. We are deter-
mined that Australia shall not go.
The Australian Government regards the
Padhc struggle as primarily one in which
the United States and Australia must have
the lullest say in the direction of the
democracies’ fighting plans.
Without any inhibitions I make it
quite cleai that Australia looks to America
free of any pangs as to our traditional links
of kinship with the U.K.
Next day he was reduced to explaining
that nothing he had said was to be “taken
as meaning a weakening of Australia’s ties
with the British Empire.”
Trust 8.8. C. to say the wrong thing
in moments of excitement! When news-
papers and politicians throughout the
Empire were roaring about the dearth
of fighter ’planes in Malaya, 8.8. C. per-
petrated a “radio newsreel” in which a
gentleman with a languid voice, while
totally ignoring the position in Malaya,
devoted a few sentences to what had
been accomplished in the U.K. during the
long abstention from large-scale bomb-
ing raids.
We have produced ever-increasing numbers
of tanks and fighters. Of course, many of
them are going to Russia.
Going to Russia!
When the history of this war is written
Labor’s sudden and total abandonment
of the “anti-imperialism” it cherished for
20 years will be the subject of a piquant
chapter. It retained this lingering preju-
dice even as late as the Corio (Vic.) by-
election of February, 1940. Then,
though Curtin undertook to maintain the
Second A.1.F., he did not deny having
said “There is a fundamental difference
between the Government and the Labor
party on the matter of expeditionary
forces; we oppose that policy.” It was
reserved for his Government to send Aus-
tralian soldiers into Portuguese Timor.
One of the named correspondents got
in early with his excuse:
Some of the stories fed to correspondents
were that the Japanese were not good
pilots, their eyesight was bad, and they
were textbook pilots, without originality;
Japanese could not use mechanised equip-
ment in Malaya’s ricefields, jungles and
rubber plantations ; Japanese could not land
troops on Malaya’s east coast before
March because the monsoon would pre-
vent it.
Precisely, but why not name the persons
who “fed” the correspondents? That
might be some excuse, though it wouldn’t
explain away the credulousness with
which the “fed” gobbled up the stuff and
cabled it back do their papers. Some of
these correspondents would have been
easy meat for the man with P.O. clocks
to sell,
Major-General Northcott, back from
the Middle East, to Sydney “D.T.”:
The British Army’s advance in Libya has
been due to the successful co-operation of
the navy and air force, which prevented the
Germans from landing reinforcements.
American tanks have done everything ex-
pected of them, and the latest British tanks
have cleared up the German armored for-
mations.
This is in flat contradiction of the “D.T.’s”
screeching on every phase of the subject.
No doubt the major-general’s name will
now go on the “D.T.’s” list of “brasshats”
to be sacked in their shirts by Forde,
Packer or somebody.
Earle Page, described as “Australia’s
special envoy to Britain,” was on the air
the other night paying out platitudes and
repeating what the dogs were barking in
April, 1940:
Adequate air support is vital in land and
sea operations. It must be rendered the
day it is needed, and not the day after the
disaster.
Cabling from London in his “Great I
Am” manner, Mr. Keith Murdoch certi-
fies that the doctor has been “well re-
ceived; Mr. Churchill paid him as much
attention as he pays anybody,” But how
much attention does Mr. Churchill pay
anybody?
It was rough on the Young Canadians
that they should have had their baptism
of fire in Hong Kong ; and from the time
the enemy took Kowloon there was practi-
cally no hope for them. But to all
appearances they buckled to their task
“No offence, mum, but I’m shifting to these here apron strings—at least for
twenty-four hours.”
with the dourness which the Old Diggers
knew so well, grimly determined to sell
their lives dearly ; and from Canadians
at home and in Britain they got mes-
sages bidding them to be of good cheer
and to keep the Canadian flag flying to
the last. Unlike Sydney, Canada doesn’t
seem to have a sensational press with a
yellow streak.
Curtin, stirred to unwonted anger by
some carping criticism in London “Eco-
nomist” :
Reactionary politicians of the British
Empire, including Australians, are respon-
sible for a great deal that all of us are now
sorry for, and unfortunately suffering by.
True, or, rather, half-true. Labor poli-
ticians share the responsibility, especially
those who at the end of 1929 abolished
compulsory military training and left
Australia with only the shadow of an
army and an army organisation. In
money alone that tragic blunder has cost
Australia incalculable millions since Sep-
tember 3, 1939, for everything has had to
be built up again with improvised tools.
And Curtin was a party to it.
When it was demanded of them by
Australian newspapers and politicians
that the British and American Govern-
ments take “adequate steps” in the
Pacific, they could have replied but didn’t
“All right; but we suggest that, whereas
we have conscription, Australia is still
relying on the outmoded ‘voluntary
system.’ ” And what answer could the
Australian newspapers and politicians
have made?
To pressmen gathered about him at
Washington Churchill said “I don’t think
there was ever a man born who could
assume the functions of World Com-
mander-in-Chief.” Well, if he won’t take
it on the press must speed to the rescue.
It has four “outstanding candidates.” Men-
tioned in alphabetical order to avoid ill-
feeling, they are (1) F. Ehrenfried Baume,
(2) John Gordon, (3) Brian Penton and
(4) Frank Owen, with Professor Roberts
as an alternative choice if professors are
not barred.
Queensland has put a ban on the cries
of newspaper sellers. Henceforth they
shall only call “paper” or the name of
the newspaper. People with memories
of the Friday night in Sydney when the
newsboys were howling “Australian
troopship bombed and sunk” will under-
stand the need for the action,
Beasley, as Supply Minister, has made
another appeal to motorists to keep petrol
tanks full for emergency, and it has been
hinted that the Army might commandeer
all vehicles if the worst came. But out-
fits like the N.S.W. State Government
steadfastly refuse to lower increased
registration fees, and the many cars now
on blocks because of that will not be
readily usable, since batteries run down
and pistons stiffen from disuse. The new
Commonwealth transport authority could
well look into the whole matter.
Disraeli seems to have had a premoni-
tion of the League:
Professors and rhetoricians find a system
for every contingency and a principle for
every chance; but you are not going, I
hope, to leave the destinies of the British
Empire to prigs and pedants. The statesman
who constructs and the warriors who achieve
are only influenced by the instinct of power
and animated by the love of country. Those
are the feelings and those the methods which
form empires. The best mode of preserving
wealth is power. A country, and especially
a maritime country, must get possession
of the strong places of the world.
That was said in 1863. Pity it wasn’t
1919.
The McKell Government light-heart-
edly promised to find full-time work at
award rates for all the unemployed, as
well -as to abolish the wages tax. That
it did in respect of practically all income-
taxpayers by adding wages tax to income
tax. Now it confesses to a difficulty in dis-
covering unemployed who will take full-
time work at award rates if the distance
is too remote from the G.P.O. clock.
Of 529 men (383 married and 146 single)
called up for 20 road jobs at Balgownie,
not one was willing. The Government
professes to be in a frightful state about
it. But surely McKell, who has lived in
Sydney all his life, ought to be acquainted
with the idiosyncrasies of work-shy in-
habitants.
Keith Murdoch on German casualties:
I think 800,000 dead may be taken as
the minimum and 1,000,000 is likely. An
enormous figure. There is a dead Ger-
man from every second home.
Two million homes among 80 million
Huns!
Forde needs a good sub-editor. Indeed,
some of the papers sub-edited his Christ-
mas message to the A.1.F., though they
left some flowery sentences:
The Japanese....are actuated by the
bubble ambition of conquest and greed
which, puffed up by vaunting initial success,
cannot but fail to be pricked by the deter-
mination of a free people fighting for the
rights which have been won for them by
the blood of forebears.
Behind you stand a united nation, pledged,
by ties far stronger than we have ever
before envisaged, to your support and to
ultimate and avengeful downfall of forces
which have muddied and dirtied the waters
of the Pacific.
May the God of Peace, who is the God
of true war, bless and protect you!
Still, the gentleman was terse enough
when he said “We shall support you
and reinforce you”; and that’s some-
thing.
In other days public men could talk
confidentially to reporters with the cer-
tainty that their confidences would be re-
spected. It seems to be different nowa-
days, judging by some “S. M. Herald”
observations from London:
Confidential talks which your correspon-
dents have had with Dr. Page lead to the
conviction that he has little grasp of the
Malayan situation. I came from the most
recent interview very anxious because the
“confidential” explanation about the air
and airfields aspects was so far from the
facts, as seen by trained and experienced
observers and commentators here.
The “trained and experienced observers
and commentators” were, of course, un-
named. For all the public knows, they
were among the cocksure chumps who
told us Japan had “a lousy air force.” In
any case, the “Herald” man repeated
the drift of confidential talks without
even asking the other party to certify it
as correct. Such are the methods of the
New Journalism.
A London “Daily Mirror” columnist,
joining in the current off-with-their-heads
journalistic stunt, says: “Why Mr.
Churchill strings along with these old
faithfuls is one of the major mysteries
of our time.” Perhaps Mr. Churchill
thinks he’s a better judge than the
“columnist.”
This is quoted in his paper as “From
Tom Fairhall, ‘Daily Telegraph’ Staff
Reporter in Malaya”:
A high British officer told me and other
press correspondents at an advanced head-
quarters in North Malaya, etc., etc., etc.
Neither the young man nor his editor
could possibly appreciate the priceless
conceit of that “me.”
“L.L.”: “Famous” correspondents who
have fallen into so many pits in the past
seem to be falling into another. They
interpret Hitler’s assumption of supreme
command of the German army as a cun-
ning dodge to fasten the blame for the
German retreat in Russia on his generals.
It looks like another instance of what
Blarney calls “dangerous underestima-
tion.” If the captain of a ship goes on
the bridge in a typhoon and takes charge
nobody thinks there is any reason to be-
lieve that he is cunningly trying to shove
the blame on his lieutenants. If he
stayed in his cabin with a bottle of
whisky and complained of a headache
there would be every reason to believe
that he had lost confidence in his skill
and had the jitters.


ALL DRESSED UP AND ALWAYS SOMEWHERE TO GO.
“While the German Radio was reporting Mr. Churchill as being in Cairo he was actually in the U.S.A.”
“They seek him here, they seek him there,
Those Nazis seek him everywhere.
Is he in heaven? Is he in hell?
That demned elusive Pimpernel "


QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
Equal to the Finest
Imported
Sold only in BOTTLES
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
Around 5 p.c. Annual Yield
with Safety
Your investment—even as little as £2o—in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
gives you an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies yielding, at
present prices, around 5 % per annum. Moreover, your investment is
definitely safeguarded by Custodian Trustees: Union Insurance Society
of Canton, Ltd.
Now is your opportunity to share in the increasing activity of Industrial
undertakings. Write for Booklet No. I, post free, on request to the
Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
TRINITY
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
SUMMER HILL
A Church of England Boarding
and Day School for Boys.
{One of the Associated Schools of
N.S.W.)
Separate Preparatory School at
Strathfield.
New Term Commences on
Tuesday, February 10, 1942.
Illustrated Prospectus will be for-
warded on application.
Headmaster
V. S. Murphy, M.A., Oxon.
PERSONAL ITEMS
J. T. Langs recreations, as revealed to
w? A exander, the compiler of Who’s
to in A usti aha, are farming and read-
irpf‘ iTui aS added writing. The day
after he blew out 65 candles on his birth-
day cake he turned out an indignant full-
page article on “Keith Murdoch’s dis-
patch,” which he styled “an authoritative
message from Churchill.”
Lance Parsons broke a remarkable
family association when he hauled down
the Japanese Consular flag in Adelaide.
J- L. Parsons, M.L.C., Administrator of
the N.T. when it belonged to S.A., and
recognised orator, was the first Consul
in 1897 at a time when Australia had
hardly known the difference between
Jap and Chinese. When he died in
1903 his son, Angas Parsons, took over
the Consulate till he became a Supreme
Court Judge in 1921, when he handed
it to his half-brother Lance.
»yr„- m c
f j jd. , • 1 n ’. °
rhnrrh hnrristJ of WaS a * C j- nSt "
t member tb S p stan^"f ’
y ° l ?P Clty . Councd (he
Inst vpiir ~/L-i a . . um F ln B
F nri 1C ° n se^ v |? e 111 f be Middle
wLi a representative cricketer and
tootballei. He was one of the selectors
of the 1928 All Blacks.
BISHOP ROBIN, who succeeds Dr.
Nutter Thomas in the see of Adelaide.
Major Arthur Nattle Grigg, M.C.,
fourth of Maoriland’s Parliamentarians to
lose his life in this war (eight of them
joined up), was a grandson of John Grigg,
of Longbeach, who created the biggest
farm in the world (in its earlier days) by
reclaiming swamp lands, and third son of
J. C. N. Grigg, in his day Maoriland’s
fastest sprinter. A.N. carried his experi-
ence gained on Longbeach to the Surrey
Hills property (Ashburton County) which
he bought in 1927. He became M.P. for
Mid-Canterbury in 1938. He was 45.
A varied career has been that of
George Vincent Gerard, Bishop of
Waiapu (M.L.) and senior chaplain of
the N.Z.E.F., reported missing. He’s
43, was born at Christchurch (M.L.), son
of George Gerard, of Snowden station,
and is a graduate of Oxford, where he
won his rowing blue and various athletic
championships. Despite his youth, he
saw service in the 1914-18 war as a lieu-
tenant in the Buffs, winning the M.C.
After the war he studied law, but didn't
like it, and switched to divinity. He was
ordained in 1923, and was a bishop at
40. In his curate days he was a provin-
cial Rugby rep. He went through the
Greece, Crete and Libya campaigns with
M.L. troops.
The Right Rev. Donald Baker, prin-
cipal of Ridley College, retired Bishop
of Bendigo and senior archdeacon
of Melbourne diocese, has been ap-
pointed administrator of the diocese
to replace Dr. Head. He will look
after Melbourne’s souls until Bishop
Baker, of Geelong, returns —he is
chaplaining with the forces overseas.
The diocesan authorities have postponed
the question of appointing a new arch-
bishop sine die. The search for a suc-
cessor to Harrington Lees caused a major
crisis. There was civil war between those
who wanted an Australian incumbent and
those who thought only an Englishman
could do the job, not to mention the
equally acrimonious dispute between
those who wanted a High Churchman
and those who preferred a Low. The
Bulletin thought it worth while printing
a full-page cartoon about it. This time
the choice, when made, is likely to go to
an Australian —or to an Englishman who
is practically an Australian.
A D.F.C. has come the way of Flying-
Officer Frank Fischer, of Melbourne. Lie
dispersed several Messerschmitts which
were bombing an aerodrome, brought
one down and harried the others until
he made a crash landing, wounded. After
a previous exploit he was reported
missing and believed to be killed, but
a fortnight later turned up at his
squadron’s headquarters disguised as an
Arab. He is a son of Hugo Fischer, of
St. Kilda, and was educated at Melbourne
High, where his class-mate was Flight-
Lieutenant Truscott.
If the R.A.A.F. accepts Thomas Tuke
Hollway as a recruit—he has applied for
enlistment—Vic. Parliament will lose its
one and only stormy petrel, Hollway
was 35 last October, is married, but
has no family. In 1932 he defeated the
member for Ballarat and became the
youngest Assemblyman, He was made
leader of the State U.A.P. on the death of
Stanley Argyle, and has been a minor
thorn in Dunstan’s side ever since. There
are six U.A.P. members serving with the
forces—Capt. W. C. Haworth, Col.
Harold Cohen, Lieut.-Col. W. S. Kent
Hughes, Major T. K. Maltby, Brigadier
Knox and Major H. O. White. Holl-
way’s departure will leave the U.A.P.
a body of elder statesmen, with T. D.
Oldham, member for Boroondara, about
the eldest. He will probably inherit the
succession.
Captain Michael Zaracostas, who has
been appointed Australian-Greek Ship-
ping Master, with headquarters in Syd-
ney, had a lot to do with the evacuation
of the Diggers from Greece; as chief of
Staff of the Grecian Naval Department
he saw that destroyers were mobilised.
He took a personal hand in getting away
a destroyer with a Digger-load after its
senior officers had been put out of action
by a dive-bombing attack.
The appointment of Walter Nash,
Maoriland’s Finance Minister since 1935,
as the Dominion’s first Minister to
Washington had been expected for
some weeks. If all goes according to
plan Nash will return when he has
soundly established a N.Z. legation, which
may take about a year. In the meantime
Priminister Fraser will take the Finance
portfolio and steer the next Budget
through the House. Nash, who will be
60 next year, was born at Kidderminster,
England, and was in the bicycle trade in
Birmingham before he came to this side
of the globe. He has been in Parliament
since 1929.
James Stuart MacDonald (Jimmy to
the world of art), who in recent years
has been director of Melbourne's
National Gallery, and who for eight years
before that filled the same office in Syd-
ney’s N.G., has been told that he won’t
be reappointed in Melbourne. That, it may
be guessed, is because he doesn’t see eye
to eye ,with some of the trustees concern-
the significance and value of the so-called
“modern” art movements, and is too
J. S. MacDONALD.
honest to disguise his contempt for them.
Jimmy, Melbourne-born 62 years ago,
had his early art training at Melbourne's
National Gallery School, and later in
London and at Julien’s in Paris, where
Whistler was a fellow-student. He taught
art for five years in New York, then
returned to Australia and was for many
years Melbourne “Herald’s” art critic. A
sound painter and an incisive writer, he
has written several books, and is repre-
sented in various Australian galleries.
Ellis Troughton, whose Furred
Animals of Australia has recently been
published in Sydney, is mammalogist at
the Australian Museum. He joined the
staff there in 1908 and took over his
present job thirteen years later. In 1930
he visited U.S.A., Canada and England
to study methods of museum control,
display and storage, and he was in Eng-
land on a similar mission when war
broke out.
Into the Silence;
On Christmas Day Lyster Ormsby, Sydney
antique dealer and in his day a great wrestler.
When he joined the A.I.F. for the 1914-18
affair a special uniform had to be made for
him. He was for two years in succession winner
of the N.S.W. amateur heavyweight wrestling
championship and runner-up for the heavy-
weight boxing title. Ormsby formed Australia’s
first surf club at Bondi, and invented the life-
saving reel now in universal use.
In Brisbane, at 78, Alfred Degilbo Walsh,
pioneer of Q. wool sales and for 41 years
manager of Dalgety and Co.’s Brisbane branch.
Son of the late W. H. Walsh, M.L.C., pastoral
pioneer and former Speaker of the Queensland
L.A., he was born at Degilbo station, the
parental property in the Burnett (Q.) district.
After schooling in Sydney, Hobart and the
B.G.S. he began a commercial career with the
old Melbourne firm of William Sloane and Co.
In 1894 he joined Dalgetys. A keen athlete
in younger days and a confirmed golf-addict
in later ones, “A.D.” was one of Brisbane’s
best-known and best-liked citizens for nearly
half a century.
In Adelaide, at 75, David Hughes Bottrill,
who in 1894 founded the Children’s Sunbeam
Society, which grew to a membership of 14,000
and raised thousands of pounds for the Adel-
aide Children’s Hospital. “Uncle Harry,” as
he was known, was elected a life governor of
the hospital.
At 97, Mrs. Annie Wilson, whose father, John
Hawdon, settled first on the Cowpastures and
then pioneered the lower N.S.W. South Coast
when he secured a grant at Kiora. He and
his brothers were the first overlanders of cattle
to the Victorian and South Australian settle-
ments. Mrs. Wilson, mother of eight children
(six still alive), married the Rev. William Wilson,
whose parish in the early days was as large
as Wales.
At Sydney, aged 82, Dr. William George
Armstrong, who while Sydney’s chief health
officer founded the Infant Welfare movement
in Australasia. He was born in England but
was a graduate of Sydney Uni. From 1920
to 1924 he was N. S. Wales Director-General
of Public Health, and during that period was
lecturer in Public Health at Sydney Uni. He
held rank as major in the A.A.M.C.
On his estate, Fordon, Nile, Tasmania, at
84, Colonel Cyril St. Clair Cameron, C.B. He
served in the Afghan War, and was with the
march from Kabul to Kandahar; commanded
the first Tasmanian mounted contingent in the
Boer War; and was at the Gallipoli landing.
On his return from that campaign he got a
welcome and a seat on the floor of the Senate,
of which he was an original member —repre-
senting the Speck from 1901 to 1903 and again
from 1906 to 1913. He led the Australian con-
tingent at King Edward Vll’s crowning. One
of the Apple Island’s leading pastoralists and
a son of the late Donald Cameron, M.L.C.
At Heidelberg (Vic.) Military Hospital,
Col. Frank Le Leu Henley, D.S.O. He enlisted
in the last war as a lieutenant, was in Gallipoli,
and after the evacuation commanded 3rd Divi-
sion Transport in France, where he got the rank
of lieut-colonel. He was in Adelaide after
his return, and then joined the A.A.S.C.,
4th Division, in Melbourne, where he was
in the motor trade. His experience and ability
got him the job of directing transport in the
present conflict, first at Hobart and then in
Melbourne.
Brigadier Douglas Duke Paine, Deputy
Quartermaster-General at Army H.Q. in
Melbourne, although a taxgatherer by
profession, has spent 30 of his 49 years
in military service. There have been
some coincidences in it. On April 25
this year he left Greece on a destroyer,
exactly 26 years after leaving Lemnos
on a destroyer bound for Gallipoli. On
Armistice Day he left Syria to take up
his present job, and he slipped into his
job and chair on the day the Japs de-
clared war on Australia. Paine was born
in Ballarat and educated at Melbourne
High, joining the Victorian public service
in 1909. He left Australia in 1914 with
the Ist Division. On his return to Aus-
tralia he was named Assistant Director of
Supplies and Transport, Ist Australian
Corps, A.I.F. ; then he rejoined the public
BRIGADIER D. D. PAINE.
service, to rise to be Comptroller of
Stamps for Victoria. When Hitler broke
out he returned to the army in his old
position. Then he went abroad to the
responsible job of supplying food, petrol
and ammunition to the troops in Syria,
Libya and Greece, and at the same time
ran the Overseas Canteen Board. The
King of the Greeks thought sufficient of
him to confer the Greek Military Cross,
Class A, on him. The order joins a
D.S.O. won in the 1914-18 war.


SMOKE-OH!
“Mr. A. Alley, president of the
Bowling Association, visited Sydney.”
—“5, M. Herald.
A bowling Alley.
4* 4 1
“Every man should get his wife to practise
deep breathing.” —Physical culture magazine.
And make her longer-winded still?
“The masked intruder suddenly raised a piece
of iron piping and dealt the old financier a
terrific blow on the skull.” —Detective story.
So he wasn’t as hard-headed as his
business rivals made him out to be!
“The air-raid signal for All Clear is one long
wail.”
Many would prefer Whoopee!
Whoopee!
Bright New Year.
A joyful wish for you and me
This New Year I select:
May all our wishful thinking be
Astoundingly correct!
Nat.
4* 4 1 4* 4*
“We owe a lot to health-giving fools.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
And some of the poor devils of
doctors have to write them off as bad
debts.
■S' 4* 4 1
“The dustman usually gets in first with his
Christmas wishes, possibly anticipating some-
thing more tangible in return.”
—Suburban paper.
He takes the offensive in this as in
other respects.
“Lydia had been sure of her love, but the
wedding day found her a prey to sudden
doubts and fears.”—Story, woman’s paper.
“Mr. Ward is a non-drinker, but to get first-
hand knowledge in Darwin he mixed with
men in the hotels and kept mixed with men
in the hotels.” —Sydney “D.T.”
A good initiation, anyhow!
“What is your phone number ?”
“Token Strike in Clydesdale Shipyards.”
—Melbourne “Herald” heading.
They would kick over the traces there!
•h 'l* 4*
“A woman farmer has left the bulk of her
estate for the benefit of dumb animals.”
—News item.
This rules out that barking cur next
door.
4* 4* 4*
“The average woman shows so little inter-
est in her husband’s clothes that she does not
even notice when he puts on a new suit or
hat.” —Magazine item.
But surely she’d notice any change in
his trousers pockets!
•h 4*
Siam still has its famous twins ; this
time it’s the bunch of two-faced politicians
in Bangkok.
A good neighbor is one who shares
your opinions but not your lawnmower.
4* +
“Jay Bruce, California’s official lion-
hunter, has killed 284 lions.”
—“Worlds News.
But he’s so scared of a certain little cat
that he runs all her messages and does
the washing-up.
•i< 4* 4*
“Rubber perambulators are now on sale in
New York.” — Magazine.
For bouncing babies?
4* 4* 4 1 4*
You can turn the wheels of Fortune
more easily if you grease the palm.
4< 4 1 4* 4*
A man with a wide circle of lady
friends often has to do a lot of squaring
off.
Lament?
“Picture Theatres May Close at Night.”
—News heading.
When I have fears that I may cease to see
Stan Laurel and fat Hardy once again
Heaving their custard-pies with solemn
glee
To demonstrate the microscopic brain ;
No more behold upon the screen’s broad
face
Huge cloudy symbols of an old
romance
Dished up to look like new; nor the mad
chase
Of cars which ends a gangster film (no
chance
Of crooks escaping from th’ impending
peril), .
Nor see Dick Powell crooning to the
girls ;
And tough James Cagney and the dash-
ing Errol,
And Mae West’s chest and Shirley
Temple’s curls —
/ can but bow and thank the gods I may
Not find the time to view a matinee!
AH ME.
Guilty Conscience.
“The dread that someone else knows all
about it remains a constant terror with the
man who has committed a crime.”
—“S. M. Herald.'’
That is precisely how I felt after push-
ing Euphemia over the cliff, if anyone
might regard that as a crime. When she
approached the edge to look over the
impulse was irresistible. But as I hurried
away to establish an alibi I passed the
man. There was a look on his face which
indicated that he had seen everything,
although he made no effort to stop me.
The thought of his knowledge tortured
me, spoiling the freedom I had earned.
Even though he remained silent through-
out the inquest I was uneasy. Once,
weeks later, I saw him talking to a police-
man and my heart panicked. But no-
thing happened.
But he was only waiting ; I could sense
that. He looked like a criminal who
might blackmail a man. Then one day
he spoke. He asked me to have a drink.
As he drew up to the bar I knew that
the time had come.
“I saw what happened,” he said signi-
ficantly, “The time has come when I
must speak.”
I waited with beating heart. The
friendliness of his tone was merely
sinister to me, and I wondered what was
to be the price of his silence.
“There is something I must know,” he
went on. “I am married, too,” he said.
“How did you pluck up courage to do
it?”
HAMER.
The Gift.
Waking after the final session of the
Yuletide festivities, he sat up with a
start, staring at the necktie hanging from
the end of his bed. It was a horrible,
flamboyant affair, obviously of the
cheapest variety. The colors could almost
be heard grating together. Very discour-
aged, he lay back, the top of his head
lifting up and down. Half an hour later
he opened his eyes again to see if it was
still there. It was.
“’Struth, it’s quite real!” he groaned.
“I’ve never seen anything like it! The
cow that gave me that for Christmas must
have owed me a grudge. Wait till I find
out who it was —I’ll tell him off!”
Glimpsing a card attached to the tie
he picked it off. It read: “Merry Xmas!
From Joe to Ted.” Joe! That was him-
self! Then suddenly he remembered.
That was the tie he had bought last night
for poor old Uncle Ted!
T. W. N.
She fainted when her spouse-to-be.
An hour before the strife,
Produced a wedding-guest and said
“Oh, Lydia, meet my wife!”
EVE.
Plea for Variety.
“But, of course, he was about as unhappy
as the average bushman who comes to the city.”
— Extract, story.
We have read too many ditties about
bushmen in the cities, and it seems a
thousand pities that the “homesick”
chaps won’t die. For the poet keeps ’em
wailing while he’s gloatingly detailing
how they’re anxious to be trailing back
again to Gundagai. They get “lone-
some” and keep “sighing” while he writes
of how they’re dying just to hear the
mopokes crying and to see the campfire’s
glow. And the city’s noise and bustle
only make these “men of muscle” have
a most heart-rending tussle with their
“memories” till —they go.
Oh! if some bard, greatly daring,
his imagination airing, only had his
Dave declaring as he took in Syd-
ney’s gloss: “I’ll be damned if I’m
returning! Not for me the silly yearning
for the bush. You see, I’m learning s.p.
booking at the ‘Cross.’ ”
E.
Old Bore’s Almanac for 1942.
J A N. —A ship’s sailing will be delayed
for a week owing to seamen demanding
dismissal of captain for using a rude
word to an A.B. The Stockholm Afton-
bladet” will quote a businessman escaped
from Berlin as saying that when Hitler
now rages he bites pieces out of his own
stomach. John Gordon, editor of
“Sunday Express,” will demand that 2000
Hurricanes be sent to Tenshun province
to assist General Sum Wun Sing in his
great drive on Bunglung. Sir Plantagenet
Boobe will be allowed five days a week
leave from Brixridge Prison, where he is
held for subversive activities, to train for
a polo match. Tokyo Radio will claim
1179 Allied ’planes shot down in one
day without loss to attackers. Sydney
Water Board will consider proposal to
refurnish palace in blue and gold, as
chrome and black marble are losing their
aesthetic appeal.
Feb. —An A.B.C. announcer will pro-
nounce a foreign place-name so as to
have it resemble slightly the way it is
written. General Sum Wun Sing will
broadcast an appeal from Canton for recog-
nition of Wang Ching Wei’s puppet Gov-
ernment. Hitler will promise the German
people the total destruction of England
next month. Next day Mussolini will
announce that Hitler will graciously
allow Italians all fish-and-chip and fruit
concessions in the ex-British Empire and
what used to be America.
Mar. —John Gordon will ask why a
miserable 10 battleships could not, as he
had suggested, have been concentrated off
Formosa to crush the Jap. Navy, and will
demand that “the bunch of halfwits with
creeping paralysis who clutter up the
Admiralty should have their cocked hats
taken from them.” Hitler will announce
that in certain less-important affairs he
is willing to recognise the Creator’s
special sphere of influence. A famous
correspondent will reveal that France is
“seething with revolt,” and that it “only
needs a match to set off this powder
magazine of hate that will blow the
Germans back across the Rhine.”
Apl. —An alien refugee who escaped
penniless from the Nazis will advertise
in a Sydney paper that he will let several
of his Blue Mountains cottages for £lO
a week to families from bomb-threatened
areas, provided they have no children.
The Sydney “D.T.” will demand that all
brasshats who served in the 1914-18 war
should be replaced by young, virile
officers who will be the better for haying
had no experience of war, as their minds
will not then be clogged by out-of-date
ideas of strategy. Hitler will explain that
only his deep humanitarianism has re-
stricted him from ordering the immediate
destruction of England.
May. —John Gordon will demand to
know why there were not 3000 Hurricanes
based on the atoll of Alohaho in antici-
pation of a Jap attack, and will want to
know why vital aircraft were sent to the
renegade General Sum Wun Sing and
what our Intelligence Service was doing
not to know that he was in Jap. pay.
Colonel (“Old School-tie”) Bingham, in
a letter to the “Times,” will hope that
Britain will never endanger the great
traditions of sportsmanship by taking the
field against the enemy when we are in
superior numbers. A Sydney Sunday
paper, in a two-col. editorial alongside
its astrological notes and predictions,
will attack the authorities for allowing
“shameless charlatanism embraced in
palmistry and crystal-gazing.” Observers
will agree that never since the armistice
has the French spirit been so apathetic.
June. —A Commonwealth board will be
set up to co-ordinate the activities of the
various sub-committees set up to control
the boards set up to supervise the work
of various State boards. A Melbourne
Judge will ask a witness what he meant
by the phrase “carting a good sort
around.”
July. —Tokyo will announce that the
Emperor has chosen for a poem the pro-
found theme “A feather will float through
the air if a wind blow it.” Ankara Radio
will report that General Hans Jodi ate
a porterhouse steak in front of Hitler
at his headquarters, and military circles
in London will interpret this as final
proof of the breach between the Nazi
party and the General Staff. Bowing to
the popular press demand to “put his
undoubtedly great driving ability to the
best advantage,” the post of Director of
Small Gun Production will be given to
Lord Bottletop. Eight people will attend
a grand rally of the Australia First Move-
ment.
Aug. —Hitler in a speech will guarantee
Sweden’s territorial integrity and the Riks-
dag will immediately vote an enormous
sum for Sweden’s southern defences.
Mussolini will fail to make a speech on
Ballila Day, and a London newspaper
will fail to attribute this to another heart
attack. Ehrenfried Baume will demand
that “a frontal attack on the now moss-
grown Siegfried Line be made simul-
taneously through Belgium, Holland,
France, Spain and —yes —Northern Ger-
many itself”! German chemists will
evolve a synthetic butter made from wart-
hog hoots, treated offal, used cart grease
and docks.
Sept. —A demand will be made in the
popular press for the removal from the
post of Director of Small Gun Produc-
tion of Lord Bottletop, who has long
been recognised as a dud. A famous
correspondent on the German border will
reveal that the plight of the long-neglected
German railways is so grave that even
heavy engines now have to use wooden
driving wheels. Sensational reports will
reach London and Washington of Jap.
suicide men being put inside 16in. naval
shells so that after being fired they can
guide the projectiles right on to the target.
Oct. —Alongside a ragshop ad. offer-
ing 25-guinea frocks for the really smart
young matron a Sydney afternoon paper
in an editorial will appeal for “all-round
sacrifice and Spartan simplicity.” A
Housewives’ Association will meet with-
out finishing up with a brawl and a crop
of resignations.
Nov. —President Inonu and Hitler will
exchange “most cordial greetings,” and
immediately afterwards Turkish defences
on the Bulgarian border will be fever-
ishly strengthened. Goring will have two
more legs shot off in Russian raid on
Berlin.
Dec. —Hitler will explain to the Ger-
man people that this will be the last
winter they will have to endure war con-
ditions, as his patience with England has
finally snapped and he will administer
the final crushing blow in the spring.
BO.


ABORIGNALITIES
Canbelego”: Red Victor was trying
to sell a Jersey cow to old Smith, but
their opinions of the price differed widely.
Vic gave a lengthy outline of the Jersey’s
good points, but Smith wasn’t impressed.
For every good one he could find a bad
point. “How much milk does she give*?”
Smith asked at last. “Well,” said Vic,
T haven’t been too fussy about measur-
ing it. But she’s a good-natured cow—
she’ll let you have all she can.”
* * * *
“Flight”: For this country’s national
birds the average fellow would plump
without question for the emu, the kooka-
burra and the black swan. The emu
might or might not be universal. I’m
inclined to think Long-legs roamed the
whole continent once upon a time, from
the shores of the oceans to the banks of
Lake Eyre. The kookaburra is only a
coastal bird, unknown in the interior,
and, barring a few imported specimens,
not native to W.A. The black swan
doesn’t leave the coastal fall, with very
odd exceptions—and that leaves two-
thirds of the country without him. A
trio far more deserving of the title, to
my mind, are the peewee, ground lark
and willie wagtail—they all possess the
true Australian habit of übiquity.
* * * *
“Puyyaka”: As M.O.H. of this literary
district for many years, I exonerate the
rockhole blamed by “Edjudina” (B.
17/12/’4l) as the cause of young Harti-
gan’s infection with typhoid fever. The
history shows that the initial symptoms
began two days after he had helped Long
Ned to clean out the 200 gallons of bird-
and animal-fouled water, a job which
could not have taken more than a day
even in leisurely Groperland. Like other
germ-conveying diseases, typhoid causes
no obvious symptoms before the end of
its incubation period—that is, the interval
since contracting the actual infection. It
is analogous to the interval between add-
ing the yeast in breadmaking and the
rising of the dough, and in the case of
typhoid usually lasts from 12 to 14 days.
What caused the lad’s trouble was some-
thing he ate or drank, most likely about
from nine to 11 days before they reached
the rockhole. There is a possibility that
either “E.” or Long Ned may be a
“carrier” and have unknowingly infected
food or water consumed by him. Food,
flies and fingers are the main ways in
which individual cases of typhoid are
infected nowadays, with water in last
place.
Dickie Beach”; There’s always some-
thing new to be learned in the fishing
game. The mob of fat bream which hang
about the jetty scorn every bait and lure
offered by enthusiastic amateur anglers.
The other day a chap sat down there
to eat his lunch and cool off after a bush
tramp. He flipped bits of bread and
cheese to them but they took no notice.
Then he proceeded to prune an overlong
toenail which had troubled him during
the walk. As the paring hit the water
it was rushed enthusiastically by the
whole mob and disappeared in a boiling
mass of struggling fish. Now it’s going
to be me for a toenail farm and big
prices to city fisherblokes for an infallible
bream-bait,
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Back in the days when
Lascelles (Vic.) was called Minapree they
found it necessary to prohibit bathing in
the big railway or council tank across
the line. One hot evening Steve the
Singer drifted in from Hopetoun, dropped
his swag by the tan£, stripped to his
underpants and slipped in. He was
promptly nabbed and ordered to produce
himself at the Woomelang court next
court day. In Woomelang was a struggling
young solicitor who offered to defend
Steve free of charge, for the sake of prac-
tice and advertisement. On the Bench
was Jim Mulhooley, J.P., farmer and
shire councillor. Steve’s advocate
launched into a flowery address, referring
his Worship to the great swimmers of
history, and got to the part where he
was comparing Leander, who swam for
love of a woman, and Steve, who swam
for love of cleanliness. “Listen, Mr.
Sixenate,” interrupted Mulhooley, J.P.,
“this feller Andrews you talk about might
“I think Wed better evacuate to Melbourne .”
’a’ swum in that there Hellspoint or
wherever it was, but if the people round
there like t’ have carmine bagmen divin’
inter their waterholes that’s their look-
out. But it can’t be done round here,
see? Defendant’s guilty an’ he’s fined
ten bob and costs or a day in the peter.
I bin livin’ in this distric’ for more’n
15 years, toilin’ an sweatin’ most of ’em,
an’ a wash in a tin-tub every Saturdee
night’s good enough f’r me, an’ it oughter
be good enough f’r anybody else. Court’s
adjourned.”
* * * ♦
“Mac Moses”: It was sale day in a
thriving Victorian town, A military
camp had recently been established near
by, and into it had been gathered the
farmers’ sons from far and near who
were not already in the A.I.F. Into the
big cafe lounged sheepishly six stalwart
sons of the soil in brand-new uniforms.
They found a table and sat down, obvi-
ously embarrassed at the glances focused
on them. Awkwardly they tried to
arrange their long legs and fit up to the
small table. A waitress approached and
handed the menu card around; the first
man’s choice of roast lamb was followed
by the others. Then the waitress called
to the kitchen: “Six lambs!”
* * * *
“George”; Dad had come back from
town with a headache, and Mum
promptly diagnosed it as bad eyes and
told him he should be wearing the specs,
that she had pestered him into getting
years before and which he had sworn
he’d never use. She kept at it, and at
last, grumbling, he agreed to wear them
again. Next day Mum got all heated
over the cloves that were missing when
she went to make the pickles. “In this
tumbler they were,” she said, “and I’d
like to know who took them! ” “ ’Struth! ”
said Dad, “Cloves? I used that glass
yesterday for a drink of milk and thought
I’d swallowed flamin’ tintacks!” Dad’s
specs, are again collecting dust on the
mantelshelf.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow was
toiling on a wheat-farm out of Cowangie
(Vic.), a publess town, and announced
that he wanted some cash to go up to
Murrayville, where there was a pub, for
the week-end. His boss confessed that
he wouldn’t mind going with him, but
important business in Cowangie stopped
him. “But I’ll tell y’ what,” he said;
“bring some bottles back to Cow. on
the late train an’ I’ll pick y’ up.” Mat
agreed and departed. After a few hours
in Murrayville he loaded a gunny bag
with bottles and hopped on the train,
but when he got to Cowangie there was
no sign of the boss. Mat waited an hour
or so, refreshing himself occasionally,
then set out with the gunny bag to tramp
the nine miles to the farm. By the time
he got to Duddo bore he was feeling
pretty well, so decided to take a shower
bath under the bore pipe, it being night.
The cold water straightened him a bit,
so he knocked another bottle over and
started again. Three hours later, with
the dawn breaking and the last bottle
gone, he rolled into Cowangie, teetered,
looked hard at the place and in vast
astonishment said “Gorbloomey, bin
clean roun’ the flamin’ worl’!” Where-
upon he folded himself up and slept.
* * * *
“2.L.X.”: It isn’t only boot leather that
heavyweights are light on (B. 12/11/’4l),
as any horse who has carried them would
testify to if it could. Most horsemen
are lightweights. I recall two outsizers.
One was Eric Templeton, overseer on
2.L.X. station, Maneroo (Q.). None of
his horses was ever distressed even on
day-long rides, and Eric tipped the beam
at 16st. Another whose avoirdupois was
so evenly distributed over his prad’s back
as to cause it no inconvenience was Big
Ted Connel, from the Georgina. Riding
on a cattle camp I have seen nine-.stoners
knock good horses up; Big Ted’s horse
would still be as fresh as paint after a
morning carrying an extra three-quarters
of a hundredweight.
* * * *
Fire had swept through the
little bush school out from Dalby (Q.).
Not a blade of grass had been left stand-
ing and the charred ground and smoulder-
ing logs told their own story. Only one
thing had escaped; a notice nailed to a
blackened gum. It read: “Fire Pro-
hibertid.”
* * * *
“James W.”: On a copra plantation on
Malaita the “boys” had been out slicing
down young plugger—guava to you—on
a new clearing. Each tree was settled
with a single oblique swipe of a copra
knife and the process left hundreds of
sharp chisel-shaped stakes all over the
place. Cockroach, a citizen of weight,
tumbled backwards and sat with unfortu-
nate precision fairly on one of those foot-
high stakes. In obviously excruciating
agony, he struggled off the stake and
staggered off to the manager’s bungalow.
Here let it be known that in the pidgin of
coastal Malaita every conceivable wound,
ulcer or abrasion is a “sore-leg,” possibly
because of the prevalence of shin sores
caused by much wading in shallow water.
Anyway, Cockroach, usually garrulous,
was struck dumb by the sight of visitors,
all of them white and some of them
female, on the verandah. He gazed round
miserably, then burst out “Aw, ’ell,
marster! Aw, ’ell—throat longa behind
belong me gottem awful sore-leg.”
“B. A. Ker”: The intuition of birds
and animals is uncanny. A horse will
sum up a rider in a matter of seconds.
Watch the points a veteran in a riding-
school will work on a synthetic Holly-
wood cowboy! Dogs always adopt
a more threatening attitude when their
bluff intimidates a stranger. A crow
seems to know if you are armed or not.
But a little one-legged sparrow has me
baffled. Every day when I’m working
down the paddock he keeps me company.
Hopping about with his one leg bent in
a sort of counterbalance action, or
literally leaning against the wind that
threatens to roll him over when he
isn’t darting under the mattock to collar
a titbit —he is a pleasing little nuisance,
I’ve pretended to throw a stone at him
but he shows no fear. Yet when the
boss’s boy arrives with the billy “Hoppy”
is suddenly missing. Whether the kid
stops for a couple of hours to render
alleged assistance, or merely waits long
enough to smoke a surreptitious fag, the
bird never shows himself. As soon as
I’m alone my feathered mate is back.
I can only conclude that a‘ boy with a
shanghai acounted for the “spag’s”
missing leg.
* * * *
“Gip”: Queensland has one of the
strangest of birds—the jacana or lotus
bird, inhabiting the swamps and lagoons.
Scarcely the size of a peewee, it holds
the world record for feet development,
having a toe-spread of nine inches —
longer than the bird’s
body. Although the huge
toes are webbed, the
jacana can swim well
under water. - At the
slightest sign of danger the
bird submerges in a stand-
ing position, and it can
remain under for a quarter
of an hour. When it does
so it only sticks the bill
out, making it very hard
to see. even on clear
water. It will remain in this position
' for hours, exhausting the impatience of
the intruder. After the longest immer-
sion only the outer feathers are wet,
those close to the body remaining quite
dry. Have seen it on being observed
walk off with a chick under each wing ;
and it’s a nightmare trying to pick the
genuine nest from the dozens of dummy
ones it builds.
* * * *
“Nor-west”; Among the many things
that he could do with string Binghi, up
along the nor’-west coast of this con-
tinent, could weave a passable fishing-net.
But he never used it for anything smaller
than dugong. Thus it had a mesh about
the size of those pig nets which old-time
farmers used for covering the old spring
dray when conveying Dennis to market,
A good dugong net might be up to 300 ft.
long, with a depth of not less than 6ft.
It was a tribal possession, being much
too valuable to be the property of one
individual. The making of one was a
vast co-operative job, for the string had
to be spun from the fibre up, and then
twisted into cord, and finally many cords
into rope. It took a strong net to hold
six or seven hundredweight of plunging
sea pig. Occasionally such a net was used
for a more sinister purpose. It is re-
corded that in the first opening-up of the
Pilbarra, nor’-west W.A., the ’longshore
abos., having tasted the white man’s sugar,
tea and flour, but at the same time be-
come aware of the death-dealing powers
of his gun, once worked out quite a neat
little plot of surrounding the whole party
of whites with a long dugong net as they
sat around their campfire at night. And
it just missed through one of the whites
quite accidentally strolling away from the
fire and finding the net being got ready.
No doubt the trick had been worked a
thousand times on visitors from other
tribes marked down for vengeance.
* * * »
“D.R.H.”: “Eseph” (B. 10/12/’4l) may
be right about his marsh gases, but
bubbles rising to the surface of lagoons
usually indicate the presence of a lot of
little water-plants living a blameless life.
Roughly speaking, the plants breathe in
air from the water and exhale CO2. But
they also take in air for “feeding” pur-
poses, absorb non-breathable gases and
give off the oxygen. The working of this
cycle will permit a fern to live for long
in a sealed bottle. And the giving off of
oxygen explains why plants are kept in
an aquarium. The bubbles from the
leaves may be collected as they rise and,
when tested with a glowing stick, will
prove to be oxygen.
PHANTOM REEF.
. beside their driftwood fire,
What time they lounge and smoke,
Strange is the talk that one may hear
From off-shore fisherfolk.
s ball he learn who hearkens them.
The wondrous tales they tell
That more they gather from the ’deep
than they in markets sell.
While camped in caves, where driftwood
fires
Spurt flames of red and green,
I s talk of happenings
That they have heard and seen.
And he who cares to seek them out
hrom sea-toil come ashore,
* n mi jsing Quaint may lose himself
And marvel at their lore.
Thus, seeking them, from them I heard
This tale of Phantom Reef,
To jd m a wise that took no count
Of scoff or disbelief.
At full of moon, so runs their theme,
tJoat moored and fishing wide,
there comes to them at midnight’s hour
A chant across the tide.
A chant it seems of many men.
Of many voices blent,
And when they hear it naught they say,
Shocked mute by wonderment.
No word they say, no move they make.
But deep at heart they feel
That chant that comes across the foam
Is charged with wild appeal.
Since lifelessly the washed reef lies
What means the mystery?
Since shape or shadow moves not there.
Who can the chanters be?
fn strange suspense all sea-sounds seem
Held for a moment brief,
Till lades the chant, and once again
Waves psalm on Phantom Reef.
This tale I listened to one night
Of coastal straying, when
1 SPJP® 41 beside a driftwood fire
With off-shore fishermen.
Their story told, with brooding eyes
A haunted pause was theirs:
C °i l j be see i n S ancient ships
And long-drowned mariners?
N.S.W.
RODERIG QULNN.


“Arev”: Bill Jupp was at his wit’s end
to get assistance on the farm, so when he
spotted a hefty fellow coming along the
road burdened with a drum Bill was at
the sliprails by the time he drew abreast,
“G’ day, boss,” said the swaggie. “Any
chance of a job?” Bill fairly licked his
chops. “Well, yes,” he said, with studied
carelessness, “I could do with a man.
What c’n y’ do?” Bill’s prospective em-
ployee leaned against a fence post and
spat. “Me, I c’n do anything!” he
asserted confidently. “But first of all I
don’t work unless I have proper condi-
tions. I must have a room to meself,
with at least three blankets. I’m not to
be called till half-past six. I never eat
nothin’ but grilled chops or fillet steak
for breakfast, with plenty of toast. A
good three-course feed for dinner, after-
noon-tea an’ a good hot meal at night.”
Bill opened his mouth to speak, but the
other went on. “I like a hot plunge bath
twice a week, an’ I don’t expect t’ be
asked t’ wash milk buckets or clean out
the separator or slush about in the cow-
yard. But I’m willin’ to do any ordinary
work round the farm.” Bill shook his
head. “If I’d known you were cornin’
along I’d never’ve sold me bath,” he said
mournfully. “But I tell you where you’ll
get fixed up. Jim Higgins in that place
with the green tank’ll have y’ on, I bet.”
“He’s lookin’ for a man, is he?” asked
the swaggie. “No,” said Bill as he pulled
out the makings, “but his missus wants a
lady help!”
* * * *
“Vimy”; The elderly owner of the
little slab-and-kerosene-tin humpy hidden
away in the scrub went to help in saving
the big house in the near-by hills when
the bushfire swept through. The house
was saved, but a veering wind swung the
fire to the humpy, and up it went. The
owner of the house expressed his grati-
tude by a gift of £lO “for building ma-
terial” to the victim. A week later, the
hut-owner returned to the district from
parts unknown. One of the town-dwellers
asked had he got all the building ma-
terials he’d want for a new shack. “Yes,”
said the old man. “Of course I had a
few drinks out of the change.” “What
did you buy?” asked the questioner.
“Aw, a pound o’ nails! That’ll do me
to go on with,” was the cheerful answer.
* * * *
“Prof. Shingleshort”: That birds have
individual fancies in food and a sense of
barter, and that they sometimes employ
the latter to satisfy the former, I am now
willing to believe. Digging recently in
my garden I unearthed an outsize centi-
pede which, as it wriggled off, was
pounced on and slain by a watchful jack-
ass. Instead of grazing, however, the
executioner just stood and regarded the
corpse disappointedly, occasionally throw-
ing me a distinctly reproachful look.
Presently came another jacky and joined
the first. An animated colloquy ensued.
Shortly Number 2 departed, returning
in a few minutes with a large white grub
which he laid alongside the body of the
centipede. Another discussion in quite
amiable tones followed; then Number 2
took the centipede and Number 1 the
grub, and after dining they poured out
a duet of satisfaction with the scheme of
things.
* ♦ * •
“The 0.D.”: One of the most intelli-
gent horses I ever struck was down on
Euchipivy station. A brown gelding
called Mac, he had more than a touch
of thoroughbred and was a fine sheep
moke. You didn’t have to tell Mac what
to do when a wing broke away or they
baulked at a gale. Proof of his intelli-
gence came the day the jackeroo rode
him out to a back paddock to gather up
stragglers. The jacky and another hand
camped there one night, and next morn-
ing discovered Mac had pulled away and
disappeared. His tracks showed him
heading for the station, so they double-
dinked the other horse and set out after
him. But Mac couldn’t be found,
and eventually they went on home,
12 miles through scrub and porcu-
pine ridges, through seven gates and
across two roads. Was Mac at the station
when they got there? Don’t be silly, he
was an intelligent horse. There was water
in the tank in that paddock and Mac
enjoyed three days’ freedom till the boss
and four men rounded him up again.
* ♦ • *
“Trey C.”: Neither “Ophir” (B.
12/11 /’4l) nor anyone else can whip a
snake’s/head off, for the very simple
reason that Joe’s neck is the toughest
part of him, and it takes the first and
severest strain when he swallows his food.
The bottom jaw, though, may part com-
pany from the rest of it. But expert
snake-crackers can do the very thing
“Ophir” says they do not do —catch him
by the tail and whip behind. It’s a simple
method and effective, for Joe in the air
is as helpless as would be “Ophir” sus-
pended by the big toe, A snake’s strik-
ing ability is dependent upon its stomach
having contact with something solid.
Moreover, it must have 12in. to 15in. of
neck or body play before it can be dan-
gerous enough to strike. Hit within nine
inches of the head no colubrine could
even strike itself. And if “O.” puts his
next orthodox kill on an antheap and
port-mortems the skeleton he’ll find out
why.
* * * »
“Sur Cingle”: Anybody wanting emu
feathers would do well to apply to our
new jackeroo. Having been fully three
months on the run he was grousing
because he had never seen an emu’s nest.
We were riding at the time through a
kangaroo-grass flat near Leigh’s Creek
(S.A.). Suddenly something exploded
from under his horse’s nose, and old
Ginger as promptly recoiled backwards.
Percy flew through the air, and, after we
had scraped the contents of the five big
eggs from his person, announced his in-
tention of buying a rifle.
* * * •
“Dungeness”: Queensland’s far-western
abo.-dom has lost two outstanding
figures. Governor Sam, of Reedy Springs,
was appointed to that dignity in the early
1880’s by the then-owner of Cornelia
station in the Pentland district, with a
suitably inscribed brass plate as insignia
of office. He promptly undertook the
bush education of the property’s present
“You have your instructions, Kelly — good-bye and good luck!"
“Spare a trifle for a soldier's widower, genral?”
owner, S. C. Anning, son of his bene-
factor. Nor did he spare the rod when
necessary. For many years the old chap
was completely bald, a very unusual con-
dition amongst full-blooded abos. The
original owners of Cunnamulla in the far
s.-w. also mourn the passing of 26-year-
old Paddy Hooper, best boxer of the full-
blood race since Jerry Jerome. He was
given the biggest funeral in abo. tradi-
tion, and the memorial heap of broken
crockery and bottles on his untimely grave
has already reached record proportions.
* * * *
“Taylor Ville”; Stan was an Oodna-
datta-side stockman who drifted down
into the sheep country round Farina
(S.A.) and stayed there. Asked him one
day why he didn’t go back to the cattle
country. “Well,” he drawled, throwing
a leg over the pommel, “when y’re
punchin’ sheep you can get off an’ stretch
y’r legs whenever y’ like. With cattle y’
got t’ stick in the flamin’ saddle all the
time if y’ don’t want t’ start a rush.”
* * * *
“Esk D.”: “Talkin’ about those forked-
stick sledges,” said old Sam, “ ’minds me
of the time we were pullin’ quartz from
the Golden Prince down that long,
straight spur behind Mullins’s, We had
a quiet old piebald horse on the job, an’
the track was pretty steep. When the
sledge got goin’ it useter run through old
Piebal’s legs an’ tangle him up ; but he
soon learned to squat on the load an’
ride it to the bottom. Howsomeyer, the
track got wore away on to a ridge of
rock about ’alfway down, an’ one day
the sledge got caught there. It was travel-
lin’ pretty fast, mind you, an’ the sudden
stop pelted old Piebal’ about thirty foot
down the hill, an’ he rolled ’ead over ’eels
to the bottom. We could never get him
near a forked stick after that.
* * * *
“Propalong”: Our Christmas beer was
working nicely in a kero.-bucket under
the canegrass verandah at the outstation.
Bally, the horsetailer’s pet hack, was
wandering about as usual. After a while
Mick got up to have his seventh look at
the brew. The noise he made brought
us out of our shade patches to find the
tin nearly empty and Bally looking
bloated. Dan picked up the shovel and
advanced on the equine sponge. Just
then someone yelled “Nit! The boss!”
Up came the buckboard and, while the
boss was collecting his tobacco, out
flopped his snoopy ma-in-law, whom
Dan once described as “a psalm-grindin’
ole band of hope.” We didn’t go to meet
her, but Bally did. He wavered amiably
across the dazzling yard and stood look-
ing hazily at the old girl. Then he lifted
his head high in a shaky attempt at dig-
nity, but his hocks trembled under him
as he lowered his white face, swinging it
woozily in an effort to focus his eyes.
Then ma-in-law gasped: “The horse is
mad!” With a staggering start Bally
sidled coyly right up to her, stretched out
his neck confidentially and tried to
whisper in her ear. She must have
smelled his breath, I suppose. Anyway,
she yelled, “He’s drunk! Arthur, take
me away from this beastly place.” We
put our art-gallery back on the hut walls
after that.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: “Go to the ant” might
be good advice to sluggards, but it
wouldn’t meet with enthusiasm from
efficiency experts. Observe the ordinary
meat-ant; he is a model of misapplied
energy. Hurrying from the bed, he tacks
like a drunken sailor down the road
worn through the grass by countless tiny
feet. Presently, getting the “good oil”
from a homing brother, he grows
excited and dashes across-country, zig-
zagging even more wildly. Generally he
zigs when he should zag, for he’d rather
climb over a 4in. or sin. billet of wood
than detour half an inch. Arriving at
his destination, he grabs the biggest
morsel available, regardless of the fact
that half a dozen trips could be made in
the time taken up in struggling with a
load three times too heavy. A chasm
inches deep yawns before him, and of
course he tumbles in and has to battle up
the other side with his burden. Finally
he reaches home, often to find that his
booty will have to be cut up, anyway,
before it can be taken through the trades-
men’s entrance, I often wonder what
the chief storeman said to the enthusiastic
toiler I saw devote nearly half a day
to bringing home a cigarette butt.
* * * *
“Padflogger”: The only cook we
ever faulted was Old Jonno. A 20-stoner,
when punching the dough for our every-
third-day bread he sweated so much that
a rivulet of brine ran down his nose and
dropped into the dish. Jonno reckoned
it all helped to save the salt. But did we
dump the honest fellow because of this
mild infirmity? No, we had a whip-
round and presented him with a nose-
bag!
« * * •
“Narrin”: Blue found a 351 b. cod on
his set-line the other morning. Rowing
back to camp he got the tethering line
and swivel, slit the skin in two places
between the fish’s upper jaw and skull,
passed the cord through and tied it. Then
he turned the prisoner into a deep and
shady bay. Five minutes later the cod
was floating belly up. Blue swore and
threw stones. The cod dived. In a
minute or two it was again on the sur-
face. Blue stumped over to his camp, re-
turning presently with a heavy lump of
scrap-iron which he used as a cross-line
sinker. He hauled the unresisting fish to
the bank, tied the weight to the line
about eight feet from the cod’s nose, put
both into the pram, rowed out and
dropped ’em over. Three days later when
I passed that way the 35-pounder, by
now relieved of the weight, was as lively
as a hungry shark.
PILE-DRIVING SONG.
Monkeys in the treetops swing,
Screaming down the forest aisles —
Hear our mighty monkey sing,
Belting down the hardwood piles!
Half-a-ton to two-ton-ten,
Up she goes, the snatch blocks clink;
We’re the real monkey-men
When we use the missing link.
Loud the busy winches haul!
Wirra! wirra! Round they reel.
Tossing skywards for their fall,
Monkeys made of solid steel,
Sinking pile-heads, ironbound,
Three foot deep at every jerk ...
Far away you’ll hear the sound
Of the monkey-men at work.
Thirty feet to sixty-five,
Hoist each long pile into place—
Lash it, ready for the dive
Of the monkey down the face.
Crown it with its iron ring—
Forest giant, thunder-crowned;
Make the busy monkeys ring
Till the hardwood Titan’s drowned!
Monkeys on their long tails sail
Where the sun on treetops smiles:
When we put our monkey’s tail,
Bang! down go the mighty piles ...
Half-a-ton to two-ton-ten,
Hear the shifty trip-hook clink —•
We’re the real monkey-men
When we work the missing link.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


A Mm’s
First Thought
is far His Family
Through hard work, careful planning and
often by self-sacrifice, a man accumulates an
Estate to safeguard the future security of his
family or other dependents.
But so that his life’s work and good intentions
shall not be jeopardised, and, to avoid hard-
ship being inflicted on his family, he cannot
do better than follow the lead of many
thoughtful men and women in taking three
important steps;—
msm
m&m
1. Consult his Solicitor and have his Will drawn in precise
legal language to save misinterpretation and costly litigation.
2. Appoint an Executor and Trustee who is competent and
trustworthy in place of one who may not live to complete
his trusts.
3. Have his Will revised regularly to meet changing conditions.
The appointment of The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited as Executor or Co-Executor and Trustee
ensures that the estate shall be managed with the experience,
intelligence and fidelity which have characterised the Company’s
service for more than 63 years. Security is ample. Fees are
fixed and moderate. Consult your Solicitor or write or call for
full particulars.
d
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
' £td. -
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST.. SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits £958 760.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chaiman); D. Stuart Murray; John Fordyce;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C. 8.8.; G. S. Colman, C.B.E. •
Sir Alan Newton.
. NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart; R T. Hilder
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes
BEECROFT GRAMMAR SCHOOL
A Preparatory for day boys and boarders —in a safe district —away from all military
objectives. Effective AIR-RAID SHELTER. Next term commences February 4, 1942,
but if desired care of pupils accepted earlier.
For Prospectus and particulars, apply the Principal—
REV. A. BOOTH, 8.A.,
Tel.: Epp. 151. Copeland Road East, Beecroft, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tooth and Co. (Sydney)
_ t Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£■ £ £ £
Assets written up, £485,622, and that
amount capitalised .. .. 740 817
1929.. 634,054 124 p.c. =539,860 94,194 835!oil
1930.. 686,392 114 „ ~ 632,317 54,075 889,086
1931.. 480,829 8 ~ ~449,648 1
Employees’ Fund, £7OOO ) 2 HBI 913,267
1932.. 467,474 8 p.c. =449,648 1
Employees’ Fund, £9OOO ) 8 >826 922,093
1933.. 482,204 84 p.c. =477,751 1 010 K.«
Employees’ Fund, £7OOO ( 919,04 b
1934.. 567,119 94 p.c. =533,957 j OQ —„ „ no
Employees’ Fund, £5OOO ) 28,162 947,708
1935. . 628,699 124 p.c. =702,575* 873,832
1936.. 696,028 10 „„ 589,017 1 - nfi .. q7Q
Employees’ Fund, £lOOO j 106,011 979,843
1937.. 774,695 104 p.c. =649,179 125,516 1,105,359
1938.. 841,839 114 ~,,711,005 130,834 1,236,193
1939.. 855,709 12 „„ 741,919 1 , ns 7qn , q „„
Employees’ Fund, £5OOO j 108,790 1,344,980
1940.. 870,299 12 p.c. =741,919 128,380 1,473,363
1941.. 809,036 12 ~,, 741,919 67,117 1,540,480
* Includes special centenary bonus of 6d. per share.
Between them Tooths and Tooheys share
all but a fraction of the beer trade in
N. S. Wales, Tooths taking the lion’s por-
tion. There is no price-cutting, competi-
tion having taken the form of buying up
and improving hotel properties, thus
widening and anchoring turnover. Con-
siderations of public finance have, how-
ever, now curtailed activities in this
direction. Still, war activities have stimu-
lated consumption of beer by absorbing
practically every employable male, and
many females as well, in one or other of
the fighting and supply services or war-
production industries. In addition to
this lengthening of pay-rolls, wage rates
have been lifted and the Defence Canteen
Service has seen that our forces over-
seas don’t go short of Australian beer.
Indeed, export has been a considerable
factor in brewery turnover during the last
12 months.
The following table shows what has
been spent on beer, etc., in N. S. Wales
since 1932:
r —Expenditure— N Consumption,
ear Per Head Gallons Per Head
Ended Total, Popu— , — A —^
Dec. 31, £’ooo. lation. Beer. Spirits. Wine.
1932.. 10,380 £4 0 6 6.99 .24 .49
1933.. 10,500 4 0 9 7.27 .24 .57
1934.. 11,490 4 7 7 8.22 .27 .59
1935.. 12,530 4 14 9 8.98 .29 .61
1936.. 13,320 4 19 10 9.83 .29 .62
1937.. 14,620 5 7 9 10.72 .81 .62
1938.. 15,870 516 8 12.59 .81 .60
1939.. 16,620 6 011 12.87 .82 .60
1940.. 18,230 611 6 13.67 .82 .64
Last year saw an increase of £1,610,000
(= 9.6 p.c.) in total expenditure, and the
amount per capita (up 10s. 7d.) was only
10s. 6d. less than the average for the
boom years 1927-29.
Tooths got its full share of the in-
creased trade, of course :
Management, Exes.
Gross Wages, p.c. Net
Sept., Earnings. Excise, etc. Gross. Profit.
1915.. £652,360 £367,566 56.3 £284,794
1925.. 862,934 495,284 67.4 367,650
1930.. 1,593,798 907,406 56.9 686,392
1935.. 1,383,891 755,192 54.5 628,699
1937.. 1,642,657 867,962 52.8 774,695
1938.. 1,819,421 977,682 53.7 841,839
1939.. 2,043,271 1,187,562 58.1 855,709
1940.. 2,251,584 1,381,285 61.3 870,299
1941.. 2,612,593 1,803,557 69.0 809,036
After allowing £150,306 (up £20,313) for
depreciation, the improvement in gross
earnings was £361,009 (16 p.c.). How-
ever, higher wage and tax bills, the
increased cost of materials, freights, etc.,
and lifts in excise gobbled all the in-
crease and £61,263 besides, the growth
in exes, amounting to 30.5 p.c. That left
declared net earnings at 13 p.c. of capi-
tal compared with 14, 13.8, 13.6, 12.5,
11.8, 11.1, 10 and 8.5 p.c. back to 1933.
The div. was kept at 12 p.c., making the
average over the last dozen years about
10.5 p.c. During the 20 years before that
£2,150,097 of bonus scrip had been scat-
tered.
The year’s bigger trading is further re-
flected in an all-round increase in balance-
sheet figures;—
Assets:— 1939. 1940. 1941.
Breweries, etc. £6,544,466 £6,706,279 £6,880,511
Book debts . . 1,158,665 1,173,511 1,298,996
Stock.. .. 370,230 378,251 540,282
Liquid . . 1,060,927 1,239,296 1,328,559
£9,134,288 £9,497,337 £10,048,348
Sundry creditors 1,152,441 1,389,238 1,874,133
Net assets .. £7,981,847 £8,108,099 £8,174,215
Paid capital .. £6,182,657 £6,182,657 £6,182,657
Breweries, etc. (up £174,232), include free-
hold and leasehold hotel properties. The
fine pile of liquids (up £89,263) is made
up of Government securities, deposits
and bank balances. Including debtors’
balances and stocks, the more or less
liquid surplus (£1,293,704) was £108,116
less than at the previous balance, owing
to the outlay on fixed assets.
As for the current term, each gallon
of beer brewed will yield the Govern-
ment an extra 4d. in excise—3d. on the
beer and Id. jn respect of the carbonic-
acid gas used. This slug will be passed
to the hotelkeeper and then over the
counter to the public—a 9oz. glass at 6d.
will replace the lOoz. “middie” now in
use; a “schooner,” priced at 9d., will
be reduced from 17oz. to 160 z., and a
pint, now 10d., will go up a halfpenny.
The price of bottled beer remains un-
altered. Much will depend upon the
extent to which increased taxation of
wages, etc., retards consumption of beer.
Rising costs and an extra Is. in the pound
added to the co. tax will bite deeper into
takings.
Before the outbreak of war with Japan
the pound shares, visibly backed by 255.
in net tangibles, sold at 50s. 6d. in the
market. The figure eased to 455. 9d. but
recovered to 475. 3d. before last week-
end. The return at 475. 3d. is 5 p.c. on
a 12 p.c. div. basis.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 91,554 6ip.c. = 89',386 2,168 396,316
1932.. 171,066 8J „ ~ 125,140 45,926 442,242
1933.. 111,414 6i „ „ 89,385 22,029 464,271
1934.. 134,483 74 „ „ 107,263 27,220 491,491
1935.. 149,622 8J „ „ 125,140 24,482 515,973
1936.. 195,449 10 „ „ 143,017 52,432 568,405
1937.. 200,114 10 „ „ 143,017 57,097 625,502
1938.. 192,597 10 „ „ 143,017 49,580 675,082
1939.. 214,197 Hi ~ ~ 160,894 53,303 728,385
1940.. 192,210 10 „ ~ 143,017 49,193 777,578
1941.. 194,343 10 „ „ 143,017 51,326 828,904
It is 32 years since Henry Jones
and his lieutenant, A. W. Palfreyman,
formed this holding co. for the purpose
of eliminating waste in buying and sell-
ing and overlapping in organisation. The
success achieved can be judged from the
fact that for 20 years to the close of
accounts in 1929 divs. averaged a shade
under 11 p.c., and were sweetened with
£455,492 of bonus scrip in 1927. For the
dozen difficult years to the close of last
accounts, which included slump, over-
production of canned fruits and price-
cutting by Government-assisted factories,
shareholders averaged 8.8 p.c., the co.
never having failed to make an annual
distribution, lowest being 6} p.c.
The subsidiaries, which are scattered
throughout the Commonwealth and
Maoriland and extend to Britain and
S. Africa as well, are in the jam, fruit-
canning and -preserving and condiment
business, etc. Until three years ago, the
curtain was kept drawn over their
figures; now consolidated accounts are
published, thus giving shareholders a
better idea of the earnings and position
of the undertaking as a whole.
The parent’s profits received from Aus-
tralian and other sources compare as
follows:
Net income— 1931. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Australian. . £55,674 £167,546 £136,060 £138,192
Other sources 35,880 56,651 56,150 56,151
Total .. £91,554 £214,197 £192,210 £194,343
The figures leave out of the reckoning
undistributed earnings of the subsidiaries.
Last term’s £194,343 (up £2133) was 13.5
p.c. on capital as against 13.4, 14.9 and
13.4 p.c. for the three preceding years.
The div, was kept at 10 p.c.
The growth in Australian earnings
shown in the parent’s accounts last term
is due to the fact that subsidiaries con-
cerned sent along more though they
earned less. Still, the position taken as
a whole is better than the parent’s
accounts alone claim, as the following
consolidated p, and 1. figures for the
entire undertaking show:
Net income— 19’39. 1940. 1941.
Australian .. .. £192,667 £186,298 £165,530
Other sources .. 75,622 76,710 83,824
Total .. .. £268,289 £263,008 £249,354
The contraction in net earnings from
Australian sources was £20,768, due
mainly to taxation, a 24 p.c. increase in
the average wage rate and higher prices
of materials used, especially tinplate. For
supplies of this material the co. is now
entirely dependent upon American
sources, and the stock-on-hand position
is not so satisfactory as it was a year
ago, when about 12 months’ requirements
were held. Chairman Palfreyman says
the tinplate position is the worst in the
co.’s history, and has advised housewives
to help the fruitgrower by making their
own jams and preserves until the posi-
tion improves.
There was a substantial increase
in turnover, partly on account of
the increased buying power of the public
generally and partly on account of de-
fence contracts, which also helped to
swell exports. Defence contracts were
also a factor in the improved earnings
of the overseas offshoots. The bigger
turnover enabled the Australian subsi-
diaries to maintain unaltered selling prices
for most of their products. The aggre-
gate profit of £249,354 (down £13,654)
was 17.4 p.c. on the £1,430,173 of capital,
compared with 17.3 p.c. and 18.7 p.c. for
the two preceding years. That was after
allowing for outside interests. So the
10 p.c. div. was a more comfortable
matter than appeared from the parent’s
accounts alone.
Here are consolidated balance-sheet
figures for the organisation:
1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital .. £1,430,173 £1,430,173 £1,430,173
Outside interests* 79,477 88,368 96,426
Tax provisionf .. 159,478 244,408 367,796
Creditors, etc. .. 419,858 469,737 484,279
Freeholds, etc. .. 69-7,928 701,498 699,343
Plant, etc. .. 279,590 300,327 301,737
Stocks .. 872,099 1,168,953 1,129,476
Debtors .. ~ 785,068 736,176 941,451
Shares .. .. 101,245 99,324 101,758
Cash, etc. . . .. 745,328 718,628 826,052
Goodwill . . . . 62,542 62,542 50,966
* Including proportion reserves.
+ Including other contingencies.
It is anticipated that the extra £123,388
put aside for taxation will all be required
for that purpose. The growth of £205,275
in debtors’ balances and of £107,424 in
cash, etc., reflect the year’s larger trading.
Stocks were £39,477 lower than at the
previous balance. Including provision
for taxation, the improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£1,920,568)
was £129,668.
War in the Pacific has added to the
uncertainty of the outlook for the cur-
rent term, especially in respect of export
trade, which, the board says, figured
largely in last year’s earnings. Taxation
and costs generally will take a bigger
bite out of takings.
During 1941 the pound shares fluctu-
ated between 535. 6d, and 435. 6d, in
the market. At 435. 6d., the price last
week-end, the return is 4.6 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The backing is 31s.
7d. in net tangibles.
The D.I.C.
Maoriland best knows the Drapery and
General Importing Co. of New Zealand,
Ltd., by those initials.
/ Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. 6 p.c.* Ord. serves, serves.
& £j &£/£/
1939. .37,447 15,000 10 p.c. = 17,918 4,529 130,178
1931.. 19.371 15,000 5 „ „ 8,976 125,573
1932.. 2,974 15,000 Nil 113,547
5 p.c.
1933.. 17.207 12,600 24 p.c. = 4,532 175 113,722
Inner reserves disclosed, £21,969 .. 135,691
1934. 12,500 5 p.c. = 9,077 5,107 140,798
1935. 12,500 5 „ „ 9,092 6,185 146,983
1936. .33,005 12,600 6 „ ~ 10,927 9,578 156,561
Reserves capitalised, £58,899 .. .. 97,662
1937.. 37.568 12,500 6 p.c. = 14,589 10,479 108,141
1938.. 39.790 12,500 6 „ „ 14,589 12,701 120,842
1939.. 41.853 12,500 6 „ „ 14,589 14,764 135,606
1940.. 41.793 12,500 7 „ „ 17,021 12,272 147,878
1941.. 39.615 12,500 7 ~ „ 17,021 10,094 157,972
* Reduced to 5 p.c. under the National Expenditure
Adjustment Act in April, 1932.
The co. runs four high-class softgoods
stores at Dunedin, Christchurch, Welling-
ton and Wanganui, so it is well situated
to take its share of what trade is
offering in three of the four main M.L.
centres. Prior to the outbreak of war,
and just after it, trading conditions were
buoyant, and, in spite of increasing taxa-
tion and other costs, in 1939 and 1940
the co. showed its best profits since 1929.
Sales for the past term reveal a decrease
—previous period had its figures bumped
by the patronage of visitors to the exhi-
bition at Wellington. Gross profit slipped
£19,315 (to £327,872), but expenses
(£287,038) were cut by £16,915, “showing
that careful supervision had been exer-
cised by the management.” The expenses
referred to are bulked in the accounts
to show everything from salaries, etc., to
land and income tax, social security
charge and national security tax, so just
what reduction was made in expenses as
generally understood is not clear. As
far as these ordinary exes, are con-
cerned, the cut was probably greater than
claimed. The chairman, in his address,
stated that taxes took almost £90,000.
After allowing for pref. divs. the year’s
net profit (£39,615, down £2178) was
11.1 p.c. on ordinaries against 12, 12,
11.2 and 10.3 p.c. for the four preceding
years. The ord, div. at 7 p.c. was un-
changed (6 p.c, went out for the four
years before 1940). On the pref. div. the
co. again paid the social and national
security tax, and as this was worth an
extra Id. in every lOd. it made the div.
worth 51 p.c. This was some com-
pensation to pref. shareholders for the
injustice of the compulsory reduction
from 6 p.c. to 5 p.c. in their dividends


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * *
DAVIES & CO EDISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
COMPANY OF SYDNEY
limited
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
offers all facilities for the transaction of every class
of Banking business. Since 1854 /—> over a century
ago i-> the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
has maintained the confidence of its depositors and
the community alike.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE ST,, SYDNEY
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
OIL
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type, with iron
body and gunmetal fittings; also
made of gunmetal throughout.
The ideal valve for Boiler Blow-
off, as it is leakproof, simple,
easily operated, quick acting, straight blow through and no Stuffing
Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No attention required after
being installed, as it is self-grinding in action. All valves tested to
6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our Bulletin and let us
quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
CRAVEN A
..ate so
iefi&hmhf smocinj
H f §Q mm
10 for lid.
20 for 1/10
it*
m
El 868
PREVENT $ ORE THRO ATS
rinder the Mortgagors and Lessees Re-
habilitation Act in 1936. Though continu-
ance of the payment of taxation on pref.
divs isn’t guaranteed, the extra annual
amount of £1250 required is small com-
pared with present profits; and additions
to reserves over the last five years have
been £60,310. The one-for-three bonus
issue to ords. about five years ago makes
today’s 7 p.c. worth 9* p.c.
But difficult as it was for the co. to
import last year owing to the restricted
licenses issued it through the Reserve
Bank it will now be even harder to obtain
stock. Replenishment is going to add to
the co.’s worries. Rationing in selected
essential commodities, Government com-
mandeering of others and curtailment of
luxury manufacture are inevitable to
some extent. Activities of the Price Tri-
bunal may also react against profit mar-
gins on whatever stock there is to sell.
Balance-sheet movements compare as
follows:
1934. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Pvpf capital £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord. capital ". . 181.829 243,149 243,149 243,149
Liabilities .. 184,195 204,553 191,354 212,232
Premises, plant, ? 458,884 429,931 417,536
Stocks ‘ ‘ 181 829 221,770 255,248 251,530
Book debts I: 70,297 102,779 92,412 98,185
investments and 69>061 120 . 3 75
Liabilities at £212,232, despite a £5OOO
reduction in mortgage (now £26,000), are
up £20,878. On the other hand, liquid
assets are up in greater proportion. An
extra £60,000 was put into war loans,
making £70,000 held, now below par in
the market. But the co. should be able
to nurse these holdings until calmer days.
Investments and cash were altogether up
£41,314 at £120,375, and the more or
less liquid surplus (£257,858) improved
£22,491. The company’s financial posi-
tion is very satisfactory. Stocks, down
slightly, are “worth more than 20s. in
the £,” and the figure at which debtors
appear is in equally good condition, the
chairman says.
Remembering the chairman’s caution
on the probability of further reduced
profits, the market prices the 10s.-paid
ords. at 155., to show 4.6 p.c. The prefs.
are seldom traded. The net tangible
backing for prefs. is 525. Id., and for
ordinaries 16s. 6d.
Lamson Paragon, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ »
1931.. 3,640 4 p.c. = 4,000 41,463
1932.. 6,728 5 „ 5,000 1,728 43,191
1933 7 072 6 ~ ~ 6,000 1,072 44,263
1934 o’sil 7 „ 7,000 2,311 46,574
lilt;; 8 :: B,’ooo 2,256 48,830
1936.. 11,525 9 „ „ 9,000 2,525 51,355
Premiums on shares, £6250 .. 57,605
1937.. 13,091 10 p.c. = 10,000 3,091 60,696
Loss sale factory. £4OOO . . •. 56,696
1938.. 15,162 10 p.c. = 12,500 2,662 59,358
Premiums on shares, £6250 • • 55,608
1939.. 15,795 10 p.c. = 12,500 3,295 68,900
1940 19 198 10 ~ 10.000 4,198 73,101
1941.; 19,749 10 ,: „ isiooo 4,749 77,850
To some extent this co.’s earnings can
be taken as an indication of business
activity generally. Its factories at Mel-
bourne, Sydney, Brisbane and Perth —the
last-named operates as a subsidiary
specialise in production of all kinds
of commercial stationery and office
requisites, and there are distributing
branches at Adelaide, Hobart and
Broken Hill.
Shareholders averaged 11 p.c. for the
dozen more or less flush years to the
close of accounts in 1929. The profit
flopped to 3.1 p.c. on capital in 1930,
when shareholders were passed by for the
first time since the public became inter-
ested in 1910. In 1931 4 p.c. was paid,
and a point was added to the distribu-
tion for each of the next half-dozen
years, making it 10 p.c., at which figure
it has remained since 1937.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, the expanding turnover
of retailers and others strengthened
demand for the co.’s dockets and other
requisites. The improvement in gross
earnings on trading account (£90,691)
was £5550, making the growth £18,687
over the last two years. The Westralian
subsidiary sent along £l6BO (up £420) out
of a profit of £4176 (equal to 10.4 p.c. on
its own capital), and sundry receipts
amounted to £67, making gross earnings
from all sources £92,438 (up £5953). In-
cluding £17,031 (up £5074) for taxation,
exes, made off with all but £551 of the
increase. That left the net result at 13.1
p.c. on capital as against 12.7, 12.6, 12.1,
12.7, 11.5 and 10.2 p.c. back to 1935.
There is nothing uneasy about the
finances;
1935. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £lOO,OOO £125,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities ..) iqoe?* 49 i rr* 1 42 > 822 36,3 5?.
Tax provision j ’ I 13,200 19,500
Premises ~ 42,233 59,287 63,643 65,002
Plant, etc. . . 44,447 55,567 66,209 62,747
Stock . . .. 39,202 64,935 93,785 96,097
Book debts .. 24,687 40,929 55,085 54,458
Cash & sundries 4,423 897 1,342 6,405
Shares, etc. .. 21,125 25,401 21,060 21,000
* Including unspecified provision for insurance.
Last term the overdraft (£17,904 when
the books closed) was reduced by £8205
and £1742 was added to the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors, etc. (£18,455).
Stocks, which shot up by £31,921 in the
previous term, increased by a further
£2312, and cash, etc., was £5063 stronger.
Including provision for taxation, the im-
provement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£122,101) was £6851.
The board talks of greater demand oh
productive capacity, and has taken steps
to increase the plant.
At 345. (365, 6d. a year ago) the pound
shares, covered by 30s. sd. in tangibles,
return 5.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Accounts in Australian currency of
Wiluna Gold Mines, Perth, for year ended
March 31, 1941, show £294,808 brought
in and gross profits of £828,717. Develop-
ment absorbed £23,919, mining £480,000,
depreciation of plant £68,889, directors’
fees £9OO, and provision for taxation
£50,499, leaving, after some other expen-
diture had been chipped off, £495,696 to
carry forward. Chairman’s report states
that, although ore reserves are not appre-
ciably reduced in the Wiluna mine, a
decline in grade continues. Maximum
rate of throughput is expected to be
maintained until June next. Again no
dividend has been declared, the board
considering that the co. is merely engaged
on a work of salvage. Accounts of
Wiluna Gold Corp., London, which holds
all the issued shares of Wiluna Gold
Mines, show that £1834 was brought in.
A dividend of £2578 on 200,000 shares
was received from Gold Fields Australian
Development, and other receipts lifted
total income to £5271. Expenditure, in-
cluding directors’ fees £3217 and
engineers’ fees £lO5O, was £3367 more
than income. All figures are in sterling.
* * * *
Taxation, helped by soaring costs, due
to war-time conditions, has given Great
Boulder (W-A.) a nasty jar. Last year
its gold production was worth £879,484
Australian, and the value of this year s
will approximate a million. Yet nothing
has been received by shareholders since
June 30, 1940, when a threepenny divi-
dend, absorbing £31,250, was paid. There
is wealth galore in the mine, but good-
ness knows when the next distribution
will be made. R. W. G. Mackay, who
has been here before, is coming from
London again as the directors’ represen-
tative to talk things over with share-
holders and make a further appeal to
the Federal Government to lend a help-
ing hand to set some relief from the
present crushing British taxation.
Directors of Tindals Gold Mines, Lon-
don, the holding co., and Consolidated
Gold Mines of Coolgardie, the operating
co., have issued their reports for last
year. Tindals, which has so far loaned
the operating co. £177,119 sterling, didn t
receive any income in the twelve months,
a profit of £8794 Australian earned by
the operating co. being utilised for plant
extension, reduction of overdraft and
general improvement. Tindals p. and 1.
account shows a debit of £6125. Esti-
mated ore reserves in Tindals mine are
348,291 tons of grade. A bank
overdraft granted to the operating co.
under the guarantee of the State Govern-
ment had been reduced to £14,825 at the
end of the year. A further £30,000 has
been loaned the co. by the State Govern-
ment for treatment-plant extension, which
is approaching completion.
* * * *
Oroya Black Range (W.A.) has been
added to the list of old Westralian gold-
mines in which rich finds have lately
been made. Since June three fossickers
have obtained over 3000 z., and one of
them, an assisted prospector, has been
able to pay the Mines Department what
it lent him,
* * * *
Two London cos., Gold Fields Austra-
lian Development Co. and Associated
Northern Ora Banda, applied for six
months’ exemption from labor condi-
tions at the last sittings of the Kalgoorlie
Warden’s Court, the former on a section
of the Copperfield group at Mt. Ida and
the latter on four blocks known as the
Gimlet on the Broad field. Gold Fields
Australian got exemption to enable it to
concentrate operations on other parts of
its holding, and Associated Ora Banda
because, owing to world conditions,
finance for essential development couldn’t
be procured.
* * * ♦
An extraordinary general meeting of
Boulder Perseverance held in London on
Dec. 9 altered the articles of association
so as to enable the directors to pay such
interim dividends as in their judgment the
position of the co. warrants. This will
obviate the necessity of holding a general
meeting when dividends are declared sub-
sequent to the close of the financial year
and will allow distributions to be made
as far as may be possible at approximately
the same dates each year,
jfc 5*C % *
Mining Flotations, Ltd., a small Perth
holding concern with a subscribed capital
of £5lOO in 1020 £5 shares, reports a
net profit of £852 for year ended Oct. 31,
against £592 for the previous 12 months.
Two dividends aggregating 18s. a share
were paid. Co. has 21,603 Spargo s
Reward and 13,542 First Hit shares. It
received its first dividend from Spargo’s
Reward a few months ago, and this in-
come accounted for the rise in last year’s
profits.
* * * *
Blue Bird West and Wiluna Ajax, two
small but perky goldmining ventures,
show losses for last year. Blue Bird West
was hatched at Norseman and Wiluna
Ajax first saw the light at Wiluna.


The Mutual Life and Citizens ,
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £32,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4.900,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.; F. E, Loxton, Esq.:
Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., 0.M.G.; E. E. D. White, Esq.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved,
Wanted to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
To buy copy of poem “The Day” (B.
26 /11 / ’4l). —3194.
buy novel Kyber, broadcast as a serial
play by an A.B.C. station about four years ago.
—3199.
To buy The Woodcarver of Lympus, by Mary
Waller.—3l9s.
To buy Carver’s Carriage by Sea, Arnold’s
Marine Insurance, Scrutton’s Charter Parties
and Gow’s Marine Insurance. State year of
publication and price.—3193.
Information Sought.
What are Standard Times in Australia?-*
3196.
Q’land, N. S. Wales (except the mining
district of Broken Hill, where S.A. Standard
Time is observed), Vic. and Tas. have adopted
150 deg. east longitude, or 10 hours east of
Greenwich, S.A. has adopted 142£deg. east
longitude, or 9£ hours east of Greenwich,
and W.A. has adopted 120 deg. east longitude,
or eight hours east of Greenwich, as Standard
Time.
* * * *
How Co make designs in shrubs of animals,
birds, etc., as noticed on railway property and
in private gardens? —32ll.
Get a wire-worker to make the outline design
(or make it yourself out of strong wire or wire-
netting, but it’s a ticklish job) and place it in
position alongside privet or similar small-leafed
shrubs. Train the growth through and about
the design and trim the leaves and limbs back
with shears or scissors. Water the shrubs
regularly in the early stages to force robust
growth, but after the design has attained the re-
quired size drop the watering. It will mean
constant attention and clipping to make a first-
class job
* * * *
Is saltbush suitable for a low-growing hedge
in Sydney suburban area? Or what other
shrubs are preferable ? —3208.
Saltbush is a strong-growing hedge shrub,
but has an objectionable smell at times. You
would do better by using acmena (Flori-
bunda, pink berries; Kingiana, white berries),
duranta ( Plumeri, blue flowers; Alba, white),
laurestinus (small green leaves and attractive
white flowers), or plumbago ( Capensis, blue
flowers), all of which are strong growers and
will stand trimming. Autumn is shrub-planting
time.
* * * *
What outlets are there for a girl upon com-
pletion of a science course at Sydney Uni. ?
Will the secondary industries now being built
up as a result of the war absorb those with
such qualifications ? —3132.
Get into touch with Women’s Australian
National Services, Bank of N. S. Wales Build-
ing, O’Connell-street, Sydney, state your qualifi-
cations and sort of employment desired, and
ask for information.
♦ * * *
Any tips for making a good job of the
small workshop I am going to put up on the
farm ? Also any useful hints for looking after
tools ? —3249.
Select a shady tree for the site and use bush
timber for lasting strength. Make the roof the
best job possible, and if you find it impos-
sible to close in all the sides do those in
the worst-weather quarter. Iron is the best
all-round material. Leave openings large
enough to run in your heaviest machinery
for repairs, and don’t forget ample provision
for light. A rack along one side for timber
is needed, or it can be stored on the rafter-tie
beams. A few big packing cases with doors
fitted make tool chests, and old tins are good
containers for bolts, etc. If you haven’t a
separate forge, build one at one end or instal
a portable one. Above all, have a strong
work bench fitted with a vice and a grindstone.
Have the scrapheap handy to the shed and
throw all old bits of steel and iron on to it.
A well-stocked scrapheap means many a repair
at little cost. A few rows of pegs and hooks
are useful, and a few feet of piping and a
tank more so. Water on the spot is often
needed on the job, especially if it is to be done
with forge and anvil. You can pick up
enough tools at clearing-out sales to make a
decent kit. Keep all the tools in good nick,
giving them a rub up on a wet day and an
occasional drop of oil on a rag.
(1) What proportion of shark attacks in Aus-
tralia have been fatal? (2) What are the worst
times of the year and localities for shark
attack? (3) Have sharks ever attacked a diver
in full diving dress ? (4) Any period in the
day particularly bad? (5) Do records suggest
that sharks are unlikely to make more than
one attack in the same locality ? (6) Most
dangerous types of sharks ? —3230.
(1) As far as is known, about one-half.
(2) From statistics it appears that the worst
months for bathers in N. S. Wales are from
December to April, January having the worst
record. In Queensland attacks have occurred
in every month of the year. In the colder waters
of Victoria they are very rare and occur only
in summer, while Tasmania has been free of
shark tragedies. There have been very few
attacks in other parts of the Commonwealth,
but boats have been attacked in midsummer
and midwinter. As there are very few all-
the-year-round swimmers, even north of twenty-
eight, it is not surprising that most fatalities
occur in summer and in metropolitan districts
where there are not only large numbers of
swimmers but rubbish in the water, which doubt-
less attracts sharks. Sydney, between Woy Woy
and Port Hacking, has had the most attacks,
followed by the islands of Torres Strait, where
many native divers have been taken. Then
come Newcastle, with Townsville and Bris-
bane together fourth. (3) In the past 40 years
there has been only one case reported; some
divers wear a helmet only and they have
always been free from attack. (4) In 15 out
of 20 cases for which complete accurate figures
are available the attacks occurred after 3.30
p.m. Two occurred early in the morning and
three about midday. (5) No. Near George’s
River two people were attacked on the same
day within four hours. Three attacks on the
same day and attributed to the same shark were
recorded near Port Said, and three attacks
occurred in the same area in New Guinea on
three successive days early in 1931. (6) In these
southern waters the most dangerous species
are probably the white and blue pointers. In
N. S. Wales the grey nurse, whaler, tiger shark
and probably others attack man, and in Queens-
land there is an even greater variety to suspect.
* * * *
Details of the bombing of the U.S. gunboat
Panay ? —3231.
On December 12, 1937, Japanese bombing
’planes along the Yangtze River, 27 miles above
Nanking, attacked the U.S. gunboat Panay and
three Standard-Vacuum vessels. The Panay
sank, one of the other craft was beached and
two burned. Sandro Sandini, an Italian news
correspondent, C. H. Carlson, master of one of
the Standard Oil vessels, and C. L. Ensminger,
a storekeeper on the Panay, were killed; injured
numbered 15. The British vessels Ladybird,
Bee, Cricket and Scarab also were bombed. In
answer to U.S.A. and British protests the
Japanese Government apologised, saying the
bombings were accidental.
* * ♦ ♦
(1) What is the wording of the oath taken by
the President of the United States? (2) Has the
oath varied throughout the history of U.S.
Presidents? (3) How should the President be
addressed in speech or writing? —324o.
(1) “I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I
will faithfully execute the office of President
of the United States, and will to the best of
my ability preserve, protect and defend the
Constitution of the United States.” (2) George
Washington’s oath as President was: ‘‘l do
solemnly swear that I will support the Consti-
tution of the United States.” When W. H.
Taft took the oath, in place of “protect” he
used the word “maintain.” (3) The President is
usually and properly spoken to as “Mr. Presi-
dent.” In writing to him, “My dear Mr.
President” is good usage, as is also “Dear Mr.
President” if the writer is a friend or is of
prominence in affairs. Otherwise the chief
executive should be addresesd more formally—
“To the President” or “Hon. F. D. Roosevelt,
President.” All diplomatic letters from foreign
sources style the President “Excellency.”
* * * *
Which of the Apostles met violent deaths?
—3229.
According to generally accepted ecclesiasti-
cal records only one of Christ’s Apostles, John,
escaped martyrdom. Matthew was slain with a
sword in Ethiopia; James, son of Zebedee, was
beheaded at Jerusalem; James, the brother
of Jesus, was thrown from a pinnacle of the
Temple and then beaten to death with a fuller’s
club; Philip was hanged up against a pillar
at Hieropolis, a city of Phrygia in Asia Minor;
Bartholomew was flayed alive at Albanapolis
in Armenia; Andrew suffered martyrdom on a
cross at Patrae in Achaia, which was a Grecian
colony; Thomas was run through the body
with a lance at Coromandel, in India;
Thaddeus was shot to death with arrows;
Simon Zelotes was crucified in Persia; Peter
was crucified, head downwards, it is said,
during the persecutions of Nero; Matthias was
first stoned and then beheaded; Paul was be-
headed at Rome by Nero; Judas Iscariot
hanged himself, according to St. Matthew’s
Gospel.
♦ * * *
(1) Hints on how to make a lawn? (2)
Suitable grasses ? —3224.
(1) Dig over the area, lay down drainage
pipes and cover them with soil. Sieve the top
6in. of soil to remove sticks, stones and rubbish;
level it with a rake, then firm down with the
back of a spade or a piece of board. Rake over
the surface again, sow seed and give a light top-
dressing to cover seed from birds. (2) In
sandy areas buffalo grass should be grown.
Place small sections of runners in rows 6m.
apart and 3in. between and water regularly.
This type grows rapidly, but will need con-
tinual topdressing and pinning down of the
runners in the early stages. Couch lawns do
best in heavy soils where the roots can sink
down and find cool strata. Pieces of couch
grass set 2in. apart will take root, or sow seed
Uoz. to the square yard. Kentucky Blue,
Chewing’s Fescue and any of the Bent grasses
can also be raised from broadcast seed. Sow
seed in fine weather and water freely. Get on
with the work in January and the grass will be
well rooted and strong before winter sets in.
* * * •
Have heard bamboo spoken of as a par-
ticularly useful plant. Is it difficult to grow ?
(2) Any directions for using it? —3237.
Bamboo is easily planted, grows rapidly up
to 30ft. or 40ft. and requires no particular
attention beyond strutting the outline of the
plantation (it can be done by horizontal sap-
lings upon props) to keep the outside bamboos
vertical; the inside growth then looks after
itself. (2) It makes home-grown water-pipes
which must be the cheapest in the world. They
will carry high pressure, can be buried or
exposed upon the surface, and will in either
case last for years. When the bamboo is
first cut the diaphragms at the joints are
bumped out by a metal disc on the end of a
long iron rod; juncture of the bamboos in a
line of pipes requires no skill whatever.
Bamboos of the same age from the same plan-
tation are practically of one diameter where
cut at the same height from the ground. All
that is necessary is to auger a hole of similar
diameter through a billet of wood of any shape,
insert the end of one bamboo in the hole, drive
the billet upon it and then drive the other
bamboo into the other end of the hole. Slight
divergence in diameter of the ends of two
bamboos, which occasionally occurs, can be
quickly put right with a spokeshave. This
must be done when the bamboo is green; when
it has dried out shaving down is a difficult
matter for anyone but an expert. The auger
holes can be bored straight through the con-
necting billet or at widely divergent angles, say
to carry the pipes over a rise. Several branches
can be led off from the same billet so long as
the holes communicate with the main pipe.
A bamboo about 4in. in diameter when split
lengthwise through the middle and the dia-
phragms removed makes effective guttering for
outbuildings, and, with the diaphragms left in,
excellent water troughs for fowls, etc. Water
dippers, bailers and feed measures are easily
made by sawing off a section below two joints,
the lower joint forming a watertight bottom.
Feed-racks, fence-frames for poultry yards and
windbreaks are easily made. And thin bam-
boos make as good a handle as could be
wished for rakes, brooms and suchlike.
* * * lie
When and where was the first cricket Test
match for the “Ashes” played, and the result?
—3196.
It was the ninth Test match between Eng-
land and Australia, played at the Oval (Eng.)
on August 29, 1882, and gave Australia the first
Test victory in England by seven runs. Eng-
land scored 101 and 77; Australia, 63 and 122.
The captains were A. N. Hornby (Eng.) and
W. L. Murdoch (Australia). In this match
“Demon” Spofforth got the remarkable bowl-
ing figures of 7 for 46 and 7 for 44; and H.
Massie’s 58 was the highest score of the match.
* * * »
How can I get rid of bandicoots which are
destroying a garden ? —3200.
Bandicoots are protected animals, and de-
struction is not permissible. A netting or paling
fence, projecting about 9in. into the soil, affords
adequate protection against these animals.
Brief Answers.
M.L.8.: Meerschaum is used in Spain some-
times for building purposes, but its chief use
remains in making pipe bowls. It is a white
or yellow-white earthy mineral, a silicate of
magnesium allied with water, and is found in
Asia Minor, Greece and elsewhere H.G.L.:
Difficult to find any standard of comparison.
The opposing forces at the battle of Trafalgar
were Nelson’s British fleet of 27 vessels and a
combined Spanish and French fleet under the
command of Villeneuve comprising 18 French
and 15 Spanish men-o’-war. The British de-
stroyed, captured or sank 19 of the enemy
ships D.F.V.: Articles by both Westbrook
Pegler and Raymond Clapper appear in the
New York “World-Telegram” W.R.J.: The
Pegasus of classical mythology was the winged
horse which sprang from the blood of Medusa
after Perseus had cut off her head. He was
given to Bellerophon to conquer the Chimera,
and after the task was completed Bellerophon
wanted to scale the heavens on the back of
Pegasus, but the animal threw him, flew up
to Olympus alone, and was placed among the
constellations by Jupiter 8.G.P.: One
method of achieving that effect is by a process
known as Crystoleum. It consists of squeez-
ing a silver print in optical contact with
a piece of glass, rendering it transparent,
and applying paint or other colors to the
details of the picture—the colors are applied
to the back and show through the transparent
photograph. Then color is applied to a
second piece of glass which is bound up with
the first. When viewed from the front the
effect, if the painting has been well done, is
that of a photograph in full color G.G.:
Typewriter ribbons cannot be re-inked by any
means at the disposal of the amateur
G.M.8.: Pour a little pure turpentine (not
synthetic) into each tin of shoe polish, put on
lid, leave overnight, then work up with a
spoon till soft T.C.E.: The date of the
flood or deluge mentioned in the Bible is sup-
posed to have been about 4000 b.c. This
date has been fixed by unearthing remains in
alluvial deposits, including stranded fish, near
Kish, showing that the sea swept in over the
plains of Mesopotamia. Kish was founded
after the flood. According to estimates based
on Old Testament description, Noah’s Ark was
a 20,000-ton ship T.N.K.: By no means
true. Mexico has a plentiful mineral produc-
tion, chiefly silver, of which it accounts for 40
per cent, of the world’s output. Among the
other minerals are gold, copper, lead, zinc,
antimony, mercury, arsenic, amorphous
graphite, molybdenum, coal and opal. Petro-
leum production is huge... .1.P.F.: Cannot
recommend gift-books. The choice requires
a knowledge of the age, taste and interests
of the intended recipient... .G.C.S.: Set snares
for grubs that are eating off the cabbages. Fix
slices of apple, potato or turnip on the ends of
slender sticks and sink them a couple of inches
in the bed. The grubs will attach themselves
to the juicy morsels and may be brought up
for massacre in the morning... .T.R.E.: The
“Australian Museum Magazine” is published
quarterly by the trustees of the Australian
Museum, College-street, Sydney. Subscription
is 4s. 4d., including postage F.N.D.: You
should be able to pick up an occasional flat-
head in that sort of locality A.8.W.: Hi ere
are some elaborate preparations for the purpose,
but nothing more effective than scrubbing with
soap and water F.0.V.: To clean the bags,
soak them in limewater. Sulphuric acid will
combine with the lime to form sulphate of lime
or gypsum, which is harmless to the bags and
almost insoluble. A wash afterwards in clean
water should remove the gypsum and leave the
bags suitable for most purposes A.G.M.:
If the block of metal cannot be conveniently
turned over after drilling the holes the best
way to extract the chips is by a magnet. Get
a screw smaller than the hole and allow it to
cling to the magnet; it will explore the hole
and clear up all the chips J.K.F.: Yes,
kangaroo greenhide is easily prepared, and it
is useful for many purposes for which cowhide
is too heavy. Roll the skin into a tight bundle
and bury it in sand. In a couple of days the
hair will scrape off easily. Then peg out and
brush over now and again with vinegar, using
about a pint altogether. Afterwards hang the
hide in a shed for two or three months before
using.
Answers to Correspondents
No nolice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused: —
G.D.: —
Cut the cackle, ye orators 1
The scratching has begun.
Sharpen your wits as well as your claws
And level up your gun.
. ...S.B.H.: Do you really wear the Union
Jack? E.T.: Just a bubble
Dream fairies riding upon moonbeams!
Shoo C.D.S.: Is it possible that the milk-
man was the Muse? Neither seems to have
called C.R.C.: “Ah, bring back the sound
of the ocean’s might!” Honestly, we haven’t
got it....N.N.: Still like it in spots
C. : That bird has no tail feathers
F.H.P.: Merely moralising; and the criminal
population does not spend its time climbing
trees B.L.: Keep at it L.P.: “The
Desert” has moments; but its bosom is
preposterous H.W.H.: Thanks, but we
don’t reprint.. . .R.H.R.: Aeroplanes do not
have “wanton thoughts” R.A.A.: We’re
not in the market for plays B.J.M.: Dull.
. ...A.K.T.: Too far away for us S.H.B.:
Futile... .B.M-: Don’t doubt your uncle
“deserves at least some remembrance,” but
he won’t get it here R.T.M.: Try it on
a daily DJ.R.: You, too A.C.C. (Fiji):
Not here... .W.R.R.: An idea, but you don’t
make the most of it K.E.G.: Nice to be re-
assured that Providence will eventually destroy
all our enemies with tidal waves and institute
a reign of everlasting peace.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.T.: Misshapen wretch hanging by hair
from the ceiling isn’t saying anything funny,
and the gag doesn’t mention his predicament.
J.L.K.: Those heavy down strokes are
developing your biceps more than your art
D. : Vile effort perpetrated on what looks like
blackout paper D.B.N.: Stiff and graceless.
G.V.: Get your posing as free as your
linework and there’s hope for you... .W.F.M.:
Scrap all your pre-Boer War ideas. The 1941
cocky starts laughing when he sees a con.
man coming four street blocks away G.H.:
No dry brush stuff for you yet A.F.: We
admired the drawing of the gull in the middle
distance B.E.J.; The bank manager appears
to have beeen outfitted by a plumber
Bert C.: The two old salts look to have been
built out of belaying-pins and cordage D.G.:
Close season for obese drunks looking vainly
for dogs under their bay windows.


< r/n
\ I O ';
jr ./ I
/ < J ".3 K>V< f>s
/ JoSw+J A
n
r
imifrttfitfiti
wm
another EOAO
FOR SCHUTE SEIE
Each year, more wool is being consigned
to Schute Bell. An ever-increasing list
of satisfied clients is a certain indication
of the consistently high prices they obtain.
Strict attention to every detail in con-
nection with appraisements is the policy
of Directors. Send your next clip to
them for appraisement and prove what
they can do for YOU!
ire.
WOOL AND PRODUCE BROKERS
FAT 8C STUD STOCK AUCTIONEERS
STORE. STOCK AND PROPERTY
SALESMEN
1 BENT STREET. SY
Telegrams: Schute Bell, Sydney. Telephone:
DN E Y
BW 4341.
GUARANTEED
UNCONDITIONALLY
for 2 YEARS
HUM
■
ED
M
Mi
Introducing THE NEW-
CLYDE
MASTER lATTEBY
(Available in the New Year)
The Battery with the specially constructed Heavy-duty Plates, built by the
pioneers of Battery manufacture in Australia.
“MORE POWER TO YOU”
The new Clyde Master is built to meet petrol shortage conditions. It gives
an instant spark and quicker starting, saving your petrol allowance, giving
you more mileage. Install the new Clyde Master with confidence, and remem-
ber, that it is unconditionally guaranteed for efficient and long life by—
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING CO., LTD.,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
MAIN SALES AND SERVICE DIVISION,
61-65 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney. ’Phone; M 6738 (5 lines).
Branches at Brisbane, Melbourne and Adelaide.
CONTINUITY
“Success in breedingsaid the WoolgroiCer , demands
continual effort towards a definite objective—in my case
the most profitable merino. I find the continual introduction
of good sires from a reputed stud pays best, provided the
supply is assured. Like so many successful breeders I make
certain of a continual supply by getting my rams from
Falkiner and Sons the largest merino stud breeders in
the world.
BOONOKE
and
WANGANELLA ESTATE
Merino Rams for Continual Improvement.
F. S. FALKINER & SONS PTY., LTD.,
Boonoke, Boonoke North,
Conargo, N.S.W. ’Phone Urana 15. Widgiewa, N.S.W.
Your Name
on a Cheque ...
TO you, the possession
of a cheque account
means a more convenient,
simpler, safer and more ac-
curate method of conduct-
ing your financial affairs,
both business and private.
Always pay by cheque, and
make your cheque butt a
ready record of your ex-
penses. To others your
business associates and
friends your name on a
cheque gives you a certain
status, it indicates method
and qualities which make
for prestige.
The cheque account ser-
vice of the Rural Bank is
available to any reputable
member of the general pub-
lic, irrespective of occupa-
tion. At the Rural Bank,
efficiency is coloured with a
friendliness which lifts your
banking business above
routine.
Interest - bearing fixed
deposits are also accepted.
Use the Bank’s Service Department to
obtain general information and statistics.
Rest and writing facilities are provided for
country visitors. The Service Department
is situated on the Ground Floor of the
Head Office Building.
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Commissioners:
C. R. McKERIHAN (President) —H. ROGERS —P. KEARNS
“Serving You .... Serving the State”


OUT OF THE
PAST
The Very First A.I.F.
IT is six years over the half-century
since Australia first sent a body of
troops to Britain’s assistance. Although
many Australians maintained that the
dispatch of a contingent of 700 men to
the Sudan was silly and unnecessary, it
is a fact that the A.I.F. had its origin
in W. B. Dailey’s offer of soldiers to
assist in the maintenance of British in-
terests overseas. The real difference be-
tween the raising of the N.S.W. forces
in the mid-’eighties and those enlisted
throughout the Commonwealth for the
two German wars is that the first was
a gesture of goodwill; the other under-
takings were forced on Australia by the
stern necessity of self-preservation.
When Dailey made his offer of troops
J. A. Froude had just arrived in Sydney.
In Oceana, the book recording his Aus-
tralasian travels, he discusses the subject
as he heard it discussed when it was
the single topic of the hour.
“The club reading-room after break-
fast was full of gentlemen in eager and
anxious conversation on the auxiliary
force. Was it right to have made the
offer, and would the offer be accepted?
The prevailing tone was of hope and
warm approval. New South Wales had
been accused of coldness to the Aus-
tralian federation scheme, and of in-
difference to the German aggression in
New Guinea. The true heart of the
colony had now an opportunity of show-
ing what it really was. If the proposal
was coldly refused, as some thought it
would be, then, indeed, it would be a
fresh instance of the indifference with
which the colonies were regarded. It
would be a sign that the Separatist
policy was to be persevered in at home,
and an impulse would be given to the
Separatist policy in their own country
to which, in that case, they might have
reluctantly to yield. But they hoped
better things. The people of England
would not cast away a hand so freely
held out to them. It might draw the
nation together instead of dividing it,
and prove a turning point in the relations
between the colonies and the mother
country.”
And then he points out what the Very
First A.I.F. really did mean to the
British Empire. A day or so later word
came from Downing-street that the offer
of troops had been welcomed with tre-
mendous appreciation in Great Britain,
and Australian enthusiasm knew no
bounds.
“To be allowed to share in the perils
and glories of the battlefield, as part
of a British Army, was regarded at once
as a distinction of which Australia might
be proud, and as a guarantee of their
future position as British subjects. The
help which they were now giving might
be slight, but Australia in a few years
would number ten millions of men, and
this small body was an earnest of what
they might do hereafter. If ever Eng-
land herself was threatened they would
risk life, fortune —all they had—as will-
ingly as they were sending their present
contingent.”
A prophecy that came true.
Woollooma
IN the tumbled ranges of the Upper
Hunter River (N.S.W.) there are
many high peaks and quite respectable
hills. It is a rough country with a
jagged skyline, and much of it may be
fallen “off” rather than “down.”
Great indigo humps of mountains that
look like the backs of sleeping camels
or elephants stand out against the orange
of the dawn. Sharply-cut pinnacles, with
uniform curves of slope, pierce the blue
sky in the glare of noontide. Under the
glittering stars long black ramparts wall
the wide glens and the narrow.
It is a land of climbing and descending,
of great rises and little rises, broad
valleys and steep-sided ravines, and a
thousand patterns of the excrescences
upon the skin of this whirling globe.
Mount Murulla, Tinagroo, Mount
Dangar, Mount Royal — you may see
each of them from the summit of each
—are mighty and stately guardians of the
landscape, standing like big blue police-
men in the crowded mob of mountains.
But there is none of them so big, so
stately, and so massively dignified as the
mighty mound of Woollooma, looming
magnificently over the lovely valley in
which lies the century-old estate of
Bell trees.
In the second decade of the last cen-
tury—not very long after the pioneers
from the Hawkesbury had descended
from the top of the divide between that
river and the valley of the Hunter on
to Patrick’s Plains, in the midst of which
the town of Singleton commemorates the
name of one of them—Belltrees was taken
up by a man named Sempill, or Semple.
In turn it passed from him into the pos-
session of William Charles Wentworth,
and, not very long after the early Vic-
torian era, into the hands of that division
of the numerous White clan which holds
it now.
Perhaps there is no better view to be
had of Woollooma than from the head
station at Belltrees. Five miles away, in
a more or less easterly direction, its high
mass towers solidly into the sky. It is
a flat-topped hop, something like Table
Mountain, behind Capetown, and a sheer
precipice near the summit gives it, also,
some resemblance to Mount Wellington
in Tasmania.
Looking at it from Belltrees, you are
just far enough away to get its true
perspective, but unless you stand upon
another of the heights of the surround-
ing ranges—say, on Mount Murulla,
25 miles away at Wingen—you will not
be best able to realise its relative size
in comparison with its brother mountains
of New South Wales. The top of
Murulla is 4171 feet above sea level,
and Woollooma is about 1000 feet higher.
But it is a bigger mountain than Murulla,
irrespective of height, because it has a
broader base and a wider top. In every
way it is more massive.
On the southern end of the big
plateau on the top of the mountain occurs
a curious and interesting botanical
feature. A forest of tall stringybark trees
grows near the edge of the wide flat, and
it is of a sort that is found only in one
other place in New South Wales —down
on the Monaro tableland. They are
Tasmanian stringybarks—tall and noble
trees that overtop the local specimens of
their kind by scores of feet.
The reason for their being here is
probably that at this elevation they find
a climate resembling that of their own
southern country. For even on a hot
day, such as was the one when the writer
rode up there 20 years ago, the top of
Woollooma is as cool and fresh as you
will find the air in the valleys of the
Derwent and the Tamar. Excepting
Kosciusko and one or two of his mates
there are no higher mountains in the
State than the big fellow who stands
guard over Belltrees.
Everybody in the Upper Hunter dis-
trict takes a pride in the great mountain.
Most people can pick it out, as it looms
above its fellows, from any point from
which it is visible. It cannot be said
to be neglected by those who live close
beside it, although many of them may
never have climbed to the summit and
enjoyed the splendid prospect it is pos-
sible to behold therefrom. It has all
the local honor that it could desire if
it were sentient. And for proof of this
witness the seal of the Shire of the Upper
Hunter, which is nothing more nor less
than a portrait of Mount Woollooma.
If that is not local fame, it would be
difficult to say what is.
Sydney in I860
NOT long ago in a second-hand
bookshop I acquired for a. shilling
a 31b. volume entitled A Glance
at Australia in 1880. It is prin-
cipally remarkable for the fact that it
contains no reference to the Kelly gang,
but, as it was published in Melbourne,
maybe this is natural enough.
Whilst mainly concerned with Victoria,
the book is by no means unfair to
N.S.W. —the two provinces were not too
sisterly in those days—and certainly does
the Sydney of the period generous justice.
The contributor who deals with Sydney
is described by the editor as one “who
combines a quick perception of the
beauties of nature with the skill of a
master of word-painting,” and it is not
difficult for anyone with a knowledge of
the once famous “Vagabond Papers” to
assign the remarks to the late Julian
Thomas, then at the height of his renown
in the columns of the “Argus.”
At the census taken in 1881 the popu-
lation of Sydney was found to be 227,166,
whilst Melbourne’s was 282,000. Vic-
torians regarded the mother colony as
somewhat decadent and effete and con-
sidered their own corner of the continent
as being a long away the most important
and habitable. Nevertheless, Sydney
Harbor had this said about it: “Its
beauty grows upon you ; for you find
that it has that quality which Anthony
attributed to Cleopatra’s beauty —‘Age
cannot wither, nor custom stale its infinite
variety.’ Nature, indeed, possesses the
precious gift of eternal youth, and no-
where has she exhibited her ‘infinite
variety’ with more lavish prodigality than
in this favored spot of earth, with the
climate of Sicily, and with more than
the beauty of the Bay of Naples, or the
shores of Amalfi and Sorrento.”
Which is very handsome, coming from
a citizen of Melbourne, whoever he was.
Then he tells us about Sydney.
“Of the city itself, the impression pro-
duced upon a visitor fresh from the rec-
tangular formality of a younger capital
in a neighboring colony is that it is
uncolonial, and free from the dreadful
newness and the garish rawness which
characterises most Australian centres of
population. It reminds you, in fact, of
an English city, or rather of many such.
It is like a bit of Bristol and Clifton,
of Bath, Exeter and Southampton, with
here and there a reminiscence of Genoa
and Spezzia, welded together into one
harmonious whole under the most pic-
turesque conditions ; and interspersed with
spaces of luxurious greenery, to say
nothing of leafy avenues, into which the
eye can plunge for the sweet solace of
umbrageous shadow, with the certainty
of finding it, while there are, in the
gardens and shrubberies, a loveliness of
color, a diversity of plant structure and
a redundance of leaf and flower which
convince you of what the botanical taste
and skill of three generations of colonists
have accomplished in seconding the
bounty of the ‘boon mother.’
“As compared with those of Mel-
bourne, a city 50 years its junior, the
principal streets of Sydney are narrow,
because it was originally laid out by
English surveyors, without any forecast,
in all probability, that in less than a
century a quarter of a million inhabi-
tants would be congregated on the shores
of Sydney Harbor. And we are not at
all sure that, for the comfort of the
inhabitants, and leaving out of sight such
thoughts as convenience of traffic and
architectural effects, narrow thorough-
fares are unsuitable to a warm and bril-
liant climate. In high latitudes you want
as much as possible of the sun at all
periods of the year, but in Australia,
where it may be said of that luminary
that it is ‘unchangingly bright’ you
need shadow, and are glad to escape
from the dazzling glare of an almost
vertical sun, and refresh your eyes with
the half-light lying at the bottom of a
narrow street flanked by lofty ware-
houses, offices or shops.”
The book doesn’t mention the newly-
established Bulletin, but it is not the
sort of book that would have done so.
It is nothing if not solemnly respectable,
which was not the strongest point of this
paper in 1880.
James Hardy Vaux
BETWEEN the arrival of the First
Fleet in 1788 and the abolition of
all transportation to this country
in 1868 thousands of men and
women were sent to these shores in bond-
age. The greater number of them were
quite inarticulate, and lived and died as
mere insignificant and unremarkable
ciphers in the stories of a series of penal
colonies. It was not so, however, in the
case of Mr. James Hardy Vaux, rogue,
thief and liar and ornament of the curi-
our Georgian underworld which Charles
Dickens describes so graphically.
Mr. J, H. Vaux wrote a book of
Memoirs which, though so rare nowadays
as only to be available for most readers
in libraries of Australiana, has such
value as a picturesque historical record
and fascinating human document as to
have induced Judge Barron Field to
sponsor its publication, even though he
remarks of it in his introduction: “As
for the truth of the following tale, no-
body can vouch for it Of him who
confesses himself a liar the voice must
necessarily be listened to with distrust.”
But the fact remains that Vaux’s book
is the only one left behind by a real
“Botany Bay” felon that has stood the
test of time, and it is as readable to-day
as when it was written at Newcastle
(N.S.W.) about 1815.
Born in Surrey in 1782, Vaux was
the eldest son of a retired butler, and
must have been a pretty precocious lad.
He tells us that at the age of 12 he
knew the Studbook by heart, and that
when he was 14 he became so keen on
cockfighting that he had to take to em-
bezzlement in order to discharge his
gambling debts. By the time he was 15
he had invented several ingenious schemes
for defrauding his landladies and obtain-
ing goods under false pretences; and in
the next two years had been in succession
a midshipman and paymaster’s clerk in
the Royal Navy, had indulged in a little
billiard sharping, and had had a job with
a country attorney. From this last em-
ployment he departed suddenly for Lon-
don with some of his employer’s prop-
erty and a stolen gold watch. There he
joined a gang of pickpockets, had a varied
career of minor criminality, and was at
last transported to Sydney for stealing a
handkerchief. Seven years was the sen-
tence.
His “gift o’ the gab” and a good
address almost at once obtained for him
an excellent billet as clerk to the Gov-
ernment storekeeper at the Hawkesbury,
and eventually led to his being employed
in the Commissary-Generars office at
headquarters. But here he showed the
cloven hoof, and, having been detected
in forging Governor King’s initials on
orders for goods—which he sold to Syd-
ney shopkeepers—was sent to the gaol-
gang at Castle Hill, where he was set to
quite uncongenial roadmakjing. This
didn’t last long, for he presently con-
trived to get himself appointed confiden-
tial clerk to the Rev. Samuel Marsden, who
valued his services so much as to recom-
mend him to the Governor (King) on
the latter’s departure for home in 1807.
King took him to England aboard H.M.S.
Buffalo as his clerk, granting him a free
pardon (his sentence was nearly at an
end) soon after the voyage began. How-
ever, he managed to get into the captain’s
bad graces, being disrated as clerk and
entered in the ship’s books as an able
seaman. The chance of being transferred
to some other warship when the Buffalo
should arrive in England did not appeal
to Mr. Vaux, so he deserted at Ports-
mouth, got to London and again took to
his old games.
But this period of repatriation didn’t
last long, though he did remarkably well
whilst he enjoyed his freedom. Hardly
twelve months after his return, by a most
audacious series of frauds, he robbed a
jeweller, was “shelved” by a pawnbroker
to whom he had tried to dispose of some
of the plunder, and was arrested, tried
and sentenced to death. But his luck
held, and a technical irregularity in his
trial procured him a reprieve. After a
miserable year in a Thames prison-hulk
he was again transported “for the term
of his natural life,” and arrived in. Port
Jackson at the end of 1810.
Governor Macquarie knew all about
Mr. Vaux, and sent him to a poor sort
of job with a hard master at the Hawkes-
bury. By shamming sick he got back to
hospital in Sydney, and made such good
use of his gifts that he was appointed
assistant overseer to a gaol gang. But
he became mixed up in a conspiracy to
rob Judge-Advocate Ellis Bent, and
was sent to the Coal River (Newcastle,
N.S.W.). He got back to Sydney at the
beginning of 1814, was caught in trying
to stow away in a departing ship, flogged
and sent back to hard labor in the coal-
pits. Nothing, however, could keep Mr.
Vaux down, and he became after a while
clerk to the Commandant. It was during
this period that he compiled his Memoirs.
He was 33 years old when he finished
that job, but his adventures were far
from finished. By good conduct he
obtained a ticket-of-leave, and sub-
sequently a clerical appointment in the
Colonial Secretary’s Office, from which
in 1826 he was dismissed by Governor
Darling on the ground that a man who
had been twice transported shouldn’t be
in the civil service. Three years after-
wards he absconded from the colony—
thus cancelling his conditional pardon—
and got to Dublin under a false name.
There he was eventually convicted of
larceny, and was sent to Sydney again
under a seven years’ sentence of trans-
portation.
In Therry’s Reminiscences there is a
reference to Vaux’s third voyage to Aus-
tralia : “I went on board to see this
somewhat remarkable person. One
who has seen a good portrait of
Robespierre might imagine that he
had an impersonation of the regicide
before him. Like the regicide, too, his
address was very courteous, and his voice
one of a remarkably soft and insinuating
tone. In a conversation I had with him
he expressed a deep contrition for his
past life, vowed amendment, and moved
one to pity for his fate by the silvery
accents in which he poured forth his
gratitude for the mercy that had been
shown him, and expressed a hope that
by his future conduct he might prove
that it had not been unworthily bestowed.
Within a twelvemonth he had com-
mitted a felony, for which he was sent
to work for two years in irons on the
public roads. The last time I saw him
was in the dock about ten years ago
accused of a fresh crime. He was then
advanced into the decrepitude of age,”
That would have been about 1850, and
it is the last we hear of Mr. James Hardy
Vaux. However, his excellent book re-
mains, and his ghost must have been
delighted when The Australian Encyclo-
pcedia devoted half a page to his bio-
graphy. Scores of Australian authors
haven’t achieved as much as that.


ST. PATRICK’S COLLEGE
BOARDING AND DAY SCHOOL FOR BOYS
ESTABLISHED 1874.
Full registration under Bursary Endowment Act.
Approximately three and a half hours from Sydney by oar or train, this college
is beautifully situated 2355 feet above sea-level, overlooking the town of Goulburn.
VIEW OF ST. PATRICK’S COLLEGE SHOWING NEW TENNIS COURTS.
Fifty Acres of Playing Fields, Coaching in Athletics, Cricket, Tennis, football.
Swimming, Boxing.
EXAMINATION RESULTS, - 1930-10.
TOTAL VALUE OF THE ABOVE, £5200.
Boys prepared for all branches of professional and commercial life.
Needs of country boys given consideration.
Wool-classing, Farm Mechanics, Book-keeping and all commercial subjects taught.
Juniors are eared for by a Matron and Trained Nurse.
Record Enrolment for 1941, 265; 180 Boarders drawn from all parts of the State.
’PHONE: GOULBURN 74. For Prospectus apply; THE PRESIDENT.
GOULBURN, N.S.W.
CONDUCTED BY THE CHRISTIAN BROTHERS.
4 ■ ■: i ' S " ...
1919 P
BSifil in
Leaving Certificate (Matriculation)
Intermediate Certificate
Public Service
University Bursaries
St. John’s College Scholarship .. .
University Exhibitions
Training College Scholarships...
Chamber of Commerce Gold Medals
154
388
42
9
1
14
15
17
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
“Disputes” and “Stoppages”
Labor Minister Ward, who rushed up
to Darwin “to organise labor and ensure
the utmost speed in the completion of
vital works,” returned to Sydney with
wonderful schemes under his hat. He said:
Eight hundred workers —carpenters, brick-
layers, wharf-workers and others —will have
to be attracted to Darwin for important
work. I believe they can be attracted if
they are offered good working conditions,
such as comfortable housing, good messing
the establishment of special machinery to
deal immediately with industrial disputes, an
eight-hour day without overtime, and con-
tracts to cover a period of employment.
Somebody should take Mr. Ward aside
and remind him that there is a war in
the Pacific and that Darwin is right in
the front line. It might then dawn upon
him that talk of “attracting” men to
Darwin with “good working conditions,”
“special machinery to deal with industrial
disputes” and such pleasant peace-time
notions is idle and worse, seeing that the
place may be in the front line of battle
at any time. It is a time for service,
though the pay and conditions should be
as good as can be reasonably provided
in a desperate emergency.
The soldiers defending Darwin —and
Australia —were not “attracted” there
with promises of “contracts” ; they were
taken there as matter of vital necessity,
and, although it is the last thing likely
to happen, any talk of disputes or stop-
pages among soldiers would meet with
very short shrift. That a Minister for
Labor should be allowed to go over the
heads of the military authorities in what
is virtually a garrison town and promise
“some form of arbitration machinery so
that industrial disputes can be dealt with
immediately and stoppages reduced to a
minimum” seems incredible. That he
should even entertain the idea of “indus- .
trial disputes” and “stoppages” is in-
credible.
The Government of which Mr. Ward
is a Minister is conscripting men for the
defence of Australia. If “the completion
of vital works” at a place like Darwin
isn’t part of that defence heaven knows
what is,
“Norther”: Brisbane was the first Aus-
tralian city to hold a full A.R.P. test in
face of the Japanese threat. About 7000
A.R.P. volunteers manned posts and dealt
with “damage, fire and casualties.” In
theory oil tanks, wharves, railway yards
and factories suffered heavily, two Queen-
street stores were wiped out, Indooroo-
pilly bridge was wrecked, the Treasury
was partly destroyed and water and other
services were interrupted. Everything
worked pretty well, though some en-
thusiasts complained of the poor supply
of “casualties,” evidently on the assump-
tion that heaps of bandages are no good
unless there’s someone to bandage. The
“heads” in control expressed satisfaction
all round, and the city went on with its
Christmas shopping.
* * * *
“Macker”: You never know what
changes a war will bring. Settlers around
Eungella, out from Mackay, often cursed
the corkwood tree as a confounded pest.
Now it is worth having on the place,
since it contains hyoscine, the basis of
a sedative drug used for treating bomb-
and shellshock.
* * * *
“23-4”; Major David Wilson, son of
Queensland’s well-liked Governor, is
among the honored dead in Libya. He
graduated from Oxford with honors in
history and joined the Rifle Brigade as
a lieutenant. From his station at Meerut,
he accompanied the Indian troops that
moved into North Africa. A good horse-
man and athlete who detested city life,
he visited Queensland in 1935 and again
in 1938, when he made an extensive tour
of the north with his father. He was 28.
* * * *
“Poi-poi”: Hudson Fysh, boss of
Qantas, blew into Townsville from Singa-
pore just before Christmas, as unruffled
as ever. He came on one of his own
flying-boats, announced he had met with
no interference, and said the Townsville-
Singapore-Karachi service would be
maintained. He predicts an increase in
trade with Timor as a result of the new
war, saying that Timor previously got
most of its stuff from Lisbon and Macas-
sar, and that Dilli grows some of the best
coffee in the world. Coming down to
Sydney, Fysh scornfully advised writing
boys and other squealers to cultivate the
phlegm prevailing in bombed Singapore.
“Balander”: In a little Queensland
town west of Winton the storekeeper was
observed after dark, armed with a cloth-
yard measure, a slide-rule, a theodolite
and a sextant, performing mysterious
rites, “That feller,” said the locals sagely,
“is up t’ no good.” Somebody warned
the trooper that a spy or fifth columnist
was at work, and the trooper descended
on the storekeeper. The latter handed
“Will you take this —er —admiral for your lawful wife ?”
over his instruments and a document,
ordering a “brown out” of the entire
State, in which this passage was under-
lined: —
There may be lighting where there is an
awning for the full length of the shop,
display window, lights or lighting, the
light intensity of which, measured in the
vertical plane at any point 4ft. above the
footpath and 12ft. from the shop window,
does not exceed one foot candle. Where
no awning exists lighting is allowed pro-
vided that the lighting intensity, measured
in the vertical plane at any point 4ft. above
the footpath and 2ft. from the window,
does not exceed one foot candle.
Trooper and storekeeper looked at each
other and without a word made for the
pub. Don’t believe it? Get a copy of
the regulations.
* * * *
“Karelia”: Darwin has an old bill-
poster who is a student of psychology.
I watched him paste a notice upside
down. Having given it a final slap with
his brush, he walked over and talked.
“They think old George lose his wits,
eh?” he said challengingly. “Old George
know. He paste notice upside down ;
man say ‘George silly old idiot; no more
know anything.’ Then man go over, read
notice, then tell mate: ‘You come here,
see what silly George do ; he put notice
upside down.’ His mate go over, read
notice, then he tell his mate. Suppose
I put notice up straight right way, no-
body look then, notice no good. Sup-
pose him crooked, everyone want to
look-see what it is; everybody read it,
then bring his mate to read it, too.” And
George went otf to continue his inverted
billposting.
* * * *
“Balander”: The baby-switching case
at Mt. Isa hospital—the girl babies of
two inmates were changed and the change
was not noticed for over a year —had a
sequel in the Townsville court, when
both sets of parents sued the hospital
board for £l5OO damages. Summing up
in the case heard first, Justice Douglas
said that damages could not be allowed
for mental agony or stress of mind if no
actual physical harm was suffered ; and
he pointed out that the mother had
visited the doctor ten times since the
incident, but only in search of a remedy
for increasing weight. The jury found
that an exchange had been made, that
it was due to negligence by an employee
or employees of the hospital board, that
the infants were restored to their rightful
parents 15 months later, that the mother
in question suffered mental anguish both
before and after the restoration, and that
she was entitled to £2OO and the father
to £72 damages. However, the Judge
nonsuited the plaintiffs on a submission
that the board was not responsible, the
switching having occurred before it was
constituted. Costs against plaintiffs.
Hearing of the other claim was adjourned
until 1942.
* * * *
“23-4”: G. Gootch, the Thargomindah
man whom Minister Bulcock appointed
caretaker of the local bunyip, seems to
be a capable sort of cove. He is chair-
man of the shire council, is acting as clerk
—the official clerk is ill —and is like-
wise coroner, president and secretary of the
hospital and the patriotic fund, district
rep. of the United Graziers and promoter
of farewells to enlisted men. In his spare
time he runs a big station. Thargo-
mindah itself was the second Australian
and first Queensland town to install elec-
tricity, power being got from an artesian
bore. A couple of proud parents there
named a son Thargo and a daughter
Mindah.
* * * *
“Poi-poi”: A fragment of the war at
sea was picked up by a couple of North
Queensland fishermen. It was a horizon-
tally-striped black, red and white flag
attached to a 25ft. pole. The colors are
those of Germany, but the stripes, un-
less the published description is a bit
mixed, are out of place.
* * * *
“Yelas”: Two jumbuck barbers, asleep
in a hut on Oban CN.Q.), awoke to a
howling roar and found themselves
and the hut hurtling through the night.
Then the hut hit the ground and they
rushed outside just before it collapsed. It
had been carried 200 yards in a tornado
that levelled all the station outbuildings,
swept a path a mile wide through the
locality, killed some sheep and generally
caused £2OOO-worth of
damage.
$ f
“W.K.D.”: The Aus-
tralian-Soviet Friend-
ship League, which
demanded a ban upon
The Bulletin, acted
not without precedent.
Fifty years ago the
attention of the
Queensland Legisla-
tive Assembly was
called to the deplor-
able tone of the red-
jacketed journal with
a suggestion that the
Parliamentary Library
should no longer take
it in. Immediate cause
of the rumpus was a
par. published in an-
other newspaper—“lt
is rumored that the
Premier (Mcllwraith)
is dead; but this
seems too good to be
true.” Though The
Bulletin said no-
thing like that it was
suspected of not feel-
ing adequately respect-
ful towards the chief
Minister of the Crown.
♦ *
“Dick Tafone”: Being a Brisbane
alderman is no easy job. L. W. Green,
who won Ithaca for Labor at the last
municipal election, joined the A.I.F. He
writes from overseas that he is still get-
ting requests for corporation jobs and,
worse still, that some of his constituents
have also joined up and are tackling him
on the spot about Ithaca grievances.
Transfer to the submarine service would
appear to be his only way of getting relief.


FOR BETTER RESULTS—ADD TRI-CAL-OS TO DRY
SEASON RATIONS.
TRI-CAL-OS BONE FLOUR supplies the
calcium and phosphorus lacking in the
poor coarse fodders and at the same time
enables stock to make the most of them.
Fri-cal-os is a pure bone product, without
admixture of any other substance; it con-
tains a guaranteed minimum of 33%
phosphoric acid and 40% lime. Feed
Tri-cal-os regularly.
All particulars from Davis Gelatine, G.P.O.
Box 35835, Sydney, N.S.W.; G.P.O. Box 4058,
Melbourne; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide;
G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
m
Wi
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
SYDNEY OFFICE —MANAGER: A. M. MURDOCH,
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON,
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Drought Feeding of Sheep.
“Huxave”; Feeding of sheep over dry
periods should be in three stages. First
when condition rapidly deteriorates
though a lot of standing grass, stubble
or roughage is still available. At this
stage sheep will regain condition if given
a relatively small supplement of lucerne
oi grain. If lucerne—assessing sheep-
weight at about 901 b.—give about 2.7
tons per 1000 sheep. If grain, about 3.6
tons per 1000.
In the second stage dry roughage is
so reduced that it will not maintain the
sheep. They are then practically depen-
dent on hand-feeding. Make it three
tons of lucerne and 3.6 tons of grain per
1000 sheep.
In the third stage sheep are
entirely dependent on hand-feeding.
Then the most economical ration is
a mixture of lucerne and grain, lucerne
at 13.5 tons and grain 7.5 tons per 1000
sheep. This high percentage of lucerne
assures sufficient protein for wool-growth.
Total ration of both fodders may need
to be increased in very cold weather.
If cost of lucerne is 20 p.c. more than
grain, it will pay to substitute 1201 b. of
grain for 1001 b. of lucerne. A nourish-
ing ration is composed of four parts of
grain, four parts of lucerne and two parts
of molasses—4-4-2 mixture. Compound
it into nuts if possible.
Linseed cakes, cottonseed cakes, etc.,
are high-grade concentrates and are
valuable supplements for low-grade
roughage. E. W. Lines, Animal Nutrition
Laboratory (S.A.), recently pointed out
that a drought ration of two or more
fodders is often more valuable than one
of one type of fodder. Rams require
10 to 20 p.c. more fodder than ewes of
equal weight.
Seasons and Erosion.
“B. Cubbin”: E. C. Powell, a N.S.W.
Agricultural Department instructor, states
that the succession of dry seasons since
1936 in the central N.S.W. wheatbelt,
broken by the usual heavy rainstorms, has
accentuated the erosion problem con-
siderably. Dry conditions on this sort of
country, much of it cultivated and a
good portion lying fallow, give the wind
a great chance, and when heavy rain
comes on the loosened top soil washing
is inevitable. Powell says that last
summer’s heavy rains caused very severe
sheet erosion.
The primal cause is loss of surface
cover and the remedy must see to its re-
placement. Overstocking, extensive cul-
tivation, rabbits, grasshoppers, fire and
flood are all destroyers of cover, and each
of them has to be stopped as far as pos-
sible. Powell doesn’t mention it, but
there is also the attitude of some farmers
who take little notice of an incipient
gully, not realising that, once erosion
starts, it progresses with increasing
rapidity. Small bare patches here and
there in paddocks don’t look frightening,
but the sum total of their areas over a
stretch of, say, 100 square miles would
astonish most people. And anyone
familiar with the sort of country Powell
speaks of knows full well that the bare
patches are increasing in number and
size.
Re-covering stops the wind lifting the
soil in scurries of dust and stops water
washing it away. On the bare patches
a combine fitted with fine points or a
pasture-harrow, run over in late summer
or early autumn before the native trefoils
and grass seeds germinate, helps drifting
seed to hold, and where possible seed can
be introduced. The whole paddock
should be worked for a general improve-
ment, and a drop of super, in autumn is
a great help. After that, no stock should
be let on to it until it has a chance to set
itself.
Best time to do the work is after rain,
but not too early, or following rains may
scour the worked ground. Try to catch
it just before you think the seeds of
winter growths are about to strike.
One of the best rules is to mark out
certain parts of the grazing land each
year and let them go to seed.
Rice-growing in Australia.
“Isis” : It is sometimes asked why rice is
not grown in irrigation districts other than
the Murrumbidgee, Apart from the fact
“Dad insists on knowing if you can keep me in the style to which I've
been accustomed?"
that the M.I. Area has large tracts of
heavy clay land suitable for the growth
of the crop, it is the only irrigation
district in Australia where continuous
and adequate water supplies can be
assured.
About 3600 tons of water is used to
grow one ton of rice. There are 350 rice-
growers, each restricted to a maximum
crop of 80 acres, and last year 200 mil-
lion tons of water was supplied to area
growers for rice alone. Some of the
more porous soils use more than twice
the average amount of water, and more
than one irrigator last season used more
than a million tons of water on his rice
plot. Incidentally, the M.I.A. produces
the heaviest rice yields to the acre of
any country in the world, and this infant
industry has already won nearly
£5,000,000-worth of grain from the soil
and water.
Fertilising Pineapples.
“Mackay”: Fertilisers do most for
pineapples during the first three years,
and treated plots yield payable second
ratoon crops. In Hawaii they fertilise
the first crop heavily and don’t treat the
second. In Queensland fertiliser is now
rationed, and younger sections of the
plantations should get their supply before
the older. Conserving the ration thus
means the supply of ordinary 10-6-10
mixture will hold out to the third year
after planting.
Use the mixture containing muriate of
potash in the first 12 months. Give the
crop three applications, first three weeks
after planting, second in the autumn and
third in the following spring ; 401 b. to
501 b. per 1000 plants is sufficient. In
the second and third year give the 10-6-10
mixture which contains the sulphate of
potash, but in spring and autumn only.
In the Mary River valley, where soils
are of the rich potash type, fertiliser
mixtures should be replaced by sulphate
of ammonia. Cut the rate to 251 b. per
1000 plants and apply at the same periods
as 10-6-10 mixture, throwing in an extra
dose in January.
Unless placed at the bottom of furrows
prior to planting, meatworks manure is
not recommended as a substitute for in-
organic fertilisers, as the pineapple gets
its maximum nourishment in W'ater form.
A big contribution to the nitrogen
supply is the green manure crop grown
during the intercycle period. Pineapples
are gluttons for nitrogen. Plant legu-
minous crops only. Poona peas suit
southern Queensland. Gambler pea fixes
an even greater amount of nitrogen than
Poona, but must be planted in October
or November, Given good rains, the
N.Z. blue lupin does well in winter. Seed
of all leguminous crops should be inocu-
lated with nitrogen-fixing organism.
Tung Oil.
“Aleurites F.”; A. R. Penfold and
F. R. Morrison and S. Smith-White, of
Sydney Technological Museum, have
been looking into the prospects of tung-
oil production in N.S.W. The museum
has been interested in the tung since 1923,
when trees tested at Grafton and Wol-
longbar (North Coast), Pennant Hills,
Sydney Botanic Gardens and Ashfield
proved not only that the nuts could be
grown but also that the oil was equal in
quality to that from China.
In 1937 A. H. Woolcott’s grove of tung
at Bargo, on the southern highlands, was
examined, but it had suffered in an eight-
year drought, yields were low and it
didn’t look like a commercial proposi-
tion. But up at Coramba, on the North
Coast, C. J. Franks has a grove that
looks the goods. The museum men saw
it in 1940 and were struck by the uni-
formity of blossom and the robustness
and vigor of the trees. They inspected
it again in February this year and m
July.
The soil is clay loam, possibly basaltic-,
the top soil about 9in. deep and rich in
humus, the subsoil very deep. Paddock
A is protected by an embankment on
the east and gets drainage from calf and
pig pens. Paddock B is east of the em-
bankment and gets no drainage. The
trees in both are now eight years old
and run 170 to 180 to the acre ; their
closeness gave a good mulch and much
added humus from the heavy leaf-fall in
winter, self-protection against wind and
storm damage, and the growth was not
adversely affected.
The first crop was obtained in 1937,
a small yield. In 1938 Franks got 20301 b.
of fruit; in 1939, 54561 b.; in 1940, after
a late frost had affected setting on trees
possibly reacting to the previous high
yield, 28291 b., but this year the yield
jumped to 12,2911 b. This crop was de-
corticated to give 61451 b. of nuts, which
yielded 23001 b. of oil, which the officers
believe is a world record. This yield
came from \\ acres. Samples of the oil
proved up to standard requirements.
Yield and oil quality were better from
Paddock A than from B. In A practi-
cally every tree averaged over 1000 fruits.
In view of the shortage of tung oil the
investigators consider Franks’s success
extremely important, and further tests
are to be made on the general factors of
Paddock A.
Hints for the Farm.
“Scotty”: Working
sheep in summer de-
mands patience. Get them
to it early in the morn-
ing and late in the even-
ing, leaving them to rest
in the hottest hours. Re-
member, too, that a
sheep-dog will go till he
drops. If it’s very hot
and there’s a lot of dust
and the dog slows down
it’s simply because it’s
physically impossible for
him to keep up the pace.
If he ducks off to water
and has a good wallow
it isn’t because, like the
sheep, he’s trying to drive
you mad; it’s because
he’s got to have it to
keep going. If you’re
likely to be out in the
paddock all day a long
way from water, take
enough in the bag for
yourself and the dog. If
it’s burr country, have a
look at his feet now and
again, smoothing the tips of the fingers
over the paws and watching for the flinch.
Use commonsense with both dogs and
sheep in summer and you’ll get along
splendidly.
“Brecko”: “Off flavors” in milk dur-
ing summer bring about a heavy drop in
quality. Atmospheric temperatures in hot
months are identical to that of the milk
as it leaves the cow, making it easy for
bacteria to develop when milk is held
overnight for delivery. W.A. experts
recommend cooling of the milk immedi-
ately. Cans should be stood in water
deep enough to come well up the sides.
As cooling proceeds from the outside in-
wards, frequent stirring is necessary. Milk
should be separated warm to prevent
excessive fat loss. Then cool off the cream
by the method given for milk. Warm
and cool cream should not be mixed.
“Huxave”: The N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture has issued a warning regard-
ing phenothiazine for horses. Deaths
have occurred, and it would appear that,
under certain conditions, phenothiazine
may prove toxic. Horse-owners are ad-
vised not to use the drug until more
information is obtained.
“8.C.”: The N.S.W. Agricultural
Holdings Bill is mainly designed to con-
trol the conditions of share-farming in
dairy country. Basic principles are (1)
compensation to tenant for certain im-
provements and for increased value of
the farm resulting from a higher stan-
dard of farming than that required by


BLOWFLY
STRIKE
PREVENTION
Until recently there has been no treatment that
could be thoroughly relied upon to prevent
strike or re-strike. Now, the State’s leading
graziers and hundreds of smaller holders, too,
are finding the answer in Way-Bio strike pre-
ventive.
Way-Bio is the scientific treatment of many
different species of Eucalypts in a special plant
designed for the purpose, wherein the com-
pounding of their active principles has produced
the most positive of all strike preventives. You
can use Way-Bio to prevent strike or re-strike
and to save sheep already struck. It kills
maggots, heals raw patches without scald or
scab-formation, is non-poisonous, contains no
harsh mineral oils, and is harmless both to
sheep and fleece.
Way-Bio costs less than one penny per sheep
treated. That’s time and money saved, so order
Way-Bio from your regular wool-house or
station supplier, or write to the Manufacturers,
W. K. Burnside Pty., Ltd., Melbourne and
Sydney. Trial 1-gallon tins, 13/6.
ft
fc\-'
\*°
;v»°'
• . • •
kiw
II
■
I
Australian Radiotron Valves,
fitted In your set, Is your assurance
that replacements are available
when necessary.
fiIIDIOTROII VIILVtS
will give full tone realism to your radio
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD,,
73 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
“BILLABONG” Centrifugals
PUMP
WA
L
/
£
P
r-
o
V
I*l
WRITE
TO
THE MAKERS
JOHN DANKS S SON Pty. Ltd
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
AND AT 324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
TT
>5O
»!
lit
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte.
Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines).
Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
the contract; (2) compensation for dis-
turbance of tenancy except through
failure to comply with certain obliga-
tions ; (3) determination of rent to be
paid by tenant or reward to share-
farmer in a dispute, and (4) compensation
to landowner for harm through bad farm-
ing or wilful neglect.
“T. Mcßerk”: Conclusions reached
from a pig-feeding test at the Ruther-
glen (Vic.) Government farm. It is
not economical to fatten pigs on grain
alone when fair pasturage is available ;
self-fed grain and |-gal. of skim milk a
day is suitable from the weaner to the
porker stage ; when skim milk is scarce,
-}-gal. daily with self-fed wheat and two
p.c. of meat meal serves, though it is not
as good as the former ration ; without
skim milk, a daily allowance of jib. per
head of meat meal, linseed meal and
chaffed clover hay is good; it is not
economical to crush grain that is fed in
self-feeders.
“Huxave”: Grain sorghums tested on
marginal maize lands and in drier
N.S.W. under irrigation have proved
profitable. M.I.A. crops yielded up to 60
bushels and north-west crops 80 bushels
an acre. New, short-growing varieties
are hardier than tall types like Feterita.
The crops can be harvested with a wheat
header after minor adjustments. Sown
during Nov.-Dee., grain sorghums pro-
vide fodder during autumn and winter.
For storage sow earlier. Crops then thresh
out well when harvested by the header
and do not readily heat in bags. Kalo
and Wheatland Milo have so far given
best results. Other heavy yielders are
Texas Blackhull, Day Milo and Hogari,
“H.C.”: At Leeton (N.S.W.) a trial
area of asparagus was planted by William
Bowbrick in August, 1937. The variety
was Mary Washington ; crowns were got
from Bathurst experiment farm. The
plot was irrigated. In the first cutting
season, Sept.-Dee., 1938, 250 11b. bunches
were gathered and averaged 9d. a bunch.
The 1939 crop totalled 16241 b., 11671 b.
of which was bought by Leeton cannery
and the balance was sold locally. Gross
returns were equivalent to £237 6s. an
acre, expenses were £54 165., the net
return £lB2 10s. In 1940 gross returns
were £3lB 25., expenses £74 10s. and net
return £243 12s. an acre.
Outback Occasions.
No. 16.
OUR FIRST FLOCK.
Our father was very excited on the
occasion of buying our first sheep. It was
when wheat prices fell and there was a
lot of talk about something called diver-
sified farming or something and the
erosion. Our local agricultural bloke
called on Father one day and said he
ought to get into it because with wheat
the way it was he would lose his equity.
Father looked a bit worried, and that
night he asked our mother if she’d
noticed any difference in his equity, and
when Mother said she didn’t know what
he was talking about Father laughed and
said he was a bit with her and told our
brother to get the school dictionary and
look it up.
So Father went into town and saw the
agent and said he was in the market for
a line of sheep. The agent said he knew
of a good line of ewes and wethers,
about 860 head, that could be got for
12s. a head because the place they were
on was short of feed. Father said he
couldn’t manage that many but might
take about 400, so the agent drove him
out to the place, and in the end Father
bought 372, which he picked out himself,
mostly ewes, because Father had an idea
that wethers or steers were only fit for
dealers and no good to farmers.
Well, about three days later a cloud of
dust came down the road towards our
place, driven by a man in a sulky and
three dogs, and Father called us and said
“Here comes our equity.” Father said
that our brother would have to hold the
gate because Father wanted to count the
sheep. I had to get a stick and a knife
and stand near Father at the gate and
every time he called “Tally” I was to cut
a notch in the stick. Every notch would
mean a hundred, said Father, and he
would be counting them in threes and
didn’t want any interruptions and our
brother had better go and tie the flaming
dogs up before they went mad.
The drover came up to the gate and
our brother opened it about three feet
wide and the drover’s dogs circled the
sheep. The sheep all packed up close to
the open gate and looked at it and
rushed away again. Then the dogs and
the drover and I packed them up to
the gate and they looked at the opening
and rushed away again. This went on
till we got tired and went and had a drink
from the drover’s waterbag, whereupon
the sheep packed up to the gate and
rushed through it, which caused Father
to drop the waterbag and rush to the
gate and slam it shut.
Then Father got the drover to send his
dogs round the sheep that had got
through into our paddock and bring them
along the fence so he could count them.
The dogs brought the sheep back but the
sheep didn’t stop at the fence ; they went
through and over it to their mates on the
road, all except a ewe who put her tail
against the fence and faced the dogs,
stamping her feet and muttering. The
dogs, who’d seen ewes like that before,
left her and galloped joyously up past
our house to the tank, into which they
plunged. After a wallow and a drink
they raced back, hurling insults at our
dogs on the way, and our dogs jumped
about on their chains and shrieked
madly.
The drover then said that the best
thing to do was sit down and have a
smoke and let the sheep settle for a bit.
So we did, and presently the drover and
Father went to the gate and' opened it
and the drover passed through. The
sheep looked at him with some astonish-
ment, then at each other as though to
say “Gripes, he’s game, going in there.”
But they were used to following him as
he walked ahead along the road, so a few
of them followed him through the gate,
and then more followed them and Father
put out his left hand with the fingers
extended and beat time. I was watching,
fascinated by the way the sheep waltzed
along to Father’s beating, when suddenly
he yelled “Tally” and I remembered I’d
left the stick on the gatepost.
So I ran to get it and all the sheep
baulked, and some of them fell over
backwards and most of them bolted away
from the gate and ran down the road.
Father let out a yell and rushed at me,
and I rushed away round the sheep, be-
cause I could see that Father meant busi-
ness.
Father stopped running and went back
to the gate and stood there watching the
drover and our brother, while I sat down
on the road and cut a notch in the stick.
After a while all the sheep were in our
paddock and Father invited the drover
up for a cup of tea. When I came in the
back door I could hear them talking. The
drover’s horse and sulky stood near the
verandah and the drover’s dogs had a
good look round our home, while our
dogs lashed themselves into a frenzy on
their chains. Our dogs were strong be-
lievers in the rights of residence and
couldn’t see why those other dogs should
be allowed to roam around without being
at least investigated.
Presently the drover got his dogs and
went away and Father took a walk round
the sheep, which were now camped in
little mobs or grazing quietly about the
paddock. Our brother let our dogs go
and they all raced away down the road
into the distance after the drover’s dogs,
but couldn’t find them and came back
and galloped round the sheep. Our dogs
had never had much to do with sheep
up to that stage, and old Spieler, the stag-
hound, wanted to see if they were good
to eat. Spieler had once eaten a cow in
a fortnight by camping beside its body
and fighting off every other dog that
came near, and he seemed to think about
a day would be enough for one of these
sheep things,
Father went a funny color and told our
brother if he didn’t tie the so-and-so
dogs up he’d shoot them and our brother
too. So our brother tied them up and
then we boys realised we’d have to be
mighty careful about Father until the
novelty of owning some sheep wore oft'.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4|d. per line; all others at
2Jd. per line.
A Westralian’s study of past and nresent earns him No. 1 position this week.
Other Days
I stood near a sawmill the other early
morning when men were assembling for
toil—just upon 7.30 a.m. —and most of
them carried billies or thermoses or
packets of food, which I was told would
sustain them in the long four-hour spell
before luncheon hour. A friend near
by suggested that perhaps they had had
late nights, slept in, forgone breakfast
and relied on the goodwill of the mill
foreman to have a blind eye while the
log was broken down and the sawdust
geysered upward.
Well, these being “advanced” times,
perhaps such privileges are more than
justified, and perhaps there is no reason
why they should not be amplified, even
to the point of an award, but one’s
thoughts went back to the ’eighties and
"nineties. Then the big sawmills boomed
for such jobs as the goldfields water
scheme and the erection of the big mining
superstructures, the opening up of rail-
ways all round the Westralian compass.
Hours were 53 a week, time for the day
starting at 7 a.m. and finishing at 5 p.m.,
with a full day on Saturday, stopping
sometimes by the grace of the sawmiller
at four o’clock if a bit of a festival was
on the tapis. Mills ran out 36,000 super,
feet a day then ; it’s a good output today
if they do 15,000.
It may be an illusion, but there were
giants in sawmills then, big-boned Irish-
men to whom a sleeper was as a bag of
onions, and hard-muscled men from Vic-
toria —the Cabbage State supplied about
70 p.c. of the earliest millhands of the
West. There wasn’t a pub within miles
of any mill. A “beano” was rare, but
a complete job when it happened. Men
just stayed put then till Christmastime,
when a sort of migration took place to
Perth on their own savings. Today they
are handed a nice sum for the purpose.
The sequel to all this advancement
is seen on two price lists before me. Way
back in the ’nineties the household
material every handy sort of husband
liked to have under his house was 9s.
per 100 super, feet; today it is 29s. —D.
Inkum (W.A.).
Shortage of Seamen
The recent holdup of 14 Australian
ships in various Commonwealth ports has
been attributed by officials of the Sea-
men’s Union to a shortage of trained sea-
men. This growing shortage has been
apparent* to the Company of Master
Mariners of Australia for months past.
That body, representing senior members
of the profession and under the patron-
age of the Governor of Queensland, has
constantly urged the establishment of a
training ship. So far its efforts have met
with apathy from both Parliament and
public, although every maritime country
has long since realised the value of such
vessels. If men are to be found to man
ships under construction in Australian
shipyards consideration of this question
is urgent. Reliance on seamen from over-
seas is a thing of the past. — Steamship
(N.S.W.).
Brains and Education
According to one of the army’s recruit-
ing posters “Brains and Education are as
much wanted by the Army as Brawn,”
and recruits are asked to specify the units
in which their education and training
will be of the greatest value. The poster
is undoubtedly correct within reasonable
limits; but it probably explains why so
many clerks, accountants, warehousemen
and the like are reluctant to enlist as
private soldiers in fighting units, prefer-
ring entrance to the administrative and
clerical branches.
These branches are overloaded with
young men, many “Class 1” physically,
engaged in office and clerical duties, all
holding at least non-commissioned rank
(with higher pay than the fighter), while
the fighting units are so badly in need of
officers and n.c.os. that regulations to
speed up promotion had to be gazetted.
Actually it is the fighting battalions
which need the education and training of
these men. But as long as young men are
allowed to believe that, because they held
white-collar jobs in civil life, they must
necessarily do the same work and be a
cut above other men in the army, and as
long as the army encourages this snob-
bery by quick promotions to office
workers, the fighting units will continue
to be passed over by the very class they
most urgently need, —D. (Q.).
Press Volatility
Several recent efforts in the newspapers
set me thinking about the apparent vola-
tility of “famous,” “special” and “own”
correspondents, as well as “authoritative
sources,” “well-informed circles” and
other phenomena. This breed or variety
or whatever it is can not only change its
heroes and opinions quicker than a
flapper changing a frock, but it also
gets its tail up or down in a matter sug-
gesting that the thing is on a well-oiled
pivot.
As samples, take the Libyan offensive
and the Japanese war. When our forces
hopped into General Rommel’s crowd
these people screamed of imminent vic-
tory. Tobruk would be relieved in a few
hours, the enemy would be pushed back
to Tripoli before he knew what hit him ;
particularly in the air was the enemy get-
ting his insides torn out. Then came the
pause and the enemy’s counter-attack,
which anybody would have expected. Im-
“Of course it Was her fault, officer. You know what these Women drivers
are like!”
mediately the tails dropped and the boys
turned on their heroes. They’d boomed
Tomahawk ’planes, now they were “obso-
lescent” ; the C.-in-C. ought to be scragged
or something ; “old school tie” or “brass-
hat” methods had brought another dis-
aster to British arms —in short, we’d lost
the campaign in Libya. Within a few
days the tails were up again, as the con-
demned “brasshats,” having paused to
recuperate and refit, got on with the job
and proceeded to push the enemy back
again.
Just before Japan hopped in without
warning, the writing boys were telling us
what a shock she’d get if she started any-
thing. We got the shock, admittedly, but
that is bound to happen when an enemy
delivers a king-hit without warning. Then
two big British fighting ships were lost,
and when this was being written “authori-
tative sources” were quoted as saying
something to the effect that Malaya and
Singapore were practically lost.
My own reaction to this was, “If the
loss of two battleships means we’ve lost
the Pacific war, then we should have
given in to Japanese demands in the first
place.” Further, how can we expect to
fight a war without serious losses? But
the poor old boo-boo boys are satisfied
that all is lost, though next week I expect
their tails will be up again.
Weighing these matters against the fact
that every time there’s a skirmish or an
affair of outposts it is, according to the
boo-boobs, “a turning point in the war,”
I’ve found the solution, which is that
these fellows have actually come to be-
lieve the tripe they and their colleagues
write—a tragedy which fills me with
mirth. —Blue P. (N.S.W.).
, .
Opinion and Effort
Thinking Australians who feel the
need for a healthy corrective to Gallup-
Murdoch splurges, “famous” correspon-
dents and contradictory political burb-
lings should read an 80-pp. brochure,
“Our Opinions and National Effort,” by
A. P. Elkin, Professor of Anthropology
at Sydney University.
It does not claim to be authoritative
or final, and it comprises only some 500
opinions, all from N. S. Wales. But its
basic material was selected with meticu-
lous care on a representative basis, col-
lected by both “straw vote” and “mass
observation” methods by specially trained
observers, and dissected and presented
with complete absence of prejudice or
bias.
Of particular interest are the facts and
deductions relating to news-disseminat-
ing media and their results.
For radio, about 70 p.c. listened to
the news more or less, 60 p.c. discussed
what they heard and 20 p.c. professed to
be interested in it. Radio commentaries
and political speeches attracted very few.
A majority considered that radio news
lacked spontaneity and the impression of
any personal sincerity, also that it mono-
tonously repeated stale news. A suspi-
sion of “doctoring” was widespread.
Thirteen per cent, of males and 20 p.c.
of females professed to believe what they
read in newspapers. Of these 20 p.c.
admitted to being stimulated to action
by it. Bias and misrepresentation were
widely suspected.
Of males, 77 p.c. stated that their views
toward the war were uninfluenced by
news services. The prevailing response
~,.. . _ , .
revealed by this section of the inquiry
was mistrust, particularly mistrust of poli-
ticians, but also of news services, pro-
fiteers, vested interests and propaganda.
The brochure is by no means a cheer-
ing or reassuring effort, but neither is
much of the present war situation nor
the outward results of means adopted in
Australia to cope with it. It is based on
comparatively few integers in Australia's
mass outlook, but to anyone who mixes
much with the plain Australian bloke,
particularly of the younger age-groups,
it will evoke some disturbing echoes in
, ° . .
listening to their comments on such sub-
jects. With the comments of its author
it might well receive close attention from
the Parliamentary committee now con-
sidering the future of Australian radio
news and its presentation.-CoLBUN (Q-).
a du • i c*. j j
Army Physical Standard
On the day war in the Pacific began, I
asked a recruiting official in Brisbane if
I would be accepted by any branch of
the Army (other than the administrative)
notwithstanding that I had defective eye-
sight, necessitating the use of glasses. His
reply was that no unit, even the
A.A.M.C., Ambulance and other non-
combatant units, would accept a recruit
unless he had normal sight without
glasses.
In the belief that there must be a niche
somewhere in the fighting forces for a
man otherwise physically fit, I put the
same question in letter form to the O.C.
Recruiting at Brisbane. A day or two
later I received a courteous reply that
“the visual standard has been lowered in
that normal sight with glasses is now
Class 1, A.I.F. physical standard.”
No doubt other adjustments have also
been made in the physical standard re-
quired of recruits since war came to our
front door; but what I want to know is
why these facts have not been given
prominence in every recruiting poster
and appeal instead of leaving it to appli-
sants to find out for themselves. Many
who were formerly rejected, or who are
hanging back in the belief that they will
not be taken, will be only too pleased to
know that they are now eligible.—
Smilax (Q.).
A Reaction
You wouldn’t think the advent of
Japan into the ranks of our enemies
would make any Australian happy, yet
there is one man who is as excited about
it as a kid with a new toy. This fellow,
like a lot of other of the more passion-
ate patriots here, looked to the outbreak
of war in 1939 as a sort of purgative that
would clear out much of our political
indigestion. He assumed that Canberra
would assume a ruthless control of the
entire national life and so ginger it up
as to leave it clean and hard and lean
and flat out for fight. He expected the
central Government to take all powers,
introduce all-in conscription, deal
promptly and vigorously with subversive
elements, strikers, dangerous cranks,
profiteers, State Parliaments and other
things.
It didn’t happen, not even when France
collapsed and Italy came in against us,
nor when we were pushed out of the
Balkans and Libya. It didn’t happen
while the British Isles endured the ter-
rible air raids nor when Churchill was
making his last-ditch speeches.
Still less did it look like happening
when Hitler turned on Russia, the general
idea being that we could sit back and let
the poor old Muscovites win the argu-
ment for us. Even when that fair hope
failed and the enemy went rolling into
Russia there was no sign of it. Men-
zies went and so did Fadden, but the
Curtin-Evatts did little else but talk,
though their advent did settle the bicker-
ing at Canberra.
This fellow I’m talking about just about
gave up hope. There was money to burn
and nobody realised that most of the
back country was under drought and
being denuded of its population, that
under the voluntary system the best and
most valuable of our young men were
being skimmed off for the plains of
death. It seemed that Australia was to
amble along in the same old way, burn-
ing petrol, spending money, refusing to
see her plain duty and the menace over
her.
Now the bloke’s full of beans, for he’s
convinced that the Curtin-Evatts have
been startled out of their lovely dreams
about social security and other trifles in
a war-mad world, and he’s convinced
that, though they may take a day or
two, they’ll get right down to tintacks
and give this country a shaking-up that
it’ll never forget. And out of that, he
swears, Australia and Australians will
emerge the better for it. So if you hear
a wild-eyed cove calling for three cheers
for the Japs, you’ll know he isn’t a fifth
columnist. — Steve the Snoek (S.A.).
“Russia First”
He is a Sydney B-class station an-
nouncer who has no use for “British
blundering,” For some strange reason
a Russian retreat was always a
“heroic, bitterly-contested withdrawal in
the face of overwhelming odds.” But a
British reverse is invariably traced to in-
competent generalship and “British
bungling.”
The number of men who have hesi-
tated to enlist because of this cultivated
distrust can only be surmised. —B. A.
Ker (N.S.W.).
Slogans
The history of the voluntary system in
this war may be read in its slogans, and
a sorry story of confusion and contradic-
tion it is. When Brig.-General Lloyd
opened recruiting at the end of 1939, his
slogan, “Your Place Is in the Army,”
brought thousands flocking to the colors,
but pretty soon a damper was put on
enthusiasm by an alteration in the slogan
to “If you are physically fit and without
family responsibilities, your place is in
the A.1.F.” (About this time a Cabinet
Minister said that the man with family
responsibilities who enlisted was actually
doing a disservice to his country.)
In June, 1940, when the prevailing, and
official, view was that machines and not


REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
men were needed, the slogan was Re-
cruiting Suspended.” When enlistments
recommenced the slogan was “Fighters
Wanted” (with the proviso that the fighter
must not have more than three children),
and “Pull Your Weight in the A.I.F.”—
this latter specially directed at the militia,
against whom several “drives” were
made.
Since war came to the Pacific slogans
have been dropped ; but the extended
call-up for national service has resulted
in a ban on militiamen joining the A.I.F.
and the announcement ihat only married
men are now eligible for the overseas
forces!
For this confusion there is only one
remedy—one Australian Military Force
liable for service anywhere in the world
where this country’s defence requires, and
in which every male of fighting age is
liable for service.—W. K. D. (Q.).
Some Questions
Britain and U.S.A. are to hold inquiries
into the sinking of the Prince of
Wales and Repulse and the surprise
attack on Pearl Harbor respectively. It
is to be hoped that the Commissioners
call before them for questioning repre-
sentatives of the “Guild of Famous Cor-
respondents, Far Eastern Experts and
Noted Travellers” whose writings have
filled our press ever since Japan joined
the Axis. They might be able to en-
lighten us on these points, about which
most of us are still scratching our heads:
Were the “incompetent and out-of-date
Japanese forces which have been floundering for
the past five years in China” identical with the
Jap. forces which, in the words of the Presi-
sident, “performed a brilliant feat, per-
fectly timed and executed with great skill”?
Were the Jap. airmen whose bad eyesight
and physical disabilities made them unsuitable
for modern flying identical with those whose
“superb attack” sank two capital ships in an
attack the like of which veteran sailors had
never experienced from the Luftwaffe ?
Were the Jap. ’planes which wrought this
havoc in the Pacific from Japan’s 1932 stand-
ard air fleet?
Why did every paper in Australia, with the
exception of The Bulletin, preach that war in
the-Pacific would be a pushover for the De-
mocracies?
As a fifth and final question, some of
us would like to know whether Russia is
reciprocating our “Aid to Russia” cam-
paign with “Another Front in the Pacific”
movement to help us? — Solicitor (Q.).
Mr. Churchill
Before Mr. Churchill was named Prime
Minister The Bulletin styled him “Dan-
gerous Dan McGrew.” Its estimate of
Mr. Churchill was that of all discerning
judges—an estimate based on Antwerp,
Gallipoli, Russia, the India Act, and since
confirmed by Norway, Dakar, Greece,
Crete and other misadventures.
Now in the House of Commons Com-
mander Southby has asked “who over-
rode expert advice that the lost battle-
ships should go out accompanied by air-
craft-carriers,” There is only one man
in England who could override such
advice.
And so we come by degrees and logi-
cal sequence to the last great Churchillian
tragedy implied in the threat to Singa-
pore and the danger of an isolated Aus-
tralia. The Bulletin was right.—
J. W. R. (Tas.).
Trivial?
Despite its English writers, one can
perhaps understand the banning of “The
Mikado” from the present Gilsullivan
season in Sydney—public opinion is too
unpredictable to allow a theatre to put
on a big show just as a little gamble.
But surely it’s going a bit too far for
towns to change names of streets just
because Japan becomes an enemy. Be-
sides being temporarily confusing, it
seems such a trivial way of showing
natural national sentiments which could
be otherwise expressed more usefully.
It was the same with a recent eistedd-
fod, when the Lieder section was changed
to “art songs.” There was no difference
in the actual music or in the public's
agreement with and approval of the
moods of the long-gone German com-
posers.
If people go so far as to change street
names because they’re Japanese, why
didn’t they ban Christmas trees, which
are so strictly German in origin? And
why not take all our kids away from the
“Kindergartens” and send them to
Children’s Gardens instead? —E. (N.S.W.).
Oil from Coed
Here’s another story of muddle that
lost to Australia an industry that would
have been of great value now. The rep-
resentative of an English firm made in-
quiries about the establishment in Aus-
tralia of an undertaking to produce oil
from coal. His proposition did not in-
volve Australia in any expense at all —
the plan was to be financed entirely with
English money; plant and workers were
to be brought from Britain.
First shock was a discovery that he
could not sell the oil direct to consumers
—it had to be marketed through estab-
lished distributors, which meant the major
oil companies. Those companies would
be direct competitors of the new enter-
prise.
When the proposition was put before
the Menzies Administration, “technical
experts” were asked for a report. They
said the process was impracticable, and
advised against it.
Then a request for protection against
dumping of motor fuel after the
war. The man concerned knew that
his firm could meet equal competition,
but had no chancfe against straight-out
dumping of imported fuels at low prices.
The Government would promise nothing.
As a result of such setbacks, the pro-
position was killed outright.
With a change in Government, how-
ever, and greater problems caused by
war in the Pacific, efforts to establish the
undertaking are being continued. If
people are prepared to put outside money
into an enterprise that will bring popu-
lation, even small, to this country, supply
us with something we badly need, and
cost us nothing, they should be allowed
to take the risk—Two Strand (N.S.W.).
Second-grade Tea
Will someone in the trade explain the
disappearance of the second- and third-
grade teas which were obtainable until
quite recently at many pence per pound
less than first-grade? Why should the
cheaper grades suddenly go off the
market? They are still being exported
from the tea-growing countries, as is
proved by the London market reports,
and one must assume that quantities find
their way to Australia. Packets of tea
bought recently for dispatch to soldiers
were shop-faded and fly-marked, sug-
gesting hoarding, but inquiries for the
cheaper grades met with stony silence. —
Bill Ding (W.A.).
The Poor Politician
Westralian politicians are at last shed-
ding all pretence and getting down to tin-
tacks. They have decided that politics
isn’t a pursuit, an honor, or any of the
many things that vain men at times have
held it up to be—it is simply a job.
And, as public favor is apt to be fickle,
they are trying to get legislative sanction
to start a compensation fund. This is
intended to afford the seat-loser a corn-
pensation of £6OO should he be dumped
after keeping a seat warm for 10 years
or over, and double his contributions
should he meet the axe during a lesser
period of service? Contributions to be
£2 a month; fund to be self-supporting,
no drain on the taxpayers’ money.
Cynics, however, are wondering just
how long such good intentions will last.
Failing a direct raid on the Treasury to
bolster up the fund after a disastrous
election, the least to be expected is a
Politicians’ Union’s demand for another
£25 a year to compensate each member
for the £24 he is paying into the fund,
—W. C. C. (W.A.).
Water Conservation
Y is a typical Queensland country
town, and it has undergone no perceptible
change in the last 20 years. For its
existence it depends on a timber mill and
a number of farms. The timber is con-
sidered to be the mainstay of the town,
for it gives employment to about 75 men,
whereas the farmers are just scratching
along and are contributing an insigni-
ficant share to the town’s development.
Water—or the lack of it—is their
problem. For two months in the year
they get more rain than they require. The
creeks are flooded, the surplus water
runs its course and is lost. For the re-
mainder of the year the farmers struggle
along as best they can. In the town the
household tanks run dry, and water has
to be carted from the nearest creek.
All this could be changed. Along the
main watercourse there are several places
where a sizable dam could be con-
structed. Everyone agrees that the bene-
fit to the district would justify the expen-
diture.
The town cannot rely indefinitely on
its timber, for sooner or later the avail-
able supply will become exhausted. If
ever the timber mill closes down the
town will deteriorate into a one-pub outfit
with a handful of struggling farmers to
keep it going.
I wonder how many other country
towns are in the same boat, and whether
Mr. Smeeth’s Government has considered
them in relation to the drift to the city.
—Blue (Q.).
Evolution
Events have reminded us that man’s
schemes for the swifter destruction of his
rivals rarely produced results proportion-
ate to the cost and energy expended.
Originally he crept up on his adversary,
catching him asleep if possible, clapped
on the correct grip and hung on like hell
till peace ensued. Owing to the intro-
duction of smart counter-holds, he soon
found it better to hit the foe with a rock.
Then, during a stage when all tried to
see who could hurl the biggest boulder,
quicker thinkers saw that while the enemy
was lifting his favorite gibber you could
retard its arrival by sticking a knife in
him, but the forging of that knife en-
tailed much time and trouble. And so
on through the long competition which
produced endless variety of daggers,
dirks, scimitars, swords, scythes, skewers
and spears, from natty toys you could
whip from your sleeve into the other
chap’s gizzard to lances long enough to
reach him in his own territory.
This progress toward civilisation was
accompanied by a similar evolution in
dress. Leather, wooden and metal shields
were worn with togs which developed
from the homely singlet of cowhide
through brass-plated sport suits and shirts
of plaited trace-chains to the full armor-
plated dress suit surmounted by a hat
which might look like anything from a
decorated pudding-basin to a remodelled
firegrate, through which leading business-
“Any old iron "
men of the day, appropriately enough,
glared at their competitors from behind
strong bars.
When the noble sport of destruction
reached the stage where the full set of
clubs, plus the proper dress, cost so much
that only rich men could afford to play,
it was promptly wrapped in a barrier of
rules, codes and taboos, through which you
or I would have had Buckley’s chance of
breaking. The common rabble could still
brawl in its own vulgar way, but received
little benefit from the sports of the upper
strata except indirectly as craftsmen in
steel and breeders of a special type of
Clydesdales whose bellies wouldn’t sag
to the ground when mounted by the war-
riors of the day.
Then along came a rebel who, by the
simple expedient of using gunpowder,
blew most of the current rules and many
of their exponents clean out of the saddle
at a distance formerly considered safe.
About this new sport there was a glorious
uncertainty, for some of the early guns
were more deadly coming than going, but
once these initial discomforts were over-
come there developed a grand new race
to see who could go one better with the
new weapons.
In the shrieks that arose when the first
charges of broken bolts, bent nails, boot
protectors and road metal sprayed the
enemy, in the fatalistic thump of Drake’s
roundshot and all progressive stages to
the swift hell of battleship salvos
there has always been the panic-stricken
element which sees no hope of survival;
yet mostly the surprising part has been,
not the destruction, but the number of
unharmed survivors. And so, having
reached the approximate limit of de-
struction by projected missiles, we’ve
gone the inevitable stage further —picked
up the explosive, fixed it carefully to a
’plane, flown to a spot far beyond the
range of our gunfire and dropped the
parcel on some pre-selected target. Fritz
has gone maddest in this line. He has
built swarms of ’planes, specially con-
structed to carry big loads long distances
at great heights, then dive down to re-
lease their bombs a few feet from their
victims.
Considering the sheer barbarism of so
many German methods and the success
to date of brute tactics, it’s rather a
wonder that in his reversion to the primi-
tive Fritz hasn’t tried sneaking up in the
dark and strangling those who oppose
him. — Wippegong (N.S.W.).
“The Banks”
At “the outbreak,” total deposits in the
nine trading banks amounted to 316.8
millions. At September 30 last this total
had reached 366.5 millions—an in-
crease of 49.7 millions. The difference
between this last amount and 64.2 mil-
lions lent by the banks to the Government
is accounted for by an increase in coin,
bullion and cash with the Commonwealth
Bank amounting to six millions and a
decrease in advances to the public
amounting to 7.2 millions. Where did
this increase of 49.7 millions come from?
It is perfectly obvious it was created by
the banks by their action from time to
time in making the advances to the Gov-
ernment.
Although at first sight it would appear
that the banks paid away their clients’
deposits, these deposits eventually came
back to the banks as entirely new deposits
through or by the recipient of the money
paid away by the Government from the
banks’ advances. The act, therefore, of
making the advances was the genesis of
the additional new money that has come
into being since the beginning of the war.
The public are taxed to meet the
annual interest which has to be paid to
the banks. This leads to lower produc-
tion, and there have been increases in the
basic wage and pensions. Had the Gov-
ernment obtained the advance from the
Commonwealth Bank free of interest there
would probably be the same amount of
additional money in circulation as at
present, but the people would be free
from the additional taxation and one big
factor in inflation would have been re-
moved—A. D. B. Rowley (N.S.W.).


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
INTERVIEW WITH STALIN.
[Condensed from the “American Magazine,” this
is an account written by Harry Hopkins, Mr. Roose-
velt’s special envoy, describing the visit Mr. Hopkins
made to Russia and his interview with Joseph Stalin,
the results of which he subsequently reported to Mr.
Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill at their Atlantic meeting-
place. A columnist in a New York daily explained that
Mr. Hopkins wrote this article personally to avoid
garbled versions of his story being given out by inter-
viewers. Though all interesting in its way, it has had to
be condensed for use here, omissions being almost wholly
confined to descriptions of Mr. Hopkins’s travelling
there and back.]
He welcomed me with a few, swift Russian words.
He shook my hand briefly, firmly, courteously. He
smiled warmly. There was no waste of word, gesture
nor mannerism. It was like talking to a perfectly co-
ordinated machine, an intelligent machine, Joseph
Stalin knew what he wanted, knew what Russia
wanted, and he assumed that you knew. We talked
for almost four hours on this second visit. The ques-
tions he asked were clear, concise, direct. Tired as
I was, I found myself replying as tersely. His answers
were ready, unequivocal, spoken as if the man had
had them on his tongue for years.
No man could forget the picture of the dictator
of Russia as he stood watching me leave —an austere,
rugged, determined figure in boots that shone like
mirrors, stout baggy trousers and snug-fitting blouse.
He wore no ornament, military or civilian. He’s
built close to the ground, like a football coach’s dream
of a tackle. He’s about five feet six, about a hundred
and ninety pounds. His hands are huge, as hard as
his mind. His voice is harsh but ever under control.
What he says is all the accent and inflection his words
need.
When he spoke of Hitler his manner was more
eloquent than his words. It was only when he men-
tioned Hitler that he discarded his suave assurance.
Then his body grew tense. He didn’t raise his voice ;
rather it went as cold as his eyes, and the mellow
harshness of it became grating. Of Hitler he spoke
slowly, not measuring his words nor considering his
phrasing, but as if he wanted the interpreter they had
assigned to me to convey to me every syllable in its
implication and direct meaning.
For Hitler he had more than the anger he would
necessarily have for a man who had double-crossed
him ; it was a personal hatred that I have seldom
heard expressed by anyone in authority, I don’t want
to overdramatise the scene ; I’m not at all sure that
I can. But the cold, implacable hatred he has for the
German Fiihrer was clearly evident. Stalin’s huge
hands half-clenched. I think that Joseph Stalin would
have liked nothing better at that moment than to have
had Hitler sitting where I sat. Germany would have
needed a new Chancellor. On every other subject he
was a steady, gracious, schooled diplomat.
If he is always as I heard him, he never wastes
a syllable. He curries no favor with you. He seems
to have no doubts. He assures you that Russia will
stand against the onslaughts of the German Army. He
takes it for granted that you have no doubts either.
You understand, of course, that I can’t tell you in
detail what Joseph Stalin said to me. Neither may I
quote to you the instructions I received from the
President. I was at Chequers, the country seat of the
Prime Minister of England, when I got my orders.
A cable came from the President late at night. You
stay up late at the Churchills’ —in fact, the conversa-
tion never really gets going till midnight. Incidentally,
the conversation in that household is as good as you
can hear anywhere. Britain had been at war too
long to make her fight the only topic. But now Russia
had been invaded, and this was something to ponder.
The whole strategy of the war had changed, and vital,
fundamental decisions were being made. In both
England and Russia there had been distrust of each
other.
You may think what you please, but the fact is
that no one in England knew for sure why Hitler had
suddenly torn up his pact with Russia, just why he
had smashed across her western borders. Russian
oil? Food? Russia’s mines and factories? We were
discussing all these at Chequers when my orders came.
The first message was short enough: Go to Moscow ;
see Stalin.
When Hitler invaded Russia he did so without a
word to Stalin, not a hint. In Moscow, in the Kremlin,
it aroused a hatred of Hitler that nothing but the
death of the German Chancellor could lessen. As
Stalin made clear to me, this was not a hatred of the
German people nor of the German General Staff.
The invasion was regarded in Moscow as the treachery
of a partner who had suddenly revealed himself as a
rabid dog.
Certain changes had been made in Stalin’s Cabinet.
Litvinov had given way as Stalin’s second in command
to Molotov. A trade and peace pact had been nego-
tiated between the two countries, and, whatever your
personal feelings about the U.S.S.R. may be, it is to
Russia’s credit that she has observed her commitments
and treaties to the letter. Stalin told me that he had
no intention of doing anything but be straightforward
in his dealing with Germany. But now the pact had
been destroyed—not by Germany, not by the German
General Staff (perhaps in spite of it), and not by the
Reich as a body politic. Hitler had torn it up without
a word from nor to anyone. He gave neither reason
nor hint of warning—the act of a madman obeying
a swift, murderous passion.
But in Britain the invasion of Russia was a serious
political problem. As in the United States, there is no
love for Communism, rather a distrust or even a fear.
Perhaps you remember Churchill’s bitter broadcast to
the world a few hours after the invasion started. With
Ihe courage that is Churchill’s, he pledged Britain to
Russia’s cause. And he did it boldly, without consult-
ing anybody, without stopping to consider any pos-
sible political consequences. At Chequers he told me
of it. There was one man to defeat, one philosophy
of government to destroy. Russia was now fighting
that man and that philosophy. England was already
doing so. Any enemy of Hitler’s was to be England’s
ally.
See Stalin? Of course, one would have to see
Stalin if one wanted to know what Russia was going
to do, what she had to do it with, how she proposed
to go about it. Stalin is Russia. His would be the
only word of authority. Before my three days in
Moscow ended, the difference between democracy and
dictatorship was clearer to me than any words of
philosopher, historian or journalist could make it.
It had already been arranged that the President
and Churchill were to meet in the Atlantic. The
approximate date had been set. Only a few minor
details were to be cleared up. But the date of the
meeting was close enough to make it clear that I’d
have no time to waste getting to Moscow and back.
Churchill arranged everything by telephone —just
another incident in his busy life. Afterward I talked
with the Prime Minister. He told me in the minutest
detail of the efforts Britain was making to aid Russia,
now her ally against Hitler. It was a fascinating story,
revealing as nothing else might the undying determina-
tion of Britain to destroy the Hitler menace —a menace
compared to which all other political and economic
threats were puny. It told me more than that. It told
New York “Post.”
ORDER TO COMMIT HARA-KIRI.
me that Churchill, this man whom I had grown to
admire and respect, had put everything else behind
him, was prepared calmly and fearlessly to die if
only by doing so he might destroy Hitler.
The Germans took a hand in welcoming me to
Moscow. They sent their bombers. When Moscow
or any other Russian city blacks out, it blacks out.
You don’t merely pull the curtains. The chances are
that you won’t have curtains in Russia. But, curtains
or not, you turn out the lights. In London, if the
police or an air warden sees a glimmer in your window,
he taps on the door and reminds you that there’s a
raid on and that you haven’t closed your curtains
tightly. In Russia (and I suppose it’s like that in
Berlin), he taps on your door, but not to tell you
that he can see a light from below. He’s more apt to
take you to gaol.
There’s that, among other differences between
life in a democracy and under a dictatorship. More-
over, in Moscow you take to an air-raid shelter when
the enemy bombers come over —or else. And you
stay there until the police tell you that you may come
out, I was a stranger in Moscow and managed to
entertain myself with comparing the uproar of a raid
on London with what I was sitting out now. Moscow’s
ring of anti-aircraft defences and guns makes London’s
puny. Even if they’d let you, you wouldn’t watch a
raid on Moscow from the roof —not more than once.
The downpour of shrapnel from Moscow’s ack-acks
would mince you.
In Moscow there is no problem of evacuating
children and the aged and the sick. They’re evacuated.
In Moscow every able-bodied man, woman and youth
has a specific job to do. And they do it and like it.
It’s somewhat different in London. I imagine it would
be different in New York, too. Stalin speaks, and
that’s the Russian law. I have never dreamed of such a
concentration of energy as I saw in the Russian capital.
Stalin prefers to see the few foreigners he meets,
in Molotov’s office. It is seldom that one gets into
Stalin’s own room. But I rated that honor, being the
personal representative of the President. His office
is spacious—nothing like the grand ballroom poor
Mussolini calls his office. And probably a mere cubby-
hole compared with Hitler’s. Stalin’s office is perhaps
50 feet by 30. It’s almost as austere as the man him-
self. In his room there are two pictures—one of
Lenin and one of Stalin. That’s all the art there is.
My appointment with him that evening was for six
o’clock. It wasn’t necessary that I arrange my time
in order to be there on time. That was all arranged
for me. At a certain time the embassy car took me to
the palace that once housed the Czar.
Apparently, time and distance had been co-ordi-
nated down to the inch and second. No traffic inter-
ference would delay us. The Ogpu was seeing
to that. Traffic wasn’t detoured for me. The thou-
sands of trucks that are for ever, night and day, racing
through Moscow’s streets, poured on in their ceaseless
race to and from the front. We merely travelled
streets that the trucks didn’t, the Ogpu in front of
us and the Ogpu behind us. It was exactly six
o’clock when, after many corridors and many turns,
through a dozen offices and doors, I was ushered
into Stalin’s presence.
I’ve tried to describe him for you, Ive read it
again and find it inadequate. Cordial—almost gentle
—he’s as hard as the name he chose for himself:
Stalin, or Steel. He bowed almost imperceptibly. He
offered me one of his cigarettes and he took one of
mine. He’s a chain smoker, probably accounting for
the harshness of his carefully-controlled voice. He
laughs often enough, but it’s a short laugh, somewhat
sardonic, perhaps. There is no small talk in him. His
humor is keen, penetrating. He speaks no English,
but as he shot rapid Russian at me he ignored the
interpreter, looking straight into my eyes as though I
understood every word that he uttered.
In the States and in London such missions as
mine might be stretched out into what the
State Department and Foreign Office call
conversations. I had no conversations in
Moscow —just six hours of conversation.
After that there was no more to be said.
It was all cleaned up at two sittings.
Except when Stalin spoke of Hitler or
when the name of Hitler was mentioned, he
was at ease, relaxed. He made it all very
clear to me. Stalin doesn’t want our army
nor our navy. Russia wants to fight her war
herself. Her man-power reserves are huge,
the protection that Nature has given Mos-
cow is all but impenetrable from land and
water. But Stalin also told me frankly what
Russia needs, that her men and women may
give all their strength to the cause which is
ours as well as hers. Stalin asked for tanks,
for ’planes, for big guns, anti-aircraft guns,
anti-tank guns, for ammunition, the superb
high-octane gasoline that America produces
and is shipping to England. Stalin asked
for huge quantities of barbed wire, too.
You’re wondering, perhaps, why Russia,
with all her great oilfields, should want
gasoline of us. That’s easily explained.
High-octane gas is American. America alone
produces the best. ’Planes powered by high-
octane have enormous advantage in speed
over those using low-octane. Before I left
Stalin’s office many such questions were
answered for me.
Put your prejudices aside. Ask your-
self whom you want on the west shore of
that 50 miles of sea which separates Asiatic
Russia from Alaska. Whom do you want
—Stalin or Hitler? Whom would you
choose —the Axis Powers or Russia? Yet
choosing is not inevitably up to you.
“We Russians shall win this war,” said
Stalin, leaning forward, his hands fiat upon his desk.
“The battle front will remain west of Moscow, Russia
will not fail. Russia is huge. She is inexorable.
Russia is fighting—for Russia. She will not again be
enslaved. Once we trusted this man”
Hitler again. I hope never to be hated as Stalin
hates Hitler. His hands seemed to feel for something.
We sat in silence until he relaxed again.
And suddenly it occurred to me that I had finished
my errand. Skilfully he had let me terminate the
visit.
I notified the President that I had finished, that I
was returning to Scotland. I would see him soon
somewhere in the Atlantic.
My ’plane started back for Archangel the next
day at two. Those Russians can fly. And then we
were off, over the White Sea, the way we had come.
The weather was bad, the going rocky. I can’t sleep
in ’planes, but this time I did. Four hours out I was
asleep—the best sleep I’d had since leaving Chequers.
From below, some ship took a pot shot at us. The
shot probably came from a British destroyer which
couldn’t identify us because of the clouds and was
taking no chances.
Not that I cared. I’d done my job. I was at ease.
I was drowsing while the shell groped for us. When
it stopped, and I have only a hazy recollection of
the stopping, I fell asleep. I slept for seven hours. A
nasty head wind tossed us. Our ship bucked, side-
slipped. It was O.K. My tension was over. In spite
of the storm, the flight back was swift. We landed
at a Scottish port and there I boarded a battleship.
Soon after that I was under way again. This
time it was on a British battleship with Churchill.
We were on our way to meet the President in the
Atlantic.
Inside Italy Today.
[Condensed from a series of articles by Allen Ray-
mond, until recently New York “Herald Tribune” Rome
correspondent.]
I have just passed 16 months in Italy. Now that
I am out it would be impossible to write the story if I
expected ever to return to Italy under Fascism, which
I don’t.
I found in Italy one of the kindest, warmest-
hearted and most considerate peoples that I have ever
encountered. They seem to be now a people peculiarly
devoid of a capacity for hatred to anyone. They


are an individualistic people which a generation of
Fascism has been unable to regiment.
These people, who were ordered by Mussolini in
June, 1940, into a war of giants, are not warlike,
though the Fascist press screams daily that they are,
and II Duce tells them to live like lions. They want
to rear big families in peace, and the common man
exults in fine craftsmanship, good music and the glories
of an ancient culture.
Under the pressure of tyranny the Italian people
have developed the only answer to tyranny, which is
lawlessness, to an exuberant degree. Therefore the
rationing system, like all the other Fascist decrees,
works badly, and the bootleg system, in every imagin-
able commodity which persons with any money want,
flourishes like the green bay tree. Whenever an incon-
venient Fascist decree is promulgated the people
do their best to evade it.
Apathy and pessimism grip the people. They pray
for peace. They pray for some miracle that may bring
them peace early. Large sections of the people don’t
care what kind of a peace it is, and many are far
more afraid of a German victory than a British.
Twenty-five thousand Italian dead were a part of
the price which Italy paid for mistakes when Greece
was attacked, and about as many were wounded. The
collapse of the last of any Italian military reputation
was another price, and there was still another. Half-
trained boys from southern Italy were taken to fight
in the deep snows and bitter cold of Albania last
winter, clothed in cotton uniforms and lacking in socks.
A high percentage of the casualties suffered were not
from Greek fire, but from frozen feet. It is generally
believed in Rome there have been literally thousands
of amputations among the men affected.
Italy started the war with about 6000 ’planes and,
as nearly as I can learn, not many more than 2000 still
exist. Most of the ’planes already were antiquated when
the war began, and, while there has been some improve-
ment in speed in those that are left, they are still
inferior to the British. Italy has theoretically a pro-
ductive capacity of about 900 ’planes a month. But
it has neither the material nor the workmen any longer
to produce that many. The best of the workmen have
in many cases gone to Germany. Italy’s airplane
industry is being turned gradually into a builder of
parts for German ’planes. I doubt whether more than
400 ’planes a month are now being produced in the
country.
At the beginning of the war the air force was the
pride of the Fascist party, created by one of its greatest
heroes, Italo Balbo, but in a modern sense it was
not an air force. It was just a large collection of half-
trained pilots led by a few veterans of definite ability.
Very few were trained in night flying, instrument
flying or navigation.
The valor and skill of a few of the Italian pilots
are acknowledged. They recently have been far more
effective against British convoys in the Mediterranean
than the Italian Navy has been. Germans in Rome
have told me that when they turned over Stukas to
Italian airmen they were astonished at the speed with
which these Italian boys learned how to use them
effectively, and hats were raised in neutral military
circles at the way Italy’s pilots have flown into combat
against superior enemy forces. Some of the best of
Italy’s youths have shown they could die like heroes
in defence of their country. But air war is not amateur
football. The Italian people have a score to settle with
their own regime about the way these schoolboys were
sent into battle.
As for Italy’s navy, it did not even challenge the
last big British convoy which ran through the Mediter-
ranean from Gibraltar to Alexandria, but left the job
to the air force. Scattered for defensive reasons at
a half-dozen ports on Italy’s eastern and western
coasts, it has never yet brought together a battle fleet
capable of dealing with British convoy patrols, while
recently the British have been taking a terrific toll of
lalian shipping engaged in running reinforcements
to Libya.
Aside from the actual losses incurred by Italy’s
navy at Taranto and at sea, the fleet is steadily
deteriorating because of lack of materials, machinery
and men with which to keep the ships in repair.
Germany has first call on the nation’s industry, and
there has been no sign of any desire on Germany’s
part to help strengthen Mussolini’s province.
Only a token Italian force went to Russia, four
divisions and an air fleet. The troops there are said
to be mostly engineers for road building, and their
principal value is for propaganda to persuade Italians
that there is still an Axis partnership rather than a
German master and an Italian servant.
Mussolini’s boast that there would be 8,000,000
bayonets to enforce the just claims of Italy has
proved a little far-fetched. At no time has he had
more than 2,500,000 men in the armed forces, and he
cannot equip any more.
How many Germans are in Italy it is impossible
to tell, but there are enough in key positions to control
the country, since the German Army is always at the
back of them. They have German officers in Italy’s
War Office, Foreign Office and Ministry of Propa-
ganda, and scattered through the police forces are
members of the Gestapo. Ostensibly observers, they
come pretty close to ruling on issues which are
believed important to them. In all these Governmental
departments anti-German feeling runs high. Italy’s
diplomatic corps has had a long tradition of friendship
for Great Britain and many prominent Italian officials
of the foreign service have American wives. Those
connected by any such ties with England and the
United States are apt to shout most loudly against those
countries just to avert suspicion by the Fascist leaders.
Where the Germans get all their money is fre-
quently a wonder to the local Italians, but where they
get some of it is no secret to Italian officials. When
the British drove the Italians out of East Africa and
practically all of them out of Ethiopia, they captured
an enormous quantity of printed lire. They dumped
the money on the Swiss market and the Germans
bought it up at rates of more than 60 lire to the dollar,
as compared with the official rate of 19.80. That is
part of the money with which the Germans have been
buying out Italian shops, and Italy does not like it.
Today, a year and a half after being led into
a war that nobody in the country except a handful of
political tyrants wanted, Italy is a hopeless wreck,
gradually being taken over by a double-crossing
northern ally for future management and repair.
On the U-boat Front.
(Condensed from a "United States News" article.)
What is the real story of American naval war in
the Atlantic? Nothing can be revealed that would
jeopardise the Navy’s safety, but enough can be told
to give a vivid picture.
A major American fleet action is in progress
south-west of Iceland against heavy forces of German
submarines.
Using a new and effective strategy of moving in
“wolf packs” and attacking at night, squadrons of
Hitler’s latest, long-range U-boats are taking toll of
merchant ships on the North Atlantic lanes. The
Nazis are challenging the mass movement of ships in
convoys with the massing of attacking submarines.
Hitler’s answer to the convoying of lend-lease supplies
is to send out his submarines to hunt in groups or
squadrons. The new strategy calls for three or more
submarines to work together. Detecting the approach
of convoys with their listening apparatus, the Nazi
wolf packs deploy in the path of the oncoming mer-
chant vessels.
Timing is the essence of the U-boat strategy. The
mass onset is timed to break on the convoy in the
dead of night. Once deployed in the convoy’s course,
the submarines wait with engines silent so as to give
no warning of their trap to the listening devices of
the naval escorts. The big convoy of mixed American,
New York “Daily Mirror.”
BREAKING THE TOE-HOLD.
British and Canadian merchant' vessels, headed for
Iceland from Halifax, moves toward Iceland in for-
mation, depending on its naval escort for protection.
American destroyers patrol the seas on the outskirts
of the convoy, with eyes and mechanical ears alert
to detect the waiting wolf pack. Often Canadian cor-
vettes and ’planes work in co-operation.
The wolf pack waits submerged, engines still
silent, while part of the convoy passes over. In the
pitch dark, the submarines come to the surface in
the midst of the great company of merchant ships.
They release their torpedoes at the easy marks. Or
sometimes they pursue the slow-moving convoys and
attack them from the rear. Often the crews of the
merchantmen and of the naval escort vessels are not
aware of the attack until an explosion sends a new
victim to its doom.
Witnesses tell how these wolf packs, sometimes
of five submarines, follow a convoy for days, appear-
ing on the surface in its midst night after night, firing
torpedoes at two ships at a time. The hard-pressed
destroyers, knifing back and forth through the slow-
moving convoy, would drop 240 ash-can depth bombs
in one day.
The present submarine menace is compounded
of many dangers. A spy system supplies Nazi com-
manders with uncanny knowledge of shipping. The
main area of combat is between the southern tip of
Greenland and Reykjavik. The Navy is exerting every
nerve, every resource to supply the answer to the wolf
pack.
Know Your America.
[ln December “Reader’s Digest” appears a conden-
sation of a pamphlet given by the British authorities to
each of the several thousand R.A.F. boys who are in
the United States for flight training, the aim of the
pamphlet being to inform and guide. Portions of the
“Digest” article which give information on the United
States of general interest are here condensed.]
The Americans are a tremendous nation who
have built up standards different from ours in many
ways. Expect Americans to be different from us.
To learn to like and understand Americans is impor-
tant. During this war, and probably after, our fate is
closely bound up with that of the United States, and
we shall need people who understand the American
viewpoint.
Dismiss many of the ideas you may have picked
up from the cinema. Don’t think you know all about
America already. You don’t —nobody does ; not even
the Americans.
The United States is to be compared in size and
population with the whole of western Europe without
Russia, There are six or seven great regions, larger
than most European countries. The north-east is rich,
industrialised, full of great cities. It is the creditor
region—the seat of finance and government. The
south, more properly the south-east, is comparatively
poor, rural, dependent on a few cash crops—cotton
and tobacco —for which the markets have narrowed.
The two regions are unlike in climate, the south being
almost tropical in its southern parts. The people
differ, too.
The Middle West, with its icy blizzards and
scorching summer heat, is an empire more rich and
varied in resources than Germany proper and the
Ukraine together, and about as large, a thousand
miles from either ocean, on lakes containing half the
fresh water in the world. This region has great indus-
tries of all kinds, and a varied agriculture. In many
ways it is as nearly “typical” as any one region can
be. It was opened up by Americans from the north-
eastern regions, and all the framework of the new
society was American, not English.
The Constitutions of the new States, their schools
and churches, their whole way of life were the work
of the generations following the War of Independence.
Into that framework was built a great German immi-
gration, Swedes came in, some Dutch, some British
and in the big towns many Slavs. In the countryside
they were absorbed and became completely Ameri-
can in two generations ; in the towns the last rem-
nants are now being absorbed.
Then there are Texas and the south-west, rather
like southern Brazil and Uruguay. California and
southern Oregon are like parts of Australia. The
Pacific north-west is not unlike New Zealand in parts.
Generalisations about people who live in so vast
and varied an area are bound to be dangerous. The
astonishing thing is that the American people are as
uniform as they are. That uniformity is due to the
schools, the press and the political institutions —and
the fabt that any man may move freely over the whole
area. Today an old Ford car, and the price of some
gasoline, is a passport to the whole United States.
America has been enriched by immigration from
all the chief strains in Europe, and, though there are
some unassimilated pools here and there, the mixing
goes on and a stable population of rather varied types
of men is in sight. That diversity of origin has the
most profound consequences. No more than half
the people of the States owe their origin to British
sources.
It has been said that of the three great democ-
racies France specialised in equality, England in
liberty and the United States in fraternity. You will
find all three in the United States, but the greatest
of them is fraternity.
Regarding American games and sports there is
the possibility of misunderstanding. The average
American has inherited something of the tradition of
the American Indian, through the redoubtable frontier
fighters who beat the Indian at his own game. There
is the same preliminary war dance and concurrent
excitement, the same love of violent action and speech,
the same war cries and the same concentration on the
scalp as the object of the expedition. You will find
plenty of sportsmanship, and a code of what is and
what is not done. But it is not always our code, and
you may be surprised at some of the things that are
done. Don’t expect the stately minuet of cricket with
its elaborate etiquette on the baseball field. The idea
is to win, not just to have a game—and it is not a
bad idea for a fighting man.
Americans do business as they play games, with
great attack and vigor, zest and enjoyment, and to
win. The money is not sought for its own sake par-
ticularly and Americans are not more avaricious than
other people in business. But the dollar is a scalp,
the symbol of achievement and success, and is pur-
sued as such. More than that, Americans like the
activities and excitements of business for their own
sake as well as for the distinction that success in them
brings. England is a country where men of leisure
often take to business, while America is a country
where men of business take to leisure only occasion-
ally and reluctantly. Culture and social activities are
still mainly left to the women.
Nazi Terror in Poland.
[This further report on the brutalities inflicted on
the Polish people is condensed from an article by the
diplomatic correspondent of Manchester “Guardian.”]
From what is already known of the story of
Poland during the past two years it is almost incon-
ceivable that the wit of man can devise new refine-
ments of torture to add to the catalogue of misery and
persecution. But there appears to be no limit to the
callousness or ingenuity of German specialists in terror.
In no other country which has fallen to the
Germans have their crimes exceeded those committed
against the Polish people, and when the dire story is
revealed in its entirety it will no doubt equal, if it does
not surpass, any previous epic of human suffering and
endurance.
From the very outset the Germans have stuck
rigidly to their traditional theory that the Poles have
no claim to existence as a separate nation. In Ger-
man eyes they are the scum that must be wiped off
the map of Europe, and accordingly either exter-
minated or reduced to a condition of helpless, State-
less servitude.
Consciously and with full deliberation, therefore,
the occupying forces have set out to achieve this aim,
the whole fury of vengeance and destruction being let
loose upon the inhabitants of Poland. They have left
nothing to chance. Men have been shot for the “fun”
of the thing. Thousands have been put into concen-
tration camps or deported to Germany as slaves, and


Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources .)
those who are allowed their freedom, if such it can
be called, are hardly in better case, being subject to
humiliating restrictions on every side.
The food shortage in Poland has now become a
famine, which is spreading throughout the country. In
rural districts a large acreage of land could not be
tilled this year, partly on account of shortage of labor,
partly because agricultural implements and horses had
been requisitioned, leaving the peasants no tools with
which to get a living from the soil.
Nevertheless, the Germans insist that a portion,
and no small portion, of the harvest is to be handed
over to their use, irrespective of whether enough
remains to meet the modest needs of the population.
Many country districts are in consequence almost
denuded of food supplies, and in the towns the situa-
tion is even worse.
The purchasing-power of any money earned is
such that even those in work are unable to keep body
and soul together, while for the vast number of un-
employed starvation is almost inevitable. Polish
towns today are crowded with haggard and miserable
loiterers, begging from passers-by.
There is no alternative, for Polish welfare organi-
sations, like all other Polish public bodies, are severely
restricted in their activities. They are not even in a
position to cater for the innumerable children who
have been deprived of educational facilities. The Ger-
man military authorities have commandeered many of
the elementary schools, but have not, of course,
thought fit to provide alternative accommodation.
Consequently, the children are running wild, or have
taken to petty thieving or begging in the streets. Thus
has arisen a social problem of the first order.
In every sphere of life, in every form of human
activity, the heavy hand of Germany can be seen.
Railway travel is restricted, only Germans being
allowed to come and go as they please. Poles wishing
to move about their own country must first get special
permission, which is a very difficult matter. Few can
afford it, in any case.
Under the German regime, the entire nation has
become impoverished. There is no such thing as
wealth in Poland nowadays, nor even the comfortable
prosperity associated with the middle class. Everyone
is poor. And the poorest of all are the Jews, who have
been deprived of every means of gaining a livelihood.
The names of more than 400,000 of them are regis-
tered in Warsaw’s ghetto alone, and the weekly death-
roll in this ghastly haunt of human misery now
amounts to 600 persons.
The Germans may have caused the Poles to drink
the dregs of humiliation, but they have not brought
them to cease resistance. Poland’s moral integrity is
unimpaired. No Quisling has appeared in Poland,
and the people, despite the odds against them, main-
tain the fight against the conqueror in their own way.
Sabotage is frequent, and even guerrilla bands oppose
the Gestapo rule.
Too many Russians have died ; too much earth
has been scorched; the people of Russia have in-
vested too heavily in victory to stop fighting for the
sake of a shoddy peace. Stalin must know this ; that
any separate peace which left half of Russia under
Nazi control and the rest at the mercy of Germany
and Japan would be regarded by the stubborn de-
fenders of Russian soil as a traitorous betrayal.
Besides, Stalin has before him the example of Mar-
shal Petain, who sought a soldier’s truce at Hitlers
hands, only to stand today as the symbol a State
in vassalage to Nazi Germany. — New York Times.
*****
A thing astonishing to the average lifelong student
of the world’s great military campaigns is the rapid
fluctuations of public hope and fear, confidence and
apprehension, with the weekly or monthly flow and
ebb in the tide of today’s great battles.
What was the element that sustained both Lincoln
and Napoleon, in spite of days as black as the pit?
It was neither any cocky conclusion from momentary
victory nor any confidence in victory at every local
success. It was a dogged determination to minimise
all moments of apparent disaster and a sublime faith
in eventual victory. Perhaps no man on earth has
these qualities to an extent equal to those of Winston
Churchill. For the rest of us it would be well not
to indulge in too many ups and downs from the war
bulletins. — Hugh S. Johnson, in New York “World-
Telegramr *
In reading Lord Gort’s dispatches it is worth
while to compare the situation in which he found
himself, entirely subordinate to and under direct
orders of a French Army Commander, with that
contemplated by Lord Kitchener, Secretary of State
for War in 1914, in his instructions to Sir John French,
our Commander-in-Chief in August of that year.
Among other provisos these instructions say that, the
numerical strength of the British force being strictly
limited, this consideration must be kept steadily m
view and the greatest care taken to avoid loss and
wastage. Further, the gravest consideration would
devolve on Sir John French as to his participation
in forward movements where his forces might be
unduly exposed to attack. And, lastly, that his Com-
mand was an entirely independent one, and that in
no case would he come in any sense under the orders
of any Allied general. These instructions have been
often criticised as ungenerous in our attitude towards
our French Allies of 1914, but who can now say,
taking a lesson from more recent events, that they
were not prudent and farseeing?— Brigadier-General
G Grogan ; London “Times” letter.
% * * * *
U.S. Aeronautical Chamber of Commerce reports
that production by the aircraft industry for the first
six months of 1941 reached $617,435,000 worth of
’planes, engines and propellers. This compares with
a value of $544,440,000 for the entire year of 1940.
Deliveries for the first six months of 1941 were up
182 p.c. as compared with the same period of last
year. The index of man-hours worked shows a rise of
19,460,000 in the last six months. — New York “Times”
* * * * ♦
Lest it be said again, when this war is over, that
the stories of German atrocities were inventions of
the British propaganda machine and were spread
abroad to inflame the gullible Americans against a
proud but kindly people, the day-to-day record of
the slaughter of hostages in France and other con-
quered lands should be preserved with special care.
It will be remembered that after the first war a
counter-propaganda was circulated for the purpose
of cleansing the Germans of their sins against inno-
cent and helpless captives. It was scornfully denied
that the Germans had crucified a Canadian soldier
on a bam door and that they had ever cut off the
hands of babies or the breasts of Belgian women or
skewered Belgian children on their bayonets. But it
had never been seriously alleged that they had com-
mitted any of these horrors, and rumors that they
had done so had been investigated and repudiated long
before. Nevertheless, the real atrocities remained in
the record, but were forgotten in the confusion regard-
ing crimes that never took place. It was as though
a man guilty of beating a cripple to death with a
bat were to set up a hullabaloo that he had never
thrown a baby into a furnace and thus completely
divert attention from the fact that he actually did
slaughter the cripple as charged.— Westbrook Pegler,
in New York “World-Telegram.”
* * * ♦ •
Lord Moyne, Secretary of State for the Colonies,
expressed surprise that Lord Strabolgi had referred
to the fact that we had not created a second front
as “our greatest humiliation,” and continued: I should
have thought that the warning of Lord Gort’s dis-
patches, the lesson of Dunkirk, would have gone
home to everyone who had studied the military
problem. (Hear, hear.) Surely it would be madness
for us to improvise an expedition of that kind. You
London “Daily Mirror.”
“COME. NOW—ANY FURTHER BID. ADOLF?”
cannot land a well-equipped army without vast ship-
ping. How could such a flotilla have been brought
together in this short period? If you had brought it
together what chance would there have been of its
landing its cargoes of human beings and
Lord Strabolgi: I did not refer to Lord Gorts
dispatches purposely. They strengthen my arguments.
Lord Gort’s small army held off half the German
Panzer divisions.
Lord Moyne: When the noble lord talks of Lord
Gort’s small army, does he remember that it took
six months to land, that it meant the whole unfolding
of our resources at the time? How can you hope
to give even as good a chance as was possessed by
Lord Gort to an improvised force landing under
present conditions? Would it not be folly to denude
this country of the army we need in case of invasion?
We had sent a great and growing force to the Near
East, and I cannot imagine anything which would
suit Hitler’s game better than if we adopted the
Chinese method of committing suicide on your enemy s
doorstep. The whole conditions of war and the land-
ing of troops have changed since Gallipoli. You
cannot now land men with any chance of success
merely with rifles and bandoliers to face all the artil-
lery and tanks that are available in France for resist-
ing them. — London “Times” Parliamentary report.
*****
Everybody will understand the regret expressed
by Stalin that there is no second front to help relieve
the pressure of the Nazi armies in Russia. But Stalin
was not the first to urge the importance of engaging
the enemy on two fronts. At the time, in May and
June of last year, that Holland, Belgium and France
were suddenly assaulted by Nazi Panzer divisions, a
Russian front would have been an enormous help.
New York “Sun.”
* * * * .
Potentially we [Americans] are the mightiest
nation on earth. But our fundamental weakness is
that we don’t know what we want. We insist on the
impossible of eating our cake and having it. 1 nat is
why we never really got going in the last war. mar
is why we lost the peace 23 years ago. We wsmt to
go into the water, but we don’t want to get wet. We
want victory without paying the price of victory, we
want all-out preparedness, but without sacrificing
business as usual, strikes as usual, comforts as usual.
—New York “World-Telegram” just prior to Japans
attack, at which time the comment did not apply only
to America. ° ,
* * * W m
Second-Lieutenant R. E. G. Cox, aged 24, of the
Indian Army, who has arrived in England on sick
leave, and who lives at Fareham, Hants, described
how 12 men on a capsizing raft as small as a hearth-
rug, blistered by the sun, without food or drink, were
stalked by man-eating sharks for five and a half days.
One by one they fell victims to the sharks until only
three remained. Lieutenant Cox, who after being
rescued weighed 6st. 31b., compared with his normal
weight of 13st, and was so blistered and weak that
doctors at first gave up hope of saying his life, was
on his way to take up duties in India when the nier-
chant ship in which he was travelling was sunk by a
German raider in the Atlantic, 1200 miles from land.
He said: —•
“The raider stopped us and started shelling. Our
gun and aerial were shot away, and when the captain
decided to make a run for it the enemy let us have
it worse than ever and many passengers, including
women, were killed. The raider gave us five minutes
to take to the boats, most of which were riddled witft
shell holes and useless.
“Our frail craft overturned hundreds of times
during the five and a half days we were floating about,
and each time we managed to get back on it before
the sharks could devour us. One man strapped to
the side in a lifejacket was washed away, and another
who swam after him was killed by a big fish- Lack
of food and water began to tell on us. One by one
the men fell a victim to the sharks, until only three
of us remained. Then at last we sighted a Spams i
ship and were lifted on board in slings. At Tenenfie
we were placed in charge of a famous Spanish physi-
cian, who saved our lives, including that of one man
suffering from gangrene after his legs had been almost
bitten off by a shark.”— London “Times”
* * * * *
Many kindly people want to support the orphan
entrusted to them at their own expense, but the
Ministry says firmly that in every case the Govern-
ment allowance for the child must be paid. The
foster-parents may put it aside
for the child’s welfare. The
Ministry does not wish the
child to be regarded as the
recipient of charity. It is
training the war orphans to
be self-supporting. Man-
chester “Guardian” London
correspondent.
* * *
“From the first day of
the German attack on Russia
the Government has gone all
out to aid Russia with sup-
plies. Very substantial quan-
tities of rubber, tin, alu-
minium, lead, jute, steel and
woollen cloth, also several
million pairs of boots, were
supplied during the first three
months of the Russo-German
war. Then came the Moscow
conference when plans for
the future were worked out in
detail, and when Stalin ex-
pressed his thanks to the
United States and Great
Britain for their bountiful
supplies of raw materials, machine tools and muni-
tions of war. For obvious reasons, including the
interests of our brave Russian Allies themselves, full
details of British aid to Russia cannot be given in
public. But it can be stated quite plainly that the Gov-
ernment has done, is doing and will do everything pos-
sible to supply Russian needs.” — Mr. Hugh Dalton,
Britain’s Minister of Economic Warfare.
* * * * *
Lord Moyne said that the peak figure of the
R.A.F. in the last war was 291,000, We were aiming
at several times that number today. As the Air Force
grew the industry that enabled it to remain in the air
had to grow in greater proportion. In 1918 £5OOO
would pay for most of the fighters. The most costly
aeroplane in the last war was the Handley Page night
bomber, which cost what was then considered the
fantastic figure of £12,500. That was the cost of
a fighter today. The cost of the 817 E turned out
on a large scale in America was £70,000. — London
“Times” Parliamentary report.
* * * * *
This Diarist thought it worth the space to collect
a little table of dates, as if to be pasted in one’s hat.
Here it is:
Austria, March, 1938.
Czechoslovakia, March, 1939.
Poland, September, 1939,
Norway, April, 1940.
Denmark, April, 1940.
Holland, May, 1940.
Belgium, May, 1940.
Luxembourg, May, 1940.
France, June, 1940.
Hungary, November, 1940.
Rumania, November, 1940.
Bulgaria, March, 1941.
Yugoslavia, April, 1941.
Greece, May, 1941.
That counts up to 14 once-independent countries,
brought into Hitler’s New European Order in the
months specified. Italy may be considered to belong
there, but we’ll allow a technical exemption. All but
Hungary, Rumania and Bulgaria were brought in by
direct military action. A place was reserved, we under-
stand, for Russia, around July, 1941, but the time nas
been indefinitely postponed. And m November
Andorra became No. 15. Andorra’s population of
5231 did not resist. — New York “Post” Diarist.


THE ARMIDALE SCHOOL
3400 feet above sea level.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL situated
in the country.
Spacious buildings and grounds—4o acres of
playing fields.
Well-equipped Junior House separate from the
rest of the School with its own playing fields
and tennis courts.
Matrons are trained nurses.
School prepares boys for the various Public
Examinations.
Boys are trained for Professional, Commercial
or Pastoral careers. A Special Agricultural
Science Course is offered.
Arrangements may be made for boys during
the short holidays.
Illustrated Prospectus on application to the
Bursar.
G. A. Fisher, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
Missing Friends.
RICHARD GIBSON MALCOLM JONES, son
of A. E. Jones, born Cobbora, N.S.W., is re-
quested to communicate with DIBBS,
CROWTHER & OSBORNE, Solicitors, 16
Barrack Street, Sydney, when he will be advised
of property accruing to his benefit.
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
EDNA MAY BISSELL {nee Edna May Man-
son), wife of Alfred Bissell, formerly of Bris-
bane, is requested to communicate with S. T.
DUELL, Solicitor, King House, 79 Queen
Street. Brisbane.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Claudia”
David Naughton, architect, of New
York City, likes farming and conceives
the idea of settling down as a gentleman
farmer. His uneducated young wife, fresh
from finishing school, finds, however,
that farms are deplorably sexy places and
everything about the place that enchants
her husband bores her to distraction. She
even sells the farm to a wandering prima
donna in her husband’s absence and he
has to negative the transaction. She gets
it into her head that she has a fixation
on her mother, and a momentary flirta-
tion with the handsome young man who
owns the neighboring allotment confirms
her in the belief that she is the victim
of a complex.
That is the theme of the new play by
Rose Franken which the Minerva people
are offering at Melbourne Comedy. It
presents a problem which would require
the knowledge of a Freud, an Adler and
a Jung all boiled into one to unravel,
and they would probably disagree
about it. But Miss Franken has no mis-
givings about her ability to handle the
situation. She solves it by making the
young wife have a baby and sending the
mother back to the farm with a disease
which the doctors have told her will kill
her within six months. Although she
has never hitherto been interested in
anything but herself, the young wife de-
cides to devote herself to the coming
baby and the departing mother, and a
not unpromising play comes to an un-
satisfactorily satisfactory conclusion.
Making her first appearance in Aus-
tralia, Terry Walker, a Hollywood actress,
played the leading role in an artfully
artless manner, and, being an attractive-
looking creature, got away with some-
thing, if it wasn’t exactly the authoress’s
conception. Lloyd Lamble was seriously
disposed towards his part of the husband
who finds himself with a psychological
problem for a partner. John McCallum
seemed cast by nature for the role of the
philandering neighbor, but after the
second scene was lost to the action.
Lorna Forbes was Shakspeareanly solemn
as a German servant, and as the mother
under a medical death sentence was as
unreal as the playwright made her.
* * * *
Second serving of “Messiah” in Mel-
bourne on Christmas night drew another
vast audience to the Town Hall, heat
and air-raid warnings notwithstanding.
A.B.C. was the sponsor, and Bernard
Heinze wielded the baton over the Mel-
bourne Symphony Orchestra, the Phil-
harmonics, and nearly as good a team
of soloists as has been brought together
for a long time. If the performance
lacked anything in that direction it was
more than made up for by the singing
of the Philharmonic gentlemen and
ladies, who, having been trained to a
hair by Dan Hardy, were outstanding.
Anthony Strange gave drama and crisp
intonation to the tenor role but was a
note or two short of Heddle Nash’s rich-
ness of expression. Joan Jones gave
her contralto full rein in “He Was
Despised,” and Stanley Clarkson got a
prolonged ovation for his powerful sing-
ing of bass solos. Amelia Scarce seemed
to be forcing a mezzo-soprano to do
service as soprano on occasions, but cast
the usual spell on the crowd by her sing-
ing of “Come unto Him.” Frederick Earl
was at the organ.
sfc * * *
As usual, J.C.W. has made the most
elaborate attempt to present panto, to
the nation at Melbourne His Majesty’s,
and it is a fair effort, even if there is
too much pseudo-ballet. “Babes in the
Wood” is the selected thread on which
Clem Dawe, Eric Edgley and Don Nicol
hang their fooling ; Valerie Meehan and
Pat Keating are the twins who get cov-
ered with banana leaves in the forest;
and Miriam Lester is the bold Robin
Hood who finds them none the worse for
wear and restores them to their signally
benign wicked uncle, Sydney Wheeler.
Panto, is the sediment of drama, and it
would seem to be a mistake to make
too much of the story if it weren’t for
the fact that the children appear to be
able to follow the demented narrative
with a breathless attention which is in-
explicable to their parents.
♦ % *
Marjorie Gordon is going home from
Robinson Crusoe’s island in a British
battleship six times a week at Melbourne
King’s, where the panto, is currently
raging. The King’s show looks to have
been hastily slung together under black-
out conditions, but, rather surprising
in present circumstances, there is a
tribute at the end to the Australian man
on the land, who is represented by a suc-
cession of semi-naked damsels garbed as
A spot of friendly co-operation between the Dragon and Sir Giles, the
dragon-killer, in “The Reluctant Dragon,” at Sydney Mayfair.
the Spirits of Wheat, Wool and other
primary industries. The Leotards, who
lift each other about with their teeth
and their middle fingers, are as astonish-
ing as ever.
* * * *
Melb. Tiv.’s Yuletide offering this year
to the kiddies and their parents is “Cin-
derella,” and it is excellent entertain-
ment. It is difficult to know whether
George Wallace, Syd Beck, Banner
Forbutt, the Wizard on Wheels, Marie
Hollis, the American Dancing Star,
Wong Toy Sing and Co., the Chinese
Magicians, and the Tivoli lovelies are en-
gaged in fighting a delaying action against
the story or the story is fighting a delay-
ing action against the regular Tivoli pro-
gramme. But it is all good fun. Molly
Duval is a fetching Cinderella and
Messrs. Wallace apd Beck don’t give
Demon King Cecil Perry time to be
platitudinously boring. Moreover, Cin-
derella leaves for the ball in a magnifi-
cent coach of mirrors drawn by four
real ponies.
ARTBURSTS
than Rembrandt ever dreamed of doing.
Nornie Gude makes off with the travel-
ling scholarship (which she can’t use until
the war is over) with a large canvas of
a man reading to a semi-nude woman
who isn’t listening. Second prize goes
to C. Bush for a composition which in-
cludes a young man, a girl and a gramo-
phone record, and in which everything
looks like celluloid except the record.
The Ramsay Prize goes to G. J. Brown-
ing for an attractive girl in pink, whose
eyes, unfortunately, are outside the
canvas. The most ambitious effort is a
large charcoal drawing of the studio by
K. Sylvester, which is pushed as far as
Gallery conventions will let it.
* * * *
A strange work of art is causing some
discussion in Adelaide. It is a plaster
crucifix by Marguerite Richardson, a local
sculptor who aspires to a foundry of
her own for bronze work. The figure,
instead of the usual statuesque pose,
hangs down at the full length of the
arms, with the knees bent in the last
extreme of collapse. The artist says she
has “shown the peace of God in the
face,” but sheer human agony in the
body is the one thing that strikes the
beholder ; and this was probably her idea.
The crucifix has been bought for the
chapel of a Christian Brothers’ school.
* * * *
Adelaide Society of Arts finished the
year with a sound show by Esmond
George, a versatile S.A. soldier who was
at one time secretary to the Repertory
Theatre in Perth. He has a few oils,
including a portrait of Walter Murdoch
and a really fine market scene in Tetuan,
also a few English scenes from Kensing-
ton Gardens to Wales. But mainly he
sets out bits of Palestine and the coun-
try thereabouts, some of it with a marked
resemblance to Australia, some utterly
different. Simple but effective ; and, the
prices being kept low, the number of
sales is remarkable for these times.
While the Old Masters are being taken
down from the walls in the galleries
adjacent and packed against air raids,
the potential new masters are showing
their year’s production in the Vic. Nat.
Gallery school in Melbourne. Most of
the work presented follows the tradition,
the worst aspect of which is that stu-
dents are asked to attempt to do more
AT THE TALKIES
“Love on the Dole”
Possibly the grim, monotonous picture
of a Lancashire millhand’s family during
the depression, as presented by this cur-
rent offering at Sydney Embassy, is only
too authentic. Possibly, too, the girl—
the young social reformer she was about
to marry killed in a riot, her father un-
employed, her young brother also out of
work and just marrying in time a girl
he’d got into trouble, and herself becom-
ing the mistress of the local s.p. man in
an attempt to help her family—is also
an authentic character. And, possibly,
the rest of the characters, the setting and
the conditions depicted are only too true.
But as entertainment the film is a pretty
stiff dose. Perhaps it could be more prop-
erly classed as a bare social statement
unrelieved by any entertaining qualities.
It has through it a sustained current of
monotony —acting monotonously good
without rising to any degree of excel-
lence ; directing on the same plane;
photography monotonously and heavily
dramatic ; and the whole story never fall-
ing from an unvaried note of drama nor
rising to any dramatic height—that
proved too much for this commentator’s
resistance, anyway.
• * * •
It wouldn’t be a fair thing to give away
anything of the plot of “Suspicion,” cur-
rent at Sydney Century. Suffice that it
is a first-rate drama and, while it turns
in some calculated spine-tingling, it has
too much quality to be classed merely
as a thriller. Joan Fontaine, after her
earlier appearance as a dancing partner
to Fred Astaire, made a good fist of a
dramatic role in “Rebecca,” and she fol-
lows it up with another good perform-
ance in this offering. Opposite her Cary
Grant doesn’t seem to be losing any-
thing by having a break from frivolous
comedy parts.
* * * #
“That Night in Rio,” at Sydney
Regent: a lavish musical in color with
Alice Faye and the fiery Carmen Mir-
anda well up to the mark, and Don
Ameche, given a part within his scope,
turning in some quite decent acting. He
has a dual role—a South American mil-
lionaire banker and his double, a stage
artist visiting the southern parts and
doing a stage impersonation of the baron.
When the baron dabbles a little deeply in
stocks and shares it becomes urgently
necessary that he should be elsewhere
trying to raise funds and at the same
time present on the home front to keep
up appearances. Don fills the bill, with
Alice Faye as the baron’s wife adding no
hardship to the job. The story is strong
enough, along familiar lines, to make a
presentable comedy in itself —the color-
ful musical stuff is served as a bonus.
* * * ¥
Chief points of interest in “Dive
Bomber,” at Sydney Plaza, are the par-
ticularly effective use of technicolor with-
out the usual striving for dazzling effects,
shots of some of Uncle Sam’s very hand-
some ’planes, generally interesting stuff
on the works of the U.S. Air Force and
flying in general, and the agreeably sur-
prising absence of any lurv interest. Story
deals with the phenomenon known as
“blackout,” a temporary loss of con-
sciousness experienced by pilots in dive-
bombing and other flying involving diving
from high altitude and straightening out
rapidly into level flight. Errol Flynn and
Ralph Bellamy are air force medicoes
engaged in medical research, particularly
as to the cause and cure of “blackout” ;
Fred Mac Murray is the flying-officer who
provides himself as a human guinea-pig
for the experiments. Apart from traces
of false sentimentality film makes very
good entertainment.
* * * *
The first episode on the current bill at
Sydney Victory is “Naval Academy,”
which has Freddie Bartholomew in a
stock tale about a naval training school.
Three familiar types wend their familiarly
tortuous paths through the school —the
youth with the service in his blood who
is tempted to dishonesty, the embittered
reform-school youth who is shown a
better way of life, and the pampered
puppy who is depampered. Main item
on the same bill is “The Big Score,” a
Marx Bros, comedy which combines
bright moments with some rather dull
stretches. However, the “brights” wield
a fair majority, and, with the usual scenes
of Chico at the ivories and Harpo on
the harp, it’s lightly amusing.
* * * *
“Lady Be Good,” at Sydney St. James:
a light musical hotchpotch with Robert
Young as a writer of tunes and Ann
Sothern as his missus and writer of the
words. The story follows more trails
than a dog hunting a flea, but it’s deco-
rated with a handful of ditties and some
spectacular hoofing from Eleanor Powell
and three negro hoofers each of whom
appears to have more agility than a
double-jointed snake. John Carroll, who
has a fair sort of baritone, and Red Skel- w
ton, M.-G.-M.’s latest comedian, help the
piece to make the f.a.q. entertainment
grade.
* * * *
“In the Navy,” at Sydney State; Bud
Abbott and Lou Costello in a light stretch
of clowning about a radio warbler (Dick
Powell) who joins the navy to get away
from the horde of females who dog his
footsteps from daylight till dark. A
female news photographer follows him
and, of course, manages to smuggle her-
self aboard a battleship and travel to
Honolulu as an A.B. or something. The
only thing about the film that can’t be
worked out half an hour before it hap-
pens is the clowning of the two
comedians, Abbott and Costello.


BANISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE ....
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man-
hood. Price 10/6.
WRITE
TO-DAY
T. JONES E CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
TIME WORKS CHANGES IN FAMILIES.
Time works changes in family circumstances. It creates problems that only the experi-
enced may be able to foresee. For that reason it is wise to appoint in your Will an
experienced and level-headed Executor and Trustee, one upon whose integrity, mental
vigour, and good judgment you can rely ; one who will never die.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited, offers you the permanence of a Company, the
collective judgment of many trained minds and an understanding of family financial and
business problems born of 56 years’ experience with thousands of Estates.
That you may understand the Company’s service, ask that we send you a copy of a
book, “Your Executor and Trustee.” It explains the service in detail, and tells what it
costs. Write now while you think of it.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS *
T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Brigadier the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.;
E. R. Knox; H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others,
Administrator, etc.
33-39 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
BRANDALER-S
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BBANDADKR A CO, Ud, BIKMIMGHAM. EHO
Business,Rollery,Etc.
War-damage Insurance
War-damage insurance is a necessary
measure. It would be clearly unfair to
expect essential industries to run the
special risk of bombardment by the
enemy when their profits are closely con-
trolled and allow no margin for special
war-risk insurance. If they had to insure
against war damage on their own they
would have to pay a far heavier premium
than that asked on private dwellings. It
is only by averaging the risk over all
kinds of property that anything like fair-
ness can be achieved in the matter. From
a physical viewpoint the defence indus-
tries help protect the civilian and his
home. From a monetary viewpoint the
civilian will have to help protect the
defence industries, while at the same time
helping to protect the value of his own
property.
In the outline of the war-damage in-
surance plan to be introduced in Aus-
tralia, a commission will be set up to
control the insurance fund and administer
the scheme. Private schemes of insurance
will be prohibited. Buildings and fixed
property (excluding land) must be in-
sured at a valuation to be fixed by the
owner, with the right of variation by the
commission and appeal by the owner.
Church property, public hospitals and
charitable institutions will be covered free
of charge. Charities for
the advancement of edu-
cation or science will be
covered at third rates.
The Commonwealth will
carry its own insurance ;
the States may insure
provided all their prop-
erty is covered. Local-
government bodies must
insure. For real prop-
erty the proposed pre-
mium rate is put at 4s.
per cent.
Insurance on plant is
compulsory where the
value is over £lOOO and
optional where the
amount is less. The
premium rate has yet to be determined.
Personal effects may be voluntarily in-
sured. In the case of commodity stocks,
cover will have to be taken out where
the value exceeds £lOOO.
Except in the case of real property,
insurance will be carried out by insurance
offices acting as agents for the Com-
monwealth. The commission will have
power to fix and review premium rates
in “the light of experience.” Any sur-
plus funds arising from war-damage in-
surance “will be used for post-war re-
construction or readjustment in such man-
ner as Parliament determines.”
Some consider the premium rate for
property —4s. per cent., and the only rate
given in the first announcement —to be
too high. This is something that the
“light of experience” should eventually
decide. Every effort should be made,
however, to see that the entire scheme
is run as an insurance office and not as a
typical Government war-time department.
There will be a lot of money flowing in,
and in cases where revenue has been easy
in the past it has been customary for the
department concerned to get exaggerated
ideas of its own importance, and to add
unnecessary frills to its activities and im-
pose irksome regulations on the public
in order to justify an expanded existence.
There is another aspect. How are
the insurance funds to be invested while
they are not being called on to meet
claims? These funds may not be so vast
as would seem at first sight. The value
of all factory buildings and plant in Aus-
tralia would be in the vicinity of £2OO
million. At an average rate of 4s. per
cent, the premiums on that would amount
to £400,000 a year. Though private
dwellings would bulk larger in insurances
than factories, total premium income may
not exceed more than a few millions a
year. In that case, so long as the risk
run does not warrant the increasing of
the premium rate, there should be little
risk of inflation occurring from the
building-up of an adequate insurance
fund or the distribution of it later on.
In spite of his many qualities, Aus-
tralia’s Priminister Curtin has not shown
up to advantage in matters of finance. A
man of many parts, he apparently has
never devoted to this particular subject
the special attention it requires. And he
has shown a thin-skinned sensitivity to any
criticism of his Government’s financial
policy, choosing to answer in any terms
rather than those of finance. His stand
is reminiscent of the Labor party’s atti-
tude towards Otto Niemeyer’s advice to
Australia in 1930. Soon after the Chif-
ley Budget was brought down by the
present Government, London “Financial
“Beat you to it this time, boy!”
News” criticised Australian Labor’s finan-
cial policy on the following lines:
The stage has been reached in Australia
at which inflation can only be averted by a
curtailment of general consumption. All
evidence shows that consumption is still
high.
Inflation looms if sound finance is sacri-
ficed for vote-catching. The Budget will
certainly tend to increase Labor’s following,
but it will be a matter for regret if the price
of greater political stability has to be dis-
astrous financial instability.
The Budget is born from party political
strife, and bears the strongest imprint of
its origin. “Soaking the rich” is everywhere
the keynote
A lowering of State income tax is neces-
sary if the total taxation in some ranges is
not to exceed 20s. in the £l, while, in
contrast, a vast number of incomes below
£2OO remain exempt, meaning that 300,000
wage-earners make no direct contribution,
while 80 per cent, ofi the national income
escapes any additional burden.
Although the British Government comes
in for plenty of criticism from Austra-
lians, Mr. Curtin spoke of the article in
the “Financial News” as “impertinent
criticism,” apparently forgetting that
British investors have several hundred
million pounds at stake in this country,
as well as an almost direct interest in
Australia’s war effort, the same as Aus-
tralia has in Britain’s fight. The Prime
Minister went on to say:
The Budget is Australia’s business. It was
devised by Australians for Australians
Our critic finds fault while acknowledging
that the Budget will evoke larger support
for its propounders than they previously
had. I agree. A good Budget does win
support from those whom it concerns.
The “Financial News” is concerned for
the wealthy companies and the higher in-
comes. We, too, are concerned that they
give back to the nation the profits occa-
sioned by war conditions. Maybe the
“Financial News” would prefer to soak the
poor. The fact is that no Australian news-
paper has said the things this journal of
oversea moneyed interests has presumed to
say.
There was more in the same strain, most
of it begging the question. But up to the
present the “Financial News” has had all
the honors. The Curtin Government
within seven weeks of the introduction
of its Budget has found it necessary to
soak the “poor”—those on under £3O a
week. It has found it necessary to go
to even greater lengths in this direction
than its predecessor proposed.
Nothing daunted by his argument with
the “Financial News,” Mr. Curtin has
more recently picked on the “Economist.”
According to the Sydney “Herald,” on
December 22 the Prime Minister said
that the “Economist” was an advocate of
the chattel relationship of Labor to
money. Everything the “Economist” had
said about Australian participation in the
war had been to oppose to
oppose increases in soldiers’ pay and “to
be the London mouthpiece of reactionary
Australian politicians.” The London
journal was not long in replying:
The “Economist” has no contact, directly
or indirectly, with any Australian politicians
whatsoever, reactionary or otherwise.
There have been very few references to
Australian soldiers’ pay in the “Economist,”
and even fewer remarks that could be
interpreted as an expression of opinion....
If paper were not scarce, an appro-
priate reply would be to present Mr.
Curtin with a subscription to the “Econo-
mist” in order that his next statement on
its views could be founded on facts rather
than imagination. He might even be
brought to apologise for his ignorant un-
truths.
Mr. Curtin will find as he goes on that
his Budget will stand plenty of improving
without necessarily having to tune into
Britain. And though he would be foolish
to accept all the advice offered to him, he
will be wise to give a little more tolerant
attention to those who were actively en-
gaged in the problem of war finance
during years when the Labor party in
Australia was in the wilderness. The
fact that the present Government is green
to office is the only excuse for the weak,
inflationary form its Budget first took.
* * * $
The annual meeting of O. Gilpin, Ltd.,
a chain-store co. with mostly Victorian
and N.S.W. country connections, was a
noisy affair. An advance to a director
of £12,258 was stated by chairman' O.
Gilpin to be a loan to himself. His in-
come last year, he said, was £6OOO and
his taxation bill £25,000. The co. held
as security for the loan 250,000 £1 shares
in O. Gilpin Trust Investment Pty.
Ordinary-share directors had voted in
favor of the loan, but knight Charles
Merrett, representing the £300,000 of
pref. capital, had been against it. A
shareholder asked for more representation
on the board for pref. shareholders. Mr.
Gilpin attributed the co.’s poorer turn-
over to the attraction of thousands of
pebple to the city as a result of the war-
time industrial activity, and to the enlist-
ments from country centres. He said
there were 20,000 empty houses in N. S.
Wales country districts, and that in Vic-
toria the position was much the same.
* * * *
The sale of motor-car tyres is being
rationed now that the position of rubber
imports is becoming uncertain. Manufac-
turers are not being permitted to sell to
retailers more than half the usual turn-
over of car tyres. Restrictions on tractor
and truck tyres won’t be so severe.
Maoriland has already placed restrictions
on tyre sales. In Britain the whole matter
of rubber consumption and control is
being swiftly overhauled.
* * * *
Present directors of National Oil Pty.,
the Glen Davis (N.S.W.) shale-oil concern,
are knight George Davis, Norman Fraser
(of Cockatoo Dock), A. E. Cooper (Sims
Cooper), Keith Butler (assistant manager
of the Newcastle steelworks), E. J. Kenny
(N.S.W. Government shale expert), and
C. C. Davis. Mr. Butler is the Common-
wealth Government representative ; two
more Commonwealth nominees are to be
appointed, and to enable this two of the
non-Government directors will retire.
L. J. Griffiths, of Australian Paper Manu-
facturers, will become managing director,
and John Spence, formerly N.S.W. Audi-
tor-General, will be a director with a
particular interest in the financial side.
D. J. Nolan, formerly of the Sydney
County Council, will be employed for a
time with Mr. Spence to carry out a sur-
vey of the financial position. All these
new arrangements, said Mr. Beasley,
Minister for Supply, had been made
amicably with the Davis interests and the
N. S. Wales Government. The new board
will comprise four Government nominees
and two directors representing National
Oil interests. The Commonwealth is in-
terested in the undertaking from a
national viewpoint as well as that of a
large creditor and guarantor.
* * * *
The N. S. Wales taxation laws have
been a subject of caustic comment
by the Bench and the accountancy pro-
fession for many years past, the ambiguity
and wordiness of the legislature
making it a web of confusion to the
expert as well as the layman. To put the
case very mildly, no attempt appears to
have been made to put the taxation enact-
ments in clear English, and inequitable
clauses and levies of doubtful constitu-
tional validity have been fought for by
the commissioner in the Courts. The
Commonwealth Act may be clearer, but
even it is full of tricks and complications
—and it is not improving. In this atmo-
sphere war-time taxation at a vastly in-
creased rate is being levied, and the very
complication of the taxation framework
must be adding enormously to the labor
of assessing and collecting. The Aus-
tralian taxation system has not been
designed to stand up to the strain of a
total war effort. It needs a great deal of
“streamlining” before it is likely to move
along smoothly. It is not an efficient
machine as it stands, and it is doubtful
if anywhere else in the world so much
compulsory and unpaid service is de-
manded of the employer by taxation de-
partments.
* * * *
Australia has been building up a trade
in many products, some of a perishable
nature, with the N.E.I. and Malaya. The
position of these exports is temporarily
obscure, but it is probable that essential
trade will be carried on eventually even
if arrangements are disturbed by the Japa-
nese menace for the time being. What is
going to happen to our export of metals is
also a problem, but metals, like wool, can
be stored if need be. Britain has con-
tracted to buy, f.0.b., a certain quantity
of Australian lead and spelter, up to
August 31, 1941, and the U.S.A. has been
taking any surplus of lead on a c.i.f.
basis, delivered in American ports. The
U.S.A. price is above the Australian lead
price, allowing for U.S.A. duties, but
there is the gamble of transport and in-
surance costs, as well as the ruling price
on the day of arrival in America. It isn’t
likely that the U.S.A. price has fallen
since war started, but the cost of freight
and insurance will increase, and so will
the hazard of getting the stuff there. Aus-
tralia’s growing war effort, and the immi-
nent need for further effort, will acceler-
ate the local demand for many metals.


LADIES' FITTED
DRESSING CASES
from KITCHINGS’.
m
In beautiful chrome tanned cowhide.
FITTED WITH mirror, comb, and hair
brush on lid and glass containers for
powder, toothpaste, scent, etc., on body
of case. Enamel and chrome fittings.
PRICES:
20 inches, £lO 22 inches, £ll.
Free Delivery to all Suburbs.
C E. KITCHING st
319 George Street, Sydney.
Near Wynyard Station. 8W7133.
For more smoking pleasure
in 1942 make “333’s please”
your buy-word. Make the
resolution now, and you’ll
agree there’s “luck in
Three’s.” You can look
forward to a year of better
smoking if you’ll just re-
member “The secret’s in the
333’s blend!”
OFFICER TYPE MILITARY BOOT
OFFICIAL PATTERN
• Abbey quality and Abbey
value are combined in' tbis sturdy
boot. Features include high
military leg, heavy double sole
and stout upper of genuine ooze
calf with calf lining throughout
and waterproof tongue.
The same boot in Zebu Leather, 52/6
47/6
OOZE CALF
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street,
224 Pitt Street.
YOUR
LUCKY NUMBER
FOR 1942!
m&iiimim
mmm
m
*
i
i
A 33.
Lend-Lease Terms
There were rumors some weeks ago
of special conditions being imposed by
the U.S.A. on the Australian Govern-
ment in respect of lend-lease (“lend-lease”
is the official term) goods coming to this
country, and that restrictions on com-
petitive ’ Australian manufacturing were
asked for by Washington. These rumors
were emphatically denied by Canberra.
As lend-lease is actually an arrangement
with Britain, and as Australia is only a
sub-borrower or -lessee, a little thought
should have been enough to dissipate
the rumors. They were not long-lived
in any case.
But there is still a good deal of con-
jecture about lend-lease matters. A cer-
tain amount of criticism and misunder-
standing arose early in the proceedings,
especially in the matter of Britain’s export
policy in relation to its lend-lease imports.
The British Government issued a White
Paper on its policy “with regard to
exports from Britain and the distribution
in Britain of lend-lease material.” In
view of the fact that Australia has built
up an elaborate lend-lease officialdom in
expectation of the receipt of lend-lease
material, the principal terms governing
Britain’s policy (which must also be Aus-
tralia’s policy) may become increasingly
important.
1. All materials obtained by Britain under
the Lend-Lease Act are required for the prose-
cution of the war effort. This principle governs
all questions of distribution and use, and
the Government will see that these goods are
not in any case diverted to the furtherance
of private interests.
Export Policy.
2. Lend-lease materials sent to Britain have
not been used for export, and every effort
will be made in the future to ensure that
they are not used for export.
3. The Government has not applied, and will
not apply, any materials similar to those sup-
plied under lend-lease in such a way as to
enable their exporters to enter new markets
or to extend their export trade at the-expense
of the United States exporters.
4. For some time past exports from the
United Kingdom have been more and more
confined to those essential (i) for the supply
of vital requirements of oversea countries,
particularly in the sterling Empire; (ii) for the
acquisition of foreign exchange, particularly
in the Western Hemisphere. The U.K. Gov-
ernment has adopted the policy summarised as
follows:
(i) No materials of a type the use of which
is being restricted in the United States on the
ground of short supply, and of whicn we
obtain supplies from the U.S.A., either by
payment or on lend-lease terms, will be used
in exports with the exception of the fol-
lowing special cases: —_
(a) Material which is needed oversea in
connection with supplies essential to the war
effort for ourselves and our Allies, and which
cannot be obtained from the United States.
(b) Small quantities of such materials
needed as minor though essential com-
ponents of exports which otherwise are com-
posed of materials not in short supply in the
United States.
(c) Repair parts for British machinery and
plant now in use, and machinery and plant
needed to complete installations now under
construction, so long as they have already
been contracted for.
Steps have been taken to prevent the ex-
port (except to Empire and Allied terri-
tories) of such goods which do not come
within the exceptions referred to in (a), (h)
and (c).
(ii) Materials similar to those being pro-
vided under lend-lease which are not in short
supply in the United States will not be used
for export in quantities greater than those
which we ourselves produce or buy from any
source.
Distribution in U.K.
5. The general principle followed in distribu-
tion is that the remuneration received by the dis-
tributors, whatever the method of distribution,
is controlled, and will be no more than a
fair return for the services rendered in the
work of distribution. The arrangements
rigorously exclude any opportunity for a specu-
lative profit by private interests from dealing
in lend-leased goods. In nrnst cases lend-
leased supplies will be distributed through
organisations acting as agents of the Govern-
ment in the strict sense of the term, and not as
principals. Where for strong practical reasons
this cannot be done a full explanation will be
supplied to the U.S. Administration and its
concurrence sought beforehand in any alternative
arrangements proposed. In the distribution of
lend-lease goods there will be no discrimina-
tion against United States firms.
6. Food is a special case. Only some 5 or 6
per cent, in tonnage of the total British food
supply is coming from the United States and,
without great practical complications, it would
be impossible to have a separate system for the
distribution of lend-leased food.
7. In some cases direct free distribution is
practicable and will be adopted. For example,
some milk products (including lend-leased sup-
plies from the United States) are distributed
direct and free of charge to children and
others in need through schools, clinics and hos-
pitals. The distribution is undertaken by State
agencies and the cost of the distribution is borne
by the Government.
The arrangements simply aim at dis-
tribution on the lines intended by the
U.S.A., with the necessary restrictions
and directions to keep on those lines.
They are sufficiently elastic to provide
for unusual cases in Britain’s export
trade. There are certain to be a number
of instances where the U.S.A. itself would
insist on discretion being used, especially
under paragraph 4 (i a).
High-sounding talk is often heard about
the Government earmarking this class
of property or that for the national effort,
and in particular motor-cars have been
mentioned. It isn’t likely that a Govern-
ment would commandeer cars, etc., with-
out compensation. It would be utterly
unjust to do so, even in the most urgent
of circumstances. No Government has
a right to discriminate between indivi-
duals and classes of property. It would be,
inequitable to take away the assets of a
man, without compensating him, just be-
cause what he possessed happened to be
wanted by the nation, and to let off another
man who happened to have his money in
something the Government was not par-
ticularly interested in. Some people may
feel that they are in a position to devote
a certain part of their property to national
service without any return. That is an-
other matter altogether.
All ideas of what is the best thing to
do with one’s savings have had to be
revised to a large extent as the war has
progressed. There has been no escaping
the toll of war on the national income-
and, of course, there should be no escape,
It happens, however, that the burden has
not been well spread—that investments
m companies have been particularly
penalised, and that the lower earn
comes have been let off But
though the outlook is uncertain and con
fusing, it will probably pay m the lo g
run to hold on to good shares rather than
to start chopping and changing now.


THE SERVICE MAN
Malaya and Thereabouts.
“Ek Dum”: Gradually the Pacific
situation is sorting itself out. The loss
of Penang and Hong Kong and the in-
vasion of Malaya and southern Burma
have disturbed amateur strategists to the
point of despair; but their despair is
premature. It was obvious from the be-
ginning that Hong Kong could not be
held ; and if Kedah went Penang with its
unsheltered roadstead and flat island must
also go.
On the Ipoh and eastern approaches,
reached at the end of the week, the in-
vaders of Malaya are still over 300 miles
from Singapore. It is mostly low-lying
country, not difficult compared with what
is coming for them further south, where
the terrain for almost the whole width
of the peninsula climbs into a tangle of
rugged hills, filled with good defensive
positions, and then dives into a great
seamed lateral gully which cuts across
the ranges near the level of Kuala Lum-
pur. The hills here form a final divided
bastion across the peninsula.
On each side of the hills there are
low-level coastal shelves, but they are
narrow. The Japanese advances seem to
be along two river valleys—Perak River
on the west, the Kelantan on the east —
with the ultimate aim of driving down
both coasts and the centre.
The Japs are not mad enough to try
to force their way through 400 miles of
sniper-harassed jungle, with several in-
termediate hill-based defence lines, if they
could land within reasonable distance of
their main objective.
The fact that they have chosen their
capital landing places 400 miles and more
from Singapore shows that they hold the
shore defences nearer Singapore in very
handsome respect. The argument that
they want to overrun the country first
does not hold water, because the surest,
easiest, least costly way of overrunning
it would be to take Singapore.
If Singapore were not easy to take the
easiest way would still be to make several
landings along the east coast. The Japs
could then run spearheads across the
peninsula, ripsaw fashion, as the Ger-
mans did in Yugoslavia and elsewhere,
isolating defence sections and gradually
mopping them up by infiltration. But
this, too, would depend on such landings
being easy or possible. And the Japanese
—despite the loss of Prince of Wales and
Repulse and the constant assurances of
“famous” correspondents that their forces
have overwhelming superiority in air-
power and methods of using it—do not
seem to feel that this procedure would
be profitable. Therefore, by compulsion,
they are making their main landings in
Thailand, at extreme air-range and a long
way from Singapore.
The insinuation that the British have
treated the Singapore problem as minor
and secondary is not supported by evi-
dence. Over a period of years they
built at Singapore a naval base
comparable with any in the world and
equipped it with a dock which would
take any warship which could conceiv-
ably be built within the next 20 years.
More than a year ago they appointed
as C.-in-C. an Air Chief Marshal, which
premised that the air command was equal
in status to that of the Middle East. His
work at that stage was mainly co-
ordination between the various air Powers
from Maoriland to India. And there were
sent to Singapore, besides a Minister of
the Crown, two great ships and the
Vice Chief of the Naval Staff, a full
admiral equal in rank and status to the
C.-in-C. Home Fleet.
When the defence reached a stage
calling for military overall command, the
Government gave the job to Lieut.-
General Pownall, Deputy Chief of the
Imperial General Staff, and promoted him
to be an acting-general, which presumes
the command of a very large force. He
had previously been C.O.S. to Gort’s
armies of 350,000 in Belgium and there
was nothing wrong with his staff work
there. His appointment in Malaya dates
from Nov. 18.
Lieut.-General Pownall has the help
of Major-General Lewis Heath, a
seasoned commander of Indian troops,
accustomed to Asian conditions and the
victor in the tough battles against what
seemed unassailable positions at Keren
in Eritrea. Also, there is our own Major-
General Gordon Bennett, one of the
youngest brigadiers in any army in the
last war.
These men are linked with General
Wavell’s command in India. Wavell has
formed Burma into a separate sub-
command and placed it under the Indian
Chief of Staff, Lieut.-General Hutton.
Nobody, of course, knows the number
of British Imperial troops in Malaya.
General Tojo says there are 140,000, in-
cluding 18,000 from England and 25,000
from Australia and N.Z. Between Sept. 1
and Nov. 6 alone the New York “Times”
correspondent at Singapore reported the
arrival of seven convoys from all parts
of the Empire, the last, a very large one,
including several thousand troops, R.A.F.
and A.A. units from Britain.
Air Chief Marshal Brooke-Popham has
said that those responsible judged accur-
ately the minimum number of troops
which would have been needed. Before he
retired from the chief command he main-
tained that Britain would not have been
justified in sending more in view of the
urgency of the need on other fronts
where fighting already was taking place.
Nothing much can be deduced from
the lack of large-scale air activity by the
British. In northern Malaya bombers are
no great shakes against a well dissipated
enemy in timber country, especially as
fighters cannot be used to advantage to
protect them owing to the distance. But
much can be deduced from the lack of
assaults from the air on Singapore. If
they thought it was another Cavite and
Nichols Field the Japanese would have
spared an aircraft-carrier or so and dealt
with it thoroughly.
Their initial raids on Singapore city
on Dec. 8 were designed to create panic
rather than military damage. The attacks
were delivered 12 miles from the naval
base, nine miles from the air base. And
three weeks afterwards the raiders had
not returned, though there had been
reconnaissances.
Beyond all doubt defence arrangements
were upset by the loss of Prince of Wales
and Repulse and also—more than is yet
realised —by the loss of American ships
at Pearl Harbor. But the invasion has
not yet reached a point where it may be
described as dangerous. The most useful
role for amateur strategists for the
moment is one of self-obliteration. Any
influence they can exercise is not salutary.
As military critics they are invariably
ridiculous.
Burma and the Road
Last week Japanese operations de-
veloped in four zones. In the detached
areas not concerned with any further
advance on a definite objective Hong
Kong surrendered, and Wake Island with
its 400-odd gallant and cheerful marines
was taken, though Midway Island held
out and sent a message on Christmas
Day: “We are still here.”
One series of attacks was directed
against the Burma Road. Aircraft made
attacks on the traffic of the Road itself
and a mass raid on Dec. 23 on Rangoon,
which is the port for the Road. Here
considerable damage was done, though
not on the wholesale scale described by
the Japanese themselves, who claimed to
have destroyed railway stations, docks,
electric-power plants and a number of
other military objectives. British and
U.S. fighters brought down nine raiders
out of between 50 and 60, which had
fighter escort. Several others were un-
likely to reach their bases. Only slight
damage was done in a dock area, and
there were R.A.F. casualties on an aero-
drome. Three British fighters were lost.
Pedestrians were machine-gunned by the
invaders. There was a further small raid
on Christmas Day. Apart from this,
some border skirmishing near Messlar on
the Thai border was the only active
feature of the Burmese war. There the
enemy was “shot up by our forces, which
suffered no casualties.”
If he intends to attack the Road from
North Thailand or Indo-China, the enemy
has a lot of preliminary organisation to
do, and it will cost him highly valuable
time. And progress up the western
Burma coast from Victoria Point or
across the Thai border and the Salween
towards Moulmein is a task for giants.
The Philippines and the N.E.I.
The most important main operation in
being is the attempted encirclement of
Singapore. It is being attempted in such
a way as to advertise the awareness of
the Japanese command of the magnitude
of the task ahead, and several operations
are in progress.
The attack on the Philippines is the
major one. Earlier landings, save that
at Davao in Mindanao on the far south,
were evidently diversions meant to draw
defending troops from main objectives.
The first serious attempt was on the
Lingayen Gulf, 120 miles to 150 miles
north-west of Manila, on Dec. 22. From
80,000 to 100,000 troops tried to land.
Large numbers got ashore, where they
were fiercely resisted. Nevertheless
they began to move slowly southward in
two fronts over the centre of the island
and down the coast, the defenders draw-
ing back before them to the strongly-
arranged lines encircling Manila Bay.
On Wednesday a second large invasion
was made on the west Luzon coast at
Antimonan, 70 miles south of Manila,
after an attempt had been beaten off at
Batangas, a little further north.
These new attackers came in the night
on 40 transports, while further armadas
in the Lingayen district were still pour-
ing boatloads of men on the beaches,
and heavy battles were in progress be-
tween San Fernando and San Tomas on
the northern railway.
Still another attack developed at
Lamon Bay, on the south of the island,
behind and on the east of Manila’s
defences. Its extent was not known at
the time of writing.
Early in the week there were desultory
air raids all over Luzon, and Manila was
declared an open town.
Up till Sunday night, Japanese Radio
alleged, no official notification to this
effect had been received. The Japanese
Command regarded the capital, therefore,
as containing military agencies and re-
jected the suggestion that it was demili-
tarised. It was admitted in the U.S.A.
that the blackout still operated up till
Saturday, but there was no air defence
of the civil sections —the main military
and naval defences are several miles out-
side the city.
Two barbarous raids were made on
Saturday in six waves. The bombers flew
almost to ground level over the old
crowded Intramuros section south of the
river, damaging church colleges and the
cathedral, and setting fire to large blocks.
The Japanese on Sunday completely
denied this raid. They declared that the
story of it was a wicked fabrication de-
signed to “injure Japan’s reputation and
inflame S. American opinion.” On Satur-
day 32 people were killed.
On Sunday morning raiding began
again. Much of old Intramuros, full of
Catholic institutions, became a roaring
mass of flames, and after two hours of
attacks much of the industrial section,
too, was burning furiously.
By European yardsticks these raids
were not heavy. On Sunday the attackers
came in waves of nine only. Such raids
would do little damage in defended Aus-
tralian and British cities ; but Manila is
largely built of bamboo and nipa palm
thatch, and many of the more substantial
buildings are old and decrepit. It would
take little to burn the whole place out,
save for the new American sections. A
few enemy bombers have been shot down.
The attack on Davao in Mindanao is
apparently a pivot and link between the
Singapore encirclement and other con-
templated operations which are being
advanced toward the south-east, round
New Guinea. At Davao, a Japanese
transport was sunk on Christmas Night
and others damaged, but the enemy is
pressing home his attacks, and the
general position in the Philippines must
be accounted bad.
British Borneo has had new landings.
As far back as November 6 the authori-
ties realised the danger to Miri, and
operators announced that some oil wells
already were closed down because of lack
of shipping, and that full preparations had
been made to destroy the rest in case of
need. General Tojo admits that many
wells have been destroyed and the equip-
ment of 150 removed, but he claimed that
700 tons of oil a day would be produced
by the end of the month. It will be only
about enough to fill a navy’s tooth.
The Balik Papan fields on the other
side of the island, on Dutch territory,
would be a far more serious loss, but the
Allies have seen to it that they are very
strongly defended.
The Japanese have now turned their
attention to Sumatra. At the week-end
they landed parachute troops near
Medan, inside the Malacca Strait, oppo-
site Penang and north-west of Singapore.
At the same time they attacked Medan
aerodrome and did some damage.
On December 29 Singapore was, there-
fore, the centre of a whirling series of
battles all designed towards its ultimate
destruction, but none of them was as yet
within 300 miles of touching the proud
skirts of the Lion City.
And not all the offensives were coming
from the Japanese. The R.A.F. had sud-
denly taken to Singora and other air-
fields held by the enemy in North Malaya
and Thailand and had knocked some of
them endways. On one ’drome 10
machines were destroyed and several
others damaged, and an explosion started
a fire which was visible from the air 50
miles away. In a week’s raiding on the
Burma Road and British aerodromes the
Japanese Air Force lost 42 machines.
The Japanese Navy claims that it has
command of the seas from Japan to
Malaya, and that the troops in the Philip-
pines cannot now escape. But time will
tell.
Meanwhile, the Dutch N.E.I. forces
have sunk 15 transports and damaged
four, for the loss of one submarine,
which struck a mine.
The Drive Southward
There was every sign during the later
part of the week that the enemy was be-
ginning to try to fling a Japanese left
hand round New Guinea, thus making a
definite threat to Australian possessions.
Japanese bombers ranged the Celebes,
which are separated from New Guinea
by the Ceram Sea. They attacked Sorong
on the western end of Dutch New Guinea
and left the little town in flames.
They had appeared from the Mar-
shalls, and landed at an island in the
Gilberts on December 23. They had
previously attacked Makin Island on
December 10. Makin is the northernmost
island of the happy, flat, bicycle-thronged
little group, and is just north of Butari-
tari. It has not been heard from since.
Tarawa was taken on that date, further
to the south, but afterwards evacuated.
The landings make the Japs next-door
neighbors to Nauru and Ocean Islands.
It brings them within a 750-mile jump
of the Solomons, from which it is an-
other 7QO miles to New Caledonia, which
is 900 miles from the Queensland coast.
Samoa and Fiji are each about 1000 miles
from the Gilbert group.
The sea war is confined mainly to sub-
marine activities. Some vessels have
been sunk off the North American coast.
Two U.S. destroyers were slightly dam-
aged by bombs, and the R.A.A.F. hit a
small enemy cruiser and set her afire
astern. The R.A.A.F. also bombed
Greenwich Island, 300 miles north of the
Bismarcks.
In the Hawaiian islands Vice-Admiral
Nimitz, the new U.S. C.-in-C. arrived.
Messrs. Roosevelt and Churchill have
been busy concerting generalised plans in
Washington.
The whereabouts of the major fleets
of the warring Powers are still unknown.
Hong Kong.
“Fong Tsz”: On December 25 Hong
Kong ceased —temporarily— to be under
British rule, which it had known for 100
years.
This [said Tokyo Radio, breathing very
hard] marks the banishment of the last
vestige of British Imperialism from Chinese
soil and ends a century-long exploitation
of Chinese resources through the island
fortress.
The ghosts of enslaved Manchukuoans
and Koreans could almost be heard
laughing in Elysium.
There was little imperialism about
Hong Kong. It was a great crossways
and nothing more. Its rulers never tried
to impose their rule on neighboring
provinces. It was not so much of a
fortress as the Japanese lines dug in stolen
territory outside its borders across Sham
Chun River. Domei admitted last week
that Japanese troops had “for months”
practised the Hong Kong landing on a
similar site in the north.
In occupying Hong Kong in 1841 the
British took nothing that anybody else
wanted or that the Chinese Government
was not willing to give. Hong Kong it-
self was a robbers’ den. The Portuguese,
across the mouth of the Si-kiang, at
Macao, where the British originally had
a factory under license, lumped it with
the other craggy isles around it—Lantao,
Lammas and the rest —as the Robber
Isles. Its own name meant “the fresh-
water streams.” It is ironic that it fell
into the hands of Britain’s enemies be-
cause there was not enough water on the
island to succor a million-odd Chinese,
whom the British “Imperialists” allowed
to remain, even though their presence
made defence almost impossible for more
than a few days, because they had
acquired British citizenship.
Before the war, £34,000,000 sterling
worth of inward and £36,500,000 worth
of outward trade passed through Hong
Kong annually and 30,000,000 tons of
shipping was entered and cleared ; while
20,000 fishing boats made the islands and
bays their headquarters. But the enemy
will find those days over.
Hong Kong’s siege began with the out-
break of war. On December 17, the


Japanese had forced their way down the
Kowloon Peninsula over the Nine
Dragon Range and held points from
which they could drop their shells into
Victoria city, as if throwing peas into a
pan. They held the island’s water supply,
there being not sufficient catchment for a
million people on Hong Kong island it-
self.
On December 18 they made their first
landing on the island, after having sent
a demand for surrender. As they mopped
up the thirsty strong points, they made
two more demands which were firmly
refused by Governor Mark Young. Even
when the Peak, dominating height above
the city, was in Japanese hands there was
no surrender, though the hillsides were
strewn with dead and dying and the
Canadians, Indians, Scots and the civil
servants and the bank clerks of the Hong
Kong Volunteers all had had severe
losses.
On December 23 the point was reached
at which only 24 hours’ water supply re-
mained. Naval and military com-
manders reported that further resistance
was impossible. Two civilians carried
across the harbor a message from the
Governor informing the Japanese com-
mander that he would surrender, though
only with the full honors of war ; other-
wise the fight would be carried on to the
bitter end.
His terms were accepted. The battle
went on all through Christmas Day. At
7.30 p.m. firing ceased and the Governor
and his stall crossed the harbor to fulfil
their heartbreaking task.
The Japanese claimed to have sunk
nine British destroyers and damaged four
in the harbor. Rubbish.
About 15,000 Japanese front-line troops
and 15,000 reservists were used, and they
are reckoned to have suffered 15,000
casualties. Hong Kong’s garrison was
about 10,000 ; of these, 7000 were Cana-
dians and British and Indian regulars,
and the rest local volunteers.
The Canadians lost heavily. Their
commander. Brigadier J. K. Lawson, and
his second in command, Col. Pat Hen-
nessy, were killed.
It is 28 months since war broke out.
The only British territory which the Axis
Powers have taken and kept —the barren
strip of Somaliland and the little bit of
desert Kenya were recovered in short
order—are the undefended Channel
Islands, 75 square miles, population
about 100,000, which are Hitler’s share.
Now Japan has Hong Kong, roughly 400
square miles, of which 356 square miles
belongs to the Chinese and is on 99 years’
lease, which has 56 years to run. Also a
mile or so of protectorate in Borneo.
Total, roughly, 475 square miles; Euro-
pean population, 123,000.
There only remains roughly 13,999,000
square miles for the Dictators to conquer
before they are complete masters of the
British Commonwealth and Empire.
Big Things in Libya.
“Ek Dum”: The British Imperial
forces in North Africa spent a busy week
chasing and cornering the Cyrenaican
remains of the 150,000 men whom Mr.
Churchill declares to have been at the
disposal of Rommel at the beginning of
the invasion of Libya on Nov. 18. It
yet has to be seen how many of these
got away and what reinforcements
it may be possible to sneak across the
Mediterranean. It is likely that an
attempt will be made to reinforce Tri-
poli, and that it will be a major one.
Suez is too vital a key to victory to be
neglected by the enemy.
The drive across the Cyrenaican
Plateau was rushed ahead at breakneck
speed. It was only on Dec. 19 that the
capture of Derna aerodrome was re-
ported, the town still being in enemy
hands.
Derna lies at the mouth of a large
wadi, as much as 17 miles wide in places,
which falls into even deeper ground to
the east and south. At the lowest level
is the road to Tobruk. It sweeps round
the bottoms westward to Mekili, about
75 miles from Derna, then climbs a shelf
still further north-west, at El Karruba,
and still another at El Abiar, where it
joins a railway. The railway goes to
Barce in one direction, north-west, and
to Benina aerodrome and Benghazi
almost due west.
On the Barce level the track is on the
top step of the three of which the coun-
try is formed. There is a direct inland
road from Derna to Barce across the
country on top. It passes through grassy
flats, then through parklike country, and
finally out on to the edges of vast treeless
plains which stretch to the south-east
to the jump-down as far as the eye can
see.
The enemy did not wait in Benghazi.
He lit out by the nearest shortcut through
the steep wooded gullies that lead to the
Tobruk-Mekili road junction, and then
made for Solluk, south of the escarp-
ment, at the head of the Benghazi desert
railway. He needed to get to the Tripoli
road before the British forces could
reach it.
On his left flank during the first 75
miles or so of this retreat was the tower-
ing Jebel Akdar. South of and also
through these hills British columns were
rushing ahead to try to cut him off, while
advance formations which had been flung
300 miles across the border in the first
week of the attack sailed ahead and
played hob with everything which looked
as if it might be useful to a retreating
army. Even as early as Dec. 22 these
blithe spirits had found a tasty aero-
drome well round the corner of the Gulf
of Sirte. They destroyed 24 Italian
’planes on the ground and gave the
natives a fireworks display with Italian
and German ammunition dumps.
While the southern cutting-off move-
ments curled round to the escarpments,
northern columns pushed down the upper
plateau, over which there are two main
roads —the direct one by Clonta to Barce
and the coast road, which travels via
dyrene and the plains of Merj to the
same destination.
Within the next 24 hours it was an-
nounced that forward elements had occu-
pied Gyrene and Appolonia on Dec. 20.
The next column to the south, which had
penetrated through the Jebel Akdar, was
scattering belated Italian units round El
Abiar on the jump-up from the desert
levels. The third column had pushed
south of these towards the point where
the road from Benghazi turns west after
driving southward from Benghazi on its
way to Tripoli.
This spearhead was hard on the heels
of Rommel on Dec. 23. He had appar-
ently left columns of Italians, mainly
infantry, all over the 10,000 or 12,000
square miles immediately behind him
which the British had generally permeated
in the previous four days. These did
not distract the attention of his pursuers
while he himself, travelling hell-for-
leather, tried to save his precious Panzers
and mechanised equipment and anti-tank
defence guns.
For the pursuers on the lower road
at Mekili it was something like a giant
paperchase, since Axis materiel was
strewn behind the running enemy in a
copious trail. General Ritchie had bad
luck with the weather ; hence it was not
possible to take full advantage of air
superiority. But at Jedabya, which he
must have recognised sadly as one of the
points at which he first made substantial
contact with the British nine months ago,
Rommel found 37 burnt-out aircraft wait-
ing for him.
The Empire’s Christmas present from
the Eighth Army was the vital rail
junction at Barce, the lines of El Regima
—where the A.I.F. began to make its
gallant stand in the April retreat —Benina
aerodrome, only 12 miles from Benghazi,
and finally Benghazi itself. It was no
over-pleasant homecoming. Bitter sand-
storms, heavy rains and cold winds
afflicted various parts of the broad line
of advance, but the conditions slowed up
the Germans as much as anybody.
And Benghazi was not exactly a prize
in itself. A miserable spectacle met the
eyes of the Royal Dragoons advance
guard when they entered the city, lost
on April 4. The whole place had been
devastated by British air-raids, but there
were large quantities of armaments and
stores. It was taken by converging move-
ments impinging on a central drive, with
three columns involved in the attack.
Since Nov. 18 these columns had gone 370
miles into Libyan country against a force
superior to their own in numbers, and
on the way had broken into a powerful
ring of siege fortifications which had
held Tobruk in thrall for nearly nine
months.
They left a few pockets of Italians
behind them to be mopped up, and there
were still lonely but resisting strong: posts
at Bardia and Solium. The attacks on
these were not pressed home, since their
position was hopeless.
There was a natural pause at Benghazi,
with confused fighting between that
town and Jedabya, 120 miles to the
south, for our cavalry was picking
up .belated enemy units which were
striving to catch up with Rommel’s con-
centrations near the turn westward of
the Gulf of Sirte. Enemy tanks were
knocked out, much material and a few
hundreds more forlorn prisoners were
taken to add to the 13,000 Germans and
Italians who already had been sent to
hospitals and prison camps along the
Libyan border.
Rommel still has 500 miles to go to
reach Tripoli, and it is a far from hos-
pitable or pleasant journey mostly
through dreary coastal desert of which
the main features at this time of year
are cold, sand and wind. And he has
no naval support to assure him supplies.
Not the least striking result of the short
and glorious but dearly-paid-for cam-
paign is the moral effect on the Italians.
Wrote Gay da in “Giornale d’ltalia :
The battle of Libya is a decisive turning-
point not only in the colonial war but
also in the whole European and world war.
The battle will not only decide the destiny
of Libya, but also that of Italy. In this
battle Italy is engaged with practically her
total land, sea and air forces. On their
fate depends the fate of Italy.
There is martial law in Sicily and the
southern Italian provinces. Some critics
interpret this as a move, in combination
with Germany, towards Malta and
towards the relief of the African posi-
tion. Maybe. But there is ground
for believing that the Italians have had
a severe fright on soil not African within
the past few weeks.
The usual peahen-press urgers are be-
ginning to speculate “whether Britain will
repeat her feat in Syria and go on from
Tripoli into Tunisia.” France has a
powerful army in North Africa and a
naval force comparable with the British
Mediterranean fleet. She holds strong
points on both sides of the Mediter-
ranean. One step in Tunisia by British
forces would almost immediately and
certainly send German armies hurtling
into Spain and occupied France, thank-
ing Heaven for the dunderheaded
“famous” type of journalist who writes
in English of a sort.
Success, though achieved fast, has been
paid for. The fighting, especially in the
early days when the Sidi Rezegh line was
being forced and Tobruk opened, was
ceaseless and bloody, and the S. Africans
on the south of the escarpment had a
gruelling time, taking the brunt of re-
peated charges of German tank for-
mations. But scarcely more than the
Maorilanders, who earned to the full the
rest which came to them after their
victory at El Gazala, beyond Tobruk,
where they formed a spearhead to the
coastal advance. Their fight on the plains
below the Trigh Capuzzo and the Maoris’
charges at Solium against withering
machine-gun fire will be part of the
history of the war.
The Axis loss of aircraft in five weeks
was 743 ; that of the British 195.
The Test in Russia.
“Ek Dum”; Overoptimism continues
in the reporting of the Russian campaign.
Red Army communiques very sober
compared with the claims of Kuibyshev
propagandists, “famous” correspondents
and little editors —make it clear that the
Russians are often fighting German rear-
guards, not main armies. Indeed, fierce
counter-attacks, which are inconsistent
with headlong flight, are frequently men-
tioned.
Geographical statements are, as often
as not, rendered vague and delusive by
the use of the words “near” or “towards.”
It is the unfortunate fact that the Ger-
man withdrawal has almost invariably
had the result of taking a large bulge
eastward out of the enemy’s line, shorten-
ing it considerably and enabling the High
Command to reduce the number of men
holding the whole front.
The bulges taken out have been: (1)
from Rostov back to the level of
Taganrog, about 37-42 miles, and about
80 miles north to the Donetz; (2) from
north of Kursk and east of Yeletz, which
is e.-s.-e. of Orel, to and beyond Tula
northwards (this formed the extreme
eastern end of the southern prong of
the Moscow pincer); (3) the narrow Klin-
Kalinin spearhead, forming the claw of
the northern pincer on Moscow ; (4) the
claw which had reached out from the
Leningrad front to Tikhvin.
The southernmost withdrawal seems
to have come to rest on the line of hills
west of Taganrog on the Ukraine border
—the only “high” country in hundreds
of miles of wind-swept steppe. The
other withdrawals south of Moscow
slowed up the moment they approached
the Taganrog-Kharkov-Kursk-Orel-Tula
railway. Kaluga has been regained by
the Red Army. From there onwards
the Oka Valley seems to be a momentary
holding line to Mojaisk. With a few
bumps still remaining to the eastward,
the withdrawals make a roughly direct
line from Taganrog via Kaluga, Rshev
and the Valdai Hills round the source
of the Volga to Schlusselburg, at the base
of Lake Ladoga. There are certain to
be further withdrawals in the centre and
perhaps elsewhere, possibly behind
Vyazma.
Loss of territory by the Germans since
Nov. 25 is roughly 20,000 to 25,000 square
miles. Removal of the bulges has, how-
ever, shortened the enemy’s line by a
fifth or a sixth, and, with the tempo and
intensity of fighting reduced by snow,
extreme cold and blizzard, the relief tc
his frontal man-power, reserves and com-
munications must be considerable.
Against this may be set necessarily heavy
losses of men and material.
At Washington, summing up the Rus-
sian position, Mr. Churchill said he could
not describe the feeding of relief at find-
ing Russia victorious and America and
Britain standing side by side. But he
added;—
German losses in Russia are not con-
sidered to have been enough to affect
German striking power at the moment.
First explicit mention of German
prisoners taken in the movement which
has been in progress for nearly a month
was made by “Pravda” at the week-end,
and was to this effect:
A Soviet detachment of 90 men sur-
prised and attacked the rear of the Third
Battalion of the German 512th Infantry
Regiment, killing and wounding 100 men
and capturing 25.
Leningrad may be described as the
acid test. In a speech on Nov. 8 Hitler
said Leningrad was “entirely surrounded
and no one will free it again ; it will fall
into our hands.” He continued;
In response to those who say we are
on the defensive before Leningrad, the
fact is that we were on the offensive
before Leningrad so long as it was neces-
sary. Now we are on the defensive and
the opponent must break out, but he will
starve in Leningrad. I will not sacrifice
one more man than necessary. If today
there were someone to relieve Leningrad
then I would give the command to storm
the city and we would take it by storm.
So if the Russians can relieve Lenin-
grad the German plans indisputably
have gone awry in a serious way, and
there will be no doubt about the initia-
tive having passed to Russian hands.
The one spot in which the Germans
were on the offensive at the week-end
was Sevastopol. Its position was ad-
mitted by Moscow to be “dangerous,”
The R.A.F., F.A.A. and R.N. had a
busy week up and down the North Sea
coasts, culminating in a combined raid
by R.N., army and land forces on a
spot on the Norwegian coast, where
some shipping was destroyed and other
damage done. The Germans claimed to
have sunk a destroyer and damaged a
cruiser and another destroyer. The
Admiralty reported “all ships home in
condition for immediate service.” Fre-
quent raids were made on Channel ports,
particularly on Brest, where the battle-
cruisers Scharnhorst and Gneisenau still
hide. Wilhelmshaven was among the
centres attacked. Malta had two heavy
raids, which cost the raiders seven
machines.
# * * *
The German Navy claimed that a
British aircraft-carrier with a convoy in
the Atlantic had sunk bow first after
having been hit by four U-bpat tor-
pedoes. The Admiralty says no air-
craft-carrier has been attacked recently;
the “report presumably referred to an
auxiliary ship carrying out air-protection
duties at sea.” Germany replied that the
ship was the 14,500-ton Unicorn, which
had 30 aircraft on her deck. Unicorn is
a supply and depot ship. Later, Berlin
claimed destruction of another “aircraft-
carrier”—this time in the Mediterranean.
The Admiralty did not take the bait.
Sea destruction of enemy craft spread
over all the oceans during Christmastide.
On Dec. 23 the Matson liner Lahaina,
5645 tons, was torpedoed between ’Frisco
and Honolulu, two being killed and two
wounded. Other vessels were attacked
and escaped. Next day two tankers were
shelled off the California coast; one,
the Montebello, was sunk, but four boat-
loads of survivors were landed U.S.
naval aircraft on Christmas Day bagged
a Japanese U-boat which seemed to have
done the damage.
The Admiralty announced on Dec. 24
that six more enemy ship?, including
large supply ships, had been sunk by
British submarines in the Mediterranean.
An enemy tanker was sunk off Spain
after it had been crippled by an Australian
Sunderland. And a supply ship taking
stores to the besieged enemy troops at
Solium was torpedoed.
* * * *
Lieut.-General J. D. Lavarack takes
command of the A.I.F. Corps in the
Middle East. General Blarney’s position
is not defined except that he remains
Deputy Commander-in-Chief of all
armies in the Middle East under General
Auchinleck. He apparently maintains an
overriding command of the A.1.F., but
with the vast expansion of the Middle
Eastern armies his job as Deputy C.-in-C.
should have reached a point at which it
needs all his time.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Tatter sail’s Club raced at Randwick
on Saturday, and an attendance of 15,000
was about 9000 short of the correspond-
ing day last year. As was only to be
expected, the ordinary trams from Coogee
and Clovelly were packed to their utmost
on the return journey to Sydney. Traffic
difficulties will certainly wean many
people from racing, to the detriment of
State revenue and war funds.
•••••♦
Despite his big weight Yaralla started
favorite for the Carrington Stakes,
though the most solidly-backed horse on
the course was The Miller, who shortened
from eights to 7 to 2, with All Love
and Astrid most in demand of the re-
mainder. Trimmer, than whom there
was no better-looking horse in the field,
displayed all his old dash, and was well
ahead of Yaralla, All Love and Astrid
entering the straight. Just as nearly
everyone was declaring “It’s all over,”
The Miller started to move up on the
outside. With a long-sustained run he
headed Trimmer half a furlong from
home, and then, clearing right away, won
by three lengths.
At the turn The Miller was seventh,
and, though his defeat of Yaralla on 111 b.
better than Villiers terms was not sur-
prising, his decisive defeat of such smart
sprinters as Astrid and All Love was
something of an eye-opener. Whisper
Low, who did not have the best of luck
in running, finished ahead of the last-
mentioned two, and, while All Love is still
a long way below her autumn form,
Astrid is evidently not as good as we
believed. Petruchio’s fourth was good
enough to put him in line for an early
win. As usual, there were excuses for
one or two runners, but everything was
fairly beaten by The Miller. Owing to
heavy overnight watering of the track
near the rails the time was Ifsec. out-
side Pavilion’s record of 1.1 for the
race.
W. Cook, who won on The Miller, was
also successful on Thrax in the Denman
Handicap, the longest race of the after-
noon. The field was well bunched most
of the way, but Thrax, drawing away
before reaching the straight, won in good
style. There was little between Veiled
Threat and Malagigi in favoritism, and,
while the former ran only well enough
to uphold his trainer’s contention that
he is overrated, Malagigi’s third merely
went towards proving that he is on
the down grade.
»••••*
John was expected to give a good
account of himself, but he was not
dangerous, and his appearance does not
suggest that he will ever fulfil his early
promise. Abspear did well to gain
second place, after doing the early pace-
making, and then losing his position at
the turn. As Thrax was one of the tail-
enders in the Summer Cup he was an
outsider, starting at 14 to 1. Mabson
gave no trouble, but he is again com-
mencing to look well.
Piccadilly has yet to make his mark
as a sire, but in Pall Mall, a half-brother
to Panabil, he has a smart galloper.
Always prominent in the early part of
the Maiden Handicap, Pall Mall was first
into the straight, followed by Ceres, and
in the run to the winning-post was too
solid for the latter. Shining Night, who
ran third, is bound to improve, and
Mutineer and Gormic are suburban pos-
sibilities. Dundalk, despite his steadier
of 9st., was favorite, but, though well
up at the straight entrance, lost ground
in the run home. Beachcomber, a good
track galloper, ran sixth, after being a
long way back earlier in the race.
Soho and Dark Warbler had the issue
of the second division of the Maiden
Handicap to themselves from the top of
the straight, and the former was too good
for the other colt, while Adjust gained
third place from Fox Track, who looked
a certainty for that position half a
furlong from home. Hunting Tower,
Pungnah and Spirit of Progress were in
the leading division for half a mile, but
had nothing to do with the finish. Soho,
who made a half-second faster time than
Pall Mall, is by Brueghel from Trevally,
dam of John Dory, and as a yearling cost
knight S. Hordern 400gns.
In past years R. Skelton raced many
useful horses, and in Plimsol he has an-
other. Ridden by Munro, and backed
down to 7 to 4 for the Encourage Stakes,
Plimsol was not well placed when half
the distance was covered, but after being
seventh or eighth into the straight he
finished strongly to win from Panabil
and Sir Tennyson, with Ron Rico and
Jasper at the head of the others. The
last-mentioned two did well down the
straight, and Mombasa and Haran are
worth following, though perhaps at a
shorter distance than a mile. Cable led
to the turn, and, though he died away
in the straight, a win for him at six fur-
longs should not be long in coming.
One of the best races of the afternoon
was the Highweight Handicap, restricted
to riders over jumps. Half a dozen horses
had chances halfway down the straight,
but Crowon won by half a neck from
Creditor, with Levraut, who was a long
third-last after going two furlongs, a
close third. Crowon, Southerly and
Merton led into the straight, but the last-
mentioned two were unequal to running
on, and Grand Boy and Kenil Gem fin-
ished nearest the place-getters.
Nightbeam did not gallop freely in the
early part of the Pace Welter, and his
chance of getting a run when he was
behind four or five horses a furlong from
home did not look bright. Then an open-
ing presented itself, and Shean, dashing
Nightbeam through, had that horse a
winner nearly 100 yards from home.
Until Nightbeam made his run Mer-
rimba, looked a winner, and Bonny Loch,
in third place, came home so strongly
that he is certain to score in the
near future. It was Nightbeam’s first win
since last March, but, though unplaced
in the race in which Rylstone and Rathlin
dead-heated, he ran so well that he was
never at a long price on Saturday. Gun-
dagai’s failure to do better was excus-
able. He was squeezed back early in the
piece, and then struck trouble two or
three times when he attempted a for-
ward move.
* * * *
In racing the unexpected is always
possible, and Dewar, an odds-on favorite,
with a big pull in weight, never looked
like winning the Summer Cup. Pinned
in on the rails he could not get a chance
of getting out along the back, and, meet-
ing with a check when Thompson
attempted to move him up, went back to
second-last approaching the half-mile.
Then he went up fast on the outside,
but, though at the leger a place for him
seemed possible, he had finished his run
before reaching the winning-post. Con-
sidering the tremendous start he was giv-
ing the leaders at the half-mile, he did
well to finish fifth, and may yet win
Tattersall’s Cup.
On the other hand, Santa’s drop to 7.4
from the 8.5 he carried in the Holiday
Handicap—in which he ran badly—made
a wonderful difference to him. Hurdled
off, and actually last away in the Cup,
Knox drove him along to lead out of the
straight. The pace was so easy that the
first five furlongs took I.Bi. Along the
back Knox steadied Santa; but, shooting
away again before reaching the half-mile,
Santa led at that point by four lengths,
and, leading into the straight from
Chatoona, Yours Truly and Buzalong,
held the last-named off to win by half
a length.
In running third Grand Fils gave
further promise as a stayer, and Cha-
toona, Spear Vale and Yours Truly
shaped well without being winning pos-
sibilities from the top of the straight.
Buzalong ran a great race, and despite
his eight years is nearly as good as at
any time in the past. The concluding
mile was cut out in 1.38?. Owned by
Indian trainer A. Higgins, who recently
bought Lucrative, Santa is trained by
M. Webster, who also had him when he
ran second to his then stable-companion
Bringa two years ago. Santa adds to
Marconigram’s stayers.
In winning the December Stakes River-
ton definitely established his right to be
rated the best of Sydney’s two-year-old
colts. Hall Stand led into the straight,
but Riverton was much too good for him
over the last furlong and with £1575 to
his credit for two firsts and a second is
now well ahead of the 600gns. he cost
as a yearling. His stable-companion
Baroda narrowly beat Modulation for
third, and may stay. Bangster gave no
trouble, and Battle Dress was outclassed.
Takarangi was another two-year-old
to make a favorable impression, and Hua
looks like making a successful sire.
Rumors to the effect that Takarangi was
not quite himself did not tempt the
“books” to take risks, and he was always
a short-priced favorite. Takarangi waited
on Current and Peach Pie until the
straight was reached, and eventually won
as he liked from Parthian, a Pentheus
colt. His time, 1.6 i for five and a half
furlongs, did not equal Riverton’s 59i for
five, but it was a taking effort. His dam.
Inheritance, is by Birthright (son of
Swynford) from Gwalia,
Arahura, an odds-on favorite for the
Wilton Park Handicap, outclassed her
opponents. Jesterine was the early
leader, and Steal On was with Arahura
at the turn. After that there was only
one in it, though Marcoperi, who got
away badly, ran on well in second place.
The time, 1.23 y, was only a half-second
outside the Randwick record, but the
fact of the race being run on the course
proper, without a barrier, may have
assisted in that direction. Nevertheless,
Arahura is a really good filly, and, as she
has shown she can run a fast mile as well
as seven furlongs, will have to be
reckoned with in the Adrian Knox Stakes.
Broadcaster, who had been out of the
winning list since the 1938 Maribyrnong
Plate, won the Chisholm Handicap as a
result of a solid finishing effort. At the
straight entrance he was sixth and looked
to have little chance of success when Mer-
rimba shot out from Skerries, Creditor
and Air Link. However, he finished so
determinedly that he scored from Mer-
rimba almost in the last stride. Tel Asur
was the closest of thirds, while the well-
backed Skerries was disappointing, as
was Air Link.
o • • • • •
Opposite the leger it seemed almost im-
possible for The Squire to be beaten in
the A.J.C. Handicap, but, weakening
inside the final hundred yards, he was
defeated in the last stride by Rhythmic,
Kestrel, in third place, came home
strongly enough to raise hopes for him
in a longer race, while the mean-looking
Haridelle, after being a long way back
soon after the start, showed such pace
along the back that she led shortly after
passing the half-mile, but, though first
into the straight, then tired. Breeze
shaped fairly, while Sir Amyas did not
do even as well as the previous week.
Buzzal is coming on again.
« * # •
A marked decrease in attendance at
Mentone on Saturday may have been due
more to public reaction to abnormal
weather conditions than to the operation
of the transport ban. The crowd was
almost 40 per cent, below normal, and
tote turnover for 10 races (Melbourne’s
longest Saturday programme) was £2013
15s. less than at the corresponding meet-
ing last year, when eight races were run.
One of the most controversial protests
in months was dismissed after Heart’s
Desire had beaten Prairiedale by a neck
in the Summer Handicap. Most book-
makers and backers were of opinion that
Heart’s Desire had seriously hampered
Prairiedale and Koorenbeen on straighten-
ing for the run home. She was on the
outside of those horses immediately be-
fore the scrimmage, and Prairiedale lost
at least two lengths. Betting on the pro-
test began before an objection was
lodged, and plenty of 5 to 4 was on offer
against Heart’s Desire retaining the race.
Prairiedale was a 6-to-4-on chance for
the protest, and the stewards’ decision
not to interfere with the judge’s placings
staggered many keen racegoers. Heather,
rider of the winner, denied that he had
caused interference to Prairiedale, con-
tending that the latter contributed to
what interference did occur.
Heart’s Desire is the first horse raced
by A. E. Sang, whose brother also made
a successful start as an owner with the
smart filly Kelos. Both horses are trained
by H. Wolters. Heart’s De„sire, who likes
to see plenty of daylight in her races
and refuses to do her best in a field,
did not beat a particularly strong lot on
Saturday, but it is intended to start her
in the Bagot Handicap tomorrow (Thurs-
day),
«••••*
Trainer E. Temby and rider J. Purtell
were associated with the wins of Grand
Legend in the Beaumaris Handicap, and
King Peter in the first division of the
Woodleigh Handicap. Each horse carried
No. 10 saddle-cloth, and each started
at 10 to 1. Grand Legend, who won a
“camera finish” from Cornfield and
Trinity, was bred by his owner-trainer,
who won many races with the gelding’s
sire, Great Legend. Latter has a unique
stud record. Only eight of his get have
raced, and all are winners. King Peter,
who had several trainers before being
leased to Temby, finished fast to gain
a head win from the favorite, Danfino,
after the latter had looked all over a
winner. Star Simon drew attention to his
immediate future by finishing a good
third. King Peter showed fair promise'
earlier in his career, and owner A. J.
Levin had hopes that he would be a
good substitute for Lucrative. Levin
originally raced Lucrative in partnership
with Roy McLean, but sold his interest.
Purtell’s double placed him 2j wins
ahead of Badger on the Melbourne
jockeys’ premiership list, but Badger more
than squared accounts later in the day.
He landed a treble on Lord Windburra.
Bluebeard and Rippling Avon, each of
whom started favorite, to give him a
half-point lead.
Medium of a plunge which forced his
price from sixes down to threes for the
first division of the Talgarno Welter,
Lord Windburra had to survive a protest
after he had defeated Son o’ Val by a
length and a half. He had passed and
was going away from Son o’ Val near-
ing the post when the latter’s rider, Pres-
ton, suddenly sat up as if his mount had
suffered severe interference. Stewards
agreed that Son o’ Val had been ham-
pered, and severely reprimanded Badger
for having allowed Lord Windburra to
crowd inward, but they did not consider
the interference was serious enough to
affect the result.
A course of hurdling, which yielded
two wins from three starts, has not
FOR RANDWICK.
By “PILOT.”
New Year’s Gift: Soho, 1 ;
Whisper Low, 2 ; Kingsdale, 3.
Juvenile Stakes (colts and geld-
ings): Takarangi, 1; Modulation,
2 ; Parthian, 3.
Nursery Handicap (fillies): Battle
Dress, 1 ; Fervent, 2 ; Current, 3.
Flying Welter: Broadcaster, 1 ;
Petruchio, 2 ; Radical or John Hali-
fax, 3.
Tattersall’s Cup: Dewar, 1 ;
Buzalong, 2 ; Spear Vale or Santa,
3.
Trial Stakes: Rapture, 1; Ron
Rico, 2 ; Rameo, 3.
Alfred Hill Handicap; Gundagai,
1 ; Bonny Loch, 2 ; Tel Asur, 3.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Panel, 1 ; Sir Tennyson, 2 ;
Ceres or Haran, 3.
Juvenile Handicap (colts and
geldings) ; Kiaree, 1 ; Parthian, 2 ;
Tahmoor, 3.
Juvenile Handicap (fillies): Peach
Pie, 1 ; Fervent, 2 ; Operetta, 3.
Peter Moore Cup: Gundagai, 1 ;
Grand Boy, 2; Rylstone or The
Squire, 3.
Moorefield Handicap: Kestrel,
Rhythmic, 2 ; Metallize, 3.
Flying Welter: Escutcheon, 1 ;
Meneen, 2; Marcoperi or Phala-
ran, 3.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(Before acceptances .)
(By Our Melbourne Representative.)
New Year Hurdle: Harley or
Atticus, 1 ; Giant Killer, 2 ; Blue-
beard, 3.
Stradbroke Stakes: Chatfield, 1 ;
Leahero, 2 ; Blue Valley, 3.
Standish Handicap: Chatsbury,
1 ; High Title, 2 ; Orteli, 3.
January Steeplechase: Giant
Killer, 1 ; Highland March, 2;
Southern Knight, 3.
Bagot Handicap: Elanage, 1;
John Wilkes, 2 ; Chamberlain, 3.
Welter Handicap: Scarlet Toi, 1 ;
Sun Belle, 2 ; Pauline, 3.


Divorce Notices.
TO ALLAN ROY WILLIAMS formerly of
TAKE NOTICE that ELSIE LEURA WIL-
LIAMS has filed petition for divorce No. 2176
of 1941 on the ground of desertion without
reasonable cause or excuse for three years and
upwards You may enter appearance before
18th March 1942 and obtain copy of petition
from M. B. BYLES & CO. Solicitors 3 Castle-
reagh Street Sydney.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce,
Sydney, New South Wales.
TO ERIC JOHN EDWARD WARD ESQ.
formerly of Marlborough Street Drum-
moyne. Tl _,
TAKE NOTICE that JEANIE RUTH
EMILY WARD has filed a petition for divorce
No. 2145 of 1941 on the grounds of desertion
without reasonable cause or excuse for three
years and upwards You may enter appearance
before 18th March 1942 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from MESSRS.
MARSHALL LANDERS & CO. Solicitors
9 Martin Place Sydney.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
(Divorce.)
TO BRIAN EDWARD FLEMING last heard
of at Number 5 Osborne Street Sandy Bay
in Tasmania.
TAKE NOTICE that a petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a notice to
you to appear and answer the charges in the
petition of WILLIAM ARTHUR MURPHY
of Launceston in Tasmania Carnival Promoter
praying for a dissolution of his marriage with
OLIVE MAY MURPHY on the ground of her
alleged adultery with you In default of your
so appearing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to hear
the said petition proved and pronounce judg-
ment in respect thereto AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid within Thirty days after the date of
this publication an appearance must be entered
at the Registry of the Supreme Court of Tas-
mania Macquarie Street Hobart.
(Sgd.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Principal Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2219 of 1941.
BETWEEN AMELIA ANN BROOKE Peti-
tioner and AUBREY PERCY BROOKE
Respondent.
TO AUBREY PERCY BROOKE late of No.
56 Belmore Road South Hurstville.
TAKE NOTICE that the said AMELIA ANN
BROOKE has commenced a suit against you
in this Court and has applied for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion for
three years without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
Twentieth day of February One thousand nine
hundred and forty-two and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this twenty-third day of December
One thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
JOHN J. AUSTIN, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.
affected Bluebeard’s pace on the flat.
Always favorite for the second division
of the Talgarno Welter, he hit the front
halfway up the straight, and won easily
from Comic March and Tunic. Rippling
Avon, who gave Badger his third win for
the day in the first Rosebud Trial divi-
sion, herself completed a winning hat-
trick. She is one of the most improved
moderate stayers in training, and, judged
by her decisive defeat of Monica and
Hectare on Saturday, will pay her way
in open company. Her trainer and part-
owner, C. R. Maskell, recently enlisted
in the transport section of the A.1.F.,
and will enter camp shortly.
Trainer J. Pengilly landed a double
with Wit and Darraweit, but, whereas
the former was well backed at 10 and
8 to 1 for the second division of the
Woodleigh Handicap, Darraweit gave
bookmakers a 20-to-l result in the second
division of the Sorrento Handicap. Dar-
raweit was not allowed to run altogether
unbacked by the stable, but owner L.
Kennedy, in whose colors he was racing
for the first time, thought he might need
the race, and punted only lightly. Dar-
raweit’s chance looked remote at the
turn. He is a brother to Gay Lover,
who won a Cantala Stakes and lost the
Epsom on protest to Capris.
Backed from tens to sixes, Atorna im-
proved on his latest form by leading
practically throughout the first division
of the Sorrento Handicap. The W.A.-
owned gelding was never in danger of
defeat in the straight, and wound up with
three lengths to spare from Somewhere,
with the warm favorite, Operatic, third.
Atorna adds to the many wins recorded
by trainer J. Armanasco since his arrival
from the West to settle in Melbourne,
and the majority of his successes have
been at Mentone.
Mercury Bay compensated for the
earlier defeat of his stable-mate Trinity
by winning the second Rosebud Trial
division in impressive style from Wood-
gate and Lady Collingwood. He hit the
front about five furlongs from home, and
won by four lengths. Trained by L.
Robertson, Mercury Bay is an improver,
and more will be heard of him. Harley,
better known as a hurdler, finished well
in fifth position, and will be hard to beat
at his next start over jumps.
* * * 4c
Features of the Flemington meeting on
Boxing Day were Chatfield’s clear-cut win
in the Juvenile Stakes, Elanage’s return
to winning form in the Hopetoun Handi-
cap, and another demonstration by
Orteli of her pronounced liking for the
straight-six. Chatfield, who has started
three times for two wins, looks the logi-
cal winner of the Stradbroke Stakes at
Flemington tomorrow (Thursday), when
Elanage can be depended upon to give
another good account of himself in the
Bagot Handicap, a race he won four
years ago. Prior to the Hopetoun Han-
dicap, Elanage had been off the winning
list since his defeat of Damalis and Hua
at w.f.a. in the King’s Plate in the autumn
of 1938, but two serious breakdowns had
made him a difficult horse to train. Now
seven years old, he is back to something
like his best form. Orteli, who has been
a rare bargain at the 50 guineas she cost
in November, 1939, won the Christmas
Handicap stylishly enough to suggest an-
other good chance in the Standish Handi-
cap tomorrow.
'* Jfc *
The position in respect of midweek
racing in Sydney may not be as serious
as at first supposed. The Victorian
Premier, Mr. Dunstan, has been advised
by the Commonwealth that, as bearing
on the curtailment of midweek organised
sport, much is to be left to each State
in deciding what action is to be taken.
As that suggests there is no actual com-
pulsion, midweek race meetings may
continue to be held in Sydney, even
though, consequent on limitation of trans-
port, there is unlikely to be a continu-
ance of provincial fixtures. In Victoria
dogracing is definitely confined to Satur-
day afternoons, but it is stated that
arrangements may now possibly be made
by which some horseracing clubs that do
not hold meetings on Saturdays may be
able to carry on. Incidentally, if it is in
the power of the State to make a deci-
sion it is improbable the V.R.C. will lose
any days at its autumn meetings. The
Victorian Cabinet was to have met on
Monday last to decide on State action.
At the time of writing a conference
of Sydney racing clubs is proceeding, and,
as presumably a Commonwealth com-
munication similar to that sent the Vic-
torian Premier has reached Mr. McKell,
a solution of racing difficulties much
more satisfactory to racing people than
at first seemed possible may be the out-
come.
# sfc % ♦
Dewar’s Summer Cup failure has not
lessened his chance of winning Tatter-
sail’s Cup. In the former luck in run-
ning was entirely against him, and, again
carrying the same weight and with a
furlong less to travel, there should be
quite a different result. On Summer Cup
form Buzalong seems sure to beat again
those which finished behind him, and,
meeting Santa 71b. better, should turn the
tables on him. Grand Fils and Spear
Vale must be included among the place
possibilities, as must Thrax, who will be
meeting Veiled Threat only 21b. worse
than in the Denman Handicap. Mala-
gigi and Yours Truly are not suggestive
of danger, and the distance may be far
for Rathlin. I expect Dewar to win from
Buzalong, and third may come from
Grand Fils, Spear Vale or Santa.
* * * *
Owing to a fire breaking out at the
back of the seven furlongs post at Rand-
wick on Boxing Day two races of that
distance had to be run on the course
proper without a starting barrier. For
the first there was not a flag available,
but one was procured for the second race,
and the field got away on good terms.
Starter Gaxieu did sufficiently well to
show that he could get along without a
barrier, though no one would favor a
return to the old-time method.
* * * «
Several jockeys had a profitable time
during the past three days at Randwick.
W. Cook, with four wins, fared well, the
winning fees for those, as provided by
the rules, totalling a few shillings over
£94. However, winning owners do not
adhere to bare fees, and many leading
doctors and barristers would be highly
pleased to get as much for several days’
work as Cook did for his wins. McMena-
min was close to Cook with three and a
half wins and a little over £B6 ; while
Knox’s two and a half wins returned him
£74. Apprentice Thompson won one and
a half races, and under the rules his re-
ward would be about £66. However,
E. J. Watt generally pays his jockeys
10 per cent., which would give Thomp-
son £ll2 for his successes on Riverton.
D. Munro’s three wins gave him only
£34 10s. in fees, but one win was for a
heavy-betting owner.
* * * *
Owing to the belief that no electric
trains would be available for meetings
it was reported that Rosehill intended
dropping out immediately. However, the
railway authorities state that electric
trains will continue to run to the club’s
platform, and much to the relief of
owners and trainers the meeting set down
for January 17 will duly take place.
* * * *
There is again talk of some of the
minor clubs in Sydney breaking away
from the A.J.C. Well, those clubs con-
templating such a step will need to be
sure of the support they are likely to
receive from owners before they go on
with it. At best they can only expect
to get second-class horses and, in the
main, battling owners and trainers. It is
certain they will not be able to secure
affiliation with the ruling bodies of the
other States, and owners and trainers
of prominence will not like the idea of
not only being denied the opportunity of
competing for the richest stakes run in
Sydney, but in Melbourne and Brisbane.
If, as suggested, the trotting clubs also
hold meetings on Saturday mornings and
the greyhounds race in the afternoons
there will not be much money in it for
breakaway racing clubs. In the circum-
stances even the most militant members
of proprietary and debenture clubs will
need to indulge in hard thinking before
they do anything that might tell against
them more than the loss —temporary, it
is to be hoped—of several of their fix-
tures.
* * * *
In the last 25 years there has been only
one winner of Tattersall’s Cup with over
9.0, Panacre scoring with 9.1. The fol-
lowing year Fluency won with 8.13, and
a couple of years later Queenslander Tom
McCarthy was successful with 8.10. Since
then the most carried by a winner was
8.9 by Auto Buz, another Queenslander,
The latter, with 2.30 i, holds the time
record for the race. Tibbie and Jeypore
each won Tatt.’s Cup twice.
« * * *
The trouble of securing labor, in con-
junction with the probable falling-off in
the demand for yearlings, is causing our
breeders to make a move towards the
removal of the debarment of geldings
from Derbies and St. Legers, as well
as some important two-year-old races. As
things are breeders cannot afford to send
geldings to the sales, though they would
like to. Buyers do not want yearlings
that are ineligible for important races,
and breeders are practically forced into
keeping all their colts entire. Trainers
would welcome an alteration of the rule,
which has so far accomplished little more
than a considerable increase in the
number of undesirable stallions, and has
not caused a rush for classic winners
for our studs. While there is the slightest
hope of winning a Derby or St. Leger
few owners will, in present circumstances,
have a colt gelded, even though two-year-
old form may not give it the slightest
chance of developing into a good race-
horse. If sent up for sale there is also
the likelihood of its realising a few more
pounds than if it were a gelding.
* * * *
Laureate has started upon his prepara-
tion for his spring engagements, and
many followers of racing are looking for-
ward to his next meeting with Skipton.
Despite his defeat by the latter in the
Victoria Derby and Melbourne Cup,
Laureate’s admirers are not absolutely
convinced that Skipton is the better colt.
Excuses are made for Laureate, but there
is no getting away from the fact that
Skipton finished the stronger in each race
at Flemington, and it could not be con-
tended that Laureate lacked anything in
condition. His racing in Sydney had
fitted him for hard tasks, and as Skipton
was too good for him the probabilities
are it will be the same in the autumn.
As a stayer they are followed by High
Road, who made a good showing in the
Eclipse Stakes, even though Lucrative,
on 31b. worse than weight-for-age terms,
was too good for him.
* * * *
Wright, Stephenson and Co. (Welling-
ton) and Pyne, Gould, Guinness (Christ-
church), in conjunction, will hold their
annual sales in Wellington (M.L.) on
January 21 and 23. In a catalogue of
218 yearlings—l4l colts and 77 fillies —
41 sires are represented, and they are of
such good class that their progeny should
sell well notwithstanding the restriction
on racing in Maoriland and Australia.
Ten yearlings by Bulandshar are cata-
logued, and two by Kincardine, sire of
Kindergarten.
« * * *
Sydney backers were never better in-
formed than at present as to doings on
the training tracks. There are reports from
nearly every course, but one thing many
students of newspaper track work do not
grasp is that a fast gallop is not neces-
sarily a winning one. Among the factors
to be taken into consideration are shoe-
ing, weight carried and how a horse
finishes. Where two horses make the
same time it is possible for one gallop
to be really much better than the other,
though that is something many self-con-
stituted authorities do not grasp, and are
always prepared to tell you about the
merits of track gallops done by some
horse or other.
* * * *
Now that the provincial clubs are prac-
tically out of action entries are sure to
be more numerous than in the past for
minor races at Sydney meetings. Long
programmes will be the rule, consequent
on divisions, and, as in the pony days
of some years ago, racegoers will reckon
they are not getting a fair return for
their admission money if there are fewer
than ten races, with the possibility of 16
or 17. Races of three divisions were
common, and runners for maiden races
occasionally got as high as 30.
* * * *
Miss Dorothy Paget is one English
owner whose interest in racing has not
been lessened by the war. In addition
to having a big team of jumpers and flat-
racers in work she recently sent 21 year-
lings to W. Nightingall, at Epsom, to be
prepared for next season.
* * * *
America’s record sale of thoroughbreds
took place at Lexington (Kentucky) in
October. In five mornings and five nights
643 horses were sold. Of these 322 were
yearlings, 219 brood mares, 70 foals and
one stallion, the remainder being horses
in training. The brood mares averaged
$552, and the yearlings $589 (nearly
£A180).
* * * *
It always amuses me when I hear a
trainer say he does not believe in time.
This because of the fact that nearly every
trainer looks to the watch to help him in
the preparation of his horses and in sum-
ming-up their chances. If he has not
got a watch of his own it is safe to bet
he will ask someone else to time his
horses, and results will tend to elation or
despondency. If time counts on the train-
ing track surely it also means something
in a race.
$ % %
A feature of the bloodstock sales at
Newmarket in October was the part
played by Irish buyers. Eleven-year-old
Carpet Slipper, who realised 14,000gns. —
second in England’s auction records for
a brood mare —was bought for the
Brownstown Stud, a Curragh establish-
ment. Straitlace, at 17,000, was the only
mare that ever beat the figure mentioned.
Carpet Slipper is in foal to Hyperion, who,
according to some bloodstock authorities,
is England’s greatest sire of the last half-
century. Prices at Newmarket were suffi-
ciently high to give an all-round surprise.
Miscellaneous
“S.T.S.”: William Pollock, biographer
of Don Bradman and the chief rival to
Neville Cardus as a picturesque writer on
cricket, names the three fastest fielders
he has ever seen, “all even-timers round
the boundary”: C. E. Pellew, of S.A.
and the 1921 Australian XI, Catterall, of
S’Africa, and the almost-forgotten
Hulme, of Middlesex. But faster than
all, he says, was Whisky, a black-and-
white cattle-dog on the beach at Glenelg
(S.A.), which, Pollock declares, knew
when it was Sunday, could and did anti-
cipate the stroke, and from his regular
position at backward point crossed over
when a left-hander came in.
* * * *
“Sturt”: What Adelaide still calls the
College cricket-match, St. Peter’s y.
Prince Alfred’s, became a marathon this
year, the bowling on each side being
weak. P.A. won by 30 —344 and 431 to
458 and 287. Naturally the wicket
crumbled towards the end. The main
feature was G. G. Fuller’s two centuries
for Prince’s, a thing done before only,
in 1924, by Brian Hone, afterwards cap-
tain of Oxford and now a schoolmaster
in N.S.W,
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(Before acceptances
(By Our Melbourne Representative .)
Banyule Trial Hurdle: Haura, 1 ;
Jack Farr, 2 ; The Barber, 3.
Seafield Handicap: Border Law,
1 ; Attorney, 2 ; Captivator, 3.
Glenbervie Handicap: Kalapani,
1 ; Silver Light, 2 ; Reg, 3.
Cumberland Handicap: Sir
Richard, 1 ; Rippling Avon, 2;
Prairiedale, 3.
Coburg Welter: David Innis, 1 ;
Neutron, 2 ; Phildoll, 3.
Dunalister Handicap: Operatic,
1 ; Vale, 2 ; Radama, 3.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Surrounded by a solemn staring gal-
lery of gingham giraffes, pink-flannel
porkers and beady-eyed soft toys of all
breeds, Dr. Newman Morris drew the
name of the winner of the doll raffled
by the Red Cross variety shop, Collins-
street. Susan’s most adequate wardrobe
was made by Miss M. Johnson, who also
paid all expenses of the raffle and did
all the clerical work attached to it. The
result of her energies was £575 for the.
Red Cross. Susan was in demand all over
Australia, and even had a chance of being
sent to Canada. However, Miss John-
son’s telegram, “Congratulations, you
have won Susan,” went to Gisborne, Vic-
toria, and, as the drawing was timed to
enable the winner to push Susan down a
lucky child’s stocking on Christmas Eve,
Susan was sent at once on her country
journey. Mrs. Konrad Hiller, president
of Red Cross shop, is rejoicing over
£6lOO raised for the Red Cross and sup-
port of two prisoners of war by the
Toorak and South Yarra Emergency
Company of South Yarra branch of Red
Cross through the shop sales.
Unusual Christmases have been the
order of the day, but Mrs. E. B. Heffer-
nan, of Heidelberg, prepared for a usual
one, and on Christmas Eve left hurriedly
for Adelaide after distributing her Christ-
mas chook, joints and puddings among
astonished if thankful friends. Her son
“Bill.” (Victorian highq’ump champion and
second in the high-jump at the Empire
Games) had sent her an SOS to be present
when he married Jean Scarff, of the staff
of Macßobertson’s Girls’ High School
and one-time hockey player for Mel-
bourne University. Jean also left for
S.A. with her mother as soon as school
broke up, and “Bill,” now Leading Air-
craftman Robert Jarvis Heffernan, raced
round and had everything fixed for their
wedding at Christ Church, North Adel-
aide. Mrs. E. B. Heffernan, known pro-
fessionally as Dr. Hilda Greenshields, is
accustomed by now to seeing her children
in various roles. Pat, Dr. and Mrs.
Heffernan’s eldest son, was, till the war
called him from Art, making consider-
able progress as a portrait painter, one
of his best efforts being his picture of
his wife, the former Diane Fakhry.
When Matron Myrtle Rowe, successor
to Grace Wilson as matron of Alfred
Hospital, was the other day told that
“Mother Christmas” was at the other end
of the telephone to discuss plans for the
child patients’ Christmas-tree, she had no
difficulty in envisioning Mrs. Barry
Thomson, who has for the last 27 years
provided Christmas presents for the hos-
pital’s youngsters. This year again Mrs.
Thomson had packed an exciting col-
lection of presents, and her swag was
ably disposed of by Father Christmas,
otherwise Wallace Mitchell, who has a
20-years’ record of service in this capa-
city. On the great day a big Christmas-
tree hung with golliwogs and colored
lights stood at the end of the children's
ward, which had been decorated by the
nurses with balloons and streamers and
with a little house, down which Santa
(metal, not Mitchell) was making a fifth-
column entry by way of the chimney.
Among recipients of toys were several
very grown-up-looking surgeons, one of
whom got a dustpan and brush “to brush
up that old ash, you know.”
Back from the Middle East, where he
went through Libya, Syria and other rough
campaigns, Lieut. David William Robert
Knox announced his engagement last
week, and will marry Eirene, daughter
of the knightly William Anglisses, next
Saturday. Eirene is one of our capable
girls, and can housekeep, even to making
the family butter, as well as organise with
the best of them, with the exception of
her mother, who is the Lady Mayoress’s
right hand. When Eirene marries she
will find herself related to a far-flung
clan of Clarkes, in addition to the
Knoxes, who are numerous and well-
known. Lieut. Knox’s mother is a
daughter of Victoria’s first baronet, and
maintains the family respect for the land.
She has exhibited Ryeland sheep in many
a Royal Show. Her husband has kept
his finger on the political pulse of the
country as well as having big commercial
interests.
Heidelberg, on one of whose two high
hills the first Victorian art colony lived,
has the honor of housing on its second
hill an experiment in modem education
which may also go down to fame. This
experimental school owes its birth to
Mrs. Steele (Catherine Parsons), who was
inspired by her reading of experiments
all over the world and by Professor
Browne’s account of American ideas.
She has a big house on Mont Eagle, and
has invited parents with their children
to join her and R. Steele, her husband,
and their four children. Children are
taught at her school, and their parents,
“living in,” are able to co-operate with
their upbringing along school lines.
Catherine scouts the idea that her plan
is more than community living for
parents and children, but says that the
lovely old house and the times and the
need have conspired to give her plan its
opportunity. If there’s anything in the
Heidelberg air it should bring success to
the school, for the art colony started
Streeton, Tom Roberts and Conder on
the road to fame.
Pictured here by Broothorn is Mrs.
W. Fink, who has been elected president
of the newly-formed R.A.A.F. Head-
quarters Welfare auxiliary. With the
blessing of Minister for Air Drakeford
this auxiliary has commenced its cam-
paign to provide much-needed recreation
and luncheon rooms for the personnel
of R.A.A.F. headquarters. The per-
sonnel includes W.A.A.Fs. from all parts
of the State. As a big start-off the com-
mittee of the new auxiliary took the
whole of the house for the performance
of “Claudia,” the new Minerva Theatre
production at the Comedy, on the 29th.
With some money in hand it is now
searching for suitable accommodation
near the barracks. On the committee
with Mrs. Fink are Mrs. Norman Spry
(vice-president), Mrs. E. Whitelaw (hon.
secretary) and hon. treasurer Mrs. H.
Davey.
With the temperature touching the 108
mark on Friday evening, the foyer of the
Comedy for “Claudia’s” first night looked
like an Assembly ball at Bath about 1812,
with off-the-shoulder frocks of lace and
organdie and hair piled high to counter
the heat. The absence of the usual cover-
ing of Melbourne women out for the
evening, the dull-colored theatre cloaks,
gave a formal smartness to the audience’s
dressing, further accentuated by bouffant
skirts and Edwardian curls here and
there. On stage the red glow of the
property fire made the audience shudder,
but Terry Walker provided instant relief
by her dark green pyjamas and hair of
red-gold knotted high in Greek fashion.
The audience recovered from its heat
consciousness on the appearance of old
stage friends, Frank Bradley coming in
for a special burst of welcoming applause.
A quick succession of biologically flavored
jokes reminiscent of “The Women ’ kept
the house laughing.
The clever H. R. Hamer family scored
another success this week when the
daughter of the house, Alison, won the
finals exhibition with first-class honors in
History, considered one of the toughest
snags at the University. With one
brother (Alan) a Rhodes scholar and
Oxford Tripos winner, Dick, another
(with the A.I.F. now), one of the bright-
est lights of the Law school, and a third,
David, “passing out” dux of the Flinders
Naval College last year, she had a re-
markable family tradition to preserve.
Another bright family represented in
finals lists this year is the Victor Hurley
one, whose daughter Ann achieved a
first in Philosophy. Another first in the
same school went to Mrs. Ernest Clark
(Marie Spratt of Northern Territory that
was), who in her first year married a
fellow-philosopher, Ernest Clark. He, by
the way, did his final exams, in bed, suf-
fering from ’flu, while Professor A. Boyce
Gibson played at his bedside double
role of “bulldog” and comforter.
From Sydney
The A.J.C. summer meeting at Rand-
wick ended in a blaze of sunshine. The
new transport difficulties failed to keep
the really enthusiastic women away from
the Boxing Day race-meeting. Philippa
Stephen was among the day’s cool-look-
ing. Her frock was one of those blurred
beigy prints. A shady brown Panama
kept it company. Like an orange zinnia
was the straw of Mrs. Gordon Brady’s
hat. Two tones of orchid mingled in
Mrs. Nigel Smith’s. It went with a
frock of flower-patterned sheers. Roslyn
Dangar’s contrast of navy and yellow
was effective. But it was at the fatter-
sall’s meeting last Saturday that the back-
less cotton frock (made with pinafore
straps over the shoulders) made its
appearance. The wearer of this was one
of the company of barelegged. This, by
the way, is quite a becoming style when
the legs are smoothly tinted.
Just as a clock somewhere in the
church chimed eight in silver notes last
Saturday evening, Joan Prior, a pretty,
starry-eyed bride, and Peter Vesper were
plighting their troth in the Church of the
Blessed Sacrament at Clifton Gardens.
Joan’s full, swaying skirts of white-and-
silver beaded marquisette over taffeta
rather suggested a magnolia glinting with
dew. Her veil was a mist of tulle.
Orange-blossom formed her high coronet.
Both bride’s and ’groom’s families are old-
established Mosmanites, and the church
was filled with friendly onlookers at the
wedding, which, owing to war conditions,
had been twice put forward.
Attractive Annette Playoust, friend since
childhood, attended the bride. Her frock
of French-blue was long and very full.
Its long bodice and short sleeves were
tucked. Her toque was blue, her roses
red. Joan’s bouquet of gardenias was
entwined with the blue of forget-me-not.
She was given away by her father, H. K.
(Ken) Prior, a major in the 1914-18 war,
now managing director of The Bulletin,
of which his father, S. H. Prior, was
editor for so many years. Bride’s mother’s
crepe frock and feather toque were of
that melting grey-blue known as pale
mist. Her flowers were orchids. Mrs.
Peter Vesper’s, senior, short beige lace
coat was smart with her cameo-pink
crepe frock. While the register was being
signed Marjorie Hambridge’s violin was
eloquent in the Bach-Gounod “Ave
Maria.” A strictly Prior-Vesper family
reception was held at the Ken Prior
home, Bradley’s Head-road, which was
all waves of pink gladioli and blue
hydrangea.
Mrs. Garnet Malley, an Australian
who has lived in China for some years
and knows air raids at first-hand, has
evolved a few simple commonsense rules
of behavior when the sky becomes
agitated with enemy wings. These might
be added, with advantage, as footnotes
to more comprehensive works on air-
raid precautions. Mrs. Malley during
her residence in China made a collection
of Manchu ceremonial robes and old
embroideries, pieces of several dynasties.
She is now busy with the first steps to-
wards an exhibition of these to aid the
Red Cross. This will be held early in
March.
On a recent morning a group of friends
had a private view of some of these robes
of beauty. What a pet the silkworm was
in the days of Old Pekin is shown by
the rich pure silk of the materials, which
are hand-woven and -embroidered. The
rich designs in stitchery and painting in-
clude the Eight Symbols of Buddhism, the
Symbols of the Eight Taoist Immortals,
the Four Fine Arts and the Eight Precious
Things. These are impressed on the mind
in rich patterns of gold thread. Here
are Imperial dragons and the sea, waves,
cloud and thunder pattern—symbols of
power. Buttons and badges showing the
nine civil and nine military degrees are
interesting. Among warriors the unicorn,
the lion, the seal and the tiger were
designs to be coveted. Civilians had to
be content with birds. Cranes, golden
pheasants, wild goose and peacocks were
buttons to be sought. Mandarins flashed
the ruby, the sapphire, coral, crystal and
so on. Norton Trevaire photograph.
The Bertie Kellys gave a before-
Christmas party at their Darling Point
home. It was a later-afternoon affair,
with 40 or 50 guests. The buffet
was set out with tiny pine-trees, oxen
and carts and small figures of men and
women. Over the whole was thrown a
fine shawl of silver tinsel gauze ; land of
origin, India. That and the white cloth
beneath gave the effect of a snowy, rime-
frosted scene.
The greedy boy’s dream come true was
the bulging, immense stocking that was
a lucky-number prize (the contents, how-
ever, were adult; champagne) at the
cocktail party of the Lord Mayor’s Fund
younger workers. This put a dash of
the old-time spirit into Christmas week.
Palms and leis (bought for the cause)
added the atmosphere on which to hang
the title “Night in Hawaii. Lei-hung
waiters juggled the trays and glasses
between five-thirty and eight o’clock,
when, apparently, nights in Hawaii fold
up. Guitars thrummed, the white-and-
blue leis sold with the rapid turnover of
a bargain counter. Lorna Searl swung a
bright one in orchid tones to match her
pretty hat.
Stanley Crick, emulating Dick Whit-
tington, in that he is thrice Mayor of
Sydney, was there with his wife and
daughters. Mrs. Crick’s black hat had
its crown and brim topdressed in lace.
Grey frocking and a clutch of gardenias
suited president Eve Sheedy. Publicity
girl Ruth Walker and secretary Mrs.
Paddy Griffin sold leis and induced the
ready reckoner to guess how many green
leaves were on a pineapple. Mrs. Allen
Toohey’s green turban was in gay con-
trast to her white jumper suit. Mrs. Bill
Fesq and Margaret Salenger in flowered
silks were attractive.
Christmas presents were distributed as
widely (even if they were not always so
expensive) as in other years. All sorts of
new things crept into the list, such as
torches, and the man and woman who
sent a roll of blackout paper were among
Christmas morning’s truly blessed.
Cigarettes were not so general a gift—
in the smokes it’s every woman for her-
self and her soldier lad. Some favorite
brands are hard to track down, and when
sleuthed to store or kiosk no detective
with the body in the bag could feel more
exultant than the shopper. Most useful
for the soldier were the lines of writing-
cases and notebooks. These were natty
with a design of the fighter’s special ser-
vice. For the children, thank Heaven,
toyland was much the same —a bit more
mechanised for small son, but just as
peopled with dolls as furnished with tea-
sets for little daughter.
Gertrude O’Connor (“Pet” to innumer-
able friends) was one of the most-
loved and -admired of Sydney’s news-
paper women. One of the older genera-
tion of writers, she knew her Sydney
genealogy from root to branch, and was
so generous that she was never known
to withhold any scrap of knowledge that
might be of use to one of the beginning
press girls. Miss O’Connor was a mem-
ber of one of Wagga’s old families. Her
father was one of that city’s early doctors,
leaving a practice in Hanover-square to
come to Australia. Her mother, one of a
famed Tralee family who had been edu-
cated in Brussels, was a woman of such
sparkling wit that a man of her times was
once heard to remark it was worth travel-
ling half a day to have ten minutes’ con-
versation with her. Miss O’Connor s
own kindly humor was as smooth and
as vital as cream. She had been for many
years Sydney correspondent to the Wagga
“Advertiser” and the Maitland “Mer-
cury.” She died on Christmas Day of
injuries inflicted by a hit-run motorist in
sight of her home on Christmas Eve.
She leaves one sister, Miss Josephine
O’Connor.
C.U.S.A. is out stalking a mobile can-
teen, the special duty of which will be to
provide hot food and drink for troops
and civilians in any emergency. Josephine
Lonergan is the organising secretary of
this appeal. Her telephone number is
BW 6686. This idea of the C.U.S.A.
mobile canteen, which is to be based on
the bity C.U.S.A. welfare hut, is being
received with enthusiasm. In a few days
almost £4OO has been raised.


THE HOBBSES
By MARGARET TRIST.
50MEWHERE far up in
the hills a train whistle
blew. The morning
thickened with sound.
Mrs. Hobbs rolled out of bed
and dressed herself. At the kitchen tap she washed
sparingly.
The train bore down on the little town. It
rumbled over the bridge, rushed by the sleeping, dew-
wet park, shut off steam a hundred yards from the
station and drew grindingly into the platform. It
stood there, panting impatiently.
“Kerry!” shrilled Mrs. Hobbs, fossicking in the
woodbox for kindling that should have been there but
wasn’t. “Morley! Get up this instant. That’s the
six-twenty down.”
She found the axe and split the end of a kerosene
box on the back verandah. The four-roomed weather-
board house shook. At one end of the front verandah
Kerry Hobbs got out of bed and pulled the blankets
off his brother. Though it was summer, the breeze
was cool. The younger boy shivered, woke swiftly and
kicked. Kerry caught his heel, dragged him to the
floor and sat on him. “Lemme go, yer bully,” snarled
Morley.
The whistle blew. The town shuddered as the
train lurched forward, plunging down through the
hills.' Mrs. Hobbs put a match to her kindling. The
pine blazed in the stove. She went through the wood-
box again, turning over the few sticks of wood there.
“Not a decent burning bit among ’em,” she said scorn-
fully. She poked a piece of stringy bark into the fire
to keep it going, then taking up the axe shook it at
the invisible Mr. Hobbs. She went out to return
triumphantly with a length of bloodwood.
At the other end of the front verandah Mary
Trelawney Hobbs woke languidly from a dream of
orange blossoms and satin. She got out of bed and
wrapped herself in a peach-bloom negligee, trimmed
with marabout and velvet bows: To the uninitiated
eye it was a kim of faded green crepe with machine-
embroidered flowers sprawled across the back. But
Mary wasn’t the kind of girl to be deterred by a little
thing like that. A Trelawney all over was Mary
Hobbs. The name of Hobbs was the cross that hung
like the shadow of doom over her life.
Mary darted inside. Her brothers continued to
make uncouth sounds and torment one another. They
undoubtedly were Hobbses. In the front bedroom her
father snored with his mouth wide open. In the back
bedroom her grandmother reached for her false teeth.
In the bed beside her ten-year-old Vicky Hobbs
rose up, her fair hair tousled, her face im-
printed with grime not removed the night before.
Simultaneously the youngest Hobbs, Teddie, aged
eight, hurtled from a stretcher against the wall. Mary
took her things and fled. Hobbses most time of the
day were bad enough, but in the early hours they
were unbearable.
At the end of the back verandah the bathroom
was partitioned off with corrugated iron. No one
but Mary ever shut the clumsy door. Going in now
she closed it behind her and put every available object
against it. Then she proceeded to wash and dress
with at least adequate privacy. Soon the dirt-ringed
bath and the row of mealy toothbrushes disappeared.
The grubby towels, hanging limply from nails, went,
too. Stainless enamel and shining tiles took their place.
Silver water splashed from the rusty shower that had
not worked for years.
Kerry banged on the door. “Shove your frame
about, Trelawney,” he yelled.
There was no answer from inside. Morley joined
his brother. Together they kicked the door and
shouted at their sister.
“You stop your rowing,” called their mother
from the kitchen. “You don’t wanter wake your
father, do you?”
“Can’t yer have a flamin’ bath any time in this
blasted house?” Kerry yelled. “You know I gotter
get the train.”
Their mother joined them. “Open this door at
once, my girl. Open it. Do you hear me?”
Inside water ran freely.
“That tank’ll be empty before we know where we
are,” said Mrs. Hobbs gloomily. She thudded on
the door. Burning bacon recalled her to the kitchen.
The boys went off and washed as well as they could
underneath the tap by the verandah steps.
The 6.45 up went through.
“Here, you boys, get a hustle on,” Mrs. Hobbs
called, and ladled porridge into plates.
'“THE entire family, apart from Mr. Hobbs, were at
* the table when Mary slipped in and sat down.
The boys were too busy bolting their breakfast to
take any notice of her. They both had to catch the
train, Kerry to go to work in the city, Morley to get
to the High School in the next town. Mary, who was
next to Kerry in age, was the sole assistant in Mrs.
Jennings’s drapery store. The two younger children
attended the local school.
The Hobbs’s breakfast was of the solid kind.
Though Mr. Hobbs only worked on occasion the
money was good, and did over the time when he
didn’t work. Mrs. Hobbs’s slogan was “Stomachs
first, backs afterwards.” She always laid full and
plenty before her family, and with the exception of
Mary they never failed to do it justice.
Mary nibbled at her toast, and sipped delicately
at her tea. She shuddered from time to time as the
noises of Hobbses eating came to her. Kerry and
Morley chewed bacon with gusto. Her grandmother
soaked toast crusts in her tea and drew them relish-
ingly into her mouth. Vicky and Teddie slobbered
over their porridge.
A far away sound in the hills catapulted the boys
from the table. Distant rumblings hurried them into
their coats. The train whistle sounded at the station
above them.
“Hurry up there, Kerry,” urged Mrs, Hobbs.
“It’s all right,” Kerry reassured her. “Bill Woods
left home once when the train was passing the
park”
“Hurry,” reiterated his mother.
Morley had started off. “Don’t forget the meat,”
his mother shouted. Kerry flew along the path after
him.
The town shook as the train charged through
it. The engine panted for some minutes at the station,
then drew out, with its whistle screaming, and thun-
dered down among the hills.
“They must have caught it,” said Mrs. Hobbs,
as she prepared to make another pot of tea against
the impending appearance of Mr. Hobbs.
“If it suits them they catch it, and if it don’t
they don’t,” said their grandmother succinctly. She
was Mrs. Hobbs’s mother, Mrs. Hobbs having been
born Trelawney. But as Mrs. Trelawney was born
Perkins and hadn’t made it with her husband’s people
she was not a real Trelawney. Mrs. Hobbs had taken
after the Perkinses, so that counted her out, too. There
was only one true Trelawney left, one Mary Tre-
lawney Hobbs, eating a pale, smooth-skinned grape-
fruit off a pale-blue dish ; now she discarded her toast
crusts, pushed away her half-finished tea and went
off to find a mirror where she could arrange her hair
in peace.
Mr. Hobbs came into the kitchen. He was a
short, fat man and he wore his large stomach directly
above the top of his trousers. There was an offended
expression on his mild round face. “That girl,” he
said, “passes me and squints right through me. Don’t
she like having her own father around or what?”
“There’s not been a civil word out of her all the
morning.” Mrs. Hobbs fetched her husband’s break-
fast. “She’s too uppish to put up with herself even.”
“Comes of never having had a good spanking
when she was a little thing,” put in Mrs. Trelawney
helping herself to the new pot of tea.
“Well, it’s not too late to take a stick to her now
if she don’t change her ways,” said Mr. Hobbs.
“Where’s the paper? Didn’t someone go down for
the paper? Isn’t there ever anything in this house?”
“No,” answered his wife. “No paper, and, what’s
more, no wood ; no kindling, and hardly a stick to get
the breakfast going on.”
“You should have reminded me last night,” said
Mr. Hobbs.
“Reminded you,” sniffed Mrs. Hobbs. “Don’t an
empty woodbox remind you enough. I’m not remind-
ing anyone about anything. If people don’t like to
do things for me without being reminded they just
needn’t bother.”
Mr. Hobbs finished his breakfast in silence but
without resentment. When
he had finished he went out-
side,
“He’s gone to cut some
wood,” said Mrs. Hobbs.
“Not him,” said his mother-in-law. “Gone to get
the paper more like it.”
'T'HE 8.34 down steamed through the town as Mary
* set out for work. Once having shaken off the
Hobbs’s residence she felt better.
Mrs, Jennings’s drapery store adjoined Mr. Jen-
ings’s grocery store, this combination of shops being
all that the town had to offer in the way of commer-
cial ventures. Between it and Mary’s home the rest
of the town lay, a jumble of weatherboard and fibro
dwellings built along the road that ran by the railway
line. Beyond Jennings’s was the school. On vacant
lots and by the roadside turpentines grew. Now they
were starred with blossom.
Mr. Jennings was sweeping the pavement as Mary
came up. His blue eyes twinkled with a shrewd
affability. “Good morning, my girl,” he greeted. He
paused and eyed her critically. “Flesh and bone, but
no blood,” he commented inwardly. He smiled at
her. “Pleasant day,” he said.
“Good morning, Mr. Jennings,” Mary answered
dutifully, and stepped in through the doorway labelled
drapery. Inside a hurricane in the form of Mrs. Jen-
nings whirled about. Covers lifted like magic. A
feather-duster brushed surfaces. Dust fled thickly
along a sunbeam. Mary took another duster and
began to wield it languidly.
“Hurry up there now,” admonished Mrs. Jennings.
“No use taking all day doing a bit of a shop like
this.” '
Mary dusted on undisturbed.
“Why weren’t there any of you lot at the meet-
ing last night?” asked Mrs. Jennings. “People in this
town have got to stick together if they don’t want
their ways upset. That man who’s building over the
line is pushing his frame in all ways. He got up last
night and said those turps, by the bend had better
come down.”
“He’s right, too,” said Mary. “They’re always
getting mixed up with the overhead wires.”
“He may be right,” said Mrs. Jennings. “But it’s
not his place to bring up a matter like that. Those
trees have been there as far back as anyone can remem-
ber, and no newcomer’s going to have the say whether
they go or stop. Oh, good morning, Miss Parsons.
Lovely day again. Here, Mary, finish off while I see
to Miss Parsons.”
Mrs. Jennings advanced to the front counter and
there leaning across it, with Miss Parsons bending
towards her from the other side, they chatted pleasantly
for half an hour while the children dawdled past to
school and goods trains rattled up and down at fre-
quent intervals. At the end of that time Mrs. Jen-
nings remarked, “Well now, you wouldn’t believe it,
would you?” and went in search of the skein of
wool Miss Parsons required. Mary having finished
dusting was folding little lengths of ribbon over her
thin white fingers and putting the resulting bundles
into a tray marked half-price.
In the course of the morning most of the town’s
feminine population dropped into the store and stayed
for a period of time in ratio to their popularity and
conversational powers.
“A nice refined girl that for a Hobbs,” said Mrs.
Fletcher to Mrs. Jennings as she cut off a yard of
elastic.
o Continued on next page.)
“ Working like a nigger, Jackie ?”
“Wha'd’you take me for, blurry blond?"


“Refined,” answered Mrs. Jennings. “Well, I sup-
pose she is in a way. But if you ask me it’s more lack
of iron than refinement. Or maybe she’s just outgrown
her strength. I can’t see where there could be refine-
ment in a Hobbs. I remember”
Mary moved rapidly out of earshot. It was bad
enough having to put up with present-day Hobbses
without hearing the misdemeanors of a past generation.
At twelve o’clock she had her lunch and at one
o’clock she looked after both the shops while Mr.
and Mrs. Jennings lunched together. She occupied
her time chewing her nails and staring out on to the
railway line. The one-fifteen, blurs behind its windows
that were people, flashed through. Mary saw it go and
yawned. At two o’clock Mrs. Jennings came back
into the shop. The afternoon began to slip slowly
away. At half-past three the schoolchildren clattered
past. At four the up-train deposited the elder chil-
dren from the High School.
“That’s not the point,” Mrs. Jennings told a cus-
tomer tartly. “It’s none of his business what’s done
with those turps.”
MR. HOBBS sat on the edge of the front verandah,
one leg doubled under him, the other dangling
above the remains of a garden bed that ran in front
of the house. He leant against the verandah-post
puffing contentedly at his pipe. The front garden
was a mass of long grass and weeds and uncared-for
shrubs. The path was overgrown. The gate hung
drunkenly attached to its post by one hinge. The
fence sagged. Mr. Hobbs eyed the desolation serenely.
He found the cool of the evening pleasant.
Mrs. Hobbs came to the front door. “The wood-
box is just on empty,” she said.
Mr. Hobbs nodded. “I’ll chop you some later,”
he answered affably.
“I gotter cook tea,” said Mrs. Hobbs.
Mr. Hobbs went on smoking, silently, peacefully.
“You be going back to work soon?” asked Mrs.
Hobbs.
“Mebbe,” said Mr. Hobbs.
“When’s ‘mebbe’?” demanded Mrs. Hobbs.
Mr. Hobbs removed his pipe from his mouth and
looked at his wife. “You ever been without a feed
or a roof over your head?” he asked.
“No,” she answered reluctantly.
“Well, you’re not going to be neither. I always
keep the pot boiling, don’t I? A man can t be expected
to do more than that.”
Mrs. Hobbs sighed. “The pot boils,” she said,
“but none too brisk. I’ve kinda been wishing
lately”
“Well you can cut it out,” Mr. Hobbs spoke de-
cidedly. “It’s bad enough having Mary simping and
sidling round the place without you starting to take
on too. A man wants peace in his own home, not
fretting women everywhere.” He continued to smoke
and watch the tree shadows banish the patches of late
sunlight from his disordered garden.
Mrs. Hobbs went through to the back. The axe
smote several times on the chopping block. Mr.
Hobbs grunted but did not move.
THE five-thirty-five train brought Morley and
several pounds of sausages. The odor of their
cooking greeted Mary at the front gate. She wrinkled
her nose distastefully, then forgot all about it as she
advanced regally up the front path. She walked in
time to the wedding march. Her satin train slithered
over the thick carpet. Her father’s pipe glowed at the
edge of the verandah. She nodded regally towards it
and swept inside.
Mr. Hobbs took his pipe out of his mouth and
looked after her. “What’s she got to give herself
airs about I’d like to know,” he muttered. He got
up slowly, shaking out his pipe. “May as well take
another job soon,” he said. “A man would only get
dingbats hanging round here too long.”
A LETTEI TO LLOYD’S
By JAMES HACKSTON.
r'"N HENEVER father wrote one of his “impor-
\A / tant ” l ett ers mother and I always took part in
V V the comedy. Mother played many parts. She
had played the manager of Lloyd’s three
times ; twice she had been the head of a large insur-
ance company and once the manager of a big shipping
line. I was her understudy, and, once when she was
making scones, I was head of the Bank of England.
After a letter had been written father would
place it in the envelope and hand it to mother, not
yet sealed, and say “Now, mother, you are the person
to whom the letter is addressed, and I want you to
read it carefully and see how it strikes you. You
don’t know what is in it until you read it, then you
will tell me what impression it made on you.”
Mother would look solemn, and sometimes would
cough. impressively while she was reading the letter.
If she overacted the coughing father would stop the
performance and take her through her part again.
More often than not the letter would never be posted
—held for alterations and additions, finally feeding
the fire.
This night father was burning with enthusiasm
about a great new invention he had, and when mother
asked him if he were really going to post the letter
this time or decorate the mantelpiece with it, he swore
that this one was going to the mail. Nothing would
make him put off posting this one: The subject was
too important.
At eight-fifteen he began dictating to me. “I
humbly wish to bring before your information” ——
“No,” said mother. “Bring before your notice ;
and you don’t want to be humble.”
Father snorted. “It’s a figure of speech,” he said.
“It’s the way to write to a big concern.”
“I thought it came at the end of a letter, like ‘I
beg to remain your humble servant.’ ”
“Beg my foot,” he said. “I beg nothing. How-
ever” He rapped me to attention. “Strike it out,
my sonny.”
I struck it out.
He took several long strides down the room,
paused, and said, “I respectfully wish”
“No! No!” mother broke in. “You don’t want
to be respectful, either. You don’t owe them any-
thing.”
He breathed hard. “I can see we’re going to be
up all night the way we’re going. The mail closes
tomorrow.” He grabbed the sheet of paper from
under my pen and threw it in the fire. “Make a fresh
start.”
I got a new sheet of paper ready and dipped my
pen in the ink.
“Ready?” he said.
“Yes,” I said.
There was a long pause. “Lloyd’s, London,”
father rasped out then. “We will start off properly.”
I wrote “Lloyd’s, London,” father watching my
•pen like a cat watching a mouse. “Is that the best
you can do?” he asked. “Is that the best L you
can make ; and you supposed to be a good writer?
Here,” he said, grabbing my pen, “I’ll show you how
to make an L. I wouldn’t have a weak-kneed-looking
L like yours in a letter of mine.”
I watched father making L’s all over the sheet
of paper. “There,” he said. “Put a bit of dash into
it, my sonny ; make it look firm ; no namby-pamby
L’s for me.”
From then on father pounded up and down the
room dictating, until mother asked him if he were
writing a novel. This brought him up with a jerk,
and he asked me how many pages I had filled.
“Nine,” I said.
“Nine!” said mother. “How many words does
it take to fill a page, son?”
“About two hundred,” I said.
Father said of course it would have to be cut
down, and he then scratched his head ruefully and
said that he was only leading up to the main subject,
that the real business of the letter was still to come
—he’d only said a tithe of what he wanted to say.
Mother picked up the pages I had written.
“There fourteen ‘therefores,’ ” she said counting.
“And you’ve got ‘whereas’ twelve times, and ‘thus’
seems to be in every line”
“Well?” said father.
“Bad composition,” said mother.
“I’ll cut ‘thus’ down,” he said weakly.
But he soon struck trouble again. Doubting my
spelling of “peregrinate” he got our old dictionary
down, only to find that the P’s were missing.
“The very part 1 want is gone,” he fumed. “Who’s
been ruining the dictionary?”
“If you must use big words you’ll have to use
ones not beginning with P,” said mother. But he
hadn’t been dictating long before several big words
he wanted to use, and which were absolutely necessary
—the only ones, in fact, so he said —all started with
P. Here he cursed the dictionary. When another crop
of P’s popped up he blamed the devil. P would sneak
in behind his back, and spring into his mind and on
to his tongue before he knew where he was, and was
sneaking on to my pen nib, too, and making me
write it by mistake.
At ten minutes to twelve mother and I tried to
cover up our yawns, while father read the draft.
Mother found no more faults, for, by this time, father
could have crammed the letter with “whereas, there-
fore” and “thus” had he liked, and she would not
have cared.
“Now,” said father at twenty-nine minutes to one,
“all that has to be done is for the boy to write it out
properly in the morning; he can stay home from
school and do it.”
“And what time do I come on?” mother asked.
He looked thoughtful. “Oh, I’d like a good
Greek or Latin phrase to end up with if you can
think of a suitable one.”
NEXT morning father was giving his composition
a final touch up, and mother and I were breasting
ourselves to inform him that there were no more
sheets of paper left to write on when we saw father’s
friend, Old Tom, standing out by the shed. Mother
did not like Old Tom much. Whenever father was
happy in a small job, or had a decent bit of work in
the town. Old Tom would happen to come along and
disturb him. He was always finding reefs or rich
alluvial deposits, and father believed in him because
“I sentence you to imprisonment for five lives."
Old Tom had been a miner all his life. Father spotted
him, too, now, and putting the letter down on the
table went out to him.
“Well,” said mother. “This is the one and only
occasion on which that waster is going to do us a
good turn. You needn’t worry about the letter ; father
will postpone it if I’m any judge.”
Old Tom was still standing by the shed, with the
same vacant look about him. He’d never come right
up to the house, but would stand off waiting until he
was seen. Father went up and shook hands with him
grandly —he scented gold again—and they both retired
to the old stump at the back of our yard, where they
always made their fortunes. Mother watched them
through the kitchen window as they began to talk,
quietly at first, then warming up to action. After a
while father began to pace up and down.
“Yes, it’s gold,” said mother. .
Then when father put his hands behind his back,
dug his head down to it and began to take long,
determined strides, she smiled. “Difficulties m the
way,” she said.
It was funny watching Old Tom and father.
They’d take it in turns to do the pacing. First of all
father would do his bit, then Old Tom would relieve
him and father would sit down. Now and again father,
to break the monotony of the one kind of pacing,
would change his course and walk round and round
the stump. After circling the oval half a dozen tidies
he’d sit down, and then Old Tom would him.
“It’s a new find —a big rush somewhere, said
mother.
Now father and Old Tom were both walking
round and round the stump at the same time, but
facing different ways, and
you’d have got dizzy watch-
ing them.
Father then came over
to the house, and, seeing
the letter lying on the table,
picked it up and put it up
on the mantelpiece and said
to me “You needn’t worry
about that this morning, my
sonny ; I’ve most important
business on hand.” He
looked stern. “I shall post-
pone sending it for the time
being.” He then went over
to the little shelf and took
down our old railway time-
table, and then rejoined the
stump and Old Tom.
They both sat down to-
gether now, Old Tom look-
ing down at his yellow-
stained beard, father study-
ing the timetable furiously.
“The new gold is a long
way off,” said mother. “He
wants father to go to the
rush and take him with him.
Thank God, father has no
money.”
Father then put the timetable down on the stump,
and they sat still, both of them with their arms crossed.
Then they undid their arms and started to pick bits of
wood off the stump and aim the bits at blades of
grass, and father had just had his seventh shot at the
same blade of grass when he looked up and saw
mother’s face at the kitchen window watching them.
He said something to his friend, and they both stood
up, turned their backs on the house and mooched off
down the back.


Si?
m.
wm
Sir Herbert Barker.
“Benefit beyond comr*
putation can he se-
cured by all who wilt
follow the directions
given in the Pelman
Course. It is impos-
sible to speak too
highly of it.”
Pelmanism is a scientific training.
It substitutes good and faithful
habits of mind and memory for
slovenly and fearful ones. Thus it
promotes steadfastness, definiteness
and continuity of effort.
H
Canon Hannay.
(G. A. Birmingham.)
“Pelmanisnu is valu-
able to all men and
women . . . the re-
sults endure. Habits
of mind are formed
which are of the very
highest value in life.”
Pelmanism is endorsed publicly by
more than 100 Prominent People.
Pelmanists are found in practically
every calling.
Pelmanism is permanent in its effect
on the Mind, Memory and Person-
ality.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so that we
are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us. We see
more, and we see it more quickly and accurately. In consequence, there
is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire exact know e ge,
remember it and recall it as required. We learn to trust our sense
perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is then open
and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and woman. The
more important of these qualities are
Observation
Will-Power
Decision
Self-Confidence
Judgment
Organisation
Concentration
Initiative
Social Ease
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices and
useful data of every kind.
The Exercises are pleasant and each has its special purpose. The Pelman
Course is a real training, its primary object being to create good habits
of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly ones, to train the
conscious and the subconscious so that every faculty will, when called
upon, contribute its share in making a good performance of anything
that has to be done.
From several thousands of letters received from men and women doing all
kinds of work in Australia and New Zealand we give the following of recent date:—
Aug, 14th. ’4O.
Since starting Pelmanism I have improved
immensely in various ways. This Lesson
(Concentration) was very informative. T was
always under the impression that concentration
was fixation of thought.—Printer (Trie.).
April 22nd, ’4O.
As an example of what Pelmanism has done
the following might be of interest. For the
past week I have been working on a subject
which for the past twelve months almost drove
me to despair. Today 1 succeeded in obtaining
the maximum percentage in an oral examination
which lasted over two hours. I had no fears,
felt perfectly confident and felt a tinge of regret
when it was over. I was thoroughly enjoying
myself. —Officer {merchant ship).
March sth, ’4O.
Enclosed you will find my work sheet for
Lesson 12.
I must enclose a few lines to express my
gratitude for the information and' advice con-
tained in this Lesson 12. From it I have
obtained the solution to a problem which I’ve
tried to solve in various ways, but without pre-
vious success. Had this been the only benefit
derived, this Course would have been worth
while. —Clerk (Trie.),
March Bth, MO.
I forward my last work sheet with a feeling
of regret. This Course has been a, great pleasure
for me, and I have enjoyed the reading-and study
immensely. I complete it with a feeling of satis-
faction and enlightenment, and know that I have
received far more benefit than I had imagined
possible. —Lady Bookkeeper ( Q’land ).
Feb. loth, MO.
My casual memory is almost infallible. I note
important details to be done at specified times,
but rarely need to rely on these written notes.
1 seem now to have an automatic mental “remem-
bering” device. —Bank Officer (Vic.).
Feb. Ist, MO.
With the help and encouragement of Pelmanism
T realised that I possessed artistic-ci/mr-business
talent. Soon after completing the Pehnan Course
I found a place in Radio as cadet announcer.
Today, about six years later; I am the manager
(station named). Pelmanism is largely respon-
sible for all this.
You have my permission to show this letter to
anyone really interested in your splendid Course
of —The Way to Live! —Manager ( Q’land ).
Wc shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy of “The Efficient
Mind,” 76 pages, post free. Your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential
communication; we have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU23SS.
There are over half a million
Pelmanists, of whom more than
44,000 have enrolled with the
tute in Melbourne.
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established
Melbourne for over 33 years.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
■T ?■
SSS
Dr. F. W. Norwood, D.D.
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind-training. A
proper grasp of it
would save any life
from futility. It teaches
that man has the key
to his own career.”
Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
Dame Sybil
Thorndike.
“Pclmanism gives a
mental clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees opportunities
and uses them rightly ”
To the Peliwan Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, .
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy or
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
134
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
* 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS ......
I
t«««i*t«*««**«*«******«******
• For local office, address (Subscribers living outside Australia and New
sec Page 6. Zealand should send 30/-).
d
SEND “THE BULLETIN” TO
THE LADS OVERSEAS—
Special Concession Rates:
12 months 15/-
6 months .... 8/-
3 months . 47-
post free.
c°
(O'
&
, ¥■ «/
tip »\ ,aV $
..•••> V v tl
»\


Aspects of Australian Industry No. 7
mm.m
t -/ ' " v ' ;///' ,
, . j
•
«:«Y
30
Ws>m»y.
mmm.
wm
% ;
WMMNimMW
...
41
PH
%WM
\ 'i
■ > T
P; 'i
:
H
* * ♦j
; j
LONG AND FAITHFUL SERVICE
IT is difficult to believe that the con-
fidential clerk was ever youthful, yet he
never seems to grow older* He remains as
reliable and enduring as the stout ledgers
among which his working days are passed*
Like them, he wears well* If they are bound
in “Fabrex” they will bear silent witness to
the fact that even among material things
Time need make surprisingly few ravages*
' Fabrex’ ’ is made by LC*l*A*N*Z* and,
especially for goods in daily mass use, from
ledgers to domestic furniture, motor car up-
holstery to gas mask holders, it is unsur-
passed, giving a cleanliness and permanence
of colour which will withstand assaults of
age or usage* “Fabrex” is essentially a
manufactured product, with a distinctive
identity and properties of its own* Yet for
so long had beauty of texture, design or
colour been inseparable from natural pro-
ducts, to which artists and craftsmen had
given their skill for centuries, that in
its early days “Fabrex” could find no
better role than that of a substitute
for leather* It was originally made
chiefly in hide effects and shades of
f
brown, green, maroon or fawn, but, as
research gathered strength, 'Tabrex 4 * began
to achieve novel effects comparable with
glazed tile, silk or even stone* Yet with
each transformation its peculiar characteris-
tics of cleanliness, durability and wash-
ability remained. To - day “ Fabrex ” is
recognised as a standard wall covering
material for modern hotels, liners and
theatres; for panelling or upholstery in pas-
senger vehicles, whether the coaches of a
streamlined train, the seat of a rickshaw or
the body of a perambulator* It is used
over a wide range of handbags, suitcases
and trunks; for cycle and motor - cycle
saddles; for the binding of books of all
types; and in great variety since the war
for black-out materials, window adhesive
fabrics and translucent waterproof materials
to replace shattered glass*
The story of “Fabrex” goes back for forty
years, proving ' Fabrex'' of long and
faithful service, yet identifying it with
the 20th century a manufactured
fabric peculiar to our modern world
of design and progress.
“Behind the Empire ~ Throughout the Empire”
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF ADSTBALIA AND
(AN/
NEW ZEALAND LTD.
■
übsidiary Companies :
NOBEL (A/ASIA) PTY. LTD. 1.C.1. ALKALI (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
IMPERIAL
INDUSTR
(N.Z.) LTD
