

' : ,
■
Ml
SiPs^
W
' :: :-'
- • .
wm
"M
f. fct-
...
if
Wmß
mm
*j
Mi:-
*
s m
‘I-/• \
‘
y s^i
r oi, ( ~_s j
I
I
.::
%.
I ’
t-
#l
£
.
*
: ■ 5:
.*!
<f;
MiMmi leVS -
hh
■■
m
si
>r
•—, Sill i
<
&
~! :■ ■ 'N;.-- ’. , ; |||'^
Tag :t
ssss
n
P*S
■
hhhi
warn
mmKSOKM
■
I * ??- V C / -Vi ;■
\ MpWMpp * > y*syf^pgpMMpf fc:
:
M
These words spell VICTORY
INITIA TIVE... SPEED... EFFICIENCY
WAR to-day is a science; fought scientifically with
scientifically constructed weapons. The engineer,
the industrial chemist and the technician are as vital
as the fighting man.
In two years, the A.C.I. organisation has developed
from a peacetime industrial group into a powerful
war machine. Step by step it has helped to render
Australia increasingly independent of overseas muni-
In war 9 as in peace , A.C.I. is
pledged to a policy which
is national in character:
lions supply; opened up the prospect of complete
self-defence, and even contributed to overseas munition
requirements.
Initiative and efficiency have made this possible.
Initiative in policy and direction; efficiency on the part
of a great army of Australian workers co-operating in
a wonderful spirit of responsible enthusiasm and a full
realisation of the need for speed.
industrial self - determination for
Australia and the defeat
of Australia’s enemies .
w
r 2
r O SSOU/)ATEfI
'•V0(
W.VN-
KIES
-.K
AUSTRALIAN CONSOLIDATED INDUSTRIES LIMITED
N D
I T S
AUSTRALIAN
W
D E
SUBSIDIARIES
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3221.
Wednesday, November 5, 1941.
Hate in Europe
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Learn
Story
Writing
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
9.8. 841
The Red Page
WITCHES AND WRETCHES.
Somebody at Faber and Faber’s —is it
T. S. Eliot with a poet’s natural fondness
for the impalpable, the improbable and
the entertainingly impossible? —has evi-
dently a passion for ghosts, bogeys,
goblins and all the other beasties that
go bump in the night. There was
Sacheverell Sitwell’s Poltergeists , recently
reviewed here ; and now there are Charles
Williams on Witchcraft and Rupert
Gleadow on Magic and Divination, both
from the same publisher.
Is it just coincidence that these books
on the occult are cropping up now, or
has the war caused a revival of interest
in the subject, not yet comparable to the
spiritualist mania that swept over Eng-
land during the last war, but on the way
towards it? Sydney has recently seen a
would-be prophet boomed and then for-
gotten by the dailies, and the “prophecies”
of one Nostradamus, presented with all
the melodrama of drums and gongs and
a narrator’s voice raised to a pitch of
hysteria matched only by the advertise-
ments for cough mixture, have recently
graced the talkies and the radio,
Sitwell, in his Poltergeists , had the right
tone of voice for talking about these
weighty matters: not too sceptical nor
too harshly sarcastic (for even if turnips
don’t fall from the ceiling on to a clergy-
man’s dinner table, it would be pleasant
if they did) but certainly not hysterical
or credulous; a tone of gentle irony.
Charles Williams, though more matter-
of-fact than Sitwell and more seriously
interested in the social and psychological
history of his particular demons, has
much the same approach. But what
about Rupert Gleadow?
Dealing with a famous medium known
to be a fraud and yet reputed to have
had a prophetic vision, four years before
the events, of the execution of Mary
Queen of Scots and the coming of the
Armada —a medium going by the not
inappropriate name of Edward Kelly—-
Gleadow declares:
He was 27 when he entered the service
of Dee, and 27 years younger than his
master, being born at Worcester on August
1, 1555, at 4 p.m. Like Dee he was a
Sagittarian and therefore impulsive, but his
chief trouble was a conjunction in the mid-
heaven of Mars, Jupiter and Uranus, all
square to the moon in Aquarius. This shows
an exceedingly positive manner, quick to
both action and anger, and, at the same
time, somewhat pompous and independent;
in fact, an enterprising and self-willed
person with a habit of behaving drastically.
Again, discussing Jerome Cardan, who
early in the sixteenth century reported a
method for divining the past, present and
future with the aid of jars of wine, water
and oil, a poplar wand half-peeled, the
root of a cucumber and other sublime
junk, Gleadow writes:
As a contrast to Gilles de Rais [the man
reported to have killed 800 children for the
purposes of alchemy, witchcraft and sadistic
gratification] Jerome Cardan was a man
of thought and not a man of action. He
was considered one of the most intelligent
men of his century. He was a physician,
astrologer, inventor and philosopher, and
though he had a most unfortunate life
he had for his horoscope Jupiter rising
in Taurus, which gave him a steady opti-
mism and a very kind and generous nature.
Be careful, Mr. Gleadow! Who knows
what the stars will do next? At exactly
2.30 p.m. on Monday, October 13, 1941,
a man with a wall-eye who has for his
horoscope Silenus riding upon a he-goat
will be very close, despite a steady
optimism and a kind and generous nature,
to heaving Magic and Divination out the
window into George-street.
Yet, returning with invincible optimism
and unfailing generosity to this curious
history, it is not, as a whole, unduly
credulous, and it is, as a whole, interest-
ing. Here’s a popular superstition re-
jected with scorn:
It is commonly supposed that the
Egyptian magicians excelled particularly
in cursing; that they put curses on any-
one who should violate their tombs; and
in particular that Lord Carnarvon died as
the result of a curse written in Tutank-
hamen’s tomb... .There is no written curse
in Tutankhamen’s tomb; Lord Carnarvon
was in England when it was discovered;
it was not he who first broke into it; and
Howard Carter, the man who found the
tomb and made the first entrance into it
with his own hands, died a natural death
in 1939 at the age of 65, seventeen years
after his discovery. Nor did the other
workers on the tomb come to unexpected
ends. The story of Tutankhamen’s curse
is nothing more than a piece of journal-
istic imagination.
Gleadow also refuses to become as
excited as others have done over the
predictions of Nostradamus. In particu-
lar, he debunks the notion that anyone
can accurately foretell the future, or what
Nostradamus imagined would occur in
the future, from the sage’s deliberately
vague and mystifying quatrains. So
ambiguous are the verses, says Gleadow
benevolently, that it is only after an
event has occurred that one can see what
Nostradamus was driving at. “The year
1999, however, is explicitly mentioned as
very critical, supposedly on account of
the invasion of Europe by the yellow
race, who, however, will eventually be
defeated.”
And that, until 1999, when one might
have a bone to pick with Gleadow and
Nostradamus, will do for Magic and
Divination. Charles Williams’s history of
witchcraft is in a different category, not
only because of the more detached and
ironic approach, but because of Williams’s
style. He can write.
Witchcraft is a history of the rites,
personalities and tribulations’of the witch-
cult from earliest Christian times to 1712,
when the last English witch, Jane
Wenham, was condemned to death by a
jury and pardoned by the queen. It takes
in the great persecutions in both Eng-
land and the Continent in the Middle
Ages, and crosses to New England for
the story of the Salem witch-hunts —as
fantastic and barbarous an affair as any-
thing that has ever occurred in an African
village.
Why Williams didn’t begin his story
further back in pre-Christian times, or
with a survey of witchcraft among sur-
viving primitive peoples, is difficult to
understand. Presumably he didn’t wish
to be sidetracked from the history of
witchcraft in Christian times, but to
describe medieval witches worshipping
the devil in the shape of a goat without
tracking down the resemblance to the
adoration of Pan and to all the kindred
fertility rites that could be found in The
Golden Bough ignores a historical back-
ground that can’t be ignored if the pranks
of the coven are to be seen in their
proper perspective. This was the cele-
brated Witches’ Sabbath:
It was held at night, sometimes in an
open but secluded place, sometimes in a
churchyard, occasionally in a house. The
company were sometimes disguised in
' skins and the heads of animals, or with
their faces covered with masks or veils.
It would seem that the disguise was not
so much for protection as for fantasy
and excitement. The President did not
always, though he did generally, appear
as a beast. The President was occasion-
ally the local ruler, but usually he was
more; the man in the skin, the mask and
headdress, and the claws and tail, was
identified with the pseudo-God; he was
adored as the Devil and, metaphysically,
he may have been the Devil.
That, anyhow, was adored. The com-
pany wheeled round it in their dances,
where it sat, perhaps on a rock or a
throne, in their midst. Its most general
appearance was in the shape of a great
goat.
The rites were obscene and blasphem-
ous. Were they ever really practised?
Freidrich von Spec, who had attended
the tortures and trials of witches in the
early seventeenth century, declared,
“There were neither witches nor be-
witched until they were talked and written
about.” Yet (for what confessions under
torture are worth) women were con-
tinually confessing to having practised
witchcraft, and:
The number of those put to death for
witchcraft has been reckoned in millions,
which is unlikely, and in hundreds of thou-
sands, which is not so unlikely.
Years after the “witches” of Salem had
been hanged (the whole amazing affair
seems to have been started by the spite
of frightened or malicious children and
to have been sustained by a wave of
mass hysteria in the stupid and super-
stitious community) the jury which had
convicted them published the apology:
We confess that we ourselves were not
able to understand, nor able to withstand,
the mysterious delusions of the powers of
darkness, and prince of the air; but were,
for want of knowledge in ourselves and
better information from others, prevailed
to take up with such evidence against the
accused as, on further consideration and
better information, we justly fear was in-
sufficient for the touching of the lives of
any (Deut. xvii, 6), whereby we fear we
have been instrumental, with others, though
ignorantly and unwittingly, to bring upon
ourselves and this people of the Lord the
guilt of innocent blood.
There never were no such animals,
then? The ladies who flew about on
broomsticks and practised abominations
did so only in the darkness of dreams?
All the hangings, burnings, torturings
were for nothing? Not quite, says Wil-
liams; —
Omit and reduce as much as we choose,
it is still difficult to think that Gilles de
Rais and the Abbe Guibourg did not work
the Rites, that the blood of innocents was
not sacramentally shed nor invocations or
unclean spirits seriously uttered. And it
it was possible for the rich it was possible
for the poor. Among the host of images
raised up by man for seen and unseen
things, there is this image also, the image
of an almost abstract perversion.
Tanks for Betsy .
If you had written a history of mecha-
nised warfare from Genghis Khan to
Adolf, to whom could you most ap-
propriately dedicate it? Churchill, Roose-
velt, Beaverbrook, Lord Gort, Percy
Spender? No ; this is total war, and C.R.
Kutz —Captain, Armored Corps U.S.
Army —lays War on Wheels (Bodley
Head) tenderly before the feet of “Betsy
Kutz.”
Except for that dainty gesture. War on
Wheels is fairly heavy going. It’s a read-
able survey of the history of fighting
vehicles, authoritatively written, but
getting nowhere in particular because
even the Eskimos must be aware by now
that a modern army marches not upon
its stomach but upon its caterpillars.
Here are a few more martial or partly-
martial offerings Betsy might enjoy:
My American Diary (Routledge;
Moore’s Bookshop), by Sir Walter Citrine.
This is a record of Citrine’s tour of
America in November, 1940, making
speeches, meeting politicians and manu-
facturers, and surveying the production
of armaments. Written in diary form, it
offers —among a few good anecdotes and
many poor ones, among information on
the weather and the progress of his
colds from day to day, among such some-
times unconscious oddities as his staying
with “Mr. and Mrs. B r” and deciding
when somebody sent him nuts for Christ-
mas that “ the B s were responsible” ;
all of which amounts to a pleasingly in-
formal but thinnish picture of the Ameri-
can scene —two great Facts, confirmed
over and over again as he travels about
the States: (1) that, up to November,
1940, American production was of little
use to Britain ; (2) that, though it would
take the Americans longer to get going
than their politicians or the world imag-
ined, their armament output would
eventually be enormous.
Not much news in that, except that he
has the facts and figures. There is a
good chapter on U.S. war-time strikes,
explaining the special problems of Ameri-
can unionism.
Two Pacific Democracies (F. W. Chesh-
ire Ltd., Melbourne), by W. Y. Tsao.
China, Australia and Japan considered
as one would expect them to be by a
Chinese diplomat. A curious mixture of
philosophy and politics, with some aston-
ishing statements:
In her four thousand years of authentic
history, scarcely is there an instance of
China’s military domination over her
neighbors, even at the height of her
greatest power. Her neighbors paid homage
to Imperial China, not because of fear but
because of admiration for the superiority of
Chinese civilisation.
Middle East (Methuen; Angus and
Robertson), by H. V. Morton. Selected
passages from In the Steps of the Master,
In the Steps of St. Paul and Through the
Lands of the Bible made into a single
volume pleasantly written and packed
with information.
Three by thinkers: The Beast from
the Abyss (Heinemann), by Hermann
Rauschning; The World's Design (Allen
and Unwin; Robertson and Mullens), by
Salvador de Madariaga; and / Believe,
“the personal philosophies of 23 eminent
men and women of our time” (Allen and
Unwin).
Rauschning, the ex-Nazi who spilled
the beans about Hitler — Hitler Speaks
and Germany’s Revolution of Destruction
v/ere important books —has little new to
say. The beast is again not merely Hitler
but the dark tide of totalitarianism every-
where, and:
This second world war has delivered an
irrevocable judgment on Europe. The Con-
tinent has ceased to be the intellectual
and political centre that it was for a long
time. The centre of gravity is shifting
westwards. A new sort of empire of peace
may now come into existence round the
Atlantic Ocean. The nucleus of the power
of the new order is growing in the union
of the Anglo-Saxon peoples.
At this date, The World’s Design,
written some time before the war and
now published in Allen and Unwin’s
“Basis Books,” reads like somebody’s
pipe-dream. There is an earnest plea
for the ex-German colonies to be handed
over 'to a “World Mandates Administra-
tion” which later will administer “all
colonial Africa”; and similar well-mean-
ing moonshine, leading to the formation
of a “World Association” which would
“endeavor to make people’s minds un-
dergo the experience of world unity by
means of concrete studies of world prob-
lems undertaken from the world point of
view.” And so to bedlam.
The contributors to I Believe are
W. H. Auden, Pearl Buck, Stuart Chase,
Einstein, Havelock Ellis, E. M. Forster,
t
Haldane, Lancelot Hogben, Julian Hux-
ley, Sir Arthur Keith, Laski, Lin Yutang,
Emil Ludwig, Thomas Mann, Jacques
Maritain, Jules Romains, Bertrand
Russell, John Strachey, James Thurber,
Hendrik van Loon, Beatrice Webb, H. G.
Wells and Rebecca West—a good, well-
balanced collection. Rebecca West, per-
haps because she is placed last in the
book and had read all the others’ conflict-
ing opinions on how to save the world,
thinks it would be a good idea if man
were to be superseded by some more
intelligent animal:
I can imagine no better news than to
hear that there had emerged from the South
American forest or the Australian desert
specimens of a new species which would, by
reason of some new organ or adaptation
of an organ, be able to dominate man as
man has dominated the other animals.
A chance for the bunyip.
Three by journalists: War for Britain
(Chapman and Hall), by New Zealander
Donald Cowie ; Outposts of War (Hod-
der and Stoughton), by Gordon Young;
and Through the Dark Night (Gollancz),
by James Lansdale Hodson.
Cowie reviews everything that the Em-
pire has done to help Britain win this
war, and finds it a pretty important con-
tribution :
England would possibly have been
smashed in 1940 but for the aid given her
by her overseas Empire. There would have
been no sustaining reserves of supplies, food
and men after the defeat of France in June.
First, the overseas Empire kept England
alive by supplying her with foodstuffs, raw
materials, manufactures, and with men to
garrison outlying points. Then she helped
England beat off the aerial invaders by her
contribution of superb airmen.
Outposts of War is a Reuters man’s
record of the war in Finland, Holland
and Libya, with a look-in on Syria, Tur-
key and Rumania. Like most other jour-
nalistic efforts, it is fair enough surface
reporting, but never for an instant does
it take on the profound ring of truth and
the consequent literary quality that dis-
tinguish the first-hand accounts of war by
soldiers who take part in it.
Through the Dark Night, covering the
war in France and Belgium and then the
battle for England, has more life in it,
because Hodson takes himself offstage as
often as he can, and lets the soldiers tell
their experiences in their own words. One
of the B.E.F. on the way to Dunkirk:
Having to jettison my tennis racquet I sat
in a ditch cutting all the strings.
Two on Australia,
Anyone with a nice line in G.P.O.
clocks, harbor bridges or kangaroo-
feather farms might do well to get in
touch with Arnold Haskell: for even if
Mr. Haskell’s seven months in Australia,
writing about the last ballet company
and visiting cities and sheep stations,
have opened his eyes to the greater Aus-
tralian mysteries, he’s still likely to do a
deal out of sheer affection for this
country, “My second country,” he calls
us.
His second book on the subject (Waltz-
ing Matilda was the first) is a slight,
nicely-made volume, one of a series called
“The British Commonwealth in Pictures,”
giving an outline of the country in sketchy
letterpress and in 12 fine color plates and
23 black-and-white illustrations. Called
Australia (published for Penns in the
Rocks Press by William Collins), it’s not
of much local interest, but would make
a good gift book to send overseas to
anyone not familiar with Australia.
To his two chief enthusiasms, the ballet
and Australia, Mr. Haskell adds The
Bulletin :
The most Australian of voices is the
Sydney Bulletin, a journal that has played
a large part in making the Australian ex-
press himself in words rather than grunts.
Its pages are open to the bushman as well
as the city dweller. Its policy is one of
downright comraonsense Australianism. It
presents a wonderfully true picture of the
country, a fact that I realise more than
ever, a year and 12,000 miles away.
On second thoughts, it might be more
fitting to give him the G.P.O. clock.
Either for local consumption or —the
purpose for which it was written and
bound into neat pocket-size—for export
to the A.1.F., there is more interest in
writer-naturalist Charles Barrett’s Aus-
tralia : My Country (Oxford University
Press ; Angus and Robertson). A last-
war Digger, Mr. Barrett has written
his book on the correct assump-
tion that there’s no greater kindness
one can do the troops overseas than
to send them a bit of Australia; and the
bit he has constructed out of bush and
city rambles, new facts about birds, bugs
and beasts, and anecdotes of odd, humor-
ous or interesting people is as truly Aus-
tralian as a wind that smells of gumtrees.
Mr. Barrett’s habit of dodging all over
the place—in his writing as well as his
travels —is sometimes a disadvantage to
his books; but here it helps him. In a
short book, only 136 pages, he is able to
range over the whole country.


business.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
Service Uniforms
FOR THE NAVY.
MILITARY AND R.A.A.F.
Service Uniforms — Naval, Military and R.A.A.F. — are
tailored by Anthony Horderns' with military precision.
They are cut by expert cutters who have wide experience.
These uniforms are made from the correct materials, and
are tailored perfectly in every detail, giving perfection in
fit and comfort.
R.A.N. Uniforms for Officers
Tailored in lightweight serge.
Sub-Lieutenant. At Anthony Horderns'. Price .. £6/ 0/3
Lieutenant. At Anthony Horderns'. Price £6/11/9
Lieutenant-Commander. Price £6/18/9
f
R.A.N.R. Uniforms for Officers
Tailored in lightweight serge.
Sub-Lieutenant. At Anthony Horderns'. Price .. £5/11/3
Lieutenant. At Anthony Horderns'. Price ...... £5/18/-
Lieutenant-Commander. Price £6/4/3
»
R.A.A.F. Flying Officer's Uniform
At Anthony Horderns'. Price £8/15/-
Summer Uniform. Prices from 89/6
AJ.F. or Militia Officer's Uniform
All Wool Twist. Prices £7/19/6, £8/15/-
All Wool Barathea Uniforms. Prices .. . £8/15/-, £12/12/-
Khaki Drills Uniform. Prices from 89/6
VJfOR VICTORY
Greatcoats and Trench Coats
Every need of the military man is available at Anthony Horderns' famous low
prices. Urgent orders will be completed within 48 hours. Enquiries and orders by
mail will be given prompt attention.
Naval Greatcoats. At Anthony, Horderns'. Prices
from £5/11/3
A.I.F. Officers' Greatcoats. Prices from ... £7/7/-
Army Style Shorts, khaki drill, made to order.
Prices from 19/g
READY TO WEAR
English made Trench Coats, fawn cotton gabar-
dines, correct style, British army pattern, water-
proof, interlined oiled linings. At Anthony Hor-
derns'. Blizardeen. Price £ 7 /15/-
Dexter, triple proofed. Price £l2/12/-
° MiUtarv Outfitting-Ground Floor. George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
ANTHONY HORDERNS
THONE: M 2401
(DAY OR NIGHT)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
POST TO BOX 2712 C,
G.P.0., SYDNEY


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
c meilcurneiA and
Seppelt's
SEAMEN’S HOSPITAL, GREENWICH.
Germany has for years cherished among other things an ambition to become the chief nation on the seas. In consonance with her
ethics of warfare as displayed, it is fit she should perpetrate the, to us, unpardonable crime of subjecting hospitals and other institution
of mercy to aerial bombing. Among the former, of many, to suffer was the “Seamen’s Hospital Society, Greenwich, for Seamen of All
Nations,” better known as the Dreadnought Hospital. This splendid charity was established in 1821, the hospital being the old three-decker
line-of-battleship, “Dreadnought,” moored off the renowned Royal Hospital. It was, as the present hospital, or what remains of it, is,
“for the reception of sick seamen of all nations in the port of London,” who, besides medical relief, receive on leaving, should the nee
exist, clothes and other necessary articles. In course of time conditions necessitated the removal of the hospital on shore, so it was estabhs e
in Pier Street, actually in the grounds of the magnificent palace which makes the waterfront of Greenwich so renowned. To it are
attached the London School of Clinical Medicine and the Hospital for Tropical Diseases, with which last-named are associated
London School of Tropical Medicine, King George’s Sanitorium for Sailors and Tilbury Hospital. At the Dreadnought Seamen s Hospi
thousands of German sailors have received in its time all that attention bestowed on ailing mariners of other nationalities. The re
has been by the present evil-minded leaders of Nazism murderous and wanton destruction. Actions such as these have steeled Britishers
the Empire over to abolish for ever the system which made them possible.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62. No. 3221.
Wednesday, November 5, 1941.
“SHOOTING HAS STARTED.”
"As we say in the West, Ad., never start anything you can’t finish.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6a.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign ) ;
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
CHAOS TO CONTINUE.
Examined in the light of Mr. Curtin’s statement that
“the right remedy for having seven taxing authorities
is to substitute one taxing authority,” and that the
right remedy could be incontinently applied by the
Fadden Government “if it had the courage to do so,”
the Labor Budget is dreadfully disappointing. It
shows all the pusillanimity which Mr. Curtin imputed
to the Fadden Government, and more. It accepts the
existence of “seven taxing authorities,” together with
the waste and worry which they impose on taxpayers
and the extortion which the worst examples practise,
and allows that the six provincial Governments have
the right, not only to get in first with their income
taxes, but practically to determine what rates of
Commonwealth income tax shall be, and that in war-
time.
Exemption from income taxed by the Common-
wealth of tax-payments to State Governments is to
be continued. Since there are freakish differences
in rates of State taxes, this will mean that total tax
on the same amount of income will differ in every
division of the Commonwealth, in some cases, it would
seem, even more glaringly than hitherto. On this
phase of the subject it is impossible to be precise ;
even departmental estimates of what people are to be
stung for are merely guesses, ventured without
reckoning “State taxes paid.”
In Britain, with its one income tax and its prompt
Budgets, every taxpayer knows in the first month of
the financial year what he will have to find before
it is over. This knowledge is denied to the Australian
taxpayer until State and Commonwealth assessments
are in his hands, and that may not happen till another
financial year has been entered upon. For part of the
present financial year, State and Commonwealth taxes
were deducted weekly from N.S.W. pay-envelopes
before rates of tax had been decided—a flagrant abuse
of power in each case.
On “earned” incomes of £lOOO, as Mr. Chifley
admits, total tax in “the State where taxes are highest”
(Queensland) will be “20 per cent, greater than in the
State where taxes are lowest” (Victoria), which means
that there will be that much less from Queensland for
the war effort. And Mr. Chifley, as Treasurer in the
Government responsible for the safety of the country,
permits it.
Though Mr. Chifley’s party objected to the first
Fadden Budget and defeated the second, he has copied
features of both. Because, as Mr. Fadden said
on November 21, 1940, “the great variation in State
rates has very considerably hampered Commonwealth
taxation at all points of the scale,” 14s. in the £ was
fixed as “the reasonable limit to the effective rate of
Commonwealth and State taxes combined,” and it
was proposed to reduce the statutory exemption from
£250 to £l5O. Labor objecting, the Menzies-Fadden
Government weakly consented to make the statutory
deduction £2OO, thereby freeing a section which is the
mainstay of commercialised sport, and the counter-
part of which in Maoriland is taxed at least 2s. in the £.
In Mr. Chifley’s Budget, the £2OO exemption is, of
course, preserved and “the reasonable limit” for tax-
payers goes up to 18s. in the £. Mr. Chifley declares
that his increases in rates will “affect” only taxable
income exceeding £l5OO, where derived from personal
exertion, and over £l2OO where derived from property.
But his rate on £l5OO of personal income is ss. in
the £ ; on £2500 it is to be Bs. 4d., and on anything
above that it is to be 16s. Bd., while property income
is to be taxed Bs. 4d. in the £ on £2OOO, and 16s. Bd.
on anything above that figure. The effect in many
cases will be that the family man who is educating his
children at his own expense and who has entered into
other responsibilities will have less income left than
the objects of Mr. Chifley’s solicitude, who will pay
only a trifle of tax or nothing at all. Other effects
will be shown in war-loan subscriptions, if they haven’t
been shown already.
This steep taxation would not be objected to if
it were imposed by the Commonwealth alone, and
that principally for war purposes—the State Govern-
ments sharing in the proceeds only to the extent of
their reasonable requirements as determined by the
Commonwealth Government —and if other sources of
revenue were tapped at the same time. This goes
also for the increases in company tax (to 3s. in the £),
in wartime-profits tax (to a maximum of 78 per cent.)
and in death duties (though here again the Common-
wealth comes in after the States, being content to tax
what they have left—and N. S. Wales, for one, doesn’t
leave a great deal) and even in the super tax on
unimproved land values, albeit that is a tax which
might be left to the States until they are wiped out.
But other fields from which a substantial harvest
could be reaped at small cost without inflicting hard-
ship on anyone are not to be touched. There is to be
no Commonwealth tax on entertainments, from which
the best part of a million could be collected inexpen-
sively, since cinema theatres and racecourses (horse
and dog) and boxing halls and jazz joints are boom-
ing as they never boomed before. And there is to be
no Commonwealth tax on lottery prizes, though here
again the best part of a million could be got inexpen-
sively and there was a per cent. Commonwealth
tax on lottery prizes after the last war. If it is right
to take £3471 to £3543 from a property income of
£5OOO, £7864 to £8125 from a property income of
£lO,OOO, and £16,483 to £17,135 from a property
income of £20,000 —and all this is to be done —it
is utterly wrong to let the corresponding amounts
go tax-free where possession is determined by
the lucky fall of a marble in a lottery barrel. But
concerns engaged in the lottery business are still to
be allowed to advertise with brazen impudence that
prizes are tax-free.
When the Curtin Government came in it was
given out that the increases in service pay and old-
age and invalid pensions to which it was committed
would be offset to some extent by departmental
economies. There are to be none of any note. People
were led to believe that there would be no more
reckless extravagance in the Department of Informa-
tion, and that the first move in the right direction
would be made by closing down a totally unnecessary
press bureau in New York, which has become a home
from home for at least one very fortunate gentleman
of military age. But writing boys, who in these
matters stick to one another, launched a campaign
for the preservation of the excrescence, and the Gov-
ernment swiftly surrendered. For the rest, the three
“necessitous” States (South Australia is doing very
well) are to get £250,000 more in special grants than
they got last year ; and, as a result of some queer
proceedings in Caucus and in the lobbies, there is
to be a massive addition to the already huge outlay
on old-age and invalid pensions without any deep
scrutiny into the existing expenditure in that depart-
ment. Yet it could do with some scrutiny. Con-
sidering that N, S. Wales has not two-fifths of the
Australian population, it is very curious, for one
thing, that nearly half the invalid pensions current
on June 30 (27,248 out of 58,921) were payable in
N. S. Wales, and that, though the number of invalid
pensions declined during the previous twelvemonth in
Victoria (292), S.A. (102), Queensland (33) and West-
ralia (29), there was an increase of 642 in N. S. Wales,
the increase for the Commonwealth being 225.
Criticising the first Fadden Budget, Mr. Curtin
said “I decline to regard beer and tobacco as luxuries.”
This has not prevented his Government from clap-
ping higher duties on beer and tobacco, nor has his
oft-repeated concern at “the burden of sales tax pre-
vented his Government from doubling it on many
articles in common use, such as handbags, wallets and
pouches, baskets and hampers, toothpaste, stationery
and notebooks, even ice-cream—“ice blocks and
similar frozen comestibles, including ‘Eskimo Pie,
‘Two-in-one,’ etc.,” are now taxed 20 per cent. Ser-
vice pay increases are reckoned at another £7,300,000
a year, and the Government proudly points out that
they are to be “active,” not “deferred,” as was pro-
posed by its predecessors. In their dull way, its pre-
decessors were trying to do what they thought best
for the servicemen and their families after the war.
There is no evidence that the Curtin Government is
looking forward to anything more remote or of greater
moment than the next election.
Hate in Europe.
In this war there have been scarcely any of the
obviously-manufactured atrocity stories that were
hatched out in 1914-18—the “corpse factory” and
sundry others. There has been no need for them. No
doubt we have had a good deal of plain and fancy
lying, but there would seem to be sound enough
evidence of a shuddersome list of crimes by Germans
against humanity and its long-evolved codes of
“civilised” conduct. The list has grown so long and
in some of its details so hideous that there is some
danger of humanity—even of honest humanitarians—
becoming inured to it.
Certainly the element of surprise over any sort
of German conduct has long since dried up. There
is no real surprise even at the German mass-murder
of hostages in France. According to one account of
the butchery of 50 at Nantes at dawn on October 22:
The condemned hostages marched out and were
formed up in a double line. They were made to dig a
long deep trench as a communal grave. When the two
ranks were formed an officer barked an order, and
10 men marched to the wall; a volley followed, and the
10 fell. By tens the butchery was repeated
It is a grim comment that the only surprise attach-
ing to this and like savagery elsewhere in France is
at the fact that they can still stir some expressions
and feelings of moral indignation and resentment out-
side that miserable country. Not much of this, per-
haps, on the Continent itself. There, outbursts like
those of President Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill might
well be regarded as a waste of breath, rehashing a
tale so familiar that it has become commonplace.
The crimes in France necessitate going back centuries
to find anything to match them among so-called
“civilised” peoples; but to the overrun and enslaved
Continent they represent merely the latest additions
to a brutal list.
Before these crimes, there were the mass-executions
for terroristic purposes of Polish people of all ages,
from schoolboys upwards—reported at the time in
detail to the Vatican, but since almost completely
forgotten in the mounting and spreading record. The
list takes in executions for similar purposes in Hol-
land, Belgium, Norway and other German-conquered
countries; the bombings of Rotterdam, London,
Coventry and elsewhere, with dreadful civilian casual-
ties, those of women and children particularly heavy ;
the deliberate machine-gunning of fleeing civilians
(women and children again heavy sufferers) on the
roads of Flanders and France ; the torpedoing of the
“children’s ship” ; and so on —a list without end and
without parallel.
For what, at this date, it may be worth —people
on the Continent might be excused for regarding it
as a ghastly sort of joke —President Roosevelt has
“denounced” “these Nazi butcheries,” specifically the
shooting of hostages in France. Mr. Churchill has
described “the butcheries in France” as typical of
what “Hitler’s Nazis are doing in many other countries
under their yoke,” and “above all, behind the German
fronts in Russia.” Mr. Churchill added a sentence
which signified a considerable change in the British
attitude towards Germany:
Retribution for these crimes must, henceforth, take
s place among the major purposes of the war.
There was no mention of this —it might be called
a revenge motif —in the recent Roosevelt-Churchill
Atlantic declaration. It speaks of a mood in Britain
altogether different from that prevailing through the
early part of the war. Then the British official, and
general, attitude was that expressed by Mr. Chamber-
lain: —
We have no quarrel with the German people except
that they allow themselves to be governed by a Nazi
Government.
On that declaration British propaganda to Ger-
many has up to now been mostly based. This coun-
tered Hitler’s own main line of propaganda for internal
consumption—that all his actions, with the crimes
committed in his name and at his order, have been
necessary for the defence of Germany and the German
people. Announcing that “retribution” for German
crimes against humanity now becomes one of “the
major purposes of the war” would seem to mean that
the former line of British propaganda to Germany
has now been abandoned ; the hope of eventually
turning (he general mass of German people against
Hitler and gang discarded in favor of what might
appear the more promising hope of so increasing the
already widespread opposition to German rule on the
Continent that that rule can never be consolidated.
This hope would have a better appearance if it
were not for one or two dubious features attaching
to it. One of these is the true position in Russia,
about which there has been such self-evident lying
that it is impossible for anyone not possessed of with-
held information to state it with certainty. The
general situation is given out as alarming; and there
can’t be much doubt about that, even among the most
Shavian of optimists. Beyond that must be guesswork.
How far can the Germans continue their march of con-
quest? How far will they need to continue it? And
what will be the outcome inside Russia? Still more
importantly, what, in the event of a German victory
and consequent changes inside Russia, would be the
effect outside Russia?
This ties up with another disturbing feature of
that unrest on the Continent to which the changed
line of British propaganda appears to have been
hitched. Until Germany turned on Russia the general
picture of Europe appeared to be one of a Continent
strangely submissive. There was evidently growing
opposition to German rule in Norway, and some
opposition in Holland and Belgium; but the scene
generally was strangely quiet compared with that de-
picted in reports since Russia was invaded.
The fact that the Germans want it believed that
all the disturbance since is the work of Communists
cannot affect the conclusion that a good part of it
must be. It would be more encouraging if it were all
national —as, say, in Norway. The Communist hand
in it would not matter if the Communist record was
not what it is. Its record everywhere is that the Com-
munist loyalty is to Russia alone. Next to that, its
object is to stir up revolution in every country with
the aim of setting up Communist dictatorships. What
effects are events in Russia going to have on it?
Nobody in his senses any longer trusts Com-
munists to follow any temporarily favorable line con-
sistently ; if events in Russia so dictate, the party line
will again change overnight. They could well make
an accommodation with Fascism —they are much closer
to it in general principles than they are to democracy
and Parliamentary government.
There is yet another disturbing feature about the
general situation in Europe —the unquestionable over-
whelming strength of the Germans against the dis-
armed rest of the Continent. Hatred of the Germans
and all they stand for is without any question rising
and spreading, and the Germans can be counted on
to fan it and spread it further. Retribution one day
there certainly will be, and the shambles then will be
terrible. By their own acts the Germans have planted
hates that will not die for generations. But the cold fact
remains: for the present the Germans have such con-
trol that only the wildest of wishful thinking can
expect unarmed peoples to do anything decisive about
it. If the opposition is national —not merely that of
ideological fanatics who can change overnight from
patriots to traitors, or vice versa, as they have twice
done already in this war —Hitler will never rule
Europe, and all the German sacrifices and brutalities
will have been in vain. Otherwise, the Germans might
conceivably maintain their militarist hold on Europe
for a long time to come.
The more favorable features are the evidence that
a growing amount of the opposition to German
domination is, in fact, national, and the belief that
the Germans themselves must some day begin to have
doubts about a regime that can win military vic-
tories in every direction of the compass, but cannot
win, nor even end, the war of its own making.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Hitler and Japan.
In this war, as in the last, we have learned to our cost,
as well as that of nations bloodily overcome and ruth-
lessly held down, that the enemy’s war machine is
very efficient. But we have learned also that there
are cardinal defects in his thinking apparatus—that he
is capable of vast stupidities which are apt to undo the
work of his armies. Examples in the last war were the
shooting of Nurse Cavell and Captain Fryer and the
Zimmerman plot to drag Mexico and Japan into war
against the United States. Examples in the present
war, to deal only with the events of the last two or
three weeks, have been the mass shootings of hostages
in Occupied France, the sinking of the U.S.A.
destroyer Reuben James—an immediate sequel to Mr.
Roosevelt’s “the-shooting-has-started” speech and
Rear-Admiral Luetzow’s broadcast from Berlin, with
its contemptuous attack on Australia and its clumsy
references—designed by the thickheaded Admiral to
be encouraging— to Japan.
In the indignation felt in Australia at the blunder-
ing sea-dog’s sneers, there is a tendency to believe
that the war party in Japan must have been strength-
ened by the sooling part of his outburst. It is possible
that the peace party has been strengthened at the
expense of the war party. Mr. Luetzow reminded
the Japanese that “Versailles, by eliminating German
influence from the South Pacific, aggravated the Aus-
tralian problem because the Marianne, Caroline and
Marshall islands, formerly German, were allotted to
Japan as mandates.” This must have started uneasy
movements in intelligent Japanese minds.
There are passages in Mein Kampf which are not
exactly flattering to Japan or even friendly. Does the
friendship now pretended really mask something like
the old Kaiser’s Yellow Peril ideas? Has Hitler no
ambitions in the Pacific beyond vague and unrealisable
aspirations to the return of parts of New Guinea and
Samoa ? Has he really accepted the Japanese annexa-
tion of the Mariannes, the Carolines and the Mar-
shalls? Every educated Japanese who is not war-
mad must be asking these questions.
Hitler has shown by many bloody demonstrations
that he regards the old Prussian and Austrian terri-
tories as parts of a German empire, great but incom-
plete. After the last war portions of these territories
were given to Czechoslovakia, Poland, Yugoslavia and
France and scraps to Belgium and Denmark, while
the colonies went to Britain, France, Belgium, Aus-
tralia and Maoriland. In June of last year the
U.S.S.R. took possession of part of the old Austrian
Crownland of Bukovina. On every one of these
countries Hitler has made war (though Denmark sur-
rendered without fighting), and Rumania, which
received part of Hungary, was forced to return its
gains and come into his New Order, with a promise
of being compensated at Russia’s expense. Of all
the countries which shared in the distribution of
Austro-German lands in Europe and overseas only
Italy and Japan have been spared by the man of blood ;
and Italy, as someone has said, has become a helot
nation. What fate is reserved for the Japanese?
In his recent speeches on world affairs, Mr.
Roosevelt has not once mentioned Japan. This should
mean that he has not abandoned hope of settling the
Pacific question without war, and he is credited with
“extreme anxiety to arrive at a formula.” Prospects,
unfavorable at the moment, would improve if, while
the U.S.A.-Japanese talks are in progress, there were
total suppression of alarmist and provocative speeches
and newspaper stuff. One Hallett Abend, a wander-
ing American correspondent who was in Australia for
10 minutes, came out last week with the assertion
that “Australian and New Zealand statesmen” had
assured him that if the Japanese attack the Vladivostok
region—which, within the memory of persons still
living, was part of China and may become part of
China again—they “will unhesitatingly consider their
two Dominions at war with Japan.” “Much of the
world’s troubles is due to malign propaganda and excit-
able publicity.” That appeared in the Tokyo “Times-
Advertiser,” organ of the Japanese Foreign Office ;
and there is all too much truth in it.
Hitler, Pincher.
“Kate the Commo” : So Mr. Roosevelt has discovered
that Hitler plans to abolish all existing religions, con-
fiscate all church property and replace the Cross by
the Swastika. I hereby accuse the arch-criminal of
breach of copyright, and I advance as evidence
extracts from The Programme of the Communist
International, published by “The Communist Party
of Australia,” p. 62:
One of the most important tasks of the cultural
revolution, affecting the wide masses, is the task of
systematically and unswervingly combating religion—the
opium of the people. The proletarian Government must
withdraw all State support from the Church, which is the
agency of the former ruling class; it must prevent
all church interference in State-organised educational
affairs, and ruthlessly suppress the counter-revolutionary
activities of the ecclesiastical organisations. At the
same time the proletarian State, while granting liberty of
worship and abolishing the privileged position of the
formerly dominant religion, carries on anti-religious pro-
paganda with all the means at its command and recon-
structs the whole of its educational work on the basis
of scientific materialism.
“Religious and reformist tendencies among the
working class” are described as “the main obstacles
on the road to proletarian revolution,” and “the con-
fiscation of landlord, church and monastery lands”
is demanded.
On page 79 of our Manifesto we advocated the
wiping out of such bodies as “Catholic trade-unions,
the Y.M.C.A., Jewish Zionist organisations, etc.,”
because all these are “the most striking product of
the ideological captivity of certain strata of the prole-
tariat” :
By sanctifying all the abominations of the capitalist
regime with the holy water of religion, and by terror-
ising their flock with the spectre of punishment in the
world to come, the leaders of these organisations serve
as the most reactionary units of the class enemy in the
camp of the proletariat.
You just wait till Bishop Burgmann hears about
Hitler’s barefaced steal!
Maorilemd's Example.
An erstwhile Melbourne journalist, after three years
in Maoriland, made a night flight to Sydney and suf-
fered shock after shock.
He saw youngsters being “manicured by immacu-
late technicians,” and people paying Bs. 6d. for lunch.
He found recruiting rallies in Martin-place competing
with the hum of jollity in places where gilded youth
of both sexes resort.
He had left Auckland as black as pitch, its
windows screened with cardboard. Sydney he saw
glittering like a jewel and bubbling over with good
liquor, Maoriland, for its part, has had “no whisky
and little wine for two years.” Holidays and Sabbaths
“are spent not in lounges, but on hills where Home
Guardsmen tramp for miles.”
But there are no recruiting worries. With a popu-
lation half that of N.S.W., Maoriland’s expeditionary
force is 80,000 strong. But that is only part of the
story ; 138,000 men have been permanently enlisted
for home defence and another 90,000 are engaged in
emergency precautions. Then over 33,000 have applied
to join the Empire Air Scheme and 5000 already have
gone overseas. About 14,000 are in the N.Z.R.A.F.
and 4000 in the Navy.
“For every ton of coal received in recent months
three tons have been used, and only about seven
weeks’ supply remains.” Thus Adelaide “Advertiser”
of the coal position in S.A., increasingly important in
respect of munitions production and the like. Maori-
land coalminers have increased production more than
280,000 tons a year, and watersiders have reduced the
turn-round time of an overseas vessel from an aver-
age of 48 hours to an average of 28.
Taxation is “not a class matter” across the
Tasman. Income-tax rises to 17s, 6d. in the £, and
war-time excess profits are taxed 60 p.c. after other
taxes have been collected. Everyone has to pay Is.
in the £ for social security and another Is. in the £
for the war fund.
Golf courses are being turned into farms (says the
visitor), and even small towns have blackouts and
anti-tank exercises. The Communist agitator has had
short shrift from the beginning. If he feels like in-
triguing against the war effort, he must do it from a
concentration camp.
Mr. Nash, Maoriland’s Finance Minister, has
been in Australia for a few days. A few Common-
wealth Ministers could be spared to go back with
him or follow him so that they may receive a short
but liberal education in war policy and administration.
There are 19 Commonwealth Ministers and 61 State
Ministers. Maoriland has 15, exclusive of one repre-
sentative of the Maori race, who is styled “member
of the Executive Council without portfolio.” The
P.M. gets £lBOO p.a., the other Ministers £ll7O p.a.
apiece (in each case plus house allowance of £200),
the Speaker £lOOO and the Chairman of Committees
in the House £675. Ms.H.R. (80) receive £450 p.a.,
less deductions for “absence not due to sickness or
other avoidable cause,” plus “travelling expenses to
and from Wellington at the opening and closing of
each session.” So a job in the N.S.W. Assembly (90
members ; salary £875 p.a., plus £4O p.a. for postage
and free passes over the N.S.W. Government tram-
ways and the Government railways throughout Aus-
tralia) is worth more than twice as much, and it
involves less than half the work and a tithe of the
worry,
Churchill Wields a Whip.
Newspapers persist in being kind to Mr. Churchill.
Even their amateur strategists, who demand offensives
at which they will not be present—they are satisfied to
leave all the sacrifices and sufferings to officers and
men of the fighting and associated services—exempt
him from responsibility for not carrying out their
precious orders, suggesting instead that he is held back
by some of his Ministers. Obviously the Prime
Minister does not appreciate this immunity, nor does
he care for the methods of some of his press cham-
pions. On the contrary he attacked these methods
with refreshing vigor in a recent speech, and some of
his remarks are worth quoting, particularly as the
sort of reporting he condemned is practised in
Australia.
“We are often told,” Mr. Churchill said, “that the
House of Commons ‘thinks’ this or ‘feels’ that. News-
papers write: ‘The general feeling was of grave un-
easiness ; there was much disquiet in the lobby,’ and
so forth. All this is telegraphed all over the world
and produces evil effects. No one has a right to say
what is the opinion of the House of Commons.”
We suffer now from not having divisions. We have
debates, to which a very small minority of members
are able to contribute, because of the time. They
express their anxiety and grievances and make our
affairs out as bad as they possibly can, and these bulk
unduly in the reports which reach the public or are
heard abroad. These members do not represent the
opinion of the House of Commons or of the nation,
nor do their statements give a true picture of the pro-
digious war effort of the British people.
A very convincing refutation of yards of stuff which
has appeared in Australian papers that go in for the
New Journalism ; and there was more in the same
strain:
Parliament should be an arena in which grievances
and complaints become vocal. The press also should be
a prompt and vigilant alarm bell, ringing when things
are not going right. But it is a very heavy burden
added to the others we have to bear if, without a vote
being cast, the idea should be spread at home and abroad
that it is the opinion of the House of Commons
that our affairs are being conducted in an incompetent
and futile manner, and that the whole gigantic drive
of British industry is just one great muddle and flop.
A perfect statement of functions proper to Parlia-
ment and the newspapers, and an unanswerable pro-
test against the vile misrepresentation to which some
prints and their amateur strategists have descended.
It was not “featured” in the New Journalism.
"Crisis" in Victoria.
From “The Religious Editor”:
Shout it in Gath, stick it on the posters in the streets of
Askalon: the sovereign State of Victoria is saved from a
political crisis. Now the war can go on, the volunteer enlist
and the tribe of the Melbournites rest easy for having
gathered upon the plain of Flemington, for there is no crisis
and all is well.
It came to pass that a certain Macfarlan, out of the tribe
of the Independents, rose among the elders saying, “There
shall be an amendment to the Address-in-Reply and it shall
propose a redistribution of seats before the next election.”
Whereat all held fast to their seats and shook and there was
a wailing in the tents of Agraria. And there came among
diem the prophet Dunstan, even the Premier thereof, crying,
“Woe, woe, for this meaneth dissension and disruption through-
out the land and great bitterness; and how shall the people
conduct the effort of war in the face of this thing?”
And privately he said, “Wherefore am I Dunstan if there
is naught I can say, being Premier these seven long years?
Come then, let us attack these Philistines and their Hollways,
and let not pass the chance to remind the people we are here.”
Straightway he delivereth many words and flingeth them
at the cohorts of the Opposition, so that their prophet
Hollway cometh out of Ballarat and moveth among the women,
saying with a loud voice, “Challenge, challenge, challenge.
If need be we shall march even with the Laborites to the
dismay of Agraria and all its works.”
So it came to pass that over the space of many days loud
challenges were heard from the trumpets, and the champions
strutted and raised their voices, until all the people, yea even
unto the public sheets of the city, stood aghast—or the leaders
thought they did—because that which was prophesied, even a
Crisis, was upon the land.
And Cain, of the Laborites, was full of strange joy, doubt-
less believing that whichever way the cat should jump it
should not jump without him. So all the elders retired for
a spot of meditation, and thought much of seats and
the redistribution thereof and the coming battle and the Crisis
that stood before the gate of their content, none being sure
of his fellow.
And it came to pass, after a space of weeks, that they
gathered them again, even all the elders of Agraria, of the
Laborites and the Opposition, and Dunstan, even the Premier
thereof, spake, saying, “It is vital and we shall surely go to the
country an this be carried.”
Whereupon there came a great searching of souls and a
grasping of seats and only 13 of the 55 were stiff-necked,
and the Crisis passed like a dream that is no more, for none
wanted to go to the country, it being the time of the feast
of Flemington and the people hostile because of war and the
taxes. So all the long words were wasted and everything duly
fizzled out and each elder saved his seat. And there is a
great murmuring that such things should not be, for the
tribes grow tired of mountebanks and jugglers and would
commit their little politicians to outer darkness an they
got half a chance to do it.
The Untaught Young.
Exponents of “new orders” and “post-war recon-
struction” in these parts should be paying some atten-
tion to the nasty possibilities inherent in the current
inability of technical industry to obtain boys as
apprentices. The reason is not obscure. Daily papers
in all the capital cities carry streets of advertisements
offering boys anything from £1 7s. 6d. to £2 a week
for assisting icemen, running messages or “light work,
no Saturday.”
Ages are generally specified as from 14 to 17.
Naturally, the youngsters are rushing it, for few of them
are long-headed enough to realise that such jobs lead
nowhere and that within three or four years they’ll
be adults without a skilled calling. Parental guidance
saves a few, but there are far too many parents anxious
to exploit the good thing.
This country has had one lesson in trying to sup-
port unemployed men, the majority of them unskilled
laborers. The thinly disguised wages taxes with which
it is still burdened are a constant reminder of the
bad days of the early 1930’5. The same conditions
may recur, for the end of munition-making and the
like will mean an end of unskilled jobs for boys at £2
a week, and most of those now eagerly bargained for
in the advertisements may find themselves unwanted
in a post-war Australia. There was little chance for
the unskilled man before the war; there’ll be less
chance for him after it.
It is a matter for thoughtful consideration at
Canberra. A Labor Government should realise that
high wages for unskilled boy labor is a national
menace. It could at least insist that no employer be
permitted to offer more wages than the boy would get
as an apprentice, and it might even consider a national
Education Act to compel boys to learn a calling
between 14 and 18. Also, since Dr. Evatt and others
have been pondering on the drift to the cities, they
might find out to what extent these premiums on boy
labor are contributing to it.
Internees and War Prisoners.
“F.R.A.”: I am not acquainted with the regulations
governing internee camps, but the extracts quoted in
“The Interned Alien” (B. 8/10/’4l) are very nearly
identical, word for word, with those governing
prisoner-of-war camps.
These are contained in “International Conven-
tion of July 27, 1929, relative to the Treatment of
Prisoners of War.” Article 11 refers to rations and
cooking facilities ; article 12 to establishment of can-
teens; article 38 provides for free postage; articles
43 and 42 relate to complaints and visitors and article
39 to libraries —all are on all fours with our regula-
tions prescribing the treatment of interned aliens.
The parents and other relatives of Australian
prisoners of war might be relieved to know that their
sons should be receiving treatment as good as is meted
out to internees in this country.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“T. McN.”: Recently saw a Depart-
ment of Information talkie short of the
lads at Tobruk. It proved a mighty cor-
rective. Before this war Fd been gazing
at the city Australian in his chromatic
sports clothes and marcelled hair, and
shedding salt tears at the decline of what
I had always considered the finest speci-
men of humanity on earth. Seeing him
at Tobruk, sans the veneer of the city, I
almost rose and cheered. In shorts, boots
and tin hat, with whiskers and the in-
evitable cigarette, he looked what he is:
the gamest, toughest, roughest free man
in the world. He has the gait of his
fathers and their careless humor, their
contempt for danger and their deep-
seated hunger for adventure. It reminded
me of the old story of the Englishman
who entered a place as though he was
friendly with the man who owned it, the
American who acted as though he owned
it and the Australian who behaved as
if he didn’t know who owned it and
didn’t blanky well care. On the barren
face of the Tobruk perimeter the Diggers
walked, divested of the disguises they
had worn in civil life back in Australia,
real symbols of their magnificent coun-
try. After the picture I read in my paper
that a temperance crowd in Melbourne
got all worked up because in the Middle
East “there was a good supply of beer
and men either had to drink this or go
thirsty.”
* * * m
“L. de Rideau”: When Mr. Calwell,
M.P., asked Mr. Rigby, vice-chairman
of the A.8.C., at the Broadcasting inquiry
if he knew of any influence being wielded
by people of wealth and social position
to get engagements for particular persons
he received no satisfactory answer. I can’t
see how these things can be avoided in
a public organisation like the A.8.C.,
since it occurs so much in private prac-
tice, so to speak. Not long ago I heard
the well-known artist Palette on the air
make a passing reference to Brush,
another artist, to the effect that he was
not only an excellent painter but gener-
ous to a fault and a very good mixer. A
few weeks later Brush was speaking on
the air on the shameful neglect that was
shown to Australian artists, and he asked
why such a remarkable painter and
authority on art as Palette was not repre-
sented in the National Gallery of his
native city by a single picture. To say that
these two individuals, very honorable
fellows, were consciously scratching each
other’s backs for their own profit
would be to misunderstand human
nature.
« • • • • *
“Bo”: Fears of hearing Toselli’s
“Serenade” or a Brahms waltz fade away
to give place to an impassioned plea to
take Pinchem’s Pills —“they jog up your
liver” —have forced me more and more
from the commercial to the national
broadcasting stations. I find I get excel-
lent entertainment listening to announcers
pronounce foreign surnames. The ven-
detta A.B.C. has carried on against the
letter “J” has been given a new lease of
life by the upsurgence of General Tojo.
Common fellows may pronounce that
warrior’s name as written. Not so the lordly
interpreters at the mike. Toyo, if you
please. But I still have hopes that friend
Sarajoglu or Saracoglu—even the papers
can’t make up their minds about that —
will come back into the headlines again.
It is always a pure joy to hear the fruity
accents of our poshest announcer refer
to him, with a slight dramatic pause
before launching into it, as Sarayoyu.
“Curtain Raiser”: “A.8.C.” claims to
be an authority on words, but I should
like to know what it means by “guest
conductor.” A guest presupposes a host,
but an orchestra could hardly be called
the host of a new conductor any more
than the crew of a battleship could be
described as the host of the commander.
The Commission seems to be bogged in
the notion that orchestral playing only
became worth listening to in Australia
after Hamilton Harty’s visit. Harty is
supposed to have galvanised a moribund
body into life, only for it to fall asleep
again until Schneevoigt, Sargent and
Beecham came along to prod it. But
music was held in most respect when
there was one permanent conductor, such
as Verbrugghen or Marshall Hall, and
one of the most profitable and interest-
ing years in the history of Australian
music was a twelvemonth when Heinze
had it all on his own and there was no
“guest conductor.” There was unaffected
interest in music then ; now there is in-
terest only in visiting stars of the baton.
* * * *
“General Prac.”: Most of us, like
“Bo” (B. 22/10/’4l), hate any news that
smells of propaganda, from whatever
source it comes; but it’s highly improb-
able that the Germans, being the coldly
scientific race they are and always have
been, are not sending supplies of human
breast-milk from Latvia to the babies
of the Reich. Perhaps, for all we know,
all the countries under the conqueror’s
jackboot are contributing their quota.
There’s nothing new in it, for the
method was first successfully adopted (in
England, I rejoice to say) in 1938. It’s
just a matter of careful collection with a
breast-pump, faultless technique in sterili-
sation of containers, the use of refrigera-
tors, and transport. Mother’s milk so
obtained has been shown to be pure
and of normal nutritive value when
tested three months after collection ; see
Proceedings of the Royal Society of
Medicine, 1938, XXXI, 759. It’s all a
widening of the uses of the ancient
foster-mother, with modern medical
science and a motor-car or an aeroplane
assisting her. There’s no real reason why
human breast-milk should not make the
hop from Australia to London.
“Mac Hoots”: “What do you think of
the Budget?” said my learned colleague
the sub-editor. “It is impossible to find
in it,” I said, “a scintilla of practical
economic evidence of the essential and
inescapable necessity for an all-in war
effort.” “If,” said the sub-editor, “I am
to deduce from that doubtfully gram-
matical mouthful of horrible polysyl-
lables, cliches and redundancies that you
think the Budget borrows too much and
does not tax enough, whythehell not say
so? Have you no respect for the King's
English?” “1 beg your pardon,” I said.
“But, word for word as it appeared in
the Sydney ‘Morning Herald,’ I was
quoting Mr. Fadden’s English.” “As an
orator,” said the sub-editor, “Mr. Fadden
is an excellent accountant.” “Of that,”
I agreed sadly, “there is not a scintilla
of practical evidence to the contrary.
“Zake”: Few of us socialites would
have any quarrel with the Federal Treas-
urer had he socked 200 p.c. instead of
20 p.c. sales tax on such items as beer,
but the fellow is going over the
odds in putting a crippling tax on arti-
ficial eyebrows. Has he considered the
hardship this will cause to front-row d.c.
dowagers? It’s awful to think that in-
stead of going and buying new ones to
match her off-mud taffeta one of our best-
known society leaders and charity
workers may have to rehair one of her
old ones by robbing the Pekinese’s belly
(“where it won’t be seen, my dear”),
gluing it in and dyeing it. Darling Point
echoes General Sherman’s description
of war.
* * * *
“Tinpan”: A well-known type of
swindle, more prevalent in the U.S.A.
than in Britain, is the song-publishing
racket. The racketeer advises that he
will fit music to words or words to music
and conjure world-famous “hits” out of
amateur efforts. He always advises the
mugs who send him contributions to have
their work published at their own
expense, and they fall for it to the tune
of £lOO or so a time. A London prac-
titioner well known to some Australian
hopefuls, Thomas Arthur Stockwell, after
making (according to a police estimate)
£150,000 out of the game, has been lum-
bered and sent to gaol for 18 months.
It transpired in evidence that someone
sent Stockwell a copy of a Shakspeare
sonnet, and he acclaimed it as “strik-
ingly original.” Stockwell employed a
tame composer who was set to work if
such activity was absolutely necessary to
rake in the shekels. All the dupes ever
got, if they got anything, was eight
printed copies of their immortal work.
* * * *
“Ologist”: “Prototype” seems to have
become quite a vogue-word in newspaper
offices, but it is obvious that many of the
people who use the word do not know
its true meaning. In a recent book review
a Sydney morning paper said; “Paga-
nini seems to have been blessed
with more persistence in the pursuit of
definite objectives than many of his proto-
types.” A prototype is the original thing
of which some later thing is a copy, an
imitation or an improved form. From
what I have read of Paganini he had no
prototype, much less prototypes, except, of
course, considered merely as a player of
the violin ; in the brilliance of his playing
—so brilliant that it was even attributed
to demonic agency —as one who pub-
lished “compositions so difficult that he
alone could play them” ( Ency . Brit.), by
reason of his chequered and sensational
career, his stormy temperament, his tall,
emaciated figure and long black hair, he
was undoubtedly a distinct original. Per-
haps the scribe meant “contemporaries.’'
More recently the same Great Daily said
of a character in another book under
review that she didn’t have “the quality
of her earlier prototype” (i.e., a character
in a previous book by the same author).
If the lady so described was indeed a
prototype or, as seems more likely, merely
just a predecessor, the word “earlier”
was redundant. “Literary” journalists
should be more careful in their use of
words, whatever cub copyists are allowed
to “get away with.”
* * * *
“Forber”: That bride whose know-
ledge of meat varieties was so limited
(B. 29/10/’4l) would have been a good
mate for another of a few days’ standing
whose hubby, seeing it was Easter, got
up early one morning and hiked 10 miles
to buy what he described as the best
fresh snapper he’d seen. Wifie decided
that it should go boiled with white sauce
and hubby duly lined up, licking his
chops, seized the tools and attacked, only
to fall asplutter and utter strange and
uncouth words. She didn’t know you had
to scale ’em.
* * * *
“Kingy-eye”: I stand corrected by
“Parra-boy” (B. 29/10/’4l) concerning
the ancient gibe the Parramatta lads have
hurled at those of The King’s School
from the latter’s earliest days. But he’s
wrong when he asserts that the school
was once located in Old Government
House, for it has been in occupation of
its present site north of the river since
it moved there in 1836 from the building
in George-street, still standing, where it
opened its doors on Feb. 13, 1832. Mac-
quarie’s old residence in the Domain has
been occupied by the Junior House, or
“Prep.,” for somewhere about 30 years,
under a lease. And I don’t think that the
gaol, the mental asylum and the girls’ re-
formatory are visible from the grounds
of Old Government House. Even in
1881 the trees in the Domain would have
hidden them from the view of anyone
standing within the shadow of the ex-
vice-regal residence.
“Meringlo”; I fear that a definite
guiding principle was cold-shouldered
when names were allotted at Joey’s (St.
Joseph’s College, Sydney) in ’O3 and ’O4.
“Poli,” “Mum,” “Ella,” “Ciss” and
“Sarah” were too numerous to warrant
special note. The characteristics of
“Bricky,” “Jago,” “Poopsail,” “Bread
and Butter,” “Pony” and “Constable”
were studiously considered before bap-
tism, but this cannot be claimed in the
cases of “Digby Grand,” “Pontius Pilate
and “Antichrist.” In fairness to the
Brothers let it be stressed that these titles
were frowned upon.
“Righi-oh, Joe—break ’em up!”
THE SCREAMING NAZI.
“President Roosevelt described the vituperative
German reactions to his Navy Day speech as ‘screams
which should he read hy anybody wanting to increase
his vocabulary.’ ”
Do you find your flow of language ineffective
When there’s some iniquity you fain would
stress?
Are you weak in acrimonious invective
And vehement vituperativeness?
Were you nourished in your youth on polished
sermons?
Well, should you ever think of “cutting
loose,”
You can always get some pointers from the
Germans
In the gentle art of rancorous abuse,
In diffuse
Words and phrases, shrill, hysterical abuse.
When some telling thrust from Winston or from
Franklin
Into the Teuton comprehension soaks,
You can fairly estimate the way it’s ranklin’
By the agonised reactions it provokes.
That it’s hit the mark you need no better
warrant,
No clearer evidence its work is done, '
Than the screaming, surging, foaming, turbid
torrent
Of ferocious imprecations from the Hun.
He’s the one
For pungent polysyllables, the Hun.
If you find your slabs of speech are inconclusive
When into some discussion hot you’ve barged,
If you feel you’re short of epithets abusive
And would like your scanty repertoire en-
larged,
If you fancy you’re outclassed in verbal
squabbles
When to mild recrimination tongues are
stirred,
You might get some valuable tips from
Goebbels
In the matter of the maledictory word.
He’s the bird
Whose specialty’s the wild and whirling word.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Wodgil”; A Sydney daily gave
the geographical credit for Cor-
poral Gordon’s V.C. to Perth.
Gingin, where the lad comes from,
is about the same distance from
Perth as Springwood is from Sydney,
and takes far longer to reach from
the city by rail. For me it was once the
terminal point of an appalling buggy ride.
1 found it a queer old place with taci-
turn inhabitants, very suspicious of stran-
gers, and one pub, where I dined dis-
agreeably on a fried fish which the landlady
certified to be pike—a description which
temporarily overcame the one slavey,
whom I had unsuccessfully attempted to
mash. An old pal wrote a Gingin pome,
a parody of that thing of Eliza Cook’s
about the soldier of the Legion from
Bingen who lay dying in Algiers. His
refrain ran:
For I was born at Gingin, at Gingin down
the line.
That a boy from Gingin would get the
V.C. for wiping out four soldiers of the
Legion with his bayonet was, even 18
months ago, beyond the imagining of
any poet.
* $ * *
“Avon”; The fine performance of an
Adelaide lad who discovered a fire in a
factory while passing, broke in, fought it
for two hours and finally got it under
reminds me of a very meritorious
achievement of my own when I was 11.
Opposite my home was an ironmoulder’s
foundry. One night, going to bed, I
glanced across the way and saw a small
blaze lighting up the foundry windows.
Popped on my pants, ran across the
road with a bucket of water, easily burst
in a flimsily padlocked yard gate, and
found a pile of sticks and shavings, smell-
ing strongly of kerosene, burning up
against one corner of the weatherboarded
foundry building. One bucketful of
water sufficed to settle that fire’s hash.
In the morning, full of pride and visions
of a rich reward, I went across to inter-
view the boss ironmoulder and tell him
what a benefactor 1 had been. When I
told my story he turned a deep purple,
uttered chaotic sounds and chased me
out of his office with an iron bar. He
went bankrupt next week. If I had
minded my own business he would have
collected £BOO insurance on a collection
of utterly useless wooden patterns, paid
all his debts and lived happily ever after.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A real hard-luck story was
told in an Adelaide police court by an
alien charged with changing his address
without notice to the police. His story
was: Age 23, a Jew, Doctor of Laws of
Budapest, came away on the Nazi occu-
pation, speaks five languages and wants
to serve abroad as war interpreter, but,
as not naturalised, can’t enlist; nor do
law offices want him, because his law is
so different; worked as a farm laborer in
the Hills, but, quarrelling with his em-
ployer, cut out the three-mile walk to
a police station to report, and instead
reported in the city immediately on arriv-
ing ; thinks of taking a law course. The
police said they had to carry him before
a p.m., but asked for unusual leniency.
Three-pound fine,
* * * «
Charitable committees are
tyros at the entertainment business and
make mistakes in plenty. The best faux
pas to date was made at the Friedman
concert in Melbourne. The floral horse-
collar presented at the conclusion of the
programme, when the applause has
reached crescendo, is conventionally
regarded as a spontaneous gesture of
appreciation for an unexpectedly magni-
“Is that the one?”
ficent performance and the recipient is
expected to give at least a. start of sur-
prise when he perceives this signal honor
approaching in the hands of an official.
But this committee was so anxious to
give everybody who had assisted as good
an advertisement as Mr. Friedman was
getting that the programme thanked “Mr.
Kerfoops for the laurel wreath for the
pianist! ”
* *
“Clooter”: The bus was bound for
the heart of Sydney, a town on the east
coast of N.S.W. “Gimme Wuntwoit
Av’noo,” said the big dark man. The
conductor appeared slightly puzzled but,
as it was a minimum-fare run, drew him
a ticket. A little later, as the conductor
passed again, the b.d. man repeated,
“Gimme Wuntwoit Av’noo.” The con-
ductor leaned over and said, “What
street did you say y’ wanted?” The
b.d.m. said, “Wuntwoit Av’noo.” The
conductor looked blank, and a mild
little man offered his help. “He said he
wants Wuntwoit Av’noo.” “Wuntwoit
Av’noo,” snapped the b.d.m. “All right,”
said the little man. Then the bus stopped
and the conductor cried “Wentworth-
avenoo!” It was moving off again when
the b.d. man yelled “Yow! T’at’s what
I want, Wuntwoit Av’noo.” “That's
what I said,” grinned the m.l. man, “only
you wouldn’t believe me.” Then the big
man fell out of the bus, recovered and
stared after it in a bellicose manner.
“Some fellers,” said the little man amiably
to the conductor, “orter learn to per-
nounce. Gimme Sinjames, cobber.”
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Melbourne “Herald”
reported the other day that, although a
luxurious limousine is at his disposal
when he is in Melbourne, Curtin
maintains the democratic tradition of his
party by walking the distance between
his hotel and Victoria Barracks, not only
morning and evening, but during the
lunch hour ; if it rains he boards a tram
and strap-hangs with Defence clerks
and typists. Why shouldn’t he, if he has
the time and likes walking? This isn’t
Europe. It certainly surprised me and
a lot of other people, when we were wait-
ing at the Villa Devachan in San Remo,
Italy, for the delegates to the peace con-
ference of the moment, to see, after Nitti,
Millerand and the others had swept past
in closely-guarded motor-cars, Lloyd
George with his white mane waving like
an aged lion’s strolling up the empty road
with his daughter Megan. Italy was in
a turmoil, buildings had been chalked
with “Viva Lenin,” there had been riot-
ing and shooting, and the Italian Govern-
ment had placed a gendarme at every
corner and lined every boulevard with
soldiers. And the Welshman walked!
* * ♦ *
“Uramao”: Maoriland’s Labor Gov-
ernment threatens to outlaw anonymous
correspondence in the public press. That
reminds me of a case in Timaru in which
an anonymous correspondent scored
against the paper. The controversy be-
tween the anonymous one and the editor
concerned Ireland’s woes. As a parting
shot, the champion of Eire quoted, as
he said, one of the finest apothegms in
the tongue of his native country. The
busy editor unsuspectingly permitted it
to pass, and readers of the journal read:
“S’ sana si dlareh ehtfo rotide eht,” which
might pass for the language in which
Brian Boru addressed his warriors till it
was read backwards.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Victoria once
boasted its Peling Hugh Gough Pigott
Stainsbv Conant, a police magistrate in-
“ Prendergast, are you sure that young gentleman is SPEAKING down
that voice-pipe ?”
evitably known as Alphabetical Conant,
but he was brevity itself compared with
a recent staff addition to the British
Ministry of Information. He is the
Reverend Lyonulph Cospatrick Bruce
Berkeley Jermyn Tullibardine Petersham
de Orellane Dysart Plantagenet Tblle-
mache. Partly on that account and partly
because of his magnificent nose, his pupils
at the Imperial Service College at Wind-
sor, of which he was headmaster for
many years, called him Smeller. Plenti-
fulness of Christian names is a family
habit—a brother and five sisters share
81 among them.
* * * *
“Hackshaw”: /Esthetic criticism
reached new heights at the Contempor-
aries’ latest show in Melbourne. Said a
matron contemplating a nude in an obvi-
ously advanced stage of elephantiasis:
“I love that—it’s so silly.” Then, as an
afterthought, “So clevahly silly!”
♦ * * *
“Lao-dah”; The marriage loan
plan of Cremean, M.L.A., of Vic-
toria, is a well-meant attempt to
solve the matrimonial question for
young couples, stimulate the birth-
rate and obviate divorces, but mar-
riage isn’t merely an economic
problem. If Mr. Cremean thinks
that it is only money or the lack
of it which separates people, causes
disharmony in the home and pro-
duces delinquency in the children,
he takes a very lowly view of
human nature. Divorces and unhappy
marriages have come out of Toorak and
East Malvern. Marriage is simply the
problem of two people living together,
and it is just as difficult for two people
of opposite sexes to agree as a man to
agree with a man or a woman with a
woman.
* * * r
“Retired Volt”; Telegraphists should
appreciate this one. A Melbourne manu-
facturer who had twisted two of his fac-
tories to war production sent in a request
to one board for permission to erect a
telegraph line between the two centres
and in to another a request for permis-
sion to purchase the requisite length of
cable. The first board granted permis-
sion ; the other cut down by half the
length of the cable.
♦ * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: A press photo-
graph showing the secretary of the
Queensland Temperance Union in a wet
canteen holding a hand over his mouth
while observing the soldiery at their
potations has been foully misrepresented.
The secretary was, of course, merely pre-
venting the debasing fumes from entering
his system, but the liver-wrecking mis-
creants who batten on human weaknesses
insinuate that he was concealing a hiccup.
Worse still, that the young officer
depicted at his side was offering a spot of
the right stuff to cure hiccups. The whole
unfortunate occurrence arose from an
invitation from the O.C. Northern Com-
mand to look at wet canteens instead of
merely imagining them for purposes of
denunciation.
* * * *
“F.S.”: At a recent “modernist” exhi-
bition in Melbourne one of the exhibits
was a picture by a girl of 12 who, until
this exhibiting authority gave her the
unfortunate opportunity, had drawn for
the love of drawing. Now she has a
picture in a show. Some critic will prob-
ably come along and say that it is a fine
example of the ordering of plastic forms
into rhythmic harmonies, or some non-
sense of that sort. She can’t help but
be affected by the critic’s judgment, and
the next time she
sets out to paint
she will be think-
ing of that and not
of the interesting
problem of paint-
ing, because she
will want to re-
peat the hit she
made at her first
exhibition. An
Australian artist in
Paris met Vlaminck,
who had just been
praised by all the
critics for a picture
with a peculiarly
effective storm
cloud in it. Twenty
years later he met
Vlaminck again.
Vlaminck was still
painting his storm-
cloud pictures. “Do
you like doing it?” the Aus-
tralian asked. “Like it! ” said
Vlaminck. “I hate it! But
what can I do? My public
demands it. If I painted a
picture without a storm cloud
in, it everybody would say
‘Vlaminck has lost his inspiration,’ and
in a week I would be forgotten.”
WANTED.
In its short life our country well may claim
To have produced a pretty fair array
Of people who have forced their way to fame
And helped to advertise it far away.
There’s quite a score of figures you might name
Who've put it on the map, as one might say.
Now there are voices asking if, between us
Six States, we can’t produce a streamlined
Venus.
She needn’t have the inches, I surmise,
Of her we read of in the Hellene myth,
To whom enraptured Paris gave the prize
For beauty in a golden Granny Smith;
I fancy her as more about the size
That modern artists —Scorfield, say, or Frith —
Would deem, in these less spacious days, a
mighty
Lot more appropriate for Aphrodite.
In peace and war we’ve bred illustrious men;
In games of skill we boast a lengthier list.
Think of what Gordon managed with the pen,
Searle with the sculls and Slavin with the fist;
Think of the fame that Monash won, and then
Of laurels gained by Bradman and by Quist.
We gave the world a Melba. ’Twould demean
us
If we should fail to find a streamlined Venus.
On with the quest, you beauty-loving souls!
True, there’s a war to win, but one escapes
Therefrom when heading for artistic goals
And set to pondering on woman’s shapes.
And you who’d fill the enviable roles,
Out with your measures, tumble up your
tapes!
’Twould be a mark against us, highty-tighty!
Not to produce a streamlined Aphrodite.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £32,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,900,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
POLITICAL POINTS
When Labor Ministers and members
gathered at Canberra to consider the
plans for the Budget they found a depu-
tation from “the United Old-age and
Invalid Pensioners’ Association of N. S.
Wales” waiting for them with demands.
The deputation, composed of a lady and
four gentlemen, even made its way to
the Caucus room, only to be “pushed into
the passageway by attendants.” The lady
spotted the P.M., who “asked me to come
into his office, and said he would do the
best he could do for the pensioners, but
he could give no information about the
Budget.” “A deplorable example of pres-
sure politics” was Fadden’s comment on
the incident. More than deplorable;
very nasty and very dangerous.
Beasley is the only member of the non-
Communist group in Curtin’s Ministry.
Rosevear had his tit-for-tat with those
who excluded him by prompting Caucus
to go for an old-age and invalid pension
rate of 255. a week when Cabinet had
compromised on 235. 6d. Extremely em-
barrassing for Curtin, and his embarrass-
ment was shown in a statement to one of
those press conferences, in which he said
“the Government does not deny that the
party wants 255., and the Government
will try to get 255.” The blessing is to be
deferred for a while, but the rift in the
lute remains.
Blinking at the orgy of expenditure on
horseracing, dogracing, lotteries, picture
shows, dancing and finery, Treasurer
Chifley implored the free spenders, most
of whom he is exempting from income tax,
to co-operate “willingly” in a “voluntary
reduction in consumption and a corre-
sponding increase in lending to the Gov-
ernment.” For others with larger nominal
incomes and much greater responsibilities
this co-operation is to be enforced by
taxation which goes “almost” to 18s. in
the £ in “the State where taxes are high-
est” —and there £1,500,000 or so of lottery
prizes are not to be taxed for war pur-
poses. That is the worst blot on Chifley’s
Budget.
Wilson, the Wimmera man, is going
to an Empire Parliamentary Association
conference in London as a Ministerialist.
Caucus invited him, and the Opposition
will give him a pair, and if the introduc-
tion of the mortgage bank which all the
parties promised him is regrettably de-
layed all the parties will get over their
regrets. It is thought in some circles
that when the English wake up to Wil-
son’s mastery of banking and finance
they will sack Montagu Norman and
offer his job to the wheat-and-sheep man.
Apologising for his income tax, Chifley
said he “realised very fully the embarrass-
ment that will be caused to a number
of people who have entered into commit-
ments in good faith.”
But the writing was on the wall in
August, 1939, and we have had over two
years to prepare for the necessary
economies.
“We” have had “over two years to pre-
pare.” What economies have been prac-
tised by the Canberra politicians in the
26 months of war, and what does Chifley’s
Government propose? Only trifles in
two grandiose departments, Information
and Commerce.
Chifley on his favorite fad;
Credit expansion can be successfully used
to finance employment of reserves of man-
power to expand production of goods and
material. But increase in the money
volume must be balanced by a correspond-
ing increase in production.
So he has learned that, has he?
“I am sure the Russians won’t let you
down,” says Mr. Ralph Ingersoll, editor
of “PM” (New York), in one of those
“I-I-I” articles which are so widely pub-
lished these days ; and it is to be hoped
the gentleman is right. But the assur-
ance would have greater value if Mr.
Ingersoll had not already distinguished
himself by asseverating that Hitler had
Britain licked in the summer of 1940,
only he didn’t know it. Britain didn’t
know it either, and its Ministry of Infor-
mation had to go to no end of trouble
to contradict Mr. Ingersoll in countries
still receptive to the impertinences of
cocksure “commentators” who are here
today and gone tomorrow.
At the beginning of the Russian war
G. B. Shaw erupted to the effect that
“Britain and America have nothing to do
but sit and smile while Stalin smashes
Germany.” For four months after that
it looked as if Hitler had done what no-
body else had contrived to do, reduced
Shaw to silence : but last week the old
“There is nothing to disturb the relations of friendship between Germany and Turkey.
—Turkish President.
“Present for a goot poy, Meinheer Jacko —an unlimited zupply of vot dey call
all-day suckers.”
gentleman broke out again, this time with
a three-point programme.
Seize the Channel and North Sea ports;
launch the Indian Army, potentially
30,000,000 strong, at the Germans from the
east, and smash the Axis by a ruthless
conquest of Italy.
And it would all be done as easy as wink-
ing “if they made me Prime Minister:
/ would convince the Moslems.” This
war has had. no parallel for intrusions
of vain wordspinners who never beat a
beetle in their lives.
The Tasmanian Premier, replying to
the Auditor-General’s criticism of delay
in the presentation of estimates, said he’d
had to wait to see how much he was
going to get in Commonwealth grants.
One of these days there’ll be no Com-
monwealth grants, and the condition of
State Premiers will be dreadful to behold.
“Mr. Duff Cooper’s visit,” says
“5.M.H.,” “will be an event of some im-
portance to Australia.” Mr. Duff Cooper
will make speeches, and Mr. Duff
Cooper’s speeches will be reported in the
newspapers, and press and radio commen-
tators will profess to see in Mr. Duff
Cooper’s speeches “warnings” to some
people and exhortations to others. And
then Mr. Duff Cooper will depart and
cease to be news and nobody will think
any more about it.
“Our forces overseas are volunteers,”
said Chifley, the new Treasurer, appeal-
ing for loan subscriptions, “and I ask you
to volunteer your money.” And, presum-
ably, if “you” offer neither your money
nor your life nothing will happen to
“you” or to the country. Seems a queer
way of “organising” the resources of a
nation for a struggle for existence against
efficient and merciless fanaticism which
has conscription in every form, and which
has overrun nearly all Europe.
A short route to Easy-street nowadays
is to become a politician’s secretary. Lang
had one named Treble, who was wafted
into the Family Endowment office.
Family endowment having become a
Commonwealth obligation, Treble has
retired with a solatium of £3289 —“mone-
tary value of recreation and extended
leave due, £1023 6s. lOd. ; additional
compensation £2265 15s. lOd.” And the
fortunate gentleman is still young enough
to start a new career —he had a flutter in
politics at the State election.
“Must we have another Eureka before
we’re able to throw these boards off our
necks?” cried a passionate revolutionary
at a Melbourne Town Hall meeting. The
resolution was:
That this meeting emphatically denounces
and protests against the system of Govern-
mental control of primary industries by
boards and/or committees on the grounds
that such control is a form of dictatorship
absolutely contrary to and against the
principles of democracy, detrimental to
the well-being of the community and de-
moralising to primary producers.
Among those present was a member of
the Onion Board, who said his experi-
ence had convinced him marketing boards
were no good. The Grand United Ordei
of Members of Boards and Commissions
will no doubt know how to deal with
him.
New York is in the throes of a re-
markable election for Mayor. La Guardia,
son of an Italian who married a Jewess,
is being opposed by O’Dwyer, who is
Irish on both sides of the house. Though
a Republican, La Guardia is being sup-
ported by the Democratic President on
account of his great work for the city
and his sturdy pro-Ally sympathies ; on
the other hand, Governor Lehman, a
Democrat and a Jew, is supporting the
party candidate. New York Jews now
outnumber the Irish, and La Guardia
men allege that his opponent is “seeking
to capture the Jewish vote by false state-
ments,” also that “the German colony
in Yorkville,” as well as Tammany, is
behind O’Dwyer. That gentleman, how-
ever, protests that he is all for “the Presi-
dent’s foreign policy.” Seems an appro-
priate time for reviving “Abie’s Irish
Rose.”
The Victorian Transport Strangulation
Board came to light with a beauty in its
annual report: it drew attention to the
“prevalence of bad working conditions
in road transport.” Apparently this is
to be read as a reason for continuing
the strangulation policy, since the board
hints at future growth by a reference to
“limited staff.” If private transport
operators didn’t have the strangulation
policy round their necks they’d be able
to give decent hours and good wages.
There is a growing revolt against boards
and commissions in Victoria and else-
where, and the first to go will be these
dictatorial transport boards and all their
works.
Menzies, plain M.H.R. now, told a
Kew (Vic.) gathering that he “raised his
eyebrows” at record race crowds, record
tote turnovers and record turnovers by city
ragshops while the “legendary exploits
of Hercules were nothing to those we
must undertake for victory.” Possibly
because he was shocked by the reference
to ragshops, the deputy president of the
Sydney U.A.P. announced his resignation
within 48 hours of the raised eyebrows.
He is a draper.
With petrol restrictions in force every-
where, this should be a banner year for
railways, and it is in Canada. The presi-
dent of the Canadian National Railways,
whose mileage is not far short of that of
our seven Government systems, expects
a surplus of $3,000,000 to $5,000,000,
and expenditure includes taxes. No Aus-
tralian Government system is debited
with taxes, and if the annual loss were
kept down to the equivalent of $3,000,000
it would be regarded as a miracle.
Speculating on the fate of the Russian
Black Sea Fleet, a cableman points out
that a dash through the Dardanelles
could be forbidden by the Turks under
the Treaty of Montreux.
Turkish opposition can be overridden
only by the League of Nations, which has
power to order a free and uninterrupted
passage to warships of any nation.
It would be simply grand to see the
corpse of the League arise and invoke
that “power.”
It seems a queer time for abolishing
capital punishment, but this was done
in Maoriland a month before Graham
shot four policemen and two Home
Guardsmen, and an abolition bill has
been accepted by Westralia’s Assembly.
It was introduced by the lady member
for Subiaco, Mrs. Cardell-Oliver, who
adroitly reminded Labor members that
abolition was on their party platform, a
thing which most of them had forgotten.
Perhaps if a “Hang Hitler” cry goes up.
Hit. will make it a condition of surrender-
ing that he be tried in Westralia or
Maoriland.
According to Curtin, “the views ex-
pressed at a full meeting of the War
Council are very substantially the views
Dr. Page will put in London. They
relate to strategy and so on and so forth.”
And so what!
Canberra’s biggest problem of the war
is to turn a tart-shop into a munitions
factory.
The adding of a wife’s income, where
over £2OO, to the husband’s in order to
raise the rate of tax is “expected” by
Chifley to “produce some additional
revenue.” It is “expected” by other inter-
ested authorities to increase domestic
friction and the divorce rate. With hus-
band and wife both on £5OO they used
to pay £74 in Federal tax between them.
United they will pay £143, without any
increase in the general rate.
Going to Cooma (N.S.W.) for some-
thing or other, Cahill, one of the seven
Australian Ministers of Works, revealed
what McKell had said to his Ministers
when he first gathered them about him.
I ask you to do nothing that would
undermine and destroy the confidence of
the public or besmirch the reputation of
my Government. Your salaries are sufficient
for your requirements.
The people who have to find the salaries
will allow that they should be more than
sufficient. But honesty is traditionally
expected of Ministers of the Crown, and
the McKell injunction is rather sugges-
tive of the president of a women’s organ-
isation imploring the members of her
committee to be virtuous.
Maoriland reactions to the postpone-
ment of the general election are favor-
able, more especially as Fraser, the Labor
P.M., has promised Holland that he will
“use his influence to reduce legislation
on party lines to a minimum, and con-
sult the Opposition on future legislation
which may be considered to be conten-
tious.” In Australia the powers of the
national Parliament are 5 so limited that it
can’t postpone a general election, how-
ever pressing the emergency, but super-
fluous provincial Parliaments can keep
going on as long as they please or as
long as their victims can stand it.


" MISTER, HERES
vour' hat/ f
“RING DOWN THE CURTAIN.”
In Sydney, vaudeville singers, dancing girls and physical-culture displays—bulks large in recruiting appeals."


m
$0
$0
Ves
Si*
eV
bl cS
poll
Va«i'v
W»
im
Su' le «
taw
*vi\i
1
MiLBOURAfES
Most Popular //otel
Next Town Hall • Little Collins Street
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death?
Can vou look fonvard with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ? If the answer,
is‘‘No ” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family,’ and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
CATHOLIC
Australasian
Assurance
CO., LTD,,
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J, Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.O.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. Georges Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
Equal to the Finest
Imported
Sold only in BOTTLES
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., Ltd,,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
PERSONAL ITEMS
The father of Jim Gordon, Westralia’s
second V.C. in this war, was M.L.A. for
Canning and is still on deck, though old
and in poor health. He was never much
more than an active local member, but
there was considerable surprise when he
lost his seat in 1911, for Canning had
always been reckoned a sure thing for the
Liberals, as Bill’s party was called then.
Though ably led by Frank Wilson, the
Libs, were unmercifully defeated, and
Jack Scaddan came in as head of a Labor
Government. Wilson and Scaddan died
in middle life, and there are few sur-
vivors of their Ministries. One is Phil
Collier, who remained with Labor when
Scaddan turned Nationalist, had 10 years
as Premier, and, at 67, is still M.L.A.
for Boulder, for which he has been
member since 1905. Nowadays he rarely
contributes to the debates which he used
to brighten with lucid exposition and
rapier-swift repartee, sometimes with real
oratory.
Gordon Coates, of Maoriland, who has
been in Parliament for 30 years, held
portfolios for fifteen years, was Prime
Minister (1925-28) and now is a member
of the War Cabinet, has been telling
the people of the Dominion that politics
ought to be forgotten till Hitler is licked.
He’s quite sincere in that view. Coates
commenced soldiering as a young farmer
in 1900 in the Otamatea Mounted Rifles,
which he later commanded. He came
out of the 1914-18 war a major, with
M.C. and bar. He’s a vigorous 63, and
when he is taking politics seriously a
formidable debater —the more to be
feared because the peppery temper of his
prime is now under full control.
WING-COMMANDER L.J. WACKETT.
Dr. R. C. Mills, who succeeds Frederic
Eggleston as chairman of the Common-
wealth Grants Commission, has occupied
the Chair of Economics at Sydney Uni.
since 1922. Victorian-born, he’s 55 and
had his training at Melbourne and
London universities and London School
of Economics. He did a spot of fighting
in a British siege battery during the 1914-
18 upheaval, and got mentioned in dis-
patches. Plays cricket and tennis, and
is author of a weighty tome, Colonisa-
tion of Australia.
Dick Keane, now Minister of Customs,
was for many years railway officer on the
Commissioner’s staff in Victoria. He be-
came general sec. of the A.R.U., in which
capacity he conducted the biggest case
in the history of the Arbitration Court
and gained the first Federal award for
the railwaymen. Born in Beechworth
(Vic.), the son of an Irish policeman, he
was educated at the Christian Brothers’
School, East St. Kilda, and he is St.
Kilda’s delegate to the Football League.
Dick has an amazing knowledge of sport-
ing feats and records. Asked for his main
biographical features* he said he was the
biggest man in Parliament. He scales
22 stone.
As secretary of the Fighting Forces
Comforts Fund, Malcolm Mcßae is
Adelaide’s most photographed man these
days. Born in Goodwood (S.A.) 46 years
ago, Mcßae joined the Public Library
staff in 1910 and took up his present job
in March, 1940. Known as “Dinny” to
his greying comrades of the 43rd Bat-
talion Club, of which he has been secre-
tary since its foundation, Mcßae, as an
Old Digger, knows the stuff to give the
troops.
W. Y. Tsao, whose Two Pacific Democ-
racies, China and Australia, was recently
published in Melbourne, has been Vice-
Consul for China in that city since 1939.
A graduate of the National Central Uni-
versity of Nanking, Tsao served for
some years in the Chinese Foreign Office
prior to his appointment as Chinese Vice-
Consul in Sydney in 1936. He’s 36, mar-
ried, and a native of Chekiang Province.
“C.Q.”: Dr. Agnes Maud Royden, one
of Britain’s most famous preachers, was
reported weeks overdue on a voyage
across the Atlantic, but has since cast
up safe in the U.S.A. She toured Aus-
tralia in 1928 delivering lectures on
morals and inviting her audiences to send
up written questions. A question she
was asked at the Town Hall, Melbourne,
was: “Do you approve of young men
and girls sitting in cars with the lights out
on the Balwyn-road?” “I don’t know
what goes on in the cars,” replied
the diplomatic lady. Subsequently she
became identified with a feminist move-
ment which proposed to form a female
squad which would march into no-man’s-
land in the next war and interpose its
bodies between the belligerents. From
1917 till 1920 she was assistant preacher
at London’s City Temple.
J. Beresford Fowler, who got a cheque
from the Old Players and Playgoers’
Association in Melbourne the other day
in recognition of his services to the reper-
tory drama, has been presenting plays to
Melbourne in little theatres for upwards of
25 years. A list of his productions makes
pleasant reading alongside those of the
entrepreneurs of the commercial theatre,
and he has always had a faithful, if small,
following. A number of Melbourne
actors who have since made their name
in more fashionable circles learnt stage
deportment from Beresford Fowler. His
mother was a once well-known actress.
Two Maorilanders associated with the
brain and nerve specialist Prof. Hugh
Cairns at St. Hugh’s Military Hospital,
Oxford (Eng.), established soon after the
outbreak of war, are making good.
Major Derek Denny-Brown, New Ply-
mouth, who was second in command to
the prof, at St. Hugh’s, has been sent to
Harvard, U.S.A., by the War Office.
Attached to Boston City Hospital Denny-
Brown will be director of the neurolo-
gical unit engaged in war work. Dr. M.
A. Falconer, Dunedin, after two years’
study under Cairns in brain and nerve
surgery, takes over as assistant surgeon
at Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford. He was
selected by the N.Z. Uni. as medical
student for the Nuffield Fellowship, the
Uni. being the first body in the Empire
asked to nominate a candidate.
Into the shadows:
At Sydney, aged 76, James Mitchell, N.S.W.
Police Commissioner from 1915 to 1929. Aber-
deen-born, he joined the force at 18, and his
rise was slow and steady. As Commissioner he
reorganised methods of police training. He
hated fuss and feathers, never made a speech
if he could possibly dodge it, and let it be
known that he did not desire a public funeral.
In Sydney, at 80, knight David Gilbert Fer-
guson, sometime Supreme Court Judge. A
Muswellbrook (N.S.W.) native, he went to
Sydney University from Fort-street school,
graduated in arts and took up journalism; and
he was a rattling good journalist, as The
Bulletin can testify. While on Queensland
"Hansard”—he also served on the N.S.W. one
—he continued his university studies and was
called to the Bar in 1890 He was made a
Supreme Court Judge in 1911, retiring in 1931.
Challis lecturer in Sydney University on pro-
cedure, pleading and evidence, he was a member
of the University Senate and Vice-Chancellor
in 1919 The Common Law Procedure Act
and the Jury Act are products of his gifted
mind.
At 84, Viscount D’Abernon. From 1882 to
1897 he was associated with financial control ol
Egypt and he was a post-war Ambassador
to Berlin (1920-22). He; wrote books on
economic and social problems, memoirs, etc.,
and is remembered for a graphic simile he
likened the credit system to an inverted pyra-
mid resting on a small point of gold.
In his 66th year, at Heidelberg (Vic.), Dr.
Alexander Young, most of whose life had been
spent in service as a Presbyterian medical mis-
sionary. After some years in Africa he was
transferred to Liaoyang, Manchuria, where he
ministered for 33 years before retiring. The
Japanese Government conferred upon him its
highest award for valor for his heroism during
the great plague.
In Sydney, at 90, J. Haydon Cardew, doyen j
of the city’s civil engineers and surveyors. As
a consultant and arbitrator he was known in
N. S. Wales, Vic. and S.A., and for several
years he was lecturer on surveying at Sydney
Uni.
In Melbourne, at 66, Dr. William James
Penfold, who came from the Lister Institute in
London in 1916 to be the first controller of
the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories at
Royal Park. He saw it grow from small begin-
nings into an elaborate concern exporting bio-
logical preventive medicines to every part ol
the Pacific and a lot of Asia. One of his first
jobs was to produce diphtheria antitoxin. Later
he became first director of the Baker Research
Institute at the Alfred Hospital.
George Gunson, Adelaide lawyer, at 65. Son
of a famous old-time doctor, he was brother
and partner of the better-known Bill Gunson,
and married a daughter of Jenkin Coles, a
former Speaker of S.A. Assembly.
In Melbourne, Thomas Francis Beary, who
more than any other was responsible for the
safer working of the Victorian railways during
the last two decades and since the frightful
smash at Sunshine. He joined the service in
1885 as signalman, specialised in the study of
safety devices, became an inspector in 1909
and was superintendent from 1909 to 1919. He
completely revised the Book of Rules and Regu-
lations to bring it into line with electrification,
and retired in 1927. Literature and the drama
were his other interests.
Hal Waugh, artist, at Eltham, Victoria. He
kept away from the artistic coteries of the city
and spent most of his life in the country. One
of the original Eaglemont school —he was in
the old brick house with Streeton, Roberts and
Conder and later with the Lindsays —he later
returned and made another start near by at
Charterisville. Then he built a studio at War-
randyte. It was wiped out in the bushfires of
FEDERAL TREASURER CHIFLEY.
1939, and he finally settled in Eltham. He
was an occasional exhibitor in Melbourne.
Charles William Frost, Minister for
Repatriation and War Service Homes,
won the Franklin (Tas.) seat for Labor in
1929, lost it in 1931 and won it back in
1934. He was growing fruit in the Mar-
gate district when politics called, and is
an orchardist still. A solid block of a
man with well-chiselled features, he has
a strong personal following in an elec-
torate which, until 1929, was regarded
as a hopeless proposition for Labor.
Edgar Rowland Dawes, Assistant Con-
troller of Gun Ammunition in S.A. and
a member of the Board of Area Man-
agement (Ministry of Munitions), was
E. R. DAWES.
leader of the Labor party in the S.A.
Parliament when he represented Sturt,
1930-33. He's an engineer by profession,
and secretary of the S.A. branch of the
Australasian Society of Engineers and of
the Metal Trades Council of S.A. He
was born at Norwood (S.A.) 39 years
ago, and has studied economics and com-
merce at Adelaide Uni. As Coventry’s
chart suggests, Dawes loves a joke.
Ecclesiastical collars are often seen at
Melbourne concerts; the wearer of one
is a real musician. He is Father Percy
Jones, of the archdiocese of Melbourne.
He got his passion for music from his
father, who teaches the piano in Geelong
and was onetime champion cornet
player of Australia. The son scooped
many prizes at South-street competitions,
got a leaving honors exhibition at the
University and then took holy orders.
In 1930 he went to Rome with a com-
mission from Archbishop Mannix to
study music. The Pontifical Institute of
Sacred Music in Rome recently granted
Father Jones a Doctorate of Sacred
Music.
Brigadier Thomas Murdoch, since the
outbreak of war Director-General of
Engineering Services, has been retired
from the Army on the score of age—he’s
65 —but doesn’t see that that’s any reason
why he should be shelved. He’s a gradu-
ate of Melbourne Uni., got most of his
early engineering experience on the Vic-
torian railways, and has held a commis-
sion for over 30 years. He commanded
the First Pioneer Battalion in the 1914-18
war.
The memory of Maoriland’s most
gifted scientist, Lord Rutherford, will
be perpetuated at his Alma Mater, Can-
terbury College, by a science scholarship.
Three years ago Arthur Sims, a fellow-
graduate of the great physicist, offered
the college £5OOO for the establishment
of a research scholarship, in the belief
that the Government, according to
precedent, would double the amount. The
Government went on keeping the matter
steadily out of view, so Sims has raised
his gift to £lO,OOO.


S»£]&DEAF
The World's Smallest Effective
Hearing Aid the VIBRAPHONE
Worn by 50..000 satisfied users.
Perfectly safe practically in-
visible—no wires, batteries or
headbands. They do not distort
Call or write now for particulars
30 DAYS’ HOME TRIAL PLAN
sound,
of our
j
NATHAN HEARING AIDS
Suite 601B, City Mutual Building,
Cnr. Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney.
’Phone: BVV7569.
STAMPS
100 New Zealands, all different . 8/-
100 Australians, all different ... 4/-
40 Pacific Islands, all different 4/.
We buy all Australians for Cash.' ‘Retail and
Air lasts—Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co.. 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Est. 50 Years.)
IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flask Out Your 15 MILES of KiJney Tubes
*—Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—if the trouble la
caused by tired kidneys.
All the blood In your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of 3
pounds of waste matter. When the kidney
tubes become tired, bladder passages are
often scanty and difficult. Instead of being
filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, pufflness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you
up. Ask your chemist or store for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get the
same quick relief they have been giving mil-
lions for many years. If backache is bother-
ing you due to tired kidneys, try DOAN’S
Backache kidney pills to-day.
SMOKE-OH!
“Tripe unrationed in Britain.” —Cable item.
Much of it, too, is uncensored.
4* 'l* •}•
“Does environment or heredity rule us?”
—“Sunday Sun.’'’
Environment, of course. After all,
one’s wife rarely belongs to one’s
ancestry.
»!♦
“A bo<pk borrowed from the British Public
Library in 1909 has just been returned.”
— “World’s News.”
Quite suddenly he realised it was a
library book he’d prized. He must have
thought for years on end ’twas only bor-
rowed from a friend.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What to do when you get stung
“By a doctor.”
—Paper heading.
A good thing is to get him to do an
expensive operation and then tell him
to whistle for the cash.
•i* •h •b
“These machines have been rebuilt to our
acknowledged high standard of precision by
skilled mechanics with all internal working
parts well oiled.” — Advt.
That’s the way employees should be
treated.
“Send your soldier some home cooking.”
— Woman’s paper.
That’ll get him fighting mad.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What does a girl dislike most about a
man?”— Woman’s paper.
A better-looking girl, of course.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Russian gorillas, according to Moscow, are
intensifying their campaign against German
forces.” —Brisbane “Telegraph.”
Monkey tricks.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In spite of his rags and poverty, there was
a statuesque quality about his figure.”
—Short story.
His form was of a classic mould,
Not overfat nor overbony.
’Twas like a statue to behold.
And, like a statue, he was stony.
T. W. N.
"Need I clean the tooth the dentist is goin' to pull out this arvo ?”
“Although I have spent a lot of money on
treatment my complexion still looks muddy.
What would you advise?”
—Letter in woman’s paper.
Try washing the rest of the pack off,
dear.
•J* 4* 4»
“Wanted, refined woman to look after baby
(12 months) who will do a little light cooking
as well.” — Advt.
Only its inability to read the recipes
stops the prodigy from tackling the com-
plicated dishes.
•i* 4* 4*
“After lending her the money, Silas had no
difficulty in converting her to his way of think-
ing.”—Short story.
Another conversion loan.
“The best method, though, is to grasp the
bottle firmly in the left hand and remove the
conk as gently as possible.”— Woman’s paper.
And think next time that it isn’t pru-
dent for people with long-pointed snouts
to sniff at bottles.
•i* *i* 4*
“Although the Sewing Guild has been in
existence for less than six weeks, hundreds of
socks, balaclavas and swelters have been sent
overseas to the troops.”— Suburban paper.
Perhaps the balaclavas went to Malaya
by mistake—-thus the swelters.
“The vast majority of Americans are proud
that they come of the same stock as the
tenacious Britons who refuse to bow to Hitler’s
will.” — U.S. interventionist Senator.
The attaboys of the bulldog breed.
4» 4* 4* 4*
“Mr. , the choirmaster, has an enviable
record. He has never been absent for more
than 14 years.” —Church paper.
He ended one such period, it is re-
corded, by strolling in and saying casu-
ally to the choir: “Well, have you learnt
that anthem yet?”
•3b 4* 4* 4*
“The atmosphere of a house can be cooled
several degrees on the hottest day without the
aid of an electric fan. Simply ”
— Woman’s paper.
We know ; we know. Just ask the wife
when you get home how she manages to
fill in the time all day.
Extraneous.
They’re alien all to you, and they
Regard you as a stranger, too.
Their staring glances seem to say :
“Who’s this intruding parvenu ?”
You’re ill at ease and feel forlorn;
Their lack of friendliness is plain
When, having overslept one morn,
You travel by a later train!
P. C.
Portrait of a Friend.
Some weeks ago I casually mentioned
to Maria that I had met Blobbs, a per-
fectly decent chap, and had had a drink
with him. Yesterday when I got home
Maria greeted me with: “I saw your
drunken friend Blobbs in town today. I
pretended I didn’t see him, though. Per-
sonally, I don’t care to be seen talking to
low characters.”
“That’s funny, your seeing him,” I
said. “I saw your friend Mrs. Screwy in
town —as overdressed as usual. You bet
I dodged round the comer as quickly as
I could. I didn’t want to be held up for
half an hour talking to that windbag.
It’s bad enough having to talk to her
when she comes here.”
Maria bridled. “How dare you talk
about my friends like that? I’m sure
Amy Screwy is a very fine woman ; much
too good for that husband of hers. I
like Amy, and I’m not going to hear you
pull her to pieces. Perhaps she is a little
ridiculous in the way she dresses, but
the poor soul is trying to make the best
of her life. Nobody knows for certain if
she is really married to Screwy. Mrs.
Gossip says she knows for certain she
can’t be, because Screwy’s first wife never
divorced him. It must be awful for her,
poor thing!
“But you’d really think a woman like
that would not talk scandal the way she
does. It’s one of her faults ; but, there,
we are none of us perfect. If she didn’t
tell so many lies one wouldn’t mind so
much. And you can see by her face she
has a bad temper. They say she could
never keep a servant because of it, and
I’m inclined to think she’s a little under-
hand at times. But don’t you dare to
disparage Amy to me, Aitchem. 1 won’t
stand it,” wound up Maria fiercely. “Amy
is one of my dearest friends, and I won’t
hear a word said against her.”
H. M.
Shame!
“A Russian peasant has produced a cross
between a tomato and a potato.”
— “World’s News.”
The poor resultant veg’table (or “fruit,”
if you prefer) is most embarrassed, for
it feels the cross is such a slur. One-
half a spud for mashing, boiling, baking
and the rest; the other half to lean upon
a lettuce’s green breast. One half a
spud! A larrikin, rough, earthy, even
crude. The other half a gentle soul, re-
fined, though oft subdued ~. And so this
poor tomato-spud is stricken with dismay.
The half that has no little jacket blushes
night and day.
ELM.
Exception.
“Adversity can never overcome the man
who, sturdily facing up to and determined
to conquer troubles, says ‘1 will! ’ ”
—Radio lecturer.
Although malignant, vicious Fate upon
his head may pour her hate.
And on him tribulations like the bar-
nacles may cling.
That phrase will lend him strong resource
to conquer them unless, of
course.
He utters it the while a bride clings
firmly to his wing !
K.
“I Talked at Molotov for Seven
Hours!”
(By Hiram Q. Blatherbull, famous editor
of “Newsfreak.”)
“While we talked Stalin lit one cigarette after
another and smoked all the tobacco in each.”
—Ralph Ingersoll.
No man who has never sought an inter-
view with Soviet Russia’s Foreign Minister
can have any idea whati that ordeal is like.
For months I had hung about the
Kremlin waiting for the call which I
was confident must come, for Slinksky,
the First Secretary at the Embassy in
Walla Walla, had promised that it would
be arranged.
Several times I had approached the
Foreign Office, only to be told that they
had no idea who Slinksky was.
But I was lucky!
One day I happened to visit a tinsmith
in the Nevsky Prospekt to get my slippers
half-soled. As I waited while he was fit-
ting them (there was a shortage of leather
in the capital) who should come in but
Molotov to get his moustache pruned!
It is one of the Foreign Minister’s eccen-
tricities that he favors a tinsmith rather
than a barber for this work.
As the oxy-acetylene finished playing
oyer his moustache and he paid for the
trim-up and singe I made myself known,
and also my mission. I explained that
the world was agog for an intimate pic-
ture of him as a man —his personal
habits, his views on contemporary art
and the life cycle of the newt, whether
he preferred oomph girl Ann Sheridan
to glamor starlet Judy Garland, whether
he had hair on his chest, warts, or took
a 74- hat and so forth.
Molotov speaks English only haltingly,
so I had to keep my speaking speed down
to around 190 w.p.m. I thought before
we left the shop arm in arm that the
F.M. looked tired and rather worn, and
his eye held a rather hopeless look. I
formed the opinion then that he never
spared himself in (he execution of his
duties.
it was at exactly 11.47 a.m. that we
got out of his 1922 Essex tourer (Molotov
is a man of no pretensions) at the
Kremlin. He guided me along a maze of
corridors. In the anteroom we passed
glittering members of the Diplomatic
Corps who had been cooling their heels
for hours.
I was ushered into a room completely
bare save for a simply designed thick
Wilton pile, an enormous glass-topped
desk on which was a forest of ’phones,
a bookcase in which I caught a glimpse
of Das Kapital and Confessions of a
City Barmaid jostling each other, a cun-
ningly concealed cocktail bar and a couple
of rather severe lounge chairs. Molotov
courteously waved me into a seat and lit
a cigar, of which he is an inveterate
smoker.
By the time I had explained to him
how the Russian armies could lure the
Nazis deep into the Urals and then chop
them to pieces in sudden counter-attacks
he had smoked down to the last half-
inch. In between his “h’ms” and “uh-
huhs” I shrewdly sensed he had some-
thing on his mind. Obviously my argu-
ments were hitting home.
It was then that he speared the butt
with the small blade of his pocket-knife
before resuming his smoking.
By the time I had demonstrated how
Russia could be making far better use
of her available dive-bombers he had to
keep dipping his moustache in a bowl of
water to prevent its catching alight. He
was then down to the last l-64th of an
inch. As the last fraction of leaf burned
down to his blistered lips he leaned back
with a contented sigh.
I had got well into the exposition of
my grand strategy of opening up a four-
front surprise war against Hitler in mid-
winter when M. Molotov appeared to
develop an extreme fidgetiness. It needed
only the slightest reflection to get at its
cause; with the onset of the cold weather
the Foreign Minister was probably wear-
ing his winter underpants for the first
time and they were tickling him.
By the time he had chain-smoked 16
more cigars down to the final leaf frag-
ment Molotov’s lips were swollen to the
size of an African nigger’s. But he stuck
to it gamely. Molotov, I realised, was a
man who wasted nothing.
It was while I was pointing the obvious
way to the neutralisation of Hitler’s
Panzer divisions that I noticed it was
almost dark. I hadn’t noticed how the
time had flown!
I told M. Molotov I would shortly have
to be going. Apparently the strain that
the Foreign Minister has been under
now for years has unsteadied his nerve,
for he started, leaped to his feet with a
loud “Har, har!” and a muttered “impos-
sible—-it can’t be!” then with a hopeless
look slumped back into his chair. I
assumed, correctly, I think, that he was
thinking of some tricky diplomatic point
awaiting his solution.
An hour or so later an orderly came
in to say that M. Stalin was expecting
him. As he heard the message a gleam
of pure delight sprang to Molotov’s eyes.
Instantly I knew that here was loyalty.
What a power must Stalin wield, I
thought, to command devotion like this!
Reluctantly I made to withdraw. As
I firmly shook a nerveless hand and I
looked into his haggard countenance
Molotov opened his cracked lips as if
to speak, but closed them without saying
a word.
But I guessed what it was.
His emotion at having been inter-
viewed by a famous American editor was
too much for him. He couldn’t trust
himself to speak !
Either that, or, true to the careful
habits as exemplified by his cigar-smok-
ing, he was saving words.
Bo.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Gip”; At a church service at Alice
Springs (C.A.) recently the white, black
and brindle congregation didn’t know at
one stage of the service whether they
should kneel or not. The difficulty was
quickly overcome, however, when one
who pushes camels around hissed
“hooshta” in the penetrating, persuasive
tone of the ’Ghans. The congregation
immediately knelt.
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: An old bush axiom has
it that a horse is worth a fiver for every
time he’ll roll completely over when un-
saddled. Most of such outback yarns
are like a shovel of sand containing a
’weight of gold, and this one’s no excep-
tion, Watch the horses of a mustering
camp when let go at night. The horse
that gets down and sends the sand flying
is almost always hardy, and the one that
mooches wearily off after a feed is usually
a waster. Whether the rolling habit is
as indicative of self-respect in a horse
as the washing habit in a man and
whether dirt-slinging is symptomatic of
abundant and enduring equine energy are
matters someone else can argue out.
“D.R.H.”: If the Germans are pierc-
ing the eardrums of their horses to pre-
vent them panicking during battle (B.
15/10/’4l), then Hitler niust be employ-
ing a mob of buckjump riders. A horse
that’s a little shortsighted is bad enough;
a deaf horse would be a complete circus,
band and all.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Absurd is the failure of
the lesser fowl to recognise the import-
ance of man’s manoeuvres. To us entry
into camp was an event of national signi-
ficance, but to the pair of white-fronted
chats feeding chicks behind our tents we
meant nothing—except, perhaps, more
flies. No parade or movement on our
part had the slightest effect on the regular
trips to and from the nest tucked low
in a ti-tree bush ; even the wild stampede
of the rookies for the scrub when an
“air raid” sent the station mad for half
an hour left it unhurt. And as the days
passed something of a similarity showed
up between us and the other future fliers.
The early gawkiness faded as new plumes
were donned ; heads which had wobbled
were held steady and alert, and along
with confidence grew an urge to be done
with this infantile life and get on with
the real business. Even the plaintive
trailing wing of the little grey hen when
surprised at her nursery had its counter-
part among the recruits, but no notice
(except of a hostile character) was taken
of any complaint insufficiently proved.
Now the little clutch has left the nest,
and so have we, and here’s hoping both
broods keep their wits about them, get
their jobs done and long survive to pro-
vide stuff for Aboliars in years to come.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: You might expect it in
India, but you’d hardly look for a bridge
in Victoria to have a regulation forbid-
ding the passage of elephants on foot,
but this is the case with the new 1500 ft.
suspension bridge between San Remo
and Phillip Island, on Westernport. Its
erection was a unique problem in bridge-
building, inasmuch as the engineers had
to work from fundamental principles,
there being no precedent to guide them.
They succeeded so well that the link has
been able to carry 10,000 vehicles in a
week. When a troupe of five-ton circus
elephants went over it in trucks there
wasn’t the slightest trouble. But on their
return per Shanks’s pony, the huge, soft-
moving mountains produced such a sway
that the special regulation had to be
provided.
♦ * * *
“A.S.E.”: For desperate resource Rey-
nard takes some beating. On Ammer-
down, a sheep property near Orange
(N.S.W.), a number of young lambs had
been destroyed, so a dozen traps were
set among some boulders near a fox’s
discovered lair. Next day the owner
found a fox caught in one of the traps
and held by a couple of sinews of the
leg. The other part of the leg had been
“’ Oppit, Mata Hari!”
chewed away. The amazing thing was
that each of the four legs had been
caught in a separate trap, and three of
them had been bitten clean off. Probably
had the visit to the traps been delayed
a little there would have been a fox get-
ting about his predatory affairs on four
stumps.
$ # * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat was dead leary of
women, going in mortal fear that one
day one of them would yard and brand
him in the good old church way. As he was
big, handsome and quiet, they fell for
him wherever we went, and he’d had a
few close shaves. One night while I was
alone in the hut waiting for him to come
back from the town with the week’s
tucker, he sneaked in the back door,
dumped the tucker on the floor and beck-
oned me silently with a finger. “Listen,
he whispered when we got outside;
“there’s a girl down on the main road.
She was drivin’ home in a sulky an’ the
nag jumped, broke the traces an cleared,
leaving her there.” As it was raining,
I asked him why he hadn’t brought her
up to the hut to shelter. “Not on yr
ruddy life,” he said. “I barged inter
her in the dark, but, by cripes, I kept me
wits. Tol’ her I was trampin’ but id
find help an’ send it back. You go down
an’ give her a hand.” Condemning him
for an adjectival idiot, I hurried down
to the road, retrieved the stranded female
and brought her back. Mat had vanished.
I got her father on the ’phone
and he came over and collected her.
After she’d gone Mat came put from
under his bunk. Yes, he was dead leary
of women, was Mat; she was the 40-
year-old spinster secretary of the local
Band of Hope.
# * * *
“Valetta”: Distance, after all, has its
various applications. Asked an old cove on
an outstation out beyond Tiboo hurra
(far-west N.S.W.) where his son had got
to. “Oh, Jim?” he said. “We haven t
seen him for a fortnight; he s gorn out-
back.”
* * * »
“Edjudina”: Trying to improve the
flow of springs, soaks and other natural
water supplies is a tricky matter at all
times, and especially in the semi-desert.
Knew more than one good soak on the
W.A. goldfields that was ruined by some
bloke who held the opinion that a charge
of fracteur would improve the flow. The
result was invariably the flow’s complete
disappearance. The soak, which alone
permitted the opening-up of W.A. s arid
interior, always lies along the base of a
protruding mass of granite. Around this
base, well under the soil, sometimes lies a
saucer-shaped frill of the same rock.
Rain falling on the exposed skull sinks
into the surrounding earth but is caught
in the saucer, from which it may be ob-
tained by the sinking of a well. Some-
times this saucer is non-existent or too
deep down, in which case the rocks are
dry, as are many promising granite skulls
in the region mentioned. Sometimes the
saucer is quite thin, in which case the
charge of fracteur shatters it, allowing
the water to seep away earthwards. And
in any case shooting will never increase
the supply, since that is fixed by the
amount of rain that falls on the skull
and is caught in the saucer.
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: Am satisfied that
“D.R.H.” (B. 8/10/’4l) never fired an old-
time muzzle-loader, or he wouldn’t speak
of “the handful of ball-bearings sail-
ing away off somewhere among the
seraphs.” The kick of the gun may have
knocked Choom over, but the kick never
comes until the gun has discharged. So
by the time Choom was on his back, with
the muzzle pointing skywards, the charge
had long ago left that muzzle. Imagining
that the projectile or projectiles could
be carried in the discharging barrel all
through that tremendous arc is on a par
with the dime-novel writer who tells of
his hero side-stepping a revolver bullet
already on its way. Anyway, next time
Charlie-the-Wag tries that trick on Choom
let him use a solid lead bullet, preferably
round. That will give a proper kick.
After all, steel balls are only light stun,
with nothing like the kicking or stopping-
power of lead.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: “Canoozer,” who
searched the “thousand hills from Maude
to Barham, Tocumwal to Ivanhoe (B.
29/10/’4l), is either being sarcastic or is
easily misled. If there’s one rise in that
country that can be called a hill, aside
from the stony outcrops aboifi Griffith
and Monia Gap, which wouldnt teed a
sheep, I’ll shout. And he couldn t have
been there after heavy rain or on a
bright moonlit night of heavy frost if
he’s never seen white sheep. As for his
sneer at “golden” wheat, all I can say
is I’m color-blind, always imagining that
Australian wheat ranged, when ripe,
from the near-white of Ford through
the gold of Baringa, Nabawa and Ben-
cubbin to the dark-brown of the old
Federations.
* * * ♦
“Bill Round”: We had gone out to
Jim Rowe’s wood camp with an order
from the battery manager for some cords
of wood. We located him just as he
opened up the scarf of a tree he was
chopping down to fulfil an order for
bark and slabs. As a blow opened the
hollow of the tree to daylight out dived
a couple of lively tiger snakes and their
family of five. Never have I seen a better
bit of “fencing” than Jim did with that
axe. Taken by surprise, he had no time
to retreat, but he made every possible
use of his 6ft. 2in. and his long chopping
reach. At the end of the bout there
remained not a piece of snake more than
4in. long. As he stepped away, eyeing
me opening my knife in readiness, he
casually remarked, “No, thanks, laddie ;
no first aid today. We’ll go and
basin of stewed dried apricots instead.”
» * * *
“Tracechain”: Had just finished read-
ing the specifications of “T.O.M.’s” un-
named fowl (B. 17/9/’4l) when a call
came from the garden to come out
and catch “this idiot of a thing
scratching out my lupins.” I gave
the missus a hand to try to catch the
particular specimen—yes, it can run fast,
and, though labored in flight, it did,
in half-a-chain effort, manage to clear
the fence. Unfortunately, it isn’t very
good eating—the best of 'em is just a bag
of bones, but I will hand it to the Leg-
horn that it is one of the most consistent
of layers.
* * * ♦
“Gryllus”: A pair of spangled drongos
—bushmen call them king crows or fish-
tails—have chosen this S.Q. mountain-
edge as a hunting-ground for insects, and
pay their rent with surprising mimicries.
A star turn is the shriek and buzz of the
circular saw with which a neighbor cuts
up his firewood, interspersed with the
friar birds’ “tobacco box,” the fluting of
thrushes and their own harsh creaking
whistles. Why are so many Australian
birds such accomplished mimics? Lyre-
birds are the world’s best, but orioles,
drongos, satin birds and their spotted
cousins run not far behind. The propor-
tion is much higher than amongst the
birds of any other continent. Even that
finger-length sprite the mistletoe bird tries
a spot of mimicry in its sweet elfin notes
whenever the magpies warble. It is not
a courting exhibition for any of them,
but a year-long accomplishment. Yet
parrots and cockatoos, the birds which
are most popularly associated with
mimicry of sounds, make no attempt at
it so long as they are leading a free life.
Nor do ravens, most diversely accom-
plished of all captive bird linguists when
the opportunity is thrust upon them.
* * * *
“Julia C.”: As an addendum to
“Propalong’s” list of “don’ts” in bushlore
(B. 17/9/’4l), I’d nominate this: never
put any weight on the head of a rooting
horse, particularly a colt. All the fences
I’ve been over, trees I’ve hit, bunged
ankles and knees, plus a couple of broken
bones, have been received through trying
to steer or steady a rooting horse. Once
the habit of leaving his head alone has
been acquired, it is only one horse in
a hundred that can’t look after himselt
if the rider lets him. I’ve found that
you can’t judge a rooting horse from the
ground. Aside from quickness —and the
average bush rider can that the
rest of the game is jar and jolt. I’ve
seen ’em go as high as the windmill and
be as easy as a rocking-horse to ride.
Others going only a few inches off the
ground will shake the devil out of a man.
* * * *
“Atrax”: Two recent additions to
Northern Command military specialist
strength bear the same names— Python
variegatus. No uniform or equipment
issue will be made, as they have brought
all that is necessary from civil life. They
are also fully trained. Duties will be
performed at night, and all ranks are
expected to facilitate performance of the
same by all reasonable means in their
power. Rationing and messing arrange-
ments will be made by the specialists
themselves in the course of duty involving
Rats in Camps, Destruction of, Auxiliary.
The newcomers were recruited by Q.
Museum Director H. A. Longman, and
if satisfactory results are forthcoming
they will act as a basis-cadre for sub-
sequent increase of strength. Before en-
listing they were earning their living as
carpet snakes in the neighborhood oi
Brisbane.
THE MERMAID AND THE ARTIST.
Her figurehead was a mermaid trim
Carved by a landsman handy,
Whose clever chisel had earned for him
Many a quart of brandy;
And under her waistline, neat and slim,
He curved a fish-tail dandy.
Slowly he fashioned a block of teak
Into a winsome creature
And gave her the seeming—so to speak—
Of being true to Nature;
But modest he made her not, or meek.
In any single feature.
Now this is a story given to me
By Joe, a truthful nigger—
The artist who wrought so lovingly
Fell in love with the figure;
So he joined the ship and went to sea,
After he’d helped to rig her.
Aye, round and round and round again
The capstan-head a-tripping.
He walked and sang as the anchor chain
Came up with salt tears dripping;
And, going aloft, he sang again
Refrains of Art—and Shipping.
Her canvas cupping a soft sea wind,
Spray from her forefoot glancing.
He left the land and a wife behind,
Lost in a dream entrancing;
Though what the mermaid had in her mind
Is not such plain romancing.
For, down in the doldrums, dogwatch heard
A queer voice crooning for’ard,
Something between a seal and a bird —
Weird, harsh, uncouth and horrid,
As dogwatch, shaken and quite disturbed,
Explained in phrases torrid.
Next night, becalmed, they heard it again.
Just as a white squall caught her.
And saw that figurehead leaping plain
Into the mad sea water.
The artist followed in frantic, vain
Pursuit of his sea daughter!
The sequel is vague—l hardly know
If it would suit a sermon:
On evidence gained, ’tween drinks, from Joe,
I think, but can’t determine,
They married the lady down below
To some authentic merman.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“It’s easier this Way!”
Old-timerWe were driving into our
Victorian Mallee township one hot Satur-
day when old Mac hailed us from his
paddock, came to the fence, yarned a bit,
said he’d see us later and left us to go'
on. What with one thing and another,
we put in a fair day and left about sun-
down to drive home, ready to sing and
with a fair helping in the sulky to see
us home and through the Sunday. At
Mac’s boundary we pulled up short as
Mac came jumping and rolling out into
the road. Eyeing him steadily till we
could focus him properly, we climbed
down and caught him. His eyes rolled
and his muscles strained, and he man-
aged to gasp “Bitten—be redback—
pain’s frightful—doctor.” My mate
opened a bottle, gave Mac a good swig,
we had one each, then hoisted him into
the sulky and headed back for town.
Every chain or so Mac would leap and
struggle, and we’d give him another drink
to quieten him down. In town at last, we
headed for the bush nurse, there being
no doctor; but Mac revolted. “Can’t—
go to woman,” he gasped wildly; “bitten
in—well, wrong place.” We tried to
explain that nurses were the same as
doctors, but Mac was immovable, so we
argued and kept on drawing on our sup-
plies till we were down to the last bottle.
Mac was arching his back and groaning,
and ray mate, downing the last of it,
said, “Shurrup, y’ ol’ fool. Gorrer come
t’ nursh or purrup wi’ it. All booze’s
gone.” Mac sat up. “Gone, is it?” he
said. “Well, that’ll teach you fellers not
t trust appearances. ’Twas the only way
I could get away from the misshus. Now
we’ll go round t’ the pub an’ get some
more,”
« * * •
“Ex-Mister”: The only attention which
whales in the Derwent River (B.
22/10/’4l) received from the Speck’s
authorities of early days was of a dis-
tinctly hostile character. Hobart Town
“Gazettes,” published in spring and
autumn months up to 1825 and later,
abound with warnings to boat-users to
keep a bright lookout for whales and to
avoid night crossings. Quite a few acci-
dents are recorded, some fatal. In one
such a family of seven lost their lives
while crossing to Bellerive. As they were
entering the bay a 50ft. humpback was
seen to leap clear of the water, after the
habit of the beast when barnacles get
troublesome, and to fall on the boat —it
simply hadn’t seen it. The whaling fleets
were away at those seasons, but boats
and crews often put out for a bit of bay-
whaling. Traces of old try-works were
visible up to recent years—may be still —
in half a dozen places on the foreshores.
, * * * *
“0.W.W.”; Henare, who was going to
help Mac Mutton muster sheep, arrived
on foot at the homestead. “Why didn’t
you ride?” Mac asked. “It’s a fair way
round that paddock.” Henare sighed. “I
only have to get off all te while to pick
up te hammer,” he replied. “Hammer?”
Mac echoed. “What the hell do you
want a hammer for—me fences are all
good.” “I want it to throw at te dogs,”
replied the native. “I’m no good wit’
stones, but, by korry, I te straight shot
wit’ a hammer, orrite.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”; Not all birds hide up
when a cruising hawk drifts into sight. A
peewee, for instance, welcomes the
scrap, provided the intruder is not more
than twice his size. Despite the “choppy”
looking wing action of the little fellow
he invariably manages to secure an over-
head and slightly rearward position,
attacking from there in furious dives, his
beak driving home with a thud often
audible from the ground. But the hawk
is a cunning strategist. Gradually losing
elevation, he will endure swoop after
swoop without retaliation, until, timing
a dive to a split second he suddenly
drops one wing, rolls quickly and the
attacker, missing his objective, finds him-
self hurtling to earth with an avenger on
his tail. It is often the end of the fight.
* * * *
“Wang”: It’s Dave’s yarn. “Joe an’
me has a contrack puttin’ up a line of
fencin’ fer a cocky. One day an ole
party with long bushy white
whiskers comes an’ dumps his-
self on a log alongside us.
‘ 'Day, boys,’ he ses, perlite.
Presently a whistlin’ sound
comes from his forest of face
herbage, Joe looks at him in
pretended surprise. ‘ ’Struth! ’
he ses. ‘What’s that?’ ‘Jest me
blowin’ a bit,’ ses the ole chap.
‘Me wind’s a bit short these
days.’ ‘Oh, is that what it
wus!’ ses Joe, enjoyin’ hisself.
‘I thought it wus a nest of
young birds in there.’ The ole
chap gets t’ talkin’ ’bout the
districk, an’ how long he’d
been there, Joe interjectin’ now
an’ agen with what he thinks
is funny. ‘I s’pose, young
feller,’ the old cove ses, ‘y’
wouldn’t b’lieve me if I tole
yer I useter hold on my knees
the gran’mother of the chap
who’s got this place now. Well,
I did, an’, you bein’ sich a
smart feller, work that out fer
yerself,’ an’ he toddles orf an’
squats on another log a bit
further on. Then the boss, a
chap between 30 an’ 40, comes
along, an’ Joe, chucklin’, ses
t’ him, ‘Whatcher think of ole
Methuserlah there tryin’ to put over a
roughie? Ses he useter hold yer gran’-
mother on his knees.’ The boss eyes Joe
sharp fer a second or two an’ then ses,
short-like, ‘Well, if he said he did I dare-
say it’s true —he’s me gran’father.’ ”
* * * *
“Fitzjay”: They were talking about
sharpening axes. Old Ernie, after listen-
ing a while, put in his spoke. “When /
sharpen an axe, if you make a chop at a
tree you can feel a pull on y’r ’ands
from the blade drawiri into the wood!”
* * * *
“Aratta”; When it was given out that
old Sam Splatt, who had kept the store
at Gumgum for the past 40 years, was
retiring from business and going to live
with a married daughter in the city, a
meeting was convened by the parson to
arrange a send-otf and make a presen-
tation. Dad Greybox received an invi-
tation to be present. He had never had
much time for old Sam ; he had felt the
pressure of his thumb more than once in
the bad times, but he went along as much
out of curiosity as for anything else.
The good man opened the proceedings
with the usual regrets, etc., that they were
losing such an esteemed citizen. When
the question of the presentation came up
the bank manager suggested than an
armchair would be a most appropriate
and useful present. By this time Dad
was fed to the back teeth with the whole
business. “An armchair!” he yelled.
“What flamin’ good would that be t’ an
ole coot like Sam Splatt? He wouldn’t
know what it wus for. If y’ wanter give
him a present of somethin’ t’ rest hisself
on get Jim Crow, the carpenter, t’ knock
up a portable rail an’ posts. Ole Splatt’s
been that used t’ hangin’ over his counter
hagglin’ with his customers an’ watchin’
that they didn’t pinch anything from in
front of it, he’d never be comfortable
on anythin’ else.”
» * * *
“Warrigal” Williams, his yarn:
Me and me mate left Boghole Bend and
was makin’ fer the timber country around
Woodser. Perhaps it was the plonk we’d got
at the shanty pub, but me cobber reckons he
knows a short cut through the scrub. Well,
through him mistakin’ nor’-east for sou’-west or
somethin’, and thinkin’ the risin’ moon is the
settin’ sun, we git properly bushed. Be suckin’
ths dew off the mulga each mornin’ we hang
out without seein’ water fer six days, an’ when
we camp that night there’s four dingoes follerin’
us up, on we ain’t got a gun! Next day we
barely has strength to git up on the camels.
mooch along we see the warrigals
paddm along well back, dead confident. That
afternoon one of ’em gits a bit game and sneaks
u f? i 5 ose > ar) d I whack him on the melon with a
gibber slung from a shanghai. ’Course the rest
of em when they see him knocked rotten fasten
on to him. Next day another bloke gits too
close and he goes the same way. We urge the
camels on then, fer we’re just about done.
Jhe last two warrigals know it, and put on the
pace, and I gits one just before our camel!
peter out. As Joe and me are crawlin’ on hands
and knees towards the fellers’ camp that we
spots in the distance we take a screw at the
last dingo feedin’ on his mate. We got the
wind up proper when we realise he musl
overtake us while we’re weaker than an aider-
man s resolve to give up goin’ to free banquets.
We can t holler out, an’ we still got half a
mile to go when the dingo starts cornin’ after
No. he didn’t git us. Y’see, the sound
ot the hiccups he got through gulpin’ down the
other three dingoes an’ tryin’ to run on his
lull stomach brought one o’ the fellers out o’
the tent. We would probably ’a’ made it,
though the last hundred yards or so we were
just about gainin’ on the dingo.
♦ * * m
Taylor Ville”: He was a large, fat
person, with a face as glossy-smooth as
the duco on his big sedan. “Of course,”
he said, “you station blokes don’t do any
real work—just sit on a horse all day.”
1 thought of George, camp boss at the
old St. A’Beckett’s outstation, and the
day he rode Red Hill (S.A.) paddock.
He started off early round the seven
miles by eight of tableland intersected by
the channels of Leigh’s Creek that form
that paddock. It was as hot as only real
gibber country can be, with, of course,
no shade bigger than a tar bush. About
three in the afternoon he found a little
lot of ewes hanging up in the far corner,
nearly perished. George started ’em off
on foot, leading his horse, bumping ’em
along with his knees. Evening came and
the gibbers gave up their stored heat;
the waterbag was empty, and to his
feet, in Cuban-heeled ’lastic-sides, the
stones were as hard as Hitler’s heart.
Only those who have tried it can realise
the strain on a man who, by sheer will-
power, keeps perishing sheep going when
they want only to lie down and die ri
peace. George got ’em to the springs at
nine that night. Then he rode another
nine miles home.
* * * »
“Jesmond”; More remarkable than
the lousiness of starlings (B. 8/10/’4l) is
that of the fairy penguins, for these flight-
less birds spend most of the day in the
sea.
* * * *
“Yagan”: Australian blacks were
divided into nations, nations into tribes,
tribes into families. Water supplies be-
longed to the tribe, and finally to the
nation. It was mainly the women’s busi-
ness to go to the waterholes or swamps;
thus any strange party that camped on a
water supply was likely to cause, acute
embarrassment. The abo. woman, not
being protected by a police force,
was apt to read a menace in the
glances of any man other than her
own near male relatives. Likewise,
the said male relatives were apt to
act up to a certain chivalric code which
required them to throw a few spears
should any of their womenfolk complain
of being insulted. So it was always good
business for the peace-lover to move away
from the water once his own needs were
satisfied White men were not so wise.
They invariably dumped themselves down
right on the water, thus forbidding the
approach of the native women to supplies
that were rightly theirs. Whereupon
their indignant lords would rise and cast
a few spears at the trespassers. And so
war would begin.
“Get up, blokes—the all-clear went ’arf an hour ago!”
DAYDREAMERS.
The possum lies curled
In his high warm hut,
With his claws fur-furled
And his eyes fast shut;
While hawk-moths hide
In the spicy dark
On the underside
Of a gum’s loose bark.
Bandicoots slumber
Deep in dry sags,
Sheathed in umber
Of old leaf rags;
Close in his cave
Beyond the gleams
Of the sun’s gold lave,
The badger dreams
And snuffles and snores
With his nose in his paws.
The bittern lurks in a dusky clout
Of reeds on the edge
Of the marsh’s sedge,
Waiting for night to lure him out.
While, mouse-fed and fat
And immaculate
As the homestead cat,
The mopoke clings to a curtained limb;
And cuddles his gnarled feet under him—
With his tufted ears
And his whiskered jowl
One almost fears
He is beast, not owl.
Safe in his nest of twig and root
The wallaby-rat dreams rich red fruit
Lusciously swings from the wild sweet-briar;
And his soft nose twitches in sharp desire.
In rotting heaps
Of bracken wrack
Thp scorpion sleeps
With her poison sack;
While bats cling in holes
In dead tree boles
Like little ripe pears of wintry brown
Waiting for dusk to shake them down!
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


The PRUDENTIAL Assurance Co. Ltd.
C Incorporated in England)
Assets Increase by £10,000,000 to
£364,000,000
93% of Funds in British Empire
A NATIONAL INSTITUTION RENDERING A
NATIONAL SERVICE — this is the impression gained
from a perusal of the 92nd Annual Report of the
PRUDENTIAL Assurance Company for the Year 1940.
As the largest Insurance Company in the British Com-
monwealth of Nations, this vast organisation forms a vital
part of the Empire’s Social and Economic life, and it is in
the light of this that the Annual Accounts of the Com-
pany are always awaited with interest by financial circles
everywhere.
The impact of war-time conditions on
the Prudential Company is revealed by
the figures and by the facts set out in
the Statement by the Chairman of the
Company, Sir Edgar Horne, Bart. Con-
sidering it a national duty to contribute
to the fullest degree to the British Empire s
war effort, the Company has given prac-
tical effect to its war-time policy:—
(1) By investing 100 per cent, of all
available investible funds in Australia in
Australian Loans, to which already
heavy subscriptions have been made;
(2) By limiting investment of the Com-
pany’s funds almost entirely to avenues
within the British Empire — the latest
accounts show that 93.68 per cent, of
funds are so invested;
(3) By direct contribution of man-
power to the Army, Navy and Air Force,
to the extent of nearly 10,000 members
of the male staff, including no less than
54 per cent, of the Agency Staff;
(4) By continued waiver of all Naval,
Military or Air Force risk conditions
embodied in any of the Company’s life
assurance policies issued from the Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Branches on or
before September 25th, 1939, which were
in force on that date.
This full support of the Empire’s cause
is constantly before the public. Having
contributed £5,000,000 to the War Loan
in England in March, 1940, the Company
bought £20,000,000 of National War
Bonds in July—the latter is probably the
largest direct investment for a term of
years ever made by a single institution
in one amount. Further, the Prudential
has continued to support War Bonds and
Savings Bonds in association with * War
Weapons Weeks" fc.nd has participated in
the efforts in well over 200 towns and
districts.
The accounts for 1940 also reveal that
the assets of this huge organisation now
total £364,854,580, an increase of over
£10,000,000. The income was again over
£1,000,000 weekly, totalling £56,048,786.
The surplus in the Life Branches amounted
to £8,572,012, including £1,467,652
brought forward, and of this £4,475,000
was carried to Contingency Funds, and
£2,000,000 to Investment Reserve Funds.
NEW BUSINESS £84,000,000.
A striking feature of the 1940 results
has been the manner in which the organi-
sation has continued to produce a vast
new business in spite of the obvious
difficulties created by the War, the total
new sums assured issued in 1940 in the
Life Branches amounting to £84,800,054,
which must rank as an outstanding
achievement. The consideration for
annuities granted amounted to £452,753.
The sums assured, including bonus addi-
tions, in force in the Life Branches now
amount to £912,785,408.
In the General Branch the Company
transacts Fire, Accident and Marine insur-
ance business, and the total premiums
received amounted to £2,422,474. The
surplus was £5 79,470, including £226,974
brought forward.
In brief, the guiding principle operating
behind these figures is one aptly expressed
by the Chairman: “The business of the
Prudential is so wide and varied in charac-
ter and constitutes such an important part
of the social and economic life of the
Nation that its maintenance at a high level
of efficiency is an obligation to the public
which the Directors felt must be dis-
charged at all costs.”
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
S 3
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
Svef water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILDAL COUMN
South British Insurance Co.
Net To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
S £ £ £ £
1931.. 137,042 13.3 p.c.=137,552 —• 1,672,766
1932.. 194,443 13.3 „ „ 137,552 V.g goj j 689,657
Written off premises, £40,000 }
1933.. 191,304 13.3 p.c.=137,552 ) lg 752 1703409
Written off premises, £40,000 J
Unexplained additions to reserves,
£263.681 1,967,090
1934.. 240,030 13.3 p.c.=137,552 102,478 2,069,568
Unexplained addition, £14,878 .. .. 2,084,446
1935.. 261,538 13.3 p.c.=137,552 1 9S 9g6 2> 178,432
Written off premises, £30,000 ) _
1936.. 309,957 13.3 p.c.=137,552 172,405 2,350,837
1937.. 327,788 13.7,, „ 141,850 185,938 2,536,775
Unexplained reductions, £13,229 .. 2,523,546
1938.. 329,425 14.1 p.c.=146,148 183,277 2,706,823
Unexplained reductions, £172,314 .. 2,534,509
1939.. 335,614 14.1 p.c.=146,149 189,465 2,723,974
Unexplained additions, £532,737 .. 3,256,711
1940.. 442,103 17.1 p.c.=176,239 1 oir, oca s 472 575
Written off premises, £50,000 ] 21d ’ 864
Unexplained reductions, £74,042 .. 3,398,533
1941.. 656,058 22.5 p.c.=232,119 423,939 3,822,472
The fat pile of reserves, from which
£940,000 has already been transferred to
capital, has been accumulating over a
period of 68 years. But nearly half have
appeared over the past decade, and with
the heap now 3.7 times the share-register
total it is difficult to avoid earning a high
nominal rate of profit, despite the sting-
ing taxation the co. is subject to in Maori-
land. Here the 10s. shares fetch 625.
or thereabouts, which shows a 3.7 p.c.
yield from the latest increased div. The
cover is 475. in conservatively valued net
tangibles.
Most of the business is done outside
the Shivery Isles in and around Aus-
tralia, South Africa, the Middle and Near
East and North America, So far, as in
1914-18, war has anything but harmed
marine earnings. The rise in insurable
values and higher rates for added risk,
which has been largely more apparent
than real because the co. isn’t heavily
involved in the present chief theatres of
war, have greatly swelled premium
income, while the loss ratio last
year was nearly £lO p.c. lighter, a figure
one has to trek back to 1920 -to better.
Here are other aspects of the war-time
underwriting experience:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Leases. penses. Rate. Rate.
£ £ £
1925. . 905,917 496,709 313,382 54.8 p.c. 34.6 p.c.
1929.. 1,061,842 641,433 318,072 61.0 „ 30.2 „
1934.. 813,472 422,969 275,163 51.9 „ 33.8 „
1935.. 895,697 482,941 277,974 53.9 „ 31.0 „
1936.. 1,040,070 562,000 295,461 56.5 „ 28.4 „
1937.. 1,181,609 704,123 293.578 59.6 ~ 24.8 „
1938.. 1,342,535 843,977 316,394 62.8 ~ 23.5 „
1939.. 1,417,625 844,516 384,989 59.5 ~ 27.7 „
1940.. 1,752,479 1,022,962 445,524 58.3 „ 25.4 ~
1941. . 2,145,516 1,039,776 628,818 48.4 „ 29.3 „
Accounts outside Maoriland are now
shown in Dominion currency, instead of
mainly sterling, as up till 1939 ; hence
portion of the apparent growth in the
figures in 1940. That, however, had no-
thing to do with the expansion of
£393,037 in last year’s retained premiums.
Taxation had an influence on the advance
of nearly £4 p.c. in the expense rate, but
the figure must still be the envy of many
competitors.
In aggregate the underwriting profit
was £192,929 better off at £476,922. With
£179,136 (up £21,027) from interest and
rents, there was thus £213,955 more at
£656,058 to show to shareholders from
all sources, or a juicy 63.5 p.c. on their
£1,031,640 of capital. The 5.4 p.c. tacked
on to the div. obviously strained nothing,
leaving reserves to benefit by £423,939.
That leaves out of account an un-
explained reduction of £74,042 in invest-
ment fluctuation account, which may
have been prompted by Japanese freez-
ing of British assets—the report doesn’t
indicate the extent to which the co. is
involved.
Both policy- and shareholders can see
protection of fine calibre:
1940. p.c. 1941. p.c.
Premises .. ..£473,250 9.0 £497,397 8.4
Mortsraffes .. .. 246,000 4.7 286,879 4.9
Deposits, cash, etc. .. 971,101 18.6
Stocks, debentures, etc. 818,754 15.7 839,560 14.0
Municipal debentures, etc. 469,373 8.9 587,655 9.9
Government securities 2,125,260 40.6 2,640,361 45.0
Book debts .. •• 129,331 2.5 157,879 2.7
When the books closed net tangibles
equal to 226 p.c. of the, year’s net
premiums were on view, or half as much
again as is usually looked for. Chief
concern of this and other world-wide
underwriters at the moment is the pos-
sible spread of hostilities to Asia.
David Jones, Ltd. (Sydney)
r Div idends
Ist 2nd
Net Pref. Pref.
July. Profit. 6 p.c. 7J p.c. Ordinary. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1931.. 49,973 900018,750 4 p.c. = 24,000 362,712
1932.. 72,056 7750 15,234 5 „ ~ 30,000 381,784
1933.. 93,394 9000 18,750 8 „ „ 48,000 399,428
1934. .109,163 9000 18,750 10 „ „ 60,000 420,841
1935. .121,777 9000 18,750 10 „ ~60,000 454,868
1936. .146,148 9000 18,750 10 „ ~60,000 513,266
Share premiums, £99,933.. .. 613,199
1937. .165,049 9000 18,750 10 p.c. = 64,164 686,334
Share premiums, £67 .. .. 686,401
1938. .176,687 9000 18,750 10 p.c. = 79,750 755,588
1939. .172,563 9000 18,750 10 ~ ~ 81,000 819,401
1940. .207,053 9000 18,750 10 „ ~81,000 917,704
1941. .195,429 9000 18,750 10 „ ~81,000 1,004,383
First prefs. reduced to 5 p.c. and seconds to 5.8 p.c.
under Interest Reduction Act from Oct. 1, 1931,
till July 31, 1932.
The big retailers, and most other traders,
too, are in clover —temporarily, at any
rate. This because war expenditure has
lengthened payrolls lifted wage rates,
swelled the volume of money in circula-
tion and increased the spending power of
the public. City retail-store sales
during July last were 10.5 p.c, greater
than for July, 1940. Average stocks held
showed an increase of 11.1 p.c., and the
average number of employees rose by
4.2 p.c. Total sales for the three months
to the end of July, when there was a
“scare” buying wave, were 23.3 p.c.
higher than for the corresponding period
of 1940. Secondary industries exhibited
even greater activity.
It is not surprising, therefore, that
D.J.’s report expansion of business last
term to be greater than any other similar
period in the co’s history. To cope with
the increased trading, two floors were
added to the new Market-street men’s
store, which was opened just before the
close of accounts in 1938. In its three
stores combined, the co. completed close
on 12,000,000 separate transactions during
the year. It served 3,000,000 meals in its
crowded restaurants—a section to which
the management has given much atten-
tion, to the benefit of the rest of the
business. In its Marlborough-street fac-
tory, where 1600 hands are employed,
210,689 garments were made for naval,
air force and military requirements, and
over £500,000 worth of manufactured
goods were turned out for sale at retail
in various stores. Manufacturing activi-
ties have been stimulated by import diffi-
culties, which have also resulted in more
attention being given to style and design.
During the last two years the co. has
imported about a million pounds’ worth
of goods from Britain, and loss by enemy
action has amounted to less than 3 p.c.
Together with seven other retailers in
Australia and Maoriland, D.J.’s has set
up a big buying organisation in London,
which ought to mean much so far as
competitive prices for imported lines are
concerned, Costs, including taxation, ad-
vanced briskly, and will continue to
do so.
After making an unspecified but
larger provision for taxation the
amount paid in taxes was £166,721 —and
allowing £57,953 (down £1503) for de-
preciation of plant, etc., the board figured
net profit £11,624 less at £195,429. This
was enough to pay the pref. divs. and
show 20.7 p.c. on £BlO,OOO of ord.
capital as against 22.1, 17.8, 18.5, 21.3,
19.7, 15.6, 13.5, 10.9 and 8.7 p.c. back to
the difficult days of 1932. The div. was
kept at 10 p.c., and the market doesn’t
expect anything better at the moment,
despite the wide margin between earnings
and distributions.
Since the beginning of 1941 the pound
ords., covered by 445. 9d. in net tangibles,
have fluctuated between 31s. 3d. and 365.
in the market. At the current price of
335. 3d. the return is a satisfactory 6
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The 6 p.c.
first and p.c. second prefs. at 255. 6d.
and 275. 9d. yield 4.7 p.c. and 5.4 p.c.
respectively. The net tangible cover is
£l4 15s. 3d. firsts and £8 ss. Id. seconds.
To add £60,355 net to*the book value
of freeholds, carry an extra £144,793 of
stocks, increase debtors’ balances by
£73,111, make a £lOO,OOO interest-free
loan to the Commonwealth, and snip
£30,125 off mortgages, the board leant
upon sundry creditors, etc., for a further
£268,614—the etcetera is an unspecified
provision for taxation:
1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital .. £1,210,000 £1,210,000 £1,210,000
Sundry creditors* 391,878 617,408 886,022
Mortgages, etc. . . 602,215 632,132 602,007
Total liabilities. . £1,044,093 £1,249,540 £1,488,029
Freeholds . 1,600,047 1,597,650 1,658,005
Plantetc ‘ ’ 488 262 430,741 383,244
Stocks .. .. 579,998 859,335 1,004,128
Book debts . . 433,962 662,464 675,57 a
Investments, cash, etc. 34,360 53,747 151,9-.-.
* Including provision for taxation.
The position is an attractive one, pro-
vided stock has been well-bought and
debtors’ balances are sound, and there
is nothing to suggest that they are other-
wise. The more or less liquid surplus
(£243,596) was £77,590 higher than at the
previous balance, despite the outlay on
freehold.
Australian Knitting Mills (Melb.)
r Dividends N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1931 . . 31,003 71 p.c. 5 p.c. 27,221 3,782 162,649
1932 . . 27,138 7J „ 5 ~ 27,750 162,037
1933*.. 24,538 71 „ 5 „ 27,750 158,825
Profit on sale of shares, £BBO3 . . • • 167,628
1934 . . 59,445 7-J p.c. 7$ p.c. 41,312 18,133 180,761
1935 . . 39,894 71 „ 7 „ 38,550 1,344 187,10 a
1936 . . 28,054 71 „ 7 „ 32,583 182,5/6
Unexplained addition, £l7OB .. • • 184,284
1937 .. 19,070 71 p.c. 7i p.c. 14,906 4,164 188,448
1938 . . 18,848 71 „ 71 „ 14,906 3,942 192,390
1939 .. 17,656 71 ~ 71 „ 14,906 2,750 195,140
1940 . 28,736 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 8,111 203,251
1941 .. 29,018 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 8,393 211,644
* Thirteen months.
Prior to 1936 the co. was one of the
Yarra Falls-A.K.M. textile group. Then
it distributed, as return of capital, its
holding of 308,000 Yarra Falls ords.,
25,000 Austral Silk and Cotton shares and
£10,750 in cash. That reduced capital
to its present figure of £206,250 in 10,000
p.c. prefs. and 540,000 ords., all 7s. 6d.
each, and left earnings dependent on out-
put and sale of the co.’s own factory pro-
ducts —fine-knitted woollen and artificial-
silk underwear and full-fashioned hosiery,
etc. Still, shareholders got a trifle more
out of the business, as a glance at the
table shows.
Before the war plant capacity for pro-
duction of knitted woollens and hosiery
in Australia ran ahead of demand. The
war altered the picture; more people
have had more money to spend than for-
merly, and the requirements of the fight-
ing and ancillary services set up a new
source of demand. Under these condi-
tions, A.K.M.’s turnover shot ahead, and
net earnings jumped from £17,656 in 1939
to £28,786 in 1940 and advanced to
£29,018 in 1941.
The 1941 figure was written after allow-
ing £14,637 (up £3822) for depreciation
and £17,500 (up £7500) for taxation. It
was equal to 14 p.c. on capital (prefs. and
ords. combined) as against 13.9, 8.5, 9.1
and 9.2 p.c, since the co. became entirely
dependent on its own manufacturing.
The div, was kept at p.c. and a 2\
p.c. bonus was again added, making 10
p.c. for the year. The £8393 that re-
mained lifted the lay-by £5394 higher
thap paid capital, so the earning power
of total funds is moderate.
Finances are comfortable:
1935. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £550,004) £206,250 £206,250 £206,250
Liabilities .. 22,525* 67,133* 44,772 36,114
Freeholds .. 109,511 112,840 110,023 108,008
Plant, etc. .. 72,005 102,042 86,284 74,530
Stocks 143,635 215,491 177,074 191,449
Book debts . . 45,520 42,177 53,781 62,102
Cash, etc. . . 15,998 1,040 50,552 47,572
Shares in assoc,
cos. . . 394,936 198
* Including tax provision.
Including provision for contingencies, last
year’s surplus earnings enabled the co.
to carry an extra £14,375 of stocks, add
£8321 to debtors’ balances and clip £8658
off the outside debt. The improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£265,009) was £28,374.
Delivery of new plant for spinning
wool and cotton yarns, ordered from
Britain, has been delayed, and so has


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 409-413 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
WAR
S3U0HS uno
mom
433*
Money is needed NOW ... to arm
and equip a Navy, Army, and Air Force
formidable enough to keep war from
Australia. It's up to you to find this
money and to find it quickly. To-
morrow may be too late.
If you have £l,OOO, lend it. If you have
but £lO, lend that, or arrange to invest
£lO by instalments. Lend as much as
you can possibly afford. If you have
Loan Holdings now maturing, convert
them, and make your money work for
Australia's security and freedom.
Apply at once, at any bank, money order
post office, or stockbroker. Interest is 2\%
for 4-5 years or 31% for 9-16 years. Sub-
scriptions may be paid 10% deposit, balance
in 6 instalments to 2nd May, 1942.
Cbnet&tf poa/i
LOAN HOLDINGS NOW MATURING
m
ĵ
Sii
CRAVEN A
ar«i>:ao¥hii*.cli smoother
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS 4005
£%&giSS3
mm.
the proposed issue of new shares to
finance it. When the time arrives, the
intention is to subdivide existing scrip
into 2s. 6d. shares, and offer at par one
new 2s. 6d. ord. for every three shares
(prefs. or ords.) then held. That will lift
paid capital to £275,000, on which 10
p.c. will call for £l5lB less profit than
was claimed last term.
During the current year, the tax-
gatherer will make off with more of the
takings, and so will costs generally, but
the new plant can be expected to earn
satisfactory profits under war conditions.
At 14s. the immediate return from the
ords. is 5.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
On the same div. basis, and assuming that
the new shares (when issued) are taken
up, the return at the current price would
be 6 p.c.
The dewatering of the Great Fitzroy
coppermine at Rockhampton is almost
completed. It is one of the main hopes
of the Federal Copper Committee, which
is banking on the conservatism, well
known, of Bewick Moreing, under whose
asgis the mine closed down in 1914. Some
reconditioning will be carried out as soon
as the top three levels are dry, and 1000
tons will be whipped up to Mt. Morgan
to see how the ore shapes. If the verdict
is “tops,” mining is in for a boom in
Central Queensland, for the war period
at least.
* * * *
Fred Cuthbert made many a mine well
known on the Croydon field (N.Q.); he
also made Misima and left it, and now
is doing his best by the Golden Bar, on
the Etheridge, which is virtually an out-
post of Croydon. He must be the doyen
of Australian mineowner-managers, for
age is now his bedfellow, and success has
not sidestepped him. The Golden Bar
may not turn out to be as big as the type
of reef he likes, for it barely averages
2ft., but it is consistent in values, and
from 2000 tons in earlier days yielded
lldwt. per ton. In Cuthbert’s new shaft
values have averaged 12dwt. from the
grass-roots to 110 ft. Definite enrich-
ment has come in at 130 ft., where assays
are in ounces, one touching 7oz. It looks
to be a modest mine-in-the-making.
* * * <f
To date, Central Nell Gwynne, at
Bendigo (Vic.), has passed on £164,725
in divs. on a paid capital of £25,000. So
original holders will have no cause for
lament even if development in the large
much-faulted body between 1300 ft. and
1600 ft. fails to draw a prize. It hasn’t
yet, but the promise shown by neighbor-
the New Chum at similar depth is suffi-
cient to keep the market for the 10s.
shares, recently down to 155., around a
pound. Ore is still being drawn in good,
though reduced, quantity from between
Nos. 7 and 11 horizons, but contraction
in values is mirrored in the latest six
months’ surplus of £10,245 (down
£15,586), and divs. fell back from 12s,
to 4s. per share (£10,000). Tonnage was
11,722 (down 3563); recovered yield
4.5dwt., against 6.4dwt. Locked away in
the hope chest are 15,000 55.-paids
in recently-formed Nell Gwynne Reef,
which is reopening the old Goldfields
United area.
* * * *
Western Mining Corp. hasn’t said any-
thing yet, but people on the spot state
it has acquired Ridge Bros.’ Evanston
goldmine and plant for £llO,OOO and a
share interest in any new co. floated to
work the property.
* * * *
P. E. Marmion, of Gold Mines
of Kalgoorlie, Ltd., is the latest to
grumble about British excess-profits tax.
Not unjustifiably, either. Because the
G.M.K. group of mines were merely in
the development stage during the “stand-
ard” years, the co. saw £130,000 go out
in taxation last year, or 75 p.c. of the
profit, leaving only £41,207 available for
possible distribution. Though there were
wage and store-cost lifts equivalent to
Is. per ton of ore milled, the en-
larged plant actually brought total costs
down 2.25. a ton. The Iron Duke and
Oroya South leases particularly have
come well up to scratch.
* * * *
Though standard profit for British e.-p.
tax is in the neighborhood of £136,000
only, North Kal. (W.A.) hasn’t been
deterred thereby from operating its mines
to schedule and passing the surplus to
the Treasury. Here is another case where
shareholders over a long period of de-
velopment have accepted reduced benefits
in order to keep capital account within
moderate proportions, only to have the
bad luck to have its “base” period for tax
occur in a year when profits were begin-
ning to expand according to plan, not as
the result of any war windfall.
* * * *
Empress and Groundlark, similarly-
controlled Adelaide cos. each with a half-
dozen men working properties near the
Blue Bird at Norseman (W.A.), show
losses of £2410 and £lB4B respectively
for the year to June. Empress has a reef
that has returned some small better-than-
ounce crushings but is narrow; also
shares with a market value of £9700 not
bringing anything into the home in the
matter of revenue, Groundlark has a
couple of 7-Bdwt. exposures over better
widths, and reckons production isn’t far
off.
* * * *
Two of South Kal.’s directors, A. H.
Marker (chairman) and W. H. Stenti-
ford, passed on this year. Marker had
been associated with the co. since incep-
tion, and had been chairman for 28 years.
At the annual meeting the new head of
the board, Thomas Pryor, said war-time
increases in wages, materials and power
had lifted working expenditure, exclusive
of development, from 325. lid. to 365.
2d. a ton, and possible operating alter-
natives to lower costs would involve capi-
tal expenditure that the board wasn’t
prepared to make until it had proved the
Hainault block and other parts of the
mine. Discoveries during the year in-
creased proved ore by 5400 tons in
volume and o.24dwt. in grade.
* " * $ *
Gold Fields Australian Development, of
Wiluna and elsewhere in Westralia, netted
£49,855 for 1940, compared with £67,103
in 1939 ; £25,250 has been reserved for
taxation, £1715 written off development,
£3486 off investments in properties other
than at Wiluna, and a 5 p.c. div. paid.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
MASS PRODUCTION v. HITLER.
(Condensed from a New York ‘“Post” article by
Edward P. Flynn.)
Regardless of all you have heard and read about
confusion and delay in defence, this is the basic, in-
controvertible truth: American mass production,
which is limited only by the earth’s quantity of riches,
is bringing Hitler to the threshold of certain defeat.
Hitler is called a great military leader. That
means Hitler can assign tremendous tasks to his expert
trained high command and expect to have them
executed. The U.S. has another kind of high com-
mand, a much greater one, with vastly more power
at its ultimate disposal. This is the high command
of the American industrial process which can mar-
shall existing factories and build new ones to form
an army of production that can flood the world with
weapons. For all their military genius, Hitler and
his generals cannot stand against that.
It is impossible to grasp the potentialities of
American production. You go through the plants in
Detroit—Ford’s colossus at River Rouge, the largest
integrated industrial plant in the world, the sprawling
units of General Motors, employing hundreds of
thousands, the hundreds of smaller plants feeding
these giants—and you come away awed, baffled.
There is a factory rising now in Michigan in
which four-motored bombing ’planes will be built.
This one plant alone will be able to produce a great
part of the armament which will beat Hitler. It has
been designed to turn out one huge bomber an hour.
This factory, which represents not only the un-
limited capacity of America for war but also this
nation’s exclusive possession of the tech-
niques of really tremendous mass-production
(the four-motored bombers which will be
built in it measure 115ft. from wing tip to
wing tip), is feasible because Ford has mas-
tered the art of emptying an ore boat at one
end of his River Rouge industrial reservation
and turning out a car made from that ore 28
hours later.
Hitler will continue to build bombers by
hand because he lacks the genius and re-
sources to make them the American way.
Materials don’t flow from the four corners of
Europe, as they do from the four corners of
America, into a single plant, arriving in many
cases just a few hours before they are con-
sumed. That is the secret of mass produc-
tion on the scale the U.S. has achieved. The
Germans can’t begin to match that.
You might call this plant “X” in a figura-
tive formula of American industrial capacity
and then multiply by 50 or 100. It has a
total floor area, including hangars, of
3,700,000 square feet. It is 1280ft. wide, and
will cost $47,000,000. At full blast, it will
employ 60,000 workers. Raw material will
enter one end and finished bombers will be
rolled out the other. Pilots already have been
hired to test the ships.
When this great bomber plant is running,
hundreds of factories all over the country
will be geared to it, supplying raw materials
and parts. Thousands of railroad cars and
trucks will converge upon it from many States.
The essence of the whole operation is flow of
materials —"-timing. Behind one factory stand hun-
dreds of others. Together they perform the miracle
of mass production.
Chrysler was asked to build a tank arsenal in
Detroit, a huge factory which could produce tanks in
mass production. The arsenal was built and put into
operation in 10 months. It is the finest tank factory
in the world. Seven 28-ton tanks are rolling from
that plant every eight hours, and the production rate
is going up. M , .
For answer to the question “What are we doing
today?” visit the plant Ford has built and put into
mass production in one year to turn out an engine
his executives hadn’t even looked at until last August
—the 1800-horsepower Pratt and Whitney motor, one
of the most difficult engines in the world to manu-
facture. This plant will turn out one of these engines
an hour. , ,, .
These production records are unbeatable. Arma-
ment will pour in a huge flood from U.S. factories
during the next six months. There simply is no doubt
about that. * *
*****
{From New York ‘‘Daily Mirror.”)
The U.S.A. is pivot of the greatest special delivery
system the world ever has known. It speeds by land,
sea and air—materials and munitions of war to the
farthest reaches of the British Empire, to Russia and
China, to the Netherlands Indies, to Free French
forces’ to the exiled Polish Government.
Sent over the network in one month alone (July,
1941) have been $25,850 in rifles ; $967,295 in machine-
guns ; $1,875,899 in artillery and mortars; $15,489,130
in shells and ammunition; $1,517,855 in grenade
bombs and similar weapons ; $4,726,000 in tanks and
armored vehicles; $31,924,378 in combat aircraft,
$1 673,500 in aircraft accessories ; $5,762,653 in air-
craft engines ; $2,056,204 in gunpowder, and $789,191
in high explosives. And the flow is increasing.
U.S. Navy Strength.
(Condensed from a New York ‘‘World-Telegram ’
article.)
On September 12 a United States fleet of 338
warships, large and small—part of a $10,000,000,000
drive for a two-ocean navy, which is growing mightily
da il v __took up its fighting assignment of maintaining
the “freedom of the seas” defined by President Roose-
Velt Back of this fleet —already rated by U.S. naval
men as the world’s strongest single sea force—are
400,000 men in shipyards working the clock around on
all three coasts. Keels of 436 vessels have been laid
this year and 213 new vessels have joined the navy.
Since January 1 more than $85,000,000 has been spent
in expanding shipyards.
In the fleet today are 15 battleships, six aircraft-
carriers, 37 cruisers, 186 destroyers and 112 sub-
marines. Building are 17 battleships, 12 aircraft-
carriers, 54 cruisers, 196 destroyers and 74 submarines.
Two new 35,000-ton battleships, the North Carolina
and the Washington, each mounting nine 16in. guns
in triple turrets, join the fleet. Four more of the
same class are due for completion in 1942, and keels
have been laid for four 45,000-tonners. Seven more
of 50,000 to 60,000 tons have been authorised.
Total number of naval ’planes on hand early this
year was under 3000. The immediate goal is some-
thing close to 10,000 and the ultimate objective 15,000.
American naval building policy in the past has
generally stressed armor, guns and cruising range
rather than speed, but the newer ships are believed
among the fastest on the seas.
Though it is to the Atlantic patrol force that
President Roosevelt assigned the burden of meeting
Axis vessels in American defensive waters, the main
striking power of the navy is kept in the Pacific.
Strictest secrecy surrounds information on the exact
composition of the Atlantic fleet, but it is understood
to include some of the newer cruisers, at least two
aircraft-carriers, destroyers and submarines, patrol
’planes and necessary auxiliary craft.
On June 30, 1939, there *were 110,000 men in the
U.S. Navy—this figure has been doubled and a strength
—New York “Post.”
THE SUB-HUMAN.
of close to 300,000 is foreseen for mid-1942. It will take
a half-million seamen to man the full two-ocean navy.
The navy’s pilot-training programme calls for
about 6000 pilots by the end of this year and eventu-
ally about 17,000.
London’s Glory.
{Condensed from a “Christian Science Monitor” article
by William Zukerman.)
There can be no doubt that, when the history of
our time comes to be written, the bombardment of
London and the defence which followed it will go
down as a landmark.
Through this event, London has gained a sig-
nificance for the world such as no other Western city
has had for centuries. It is not a military, not even
a political significance, but something greater than
both. London, through its great ordeal and still
greater victory, has assumed a position of moral leader-
ship in the world such as it never had before, not even
in the days of England’s greatest glory. It has become
not only the last citadel for the defence of the
Western man’s civil and political rights, but also the
keeper of his most precious moral and spiritual values,
the symbol of the best in his civilisation, the hope
for everything that is worth preserving in it.
As such it commands the love and devotion which
hitherto had been called forth in a small coterie of
intimate admirers, but not in the wide mass of foreign
humanity. Today it is unquestionably the most
admired and beloved city in the Western Hemisphere,
the new spiritual home of men, such as Athens,
Jerusalem, Rome and Paris were in their times. At
no other time in modern history was the fate of man-
kind so closely bound up with the fate of a city as it
now is with the fate of London.
It is one of the tragic paradoxes of this war that
it was only after London had been blasted and well-
nigh physically destroyed that the outside world dis-
covered its inner strength and great value. Prior to
that only few expected that London would put up the
magnificent defence which it did. The truth is that
the outside world, not less than the German High
Command, was taken by surprise by the consequences
of the bombardment of London. Somehow that world
did not expect such an outburst of moral splendor
from the cold, misty, matter-of-fact city of banks,
slums and mansions which it knew as London.
The legend of the sanctimoniousness of the Eng-
lish, of the insincerity of their religious protestations
and of the materialism of their civilisation had been
even more widely spread than the story of their weak-
ness and decadence. To all, including even some of
the English themselves, the results of the first Blitz
on London last September came as a surprise, even as
a shock from which many have not yet regained their
mental composure. People still stand in awe before
the great drama of the defence of London without
understanding the full significance of it. They are
profoundly impressed by the magnificent spectacle ot
courage and strength of the human spirit revealed.
Instinctively they feel that what has been going on in
the skies above and in the streets of London through-
out the last year is not a mere incident of the war,
but something bigger than the war itself.
They see London now, after a year of the great-
est ordeal any city has undergone in history, rising
stronger and more glorious than it ever was, a
source of faith and hope to the world, a symbol ot
the supremacy of the spirit in the midst of a world
of brute force. They are dimly conscious ot the tact
that London has already won the war for mankind, no
matter what the outcome of the military and political
campaign may be, but they do not understand how it
has all come about, and, failing to understand, t y
conclude that they are witnessing a miracle.
But if the epic of London is a miracle, it is one
of those great miracles that are wrought every day,
the miracle of growth and development. Those who
have known London have no difficulty in recognising
in its present glorious flowering, a natural product
of the city’s rich soil, a full harvest after a long
period of growth and maturing which they had watched
for years. They easily recognise in it
London’s profound idealism, moral fervor
and deeply religious nature, which they
had known for years before the present
crisis made it known to the world. They
see in it the courage, the passion for jus-
tice the love of liberty and hatred ot
oppression which London had revealed in
such abundance long before the war. They
retrace their steps to the scenes of Lon-
don’s everyday life in peace-time, and they
find in them an explanation of everything
that is now puzzling the world.
Two Years’ Casualties.
(Condensed from nil article by the New York
"Daily Men's" Washington correspondent.)
More than 10,324,000 casualties have
been counted for the first two years of the
war, according to an international survey
concluded in Washington in September.
Of this total, some 2,520,000 have been
killed, the remainder consisting of wounded,
captured and missing persons. Of the total
1.052.000 are civilians, and 232,000 of them
are dead.
These are conservative totals. The use
of the largest estimates available would
have produced the staggering figure of
16.073.000 casualties. The least possible
estimate would have been 7,057,000, ob-
tained by utilising the smallest totals ottered
by any authority in every case.
Generally speaking, the figures are com-
plete to September 1, 1941, though a few of the smaller
estimates are as of July 1 and August 1. It will be
understood, of course, that much of the data is only a
fairly accurate approximation because of the destruc-
tion of public records in so many capitals.
The German Government officially admitted only
44,303 casualties as a result of the Polish campaign,
while estimates of Polish losses range from 1,500,000
to 1,675,000. The lower figure comes from the Polish
Embassy in Washington, the latter from U.S. Gov-
ernment sources. The U.S. estimates include 250,000
killed, 675,000 wounded and 750,000 missing, includ-
ing prisoners. The Polish Government figures
1.000. killed and wounded and 500,000 prisoners,
of whom 300,000 surrendered to the Russians. In
addition, the Polish representatives estimate 300,000
civilian casualties, of which 60,000 were registered in
Warsaw alone. The U.S. estimates are 450,000 civilians
killed and injured.
Military experts are somewhat sceptical of the
German figures, which report 10,572 dead, 30,322
wounded and 3409 missing, although it is recognised
that the total losses were comparatively small. It
seems probable that the Nazi losses approached
100.000, with about 20,000 killed.
The Germans admit 5296 casualties in the Nor-
wegian invasion, the Norwegians not more than 5000,
and the British 1579. The U.S. estimates are 5000
Norwegian casualties, including 1500 dead, 2600
wounded and 900 missing. They also figure 5000
civilian casualties.
Norwegian Government representatives discount
the Nazi figures pretty heavily. The Germans re-
ported 1317 dead, 1604 wounded and 2375 missing,
but the Norsemen insist that they killed at least 38,000
Nazis during the 62 days’ fighting and that about
30.000 more were drowned in the invasion. Experts
are inclined to credit their claims.
The French estimate their losses in the battles
of France and Flanders at 1,975,000 men, but the
corresponding U.S. estimates total 2,750,000. Vichy
figures its dead at 125,000, with 350,000 wounded and
1.500.000 missing (mostly prisoners). The U.S. figures
are 205,000 dead, 1,000,000 wounded and 1,500,000
prisoners. Vichy reports 80,000 civilian casualties ;
Conservative estimates put this at 65,000.
The Belgians reported 7500 dead, 18,583 wounded
and 200,000 prisoners, a total of 226,083 casualties.


N’York Babel
New York “Daily Mirror” on that city’s mixed
population—pertinent to the mayoral election:
Metropolitan New York has more Jewish-
speaking people (1,890,000) than live in
Palestine, more Italian-speaking residents than
there are in Rome and there• are more people
who speak German in New York than there
are in Hamburg.
Only one-third of Metropolitan New
York’s population is native-born of native
parentage. The other two-thirds either were
born abroad or had one or both parents from
“the old country.” Here’s how New York’s
5,400,000 foreign-language listeners are divided:
This figure almost agrees with the U.S. estimate of
230.000, although the latter includes 30.000 killed.
The sources relied upon by the American Gov-
ernment estimate the Dutch losses at 30,000 dead and
130,000 wounded, but have no information regarding
the missing. They figure 20,000 civilian casualties,
which seems entirely too low when the fate of Rot-
terdam is considered. Dutch Government officials
in Washington estimate the killed and wounded in
Rotterdam alone at 30,000 and military casualties as
25.000. The U.S. figures seem preferable as regards
military losses, but 40,000 civilian casualties, with per-
haps 8000 dead, seems about right.
For this campaign London reported 6449 British
killed, 14,051 wounded and 46,639 captured and miss-
ing, or 67,139 casualties in all. This amount, added
to the others, makes a total of 2,692,139 Allied mili-
tary casualties, of which 244,449 were killed.
The German armies reported only 156,492 casual-
ties, of which 27,074 were killed, 111,034 wounded and
18,384 reported missing. Considering the Germans’
speed and the Allies’ failure to bring them under con-
centrated fire-power, these figures are generally
accepted by military men.
U.S. figures show Italian casualties totalling 252,479
as a result of the fighting in Albania, Africa and
Greece, with 22,219 dead, 54,312 wounded and 175,948
prisoners and missing, plus 1000 civilians killed and
wounded, largely as a result of air raids.
As if to rub in the comparison, the German High
Command announces that it lost only 6456 men when
it came to Mussolini’s assistance in the Balkans, break-
ing down the total into 2006 killed, 3902 wounded and
548 missing. These figures are, however, eyed askance
by American military men, considering the defence
which the Anzacs put up before they pulled out of
Greece. They believe that it was more like 20,000
German casualties, with about 5000 killed.
U.S. estimates of Yugoslav casualties are 225,000,
including 10,000 dead, 15,000 wounded and 200,000
missing and prisoners. They figure 9000 civilian
casualties, an estimate which seems entirely too low—
correspondents estimated 10,000 to 16,000 dead in Bel-
grade alone after the Nazi ’planes got through. The
Yugoslav figure of 30,000 is probably nearer correct.
U.S. estimates of Greek losses total 95,000 casual-
ties, 20,000 being killed, 45,000 wounded and 30,000
missing. They list only 200 civilian deaths and in-
juries, which seems inadequate, in view of the positive
Greek statement that there were 15,000 such casual-
ties, of which 4000 were children. These figures seem
more acceptable.
The British casualties totalled 12,982 killed, cap-
tured and missing during the fight in Greece and 12,970
in Crete. It is probable that about 2500 were killed
in each instance. Just about half of these losses were
incurred by the Australians [presumably, the Anzacs],
who had casualties totalling 1194 killed and 11,345
wounded and missing during this period—3s6o listed
as killed, missing or captured in Greece, 423 wounded
being safely evacuated ; about 800 in Libya, 300 of
them being at Tobruk ; about 7000 lost in Crete.
In addition to the Greek and Cretan losses, the
British suffered 3578 casualties in Egypt: 700 killed,
1958 wounded and 1920 captured. (These figures are
official up to June 1.) During the same period, the
British lost 1030 killed and wounded in East Africa,
of whom approximately 200 may be presumed slain.
The Ethiopian campaign cost the South African forces
not more than 300 casualties. About 50 presumably
killed and 1385 wounded and missing. [Australian
casualties must be added ; in July they were given by
Mr. Spender as 1682, with a small incomplete list of
prisoners to be added.] This gives the British a total
casualty list of 32,542, of whom 6227 were killed for
the entire campaign.
In addition to its Balkan losses, the German High
Command reported 5893 casualties as the price of the
invasion of Crete. This included 1353 killed, 1919
wounded and 2621 missing. Consolidating the totals,
we have an Axis loss of about 278,372, with 28,572
killed during the campaign, while the total Allied
casualties amounted to 352,542 with 36,227 killed.
The bloodiest losses of the war undoubtedly have
occurred as a result of the invasion of Russia, and
both sides have filed claims which must be vastly
exaggerated. There can be no doubt that fearful losses
have been incurred by both sides, but both Govern-
ments have refrained from issuing any official tables.
The best available estimate seems to be the United
States figures. They estimate Russian military losses
for the period covered at 2,585,000 men, with 405,000
killed, 820,000 wounded and 1,360,000 captured and
missing. This, however, includes total casualties of
about 200,000 incurred during the 1939-40 war with
Finland.
The same authority estimates German losses for
the period covered at about 1,000,000, of which it may
be presumed that about 250,000 have been killed.
It also estimates that 36,000 Russian civilians have
been killed and 48,000 injured in addition to the miss-
ing.
Finland is credited with 100,100 military and 5500
civilian casualties for the periods. Also included are
casualty lists for Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania
amounting to 39,000, 54,000 and 44,000 respectively
in the military categories and 11,000, 17,000 and 8000
respectively among civilians.
Thousands of civilian casualties have resulted
from the bombing of cities. Most of the losses among
civilians previously cited have fallen in this category.
The British Government has issued figures covering
civilian casualties at various times. The total up to
June 1 was given as 94,830 dead, wounded and miss-
ing, of whom 14,281 were killed and 20,325 injured
between Aug. 8 and Oct. 31, 1940. The U.S. estimate
for British civilian casualties up to Sept. 1 totals 84,000,
of whom 36,000 are listed as killed and 48,000 injured.
It seems probable that this estimate is too low in view
—New York “Herald Tribune."
American Comment on U-boat Warfare:
“No More of This If We Can Help It.”
of the British figures and that the total should be
nearer 100,000, with perhaps 40,000 dead.
The same authority estimates 3900 civilians killed
and 9500 injured in Germany. But the German Gov-
ernment has issued only spasmodic reports, covering
isolated instances, and it seems probable that German
civilian casualties to September numbered at least
15,000, of whom some 5000 were probably killed.
The total British losses have been reported in
detail and it is possible to distribute them through the
Empire with a fair degree of accuracy. Those reported
up to Aug. 1 total 133,598, of whom 32,787 have been
killed. Of this number the Australians [presumably,
the Anzacs] lost 12,539, with 1194 dead, the Canadians
1276, of whom 736 were killed, and the South Africans
about 300, with some 50 killed. In addition, 285
Canadians died natural deaths in the service.
The analysis reveals that the R.A.F. has suffered
10,996 casualties, of which 6326 were killed, 1045 died
natural deaths as a result of service connection, 1338
were wounded and 498 captured. On July 17 London
“Times” estimated that the Germans had lost 18,750
pilots. Previous reports showed that only 14 p.c. of
those shot down survived to be captured. British
naval casualties totalled 15,896, with 5747 killed, 7323
missing, 3566 wounded, 517 captured and 81 dead
of natural causes.
“America’s Humiliation.”
[New York “Herald Tribune” comment by Walter
Lippmann on America’s Neutrality Act, now in process
of liquidation.]
The first great war which broke out after the
enactment of the U.S. Neutrality Act was the very
great war between Japan and China. This was in
1937. The law has never been applied to that war.
and the isolationists who sponsored the law have never
seriously asked that the law be applied. So American
ships continue to carry goods, including weapons of
war, both to Japan and to China. There have been
no barred zones in the Pacific into which American
ships might not enter. Though for four years there
has raged a bloody war in Asia, the Neutrality Act
has not been in force.
Why? Because Japan, as a matter of self-interest,
not to call the war a “war,” but only an “inci-
dent,” finding it convenient to receive American war
supplies ; because China, as a matter of self-interest,
chose not to declare war against the invader, finding
it convenient to receive American war supplies;
because the United States chose not to recognise that
the war was a war, finding it expedient, and also pro-
fitable, to continue to trade. Thus in the Pacific, dur-
ing the greatest war ever waged in the Orient, the
Neutrality Act has been non-operative and traditional
American rights are still in effect.
We [Americans] are then in the remarkable posi-
tion of nullifying our own law because it suits us to
do so and it suits the belligerents to let us do so. But
any moment either Japan or China could by issuing a
declaration of war compel us to enforce an American
statute which as a matter of policy and self-interest
we have preferred to nullify.
Two years later war broke out in Europe, and
the law which had been nullified in the Pacific was
immediately put into effect in the Atlantic. Not only
did we forbid our ships to go to the belligerents—to
Germany, France and Britain —but we forbade them
also to go to Holland, Belgium, Sweden, Denmark
and Finland—all of them then neutrals. We also for-
bade our ships to go to Eire. On the other hand, we
allowed them to go to Italy, which was then still non-
belligerent. The reason for this discrimination was
that American ships passing to the northern neutrals
were within range of the German submarines, which
sink at sight, whereas ships passing to the southern
neutrals were within range only of the British and
French navies, which did not sink at sight but ob-
served the rules of international law.
Thus we placed ourselves in the re-
markable position of withdrawing from
waters where war was waged lawlessly and
ruthlessly and of continuing to enter waters
where war was waged lawfully and
humanely. In the Pacific we were exer-
cising our rights by grace of the fact that
Japan found it expedient not to make a
formal declaration of war against China.
In the Atlantic we were exercising our
rights only outside the reach of the Ger-
man Navy. When Italy entered the war
we ceased exercising our rights in the
Mediterranean, where the British Navy,
though at war, had recognised our rights,
because the Italian Navy would probably
follow the German policy of sinking at
sight.
This policy must have created the im-
pression in many minds, perhaps even in
Hitler’s, that we had deliberately decided
as a matter of national policy to, submit to
force.
But that did not end the progress of
American humiliation. The zones which
we had closed to American ships and
opened to absolute lawlessness were not
large enough to suit the Nazis. So they
proclaimed a much larger war zone in the
North Atlantic —in fact, one which sur-
rounded Iceland and extended to Green-
land. Having been taught to believe by
our neutrality law that what Germany de-
clares to be her purposes will in the end
become accepted as American law, the
Nazis have been preying on ships well out-
side our own self-imposed combat zone. It
just happens that their combat zone is
bigger than ours, and therefore, according
to Berlin, it is legal to sink ships there
without warning.
But even that is not the end of it. In
the case of the Robin Moor, an Ameri-
can ship was travelling outside the Ger-
man w"ar zone, outside her own com-
bat zone ; in fact, on the high seas. This ship was
stopped and sunk, and its crew and passengers set adrift
in mid-ocean. And what was the justification of this
extension of the area of lawlessness? We have had it
from some of our own Senators —that the Robin Moor
was carrying contraband of war and, therefore, her
crew and passengers had no rights which Germany
was bound to respect or that the United States ought
to presume to defend.
There may be room for differences of judgment
as to whether what is left of the Neutrality Act is now
of practical importance, and what as a matter of fact
it is useful to do about it. The law is nullified in the
Pacific. In the Atlantic it is not observed by Ger-
many and, in fact, not by the United States.
But there is, I think, no room for a difference of
opinion that the neutrality law has proved itself to be
an Act of national self-debasement, a mortifying sub-
mission to force, without logic, without honor and
without value even to achieve the purpose for which
it was originally designed.
Scots at War.
(Condensed from on article by a London “Times"
correspondents)
At first sight, even to the military eye, nothing
could seem more remote from the war these days
than the scene in Scotland. The grandeurs of moun-
tain and glen are still as a spell, and your innkeeper
will probably grow more expansive over a fishing
story than over the strange voyage of Rudolf Hess.
Yet after a journey of hundreds of miles in the
Scottish Command my most definite impression is of
a more intense atmosphere of war than is generally
experienced in the South. It springs partly, no doubt,
from the hidden mysteries of the forbidden zones
and from tales of curious visitations; or again from
coming out of the blue of the Grampians and Cairn-
gorms into the martial activity of towns like Perth or
Inverness. Here you hear the pipes again, and see
the kilt of Highland regiments mingling with the blues
of the Navy and Air Force, and here, too, the A.T.S.
wear trim tartan skirts. It is the atmosphere of a
Buchan adventure story, full of suppressed excitement,
and somehow the sight of an old man fishing in mid-
stream at sunset goes with it.
The kilt, of course, was ousted by battle-dress in
the field quite early in the war, though that did not


prevent a battalion of Camerons from fighting their
way to Dunkirk in it —and by that time only 79 of
their strength were left. In present conditions the kilt
is worn, at all events in the Highlands, by officers and
sergeants, and all other ranks are encouraged to wear
it for walking out. I went up to the Cameron bar-
racks and saw something of the training that is con-
stantly going on, though not always to the extent the
colonel would desire, such are the demands on man-
power in other directions. Anyone serving in the
Army may volunteer for the R.A.F. Many come for-
ward, but I am told that comparatively few pass the
examination.
Elsewhere it was Gordons or Seaforths, and one
saw with what fidelity the spirit and traditions of the
Highland Division, the “Fighting 51st,” are being car-
ried on under a commander whose name promises to
become legendary. With him, happily, are the sur-
vivors from St. Valery—they represent no more than
2 p.c. of the battalions, though news of General For-
tune and many of his division is frequently being re-
ceived from their camps in Germany.
Part of my tour coincided with a visit to the
troops by the Moderator of the Church of Scotland.
His stature, even in this setting, was commanding,
and he was clearly very popular among his audiences
of soldiers. Few audiences are more discerning. “I
urge continued resistance in this warfare of the soul,”
he was saying to a battalion of Seaforths who a few
hours previously had returned from eight days’
bivouacking on a rocky headland by way of harden-
ing up.
So over the battlefield of Culloden, where the
rough memorial stones of the clans stand as grim re-
minders of war, we passed into the rich agricultural
belt in the east. Farther afield one met units of the
Polish and Norwegian contingents who have made a
second home in Scotland ; and on the fringes of wood-
lands there were the whining saws of the Canadian
Forestry Corps.
It was clear that the great distances involved, with
their corollary of man-power, are one of the main
military problems in Scotland. Lieutenant-General
A. F. A. N. Thorne, the Army Commander, who re-
ceived me at battle headquarters, called them hideous
gaps in a magnificent landscape, as anyone would who
recently came up from the closely linked defences of
the south-east. But for all the space and solitude, the
lack of good roads in the Highlands, which at first
sight might seem suitable for air-borne landings, the
gaps are more apparent than real. All the key centres
are powerfully guarded in the first place by home
defence units and ultimately by field formations pos-
sessing great power of manoeuvre, and in itself the
problem of distance would probably lead to insuper-
able difficulties for the enemy.
Everyone in the Command is fully alive to the
possibility of the Germans attempting a containing
operation from the air. German tourists were not
unknown in Scotland before the war, and from maps
in the air-room at headquarters, which is chiefly con-
cerned with keeping the battle order of the Luftwaffe,
one saw the number of reconnaissance flights they
have made over the Highlands. Curiously enough,
they have sometimes dropped their bombs in the
mountains miles from anywhere ; the raids on east-
coast fishing villages are attributed to unsuccessful
hunts for shipping.
From a famous Scottish Rugby captain I heard
something of the vital part the Home Guard would
play if air-borne troops were landed in the Highlands ;
and, again, I had some idea of the distances to be
covered when he told me that he recently spent more
than 24 hours travelling between two points in the
same county. Sometimes a person might be able to
see his destination yet have to travel 60 miles to reach
it; in some places a section of the Home Guard
might be 80 miles away from their headquarters.
But these Highlanders, most of them crofters,
stalkers, keepers and ghillies, know every inch of the
ground, and their rifles look part of them. It was
described to me how, if parachute troops landed un-
seen, their presence would be known from such things
as the movement of deer or grouse, observed with a
stalker’s eye. Intimate knowledge of the country,
moreover, meant that the watcher could get from
one point to another in half the time the best man
could do it off a map.
The colonel told me how, in spite of the distances
and the absence of communications, a sort of bush
telegraph has developed among these men of the hills.
One method is by playing a sort of code on the pipes.
If the wind is right the piper knows that his pipes
will carry, say, 10 miles down the glen, and so on.
German parachute troops would meet their match
in the Highlands, as, indeed, they would in the Low-
lands.
Dragnet Digest.
(General Hems of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
After the waiting and the fumbling, the build-
ing and tooling, the preparation and the waiting again,
U.S. war industries are getting into their giant stride.
President Roosevelt was making no vain boast when
he pledged that the stream of weapons would become
“a river, and the river a torrent, engulfing this totali-
tarian tyranny which seeks to dominate the world.”
America can do the job which it has undertaken. —
New York “Post.”
* * * * *
Hitler relies on his own army and he has con-
quered 18 countries that relied on another’s. —Walter
Wine hell; New York “Daily Mirror.”
* * * * *
One great experiment in the history of the British
Army, perhaps the greatest of all time, has been re-
ceived almost as a matter of course —the absorption
of members of the A.T.S. into the Anti-Aircraft Com-
mand to take the place of men in handling precision
instruments. The first detachment of them have
already been in action, and in quickness and dexterity
were found to be the equals, sometimes the superiors,
of men. — London “Times.”
* * * * *
Christmas gifts are already on the way to the
prison camps of Germany and Italy—72,ooo puddings,
a similar number of cakes, tins of roast pork, double
rations of chocolates and many other things. Last
year, owing chiefly to the confusion in Europe brought
about by the fall of France, many Red Cross
Christmas parcels were late in arriving. This time the
Red Cross is taking no chances. It was decided as
long ago as April that the production of puddings and
cakes should be put in hand without delay and the
parcels dispatched in good time, making ample allow-
ance for unforeseeable holdups and delays. The
material used for packing around the contents is
brightly-colored, tinselly stuff which can be effectively
used for Christmas decorations. It is hoped that some
at least of the musical instruments which the Red
Cross is arranging to send to the prison camps will
arrive in time to provide music at the festivities. —
Manchester “Guardian.”
* * * * *
Neither Mr. Roosevelt nor Mr. Churchill could
ever gaily boast, as the Germans did, that they had
won France for 87,000 lives ; they are softer than that,
they do not wish to buy success for policy by a cold
expenditure of lives. If the problem reduced itself
to; “We could knock Japan out for 200,000 men,”
they would shy from this reasoning. That is their
way, and our way, and the Fascists use it against us,
as they always use decent, honorable emotions against
their unhappy possessors. — Samuel Grafton; New
York “Post.”
*****
The crew of the German battleship Bismarck
mutinied and tried to force their commander to strike
his flag in the last hours of the battle in which the
—New York “World-Telegram .”
IF ALL THE CLAIMS HAVE BEEN CORRECT.
British avenged the sinking of the Hood. The actions
of the German crew were described to the British
Admiralty by virtually all of the 100-odd German
officers and men whose lives were saved after the Bis-
marck sank with the rest of her complement of 2400.
For two hours before the cruiser Dorsetshire closed
with her and dispatched her the Bismarck’s guns were
silent because the munitions crew refused to stand to
gun stations —although Admiral Gunther Lutjens, in
his last radio message to Berlin, had declared: “We
are fighting to the last shell.” She had shells, but the
morale of her men had cracked. The story illuminates
the character of Nazi morale —a morale which is un-
excelled until the going becomes too rough.— John T.
Whitaker; New York '‘Post.”
*****
If a statement by the British Admiralty that Ger-
many “probably had 200 submarines in use” last
spring, when British, Allied and neutral shipping losses
reached their peak, refers to German submarines alone
and not to Axis submarines, then some hint of the
extent of German submarine building since the war
began is provided. Jane’s Fighting Ships (1939) credited
Germany with having approximately 100 submarines.
If Germany had 200 submarines in service last spring,
German yards must have been busy indeed to produce
an increase of 100 submarines in addition to replac-
ing the losses in service ; various disclosures indicate
that German submarine losses have been substantial.
The British have been frank about disclosing their
own submarine losses, and the extent of their losses is
a guide to the probable extent of losses in the more
heavily burdened German service.— New York “Sun.”
j|e sic ♦ ♦
Six American pilots who were brought to Eng-
land and trained on the understanding that they were
going to fight the Nazis have refused to join opera-
tional squadrons and are being dismissed from the
service. Five of them refused to join active squadrons
because they claimed that the pay of 14s. 6d. a day was
too low. The sixth said he was afraid.—Aew York
“Post” London correspondent.
*****
This year about 15,000,000 cases of evaporated
milk will be shinned from the United States to
Britain, and next year the amount may be greatly
increased. The current crop year will witness the
export of about 250,000,0001b. of cheese to Great
Britain, as well as heavy shipments of eggs and pork
products. Taking into account receipts of foods from
Canada, other parts of the Empire, as well as meat
shipments from the Argentine, Great Britain should be
reasonably well fed during the year ahead. All this
is contingent on keeping open the sea supply lines. —
New York “Journal of Commerce.’’
* * * * *
Trying to save the Communist party from the
effect of Pennsylvania’s new law barring from the
ballot parties advocating the overthrow of the Gov-
ernment by force and violence, the American Civil
Liberties Union urges its stock argument against
“driving outlawed movements into underground, con-
spiratorial channels.” The Communist party makes
stealth and secrecy its cardinal policies, professes to
keep no records, denies knowledge of its own mem-
bership and instructs its adherents to deceive, conceal
and even to perjure themselves whenever expedient. To
pretend that such a party is safely “in the open” with
other political parties is bosh. Cumulative evidence
has shown the chosen habitat of Communists to be
underground, with all the darkness and deviousness
they can devise. The Communist party doesn’t have
to be “driven” into conspiratorial depths. It’s there
already—with only a few deceptive disguises kept
above ground and in the light. The real need is to
root it out. — New York “World-Telegram.”
*****
The comparative lull in air activity over Britain
has not been wasted by Britain’s ground defences,
which await a resumption of major operations by the
Luftwaffe with a confident awareness that was not
altogether apparent last autumn. All the time the flow
of guns and trained men has gathered force side by
side with developments in radiolocation
that are solving the problem of the night
bomber. A British A.A. division in the
south-east has shot down its 200th air-
craft. In all nearly 600 enemy machines
have been destroyed over Britain by fire
from the ground, and including the Battle
of France the total since the beginning
of the war is some 1200. — London
“Times.”
* * * *
I believe the vast majority of people
in Britain will wholeheartedly endorse
the views of the “Times” Canberra cor-
respondent as to the urgent need for
closer collaboration with the Dominions
through the establishment of a Supreme
War Council. During the past year this
proposal has been referred to and dis-
cussed on several occasions in both
Houses. The replies of the Government
have always been evasive. To many of
us it appears to be incomprehensible that
after two years of war not even an
Imperial Conference has been held which
would demonstrate to the world the soli-
darity of the British Commonwealth and
the determination of all its members to
prosecute the war to a successful con-
clusion. The historic meeting between
the Prime Minister and President Roose-
velt has demonstrated the value of per-
sonal contact and discussion. Why is not
the same procedure in constant and con-
tinuous operation* between the member
States of the British Empire? — Lord
Davies; London “Times” letter.
* * * •
The air raids on London, spread over
its immense urban district, its industrial
zone and port, and over a period of time,
have inured its inhabitants, who are
already war-hardened ; and London’s A.R.P., which
has been perfected to the fullest extent, makes it pos-
sible to endure the raids without grave results. It can
be said that for some time past the moral effects of
bombing London have disappeared. The fact that
there is something unconquerable by any material
action must not be forgotten. This is the heroic spirit,
which will sometimes follow a deathless ideal, gener-
ally religious or national. — General Mareca, Spanish
Air Force, in “Revista de Aeronautica.”
By an order issued by the Ottawa Government
strikes in Canadian defence industries will be illegal
unless authorised by the vote of a majority of the
workers in an election supervised by the Labor Depart-
ment of the Dominion. — New York “Sun.”
*****
Mr. Churchill requests “full [American] co-opera-
tion in every field.” Lord Beaverbrook says he would
like to see Americans in the war. Generals Wavell,
Auchinleck and De Gaulle say an American expedi-
tionary force is essential. — New York “World-
Telegram.”
*****
The wall around Hitler is held by the British fleet
down through the North Sea, by the Royal Air Force
along the Channel and around the French coast, by
the diplomacy of Portugal and Spain, by the British
fleet again through the Mediterranean, by British and
Russian land forces up through Iran to the juncture
with the Russian lines. The fence meanders. It is
far from hog-tight, and it is very long indeed. But it
is a fence. If made tight enough it can hold Hitler
in, and in time begin crowding him closer within a
constricted area of freedom. — Raymond Clapper;
New York “World-Telegram.”
*****
“As the Germans failed to invade Britain a year
ago when Britain was weak, there is little likelihood
of their making a successful attack now. The chances
are that the Germans will strike in the Mediterranean
basin. The Germans have enormous resources to
fling against us. Italy, which is largely occupied by
them, is just next door, and they have the advantage
of distance and large numbers. But I think these dif-
ficulties will be overcome.” —General Smuts.


Manual Testing of Oats
fov OATMEAL STOUT
m.
w
< WM
l*M
$
Hi
V*
m
M
h
5?
Mf
gi
I
- - -
■** '
n
w?
*
»^////////
r-ss
j£s
Vi?
rWMI
ST
i%r>v
s*s
n
WKOBMMM**
m
m
u
m
\S-VAV,
»WJ
S«X
<W
IUVv
hi
aMi
WM
m
y^<Wi
Wtt
>»/**
Wa
F-
mimA
m
m
v/
-><£a sS
5*
w
//
: x
a
w
THE
111
tomGmm,
m
■
B««;wto stw*
t O <D H EY Si-TC
3E
V
m
&Kau3
The wholesome glory of the sun-
ripened Oats is concentrated into
each health-bringing glass of
OATMEAL STOUT.
TOOHEYS
OATMEAL
STOUT
Here’s To’ee
TOOHEYS. LTD.. STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY
Agents:
VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Buriis, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND: Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


To prevent and cure mineral deficiency feed
TRI-CAL-OS
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os is the most reliable form of calcium and phosphorus
for all stock. It contains over 70% tricalcic phosphate,
having a guaranteed minimum of 33% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Tri-cal-os is a pure bone product without
admixture of any other substance and is specially processed
to ensure maximum digestibility. Stock take to it readily.
Obtain all particulars about Tri-cal-os from —•
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne; G.P O.
Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Egelabra Merino Stud
H. E. KATER & SON,
Warren, N.S.W.
Established 62 years.
Four times winners of
Stonehaven Cup.
Grand Champion Ram and Ewe
Sydney Show, 1940.
Rams for Sale.
j
Tel., Warren 10.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS!"
Crossbred Wools.
“Ghanam”: The war has made a dif-
ference to the status of crossbred wools.
All countries except the United States
have used crossbred for uniforms. With
Uncle Sam, it was a matter of availa-
bility. With the great expansion in the
army, however, America has had to sup-
plement local fine uniform wools with
what the British Government will allow
from the S. American and Maoriland
crossbreds clips.
Australian crossbreds are aristocrats.
They represent this year about 20 p.c. of
the whole clip, as against 17 p.c. in 1939-
40 and 15 p.c. in 1934-35. The figures
are a long way from a record —1919-20
held that with 34 p.c. The aggregate
percentage, however, does not show the
true distribution of the crossbred. N.S.W.
has only 12 p.c., S.A. 8 p.c., W.A. 7 p.c.
and Queensland 1 p.c. Victorian sheep
are about half crossbred and Tasmanians
three-quarters.
Harold Kenningham, lecturing to the
Bradford Textile Society recently, de-
scribed Australian crossbred wools as
“very superior styles as a rule, particu-
larly from Victoria”:
They are generally well grown, shafty,
full, have well-bound-up staples, and a co-
hesion and elasticity which rank them high
as spinning wools. The quality ranges round
58/56 and sometimes higher, but the wools
do not find favor with some Bradford houses,
as the average length, quality for quality, is
greater than that of N.Z. or Montevideo
wools. There is lack of uniformity when
they are blended with the latter.
He remarked, however, that, used alone,
they “scour a remarkable white and carry
a bloom which is distinctive and valuable
when high-grade materials are required.”
Sydney crosses are described as “well
grown and shafty” but showing more
burr than Victorian samples. W.A.’s
exhibits are “mostly of average topmak-
ing type,” and Tasmanians are “often of
a very high grade, ranking with Victorian
supers, with fine crossbred 58’s and come-
back 60’s —a full, well-grown and square
staple, clean, attractive and fairly free
from burr.”
“D.T.”: Maoriland’s record price for
crossbred fleece this year was 20d., against
21}d. top for merino. In Wellington and
Auckland districts the wool is about 90
p.c. Romney and Romney-cross; some
other districts are in process of a notice-
able changeover to Romney blood. Auck-
land and Wellington and Wanganui pro-
vide about three-eighths of the whole
yield of the Dominion, which has risen
to 800,000 bales of growers’ wools and
141,000 bales of slipes. The two islands
had a wool cheque of £17,273,000 last
season.
Watch Your Sheep.
“J.R.D.”: The Australian Wool Board
warns graziers that trouble may be ex-
pected from large stomach worm this
season. A careful check of test sheep
reveals a greater carryover of the para-
site to the end of this winter than in any
year since the tests began. With warmer
weather, particularly if it is showery,
sheep will be liable to heavy infestations
from pastures. Where stocking is heavy
and grass short a few wormy sheep will
quickly infect the flock.
Drenches recommended by the C.S.I.R.
are (1) carbon tetrachloride, double
strength, (2) bluestone-nicotine, (3) blue-
stone-arsenic. Of these (1) is the most
efficient and easiest to administer, and
costs about Id. for five doses ; (3) is the
cheapest, but many sheep don’t react to
bluestone. Carbon tet. is bought ready
to administer. Dose for lambs under
six months is 2\ c.c. and for older sheep
5 c.c.
Mix lib. of bluestone snow and 16
fl. oz. of nicotine sulphate with water,
make up to 2j gallons and give two-
tooths i fl. oz., grown sheep 1 fl. oz.
For younger sheep make the drench up
to five gallons with water ; dose rate :
8-12 months, loz. ; 4-8 months, |oz. ;
under four months, ioz. For the arsenic
drench, dissolve ilb. of bluestone and
2oz. of arsenite of soda in three gallons
of water, add li A- oz. of spirits of salts.
Dose rates: Grown sheep, 1 fl. oz.; two-
tooths, ioz. ; 8-12 months, ioz. ; 4-8
"Ma, this bed o’ yours isn't nearly as comfortable as mine."
months, 10 c.c. ; under four months,
8 c.c.
All sheep should be drenched now.
Drench again after rain and repeat every
three weeks during wet weather. If the
outbreak assumes serious proportions
drench three or four times at 10-day
intervals and move sheep to fresh pad-
docks as often as possible. It is a good
idea to alternate carbon tet. with one of
the other drenches —bluestone-arsenic
for economy, but bluestone-nicotine for
younger sheep, as it deals with other
worms. If there are no good results,
consult the local stock inspector.
Share-farming.
“Strawb’s Side”: Andy Moodie,
agrostologist of the N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture, has been looking into the
share-farming system in the dairy country
and is satisfied that poorly based agree-
ments between landowner and share-
farmer are responsible for most of the
evils associated with the system, such as
erosion, depreciation of farm property,
failing pastures, lack of fodder conserva-
tion and so forth. He condemns the old
Rural Tenants’ Improvements Act of
1916 as futile and easy of evasion, and
recommends the English form of agree-
ment, under which tenant-farming has
been successful for centuries.
The English agreement contains the
usual clauses regarding right of access to
the property, control of pests and so on.
The tenant is required to keep buildings
in repair and to care for hedges, water-
courses, bridges, fences, etc. He under-
takes to cultivate and manage the whole
farm in a “husbandlike manner,” to keep
it clean and in a good state of cultivation
and fertility so as not to injure or
deteriorate the land. Arable land must
be cropped in accordance with an agreed
upon rotation set out in the terms of
lease, grassland must be treated in the
same way and the tenant’s right to dis-
pose of certain crops is defined.
He must leave on the farm a proper
amount of stored fodder and must leave
the farmyard manure in good condition.
When and if his tenancy ends he receives
compensation for these items—as well
as for standing crops and even for the
unexhausted value of applied fertiliser.
He is further required to keep an account
of croppings and produce sold and must
show, when called upon, that he is
protecting the land by the use of manures,
artificial fertilisers, etc. If he breaks up
permanent pasture without the owner’s
consent he is liable to be fined £3O an
acre. There are other requirements, vary-
ing according to locality and conditions,
all designed to conserve the productive
value of the soil.
For his own part, the tenant’s in-
terests are protected by clauses under
which the owner pays over any sums
received from the outgoing tenant for
dilapidations or breaches of contract. He
may claim additional compensation for
having followed a higher farming standard
than that provided in the agreement.
Some similar form of share-farming
agreement in Australia, in Moodie’s
opinion, would stop many of the current
evils.
Irrigated Lucerne.
“Bellfields”: If you’re thinking of going
in for irrigation crops like lucerne don’t
rush the job. Make sure you’ve picked
the right part of the property for a stand
and prepare it carefully for the water.
Trying to readjust slopes, check-banks,
etc., after the first flooding has shown
them to be faulty is not only maddening
and expensive, it may be impossible.
Even 100 acres is a pretty big lucerne
stand and it takes a lot of hands to work
it properly under irrigation. You’ll need
a part of the place that will allow of
grading into a consistent slope with a
quick getaway for water at the lower
end. Lucerne will “drown” quickly if left
flooded, and, though the run-off might
take care of irrigation water, look to
what it will do if 200 points of rain
sweep down on it the day after irrigation.
Check-banks have to be solid, other-
wise they may break away and the water
discover a cross-slope and rout out a
bit of a gully that will take filling,
especially if the break occurs during
the night. Grade the land before putting
in the banks, then grade it again. Ditch
banks will need to be at least 6in. above
water level, and it’s better to have *a
secondary ditch below and parallel with
it, both for use in irrigations—it saves
cutting the main ditch and can be fed
from main ports—and to catch and run
off any water that breaks out through the
activities of yabbies or people higher up
the main channel who let water go with-
out warning.
Don’t skimp the preparation of the
land because you think irrigated land
doesn’t need the same treatment as dry-
cropped land. It does, especially for
lucerne, because soil needs aeration and
bacterial action as well as water to make
it feed plants. Preferably, a crop of oats,
then a good working of short fallow
before the lucerne is sown. There’s no
short cut to good
lucerne or improved
pasture stands.
If the land is ready
and water available
and you feel it a bit
hard to have to wait
for the lucerne, graz-
ing crops like millet and
Sudan grass in summer
and oats in winter will
stop you worrying
about the land being
idle.
Beating Erosion.
“Toowong”: R. V.
Simpson’s 750-acre
property, out of Orange
(N.S.W.), was formerly
used for growing peas,
oats, potatoes, etc., and
carrying a few stock.
Pretty steep country,
this sort of farming
and the work of a few
rabbits caused it to
erode badly, both in
sheet and gully form,
wind and water work-
ing their will on ground
robbed of its natural
cover.
Simpson woke up in time, stopped
growing the crops and got rid of the
rabbits. Then he improved the pastures
by sowing sub. clover and perennial rye
and topdressing them regularly. Contour
banks with about 1 p.c. fall were run
along some of the steeper slopes, particu-
larly just above where sheet erosion was
worst, and the contoured areas sown with
the pastures. The combination stoushed
the erosion completely, except on parts
that had been worn for many years
where the subsoil itself was deeply
exposed.
Simpson spreads over this exposed sub-
soil the meadow hay from the improved
pastures after the seed is well formed.
Under this cover ball clover is establish-
ing itself and some sub. is beginning to
show. But what astonished both Simpson
and Stan Hodgson, the agricultural in-
structor for the district, is the way peren-
nial rye is getting a hold on the scars.
To reclaim the gullies, Simpson uses
simple wire-netting checks. They catch
the silt after rain and create natural
terraces on the slopes, on which pastures
are established quickly. So as to handle
heavy run-off, the contour banks are
directed to a paddock of improved pas-
tures and so managed that the paddock
is actually irrigated, the upper bank
running almost across the paddock and


ĵ
TIMBER KILLER !
Kills largest trees in FIFTEEN
DAYS from roots to top. New
method. NO KING-BARKING!
Prevents suckering! Eradicates
BLACKBERRIES! 5/6 tin, posted.
AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO (15ft.).
BEAKS HEAVILY FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001bs. Sow NOW. 2/6 packet.
N.S.W. SEED CO., 693 George St., SYDNEY
Blowfly Strike
Sure Preventive
Discovered
Now, veterinary science has discovered an
effective preventive for use in your fight against
the blowfly. This new method, known as Way-
Blo, uses a compound of many different species
of Eucalypts which are distilled in a plant
especially designed for the purpose, and wherein
the extraction of their most active principles
gives them positive preventive properties. In
Way-Bio the addition of certain viscous com-
ponents overcomes the effects of evaporation
and retains antiseptic properties for long
periods. Having destroyed the maggot, Way-Bio
is able to prevent the re-growth of bacteria
which attract the fly, and so ends all possi-
bility of re-strike.
If used before the fly attacks, Way-Bio rids
the sheep of all bacteria and thereby renders
the development of strike impossible. Non-
poisonous, non-scalding, and harmless to the
fleece, Way-Bio is safe as well as sure. Use
Way-Bio now, before the fly attacks. Ask your
regular wool-house or station supplier for
Way-Bio, or write to the Manufacturers, W. K.
Burnside Pty., Ltd., Melbourne and Sydney.
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd., King St., Sydney
c
%
*o'-
x fcM'
Australian Radiotron Valves,
fitted in your set, is your assurance
that replacements are available
when necessary.
RRDIOTROR VRLVtS
will give full tone realism to your radio
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), ltd.,
73 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
BILLABONG
HAND, POWER
AND
HYDRAULIC PUMPS
j
DESIGNED TO
MEET THE
STATION OWNER’S
and
Farmer’s Requirements
SEND TO THE MAKERS FOR ALL
PARTICULARS
JOHN DANKS & SON
Ply. Ltd.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
And at 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ri
Wt
m
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.O.,
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6 Hot and Cold Water
Double Rooms from 11/-
SYDNEY.
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. —- ■■■ - Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: BW1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
the lower ones being progressively
shorter. Simpson now uses the farm for
grazing only, but he still has a farm.
Much more of the old method and it
would have been across the road.
Hints for the Farm.
“Canbelego”: Rain water is best for
dipping sheep. Water from creeks and
springs often contains lime and iron, and
is “hard.” It can be softened by dis-
solving washing soda in hot water and
then stirring it into the dip bath at the
rate of 21b. of dry soda to lOOgal. of
water.
“Brecko”: In W.A. results have
proved that pigs reared and fattened in
the open are healthier and more profit-
able, while minerals or vitamins obtained
from grazing eliminate the necessity for
protein supplements. Movable houses
with good floors, draughtproof walls and
rainproof roofs are used. All are built
on skids. Fences for paddocks are of
strong woven wire. Where ordinary net-
ting is used barbed wire is placed along
the bottom to prevent the pigs from root-
ing underneath. Gates are of strong
timber and covered with wire. Wallows,
an advantage in summer, are regularly dis-
infected to prevent disease. Many far-
rowing pens in W.A. are provided with
a rail Sin. from the ground and project-
ing about Sin. from the wall. This fre-
quently saves young pigs from being
crushed by the sow.
“Mackay”: In tests to find a control for
kernel smut in sorghum, the Queensland
Department of Agriculture dusted
smutted sorghum heads, harvested the
previous season, with five different mix-
tures at the rate of 2oz. per bushel of
seed. Copper carbonate won easily, mer-
curial dust A was second and mercurial
dust B third.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How can I stop a young goat, due for her
first kidding, from milking herself on one side ?
-2765.
try a halter with a leather band over the
nose, the band studded with nails to make
inch spikes.
Outback Occasions.
No. 8.
BENSON’S BULL.
The occasion when Benson’s black bull
got through the fence into our oats was
memorable. Our brother saw it first
and told Father about it, and Father told
him to go and put it out. So our brother
got on his pony and opened the gate on
to the road and rode into the oats after
that bull. Not very long after that our
brother was glad he’d left the gate open
because it allowed the bull to put him
and the pony out without the pony hav-
ing to jump the fence.
Then Father said “What sort of a
stockman are you ?” And Father got
the stockwhip and went into the oats
on foot to put the bull out. The bull
was eating the oats when Father heaved
in sight and cried “Whoa, bully, whoa,
bully! Get out.” The bull looked hard
at Father and then said something and
started throwing lumps of Father’s oat
paddock over his head. Father cracked
the whip and waved his arms and yelled
back at the bull. Our three heifers and
the old draught mare galloped along the
fence outside the oat paddock, and the
heifers yelled things at the bull.
Whether this encouraged him or
whether he wanted to show off, I don’t
know, but the bull put his head down
and his tail up and galloped at Father.
Father went dead still and waited till
the bull was almost on him, then he
jumped aside, and before the bull could
locate him again. Father was across the
paddock and through the fence.
“By criminy,” he said, “that flamin’
bull’s mad. Get me the gun.”
Mother said Father couldn’t shoot the
bull because the law didn’t allow it, and
Father said he supposed she was right,
though why women couldn’t mind their
own business he didn’t know. So he
sent our brother over to Benson’s to tell
them about the bull, and sent me up the
paddock to hunt the heifers and the old
mare away from the fence and into the
horse-paddock.
The bull must have -thought it was a
trick or something, because he trotted
through the oats to the fence, fell on the
wire and knocked a couple of panels
down and got up and saw Father again.
Father was on the way to help me with
the heifers and was surrounded by 200
yards of open country and the bull not
sixty yards away. Mother —she always
was good in an emergency —Mother got
her red tablecloth and climbed up on the
gatepost and waved it and squealed. She
said she’d read how they did that to
attract the bulls in Nero’s time or some-
thing. Benson’s bull couldn’t have known
about it, because he looked at Mother
waving the red cloth and turned round
and bolted back into the oats again, with
the three heifers after him. The old
mare galloped over to the fence but
missed the broken panel and went up
and down the fence, almost sobbing as
she saw those cattle wading into the oats.
She tried to jump the fence, but got
caught in the two top wires, and we had
to cut them to get her out.
Then our brother came back and said
there was nobody home at Benson’s. So
Father said “Well, now we’ll have t’ do
something!” Our brother ran in Father’s
chestnut and my school hack, and we
saddled them and went forth to battle,
Father with the stockwhip and brother
with the buggy whip and me with a big
stick.
When they saw us the cattle went
plunging through the oats, and we urged
our neddies after them. The three
heifers and the bull went in four dif-
ferent directions, and there were only
three of us, and somehow each of us had
picked a heifer, leaving the bull to amuse
himself. This must have annoyed him,
for he raced out of the oats towards the
house, chased Mother inside, scattered
the chooks and broke into the garden.
By this time our four dogs and a guest
they had had joined issue with the bull.
Bovine and canine raged up and down
Mother’s garden, roaring and yelping like
nothing on earth. By the time we arrived
the pergola was down, Father’s old
wooden wheelbarrow was a pulp, my
blue dog was swinging on the end of
the bull’s tail and Mother kept running
to the door with dippers of water and
heaving them into the fray.
It was no time for half-measures, so
we rode into the wreck of chrysanthe-
mums, snapdragons, carnations, etc., and
laid about us with our weapons. I got
the bull a smack between the eyes with
my stick and then fell off my horse and
got stood on by Father, who was falling
off at the same time. We spat out dirt
and floral titbits and scrambled on to
the verandah in time to see our brother
racing the bull down the track to the
road gate. By this time the bull was
blown, and all brother had to do was
open the gate and kick him through it.
Our dogs and their guest went down
to harry the bull, but he wasn’t having
any. He laid himself down in the dust
of the road and ignored them. Father
lay on the verandah blowing and pant-
ing and swearing, and Mother sat on the
step above him and cried for her garden.
I took our horses into the big paddock
and let them go, and Father got on the
telephone and rang up the Bensons. Yes,
they’d just got home, but it couldn’t be
their bull, because their bull was at that
moment in their young wheat cavorting
with three strange heifers which they
were sure belonged to Father, and would
he come and get them or would they put
them in the pound.
And Father, with a wan look at the
strange bull by our gate, wearily ordered
me to § e t the horses again.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4Jd. per line; all others at
2|d. per line.
A landwoman’s account of a life that seems to be one dull round of forms
and taxes earns her first place this week.
Forms and Taxes
I am a farmer’s wife in a little
back-o’-beyond settlement in W.A. I do
all my own work as a rule, but occasion-
ally need help for a day, and I get a
half-caste girl for this. 1 must insure
her and pay a tax to the Government.
I also try to sell a few pounds of home-
made butter —again I pay tax, as I have
to have a license to sell dairy produce. I
must also buy stamped butter-wraps.
Himself, already working on average 14
hours a day, leaves me to do the books,
which must be ready for stamp inspectors
calling at any inconvenient time.
We have a few fruit-trees, for which
we must pay registration, and also pay
for fruit-fly spray, even though our trees
are declared clean.
Of necessity we keep a bull —he, too,
must be registered ; as also must the
dog, needed for droving.
We pay a vermin tax because rabbits
eat our pasture, and are forced to lay
miles of rabbit poison at our own expense
to destroy them.
We are in a declared irrigation centre,
and must pay water rates, even though
we have more water on the place than
we can use. We also pay drainage rates
on hilly country which has natural gullies
draining it.
Because we keep a gun to destroy de-
structive parrots, we have to register that
also. We must employ men occasion-
ally, and to cover ourselves we must in-
sure them. The farm utility truck also
carries for safety’s sake a third-party
policy of insurance.
We have a dairy herd, and must pay
a Government herd-tester £5 a year to
help cull out the duds.
The farm returns being too compli-
cated for us to manage, we have to pay
an accountant, to do taxation returns
yearly. We pay road registration for
the utility, and can use it only about
six times a month because of petrol
rationing. I must fill in a form for my
petrol issue.
I must furnish entertainment-tax
returns if I run a patriotic dance or
card evening. A form must be filled in
if the children are of necessity kept home
from school. I had a form to fill in
because I offered my services free for
the war effort.
Rates, taxes and forms —I’m sick of the
sight of them all. The only one that
I do get any returns from is the endow-
ment ; and, damn it all, it cuts out next
week! — Farmer’s Wife (W.A.).
War Finance and the Private Banks
According to the “Statistical Bulletin”
of September, 1941, issued by the Com-
monwealth Bank, the total Government
loans and Treasury bills of the nine
trading banks of Australia for the year
1938 averaged 39.8 million pounds. At
the end of August last the total had
reached 95 millions —an increase of 55.2
millions. This increase is new money
created when the banks made the
advances.
The bank’s apologists will not admit
this statement of fact and claim that the
advances made were paid out of bank
deposits. This is, of course, an admis-
sion that the banks lent money which
was not their property but the property of
their clients. The fact, however, that all
this money was spent by the Govern-
ment and was deposited by the recipients
into the banks proves that additional
money has been made available for still
further advances. This additional money
therefore is the creation by the banks by
their act of making the advances to the
Government in the first instance. As evi-
dence of this, the deposits of the nine
trading banks for the year 1938 averaged
316.8 millions. At the end of August
the total was 361 millions —in increase
of 44.2 millions. The difference between
this amount and the increased advances
of 55.7 millions to the Government is
accounted for by increased deposits in
the Commonwealth Bank.
It is of interest to note that out of the
44.2 millions increase in deposits in the
nine trading banks only 4.1 is interest-
bearing. The balance of 40.1 millions
is not interest-bearing. At a conservative
estimate the nine trading banks are re-
ceiving 3 p.c. on their advances to the
Government. This amounts to £1,656,000
annually.
From this sum must be deducted the
annual interest payable by the banks on
the 4.1 million increase in interest-bearing
deposits, which at 2 p.c. amounts to
£82,000, and 5 p.c. on 3.9 millions, which
is the amount by which private advances
have been reduced (284.4 millions in
1938 to 280.5 millions at the end of
August last). This gives £195,000. The
gain to the nine trading banks annually
is approximately £1,656,000, less £82,000
and £195,000, or £1,379,000 net.
Whilst the banks are benefiting to this
extent the general public is called upon
to pay by way of extra taxation the
annual sum of £1,656,000. Had the 55.2
millions been advanced by the Common-
wealth Bank in the first instance this
would have cost the country nothing.—
A. D. B. Rowley (N.S.W.).
A Tobruk Day
Now that the latest button appeal for
our latest ally has been so successful
some thought other than a cable from
our politicians might be given to the men
of Tobruk. A Tobruk Day, sponsored
by the same enthusiasts for the latest
cause, backed by the evergreen A.I.F.
supporters, would create a record day
for the worthy cause of our beleaguered
kith and kin.
Such another appeal might be con-
sidered for the hapless remnants of the
Ist Battalion, N.S.W., now wandering
over the face of Crete. This should in-
spire an even more generous response
from a generous people.
The unpredictable has happened in this
war, despite the ever-increasing army of
tipsters, so let us do more for our own
A.1.F., which, incidentally, will be a
greater help to all who are fighting the
common enemy than dribs and drabs to
innumerable allies of today who are
sometimes the enemy of tomorrow. This
misdirected generosity on our part has
made our munificence appear somewhat
ludicrous when, on the collapse of the
erstwhile ally, it only goes to fill the
already well replenished coffers of the
enemy.—W. E. C. (N.S.W.).
The Man Behind Hitler
Hitler, it appears, couldn’t have done
it all on his own. From the time he
started the National Socialist movement
to his present-day victories in Russia
there has been, according to “famous”
correspondents and people with inside in-
formation, a shadowy figure in the back-
ground who tells Hitler what to do and
when to do it. Even Mein Kampf was
written by another, because obviously
intelligence of a high order is required
to write on current affairs —think of all
the books written by “famous” corre-
spondents —and Hitler, being a fool,
simply couldn’t have done it. In fact,
how could this ridiculous person who has
been explained away so often and dis-
missed with contempt have done any-
thing?
The thing to do is to track down the
man behind Hitler. Bring him into the
open, give the “famous” correspondents
a fair go at him, lay bare his mind and
expose his foibles to a gullible world.
Then we shall know where we are, and
the war will be as good as won —or it
would be if it weren’t for yet another
man. For by then, make no mistake,
there will be another man again to con-
tend with. He will be the man behind
the man behind Hitler. —T.E. P.
(N.S.W.).
Headlines and War
It doesn’t matter what the people get
in the way of newspaper headlines (B.
22/10/’4l) —it’ll still be wrong from one
view or another. Captions such as “Ger-
man Blitz Fails Miserably,” “Tremen-
dour German Losses,” and so on may
bring a feeling of security and slackness
at the recruiting depots, but if the em-
phasis were laid on British and Rus-
sian losses and German victories every-
body would write to the papers and
accuse them of lowering the public
morale, creating panic and similar un-
pleasant states.
Anyway, everybody these days reads
between the headlines (whether he real-
ises it or not). He sifts the eight grains
of fact out of the 99 wild statements on
the front page and throws the paper
aside with the comment “Nothing new.”
You can’t stir public feelings these times
by simply giving plain facts in headlines
any more than you can stir them with
sensational or deliberately lulling head-
lines. We’ve become so accustomed to
newspaper style that it has ceased to
influence us one way or the other. Start-
ling headlines might cause a rush to buy
that particular paper, but the excitement
never lasts, because everybody subcon-
sciously expects the same paper to con-
tradict today’s sensational news to-
morrow.
The only way to stir up real interest in
the war is to take at least one male out
of every eligible home and send him over-
seas. And conscription, though callous,
is the only prompt and effective treatment
for war, which is an equally callous
disease.—E; (N.S.W.).
Refugees
Why all the fuss over refugees starting
various trades in opposition to Austra-
lians? What should they be expected to
do —starve or just become “employees”
when, possibly, their 1 talents run to more
advanced work? They were allowed out
here ; why not now leave them alone to
work here? Can’t we simply fight back in
the business world and compete against
them? Or (say it softly) are we com-
plaining about them simply because we’re
more than a bit afraid of this new and
often clever competition?— King’s X
(N.S.W.).
“A bit closer—then let him have it!”
The Munition Worker
“B. A. Ker” and a lot more persons
clacking about the iniquity of munition
and other war-workers demanding a
small “war loading” ought to get into
such work and enjoy its glories. And the
soldier only very occasionally “goes
through hell for six bob a day.” Too old
myself, I have sons and nephews galore
in all the forces. Their joint opinion is
that soldiering is a fine trade. Health,
comradeship, see the world, glorious
leave (when it comes), route marches
(when one sees the country and the girls).
Not a bad life at all—and as one air-force
pilot says: “If one finally goes out, or
gets winged—well, it’s happened to mil-
lions of young fellows before in the
world’s history and will happen to mil-
lions again.”
The manual worker of war-time gets
the other side of the picture. Out of bed,
scoff a hurried breakfast, race for tram,
train or bus. Or perhaps walk. Then
eight hours in a prison. For that is really
what the modern factory, foundry or
mine is. Working mostly by artificial
light, chained to a machine, seeing only
the same dead faces day after day. Then,
after the eight hours, another two or
three of overtime. Then home to bed,
usually tired as a dog.
And all the time ingenious brains be-
hind the scenes scheming how to squeeze
just another additional ounce of produc-
tion out of already weary flesh. It’s easy
for outdoor workers to criticise. Easy for
office heads, with their typists and their
morning and afternoon tea. Most of my
mob threw up productive work to take
on soldiering—not because they felt par-
ticularly heroic or patriotic, but because
they preferred the life. —W. C. C. (W.A.).
Clerks in War-time
A man employed by a State Taxation
Department described the extra work
caused by the increases in taxation and
ended by informing me that at least 40
additional clerks would be required to
handle it. He was indignant when I sug-
gested the existing staff could handle it
if they were to start work at about 7.30
a.m. and finish at 6 p.m. instead of the
existing 9 to 5 hours of work. “Only a
manual worker would suggest such a
ridiculous thing,” he said. “Anyone with
experience of clerical work knows that
it is far more tiring than working with
your hands.”
Having done both clerical and manual
work, I know that the opposite is the
case. As a class, the average office-
worker, especially in the civil service,
leads an exceedingly pampered and shel-
tered existence. To have the civil service
working the same old 9-to-5 day (seven
hours), with perhaps three or four hours on
Saturdays, is a luxury which the country
cannot afford in war-time. Most of the
additional work could be done by the
existing staffs if they buckled down to a
10-hour day for six days per week, as so
many are now doing in industries vital
to the war effort. Squealing about cleri-
cal work being more exhausting than
similar time spent at the machine or the
work-bench won’t go down,—' Tompion
(S.A.).
Decentralisation of Munition Plants
A serious blunder was made when
munition plants were built within the
metropolitan area. This is particularly
so in S.A., where country centres are
threatened with extinction. Where was
the foresight of our legislators in this
insane centralisation project? Every
rural township reports empty houses,
closed shops and a diminished school
attendance.
In Adelaide recently 135 people
applied for a vacant cottage, and in
Peterborough I saw a row of untenanted
houses. Building munition factories in
capitals may save money in transport
costs, but that is the only redeeming
feature.
It is good to read (belated as it is)
that the new Minister (Mr. Makin) has
decided on decentralisation as his future
policy— A. Daly (S.A.).
Plea for a Poet
The Red Page (B. 1/10/’4l), in giving
a little timely advice to Australian verse-
writers, quotes Yeats: “The natural
words in their natural order, and always,
at the back of the mind, music.” If
Australian poets need a pattern and an
example of the art of simple expression
set to music, and simply adorned with
living imagery, why not try Masefield?
The Poet Laureate is little quoted these
days, but his vigorous and sincere nar-
rative verse, lighted by the poet’s power
of concrete imagining, is exactly the sort
of virile medium for expression of the
Australian character and Australian
scene. Masefield has used verse to paint
character and atmosphere, notably in
“Reynard the Fox,” in a more vivid


REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
manner than can be found in most prose.
In the same poem, and in “Right Royal,’
he has created and sustained suspense to
an extent comparable with the master-
pieces of the short-story craft. In all
his long narrative work he has built up
dramatic structures seldom if ever
equalled in verse. . v
Masefield’s power of simple and vivid
imagery and his ability to set any theme
to its exactly appropriate word-music are
exemplified in all his work. His poetry
is so uniformly beautiful, in a frank, un-
assuming way, that it has an apparent
sameness. Such examples of the broad
and masterly use of an art as: —-
Where are ye bound, ye swart seafarers,
Vexing the grey wind-angered brine,
Bearers of homespun cloth, and bearers
Of goatskins filled with country wine?
Or; —-
All through the windless night the clipper rolled
In a great swell with oily gradual heaves
Which rolled her down until her time-bells tolled
Clang, and the weltering water moaned like
beeves.
can never be attained by the pen
scratches of impressionism.
A seeing eye, a receptive mind, frank-
ness and truth of expression, coupled with
a virile sense of composition, are essen-
tials for the man who would write the
sort of poetry Masefield wrote, and
especially for a man who, being a patriot,
would interpret and faithfully depict a
new nation. — Propalong (S.A.).
Reconstruction
Post-war reconstruction is a phrase of
which most of us are tired. Active prac-
tical work of the individual is essential.
Grandiose schemes for social reform,
made by men whose whole energies
should be concentrated on the present
turmoil, seem like so many pleasant
bubbles blown by irresponsibles.
The time for social reform is now. The
defence of our country, the social and
physical welfare of Australians are in the
hands of the Government, which is voted
into power by the individual. There
should be regular, compulsory examina-
tion for the voter. He who has not suffi-
cient interest to vote for the party which,
to the best of his knowledge and belief,
will guide Australia with the greatest
wisdom has no claim to patriotism, and
certainly no claim to a voice in the
country’s welfare.
We know to our cost that politicians
can disarm the nation, can refuse com-
pulsory training and can throw us into
war seriously unprepared. Post-war re-
construction should be on a firm founda-
tion. Eliminate the harmful, useless voter
now. Allow patriots to choose leaders
who are wisest, and who will watch care-
fully, when we have finished this con-
flict, to see that war cannot again spring
on us from ambush. — Mrs. P. (S.A.).
A.R.P. in Queensland
Recent Brisbane press photos, demon-
strate the utter futility of some of the
A.R.P. work on which large sums of tax-
payer money are being wasted. They
depict a City Council employee attired
in a respirator, gas mask, full oilskin
suit, heavy rubber knee-boots and acid-
resisting gauntlet gloves. It is proposed
to equip and train 200 of them for ser-
vice at 15 city stations in the event of
an air raid in which gas is used.
No enemy in his senses would use gas
on a city in which four out of every five
buildings are of wooden construction,
but if he chose summer for the idiotic
deed the masked, oilskinned heroes
wouldn’t be able to do much. Between
November and March, inclusive, no Bris-
bane citizen or any other human being
could remain physically or mentally effi-
cient in that garb for half an hour. If
any active physical work had to be done
—and anti-gas is particularly that—about
20 minutes would be the practicable limit
of endurance.
A better spending proposition is the
derelict slum at Moorooka, which attracts
the startled attention of any observant
air visitor to Lud Mayor Chandler’s city
on the way in from Archerfield ’drome.
Either removal or a spot of human
decency to the poor devils trying to exist
on Bs. worth of rations weekly in a kero.-
tin or bag hut there would not cost half
of the gloves - boots - respirator - oilskin
foolishness. Sorry to sound impulsive,
but had to explain on the spot to a
Dutch East Indies friend, and I don’t
feel at all happy about his comments.
One Was about his first experience of
having seen the coolie-complex in white
men. “Your Labor rules the Common-
wealth and Queensland?” asked.
“Why, then, are these white working men
living in poverty without even the
small resources that our coolies enjoy?”
Being under the O.A.P, age and not
qualified for invalid pension, our Moo-
rooka lot aren’t qualified for anything
apparently. Why?—K. P. (Q.).
Why They Don’t Enlist
It is no use “N.H.” (B. 22/10/’4l)
blaming the press for the lack of recruits
for the A.I.F. There are two factors con-
tributing to the present shortage of
recruits. One is a lack of spirit amongst
a lot of the young men of today and the
other is the treatment of the A.I.F. by
our Government.
There are thousands of young chaps
who would enlist in the A.I.F. if they
were sure of being sent overseas. One
of these remarked to me, “Why should
I enlist in the A.I.F. to make roads at
Darwin or to rot at Rabaul?” If we are
so short of reinforcements for the A.I.F.
why is the militia not used at both these
places instead of the A.1.F.?
I have just had word from my son
to say he has not yet received the spell
“Been and ’ad 'is 'air Waved, Father!"
"Gosh, can't 'ee lend un pair o' stays?"
he has been expecting for weeks, and I
know from personal experience how men
had to stop in the front line longer than
they should have owing to lack of rein-
forcements. Another thing the Government
might do is lower the age of enlistment
in the A.I.F. to 18. I was on Gallipoli
at 18 and fought in France and Belgium
at 19, and my son, aged 19, has been
abroad for nearly six months. His letters
home, although cheerful enough to make
a punter laugh after backing six consecu-
tive seconds, leave no doubt as to what
the lads there think of the lack of sup-
port for them by the young men in Aus-
tralia—Anzac (Vic.).
War and a Strike
As the father of one of the thousands
of boys who gave up good Jobs to take
what might be coming to them from
German bombers and Panzers in the
Middle East, I’m still trying to recover
from the shock of the Lithgow strike.
It’s a Government factory • there was
no profiteering capitalist to blame in this
instance, 3omeone had made the mis-:
take of ’not providing strikers with an
tribunal,” and the taxpayers,
who were under the impression they had
been paying for one since arbitration was
first introduced, are entitled to an
explanation.
Several Lithgow strikers assured the
public per medium of the press that they
were opposed to the strike, and that if a
secret ballot had been held a majority
would have voted to remain at work.
Isn’t it time then that this majority did
some organising on its own behalf and
became articulate and active within the
union, instead of being pushed around
by a minority? After all, unionists are
trustees for the national welfare as well
as their own private interests, and the
public is not likely to forget or forgive
strikes of the Lithgow variety in a hurry,
If the soldiers, manufacture of whose
munitions was closed down for a fort-
night, happened to walk off their job,
union principles, or any other principles
worth having, would soon be in a bad
yyay,—Fair Go (N.S.W.),
Conversion to Standard Gauge
The Russo-German war, among other
things, has one interesting item for Aus-
tralia in the conversion of Russian
wide-gauge railways to the standard Con-
tinental 4ft. gauge.
According to Hitler, 25,000 miles of
railways have already been converted by
laying down a third rail —and this has
been done in three months! The total
length of railways in this country is just
over 12,000 miles, yet bickering about
the unification of gauges has been going
on in Australia for 40 years.
If Hitler considered it essential to con-
vert all railways under his occupation
to uniform gauge, how much more im-
portant should this be for Australia, if
only in the interests of defence? Con-
version of main lines to uniform gauge
(preferably to the standard gauge used
in N.S.W.) is of primary importance in
war-time, and should be given priority
over all non-essential construction work.
The enemy showed us that it can be done
quickly.— Viator (Vic.).
Australian Wines
For patriotic reasons, the Government
is urging us to drink more Australian
wines. Reasons of health as well as a
decent pride in a first-class Australian
product urge the same thing. But why
don’t growers and distributors co-operate
by making first-class facilities available
for the sale and consumption of their
products?
For some reason, possibly unwar-
ranted, many people regard wine saloons
as sinks of iniquity. The only way
to overcome this prejudice is to build
up-to-date and commodious wine bars
to replace the pokey holes most wine
saloons are ; to separate the women from
the men patrons, at least in the public
bars, and to discourage the disreputable
element as effectively as the well-run
hotel does.— Smilax (Q.).
Apples and Pears
The apple-growers of the Sydney met-
ropolitan and Cumberland areas are
opposed to the Apple and Pear Board.
They grow very early fruit, have a bare
market to put it on and get prices far
higher than the board is authorised to pay.
The growers in Batlow district are 95 p,c,
behind the board, and in my capacity
of ehairmafi of the N.S.W, Apple and
Pear Growers’ Association I know that
the great majority of growers in the Com-
monwealth favor the board.
The prevailing idea apparently is that
the Australian public is entitled to re-,
qeive the quantities which used to be
shipped abroad, and that the retail price
should be much lower than it has been..
There are a number of factors involved,
and one is the time apples and pears
are harvested. In the main apple and
pear districts the harvest commences
about the middle of February and ex-
tends to about the middle of April, Pears
harvested during this period must either
be forwarded to market or else placed
into cool store within a few days
of being picked. Apples must either
be forwarded to market or stored in the
orchard for a few weeks, but if required
for the second half of the year they must
be placed in cool store soon after picking.
Thus the apples and pears available from
July onwards are in the main only those
which have been placed into cool store
ex harvest, and the quantity available for
the second half of the year depends upon
the amount of cool-storage space avail-
able. This is less now than pre-war, as
portion of the space is required for the
storage of other commodities.
As for retail prices, the facts are that
up to the end of June first-quality dessert
apples were sold in Sydney and suburbs
at 6d. to Is. 6d. per dozen, according
to size and variety. Jonathans of excel-
lent quality were retailed at 6d. per dozen
for size 2fin., up to Is. per dozen for
2Jin. Approximately 2£d, per pound for
the smaller sizes and 3|d. per pound for
the larger sizes.
Cost of transporting these apples from
Tasmania to Sydney, including the cost
of case, packing material, packing and
handling and a minimum agents’ commis-
sion of 6d. per case, but not including
growing or harvesting, totals 5s. 3d. to
5s. 6d. per bushel; if to this cost is added
3s. subsidy for the fruit, we get a total
of 8s. 6d. per bushel. From N.S.W. dis-
tricts the case, packing material, packing,
transport and selling costs amount to 4s.
3d., but the subsidy to the grower is
higher, representing 4s. to 5s. for grow-
ing and harvesting the fruit. The mini-
mum price at which apples could com-
mercially be placed on the market is
8s. 6d. per bushel wholesale, or approxi-
mately per pound, and this would give
the grower no margin to cover loss by
storm, hail, etc.
There was probably an unmarketed
surplus of six million cases of apples and
pears in the Commonwealth this year,
and if it had been decided to
distribute this surplus free to
the people, without regard-
ing the cost of growing or
harvesting, it could not have
been done for less than 6s.
6d. per bushel, or a total of
£3,900,000; in fact, as a
large part of this surplus
occurred in South Australia
and Westralia, it would have
cost a great deal more than that.
To assist in the cheapening
of fruit to the public, I would
suggest it be carried on our
railways at the same rate as
potatoes and other vege-
tables ; at present it is 4H-
p.c. higher. I produce up to
800 tons of apples and pears
a year, and the Railway Com-
missioners collect a far larger
revenue from my farm in the
form of freight than I do in
the form of profit. And why
have fruit cases risen in price
36 p.c. and more since the
war? Is it because the
Forestry Commission is tab-
ling advantage of war conditions to
profiteer? —A. E, Herring (N.S.W.).
Slums and Reformers
Several years’ practical experience with
the Children’s Welfare Department in-
clines me to regard the theory of
“Taurus” (B, 15710/’41), not as a step
towards a better future, but as “hooey,”
By all means teach the children the art of
cleanliness and community spirit, and
look for results in the next generation,
but to consider that the same children
can change the habits of their parents
is a fallacy.
Attacked and organised in the right
way, much could be done for the adult
as well as the child. If “the slum-dweller
is a person with a particular state of
mind ” why not institute “compulsory
cleanliness clinics” in collaboration with
health clinics in the new settlements? In
conjunction, develop a competitive spirit
among the “dwellers” by offering a mone-
tary prize each year to the occupant
whose home, garden and family gain the
highest points for order, cleanliness and
good behavior under surprise inspections.
Then the good work being done in
creches, kindergartens and schools would
be backed up by some parental influence
which should help to eradicate or at least
minimise delinquency and so vindicate
the scheme of the Housing Commission,
(S.AO,
Soldiers Three
I have three friends who enlisted at
the outbreak of war. They are young,
enthusiastic and ambitious, and all left
good responsible positions.
As gun sergeants they fought through
the whole Libyan campaign; in Greece
from Verria Pass right down to the
point of embarkation, and in Crete. Their
work was sufficiently brave and hazard-
ous to have been written up in the his-
tory of the Greek battles. Their reward?
One step promotion among the three of
them. One man becomes T.S.M., the
next remains sergeant and the third 1.-
sergeant (being still ungazetted).
The men are homesick, sand and “wog
infection” weary, and are becoming dis-
couraged at the lack of recognition.
We all know numerous cases of promo-
tion here at home ; how unjust it is that
the men who have taken all the knocks
should have so few of the advantages! —
1559 (Vic.).


“Not a shilling must be wasted.”
THE PRIME MINISTER.
SAVING—
A NATIONAL OBLIGATION
No longer sure you being advised to save only because
thrift is an admirable virtue. Unless you do save, your
whole future and the future of Australia - may be
imperilled.
The Prime Minister has pointed out the only safe road
to National as well as personal security. Your few
shillings, or few pounds, will be an important factor in
Australia’s coping with the heavy demands war has made
upon her.
Use a Commonwealth Savings Account. It is a safe
and convenient means of accumulating your savings—
for your own and your country’s good.
Commonwealth
Savings Bank
• • • of Hustralia • • •
BRAN BALER'S
fp
C*
PENS
guarante
do not experiment with imitations.
a BBAMDAOBB * CO, U4L BIBUIMaHA.It, ENO
■</
to
Kl C< V?
H
*«!
T. J ONES £ CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
Our ServiceDepatment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Any information about Katherine Mansfield,
material, such as unpublished letters, articles,
also anecdotes, and periodicals or books
English or foreign—containing literary apprecia-
tions. (Reply direct to Miss Nell Nathan, 1185
Park-avenue, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.)
To hear from amateur dramatic societies
seeking to produce Australian plays. 9891.
Words of monologue beginning “Our Harbor,
which art in Sydney.” —9895.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
seeks typing work; neat and accurate, moderate
terms. —9889.
Plans for building small light canoe. 9882.
To buy song (words and music) “I Cannot
Sing the Old Songs.” —9899.
Information Sought.
(1) I understand that if the parents of a
female minor refuse to grant consent to mar-
riage it is possible to appeal to a Court. Is
that so? (2) What is the Court? (3) What
would be the procedure? (4) Approximate
cost? (5) Grounds necessary for permission
to be granted by Court? (6) If parent con-
cerned resides on Norfolk Island, daughter in
N.S.W., how would that affect the situation ?
2018. . „ .
(1) Yes. (2) The Supreme Court in Equity,
the District Court of the district in which the
minor resides, or the Court of Petty Sessions
nearest to the place of residence of the minor.
(3) The Court holds an inquiry and hears
evidence in camera. (4) Impossible to say.
(5) Such as the Court may consider adequate.
(6) Not at all.
* * * *
(1) Where can I obtain information as to
chaplaincies in the R.A.A.F.? (2) Are full-
time chaplains appointed to the various camps
and training schools in the Commonwealth ?
—2768.
(1) From the Staff Officer for Personal Ser-
vices, Air Force Headquarters, “Q” Block, Vic-
toria Barracks, Melbourne, or by reference to
the Anglican, Methodist, Presbyterian or Roman
Catholic staff chaplains at the same address.
(2) Full-time and/or part-time chaplains are
appointed to all R.A.A.F. units in accordance
with the number of personnel stationed thereat.
The apportionment of chaplaincies is in accord-
ance with the numbers of the respective de-
nominations in the service.
* * * *
What leave are R.A.A.F. recruits allowed
while training in Australia ? It seems as if the
recruits residing in the far north-west of Queens-
land are penalised in this respect, as so much
time is taken up travelling to and from their
respective homes. —2506.
R.A.A.F. personnel undergoing training
within Australia are given leave between courses.
Obviously it would be impracticable to grant
extra leave to members to cover travelling
time to their homes, since this would cause them
to miss portion of their training. However,
complete training units —initial training schools,
elementary and service flying training schools —
are established in each State, including Queens-
land, and as far as possible members are
trained in their home States. When training
is completed and members are proceeding
overseas, they are allowed six clear days’ leave
in their home town. If remaining in Aus-
tralia, they are granted, in addition to recreation
leave, sufficient time once a year to cover
travelling time to their homes.
« * • •
Name of the first or one of the first books
written on psychology; also name of author ■
/ was recently informed by a youthful student
that this was a new study. I doubted this state-
ment and still feel that psychology is an old
study. Which of us is correct? —2566.
Psychology is, as you say, “an old study ;
but in ancient and medieval times it was re-
garded only as a branch of philosophy, con-
cerned with abstract consideration of intelli-
gence, conation and the principles of life.
It was essentially static and speculative, lo
get its flavor you could consult, say, Plato s
Dialogues. Modern psychology is experimental,
practical and dynamic, especially in its com-
parative aspects. Hard to say who wrote the
first book in the modern vein, but Bertrand
Russell’s Analysis of Mind dates back about
20 years and is very readable.
* * * *
Dates of the great plagues of history? Name
of the disease responsible? Proportion of the
population which died in each epidemic ? Have
any of these diseases failed to reappear in
modern times, or have they been diseases well
known to medical science? —2486.
During the whole of recorded history fatal
epidemics have periodically ravaged the earth.
In the Middle Ages these pestilences were all
loosely classified as “plagues.” The mortality
from huge visitations of smallpox, influenza,
typhus and yellow fever is unknown in the
modern statistical sense, but there is more accu-
rate information about bubonic plague, to
which the term “plague” has long been re-
stricted. Its first extensive outbreak took place
in the sixth century a.d. It started in Lower
Egypt, and nearly wiped out the Roman Empire.
From that time on frequent epidemics occurred
in Europe, culminating in the Black Death of
the fourteenth century, and these continued
all over the north and west of Europe until well
into the seventeenth century, when the Great
Plague of London killed half the city and
spread all over England. Since then plague has
only twice visited western Europe, but there
have been terrible outbreaks in Marseilles (1720),
Hong Kong (1894) and Bombay (1896), amongst
other large cities. Any of these diseases, which
are always smouldering somewhere in the
world, would reappear in epidemic form and
kill millions were it not for unceasing vigilance
on the part of the health authorities.
* * * •
Ways and means of getting rid of tinea ?
2443.
Dry carefully the spaces between toes and all
other places where skin folds are close together.
Use 25 p.c. alcoholic solution after drying.
Then apply plain talcum powder to these areas.
Treat all fissures or sogginess between the toes
with tincture of iodine. Keep nails cut short
and remove any crumbling material round their
edges. Remove scales and sodden or horny
material between the toes or on the soles.
Wear absorbent, but not coarse, socks, and
shoes that fit well without rubbing or chafing.
Insert pads of cotton wool between toes too
close together. Consult a doctor for progressive
scaling, redness or blistering. Shoes or slippers
should be used when walking. They should
be sterilised at intervals with formalin, fre-
quently wiped out with a clean rag, and never
worn by persons whose feet may be infected.
In households in which a member of the family
suffers from tinea, bathmats, bathroom floors,
shower recesses, etc., should be wiped over
frequently with a solution of 2 p.c. cresol.
After surfing on public beaches, uninfected
people should apply tincture of 1 p.c. gentian
violet to their feet. An infected member ol
a family should, if possible, be given a separate
bathmat. If itching is present at night, it may
be allayed by the use of calamine lotion. Re-
sistant cases of tinea often clear up under small
doses of X-rays.
* * * *
Is teeth extraction the only remedy for pyor-
rhoea; if not, will you advise regarding alterna-
tive treatment? —2601.
Extraction is at present the only permanent
cure. This method is sometimes modified by
so-called alternate extraction, which aims at
isolating affected teeth, so facilitating drainage.
When the teeth are retained, the treatment often
adopted is gingivectomy (cutting away portion
of the gum round affected teeth) and drilling
away bone until every part of the tooth 091
having a vital attachment to the bone is laid
bare and made cleansable. All tartar should be
removed from the teeth, as also all stagnation
areas (rough fillings, faulty crowns, etc.). To
ensure permanent cleanliness, the use of worsted
thread or floss silk is most important. In all
cases, teeth which have lost the major part ol
their attachment, or multi-rooted teeth between
whose roots bone-destruction has extended,
should be removed.
* * * *
(1) Are there any detailed regulations govern-
ing the amount to be contributed by each parent
for the provision of board and lodging for a
teacher of a N. S. Wales subsidised school ?
(2) Do the regulations require that board and
lodging be provided during school holidays ?
2769.
(1) While the regulations provide that suit-
able board and lodging, to include a separate
room, must be made available for the teacher
of a subsidised school, free of charge, the
arrangement of details in this connection, such as
the amount to be paid by each parent, is left to
the parents. (2) The regulation relating to the
provision of board and lodging may be taken
generally to refer to school periods; it is not
the practice of the department to require parents
to make free board and lodging available
during the recognised school vacations, but
that they will be expected to do so during
public holidays which do not fall within
the vacation and any periods within the vaca-
tion during which the teacher may be compelled
to remain at the school owing to lack of con-
veyance or other circumstances beyond the
teacher’s control.
Brief Answers.
W.A.W.: (1) There is nearly always a
source of infection behind lumbago, which,
however, is always aggravated by physical strain
or sudden exposure to cold, wet or draughts.
The commonest site of infection is the teeth.
(2) Digestive upset, by producing loss in phy-
sical condition, would make attacks more likely.
(3) Absolute rest in bed, constant hot applica-
tions, with massive doses of aspirin, cut short
many an acute attack. After the acute phase
has subsided, gentle massage may be given
daily. If this treatment excites pain, it should
be discontinued. In chronic cases, heat may
be used in one of several forms—hot baths,
local poultices, hot-air baths or diathermy....
R.H.; You and Heredity, by Amram Schein-
feld (Chatto and Windus), contains a popular and
intelligible exposition of the subject... . G.W.:
The trouble is most probably due to prostatic
enlargement, and you should consult a doctor.
C.W.J.: Very hot, cold, highly-spiced or
acid foods must be avoided, as well as strong
condiments. Decayed or rough teeth or ill-
fitting dentures must be given appropriate treat-
ment. AH local applications to the tongue must
be non-irritating, and caustics entirely avoided.
Bicarbonate of soda (10 grains to the ounce)
or chlorate of potash (same strength) is often
useful. Remember that all tongue affections
are made worse by breathing through the
mouth. If the condition persists, see a
doctor. In view of your past history, a consti-
tutional cause for the trouble may be present.
... .W. and H.: Brooding over the matter will
only make you neurotic. Try to behave
as a normal human being and stop worrying
over your health W.J.C.: None of the
Sydney drughouses is able to supply informa-
tion about “diodoquin.” Are you sure the name
as given by you is correct?... .J.H.P.: Prob-
ably not procurable in Australia at present.
Consult Denyer Bros., 267 George-street, Syd-
ney M.W.; Best plan would be to apply at
the office of the Victorian Board of Health.
. ...R.R.8.: Write to Mrs. J. Stewart, 28 Her-
mitage-road, West Ryde, W. Clayton, Lane
Cove-road, North Ryde, S. R. Beresford, c/o
W. H. Hill, 10 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, or
T. Mayfield, 161 Bondi-road, Bondi, concerning
bull-terrier pups Taxpayer: Under the secrecy
provisions of the State and Federal income-
tax law it is impossible to supply the infor-
mation you request S.D.: There are several
effective bleaches for removing ink from
materials; it largely depends on the material
and the length of time the stain has been on.
If you have a new remedy it may be worth
while. Best plan is to write to, say, Fauldings
or Elliotts, both of Sydney, and ask for
advice... .J.N.; If the freshly-cut ends of
arums are placed at once into a vessel contain-
ing red ink or aniline dye the flowers will be-
come tinted with pink. For other colors, ex-
periment with dyes would determine the limit.
. ...C.C.: Secret of succulence and good
appearance is in the preparation. The bird
should first be wrapped in buttered paper and
roasted, with frequent bastings; then, when
nearly done, stripped of paper, sprinkled with
brown sugar and browned. A wrapping of
bacon rashers, ample brown fat for basting
and the knack of knowing just when it is done
comprise the chief requisites. Consult a good
cookery book A.W.8.: Don’t attempt to
remove ivories. Rub keys with a cloth thoroughly
wrung out of a solution of a few drops of
ammonia in a cupful of hot water. Afterwards
wring out in cold water, rub again and finally dry
them J.P.0.: Write Frank Evans, Leaming-
ton-street, Dundas (N.S.W.), who usually con-
ducts classes between January and May. To
qualify for a special class certificate it is neces-
sary to sex 300 chickens in 45 minutes with
98 p.c. accuracy, and for a first-class certificate
200 chickens require to be sexed in 30 minutes
with an accuracy of 95 p.c., in both cases with-
out killing or injuring a chicken. The main
period of employment of chick-sexers is during
the mam hatching season, June to September,
and they have to work long hours to earn a
good income....G.J.S.,: Walther and Steven-
son, 395 George-street, Sydney, can supply
Model Steam Engines, Is. 6d., and their cata-
logue No. 353, 6d., which describes the model
fittings you are looking for W.A M • Sug-
gest that the walls and ceilings be painted with
a weak solution of limewater; then apply
Fibro-C cold-water paint... .C.McD • Only
a few days G.C.: (1) He may adopt them
by deed as his own. See a solicitor. (2) They
would receive all the benefits of natural-born
children. (3) N 0... .R.J.A.: In spite of
claims, consult an oculist S.F.E.: (1) With
a striped navy suit wear a long (four-in-hand)
tie to match, something in blue or blue-grey
(2) Not a bow (3) No. (4) Australian Eti-
quette (Pyke), 2s. 6d., from Dymocks, Sydney,
will answer any other questions.... Mrs RF ■
Sounds like fowl-tick fever. Pamphlet giving
the correct treatment has been sent
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
G.T.8.:
Ob, you young Australian soldiers, sailors, airmen,
one and all,
To you, my friend, who gallantly has answered
country’s call—
Out here we feel, in our homeland, that there is
some neglect:
For the man who’s left behind here is not treated
with respect.
L.McR.:
A voice cries out, Oh, who and what are you, and
why,
Who on this deadly mission cleaves the sky,
With lightning strokes thine enemies confound,
Who And themselves quick hurtling to the ground,
And all you do is grin and look around?
8.W.:
When war is finished in a while,
Back again will Aussies file,
Try again our native beer—
“ Here’s to Churchill and good cheer!”
R.W.D.: Don’t “did”....A.E.W.; A touch
of atmosphere in “The Ruin” J.P.: Been
reading Hopkins? ... .J.A.R.: Tush... .1.M.5.:
“Pyrmont Bridge” poem’s not a bad bit of
prose F.H.: No more than middling
L.H.: Try elsewhere B.H. (England):
Thanks; but they’re not within coo-ee....
J.W.P.: A glimmer here and there W.8.F.:
If it’s been printed elsewhere it’s no use to us.
. ...L.T.: On contemplating “On Contemplat-
ing Art” we decided that the less said about it
the better C.8.R.: “Petrol,” fortunately, is
inflammable... .8.W.: “Yachts which toss and
do the sea rebuke” make us seasick... .A.L.G.:
Turgid M.Y.: “It’s a Great Life, If
would have been a great poem, if....J.R.:
Raw Boots: Hoots G.W.; For a^ start,
remove tags such as “prodigal wealth” and
“bounteous store.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.S.: Is it a drunken waterspout or a sportive
surfer? 8.G.P.: You are hereby charged
with defacing some perfectly good Bristol
board N.T.; Lopsided copper lumbering de-
formed dwarf among a sea of inscribed bal-
loons is not for us Bert C.: As a joke it s
a washout, but your parish magazine may wel-
come it as a stricture against the Demon Rum.
....L.8.M.: Sketch shows glimmerings of life,
but it is pointless T.S.M.: It cost us 4d.
to gaze at it; it was very high entertainment
tax... .H.J.T.: Lady trying to back clerk ot
course is an ancient friend W.O’N.: C° m "
position is too conventional; before dipping it
in the Indian ink slash the cobwebs away with
your pen... .S.G.: Office has been plunged in
gloom at thought that yours will be the tore-
runner of countless flies-in-beer jokes... .Dennis
A.: Illustrated vulgarisms have Buckley s chance.
....P.G.M.: You seem bent on resuscitating
family-album horrors H.Y.: Overemphasis
of outlines merely serves to throw into relict
other defects.


7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
i
W/Jm
m
mi
si si
:
mm
m
mss
;
mmmmm m&m
assm
\%4
MB
■.A'>Z
--' -.:- .
..
mSßmmsSßmSm
■
■■■l - * | .II
,
:.,
J3 * ~ > a -
■HMI
■
■
„, ~ v , . . !
ill
•' :
■I
| |S
7|f%:
■
m mm ■.
lillllllli M
Mi
lißreftllSl
iik^kpßl
m
■■■iii
H MS
*
ir
m
M aa a
■■■■l
■
5®
m
I >'■'■■;
H
r
ill- il
■
1 m
OMH
■■6
F"
Manufacturers of.
“RAPSON” LATHES
“FREDLINE” Vertical
TURRET LATHES
“RAND” DIESEL
ENGINES
MACHINES
MACHINE PARTS
MACHINE CUT GEARS
(All Sizes)
Twenty-five years experience in the making of
precision machines and tools, during which we
have kept in line with progress in the field of engineering,
enabled us to immediately convert our peace-time activities
to the more exacting demands of war. In particular, we
are proud of our production of
LATHES and Other
MACHINE TOOLS
In the production of these items, skilled Australian
engineers, equipped with modern precision machinery,
are helping this country's war effort in a most vital field.
Thus one more Australian industrial organisation throws
in its weight in the nation's all-in effort.
J
is
ra
W
RAPSON & DUTTON PTY. LTD
MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURERS
General, Marine, Motor and Diesel Engineers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
TELEPHONE B 2277 (3 LINES) TELEGRAMS: “ RAND,” BRISBANE
J. & O’S. Advt,
A MIXED GRILL.
Replying to Lud Mayor Beaurepaire,
who suggested a lottery, Premier Dun-
stan said “I think people ought to be able
to provide for hospitals from taxation,
where necessary, rather than resorting
entirely to their gambling instincts.” The
abolition of six superfluous State Parlia-
ments would provide the money to build
enough hospitals for years to come.
» # * *
“Clooter”: While Australian Ministers
for N.E.S. are planning more test black-
outs and some Australians are still smart-
ing from heavy fines inflicted on them
for breaches of the Sydney blackout law,
all London is fiercely debating the worth
of the things. Most of the debaters
appear to agree that continuous blackouts
are unwarranted. Their argument is be-
tween the merits of a total blackout when
an alarm is given and a trick blackout
in which some lights are left on and
others arranged to baffle the enemy, say
in marshes and empty fields. The R.A.F.
and the Anti-Aircraft units are silent, and
this is assumed to mean they are satis-
fied with present conditions, though why
it should be assumed isn’t clear, the
services by nature being chary of express-
ing opinions on anything. Minister
Morrison, when asked about it in the
Commons, said he would stick to the
total and continuous blackout, holding
that lighted streets would cause alarm.
His opponents contend that lighted streets
would stimulate morale. It’s to be hoped
the local blackout bosses are listening
closely to the British debate.
* * * •
There is no clumsier or cheekier
creature than the English-speaking Com-
munist. With the anti-Axis world full
of sympathy for the Russian people, now
enduring the agony of one of the greatest
human tragedies of all time, contempt
remains the portion of the British Com-
munist party. Demanding an immediate
offensive anywhere, regardless of the cost
in British lives, this pitiful crowd had the
gall to proclaim that “the honor of
Britishers is at stake ; if we let Russia
down, history will demand a terrible retri-
bution.” From September 3, 1939, till
Tune 22, 1941, the same putrid mob in-
trigued and whined for peace with a
triumphant Hitler on the ground that it
was “an Imperialist war.”
« * * *
“Colbun”: Many famous old British
homes came to ignoble ends after the
1914-18 war on account of income taxa-
tion and death-duties. The National
Trust is taking action to ensure that
those yet remaining will have at any rate
a chance of escaping a similar fate under
the still heavier burdens of this one.
Properties vested in the Trust are exempt
from income tax and succession duties
so that the owner of an ancestral home
can avoid these obligations by deeding it
as a national property. The Trust will
then rent it to him under an ordinary
tenancy agreement and will pay for its
maintenance from a special fund. Reduc-
tion to mere tenancy of the home of
many generations will be a bitter pill for
many an old family to swallow, but in
many this will be the only way of
keeping the property out of the hands of
the wrecker and the jerry-builder.
* H= * *
“J.H.M.A.” recalls some early Sydney
buildings:
Sydney’s first style of architecture was pretty
primitive, but the best that could be done in
a hurry. Governor Phillip’s first care was to
replace tents by rough huts made of “wattle
and daub,” and David Collins relates how these
quaint little dwellings were constructed. He
tells us that “the long boats of the ships in
the Cove were employed in bringing up
cabbage-tree from the lower part of the harbor,
where it grew in great abundance, and was
found when cut into proper lengths very fit for
the purpose of erecting temporary huts, the
posts and plates of which, being made of
the pine of this country, and the sides and ends
fitted with lengths of cabbage-tree plastered over
with clay, formed a very good hovel. The
roofs were thatched with grass of the gum
rush. Some were covered with clay, but several
of these failed, the weight of the clay and heavy
rain soon destroying them.” Manly Beach is
still “Cabbage Tree Bay” on the charts, and
the “gum rush” Collins mentions was prob-
ably what has long been known colloquially
as “kangaroo grass.”
* * * *
A person has been found who is per-
fectly satisfied with the state of affairs
at Canberra, who doesn’t care how-
big the taxes are, doesn’t mind State
Governments and isn’t worrying whether
he’ll get extra petrol next year. His
name is Carlos y del Liag and his address
is c/o the Post Office, Itiyaco,
Argentina.
* * * «
“Strict Veg.”; A controversy has been
raging in the Melbourne papers between
James Menzies, the ex-Prime Minister’s
father, and Rev. Dr. Button, the Modera-
tor of a Protestant denomination, anent
the mixing of politics and religion. Mr.
Menzies objects to Dr. Button expound-
ing his political opinions from the pulpit,
and Dr. Button indignantly claims that
he has as much a right to do it as Mr.
Menzies’s distinguished offspring. What-
ever may be the value of Dr. Button’s
political opinions, I can’t see how poli-
tics can be divorced from religion. If
politics is not concerned with making the
world better, with what is it concerned?
Merely a scramble for office?
* H= * *
“Riv.”: I see where the Dominions
Under-Secretary has been telling the
English that all the Dominions are
anxious to take war orphans when the
business is over. Australian Labor has
never been very enthusiastic about immi-
gration, believing it to be mostly a
scheme of the capitalists to keep down
wages—the experiences of some of the
poor devils brought here under the
various “schemes” to work for a
quid and tucker do something to
justify the assumption. It would be
interesting to hear the present Gov-
ernment’s views. I think so much of
Australia that I believe you could dump
5,000,000 adults of both sexes in it in a
year without promise or hope of any
kind, and by the end of the following
year they’d be fatter and healthier than
ever they were in their northern lands.
Hi * * *
“Is Melbourne so short of water that
the immense Upper Yarra dam, which is
to cost so much and employ so much
man-power, must be begun at this time?”
an “Argus” correspondent asked. No-
body seriously thinks so, but presumably
it is considered necessary to keep depart-
mental staffs going and to keep money
flowing in electorates. They are not good
arguments for the dam, but they are
good ones for one Parliament and one
Government which can override the aims
of small provincial politicians.
* * * *
“Watcher”: Almost every day there are
reports of exhausted seamen being picked
up after being adrift in lifeboats on the
Atlantic for many days, their ship having
been sunk by the enemy. Often the boat
contains less than its original comple-
ment, hunger, thirst and exposure taking
their toll as the boat drifts from day to
day, a tiny speck in the vast expanse of
sea, its only chance a quick eye in a
distant aircraft or on the lookout of a
destroyer. I’m no technician, but it seems
to me that all lifeboats should be fitted
with wireless, even if capable of sending
out only short-range signals. The pedal-
operated radio sets used in the Australian
interior shouldn’t be difficult to adapt for
lifeboat use and would give castaway
crews a much better chance of being
rescued within hours, instead of days, of
the disaster.


WM
WM
n
Jr WITH WHICH IS AMALGAMATED
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
_ A thorough, comprehensive and efficient service
rounded on traditions of more than a century of
sound Banking combined with a progressive policy and
extensive organisation, enables THE COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OF SYDNEY. LIMITED, to offer every facility for
the transaction of all classes of Banking Business.
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Kobt. J. A. Massie; Owen B. Friend; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager; C. Darvall.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
135
(m In Brown
only.
Abbey’s
famous
STOCKMAN
For work in the yards or the saddle there
isn’t another Boot made that can equal the
Abbey “Stockman.” Look at these specifica-
tions and judge for yourself: Uppers, genuine
strong calf. Sides, reinforced elastic. Soles,
genuine Goodyear welts.
When ordering, state size. Half-sizes also
available.
ABBEY
SHOES
316 George Street 324 Pitt Street
A31.
Business,Rolleuy,Etc.
Labor’s War Budget
The Curtin-Chifley Budget shows little
sign of the fairness or realism in its
design that one would expect in an
all-in effort. It is the sort of thing
calculated to appeal to the mob —
to let off 70 p.c. of income-earn-
ing voters from anything but the most
formal contribution to the war effort, and
to slug the others. The “others” will
probably pay, where they can, without
squealing, as they have done to date. The
Budget in several instances puts “social
security” above national security—old-
age pensions are lifted, with a further rise
in prospect, and there is the exemption
of the lower incomes from direct war
taxation. Persons whose incomes are
governed by Arbitration Court awards
are protected against increases in indirect
taxation except in the case of non-essen-
tials.
There are lifts in indirect taxation
where higher direct tax on the class
affected would serve the purpose more
honestly—further evidence of the “popu-
lar” nature of the Budget. Again the
essential thing necessary to the success
of the war effort —diversion of produc-
tion from the mass of the people, and not
merely from the high-income-earners—is
left to the voluntary system. The Gov-
ernment is going to “appeal” for “less
spending on luxuries,” and “a national
savings campaign” is to be launched. The
section against whom compulsion is being
enforced are those who possess few votes
but have a high income before taxes are
deducted. As taxes now stand in N. S.
Wales, where a man’s income from per-
sonal exertion rises from £2000 to £3000
he will get only £217 of the third £1000.
Between £3000 and £5000 only £351 really
belongs to the taxpayer. On the highest
incomes, N.S.W. and Federal tax will
take 18s. in the £. Federal income tax on
those earning under £8 a week—repre-
senting 70 p.c. of the wage-earning popu-
lation —averages out at less than 3d. in
the £.
There may possibly be an excuse for
this forcible-feeble Budget if the Govern-
ment intends to use it later on as evidence
that the so-called wealthy have been taxed
to the point where they cannot be taxed
any more, and that a full war effort will
be expected from Labor without ques-
tion. The abolition of frivolous strikes
would be worth something. Otherwise it
is just the sort of thing to slow up the
war effort by its inequitable and imprac-
tical distribution of the burden. Its
economic basis is unsound. The entire
incomes of the wealthy are not enough
to pay for the war, and their past savings
are of dubious real value.
In essence, the Budget provides for a
total war expenditure of £221.5 million,
which is up £4.5 million on the Fadden
figure and £51.5 million above the actual
outgo for 1940-41. The increase over
Fadden’s total is principally accounted for
by increased pay to the services. A lift
of £1.5 million in civil outgo is all due
to the increase in old-age pensions to
235. 6d. a week. Here is a comparison
of the Budget estimates with the 1940-41
actual figures and with Fadden’s rejected
estimates:
Expenditure.
Actual, Fadden, Curtin,
1940-41. 1941-42. 1941-42.
£Mil. £Mil. £Mil.
War—
Australia .. 127.0 160.0 162.5
Overseas .. 43.0 57.0 59.0
170.0 217.0 221.5
Civil .. .. 85.0 102.0 103.5
Total .. .. 255.0 319.0 325.0
Revenue.
Cash in hand .. 28.0 2.0 2.2
Taxation .. .. 130.0 148.0 163.7
Business income .. 20.0 22.0 22.0
Post-war credits .. 25.0 Nil
Loans—
Australian! .. 62.0 122.0 137.1
London .. .. 15.0
Total .. .. 255.0 319.0 325.0
t Including banks.
The national contribution scheme (post-
war credits) is abolished. Fadden’s pro-
posal here was not drastic. Incomes up
to £ISOO a year suffer no new taxation
and are relieved, of course, of the pro-
posed post-war credits. But more than
half the revenue that was to be drawn
off in p.-w. credits from the surplus of
money which lightly-taxed people now
possess (this untaxed surplus is having a
doping effect on the war effort) is to
be mainly raised by taxation from the
already heavily taxed. An extra £ls
million is to be got in by borrowing (£137
million altogether), including bank credit.
State tax paid, disallowed by Fadden,
is to be allowed as a deduction for
Federal purposes. Mining calls will no
longer be a deduction, and divs. which
include interest from Consols will not
carry former concessions. Where a wife’s
income exceeds £2OO it will be added to
the husband’s. The statutory exemption
stays at £2OO.
Among the new taxes, land tax is to
be raised by 20 p.c. in cases where the
property is worth over £20,000 unim-
proved. Excise is to be lifted 3d. a gallon
on beer, with rises in the case of tobacco,
matches, wireless valves and dry batteries.
Sales tax goes up from 5 p.c. to 10 p.c.
and from 15 p.c. to 20 p.c. Ex-Austra-
lian dividends are to be taxed. Company
tax rises by Is. to a minimum of 35.,
plus undistributed-profits tax and a
super tax of Is. or at so much per cent.,
according to a sliding scale, whichever
rate works out the higher. The minimum
at which the sliding scale will begin to
work will be reduced from 8 p.c. on
“capital employed” to 4 p.c., and the
lowest rate of tax will be 6 p.c., with
steps of 6 p.c. instead of 4 p.c. as hitherto.
War-time company tax will bring in £5
million this year, against a million last
year. Ordinary company tax will pro-
duce an extra £4.5 million. The recipients
of dividends from companies thus taxed
will pay their full personal rate of tax
regardless of what the co. has paid.
It is not The Bulletin’s idea that a
Labor Budget must be essentially un-
sound. There is no reason why a fair
Labor Budget should be any different
from any other Budget, fair being fair
whatever the party. But Curtin’s class-
conscious programme is a miserable
effort in government. Though under
1940-41 rates of taxation the efforts to
raise money voluntarily by war-savings
certificates met with poor success, Mr.
Curtin is to ask the people, voluntarily,
for many more millions than have already
been raised. On this voluntary contri-
bution depends any hope of his Budget
meeting even with the success its scope
will permit. Without this yet-to-be-
known “voluntary” assistance —which is
on the basis of loan, not tax —the war
effort of the untouchable 70 p.c. of
Australia’s income-earning population is
put to shame by the contribution of
wage-earners in every other self-govern-
ing British country, with the possible
exception of South Africa.
In the N.S.W. Assembly last week the
Attorney-General referred to the opera-
tions of a concern called Omnia Textiles
Pty., Ltd., now in liquidation. This co.
was formed in June, 1939, with two
shareholders, Louis A. Roubandi and
Lois Roubandi. The co. traded under
the “group” system—by bringing in
further customers, a customer got cer-
tain benefits. Goods were sold in par-
cels on contract, and it had been ascer-
tained that 189 persons had fully paid
their contracts of £lB 18s. each, and 240
had partially paid, tptal liability being
£4211, Mr. Martin said. A police report
showed that £9OO had been advanced by
S. E. Chatterton on the understanding
that he would get 900 pref. shares. He
had also guaranteed a bank overdraft of
£530. The co. traded under the “group”
system until April, 1941, when 26 trade
creditors took over the business, appoint-
ing Roubandi manager. “Group” can-
vassing was stopped, but when the co.
went into liquidation in August assets
were practically nil, £IB3O was owing to
trade creditors and £4211 to contractees.
The liquidator says that there is little
likelihood of anything being paid to
creditors, and attributes the failure to
salesmen of doubtful character, lack of
business foresight and the difficulty of
obtaining goods contracted for. How-
ever, Mr. Martin states that on Dec. 30,
1940, Roubandi registered the Phoenix
Trading Cos. to operate on similar lines,
and was making sales to the public, but
had given up the “group” system. He
had - discounted and taken over several
of the Omnia co.’s contracts. In con-
nection with the affairs of the Omnia con-
cern, the Attorney-General said that the
police believed that action could be taken
against Roubandi under the Companies
Act.
* * * *
The Federal Government is dissatisfied
with the progress of National Oil Pty. at
Newnes-Capertee. The Commonwealth
has advanced £892,000 to George Davis’s
co., and the N. S. Wales Government has
put up £166,000. The remainder of the
capital of £1,300,000 has been provided
by National Oil, the Minister for Supply
says. The Commonwealth has also guar-
anteed an overdraft of £250,000. Main
trouble has been in the retorting equip-
ment. Some people are of the opinion
that the large retorts employed at Glen
Davis will never handle Newnes shale
satisfactorily, and that batteries of smaller
retorts suited to Newnes shale, which is
much richer than Scottish shale, will have
to be used. Mr. Beasley says substantial
expenditure will be needed to put the
plant on a “satisfactory” basis. He sug-
gests that the Commonwealth may take
complete control under its war-time
powers. Action of this kind should be
a last resort. There is no evidence that
any Commonwealth department would
be as capable as the present control, even
admitting that results to date from Glen
Davis might be vastly improved on.
While the new Government is inter-
ested in shale oil it might as well investi-
gate the matter of granting licenses to
private producers of petrol. It is widely
believed that such licenses will be granted
for the duration only, and that, even
where excise is paid, no sale to outsiders
will be allowed. If that is the position,
a more revealing example of the Govern-
ment mind as applied to “war effort”
could hardly be found.
* * * ♦
Minister-for-Supply Beasley has been
going into the matter of whether our war-
time trading arrangements with the rest of
the Empire are as sensible as they might
be. The shortage of Australian-made
blankets and woollen suitings, leather,
etc., combined with the fact that it is
possible to buy imported blankets, suit-
ings and shoes in Australia, raises the
question of whether it was really a good
policy to confine Australian factories to
war work to such a large extent. Our
textile mills have been handling tremen-
dous orders from India. But in many
directions these mills have been cramped
in the matter of manufacturing for civi-
lian consumption. Apart from the
swamping with defence orders, a tax has
been placed on all woollen exports not
meant for the Empire fighting services.
There is a suggestion in it all that Britain's
export trade is being protected to a degree
that may interfere with the principal
task in hand. Australians know the neces-
sity for healthy U.K. business conditions
in the keeping-up of wool prices after
the war. But we expect to be informed
as to the motive for restrictions on our
own trade.
• • • • • *
Mr. Beasley has made arrangements
with Mr. Nash, M.L. Finance Minister,
to take Maoriland hides in exchange for
surplus Australian sugar. The M.L. Gov-
ernment also wants to be allowed to take
one-sixth of the Australian output of
any munitions it selects. It is doubtful
whether arrangements so sweeping as all
that can be made, but there is the likeli-
hood of Australia supplying M.L. with
a growing proportion of its munitions
requirements.
The Canberra Labor Government
complains that “no definite arrangements
have been made in the past for war
materials valued at tens of millions of
pounds sent to other Empire countries.”
This appears unusual, since it should
only be necessary for the receiving coun-
try to credit Australia with the value of
the goods -in any local bank, from where
the credit would automatically move to
London. Possibly the question of valua-
tion is a difficulty; in the absence of any
finality on this point, only progress pay-
ments (at the most) would be made at
the receiving end. The new Government
seems to be concerned about whether
supplies sent to other Empire countries
should be included in its own Budget
expenditure, whether any payment is to
be made either now or after the war, or
whether some of the credits established
can be used to offset costs incurred by
the A.I.F. abroad. It doesn’t seem as
though our munitions exports have been
overlooked altogether; in his Budget
speech Mr. Fadden said “it is expected
that in 1941-42, mainly because of our
exports to other Governments, our Lon-
don funds will increase sufficiently to do
without assistance from the U.K. Gov-
ernment.”


OX-
Only
a scrap of paper
. . . . but in the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared —Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
. AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD. A
Head Office : 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
ABSOLUTELY
SAFE and
SILENT
j
LANE'S
GENUINE
NO PRICKING
NO PRIMING NO PUMPING
Hot instantly. Only one fuel
Kerosene. New long life
wool wick. No expensive burn-
ers to replace. See your local store.
'Pieftmil
B L U E FLAME
KEROSENE STOVE
J
1380-8.41
NO
THANKS
fher have
id rather
a
fSi
cf Capstan
e
j
40LUFF5,»
, A X#
. ‘M
l v m
iiiw IlJip
mmm
tended
ilii®
» « FS, “"
Capstan Special Mild . . Red Packs if Capstan Medium . . Blue Packs ic Capstan Full Strength . . Brown Packs
Fadden’s Government, in its short life,
made an agreement with the banks. Mr.
Curtin said it was not worth the paper
it was written on. It provided that the
trading banks would make no new ad-
vances except in conformity with Com-
monwealth Bank policy, that they would
subscribe to Government loans only with
the concurrence of the central bank, and
that they would lend their surplus funds
to the central bank at a low rate of in-
terest —to be fixed by the Commonwealth
Bank. These deposits were to be put into
a special war-time account, were to be
for a term of six months, and were to be
renewed as they matured unless, in the
opinion of the central bank, they were
needed by the trading banks for ordinary
commercial purposes. The banks also
agreed to supply the Commonwealth in-
stitution with their taxation assessments
to show that they were not making excess
profits.
• • • • • •
Mr. Curtin “intends to implement
immediately certain recommendations of
the banking commission,” of which his
Treasurer, Chifley, was a member. Trad-
ing banks will have to be licensed. A
licensed bank shall
(1) hold on deposit with the Common-
wealth Bank its excess investible funds on
a basis to be determined by the Treasurer
after fully discussing the matter with the
Commonwealth Bank;
(2) publish accounts and balance sheets
at intervals and in forms prescribed by the
T reasurer;
(3) furnish to the Treasurer (through the
Commonwealth Bank) such statements in
respect of the business as the Treasurer
directs, and to the Commonwealth Bank
such statements as the bank directs;
(4) enable the Auditor-General to investi-
gate and report upon the affairs of the
bank periodically or as directed by the
Treasurer.
These powers, Mr. Chifley says, will be
exercised to prevent expansion of credit
by trading banks arising out of increased
funds due to war activities. In the post-
mortem blither that followed the Budget
speech “Labor members contended that
more than £4O million additional funds
have come into the possession of the
trading banks since the beginning of the
war. The Government will aim at trans-
ferring, by stages that will not cause any
violent financial repercussions, as much
as possible of that sum to the Common-
wealth Bank.” Mr. Curtin hasn’t yet
stated what he considers this arrangement
to be worth.
* * * *
The staff of the Bank of N. S. Wales
is being handed a 5 p.c. bonus for the
year ended Sept. 30. A bonus of this
kind is not customary, and it took the
recipients by surprise.
* * * *
The coming into operation of N. S.
Wales Premier McKell’s Budget pro-
gramme will complicate an existence in
N. S. Wales that is becoming more com-
plicated and worrying every day. In order
to honor an election promise that he has
been able to carry out in the letter but
not in the spirit, McKell has brought
down the most complicated taxation legis-
lation ever presented in Australia. He
has increased the burden of petty injus-
tice on the taxpayer for which N. S.
Wales has always been noted, and at the
same time he has reduced the taxation
load that grew and grew during the de-
pression only by increasing it in other
cases. McKell could have done all the
“good” he has done without doing more
than alter the name and rates of the old
U.R. tax. Instead, he has thrown a
further huge load of aggravation and
complication on N. S. Wales workers as
an expedient to save the face of a Gov-
ernment in a Parliament which N.S.W.
would be far better rid of. The utter
uselessness of State Parliaments should
now be evident to every N. S. Wales
citizen who takes the national struggle
seriously.
* * * *
Australian Paper Manufacturers is now
turning out paper and other pulp products
at the rate of 130,000 tons a year. In last
week’s dull market shares in Australasian
Paper, the chief holding co., were selling
at the lower level of 345.
* * * *
Since the beginning of the war Aus-
tralia has spent £l2 million to £l4 million
on army camps, buildings and hospitals.
The new War Cabinet considers that, on
the surface, the outlay was “out of pro-
portion to the results achieved.” Altera-
tions to original plans are thought to
have run off with a mint of money, and
it is suggested that “costs of some pro-
jects may have been underestimated, to
ensure that authority to carry them out
would not be refused.” Military hospi-
tals, fortunately, have been designed to
serve a peace-time purpose as well. Heid-
elberg hospital, Melbourne, it is esti-
mated, will eventually cost about
£1,000,000.


IMF SERVICE MAN
Five Months in Russia.
“Ek Dum”: On November 2 the
Russo-German war entered its 20th and
most important week.
German progress since the beginning
has been steady, though at times difficult.
A careful check shows that there have
been 127 major operations .of various
kinds, each dovetailing into the other.
The mechanical task alone was immense.
The impression from a study of the whole
of the official communiques—as distinct
from radio blurb —is that the campaigns
were timetabled from the beginning, and
that, though weather and stubborn resist-
ance on some fronts have slowed up the
enemy’s arrangements, his plans nowhere
have at any time been seriously dislo-
cated. This is no insult to the Russian
fighting spirit. No authority has paid
higher tribute to that than the Germans
themselves. Russian generalship has been
another matter.
The Russian High Command at times
has shown an appalling lack of fore-
knowledge and a fatal overconfidence.
The conviction of Timoshenko that the
Germans were digging in for the winter
in front of Smolensk late in September
was a case in point. Actually, the pre-
paration behind their lines for the assault
on Moscow must have been gigantic.
The Battles of July
The invaders’ advance was continuous
during the first six weeks. By the end of
July the Russian armies had been pushed
out of the whole of occupied Poland,
Latvia, Bessarabia and Moldavia and
most of Estonia, and the Germans had
driven 200-odd miles into Russia proper
towards Moscow, so that their front lines
were east of Smolensk.
They claimed that their campaigns so
far had consisted in five battles. One
was still being fought by the Finns. One
had created “a precondition for a swing
round northward presently to attack
Leningrad.” This was declared to be un-
completed, but to have resulted in the
taking of 35,000 prisoners and the cap-
ture and destruction of 355 tanks, 655
pieces of artillery and 771 aeroplanes.
Its front was in Russia proper, s.-e. of
Lake Peipus.
Battle No. 3 consisted of attacks on
the central sector by Von Bock’s army
group. Here on August 6 the enemy
reported “the victorious conclusion of the
great battle of Smolensk,” in which “the
extent, duration and severity of the fight-
ing are historically unique in an unabat-
ing series of destructive blows against the
Soviet forces.” It was claimed that “ex-
ceedingly bloody losses” had been in-
flicted on the Russians by the three
armies and two Panzer groups which
were being used. It was declared that
“roughly 310,000 prisoners fell into our
hands here and 3205 tanks, 3210 pieces
of artillery and 1109 ’planes were de-
stroyed or captured.” This was in addi-
tion to the booty and prisoners taken at
Bialystock in Poland. There also had been
“the greatest battle of materials and en-
circlement in history” which was alleged
to have netted 323,898 prisoners.
The fifth battle was forged by the
drive of Von Rundstedt on the southern
wing with two armies under Von Stiilp-
nagel and Von Reichenau, supported by
one Panzer group. These army groups
“fought forward in a break-through deep
beyond the Stalin Line. A wedge had
been driven to the gates of Kiev beyond
Jitomar,” and it had become possible to
“turn the spearheads southward, cut off
the enemy’s retreat between the Dnieper
and Dniester” and begin the “battle of
encirclement.”
Simultaneously Rumanians and Ger-
mans had “forced the stiffly defended
Pruth and liberated Bessarabia' from
the enemy despite the fiercest resist-
ance and almost impassable terrain.”
The 11th German Army, brigaded
with some Rumanians, under Ritter
Von Schobert, had been then thrown
across the central Dniester to meet
Von Rundstedt’s encircling wing from
the north and complete the corral-
ling of as much of Budenny’s armies as
could be caught. This southern battle
was said on August 6 “tentatively” to
have yielded over 150,000 prisoners, 1970
tanks and 2190 pieces of artillery, and
the air fleet of Von Lohr was said to
have destroyed 980 Russian ’planes.
Summing up all the battles, the Ger-
man High Command claimed 895,000
prisoners and the capture or destruction
of 13,145 tanks, 10,388 pieces of artillery
and 9082 aircraft.
The Battle of Smolensk
The course of the Smolensk battle, as
reported by the Germans —newspapers
were too busy with the opinions of
famous correspondents to give the
authentic details of either German or
Russian communiques, which appear
every day in the New York “Times” —
was fully described in a communique on
August 7. It gives an instructive picture
of standard German procedure.
Before the conclusion of the double
encircling battle of Bialystock and Minsk
—reported July 11 —“speed units of the
Central Army group and the field Elite
Guard” pushed forward to “the strongly
defended Stalin Line, which, running be-
yond the Dnieper and upper Dvina, pos-
sessed tremendously equipped strongholds
in the fortified towns of Mogilev, Orsha,
Vitebsk and Polotsk.” *
Bridgeheads were formed on each
side of Polotsk on the north in heavy
fighting. Vitebsk, stubbornly defended,
was taken on July 11. Meanwhile the
southern Dnieper sector south of Mogilev
and Orsha was planfully attacked and
the river crossed “to the accompaniment
of local surprises.”
A front was then consolidated east of
the rivers. And “in the ensuing days
speed units thrust forward on a broad
front on both sides of the road to Orsha
and Smolensk.”
Next:
On July 16 extraordinarily-defended
Smolensk was taken by a motorised-infan-
try division in hand-to-hand fighting, and
was held against continuous furious attacks.
Now there were break-throughs south-
east, east and north-east of Smolensk.
They were “widened by Panzer units and
motorised-infantry divisions in the face
of very severe counter-attacks,” while
infantry divisions “in unusual marching
and fighting achievements covered the
flanks of the wedge which had been
attacked time and again.”
A new encirclement began —“of the
Russian units that had been smashed by
the speed formations but were still fight-
ing in scattered groups:
A tremendous battle began in an area
250 kilometres (155 miles) wide and 150
kilometres (93 miles) deep, in which centre
points, besides Smolensk, were places like
Vitebsk, Polotsk, Nevel and Mogilev. The
encircled Russian units in the nearly-four-
weeks-long struggle attempted desperately to
regain their liberty in fights involving
bloody sacrifices, while reserves were thrown
into battle for their relief. But....the
fate of the Soviet armed units encircled
in the region between the Dnieper River,
the Dvina River and Smolensk was sealed.
So much for the German account of
these battles. Their estimates of Russian
casualties seem incredible. Their own
accounts revealed that they had been
using eight armies, plus the Rumanians
and Hungarians, with four or five Panzer
groups, later increased to eight—say
1,500,000 men at the limit against Rus-
sian divisions which were alleged to have
developed from 183 in the beginning to
300 at mid-August. Yet they claimed to
have taken 895,000 prisoners and inflicted
“bloody losses.... many times the
number of prisoners.”
The Russian Version
The Soviet Information Bureau, not the
Red Army, issues the official Russian
communiques. It gave no description of
the battles of the first six weeks, but on
August 8 it published a commentary on
the German descriptions which it charac-
terised as “Arabian fairy tales.” It said
that the Germans had suffered tremen-
dous losses in men and arms. It appeared
that “increasing resistance of the Red
Army, bold guerrilla actions and the
struggle of the entire Soviet people
against the invaders had affected sharply
not only the fighting capacity qnd morale
of the Fascist troops but also the morale
of the German people”—already there
were “despondency and confusion among
the German people.” The German High
Command was accused of having played
a trick in “its sensational communique
of August 6.” “No special Stalin Line
ever existed or exists”; it was “invented
by the Germans.” And German propa-
ganda had excelled itself in the estimates
of its booty:
The technique of these false estimates is
as follows; Occupying a Soviet district,
the Fascists immediately and forcibly
mobilise the population, rural employees,
etc., for arduous hard work and drive them
to the rear, declaring this population to
be war prisoners. Certainly in this way
one may not count only 895,000 war
prisoners but even considerably more....
By concocting these data the Fascists
obviously included first of all their own
losses, adding our losses and adding to
these extravagant figures whatever came
into their heads.
It was added that “undoubtedly the chief
command of the German Army did not
publish without reason this obviously
false information... .It was compelled to
do this by the failure of the Blitzkrieg
plans against the U.S.S.R., the collapse
of predatory plans for the capture of rich
booty—wheat, cattle, factories, various
structures and stocks of raw materials
and manufactured goods—and by the ex-
tremely heavy losses of men and materials
by the German Army.”
The Battles of the “Vs”
As August passed, casualties mounted
and the general shape of the gigantic
campaign became clearer. When the
war had been in being two months, the
Germans claimed to have 1,250,000
prisoners and to have caused the U.S.S.R.
losses of 14,000 tanks, 15,000 pieces of
artillery and 11,250 ’planes. The Rus-
sians said they had now blocked the ways
to Kiev and Moscow, They estimated
that they had lost 150,000 killed, 440,000
wounded and 110,000 missing, plus 5500
tanks, 7500 guns and 4500 aircraft. They
placed German losses at 2,000,000 men,
8000 tanks, 10,000 guns and more than
7200 ’planes. Of “dozens” of German
divisions, it was reported, “nothing was
left but the name.”
It was now obvious that, of the battles
which so far had been fought, that in
the centre for Bialystock, Minsk and
Smolensk had been a semi-final, and that
Von Leeb, driving towards Leningrad,
and Von Rundstedt and Antonescu in the
south had been engaged only in eliminat-
ing matches. They were to fight their
way to the same semi-final stage as Von
Bock before the final stage could be
fought off.
Both had to contend with an enemy
assisted from the sea.. Each handled the
sea situation in the same way.
In the south, where great river obstacles
had to be bridged, the Rumanian armies
were detached to invest Odessa. The
Germans had plenty of force to take
Odessa, if the 11th Army had been
used, but to leave it besieged meant that
the Russians would have to use up a
great deal of their mercantile and naval
forces to help, and if necessary rescue
the beleaguered garrison. Thus these sea
forces were not available to help resist
the German advance further along the
coast. Odessa fell only when the Russian
Navy ceased to be a menace to the Ger-
mans, who had pushed to the Donetz
bridgeheads.
The same happened along the Baltic.
Tallinn, the Osel and Dago Islands and
Hango were all by-passed to diffuse
Russian naval help.
The second German Army group to
reach its semi-final stage was Von Rund-
stedt’s. By mid-September he had driven
right across the western Ukraine to the
Dnieper. He had all the big cities of
western Ukraine except Kiev. The in-
vestment of the Crimea was beginning.
No attempt at this stage was made to take
Kiev. North of it, the Gomel drive, at
the joint between Timoshenko’s and
Budenny’s armies, had been pushed to
Konotop. The enemy did not merely
want Kiev; he wanted to engulf as
much country as possible and make his
encirclement so deep that he would get a
huge bag of territory and prisoners. Kiev
was in the maw of a huge “V” of
German fronts.
North of Gomel was another “V.”
The upper side was formed by Von
Bock’s armies, pushed in to the Yelnia-
Yartsevo front, the lower by Rundstedt's
northern army.
Timoshenko’s northern army formed
the southern wing of still another “V,” of
which the northern side was Von Leeb’s
southern army, driven in to the head-
waters of the Volga. Above that, the
Finns had moved into Karelia, in tune
with Von Leeb’s northern army, to help
enfold Leningrad.
On September 9 the Germans an-
nounced that the siege of Leningrad had
begun. But the city has been stoutly
defended ; and of late the big garrison has
made daring counter-thrusts. To the
enemy it may seem that the city is
doomed, as was Odessa. The siege keeps
tens of thousands of Russian troops en-
gaged in the north. If Leningrad fell
they would be valueless in that region
and would try to reinforce the southern
Russian armies.
The Ukraine operations advanced an-
other stage. The jaws round the vast
“V” in which Kiev lay closed with a
snap —as far from Kiev and as near to
Kharkov as possible. Thus they enclosed
many Russian troops and assured that,
unless Kharkov and its 850,000 people
were abandoned with all their vital indus-
tries, the next bite eastward must also
engulf another vast number of Russian
troops and huge resources.
The German mouth closed on Sep-
tember 19, 125 miles east of Kiev, by
the union of the wings of Bock’s and
Rundstedt’s forces. On September 27 the
German High Command announced the
conclusion of the battle with the capture
of Kiev, 665,000 prisoners, 884 tanks
and 3718 cannon and “an unsurveyable
amount of other war material.”
The Battles in Progress
For subsequent operations, the earlier
ones were a mirror. The fall of Odessa
was a necessary preliminary to an attack
on the Crimea, and the narrow neck of
that peninsula was forced after tough
fighting, in which sea-power helped the
defenders materially. But while Russian
shipping was kept occupied with Crimean
problems, the enemy invested the Azov
coast and built up a new pincer
which swallowed Kharkov and the rest
of industrial Ukraine inside a month.
Meanwhile, other giant jaws have been
forming in the mud to take in Moscow.
The upper one reaches out to the lip
of Kalinin. The lower lip was feeling on
November 2 for the great industrial city
of Tula, 200 miles away. The forces
round Mojaisk have not moved appre-
ciably. While they remain where they
are, large Russian forces must stay to
face them or yield Moscow.
The Crimean drive has taken Simfero-
pol, capital of the Crimea, and threatens
Sevastopol, 50 miles away on the west,
and the Krech Straits, which form the
entrance to the Azov Sea. This drive is
developing into another “lower jaw”
round the Don region.
Krech Straits are only nine miles wide
at the mouth of the Azov Sea. Ninety
miles from the eastern shore is Kras-
nodar, a great railway junction and clear-
ing station on the fringes of the Caucasus.
Once the German spearhead is there,
another mouth will hold Rostov. By
pushing forward the north lip to Astra-
khan or Stalingrad on the Volga, and
the southern to the Caspian, not only
Rostov and the southern Don region, but
the whole of the oilfields and pipeline
facilities and railways north of the
Caucasus will be enclosed. On Nov. 3
a spearhead was only 90 miles from
Stalingrad.
Here Timoshenko is said to be hur-
riedly forming defence lines. Budenny
and Voroshilov are forming armies
somewhere else, probably as a Volga
guard.
The press gives daily assurances that
factories have been dismantled and are
being set up beyond the Urals. Let any-
body consider the problem of packing
even the B.H.P. works at Newcastle
(N.S.W.), a small plant beside most
Russian plants, on lorries and trains and
transporting it to Townsville and some
idea may be formed of the difficulties of
such operations. Future resistance may
be gauged by admissions —an ominous
feature of recent Russian bulletins —that
the Red Army is even now “outnum-
bered” on every front, despite its superior
potential of man-power.
The position is deadly serious. It is
more so because the famous correspon-
dents and propagandists have kept it all
the time in wrong perspective, leading
the world to believe that in effectiveness
the Russian resistance has been some-
thing superlative, beside which the resist-
ance of France and Greece are subjects
for scorn ; hence that the U.S.S.R. still
has a chance of victory.
The facts are that in all previous cam-
paigns together—France, Belgium, Hol-
land, Norway, Denmark, the Balkans and
Poland the enemy occupied 490,000
sq. miles, mostly the territory of nations
without modern mechanised armies, in
120 days’ fighting. From the heavily
mechanised U.S.S.R. forces, defending
strongly fortified lines and with an
allegedly endless reservoir of trained men,
he has taken about 500,000 sq. miles of
territory inhabited by 70,000,000 people
in 131 days, crossing on the way what
were thought to be insuperable river
obstacles and a country which was
stripped and scorched by the defenders.
The Russian war has been written up in
the wrong way, and people are now be-
ginning to realise it.
The figures quoted should be a pointer
to the British Empire of the kind of
enemy it is up against and of the effort
which will be needed. There is not now
the faintest hope that Russians will do
what Bernard Shaw and heaps of authori-
ties predicted that they would do—win
the war on their own account. Their
resistance has helped, and may still help,
the common cause. We owe them thanks
for that, and every measure of assistance
that can be given without weakening
and imperilling our own position. Aus-
tralia, for its part, can help to feed such
of the stricken population as can be
reached, and generous gifts of foodstuffs
would have the support of the entire
Australian people, irrespective of politics.


Notice to Next-of-kin.
Re JOHN SPELLS, Deceased.
WILL any person claiming to be the next-of-
kin of the late JOHN SPELLS, who died at
Malvern, Victoria, on 18th July, 1941, please
communicate with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES
COMPANY, 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne?
Divorce Notices.
IN "THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 303 of 1939.
BETWEEN IVY ROSE MORRIS Petitioner
and
ALEXANDER JAMES MORRIS Respondent.
TO ALEXANDER JAMES MORRIS formerly
of 278 Macquarie Street Hobart Tasmania
but now of parts unknown Labourer.
TAKE NOTICE that the said IVY ROSE
MORRIS has commenced a suit against you in
this Court and is applying for a dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of your adultery with
a woman known as EDNA JOHNSTON and
your desertion of the abovenamed Petitioner
during three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court
before the Twenty-third day of January 1942
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 27th day of October, 1941.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. MORRIS DUNKLEY, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 369 George Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1942 of 1941.
BETWEEN MARY ELIZABETH BRANCH
Petitioner and
ARTHUR RICHARD BRANCH Respondent.
TO ARTHUR RICHARD BRANCH late of
Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY
ELIZABETH BRANCH has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three (3) years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Thirtieth day of January
One thousand nine hundred and forty-two and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit will be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Thirtieth day of October One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
DAVID S. DIND, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 917 of 1941.
BETWEEN HENRY GEORGE SEACH Peti-
tioner
DOROTHY MAY SEACH Respondent and
CLEM ROWE Co-respondent.
TO DOROTHY MAY SEACH late of Clarke
street Peakhurst.
TAKE NOTICE that the said HENRY
GEORGE SEACH has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of adultery with CLEM ROWE the
abovenamed co-respondent AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Thirtieth day of January One thousand nine
hundred and forty-two and in the event of your
not doing so within the period limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Thirty-first day of October, 1941.
(l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ALFRED J. T. BLAKE, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, Intercolonial House, 4 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Another U.S. Destroyer Sunk.
“Fong Tsz”: There was nothing mili-
tarily new in Mr. Roosevelt’s speech on
October 28.
The “state of emergency” which pri-
marily governs U.S. policy has been in
existence for five months.
A U.S. destroyer on its way to Iceland
was attacked on September 4 by a Ü-
boat; another, the Kearny, was torpedoed
on October 17, and 11 American seamen
were killed and 10 wounded.
Mentioning these facts with burning
indignation, Mr. Roosevelt said:
The purpose was to frighten the American
people off the high seas; to force us to
make a trembling retreat. We have wished
to avoid shooting, but shooting has started,
and history has recorded who has fired the
first shot. In the long run, however, all
that will matter is who fired the last shot.
The U.S, Navy, Mr. Roosevelt pro-
ceeded, was ready for action—indeed,
units in the Atlantic were “in action.”
The President disclosed that the Kearny
was hunting a U-boat in the middle of
a scattering convoy. Her deck plates
were buckled, her hull almost cut in two,
but she reached port.
On Oct. 30, two days after the speech
was delivered, a U-boat sank an old U.S.
destroyer, the Reuben James, which car-
ried a crew of 120. Only 44 have so far
been rescued. When torpedoed the
vessel was guarding a British convoy
west of Iceland, and the Empire will not
forget the men who are guarding British
ships and helping to save British lives
at the risk of their own.
When he heard of the sinking the
President remarked that the loss of the
destroyer “had not changed U.S. policy
and had not affected the international
situation from a U.S. viewpoint.” Colonel
Knox, the Naval Secretary, declared that
“the sinking of U.S. ships” was “worse
than piracy,” and that the U.S. was “in
the fight to the finish.”
The German story amounts to the now-
familiar denial that the U-boat attacked.
A.I.F. Casualties.
“Ente Marid”: Army Minister Forde
announces that British imperial casualties
in the Middle East—Greece, Crete, Syria,
N. Africa-to Sept. 25 consisted of 4870
killed, 15,184 wounded, 28,447 missing
and 6580 prisoners of war divided as
follows: U.K., 29 176- AIF 13 143-
India, 6600 ; N.Z., 6000 ; S’ African,’ 600!
XT7 , o, A £ • ’ r. ’ .
JN.Zi. and S African figures were given
only in round numbers” ; hence, no
doubt, the discrepancy in the totals.
British Army casualties in all theatres
of war, including France, were about
100,000, plus 22,500 naval casualties and
8500 in the R.A.F.
General Blarney’s final summary of
Greece and Crete casualties—though men
have been dribbling back since—declared
that 1080 officers and 16,156 men had
embarked for Greece and 11,385 had
returned. In effect, losses in Greece were
2275 and in Crete 3676 ; total 5951.
Casualties in the Syrian campaign to
July 16 were officially placed at 1682,
plus a few men “known to be prisoners.”
Losses for Greece, Crete and Syria,
therefore, were tentatively reckoned at
7633. Which means that 5510 A.I.F.
men have been lost in North Africa and
elsewhere.
Servicemen's Pay.
The service pay increases apply to “all
members of the Forces on Special Force
rates of pay.” A.I.F. men in Australia
and overseas, “the R.A.A.F. War-time
Forces, the Home Defence War-time
Military Forces and members of the
R.A.N. Sea-going Forces” are to get an-
other shilling a day, “active pay,” That
takes the A.I.F. private to 65., plus 2s.
“deferred,” plus dependants’ allowances.
These go up 6d. a day to wives, whether
childless or with one or more children,
and 6d. a day is added to the allowance
for the second child. The standard allot-
ment obligatory on a family man is in-
creased from 3s. to 3s. 6d. a day.
In effect, the childless wife of a private
is to get 495. a week, up 75.; a wife
and one child, 665. 6d., also up 75.; a
wife and two children, 80s. 6d., up
10s. 6d.; a wife and three children, 915.,
also up 10s. 6d. Then endowment of ss.
a week is payable for each dependant
child after the first. In addition there
are to be “certain adjustments to deferred
pay, at an annual cost of £200,000.”
R.A.A.F. and A.M.F. men on Special
Force rates of pay serving at places like
Darwin are to be credited with deferred
pay at Is. a day “while employed at those
stations.” And R.A.A.F. men who have
been “stationed in Australia for more
than six months, and who later embark
for service overseas,” will in respect of the
Australian service in excess of six months
be credited with deferred pay, “at a rate
which will bring their combined active
and deferred pay to the scale payable
for overseas service” ; and “this adjust-
ment will be made retrospectively,”
The changes are reckoned to cost
£7,500,000 p.a. This sum will, of course,
increase with increase of numbers.
In Fallen France.
Far and away the most informative
account of France in defeat, studied at
first hand, has come from a teacher who
knows the French almost as well as he
knows his fellow-Australians; and it was
reserved for a country paper, the Mait-
land (N.S.W.) “Mercury,” to publish it.
The returned traveller was born at
West Maitland, a son of the late W.
Murray. A Marist Brother in the Euro-
pean service of the Order, he was in
Lyons at the capitulation, and in that city
saw part of the broken army—“just
a rabble; the men had no arms of any
kind, and often they were very poorly
clothed.” Still, given a cause, leadership
and equipment, “the French soldier is
as good a fighter as ever he was.” French
officers were different; “some of them
publicly told the soldiers they were not
going to expose their skins for the sake
of France.”
Here it may be mentioned that the
Australians who fought in Syria formed a
good opinion of the French poilu, and
after the cease-fire in that country found
him inclined to be friendly. But officers
who knew English were so bitter that
they would not speak the language.
Discussing the French people in their
homeland, Brother Clement at first found
them inflamed against England, blaming
that country for dragging them into the
war, and believing that “in the retreat to
Dunkirk the French did all the fighting
to enable the British to escape.” How-
ever, “they turned round and blamed
their own politicians.” And “very many
Frenchmen in France and every French-
man outside it are now of opinion that
the armistice was a huge and tragic mis-
take” which “never would have come
about had honest men or even honest
rogues been in charge of the nation.”
Instead, “France had at her head some of
the most unscrupulous rogues ever born.”
Brother Clement exempts Petain from
these strictures. The marshal he pro-
nounces “honest and sincere ; the only
man who can hold the French together.”
It is a marvel that he has been able to
keep the French Fleet from the German
grasp. He had it moved from Toulon so
that it would be away from the Germans.
But “Darlan and Laval have sold
France to Germany.” Daladier was “put
in his position by a clique and did what
they told him.” Gamelin “was mostly
in Paris amusing himself with women
and wine.” In the result, “France is
beaten down flat. The Germans have
their heel on everything. In Occupied
France they have thrown thousands and
thousands, even nuns, into concentration
camps.” Food conditions are very bad,
and the poor are suffering greatly.
Nevertheless, Brother Clement does not
blame the British Government for refus-
ing to allow food to pass through the
blockade. Such as gets through is for
the most part seized by the Germans, and
the Nazi control of French foodstuffs
and growing crops is such that “if they
see a good potato field they immediately
put their sign up, ‘Don’t touch this on
pain of death’ —a sign everywhere seen
in Occupied France.” In other respects
the army of occupation behaved toler-
ably well:
I certainly saw no acts of brutality com-
mitted, and I have no complaint to make
concerning the fashion in which I was
treated. On one occasion two soldiers
molested a woman, and were immediately
shot. The German discipline is rigid, and
they just as readily shoot their own as
others.
In spite of all, the spirit of the French
people is surprisingly good. “They feel
very hopeful that things will come out
right. 1 believe they will, too, because
Hitler is only the scourge of God, as were
Attila and Napoleon, and he will get his
deserts when the moment comes.”
Westralia has collected two of the three
V.Cs. awarded to Australians in the
present war. The latest winner is Corporal
J. H. Gordon, son of William Gordon
(M.L.A. for Canning, 1901-11); he hails
from Gingin, about 50 miles from Perth,
is one of three brothers in the A.I.F. and
was married just before he embarked for
service. On July 10, at Jezzin, Syria, Cor-
poral Gordon crept forward on his own
initiative over an area swept by French
machine-gun and grenade fire, charged
a post which was dominating his section’s
position and killed four machine-gunners
with the bayonet, demoralising the gun
crew. During the remainder of the
action that night and on the day follow-
ing, he “showed a high degree of cour-
age, and fought with equal gallantry.”
“Ek Dum”; Activity in N. Africa con-
tinues at normal level —plenty of artillery
fire, nightly A.I.F. sorties about the
Tobruk perimeter, probings into the
desert by armored reconnaissance units
and night-to-night bombing of Tripoli,
which on Oct. 29 was well loaded with
heavy stuff dropped from above low
clouds. Sicily, too, continues to have
supply bases bombed, and the four
R.A.F. raids on Naples—the bombers
came from Malta—were aimed to dis-
perse German forces assembled for trans-
port to Libya. African beaches are lit-
tered with the flotsam of Italian wrecks,
a tribute to the success of the ceaseless
operations of R.N. and R.A.F., which
feel that they have had a bad day if at
least one transport or storeship has not
been sent bottomwards.
It has been reported by escapees that
Australians and British prisoners in
Benghazi are receiving very rough treat-
ment, being forced sometimes to work
14 hours a day on the poorest kind of
sardine-tin diet. The Italians themselves
are not enjoying any Lucullan feasts.
Prisoners brought into Tobruk these days
are mostly bone and gristle.
“Ente Marid”; Tales of special cour-
age inside Tobruk arrive almost daily.
One of the latest is about a Winton (Q.)
captain who, at the head of 12 men,
crawled through the tangle of booby
traps with which Fritz and Giuseppe
mask their front, bound on a night raid
on a strong post. They found 40 Italians
in the post. The captain grabbed a pair
by the scruffs of their necks and had
begun to drag them oot of the trench
when somebody heaved a grenade at him.
It hit his helmet, exploded and blinded
him. His men, having disposed of the
reminder of the Eyeties, began to half-
lead and half-carry him home when he
began to sing “My Eyes Are Dim, I
Cannot See.” The thing developed into
a concert by the time they had reached
their lines, and Italians half a mile away
shook their heads as they heard the mad
Diggers yelling in what they believed to
be song. When last heard of, the captain
was recovering his sight.
*** , *
The R.A.F. Hudsons had a field night
in the snow over Aalesund (Norway)—
a German depot for Russian war supplies.
Two ships were sunk and considerable
damage was done to factories and store-
houses and plants ashore. Occupied
France and Western Germany had some
attention every day and night from every
variety of craft. The Germans described
the expeditions to the Rhineland as “in-
effective nuisance raids,” and declared
that between Oct. 22 and 28 the R.A.F.
lost 48 machines against seven Germans.
Germans seem to be stirred to consider-
able anxiety and indignation by “ineffec-
tive” attacks, and the Luftwaffe for the
time being seems to have lost its power
to make even nuisance raids against
Britain. The first snow fell in southern
England on Oct. 28, and some raids across
the North Sea were made through snow-
storms.
* * * *
“Nobby II”: One of the most curious
effects of the war is the transformation
of the small republic of Panama into a
major “shipowning country.” Before
the war, it had about 750,000 tons of
shipping of all types under its flag. Since
war broke out, 82 U.S, ships, total-
ling 420,000 tons, have been transferred
to the Panama registry. Nearly all were
tankers. But in 16 months 17 vessels were
transferred from the Panama registry to
Axis or Axis-controlled Powers; eight
of them went to Japan. Uncle Sam then
clamped down firmly to prevent U.S.
ships being handed over to the enemy.
And when Panama’s President, Arnulfo
Arias, showed a tendency to work in
German interests, he was pulled up with
a spine-jarring jerk. There are now 270
ships of 1,175,000 tons under the Panama
flag.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: Three cookery instructors
are being sent to Malaya to improve the
technique of the A.I.F. babblers there.
Mr. Forde rushed to announce this when
somebody criticised the scale of rations:
the daily scale, Mr. Forde protested, con-
sists of 16 ounces of bread and meat, 20
of fresh vegetables, 12 of potatoes, three
of onions, two of bacon and two of
butter, together with jam, marmalade,
golden syrup, salmon, herrings, dried
fruit, rice and oatmeal. Now medical
advice demands 16 ounces of oranges
and 12 of orange juice, so Mr. Forde is
arranging for the shipment of four kinds
of tinned fruit, 12 of fresh fruit, eight
of preserved meat and 11 of tinned
vegetables.
* * * *
“X.T.”; Saluting has been abolished
in the Australian Defence Forces save
on parade and when an officer is being
addressed. It will not be mourned. In
a war in which it has been common to
see major-generals and privates breasting
the bar together and calling each other
Bill it had lost its flavor as an institution.
♦ * * *
War “activity” in the Near North has
been chiefly confined to correspondents
and radio uncles. On Nov. 1 it was
discovered that Japanese troops already
had crossed the Thai frontier. “A wanton
invention, designed for a malignant pur-
pose,” was the Japanese statement. Still,
the situation is undoubtedly delicate and
threatening. Though it was announced
by a Soviet spokesman that the mixed
Russo-Japanese commission appointed to
fix the Manchurian frontier had signed
an agreement, Britain and her allies are
taking no chances. Within the past fort-
night the air forces of the Indies regions
have been considerably increased. On
November 2 General Wavell, fresh from
the Caucasus and Burma, arrived at Singa-
pore to confer with Air Marshal Brooke-
Popham and Vice-Admiral Layton.
* * * *
The Germans assert that in October
U-boats sank 233,000 tons of British and
Allied shipping, surface raiders 18,000
tons and the Luftwaffe 168,000 tons.
Naval arithmetic is an easy pastime for
German radio announcers now that the
Admiralty keeps silent about mercantile-
marine sinkings.


CIGARETTES
For Members of the
AUSTRALIAN FIGHTING
FORCES OVERSEAS
BARRYtROBEOTS
Will send post free
1000 “SILVER CITY”
CIGARETTES
(£5 worth) for £l.
Parcel of 400 for 8/6.
The usual retail price of these “Silver City”
cigarettes is 2/- packet of 20 ; and 1000 would
cost you £5 here. We pack them in Bond under
Customs supervision, and as they are exported
to Soldiers we do not have to pay duty on them,
hence the amazing saving. 1000 for £l, or 400
for 8/6, post free. Available only to members of
the Australian fighting forces overseas. We’ll
take orders from any part of Australia. Post us
your cheque or money order with Soldier’s name
and address, and we do the rest.
BARRY & ROBERTS PTY., LTD.,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman); M. J. Ryan, Esq.; P. E. Loxton, Esq.;
Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G. ; E. E. D. White, Esq.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
Leather Portfolios
For those bulky papers in Black
and Brown Seal Grain Cowhide:—
Ideal for Military Requirements.
ICin. x llin.—with 3 divisions.
Price: 52/6
Others: 72/6, 90/-, 97/6.
C. E. KUCHING
PTY.,
ITD.,
“For Everything in Leather .”
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(near Wynyard Stn.). ’Phone; 8W7133
SUNDRY SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Rebecca”
Humpus: Tell me, my good Bumpus,
how does “Rebecca” at Sydney Minerva
compare with the talkie?
Bumpus: That, my dear Humpus, is
not the point. The talkie was one thing,
and the play is another. The point is,
is this separate thing, the play, a success
or not?
Humpus: It was a good talkie.
Bumpus: It is a good play.
Humpus: Well, then, how do they
compare?
Bumpus: Humpus, I repeat that this
separate artistic creation, the play at the
Minerva, not to be compared with either
the talkie or the novel but only with
other stage plays, is a good play. It is
an absorbing drama of character, based
on human realities familiar to us all ;
it presents,. illuminates and solves the
struggle of a man’s second wife against
the shadow of his first; there are twists
and turns of surprise in the plot, comedy
mingles with the tragedy, it works out
plausibly, and it is well acted.
Humpus: Splendid! And how would
you say Myra Morton’s young wife com-
pares with Joan Fontaine’s in the talkie?
Bumpus: I shall not throw you out
the window, Humpus. I am an amiable
man, long-suffering, and in my youth
I was a Boy Scout. Myra Morton acts
with great skill. True, the timorous,
abject object she presents, cowering be-
fore the servants in Maxim de Winter’s
ancestral mansion, is the sort of person
under whom one would like to place a
pin or a wild elephant; but with what
courage she tackles this unsympathetic
role! Maybe in the earlier stages she
could have given a hint or two of the
strength she has afterwards to develop ;
but that is an awkward problem.
Humpus: Prithee, Bumpus, what of
the Housekeeper? What of the bats and
the fungus, the horrible gloom that haunts
the mouldering corridors of Maxim de
Winter’s manor, ill-starred Manderley?
How do they compare
Bumpus: Indeed you have been to the
talkies, Humpus. And also, alas! has
either the producer or Hilda Dorrington:
for the Housekeeper who loves the dead
Rebecca and loathes the new Mrs. de
Winter is so black and sinister that give
her a broomstick and she would take
off over the startled front row, whip
through the keyhole, and wing to the
King’s Cross moon,
Humpus: But she was meant to be like
that. In the talkie
Bumpus; Yes, she was meant to be
like that. And she was good. But she
did seem to belong to a different con-
ception of the drama from that adopted
for the play as a whole. She belonged
to the talkie’s drama of atmosphere, rather
than to the stage’s drama of character.
Humpus; Who’s comparing them now?
Bumpus: May they drown you at dead
of night in ye olde tadpole-haunted moat.
This separate thing, “Rebecca” at the
Minerva, is still a good play and a good
evening’s entertainment: with Edwin
Styles adequate if somewhat subdued as
Maxim de Winter; Charles Kilburn
pleasant as Frank Crawley; and Arundel
Nixon, as the dead Rebecca’s lover,
laughing as nobody ever laughed since
Jeering Jasper eloped with little Ermyn-
trude in the Goulburn Mail in 1837.
Humpus; Was that in a talkie?
* * * *
Gilbert and Sullivan
The Gilsullivan season at Sydney Royal
began as usual with “The Gondoliers” —
Edwin Styles, Myra Morton and Hilda Dorrington in “Rebecca,”
at Sydney Minerva.
very well costumed. Where, here and
there, there was some slight weakness in
acting ability there was a voice good
enough to make acting seem a matter
of slight importance—John Fullard’s
tenor treated the much maltreated “Take
a Pair of Sparkling Eyes” as lightly and
clearly and trippingly as it should be
treated. Where the voice wasn’t quite
up to standard the acting was easy
and natural enough to make up for it.
Sara Gregory was Tessa, tuneful and
attractive, Peggy Shea Gianetta, Viola
Wilson Casilda. Richard Watson was
a triumphant Inquisitor, and Ivan Men-
zies, as the Duke of Plaza Toro, capered
through the piece with as much evident
enjoyment as always and as little of the
“grave and serious” demeanor as possible.
* * * *
After frolicking successfully through
“The Gondoliers” at Sydney Royal on
Saturday night, Ivan Menzies came for-
ward with a curtain speech in which he
recommended to his audience Peter
Howard’s Innocent Men, a defence of
the Oxford Group against attacks made
on it by A. P. Herbert. It is now ex-
pected that Marie Burke, who plays the
clergyman’s wife that advocates birth
control in “Robert’s Wife” at Sydney
Minerva, will come forward at the con-
clusion of the next performance and
recommend something out of the Marie
Stopes library.
* * * *
A visitor from Vienna who claimed
that he had introduced a new technique
to drama by mingling audience with per-
formers should visit Melbourne Tiv.,
where that idea is brought to dizzy
heights by Will Mahoney, Evie Hayes,
Bob Dyer, Terry Scanlon, Page and Nona
and other practitioners of vaudeville.
They bob up so incessantly in boxes.
stalls and circle that nobody can trust his
next-door neighbor. “Applesauce” is the
show, and it’s a good ’un.
* * * *
Mildred Bell, Walter R. Broadland
(two singers from Queensland), Gwladys
Swift, James Mclntyre, Joyce West,
Mona Murray, Isa Lorimer, Keith King
and Miss Bell’s Cremorne Choir were
contributors to a show at History House,
Sydney, arranged by Ida Crooke for the
Kooroora Club’s war effort; and the
girls of the Kooroora Dramatic Club
presented their Eisteddfod prize play,
“Memoirs.” This is one of the many
amateur organisations which are prepar-
ing the way for a revival of the Aus-
tralian theatre, sacrificed —with such lack
of vision and courage—to the pitchers.
ARTBURSTS
Sedon, of Sedon’s Galleries, has lent
to his own gallery a* cabinet exhibition
from his own collection in aid of the
Lord Mayor’s Fund, and it is the most
interesting show of the moment in Mel-
bourne—little sketches done in their
artistic adolescence by living artists such
as Streeton, Septimus Power, John
Rowell, Robert Campbell, Charles
Wheeler, A. M. E. Bale, A. D. Colqu-
houn and others, and by dead artists
such as Conder, Herbert Rose, W. B.
Mclnnes, Blamire Young and A. E. New-
bury, look fresher and livelier than the
pictures they painted when they became
acknowledged, successful and had reached
exhibition status.
* * * *
A show of French, English, Polish,
Austrian, German, Hungarian, Belgian
and Danish woodcuts and etchings is at
the Le Meilleur Cafe, Melbourne. Also
one Australian by Lionel Lindsay. Brang-
wyn, Fellicien Rops, Lucien Simon and
Steinlen are represented, and it is a very
fair cross section of European art in
general.
* * * #
At the Notanda Gallery, Sydney, is a
show of paintings and drawings by Carl
Plate, a devotee of the current fashion-
able slapdash style. Mr. Plate is no
abstractionist. He paints places like
Trafalgar Square, London, and Mac-
quarie-place, Sydney, and always em-
bodies in his designs some recognisable
topographical features. The general effect
is palatable to a certain brand of modern
taste.
AT THE TALKIES
“When Ladies Meet”
“My dear,” said Clarice, “I’ve just been
to Sydney St. James to see ‘When Ladies
Meet’ and it’s simply marvellous because
it’s all about Joan Crawford who’s a
great woman novelist and she’s writing
a wonderful new book about a woman
who falls in love with another woman’s
husband and doesn’t know what to do
about it just like you read in ‘Poppy’s
Paper’ but what makes it absolutely mar-
vellous is that Joan herself is in love
with her publisher who is Herbert Mar-
shall who is very nice although I think
he’s rather stodgy and he already has a
wife but is in love with Joan although
so far he has only been helping her finish
the last chapter of her book.
“Well Joan decides that the only thing
to do is for her and Herbert to go away
to the country where they can finish the
last chapter and really fall in love but
Robert Taylor who’s simply marvellous
is also in love with Joan and he takes
Herbert’s wife who is that terribly nice
Greer Garson to the country place where
Joan and Herbert are staying and she
and Joan get together and tell each other
all their secrets without either knowing
who the other is and Greer tells Joan
that her husband is a terrible philanderer
and has been in love with lots of women
but always comes back to her and Joan
tells Greer that she is in love with her
publisher who is married but that so
far he has only been helping her with
the last chapter of her book.
“Then Herbert arrives and Joan finds
out that Greer is the wife of the man
she is in love with and Greer finds out
that her husband is the man Joan is in
love with and it’s terribly thrilling be-
cause neither of the girls knows what to
do until Greer says she is fed up and
walks out and then Herbert tells Joan
he is still really in love with his wife
and goes after her and Joan is terribly
disappointed because she had been feel-
ing like Juliet or Elizabeth Barrett Brown-
ing and the romance that she was going
to put into her book has been broken
up and she still hasn’t finished the last
chapter.
“But Robert Taylor is still waiting for
her and he has a lovely black moustache
and just when Joan nearly gets out the
door he catches her so everything is quite
all right although I don’t know whether
Greer took Herbert back again and I
don’t know how Joan finished the last
chapter of her book.”
* * * ♦
Bob Hope’s reputation as a wisecrack
merchant doesn’t suffer in “Caught in the
Draft,” at Sydney State. It’s another of
the propaganda films the Americans are
turning out on their compulsory military
training scheme. The usual theme entails
plenty of laughs, and the moral
of the tale is that the most unlikely
material for a good soldier is likely to
distinguish itself when it comes to a pinch
—generally provided during large-scale,
full-dress manoeuvres. The present show
offers the additional inducement of the
possibility of marrying the colonel’s
daughter. Dorothy Lamour fills that
part, and, to quote Bob, “she looks like
Dorothy Lamour with clothes on.”
He * % *
“Kiss the Boys Good-bye”; frothy
musical with Don Ameche, Mary Martin
and Oscar Levant —the last always a
bright spot. Their style of music as
dished up by the Martin wench and Don
Ameche is so easy in this sort of thing
that it’s hard to understand why they
ever pushed Don into some of his heavy
dramatic flops. On the same bill is
“Wide Open Town,”, a Hopalong Cas-
sidy Western. The success of a Western
depends on the audience more than the
film, so for them as likes shootin’ it’s at
Sydney Capitol.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SP RUSO
YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAIILES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Skipton may or may not have proved
himself Australia’s best staying three-
year-old when he defeated the A.J.C.
Derby winner Laureate in the Victoria
Derby at Flemington on Saturday. As
the race was run, he outstayed Laureate
after the latter had looked a winner, but
the positions might have been reversed
had Laureate had the last run.
Rightly or wrongly, backers of
Laureate, who started favorite at 11 to 8,
criticised McCarten for his handling of
the colt. Laureate dropped a long way
out of his ground early, but was rushed
round the held to hit the front on the
turn, and, having been forced to cover
so much extra ground, was left without
sufficient in reserve when challenged by
the winner. McCarten might have been
somewhat impatient, but it is only fair
to add that Skipton also made his run
round the held, although taken along
more gradually. A length and a quarter
separated the pair at the hnish, while High
Road disproved his Caulheld Guineas
hnishing a creditable third.
Skipton, who has raced only compara-
tively lightly, has always given the im-
pression that he would develop into a
really good horse, but he is rather deli-
cate in his stable, and gave his trainer,
J. Fryer, a worrying time during the week
or so before the race He was off his
feed for several days, but the extraction
of a tooth two days before the Derby
apparently improved him. Stories con-
cerning his condition, however, caused
bookmakers to take risks, and his price
eased to 9 to 1 before he was backed
down to sixes. Fryer, who won a Mel-
bourne Cup with Wotan, had not pre-
viously won a Victoria Derby, and Skip-
ton also gave Fryer’s jockey son-in-law,
N. Creighton, his first success in this race.
Skipton is a fine advertisement for his
sire, Marabou, a Melbourne Cup winner,
and will be held up as a shining example
by men who oppose early racing of two-
year-olds. Fryer himself does not believe
in early racing of juveniles, and Skipton
did not appear in public until May this
year. He is bred to stay, as, in addition
to being by Marabou, his dam, Cupidity,
once trained by Lou Robertson, comes
from the same family as Gaine Carring-
ton, Peter Jackson and Wotan. Chest-
nut in color, Skipton has been a wonder-
ful bargain at his yearling cost of 250
guineas, and, at the same time, a worth-
while present from Hamilton business-
man J. J. Kitson to his wife.
Mrs. Kitson has the distinction of being
the first woman to win a Victoria
Derby since Mrs. E. A. Widdis took
the corresponding race with Patrobas
in 1915. Earlier in the spring Kitson had
hopes that Lugano, of whom he is part-
owner, would do the better of the pair,
but Lugano did not train on as well as
anticipated after his success in the
Memsie Stakes, and lost form when sent
to Sydney for the A.J.C. Derby. Now
Mrs. Kitson has the laugh on her hus-
band, who relates as a joke against him-
self that he attempted to buy Skipton
back after the colt had won his first race.
Mrs. Kitson, however, would not con-
sider the offer.
Primavera, the only filly to contest the
Victoria Derby, finished fourth, three
lengths behind High Road, but she looked
unlucky to miss a place. She was hope-
lessly placed on the turn, and rattled
home strongly after receiving more than
one check in the straight. Primavera’s
connections deserved a better fate for
their enterprise in passing over the Wake-
ful Stakes in favor of the Derby, but the
filly should compensate them by winning
the Oaks tomorrow (Thursday). The
Derby run did not affect her in the least
—in fact, she looked so bright the next
day that it was impossible to tell she had
had a race.
Beau Vite won his thirtieth race and
increased his stake earnings to £26,115
when he defeated El Golea and Lucra-
tive in the L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes.
Once again opinions differed as to the
ease or otherwise of his win, but it is
difficult to know why some people are
continually decrying this undoubtedly
great horse. Essentially a stayer, he made
his own pace, and was untroubled to
hold off El Golea and Lucrative after
those horses had “a crack” at him a fur-
long from home. Munro kept his mount
going by shaking the whip without actu-
ally hitting him, and Beau Vite looked
to have plenty in reserve at the finish.
Munro rode to instructions in taking
Beau Vite to the front early. Connec-
tions of the horse worked it out that a
slow pace in the early stages of 1} mile
would be detrimental to their stayer, and
would play into the “hands” of El Golea.
Munro saw to it that the pace was sound
throughout, and left nothing to chance.
That in itself added lustre to the per-
formance of Beau Vite, who had won
the corresponding race prior to his Mel-
bourne Cup defeat last year. Beau Vite
has had some heat in his off fore joint
almost throughout his present campaign,
but there has been no suggestion of lame-
ness, and at the time of writing he had
thrived on racing. El Golea ran well
considering that he met Beau Vite 131 b.
worse than Cup terms, but Lucrative dis-
appointed, and Tranquil Star cut up
badly toward the finish.
Son of Aurous joined Beau Vite as
Cup favorite when, carrying one stone
more than his Cup weight, he defeated
Yodvara and Triggerman in the Hotham
Handicap. He covered the 13 furlongs
in 2.43|, which clipped a second and a
quarter off the previous best at Fleming-
ton. Last with five furlongs to go, and
still a good way out of his ground at
the turn. Son of Aurous finished bril-
liantly, and obviously is back to the form
that enabled him to win the Adelaide
Cup in 1939. He met Yodvara and Trig-
german respectively 91b. and 101 b. worse
than Cup terms. Saul and Chatoona
shaped fairly, but Keelie, who attempted
to lead all the way, hung out badly under
pressure in the straight, and finished a
weary sixth.
Originally it was not intended to set
Son of Aurous for the Melbourne Cup,
but his bookmaker-owner, L. Sluice, was
challenged by his fellow-fielders to accept
extremely long odds about his aged geld-
ing, and he took them up. He had won-
derful value for his money after Son of
Aurous’s win in the Coongy Handicap,
fast-finishing third in the Moonee Valley
Cup and first in the Hotham. Under a
new V.R.C, rule, which operates from the
beginning of next year, no bookmaker
will be permitted to have any interest in
any horse racing in Victoria, and Sluice
is undecided about his gelding’s future.
Rather than sell him, he is considering
sending Son of Aurous to another State
to be trained and raced, but no decision
is likely to be made pending legal advice
to be sought by bookmaker-owners con-
cerning the validity of the V.R.C.’s pro-
posed action.
Kelos, a Manitoba-Welosia filly, upset
calculations by her 25-to-l defeat of
Wheat Sheaf and the odds-on favorite,
Two’s Company, in the Wakeful Stakes
for fillies. She had stopped badly in
previous races, and few people expected
her to get a mile, but instructions given
by trainer “Snowy” Welters to rider R.
Heather had a lot to do with her success.
Heather was instructed to slow down the
field early and slip away at the opportune
time. He acted accordingly, and Kelos,
leading throughout, lasted long enough
to win by a neck. Two’s Company, who
was unlucky in being forced to cover
extra ground on the outside, was a head
further away and was doing best of the
trio at the finish. She is not engaged in
the Oaks, but will probably be a runner
for the Carnival Handicap the same day.
Kelos is the first horse raced by R. H.
Sang, and was selected for him as a
yearling by his trainer, who is also his
brother-in-law. Kelos was entered for
the Oaks, but Wolters stated after Satur-
day’s race that he considered a mile and
a half beyond her, and that it was most
unlikely she would run. Wheat Sheaf
may be equal to a place in the fillies’
classic, but it is difficult to visualise her
defeating Primavera,
Sydney punters were heavy losers when
Burrabil, starting at 20 to 1 and return-
ing a tote dividend of better than 34 to 1,
defeated Rimveil and Evergreen in the
Cantala Stakes. Evergreen started favor-
ite at 3 to 1, Rimveil and High Caste
shared second favoritism at 7 to 2, and
there was money at 8 to 1 for another
Sydney representative, Hydra, who
finished fourth. Burrabil, owned in the
Western District by J. M. Slattery, one-
time leading amateur rider, recorded the
best win of his career, but excuses were
possible for Rimveil and Evergreen, both
of whom were blocked at critical stages
m the straight, and did not get clear
until too late. High Caste was never
dangerous.
* • • • •
Hesione maintained her unbeaten
record by an easy win from Home James
and Bayard in the Maribyrnong Plate.
First Great Britain and then Ducal chal-
lenged her for the lead, but Hesione
bounded ahead immediately Munro
allowed her to stride out, and, had that
rider desired, could have increased
appreciably her winning margin of
lengths. Ajax’s half-sister is a galloper
nght out of the ordinary, She was always
at odds-on on Saturday, but big punters
considered her “fruit for the sideboard ”
and bet accordingly. A. W. Thompson,
™° manages Hesione for the syndicate
which races as “T. Seven,” stated after
the race that, provided the filly did well
over the week-end, he would start her
again in the Mimosa Stakes (run yester-
day) and then spell her until it is time
to begin an autumn preparation.
* * * *
Canterbury meetings are invariably
popular, and the attendance on Saturday
pointed to the club having little cause
to worry even if it cannot get the dates
it would prefer later in the season. Two
favorites won, but on the whole it was
not a good day for backers.
Henchman did not run well with 9.3
in a handicap for horses of his own age
at Rosehill a fortnight earlier, but a drop
to 7.5 in the Flying Handicap made a
lot of difference. Badly placed for the
first half of the trip, he put in a fast
run approaching the turn, and finished
strongly to win from Flying Knight, who
looked a winner when he disposed of
Happy Bay soon after entering the
straight. Winnipeg, without his chance
ever being a winning one, did well to
finish fourth under his big weight.
Brazandt had every chance, but tired
in the straight, while Overbold did not
improve upon his previous efforts. He
looks well enough, but has lost form.
Cable Boy, favorite for the Canterbury
Handicap, ran past the pacemaker, Fern
Gala, half a mile from home, and then,
vigorously ridden by Wilson, squeezed
home by a head from Cryon, who defeated
Mischief a neck. Both gained on Cable
Boy over the last hundred yards, and
another few strides would probably have
seen the chestnut beaten. It was a poor
field in every way for a £250 prize.
Tartanus, favorite for the Hurdle Race,
gave his backers a poor run, and there is
little likelihood of early improvement on
his part. There were really three horses
in the race for the last mile —Punarua
and The Kite, who did the pacemaking,
with Last Gold their nearest follower.
Punarua led into the straight, but Last
Gold was a winner from the second-last
hurdle, and looks so well that he should
score again in the near future. Mainray
a poor fourth, and the remainder
also started.”
Oriole, voted a certainty for the Two-
year-old Stakes, led into the straight from
Hawklet, Santa Cruz and Peach Pie, but
then weakened so badly that she missed
a place. Marwin, who carried 71b.
penalty, was not prominent rounding the
turn, but put in a good finish to win from
Santa Cruz (Constant Son-Valaisanne)
and Peach Pie (Cheveley Lad-Yule Cake).
Hawklet, who showed pace, is by The
Buzzard from Biddy’s Robe, and there-
fore a sister to Katanga. Marwin is a
son of Limarch and Winrose, a daughter
of Rosewing.
Trainer J. King, who is again getting
well mto the limelight, won the first divi-
sion of the Highweight Handicap with
Levraut, who disposed of Camsion a fur-
long from the winning-post and then had
no trouble in holding off Grand Boy.
Camsion started from the outside, but,
commencing smartly, led in company
with Merry Vale when the field settled
down, and, as he was first into the straight
from Jesterine, no excuse was possible
tor his failure. Platero, who ran fourth,
is a Silverado gelding, and should win a
minor race.
Roxford did not act up to expecta-
tions in the second division of the High-
weight Handicap, for which he started
favorite. He followed Old Sport into the
straight, but, though he made up ground
m the last hundred yards, could not reach
the latter, on which R. Marsden did a
"comeback.” Brunswick Joy finished
fairly to get third, Silverado’ and Gay
Hero being nearest her. Tyrannus, Brae-
man and Bruegalong, though prominent
to the turn, did not run on. The last-
named is now being so nicely weighted
that a return to his best two-year-old
form should make a win easy for him.
It was Old Sport’s first success since last
February.
John Dory scored a popular win in
the Ashbury Handicap. Linemond and
Pimm’s were having a great tussle a fur-
long from home, with Mustapha nearest
them. John Dory, who was one of the
last three at the turn, put in his claim,
and, finishing brilliantly, defeated Line-
mond by half a neck, with Mustapha a
close third. Pimm’s, after being first into
the straight, looked a certainty for a
place, but could not see it out. He was
fourth, attended by Überous and Blinky
Bill, the last-named showing sufficient of
his old pace to dispose of any idea that
his days of usefulness are over.
* * * *
Reading an account of a race is dif-
ferent from seeing it, but it would seem
as if in the Victoria Derby Laureate
made a fast run nearing the turn, and
McCarten found himself in front sooner
than he anticipated when Art Union
weakened. Once in that position he had
to let Laureate run on, and that left the
favorite unable to stall of Skipton. Not
that luck attached to the latter’s win, as
he had to wipe out the start he was giving
Laureate after turning for home. Reports
concerning Skipton’s progress during the
fortnight prior to the Derby left doubt
as to whether he was thoroughly pleasing
his trainer, but there was nothing amiss
with him on Saturday.
High Road, in running third, proved
himself a better stayer than previously
supposed, while It’s Funny and Chatham
did best of the Sydney division. Galliard
did nothing towards upholding his
trainer’s high opinion of him. Primavera,
after being last seven furlongs from
home, ran fourth —form good enough to
make her Oaks chance a winning one
in a much smaller field. Skipton’s sire,
Marabou, won a Melbourne Cup at four
years, and was subsequently sold for
5500gns. He commenced at the stud ir
1936, and later again changed ownership
He is now at W. T. Badgery’s stud a
Scone. His fee this year was 25gns., but
as sire of a Derby winner, an increase
next season is to be expected.
The time for the Derby—2.34i—was
on the slow side, the first mile taking
1.45 j. That left 49 for the last half-mile,
and, as the time would be taken from
the leaders, Skipton must have got well
inside that. As late as 1921 the best
time for the Victoria Derby was Furious’s
2.35. The record is now 2.3 H, and is
shared by Phar Lap and Hall Mark.
Last year Lucrative won in 2.32, and
the fact of Derby times of recent
years being generally so much faster
than in the “good old days” does
not uphold the idea that our three-year-
olds have deteriorated.
* * * *
High Caste won the Linlithgow Stakes
last year, and it is on the cards for him
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(Before Acceptances.)
(Our Melbourne Representative.)
THIRD DAY—THURSDAY.
Linlithgow Stakes: Tea Cake, 1 ;
High Caste, 2 ; Evergreen, 3.
Oaks Stakes: Primavera, 1 ;
Wheat Sheaf, 2 ; Parisima, 3.
FOURTH DAY—SATURDAY.
Batman Stakes: High Road, 1 ;
The Trapper, 2 ; It’s Funny, 3.
C. B. Fisher Plate; Beau Vite, 1 ;
Lucrative, 2 ; High Caste, 3.
Ottawa Stakes: Cavort, 1 ; Phil-
ander, 2 ; East End, 3.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Novice Handicap; Celebration,
1 ; Havers, 2 ; Panel, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Flying
buttle, 1 ; Easy Mark, 2 ; Angel, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap; Kim-
bell, 1 ; Condignity, 2 ; Silverelda, 3.
Carlton Mile; Breeze, 1 ; Sober-
sides, 2; Mustapha, 3.
Moorefield Handicap; Rhythmic
1 ; Lucky Omen, 2 ; Aristocrat™
Flying Welter: Happy Bay, 1;
Hazaden, 2; Brunswick Joy or
Pancerta, 3.


£lOO REWARD
ON the arrest and conviction of the person or
persons who stole from residence, 19 Birdwood
Avenue, Brighton (Victoria), the -following;
One 12-bore Purdey double-barrelled hammer-
less ejector shot gun, 30in. special steel matted
rib barrels to take 2|in. cartridges, half-pistol
grip, rubber heel plate; single trigger action.
The name “Henry B. Smith, 1939” on silver
plate let into the stock. Non-automatic safety
catch; one extra pair of barrels for this gun.
One pair of the barrels is marked “Cylinder”
and the other pair is marked “Choke.” The
gun number, 25725, is on both pairs of barrels
and the stock. All contained in a leather-
covered best oak case, rectangular-shaped
with brass comers. The case is fitted to take
cleaning apparatus and other accessories and
has “Henry B. Smith, 559 Spencer Street, Mel-
bourne,” embossed thereon in block letters.
Please furnish any information to the SUPER-
INTENDENT, C.I. Branch, Russell Street, Mel-
bourne, C.l. ’Phone, F 4111; or nearest Police
Station.
For Sale.
FOR SALE. —Waterfront home, furnished or
unfurnished, garden, suit country folk. Outer
Sydney suburb. Fishing, boating, etc. —Write
J. ELMES, “Caringa,” Kangaroo Point Road,
Sylvania, N.S.W.
to be successful again in that race, despite
his failure in the Cantala Stakes. He is
said to have met with a check at one
part on Saturday. He finished a long way
back, but it is probable Bartle eased him
when he saw he had no hope of win-
ning. Jamieson must have thought
highly of his chance or he would not
have started at 7 to 2, and improvement
on his part can be expected.
In the Linlithgow Stakes High Caste
will carry 9.2, 101 b. less than he had in
the Cantala, and, though Beau Vite, El
Golea, Laureate, Tranquil Star and
Lucrative are still engaged, it is probable
a hard run in the Melbourne Cup will
cause all that lot to be absentees. That
would leave Sun Valley, Evergreen,
Zonda, True Flight (if he did not start in
the Cup) and Burrabil as High Caste’s
most dangerous opponents among the
older horses, and, unless he has gone
completely off, their prospects of beating
him at a difference in weight ranging
from 21b. to 51b. would not be great. As
All Love is seemingly not herself. Gay
Revelry and Tea Cake are the best of
the three-year-olds. The last-named ran
so well in winning the Caulfield Guineas
that he is bound to have something to
say in the decision of the race, but figures
say more for High Caste than any of the
other probable starters. Still, if a horse
is not well, a seeming pull in weights is
not sufficient to make it a winner. If
El Golea had not run in the Melbourne
Cup he would have played a prominent
part, but, as things are, it seems to me
that High Caste has most to fear from
Tea Cake and Sun Valley.
$ * * *
The meeting of two Adelaide Cup
winners in a race at Flemington on Satur-
day was unusual, and it was even more
remarkable that they should run first and
second. Son of Aurous won his Cup in
1939, and Yodvara was successful this
year. Triggerman was outstayed by Son
of Aurous and Yodvara in the Hotham,
but his third with 7.10 was a sufficiently
good performance to make some of his
Caulfield Cup backers wish he had the
opportunity of again tackling that race
with 6.9. Triggerman was not nominated
lor the Williamstown Cup, a fact prob-
ably regretted by his joint owners and
trainer. Taking a line through the 8.1
allotted Evergreen, who beat him in the
Caulfield Cup, he would have got in at
a weight that would have given him a
first-class chance.
* * *
Going upon Final Victory’s form in
Sydney this season it would not have said
a great deal for Queensland three-year-
olds if he had won the Queensland
Derby, for which he started favorite.
However, after commencing slowly, he
did not get a place, Lord Spear winning
by a neck from Moondarewa, with Sir
Wyvern an indifferent third. The first
two are by Spearfelt, as is Spear Vale,
winner of the weight-for-age race, the
Morris Stakes. The time for the Derby
was 2.31|, but, though fast, it was not
a record for the race, Braeburn doing
2.3 H in 1932. The Queensland Cup will
be run next Saturday, and with weight-
for-age, 9.5, Spear Vale may register his
second win in that race. He won two
years ago with 7.2, and was third with 8.3
in the Brisbane Cup the same season.
Lord Spear and Moondarewa should be
among his most troublesome opponents
next Saturday.
* * * *
A surprise absentee from the Linlith-
gow Stakes is Rimveil. Nor is he in the
C. B. Fisher Plate. It seems strange
that when nominating him for the
L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes his trainer
did not put him in the other two. In the
Linlithgow Stakes High Caste and Beau
Vite were the only older horses he might
have met worse than handicap terms,
and of the three-year-olds Tea Cake read
most like a troublesome opponent. All
Love is engaged, but so far this season a
mile has been beyond her.
* * * *
The Randwick record for two miles is
Lucrative’s 3.20 i in the last Sydney Cup,
and in America last month that was
nearly equalled by the three-year-old
Market Wise, who, in winning the Jockey
Club Gold Cup at Belmont Park (New
York), recorded 3.20 f. Run at w.f.a.
Market Wise carried 8.2, as did Warren
Wright’s crack Whirlaway. The latter
was supposed to be a certainty, but
Market Wise beat him by a nose. The
time was a Belmont Park record, and frac-
tional times were: Half-mile, 49j ; six
furlongs, 1.13 f ; mile, 1.38|; mile and a
quarter, 2.3} ; mile and a half, 2.29} ;
and mile and three-quarters, 2.55. Last
year, regarded as merely a selling-plater,
Market Wise was bought for £3lO. Prior
to defeating Whirlaway he had run third
in the Kentucky Derby and second in
the Dwyer Stakes, both of which were
won by Whirlaway.
Later in the day Wright was in some
measure compensated for the defeat of
Whirlaway. His two-year-old Some
Chance won the Futurity, which carried
about £A17,800 first money. Some, Chance
has won . about £24,500 this year.
America’s principal two-year-old races
completely eclipse those of Australia in
value. There were only 32,800 at Bel-
mont Park to see Market Wise and
Some Chance win, but the totalisator
turnover was $1,666,461 (roughly
£A518,000), the second highest of the
season for a day at Belmont Park.
* * * *
The recent spring meeting of the
A.J.C. was the greatest financial success
since the 1920 autumn meeting, when the
attendance for the four days totalled
245,800. As previously stated, the largest
attendance at Randwick on a Derby Day
was 85,419 in 1926. It was made up as
follows: Paddock, 33,417; leger, 28,808 ;
flat, 22,824.
* * * ♦
The finish of the Wakeful Stakes must
have been pleasing to W. J. Smith ; Kelos
first and Wheat Sheaf second was a good
advertisement for Manitoba, whom he
purchased last March for 4000gns. As
Tea Cake (Caulfield Guineas) and Sun
Valley (Toorak Handicap) are among
Manitoba’s other good winners this
season, he is unlikely to suffer from lack
of patronage next season. He is 11 years
old, which leaves him with many more
years of stud usefulness.
* * * >•■
B. Payten is said to have expressed
the opinion that Hesione’s form is quite
up to that of All Love’s last spring. As
she won the Maribyrnong Plate quite
as easily as All Love, and in much faster
time, the trainer of Hesione has sound
grounds for his belief in her. Those six
members of the “Mr. T. Seven” syndi-
cate have reason to be pleased with
A. W. Thompson’s generosity in bringing
them in on level terms with himself. In
breeding some racing men attach much
more importance to the sire than to the
mare, but in the case of Ajax and Hesione
most of the credit must go to their dam,
Medmenham, as she has thrown top-
notchers to different horses.
* * * *
The A.J.C. submitted several proposals
to the Chief Secretary relative to unregis-
tered racing for patriotic purposes. These
were placed before the newly-formed.
Hunter River and Coalfields Patriotic
Racing Association, and they did not all
meet with the approval of that body. Un-
less there are further developments it
seems as if the new association does not
intend putting itself under control of the
A.J.C. in any way. If that is so, it would
mean that owners, trainers, horses and
jockeys competing at its meetings would
be automatically disqualified under A.J.C.
rules. It is to be hoped such a position
will be avoided. Evidently the associa-
tion has doubts concerning the integrity
of some of the owners and trainers likely
to patronise its meetings, and has ap-
proved an identification-card system for
the registration of horses. A card showing
the markings of the horse has to be ten-
dered with each entry.
* * * *
The suggestion that all Sydney clubs
should have a say in allotting racing
dates, instead of the A.J.C. having com-
plete control, might appeal to some, but
it is certain it would not be appreciated
by all. There would be pronounced dif-
ference of opinion even among pro-
prietary clubs concerning the dates they
required, and as a result of being out-
voted the A.J.C. might be thrust into the
background by representatives of clubs
whose real interest in racing commences
and ends with possible profit.
* ♦ r ♦
Geebung’s third in the Rosebery
(Sydney) Handicap suggested he had
remained too long on the racing
stage. Winner of an Epsom Handi-
cap with 7.10 and a V.R.C. Final Handi-
cap with 8.8, it is hard to say how far he
would have beaten last Wednesday’s field
if in anything near his four-year-old
form. As it was he never looked like
more than a place-getter. He may win
again if he is kept going, but his most
recent efforts make it doubtful whether
there is likelihood of return to anything
approaching his earlier form. Geebung’s
minor placings include third in a Villiers
Stakes and a Toorak Handicap.
* * * *
The V.R.C. committee refused to re-
open the Cheery Jack case. In conse-
quence there is again suggestion of legal
proceedings. The possibility of a win in
that direction is best known to Stanton
and his legal adviser.
* * * *
R. S. Bagby did so well with Kinder-
garten in Maoriland last season that it
is surprising to read that when that horse
resumes training he will be in the care of
I. Tinsley. Kindergarten was broken in
by Tinsley, who won three races with
him as a two-year-old. He also trained
other horses owned by E. N. Fitzgerald.
If Kindergarten recovers from the leg
trouble that put him out of action in
Sydney Tinsley should have a profitable
time later on. Even if Kindergarten is
not quite ready for the Christmas meet-
ings, weight-for-age races run in the
autumn should be easy for him.
* * * *
Grand Prodige, winner of the Hopeful
Stakes in Brisbane last week, is by Beau
Pere, and is the first foal thrown by im-
ported Providence. The latter is by Le
Prodige from Ludmille, by Bruleur from
Lovely Nightie, and, as she is of the
same family as Son-in-Law, Minoru,
Grand Parade and Spearfelt, her success-
ful start as a brood mare is not surpris-
ing. Providence raced in England, and,
though a non-winner, recorded minor
placings, two being at a mile and a half.
* * * *
The Canterbury Club need not worry
greatly about what it may lose because
of the change of dates. If its prize-
money equals that of last year, owners
of good horses will not mind keeping
them in work a few weeks longer than
usual; and, as pointed out by the club’s
spokesman, it will really be suited if it
has to give only £l2OO for an ordinary
meeting. If attendances continue up to
the present standard the club would
probably be a substantial gainer, as the
gate-money for the smaller amount dis-
tributed in prize-money would be
relatively greater than that for the much
larger sum. So far as being granted
Anzac Day is concerned, the Canterbury
Club would seem optimistic in expecting
special consideration. Still, you cannot
tell, as a statement in a contemporary
attributed to a Minister suggests he is
not opposed to Anzac Day racing.
* * * *
Jockey McMenamin is alleged to have
said his two months’ suspension prob-
ably cost him £3OOO. If that is so many
parents should do hard thinking before
making their sons “social uplifts” by
sending them to universities with the idea
that they should become either doctors
or lawyers. Unless their size should be
against them, it might be for the boys’
eventual financial benefit to put them in
racing stables. Of course, there would
be the possibility that they might not
become capable jockeys—but there must
be the same risk attaching to them as
lawyers or doctors. In either case the
public would suffer.
***■*■
Murmuring’s two-year-old brother
Travancore was a winner at the Hawke’s
Bay meeting. Starting second favorite for
the Hastings Stakes he won easily in
49} for the half-mile. Travancore is a
gelding.
* * * *
Scapa Flow’s record in the way of
prize-money won by her progeny is well
ahead of that of any other brood mare
in England. She threw eight winners of
63 races of the total value of £86,064.
* * * *
H. Gray is to be the tutor at a riding
school for apprentices at Takanini (M.L.).
In his day Gray was a jockey out of the
ordinary, and he should be able to teach
apprentices all the desirable points in
lidinB -.
Salutation, as winner of the Dunedin
Guineas and Wellington Guineas, must
be accounted the best three-year-old seen
out in Maoriland up to the present. She
is a grey, an unusual color in Aus-
tralia or Maoriland for a first-class
horse, and is by the grey stallion
Theio (Tetratema-Thyene) from Queen
Salute, by Chief Ruler from Soot, Salu-
tation, who cost 230gns. as a yearling, is
raced by Mrs. H. D. Greenwood and
trained by F. A. Roberts, who had De-
faulter when he raced in Sydney.
* * * *
H. Wragg, who was second in last
year’s list of winning jockeys in England,
looks a certainty for first place this year.
It was cabled last week that, with three
weeks to go, he was leading with 68 wins
to E. Smith’s 59. Last season G. Richards
was first with 68, Wragg second with 38,
and Smith third with 37. Up to the time
he broke his leg this year Richards had
ridden 22 winners, and was well ahead of
all the other jockeys. The accident not
only cost Richards the mount on the
Derby winner, Owen Tudor, but his
chance of being the leading jockey for
the fifteenth time. Up to the close of last
year Richards’s wins from 1921 to 1940
totalled 2654, against F. Archer’s 2748
from 1870 to 1886. Wragg is 39 years
of age, and as he is a gunner in an anti-
aircraft battery is doing his bit in the
war, as well as maintaining his riding
form. Since Richards’s mishap Wragg
has been first rider for F. Darling’s stable.
M.Q. and Rafferty
And Also Bung
The office boy attended the meeting of
Ray Stehr (14.7) and Les McNabb (21.2)
in what was billed as a boxing match at
Leichhardt Stadium.
“Gripes,” he reported, “had a great
night. Got through two-and-sixpence
worth of peanuts.”
“Half a dollar’s worth? Hey, that’s
a lot of peanuts!”
“Aw, didn’t eat ’em all. Threw most
of them at Stehr.”
Such are the risks when ex-inter-
national Rugby League footballers —
famous in their day for being sent off
the field for stoush —set up as exponents
of the Noble Art, and are billed as such.
A Sydney journal which takes grappling
seriously and reports what the matmen
have for breakfast and how many
wrinkles they have in their bingy blubber
discovered before the event that Stehr
had had several fights, with gloves on.
This was news to the present stoush
addict, who hadn’t seen the name adorn-
ing any boxing bills, but the management
must have been impressed by the ex-inter-
national forward’s hooking, or something.
It billed him versus the McNabb in the
main scrap.
It should be said for the Leichhardt
Stadium people that they don’t go in for
this sort of thing, as a rule. They reserve
the crudities of brawn v. brawn for
Saturday nights, and as often as they’ve
been able to manage it they’ve turned on
a good night’s boxing on one other night
each week.
The result of this one slip was that
patrons saw a decent sport once more
degraded into yet another of the all-in
brawls that have been common enough
to grappling and seem to have spread
from that to take a hold on boxing. More
and more boxing matches are finishing
up as this one did —with contestants, cor-
ners, spectators and police (always police)
milling and mauling in a crowded ring
and overflowing it.
Even as far as it went before all-in
hostilities broke out, it was a poor sort
of fight. McNabb had already stopped
one or two wild swings with the back of
his neck, and Stehr had been warned for
rabbiting, when another of the same order
floored the outsize lad from Lithgow.
The ref. bent down and lifted McNabb’s
hand as the winner; thereupon Stehr
rushed in, the ref. rushed out, all hands
started to climb up, and the brawl
was on.
Altogether a sultry and ugly show, pro-
viding a strong argument for some con-
trolling body, with the same power as
race stewards have to put offenders on
the outer, and also to have some say in
match-making. And for conscription.
* * * •
“Dinny H.”: Jem Carney, who was
lightweight champion of England long
ago, is dead. Under P.R. rules Carney
fought 74 rounds for £lOOO a side with
Tack McAuliffe near Boston (U.S.A.) in
1887. The affair lasted five hours and
was drawn, Carney leaving the ring to
deal with a couple of barrackers. Years
afterwards McAuliffe met our own Griffo
with the gloves, and failed to hit him,
but a blind referee gave him the decision.
For St. George v. Manly on Saturday
O’Reilly took 5 for 9 and 8 for 12. A
wonderful performance, for there was
nothing wrong with the wicket.
* * * *
“G.M.”: No more modest or likeable
Test cricketer ever visited Australia from
any country than Ken Fames, English fast
bowler, killed with the R.A.F. Saddled
with a press reputation as the “Adonis”
of the 1936-37 English team, his natural
shyness made him dodge the flappers who
pestered him wherever he went. Fames,
a. geography master at a Midlands school,
was fond of English literature, and
used to quote Flecker by the hour. He
bowled best when he was angry, and the
Englishmen had a joking habit of trying
to enrage him on the eve of Test matches
to give him extra “devil.” He is the first
English Test cricketer to lose his life in
this war.


AGA FACTS
for the
MODERN HOSTESS
Smiling, unruffled, confident . . . an AGA owner
gives table talk a sparkling lead, knowing that
each course is AGA-cooked . . . tender . . .
delicious. The AGA Cooker burns continuously.
Hot plates and ovens are instantly ready for fast
or slow cooking by heat, the most
efficient, scientific method of cooking ever invented.
How much for fuel? Fuel cost of the AGA model
illustrated is guaranteed to be less than £3 in a
whole year (with coke at 30/- per ton in the city.
Freight increases price of fuel in country, but
annual consumption is so low that amazing
economy is possible anywhere in Australia).
40,000 AGA owners in the British Empire have
proved it. Every one of them is proud to show
guests the insulated, streamlined AGA—No. I unit
in a MODERN kitchen.
j
ĵ
j
ĵ
m
ft*
*Sk|
hi
r
•fa Amazingly economical.
Keeps kitchen warm in
Winter, cool in Summer.
Simple to use, always ready.
Clean as a china plate.
★ Food cooks better, looks
better, tastes better.
Suitable for city and country
homes.
Let us show you an AGA, or write
today for AGA Catalogue R 1 I.
LEVIN & CO., LTD.,
Est. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
and at Wellington, N.Z.
AG A
(Mod trade hark) -
7h(hinkd fyatStonm
COOKER,
made IN 8 m TAI N
S.A. Agents: Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. & Sons, Ltd., Hobart.
Agent for Western Australia: Malloch Bros., Ltd., Perth.
Agent for Queensland: Queensland Primary Producers’
Co-operative Association, Ltd., Brisbane.
*
Use the edge
MARK
KNOWN WORLD OVER
BLUE GILLETTE BLADE
MADE IN ENGLAND
A^v\/ s^v W l
GILLETTE
SHOULDERED
EDGE
with the shoulder behind
it!
Behind each keen cutting edge of a Blue Gillette
blade there is a long steel shoulder, formed by
three distinct angles in the sharpening process.
This shoulder is there to bear the load under which
the ordinary blade would yield. Result more
clean, smooth shaves for your money. But do
treat the edge fairly. So carefully do Gillette pack
their blades that not even the wrapping is allowed
to touch the cutting edge hold one to the light
and see. So avoid touching it yourself. Unwrap
the blade carefully, always hold it by the ends, and
you’ll get still more shaves per blade I
USE
GILLETTE
iepm
WAR SAVINGS
.CERTIFICATES.
AND SAVE STEEL
Gillette Sets 2/7\ to 47/-, Blue Gillette Blades 5 for 1/7.
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
NORTH OF TWENIT- EIGHT
It seems no particular hardship to be
a defeated politician nowadays. Three
Queensland Labor politicians who lost
their seats at the State election now have
Government jobs: (1) as a “temporary
clerk-inspector of the essential foods
supply branch of the Department of
Agriculture” ; (2) as “welfare officer in
the office of the Apprenticeship Execu-
tive and Group Apprenticeship Com-
mittees,” and (3) as “temporary officer
under and for the purpose of the State
Development Tax Acts.”
* * * *
“Norther”; Just in case you southrons
think you’re the only ones that play at
war games, let me report Queensland’s
“great” blackout, which ranged from
Bundaberg to the border and 100 miles
inland, covering 12,305 square miles.
There were all the usual trimmings and
more, not forgetting the new “nerve
centre” at Roma-street police station, an
elaborate affair of concrete and switch-
boards, claimed to be proof against gas
and everything. It cost a beggarly £6OOO,
but cheer up; according to Minister for
Civil Defence Hanlon, it will be im-
proved to accommodate all the heads.
The blackout went well, and everybody
apparently put out lights, what time
wardens and others careered about in the
gloi|m and gallant women fed them tea
ana cakes. Is Hanlon satisfied? Perish
the thought. “All we have to do now,”
says he, “is hold larger-scale tests.” Now
bring out your Heffrons!
* * * *
“The Torch”; One aspect of the diffi-
culties of turning foreigners into good
Australians is to be seen at the little
State school at Habana, out of Mackay,
in the sugar country. The headmaster
declares that in the variable attendance
of from 95 to 108 children 54 p.c. are
Maltese and 12 p.c. Italians, abos. and
Kanakas. He added that Maltese was
spoken almost exclusively in the village,
that 95 of the parents were illiterate and
that the teacher’s first job with a new
pupil was the terrific one of teaching it
to speak and read English.
* * * *
“Balander”: These Labor Govern-
ernments don’t hesitate to apply conscrip-
tion in quarters where it isn’t likely to
cause strikes or lose votes. The Queens-
land crowd are now putting through a
bill to force farmers to hand over their
milk for cheese-making for U.K. needs. I
don’t say the thing isn’t necessary, though
it’s a bit sudden in view of the fact that
the cow cockies haven’t yet been given
a chance to make the change voluntarily.
What I do say is that if Labor is satis-
fied that conscription is necessary for one
part of the war effort it ought to be con-
sistent and recognise its necessity for the
whole war effort.
* * * *
“Poi-poi”; A writer in the “N.Q.
Register” reminds Queenslanders that the
Ukraine beet-sugar industry is to Russia
what the Queensland cane belt is to Aus-
tralia. with the difference that Russian
sugar is a State monopoly. He points
out that, though beet-sugar production in
the Ukraine was only about 500,000 tons
a year in 1923-24, by last year it had
reached 3,000,000 tons from somewhere
about 180 factories scattered from north
of Bessarabia to the Sea of Azov, though
it is believed there are a few factories
further east. Assuming that Stalin’s
“scorched-earth” policy has been applied
both to beet crops and factories, and that
the Russians’ liking for sugar has been
increased in recent years, the writer fore-
sees a rush by sugar-producing countries
to supply Russia through Vladivostok,
and wonders whether ships could be
found to help Australia get rid of some
of its surplus. “However,” he concludes,
“if one were to continue, the vein may
become too optimistic, so it may be pref-
erable to discontinue the speculation at
this stage, lest one may emerge therefrom
with scorched fingers.” Too right!
* * * *
“23-24”: Just turned 90, William Simp-
son, a Deagon man, said to be Queens-
land’s oldest-living pioneer. He was born
near Redbank and reared in a district
where blacks were common. Inevitably,
he was “stuck up” by a bushranger, the
“Wild Scotchman,” to whom he gave a
couple of rums They soon became
cobbers. Simpson claims to have caught
fish in a creek that ran where the City
Hall stands and to have seen a black
lynched on the G.P.O. site.
* * * *
“ Glasshouse ”: Pilot-Officer Keith
Miller, who represented his district in
country-city cricket matches, and Ser-
geant-Pilot Christie Balzer, the district surf
champion, were in the same class at Lis-
more (N.S.W.) high school, joined the
Empire Air Scheme in Brisbane on the
same day, entered Bradfield Park Flying
School together, went to Narromine on
the same day, sailed to Canada on the
same ship and thence to England to-
gether. There Miller was drafted to a
Wellington bomber and Balzer to a Blen-
heim. Both were reported missing on
operational flights over enemy territory
on the same day, October 15.
“G.G.2”: Arnold Wienholt usually
backed the losing horse—many times to
his credit. In public life he was a voice
crying in the wilderness against borow-
ing. He was half of a minority of two
in the Queensland Parliament: when he
and Mrs. Longman voted against free
rail passes for ex-members. In the maul-
ing which cost him the use of one arm,
Wienholt’s outstanding impression was of
the awfully bad breath of the lioness.
* ♦ * V
“Poi-poi”: Few parsons have a parish
the size of that of the Anglican Bishop of
Carpentaria, Rt. Rev. S. H. Davies, who
is expected to guide the souls of 10,000
whites, 5000 Chinese, Japanese and other
aliens and 3500 abos. in an area of
620,000 square miles. It takes him three
months, travelling by ’plane, motor, train,
ship, sailing lugger and launch, to get
round all the faithful.
* * ♦ •
“23-4”; Back in Brisbane after 12
years abroad is Wing-Commander George
Sampson, a son of the City Organist.
For 18 months the airman was Senior
Controller in the operations-room of the
Fighter Command in Britain, having
previously bossed a squadron. He went
away in 1929 on a five-year commission
with the R.A.F., accepted a permanent
post and is now back on exchange.


WOMEN'S LETTERS
From Melbourne
Just to prove what it can do when it
wants to, the force which controls the
elements ordered “scram” to the howling
gale that’s been blowing for three months
and to the rain that has been under-
mining the foundations of this city. In-
stead came a Derby day fit for a romp
of gods in glades or lambs in paddocks.
At Flemington the world seemed a
paradox, the war further away than ever,
the course overflowing with an amiable
crowd of human beings, beautiful girls
in profusion, men in uniform and out
of it, and matrons whose hair-dos were
manipulated masterpieces. Dressing varied
from exaggerated extremes of all-white
to fur coats, but the in-betweens looked
by far the most comfortable. Light-
weight suits like Mrs. Geoff Grimwade’s
grey flannel outfit with pleated skirt and
powder-pink blouse and hat were highly
commended.
Hats were anything at all, but every
woman wore one in some shape or
implication. Mrs. Norman Hill wore
long white trailers to hers. Mrs. Jack
Manton walked forth like Rachel to
the well with every skerrick of hair
hidden in drapes of white chenille clasped
to the skull in the manner of a nurse’s
veil. The Angus Lightfoot Walkers caused
something of a stir. Both in varying
shades of pastel-blues were Celia Fogarty
and Mrs. Fred Chenhall (of Adelaide).
Wearing the much-to-be-favored shade
of platinum-blue were Mrs. Ron Nott
and Mrs. Alec Cato. Katie Weir threw
conventions to the four winds and the
forty thieves with navy blue stockings,
accessories for scarlet shoes, hat and
coat.
Still the money comes in for patriotic
movements in large amounts which
exceed expectations by 100 p.c. and in
smaller sums which, when put shoulder
to shoulder, make a goodly sum to roll
off the tongue. The four days’ table-
setting competition in aid of the
A.I.F.W.A. netted £855, and was a model
of small expenses, for only £4 had to be
deducted from the total. The balance
sheet showed that £3OO-odd was made
through penny votes for the various tables
and the stalls collected £l6O. Convener
Mrs. Walter Carnegie was wreathed in
smiles of well-being (she’d expected with
luck to make £400) when, with accom-
paniments of tea and tea-cake, she handed
the cheque to Mrs. J. D. Lavarack in the
A.I.F. Women’s rooms.
On the same day there turned up at
the Legacy Club (premises lent by the
club in the spirit of good-fellowship) the
useful sum of £5O for comforts for the
2/4 Field Regiment. The little “do” was
a bridge party at (so that no one could
feel extravagant for coming along) a
mild ten bob a table. The climax was tea,
donated by Mrs. Ken Niall, who looked
to the savories, and by Mrs. Ted Milford,
from whose kitchen for the three pre-
vious and nights there had emanated the
aromatic flavor of baking cakes. She
did her cooking single-handed, her
kitchen being a pocket edition. Husband
Milford is happy again now the party’s
over. Home isn’t what it’s cracked up
to be with biscuits on every chair and
chocolate tarts in every bookcase.
Up and doing again is the Originality
War Fund Group (it used to be the
Originality Branch of the Comforts
Fund), whose inventive genius is tossing
forth a competition, closing date Nov.
25, at Leighton House, Little Collins-
street. Section 1 is for the most novel
thing submitted (it might be anything—
a new recipe, something decorative, a
gadget, etc.). Section 2 is for the best
Australian entry. Decision is not yet
definite about prizes, but hot favorites
are guineas and war saving certificates.
Anyway they’ll be worth while. The
Originalities are cannily possessing them-
selves of the entries to stock their
Christmas shop, to run for a week early
in December.
To clear bridge tables from an acre or
so of floor space and to arrange supper
tables according to a preconceived plan
all in the span of two hours was the job
effected (not quite by a wave of the
magician’s wand, but without broken
bones or wounded feelings) at St. Kilda
Town Hall. Bridge by daylight was or-
ganised by the Mayoress of St. Kilda,
and the dance was the nucleus of the
Prisoners of War party night, the band,
on non-stop duty, sandwiching old-timers
with swing stuff. A tremendous help for
the dance was the men’s committee,
prime movers being Hugh and Roy Stein,
A. V. Wilks and A. S. Marshall, who
wrestled with decorations in the morning
and furniture-moving later. E. W. Trend
did forceful work selling blocks of tickets
to the department stores of the city. The
five bob hop was enjoyed by 1000 dancers,
who seemed to be in the right frame of
mind for spending odd silver on extra
novelties. Eighteen hundred parties were
registered for the night. At a rough esti-
mate well over 50,000 people were taking
part in someway to assist prisoners of war.
William W. Norman woke up one
morning with his mind tuned as usual to
real estate, and went to bed that night
the world of commerce forgotten while
he chewed over the problem of how he’d
get on making a longish film of children
at play. Until that day he’d hardly heard
of the Free Kindergartens and never of
Mrs. Earl Moser, who approached him
out of the blue. The film (which took
an amount of time and inexhaustible
patience) is one of the attractions of the
Kindergarten Toy Exhibition being held
during Cup Week. Several hints for the
making of the toys, such as cunning
ways for getting wheels to turn round
(the wheels cut from old tin cans), were
sent from Mrs. Luigi Luiggi, of Detroit,
who has helped Mrs. Moser nurse her
“baby,” for thus the exhibition has been
to her for the last six months.
Among the cutest toys are the rag
dolls with the painted faces, not at all
averse from the smirks of sailor boys.
Among the animals the horses-CMm-giraffes
(black woollen cloth one side and striped
stuff the other, plus red wool manes) are
modern arty toys with oomph. The
organising of this show is as perfect as
was that for a morning preview of the
film last week, for which Mrs. Norman
offered to lend her home. The toy-mak-
ing committee arrived with everything,
wherewithal of crockery and victuals for
an outdoor lunch, cocktails, flowers in
vases, a little maid and even the dish-
cloths. Offstage Mrs. Jud Holt was chef
par excellence. Afterwards, when every-
body had gone and the house was again
spry as a new pin, Mrs. Norman rubbed
her eyes and wondered if it had all been
a dream.
Inset from Jack Cato, Marjorie Taylor,
who recently became engaged to young
Lieut. Keith Krohn, A.I.F. Marjorie, who
is even more youthful (she’ll have to
wait a year before claiming voting dis-
cretion), is the daughter of the George
Taylors, of Malvern. She and Mrs. A.
Wilks are ticket secretaries for the gala
entertainment to be held at the Village
Theatre on November 11. Mrs. Lee
Brown is president and Pam Lloyd is
treasurer of the committee gathered from
members of the Toorak and South Yarra
branch of the Red Cross.
“The pleasure of your company is
requested —donations will be accept-
able.” Thus the gist of invitations to
wander out of doors under the spreading
oak at the Isaac Isaacs home. Umina, in
Lansell-road. The party was a follow-up
of the bridge and market held earlier in
the afternoon, beneficiaries being the
Travellers’ Aid and the City Kinder-
garten. The chill in the air perked up
appetites for hot things on sticks, handed
around by Mrs. Simon Fraser (who says
she’ll take on a waitress’s job at any
given moment. Another forte is running
exclusive and expensive parties in her
own home, from which hundreds of
pounds evolve for patriotic causes). In all
black, and decorative as always, was
Mrs. F. W. Jandrey. In sapphire velvet
from top to toe was Valerie Purves,
chief handmaiden to Fred Armytage,
doyen of the lucky wheel. Hand-in-hand
and happy as a pair of kids were Nipper
Harrison and attractive wife Ruth, in-
trigued at viewing their “Russian tene-
ments” from a different angle. They live for
the moment back to back with Umina in the
new flats so nicknamed in Orrong-road.
From Sydney
Army chiefs’ wives watched the parade
of mechanised units last week perhaps
more critically than did their husbands ;
the reason, that this was the first time
much of the equipment had been on city
roads. The timing they pronounced per-
fect, and their sigh of relief at the avoid-
ance of the tram lines by the drivers of
the tractors (and the consequent skidding)
was followed by a word of commenda-
tion.
Men were interested in the anti-aircraft
guns and the Bren guns ; women followed
with their eyes the ambulances and the
mobile operating theatres that can be
taken right on to the field—and a few
among them wished that they might have
one of the swamp boats to take to their
summertime river home, for when the
boys come back.
Major-General A. C. Fewtrell (com-
manding the First Division A.M.F.) took
the salute at the Town Hall steps. After-
wards, at the informal reception given
by Mayor Stanley Crick and his
Mayoress, he and Mrs. Fewtrell were
the centre of an interested group. To
this party came Commodore Muirhead-
Gould, Rear-Admiral J. G. Grace and
Mrs. Grace, her raspberry straw hat a
bright spot, Brigadier and Mrs. W. H.
Douglas, Wing-Commander F. Alex-
ander, C.O. at Richmond, and Mrs.
Alexander. Mrs. Roy Hendy was there.
Mrs. Bertie Lloyd and daughter June,
the latter wearing a brooch, a silver mar-
guerite, bought in Palestine by fiance
Lieut. Bill Baker on his first leave
from Tobruk, were among the much-
greeted.
Falk forwards this photograph of
singer Ruth Weinthall, who with Heather
Gray is giving a recital at the Federation
Hall on Wednesday, November 12. Rulh
is a contralto and Heather a dramatic
soprano. Proceeds go to the Red Cross.
It was a brilliant idea of the Red
Cross, this All-Australia Dance Night,
this dancing of everyone to music over
the air. It caught the imagination of the
people of every State, of every city, of
every town and of the outback. (The
A.B.C. and regional stations broadcast
the music.) New South Wales responded
enthusiastically ; 400 Red Cross branches
promised to arrange dances. Sydney’s
official dance was housed in the Town
Hall. It was arranged in conjunction
with the Red Cross Seals Committee.
Here were music by Jim Guffey’s A.B.C.
band and a variety entertainment given
by the A.B.C. artists. What more could
anybody want?
In the foyer were two immense en-
velopes, with Red Cross seals attached ;
one draped with the Union Jack, the
other with the Red Cross emblem. The
envelopes were ruled in neat squares,
and a favorite way of getting rid of the
troublesome threepence was to buy seals.
This entitled the buyer to sign his or her
name in one of the squares. The sort
of people who invariably pick winners
selected the lucky square and carried
home a prize.
The envelopes were June Bracken’s
idea, and when Lady Cowrie’s signature
arrived from Canberra it was fixed on
the envelope of which June was in
charge. The signature of Mrs. Hubert
Fairfax (chairman of the dance) was on
one side of Lady Cowrie’s and that of
Mrs. Nigel Smith (president of the Seals
Auxiliary Committee) on the other. In
the hall a huge Red Cross suspended over
the stage was indicative of where the
takings were going, and the life-length
posters showing a member of the A.I.F.
and asking people to “seal” all their let-
ters for his sake should make the seals
sales soar. Susan Spencer, the hon. or-
ganiser, and Mrs. Hector Clayton, the
hon. treasurer, each brought parties.
Gladys Richardson, so well known for
her work with the Younger Set of Syd-
ney’s Red Cross, is making a good job
of her appointment as general secretary
of Queensland’s Red Cross. She was one
of the hundreds who took the floor in
Brisbane’s City Hall on the “dancing
around Australia” night for the Red
Cross.
The stage of the Royal has rarely been
gayer with color and dancing than it
was on Saturday night when “The Gon-
doliers” opened the Gilsullivan season.
The addicts, who were there in force,
encored Ivan Menzies again and again
until the poor man limped wearily on to
the stage in mild protest; John Fullard,
too, was not allowed to escape until he
had given out the “Sparkling Eyes”
melody two or three times. If the packed
house is any indication of things to come
the season should be a record one.
Hilda Dorrington’s characterisation of
Mrs. Danvers, the perfectly hateful house-
keeper in “Rebecca,” was such a fine piece
of work that the women leaving the theatre
could speak of nothing else. The Minerva
was crowded for this first performance.
In the foyer were Margaret Fagan in an
afternoon frock and shoes of sky-blue
moire ; Mrs. Claude Plowman, who wore
silver-striped black satin under a white
coat; Captain John Human and Mrs.
Human ; Mrs. Ernest Watt and Mrs.
T. H. Kelly. Members of the Whitehall
Productions who watched the play with
absorbing interest included Hal Thomp-
son, with dress-designer Monson Clift.
William Constable, who is responsible
for the decor, was with the Dick Bentley
couple.
A carnival air was about the fair at
the Lindfield home of the Ernest Fisks
on Saturday. There were red and white
awnings and stalls decked with wistaria,
cherry blossom, red poppies and wheat.
Here were green lawns and tall trees and
a murmuring and many-bridged stream,
and through the day’s movement and
color ran the sound of children’s voices
and children's laughter. These came from
the kindergarten corner, where were
gathered all the things a child looks for
at a fair: slippery slides, penny dips, a
Punch and Judy show and a ventriloquist.
The Babies’ Kit branch of the Anzac
Fellowship of Women showed at its
second meeting some of the beautifully
knitted garments made by members of
the Industrial Blind Institution —the toys
made by the pupils of the Auburn Do-
mestic Science School and the Hornsby
High School had already gone forward
to the bombed children of Britain.
Dorothea Mackellar’s story, told to Dr.
Mary Booth (president of the Fellow-
ship), of the small London girl who said
to her sister “I am not nearly so fright-
ened when the bombs come if I am hold-
ing my doll” made the Fellowship realise
what toys meant to these nerve-racked
children, and afterwards into every small
girl’s kit went a doll, and into the pocket
of each small boy’s trousers was put a
small parcel of marbles.
Dr. Booth is faced with the problem
of getting marbles. There is only one
manufacturer in N.S.W. (and he has sent
2000 to the Fellowship), 90 p.c. of the
marbles in the past having come from
Japan, and the other 10 p.c. from
America ; so it seems that the small boys'
game will die out. Rear-Admiral Grace’s
wife, who was the guest of honor, made
a graceful speech of appreciation of the
work being done by the Fellowship.
A swirl of white marquisette, a long
flowing veil and a bouquet and coronet
of lily-of-the-valley made the wedding
raiment of Jean Margaret (Jane) Mills
when she said “I will” to Flight-Lieut.
Robert Ralph (Bob) Ashton at St. Mark’s
on Saturday. Jane, who is the elder
daughter of the John Millses, of Quirindi,
was given away by her father. Bob is
the second son of the James Ashtons, of
Double Bay, and one of the four well-
known polo-playing brothers. Bride's
sister Judy ’maided in delphinium-blue
marquisette. ’Groom’s brothers Flying-
Officer Phil and Lieut. Geoff were at the
knot-tying, and brother Jim was best
man. Bride’s mother wore blue crepes
and carried orchids. The reception was
at the Edgecliff home of Mrs. Arthur
Mills.
“Fashion Garries On,” a dress parade
put on by the Sydney Mannequin Charity
Committee, has resulted in quite a nice
little sum being added to the R.A.A.F.
Comforts Fund. The show was at the
Theatre Royal. The blue of the service
was prominent in the crowded audience,
and the wearers were among the loudest
cheerers, the girls reciprocating when the
R.A.A.F. Choir took the stage. Francis
Scully’s ballet and the Bodenwieser ballet
were delights. A special word of thanks
goes to George Rees (and his hat) for
his clever and laugh-making impersona-
tions, and to John L. Clugston, who pro-
duced the show. Mrs. T. H. Kelly, presi-
dent of the R.A.A.F. Central Area Com-
forts Fund, brought a party; so did
Oswald Cheeke. The Harold Williams
couple, the Hubert Fairfaxes and Beatrice
Meeks were among the noted.


THE WOMAN FROM THE BEND
By M. TURNER.
EVER since his wife died and he had moved in
from Wilson's farm “Lofty” Gibson had lived
in the old hut on the high bank above the
creek.
He had been contented enough there with his
two boys, doing odd jobs in the village, trapping
rabbits and getting drunk pretty regularly, but lately
he had been restless and worried. He blamed the
row with the schoolteacher over the matter of some
stolen wood, he blamed the loss of his job at the
quarry, and at times he even blamed the bad beer, but
at the back of his mind he knew it wasn’t these things.
The elusive nature of his restlessness troubled
him, and impelled him to hang about the side of his
place, from where he could see up the creek to the
old slab-hut on the bend. It had grown on him since
the day Les had burst in on him and shouted, “Hey,
there’s someone movin’ ihto the old hut at the bend.
A man and woman. They came in an old sulky.”
The old hut hadn’t been occupied for years,
except by passing swagmen. No one knew who owned
it and no one wanted it. He had grunted, and fol-
lowed the boy outside. “Perhaps they’re only staying
a night or two,” he had said, but by the way they
were carrying things in from the sulky they seemed to
be making themselves at home.
They stayed. Every day he could see them potter-
ing about the place, the man strolling here and there
rather aimlessly, the woman darting about quickly,
or attacking vigorously the bit of ground on the
creek bed that was to be a garden.
The purposeful movements of the woman
attracted him. He couldn’t tell how old she was, but
there was something in her actions that stimulated
him to a state of vague annoyance as if she had
aroused some deep antagonism within him. He didn’t
want any neighbors, let alone some bloody woman
and her husband. He and his boys were the only
people living across the creek from the little cluster
of houses that was the township, and he had come to
regard all the creek from his place up to Green’s
fence as his, just as he regarded the limestone ridges
as his country for trapping. If they didn’t trouble
him he wouldn’t worry them, he decided, but he often
stood beside his place and watched them moving
around the hut. “Seems to let her do most of the
work,” he grunted to himself more than once.
I—j IS resentment and annoyance grew when he
1 1 started to miss rabbits from his traps. He knew
they had been taken. An odd rabbit would escape
occasionally, but not as many as he was missing. He
spent more time than ever watching the hut, especially
when the woman was working about outside. Once
he climbed through the fence and strolled across the
paddock to the clump of gums, and tried to give the
impression, while he watched her, that he was col-
lecting sticks and bark.
After a time she noticed him, and she leaned in
a casually exaggerated attitude on her spade and
stared. A quick feeling of annoyance seized him, a
feeling that changed to restlessness again when she
turned slowly and sauntered into the hut. Impulsively
he walked away, but as he returned to his place he
kept turning round. She didn’t come out again, and
he didn’t see her for a couple of days.
Then one morning he was skinning rabbits at the
back of the hut when Les came rushing up shouting
“Hey, dad, she’s fishing in our hole, and she’s caught
a catfish.” He threw down his knife with an oath and
ran to the creek.
At the top of the high bank he stopped. Below
him on the far side the woman was lounging on a
small patch of sand, holding a line. Her skirt was
above her raised knees, and her legs were bare.
He stared at her firm, brown, strong legs and the
curve of her waist. She was younger than he had
thought, and good-looking in a bold, challenging sort
of way, with dark hair and full red lips. As he
watched her she looked up and saw him. She stared
back at him and her lips pouted.
“You,” he shouted, “get away from there. That’s
my hole.”
She ignored his remark, merely shrugging her
shoulders as if dismissing him.
His anger mounted. “That’s my hole,” he
shouted, and he hurled a big stone into the pool,
sending a splash of water over her.
She stood up, shaking her skirt and wiping her
hands down her legs. “Since when?” she asked, and
she made to throw in her line again.
“I’ll show you,” he called, and he slithered down
the bank and started to splash through the shallow
water below the pool.
She picked up her fish and left before he reached
the other bank.
“And tell your husband to keep off my trapline
and leave my rabbits alone or I’ll make him,” he
called after her.
She climbed through the fence. On the other
side she stopped and said “You know a lot, don’t
you?”
After that she didn’t look back, but he stood
there watching until she reached the hut.
j_|E found himself hanging about the side of the
* * house more than ever. He started to dig a patch
of garden there, although he disliked gardening, and
when he walked to the village he would go the longer
way round, past the hut on the bend. Sometimes he
would see the man, a tall, wiry-looking fellow, scraggy
and untidy as one of the gum-trees on the flat. Occa-
sionally he would see the woman. She either ignored
him or looked at him with a peculiar smile as if she
saw something vaguely amusing just past him. It
disturbed him till he felt he wanted to do something
to force her to notice him.
One hot day as he passed she was fishing in the
creek. She wore old shorts and a loose shirt. Her
feet were bare. The same feeling of restlessness that
was almost anger, almost hatred, seized him. He
would show her. “Where’s your husband?” he
shouted.
She leant easily against a she-oak and smiled at
him. “Jack?” she said ; “he’s not here.”
“Well, I lost about half my catch last night, and
I’m saying he took ’em. You tell him that.”
“I’ll tell him,” she said.
She put out one leg and swished her bare toes
through the water several times. He watched her
intently, noticing the smooth brownness of her skin
and the slenderness of her hips. Then with a manlike
gesture she pulled at the belt of her shorts and
"Three to tie, four to win!"
abruptly walked into the hut. He stood there for
some moments as if waiting for her to appear again,
and wrestled with his annoyance.
After that, the picture of her sitting beside the
pool with her knees up and her skirt above her knees,
that had persisted in his mind, gave way to a new
memory in which he saw her in shorts and a man’s
shirt, deliberately stretching out her bare leg to touch
the water, and then turning her back on him and
walking into the hut. Whenever he went to the vil-
lage now he walked past the hut on the bend, and at
night, as he made the round of his traps, he found
himself stopping at places on the high limestone ridge
from where he could catch glimpses of the light of
the hut, glowing like a beacon on the creek bank.
He still lost rabbits from his traps, and he couldn’t
catch the thief. He wished to God they would go,
but he was half-afraid they might.
"T* HERE had been signs of a fox by the clump of
A pines, near the tumbled group of great limestone
rocks on the far side of the ridge. Foxskins were
worth a lot, so he made special efforts to catch it.
One morning, when he reached the trap just before
daybreak, he swore loudly, for he could see that he
had caught the fox and lost it again. Suddenly he
dropped to his knees beside the trap and inspected the
ground carefully. He swore vehemently again, and
started off for home, but he passed by his hut and
went on to the hut on the bend. By the time he
reached it the sun was up.
He walked round the hut twice before he saw
what he was looking for, then he found.it hanging
against the wall in the corner by the stone chimney.
He lifted the taut skin on its wires off the nail. A
sound made him look up, and he saw the woman and
her husband staring at him. His anger suddenly burst
forth in a volley of loud oaths.
“We caught that fox up the creek last night,”
the woman called. “Put it back.” The man said
nothing.
It was her insolent, challenging smile more than
her words that roused his anger to a point past any
controlling. “That’s my skin, and you bloody well
know it,” he shouted. “But you keep out of this,”
and he rushed at the man. •
The rush carried him close against the man and
he swung his fist into his face, but the man recovered
his balance and hit him hard on the mouth. He spat
savagely, and rushed again, swinging viciously. Again
a blow thudded on the side of his face, jarring him.
He stood back, the man waiting for him, and he
glimpsed the woman leaning against the door of the
hut arid smiling at him as if taunting him. He rushed
in again. The ma'n hit him full on the cheek and he
felt a warm trickle of blood run down to his mouth,
but he was close now, his fists driving against the
other’s body. The man stood his ground, hitting
wildly. This was what he wanted. He drove in
several good blows, feeling them jar home, with a
vicious triumph. Again and again he punched, and
suddenly the man sagged and went down and lay still
on the ground.
He turned and picked up the foxskin. The woman
didn’t move. She was still smiling, and leaning easily
against the door. He waited. She made no effort to
go to the man who lay still on the ground.
“That’ll teach your husband to steal from my
traps,” he said.
Still she didn’t speak or move, but only stood
there as before smiling at him in a contemptuous way.
He turned away, and as he left her voice came after
him. “You know a lot, don’t you? He isn’t my
husband.”
A LL the way home, and afterwards, her words
* sounded in his mind, “He isn’t my husband.” Every
time he thought of her as she had looked when fish-
ing in the pool, the firm shapeliness of her brown legs,
the nonchalant way in which she had watched the
fight, he thought also of her words “He isn’t my
husband.”
He pegged out the foxskin more tightly and hung
it on the wall facing the hut on the bend. That would
show them they couldn’t go stealing his skins.
A dozen times during the next day he went out
to admire the skin, but every time he spent minutes
looking towards the hut on the bend. Once he saw
the man walking slowly towards the creek, and a
couple of times the woman hurrying out to the sulky
that stood below some she-oaks. It seemed always
when he saw her that there was no distance between
them, but that she was close to him, annoying him
deliberately by her attitude and smile, and saying “He
isn’t my husband.”
When she went into the hut he stamped inside
also, only to return in a few minutes to stand near
the foxskin.
Late in the afternoon Fred told him “Heh, dad,
I seen them two up at the hut getting ready to go
(Continued on next page.)


and she said ‘Tell your father we’re leaving tonight.’ ”
“Damn them,” he growled, and went out to look
towards the hut again.
The sulky was laden. He saw the man bring the
horse round and tie it near the sulky. After that he
didn’t go inside, but stood near the foxskin watching
the hut, or paced up and down restlessly.
Just before dusk the man came out and started
to harness the horse. The woman came and stood
near him. He watched her intently for a few minutes,
and then he climbed through the fence and started
towards the bend.
By the time he reached the hut the man was sit-
ting in the sulky. The woman had just come out
of the hut carrying a parcel. She stopped and looked
at him in a challenging way, and smiled quickly. He
felt the sudden surge of restless annoyance again,
disturbing in its power and strangeness.
The man spoke. “What do you want?”
He ignored the man, but stared at the woman
appraisingly, noticing again her lithe figure, her firm
legs and the cheeky tilt of her chin. His eyes met
hers and he looked away.
“We’re leaving,” she said suddenly, and moved
towards the sulky.
He felt confused and helpless. She put her foot
on the step of the sulky.
“You can stay,” he said quickly, then more
slowly, as if to himself, “if you like.”
He turned then and walked back towards his own
place. He heard voices, and the man swearing, and
the sulky beginning to move. “Damn them,” he
thought, “let them go.”
He didn’t look round. The sounds of the sulky
increased as it rattled towards the road. Then he
heard another sound that made him stop and swing
round suddenly. Through the dusk he saw that the
woman was following him. He waited.
START OF A HOLIDAY
By MARGARET TRIST.
IT was pitch dark as the cab made its way towards
the station. The sound of its wheels and the
pound of the horse's hooves woke echoes through
the town.
In the back of the cab were Uncle Matthew and
Aunt Jane, half a dozen children, the lady help and
a quantity of luggage. Aunt Jane, with her knees
pushed up near her chin because of a gladstone bag
under her feet and using her arms as a shield against
a wicker basket, mumbled her annoyance to what she
hoped was Matthew wedged behind a barricade of
rugs. Matthew’s replies, if any, were successfully
swallowed by the rugs.
“This is quite ridiculous,” said Aunt Jane. “The
train isn’t due till four o’clock and here it is not
three yet. Why didn’t you make her see sense? If
I’d had my way”——
“If you’d had your way,” snapped Grandmother
from the front seat of the cab, where she rode in state
behind the driver, “the train would have been halfway
to Brisbane and us not even out of our beds.”
Aunt Jane snorted and would have replied, only at
that moment it became apparent to her that she must
be sitting on the bundle of plants that Grandmother
had gone to such pains to gather for Samuel’s wife.
“Elvira always did like cactus,” Grandmother had
said, prodding cautiously at a particularly devilish
piece of prickly-pear.
The cab rolled up to the station steps. A dim
light burnt at the station entrance. Otherwise there
was complete darkness.
“Matthew,” ordered Grandmother, “you and Jane
see'the children don’t fall. Miss Wiley, please be care-
ful with that tin of eggs. Annette, don’t forget the
jam. Your Aunt Maudie would never forgive me
if that jam didn’t reach Elvira safely. Jamie, blow
your nose. I can hear you sniffing from here.”
The cab-driver, having tied the reins to the front
of the cab, jumped down and went to assist Grand-
mother, but she waved him aside. A series of drays
and sulkies had made her agile in climbing in and
out of anything.
The cab, having emptied its varied contents on
to the station steps, went on its way. Aunt Jane
sighed with relief. She would have died rather than
have any of her friends see her in the contraption.
But no power on earth would shake Grandmother’s
patronage. And nothing would have made her explain
to Aunt Jane that she really felt more at home in
Holy Joe’s old cab than in a modern car, where the
low seat cramped her legs. Besides, though she
wouldn’t have admitted that either, there was a certain
sentiment about the old cab. She had ridden in it
when it was the classiest thing in town.
Grandmother, having apportioned parcels to the
children, marshalled them up the stairs. Aunt Jane,
Miss Wiley, the lady help, and Uncle Matthew
struggled with the heavier luggage. Underneath the
light Grandmother paused and made quite certain
that the tickets were all pinned safely together in her
top pocket. Then she swept on again, motioning the
others to follow. Their footsteps echoed hollowly
along the deserted platform.
“What Elvira is going to say about having this
troop planted on her for a fortnight is nobody’s busi-
ness,” panted Aunt Jane.
Uncle Matthew grunted.
They groped their way along the platform. Grand-
mother, marching ahead, bumped a weighing machine
and swore heartily. Uncle Matthew collected the lug-
gage and stacked it as best he could in the darkness.
“I think if we find a seat and sit down,” he said
tersely.
They found a seat. The grown-ups sat down,
while the children stood around in a group, fidgeting
and sniffing and giggling. Uncle Matthew lit a match
and studied his watch closely.
“Ten past three,” he said grimly.
“You see” —Grandmother was triumphant—“we’re
in nice time.”
A T half-past three the stationmaster arrived, fol-
** lowed by several porters and assistants. He lit two
lights on the platform. They burnt steadily in the
greying light of the morning. A goods train went
up. A goods train went down. A car from Maloney’s
hotel drew up at the station steps and deposited two
more prospective passengers. The morning lightened.
At five minutes to four Grandmother issued
orders that the children were to hold hands and stand
well back from the edge of the platform. At four
o’clock the children were feverish with expectancy.
Miss Wiley, shaken out of her usual placidity, paced
up and down. She had begun to feel doubtful about
the journey. To take a holiday along with an elderly
woman and six children was rapidly becoming an
alarming idea. Grandmother was all of a flutter.
Uncle Matthew sat with his watch in his hand. Aunt
Jane sat beside him, her gloved hands holding her
handbag firmly to her stomach. They all watched
the rails that flashed into the west. They listened.
The morning was still, the air unburdened with the
snortings of any iron monster. At four-fifteen they
were still watching and listening.
“The train is late,” said Uncle Matthew, peering
more closely at his big gold watch. He spoke with
conviction. Grandmother would have liked to con-
tradict him, but it wasn’t much use.
The stationmaster went to the edge of the plat-
form and scratched his head. Then he retired to that
inner sanctum favored by stationmasters when people
are demanding why the train is late. It was four-
forty-five when he emerged again. “Train delayed
by hot box,” he explained briefly.
Uncle Matthew nodded intelligently and blew his
nose. Miss Wiley stopped in her trades. “Oh, dear!
Oh, dear!” she said, “that’s what comes of paying for
the tickets yesterday.”
Grandmother snorted and, putting on her haughti-
est expression, slapped the child nearest to her.
A quarter of an hour later the stationmaster again
appeared. He put his hand over his right ear. Then
he jumped off the platform and laid his left ear against
the nearest of the rails. He sprang to his feet, care-
fully dusting the knees of his pants. “It’s coming,”
he said. He scrambled back on to the platform and
started issuing unintelligible, unnecessary orders, then
rushed off to get his flags.
“The man’s a fool,” said Grandmother contemp-
tuously.
A thin sound on the morning air, a spiral of
smoke mounting to the sky, the rails singing, a rush,
a rumble, a roar. As the train came nearer, the
children, who had gone to the edge of the platform,
shrank back. Grandmother rose and gathered her
parcels. Miss Wiley began distractedly to pick up
suitcases. Aunt Jane sighed with relief. Uncle
Matthew looked at his watch and pointed out the time
to Aunt Jane.
“Have you still got the jam, Annette?” inquired
Grandmother. “And, Miss Wiley, do be careful with
those eggs.”
Miss Wiley put down the suitcases-again and was
elaborately careful of the eggs.
The train slid into the platform and panted to a
standstill.
“Hurry on there,” bawled the stationmaster.
Heads poked inquiringly from every window. Aunt
Jane stood a little apart, her face crimson.
A porter came up and began leisurely to assist
Uncle Matthew with the baggage. The carriages were
all crowded. Sleepy people sprawled everywhere.
They made no effort to move. The procession, headed
by Uncle-Matthew, The porter and the luggage, tried
two carriages. In the third Uncle Matthew put down
the suitcases. “Make way there,” he boomed impor-
tantly.
Outside, the stationmaster rang the bell. The
porter dumped his baggage.
“Hurry, Matthew,” called Aunt Jane from the
window.
The train whistle blew. The porter and Uncle
Matthew made a hasty exit.
Among the luggage, Grandmother, Miss Wiley
and the six children clutched at one another. The
train lurched forward. A man uncurled grudgingly
and made a space on a seat. Grandmother and Miss
Wiley sat down. The children swayed with the train.
On the platform Aunt Jane and Uncle Matthew
waved politely.
“Did you ever,” breathed Aunt Jane as the train
gathered speed.
“A nerve-racking experience,” said Uncle Matthew.
“And don't forget the beer!"


tady Keeble.
(Miss Lillah McCarthy.)
“Pelmanism makes
you do your best, and,
moreover, makes your
best better than you
thought it possible
to be."
m
m
Mr. Compton
Mackenzie.
“Pelmanism defi-
nitely cultivates the
imagination, and I do
not hesitate to say that
there is nobody who
would not benefit by a
Course
Wmfm
m
mm
The Baroness Orczy.
“Pelmanism has
meant to many just
the difference between
a life of mediocrity
and disappointment
and one of prosperity
and triumph
,' y,....
mm
Sir Herbert Barker.
“Benefit beyond com-
putation can he se-
cured by all who will
follow the directions
given in the Pelman
Course. It is impos-
sible to speak too
highly of it."
V ;
i
Sir Arthur Quiller-
Couch.
King Edward VII.
Professor of English
Literature at the Uni-
versity of Cambridge,
England, writes —
“The Pelman Course
gave me practical hints
which, if they had
come my way in youth,
would have saved me
more lime and labor
than I can reckon."
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
TRIBUTES
One of the finest tributes paid to Pelmanism in its 42 years of service
to the public is the increasing number of people in Great Britain who,
strained in body, mind and spirit as they now are, seek help in the Pelman
Course of Training. They believe that it will help them, they find that
it does help them and they tell others.
The same tribute of increasing interest month by month in the Pelman
Course is paid to the Melbourne Branch by the people of Australia
and New Zealand with a corresponding increase in the number of
men and women who enrol for the Course.
This is not merely the reward of excel-
lence. It is a recognition that the
Pelman Course contains within itself the
constituents of the rare and resolute
thinking processes of the peoples of the
British Empire, that no better method
than Pelmanism for generating com-
posure, self-confidence and courage has
ever been evolved.
Pelmanism is scientific training of
Mind, Memory and Personality. It sub-
stitutes good and faithful habits of mind
and memory for slovenly and fearful
ones. Thus it promotes steadfastness,
definiteness and continuity of effort.
Among the qualities and attributes it
specifically develops are Observation,
Will-Power, Decision, Self-Confidence,
Judgment, Organisation, Concentration,
Initiative, Social Ease and a thoroughly
dependable Memory for faces, figures,
names, appointments, prices, and useful
data of every kind.
DOCTOR; “Pelmanism has shown me how to
observe instead of merely seeing.”
TEACHER; “Increase in my powers of
Concentration and Memory. Increase in Self-
Confidence. Greater interest in people and in my
surroundings.”
STAFF CAPTAIN: “I want to thank you
for your attention and express the hope that I
may keep in touch with the Institute in the future
as the occasion offers.”
SHEBPFARMBR: “I have kept an account
of the time spent on the. Course. It amounted to
a shade under three months and the average time
per day—4o minutes.”
ENGINED RIVER: “It is with a wonderful
sense of ability and security that I face the
future.”
AIRCRAFTSMAN: “My memory is im-
proved, my concentration developed and I am a
better observer.”
PRIVATE: “I have developed Will Power,
Observation and Memory. I feel that I can
step into the future with both feet firmly planted
on the path to success.”
SOLDIER (ENGINEER): “Yesterday I
learned that promotion, and to a higher rank
than that which I had expected, is coming my
way in the near future. I attribute my promised
advancement to Pelmanism. It was only the
benefit I had already gained from it which
carried me through at
SOLDIER: “I was one of three to be pro-
moted out of a class of thirty selected* for special
training.”
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy of “The Efficient
Mind,” 76 pages, post free. Your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential
communication; we have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
Dame Sybil
Thorndike.
"Pelmanism gives a
mental clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees opportunities
and uses them rightly,’'
is s; ■ ■
Dr. F, W. Norwood,
D.D.
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind — training. A
proper grasp of if,
would saw any life
from futility. It teaches
that man has the key
to his own career."
■
Dord Baden Powell.
“No man—no matter
how educated, or what
his age, or what his
profession—who seri-
ously takes up the
Course, can go through
it without improving
himself. 1 '
m
£
Canon Hannay.
(G. A. Birmingham.)
Pelmanism is valu-
able to all men and
women . . . the re-
sults endure. Habits
of mind are formed
which are of the very
highest value in life."
There are over half a million
Telmanists, of whom more than
44,000 have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
Headquarters: London.
H M. FORCES
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the. Pelman Course.
by the ll 'ar Office.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
386 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind."
Name
Addrese
142
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
• For local office, address
see Page 6.
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
* 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
C Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-).
SEND “THE BULLETIN” TO
THE LADS OVERSEAS—
Special Concession Rates:
12 months 15/-
6 months .... 8/-
3 months . 47-
post free.
6)
vtf 5 '
■ ...-•;*#
.-•> vv;
/ eS
..•••' of Va%*
'* . s« c


ULTIMATE Leads Again!
FULL BANDSPREAD
SHORT-WAVE TUNING
Overseas Tuning and Reception Revolutionised! Short-wave
Stations spread up to sixteen times further apart than on
ordinary Receivers! Each Short-wave Band located on a separate
scale! Overseas Stations tuned in as easily as Local Stations.
Foreign Stations logged and re-located instantly and unerringly!
Another outstanding testimony to “ULTIMATE” excellence!
798 verified radio stations were logged in a standard “Ultimate” Receiver.
Mr. R. N. Shaw uses an “Ultimate” Receiver in compiling “Wireless Weekly”
Short-wave notes. “Ultimate” is used by the official Australian advisor to
the B.B.C. “Ultimate” Receivers hold nine Champion of Champion awards.
PROOF SPEAKS LOUDER THAN WORDS!
ELECTRIC MODELS
model. brief description.
171 C. 7-VALVE MULTI-WAVE CONSOLE. MAJESTIC CABINET.
Incorporates Full Band Spread, Anti-Drift Devices, Spinner Tuning, A.V.C.,
I ?in. Rola Reproducer, Improved Tuning Eye.
172 M. 7-VALVE MULTI-WAVE MANTEL. CLASSIC CABINET.
Incorporates Full Band Spread, Anti-Drift Devices, Spinner Tuning, A.V.C.,
special* Sin. Rola Reproducer, Low Volume Bass Compensation, Improved
Tuning Eye.
170 P. 7-VALVE MULTI-WAVE PORTABLE MANTEL.
Technical features identical to Model 1 72M. Designed for special appli-
cations in transportable insect-proof carrying case. Ideal for Pacific Islands
where 240 A.C. power is available.
193 C. 9-VALVE MULTI-WAVE CONSOLE. MAJESTIC CABINET.
Incorporates Full Band Spread, Anti-Drift Devices, Spinner Tuning, A.V.C.,
I 2in. Rola Reproducer. Circuit employs a phase inverter arrangement
feeding two 6V6G valves in Push-Pull. Improved Tuning Eye. A high-
fidelity Receiver in every respect.
1 90 P. 9-VALVE MULTI-WAVE PORTABLE MANTEL.
Technical features identical to Model 193 C, excepting the speaker, which
is a special Bin. Rola. Low volume bass compensation incorporated. Ideal
for tropical conditions where 240 A.C. available.
i 95G. 9-VALVE MULTI-WAVE RADIOGRAM. SYMPHONY CABINET.
- Incorporates Full Band Spread, Anti-Drift Devices, A.V.C., Spinner
Tuning, special I 2in. Rola Reproducer, Push-Pull audio output ensuring
high-fidelity tonal reproduction. Imported English Garrard Motor and
Pickup with automatic stopping device, Improved Tuning Eye.
BATTERY VIBRATOR MODELS.
175 C. 8-VALVE MULTI-WAVE CONSOLE. MAJESTIC CABINET.
Incorporates Full Band Spread, Spinner Tuning, A.V.C., Improved Tuning
Eye, Synchronous Vibrator Power Unit cushioned in rubber, 12in. Rola
Reproducer, Push-Pull Output Valves, Clyde 17-Plate 170-amp. 6-volt
Battery. Designed for extreme sensitivity, tonal quality and economy of
operation.
1 76M. 8-VALVE MULTI-WAVE MANTEL. CLASSIC CABINET.
Incorporates the identical chassis utilised in Model 1 75C Console. An
Sin. Rola Reproducer is used instead of a 12in.
I 7 7P, 8-VALVE MULTI-WAVE PORTABLE MANTEL.
Incorporates the identical chassis utilised in Console Model 175 C. An
Sin. Rola Reproducer is used instead of a 12in.
AND NOW—SOMETHING SPECIA
BATTERY VIBRATOR
8-VALVE MULTI-WAVE RADIOGRAM. “SYMPHONY” CABINET.
Incorporates Full Band Spread Tuning, A.V.C., special 12in. Rola
Reproducer, Spinner Tuning, Push-Pull audio output ensuring unusual
realism in reproduction of Gramophone recordings and Broadcast recep-
tion, imported Swiss Palliard triple spring motor designed to play eight
10in. records with each winding, Imported Magnetic Pickup, Improved
Tuning Eye, etc.
NOTE. —Supplies of this model are limited by our existing stocks of
motors, which cannot be replaced.
GENERAL NOTE. The Portable Mantel Models listed utilise the full size 7- and 9-Valve
A.C. and 8-Valve Vibrator Chassis. These models are for special applications and should
not be confused with Small Portable Battery Sets. They measure by Min. by 1 I
and 38 pounds is the average weight.
MAJESTIC CONSOLE.
i tu
W
i t, ; - 5 i?
: i k> s(c J, ■;
V'-v-v
Mr y T?*!!! **£ & v p -
CLASSIC MANTEL.
PORTABLE MANTEL.
ĵ
Sole Australian Concessionaires:
GEORGE BROWN & CO., LTD., 267 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Distributed in Victoria by J. H. MAGRATH PTY., LTD., 208 Little Lonsdale Street, Melbourne-
FILL IN AND POST NOW.
GEORGE BROWN AND CO. PTY., LTD.
267 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Please send me post free and without obligation newly-
released illustrated literature giving full details of
“ULTIMATE” FULL BANDSPREAD Receivers.
NAME
ADDRESS
