

3 3 I A y 3 s
IVNOIIVN
m
a-’-' r ¥’-* : r =
n
/
sc
>5»
M
MSS
m
j a
m
m
r
m
M
—T»
>
8
mi
™tl
A
»
m.
m
BEAM WIRELESS SERVICES
BEAM WIRELESS PICTUREGRAM SERVICE
OVERSEAS RADIO TELEPHONE SERVICES
COASTAL RADIO SERVICE
MARINE WIRELESS SERVICE
PACIFIC ISLANDS WIRELESS SERVICE
BROADCASTING
RADIO-ELECTRIC WORKS
RADIOLA RECEIVERS
VALVE MANUFACTURE
AERONAUTICAL RADIO
<§>
A.W.A. is the largest manu-
facturer of wireless apparatus in
Australia and is wholly self-
contained in the manufacture of
every type of wireless equipment
for use at sea, on land and in
the air.
Manufacturer of wireless
apparatus to —
THE NAVY
THE ARMY
THE AIR FORCE
GOVERNMENT DEPTS.
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CIVIL AVIATION
SHIP OWNERS
AIRLINES
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(A’SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
Vol. 62.—N0. 3196.
Wednesday, May 14, 1941.
Man-power in This War
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


firi-J-gijg
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booliet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 241
The Red Page
THE PRIOR PRIZE, 1941.
Entries for the 1941 S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize close on June 6. Only
novels are eligible for this year’s com-
petition and the Prize will go to the
novel that is considered the most out-
standing contribution to Australian
literature.
The prize is an annual award of £lOO,
which may be withheld if no entry is
considered worthy. If this should occur
in any year, the prize-money will still be
available for the encouragement of
writers whose work shows promise, or
will be otherwise awarded as the judges
may recommend or the trustees decide.
Last year accumulations of £2OO were
available in addition to the normal £lOO
prize-money, and the three manuscripts
which the judges placed first equal—
Malcolm Ellis’s Macquarie, Eve Lang-
ley’s Peapickers and Kylie Tennant’s
The Brown Van (since published by Gol-
lancz under the title The Battlers ) —were
each awarded £lOO. Consequently no
held-over prize-money is available this
year, and the competition is for the
standing annual £lOO prize.
Peapickers, incidentally, has been
accepted for publication by Angus and
Robertson. Arrangements are also being
made for the publication of Macquarie.
The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize is
offered as a practical encouragement of
Australian writers and Australian litera-
ture —“Australian” being adopted as a
convenient term to include Australia,
New Zealand and the Pacific Islands. All
writers born in these parts are included,
no matter where now residing ; so also
are bona fide residents, no matter where
born.
The winner will be free to have his or
her winning work published in book form
by any publisher preferred. First refusal
of serial rights to any entries is reserved
to The Bulletin, payments for such
rights being in addition to the Prize. All
other rights—book, stage, radio and the
like—will belong to the author.
Each MS. must be submitted under a
pen-name, with full name and address
in an accompanying sealed envelope;
competitors are requested to include
stamps for return postage. A number of
last year’s entries are still awaiting re-
turn fare.
Any further details required can be
had on application to the Secretary, S. H.
Prior Memorial Prize, Bulletin Office,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Hell, alias Paradise.
Dean Inge recommends Red Hell. He
also vouches for its author, whose good
faith and honesty, he says, cannot be
doubted. “Joseph Ameel’s very interest-
ing book entirely corroborates what
other victims of Soviet cruelty have re-
corded of their own experience.”
True enough; but, for the benefit of
all who may feel that they’ve had a sur-
feit of the subject, needing the addendum
that Ameel’s book has its own individual-
ity, is not just another roasting of that
overcooked and somewhat scurvy-look-
ing goose the Soviet System, but essen-
tially an autobiography, a record of per-
sonal experience, its crushing indictment
always implicit but hardly ever stated,
and all the stronger on that account.
The publishers, Hale, Ltd., preface the
book with a brief note on the author’s
origins and bona fides, and also, inciden-
tally, suggest a likely sticky end for him,
as another victim of Soviet vengeance.
Although born and educated in Russia,
he is a Belgian national. Following his
father’s line of business, he became a
timber expert. He was called up—as a
Belgian—in the 1914-18 war, but did his
fighting in Russia. Mainly through per-
sonal popularity among his own men,
he survived the revolution, but was sub-
sequently gathered in on a nominal
general charge of espionage, went through
the mockery of a trial, in which the ver-
dict was drawn up beforehand and no
evidence, for or against, was produced or
allowed, and was sentenced to five years.
Before he was through with his 20
years of Soviet Russia, he had been in
18 gaols, in the Arctic slave camps, in the
equally hideous camps for slaves work-
ing on the canals. He was not in gaol
continuously ; after a few years he’d be
let out to rejoin his family for a month
or two ; then some other charge would
be trumped up against him, with an-
other five-year term a foregone verdict.
If he hadn’t been a Belgian national the
prescription would have been shooting.
Criminals, and vicious ones at that, were
plentiful in the gaols, but their number
was nothing to that of the innocents —
men doing three years or so for such
crimes as telling funny stories about
Soviet officials, making rude remarks
about Soviet footballers, or, more often
than otherwise, on fantastic charges that
would not be brought, let alone upheld,
in any court on earth not totalitarian.
Ameel was also comparatively lucky
in his gaol life. A man of some intelli-
gence and education among illiterate
roughnecks, he was useful to do their
clerking work for them. Even so, he
came through the experience badly
branded by it. He says in a postscript
that he has purposely toned down his
descriptions lest it should be thought that
he was exaggerating. They will be found
quite strong enough for most tastes as
they stand. His first few chapters are
somewhat thin, but once he gets into the
slave camps in the Arctic and elsewhere
his record becomes crowded with teem-
ing, seething, doomed and desperate
human life in the raw mass.
During his seven months in one prison
the number of condemned prisoners
taken away for execution averaged four
a night. It was common practice to herd
10 people into a cell intended for one;
with an ironical humor that forces into
most of his statement and probably
accounts for his survival, he adds that
his companions in one such crowded
cell included a “planning economist.”
“Prisoners were shot in the camp every
day” is practically a standing comment
on all the prisons. In the timber camps
even the haulage was done by the slaves,
because they represented a fraction of
the cost of feeding and maintaining
horses. On the White Sea Canal work
two-thirds of the total convicts employed
died from epidemics, starvation, ill-treat-
ment, disease or shootings. Landslides
on the canal banks were responsible for
the deaths of 120 to 150 persons every
day.
The untold thousands of graves in the
surrounding forests marked by stakes bear-
ing scarcely legible inscriptions constitute
silent but incontestable proof of the appal-
ling mortality which prevailed in the dis-
trict. Some of the canal camps were
simply vast cemeteries, around which
human skulls and bones could be seen
scattered about.
Possibly the toughest, as it is the live-
liest, reading Ameel provides is in de-
scriptions of the conditions and behavior
of imprisoned women, like the men,
herded together in their hundreds, rioting,
fighting among themselves, smashing
prison buildings, forced to live with the
prison-keepers, frequently shot, especially
if they became pregnant, and generally
treated as beasts, living like beasts and
soon becoming beasts in fact. Anyone
who can read these passages and retain
an idealistic concept of Soviet Russia and
what has gone into the making of it must
be either beyond conviction by anything
or without humanity. It must strike
many as quite inexplicable that sup-
posedly intelligent and rational people in
places like Australia —the list in the recent
past, if not still, including bishops—have
been able to sustain their blind and naive
admiration in the face of such evidence.
In one of his few general findings
Ameel sums up on the present state of
the country:
The cowed and starving people abhor
their rulers, but cannot do anything to
protect themselves from the tyranny of the
Communist usurpers who have seized
power. Anything in the shape of an inter-
national incident affecting the country’s
frontiers gives rise to fresh hopes, as most
people realise that nothing short of a major
war can save Russia. They may, of course,
be wrong in thinking so. I am merely
stating a fact.
As to the much-vaunted Red Army,
he is extremely doubtful of its “redness”
and “quite certain that its fighting value
is not a whit greater than that of the old
Czarist Army.”
There is, however, singularly little of
such comment. Essentially and almost
wholly it is a Book of Joseph—what
Joseph Ameel endured personally and
witnessed in the prisons and slave camps
of Red Hell, alias Paradise. There is a
touch of the Biblical in both its stark
inevitableness and in the impression it
leaves of large masses of people, suffer-
ing, struggling and enduring. In the
translation it has practically no literary
merit, being no more than a plain, direct
account. Yet in its material it could
serve as source-book for as vast and mas-
sive a novel as ever came out of Russia ;
for scores, if not hundreds or thousands,
of Chekovian short stories ; for countless
tragic plays; for a terrible epic poem ;
even for a Gilbertian comedy belatedly
pricking that lately blown-up bubble of
Leftist literature, the dumb, dull, plod-
ding,/ brainless nonentity presented as
heroic, a great deal of the viciousness
shown up in it being that of mere crass
animal dumbness and stupidity.
A Good-natured Slob?
“Slob,” granted, is not a pretty word.
Expressive, yes ; admirably terse ; but not
beautiful. But when Jerome Weidman
declares on page 232 of The Horse That
Could Whistle “Dixie” (Heinemann) “I’m
just a good-natured slob, that’s all,” it’s
impossible to discuss his short stories
without going into this question of slob-
biness, or slobbery, or slobstuff.
Weidman is the smart, wisecracking,
tough guy who wrote / Can Get It For
You Wholesale and What’s In It For Me ?
—both highly entertaining novels, chiefly
remarkable for the fact that the cynical
smart-aleck “hero” was a nastier hero than
one could remember offhand in any other
novel. There was something peculiarly
soured, peculiarly vicious about this hero
that really made him memorable; to
have portrayed him was something of an
achievement. The same type of almost
heroically petty villain appears again and
again in the new book of short stories.
Here he is, walking out on the girl
friend:
“Tom,” she said in a quick, scared
voice, “Tom, you’re not coming back!”
What a brain!
“Oh, I wouldn’t say that,” I said. “There
you go again, jumping at conclusions.
You ought to cut it out-. It’s bad for your
figure.”
Ruthless realism, see? Tougher than
Hemingway, with the wisecracks thrown
in. Terse, see? Cutting the cackle right
out and getting down to the horse that
can whistle “Dixie.” (Incidentally it
can’t; it’s a catchpenny title.) Paint the
scum of the world in all its brutal scum-
miness and leave the good-natured slob-
stuff to lesser men.
Taking another new book of short
stories, Pearl Buck’s Today and Forever
(Macmillan), you get, apparently, a com-
plete contrast with Weidman’s stories.
For Today and Forever is avowedly sen-
timental in intention, a book of stories
submitted not so much as exercises in the
art of the short story but as illustrations
of the simple nobility of the Chinese
character, a political plea for sympathy
for the Chinese in the face of the
Japanese invasion. There’s nothing
wrong with that politically, and it would
be possible to develop literature from
such an inspiration, but Pearl Buck fails
badly. The stories are as sentimental in
execution as in conception.
The book might fairly be subtitled
Kisses Among the Missionaries, and kisses
among the missionaries, on Pearl Buck’s
evidence, are certainly slobby. Here is
Wyn reacting to Mollie after 10 years
of married life:
“Wyn!” she said suddenly, looking up
at him.
“Yes, darling?”
He turned and smiled down at her.
There she was snuggled down by him like
a kitten, looking not a day older
Tut.
These stories, when they are not about
snuggly little middle-aged kittens look-
ing not a day older, are about the war in
China; stories, that is to say, which
should be as tough and realistic as a
Weidman could make them. But in prac-
tically every one of them the hero is a
heroine —a dear old Chinese woman who
lets the river loose on the Japs and
drowns herself in the process ; a dear,
tired old woman who becomes “the
mother of the guerrillas”; an educated
Chinese girl who decides to reform a
warlord by marrying him and rescues
him by ’plane from a rival warlady who
also wants to reform him by marrying
him; a whole bevy of heroic beauties,
known as “The Women,” the terror of
the countryside, who step in and make
a road when all the men are dying of
fever —and that sort of stuff, though it
may make gripping reading for Wans,
is simply sentimental rubbish as a picture
of war.
If, as Pearl Buck declares, the more
fantastic of the stories are true, it would
have been better to have told them as
fact. They’re unconvincing as fiction.
No Pearl Buck book could be worthless,
and there are a few items here that,
properly handled, would make good
short stories. Even the one with Wyn
and Mollie in it is a good idea: it’s
about an immensely stupid Chinese girl
who apparently learns nothing at the
mission school but who, by peering
through the missionary’s windows, has
learned a trick or two about the way
American husbands treat their wives that
enable her afterwards to make a great
success of her entry into marriage. But,
apart from the sentimental treatment, the
story, like nearly all the others, is dragged
out to inordinate length. It’s obvious that
Pearl Buck is more at home in the novel.
The same can’t be said of Weidman,
who has a preface telling how he learned
to make a living at short story writing:
if an editor wanted an unpleasant charac-
ter changed to a nice one, he’d change
it cheerfully, but he found on the whole
that he got on better by writing as he
pleased.
Nor, if one took “The Explorers” as
a representative sample, could one sug-
gest for a moment that Weidman and
Pearl Buck have anything spiritually in
common. The sketch of three larrikins
trying to pick up a girl in the park is
realistic and genuinely funny. Not once
do they behave like missionaries, nor she
like a kitten. Nor in any of the more
elaborate but less amusing stories about
New York’s low-life foreign communi-
ties is there anything kittenish about
Weidman’s dialogue.
But —and it is a colossal “but”—what
about this tough guy’s plots? A news-
paper gossip columnist is about to be
beaten for his job by the boss’s nephew,
and when the columnist goes round the
night clubs all his “contacts” give him
the cold shoulder. But is our hero
beaten? No, sir! He rescues the boss’s
lovely daughter from a snake called
Caesar Naldi, and the boss gives him his
job back, and the columnist goes round
the night clubs again and puts the fear
of the Poison Pen into all who have in-
sulted him.
That’s one. And then there’s the one
about the guy that walked out on his
girl friend; it’s called “Portrait of a
Gentleman,” and Weidman is at great
pains to prove that the gentleman is a
cad in the most Victorian sense of the
word. And then there’s the one about
the guy who was broke and decided that
he wasn’t responsible for his actions any
more, so he went along to poor old
Schultz, who had been feeding him and
keeping him for weeks, and he robbed
poor old Schultz of all his money:
“You don’t have to do this,” he gasped
again. “You could do something else!”
“Yeah?” I said, just before I hit him.
“What?”
So that from this toughest of tough
guys we have the old, old story of the
boss’s daughter and Revenge, plus poor
old Schultz who gets hit for nothing and
the poor broke guy who couldn’t do any-
thing else but hit him. It is in the story
immediately after the one about poor old
Schultz that Weidman declares, with per-
haps more truth than he realised, “I’m
just a good-natured slob, that’s all.”
Journey Into Fear: Eric Ambler
(Hodder and Stoughton). First-rate long
short story dragged out to novel length.
English engineer in Turkey, with special
knowledge of importance to Germany,
is not to be allowed to reach England
alive. Three days of nightmare.
Despatches from Finland: Edward
Ward (Bodley Head). No doubt very
good in their original form of broad-
casts ; as chapters, thin.
Pere Castor's Wild Animal Books
(Allen and Unwin). The two of the
series to come along are Martin, the
Kingfisher, and Cuckoo. They don't
merely measure up to the very high
standards reached these days by the
talent and craftsmanship, in writing,
drawing and printing, lavished on the
making of books for children; they set
new standards in sheer quality any way
they’re taken. Both this sample pair
are written by Lida, translated from the
French by Rose Fyleman, illustrated
with lithographs by Rojan. The stories
are fresh, quaint, catchy clearly the
work of a topnotch naturalist who has
chosen to dress up his accurate nature
observations in the form of entertain-
ment for children. The style is as clear
and clean as water modern, sensitive
and altogether most attractive, giving the
feeling that the translator has completely
caught the spirit of a charming original.
The illustrations sweep gaily through the
pages, breaking up the print to let loose
a whole countryside of birds, animals,
fish, trees and streams. Children of prac-
tically any age will delight in them at
once; years hence collectors of beauti-
fully illustrated books will chase after
them.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”— aIways.
JftA
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
Ccat Week!
m
ymi
V
s'":
I >
' '3s >X
Ss ,
r
KVa
»m.
/
. m
*>
X \\
m
''VVIV'-"" 1 ?
■ I
W/ / ■%
-V
iMli
i M I
#< y ij j
W- i 5 i
*,> y >L ' X ?
'IS' • ;• ,-f • *<
NM
is •: ;
a
■. S ; ; '■
p
**
Li
>
siiiillii
xsj&w™,.. „ .? j.
32^
iWigS**
Sc®*?
iP^
105'- Tweed Topcoats now at
84'-
Save one guinea on this warm Overcoat. Tailored of quality Tweed
by our own experts. Single breasted Raglans or double breasted
Chesters. All with Art Silk linings. A choice of neat overcheck designs
in smart Fawn smooth faced all wool Tweeds. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price, each 105/
SPECIAL PRICE, each ‘ . 84/-
115'- Camel Hair Polo Coats
105'-
Polo Overcoat, made from Camel Hair and Wool. New Fawns, Blue/
Greys, and Browns. Double breasted style, with all round belt, and
deep collar . . . very cosy and warm. Linings in rich art silk to tone.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, each 115/ -
SPECIAL PRICE, each 105/-
• Mens Overcoats—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
at flnthcHif Hen/lerkA
FAMOUS LOW PRICES


FINE DAY FOR THE PICNIC
By MUNGO MacCALLUM.
COW’N in the orchard Mr. Davis looked at his
i wrist-watch and hurried up- to the farmhouse.
* The afternoon sun beat brassily and grass-
hoppers jumped in front of him as he pushed
through the long, dry grass. He reached the verandah,
took off his old felt hat and mopped his brow, while
he looked at the steely sky and at the heat dancing
in waves over the little town below. “Lord, it’s hot,”
he muttered, and turned to stare sceptically at the
bulges of black cloud forming low in the west. He
grunted and went into the living-room, where his wjjfe
sat sewing.
“We’d better get ready to go and meet him,” he
said.
She looked up smiling. “The train won’t be in
for an hour yet, Frank. Don’t be so excited.”
“Have a cigar?"
"No, thanks —I roll my own.
He grinned sheepishly and sat down. “It’ll be
good to see him again—what about a picnic to-
morrow? I’ll take the day off. Work’s not what this
place needs. It’s rain.”
While his wife was putting on her hat, he talked
excitedly of his son.
She interrupted him, light but serious. “You
won’t tease him, will you?” she said. “Not as much
as you did last time?”
“I didn’t tease him much. Anyway, that won’t
do him any harm. Lord, the amount of teasing I
had! ”
“Frank,” she pleaded, “he’s so highly strung”
“Rot! He's as normal as I am. He’s all right!
And,” he added softly, “he’s going to be a fine man.”
He looked at his watch. “Lord! Hurry up. Train
will be in in fifteen minutes! Have you asked Mrs.
K. to make those special scones for him?”
She laughed and put her arm through his. “Yes,
yes ; now come on —and we’ll be early.”
A S the old Ford lurched down the rubbly road to
the village and the dust clouds rose behind it, he
shouted above the clatter “Wonder if he’ll be any
taller.”
“Oh, Frank, it’s only two months since he was
here last!”
“I know, I know! But he’s just at the age when
they shoot up. 1 remember I did. Doctor said I
was outgrowing my strength. I was a funny kid.
liked to be the strong, silent man, thought it showed
I was tough—and I wasn’t really, at all.”
“There you are,” his wife exclaimed triumphantly.
“Why shouldn’t young Frank be like that now?”
He laughed. “Oh, he won’t be like that, he’s
got too much sense.”
At the level crossing the car stopped, its old
brakes groaning, while Bill, the gatekeeper, hobbled
out of his little hut. “H’are yer, Mrs. Davis, Mr.
Davis? Young Frank coming home?”
“You bet,” shouted Davis. .
Bill grinned, the gates swung open, the Ford
bounced across the line and they drove down the
road past the store and the post office to the station.
On the platform the station-master, tunic hang-
ing open, was mopping his face. “H’are yer, Mr.
Davis?” he mumbled. “ ’Ot, ain’t it?”
“When’s the train due?”
“Aw, about five minutes,” the station-master
yawned. “Runnin’ a bit late today. Gawd, it’s ’ot.”
He sank on to a bench and closed his eyes.
A cow wandering near the line bellowed discon-
solately. Mr. Davis paced the platform; his wife
stood in the shade. Five minutes passed. Mr. Davis
strode fuming up to the station-master: “Lord, this
train’s late!”
The official opened one
eye: “She’s all right,” he
mumbled faintly and looked up
the shimmering track.
There was a distant
whistle. Mr. Davis turned to
his wife: “Come on, come
on!”
The train roared into the
station and stopped. At the
far end of the platform a boy
got out, and Mr. Davis ran
toward him and gripped his
hand, shouting “Hello,
Frank! ” Then he said “Well,
son?” and looked at him.
The boy said awkwardly
“I’m all right, dad,” and
turned to kiss his mother. “I’ll
take your traps,” his father said
eagerly, but the boy, remem-
bering his last arrival, said
hurriedly “No, I’ll take them,
dad.” But he was too late ;
his father seized the suitcases,
crying “Where to, sir? Yessir,
certainly, sir!” and marched
off to the car. Crimson with
embarrassment, his son fol-
lowed, muttering to his mother
“Wish he’d let me carry them.”
“He’s so pleased to see you
back,” she whispered, and Mr.
Davis turned and shouted
“Here’s the car for the con-
quering hero!”
They drove through the
dusty, unchanging little town-
ship and past cottages, pad-
docks, the dry creek bed that
he had known for fifteen years,
and the boy looked round con-
tentedly. “Gee, everything’s
dry,” he said. “How are the
trees?”
“Not too bad,” his father
beside him replied cheerily,
“but we need a lot of rain.”
They turned off the main road on to a track full
of potholes, bumped round the bend, and before
them lay the farm quietly on the hill. The boy leaned
forward, looking eagerly at the house behind the two
tall pines, the small orchard stretching down the
slope in front of it. They drove up to the gate and
he saw old Mrs. K. waddling out on to the verandah.
She still wore her long black dress and her rusty-grey
hair was in long pigtails. The boy sprang from the
car shouting “Hello, Mrs. K.”
“Well, yer with us again,” she grumbled. “How
long for this time?”
“Two weeks.”
“Ah well,” the old woman smiled, “come on in,
I’ve got scones ready for yer.”
While he was eating his fifth scone his mother
said “Well, Frank, what about a picnic tomorrow?”
His mouth was full and he nodded vehemently,
and said indistinctly “Let’s go to the Lookout.”
“Sure you’re not too old for picnics?” his father
asked with a grin.
“Oh, put a cork in it, dad,” the boy muttered,
flushing.
Mr. Davis turned to his wife with a wink. “Well,
Mrs. Davis, d’you think I could take a day off from
the farm? I thought I might go for a picnic—-but
no! I’d better not. Too much work.” He sighed
gustily. “What do you think, Frank?” he asked with
mock gravity.
“Don’t know,” the boy muttered.
“Don’t tease the boy, Frank,” Mrs. Davis ex-
claimed. “Where’ll we go for the picnic—to the
Lookout?”
His father threw back his head with a roar of
laughter. “I thought it’d be that!” he said delightedly.
“The Lookout it is! More tea please, Mrs. Davis!”
And, beating time on the table, he chanted “Oh, we’re
going up the mountain, we’re going up the moun-
tain.”
The boy stood up. “I’ll go and unpack,” he said
abruptly.
His father stopped singing and looked at him
blankly. “Why?” he said. “There’s no hurry ; finish
your tea first.”
“Don’t want any more —and I, I can’t sing,” the
boy blurted and walked out of the room.
Mr. Davis turned to his wife. “What’s the matter
with the boy?” he asked.
“Can’t you see,” she said with a desperate smile.
“He’s just awkward. He can’t join in things like
that, it makes him embarrassed. You were like that
at his age.”
Mr. Davis grunted. “Damn’ sure I wasn’t.” With
a sigh he got up and said lamely “Well, I’ll go and
do some work.”
Mrs. Davis sighed, too, and began to gather up
the tea things. In his room, the boy stood clenching
his hands.
AS dusk fell, hot and close, big, slow drops of rain
plopped on the galvanised-iron roof. The cloud
moved overhead, and they came faster and faster, until
they fell on the roof with a continuous drumming
roar.
Mr. and Mrs. Davis stood on the verandah look-
ing at the lights of the town shining dimly below.
“Where’s young Frank?” he asked.
“In his room. Oh, Frank,” she said impulsively,
“don’t be angry with him, he’s so shy.”
“Just plain rude, I’d call it,” he muttered.
“No! Try not to tease him.”
“All right,” he said and kissed her lightly. “It
doesn’t look as if he’ll get his picnic tomorrow.”
“No,” she laughed ruefully. “Both of you. You
were looking forward to it, weren’t you?”
“Yes,” he admitted. “Mary, bring him out; we
can’t have him staying in his room the first night
he’s home.”
She found the boy sitting on his bed staring out
of the window. He wanted to go out, but he didn’t
know how to carry it off. “Frank,” she said quietly,
“come and sit with us.” He hung his head. “It’s all
this singing and shouting ... I dunno,” he mumbled,
and she said quickly “Yes, 1 know ; but, Frank, it’s
only because he’s so glad to see you. Come on,"
she coaxed, “he. won’t do it any more.”
Uneasily he followed her into the living-room,
where his father was waiting. The man said
awkwardly “Sorry, Frank, I was only fooling.” With
lowered eyes the boy muttered “It’s all right, dad ;
sorry I was rude.”
“That’s better,” said Mrs. Davis brightly, and
began to talk gaily. They listened, and soon, as she
rattled on, the father caught his son’s eye and the
boy smiled shyly.
AT dawn the rain had stopped, the sky was light
and there was heat in the air. The sun shone
behind a bank of cloud which was moving away,
and down in the village iron roofs and the bright
railway line were already quivering in the heat.
Young Frank put his fiead through the doorway
and shouted “I’m going to do the milking.”
As he walked up the back paddock to the cow-
bail he whistled tunelessly. The fresh, full morning
filled him with well-being. The magpies and para-
keets were warbling and calling in the gum-trees.
On the carpet of shining wet white chips round the
woodheap the fowls were clucking, and lightheartedly
he swooped at them, swinging his bucket, and they
scattered, squawking. Bess stood waiting for him near
the bail. “Come on, Bess,” he called and she plodded
in, full udders swinging, tail swishing. He began to
milk her, and the rhythm of the farm life, his life,
took possession of him. The thin stream of milk shot
into the empty bucket with a clang which became
thick and rich as the bucket slowly filled. In a sure
content, he whistled more loudly.
He found his parents on the verandah. “Hullo,
Frank,” his father said, a faint shyness between them.
At breakfast they talked, but the boy ate hungrily and
silently. When he had finished he jumped up, saying
“I’m going to have a look at the orchard.”
The orchard was small, with apple, pear, plum
and apricot trees in it. He walked contentedly up
and down the tree-lanes, stopping to feel the fruit
knowledgably. Many of the windfalls had been spoilt
by the birds, but he picked up the best and put them
in a sack, which he trailed behind him. He started
back to the house, but when he reached the two pines
he stopped to gaze up at their gently-swaying tops,
deep green under the blue sky. The clouds passing
above seemed to be still, while the pines were falling,
falling, and you waited for the crash, but it never
came. He shook himself and went on to the house.
Life was very good.
'“THE Lookout was on a hill at the back of the
1 farm, two or three miles away. The road which
passed it had been made by convicts as the route to
the west, but was never used now. Its red clay was


S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date, June 6, 1941.
£lOO
FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL.
Only novels will be eligible for this 1941
Competition. The Prize will be awarded to the
novel that is considered the most outstanding
contribution to Australian literature. Each MS.
must' be submitted under a pen-name', with full
name and address in an accompanying sealed
envelope. Stamps to cover return postage
should be enclosed.
First refusal of serial rights to any entries
is reserved to “The Bulletin,” payment for such
rights being in addition to the Prize. All other
rights will belong to the author.
Further details can be had on application
to the Secretary, S. H. Prior Memorial Prize,
Bulletin Office, Box 252 188, G.P.0., Sydney.
baked and rutted and branches and gum-leaves lay
across it. In some places it divided and passed on
each side of an old gum-tree which stood with the
red, brown and yellow bark hanging in splinters from
its white trunk, and its white branches jutting and
zigzagging above the track and through the leaves
of thin saplings.
The road wound uphill all the way, but not
steeply, and the boy went ahead, feeling energetic
and hot. The locusts were so loud that they seemed
to pierce his ears; he could hear the crows crying in
the sky, and rabbits were springing up at the side of
the road and bobbing off into the long, heat-shimmer-
ing grass. As they neared the top, he hurried. The
road curved once more and he came out on to the
ridge where the Lookout stood —a great cairn of
stones, with a pole set in the middle of the flat top.
Panting, he climbed up, and stood looking, feeling as
if the world lay stretched before him.
It was all distance and space. Far away, the Blue
Mountains were vague but hard, litle jagged clumps
of pines on the skyline showing where the towns
were ; nearer, mountains turning to green, great cloud-
shadows moving slowly over them; below, brown
ploughed paddocks, and, to the left, their own little
township, in faint dry colors. The tiny railway line ran
round below the ridge. A goods train moved slowly up
it. The smoke of another train hung still, away over on
the mountains. Great drowsy distances moved round
him, yet everything seemed much nearer, more sig-
nificant —the sky, the mountains, the town, they were
all of one piece ; everything was a part of them, him-
self, the farm.
They had lunch sitting in the sun, and soon his
mother leaned back against the pole and slept. The
boy stood looking down at the brown paddocks and
small orchards and whitey iron roofs which lay far
below, tranquil in the afternoon sun. His father came
and stood beside him. “See the hawk?” he said, and
they watched it gliding in great circles down there,
over the farms.
After a time his father said quietly “It’s good
all this, isn’t it?” He stepped back and looked at his
son with a proud little smile and said “What about
walking up the road a bit?”
As they walked slowly up the old road his father
began to talk of the convicts who had made it, gasping
and sweating in the blazing summer of the harsh new
land, of the men on horseback, and their wives who
had followed them in lumbering coaches out to the
west, to Bathurst. The boy’s mind rang with the
sounds of the past, the slipping hooves on the rocks,
the squeaking, bumping coach wheels, the buzzing of
the locusts which sang then just as they did now,
while the same bright gum-tree trunks moved and
whispered as the settlers passed. At a bend in the
road they stopped and looked down through the trees
to the valley below, and his father said slowly “They
came to love country—just country itself. They
wouldn’t go back when they had the chance.” He
paused and looked away. “I don’t know what you’re
proposing to do when you leave school, and you’ve
got to decide that for yourself, but this isn’t such a
bad place —and when I give up you could keep it
going” He drew a deep breath, and stared at the
tops of the gum-trees, orange in the sun.
Exultation filled the boy, his manhood was recog-
nised, and he blurted out “Gee, dad, I don’t want
to do anything else!”
After a moment the man glanced at his son,
smiling hesitantly and said “Well, that’s that.” He
took out his pipe. “You know,” he said lightly, “that
rain last night was useful, but we could do with some
more.” And they turned and began to walk back
down the old road to the cairn.
“Mumsies little darling will soon be better !”
THE KID
By F. RYLANDS.
WHEN you got to the other side they re-formed
the units and you found yourself in a new
battalion. Most of your friends had been
drafted to other new units, and your new
platoon was made up of a lot of chaps you’d never
seen before.
In the long summer days you soon got to know
them. They were a pretty decent lot and you were
proud of them because they were your men, and you
felt they’d all stick when the time came.
It wasn’t always easy to hold them. Nothing
much happened in the quiet corner where the bat-
talion was camped, and one day was much the same
as another, except that you hoped each day passing
was one nearer Sydney Heads. Mostly it was the
same old stuff day after day —route marches, rifle
training, tactical exercises, guards and duties. Perhaps
the biggest excitement each month was when someone
ferreted out the fact that there were bags of Australian
mail down at the field post office. Then it would be
sorted out with painful slowness, and every evening
for the next week there’d be a pile of letters at the
company orderly-room. Some of the men would get
half a dozen letters; others would be disappointed
night after night, and they’d go back to their tents
wondering what the hell was wrong. You knew how
they felt because there were eight long weeks when
you yourself had no letters, and you had to do your
best to be cheerful about it and tell the men that
everything would turn out all right some day.
Sometimes when you’d be supposed to be lectur-
ing them on field craft or tactics it would often end in
a general discussion on all sorts of subjects. They
weren’t always military matters, but if they did nothing
else they helped you to get to know the men.
You got to like the kid best of them all. He
wasn’t quite eighteen—a slim, freckled-faced Sydney
lad with an everlasting grin. His age in his paybook
was twenty, but you often wondered how he ever
convinced the recruiting officers about that, and envied
his beardless cheeks because he didn’t have to face the
ordeal of shaving in the stinging wind each morning.
He was a decent, clean kid, cheerful and willing
■ —the sort of kid to have with you when you were
droving back in Queensland —and you used to look
after him as much as you could and see that he wasn’t
given more than his share of fatigues. He was full of
cheek and fun, but you didn’t mind that, though once,
when he got a little out of hand on a parade, you
had to put him on a charge sheet and take him up
before the major. But the major knew how to deal
with him, and he gave him only a couple of days C. 8.,
which taught him that he couldn’t play all the time.
The others used to look after him when he went
on leave with them, and sometimes you’d hear them
lecturing him. But he had a lot more sense than
most. Most of his pay was allotted to his mother in
Sydney, but every payday he used to buy enough
tobacco and matches to last him through the next fort-
night. He might bite you for a couple of bob towards
the next pay, but he always paid it back. Sometimes
he’d win a few shillings at the two-up school in the
wood, and he’d be as pleased as Punch.
Once he showed you a photograph of his young
sisters and his mother in Sydney, and you knew that
his mother must be proud of her son. He used to write
to her every week ; you knew because you had to col-
lect all the letters and hand them in to the platoon
officer who did the censoring.
At times he’d get a bit fed up with the monotony
of army routine. You’d talk to him then, and try
to buck him up, explaining that he’d taken on a man’s
job and he’d have to stick it like a man. But on the
whole he was willing. You hoped that your own kid
would grow up like him, because you felt that if
ever the platoon got into a tight spot the kid would
be all right, and you rather liked the way the men
used to barrack you about him.
THE leaves on the trees near the camp began to
turn brown and then to fall. The mornings were
cold and the grass was white with frost, so the bat-
talion was moved from the tents and open fields into
barracks in a big garrison town. It was more com-
fortable in the barracks, plenty of hot water and
proper beds and sheets, though, as an old bushman,
you didn’t like the houses and the brick walls and
smoky chimneys.
At night you could go into the town, and there
were hotels with warm lounges and bright fires. You
wished you could get to meet some people who would
take you home and make you feel you had some-
where to go for an hour or two. You’d met people
like that on your six-day leave in the north, but this
was a garrison town, and everyone was sick of the
troops because they played up at times. You felt
damned lonely in the place and wished to hell you
could get a bit of fighting or get back to Sydney—
so you generally ended up in a pub, where you were
always welcome and where there were women to talk
to. Maybe they were not the sort of women that
you’d like the wife to know, but as a soldier you
ought to be satisfied.
You were sitting in the lounge with a couple of
them one night just after payday. They were drinking
up a bit, and you’d had a few yourself. Suddenly you
spotted the kid standing at the bar, and he came over
to where you were sitting. You could see that he’d
knocked a few drinks down and that he was flushed
with youthful arrogance. He pulled a chair up to the
table and ordered a round of drinks.
“What do you know, sarge?” he asked. “I cleaned
up fifteen quid headin’ ’em this arvo and am I going
to wake this place up!”
You saw the women looking him over and you
tried to persuade him to go back to barracks, but
he reckoned he could look after himself, thank you,
and bought more drinks. When the dark one asked
you to go out with her, you said you didn’t want to
leave the kid, but she reckoned her mate
wouldn’t hurt him, and anyway didn’t you
know there was a war on and it was time he
grew up! The way you were feeling, you
didn’t care what happened, so you went.
Back at the barracks that night you looked
round to see if the kid was home, but his bed
was still empty. He wasn’t on parade next
morning either, and you felt that if you ever
met that blonde again you’d just about kill her.
The kid came back four days later. You
were sergeant of the guard that night, and
when he reported you had to put him in the
boob. They were pretty hard on A.W.Ls. now.
The kid didn’t say much —he had a de-
fiant “I-can-take-it” look—and there wasn’t
anything you could do about it. You spoke
to the major and told him how young the kid
was, but the major said that he’d acted like a
man and would have to be treated as a man.
‘And when the colonel gave him twenty-eight
days’ detention there was nothing you could
do. You knew that when the kid came back
from clink he wouldn’t be a kid any longer,
and you tried to tell yourself that it wasn’t
your fault, because it had to happen sooner
or later anyway!


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
jJ&cli lime ta’ie mellowncM widJxmqfUel
ARMS OF THE CITY OF LONDON.
Heraldry, State, civic or family, plays an important part in the life of the British people the Empire over. As to civic heraldry, every
city and town possesses its coat of arms. No sooner does a village or township, for some reason or another, witness a remarkable growth
than its citizens demand fuller municipal status. That secured, the next step is to obtain “heraldic recognition” by obtaining a coat
of arms. Few, if any, civic coats of arms are of greater interest than those of the City of London. They date from the year 1359,
when Edward 111 was King, but the crest, the dragon or griffin, supporters and motto “Domine dirige nos ” which may be rendered “O
Lord, guide us,” were granted in 1539. There is one curious fact in connection with this civic insignia. The crest and supporters were
introduced without the authority of the College of Heralds. The illustration is of a bronze relief which surmounted the War Memorial in
the Guildhall entrance. This famed municipal centre suffered greatly from Nazi barbarism, as exemplified by aerial bombing of cities.
Whether the entrance where the coat of arms and memorial were placed was “damaged beyond repair” will be known in due course.
The old City motto has a lesson for all of us, as it has for the heroic citizens of the metropolis. It has been truly said “Lord, direct us” is
now, as it has ever been, an inspiration for the men of the City to do good work for London, for England, for our Empire and the World.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62—No. 3196.
Wednesday, May 14, 1941.
THE MAYFLOWER RETURNS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp . G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
MAN-POWER IN THIS WAR.
It has been said so often that this is a war of machines
and factories that by now this conception is the one
generally, if not universally, accepted. Up to a point
it is true enough. Without ’planes and tanks, or with
only inadequate supplies of them, the best fighting
troops on earth are worse than useless against prop-
erly equipped troops. But this is no more than to
say that it is useless arming modern troops with bows
and arrows. Of course, machines and all the sinews
of war produced in the factories are vital essentials.
A point that seems to need making is that they have
about had their fair share of emphasis. It might be
about time—in fact, it may be somewhat late in the
day—to shift some of the emphasis to a strangely
neglected quarter.
It is noteworthy that the emphasis on the non-
combatant aspect of the war effort is not voiced by
soldiers. It is voiced by non-combatants, and extra-
ordinary inferences in support of their conception of
the war some of these are capable of drawing. Thus,
Mr. Menzies:
The fact that military casualties are only a fraction
of what was expected demonstrates it is a war in which
factories and machines are of paramount importance.
By what process of reasoning can that fact lead to
any such conclusion? Surely all that is there demon-
strated is that there has not so far been a thorough
clash of military forces of approximately equal
strength—in numbers, equipment, leadership, courage,
determination and resolution! And who ha£ counted
up the total military casualties on both sides to date,
from Poland onwards, and not omitting captured
prisoners of war?
Mr. Menzies has also said:
If any of us are left who want to talk in terms of
numbers of men and divisions, let us abandon the habit
while there is still time.
Has that conception any bearing on the tragically in-
adequate and unequal “numbers of men and divisions”
sent to face the German hordes in Greece? Is it
explanation enough of what happened there to say
that our men were beaten in the factories and by
machines? Can it be upheld that, given enough equip-
ment, the result would have been reversed? These
were part of the forces which, with similar equipment,
cleaned up the Italians in Egypt and Libya, the quality
lacking in the Italians being the most important one
of resolution —a finding that history may audit and
find correct in the case of the easy German defeat
of France also. It is surely of some significance in
this connection that the longest, if not the most effec-
tive, stand made against the Germans to date was
that made by their first victims, the Poles. Despite
pre-war misleading flapper-fodder to the contrary, the
French were irresolute about the war to begin with ;
by the time the Germans got to them, with a for-
midable fighting record already piled up, the notion
of inevitableness of German conquest would appear
to have been very deeply ingrained.
Other factors contributed to France’s collapse,
as to all other collapses, capitulations and retreats in
the face of the German onslaught. The French were
badly led, and the German military might—a term
which must not be restricted to infantry, but includes
military equipment generally, as well as tanks and
’planes—proved overwhelmingly stronger. Backed by
the fanatical German fighting quality, which nobody
in his senses has any doubt about, that onslaught
would have tested the most resolute troops of equal
all-round strength. Mere numbers certainly are not
enough ; but the point is that the French, whatever
their numbers on paper, were beaten by the superior
strength of the Germans —all-round strength, that is ;
leadership, equipment, resolution and numbers.
With slight differences, a similar tale can be told
of wherever the German onslaught has prevailed.
Nobody, Germans included, questions the fighting
quality of the Anzacs; in that they are without
superiors. Nor is it enough to say that they were
forced out of Greece by the German Air Force.
Neither was it a matter of inferior equipment. An
Australian war correspondent on the spot has
reported:
Both the Australian and New Zealand divisions were
fully equipped for the Greek campaign, but the German
force which was flung against them grew eventually to
eight divisions, including three armored divisions, and
in every battle in the 300-mile retreat our men fought
against odds of three, four and five to one.
Figures are dubious things these days, but for
what they may be worth they can be read daily in
war correspondents’ reports. Without exception they
insist on colossal German losses. For what comfort
it may hold, the Germans “paid dearly” for their
victory. It might be of more worth to remember
that they have always done that, and been prepared
to do it, whenever they came up against real fighters.
No doubt whatever their air superiority was an im-
portant factor —but what is an air force today but a
branch of military strength, like infantry, artillery or
any other branch? Taking that view of an army, the
Anzacs were equal to the Germans in only one sort of
strength—sheer fighting quality. The report of eye-
witnesses is that in this they were superior ; certainly
it would not be for the first time. But that only gives
all the more emphasis to the tremendous importance
still of numbers—of course, numbers adequately
equipped in all branches.
That might appear to be stating the obvious ;
yet Mr. Menzies, Australia’s war-leader, thinks
numbers of men and divisions no longer important,
and it is safe enough to say that there are tens of
thousands of others thinking likewise. Is his and
theirs not purely a civilian, non-combatant concep-
tion of war? Is it, in the face of what is happening,
a wise conception to foster? Has it anything to do
with the propagation of this conception that recruiting
has not been achieving anything like the desired
results? Has the overemphasis on the importance of
factory hands anything to do with this? Does insist-
ence on the idea that the non-combatant war-worker
is on an equal footing with the men engaged in the
bloody business of fighting represent the height of
wisdom in a country which at the same time insists
on its fighting men being volunteers?
There is a still wider view to be considered. The
Americans —to all intents and purposes in the war on
Britain’s side in every other respect —have been re-
peatedly told that their man-power is not needed.
“Give us the tools, and we will finish the job,” Mr.
Churchill has gallantly told them, and their leaders
and publicists have feverishly echoed Mr. Churchill.
But Mr. Churchill, like the great orator he is, speaks
as the spirit moves him. He has also said: “Britain
could, I believe, save herself for the time being, but
it will take the combined efforts of the whole English-
speaking world to save mankind and Europe from the
menace of Hitlerism and open the paths of progress
to the people.” More recently he spoke of numbers
in a big way, setting out against Germany’s 70,000,000
that “the people of the British Empire and the United
States number nearly 200,000,000 in the homelands
and the Dominions alone.” Is it to be supposed that
he was thinking of that array of man-power strength
in terms of potential factory workers? Or was he
thinking of at least a portion of them as fighters? At
least some American realists favor this latter inter-
pretation.
It is an entirely new conception that non-
combatant war-workers are not merely of equal but
of superior importance to the combatant forces—sea,
land and air. This conception, it would seem to be
worth noting, does not prevail in Germany. Nor does
the notion prevail there that civilian fortitude in the
face of bombing is on all fours with the deeds of men
who go out and do the fighting. It may be only an-
other sign that the Germans are nothing but bar-
barians, but that is how they look at it; and they go
on talking, thinking and acting in terms of numbers
of men and divisions. They glorify their fighters—
sea, land and air. The rest are the fighting man’s
necessary support; on him depends everything.
Perhaps the Germans are mistaken, victims of a
distorted sense of proportion. Perhaps their victories
are illusions and their emphasis on the prime import-
ance of their fighting forces and willingness to sacri-
fice these for success are only foolish anachronisms
in an age when all hands and the cook stand on an
equal footing in war. Or is it, perhaps, time the
countries opposing Germany—-on an all-out or part-
time basis —overhauled their sense of proportion in
this respect, exalting the fighting man to his former
rank, instead of levelling him off with the rest? This
would seem to be of some importance in a country
which depends on volunteers to do its fighting ; but
in all countries, actively engaged or merely shaping
up, it might also have value —the same value that it
would appear to have had for the Germans. It might
even be the final prescription for winning the war.
Give Us Plain Facts!
Throughout the campaign in Greece the people of
Maoriland knew well enough how many of their sol-
diers had been sent to that country, for their Prime
Minister had told them months before that the three
echelons overseas would not go into action until
they could fight as one force. And on May 2 Major-
General Freyberg, whose appointment to the com-
mand of the allied army holding Crete is a compli-
ment to a fine soldier and to his Dominion, was able
to give his Government a “rough estimate” of Maori-
land losses —“between 100 and 200 killed, between
500 and 600 wounded and approximately 800 miss-
ing”—which the Government published immediately.
Australians, impressed as they have been by their
own correspondents’ tributes to the dauntless
N.Z.E.F., can appreciate the relief with which General
Freyberg’s statement was received in the Dominion.
Their own anxiety was not materially allayed by the
account given by Mr. Spender at the same time. Based
on “a report received from Lieut.-General Blarney,”
it was to the effect that “the total of Imperial forces
in Greece before the German attack was estimated
at between 55,000 and 56,000” ; that among them
were “22,000 Australians of the Sixth Division and
corps troops” ; that “43,000 soldiers,” it was “offi-
cially estimated,” had been “accounted for”; that
“losses during the evacuation” were “about 3000, in-
cluding only a few Australians, who, though they
reached the beach, could not be taken off,” and that
“losses among all troops who left Greece” were “esti-
mated at not more than 500.” Save for a statement
that “small parties of A.I.F. men” were “still arriving
from Greece,” that was all the public got for six days.
Then those who had been trying to puzzle it out
were informed by Mr. Spender, again on the authority
of General Blarney, that “the number of Australian
troops engaged in Greece” was “not 22,000, the first
tentative estimate,” but 16,000, and that the killed,
“missing and prisoners” were “now estimated at less
than 3000.” The Minister “assumed” that “this total
would include wounded, although the word ‘wounded’
was not included in the message.” It was “impossible,”
the general said, “to give any detailed analysis of the
casualties at present,” but “every action” was “being
taken to obtain the information.”
On May 8 people had read in the papers that Mr.
Spender, again quoting General Blarney, had reported
the Australian casualties in the Tobruk fighting on
May 3 and May 4 at 10 killed and 138 wounded.
That was the first explicit statement of Australian
losses in a particular engagement which had been
published. During the preceding fortnight, several
lists of casualties had been issued to the press with-
out any explanation as to where and when they were
incurred. It may be surmised that they date from the
early part of April, when three A.I.F. battalions had
to carry out a 250-mile withdrawal from the neighbor-
hood of Benghazi to Tobruk, in the course of which
one company was surrounded by the enemy—who
had tanks as well as superiority in numbers —and cut
itself out; but there has been no official account of
the operation or the losses. The only thing of which
the people can be certain is that their men put up a
grand fight.
Britons themselves have had no intelligible
account of what really happened in North Africa to
transform the situation there from apparently secure
to dangerous. Mr. Churchill has been frank up to a
point, but the two statements he has made have left
part of the story untold. In the first (April 28) he
said that “an important part of the mobile portion
of the Army of the Nile was sent to Greece,” men-
tioning “the divisions from New Zealand and Aus-
tralia,” and giving the number of “Motherland troops
who took part in this dangerous expedition” as “about
half.” When they had been withdrawn “the forces
left in Libya sustained a vexatious and damaging
defeat.”
The Germans advanced in greater strength than we
or our generals expected. The bulk of our armored
troops, which played such a decisive part in beat-
ing the Italians, had been withdrawn, and the single
armored brigade which had been judged sufficient to hold
the frontier about the middle of March was worsted,
and its vehicles largely destroyed, by a somewhat larger
German force. Our infantry, which did not exceed one
division, had to fall back upon the armies which had
been nourished and built up in the fertile valley of the
Nile.
The losses he did not give, though he admitted
that British generals were among the prisoners. Pre-
vious official reports named three ; the enemy claimed
six.
Returning to the subject on May 7, Mr. Churchill
said that the generals had become prisoners because
they “took undue risks in their movements —risks
which they could run against Italians but not against
Germans.”
Tactical mistakes were committed and mischances
occurred, with the result that our armored force became
disorganised. The remains of it are now fighting at
Tobruk, where the troops from Benghazi, amounting to
only one division, who by a rapid retreat reached
Tobruk unmolested, stand at bay. [This doesn’t tally
with the April 28 statement that “our infantry, which
did not exceed one division, had to fall back upon the
fertile valley of the Nile.”] The German move was to
create a diversion and prevent forces from going to
Greece.
Another theory is that the “move” was made because
“forces” had gone “to Greece,” and that if they had
not been sent there it would have been stopped. The
presence in Libya of even the armored brigade that
found itself so hopelessly engaged in Greece might have
made all the difference between “a vexatious and
damaging defeat” which, with the unfortunate issue of
the campaign in the Balkans, has had such injurious
consequences, particularly in the Arab world, and a
resounding triumph. Mr. Churchill went on to say that
“the Germans rushed forward after their first success
with little thought for the morrow,” which sounds like
wishful thinking. He admitted that “the enemy is
superior in armored vehicles,” and that while this
superiority exists he will “have the advantage in
desert warfare,” though “the employment of large
numbers in the desert will, if things go wrong, only
lead to disaster on a larger scale.” The air forces, “at
present,” are “about equal.” Considering the proved
prowess of the R.A.F. and the R.A.A.F., that is suf-
ficiently encouraging, provided equality can be pre-
served.
But Britain and the Dominions alike should be
told the facts, however unpleasant. The civil popu-
lation of Britain has shown that it can stand up to
terrible batterings and take increased determination
from atrocities which it has seen with its own eyes,
and the people of these Dominions were never
daunted by the huge casualty lists issued after The
Landing, Lone Pine, Fromelles, Pozieres, Mouquet
Farm, Bullecourt, Passchendaele and the 1918 battles.
What they won’t endure calmly is official concealment
of what they have a right to know, and such glozing
rubbish as came from Cairo when the British armored
brigade was cut up and the infantry division had to
retreat.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Counted Out.
Little had been heard from the stunned survivors of
the Blitz-vote against Sydney’s Mair-Bruxner Govern-
ment when this went to the printer, and probably
little will be heard. When electors turn a majority of
21 into a minority of 24—and it may be worse—in the
process rejecting at least four Ministers, and probably
six, the best the defeated can do is shut up.
In other quarters all sorts of reasons will be
advanced for the catastrophe to the U.A.P.-U.C.P.
The main cause was the self-satisfied stodginess of
both parties. This exasperated the electors, even in
constituences which are normally “safe.” The U.A.P.’s
reversion to pre-selection was also sharply resented,
as was shown by the severe defeats administered to
labelled members in Mosman, Burwood, Ryde and
Tamworth, where the unhappy gentleman with the
coalition brand will lose his deposit.
The Hands-Off-Russia boys, self-styled the “State”
Labor “party,” got it heavily in the neck. There was
no swing towards their kind of Labor —about half of
them will forfeit deposits—which proves that, though
the worker may not say much, his head is still screwed
on the right way.
The result will have reactions in Canberra.
Federal Labor’s hand has been immeasurably strength-
ened and Mr. Menzies will have to face a very
awkward situation when he returns; Obviously the
electors of N. S. Wales want an invigorated war effort,
and they have no fears of a Commonwealth Labor
Government if events so fall out that Labor will take
control.
For Heaven's Sake, Govern!
Mr. Spender, speaking at one of those war-loan
“rallies,” said it was “no credit to Australians that
their leaders have, in effect, to come into the city
streets and plead for subscriptions.” Be this as it may,
it is no credit to the leaders that they should stand
by and see the drift of so many millions into s.p. shops
and lottery offices when they have full power to stop it.
One of the main reasons why the average number
of subscriptions to war loans has fallen so lamentably
short of what it was in 1914-18 is that s.p. betting and
lotteries, inconsiderable in the last war, are now
organised on a vast scale. Four States have Govern-
ment-controlled lotteries, a fifth has licensed betting
shops and there are s.p. joints innumerable. Neither
sink for savings could exist if Mr. Spender’s Govern-
ment made a resolute exercise of its powers.
It has full control over broadcasting ; and without
the broadcasting stations, national and commercial,
s.p. betting would shrink to small dimensions. 8.8. C.,
with all its faults, doesn’t cater to the betting busi-
ness ;it reports only five races —not meetings—a year.
In Australia, radio stations are different. Every day
and almost every night, A- and B-class “commen-
tators” are on the air giving detailed accounts of how
the gallopers, the trotters and the dogs perform, and
winding up always with the odds so that s.p. parasites
may pay out promptly.
Mr. Spender’s Government could veto this degrad-
ing traffic and ban publication of the odds, as Maori-
land does. It could restrict all forms of racing to Satur-
days and public holidays. And it could blot out the lot-
tery business in one act. As an alternative to that it
might permit the lottery offices to keep open condition-
ally on their being converted into offices for taking
subscriptions to war loans on the premium-bond basis.
Instead of paying ss. or £1 for a lottery ticket, a man
might contribute either amount as an instalment on a
£5 war bond at, say, three per cent, interest, one per
cent, to be divisible by monthly drawings and one-
half of one per cent, going into an amortisation fund.
The Government could get millions in that way,
and subscribers, instead of losing their money in one
go, would have a continuous investment, plus a regular
gamble.
Last week it was given out that a party of N.S.W.
people had won £40,000 in a Queensland lottery. Had
they derived that amount frbm investments in com-
panies producing munitions, they would have been
taxed 14s. in the £. As things are, the Government
engaged in the prosecution of the war won’t collect
a cent from them. In these matters it is the last word
in feebleness, and the fact is not to be hidden by
Spenderian issues of forcible-feeble oratory.
Mr. Eden.
“Feng-Shui” : I see by the papers that Mr. Eden dis-
appointed the House of Commons in the debate on
the Greek campaign by not rising to the occasion.
How could Mr. Eden rise to such an occasion? You
might as well say that an artist with mediocre talents
could rise to the occasion when he faced a landscape.
The only thing that would enable Mr. Eden to rise to
such an occasion would be knowledge of the problem,
and how could Mr. Eden have knowledge of any such
problem?
I understand that he is an Etonian and an
Oxonian. That is to say, he has had more of the
education that prevents Englishmen from thinking
than most other people. But he completely fulfils
English society’s conception of a distinguished states-
man. He is well-born, well-spoken and well-groomed.
He probably knows everything that the classic his-
torians wrote about the wars of the ancient Greeks,
but the war of the modern Greeks, that heroic struggle
for existence, found his diplomacy wanting because
all he could bring to it was the prejudices of an Eng-
lish gentleman who was educated at Eton and Oxford.
“ ‘ln this war,’ Mr. Eden says, ‘we are fighting
not for gain, but for causes.’ We are fighting for vic-
tory, and without that all the causes will be lost.”
Thus a “Daily Mail” writer, who, presumably, didn’t
go to Eton and Oxford. He meant that Mr. Eden has
certain sentimental and romantic notions about inter-
national relations and is fighting an enemy with dif-
ferent notions. In effect, Mr. Eden has good intentions.
Good intentions, plus birth, breeding, family influ-
ence, the perfect tailor, irreproachable manners, Eton
and Oxford, have raised Mr. Eden to the Foreign
Office, but a great deal more is needed in the difficult
field of diplomacy. And I have never heard of good
intentions winning a war.
Sound Cream of Tartar Position.
To borrow from the gentle phrases of the Minister for
the Army, all “faint hearts and feeble-guts” are hereby
advised to be of good cheer. Even if the worst comes
Commonwealth and States can be relied upon to see
that all is well, for at long last there is a conference in
Canberra. As past experience clearly shows, once a
conference begins there is no need for further worry.
From the inmost circles of this conference a
joyous message has been issued:
Problems arising in the production and storage of
sufficient matches and cream of tartar for three months’
emergency supplies are now being earnestly tackled.
This proves that, once Australian Governments fix their
eyes on an objective, not all the might of the Axis
can swerve them one iota.
Someone got the bright idea of storing rations in
hollow logs, under culverts and similar places in the
outback as a guarantee against food shortages caused
by enemy raiders or invaders. A quavering public
was told on 18/2/’4l:
A conference of Commonwealth and State representa-
tives will be held in Melbourne almost immediately to
review plans for establishing emergency foodstocks at
strategic centres in Australia.
It was enough. Tension relaxed at once. A con-
ference was the very thing. Silence descended on the
matter until 10/3/’4l, when Commerce Minister Page
gave details in a broadcast of a plan whereby nearly
£6,000,000 worth of food was to be stored to provide
“iron rations for the civil population in an emer-
gency.” The Commonwealth and States were “co-
operating.” No conference? No conference!
Let us move on, like time and the food-storage
plan, to 21/3/’4l. By now regulations have been
gazetted:
(1) To regulate and control the manufacture, produc-
tion, supply and distribution of certain prescribed goods.
(2) Take possession of, limit or prohibit the sale, use or
consumption of these goods. (3) Arrange for the trans-
portation of the goods. (4) Register persons concerned
in their production, manufacture, distribution or sale.
(5) Require returns of stocks of the goods.
Thus is the departmental mind justified. A list of the
goods was given. Beer and tobacco were not included.
C. E. Critchley, the Australian Trade Commissioner
in Maoriland, would be recalled to assist in the ad-
ministration of the plan. At this stage a dreadful
lack appeared. There had not been a conference!
But wait, the merry month of May is here. The
month when the voice of the taxgatherer is loud in
the land and the tribes of the Mairbruxners and the
McKell-langs sport festively in the land of New South
Wales. May has arrived and (heaven be praised!) so
has the conference. But what is this? It is at Can-
berra, not Melbourne. A small thing, perhaps, but
it shows that Melbourne is losing its grip on the war-
effort, thanks, no doubt, to the champions of Sydney.
And the good news is out at last. The States are
“co-operating.” Just to prove it: In N.S.W. the re-
tailer will give a p.n. to the wholesaler for three
months’ supply of foodstuffs, with quarterly adjust-
ments of the account and allowance for price changes.
In Victoria there is no payment by the retailer for
the original three months’ supply, the debt being car-
ried by the wholesaler at prices ruling at the begin-
ning of the scheme. Joy for the Riverina retailer buy-
ing from the Melbourne wholesaler.
What that means is best left to the conference,
but the country is assured that the “plan is to be con-
siderably advanced by the conference.” This cannot
be doubted, for there is the definite fact that not only
was the conference begun within 11 weeks of the first
announcement, but the problems of matches and
cream of tartar are being “earnestly tackled,” there
is to be another conference as soon as Mr. Critchley
has visited all the States and arrangements are to be
made for special storage of household kerosene.
Anyone who doubts Australia’s determination after
all that should be compelled to go without cream of
tartar next time he has heartburn.
Housing Munitioneers.
“C.W.”: Federal and State authorities, municipal
officials, town-planners and common or garden citi-
zens continue to argue about the housing of munition
workers in Melbourne, while young Mr. Holt shows
good intentions and no performance. All the prac-
tical suggestions made to date are excellent in theory,
but will produce no result until the end of the present
war or by the beginning of the next one. There is
also argument about whether the workers should be
encouraged to rent their houses, if or when erected,
or pay them off in instalments. This misses an obvious
point.
A large proportion of the army in overalls that
has descended on Melbourne will be engaged on muni-
tions work only for the duration of the war. Many
of them are farmers who have been blown off their
holdings by sandstorms or bad times. Others are
youths who have learnt some smattering of the trade
they are engaged in and would be quite incapable of
competing with the skilled tradesman under normal
conditions. There won’t be jobs for all of them after
the present conflict and the Government will have
enough on its hands finding employment for them
elsewhere without saddling them with a time-payment
house.
Another urgent problem is transport. The work-
man unable to find accommodation near his factory
has to spend three hours a day or more travelling to
and from his place of employment, and the time could
be better used in sleeping. The ancient bottlenecks
that put a stranglehold on traffic in Melbourne are
an evil legacy from past neglect which complicate the
business.
But it isn’t half as difficult a problem as keeping
an army hundreds of miles from its desert base sup-
plied with food, water and ammunition. The military
leaders seem to have solved those problems pretty
satisfactorily. Ambitious young politicians like Mr.
Holt don’t seem to have given themselves the right
kind of training for it.
A Costly Snake-yarn.
“T. McNark” : Browsing through an old copy of one
of the innumerable “Digests,” I came across the
following:
Marrawarra shouted excitedly to his son, and
together, with their spears ready, the natives left the
trail and dashed through the bushes to the river.
On reaching the stream they halted in amazement as
they saw a desperate battle in progress.
Hurriedly turning to the beginning of the article I
found it described as “a really thrilling account of
Nature in the raw.” It was headed Aboriginal Adven-
ture and was “condensed from ‘Walkabout,’ Mel-
bourne.”
The amazement of those natives was mild com-
pared with the sensations I experienced as I read the
article. It told how the natives had, first of all, driven
a couple of spears into a N.T. buffalo bull —“deep
into his neck” —and then followed the wounded animal
by the bloodstains until they heard “awful, bellowing
cries” and came on the desperate battle. A “mighty”
crocodile had a buffalo cow by a foreleg and was
dragging her into the river when the wounded bull
turned up, “summoned by the appealing calls of his
trapped mate —a call of the wild which no bull buf-
falo ever ignores”—and tore into Mr. Croc.
The description of the ensuing fight beggars
description. Suffice it to say that the old bull knew
a thing or two, knew that the croc, had two vulnerable
spots, the eyes, and promptly proceeded to poke first
one and then the other out with his horns. This
strategy accomplished, the poor old croc, lost on
points and Marrawarra knocked down the spear his
son was about to throw at the victor, “for even among
the aboriginals there is a sense of sportsmanship and
fair play.”
This snake-yarn wouldn’t matter, perhaps, except
that I have to pay my whack for the printing and pub-
lishing of “Walkabout,” a magazine put out by what
is now called the Australian National Publicity Asso-
ciation, and retailed monthly at Is. a copy.
Make-up and format are so expensive that the
thing must show a loss. Its most recent issue
consists of 52 pages, in which there are 11 pages of
advertisements; of them are from Government
tourist bureaux or railways. The body responsible
recently changed its name by substituting the word
“Publicity” for “Travel” and in the last Common-
wealth Budget it was voted a grant of £B3OO. In pre-
war times its annual grants were a great deal more.
The case of the A.B.C. “Weekly” is bad enough.
I strongly oppose the use of my tax-money by the
Commonwealth or State bureaux to support an ex-
pensive and unwanted magazine in the publication of
wild and erratic yarns about my country, its fauna
and its natives. “Walkabout” should be made do its
walking without the assistance of Government money.
Is Producer-gas Worth While?
The new petrol-rationing scale is to limit private
motorists to 40 miles per week. Rationing is to
apply to six classes of motor-cars and six classes of
commercial vehicles, all of which will have to get
along on a reduced issue. There are vague stirrings
about the use of producer-gas, but neither Govern-
ments nor private enterprise are rushing it, though it
seems to be a success in Japan, Germany and other
parts and a few vehicles equipped with gas-producers
can be seen running about the local scene.
Though most of him would thump the man who
said so, the Australian is a conservative bird under
normal conditions, which is one of the chief reasons
why producer-gas has made so little headway. The
average car- and truck-owner just simply won’t be
bothered with a producer-gas outfit while the Govern-
ment benevolently permits him to obtain some petrol.
But under abnormal conditions, such as he en-
countered in Gallipoli, France and sundry other parts
a generation ago, the Australian brings forth those
qualities of dash and enterprise which mark him apart
from men of other races. He’s doing it again in
North Africa, in the troubled European air and on
the dangerous seas today, largely to protect huge
petrol deposits in Iran and Irak.
If they should pass from British control, and the
British be forced to turn more to the N.E.I. and the
Americas for oil, the local Australian may have to
bring forth those same qualities to provide himself
with an automotive fuel. That, or resign himself to a
revival of the horse-and-sulky era. It is significant
that no more has been heard from “petrol patriots”
on the rationing subject, they and others evidently
having realised at last that the stuff must be conserved.
What most motor-vehicle owners want to know
is whether it is worth going in for producer-gas. Once
assured that it is, they would show little hesitation. It
is up to Canberra either to issue proof now or set
about obtaining it.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“T.W.D.”: The Polish refugee had
been to his first Australian Rules foot-
ball match, and we asked him which side
had won. “Eet woss hard to tell,” he
said with a helpless shrug of the shoul-
ders. “Seem it woss a team called de
Rotten Cows, and dey beat de Stinkin’
Loafers by four points.”
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: Ever since the war began
I’ve been saving my empty tobacco tins
in the belief that somehow I was aiding
the war effort. The missus made frequent
attempts to clear the things out, but I
resisted strenuously, sure that sooner or
later the country would call for them
and I would get a mention in dispatches
as a loyal and far-sighted salvager. Then
the missus rushed in with the morning
paper, her finger on this:
If anybody wants to get rid of tobacco
tins, ring the District Memorial Hospital.
It will collect the tins and be glad of them.
“There you are,” I said and made for
the ’phone. A fed-up female voice
replied: “No, we don’t want tins. I’ve
answered hundreds of inquiries. My
goodness, what would we do with them?”
Coldly and silently I ordered my off-
spring to take those tins to the local
deserted quarry and dump them.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: A Cairns (N.Q.) man
has installed a domestic hot-water system
which should find plenty of imitators in
the more sunny parts of Australia. Con-
structed by amateur labor from £lO worth
of materials, it supplies enough hot water
to a household of four people for all
domestic purposes. The heating unit is
a coil of galvanised pipe painted black
and enclosed in an insulated glass-covered
box. It is placed on the roof fully ex-
posed to the sun, and the circulating pipes
are so arranged as to allow for upward
flow of warm water and downward of
cold through the system and heating unit.
An insulated reservoir tank stores the
main supply, and the circulation is re-
plenished automatically by a ball-valve
cock from a tank or outside water supply.
The inventor claims that one square foot
of box area to each gallon of reservoir
capacity will yield a water temperature
of 150-160 deg. F. with six hours of sun
exposure.
* * * »
“Oxmead”: The word “smokes,” which
grates on the sensitive perceptions of
the Kuring-gai (N.S.W.) bumbles (B.
7/5/’4l) may have been a “vulgar
Americanism” in the beginning, but it
has been familiar enough in most parts of
the British Empire for decades. I can’t
say offhand how long it is since Kipling
wrote
For a woman’s only a woman but a good
cigar is a smoke,
but I will venture it is getting on for
half a century. And in one of Besant
and Rice’s earliest books, written in the
’seventies, I. can recall a reference to
a “twopenny smoke.”
“K.”: I hastyn to tayke “Bo” (B.
7/4/’4l) to taske for hys remarkse
abowte the counsayle that didde rebuyke
the vyndr offe tobackko for havyng dys-
playde the worde “Smokes” yn fronte
offe hys shoppe. Ful wise wasse that
bodye to kepen our Englishe toung pure
and unsullyd. Yt ys the firste vertue to
restreine bastarde wordes from crcpinge
yn, and thys noble ensample sholde have
been wel laudedde. “Smoke” is a goode
olde Anglo-Saxone worde (der. smocian,
smecan, smeocan, smykari), butte
“smokes” maye only be usede as a verbe
intransytyve, as yn “harde bye a cottege
chymnay smokes.” Or yt myghte be used
as yn “Prowde offe hys steedes, he
smokes alonge the fieldes.” Butte not as
a nowne yn the pluralle. As John Hey-
wood sayde, “Yt hurteth not the toung
to give faire wordes,” but yt doth when
such ys donne oute offe playce. Alle
honoure to a bande of stoute gentilmen
(I use the terme “stoute” yn the sense offe
morel fortituyde and not the cercum-
forynce offe theire bellys) who are detyr-
myned to putte down syche badden
practyses.
* * *
“Tuart”: Professor Dakin (B. 7/5/’4l)
has another claim to fame. He designed
that camouflage net of which the
Defence Department has asked for
100,000, and which 500,000 enthusiastic
women seem to be making. Apropos,
when the Prof, was in Perth a pressman
who did a weekly column of chaff,
sprinkled with jingle, for the “Sunday
Times,” introduced “Professor Dicken”
as a character. An erudite colleague
figured as “Professor Moreduck.” Under-
grads., then a very small body, used to
rock with laughter, and the two orna-
ments of the scholastic world didn’t mind.
The poet is better known nowadays as
The Bulletin’s “T. the R.”
* * *
“Cauboy”: Touching sound shells in
Maoriland and elsewhere (B. 7/5/’4l).
Collins-street, Melbourne, is a sound
shell, as is made dreadfully evident when
the authorities stage a war-savings certi-
ficate rally. Reinforced by a mike and a
loudspeaker, ladies sing “Land of Hope
and Glory” and other items to lunch-
time audiences. If the sound shell proposed
to be erected in the Botanic Gardens is
anything like the Collins-street one, I will
join the ducks on the lake in making a
protest against Sunday-afternoon alfresco
concerts.
* * * *
“Bukit Timah”: If the Governor of
Singapore has succeeded in prohibiting
cracker-firing amongst the Chinese popu-
lation because it can be easily mistaken
for the sound of rifle fire, he will have
done something generations of English-
men have failed to do. Your Singapore
Chinaman loves a good hunger and, if
Hitler’s bombs were harmless, would be
as happy as a lark in London just at
present. Crackers are reckoned to have
sanitary effects in clearing away evil
spirits, and as these are particularly active
during childbirth the Chinaman con-
siders it a highly hygienic proceeding
to kick lip the maximum of noise
about an expectant bedside. The
Occidental idea of absolute quiet and
isolation for a woman in labor would
seem to him dangerous, if not sinister.
On the occasion when my cook’s wife
was engaged in adding to Singapore's
population I was horrified to hear a series
of explosions under the servants’ quar-
ters where she was lying. But she was
charmed, and it calmed her down better
than a dose of chloroform. The Chinese
New Year lasts ten days, and brings with
it an/uproar which makes sleep impos-
sible for the \vhite inhabitants.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: As one who can remember
when ladies from Australia were sternly
forbidden to visit the Sultan of Johore in
his sultanate, it intrigued me to read
these words on a flapper paper’s poster:
Our Girl Reporter
Dines with the Sultan of Johore.
They didn’t tempt me to read the article —
flapper papers bore me to the back teeth,
and my interest in the potentate with
the diamond-studded teeth waned long
ago. But it is passing strange that a
Girl Reporter from Australia can go
careering round a potential war zone,
In the case of General Blarney’s
wife, sanction was granted by War
Cabinet and refused by Full Cabinet
—though the refusal hadn’t the slightest
effect. Some pertinacious M.H.R. or
Senator should inquire what the pro-
cedure was in the case of the Sultan’s
guest.
* * * *
“Craiser”: A Melbourne matron was
being shown by the principal round a
school at which her offspring had just
been accepted as a pupil. Everything
pleased her ; but as she was leaving her
gaze fell on a tablet and her eye caught
a word which suggested something to her.
“There is one thing, Mr. Blank, which
“ ’Urry up—I Wanter weigh mine!”
I’m sure we all feel,” she said. “I hope
we will never admit in our education
those awful American habits and customs
or hear our children speaking in that
frightful way they do in the pictures.
Don’t you agree with me?” “I agree
with you in part,” said the headmaster,
“but not altogether. This school was
endowed with 150,000 dollars of Ameri-
can money.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The dangers of “View
Mat.” ads., the foolishness of some
women and the incredible fascination
exerted by unlikely men all appear in an
Adelaide case. Between February and
November of last year, the Court noted
in astonishment, the prisoner, a second-
hand dealer, got, as “an honorable man
with an old-established business,” £332
from one fiancee, a nurse ; £43, all she
had, from a waitress; £lO6 from a
widow; £ll2 from another nurse; and
actually over £lOOO from a dressmaker.
“And all he can say is that he pleads
guilty, and is 62, with a wife and seven
children. Three years and six months.”
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Old-time playgoers will
regret the passing of the King’s in Mel-
bourne —it is to be converted to the uses
of the talkies. Tommy Bent opened it for
Bill Anderson in 1908. That redoubtable
entrepreneur took £3OOO a week there
for years with awful melodramas. Bert
Bailey and Grant then got the King’s on
a 15-years’ agreement and launched “On
Our Selection” on its successful career.
They then sublet the theatre to the Firm,
since when it has beep mainly in the
doldrums, though its boards have been
trod by such distinguished buskers as
Dion Boucicault, Irene Vanbrugh, Oscar
Asche and Sybil Thorndike. The name,
incidentally, came about by accident. Bil-
anderson offered a prize of £lOO for a
suitable moniker, but none of those
submitted pleased him, because what he
wanted was a royal cognomen to bring
his theatre into line with His Majesty’s,
the Princess and the Palace. Nobody
knew what was in his mind, so nobody
thought of the hackneyed “King’s.” In
the end he named it himself and saved his
money. It was the only money he ever
saved.
* * * *
“Schnorrer”: I read once more that
there are “no poor Jews.” It looks
like that, but there’s a reason,
The Jews in every community have
a system of charities, including a
home for the aged and indigent, a loan
society to help down-and-outs to
their feet with free-of-interest aid, and
a society which, if necessary, buries the
poor without charge. For a Jew to apply
to any non-Jewish service for aid is
regarded as disloyalty. As for refugees,
there is an ex-Viennese doctor, estab-
lished in Sydney for several years now,
who gives half his income to refugee
funds, and there are others doing almost
as much. According to Jewish principles,
a tenth part of income must go to reli-
gious purposes and the attendant chari-
ties ; generosity in giving starts only when
that duty has been fulfilled,
* * * *
“Clooter”: I’ve been wondering why
what used to be called “ack ack” fire
is now referred to as “flak.” Even
a convoy ship specially armed to keep
off air-raiders is dubbed a flakship. A
lecturer to Queensland students now
explains that flak is an abbreviation of
the German “flugzeugabuehrkanonen
meaning in English—or as near as Eng-
lish can get to it —“aircraft warding-off
guns.” Flak is said to be the German
army abbreviation, but in view of the
fact that such abbreviations —consider
“ Blitz. ” —are a peculiar habit of the
British, this may be doubted. Anyhow,
the explanation ought to spur on the war
effort, for a nation faced with fighting
to prevent itself being forced to learn and
speak words like “flug-e tc.” should need
no martial music.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: If I were not even more
violently addicted to bird-watching, 1
should like to make a collection of the
numbers of apparently normal citizens
who go about Sydney spouting stark,
raving lunacy. I watched the May Day
procession filing into the Domain and
there, on placard after placard, borne
solemnly by earnest men, were the
familiar slogans of the Corns., “Fight
Fascism at Home!” and “Demand a
Democratic Peace!” Is it the party line
now that the good, kind Hitler is just
busting to give us a democratic peace
but is being prevented by wicked Aus-
tralian Fascists —who, of course, are
imitating the wicked Fascist Hitler? It
gave the final touch of the Gilbertian to
the procession that the banner with the
heart-warming battlecry “Nationalise the
Brewing Industry!” was carried by a
stalwart toper fully eight years old.
ECHOES OF OMAR.
“In the last six vintages Australia has produced
over 100 million gallons of wine, but last year’s
exports to Great Britain were 21 million gallons
below normal, owing to restricted shipping sjpace.”
A flask of wine, a bit of wheaten chow,
A book of verse and some engaging Thou
Could make a wilderness a paradise
In Omar’s time —but things are altered now.
Each month a million gallons brings, they say,
Of wine, or more, to damp our human clay.
Is’t not a shame, debarred from outside aid,
We make no move to stow the stuff away?
Strange, is it not —alike in posh hotel
And unpretentious country pub as well —
How few, how very few, arrive to buy
What should be easiest for Bungs to sell?
O thou who dost with whisky, beer and gin
Bedeck the bars I take my tiddleys in,
’Tis time to push the less familiar juice,
Drawn from the cask or bottled from the bin.
Fill up the cup! What boots it to repeat
The charm of nut-brown ale or brandy neat?
Unless we drouthy patriots do our bit
The war will see our vineyard-owners beat.
1 sometimes think that never glows so red
The rum as in the grapes the presses tread.
The flask may well become a flagon now
And never mind the poetry—or the bread.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Four hundred and ninety-six A.W.L . Otherwise, all correct, sir!
“S.T.S.”: Some of those wild answers
in a “quiz” lately noted may be due to
the facing of a microphone and a crowd
by a person—especially, perhaps, a
woman —not accustomed to either. The
limit was reached lately on a simple
question of the kings of England in this
century. (Silence.) “Well, work back-
wards ; who is the King now?” (Silence.)
“Come, you must know the present King’s
name?” “George?” (doubtfully). “Yes,
that’s right; George the what?” “The
Eighth?” Then the director mercifully
led her off to the free grocery samples
provided for all losers by the sponsors of
the show. Another, asked to name the
lady whose name was prominently asso-
ciated with Nelson, scandalously sug-
gested Queen Elizabeth. But the oddest
case was that of “Queen Mary’s grand-
children.” Promptly given were the Prin-
cess Royal’s two sons and the Duke of
Kent’s boy and girl. Then unbroken
silence, in spite of encouraging hints that
the rest was easy.
* * * *
“Poler”: For all his watchfulness, the
censor has let the cat out of the bag. The
secret was kept well for many months,
but now all can be told. The R.A.F. is
manned by Americans! Whether this
is because the Luftwaffe has wiped out
the English personnel or because the Eng-
lish have turned the flying game up in
favor of football isn’t clear, but the fact
remains. It sneaked out in Quentin Rey-
nolds’s book, The Wounded Don’t Cry,
published serially in my Sunday paper.
Mr. Reynolds, an American, tells of the
return of an R.A.F. bombing squadron
from a flight over Germany:
They’d done a great job tonight and
they knew it. “Say, 1 got a scare,” Alec
said to Red. “A big aircraft came out of
a cloud. 1 was hoping it was a Heinkel.
And what was it? It was Red.”
“Yeah, I saw you, too,” Red said.
“Where’s Eddie?” someone asked.
“He’ll be right along,” someone else
said.
“Bet he’ll have a swell story,” Brownie
laughed.
Eddie walked in then. “I dropped my
bombs,” he said, “and, say, you should
have seen those flames.”
Outside, Brownie said, “This was a cinch
compared to that.”
“That” was a flight to New York- If
Mr. Reynolds or the censor had only
seen to it that the dialogue of the pilots
was changed to English in the book no-
body would ever have suspected the truth.
Thank you, Mr. Reynolds!
* * * 4!
“Zake”: Stilled now are the voices of
aspirants for cushy jobs in the Macquarie-
street excrescence which echoed dismally
in semi-empty suburban and country
halls. But these hopeful demagogues must
have felt themselves centres of thrilling,
vibrant interest compared with some
brother - spruikers who figured in a
municipal election. Six of these bumbles
faced an audience of one, whom they
made chairman. Each in turn then got
off his chest the whole of his prepared
speech. Throughout the terrible ordeal
the unnamed hero never flinched, though
after it was over he admitted that they
“nearly talked him blind.” It seems like
an understatement.
* * * *
“Nomen”: I’m not so sure that “such
monikers.... as Tobruk, Bardia or
Solium would deter the most thoughtless
of parents” from so “labelling innocent
babies” (B. 30/4/’4l). Anyway, a Vic-
torian woman whose husband is abroad
with the A.I.F. has named her newly-
born son “Corporal,” the news of her
husband’s promotion to that rank coin-
ciding with the baby’s birth. The Boer
War produced a pertinent song, the
chorus of which ran:
The baby’s name is Kitchener Carring-
ton Kekewich Methuen White
Cronje Kruger
Powell Majuba
Gatacre Warren Colenso Buller
Capetown Mafeking French
Kimberley Ladysmith Bobs
Union Jack
Fighting Mac
Lyddite Pretoria Blobbs.
* * * *
“Avon”: Winston Churchill’s choice
of A. H. Clough’s bit about the tide flood-
ing in “through creeks and inlets” as a
peroration might have made more of a
hit with me if I had not as a youth in
Maoriland heard it so often in connec-
tion with forlorn political hopes that
never materialised. It was a favorite
with the prohibitionists (among others)
of the ’nineties, and always suggested to
my mind the picture of a dreary sea-
shore bog. It brought also the reflection
that the tide flows out as soon as it has
come in.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: In his inaugural address
as State Moderator, Rev. C. N. Button
told the Presbyterian
Assembly in Mel-
bourne last week that
the plea for short and
snappy sermons to
meet the debilitated
powers of concentra-
tion of a movie-
minded age was littie
else than a plea for
lignt entertainment. In
the great days of the
church in Scotland a
preacher spoke from
the pulpit for 11
hours. In some Edin-
burgh churches it was
the practice for
divines to take shifts
in painting the terrors
of the next world and
all - round - the - clock
sermons held the rapt
attention of the faith-
ful. But that wouldn’t
do in Australia, a fact
that was realised
early. There is a story
that in the first days
of the Anglican
church in Victoria a
new minister who was
more noted for riding
over fences than for
religious fervor saved
himself the bother
of composing a sermon for three suc-
cessive Sundays. On the first occasion
he mounted the pulpit and asked “Does
anybody know what I am going to say?”
“No!” shouted his audience in unison.
“Then it’s no use preaching to a pack of
fools like you,” re-
torted the preacher.
On the following Sab-
bath he asked the
same question, but,
being ready for him,
the congregation all
shouted “Yes!”
“Well,” said the
preacher, “if you
know it already there’s
no need for me to tell
you.” On the third
occasion, half said
they knew and half
said they didn’t.
“Then, those who
know,” rejoined the
remarkable preacher,
“can tell those who
don’t know.”
* *
“Trevdee”: Placard
in a St. Kilda (Vic.)
shop: “I am the only
genuine Greek in this
street.” Not far away
another notice: “All Scots are genuine;
I’m one.”
* * * *
“X.S.”: When an eight-year-old girl,
required to take an oath, was asked by
Judge Magennis at the Court of General
Sessions in Melbourne whether she knew
what would happen to her if she told a
lie she said that she would “go under the
ground.” Her seven-year-old brother
vouchsafed the suggestion that he would
“go to the devil,” and, asked whether he
would find the devil hot or cold, he con-
fessed he didn’t know. Which indicates
that the practice of getting little children
to take oaths is due for oblivion —it is
difficult enough for an adult to know
when he is telling the truth, let alone an
infant. Most Melbourne Judges are glad
to sheer off a thorny subject. Some years
ago a juvenile witness in a motor-acci-
dent case told Judge Foster that the
penalty for a false oath was hell at death.
Foster, J., a Rationalist, snapped “Hell!
There’s no such place.” He was deluged
with attacks from all the “Pro Bono
Publicos” in Melbourne.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Commenting on the fact that
Norman Lindsay is represented in
the collection of Australian art for
America by one pen drawing, “Sienna”
(B. 30/4/’4l) asks by what criterion the
committee judged either Art or Austra-
lianism. The procedure in these cases is
usually quite simple. A person looks at
a picture and has either a pleasant or an
unpleasant feeling. If he regards himself
as a connoisseur of painting he concludes
that a picture which gives him a pleasant
feeling is a good picture and vice versa.
But the same applies to a tomato. I dote
on tomatoes, but they make a friend of
mine sick in the stomach. There is no
reason to suppose that his feeling is
caused by the tomatoes. It is much more
likely that some early experience has
surrounded tomatoes with unfortunate
associations for him, and a tomato is a
memory of these associations. At the
first exhibition I saw of Norman Lind-
say’s drawings some old ladies almost
fainted, and warned their daughters not
to look at the revolting things, while at
least two eminent critics said he shouldn’t
have done it. Now precisely similar old
ladies make collections of his drawings
and critics praise them.
* * * *
“Fi. fa.”: The deficient acoustic prop-
erties of Brisbane’s Civil Court have
been again practically demonstrated.
Addressing the Full Bench, an eminent
counsel was explaining the rates of medi-
cal fees charged for an operation per-
formed outside Queensland, and spoke
incidentally of “leading doctors.” A quiet
question came from the Bench: “Did
you say ‘bleeding’ doctors, Mr. X?”
With a courteous bow and a disapprov-
ing glance round the roof and walls
which had so distorted his eloquence on
its way to the judicial ear, he replied:
“I used a word beginning with an ‘L.’ ”
* * * *
“Invoice” makes a contribution to
commercial history:
Australian oversea trade really began in
Macquarie’s day, but it was half a dozen years
later that it became firmly established. Writing
in 1826, Surgeon Peter Cunningham, R.N., one
of the best of this country’s early historians,
says, referring to V.D.L. as well as N.S.W.:
“Six years ago some six or seven vessels
yearly from India and China comprised the
whole of our foreign traders. We have since
imported cargoes of teas, sugars, silks, nankeens,
India calicoes, tobacco, Cape wines, etc. —
valued at about £200,000 —-in 10 vessels from
the Isle of France, five from India, four from
the Brazils, two from the Cape and five from
China, and 50 vessels entered inland fr.om Eng-
land and other parts, with cargoes estimated at
£400,000, the foreign importations being paid
principally in Government bills and dollars.
We have also a tolerably thriving trade
with the South Sea Islands and New Zealand,
wherefrom we import sandalwood, pearl-
shells, arrowroot, salted pork, spars, New
Zealand flax, etc. Our tea and sugar imports
are a considerable drawback to colonial ad-
vancement, seeing that nearly the whole must
be paid for in Government bills and dollars.
.... If we could exchange our flour, wool,
beef, pork, coals, timber, etc., for this tea and
sugar we should be not only independent of
Government expenditure but import more than
we now do from England.”
* * * *
“Dip”: Further to that “War Indus-
tries Supplement” (B. 23/ 4/ ’4l), the
A.W.A. people, by arrangement with the
Sperry Gyroscope concern, is to manufac-
ture the Sperry directional gyro and the
Sperry artificial horizon gyro. The direc-
tional gyro is a fixed indicator for steer-
ing straight courses and making precise
turns; the artificial horizon dial has a
miniature aeroplane on it, and moving
against the dial is a bar attached to the
gyro, so that when the pilot banks the
miniature ’plane tilts to the same angle
on the bar as the ’plane is on the horizon.
When the pilot climbs the indicator bar
falls below the miniature ’plane, and so
on. The gyros are such fine-precision
jobs that they must be accurate to
1 / 100,000 th of an inch, and the tiny ball
bearings that support the rotor are finally
inspected under a microscope. A.W.A.
is also working on altimeters, both simple
and sensitive, air-speed indicators, rate-
of-climb indicators, flying and bearing
compasses, vacuum gauges and manifold
gauges. Some of these instruments have
already been completed, and, if all goes as
expected, Australia will be able to supply
all its own needs in these lines. The com-
plicated nature of the work may be gath-
ered from the fact that for one instru-
ment alone there are 1200 tool drawings.
“Bom on the seventh of May , Was y'? Well, the stars sez ’ere that day
is propishus for love-makin'!"
THESE COMIC STRIPS.
In times like these, there’s nobody can doubt,
The list of things we needs must go without,
Essential though they were in days of peace,
Must constantly and steadily increase.
And, realising we’ve a war to win,
’Tis best to take it with a cheerful grin,
Not grudging anything that may conduce
In any way to cooking Hitler’s goose,
From sticks for beautifying female lips
To comic strips.
Hearts up, my fellow-sufferers, and recall,
Somehow, somewhere, the shoe must pinch us
all!
Scarcer and dearer grow commodities
We erst could count upon from overseas.
A real famine threatens in sardines;
Shortage of salmon and of pork-and-beans
And other esculents that come in tin
Occasions worried housewives mild chagrin.
And now Authority puts in the nips
On comic strips.
Tobacco may be rationed next —who knows?
And even, it is darkly hinted, clothes.
So you who’ve gazed with fascinated eyes
Upon the capers of exotic guys
And watched them through their inky stunts
progress
Per medium of an enlightened press,
Accept your loss with war-time hardihood
Remembering it’s for the common good.
And if such works of art you still demand,
There must be artists in this sunny land
With talents equal to the craftsmanships
Of comic strips.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


fsfll
PREVENT
GRAVEN AH*
item vmm- tkeifte,,
always smc'tft'fftedt!
10 for 10d. 20 for 18
o
-
m-
■<%
E 1867
POLITICAL POINTS
When N.S.W. turns out a Government
it does the job properly. On June 11,
1932, it rejected five of Lang’s Ministers —
Dunn, Gosling, Tully, Lamaro and Ely.
On May 10, 1941, it cast out Ministers
Primrose (North Sydney), Martin (Ox-
ley), Tonking (Orange) and Yeo (Liver-
pool Plains), and placed FitzSimons (Lane
Cove) and Reid (Young) in a precarious
position. And the Mair-Bruxner majority
has become the saddest of memories.
Since April 13, 1920, N. S. Wales has
had five Labor Ministries, and McKell’s
name was on all the lists. Now he is to
form a Labor Government of his own.
It is to be hoped that he will have better
luck than the leaders he served, none
of whom lasted a full term.
A Melbourne paper notes that the War
Advisory Council discussed criticism of
munitions production at a meeting which
lasted three hours. The meeting “was
not continued at night because some
Labor members wanted to address N. S.
Wales election meetings.” So if an Aus-
tralian unit finds itself short of shells it
may comfort itself with the knowledge
that no effort is being spared to maintain
party politics.
At Birmingham, which has had its full
share of air raids, there was a significant
by-election last week. The Conservative
romped in with 21,573 votes. He had
for opponents an “Independent Re-
prisals” candidate and the secretary of
the “Peace Union.” Both lost their
deposits.
If the Parliamentary post-mortem on
the Greek campaign does nothing else
it will secure the insertion in standard
dictionaries of a colloquial adjective not
hitherto admitted as such. Said one of
the critics: —-
1 am unhappy about the results of Mr.
Eden’s visit to the Near East. The Gov-
ernment is insufficiently ruthless. We want
a Panzer, not a pansy, Government.
The member who has no use for a pansy
Government is a Mr. Petherick, a Con-
servative.
According to Eden, Smuts was a party
to the “joint consultations before the ex-
peditionary force set sail for Greece” and
“was in complete agreement with our
decision.” It recalls what Botha said to
Smuts when the latter was offered the
British command in Palestine after
Second Gaza. “Don’t take it!” Botha
barked, “you’re no soldier.” Smuts didn’t
take it.
Some very unusual Labor candidates
sported the McKell colors. One described
himself on his posters as Director of
Relief and Commissioner of Child
Endowment —a rather impudent abuse of
a privilege granted to Government em-
ployees in these parts but not elsewhere.
Another asked for workers’ votes on the
ground that he didn’t need to work, hav-
ing made enough money to retire in
early middle life. Both may get in.
A man who has come into the front
in Britain is Emanuel Shinwell, Labor
member for Durham. Once anathema
to the Tories and on one occasion ad-
vised by a diehard to “go back to
Poland,” Shinwell has now warm ad-
mirers among his old enemies, having
become accepted as an authority on the
shipping position, and that in a House
which still idolises Churchill. He had
the pluck to say that the P.M. was “day-
dreaming” when he “declared that next
year several million tons of American
shipping will be available to us.” “An
analysis of the American shipping pro-
gramme and of the capacity of American
shipyards completely disproves this,”
Shinwell said ; and he added that “every
reputable British shipowner” knew it. It
is emphatically a time for plain speaking
by men who are under no romantic
illusions, and Shinwell is doing a very
useful job with courage.
Many people seem to think that it is
outrageous to question the sagacity of
British Ministers who have the ordering
of campaigns in which Australian and
Maoriland troops serve, and unpatriotic
to reveal shortcomings. They ought to
turn up the history of the last war. In
May, 1915, London “Daily Mail” pub-
lished an article in which it bluntly stated
that “for want of high-explosive shells
British soldiers died in heaps on Aubers
Ridge.” It blamed Kitchener, as
Asquith’s Minister of War. In the course
of its campaign for h.e. shells, a copy
of the paper was demonstratively burnt
on the floor of the Stock Exchange, but
the “Mail” pegged away until there were
h.e. shells enough. In Australia the
leadership of General Gough in the 1917
campaign in the Flanders mud was acidly
"Promoted to the rank of lieutenant-colonel: Percy Spender, the Minister for the Arm.
and Jim Gerald, the comedian.”
"Splendid, Jim. I’ll recommend you to Mr. Spender for promotion.”
criticised by Keith Murdoch in the papers
which printed his stuff.
Dakar was mentioned last week in a
Sydney Equity Court action concerning
the estate of a flight-lieutenant lost in the
fight with the French. His widow pro-
duced a letter from the commanding
officer of H.M.A.S. Australia; it was
to the effect that “our aircraft” had been
seen falling into the sea after a combat
with a French pursuit ’plane, and that
hope for her husband must be abandoned.
The letter contained more pertinent in-
formation about the Dakar affair than
has been given to Australia by its Gov-
ernment, though it was asserted in “S. M.
Herald” that Menzies had addressed to
Downing-street the strongest remon-
strance ever received in that quarter from
an Australian Government.
Stalin has appointed himself “Chair-
man of the Council of People’s Commis-
sars,” Molotov having found the duties
“too onerous.” A sequel to the dismissal
of Mrs. Molotov from the Corns.’ Central
Committee. The funeral obsequies will
be conducted in the familiar Soviet
fashion.
Lang may be politically dead, but he
won’t lie down—or the anti-Labor
element won’t let him lie down. No
sooner was the election in N.S.W. over
than he was being talked about for the
Speakership. With the immense vote
he got, McKell can say “Who’s afraid
of the big, lone wolf! ”
Melbourne “Age” demands executive
powers for the Advisory War Council.
Being an “unconstitutional body,” as
Brennan and Cameron have pointed out,
it could exercise them only if the Labor
members were first sworn in as Ministers.
And then the name would be ridiculous.
Ashburnham, which has gone back to
Labor after nine years of C.P. represen-
tation, is one of several N.S.W. country
electorates that are natural Labor seats.
Of its 14,647 voters, more than 10,000
live in Parkes and Forbes, both Labor
strongholds, and another 2000 or so in
Canowindra. The C.P. can thank Lang
for its tenure of Ashburnham.
By common consent of the newspapers
only scraps of Hitler’s speeches are re-
ported, and often the scraps differ. In
the excited state in which the man always
seems to be at the microphone, he is apt
to let things slip out which, with thou-
sands of keen brains on the alert, might
be dressed up into skilful propaganda.
In his latest effort, for example, there
was an apparent sneer at Mussolini, who,
he said, had undertaken to finish off the
Greeks single-handed “in the summer” ;
but the thing was dished up so badly that
no effective use can be made of it. Inci-
dentally, one of our Great Dailies pro-
fesses to be unable to understand Hit.’s
allusion to the transfer of forces from
North Africa to Greece as “the greatest
strategical error in history.” It was an
obvious retort to Churchill, who said on
April 11, 1940, that “Hitler’s action in
invading Scandinavia is as great a
strategical and political error as that
which was committed by Napoleon in
invading Spain.”
Melbourne taxation offices are now
open on Friday nights. It mustn’t be
assumed that there are Friday bargains—
the price is unaltered.
“What my Government has done for
Australia has earned the admiration of
Federal leaders,” declared the Sydney
Premier in a final election flutter. But,
then, some of our Federal leaders burst
into applause on the slightest provocation.
Tasmania’s State Finance Committee
has reported that, with sufficient guar-
antees to the States, the best policy for
Australia and the one most satisfactory
to Tasmania would be for the States to
vacate the income-tax field during the
war. Treasurer Dwyer-Gray, stating that
none could accuse him of a desire to
increase the Commonwealth’s powers,
said the report was “justified.” Carried
unanimously.
Eire is discovering that it costs almost
as much to be a neutral as a belligerent.
Its Budget provides for an expenditure
of £40,000,000. Income tax is up Is. to
7s. 6d. in the £, with some paying 15s. ;
there is a 50 p.c. tax on profits; petrol
duty is Is. 3d. a gallon, tobacco duty
18s. lOd. a pound, duty on matches 7s. 4d.
a gross, and postage moves from 2d. to
2yd. There are duties of a penny on
imported newspapers and a third of a
penny on local newspapers. A third of
a penny! Shure an’ how’s a man goin’
to pay it?
A conference of taxation experts began
in Canberra last week. It is to last a
fortnight and is to report to all Aus-
tralian Governments on the country’s
ability to pay more taxes next year. A
hint was given that the Commonwealth
may yet find itself forced to take over
the entire income-tax field. The pubhc
needn’t be hinted at. Most of it would
welcome the change.
Australians got a laugh out of the
P.M.’s visit to U.S.A. He was greeted
on arrival with the assurance that he was
“the Australian Dictator.” At that very
moment the Opposition members of the
Advisory War Council were demanding
drastic alterations in his Munitions De-
partment and planning to capture the
Boothby seat, leaving the Dictator with-
out a majority. The Australian Dictator!
At its second attempt to woo N.S.W.
electors the Hands-Off-Russia mob fared
even worse than at the first attempt. It
denounced conscription though it
applauds the thing when Stalin practises
it—and demanded the recall of all Aus-
tralian fighting men serving overseas.
None of its 28 candidates got anywhere
near the winner’s total of primaries, and
about half will lose their deposits.
British Intelligence has found a defender
in Churchill. “Our Intelligence,” he said,
“was thought the best in the world in
the last war, and is certainly isn’t the
worst in the world today.” Who said it
was the best in the world in the last
war? Certainly not Jacky Fisher, who
wrote in his Memories that “not only in
the late war, but also in the Boer War
especially, our spies and our Intelligence
departments failed us utterly.” As an
instance, he mentioned “one of our prin-
cipal Cabinet Ministers” as “saying, the
Sunday before November 9, 1918, that
the Allies were at their last gasp.”
“Among less useful legacies” (“S. M.
Herald” burbling) “Mr. Chamberlain left
a saying, incongruous on his lips but
nevertheless salutary: ‘We must be
tough.’ ” No ; it was Anthony Eden who
said that. “Look tough, act tough, be
tough,” was Anthony’s prescription.
Then he proceeded to behave like the
gentleman who walked down Piccadilly
with a poppy and a lily in his medieval
hand.
In the debate on the South African
War Measures Bill, which has now been
in operation for a twelvemonth, Dr.
Malan, Hertzog’s understudy, asserted
that the following questions had been put
to members of the Defence Force:
Are you in favor of the Government’s
war policy? Are you willing, if required,
to go and fight beyond the borders of the
Union? Are you prepared, if it should
come to it, to fire at your own people?
Nobody contradicted him, nor did any-
one seem greatly astonished, the South
Africans being a nation of realists. Their
land and air forces have since conducted
a very fine campaign in Abyssinia and
will be very welcome in North Africa.


FrwRAiL MATCH - SOUTH
RACING.
WINTER MEETING.
PUBLIC TENNIS COURTS
' dogsT"]
WRESTLIMG
YOUR.
COUNTRY
NEEDS^
YOU/
RECRUITING
OFFICE
THE DINKUM GAME.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 805 Queen Streef
MELBOURNE OFFICE 207 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E. 0.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
HELP
KIDNEYS PASS
3 LBS. A DAY
Doctors say your kidneys contain 15 miles
of tiny tubes or filters •which help to purify
the blood and keep you healthy. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds
of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your blood
are the cause of frequent or scanty passages
With smarting and burning, nagging backn
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swollen feet
and ankles, puffiness under the eyes, head-*
aches and dizziness.
If kidneys don't empty 3 pints a day and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste mat-i
ter, your body will take up these
causing serious trouble. Don't waitl Ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . , used successfully!
the world over by millions of people. They
give quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist
or store,
PERSONAL ITEM!
There will be a forest of new faces in
the next N.S.W. Assembly. Three are
of particular interest to Old Diggers, be-
longing as they do to Padre Macdonald
(Mosman), Bill Currey, V.C. (Kogarah),
and G. D. Mitchell, M.C., D.C.M.
(Oxley). Mitchell, a capital writer and
speaker, ousted a Minister, Martin, and
had to go his hardest. So had the modest
V.C., who was up against another re-
turned soldier, Ross. But the padre had
one of the easiest victories of the election.
There were two Ms.L.A. named Ross
and two named Lloyd in the last N.S.W.
Parliament, and all four were Ministerial-
ists. The next Parliament will be Lloyd-
less and Rossless.
Knight Edward Fancourt Mitchell has
passed out in Melbourne at 86. The
city had no busier octogenarian. A Surrey
(Eng.) native, he came to Victoria as a
boy, and went from Melbourne Grammar
on a mathematics exhibition to Trinity
Hall, Cambridge. He was called to the
Bar of the Inner Temple, London, in ’Bl,
was admitted to the Victorian Bar in the
same year and remained in practice for
over 50 years, most of his work being
in constitutional actions in the High
Court of Australia. He took silk in 1904
and became leader of the Victorian Bar
in 1913. He part-owned Bindi, a Gipps-
land station, and was chairman of the
Edward Wilson Trust. Cricket, tennis and
golf were his sports, and he was president
of the M.C.C., the L.T.A. of Victoria, and
member of the Australian Board of
Cricket Control. Other jobs included
Chancellorship of the Archdiocese of Mel-
bourne, president of the Old Melburnians
and active membership of the Melbourne
and Australian clubs and the Royal Mel-
bourne Golf Club.
Son of a Launceston (Tas.) family,
Brigadier Basil John Andrew is reported
dead on active service abroad. He was
educated at the Tamar city’s Scotch Col-
lege and graduated thence to Duntroon,
completing his course in time to get away
to the 1914-18 war with the old 12th
Batt., of which he was at one stage in
command. He came back a captain, was
stationed at Launceston and later in
South and West Australia, and went
away with Australian Staff Corps from
Victoria about a year ago.
Dr. Reggie Morrison, just dead in
Melbourne, had some distinguished
family connections. “Chinese” Morri-
son was his brother, Dr. George Morri-
son, founder of Geelong College, was his
father, and his uncle, Dr. Alexander,
founded and headmastered Scotch Col-
lege. Of Dr. Reggie’s three sons, one,
who was wounded in the last war, is now
serving in the Sudan, another is a major
in the British Army in India and the
third is a captain in the A.I.F. in N.S.W.
Dr. Reggie’s own claims to fame were
scholastic and athletic. At Edinburgh
Uni. he played Rugby for Scotland
against England. For a long time he
held several pedestrian records, includ-
ing one for walking across Australia.
Preached his last sermon in Melbourne,
the Rev. Thomas S. B. Woodfull, father
of the former Australian Test Eleven cap-
tain. He was one of the most redoubt-
able fighters in the Methodist ministry in
Victoria, and had sojourns at Bendigo,
Kerang, Shepparton, Kensington, Col-
lingwood (where he joined hands with
Judkins in an offensive against the tote),
Moonee Ponds, Albert Park and Bruns-
wick. Secretary to the Methodist Con-
ference in 1922 and president in 1923,
he went into retirement in 1930.
Dead in Adelaide, at 85, Frederick
Allan Lakeman, draper, philanthropist
and pillar of the Anglican Church. Eng-
lish-born, he came to S.A. in 1878 under
contract with the wholesale house of
G. and R. Wills, a few years later becom-
ing a partner in James Marshall and Co.
When that firm was bought in 1928
by the Myer interest, Lakeman was its
head. A few years back he distributed
£3OOO among 63 old employees. The
Lakeman Institute at the Outer Harbor
was erected at his expense to provide
for overseas seamen while in port.
In Sydney last week was F. R. Lee,
who nearly unseated Curtin in Fremantle,
and would have done it if a few-score
careless U.A.P. supporters had exercised
preferences intelligently instead of just
voting down the ballot paper. Lee has
made Melbourne his headquarters again
—he was there for years as secretary to
the Associated Chambers of Manufac-
tures. Always a racy talker, he has a
fund of good stories about his experi-
ences in Fremantle and Kalgoorlie (where
he polled the greatest vote ever given to
a non-Labor candidate), and if the U.A.P.
doesn’t recognise that he is sure to arrive
it doesn’t know a coming man when it
sees one.
Back at his desk at the Public Library
in Melbourne from beyond the Darling,
where the Paroo is overflowing its banks
for the second time in one year, A. S.
Kenyon, engineer, numismatist, historian,
collector and authority on the early his-
tory of Victoria. Born at Homebush
(Vic.) in 1867, and educated at Mel-
bourne University, he started work in the
Public Works Department and rose to
be senior engineer in the State Rivers
and Water Supply Commission. That
occupation set him inquiring into Vic-
toria’s early origins and aboriginal art,
culture and customs. A racy conver-
sationalist and an engaging writer, he has
published a dozen or so books. On his
latest expedition he found the black
children of nature en rapport with the
latest Sydney fashions, but succeeded in
adding some rare widows’ bereavement
caps of an earlier era to his collection of
aboriginalia.
Major Eugene Gorman, the Comforts
Fund Commissioner who returned from
Egypt to answer criticisms of the A.C.F.,
completed that job in a striking way
in the Greek business. Anticipating
the evacuation, he engaged a Greek boat
of 50 tons, and when ordered to leave
loaded his remaining comforts aboard
and set forth with two assistants, a St.
Kilda staff sergeant and a corporal from
Richmond (Vic.), on a remarkable Odys-
sey. Chivvied by dive bombers, they
dodged for five days among the islands,
seeing troopers being sunk behind them,
picking up survivors, and on one occa-
sion havingtorepelwitharifleanda
revolver an attempt to seize the already
overloaded craft by refugee Greek in-
fantrymen armed with machine-guns.
Travelling at night and hiding in caves
and woods in the daytime, they eventu-
ally arrived in an island harbor protected
by eight British warships. Thereupon the
indefatigable Gorman borrowed a truck
and started off to distribute his salvaged
comforts to the troops on the islet. One
of Melbourne’s leading K.Cs., he is
almost as well known in peace-time on
the racecourse as an owner as he is in
the law courts as a pleader.
The British Cabinet reshuffle has
pushed up Lord Beaverbrook to the post
of Minister of State. With him he takes
Australian ex-Senator R. C. D. Elliott.
The long-legged Victorian was one of
Beaverbrook’s right-hand men on the
Ministry for Aircraft Production, having
been sent for as soon as Beaverbrook got
his Ministerial position. Elliott married
a daughter of Theodore Fink, of the
Melbourne “Herald,” and has an interest
in a group of country papers.
After a quarter of a century as
Master-in-Equity at the Supreme Court,
Melbourne, Morris Mondie Phillips has
resigned without going into retirement,
MAIR v. McKELL—ONE TO WIN.
THE WINNER.
“I will now have time to devote to those many
business interests which have had to be forgotten.”
(Modelled by Frith.)
inasmuch as he is still Public Trustee.
Son of a barrister, he was born at St.
Kilda, graduating from Trinity College,
Melbourne University, in 1893 with the
Supreme Court prize. By not an unusual
juxtaposition, his private interests are
poetical, and he is a past president of the
Shakspeare Society. He is also an author,
but his two publications, Bills of Costs
and Practice and Precedents in the Chief
Clerk’s Office, don’t come under the cate-
gory even of modern poetry.
Matthew Stanton Sharman, retiring
principal of University High School, Mel-
bourne, was born at Santos, Brazil, edu-
cated at Scotch College, Melbourne, and
after a successful scholastic career joined
the staff of Wesley. He was a Dixon
scholar in mathematics and natural
philosophy and took his Master’s degree
in science when it was a rarity. He has
been head of University High School since
1915. He found the school in a dilapi-
dated ruin in Carlton and leaves it in a
magnificent home in Parkville. His hobby
is music, and he is personally responsible
for the excellent choir and orchestra at
U.H.S. His successor is Les Brooks, who
left the staff to serve in the 1914-18 war.
Brooks is as fine a musician as his one-
time chief.
Percy Cavill, the most spectacular
of three famous Australian swimming
brothers, has died in the Bahamas at 65.
A 6ft. light-bronze Apollo, he cleaned up
every competitor except his brother Dick
in late-’nineties N.S.W. championships,
then made a European reputation which
led to his becoming instructor at Miami
Beach to numerous American million-
aires and their progeny. Bad times came,
and he settled down in a driftwood
shack on Fever Cay in the Bahamas
to a precarious living as fishing guide
and pilot to visiting yachts. Ventures
into sponge-growing and after galleon
gold proved unlucky, but Fever Cay sup-
plied all his modest living needs, and his
swimming powers, remarkable to his last
years, made him a noted figure through-
out the islands. Cavill’s most notable feat
in local legend was to swim from his
island for 28 miles to safety through the
tremendous 1933 hurricane.
Dead at 62 in Shanghai, where he had
practised for more than 20 years, Dr.
W. E. O’Hara, a graduate of Melbourne
University and son of Dr. H. M. O’Hara,
of Melbourne. Dr. W. E. O’Hara went
to Gallipoli as a member of the A.1.F.,
and soon after his return went to
Shanghai, where he worked among the
Chinese outside the International Settle-
ment until the Japanese “incident” re-
sulted in the looting and burning of his
home. He was said to be the only resi-
dent the Japanese compensated. Over-
work broke down his health, and he had
been living in the English quarter for the
last three years.
A picturesque personality was parson
John Beukers, dead in S.A. at 73. He
was a Dutchman whose life was in
three parts —an adventurous period as a
sailor, then as a preacher on the West-
ralian goldfields, and finally as a Con-
gregational minister in small towns in
the S.A. mallee. He was a constant
writer to the Adelaide newspapers, and
latterly ran a small paper of his own.
Passengers on the Melbourne express
often got a surprise when this venerable
white-bearded figure boarded the train to
sell it.
Bryan Carter, reported in Adelaide as
“missing since April 6,” is a typical
Englishman of the best sort who has
been prominent with the A.B.C. there
since it started as Talks officer and on
his pet subject, music. He named as his
next-of-kin local musical friends, having
“no relatives.”
“X.S.”: Somebody started a search for
the oldest veteran of the 1914-18 war in
Melbourne, following up the claim of
a Digger of 70. He was left out of the
running by M. Kearney, of the Caulfield
Military Hospital, who is 77. Kearney
was outdistanced by M. Corrucan (78).
The latest entrant is the father of Mrs.
C. Sargent, who says that her parent
served with the first A.I.F. right through
the last conflict and was 84 this month.


BRITISH AND AMERICAN
MERCANTILE MARINE
USE EXIDE BATTERIES
W E
' I
IS!
i§|
lilttflll
mmmm
|ffl
§llll
■
Iflllf i : " '
ifIKJSr.
3SIB? MWH B^^
***** *sBs 4
:
81 1 illiii t!
ii| I
llliis&iiiiliilili
*|#
• --
s
■
m
mm
■ _ ■: ■
'v-.o
■I
nss
■
HN
II ft I
II 1
i
, ? I
'' ■ * |iiggigt9H
:,
liillili
PM H
fV'?r i--u
■mi
ilii. „v;
■
« iJiL*
■lllll
■■
IIiiIMIMIMIB
fl!!M
!A, k. I\.
mSbwBW
-r-
-168
■f. tßj
rtS ,4»* «r-*’
, ■*!**"*»*•"*
lili liiii
Nine out of ten British ships, including the "Queen
Elizabeth," 85,000 tons; "Queen Mary," 81,250
tons; "Mauretania," 35,000 tons; and the largest
ship ever built in America, the "America," 35,440
tons—all illustrated above—use Exide Batteries
for such vitally important items as steering gear,
navigation instruments, telephones and wireless.
The "America" is known as "the world's safest
ship." In the event of an emergency which might
otherwise throw her info total darkness Exide
instantly provides light at all vital points.
Furthermore, power is instantly supplied by Exide
for operating bulkhead doors which divide the
ship into watertight compartments; communica-
tion is maintained between the bridge and
engine-room, and the alarm signal is kept
working.
In addition to the builders of the world's super
ships, experts in industry, science, exploration
and entertainment have the same enduring faith
in Exide.
Step side by side with the experts, and specify
an Exide Battery for your car, motor-cycle, radio
or house-lighting set.
£xii>e BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
OBTAINABLE
FROM
DEALERS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Old Harry was in a
tearing rage. “Some blanker’s been
rattin’ me traps,” he roared. “The cow
waits till I do me last night round, then
cleans ’em out before I start in the morn-
in’.” Trapping is darned hard yakka,
and we agreed with Harry that a man
who’d raid another’s traps ought to be
shot. Then we drank some more of his
tea and departed. A week later we rode
that way again. Harry was more rope-
able than ever. “That blanker’s still at
it,” he howled, and explained that he’d
set a watch and had tried all ways to
catch the thief, in vain. So we cooked
up a scheme whereby we would ride
away at nightfall as though leaving, but
would circle back after dark and keep
watch, Harry to follow his usual routine.
I was half-asleep under a log when Dan
woke me. “Sh-sh!” he hissed. Silently
we crept round a low hill on to Harry's
trapline, just in time to spot a figure
taking a bunny from a trap. As one man
we pounced. There was a brisk dust-
up, and then Dan struck a match. The
captive was Harry. “Y’ silly ol’ flamer,”
roared Dan, “I should’ve remembered.”
“Remembered what?” quavered Harry.
“That y’ walk in y’r flamin’ sleep!”
yelled Dan. Dan was still cursing when
we turned in.
“Colebrook”: Bill the rouseabout ran
a poison furrow, and after drawing
several blanks accused Tom of pinching
his rabbits. Followed a hot argument
which Bill, who had just finished a postal
course in the noble art, brought to a
further stage by yelling “Come on, me
bold Yorkshire ’ero; you’ll be coppin’
a lot while I’m gettin’ a little! ” He made
a swipe at Tom, but missed, and before
he could recover his chance Tom downed
him with a beauty. Presently from his
supine position Bill was heard to mutter,
“Well, I’ll be damned! There’s me ten
quids’ worth of instruction knocked
rotten in one ’it!”
* * * *
“Pisces”: A peculiarity of the hook-
nosed trevally of N.Q. waters —he’s the
bloke whose prehensile snout is especially
adapted to the job of drawing a “soldier”
from under a lump of coral —is the sac
of worms, as big as a bantam’s egg, that
lies just behind where the fish would
carry a brain if it had one. Though the
threadlike wrigglers are always full of
life it doesn’t seem to affect their host
adversely. But how do they get there
and what job do they perform?
“Murlonga”: The abo. based his war
strategy on before-dawn attacks, and I
think 1 know why. Any barefooted man
is tender from about 2 a.m. till about
daylight. I know, having tested it over
a course of years. During the day, or
while I’m on my feet, I can, literally, run
barefoot over barbed wire ; but if I rise
between 2 a.m. and daylight my plates
are as tender as a politician’s concern for
his electorate just before an election.
Further, it takes the best part of half an
hour to accustom the soles of my feet to
their job in life. I’ve discussed it with
many abos., and they all admit the same
thing. The advantage the attacking party
would have is obvious: they’ve been
walking, their feet are hard ; the bucks
suddenly roused would be as helpless as
hobbled camels.
* * * *
“Sailor Bill”: In the vine scrubs of
N.Q. parasites which batten on trees in-
clude not only orchids, ferns and mistle-
toe. The white or “parasitical” fig and
the milky pine, two unrelated soft-
wooded trees, grow from seeds which are
blown to a resting-place on tree-trunks.
When the seedlings appear, often at a
height of 50ft. above the ground, their
small round leaves and swarming fibrous
roots are apt to be mistaken for orchids.
Rapid growers, their roots quickly cover
their host with an ever-increasing net-
work of roots, which ultimately become
solid wood. The roots grow downward
to the tree-bole and into the soil. Most
of the supporting trees die when they
become enmeshed in the living nets, and
their decaying trunks supply nourish-
ment for their conquerors. The figs also
suck sap from the trunks of the trees, as
do mistletoe plants, but, unlike the mistle-
toe, they can also grow on dead and sap-
less trees, which shows that they are
capable of subsisting on air-borne nour-
ishment until their roots reach the
ground.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: “Joe Wilson ’ad bin
’avin’ a pretty good time on the strength
of ’is larst trappin’ cheque,” remarked
Bill the burr-cutter, “an’ one day I’m
in at Abe Wolfe’s store gettin’ me week’s
rations w’en in barges Joe with ’is old
double-barrel in the crook of ’is arm.
’E ses t’ Abe ‘ ’Ere, gimme some fresh
cartridges. Them damn’ things I got orf
y’ last week ain’t any good. I bin firin’
’em orf all the mornin’ an’ can’t kill a
damn’ thing with ’em.’ ‘But, dammit,
Joe,’ ses Abe, ‘them’s the best cartridges
on the markit —maybe y’re not in good
shootin’ nick today.’ ‘By cripes,’ starts
Joe, then ’e shuts up like a rat-trap, an’
swingin’ ’is gun around looses orf both
barrels into the floor close t’ Abe’s feet.
‘There y’ are,’ ’e yells; ‘wot about y’r
blarsted cartridges now? Both barrels
inter ’im at p’int-blank an’ never knocked
a flamin’ scale orf ’im!’ Then ’e chucks
’is gun inter the corner an’ garsps: ‘Now,
Abe, keep y’r eye on the pizenous cow
while I go an’ get a stick!’ ”
* * * *
“Oscar”: “Toughest bloke ever I
knowed,” remarked Sam the swaggie,
“was an abo. out Lake Cosmo way. ’E
was a big wild-lookin’ coot with a long
black beard an’ as strong as a ’orse. The
mob ’ad nicknamed ’im Samson, ’cos of
’is ’abit of rootin’ up bottle-trees to squat
on. One day I’m in Shennigan’s pub
dividin’ me interest between watchin’
Shennie, who’s full as an egg, doin’ a
skittle dance, an’ the rousey battlin’ to
solder a leaky valve in the beer pump
with a blowlamp, when in blows the
boong. Straight to the bar ’e stalked,
plonked down a deener an’ calls for
whisky. Shennie knocked off ’is dance
to stagger over an’ serve ’im, grabbin’ the
first bottle that looked like whisky on ’is
way, which ’appened to be the rousey’s
spirit o’ salts. Before I could squeak,
Sammy ’ad downed the stuff in a gulp. I
stood lookin’ pretty sick, waitin’ for the
poor cow to fold up like a jack-knife
an’ wriggle out right away. But that
coon just shook ’is block, licked ’is chops,
spat on the floor an’ says ‘Cripes, plurry
good stuff, boss ; gibbit more longa same
bottle.’ ”
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: With his lungfish grow-
ing to 401 b. weight, “Dickie Beech” (B.
16/4/’4l) paralyses me. In West Aus-
tralia’s north the lungfish are only little
fellows, seldom more than three inches
long, brownish in color and with queer
clubby heads. They are the real “missing
link” between the fish and the reptile.
Quite casually they leave the salt water
in dozens and stroll around the sands.
Under the mangroves is their favorite
haunt, for they seem to dislike the direct
sun. And they climb, up along the arched
roots and even into the mangrove’s lower
branches. Their two side or pectoral fins
are an odd mixture of leg and fin. Up
to the elbow joint they are legs ; after that
the fin proper angles off much like the
flipper of the seal. In walking and climb-
ing the fin portion acts as a foot; in the
water it performs its proper function as
a fin. But even in the water the lungfish
is not overfond of swimming ; in clear
depths one can see them paddling around
the bottom, evidently preferring that form
of locomotion ; though keeping to the
bottom may be a means of protection,
since they are far from being the fastest
swimmers. Their strolls in the air are,
of course, mainly in quest of food. Too
slow to catch the nimble shrimp or the
even-faster sea minnow, they take to the
beach and the mangrove roots, where,
when the 20ft. or 30ft. tide recedes, all
sorts of aquatic life wait gasping for
the life-giving waters to rise again.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: “Banjo” Paterson died in
ignorance of this. He was invited by a
bank-manager friend to stay at the bank,
but the manager forgot all about it and
went off on a short trip. Came “The
Banjo,” who told the relieving officer his
identity and the reason for his call, and
persuaded the other that it was all right,
he would sleep in his usual room and
tell the manager off when he returned.
The relieving officer was a bit dubious,
but let “Banjo” go to the room. Then he
thought hard about bank regulations and
other things, sneaked upstairs, made sure
the visitor was abed and carefully locked
the door. He had it unlocked early next
morning. “The Banjo” spent three days
waiting for his friend, and never knew
that he was a prisoner every night.
* * * *
“Aratta”: “I was mates once with a
bloke who was the greatest arguer I
ever knew,” said Bogan Bob. “Bill’d
argue about ev’rything under the sun, an’
when he couldn’t get anyone else to have
ago at he’d argue with himself. But
he come a nasty thud one time. We
was camped just outside a township when
a wild-eyed bloke comes along an’ asked
if we knoo where the p’lice station was.
‘Watcher want it for?’ asked Bill,
scentin’ a chance f’r an argument. ‘You
don’t want no p’lice station.’ ‘Yes, I
do,’ ses the chap ; ‘there’s a bloke dead
down be the bridge!’ ‘How d’yer know
he’s dead?’ asks Bill. ' ‘Becos I killed
him meself,’ ses the wild-eyed cove. ‘The
cow was argue, argue mornin’, noon and
night until he had me nearly orf me
rocker.’ ‘But why didn’t y’ ’ began
Bill. The cove gives a yell an’ makes a
swipe with the waddy at Bill, who ducked
an’ took to his scrapers, with the bloke
after him bellerin’ that he hadn’t been
told where the p’lice station was yet. But
Bill wasn’t wastin’ breath arguin’ that
time. After dark he sneaks back, lookin’
a bit scared, an’ I tells him the John had
picked the other bloke up. ‘Fancy a
bloke not bein’ able to argue without
doin’ his block like that,’ ses Bill, peevish.
‘Now I maintain that’ He stopped
sudden as he saw me pick up a big
knobby stick which I intended to shift
the back log with. ‘Orright,’ he says,
sullen. ‘Will I put the billy on?’ ”
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The new Glenbar-Tiaro
road over Bonaraga Mountain between
Gympie and Maryborough (Q.) will open
up the wild country long alleged to be
haunted by the Wandoo Devils. Latest
eyewitness reports of these mysterious
creatures were in 1938, but their savage
nocturnal roarings have since been re-
ported at district pubs on several
occasions. From accounts covering nearly
50 years they vary in appearance from
something like a black leopard to a cross
between the Tantanoola' Tiger and a
medium-sized bunyip, but all agree con-
cerning their ferocity of vocal expression,
usually exercised on dark stormy nights.
Archibald Meston made an expedition
long ago to investigate the matter, but
although he reported mysterious tracks
of some large claw-footed quadruped he
failed to sight a specimen.
* * * *
“Propalong”: While on a recent visit
to a back-o’-Bourke station I noticed a
packsaddle which the boss regarded with
pride as a sort of museum piece. With
the gear removed not one man on the
place could have told the back of it from
the front. Yet further west and north
the packsaddle still holds its own. The
drovers use the South Australian type —
long panels, high arch, with a broad
flank girth in place of the always-chafing
crupper or breeching gear. These packs,
properly put on and with the bags hung
low, are in the Skuthorpe class of stickers.
And they’re certainly efficient transport
units. Take a man bagging it. He may
have three packs—tucker pack on a quiet
horse, canteen pack on another, and the
gear pack, with its heavy load of shoeing
and saddlery tools, on something a bit
cheeky. With such a plant and five or
six horses a man wouldn’t call the king
his uncle, even though the nearest pub
might be 200 miles up the track. A pack-
horse camp is more self-contained, com-
pact and easily handled than anything
moved on wheels. Much of the quiet
independence and self-reliance character-
istic of the real bushman is fathered by
the old packsaddle.
“ N-n-next , please !”
DANCING DAN.
When outlaws rode the inland roads,
Roads rough and long to ride,
Dan Dacey was a dancing man
Who ranged the countryside.
Wayfaring folk who journeyed east,
And folk who journeyed west,
He halted with a cheerful smile
And plundered with a jest.
As if ’twere done in pleasant play,
Though fume they might, and curse,
With roguish eyes he lightened them
Of swollen pouch or purse.
Then wishing them a glad “God-speed!”
In manner suave and bland,
He’d mount his horse and amble off
With farewell wave of hand.
His was the grace that goes with strength,
Fine-fashioned, lithe of limb,
And not a man in town or bush
Could sing and dance like him.
The wind that murmurs in the trees,
The sway of leaf and bud,
He had their motion in his feet,
Their music in his blood.
And thus, when merrymakers met,
In spite of bar and ban,
By hook or crook, a welcome guest
Came thither Dancing Dan.
Time-keeping to the fiddler’s tune
With nimble toe and heel,
Among the merrymaking crowd
He’d jig and waltz and reel.
Thus gaily on from dance to dance
Soft-footed he would glide,
Till at a nod, a glance, a word,
He’d seek the dark outside.
Then still would grow the dancers’ feet,
The fiddlestrings grow mute,
While rose the sound of flying hoofs
And hoofs in hot pursuit.
But though he danced right merrily,
And "alloped far and fast,
There came a time when fortune frowned
And downed him at the last.
And thus, anon, at Berrima
Dan, jigging, grew aware
One dances well on polished floors
But ill upon thin air.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


"Going to sell ’ er, eh? Well, I'd give ’er a coat of paint first."
“Mat’s Mate”: It’s his yarn: Queerest
job I ever had was down in the Vic-
torian Mallee. There’s a young widder
been left a farm, an’ she puts me on t’
work the place. At first there was a lot
of talk about me an’ her bein’ there
alone, but I soon settled that among the
blokes, though some of the old hens took
some stoppin’. Anyhow, when the bucks
wake up that I ain’t interested in wimmen
they start callin’ on her ladyship. It gets
so tough that there’s as many as eight
sulkies or motor-bikes in the yard every
Sunday, all them blokes being anxious
to collect a good-lookin’ wife an’ a farm
thrown in. So she says t’ me that keepin’
up the supply of tea and cakes an’ cook-
in’ every day is too much, an’ asks me
what t’ do. “Put ’em on a roster,” I says;
“let ’em come at the rate of two every
Sunday, all t’ take their turn.” It works
f’r a while, with me sorta umpirin’ the
thing, but then some of the blokes starts
droppin’ in on week days t’ steal a march.
So I ticks up notices warnin’ all hands
t’ keep off unless invited. That stopped
’em, but they still kept cornin’ on Sun-
days. There was a few fights, too, an’
some of ’em looked like developin’ into
feuds. In the end it was too much for
the widder. She says t’ me, “Mr. Brookes,
my only chance of peace is either t’ marry
a nice, honest man like yourself or else
sell the farm.” Then she starts cryin’
an’ says “An’ I hate the idea of sellin’
me farm.” I don’t say nothin’, but four
o’clock that mornin’, as I’m headin’ south
with me swag up, I can’t help thinkin’
that it wasn’t a bad job while it lasted.
* * * *
“K.1.N.”: “N. Sylvester” asks (B.
9/4/’4l) if anyone has ever seen lightning
hit the earth. In the Felix country, War-
breccan station (s.-w. Q.), during a dry
storm I rode past three sheep standing
nose-to-nose. I wasn’t more than 100
yards away when there came a flash and
roar at the same time. After I’d felt
myself to see if I was all there, and after
I’d steadied the horse, I went back to
those sheep. They were lying parallel,
heads facing the same way, about a foot
or so apart, stone dead. And near them,
in the patch where their noses had been
touching previously, the earth was
churned to fine flour in a circle within a
diameter of a foot or more.
* * * *
“Wang”: Dad, gazing down the road,
let out an oath. “Here comes Hungry
Murphy,” he said to Dave, “on the cadge
again I’ll bet.” A few minutes later
Murphy got down from his jinker and
greeted them. “I’ve come over f’r a bit
of advice from y’,” he said to Dad. Dave
turned to hide the grin on his face at
the look of relieved astonishment in his
parent’s eyes. “All right, I can give y
that without no trouble,” said Dad,
pointedly. “What is it?” “Well,” said
Murphy, “I’ve got a cow over home
what’s in a bad way. She won’t eat, an’
wants to lie down all the time. An’ when
I get her up she jest staggers f’r a few
yards an’ flops down agen. What would
you advise me to get f’r her?” “A
rifle,” replied Dad promptly. Murphy
grinned. “That’s what I thought meself,”
he said. He walked over to his jinker
and came back carrying a rifle. “That’s
mine,” cried Dad. “Time y’ brought it
back, too ; you’ve had it a coupla
munce.” “Yes,” said Murphy, quite un-
perturbed. “I s’pose I should have re-
turned it before this. But I’m hopin’
you’ll let me have it till I shoot that cow.
What I brought it over for now was to
know if y’ could let me have a few
cartridges to fit it.” Dad grabbed the
gun. “Well, of all the damned hide!”
he exploded. “You use y’r blasted axe
on it. I s’pose y’d like me to send mine
over!” “Aw,” said Murphy as he
climbed back into the jinker, “I already
got yours over home somewhere. But if
you’ll send one o’ the kids over he can
bring it back after I’ve finished with it.”
* * * *
“Gryllus”: I admit that for sheer
aggressive cheek the scissor-grinder (B.
23/ 4/ ’4l) —restless flycatcher and, more
pedantically, Seisura inquieta are his
society monikers —is even more notable
than his cousin, Willie Wagtail; but both
know when to shut up and scoot for
their lives. Not long ago Scissors was
busily engaged in evicting two huge
black cockatoos from a pine. A slim, dark
shape slid on long slender wings over the
hilltop, faint alarm calls came down the
gentle breeze, and in an instant every
busy little feeder had disappeared.
Absorbed in his bullying attack, Scissors
failed to notice the newcomer till the
cockatoos screeched and flapped heavily
away. The peregrine falcon dipped
swiftly with outstretched talons just a
split second too late to catch the streaking
atom on its way to shelter, then floated
smoothly on. Five minutes later Scissors
was boasting about what he’d have done
to it if it hadn’t run away, but I noticed
that he left the cockatoos alone for the
rest of the day. And I don’t blame him
—few escape that fatal lightning dip.
* *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: The question
asked by “Timberloo” (B. 23/4/’4l) as
to what wedgetail eagles lived on before
the introduction of sheep and rabbits has
been fully answered by Professor Ananias
Bull in his historic address to the marines
on the umptieth anniversary of the death
of Betty Martin. After a light but savory
breakfast of bunyip eggs, the great birds
would settle down to seri-
ous dietary business. On
the scouts locating suitable
mobs of kangaroos, walla-
roos, jackeroos, timberloos
or just oos —see Oo’s Oo
in Australia the main
body would take off and
assume a dome formation
over the victims. Mistak-
ing the resultant darkness
and roar of wings for a
terrific thunderstorm, the
deluded marsupials would
crawl up hollow logs until
they were stuck fast. De-
ploying into open order
the voracious eagles would
tear a deep notch in each
log with their powerful
bills, then, inserting their
wedge-shaped tails, de-
signed by Nature for the
purpose, would split it
open to reach the im-
prisoned prey. Far from
starving, as your contri-
butor imagines, the great
birds were obliged to prac-
tise regular slimming exer-
cises in order that their
power of flight might not
be lost, as in the case of the
emu, by the effects of overeating. Their
tails have softened from lack of use and
the surplus of mutton and cony in their
menu, both of which mammals have, un-
like the oo type of marsupial, merely
vestigial caudal appendages.
* * * *
“Nep Tune”: Fish will come to be fed
as readily as fowls (B. 16/4/’4l). Even
wild fish. When Fremantle laid down
its twin moles about the beginning of
this century it was customary for years
after to send down a diver every fine
Sunday morning, the idea being to check
up on any of the immense rocks which
might, under the influence of the tide or
the weather, have rolled out into the
fairway. One of the divers was a fish-
lover, and before descending he would
fill his pocket full of bread. Watching
from above by means of a water “tele-
scope” I’ve seen him surrounded by fish
that jostled in their eagerness to eat out of
his hand. And he had an idea that some
of them waited for his regular weekly
dip under. Sometimes even a shark came
along. But Tom wouldn’t be taking any
of its company; extending an arm at
the intruder he would spring the elastic
cuff, letting a stream of bubbles shoot
out. That would be too much for any
shark; with a swirl of the tail it left the
scene with the speed of a torpedo.
“Jack Swan”: Are fish really attracted
to a light? Have watched numbers of
parties prawning with a short dragnet;
one man on each end and another trail-
ing behind with a light, the idea being
that the light attracted the prawns into
the net. Yet, using the same kind of net
but with no light, I have made equally
good catches. My belief is that the light
merely brings the swimming prawn into
view, that its entry into the area of light
is purely fortuitous. Proof lies in the
speed with which it leaves such area ;
unless the fisher is pretty quick with the
net there’s no catch. On the other hand,
when fishing in tidal waters at night and
necessarily keeping a light in the boat
for the baiting of hooks, etc., I have had
the lantern knocked over by big pike
jumping clean on board. Some argued
that light attraction had done it;
others that, chased by larger fish,
the pike had breeched after the
manner of its kind in trying to
escape, and had landed in by accident.
I want something definite about this
question, for I have in mind the patent-
ing of a combined hook and light bulb
designed specially for night angling.
# * 4* *
“Bulong K. Kanowna”: The mag-
nificent hardihood which has aroused the
world’s admiration is not confined to
the Greeks in their homeland. Without
food or water, shoeless, clad only in a
thin cotton suit, a three-year-old son of
a Salmon Gums (W.A.) Greek farmer
wandered over 50 miles in four days
through dense ti-tree country. When
found the child was unconscious ; he died
almost immediately in his father’s arms.
By day he had kept a straight course
east, but at night he went astray. The
days were warm, the nights extremely
cold ; despite a circle of seven fires during
the last night the search party could not
keep warm. That the child should have
Jived through that night in his weak
condition is amazing. A salt lake lies on
the father’s farm, one of the farthest east
in W.A. Every time the child came upon
the lake his tracks pathetically indicated
that he had quickened his steps in antici-
pation of reaching home. The youngster’s
pace was too fast for the four black-
trackers, who had to battle with flintlike
ground. The boy’s younger brother, aged
two, was lost for 12 hours, embracing
eight hours of darkness. He was little
affected by the ordeal.
* * * *
“Mick the Miler”: They found them-
selves stranded in one of North Queens-
land’s wettest towns in the middle of the
wet season, and they were “stone mother-
less.” Meat was their scarcest item, and
after trying in vain to “bite” some from
the various butchers they decided to have
one of the numerous goats that were run-
ning on the river. After patiently stalk-
ing them through the six-feet high pani-
cum grass and making a concerted rush
they captured a nice fat one, and Bob
proceeded to slaughter it, while Ned and
Andy looked on. Ned, happening to
glance around while Bob with a flourish
was making the long belly cut, uttered a
startled “Look out,” and, wheeling,
bolted through the high grass, with Andy
at his heels. Bob, a bit hard of hearing,
failed to see them go, but, catching a
movement out of the tail of his eye, he
turned to behold a very large and very
scaly croc, gazing longingly at the half-
skinned goat. He emitted one yell and
dived through the grass in the wake of his
companions, who, hearing him flounder-
ing along behind, thought it was the croc,
and strained every nerve to keep ahead
of him. When they reached the open
country and he came up with them, Bob
cursed them roundly for a pair of white-
livered cowards, and to show his own
contempt for crocs, he went back to
finish his task, which consisted of col-
lecting the piece of rope by which the
goat had been suspended and his knife,
which the croc, had thoughtfully left.
“ I'm afraid , madam, there's a misunderstanding. We want a general,
not a General
MORNING ON THE FALLOW.
The news is pretty bad, they say:
More cities bombed last night,
And ships and men are going down;
We lost the Balkan fight.
Our export market’s gone to pot,
The taxes all confound,
But still you’ve much to cheer you up—
The wheat’s above the ground.
You don’t know what the future holds,
This farming’s full of woes.
Sometimes you’d like to turn it up
And leave it to the crows.
But in the morning you go out
And cast your eyes around,
And feel a lifting of the heart —
The wheat’s above the ground.
You think of all the years gone by
Since Adam sowed his seed,
Of kings and conquests, wars and peace,
Since men first disagreed.
You see the ravaged lands afar,
And wonder if they found
A new hope when they looked and saw
The wheat above the ground.
And so, though cities fall in heaps,
And nights are red with flame,
And conquered peoples pray for help
And live in grief and shame,
You see the promise of the earth
And hear the song profound
Of harvests in the years to come
When the wheat’s above the ground.
N.S.W.
BEN C.


IN SYDNEY—STAY AT THE WENTWORTH
The Wentworth Hotel, noted for kindly Hospitality, combines a
full measure of courteous service with modern appointments that
make for your comfort. Bedrooms with telephones, private bathrooms
and toilets.
TARIFF: Room and Breakfast from 13/6, inclusive from 20/-. Our
tariff remains constant the year round; we do NOT follow the
policy of increasing tariff during Christmas, Easter or any other
season.
crsa
m
nl
C. 0. MACLURCAN: Managing Director, SYDNEY
DON'T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should be expected to become you”
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
a^e^i resu lt s of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence.
HI
m
The Symbol of
Security !
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
( Incorporated, in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman);
M.L.A. (Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd;
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J,
Colin A. Sinclair,
A. E. Heath, C.M.G.;
. G. H. Shipway.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
. WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M 4383.
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
86371.
The The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mutual Life and Citizens
Ordinary Life Department.
Added
Ex- Written to
Dec., Income.t Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
1905.. 255,130 64,962 33,454 20,572 136 051
1925. . 1,685,960 1,036,473 140,373 509 114
1930. . 2,109,372 1,379,792 183,170 10,870 1
Trans, to General Reserve, £200,000 ; ) 267,540
to Income Tax Reserve, £68,000 J
1931.. 2,022,483 1,518,274 182,488131,981 )
Trans, to Income Tax Reserve, £12,000 ) 177 > 740
1932.. 1,987,772 1,482,202 183,976 321,594
To Staff Fund, £14,023 .. .. 1
1933.. 2,071,868 1,486,785 188,306 52 < 382,702
To Staff Fund, £7189 .. .. )
1934.. 2,202,108 1,456,873 192,823 f 545,283
To Staff Fund, £10,882 .. .. ) BOn
1935.. 2,314,069 1,458,217 212,097 3,415 j 629 ' 458
Profit on sale of securities, £7557 ..
To Staff Fund, £13,027 .. .. 923,726
1936.. 2,649,319 1,446,134 273,988
To Staff Fund, £12,730 .. ..
1937.. 2,806,347 1,422,983 290,006 2,641 ( G 07 7 .987
To Staff Fund, £13,021 .. .. ]
Profit on sale of securities, £3488 . . 1 1,136,390
1938. . 2,951,504 1,512,566 293,015 I
To Staff Fund, £12,285 .. .. |
1939.. 3,090,661 1,551,769 317,545 9,646 f
To tax reserve, £lOl,OOO .. .. f 9/4,410
To general reserve, £124,000
To Staff Fund, £14,952 .. ..
1940. . 3,201,274 1,557,087 303,553 54,725 ) l- 270 ’ 9 ’ 07
*1 ncludes dividends to shareholders.
fAfter deducting taxes.
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(Including Written to
Dec., Income.t Claims. Dividends). Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1905.. 199,426 51,095 84,039 8577 55,715
1925.. 647,779 210,802 260,596 3003 173,378
1930.. 815,475 342,047 294,398 5138 l , r -7 0 no
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £16,000 l Ij7, ° 92
1931.. 761,017 298,868 284,009 267 1
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £2OOO ) 175 > 87 3
1932.. 757,097 307,014 268,310 4062 177,711
To Staff Fund, £6293 ) „ JO
1933.. 784,788 297,798 274,704 4750 ( 201,243
To Staff Fund, £6312 1 _
1934.. 869,449 281,242 283,595 2834 ( 295,466
Staff Fund, £5063.. .. .. 1
1935.. 920,562 291,691 288,557 1301 f 333,950
To Staff Fund, £5677 ) orn
1936.. 1,008,393 326,960 322,797 2188 ( 350,7 ' 2
To Staff Fund, £5869 locrnon
1937.. 1,126,782 390,476 363,237 2104 j 365,096
To Staff Fund, £6387 1
1938. . 1,248,539 405,902 401,264 4043 j 430,342
Funds capitalised, £300,000.
To Staff Fund, £6217 .. .. I
1939. . 1,352,118 507.610 419,406 5733 I
To tax reserve, £32,000 .. .. [ 34b,00z
To general reserve, £32,500 .. |
To Staff Fund, £7838 ]
1940. 530,257 417,756 2,820 I 380,566
To tax reserve, £13,000 . . .. f
To general reserve, £lOO,OOO
tAfter deducting taxes.
The big life offices, of which the M.L.C.
is one of Australia’s front-rankers, are
staunch supporters of the national war
effort on the financial front. The co.’s
contribution in this respect is one of the
outstanding features of its latest accounts.
During 1940 it subscribed over £1,500,000
to Commonwealth loans, or more than
one-fiftieth of the total amount raised by
the Government during that period ; and
this in addition to taking up war loans
in Maoriland, Canada and the U.K.
Through payment of premiums policy-
holders are, therefore, supplementing
their individual and direct contributions
to the war.
The year’s increase in the co.’s net
assets was £1,815,882, of which £1,264,876
net was in respect of Government securi-
including municipal and other public-
body loans. These public securities now
account for 63.2 p.c. in the co.’s invest-
ment portfolio:
■DiT ... 1939. p.c. 1940. p.c.
Mortgages" 1 ' 11 gf ||*l
X. 881,535 C. 2 KftffS ’t!
r. etc ' , • 1 • • 580,101 1.9 707,874 2.2
Property.. .. 090,528 2.3 694,713 2.1
Debentures, shares, ’
etC 594,671 2.0 561,455 1.7
T * £30,173,335 £31,897,714
Liabilities* . . 1,402,453 1,31(>’950
Net assets * £28,770,882 £30,586,764
Utiier than under policies.
The next-largest item is mortgages and
Joans under Government guarantee to
building societies (up
i:>//,586), which now account for nearly
° ri r^i iar^er funds. Assets are a
solid lot, and are worth more than their
book value.
The most obvious effects of war con-
ditions upon the business to date have
been a contraction in the amount of new
business put on the books and a shrink-
age in the net rate of interest earned. On
the other hand, the business was handled
at less cost, and the basis of valuation
in the Ordinary department was further
strengthened by lowering it to 2\ p.c.,
thus providing still more protection for
policy-holders.
The amount of new business put on
the books was £10,516,599 (down
£2,468,365), of which £6,643,702 (down
£1,744,469) was in the Ordinary and
£3,872,897 (down £723,896) in the Indus-
trial section. After deducting income tax
(£139,435, up £44,116) total income in
the Ordinary,. Industrial and General
departments combined was £4,805,665
(up £314,339), of which £3,543,539
(up £298,917) was premiums and
£1,262,126 (up £15,422) net interest.
After paying all legitimate claims and
exes, and sending £27,500 to the tax
reserve (£306,800), £23,834 to the staff
fund, writing £57,740 off the book value
of assets and strengthening general re-
serves (now £700,000) by £lOO,OOO, the sum
of £1,651,523 was added to the life assur-
ance funds, making them £28,348,467.
The amount available for distribution
among policy-holders increased by
£35,106 in the Ordinary and £9700 in
the Industrial section, as the following
table shows:
„ 1937. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Ordinary . . £/89,433 £849,680 £631,106 £666,212
Industrial .. 102,594 115,459 124,715 134,415
• Total . . £892,027 £965,139 £755,821 £806,627
Bonuses to policy-holders were main-
tained. These bonuses were reduced in
the previous year, but are still handsome
and compare favorably with other offices.
Moreover, steps have been taken to
ensure, so far as it is possible to do so,
payment of satisfactory bonuses in the
future by building up strong reserves
against war risks and taxation and by
lowering the basis of valuation, now the
most stringent used in Australia. The
reversionary bonus system demands a
steady increase in the cash surplus avail-
able for distribution among policy-
holders as bonuses. The method of valu -
ing by a low rate of interest meets this
need by locking-up in the early years of
a policy sums which would be otherwise
revealed as surplus and by releasing them
with interest at a later date.
Including license fees, etc., exes, took
13.39 p.c. of net premiums in the Ordi-
nary section as against 14.72, 14.44 and
14.96 p.c. for the three preceding years.
In the Industrial branch the ratios were
29.82, 32.78, 34.45 and 32.92 p.c. respec-
tively over the same period. After de-
ducting taxes, the net effective rate of
interest was £4 ss. 9d. p.c. (down ss. Id.
p.c.) in the Ordinary and £4 9s. 2d.
(down 3s. p.c.) in the Industrial depart-
ment.
Policy-holders in the old Widows’ Fund
section (now a closed circuit) are in
clover. They received bonuses equal to
over 180 p.c. of the year’s premiums.
The dividend to shareholders remained
unaltered at 3s. sd. per share, equal to
85 p.c. on cash-paid capital.
McDonnell and East, Ltd. (Brisbane)
r~ Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Loss. 8 p.e. Ord. serves, serves.
1931.. 970 720 Nil 14,026
Profit.
1932.. 2,505 720 Nil 1,785 15,811
Loss.
1933.. 1,678 720 Nil 13,413
Transferred to bad debts reserve,
£ll,OOO .. .. .. .. 2,413
Profit.
1934.. 3,910 720 2t p.c. =4,651 952
1935.. 10,544 720 4 „ „ 7,441 2,383 3,335
1936.. 9,465 720 4 „ „ 7,442 1,303 4,638
1937.. 11,814 720 5 ~ „ 9,301* 1,793 6,431
1938.. 14,463 720 5 „ „ 9,301* 4,442 10,873
1939.. 17,039 720 51 „ ~10,231* 6,088 16,961
1940.. 13,492 720 51 „ ~10,232* 2,540 19,501
1941.. 15,836 720 51 „ ~10,232* 4,884 24,385
* Includes directors’ interest (5 p.c.).
A satisfactory showing, considering that
the prop for capital is none too stout and
that there is a shade over 10s. of outside
money at risk in the business for every
pound belonging to shareholders. The
business appears to be in better shape
than at any time since the present co.
took over from the then 19-year-old
undertaking of McDonnell and East
about 20 years ago. Shareholders have
never had much in the way of returns.
The average was 4.5 p.c. for the decade
to the close of accounts in 1930; for
the next three years they were shown an
empty basket, and for the eight years
since the average has been 4.6 p.c. Mean-
while, however, the management has
made a much closer study of family
budgets and shaped its buying policy
accordingly, while the revival of Fin-
neys and the appearance of Woolworths,
Coles and Penneys has brought a lot
of trade back to the George-street end
of the city. Although this meant in-
creased competition, it also meant in-
creased turnover.
Last term retailers found it difficult
to secure all their requirements, both
locally and from overseas, and the
situation won’t improve in the current
term. Still, the co. had stocked up well
at the close of accounts in 1940, and
there was plenty of money about. So
turnover continued to expand. Gross
earnings (£112,643) moved up £5443.
Exes. (£96,807) gobbled £3099 of the in-
crease, mainly on account of a bigger
wage bill. The net result was thus £2344
better at £15,836, which was sufficient to
pay the small pref. div. (£720) and show
8.7 p.c. on ord. capital as against 7.4,
9.4, 7.9, .6.4, 5, 5.7 and 1.8 p.c. back to
1934. The div. was kept at 5\ p.c., and
nothing better need be looked for for
the present.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1935. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £181,027 £181,027 £181,027 £181,027
Mortgages . . 49,500 47,250 45,750 32,187
Overdraft . . 41,259 47,901 73,268 50,512
Sundry creditors 14,964 17,903 21,894 21,398
Land, buildings,
plant, etc... 128,091 127,539 127,621 126,283
Stocks.. .. 90,398 107,682 141,134 130,662
Book debts . . 64,994 60,680 59,428 59,304
Cash, etc. . . 14,629 20,923 25,940 14,945
The year’s better trading, together with
a reduction of £10,472 in stocks and
£10,995 in the cash holding, enabled
£13,563 to be clipped off mortgages and
£22,756 off the overdraft. The improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£100,814) was £15,224.
As for the current term, taxation and
loan subscriptions will cut into the
public’s spending power, but with the
erection of munition works and ship-
building yards in the northern State em-
ployment promises to remain at or near
the full, and that should mean much so
far as retailers are concerned.
The market prices the pound ords.,
covered by 225. lOd. in net tangibles, at
14s. as against 15s. a year ago and
13s. 9d. 12 months before that. The
return at 14s. is 7.8 p.c. on a 5\ p.c.
div. basis. The well-protected prefs.
seldom come on to the market.
Caldwell’s Wines, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends , To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit.* Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £
1930.. 4,524 Nil Nil 4524 47,187
Written off investments, etc., £10,262.. 36,925
Loss.
1931.. 2,091 Nil Nil 34,834
Transferred to assets revaluation Deficit.f
reserve, £56,486 21,652
Profit.
1932.. 4,002 Nil Nil 4002 17,650
1933.. 3,748 Nil Nil 3748 13,902
Transferred to specific reserves, £5000.. 18,902
1934.. 5,194 10 p.c. Nil 4,000 1194 17,708
1935.. 7,386 6.2 „ 2.5 p.c. 5,153 2233 15,475
1936.. 7,186 6.2 „ 3 „ 5,748 1438 14,037
Loss resumption property, etc., £3500.. 17,537
Written off shareholdings, £l5OO. . 19,037
1937.. 9,264 6.2 p.c. 4 p.c. 6,890 2374 16,663
1938.. 5,583 6.2 „ Nil 2,775 ) „ r .
Vintage adjustment a/c, £3OOO j lb,a °‘ J
Added intangibles, £2050 .. ..18,905
1939.. 2,609 Nil Nil 2609 16,296
1940.. 4,212 Nil Nil 4212 12,084
* After charging previous year’s taxation.
t Goodwill, etc. (now £27,050), not treated as an
asset.
Unlike the brewers’ product, wine con-
sumption has staged no recovery since
the low levels touched in the early
thirties, and heavy overproduction, aggra-
vated by a falling export bounty, has
meant narrow margins all round in an
industry from which Caldwell’s used to
pay 10 p.c. and sometimes more. Aus-
tralian wine production is now around
20,000,000 gallons annually. A per
capita consumption of 0.8 gallons gives
the local market a breadth of 5| million
gallons ; exports, mainly to Britain, have
been absorbing only 4,000,000 gallons
of the balance.
With wine low on the list of shipping
preferences, trade with the U.K. last year
was cut over 50 p.c. Now Britain is tak-
ing none at all, so that the Australian
export trade has been practically deter-
mined for the time being. Development
of export connections with India and
Eastern Asia, and possibly the U.S.A.,
is limited to the shipping space avail-
able, and not much relief can be looked
for in this direction, Caldwell’s manage-
ment reckons. With 20,000,000 gallons
lying in bond, unless Federal aid is forth-
coming, a crisis is facing the industry.
Caldwell’s figures last year suffered from
another adverse season in the Ruther-
glen-Corowa district of N.S.W., where the
co.’s own vineyards are. Despite this and
export difficulties, gross takings (£44,147)
improved £2693. Including £855 for de-
preciation and £1155 for the previous
year’s tax bill, higher exes. (£39,935) took
£ll9O of the increase, leaving the net
result £1603 better at £42l2—Brisbane
operations showed a loss of £3lO. The
£4212 was sufficient to meet the minimum
6.2 p.c. pref. charge (£2775) and show
1.3 p.c. on the £103,398 of ord. capital,
but again the management didn’t feel
justified in making any distribution.
Last year there was expenditure of
£2688 net on licensed leaseholds, which
account for £40,975 of the main asset
shown below:
1932. 1936. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £143,398 £146,073 £148,155 £148,155
Deposits . . 18,270 23,174 14,694 13,068
Mortgages, etc. 18,880 18.530 7.180 6,680
Overdraft . . 27.013 36,892 43,365 39,430
Other liabilities 15,942 14,626 23,785 19,017
Properties, (plant,
etc... .. 132,109 144,303 139,881 142,497
Book debts . . 27,579 28,854 24 547 22 797
Stocks . . 29,899 45,795 47,054 39,353
Cash, etc. . . 2,365 2,527 2,990 3,208
Shares in other
cos... .. 13,900 8,204 6,410 6,410
Reduction of £10,829 in the total debt
was facilitated by lightening stocks by
£7701, the excess of liabilities over more
or less liquids being now £12,837 (down


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and genera] engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. VY. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assay era and Metallurgists,
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
J2ourtz_422--Oollins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,013 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman):
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
s
■
NO THANKS - /'c! rather
'have a foe/ Caps fa 05
Wl
/ vj
\3 0
»vW
\
u
km
r>
s§?
Jv.ji*«
l?i '.••<;« 1/
n
m
Vi
;*;4
I
i.wk -
-111
> _4
w
«v
Q
>oPus . -
CAPSTAN
/
UNDID
m
Th
*t’ s
yth
pit
e y at e
fa
*h
y ou
nt e
c, ga
r *tt
es
10 for 7° • 20 for I'2
ALSO FLAT AND ROUNL
Capstan Special Mild . . Red Packs ★ Capstan Modium . . Blue Packs Capstan Pull Strength . . Brown Packs
£1596). In an assault upon costs the
Brisbane end of things was converted
into a branch a couple of years back,
but Buchanan and Co., the subsidiary,
continues to control certain licensed
leasehold and freehold premises there.
“To conserve finances to the greatest
extent” the management has decided to
curtail trading activities, and, with no
early recovery in earnings indicated, the
market speculates in the ords. at 2s. 9d.
The nominally 8 p.c. prefs., on which
arrears of 3s. 6d. per share have accumu-
lated, aren’t active. Reserves £12,084
short of the £27,050 at which goodwill,
etc. —not treated as an asset herein —
appears give a net tangible backing of
17s. Bd. ords., £3 Os. lOd. prefs.
Golden Plateau, Cracow (C.Q.), has
had rather a stern chase after ore re-
serves on No. 4 level, the last annual
report showing much exploratory work
for little payable ore. Discovery now
of 15ft. of Bdwt. ore—lft. of it frill —far
out on one of the east levels should add
considerably to reserves in the deeper sec-
tion of the mine, which to date has not
shown concrete evidence of rich ore in
depth. The width of the new body is
not yet determined, since the bore cut it
obliquely, but it looks sizeable, and a
couple of extra holes now being put in
should determine width, dip and direc-
tion. If not a new make, it appears to
be a flat leg that may make into the No.
3 level stopes considerably nearer the
shaft. The core of the new find assayed
3jOZ. over lft., and is flanked by con-
siderable bodies of 3dwt. to 6dwt. stuff.
On top of this, reserves have increased
between No. 2 and 3 level by a rise going
up in Bdwt. ore. In No. 5, andesite and
quartz leaders are being cut, though there
are no sign of values at the moment.
* % * %
Despite the urgent war demand for
copper, the Mt. Chalmers mine (Q.), a
potential producer of 1840 tons of the
red metal and 63000 z. gold p.a., is still
permitted to lie dormant. To bring the
mine to production (a 12-months’ job)
and repay a £2242 State advance, the co.
is seeking Commonwealth help of
£30,000, after repayment of which it is
willing to deposit all available net earn-
ings with the Commonwealth interest-
free for the lesser of five years or the
duration of the war. The mine, which
produced 403,000 tons of 66.65. ore
(present value) between 1908-14, looks
good security for the advance. Known
ore reserves of 530,000 tons down to
350 ft. are indicated in old mine plans,
metal contents 2.73 p.c. copper and
2.27dwt. gold per ton. On 74 p.c. gold
and 90 p.c. copper extraction, realisation
value, with the former at £9 15s. an
ounce net and the latter at the new-pro-
duction price of £9O a ton, is thus 60s.
Bd. a ton, or £1,590,000 gross. On the
projected 75,000-tons-p.a. output and
475. lid. costs (mining, including Is. 4d.
for amortisation, 225. 5d., carriage to
Mt. Morgan for treatment ss. 6d., and
treatment 20s. a ton), annual earnings of
£47,500 are indicated after meeting all
outgo except taxation, so there is a
margin for contingencies. The ore-body
is known to live below 350 ft. Present
capital is £17,718.
* $ - $ H*
Wiluna’s working surplus for the final
quarter of 1940 is officially estimated at
£68,125 Australian. Development for that
period in the main (south) workings
opened up some low-grade exposures on
the east lode at 2000 ft. and on the west
lode at 1800 ft. Sections of core from
diamond-drilling at the 600 ft. and 800 ft.
levels of the Happy Jack block, in the
northern portion of the co.’s 1200-acre
property, are reported to have assayed
3.4dwt. over 16ft. and 6.4dwt. over 14ft.
respectively.
* sK * *
• Lake View and Star (W.A.) for some
time now has been paying sterling six-
penny dividends every four months, the
last, distributed on Dec. 12, being less
U.K. income tax of 4s. 9d. in the £l.
Early in 1941 half-yearly divs. were
announced. First of these is 6d., but,
with U.K. tax of 6s. 2d. in the £ and
an additional 0.3 d. (representing the in-
c;ease in English taxation between the
dates of declaration and payment of a
previous dividend) chipped off, only 3.85 d.
a share is left for distribution.
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie has resolved
to search for the southern continuation
of the Golden Mile ore-shoots which
others failed to locate in the past. A
large area has been pegged in the direc-
tion of Hannan’s Lake, and a test bore
is to be put down. Further drilling will
depend upon results.
* * * *
Triton (W.A.) is unlucky. Expensive
mining during the last three months has
cut into earnings, and the dividend which
normally would have gone out at the end
of this month will have to be passed.
Alterations being made in the method
of mining are expected to improve output
and reduce costs. Ore reserves at March
31 are said to be slightly lower than a
year earlier, but sufficient to provide pro-
fitable operations for more than two
years.
* * * *
New Milano, at Mt. Monger (W.A.),
has been exhibiting in the window of a
Kalgoorlie newspaper office gold speci-
men ore said to have been broken from
the end of the 9ft.-wide north and Bft.-
wide south drives at the 450 ft. level.
Similar stuff, it was added, was being
milled at the Milano battery. In the early
days of Kalgoorlie exhibition of rich ore
was almost an everyday occurrence.


m
i *
HU
'I
A HOST OF
GOOD THINGS
A host of good things await you at the
Victoria. The food is excellently cooked and
meticulously served. The bedrooms are
spacious and comfortable, the lounges luxur-
iously furnished, and the special guest service
all you could desire. All these things, added
to the convenience of staying right in the
heart of the city, make the Victoria Melbourne's
most popular hotel, and bring over a quarter
million guests each year.
VICTORIA
PAL ACE
“ROOM ONLY"
DAILY TARIFFS
Singles - 5j- to 10j-
Doubles- 8/- to 18/6
Suites, Family Rooms, etc."
Full Catering Services, I
%
S. D. HORNE
Manager
C. 13.41
M£LBOURN£S MOST POPULAR MOREL
215 LITTLE COLLINS STREET - NEXT TOWN HALL
TvMT'
The *
A Special Service
to Executors
Executorship is a heavy burden. For reasons of health, business or desire to
travel, you may be unable or unwilling to act. In such case Burns Philp can
assume your responsibilities. Even if you have already obtained a grant of
probate, you can allow this Company to take over the duties of administration—
either in their entirety or in part. Full details are contained in the free booklet,
" The Task That Few Men Want." Why not write for it ?
Write to or call at the Company's offices, 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, or any Branch
of Burns, Philp & Company Limited, or Burns Philp (South Sea) Company, Limited,
for further information.
DIRECTORS James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER - C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
? BRIDGE
•Phone : B 7901.
STREET .
SYDNEY
Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
Business, Robbery, ETc.
Plevna Oil Shale
Oil is probably Australia’s direst need
in peace- no less than war-time ; and it
is the one thing the Commonwealth is
entirely deficient in,, despite expenditure
of stacks of public and private money
over a long period in the quest for
“gushers.” Oil from shale appears a
possible partial solution of the difficulty,
provided the costs nut can be satisfac-
torily cracked. In this connection
national interest is at present concen-
trated on operations at Newnes (N.S.W.),
where an initial annual production of
the crude-oil equivalent of 10,000,000
gallons of benzine is aimed at.
There are other shale resources in the
Commonwealth, of which the most in-
teresting looks to be the Eungella or
Plevna deposits, some 30 miles from the
railhead of Netherdale, in the Mackay
hinterland of N. Queensland. The Plevna
deposits aren’t to be compared with the
rich torbanite of the N.S.W. fields. They
are of a type new to Australia, being very
similar to the low-grade but massive
Manchurian deposits now being ex-
ploited by Japan. The features of Plevna
are the thickness of the deposits and the
fact that they lend themselves to simple
low-temperature carbonisation without
pressure—factors which should mean
both cheap mining and retorting costs.
Plevna first came to public notice in
1927, when Dr. Ball, now Queensland
Government Geologist, reported unfavor-
ably on the strength of a single shaft and
a weathered outcrop or two. Relying on
similar evidence, members of the Com-
monwealth Oil Advisory Board in 1938
concurred with the Ball report. Un-
daunted, the local holders of the leases
hung on, southern capital was invited in,
an extensive survey made, supplemented
by a drilling campaign, and O. M. Wal-
lace, mining consultant of Sydney, called
in to look things over. His report indi-
cates that the deposits are interesting as
to size at least.
The areas held cover 519 acres, of
which 100 have so far been tested by two
shafts and eight bores. The results seem
to indicate an average depth of shale
of 164 ft., overlain by 38!ft. of over-
burden. Assuming uniform thickness,
that would give 33,000,000 tons of shale
material in the 100 acres tested. The
nature of the deposits suggests these
figures may apply to the rest of the prop-
erty, though that is something that needs
be accepted with reservations until
proved.
In a Lewis Revolving Vacuum Retort,
a bulk sample from one of the shafts
taken from a depth of 15ft. re-
turned 25.2 gallons of crude oil plus
37.61 b. of sulphate of ammonia per ton —
for sulphate of ammonia there is a poten-
tial market as fertiliser in the near-by
sugar belts. Check samples taken from
all bores at different depths accorded
very closely to the bulk sample, oil con-
tent actually improving in depth. Sul-
phur content of the oil, said to be suit-
able for all Diesel-fuel and fractioning
purposes, was 0.28 p.c.
Comparison with the Newnes deposit
is interesting. Here oil content has been
variously estimated between 58 and 100
gallons per ton. But the shale ranges up
to only 4ft. in thickness, and is a mining
proposition, which means high extraction
costs, while retorting is expensive.
Plevna, on the other hand, is a quarry-
ing proposition once overburden has been
stripped, and, given large-scale produc-
tion, opencutting and delivering ore to
the bins should cost only pence per ton,
as at Mt. Lyell and Mt. Morgan, instead
of shillings at Newnes. This and the
anticipated cheap cost of retorting are
offsets to Newnes’s richness.
To enter into a contract for the pur-
chase of the leases, Plevna Shale Oil De-
velopment, Ltd., was registered with a
capital of £2500 last year. The co. has
Treasury approval to raise £lO,OOO of
fresh cash capital, with which to (a)
close-bore the property and definitely de-
termine shale extent and bulk ; ( b ) prove
actual run-of-shale values; and (c)
demonstrate its treatability and oil
characteristics by erection of a small dis-
tillate plant on the spot. The results
should establish without question whether
the project is worth the risking of further
capital.
For the present, however, development
is held up because the Capital Issues
Advisory Board is unwilling to approve
issue of more than 2500 £1 shares to
vendors, etc., who have already expended
£6OOO or more and are asking for a
£9OOO share consideration in the Develop-
ment co. for their interests. As a matter
of equity they would appear at least en-
titled to shares equivalent in face value
to their outgoings to date.
To achieve the best results, Plevna will
need to be operated in a big way if
further development confirms its backers’
anticipations. Given “reasonable” pro-
duction, cost of producing crude oil is
estimated to be within the normal cost
of the imported article, and, treating, say,
1,000,000 tons of material a year, an
annual crude oil production of 25,200,000
gallons is indicated on the basis of the
bulk sample. The questions of actual
outputs and therefore capital costs,
whether the oil is to be sold crude or
refined, are rather premature at this early
stage. The first job in hand is to test
the property thoroughly, following up
with a definite economic survey, and
in this connection those in control seem
to have the right idea.
In the week that marked the Iraqi
revolt share prices on Australian ’Changes
fluctuated within narrow margins ; up-
ward movements in some stocks were
accompanied by downward trends in
others, and, as measured by Sydney
’Changes index, the net effect was to
leave the general price-level almost un-
changed. The opinion is spreading that
it is better to invest in sound stocks than
to keep money in the bank. The supply of
floating scrip, never large, appears to be
ever-dwindling, the position being accen-
tuated by official control of capital issues.
Investors, however, haven’t so far shown
any inclination to pursue prices reck-
lessly.
* * * *
In Britain there has been criticism of
the banking system along lines appar-
ently similar to those indulged in in
Australia. There haven’t been any chair-
men’s speeches this year, statements being
forwarded to shareholders in advance
of the meetings. The chairman of
Lloyds informed his shareholders that
“no single request or suggestion by the
Government in connection with the pro-
vision of war-time credit has been other-
wise than willingly responded to or
actually anticipated by us. Banks, of
course, have only been able to do this
through the additional credit created by
the Government and by restricting ad-
vances for non-essential purposes.” Lord
Wardington added:
It is humiliating to find a noisy few
amongst the public who, from their posi-
tion in literature, politics or finance,
should be able to guide and instruct others,
yet, nevertheless, either from ignorance or
prejudice, never let an opportunity pass
of trying to belittle the efforts of the banks,
to curtail their profits or misrepresent the
facts. 1 can think of nothing which would
please Hitler more than the success of these
gentlemen who appear to be trying to
undermine the confidence which in this
country is generally, and I believe rightly,
given to the banks.
Reginald McKenna, chairman of the
Midland Bank, touched on a subject
rather familiar to Australians. “On the
balance sheet a record figure is shown
for current, deposit and other accounts,”
he said. “The growth of deposits has
led to suggestions that the banks are
making large and undue profits out of
what has been described as ‘costless
credit.’ But for banks such a thing as
costless credit does not exist. The banks
pay for all deposits placed with them,
partly in interest and partly in service.
Of the two forms of payment the cost
of service is ordinarily much the greater,
and has been substantially increased of
late by difficulties arising from the war.”
* * * *
Despite the dry season, with a con-
sequent lighter average fleece, an increase
in the number of sheep shorn is expected
to bring the 1940-41 clip to 3,600,000
bales, or only 69,000 bales short of the
preceding season’s output. Value is com-
puted at £60,000,000, compared with
£65,096,500 in ’39-40, and £42,541,000
for the last pre-war year. Fall of Greece
has eliminated another source of de-
mand, but Uncle Sam is now making
record purchases. Still, under the British
contract the Australian clip will not have
to face an open market till the second
season after the end of war. Meantime
stocks can be expected to accumulate,
and judicious post-war marketing will be
called for in the face of keen competition
from artificial fibres. A bright side of
the picture may be the complete depletion
of Continental stocks —if the Continent
can then afford wool.
* * * *
Government acquisition of the coming
sugar crop does not mean that markets
have been found for the commodity.
Britain this year may take £2,000,000-
worth, though the ultimate figure will
depend on the shipping position. This
will also determine any possible diversion
of supplies to Canada. Accumulation of
three months’ reserves within the Com-
monwealth will absorb some of the sur-
plus. Meantime there is a problem of
overproduction awaiting urgent solution.
* * * *
War has brought sharp changes in the
direction, nature and value of U.S. trade.
Actual figures are interesting:
1939. 1940.
Britain .. .. $504,000,000 $991,544,000
Canada .. .. 491,000,000 683,213.000
Japan .. .. 231,000,000 229,948,000
France .. .. 182,000,000 245,684,000
Philippines .. 100,000,000 93,197,000
Argentina .. .. 71,000,000 106,386,000
Brazil .. .. 80,000,000 109,644,000
Mexico .. .. 83,000,000 94,414,000
Cuba .. .. 80,000,000 84,135,000
Italy .. .. 58,000,000 49,325,000
Germany .. .. 47,000,000 154,000
Britain, naturally, is far the best cus-
tomer, followed by Canada. Imports of
war goods by the two increased the
volume of their purchases by 96 p.c. and
40 p.c. respectively last year, thus more
than compensating Uncle Sam for the loss
of French trade since the German occu-
pation and also for the entry of Italy
into the war. German markets have
lately been among the least important of
U.S. trade outlets. Their complete loss
now has been made good by increased
exports to South American countries,
largely at German expense.
Actually, during 1940 the U.S.A. sold
$1,396,000,000-worth more goods to the
world, mostly Britain, than it bought. In
sterling money, the surplus amounts to
about .£350,000,000, or £435,000,000
Australian. Receipts for all trade and
“service” items—the U.S.A. has a large
income from its overseas investments —
totalling $5,072,000,000, exceeded pay-
ments made ($3,753,000,000) by
$1,319,000,000, equal to £330,000,000
sterling or £413,000,000 Australian.
Britain probably was the gainer as re-
gards invisible items between itself and
the U.S.A. ; large British investments in
America still existed last year. Some of
them—Courtauld’s, for instance—have
since been sold to U.S. interests in order
to raise funds for buying war materials.
* * * *
Final div. of A.C.1., that varied organi-
sation, is of 4j p.c., making 8 p.c. for the
year, a point more than the 1940 distribu-
tion. The fully-paids responded by lifting
to 425. 10d., indicating buyers’ content
with the 3.7 p.c. yield. The contribs., how-
ever, which are relatively undervalued
compared with the old shares, were most
in demand, improving to 355. 9d. On
the basis of 8 p.c. divs. the difference
between f.-ps. and contribs. until the
latter become fully paid in September is
Bd. per share. Allowing for the ss. then
payable, the partly-paids are thus the
cheaper purchase by Is. sd.


mmm
mmm
1
BESTH
BRITISH
BLADE
mmm
Sole Agents : JOUBERT 6- JOUBERT PTY. LTD.
m
1
1
I
A
r A
1938 1939 1940 194
r.
k.
EVERY PERRY OF WARES AMD BIVIOEHBS REMAINS W AUSTRALIA |
ti mp ic
TYRES
The outstanding progress of Olympic Tyres
is the result of their unsurpassed quality.
100% Australian.
iiw
mm
•' y]
sgS
':V. ; :;
• -' npwwtmn mrrm
Characteristic simplicity ■ .
of the modern design attracts more than a passing glance
at this cosy yet spacious suburban home. Low cost
permanent construction was achieved by employing Wunder-
lich DURABESTOS (asbestos-cement) Building sheets for the
walls and Wunderlich Terra Cotta Tiles for the colourful
weathertight roofing.
Estimates for low cost Durabestos" homes can be readily
obtained from architects and builders !
TCHEN OINING RM
nLN
SUN ROOK
BEDROOM Z
U'x 9-6*
RE I U 9* 8
FREE! If you have not obtained a copy of "Durabestos Homes"—a booklet
of 16 designs and plans clip this advertisement and attach your name and
address and send it to Wunderlich Limited, G.P.O. Box 474 AA, Sydney, N.S.W.
mmm
mmm
ASBESTOS-CEMENT
BUILDING SHEETS FOR
WALLS
Sulphide Corp.
Following closure of the Central mine
at the Barrier in March of last year,
shareholders in Sulphide Corp. can see
more clearly where they stand. First,
liabilities for workers’ compensation have
been determined at approximately
£A 151,200, of which all but £22,000 had
been paid at June 30 last. Second, mine
property and plant are now disclosed at
£S 185,081, all of which, less plant sales,
will have to be written off when the
long-postponed capital reconstruction, in-
volving some repayment to the prefs.
and cancellation of ord. capital, eventually
takes place.
Latest accounts still give no light on
actual earnings from the co.’s mainly
industrial activities at Cockle Creek,
where it is engaged in cement, super.,
sulphuric and hydrochloric acid and
limestone production, besides zinc-
concentrate roasting on Electrolytic Zinc’s
account. After allowing £18,421 (down
£4630) amortisation and earmarking
£15,000 (up £9000) for the taxgatherer,
net earnings of £38,516 stg. showed up
in the year to June 30, of which interest,
etc., contributed £12,603. But returns
from mining at the Barrier, which didn’t
cease till three parts through the term,
and other activities aren’t separated in the
published figures.
The one thing certain is that the co.
is at present financially well feathered:
Balance Sheet, 30/6/’4O.
£Stg.
Products on hand .. .. .. 57,094
Sundry debtors .. .. .. .. 114,559
Government securities, etc. .. .. 361,763
Cash 150,650
684,066
Less liabilities* .. .. .. 70,626
613,440
Stores, etc. .. .. .. .. 70,530
Cockle Creek works .. .. .. 341,021
* Including workers’ compensation balance and
Dec. pref. div. (£30,000).
Though nothing quite so extreme is
likely, it is conceivable that the co. might
be able to repay the whole of its £600,000
of pref. capital when the time arrives.
That would leave the ords. —at ss. 6d. a
share, valued at the equivalent of £132,000
stg. in the local market —represented by
Cockle Creek undertakings of moderate
earning power but with a book value of
£341,021 stg., in addition to other assets
of £83,000 stg. net.
On Australian ’Changes the 5 p.c.
participating but non-cumulative prefs.
fetch 17s. or thereabouts. If exchange is
allowed for when some repayment takes
place, there should be a capital profit in
them at the figure. Meanwhile they stand
in the way of distributions to the more
speculative ords. Roughly £130,000 has
been spent on improvements and exten-
sions at Cockle Creek over the past four
years.
Before the outbreak of war the Com-
monwealth was self-sufficient in copper.
War-time demand for the red metal,
however, is now necessitating large im-
ports of the Rhodesian product, de-
spite expansion in local production under
the stimulus of price-increases. To enable
further exploitation of low-grade ores
and compensate for cost-lifts, local price
for the refined commodity has now been
let out to £B6 10s. a ton, or £22 17s. 6d.
more than in Sept., 1939. Then fixed at
£63 17s. 6d. a ton, the figure was lifted
to £76 in Feb., 1940, the main producers,
Lyell (Tas.) and Morgan (Q.), agreeing to
earmark £4 a ton for development and
extension of their undertakings. Febru-
ary of this year saw a further increase
to £7B 10s.; the extra £2 10s. was pooled
in order to equalise to the consumer the
cost of the local and imported article.
Recognising that many trickles make
a stream, the gouger is now to be paid
on the basis of £9O a ton for the refined
product; increased output of the two
chief producers will also be paid for on
a similar oasis. The premium of £3 10s.
will, in effect, be provided by a levy of
£1 10s. a ton on existing company out-
puts. ....
Market enthusiasm for Mt. Lyell fol-
lowing the announcement quickly sub-
sided, and at 265. 9d. the shares finished
up showing a net loss on the week, pos-
sibly due to a realisation that, in the
national interests, the co. may be handling
a lower grade of ore than profit-motives
would normally dictate, even at the
present price of the metal. Interim div.,
it will be remembered, was cut from 9d.
to 6d.
* * *
Golden Plateau’s shilling payment next
month will make the third thing of its
kind in the current term. It compares
with the 2s. a share actually sent out
during 1939-40, when the co. netted
2s. lid. per share after meeting the year’s
development outlay. No increase in
current earnings is, however, indicated.
Average recoveries so far at s.6dwt. com-
pare with 5.75dwt. for the previous term,
and with the milling rate unchanged there
is unlikely to have been cost-cuts. June’s
payment brings total distributions of the
co., only major survivor of the 1931
Cracow (Q.) boom, to over the million.
* * * *
At 755. the shares of J. Fielding, manu-
facturer of cardboard boxes, cartons
and corrugated-fibre containers, etc., of
Sydney and Melbourne, are at their
lowest level of the year. The yield offer-
ing is 4 p.c. from 15 p.c. divs., and
only once since 1928 has less gone out,
notwithstanding distribution of £47,214 of
gift scrip meanwhile. Capital of £235,913
has the support of £291,114 in visible
reserves; this Page wouldn’t so much as
care to guess at what internal provisions
may exist in plant, on the written-down
book value of which 93 p.c. was allowed
for depreciation last .year, in the co.’s
string of city properties, bought when
prices were low, or in investments, which
with debtors and cash totted up to
£412,800 when the books were last ruled
off. The war of 1914-18 put the business
firmly on its feet, and present hostilities
can be expected to confer further lasting
opportunities. Australian board mills
provide most of the raw material.
* * *
Anticipation is apparently worse than
realisation. Anyway, although “Truth’s”
“Daily Mirror” has burst into the
“Sun’s” hitherto-exclusive evening field,
there was better support for Associated
News scrip last week. Maintenance of
the interim at 6 p.c. p.a. no doubt helped.
The Harbor City in the past hasn't
taken kindly to small-sized papers, though
quality and make-up of the news may
have had a lot to do with its reaction.
* if Hf *
May half-yearly handout from Swan
Brewery —something in the nature of a
“final” as a bonus is usually included
therein —is 11.6 p.c., making the total
distribution for the past 12 months 21.6
p.c., as against 25 p.c. for the year pre-
ceding. Capital meantime has grown
from £560,469 to £814,655 by a one-for-
three bonus issue and one-for-six cash
offer at a premium of 55., so the reduc-
tion in div. is mainly nominal. At
235. 6d. a solid yield of 4.6 p.c. is offer-
ing from a solid stock. Export connec-
tions are developing.
* * * *
With the present demand for pulp and
pulp boards, Cellulose Australia, Ltd., is
straining at the leash to begin production
at its Millicent (S.A.) mill by the end
of June. Scarcity of skilled labor has
been the main impediment. Leather
boards, manilla and grey boards rank
early in the production schedule. There
are many cellulose derivatives, such as
cellulose acetate (for plastics and
lacquers), nitro-cellulose and cellulose
ethers (for the textile trade). Commercial
production of these would require, of
course, a great deal of preparation ; but
the co. hopes to do something about them
later.
* * * *
S.A.’s £3,000,000 pipeline to take
Murray water to B.H.P. at Whyalla has
led to a decision by Hume Steel to erect
a new factory at Port Pirie, and to the
resuscitation of a pipemaking plant at
Outer Harbor by Mephan Ferguson,
Ltd., which transferred machinery there
from Westralia. Hume Steel’s contract
covers 140 of the 240 miles of pipeline.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Food as a German Weapon.
[Condensed from a long article by Karl Brandt in
American “Foreign Affairs” carefully and realistically
surveying the present food situation in Europe, with
special reference to Germany’s systematic use of food
as a political instrument and war weapon. The writer,
formerly Professor of Agricultural Economics at the
University of Berlin, is now Economist, Food Research
Institute, Stanford University, U.S.A.]
Few people are really aware of the full implica-
tions of what is going on in connection with Europe’s
production, distribution and consumption of food.
In the totalitarian State food has ceased to be simply
food as we all know it—a commodity of civilian
origin and destination. It has become a complete
chest of tools in the workshop of the modern tyrant.
From the moment the Nazis seized the reins in
Germany they copied the Soviets in transforming
food from an economic end into a political means.
Food became an instrument for executing domestic
policies, for forcing the integration of the race, for
persuading farmers to co-operate, for breaking the
backbone of processing industries, for weaning a “de-
generate” and miseducated people away from luxuries
and unheroic attitudes. The granting of food became
a premium for accomplishment and the withholding
of it became a punishment for failure or dissent.
Food could establish equality or set up distinctions,
it could “liquidate” inferior individuals and groups,
it could play Santa Claus or the big bad wolf. The
Nazis’ control of food put their thumb at the throat
of every man and woman, of children as well as of
the aged.
This new concept of food is entirely harmonious,
of course, with the philosophy underlying the totali-
tarian State. It becomes a postulate of statesmanship
that food is a political and military instrument. The
Lord’s gift of bread turns into Mephisto’s rod, coax-
ing or cajoling, crushing or breaking.
Today, it is safe to say, the Germans are fairly
well-fed, despite a lack of some commodities ; and
they will probably continue to be well-fed so long
as they do not lose control of the conquered Continent.
The Nazi regime started its Erzeugungsschlacht, or
battle of production, in 1934, in imitation of Musso-
lini’s earlier battaglia del grano. Food imports were
curtailed, farm prices for food were raised, dealers’
margins were narrowed and consumer prices were
raised moderately. Every living soul, whether farmer
or laborer, grain dealer or milk retailer, became a
soldier in the Reich Food Estate, subject to the equiva-
lent of martial law and bound to obey it on penalty
of losing his freedom or his neck. Planning for total
war, the best nutrition specialists, dietitians, econo-
mists and psychologists were put to work to devise a
rationing system that would feed the people suffi-
ciently well, permit the regulation of the carryover
through a tightening or loosening of the national belt,
and be proof against bootlegging. Rationing in Ger-
many is not an indication of existing real shortages
of foodstuffs. It is an engineering and political science.
The Nazi system establishes a class distinction
between the various groups of recipients of rationing
cards. First comes the “warrior caste,” embracing
the armed forces, the Gestapo and to some extent the
party militia. Next come the most skilled and essen-
tial laborers. Further down the scale come the un-
employables, the aged, the incurably sick. Allotments
of higher rations are one means of promotion. They
signify approval for laborers who pass from the un-
skilled to the skilled category, or from easier to harder
work.
Rations may be lowered simply to accumulate
greater reserves. Temporary limitations may be used
to impress the people with the seriousness of the
general situation, even when supplies on hand would
allow more generous rations. Or extra rations may
be granted to bolster morale in a difficult moment,
even though stores thereby are drastically reduced.
Cutting off luxuries prepares the people for being
thankful later when a trickle of them reappears—
some coffee, a little whipped cream, candies or
chocolate.
Food has also served the Nazis as an instrument
for outmanoeuvring their political opponents in neutral
countries and for exacting complaisance. In fact,
control of foodstuffs, including annual staple crops
such as grain and sugar, or perishables such as milk*
eggs, meat, fruits and vegetables, is the main way in
which the Nazis overcome patriotic resistance. It
works particularly well in agricultural countries, which
are most vulnerable in the game of squeeze.
The technique used to force an agricultural
country to yield, first to economic domination and
later to military and political domination, is incred-
ibly adaptable. One method is to concentrate in one
hand all the foreign food purchases for the whole
German nation, 80 million strong. This single
authority offers to buy a gigantic volume of goods in
the country in question at fairy-tale prices ; it sets
the conditions, political or otherwise ; it sees that its
tempting offers become known through agents and by
radio and the newspapers ; and then it sits back to
wait for the farmers to “turn the heat” on their Gov-
ernments. Once the nation in question is in the grip
of a big and powerful debtor it has to do as it is told
—or lose everything.
Knowing the inner structure of their victims, all
their weak spots, the German experts in foreign trade,
food and feedstuffs have had an easy time preparing
for “peaceful conquest.” By outbidding competing
countries with arbitrarily chosen higher prices ; by
granting subsidised credits and clearing agreements ;
by buying on a national scale in certain selected trans-
actions ; and by the simultaneous use of diplomatic
and military pressure, Germany succeeded, between
1933 and 1939, in forcing the proportion of exports
taken by her from Bulgaria, Greece, Yugoslavia,
Rumania. Hungary and Turkey from a formfirJoMLQf-
-15 p.c. to a high of 40 p.c. Simultaneously she forced
these countries to raise the percentage of their pur-
chases in Germany, so that instead of representing
19 p.c. of their imports these represented 46 p.c.
Since actual warfare began, nominally neutral
countries like Hungary and Bulgaria which have a
food surplus have established rationing in order to
force larger exports of food to Germany. Thus you
may live in a neutral country that has food aplenty,
but this does not guarantee that you will be allowed
to eat it. If the food squeeze exercised from Germany
becomes strong enough, not only the urban popula-
tion but even the farmers themselves may have to
suffer from malnutrition due to an unbalanced diet,
until for some reason of strategy the pressure is
relaxed.
It is in the conquered and occupied countries,
of course, that the totalitarian food strategy is applied
in its fullest extent. It would be going too far, how-
ever, to say that conditions everywhere are strictly
what the German conqueror wants them to be. He
took six years to build his totalitarian power economy
at home. It works there with the precision of a
carefully-built and solicitously-tended machine. But
in the conquered territories he had hurriedly to super-
impose similar methods upon radically different eco-
nomic systems. Neither the psychological co-ordina-
tion and control, nor the technical execution,
approaches the perfection achieved in Germany
proper. But the longer Nazi legions and administrators
rule the Continent the more order they will restore.
Since the threat of undernourishment, or even actual
starvation, is the canker that destroys public morale,
all Governments, conqueror and conquered alike,
concentrate their energies on banishing this fear. And
they have made remarkable progress. The com-
manders of the German army of occupation, with the
keys to the big granaries in their pockets, will tighten
or relax their grip not in accordance with the size
of available supplies of food, but according to the
dictates of broad political strategy.
Nazi-French Balance Sheet.
(.From a New York “Times” article.')
Since Admiral Darlan, for the Vichy Government,
noted with satisfaction that Germany had released
some requisitioned wheat for France and said that
“the Germans in this instance have been more generous
and humanitarian than the British,” the Germans
have made public a record of other good deeds in
recent months. Counting Admiral Darlan’s wheat,
France has now had from Germany:
220,000 tons of wheat.
25,000 tons of steel and iron.
30,000 tons of fuel oil.
25,000 tons of cellulose.
500,000 tons of newsprint.
150,000 tons of coal.
100,000 tons of potatoes.
And what has France paid Germany?
80,000 dead French soldiers.
100,000 wounded men.
2,000,000 prisoners of war.
The entire equipment of the French Army.
All the food that Germany has wished to take.
100,000,000,000 francs for occupation costs.
The pride and freedom of the French people.
It still seems as if Hitler owes France a little wheat
and a few more bushels of potatoes.
An Expert Replies to Lindbergh.
[ln the May issue of the American “Mercury”
Major Alexander P. de Seversky, a fighter pilot in the
last war and one of the world’s foremost aviation
designers and builders and an authority on strategy and
tactics of aerial warfare, replies at length to Lindbergh’s
general arguments opposing American aid to Britain.
Like Lindbergh, Major Seversky made a close-up investi-
gation of European air power just before the present
war, spending seven months on that job in 1939. Here
condensed is the portion of Major Seversky’s article
opposing Lindbergh’s pessimistic views on Britain v.
Germany in the air.]
Colonel Lindbergh contends that Great Britain
cannot win, even with American assistance —or at
least that its chances are so remote as to be negligible.
The Colonel apparently bases his judgment on exist-
ing aeronautical equipment, and on an immediate
strategic picture which may well prove to be ephemeral.
I am amazed that anyone so close to aviation, even
if he has not himself designed, built or fought in war-
planes, could remain so profoundly unaware of the
swiftly expanding horizons of air power and their
implications.
All sentiment aside, there seems to me no valid
excuse for a defeatist attitude in relation to Britain’s
prospects in the war. I am convinced not merely
that it has a chance of winning but that, given the full
material backing of the United States, it has only a
minor chance of not winning. In offering this broad
summation I am speaking, of course, not only of Eng-
land but of the British Empire.
I base my judgment first of all on the fact that
this conflict is developing primarily into an air war,
with victory ultimately on the side of the superior
air power. The British Empire plus the United States
add up to an aviation potential decisively outweighing
Germany’s, even with a conquered Europe in tow. “If
England is able to hold out for several years,” Colonel
Lindbergh told a Congressional committee, “and if we
devote our maximum war-time effort to the produc-
tion of aircraft, we can almost certainly equal or
exceed the air strength of Germany.” In this he was
making the most conservative possible estimate of the
balance of forces.
The war is shaking down to an epochal contest
liplwppn two nro.ins nf Producing nations. Qne of..
them, under Nazi control, will be more and more
plagued by shortages of critical materials ; it will be
under continuous and growing attack by enemy
aviation, operating with increasingly undernourished
labor working in large part sullenly under coercion.
The other, the Anglo-American bloc, its produc-
tion centres widely scattered over the world, will have
access to all materials ; it will operate in many regions
under relatively peaceful conditions, with labor that
is voluntary and well-fed. In that tug-of-war of pro-
duction, equality in air power for the Anglo-American
bloc is already within sight, and rapid establishment
of supremacy seems in the cards.
Colonel Lindbergh believes that Germany is, to
use his own phrase, “a natural air power” ; that we in
America are a natural air power ; but that other coun-
tries, and especially England, are not. The whole
idea is fallacious. There have been natural sea-power
nations, because some are surrounded by water and
others are not. But all nations are surrounded by
air. What gave Germany its lead was not some in-
herent air superiority but its revolutionary courage in
cutting through outmoded strategic notions. Its ad-
vantage was psychological. By now, Britain s fine per-
formance and the amazing rise of its productive tempo
despite a late start are no less impressive than Ger-
many’s initial lead.
The Colonel was correct when he said that Ger-
many now has a strategic advantage because its air
bases surround the British Isles in a semicircle from
Narvik to the Bay of Biscay. But he failed to note
that this condition is by no means eternal. If Germany
were simply fighting the British Isles, his conclusion
might possibly hold. But Germany is fighting the
British Empire and, in terms of production, also
America. Churchill has stated that if necessary the
struggle would be continued from the outposts of
the Empire. In the same sense that Germany today
surrounds England, the Empire and its allies surround
Germany and the conquered area under its tutelage.
The range of striking air forces is being quickly
enlarged, and with every increase the strategic rela-
tion between Europe and Britain tends to be reversed.
We come ever closer to the day when Germany, all of
Europe, will be the centre of a circle of hostile air
power. In the long run —and admittedly it may be a
long and costly run —it will be easier for the British
to obtain control of the air over Europe than for
Europe to assume control of the skies above the
British Empire. The direct attacks on Germany’s
vital centres will be undertaken from far-flung bases;
not alone from Africa and perhaps the Near East but
inevitably, in time, from Canada and even India. To
cope with this, Hitler would have to dominate the
skies over virtually the entire globe.
Colonel Lindbergh has pictured England as a
concentrated target, in the centre of scat-
tered bases. By his own logic, we must visualise
Europe as comparatively a concentrated target sur-
rounded by hostile air power operating from widely
scattered encircling bases. Once we admit the possi-
bility of superior Anglo-American air power, we must
also admit the likelihood that the European target may
be hammered into submission.
Nor should it be forgotten that, while the contest
is under way, the Nazi conquerors of Europe will have
to police a hostile if not actually subversive con-
tinent ; will have to feed hundreds of millions under
conditions of extreme shortage. They will hold a be-
leaguered and hard-pressed continent, torn within
itself, and pitted against a British-American group rela-
tively unified and under far milder economic and poli-
tical pressures. Already the human and material re-
sources of the British Empire are beginning to affect
the balance. Factories and training grounds and new
bases are springing up throughout North America, in
Australia and New Zealand, in Africa and the Middle
East.
The pattern has not yet fully emerged, but it is
a pattern in which Hitler’s domain will be increasingly
under siege by a constantly more powerful, determined
foe whose strategic position must improve with time.
The main force against the emergence of this pat-
tern is the offensive against British commerce which,
if successful, would break the stranglehold around
Europe. But Germany is still far from success in that
respect. The better employment of air forces will in
time cancel out this Nazi advantage. Even now it is
possible to establish lanes across the narrowest parts
of the Atlantic protected by canopies of air power.
The first line of defence against submarines is
aviation ; the only defence against air raiders on the
high seas is aviation. And such aviation, we have
reason to expect, will assume air control over the
ocean lanes before the Nazi attack on shipping can
prove decisive.
Thus, despite the immediate advantage for Ger-
many, the rapid reversal of the balance is entirely
possible.
Possible Lines of a British Peace.
[From one of a series of articles by John Cowles,
president of the Minneapolis “Star Journal” (U.S.A.),
who accompanied Mr. Willkie on his trip to Britain.]
If the British should eventually win the war, and
win it decisively, what kind of peace terms would the
Germans receive? Although the British Government
has been purposely vague on the subject, it is possible
to forecast in a general way what would probably
take place in the event of a British victory.
First of all, no important segment of British
leadership or public opinion is thinking in terms of
any indemnity whatsoever. It can be taken for granted
that the British would not attempt to collect a penny
of cash reparations from Germany.
English trade-union and Labor party leaders,
who are co-operating completely with the Churchill
Government, have as one of their basic aims the re-


FOR THOSE WHO HAVE NOT FOUND
THE PERFECT
LIQUEUR MUSCAT
GftXaAul&
GOLD MEDAL
AWAITS YOUR APPRECIATION
GOOD WINE IS SO ECONOMICAL TO-DAY
establishment of strong, free trade-unions in Ger-
many as a bulwark against future militarism. To
attain this end, they say, Britain must help build a
sound and thriving national economy in post-war
Germany.
To prevent the possible future rise of Germany
as a military menace, it is almost certain that a vic-
torious Britain would endeavor permanently to keep
Germany from having any aircraft, either civil or
military. London’s view is that air power is such a
vitally important instrument of war that, if the British
strip Germany of aircraft and then prevent the train-
ing of German pilots or the German manufacture of
’planes, they will be removing the one element that
would be essential before Germany could again chal-
lenge Europe’s peace. The British believe they can in
this way eliminate the threat that a revived Germany
might again become a military menace, without de-
stroying the opportunity for her to function pros-
perously as a nation with freedom of action along all
other lines.
The British leaders almost without exception
emphasise that some new league or association of
nations with power to enforce its decisions must be
created. The British would like to have the United
States participate in such an in-
ternational organisation, and
make it world-wide. The British
say, however, that, if America
should decline to join, they
would go ahead, but possibly
only on a European or Eastern
Hemispheric basis. In London’s
opinion the new league or asso-
ciation of nations to be effec-
tive must have substantial
powers to patrol the peace of
the world. The British say that
air power is the agency through
which such international polic-
ing can be done with a mini-
mum of men and expense.
Most of the British leaders
express the view that it will be
possible to restore prosperity,
repair the ravages of war and
raise the world standard of liv-
ing only through creating much
wider trade areas and establish-
ing much freer international
commerce than has existed in
the past. Therefore, even though
political sovereignty may be re-
stored to the smaller nations
that have been swallowed by
Hitler, the British would un-
doubtedly endeavor to make
much of Europe into one large,
freetrade territory with greatly
reduced tariff barriers.
If Hitler should be deci-
sively beaten, undoubtedly the
German-occupied portion of
Poland would be restored to in-
dependent sovereignty, and
Britain would also presumably
put pressure on Russia to try to
force the Soviet to disgorge the
Polish and Finnish territory it
has seized. Czechoslovakia
would of course be re-estab-
lished as an independent nation.
Primarily, however, the British are interested in
Western Europe and the Mediterranean. Beyond
question Britain would re-create the independent
sovereignty of the Scandinavian States and of Bel-
gium, the Netherlands and France. Probably the
British would try to bring all these nations into some
kind of a customs union and possibly into a loose
federation of States with many powers pooled in the
common interest.
Man’s Inhumanity to Man.
[This remarkable example of it is from one of a
series of “Saturday Evening Post” articles by W
Somerset Maugham. Place and time are France in
the early days of the war, and the item, it might be
thought, in somewhat striking contrast to the cheer-up
stuff on France that Mr. Maugham was writing at that
time.]
Officials in Paris admitted that conditions in the
districts in the south-west of France to which the in-
habitants of the danger zone in Alsace-Lorraine had
been evacuated were none too good. They were, in
fact, disgraceful.
These wretched people had been hustled out of
their houses at two hours’ notice and told to bring
with them only what they could carry. They had been
put in cattle trucks. Some fell dangerously ill on the
way and not a few died. They had been told that all
they had to do was to lock their front doors and the
troops would guard their, houses. It was with con-
sternation that they learned after a few weeks that
their houses had been looted by the [French] soldiers
who had been entrusted with their care.
The mayor of one town who had been obliged
to go back on business told me that he had found
everything taken. He had a large library and every
book was gone, and, since it must have required a
truck to take them all away, he could only conclude
that officers had had a hand in the looting. His silver
was gone, all his linen, and his pictures had been cut
out of their frames. Many of the refugees wanted
to go back to save anything that remained, but the
authorities, unwilling they should see what had hap-
pened, refused.
They were miserably housed. The rich land-
owners and the well-to-do bourgeoisie refused to give
them shelter, and the mayors of the various com-
munes were afraid to requisition the houses of these
incredibly selfish people for fear that it might lose
them votes at the next election. They were put in
hovels in which you wouldn’t have put a pig, in cot-
tages in which the roof leaked, in stables, in aban-
doned factories, in ruined farmhouses. They were
crowded together, often two or three families in a
single room, without sanitary conveniences, and with
no place to cook unless they rigged up a makeshift
stove for themselves.
They suffered from cold, since they had hurried
away with only their summer clothes, and, their shoes
having worn out, they were forced to go along the
muddy roads in felt slippers. They could not buy
lumber to make their miserable dwellings rainproof,
or make bedsteads for themselves so that they wouldn’t
—New York “Times.”
CHART BASED ON OFFICIAL BRITISH ESTIMATES.
have to sleep on the floor, because the merchants
were holding up their stock, hoping to get better
prices for it as the war increased the need. They were
the lucky ones who had mattresses. I saw many who
slept on straw.
The whole business was a monstrous example of
ineptitude, indifference to suffering and gross selfish-
ness. It showed want of elementary commonsense on
the part of the Government, for the people of Alsace-
Lorraine were none too satisfied with the French ad-
ministration, and the neglect, the unnecessary hard-
ship they suffered greatly embittered them. I heard
more than one say: “If this is how the French are
going to treat us, we’d sooner be German.”
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
It should matter less to what lengths we in
America must go to achieve our destiny than that
we shall finally unite to make America the great eman-
cipator of tens of millions of slaves throughout the
world. It is the greatest crusade of our times —let
America not miss this opportunity to serve. A reso-
lute America, a mobilised America, an America ready
to fight, if necessary, will win for the world an early
peace.—“ United States News.”
*****
More than 400 American aircraft a month are
now going to the Empire countries, about 250 of
them combat ’planes. These, added to the British
production of around 1600 a month, of which more
than 1000 are combat types, give Britain a combined
monthly output of around 2000, as compared to an
estimated German production of about 2500. This is
the picture with total American production at little
less than 1000 a month. Production of near 2000 a
month is expected before the end of this year.— New
York “Times:’
*****
The battle of the peace will be more difficult to
win than the battle of the war. All Europe will be a
mad swirl of chaotic forces. Unless we [Americans]
are prepared to help in the reorganisation of a shat-
tered world, these forces will leap from continent to
continent and destroy even the United States. Our
help must be of such a nature that neither a mad man
nor a mad nation will ever again have the opportunity
to kill millions of people and destroy tens of billions
of dollars of property. The Nazi ideology with its
belief in violence and deceit, its hatred of non-German
races and its denial of the. rights of man must be so
crushed that it can never rise. The peace, if it is to be
a lasting peace, must also make certain that neither
the barbaric philosophy nor the militaristic imperial-
ism of Prussia will ever again have the opportunity
to find incarnation in the person of a leader possessed
of devils in the biblical sense.— United States Vice-
President Henry A. Wallace.
*****
Britain’s need is Eire’s need. If Britain’s trans-
atlantic supplies approach the danger minimum, then
Eire’s supplies from overseas will be in at least equal
jeopardy. If Britain faces starvation, then Eire will
have reason to fear it even more. Eire has no food
rationing as yet, but already she is considerably dis-
turbed by the decrease in certain other of her neces-
sities petrol most of all. When Eire finds, if she ever
finds, her supply position becoming intolerable, she
must approach Britain—whose ships are the carriers
of Eire’s supplies—to gain some alleviation of her
difficulties. And that will be Britain’s chance to
strike a bargain. It may be taken as quite certain that
Britain will not have reached a point of real peril
until Eire has reached a point of desperation, It may
be taken as almost equally certain that Britain will not
allow Eire to reach desperation point, until she her-
self is in such peril that she can do little or nothing
to help Eire, unless Eire will allow her the essential
facilities. Against that background, it should surely
be possible for the two countries to reach an amicable
arrangement.— James Monahan, in London “Nine-
teenth Century.”
*****
Reports from a reliable foreign neutral source
here in Switzerland about conditions inside Italy tell
of certain privations but not of want, of certain fric-
tions but not of revolution, of certain foreign “assist-
ance but not of domination. But the bugbears of
war, revolution and domination are ever present, and
it is no exaggeration to say that in many sections of
the country it would take little to bring about the
change. New York “Times” Berne correspondent.
*****
From the moment their war ended, the Finns
began to rearm. They had never been persuaded, as
the Estonians and the Latvians and the Lithuanians
were, that Russia could be trusted to leave them alone.
Their war had cost them one full third of their coun-
try, and almost a third of their best young men in
killed and wounded, but they had managed to pre-
serve their independence and they were determined
to hold it. Their Baltic neighbors who had trusted
Stalin were swallowed in two bites. When the time
came for a second bite last June, the Finns congratu-
lated themselves that they not only had fought but
also that they had rearmed after the fighting stopped.
What happened to their neighbors confirmed their sus-
picions of what Stalin intended for them. They con-
cluded, from what the Russians quickly did to the
other Baltic peoples, that the Soviet occupation of
Finland would mean the destruction of the Finnish
nation ; the banishment of hundreds of thousands of
Finns from their historic homeland to the remote raw
country beyond the Ural Mountains. Only in this
way could Moscow hope to break, for the first and
last time, the spirit of the Finnish people—that defiant
little group which for more than a century has resisted
the encroachment of huge Russia. — Demaree Bess , in
the “Saturday Evening Post.”
*****
It is one of the supreme ironies that the conquered
countries are forced to reimburse Hitler for his un-
desired remaking of their lives and social systems.
Germany extracts the price of domination in two
ways. First, there is the cost of her military occupa-
tion, which she assesses on the conquered without
exception. It has been estimated that this cost is
perhaps the equivalent of 15 p.c. of Germany’s whole
current war bill. It is divided among six countries,
France, Norway, Belgium, Holland, Rumania and
Denmark. The last two offered no resistance to in-
vasion, but that makes no difference. The ratio of
apportionment seems to be determined solely by “capa-
city to pay.” France’s daily assessment is the enor-
mous sum of 20,000,000 reichsmarks —in French cur-
rency 400,000,000 francs. But this has not been
enough. To maintain material superiority for her-
self, which is the true goal of the “new order,” Ger-
many extracts from the conquered excessive imports
according to the ability of each occupied territory to
contribute them and survive. Based on national bank
returns, it is estimated that this excess of imports
over normal exchange has already amounted to
3,560,000,000 reichsmarks in the case of France. Total
exploitation of the five conquered countries (leaving
out Rumania) by this method is estimated at about
five and a half billions of reichsmarks.—New York
“Times.”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAIZLES
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Canterbury suffered financially on the
first day of its meeting, but on Saturday
last received the reward it deserved for
its liberality in prize-money. Circum-
stances favored the club, as, with the
hotels closed owing to the Parliamentary
election and numerous small starting-
price bookmakers consequently unavail-
able, many people decided they would
see racing by way of a change. A crowd
of 15,000, not far behind the record
for the course, was the result, and the
tote turnover was thoroughly satisfactory.
It is to be hoped Canterbury will continue
giving stakes that are really worth
winning.
The Canterbury Cup was, of course,
the race of the day, and from the com-
mencement of the final mile it appeared
certain the winner would come from
Gilltown, Mildura or Evergreen, though
Chatoona raised the hopes of his backers
when, after being awkwardly placed in
the early part, he made a sharp move
into fourth position about 3 \ furlongs
from home.
Gilltown led all the way over the last
nine furlongs, with Mildura and Ever-
green nearest him. At the five furlongs
the last-mentioned two were only a
couple of lengths behind Gilltown, but
though it looked as if they would be able
to join him as soon as called on, and
did slightly reduce his lead, he slipped
away again at the turn. Mildura was
beaten immediately after entering the
straight, and, though a furlong from home
Evergreen appeared to have a winning
chance, Gilltown did the better over the
last bit.
Mildura hung on long enough to beat
the stronger-finishing Binnia Hero for
third. Chatoona tired badly, Katanga
was never a winning possibility, nor was
the erratic Dashing Cavalier, who was
one of the tail-enders all the way. Cable
Boy shaped fairly, but Amiable was out
of her distance, and Hope has again lost
form. The time, 2.18|, was a track
record, and Gilltown again proved that
he is much better with less than Bst. than
anything over that weight. Only a few
days earlier, when carrying 8.12, lightly-
weighted Heiron beat him in easy fashion
over the same distance ; but it must be
added Gilltown subsequently ran fairly
in City Tatt.’s Gold Cup with 8.8. Never-
theless, he is hard to follow.
Bona Fide justified her short-priced
favoritism for the Flying Handicap, but
though she finished too strongly for
Creditor and Petruchio, who led her
half a furlong from home, her win was
not of sufficient merit to be likely to
cause any rush for her when she next
runs. Creditor’s third was more impres-
sive, as he did not look wound up. An
apprentice allowance took Petruchio
down to 7.4, and that he could not win
with that weight shows he is a long way
from being as good as a few months ago.
Denita, though fancied by his trainer,
made a poor showing. Among the tail-
enders shortly after the start, he finished
last.
Mortine’s win in the Second Trial
Stakes was her sixth in a little over four
months. In the lead from the time the
field settled down, she scored so deci-
sively that further success for her in the
near future is certain. Beau Frere
dropped back second-last near the six
furlongs, and, though still in that posi-
tion at the half-mile, ran on well to get
second, with Lord Balmore third, after
being a pronounced last for the first five
furlongs. Quite Good and Tellaweepy
did well up to the home turn.
Cradle Song, at odds on, had every
chance of winning the first division of
the Nursery Handicap. She had a clear
lead after going two furlongs, but, though
she was first into the straight from Pal-
lama, Silverelda and Fort Leon, she was
unable to respond when tackled by Silver-
elda halfway down the straight. Silver-
elda was inclined to shift about, but she
was much too good for Cradle Song.
Pallama was third, followed by Fort
Leon, who never looked as if he would
do more than gain a minor place. It
was the first race won by Silverelda, who
is by Silverburn from Griselda, by
Tomatin from Ginwheel, a half-sister to
Prince Bardolph, a Sydney Cup winner.
Silverelda is trained by G. Sutherland,
who has her on lease until November of
next year.
In the second division of the Nursery
Handicap Good Company added to
Brueghel’s winners. Commencing smartly,
Good Company led into the straight
from Redbreast and Congratulations,
and in the run home was never in danger
of defeat, her 1.1 equalling the course
record for five furlongs. Congratulations,
though second, is unlikely to improve,
but there are possibilities associated with
the 900gns. filly Justitia (Beau Pere-La
Justice), who cut Marchotti out of third
place. The last-named made a run in
the straight, but weakened before reach-
ing the winning post. Good Company,
who is raced on lease by her trainer,
O. Pettit, is out of Good and Gay, who
is also the dam of Brazen Boy and
Berani.
If there was one horse more than an-
other that most backers would have
picked as unlikely to win the first divi-
sion of the Highweight Handicap it was
Aristocrat. He had not raced since last
November, and had never shown form
at six furlongs. However, after Rival
Chief and Sioneel had led to the turn
from Loyal Lad and Asnazu, Aristocrat
shot up in the straight and outstayed
Loyal Lad. Asnazu, after failing to get
a run on the rails, had to be pulled to
the outside about three-quarters of a fur-
long from home, and finished fourth.
An extra furlong or two will be to his
liking. Aristocrat’s tote dividend was at
the rate of 112 to 1.
A strong finishing run won St. Andrew
the second division of the Highweight
Handicap. He was slow in finding his
legs, but vigorously ridden by Cook was
a sure winner half a furlong from home.
J. Mandel deserved a win with St.
Andrew, and it may not be long before
he scores with Shem, who, though he had
not raced for some time, demonstrated
he had not lost his pace. Bombala, too,
is coming on again. Opportunist was
not in galloping humor, dropping back
second-last soon after the start and fail-
ing to improve his position. His form
was much below that shown by him
when, at his previous start, he beat
Spear Arrow at Kembla Grange. He is
seemingly a horse of moods.
Cook evidently decided to wait as long
as possible on Bonny Loch in the Ash-
bury Handicap. He looked to be over-
doing it when he still had him last
three and a half furlongs from home.
Then he brought Bonny Loch along with
a fast run, but was still some distance
from the leaders turning for home. In
the straight Bonny Loch dashed up on
the outside, but though half a furlong
from home he looked a comfortable
winner, he had to be ridden right out to
beat the faster-finishing John Dory, who
struck a fair amount of trouble in run-
ning. Pimm’s, after losing a lot of ground
at the start, did well to get third, followed
by Red Sails, who may need a little more
racing to get him to his best. A longer
distance will be to the liking of Hilarious.
Bramol is not improving with racing, but
as Mustapha went to the front soon after
barrier rise, and lasted to the straight
entrance, he may be worth following.
* * * »
When a trainer does not think his horse
has a winning chance, and watches him
win unbacked, what hope is there for
the ayerage punter? Steve Masters was
a disconsolate man after El Reo’s narrow
defeat of Pamelus and Procyon in the
Imperial Handicap at Ascot (Vic.) on
Saturday. El Reo, now raced on lease
by Masters, won at Moonee Valley last
month, but he stopped badly when fourth
to Spargo at Mentone subsequently, and
Masters did not think that a substantial
drop in w'eight would offset the stronger
company he met on Saturday. He de-
clared after the race that he had not
put a penny on the horse, who
started at 20 to 1 and paid over 41 to 1
on the tote, and had advised his friends
against backing him. El Reo, however,
obtained a run between Procyon and
Pamelus in the straight, and, with respec-
tive weight advantages of 371 b. and 221 b.
over those horses, battled out the finish
in game style.
Former W-A. apprentice T. Unkovich,
who piloted El Reo to success, did book-
makers an even better turn when he
landed the Granville Handicap on the
33-to-l chance Prairiedale. Prairiedale
was a useful galloper in the southern dis-
tricts of N.S.W. last season, when, in
addition to winning races, he finished
second in the Albury and Wagga Cups ;
but his form since his arrival in Mel-
bourne to be raced on lease by J. Hay-
ward said little for him on Saturday. Hay-
ward, however, gave him a chance, and
did not let him run unbacked. Moving
up fourth at the turn, Prairiedale, who is
an eight-year-old gelding by Friarsdale,
bore out his lessee’s contention that he
is a good sticker by fighting every inch
of the way to beat Lalmoni and Contact
in a head and half-head finish.
Having struck form again and being
low in the weights, more may be heard
of Prairiedale, whose trainer prepared
several of the best horses in W.A. before
he came to Melbourne in 1911. Hay-
ward experienced his share of success in
Victoria, but for the last 15 years has
been content to occupy himself with one
horse at a time. His last winner before
Prairiedale was Gallibrook, who won the
Warrnambool Cup in 1936.
Lalmoni may have been unlucky, as she
went wide on the turn, while the hot
favorite, Chamberlain, was wide out most
of the way, and covered a great deal of
extra ground. He made a short dash in
the straight, but weakened to finish a
moderate fourth.
Owner-trainer H. H. Harding made a
splendid bargain when he paid 130
guineas for the Parenthesis colt Liege
about two months ago. General impres-
sion at the time was that Liege, who re-
vealed good promise earlier in the season,
was broken-winded, but Harding dis-
covered a couple of days after the sale
that the trouble was a form of strangles,
and treated him accordingly. He sub-
jected the colt to exacting track tests to
satisfy himself that his wind was sound,
and in beating Dapper and Prince David
in a close finish for the Montrose Han-
dicap Liege took his record for his new
owner to five starts for two wins, a
second, a third and £283 6s. Bd. in stakes.
Liege was backed from sixes to fours on
Saturday, and, running to the pacemaker,
Dapper, entering the straight, wore him
down to win by a head. Prince David
was presented with an inside run when
Dapper veered away from the rails, but
was not quite good enough. Cimranda,
a Cimbrian colt, struck trouble early in
the race, and his fourth indicated a near-
future win.
Outside barrier positions at the seven
furlongs starting-point at Ascot are
looked upon with disfavor by nuwt
owners, trainers and backers, but this
theory was knocked on the head by the
successes of Larry Resta and Produce
in the divisions of the Charlemont Trial
Larry Resta drew No. 19 in the first
division, and Profuse 17 in the second
Backed from sevens to fives, Larry
Resta, who had won at Mentone at his
previous start, hit the front between the
four and three furlongs, and won well
from Leporis and Shandon Belle The
fact that the winner and runner-up are
nine-year-olds was hardly flattering to
the horses that finished behind them
Larry Resta was bred by his owner
W. T. Hazlett, at his Chelandry Stud
Farm in Maoriland, and is only one of
numerous winners which have come
from that establishment. Many mares
and foals are running on the property,
where the stallions Sir Simper, who fin-
ished third in Journal’s Caulfield Cup,
and Colonel Cygnus are located. M
Campbell does much of the Hazlett
riding in Melbourne, but a great deal of
the pleasure derived from Larry Resta’s
win was minimised when the stewards
suspended him for one month for inter-
ference soon after the start.
On the strength of her close second to
Beau Lake in a similar class of race at
her previous start, Profuse would have
been one of the favorites for the second
division had she drawn at all well, but,
with her outside “marble” scaring many
punters, she started at 10 to 1. Badly
placed at the half-mile, she made a fast
move coming to the turn, and, running to
the front when fairly on the way for
home, cleared away to win as she liked
from Docker’s Plains and Naverino.
Last-named was backed from sevens to
fours, but was disadvantaged by racing
on the outside of two horses for a good
part of the trip. Docker’s Plains may
be worth remembering for a minor flat
or hurdle race.
A remarkable plunge on Conflagration
lifted betting on the Jeffcott Welter right
out of the ordinary. The backer popularly
known as “The Man in the Boxer Hat”
was estimated to have wagered at least
£l5OO in cash on the mare, who firmed
from 5 to 1 to 5 to 2, only to start at
7 to 2. The money was left with book-
makers, but Conflagration might have
done better than third to Manpower
and Parilla, little more than half
a length behind the winner, had she
not lost her position at the far turn.
Parilla looked all over a winner when he
approached the turn with a useful lead,
but Manpower, who had overcome an
early check, outstayed him to win by hall
a length. Manpower’s success compen-
sated for his close third to Royal Comet
at Warrnambool a few days earlier.
Both his wins have been recorded in
welter company at Ascot.
Pretend momentarily looked sure to
win the Trial Hurdle outright when be
landed in front of Ringford after the last
jump, but the latter gradually wore rum
down and made a dead-heat in the last
stride. Both, however, were lucky to beat
the third horse, Gaelic, who was |9 in S
comfortably in front when he forfeited
his chance by attempting to run on at
the third-last hurdle. He lost rn°t e
ground than the five lengths by
was defeated. With a win and a dea -
heat for first and £lBO in stakes, rre
tend has developed into a nice bargain a
the 50 guineas he cost not long ago.
* * * *
Sydney owners and trainers have re '
ceived many surprises in Brisbane. J h ere
was an addition to the number on Satur-
day when the 10-to-l chance Karait (in
Buzzard-Nagaina) downed Gold baiuie,
who at the home turn had a lead tna
appeared to make him a certain winner
of the Moreton Handicap. Karait wor
him down, beating him a head, but de e
did not dispose of the fact that G
Salute is a first-class horse. He '
freely used with 9.5, and the mile an
quarter was run in 2.2%, which equa
the Queensland record. Karait, too, m 1
be good, as he was getting only iw.
from Gold Salute, and the third hors
was six lengths behind the first to-
other Brisbane winner was Lord sp
(Spearfelt-Abtorta), who ran away
the Claret Stakes, seven furlongs,
which he had 8.12. He is m the AJ
Derby. ,
With Labor in power it is improbable
racing in N.S.W. now has much to tea •
Nevertheless, nothing would be ,
there was a reduction in the num
small meetings near Sydney. Wit [ .
peanut prizes they do nothing °
uplifting racing. In most cases ofl
ting market has much greater bean »
owners’ and trainers’ intentions tha' e
prize-money to be won. It can, or c ’
be pointed out that these meeting
supervised by A.J.C. stipendiary ste
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Hurdle Race: Xerxes, 1; Gold
Pan, 2; Berrima, 3.
Two-year-old Handicap (colts and
geldings): Thrax, 1 ; Grand Pere,
2 ; Penaire, 3.
Two-year-old Handicap (fillies):
Marcoperi or Justitia, 1 ; Harprey,
2 ; Silverelda, 3.
Flying Handicap: Winifred, 1 ;
Micawber, 2 ; Bona Fide, 3.
Novice Handicap: Rotonde, 1 ;
Indian Emperor, 2; Jymjon, 3.
James Barnes Plate: Fearless, 1 ;
Proud Fox, 2 ; Heiron, 3.
Welter Handicap: Lord Valen-
tine, 1 ; Pimm’s, 2 ; St. Andrew or
Haran, 3.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
(At Mentone.)
(Before acceptances.)
Kororoit Hurdle: Atticus or
Harley, 1; First Brigade, 2; Fly-
ing Comedian, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Wheat Sheaf,
1 ; Invidious, 2; Dapper, 3.
Spotswood Trial: Windlite, 1 ;
Hullabaloo, 2 ; The Barber, 3.
Gellibrand Handicap: Edmonton,
1 ; Sun Valley, 2; New Warrior, 3.
Bay View Handicap: Gladstone,
1 ; Sir Locket, 2 ; True Flight, 3.
Beach Welter: Phildoll, 1 ; Snow
White, 2 ; Strategy, 3.


and that, as disqualifications are rare, the
racing, on the whole, must be clean. Per-
haps ; but the probabilities are the
stewards, with a proper understanding of
the position, are more tolerant than they
would be at meetings in the metropolitan
area.
* * *
It is easy to praise success, but W.
Cook was at his best at Canterbury on
Saturday. His judgment on Gilltown
and Bonny Loch was excellent, and his
vigor on Bona Fide and St. Andrew was
pronounced. Like every other jockey
Cook has his off days, but when he is
at his top he shines both through and at
the finish of races. Gilltown, by the way,
is a horse he should thoroughly under-
stand. He has scored numerous wins
on him. One of these was the last
Moonee Valley Cup. H. Hughes rode
Gilltown when he won his first Moonee
Valley Cup and City Tattersall’s Cup.
Gilltown has proved such a gilt-edged
proposition for O. Triggs that it is reason-
able to assume that he will launch out
to a greater extent in the future than in
the past as a horse-owner.
* * *
There is a deal of speculation as to
who will be appointed stipendiary
steward and assistant steward by the
A.J.C. A rather general belief is that
an overseas applicant will be successful
as steward. That may prove correct, but,
in view of the fact that Australia has
been the country to which India and
South Africa have looked for competent
stewards, it will be a reversal of form if
we have to go outside Australia to get
one.
* * * *
Few things annoy me more in racing
than men who play the “after game.”
After backing a horse for a couple of
races in which it was beaten, they prob-
ably miss it when it wins at a third
attempt. Then, despite the fact that they
watched that horse more than any other
in its races —possibly in small fields—
and saw nothing amiss, they want to know
what the stewards were thinking about
in not reviewing its form when it won.
You do not mind this sort of thing from
men who do not profess to know all
about racing, but it is tiresome when it
comes from men who believe themselves
almost infallible in respect of racing
knowledge.
* * * *
J. Pike has not found horse-training
a road to wealth, and purposes again
taking out a jockey’s license. “I am
9st. 241 b. in my clothes,” he remarked
the other morning, “and could now go to
scale at 8.10, but the chances are I will
muscle up, and that means extra weight.
I do not intend applying immediately,
but shall shortly start riding work. That
will tell me how my nerves are, and
what my weight is likely to be. Those
two things will guide me as to whether
I resume riding.”
* * H: *
Seventy-nine two-year-old races have
been run in the Sydney metropolitan
area this season, and Yaralla leads in
prize-money and number of wins, four
being credited him. Bruegalong has won
three and a half races, but none of im-
portance. It’s Funny, Kingsdale and
Skerries are next, with three each, and
then Henchman, two and a half, while
Prince, Thrax, Cradle Song, Milanja,
Escutcheon, Astrid, Congratulations,
Fort Morgan and Redbreast have each
won twice. A little more than half
the winners of Sydney’s two-year-old
races were sold at auction, and only four
passed the 400gns. mark. The prices real-
ised by winners as yearlings were as
under: —
Gns. Gns.
Beau Port .. .. 2220 Hasty Decision 220
Yaralla .. .. 1200 America .. .. 210
Skerries .. .. 575 Cradle Song .. 160
Final Victory .. 425 Medieval Rose .. 160
It’s Funny .. .. 375 Jesterine .. .. 150
Triad 375 My Legion .. 150
Henchman .. 325 Melfleur .. .. 140
St. Pancras .. 325 Bruegalong.. .. 130
Kingsdale .. .. 325 Lord Pentheus .. 110
Fort Morgan .. 300 Linemond .. .. 100
Darjoa .. .. 300 Dick Whittington 90
Legion .. .. 270 Steal On .. .. 80
All Love .. .. 250 Milanja .. .. 75
Red Wendy .. 230 Redbreast .. .. 45
* * * *
The attention they received from the
M.T.C.’s representatives was thoroughly
appreciated by owners and trainers who
visited Wagga last week, and next year
those from Sydney will probably be more
numerous than on the recent occasion,
Thanks to concessions, the cost of taking
horses to the meeting is not heavy. Fear-
less was too good for The Squire over
the last furlong of the Wagga Cup. “No
excuse possible for my horse,” was the
comment of G. Price, who trains the
latter, but the five meetings to be held
at Randwick before the end of next
month will give The Squire a chance of
atoning for his defeat, and then there is
Doomben in July. John Peel, winner of
the Town Plate (£l2O and £25 trophy),
was recently secured by W. F. Ross,
and may prove a real bargain. He is a
half-brother by Foxbridge to Ammon Ra,
and as a yearling cost knight Sydney
Snow lOOOgns.
* * * *
At Wagga the jockey T. Webster was
suspended for six months for betting.
Webster has some reason to account him-
self unlucky, as though jockeys are sup-
posed not to bet, how many refrain? and
it seems almost too much to expect of
them. Of course, most of those who do
are discreet, and with some there is no
necessity to risk their own money. That
is where punters are useful. Successful
riders can always find them, if they so
desire, and few have any objection to
something over what they are entitled to
in fees and any present an owner may
give them. Still, while one may be sorry
for Webster, it would not do to permit
any rule of racing to be openly flouted,
though, as we all know, some are often
quietly broken.
# * * *
Sir Locket, who won recently at Ascot
(Melbourne) and is now mentioned as a
possibility for one of the big handicaps
in the spring, is by Trivalve’s brother
Treyford. It is therefore of interest that
Treyford is now at the stud in N.S.W.,
being located at Coogle, Gunnedah. His
present owner, P. C. Woolaston, writes
me that he bought Treyford without in-
spection, and is well pleased with his first
crop of foals, all of which, like Sir
Locket, have some white markings. As
Treyford is only ten years, he still has
plenty of time in which to become promi-
nent as a sire. It will give him a big lift
if Sir Locket turns out as well as
expected.
* * * *
In number of two-year-old wins at
Sydney meetings this season Brueghel
and Double Remove are well ahead of
the other sires. They are equal in in-
dividual winners, five each. Italy has
done Australia one service that of
giving it a good sire in Brueghel. As
usual, imported stallions are well ahead
of the Australian division, and sires
credited with more than two wins at
meetings in Sydney (provincial fixtures
are not included) this season are as
under:
Brueghel (imp.), by Pharos-Bunworry.
Bruegalong .. 34 Astrid .. .. 2
Magi .. .. 1 Steal On.. .. 1
Good Company 1
Double Remove (imp.), by Felstead-
Quick Rise.
All Love .. 2 Cradle Song .. 2
America .. .. 1 Awake .. .. 1
Triad .. .. 1
The Buzzard (imp.), by Spion Kop-
Valescure.
Yaralla .. .. .. .. .. 4
Peter Pan, by Pantheon-Alwina.
Red Wendy .. 1 ■ Rosabelle .. 1
Hasty Decision 1 Sky High .. 1
El Cacique (imp.), by Tracery-Indiecita.
Thrax .. .. 2 Papilion .. 1
Caithness (imp.), by Coronach-Lake Leman.
Skerries .. .. .. .. .. 3
Pentheus, by Rossendale-Cereica.
Jesterine .. 1 Legion .. 4
Lord Pentheus 1
Andrea (imp.), by Solario-Persuasion.
Kingsdale .. .. .. .. .. 3
Constant Son (imp.), by Son-in-law-
Constant Lady.
It’s Funny .. .. 3
Harinero (imp.), by Blandford-Athasi.
Henchman .. 24 My Legion .. 1
Melfort (imp.), by Colorado-Caltha.
Fort Morgan .. 2 Melfleur .. 4
Sires credited with two wins are:
Christopher Robin, Cheveley Lad, Beau
Pere, Grand Joy, Veilmond, Madagascar,
Royal Sun, Medieval Knight, Hall Mark
and Gay Lothario.
* * * *
Suburban starting-price bookmakers
have been faring so badly that they have
decided to reduce the prices for some
Sydney and provincial meetings. If they
adhere to that intention they will do much
more towards reducing the volume of
starting-price betting than the police have
been able to accomplish.
* * * *
Peter Pan was expected to recover from
a fracture of a bone in one of his legs,
but unfortunately it brought about his
death last week. Winner of two Mel-
bourne Cups, one in heavy going with
9.10, he finished his racing career with
224 wins, six seconds, one third and
£34,938 in prize-money. At two years
Peter Pan started only once, missing a
place, and at his first run at three years
dead-heated Babili for a mile Novice
Handicap at Warwick Farm. He won at
most distances, a mile in 1.354 being
among his fast times. He finished racing
in 1936 after five successive defeats, his
last being when, at 10 to 9 on, he ran
third to Sarcherie and Silver Ring in the
A.J.C. Autumn Plate. His oldest progeny
are three years, and his winners in Sydney
this season included the two-year-olds
Red Wendy, Hasty Decision, Rosabelle
and Sky High. He has left some promis-
ing yearlings, and it is probable he will
achieve posthumous fame.
* * * *
For the current season the veteran
pony Majorca has a splendid record for
consistency in 14.2 races at Sydney meet-
ings. Commencing with his second at
Rosebery on August 7, he had his 27th
start in nine months, when he won at
Kensington last Wednesday. His plac-
ings for the period mentioned are six
firsts, six seconds and five thirds, the prize-
money totalling £582. During his long
career he has won at Rosebery, Victoria
Park, Ascot and Kensington. At the
last-mentioned track he has done better
than at any other.
* * * *
High Caste is reported to have already
benefited by his spell. He did not
come through the autumn meetings
as well as anticipated. The hard racing
he did in Melbourne evidently told its
tale as, while the kick he received at the
starting-post made his failure in the Don-
caster excusable, he did not display his
customary dash in his two previous races,
the Chipping Norton Plate and Rawson
Stakes. As his failures will possibly tend
to slightly more lenient treatment he is
bound to enter into calculations for some
of the spring handicaps. Notwithstanding
he won a mile and three-quarters w.f.a.
race at Flemington, a mile and a half is
still likely to prove as far as he likes
in a first-class handicap.
* * * *
American winning sires’ statistics for
last year are interesting. Sir Gallahad 111
(Teddy-Plucky Liege) was first with 102
firsts, 86 seconds and 51 thirds, and prize-
money totalling $305,610 (approximately
£A93,445). He had 63 runners. Chance
Shot was not far away with 109 firsts,
101 seconds, 95 thirds, and $291,582
(about £A88,680), scored by 52 runners,
and Bull Dog (brother to Sir Gallahad
III) was next, with 131 firsts, 121 seconds,
131 thirds, and $254,683. He had 77
runners. Wise Counsellor’s 86 runners
gave him 145 firsts, 159 seconds and 152
thirds, but, with $134,965, he was only
thirteenth in prize-money. The large
amounts to the credit of successful sires
give a fair idea of the many valuable
races to be won in America. With the
addition of his Maoriland wins Beau
Pere headed the 1939-40 list in Australia
with 30 winners of 71 races, carrying
£31,295. Pantheon was next with 44
winners of 85 races and £30,423 ; and
then The Buzzard, 45 winners, 95 races
and £29,261.
* * * *
At the recent sales in Sydney F. W.
Hughes bought several mares, and he
has so many mares and fillies racing that
in a few years it is probable he will be
among the big contributors to the year-
ling sales catalogue. In this connection
it is worth noting that he has stronger
numerical representation than any other
owner in next year’s Adrian Knox Stakes.
He has 10 in that race, the sires being
Beau Pere, Man’s Pal, Piccadilly, Jericho,
Marconigram, Fanfare, Veilmond and
Double Remove. He means to have
great variety in blood at his stud.
* * * *
There is an excellent entry for Tatter-
sail’s Hurdle Race, and owners and
trainers of jumpers will have five addi-
tional opportunities of picking up a race
at Randwick before the close of the
season. Including next Saturday’s race,
the prize-money totals £2070.
* * * *
T. George, who trains Beau Vite when
that horse is in Maoriland, was well
ahead of all other trainers over there up
to April 26. He had scored 43 wins,
nearest him being H. Dulieu and I. Tins-
ley, with 25 each. H. Gray and R. Bagby
were next with 22 each. Among the
jockeys W. Broughton appeared fairly
certain to head this season’s list. Up to
the date mentioned he had won 67 races,
and his closest followers were H. Wiggins
52, L. J. Ellis 42 and B. Morris 40.
M.Q. and Rafferty
A 1 Woods, who relieved Jackie
Deakin of the Australian flyweight title,
held that somewhat fickle honor for only
a matter of months, losing it to the New-
castle lad Ken Stanford at Leichhardt
last Thursday night. A 1 was a bit stiff:
apart from being knocked off his feet in
the fourth round, he had had all the best
of a pretty tough scrap right up to the
last round, when he was down again and
very nearly out.
Brisbane had a taste of Georges
Champion’s quality on Saturday night,
when the Noumean hopelessly outclassed
the Queensland middle and light heavy-
weight champion George Wilson. Cham-
pion won it with painful ease, as he has
won pretty well all his engagements in
Australia. The fact is that, though a bit
on the light side, he is a really good
middleweight.
Former topnotch fedder Young Llew
Edwards made a successful comeback at
West Melbourne Stadium on Saturday
night, having a very easy points win over
Kid Delaney, a recent victim in Sydney
of Vic Patrick, who also added to his
formidable record during the week. In
outing Queenslander Jack Rigby in the
fourth round of their Sydney Stadium
scrap Patrick made his tally 18 wins, 17
of them by k.o.
Footbrawl
It had to come. A man at Richmond
football ground on Saturday opened up
a portable wireless set and tuned into the
race broadcast from Ascot. He had a
herd of listeners for every race, anxious
police sergeants eyeing the group from
afar and wondering if someone had cap-
tured an umpire. In between races Rich-
mond booted 18.15 to North Melbourne’s
14.11.
Melbourne went down to Geelong and
the closest League game of the day. The
home side turned on some good, bullock-
ing football, and had a lead of six points
at half-time. After that Melbourne settled
down to steady, systematic work, and
superior passing gave it the game— ■
16.12 to 13.19.
The 20,000 that turned out at St. Kilda
to watch the home side play Essendon
had the experience of fight fans who see
a big fight fizzle out in the first round.
The ’Dons had charge all through—l6.l7
to 7.16.
It was the same at Footscray, except
that “Sowth” was put through the mill
from the start, the Scraggers collecting
16.4 to 7.16 by good team work. ’Scray
always starts the season well but seldom
stays the distance.
Those ancient rivals Collingwood and
Fitzroy met at Fitzroy. ’Wood got off
on the wrong foot, and the Maroons
sailed away in front to lead a$ the final
change by 13.5-8.9. The last quarter
was a ding-dong affair, with the ball and
the lead flying from end to end. ’Wood
drew away, and the frantic Maroons
failed to catch them, the tally being
18.15-15.7.
Carlton-Hawthorn drew a small crowd
at Carlton, and the Blues had little
trouble in disposing of the Haw-Haws
with a score of 18.12 to 10.13.
* * * * 1
University and East are the teams un-
beaten in the Sydney Rugby Union com-
petition. The students, forward and back,
are a very solid combination. At Drum-
moyne’s expense they piled up six tries
to one and took the score to 26-3. East
made it 12-8 against Manly, but was glad
to hear the final bell.
A leg fracture cost Randwick the ser-
vices of Blyth, the scrum half, shortly
after the beginning of its match with
Northern Suburbs, and, though the for-
wards managed to win the ball from
scrums and line-outs, ’Wick was beaten
22-19. Broun, the North winger, twice
“intercepted” when things looked dan-
gerous and scored runaway tries. The
Gordon forwards bustled West off the
ball to win 8 -nil, and the Parramatta pack
was chiefly responsible for that team’s
8-6 win over St. George.
* % * *
The Waratahs, who had a great tour
of Britain in 1927-28, have lost their
manager, Gordon Shaw. His friendly
interest in every member of the team and
his engaging social qualities had a great
deal to do with their triumphs on the
field and off. A Bombala (N.S.W.)
grazier, he was himself a good foot-
baller before years and weight compelled
him to become a spectator. Union
Rugby was a passion that haunted him
to the end.
Miscellaneous
Army, with 40 points, defeated Air
Force (27) and Navy (3) in track and
field events for the United Services Shield,
held on Sydney Cricket Ground. The
track was soggy, but, running for the
Air Force, McCann, the Stawell Gift
(1936) man, did 22.6 seconds in the 220,
and R. B. Goodall 2min. 1.1 sec. in the
880. In the 100, McCann was second to
Collins (Army), whose time was 10.2 sec.
The crowd was small —there were at least
ten times as many spectators at a Billy-
cart Derby near by.
* * * *
“King’s Pawn”: From the start there
was not much doubt about the N.S.W.
chess championship. Lajos Steiner,
winner last year, won again with the loss
of only half a point, a draw skilfully
secured by G. Koshnitsky. Steiner, an
ex-champion of Hungary, is an engineer.


THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON. T. O. REYNOLDS,
Gen, Manager. Aset. Gen. Manager,
THE EASY-
SHAVING
RAZO
For perfect ease and comfort, shave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor —fully
guaranteed and kept in order for two years,
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 12/6
Blade size 2in.
ALL POST FREE.
Guard to convert the Plum into a safety razor,
3/0 extra.
CRAIG & AITKEN
&
h
/?
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
fOR W£AK MfN MR WOMfN
Loss of vitality and premature feeling
of old age are due to failure of certain
glands.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely revitalise you, banishing pre-
mature old age and weakness. Price
10/6. Write for this amazing new
treatment TO-DAY.
T.
319
JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
George St., Sydney
m
GLAND
TONIC
TABLfTS
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Mr. Smart Guy”
First of the new “Whitehall Produc-
tions” at Sydney Minerva is—a piece by
Shakspeare? No. Sheridan? No. Ibsen,
Shaw, Eugene O’Neill? No. It’s a de-
tective mystery written and produced by
Alec Coppel.
As such, well cast and acted, amusing
and—until the third act solves it—com-
pletely baffling, it’s a fairly good one.
What mars it is the padding in the second
act and the third act’s revelation of both
a trick killing and a whacking coinci-
dence : a bit too thick, so that the play
as a whole becomes a bit too thin.
Without any pretences to originality—a
comic porter ; the old school tie ; clashes
between the bull-roaring detective-
inspector and the footling police com-
missioner ; the comic foreigner appear-
ing as the comic refugee—the byplay that
makes the bulk of the play is cheerfully
done and gets its full quota of laughs.
The murder situation is original. The
wicked nephew, played by Nigel Lovell,
bumps off his millionaire uncle under the
very nose of the police commissioner,
whom nephew has invited into his flat
to guarantee his alibi. From then on
the burning question is not “Whodunit?”
but “Howthell did he do it?”
One of the things that make the piece
fade towards the end is that a trial scene
is simplified to sticking the Judge in front
of a black curtain and making him sum
up to the audience, instead of providing
him with a proper courtroom and jury.
That’s a pity, not only because it is un-
real, but because the callous, careless,
disdainful smart-guy of a nephew would
have been an excellent figure in the dock.
Lovell played the nephew with great
assurance ; a shade too easily, seeing that
the whole play rests on his shoulders ;
but nonetheless making a convincing
portrait of the only original character
the author submits. In the stock parts,
sound and lively performances were given
by Harvey Adams (inspector), Richard
Parry (commissioner) and Charles Zoli
(porter); Phil Smith amusingly carica-
tured the refugee, Leslie Victor (victim’s
solicitor) said “Scoundrel!” with relish,
and Frederick McMahon was the old
school tie in all its glory.
When the curtain went up there was
the unusual spectacle of an audience
enthusiastically applauding a sofa, a table,
a surrealist painting and a window. That’s
how good the set was.
* * * *
“Frozen Glory”
Plays without women are generally as
unsatisfactory as plays without men. They
lack the necessary ingredient of conflict
unless the missing sex is dragged in by
inferential methods, which are usually
tedious and clumsy. This opus by Leslie
and Sewell Stokes, put on by the Mel-
bourne Little Theatre, is as womanless
as it is possible to imagine, the fair sex
not even being allowed to intrude by de-
scription. It concerns five men stuck up
by a blizzard in a lonely cabin in the
Canadian Arctic with their provisions
running short and only a remote prospect
of ever being rescued. The authors’ pur-
pose is sternly realistic, and if the inevit-
able goil of the Hollywooden type of pic-
ture dealing with such situations had put
in an appearance she would probably
have been eaten.
So the writers were committed to the
task of keeping an audience interested in
the spectacle of five assorted characters
slowly starving to death through three
acts and seven scenes, with the only im-
portant changes in the action the advent
of a mysterious stranger who purports
to have lost his way in the snowstorm and
who presumably represents the individual
desires of the beleaguered party, which
are at war with their collective conscience.
Their collective conscience tells them
that they must share equally whatever
rations are remaining, but the enigmatical
stranger works on the weakest member
and he purloins a good half of the pro-
visions. His crime is detected, and he is
put on trial by the leader of the party.
The stranger offers to act for the defence
and puts up an argument for the right of
the individual to sacrifice the commu-
nity, but his arguments are specious and
serve only to make the weak one feel
guiltier than ever.
He expiates his sin by walking out into
the blizzard, and having one less mouth
Katherine Hepburn being a goddess, with James Stewart, who believes in
such things, and Cary Grant, who, having been married to her, doesn’t
—“The Philadelphia Story,” a tiptop comedy at Sydney Liberty.
to feed the party has another week to
hope and starve in until another respite
is provided by the voluntary self-sacrifice
of a member who was the last individual
the rest would have expected to do it.
He strips off his clothes and walks out
after the other. The stranger disappears,
and the three survivors are lying on the
floor waiting for the end when
the sound of sleigh bells is heard in the
distance. This brings down the curtain,
leaving the spectator in doubt as to
whether the bells are real ones or a hallu-
cination induced by weakness and depri-
vation.
The play was reasonably well acted,
and, incidentally, three of the actors in
it won’t be seen in the Little Theatre’s
future productions for a long time as
they are due to go into the A.I.F. imme-
diately after the end of the present
season. David Reid, Sydney Conabere,
Lance Nicholls, Paul Hill, William Clark-
son and John Tyrrell played their parts
with equal discrimination. The Canadian
authors of the opus also wrote the play
about Oscar Wilde which the Little
Theatre made such a good fist of last
year.
AT THE TALKIES
“Kitty Foyle”
Although this, at Sydney Regent, was
expected to be a corker—it was based
on a best-selling novel and dished up
with academy-award acting—it does not
approach expectations. It’s a good film,
but certainly not an outstanding one ;
and, as the film is all Kitty Foyle, much
the same applies to Ginger Rogers’s per-
formance in the role. Hers is good act-
ing—in contrast to the sort of thing she
was doing a year or so back, it is sur-
prisingly good—but it is a painstaking,
meticulous stock job, and lacks the strik-
ing spontaneity expected of an academy-
award performance.
That is not entirely Ginger’s fault. She
does the best possible with the role, but
Morley’s novel and with it the Kitty
Foyle role has suffered the usual
changes in adaptation for screen pur-
poses. The film people have their own
notions of what makes a good screenplay,
and, although the theme and plot remain
largely intact, they have not been able
to resist introducing a few of their own
and ruinous ideas of how it should be
done.
The story centres in the life of
a member of a newly-arisen social class
what they call a “white-collar girl,” or,
in plain language, a modern business girl.
In the film they adopt the hackneyed
technique of presenting the climax first,
then the events leading up to it in the
form of flash-back memories, and finally
rounding the thing off. It is seldom a
satisfactory method of telling a story on
the screen, and here it is near disastrous.
There isn’t much to hold interest in the
story when the situation that it’s working
up to is already known, and in this case
the events soon verge on dull repetition.
It’s rather like reading a murder novel
by the popular method of scanning the
last couple of pages first.
Best scenes in the film are those with
Kitty Foyle as a pigtailed youngster of
15 or so. If it had lingered longer on
this period of the novel and used a
straightforward presentation it might have
been 100 p.c. better film.
* * * *
“Nice Girl”
The extravagant concern we maintain
in America to teach Americans about
Australia seems to be more than earning
the oats it deserves. At any rate, Aussies
should be very interested to hear Franchot
Tone as a young scientist, in this con-
coction at Sydney State, telling Deanna
Durbin all about his past adventures and
intended expedition among the pigmy
tribes of the wild Queensland interior.
In the main, however, the show is as
brightly entertaining intentionally as this
bit is unintentionally. Deanna’s voice,
always easy to listen to, seems more
mature and powerful than hitherto. For
a screen singer, too, she has unexpected
acting ability, and, fortunately, has not
figured in feeble films as excuses for
unloading as many songs as possible.
A pleasant concluding touch, and the
sort of thing that always brings a house
down, was Deanna singing “There’ll
Always Be an England,” but the line “If
England means as much to you as Eng-
land means to me” took a bit of
stomaching.
ARTBURSTS
Daryl Lindsay’s Water-colors
Daryl Lindsay, a show of whose travel
sketches graces the walls of the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney, has a very fair
mastery of the water-color medium and
an understanding of its limitations. He
is a sound draughtsman—his figures are
as carelessly-correct as those of fellow-
clansman Lionel —and he devotes intel-
ligent thought to problems of light. His
performances have been called fluent, and
so they are, in the sense that they don’t
stammer, but they are by no means
shallow. “Inner Temple Gardens,”
“Brittlingsea,” “Wet Day, Dover,” and
“Belvedere Gardens, Vienna,” among
others, succeed admirably in conveying
the artist’s impression. Dawnings of a
very delectable taste in color are to be
found in the one Australian study,
“Boundary Rider’s Hut.”
* * H= *
A Master of the Monotype
Tom Garrett has a niche all his own
in Australian Art. He took up the mak-
ing of monotypes where J. J. Hilder left
off, and his technique has now gone miles
beyond that master. In his show at the
Vere Mathews Club, Sydney, Garrett
shows 34 monotypes and three oils. All
are charming. Garrett shares with Syd
Long and the late Blamire Young the
art of creating with simple ingredients of
landscape an atmosphere of fantasy. Such
pieces as “Halfway Bridge,” “Quiet,”
“The Peace,” “Banner Bay,” “Six
O’clock,” “The Meeting,” “Forgotten”
and “Number Seven” are touched with
the wizard’s wand. In robuster vein and
more prosaically beautiful are “Ten Mile
Bridge,” “Middle Harbor,” “Meander,”
“North Coast” and “Haven.” One of
the most delightful things in the show is
“West,” a valley study. And in “By-
ways” there is a blue van with magical
properties.
These pictures are all small, and the
prices so low as to suggest that mono-
types stand in the category of etchings,
one plate yielding many prints. That, of
course, is not so. A monotype is an oil
painting on metal transferred to paper.
* * *
Andrew Meszaros, a Hungarian archi-
tect and sculptor, is. showing examples
of his skill produced in Australia at
the Riddell Galleries, Melbourne. They
consist almost exclusively of por-
trait medals of sundry distinguished
citizens, including Professors Agar and
Chisholm, several ecclesiastics, including
the Bishop of Riverina and the Rev. Jas.
Cheong, psychiatrist R. S. Ellery and his
wife Mancel Kirby, the harpsichordist,
and artist Max Meldrum. The likenesses
of some are not immediately identifiable,
but the Celestial features of the Rev.
Cheong and the bishop with his tradi-
tional headdress make fine subjects. Mes-
zaros works in plasticine from the
model, and has found a local craftsman
to do his casting for him.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
>
s«l
ill!
11
Hl(!
|H 111
tii
Hi
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water.and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates—unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“When a doctor wants to revive a patient
he gives him oxygen.”— Health note.
To achieve the reverse result he gives
him the bill.
J* 4* 4* 4 t
“Can you name the comic workmen in
“Midsummer Night’s Dream”? — Quiz.
No, but we’ll bet our council blokes
could give ’em ten on and a beating!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Miss has been playing the organ at
the church for the past 25 years without
interruption.”— Sydney suburban paper.
The manners of the congregation are
unexceptionable.
“The persistent crying of a child is only its
way of asking for something.”
—Article on child psychology.
This is proved by the fact that when
it gets what it asks for the child bawls
all the louder.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The professor is a keen collector of Chinese
coins.” — “D.T.”
Though not at all keener than the
Chinese.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A Swedish astronomer has predicted that
the world will come to an end by collision with
another planet in October, 1952.”
The prophecy is ridiculed in Nazi
circles, where it has been pointed out that
Hitler wouldn’t allow it.
“Don’t try to hurry things too much or you
may jeopardise your position.”—•
—Astrological blurb.
That is, if you’re in a Government job.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mankind, according to a scientist, is of
vegetable origin.”
Perhaps that’s why when anger makes
him boil he peels off so quickly.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A baby is loved by its parents whatever
color it may be.” — Woman’s paper.
Even when it’s a loud yeller?
“According to a historian there were pro-
fessional writers even in the Stone Age.’
A prolific short-story writer could get
through as many as four quarries a year.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Take two of these pills a week and halve
your weight in six months.” —Slimming ad.
Care has been taken to warn the public
to stick to directions, as a research
chemist who took four a week completely
disappeared at the end of the stipulated
period.
•S* 4* 4*
“Undisturbed rest is a wonderful tonic. Be-
fore going to bet take a rum and milk. It
helps to settle the nerves.” — Woman’s paper.
Most punters need a stiff whisky
afterwards.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A meek and inoffensive man is soon snapped
up by some woman.”
—Mush article in magazine.
And then at.
“Without motor-cars life would be much
less thrilling.”— Sunday paper.
But there would be much more of it.
4* 4* 4 -I*
“Brewer to marry poetess.”— Social note.
They’ll take each other for bitter or
for verse.
4" '!* 4* *
“Motorists during blackouts constantly
damage their bumpers.”— Magazine.
A beastly fag!
“I hope this is the last souvenir your husband'll send, Mrs. Smith!"
Total Dissatisfaction.
I don’t deny your wealth of charms, but
fate
Has been unkind to me since first we
met.
And I have seen so much of you of late
That I am finding you expensive, pet.
No girl since I was very young has struck
Me quite so hard; I like your style and
looks.
But if your charms don’t soon improve
my luck
From your enticing window I shall pluck
Myself and back my fancies with the
books!
P.O.M.C.
Birthdays.
“It will be your birthday next week,”
remarked Maria.
I squirmed, knowing what was coming.
Maria wanted some extra money to buy
me a present, and when I said that a tie
would do she replied loftily that she
wouldn’t think of getting me anything so
paltry.
“And don’t forget it’s my birthday the
following week,” Maria went on. “It’s
terrible to think that one is growing old
—middle-aged, I mean.”
“Well, forget it,” I said, but not hope-
fully.
“I will not forget it. I’m not ashamed
of my age,” retorted Maria.
The upshot of it all was that last night
we went to the Borems so that Maria
could show off the new hat she bought
herself for my birthday, and the outfit
I had had to buy her for her own.
H.M.
Out West.
As Hank Skein headed his cayuse down
the rock-littered draw a volley of shots
rang out, piercing his underwear in half
a dozen places.
A home-made bomb sailed over the
ridge and exploded between his horse’s
feet! Hank Skein stiffened. Some sixth
sense seemed to warn him that danger
was nigh.
Sliding like a snake from the saddle,
he concealed himself behind a blade of
elephant grass and awaited developments.
Suddenly he fancied he saw a movement
behind a clump of sage. With a grunt
of satisfaction he glued his eye to the
bush.
A sound behind him caused him to
spin round to gaze down the barrels of
the six-shooters held by El Blowfii, the
famous Mexican bandit!
“So! We meet again, senor,” snarled
El Blowfii, slipping a packet of Juicy
Fruit between his blackened teeth.
With lightning rapidity Hank’s fist shot
out, burying itself up to the elbow in
the bandit’s solar. Without so much as
a moan El Blowfii collapsed like a pack
of cards. Casually taking up the ace of
spades Hank Skein proceeded to dig a
grave for his dead enemy.
DOUGAL.
Bitter Memory.
“A diary evokes a host of memories.”
— Woman’s paper.
My only attempt was shortlived, thus:
Monday: Was married. Tuesday: Was
sorry. Wednesday: Was back at work.
Thursday: Was a bob short in wages I
handed wife. Friday: Result of Thurs-
day’s slip, was in hospital. Saturday:
Was visited by wife’s relations. Sunday:
Was in despair.
A man can’t keep a diary and a wife
as well. The former only evokes
memories. The latter’s something he
can’t forget.
ELM.
Cannibal King.
There came a time when hectic days
And nights no more distracted him ;
And then he said he thanked his joss
Those sins no more attracted him.
To eat one’s fellow-man, he said,
Spelt death to civic unity,
And sternly threatened all who vexed
The calm of his community ;
He said the custom was so vile
It sank all other crimes beneath,
Then mentioned casually that he.
By accident had lost his teeth.
NELLIE A. EVANS.
The March of Science.
“Germ-carriers are not so uncommon as is
popularly supposed.”— Medical journal.
When we were boys germs were known
to exist, but it was like having a poli-
tician in the family—the subject was
never mentioned when there was com-
pany. Then came “frank” ads. about
“personal hygiene” and those pictorial
efforts disclosing that the four million
wogs which could comfortably park on
a single bicuspid could be slaughtered in
one fell rub with Whosethis’s toothpaste,
radio health talks and quiz sessions;
and the germ, from being a wallower in
obscurity, came to be accepted as as much
a part of our national life as temporary
taxes, unsolved crimes, Government
boards, comic strips, strikes, funny hats,
675-p.c.-interest-charging moneylenders
and the election-expenses joke.
It wasn’t long before a layman who
didn’t know the difference between a
streptococcus and a bacillus was as rare
as the sight of a woman pushing a pram
into a block of flats in Darlinghurst.
With the education of the public up to
the stage where it was referred to as
“germ-conscious,” the position of the
germ-carrier can now be seen in its
proper perspective.
Before germs attained their present
popularity a germ-carrier shared with the
kleptomaniac the distinction of adding
“tone” to a nefarious occupation. One
spoke of him or her (for convenience
we’ll hereafter term them all “hims” un-
less otherwise indicated) with marked
respect. Just as the well-to-do eccentric
who snavelled a few pairs of braces and
a coal scuttle as he wandered through a
city store was politely ushered into the
office, relieved apologetically of his booty
and guided gently outside to his waiting
limousine, so the germ-carrier was held
in something approaching deferential awe
by his less fortunate and envious fellows.
For a woman to be one, of course, raised
her social tonnage enormously, and she
could be assured that at the bridge tables
and in the sewing circle her peculiarity
would not only oust the juiciest divorce
titbits but put Mrs. Maggalott’s operation
completely in the shade.
“My dear, did you hear about Mrs.
Soanso? The doctor says she’s a typhoid
carrier! ”
“Really! How thrilling!”
“Yes, and they say she’s been one for
years and hasn’t known it. She always
was lucky, though.”
I recall Mrs. Finucane, a large lady
who inhabited our street in my youth.
With meticulous regularity she produced
annually a new source of future anxiety
for the neighbors, and at one time she
had 14 Finucanes down simultaneously
with chicken-pox. When Dennis, aged
14, didn’t get it she became alarmed, but
the doctor’s assurance that he was a
carrier relieved her fears. He was
allowed to play with the other kids in
the neighborhood, for, as his mother said,
he couldn’t get it, so what odds?
The lessening rarity of the germ-carrier
nowadays, however, is gratifying from
two points of view: from the germs’, for
it saves them walking to wherever —or
whomever —they want to go ; also from
humanity’s, for a different reason.
It is patent that the more germ-carriers
the community possesses the more germs
will be carried. This will mean an in-
creasing percentage of germs which will
get fat and lethargic through lack of ade-
quate perambulatory and saltatory exer-
cise, and a fat, lethargic germ is halfway
towards death, for it becomes too lazy to
get out of the way of a
descending spray of ger-
micide or one of its
cannibalistic fellows.
It was with the worthy
object of furthering the
interests of the growing
fraternity that I organ-
ised the Germ Carriers’
Defence Association. As
that body’s general sec-
retary a host of duties
falls to my lot.
It follows that much of
the work is statistical —
classifying the various
“types” and, as the cubic
content of each carrier
varies, working out the
pumber of wogs to the
cubic inch of body sur-
face as well as to each
pint of blood content.
Later I hope to establish
a hire-service during epi-
demics. For so much an
hour a carrier will be
hired out to, say, a
family down with the
measles. Moving about
in close contact with the
victims he will, by exer-
cising his peculiar gift,
lure the germs away
from them, thus lessen-
ing the course and sever-
ity of the disease. And, like the cash-
order people, the association will be able
to get a cut both ways, for we could then
flog the collected germs to a university
or panel of research doctors.
At the present time I am conducting a
terrific argument with the N.S.W. Trans-
port Department, which contends that
germ-carriers are carriers under the Act
and should therefore be licensed. I pro-
pose to fight it by making a test case,
and contributions are invited from the
public, to whom the matter is of vital
interest. Send money (no crossed cheques)
to The Bulletin, where it will be grate-
fully collected by
BO.


Personal and Missing Friends.
KERSHAW.—If GLENVILLE KERSHAW,
son of Miriam Kershaw, late of Gundaroo,
or anyone knowing his address, will communi-
cate with JOHNSON & SENDALL, Solicitors,
of Goulburn, it will be to his distinct advan-
tage. Last heard of in 1913 in the Ravensworth
District, on line to Merriwa via Muswellbrook.
Also at Gilgandra about that time.
Estate of John Taylor Beddaw or Beddow.
THE next-of-kin of the abovenamed or any
person knowing their whereabouts are re-
quested to communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Box 7A, G.P.0., Sydney. Deceased
died at Kenmore on the 6th December, 1938,
aged 83 years. He was the son of Sibella
Taylor and John Beddow or Beddaw.
WOULD LEONARD GEORGE BAKER, for-
merly of Charters Towers and Maryborough,
in the State of Queensland, or anyone know-
ing his whereabouts, please communicate with
the PUBLIC CURATOR, Brisbane?
Public Notice.
I, JOHN TOME, of Italian nationality, born
at Treviso, Italy, and resident sixty years in
Australia, now residing at Oakwood, near
Inverell, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturali-
sation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
SADDLER
MADE
HORSE
RUGS
WITH
“STAYS-ON”
fittings.
(Illus. Right.)
With Hind-leg
Strap Fittings, 2/»
less per rug.
mmm
mmm
All Flax Navy Canvas, fleecy check
lined. gS/6
sft. 88/6
sft.
6ft _
Very Fteavy Imperial White Duck,
fleecy check lined. 43/6
sft.
sft. 46/6
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
When Dr. Bertie Schlink, of the Royal
Prince Alfred, woke last Friday morning
to the sound of steady rain, he must have
thanked his stars that his alfresco show
had been tucked away with the moon-
light of the night before. Thursday night
was a gem, and the perfect surrounding
for the King George V Memorial Hos-
pital for Mothers and Babes. This rose
on the crest of Missenden-road like some
modern palace of crystal. Opening on
to the balconies (themselves streamlined
and glassed at all turnings) are ceiling-to-
floor windows. These burned with lights.
Lights played on the facade of the build-
ing, and threw into relief the Della
Robbia blue of the columns supporting
the stone canopy of the main entrance.
Cream and blue are the colors out-
side and inside the hospital, same as the
Della Robbia plaques on the front of the
building.
Under the stone canopy with its blue
lights stood Dr. Schlink, receiving
the guests. With him were Matron
H. B. Hetherington and other R.P.A.
importants. There were 3000 accept-
ances, and those not entitled to
places on the official dais, which
was on the other side of the street,
the Prince Alfred side, were sleuthed to
thi particular floor they should be on
(according to color of card) by a regular
traffic-police system of white-coated
young men and bright-eyed nurses who
already know all the uses of the up-to-
date gadgets with which the hospital is
fitted.
The ’phone-call system, for instance,
should be popular with the staff. The
patient can, by pushing on a buzzer-
button, call the attention of the sister in
charge, and then speak through the bed-
side microphone and tell her needs. Every
woman was fascinated with the array of
wire trays, not much larger than those
used for letters in business offices, fitted
with tiny bran mattress and blue blanket.
These when filled with baby are fitted
into the cots. Another part of the hos-
pital of appeal to housekeepers was the
main kitchen. Down one side were shin-
ing cauldrons. These are the steam-
jacketed aluminium cookers. Here are
vegetable steamers, salamander grillers
and electric baking ovens, of such a size
that they can turn out 1400 meals pei
day. The whole is a dizzy whirl of bur-
nished steel, rubber tiles, snowy beds,
acres of glass welded by the hand of
Science for the benefit of the State’s new
citizens.
Lord Wakehurst declared the hospital
open with all Camperdown (or so it
seemed) looking on outside the areas
allotted to the guests. With him were Lady
Wakehurst and daughter Henrietta Loder.
On the dais were Dr. Grace Cuth-
bert, director of Infant and Maternal
Welfare, Dame Constance D’Arcy,
Matron Parry-Evans of the King George
V, the Thomas Gordon couple, who gen-
erously dropped 500 guineas into the
fund, the architect, Mr. Stephenson, and
the Charles Lloyd Jones couple. Her
earrings and new diamond bracelet glit-
tered almost as brightly as the front of
the hospital. The bracelet had been a
birthday offering. Lord Wakehurst read
aloud a message from Queen Mary which
opened,- “My thoughts will be with you
on the opening of the new King George
V Memorial Hospital for Mothers and
Babies.” Newly-appointed Professor of
Obstetrics Bruce Mayes and his wife were
there. So were the Dr. J. Coens and
Mrs. A. E. Grace, the Commodore Muir-
head-Goulds, the Professor J. C. Win-
deyer couple and Mayor Crick and his
wife and daughter Shirley. Attractive
were the nurses with their little blue
capes and the beginning Nightingales with
the butterfly bows back of their caps.
Last Sunday afternoon in C.U.S.A.
Hall, in Harrington-street, the Society of
St. Vincent de Paul, in conjunction with
the Apostleship of the See and the
C.U.S.A. Navy Unit, made a special
appeal on behalf of the men of the mer-
chant service. In his letter sent out previ-
ously, asking help, Father Jeffcott, chap-
lain to seafarers, said that U-boat and
’plane have made the men of the
merchant service their special target,
and that we who inhabit an island
continent are indebted to these men for
our supplies and the maintaining of
our communications with the rest of
the British Empire. Father Dennis
Kelly, port chaplain at Liverpool (Eng.),
and himself a victim of a German
raider, told of the hardships being en-
dured by the brave men who follow the
sea.
Marjorie Hesse, not long returned
from England and the U.S.A., will be
the solo pianist in the Mozart concerto
for piano and orchestra at the Con-
servatorium on Wednesday night. The
concerto is “The Coronation,” and it
will be interesting to hear Marjorie, who
is a spirited and imaginative musician.
Weinberger’s now famous “Variations
and Fugue on an Old English Tune”
(that old friend “Under the Spreading
Chestnut Tree”) will have its first con-
cert performance in Sydney.
The smart thing to do last Friday even-
ing was to go to the concert of chamber
music set in the Englishman’s Home. Up
in David Jones’s George-street gallery,
sandwiched between a Tang horse and
the plush furnishing of the Victorian
room, time seemed without meaning.
8.C., Victorian era and the fifteenth
century, when the Henry VIII air tripped
out, made a charmful present. The Syd-
ney String Quartet, Lucas Staehelin and
Carl Gotsch were the instrumentalists;
Dorothy Helmrich the singer. Dorothy,
in spite of a cold, sang Purcell numbers
and “O Death, Rock Me Asleep” (a song
ascribed to Anne Boleyn) in a way that
worked the most languid up to sustained
clapping.
Mrs. Reggie Stafford and Claudia
Beazley, who are selling tickets for the
tapestry-set art union, stayed on nobly
at their post, snaring concertgoers as they
arrived. Mrs. Penfold Hyland handed
over thanks to all concerned, and
tall spikes of gladioli to the singer,
who wore blue and silver brocades.
Barbara Knox topped a long bur-
gundy colored skirt with a bur-
gundy velvet jacket; Philippa Stephen’s
flowered crepes were red and white. Miss
Fairfax and Mrs. John Moore were
listeners. Mrs. Harold Bott, who with
Curt Prerauer organised the concert,
finished off an ink-blue moire skirt with
a smart jacket in white taffetas. Mrs.
Hope Gibson, Admiral Feakes and his
wife, Dr. Donovan, Mrs. Alleyne Zander
and daughter Jocelyn, the A.B.C.’s Mr.
Burnett, Sydney Cooper and the Faunce
Allmans were others.
On the evening before their daughter
Diana disported herself in the ring at
Wirth’s Circus, the R. J. A. Massies gave a
late-afternoon party at their Bellevue Hill
home. The Massies have the knack of
making friends, and, as the Army Queen
for the Red Cross crown, Diana has a
committee of eager, untiring young
things anxious to see the diadem spark-
ling on her brow. Even the elephants
want to help Diana. Last Saturday,
matinde and evening, the entire per-
sonnel of Wirth’s circus, animal, mineral
and vegetable, displayed their best turns
under the big top for her candidature.
Her friends, too, bustled along to do
their bit. Nuttie Mackellar, June
Osborne and Alison Adams did a bare-
back-rider act unique in circus annals.
Mrs. Bill Crossing in a white and red
cowgirl outfit gave an exhibition of whip-
cracking in the best tradition. Finally
Diana, a flash of lilac and gold in trouser
suit and turban, rode on a white horse
at the head of her courtiers, also riding
circus horses, around the ring.
When soldiers march and the bands
play the city looks on with pride in its
eyes. The troops are stepping out now
in a style that is at once soldierly and
debonair. Lord Wakehurst took the
salute at the Town Hall last week when
the militia parade was part of the War
Loan campaign. Later there was a morn-
ing party given by Mayor Crick and his
Mayoress. Shirley and Pat Crick helped
their mother in entertaining. Lord and
Lady Wakehurst were guests. With Lady
Wakehurst was her new private secre-
tary, Joan Holman. Mrs. Percy Spender
was there, and a guest from Melbourne
was Mrs. Terry, the Mayor’s sister.
Keenly interested was Mrs. Cameron,
whose brigadier husband had led the
march.
Alec Coppel’s new play, “Mr. Smart
Guy,” a murder story with a difference
in that it has more mirth than mystery,
made its first bow to the public last
Saturday at the Minerva. It is the first
of a series to be produced under the
Whitehall Productions banner. Both
Kathleen Robinson, who is partner in
the scheme, and Alec Coppel have fond
memories of London’s Whitehall Theatre.
There Kathleen produced and played in
“Without the Prince” a year or so ago.
There Alec’s play “I Killed the Count”
was first produced. Everybody liked
the bright, airy, uncluttered look of
the two flats in which the mur-
dered and the murderer lived. Credit
to William Constable. First-nighters
were there in their hundreds, among
them the good-looking Mrs. A. E.
Grace. Mrs. Reggie Stafford’s pearls
and black laces suited her fair com-
plexion. Theatricals present were Marie
Ney, the Claude Flemmings, Helen
Gilliland, Muriel Wilson and Diana
Parnham. Mrs. Matthew Robinson
(Kathleen’s mother) was an interested on-
looker. Proceeds of the night went to
the Red Cross.
This is Ida Osbourne, whose acting in
“Saint Joan of Arc” was heard with in-
terest by 2FC listeners last Friday. This
Shaw play received most votes in the
A.B.C.’s recent plebiscite, and was there-
fore featured in Drama Week’s national
programme. A Le Guay photograph.
Singer Francis Halls is back in Sydney
full of his Tasmanian adventure. Francis
went to Launceston to adjudicate in the
competitions (same as Sydney’s Eistedd-
fod). He is loud in the praise of the
voices of the Tasmanian girls and of their
approach to music generally. In the
women’s solos, duets and trios he declares
the standard was unusually high. At the
final concert Francis proved himself a
judge who not only knows but can get
busy with the work he talks about. He
sang “Water Boy” and “Song of the
Volga Boatmen,” and brought down the
house with “For England.” He also
lectured on his pet subject, functional
breathing, to the Fifty Thousand League.
The Australian Aerial Medical Ser-
vices are pleased with Marie Ney’s little
effort for them. Marie’s interpretation
of Shakspeare heroines shrined in Gov-
ernment House enriched by £287 14s. the
N.S.W. Flying Doctor Services.
Barbara Knox, in whose clever brain
the idea of “the Englishman’s Home”
show had its being, has a real sense for
what the public will pay for. With a
group of others she ran a Christmas shop
for Air Force House and netted £lO6O.
“The Englishman’s Home” promises to
benefit the Red Cross by a whacking
cheque. Over one thousand of the G.P.
roamed among its treasures last Wednes-
day. They paid one shilling each without
catalogues. On the day previous, which
was opening day, entrance cost five shil
lings and catalogues then also were extra
The exhibition, which is full of interest'
will be open for a month. A portrait in
sepia wash is the work of Wainewright the
poisoner; subject, the chaplain of his
Australian prison.
Lady Gowrie opened the exhibition
but had already been there the day
before, when she went on from the meet-
ing of the Bush Book Club. One of the
early patrons of the gift shop run in
conjunction with the show, the Governor-
General’s lady scored a Sheffield plate
candlestick and one or two bits of china.
Lord and Lady Wakehurst were other
visitors before the curtain was rung up.
With them came Peter Lubbock, bringing
a dirk and a sporran of as great antiquity
(or almost) as Edinburgh Castle. W. H.
Nightingale, kinsman of the great Flor-
ence, was another visitor. A little locket
embossed with two horseshoes set with
pearls and turquoise which had belonged
to the intrepid nurse is in the crowded,
typical Victorian room. The shoes are
placed according to the old rule, one
upside down, to keep the luck from run-
ning out. There’s a deedbox that once
belonged to Governor Bligh. A whole
month remains in which to view the
treasures in David Jones’s gallery in
George-street.
This year the Fellowship of Australian
Writers’ ball will be known as the Henry
Lawson Memorial Ball. The dance strikes
a novel note in that it is not being run
for a war fund, but will help the Henry
Lawson Memorial (a stone seat to be
erected at the crossroads in Mudgee—
Lawson’s country). The committee hopes
the ball will make appeal to all who have
an interest in promoting the knowledge
and development of Australian literature.
As usual among scribes, a Friday night
is set aside for the revel. Hordern
Brothers’ ballroom is the place, and June
27 the date.
Exciting invitation of last week came
from Dr. and Mrs. Nigel Smith. Their
Monte Carlo night for the Red Cross is
dated for the 20th at their home, Kneller-
pore, 8 Ocean-avenue, Double Bay.
The Australian Association for Pre-
School Child Endowment is to hold its
biennial conference from June 2 to June
6. Mrs. T. A. a’Beckett, of Melbourne,
is down for the presidential address. The
conference will be opened by Lady
Gowrie in the University Union Hall at
8 o’clock, and in the afternoon be-
fore the evening ponderings Mayor
Crick and his Mayoress will hold
reception for the delegates in the
Mayoress’s rooms. Lady Wakehurst,
who will preside at the evening session
on June 3, will give an afternoon-tea at
Government House.
In olden days the church and the stage
were closely allied in pointing the moral
of public events to the people. Now
the church is taking up its pen again to
show how closely the fabric of true
democracy and religion are knit. Canon
H. N. Baker, of St. Thomas’s, North
Sydney, in his play “Our Home Front
teaches this lesson. This drama in
scenes was presented last week at St.
James’s Hall, with Mrs. B. R. Overend
as producer.
Mrs. J. Bernays, one of the proud co-
organisers of Scots College fete, tells that
the Spitfire Fund is now somewhere in
the £4OOO realm. The fair was a roar-
ing success. From programmes alone
the boys handed in over £4O. The booK-
stall netted £6l.


Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Probate Jurisdiction.
IN the will of GEORGE WILLIAM KING
late of “The Grove” Trunkey in the State
of New South Wales Grazier Deceased.
PURSUANT to the Wills Probate and Adminis-
tration Act 1898-1938 the Testator’s Family
Maintenance and Guardianship of Infants
Act 1916-1938 and the Trustee Act 1925-
1938.
NOTICE is hereby given that ALFRED
FRANK GODDEN of “The Grove” Trunkey
in the State aforesaid farmer the executor and
Trustee of the will of the abovenamed deceased
who died on the 23rd July 1938 and probate
of whose will was granted to the said Alfred
Frank Godden on the 12th September 1938 by
the Supreme Court of New South Wales in-
tends after the Thirty-first day of July 1941
to distribute the residuary estate of the said
George William King deceased amongst the
nephews and nieces of the said deceased living
at the date of his death in accordance with
Decretal Order of his Honor Mr. Justice Roper
Judge in Equity made the 18th April 1941 in
suit number 231 of 1941 (Godden v. Godden
and Ors.) Any person claiming to be a nephew
or niece of the said George William King as
being a child of Frances Pritchard {nee King) a
half-sister of the said George William King who
was last heard of at Lake Powlathanga west of
Charters Towers Queensland in or about the
year 1898 is required to give notice of such
claim to the undersigned before the said Thirty-
first day of July 1941 After such date the
said Alfred Frank Godden will distribute the
residuary estate of the said deceased amongst
the persons coming within description of
nephews and nieces of the said deceased as
beforementioned of whose claims he has notice
AND notice is hereby further given that the
said Alfred Frank Godden will not be liable
for any part of the said residuary estate so dis-
tributed to any person of whose claim he shall
not have had notice at the time of such distri-
bution.
GEORGE PILE AND CO., Solicitors,
Blayney, New South Wales.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 730 of 1941.
BETWEEN CHARLES GEORGE REED Peti-
tioner and
CLEMENTINA GERTRUDE REED Respon-
dent.
TO CLEMENTINA GERTRUDE REED late
of Mogriguy in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CHARLES
GEORGE REED has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a decree
for restitution of conjugal rights on the ground
that you have without just cause or excuse
withdrawn from cohabitation with the Peti-
tioner and refused to render him conjugal rights
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the First day of August 1941 and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fifth day of May, 1941.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
CLIVE CLARKE, Solicitor for Petitioner,
79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 16 of 1941.
BETWEEN REGINALD HORACE DENNETT
Petitioner
ELSIE MAUDE DENNETT Respondent and
JAMES BRECHNEY Co-respondent.
TO ELSIE MAUDE DENNETT late of 278
Great Western Road Wentworthville and
JAMES BRECHNEY late of 60 Ross
Street Parramatta.
TAKE NOTICE that the said REGINALD
HORACE DENNETT has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying foi
dissolution of marriage on the grounds ot
adultery and take notice that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
Twenty-fourth day of July 1941 and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Bth day of May, 1941.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. M. GREIG, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
16 George Street, Parramatta.
Melbourne
Chatter
The National Theatre got plenty of
support for its gala performance in aid of
the Red Cross and Comforts. The place
was full and there was a lion present
in the khaki-clad shape of Free French
Commandant Jardin, escorted thence by
Pierre Mann and Paul Rival. Completing
that party in a box were Flora Griffiths,
of Sydney, and Allanah Coleman, the
young artist with the fringe and reaction-
ary taste in clothes. On this occasion she
wore royal-blue cocktail pyjamas, which,
owing to the fullness of the trousers, did
not look as extraordinary as they sound.
Among well-received items on the first
part of the programme (the second half
was beyond the time limit for anyone who
wanted to be on the way home by mid-
night) was a Bach Suite danced by
Borovansky’s pupils. Dorothy Stevenson
did the choreography and Edna Bennet
was pianist. Also appreciated were duets
for voice and flute from Bettine Herriot
and June Lindsay—apart from their
talents the unspoiled youth of the per-
formers appealed to the audience. Voice
and poise of Frances Dillon also met
with -great approbation. Frances, in a
black net gown, with uplift coiffure and
excellent make-up for the Princess foot-
lights, has never looked more imposing.
During the interval a lucky wheel made
money.
Old girls rallied to the cause of their
Alma Mater at a bridge party and cafe
chantant at Mandeville Hall last week.
The afternoon was part of an SOS to
past pupils for funds to repair the school
chapel at Mary’s Mount Ballarat, a build-
ing famous for its beauty of design and
decoration, which was seriously damaged
by storms last year. Mrs. E. M. Mc-
Kenna, of 15 Oxford-street, Malvern, was
hon. treasurer of the appeal.
For bridge there was no difficulty in
selling tables. The 67 provided and
thought to be sufficient ran out during
the morning through last-minute book-
ings, and there was much telephoning
for extras. A further hundred people
preferred music in the school hall, where
the programme was arranged by Mrs.
Cecil Parkes. Eileen Brenan had charge
of the tea-and-cakes side of the party,
and, with her assistants, had access to
the domestic science kitchen, with its
utility equipment of tables, etc., and ser-
vice-with-a-smile in the matter of hot
water. Among helpers therein were the
leaving-honors class, who seemed to enjoy
mightily their afternoon off the chain.
Others who worked in various ways
for the success of the party included
Mrs. Pat Cahir, who is president of the
Old Girls’ Association, hon. secs. Mrs.
Tom King and Pat Doyle, Mrs. M. C.
Peppard and Miss L. McCauley, in
charge of cakes of quality, and Mrs. L.
Redmond and Mrs. Jack Goulding, look-
ing after lucky envelopes (for which well-
wishers had donated a superb measure of
prizes). Phyllis Wearne ran a chocolate
stall, and interest ran high in the disposal
of a suppercloth donated by the Mother
Superior (with an electric jug, stockings
and playing cards as runners-up). A re-
helper was Mrs. C. Howard
(daughter Noel’s work is well known at
the Arts and Crafts). Mrs. Howard’s
gift of a white satin nightie, her own
handwork, was among lucky envelope
prizes, and for the cake stall she was up
at crack of dawn making mince pies,
pasties and cakes that melt in the mouth.
On the same stall was brown bran bread,
which all old girls who were boarders
know well. Today’s boarders still eat
it for breakfast, hot, with butter and a
sprinkle of salt.
The young committee which helped at
the foundlings’ party at Moira Byrne’s
domicile, 11 Mercer-road, Malvern,
hoped to make a few pounds for the
Berry-street babies, but never in their
rosiest dreams did they imagine the high-
water mark of £lO7, which sum will go
to this home-from-home for left-on-the-
doorstep infants and other small fry.
The Junior Auxiliary, which holds its
monthly meetings at the foundling home,
and which in between times knits sky-
blue jumpers for the young inmates,
organised the party, which was under
way from 1.30 p.m. onwards. Owing to
the weather, unorthodox for early May,
all activities happened out of doors.
Guests were asked to bring a gift and
buy a gift and did so with fancy goods,
decorative oddments and produce. Inci-
dentals were a raffle (first prize was a
week at the Macedon Golfhouse) run by
Joan Vanderkelen, with help in selling
tickets from a bevy of Berry-street nurses,
and a lucky dip in the charge of June
Theomin. Among those who assisted on
various stalls were Edith Collie and Bar-
bara Carson, Mrs. Edward Cohen and
Mrs. Keith Bowles. Moira Byrne and
Merrie Cohen saw that tea was on tap
from three to five.
Latest addition to the Silver Door, 376
Flinders-lane, is a wall decoration painted
by Marjorie Rankin. It’s done on in-
sulating board of sugarcane derivation
and is of considerable size, measuring
20ft. by 4ft. In addition there are two
more smaller drawings. All are propa-
ganda for saving waste metals. Marjorie,
through her inventive imagination, has
invested the homely toothpaste tube with
character. The tubes make merry in
several odd ways, dancing, singing, play-
ing fiddles and going to the circus. Mar-
jorie studied at the Gallery and after-
wards with George Bell. Her home is
Karama, Corowa, N.S.W., but although
very fond of country life she is often
in town visiting her sister, Mrs. A. E.
Mackay, of Malvern.
From Antoine comes this photograph
of Audrey Campbell, one of the ticket
secs, of the Gloucester Ball, to be held
at Admiralty House next Friday evening.
Audrey is also hon. sec. of the Gloucester
branch which works for the Prince
Henry’s Hospital Girls’ Ward Fund. The
aim is high—£sooo, for building, equip-
ment maintenance, etc. —but the commit-
tee has done well up to date, and in the
meantime the ward (always full, as is
every ward in public hospitals) is much
liked by its young inmates. The Gloucester
Ball, an annual fixture for the last six
years, has been the coming-out dance of
many debs. Some of the partners of
youth and beauty have since joined the
Gloucester branch, so that there are
several men’s names among girls’ on the
executive committee.
Bridge and music in aid of the Sacre
Cceur war effort was very well supported
one afternoon at Burke-road. Once
again Mrs. H. Van Assche and Margaret
Quin were joint hon. secs, for the func-
tion, and other seasoned helpers of
other annual efforts included Mrs. Wil-
liam C. J. Kelly and Mrs. T. J. K.
Whittam, who arranged the musical pro-
gramme with assistance from Marjorie
Kiernan, whose sister Mary was among
the performers. Marjorie Curr was
president (she’s also president of the Old
Girls’ Association) and Ita Arthur looked
after the banking. Members of the asso-
ciation’s war effort meet every Friday at
their old school and take their work home
in between times. Their stitchery is high-
grade, but it’s also done with speed.
Their March parcel consisted of 150 gar-
ments for soldiers on active service or
in hospital. The association also does
its share of providing maintenance and
canteen workers for St. Francis’s Hut.
Visitors have been drifting in to the
loan exhibition of Meldrum pictures at
Mrs. John Farmer’s studio, 9 Collins-
street. They’ve called for a mixed bag of
reasons: some were Meldrum admirers,
others the reverse ; some had lent pic-
tures and were anxious to see them in
more Meldrum company. Then there
were the people who don’t indulge in the
arts but who have a soft spot for youth
movements, for the silver coin admission
box was in aid of the Exhibition Youth
Centre. Meldrum heard of the move-
ment through a man who admires his
work, Robert Haines, the enthusiastic
group leader on the centre’s staff.
Among the 32 pictures seen were por-
traits lent by Prof. Agar of himself and
daughter Anne, portraits and landscapes
lent by John Farmer, Robert Haines,
Dr. Mannix, Mrs. Hamilton Matthews,
Mrs. Val Blogg and by the artist him-
self. On the first afternoon Mrs. Vinton
Smith helped Mrs. Farmer with collec-
tions at the door.
The Exhibition Youth Centre, which
works so unostentatiously that thousands
of people don’t know of its existence, is
a club for working boys in the Exhibi-
tion Building. Lads who leave school
at 13 and 14 in Carlton, Fitzroy and
Collingwood respond to the tact and
friendliness of group leader Robert
Haines and the rest of the staff. Evening
activities in the big ramshackle building,
which isn’t the white elephant it used to
be, include gym., boxing, indoor games,
dramatics, debating and craft work ; and
also included in the outdoor curriculum
are cricket, football, swimming and camp-
ing. This Youth Centre is doing an A 1
job for boys of the next generation. It
has never made any public appeal for
money, but the movement is growing
wider every week. Maintenance is pro-
vided for by a Government subsidy and
private donations.
Mrs. Miles (otherwise Polly) Evergood
is managing at the Velasquez Gallery an
exhibition of her late husband’s pictures.
George Bell opened the show, speaking
fluently as he always does, outlining
something of Evergood’s career and pay-
ing tribute to the outstanding quality of
his work. Polly, an American by birth
and before her marriage a busy New
York girl with a downtown job (she was
a carpet designer), now rusticates in the
quiet of Kalorama. She has a cottage,
fruit-trees, a bit of a garden and several
goats, kept to eat the blackberries. She
doesn’t even milk these goats, but, like
cows, they need attention, for they have
to be moved on their leashes from spot to
spot as they eat the country bare. So
for the sake of these livestock with cast-
iron stomachs Polly can’t leave Kalorama
entirely during the show. She comes to
town every morning and returns in the
evening.
Spencer Shier made this portrait of
Margaret Horsfall, who will be married
in June to W. C. G. Versteegh, of Batavia.
Margaret is the second daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. L. H. Horsfall, of Brighton,
and her fiance (his nickname’s “Wink”)
belongs to a Dutch family—he’s the eldest
son of Major and Mrs. Versteegh, of
Batavia, in which tropical town he and
his young bride will live after their mar-
riage. The date of the wedding depends
upon shipping and the date of the arrival
of the ’groom in Melbourne. Margaret
has decided to wear traditional attire of
white bridal gown and veil and will
probably have her sisters as attendants.
Mrs. Frank Lukis, who with two
schoolboy sons -went off this week to
join Group-Captain Lukis in Queensland,
took with her a much-treasured gift from
the lads who frequent the canteen at
Laverton. The surprise was a silver
entree dish with accompanying good
wishes from several hundred A.C.ls and
A.C.2s. Mrs. Lukis was a moving spirit
in the inauguration and early organising
of the canteen, which has since grown to
be a hive of industry much appreciated
by the men on the station.
Mrs. Garnet Malley, who will lend
Chinese robes for the Bamboo Festival
to be opened at Myer’s on June 13 in aid
of Chinese relief and R.A.A.F. auxiliaries,
has also many more interesting and valu-
able Chinese possessions, most of which
are in store in Sydney. When the day
arrives for the opening of these crates
she may discover some breakages, but
won’t complain, for she had all the luck
in the world to get her things here at all.
Wing-Commander and Mrs. Malley
saw plenty of bombing during the last
lap of their 10 years in China —they re-
turned to Australia in October. Before
the Sino-Japanese war they lived mostly
in Canton, for Wing-Commander Malley
was aeronautical adviser to Chiang Kai-
shek. Afterwards they moved from city
to city with the Government, and the
bombs always followed the Government.
Some of Mrs. Malley’s most prized works
of art escaped destruction because they
were stored on an unimportant-looking
hulk moored in the Yangtze River. They
were in the care of the British Ambas-
sador, Sir Hughe Knatchbull Hugessen
(who now fills the equally difficult posi-
tion of British Ambassador to Turkey).
Before the China War social doings in
foreign embassies were lavish. For ex-
travagant magnificence Mrs. Malley gives
the plume to a reception at the Russian
Embassy, where guests ate from gold
plate with gold knives and forks. After-
wards the Soviet representative was
“liquidated.” In China the Malleys ate
everything from snake to live shrimps
(but they haven’t once gone Chinese
since their return to Australia). During
the blockade their staple diet was buf-
falo. Wines and spirits were practically
unprocurable, though on one red-letter
day in 1940 they met a bottle of whisky
at an impromptu party. Mrs. Malley
had few regrets over cigarettes or alcohol,
but she does enjoy chocolates now and
again and didn’t see one for 18 months.


THE SERVICE MAN
Just Like Their Fathers!
“Ek Dum”: Details of the campaign in
Greece, as they emerge, must increase the
admiration of the world for the Anzac
performance.
On April 19 Berlin correspondents were
reporting that German armored units had
entered Larissa and Trikkala, that the
Greek front, west of the joint with the
British, seemed to have “disintegrated,”
and that regiments and even smaller units,
often from widely separated divisions,
were surrendering vicariously. Two days
later (April 21) the Greek press and
Athens Radio were still reporting that “so
huge have been the Germans’ losses that
their forces are now advancing cautiously
and leaving it tp swarming bombers to
attempt the blasting of the route of ad-
vance.”
The actual fact was that that day the
British Government had been told that
no useful purpose could be served by
keeping the Anzacs and B.E.F. any longer
in Greece.
The Greek army commanders of the
north, without the knowledge or consent
of their Government, had begun to nego-
tiate for surrender and for the establish-
ment of an Axis-controlled Government.
Meanwhile Australian and N.Z. units
were fighting their way out of pockets in
which they had been caught in terrible
mountain country by the German ad-
vance.
No surrender for them! This the Ger-
man correspondents acknowledged in
their communiques. By April 14 the
Germans had reached the foothills of
Olympus on the east. On April 16 Alpini
planted the Nazi flag on the 9800 ft.
summit of Mt. Olympus 10 days after
the attack on Yugoslavia.
The enemy had paid dearly for the
privilege. He was badly knocked about
by Anzacs on the Servia-Koziani ridges.
Two days before he had found Maori-
landers entrenched on a 600 ft. hill which
forms a commanding pass-head on the
slopes of the big mountain to the Aegean.
The N.Z. position was surrounded by
barbed wire. The German war corre-
spondent Heinz Huenger told how on
the night of April 14 the Maorilanders
sprayed all the approaches with artillery.
Next day the German artillery replied all
day long from positions four to six miles
away, covering the hill' and fortifications
systematically with shells:
Then ourselves [Germans] were on the
receiving end of well-aimed artillery fire.
That afternoon (April 15) German
motor-cyclists tried a flank movement
along the foothills of Mt. Olympus, and
during the evening, in darkness, heavy
Panzers the biggest German tanks —
moved forward to within two miles of
the fortifications to give shelter and pro-
tective fire for advancing engineers and
assault troops coming up under theii
cover. Wrote the German correspondent:
Time and time again our artillery fired
all barrels, but April 15 brought no de-
cision because darkness came too quickly.
Motor-cyclists, assault troops and Panzers
had a bad night. Everywhere there were
machine-gun nests. The enemy would move
out of one place and suddenly show up in
another. He would even stalk up to the
heavy Panzers with machine-guns and
Panzer troops would not easily discern him
in the darkness. His machine-guns and
mortars were well camouflaged... .it was a
tough night. Two Panzers came back
bringing the bodies of fallen comrades.
By 9 o’clock next morning, after 41
hours’ continuous fighting, German
motor-cyclists had worked themselves up
on the right flank and engineers had suc-
ceeded in advancing some distance along
the sea coast on the east.
The Panzers rolled out to a frontal
attack. They had grades as much as 30
degrees to negotiate:
They were halfway up the hill when
there came two or three dull detonations.
Those darned fellows had laid mines while
they were withdrawing. One Panzer halted.
Others sought a new route through a
freshly-cultivated field. Another detona-
tion came and the leading Panzer began
to burn. Crew members, injured and
burned, were rescued with difficulty. Am-
munition in the burning Panzer exploded
while infantry dashed to the east corner of
the fortifications. Ten minutes later the
swastika was flying on the tower.
About all this Australia was only
allowed to hear, six days after it was
published in full in New York, a ten-line
summary.
With A.I.F. men who had made a night
scramble round the foothills of Olympus
from the Servia country, 35 miles north
of Larissa and 10 miles beyond Anzac
Corps headquarters at Elassona, the
Maorilanders had another battle with
German tanks during their withdrawal
down the east coast through the Vale of
Tempe, on the Peneios River. The Anzacs
brought the N.Z. artillery into the front
line and blew many Panzers to glory.
They were surrounded more than once.
But, like the New South Welshmen who
got into Larissa after the Germans had
taken it and the Tyrnevos Gap had been
abandoned after the bloodiest battle of
the campaign, they fought their way out
again.
In Larissa the Germans, “using tanks
and Tommy guns,” ambushed Mackay’s
men at every street corner, while “the
town which had been set aflame by con-
tinual merciless bombing burned round
the combatants.”
An Associated Press (America) corre-
spondent who had crossed the AEgean
hurriedly to Cesme in Turkey to escape
the censorship reported that the British
and Anzac forces were “against odds
figured as far worse than Dunkirk,” and
were fighting a slow retreat:
Feats of legendary heroism by Greeks
and British alike saved the Allied forces
on Mt. Olympus from being cut off by
German tanks fanning out over the plains
of Thessaly.
This was written on April 21, appar-
ently a day after the correspondent left
Greece for Cesme. But even when he
had left “two destroyers with steam up
were standing by since last Thursday
night [April 17] to carry King George II
and the royal family and Government
officials from Athens. The monarch post-
poned his departure when Premier Korizis
committed suicide on April 18.”
The dispatch continued:
Unless a long rearguard action can be
fought in Central Greece and in Pelop-
ponesus, it is feared there is a small chance
for the escape of the Australian and N.Z.
divisions and detachments of British and
Scots. A large amount of motorised equip-
ment, guns, munitions and other stores
must be considered lost.
It is obvious from this that the Ameri-
can knew the composition of the British
force in detail, which Australians did not.
It is obvious too that, for once, the
Italians were right when they said in
Rome on April 21 that the Greeks on
the west had “no chance of escape.” They
had been caught in a vice between the
German and Italian armies and were
being slaughtered in the gorges of the
Voyusa by hundreds of dive bombers.
Against these they had no defence, since
their own northern air bases were in
enemy hands and their supply lines had
been cut. Most of their ’planes had been
wiped out by overwhelming forces and
their left flank had—the Germans’ word
for it proved true —“disintegrated” under
irresistible mechanised and air pressure.
Curfew at 9 p.m. was ordered in Athens
on April 21, and traffic in the streets
ceased at that hour. The Germans re-
ported that the city had been declared
in “a state of siege” because of “riots”
and “peace manifestations” and “the flight
of British diplomats.”
As late as April 25, when the Ger-
mans were at the gates of Athens and
Australians were embarking in thousands
under heavy fire, the Australian public
was still being told that “a slackening
of enemy pressure enabled the Imperial
forces to consolidate their new positions,”
and that the “enemy” was “feeling his
way very cautiously toward the new
British positions.” Also it was stated
“that, although some Greek units are now
in the front line, the full responsibility
for holding the front now rests on the
British command.”
There was no front line worth speak-
ing of left at that stage —only a thin
rearguard. The Germans knew it, be-
cause they were harassing the embarka-
tion.
Australians had the first specific state-
ment that contingents had begun to
embark —names of ports correctly given
—in a quotation from Mussolini’s
“Giornale d’ltalia” printed that morning.
It was from “American sources” on
April 28 that they were allowed to learn
that “the majority of the Anzacs have
been safely evacuated with their
weapons.” When Mr. Spender was asked
about the American report that day he
“refused to confirm or deny it,” but it
proved true.
On April 29 Mr. Fadden said: “The
evacuation of Greece is proceeding
Many of our troops have now left
Greece.”
Mr. Churchill admitted on April 30
that 45,000 troops had been evacuated.
The Royal Navy reported that on the
night of April 24-25 13,500 men were
embarked. On the next night, as those
troops set out, the embarkation of an-
other 16,000 was achieved, and next night
again (April 26-27) the main evacuation
was completed.
Australian casualties? Estimates differ
as estimates of the Australian forces in
Greece differed 22,000 at first; then
16,000. Under 3000 “killed, missing and
prisoners” was General Blarney’s version,
it being conjectured that he meant “killed,
wounded and missing.” “Ten per cent, of
the total” is the “S. M. Herald’s” corre-
spondent’s statement, “authoritative,” he
says ; and that should mean round 1600.
Cunningham Off Africa.
“Ek D.”: Reports received by air mail
put a better complexion on the Libyan
position.
One of the more staid American corre-
spondents, Harold Denny, of New York
“Times,” reported on April 23 that those
units of the enemy which had reached
Egypt “in recent days” had been “badly
broken up and scattered by unceasing air
attacks, supplemented by the harassing
fire of the British fleet whenever it is
within reach, and by nerve-racking
forays by British columns operating both
from within the area of besieged Tobruk
and from behind Solium.” Tobruk, he
said, “appears to be able to hold out in-
definitely, and is inflicting heavy punish-
ment,” but the main brunt ashore was
being borne by the R.A.F., which had
been added to by the transfer of a
number of pilots from England, experi-
enced in German ways.
Outside Tobruk, it has been largely
Cunningham’s war, though official reports
barely mention it. Each service runs its
own news department, and the R.N.
doesn’t worry about issuing communiques
unless there is a hole in the landscape
as big as the entrance to Hades.
Nothing was said in the official stuff
about the casual landing, reported in
America, of an Indian armored division,
of about 10,000 men, at Tobruk in April
in the middle of the German drive into
Greece, though “reinforcements” were
mentioned.
Even the Admiralty in London has
such an unobtrusive air that the First
Lord’s remark, made three weeks ago,
that “in spite of all that has been said
about enemy reinforcements in Libya
we have destroyed Italian transports run-
ning into a tonnage of six figures,” was
scarcely noticed. That was before the
Tripoli bombardment and the destruc-
tion of several more ships.
Nothing was said, either, about the
operations of the fleet along the coastal
road, over which most of the German-
Italian traffic has to come from Tripoli.
During the second week of the Greek
affair, while the German tanks were
pouring into the Larissa plain, Cunning-
ham’s ships, having “already combed the
Libyan coastline” to scramble enemy
transport and troop concentrations (New
York “Times”), were “pouring their shells
into a tank park near Fort Capuzzo,
wrecking almost all of the vehicles.”
They were almost certainly German
tanks. The Italians had been at Capuzzo
a little while before and had “been dis-
lodged from their stronghold, as well as
having their grip on Bardia shaken by
the men sailing under Admiral Cun-
ningham.”
These were small affairs beside the
bombardment of Tripoli on April 21.
Tripoli was the fourth enemy Mediter-
ranean port the fleet had attacked inde-
pendently and come away from scathe-
less. Said the Admiral: “Some opposi-
tion from the enemy’s shore batteries
was... .ineffective,” and there were no
Stukas about. The battle-cruiser Renown
led the van, supported by cruisers and
destroyers.
The damage seems to have been devas-
tating, though much of it could not be
seen for the dust clouds which the 15-
inch shells caused as they scored into the
town at short range.
At dawn on Thursday, May 8, the per-
formance was repeated at Benghazi with
the same technique. Benghazi is a harbor
constructed with breakwaters.
Hits were seen on vessels at the
wharves; two supply vessels were met
coming in and destroyed—-one, an ammu-
nition ship of 5000 to 6000 tons, went up
in bits —and another ship of 6000 tons
appears to have been wrecked in the
harbor. The R.A.F. both heralded and
followed up the attack.
A naval squadron was attacked in the
West Mediterranean on Thursday by tor-
pedo bombers, high-level bombers, dive
bombers, all under fighter escort, princi-
pally Messerschmitts. F.A.A. men bril-
liantly smashed up one formation of 25
escorted Stukas, and in the general foray
the enemy lost three torpedo bombers
and one 579 destroyed by A.A. fire from
the ships. It had two torpedo bombers
severely damaged. One Junker dive
bomber and two S79’s were shot down
by the F.A.A. and a Stuka, a Messer-
schmitt 110 and a CR42 were severely
damaged.
The Italians claimed to have sunk a
submarine and damaged a destroyer, but
the R.N. denies damage or casualties
from the attack. One F.A.A. machine
was shot down ; the crew are safe.
Our naval forces have been active in
the Indian Ocean. On May 9 it was an-
nounced that H.M.S. Cornwall had sunk
a 19-knot, 10,000-ton commerce raider,
rescuing 27 prisoners from sunken ships
and taking 53 of the crew of 300
prisoner ; and Monday brought the news
that H.M.A.S. Canberra, Cornwall’s sister
ship, and H.M.S. Leander from the
Maoriland station had bagged the raiders
Coburg (7400 tons) and Kitty Brovig
(7031 tons) in the Indian Ocean. The
German ships were in company when
sighted, separated and were sunk by gun-
fire. Prisoners were 18 officers and 47
ratings, and a number of Norwegians and
Chinese were rescued.
Tobruk and Elsewhere.
“Ek Dum”: The garrison of Tobruk —
largely now A.I.F. and commanded by
an Australian, Major-General Morshead
—finished the battle of May 3, during
which the Germans had penetrated some
distance into its outer lines, 20 miles from
the town, with 50 German-Italian tanks
knocked out, 3000 mixed prisoners taken
in various fights and a pleasing con-
sciousness of moral superiority to its
foes. The net Axis gain was a shallow
penetration along 2000 yards, 20 miles
from the town.
There seemed to be lack of co-ordina-
tion between the Axis partners, and cer-
tainly nothing superhuman about their
men. Of 11 tanks which charged down
on an A.I.F. anti-tank gun, four were
smashed by the gun and one of its mates.
Presently a blinding, savagely hot sand-
storm set in, and the garrison re-estab-
lished recaptured positions.
In Libyan heat, life in a German tank
and battle-bowler must be plain hell with-
out trimmings. For the acclimatised Aus-
tralians it is not so bad, and for Indians
it is a taste of home.
The German-Italian attack quietened
off considerably in the heat as the week
went on, though the Germans added to
the amenities of the defence lines by try-
ing to smoke the A.I.F. out like possums.
The Germans on May 8 claimed that
they had dispersed large concentrations
of British troops at Tobruk, and the
Italians naively remarked that they had
“occupied an important position on the
Tobruk front.” They stressed that they
were continuing their attacks on the
British front round Solium. Reports
from Cairo suggested, however, that the
Axis offensive there had been brought to
a sudden check because of Tobruk and
Egyptian-border resistance and R.N. and
R.A.F. activity, and that most attacks
were being made by British armored
patrols, which were continually feeling
for weak spots in the German-Italian
holding lines.
The R.A.F. and R.N. repeated at Ben-
ghazi on Thursday morning the dusting
which had been given Tripoli on April
21. Other ports and aerodromes through-
out Cyrenaica received thorough treat-
ment from day to day by the R.A.F.
Germans and Italians reported that they
had continued to bomb Malta with heavy
damage, and had made two attacks on
the Suez Canal—“slight damage, no
casualties,” according to Cairo.
At the week-end the activity was
mainly from artillery on both sides, but
it was reported in one Tobruk sector that
the Germans had been trying flame-
throwers.
On Sunday night a moonlight A.I.F.
counter-attack emptied the Germans out
of several strong points.
In Abyssinia the British troops are
closing on Amba Alagi, where the last
30,000 Italians are gathered, apart from
the few lots which are being hunted in
the mountains of the south. Haile
Silassie has officially entered Addis
Ababa. Official Italian casualty lists for
April showed 5894 killed, 17,976
wounded and 76,058 missing.
A list of battle honors issued during
the week advertises the resource and dar-
ing of the A.I.F. men who are fighting


in Libya. Signalman Ken Clift, William
Bruce and Robert McKeague, who were
awarded M.Ms., rushed through a hail
of shell and bullets to an Italian battery,
grabbed the gun crews and brought them
back two miles under fire. Their job was
laying cables.
Captain Norman Vickery, in a Bren-
gun carrier, charged a strong Italian post
which was heavily armed with rifles and
machine-guns and four field guns. He
got an M.C.
W.O. William Stenning, under heavy
artillery and machine-gun fire, stopped
five tanks with an A.T. rifle ; later his
platoon put three tanks out of action.
He was wounded in the shoulder. He
now has a D.C.M.
In Iraq.
“Ek Dum”: The first shots in the Iraq
affair were fired at dawn on May 2.
On May 5, though the Germans blared
it to the world that the Habbaniyah air
base and Basra, where fighting had fol-
lowed the first attacks, were “now com-
pletely and relentlessly surrounded by the
gallant Iraqis,” the R.A.F. had heard no-
thing of it. It had removed British
women and children to safe places, had
battered airfields and “disposed of the
greater part of Rashid Ali’s air force,”
which was later said to have been “ren-
dered ineffective.” It was also delivering
howitzers and stores to beleaguered
Habbaniyah.
The British troops at Basra had not
only been able to hold their own and
begun to occupy further parts of the
port and commercial town, but had sent
reinforcements to Habbaniyah.
Night patrols on May 6 found the enemy
positions on the edge of the escarpment
commanding Habbaniyah unoccupied
and another point of vantage —a plateau
south of the station—freed of rebels. One
pipeline post, full of rebels, waved a
white flag to the R.A.F. and was duly
taken over by British land forces. Next
day the Bagdad aerodrome was bombed,
and the Washash ammunition stores on
the outskirts of the capital were blown
up in part.
The Iraqis, driven off from Habbani-
yah, left behind large quantities of war
material. They made off north to
Ramadi railhead, on the Euphrates, and
to Faluja, where the bridge of boats
crosses that river on the main Bagdad
roads from Damascus and from French
Syria. British patrols are active around
both places. The Iraqis, through their
Berlin and Beyrout spokesmen, admitted
that, “as the result of enemy surprise,”
they were “forced to withdraw to new
positions,” but they “immediately
counter-attacked and inflicted serious
losses.” They declared that on May 8
their air force was still operating, and
had “several times” bombed Habbaniyah.
At the week-end Cairo announced that
Britain had reoccupied Rutbah aero-
drome and that “facilities” at Mosul and
various Iraqi ’dromes had been bombed
by the R.A.F.
May seems to have been chosen for
the revolt by the Germans because
it is a period in which the green flag of
Islam is seen everywhere on the roads
through Iraq from other countries, lead-
ing bands of pilgrims to Mecca. The
pilgrim trade through Iran —largely run
by Australians of the old A.L.H. —is at
its height. It is, therefore, a time when
disturbance in the most sectarian Mos-
lem country in Asia might do most
damage to the peace and be most likely
to set Moslems in Iraq and of other coun-
tries tearing at each other’s eyes or those
of Britain. But many devout Moslems out
of Iraq—and many in it, too —will feel
about Rashid’s performance as a Chris-
tian might feel about the throwing of a
Warwick egg in a cathedral on Easter
Sunday.
Meanwhile there is talk of Germany
assembling parachute troops and the para-
phernalia of air attack in the Aegean
islands and elsewhere ; also of pressure
from Berlin on the French to allow Ger-
man troops to pass through or over Syria
to join in the Iraqi fracas.
On May 9 all was quiet in Basra,
though there had been a little rioting. It
was reported but not confirmed that
Rashid Ali had left Bagdad because of
hostile demonstrations against him, and
that nothing was happening at Habbani-
yah.
What this Rashid Ali proposes to
do and what the alleged grievances of
the Arab world against the British
amount to have been the main topic of
the German Radios, addressing their
“dear listeners” in English, Spanish and
other tongues. It is very noticeable
that Beyrout, in French Syria, seems to
be the clearing-house for all the German-
steered Arab belligerence, and that this
town is full of noisy organisations bent
upon the destruction of Britain.
Increasing in Intensity.
“Aileron”: On both sides of the North
Sea the second week of May, 1941, will
be remembered for destructive air raids.
Avenging attacks on the Clydeside,
Merseyside and Northern Ireland, the
R.A.F. scourged Mannheim, started
some fires in Frankfort-on-Rhine and did
damage elsewhere in western Germany.
Assaults on Wednesday were made
in broad moonlight. The Merseyside, the
Humber and the Bristol Channel area
were all seeded with fire and death.
There were many daylight combats over
Dover Straits, and the R.A.F. planted
armor-piercing bombs on and all round
the battle-cruisers Scharnhorst and
Gneisenau at Brest. It also did a peck
of damage to the St. Nazaire U-boat base.
On Thursday night London had its
first raid for three weeks—a fairly light
and short one, strongly resisted. Mersey-
side suffered its eighth heavy consecutive
attack. Northern Ireland was again
bombed ; so were the Humber, Notting-
ham and south Midlands.
All the German attacks of the week
were particularly widespread and heavy
up to this point—the moon was bright
throughout. But there was a sudden in-
crease in British night fighter resistance
and an equally sudden development of
the attacks on Germany from a moderate
scale to something equal or surpassing
anything the Germans themselves had so
far done.
The night-fighter performances cannot
be fully assessed without knowing the
actual strength which the Luftwaffe put
into the air. That was certainly extensive.
But the fact remains that in the first
eight days of May 86 German ’planes
were brought down over Britain at night,
against 87 for the whole of April, 47
in March and 15 each in January and
February.
Thursday night’s R.A.F. raids over
Germany were without precedent in scale
and persistence. The R.A.F. Bomber Com-
mand has put its new large Stirlings and,
probably, its heavy American Boeings
into service. It is using bombs up to
40001 b. filled with the new explosives. It
has reluctantly copied the incendiary
technique of the Germans and precedes
its night attacks with heavy bombs by
showering myriads of incendiaries on its
objectives.
On Thursday night it used between 300
and 400 machines over Germany in what
the Air Ministry describes as “the heavi-
est assault yet made on that country.”
It attacked Hamburg particularly, and
left the industrial part of it an inferno.
It soared right across the Reich into the
Posen district of Poland. Berlin itself
was bombed. Emden and St. Nazaire had
their issues. German shipping was blasted
as far afield as the Norwegian coast. The
night operations were supplemented by
some liveliness over France during the
day.
It was the first occasion on which the
Air Ministry was able to announce that,
in a period of full-scale bombing, the
British effort had been on a larger scale
than the German attacks on the same
night or day. The effort cost us 10
bombers at night and one lost in the day-
time ; but the enemy lost 11 fighters
and a bomber in daylight and 12 bombers
at night. One of his pilots excitedly
described the new British bombers as
“magnificent, devastating,” and the night
fighters as very fast and deadly.
Early on Saturday night 8.8. C. an-
nounced that a heavy raid on London
had begun. Throughout the night Lon-
doners carried on in their usual spirit
while bombers drove in from every direc-
tion and plastered the city with fire and
explosives.
Parliament Houses were hit for the
third time. The Commons debating
chamber was reduced to ruins. West-
minster Hall, “the great hall of Rufus,”
in which the courts of justice sat for
centuries, and which saw Charles I and
Hastings on trial, was damaged, its his-
torical roof pierced and one wall blown
out. The Abbey was saved from total de-
struction only by the work of the fire-
men, but the pulpit and many pews went;
the cloisters, which date back to Saxon
times, were flooded ; the Deanery, one of
the finest medieval houses in Britain, was
burnt, and other houses around the
cathedral were smashed to atoms. The
British Museum was hit; so were hospi-
tals, docks and humble streets in which
hundreds were left homeless. Streets
about Whitehall and Westminster are
filled with craters, crushed glass and
rubble and the smouldering remains of
incendiary bombs. Many streets were
completely burnt out.
As on December 29, the fire-watching
precautions seem to have failed in some
degree, and London papers are critically
angry about it.
It was small consolation for this bar-
barity that night fighters bagged 33
enemy bombers. The German High Com-
mand pronounced the horror a “reprisal
raid.”
The R.A.F. was not idle. It paid a
third visit to Berlin, and a very heavy
force did great damage and left many
more large fires burning in Hamburg.
Bremen, Emden and Rotterdam ship-
ping was attacked, and a naval vessel and
several other ships were damaged.
Further attacks were made by the Coastal
Command on ports of occupied France.
The Germans alleged that the damage
done by the R.A.F. was “almost entirely
limited to civilian areas,” that two R.A.F.
fighters were shot down over Britain and
eight bombers over Germany. The Air
Ministry admitted the loss of seven
bombers and reported that two German
fighters were wrecked over Germany.
Heavy April Shipping Losses.
“Nobby II”: The enemy claimed the
sinking of 1,218,995 tons of British,
Allied and neutral shipping in April.
The Admiralty gives the figure as 488,124
tons. Sinkings for March as altered —106
ships of 489,229 tons —stand as the
heaviest of the war, save for the 533,000
tons sunk in June, 1940 ; but that was
the Dunkirk month.
. Of the April total, 60 ships of 293,089
tons were British ; 43 of 189,473 tons
Allied, and three of 5562 tons neutral.
The evacuation from Greece cost us
187,054 tons, mostly Greek, so that the
total destroyed on world-wide trade
routes was round 300,000 tons. Still that,
of course, is serious.
Corrected losses for the past year —
British, Allied, friendly and neutral:
Tonnage.
1940 May 248,650
June 533,902
July .. .. . . . . 405,853
August . . ' 387,471
September .. .. .. 435,553
October .. .. . . 423,616
November .. .. .. 368,806
December .. .. .. 313,197
1941 — January .. .. .. 306,002
February .. .. .. 334,004
March .. .. . • 489,229
April .. .. .. .. 488,124
Total 4,734,407
German and Italian shipping losses
since the beginning of the war are esti-
mated by the Admiralty at 2,912,000 tons.
The Royal Navy got a late start with
its submarine campaign, but in six
months it and its friends wiped out or
captured enemy shipping at the rate of
220,500 tons a month.
On June 30, 1939, Germany had
4,492,000 tons of shipping, Italy 2,979,482
tons; total, for both Powers, 7,472,000
tons. They have, therefore, lost 40 per
cent, of the pre-war total. They can
have built little, though they stole a
quantity from the small northern coun-
tries.
The cables were humming last week
with messages from A.I.F. boys, back
from the Greek furnace. One from
Gunner Fred Kelso, son of the veteran
Randwick trainer, was typical. Addressed
to his mother, it ran “Safe, well, broke.”
* * * *
It transpires that two Greek divisions
reached Crete from the mainland. They
and the British Imperial troops on the
island (number, of course, not stated)
have been placed under the command of
Major-General Freyberg—a signal honor
for a gallant soldier whose leadership
of the Maoriland division in Greece must
have been excellent, judging by the com-
paratively small losses suffered. Apropos,
a Great Daily declared that Freyberg
won his V.C. in Gallipoli and served
with the Maoriland troops in France.
Actually his V.C. was granted after the
Somme victory of November, 1916, in
which his battalion of the 63rd (Royal
Naval) Division took a distinguished
part; and from the 63rd he was trans-
ferred to the 29th Division as brigadier-
general. He never figured in the N.Z.E.F.
In spite of his nine wounds, Freyberg tried
to swim the Channel after the last war,
and very nearly succeeded.
* * * *
“Terewth’s” “naval correspondent”
has had the astounding effrontery to
sneer at Cunningham and his Navy and
to demand more sacrifices from it.
“Perhaps the most striking feature of
operations in the Eastern Mediterranean
for months,” the “naval correspondent”
wrote, “has been apparent failure to make
our sea-power felt effectively, except in
the somewhat negative sense that it has
prevented any appreciable interference
in the withdrawal by sea of our ill-fated
Grecian expeditionary force.” He went
on to inquire why “we” didn’t send a
“powerful squadron to bombard
Salonika,” and “to ask oneself isn’t it
worth while risking the possible loss of
a few battleships?” This unspeakable
rubbish was printed while Australia and
Maoriland were ringing with the glorious
news that their sons and their British
companions and the Anzac nurses had
been saved from certain death or cap-
tivity by Cunningham and his officers and
men and the merchant seamen under their
control. There immediately followed the
deathless story of the commander of a
bombed destroyer who gave up his place
on a float to a wounded soldier, and lost
his own heroic life. “Terewth’s”
“naval correspondent” is presumably Mr.
F. Ehrenfried Baume, who spat venom-
ously at Chamberlain because he didn’t
go to war in 1938 and who was previously
the medium chosen by Trotsky and Eddie
Cantor to convey their unsolicited advice
to Australia.
* * * *
The Canadian Defence Minister
announces the loss of 75 Canadian sol-
diers at sea. Apart from actual war
areas, losses of transported soldiers have
been remarkably small. Australia’s A.I.F.
divisions have been taken overseas to
four separate war areas without losing
a man from enemy action.
s k * * *
“Nobby II”: The British Mercantile
Marine Service Association reports that,
to March 14, 3241 merchant seamen and
fishermen had lost their lives through
enemy action and war causes. There are
never fewer than 2000 British-owned or
-chartered ships at sea and never fewer
than 300 to 400 in the danger zones.
“Z.”: Wives of doctors serving
abroad have been telephoned anony-
mously and told that their husbands
were killed or were missing. A nurse’s
mother was informed that the ship on
which her daughter was travelling was
bombed to bits and her daughter killed.
“Such actions,” Mr. Spender said, “are
diabolical... .of course subversive, and
if those responsible are apprehended they
will receive no mercy.” Perhaps if Mr-
Spender interned all suspects within sub-
versive range instead of providing appeal
tribunals, each with a chairman at £7 7s.
per day and four members at £5 ss. a
day, it would cut off this Fifth Column
criminality at the root.
* * * *
A “neutral correspondent” reports
having seen 250 Australian prisoners in
a camp at Nish, Yugoslavia. Most of
them were veterans from Libya who
formed part of a rearguard and were cut
off by tanks. A sergeant said they’d been
well treated. Another 250 British and Aus-
tralian prisoners in Libya were likewise
cut off by tanks. It should be a lesson
to the Commonwealth Government to
push forward tank construction. In view
of the results achieved by the Germans
with comparatively small tank forces, a
lot of ideas about the defence of the
Commonwealth must be revised.
H*
If the great Keith Murdoch has for-
given lan Hamilton for what the old
general wrote about him in self-defence,
he should get Hamilton to write a
brief postscript to Friends of England.
In that book the Highland seer prayed
for deliverance from the French alliance,
and predicted the fate of Czechoslovakia,
Poland, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia and
of Rumania and Yugoslavia as aggran-
dised at Versailles. And of the Greeks
he said he was sorry for them ; they
could never hold Salonika against pres-
sure from the north, and they were the
only real friends we had in the Balkans.
And after eighteen years —yes, eighteen
years—it has all come true.
* * * *
Four days before Yugoslavia was in-
vaded, the “famous” American column-
ists Alsop and Kintner wrote on the
“highest authority” that “one of the
important reasons for the British military
expedition to Greece was a confident
prediction given by Mr. Roosevelt’s
envoy, Colonel Donovan, to General
Wavell.” The Colonel “bet his repu-
tation as an observer on the Yugoslavs’
courage,” and his report was a “big
factor in the ultimate decision” of
Anthony Eden and Generals Dill and
Wavell. Colonel Donovan later reported
to U.S. Military Intelligence that the
British move into Greece was “the most
audacious but probably the wisest” made
by the British in the war to date. Prob-
ably Wavell will not trouble to collect
his bet.
H* H 5
“Ek D.”: Swedish papers reported late
in April that a sideshow in the invasion
of Yugoslavia was a miniature civil war
between the peoples of the west of the
kingdom. Croat soldiers in many places
abandoned the Serbs on the night of
April 7, the day after war broke out.
Serbian officers were disarmed and
arrested, and there were clashes, inter-
rupted by the arrival of the Germans.
At Spalato three Yugoslav warships went
over to the Croats. Three other ships
went Serbian and threatened to bomb
the town. Stukas arrived to bomb both
and settled the affair. In Zagreb, capital
of Croatia, the whole police force placed
itself at the service of the pro-Axis Gov-
ernment. On April 20 Hitler appointed
Siegfried Kasche, a special protege of
Ribbentrop, as the first Minister to the
new Croatia.


Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq. ; C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
SAVE MONEY
mmm
irs m
THRIFT i
TO INSTALL
NEW
CHAMPIONS
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
Bring
MORE SPEED
Learn a lesson from the race
drivers. They choose Champions,
the spark plugs with the
proven ability to give every
engine the strong hot sparks
that bring out its best speed,
power and fuel economy. In
racing and in every-day driv-
ing, Champions are winners!
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Canada
I
iyk**j stsii
iisS
!!
s at
rm
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady—own typewriter —will assist author in
return for literary advice. —1058.
Exp. children’s nurse, 35, would like position
Brisbane early in May; Tressillian methods. —
1067.
Complete secretarial services offered limited
number business or professional men by exp.
shorthand-typist with wide knowledge business
publicity and advertising.—l4ls.
To arrange with someone (pensioner pre-
ferred) able to do little photography and clerical
work and desiring a home. —1079.
To buy The Book of Life, pub. by H. and
P.C. Magazine, Sydney; 10s. 6d. for clean copy,
7s. 6d. for soiled issue. Also wanted, Men of
Mark, early Australian work.—lo 23.
To buy books by Price Warung; need not
be in good order.—los6.
To buy or borrow “Why Doherty Died,”
“How McDougall Topped the Score” and
other verses by Thomas Spencer, also The
Bulletin Reciter. —lo6l.
To buy Canterbury Tales in modern Eng-
lish, Nicholas’s version preferred.—lo 73.
Information Sought.
Would there be any vacancy in the Defence
Department available to a man of 55, not a
returned soldier, of university education ? I
have a small private income and time on my
hands. Possibly there is some small job I
could do. —9749.
Vacancies do occur and are filled by selection
from applicants who have recorded their qualifi-
cations. Application (in your case) to the
General Officer Commanding, Southern Com-
mand, Victoria Barracks, Melbourne.
* * * *
What was the daguerreotype method of
photography ? —1428.
Daguerreotype was the earliest practical
method of obtaining a direct permanent photo-
graph. The name is taken from the inventor,
Daguerre. The process consisted of exposing,
in a camera, a silvered copper plate, previously
subjected to the action of silver iodide and
silver bromide, and then developing the image
by exposure to a bath of mercury. The pic-
ture was fixed in a bath of cyanide of potas-
sium and toned in hyposulphite of gold. The
exposure usually extended to 20 minutes or
half an hour in bright sunshine.
* * H= *
Who were the first 10 holders of the office
of Premier of N.S.W., and on what dates
did they come into office. —1416.
S. A. Donaldson, June 6, 1856; Charles
Cowper, August 26, 1856; H. W. Parker,
October 3, 1856; Charles Cowper, September
7, 1857; William Forster, October 27, 1859;
John Robertson, March 9, 1860; Charles
Cowper, January 10, 1861 ; James Martin,
October 16, 1863; Charles Cowper, February
3, 1865 ; James Martin, January 22, 1866.
* * * *
What are the main sheep-raising centres of
Queensland, also general shearing months for
same ? —9646.
Central districts: Emerald, Springsure and
Clermont; shearing from Jan. to March.
Central-west to north-west: Blackall, Barcal-
dine, Longreach, Winton, Hughenden; April
to July. South-west: Roma, Charleville,
Cunnamulla; June to September. South: Dir-
ranbandi, Goondiwindi, Stanthorpe; August
to November.
* * * *
Is it possible to remelt rubber sufficiently
to run into moulds? If not, how or where
could I buy ingredients to make rubber, or can
it be bought in a liquid form ready to use ?
9594.
Old rubber may be softened by heating to
about 300 deg. F. in a suitable vessel. Petro-
leum oil can be incorporated to soften it, but
considerable mixing or kneading is necessary.
Some difficulty would, no doubt, be experienced
in trying to run this material into moulds. The
mass would need to be cured. Rubber in
liquid form can be obtained as latex from
various wholesale distributing houses in the
Australian capital cities.
* * * *
Commercial difference between the Saanen
and Angora goats? What points should be
looked for in a good milch goat? What is the
period of gestation? —1414.
The Saanen is purely a milch goat, whereas
the Angora is a carcass animal, providing —if
bred correctly—mohair. Both animals pro-
vide kid skin suitable for glove manufacture.
The principal good points to look for when
selecting a Saanen are: —Color: White. Horns:
Missing; the breed is a polled breed, though
at times horns are to be seen —probably a re-
version to some other breed. Body: Wedge-
shape, like a dairy cow; fine bone, absence of
coarseness and covered with skin of fine tex-
ture upon which short hair of fine texture
grows. The neck should not be short or thick
—of good length and with two “bells.” Udder:
Well developed, with little or no splitting of
quarters and with two well-placed and well-
developed teats. Guard against broken colors
or colors other than white, general coarseness
of frame and bone, especially on the neck and
shoulders, and long hair —bucks at times will
develop a certain amount of long hair on the
forequarters and hind legs. The gestation
period is 152 days, and a doe should at least
have three weeks’ spell from milking prior to
kidding. The age is judged by the teeth —two
permanent teeth as a two-year-old, four per-
manent teeth as a three-year-old, six per-
manent teeth as a four-year-old and eight
permanent teeth as a five-year-old. Price of
does in kid ranges from £4 4s. to £5 ss. Either
breed will do well in Central Queensland.
* * * *
My recently cemented rainwater tank appears
to be porous. Can you suggest a sealing com-
position that will not affect the wholesomeness
of the water for drinking? —9Bo9.
Apparently too weak a mortar or too coarse
a sand has been used. The tank should be
cleaned and treated with washes of waterglass,
which will seal up the pores, but not affect the
water.
* * * *
(1) I wish to study astronomy. What books
on the subject should be read and where are
they obtainable in Sydney? (2) Name of a
good astronomical atlas? (3) Where in Sydney
could I obtain a good-quality, high-powered
(30 x 60 type) telescope suitable for long-range
astronomical observation ? (4) What is the
name of the brilliant object which appears soon
after sunset in the western sky approximately
one-third of the distance from the western
horizon and the planet Jupiter and midway be-
tween the horizon and Orion’s Belt ? (5) Are
the planets Mercury, Mars, Uranus and Neptune
visible here at present, and, if so, what are then-
positions in the sky? (6) What are asteroids?
(7) What is the correct astronomical name for
the group known as the Southern Cross? (8)
Are there any available books on the subject of
relativity, and, if so, their titles? (9) Did
Albert Einstein write any books on his theories,
and, if so, their titles and where obtainable?
(10) Is there any amateur astronomers’ associa-
tion, club, society or similar body in existence
in Australia, and, if so, how could one join it ?
—9792.
(1) Any big Sydney bookshop could give
you a list. (2) Norton’s. (3) Try E. Esdaile
and Sons, 42 Hunter-street, Sydney. (4) Sirius.
(5) Uranus and Neptune are at present in the
early evening sky. Best way to find them is
to examine the times of risings and settings of
the planets given each day in the Sydney
“Morning Herald.” (6) Small planets situated
between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter. (7)
Crux. (8) and (9) Books are available on
relativity, and several have been written by Ein-
stein, but they are not suitable to beginners
in astronomical science. (10) There is a branch
of the British Astronomical Association in
N. S. Wales. Information as to membership,
etc., can be obtained from the secretary, A.
York, 17 Frederick-street, Oatley.
* * * *
What is the cause of sleepwalking 3—9569.
Sleepwalking is one of the neuroses of deep
sleep, really an acted dream. The exciting
causes are usually mental excitement, overwork,
bodily fatigue or digestive disorders; it is met
with chiefly in persons of nervous temperament
or those who have an inherited proclivity to
neurotic disease; nobody who is in perfect
health walks in his sleep. An important point
is that a sleepwalker found wandering should
not be roughly awakened but led back to bed
as gently as possible.
* * * *
Can you advise me on the cause, cure and
prevention of gallstones? —994B.
An important factor in the production of
gallstones is a low-grade inflammation of the
biliary tract, especially if set up by typhoid or
colon bacilli. Other requisites seem to be some
obstruction to the free flow of bile, and also
defective function of the liver cells, whereby,
owing to some sort of damage, they become
unable to secrete a bile capable of holding its
normal crystalline substances in solution. Gall-
stones are especially common in people of
sedentary habit, e.g., in women as contrasted
with men, and they show an increased incidence
in certain forms of heart disease. The exact
influence of diet and of disorders of the gastro-
intestinal tract is difficult to determine. In
very many cases medication is inefficacious,
and surgical intervention for the removal of the
gallstones and, frequently, of the gall-bladder
is necessary. Useful measures are the avoidance
of obesity, the support of lax abdominal walls,
proper exercise and deep breathing to promote
the movements of the diaphragm. Constipa-
tion should be overcome, and the fats in the
diet should be reduced. The drinking of large
amounts of mineral waters containing sodium
salts is unquestionably harmful. It is extremely
doubtful whether the solution of gallstones
can be brought about by any scientific means.
* * * *
I have been troubled with alopecia for
about 15 years and have tried many remedies,
but none have had permanent results. What
can be done? —9564.
Many of these cases tend to recover spon-
taneously, but treatment seems to hasten re-
covery. Recommended is lactic acid (one to
five parts), castor oil (two to five parts), spirits
of wine to 100 parts. Apply daily, very
cautiously at first, more vigorously as the scalp
gets used to it. Sulphur ointment is also often
useful, as is perchloride of mercury p.c. to
2 p.c.) in spirit. There are reasons for be-
lieving the affection to be contagious.
* * * *
Cure for threadworms in a child of three ?
—9946.
A powder containing powdered santonin (two
grains), compound scammony powder (five
grains), and calomel (half-grain) is given at
night, followed by a saline purge in the morn-
ing. A second treatment is given two nights
later. Meanwhile, thrice daily small doses of
syrup of senna with sodium bicarbonate are
given regularly. All drinking water should be
boiled and raw vegetables thoroughly washed
before being served. Starchy and sugary foods
should be cut down. Reinfection can be pre-
vented by providing nightgowns which prevent
scratching of the itching parts, on which white
precipitate ointment may be smeared.
* * * *
Where and when did Jack Johnson fight Bill
Lang and Peter Felix? What was the result
of each fight? —l272.
Johnson fought Felix at the Sydney Gaiety
on December 19, 1906, and Lang in Mel-
bourne on March 4, 1907. Felix was knocked
out in one round, and Lang in nine.
* * * *
(1) What has become of Ted Pickrang, the
Maori heavyweight boxer who fought Pat
Redmond and others at the Sydney Stadium ?
(2) Did Pickrang ever defeat Frank Packer as
an amateur? —1048.
Pickrang is now a brigade sergeant-major
with the Second A.I.F. overseas. (2) Both win-
ning their preliminary bouts, Pickrang and
Packer were to have fought the heavyweight
final of an amateur tournament at North Syd-
ney some years ago, but did not meet.
* * * *
(1) In what year did S. Donoghue ride his
first English Derby winner, and what was his
mount ? (2) How many Derby wins did he
have up to 1925, and what were the horses?
(3) Did any horse of King Edward VIPs win
the Derby? (4) Did any woman ever own a
Derby winner? —1440.
(1) Donoghue won on Solly Joel’s Pommern
in 1915. (2) Six. In addition to Pommern
he won on Mr. Fairie’s Gay Crusader in 1917,
J. B. Joel’s Humorist in 1921, Lord Woolaving-
ton’s Captain Cuttle in 1922, B. Irish’s Papy-
rus in 1923 and H. E. Morris’s Manna in 1925.
(3) Yes. Minoru, ridden by H. Jones, in 1909.
(4) Yes. Lady J. Douglas owned Gainsborough,
which won in 1918 with J/ Childs up.
Brief Answers.
S.S.: (1) List forwarded. (2) A sergeant-
major is a warrant officer, class 11. A staff-
sergeant is junior to a sgt.-major. W. 0.11 re-
ceives 6d. per day more than a staff-sergeant.
. ...K.8.: (1) Medical fitness necessary to
permit of enlistment in the military forces is
determined by prescribed medical examination.
A case cannot be predetermined. (2) and (3)
Make written application to Major Hunter,
Commanding Officer, Area Signals, Victoria
Barracks, Melbourne... .Miss 8.L.: The
Women’s Voluntary Register for National Ser-
vice, 9th Floor, Commonwealth Bank Build-
ing, Sydney, is the organisation officially recog-
nised by the Commonwealth Government as
the sole co-ordinating medium for the regis-
tration of women desirous of rendering volun-
tary assistance during the war J.M.: The
township of Minto, N. S. Wales, derived its
name from the Earl of Minto, at one time
Governor-General of Canada and later still
Viceroy of India M.H.: “1 lie down every
afternoon” is correct D.C.: Jokes sub-
mitted for illustration in The Bulletin must be
original... .A.G.S.: See Commonwealth and
M.L. Year 800k5....C. O.: Address a letter
to him care of this office... .E.G.H.: Stalin
is chairman of the Council of People’s Com-
missars, virtually Premier of the U.S.S.R. Molo-
tov remains People’s Commissar of Foreign
Affairs... .N.G.H.: Have made inquiries, but so
far as can be ascertained an alloy of aluminium
and lead has not been produced... .D.S.W.: The
metre used to represent a definite fraction of
the distance from the Equator to the North
Pole. It is now the length of a certain
platinum-iridium bar when supported in a defi-
nitely specified manner at the temperature of
melting ice and at a standard atmospheric
pressure (760 m.m. of mercury). It is equivalent
to 39.370432 English inches... .A.E.L.: There
is a small quadruped of the skunk family
found in Africa known as the zorilla, usually
striped or spotted, and it can eject a noxious
0d0r... .G.D.L.: In those instructions “M.Q.”
would represent “Metol-Quinol” or metol-hydro-
quinone developer... .S.P.F.: The Modena
is an Italian breed of pigeon. Chief points
are a short round body, short wings and tail,
the latter being cocked up and not carried
down, as in many other breeds. It is found
in a variety of colors with delicate and beauti-
ful lacings, chequerings and markings....
P.J.M.: “Endemic” is used to describe a dis-
ease which is prevalent or regularly found in
a particular region or district S.G.T.: That
is the longer route, but the roads are much
better... .8.G.: Chaplin was born in London,
April 16, 1889... .W.F.T.: There is no reason
why you should not proceed along the lines
you suggest.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused: —
P.O’B.: —
For mortal sinner such as he
Can’t leave us all in peace;
And England winner she must be
To make this uproar cease.
W.F.: —
Australia will be there, ’tis true,
To light anew the lamp
That these mad dogs have tried anew
To snuff out with Mein Kampf.
T.S.: Say it in prose. # .. J.C.G.: You’re a
trier, anyhow... .M.F.: Where did you ever
see a Gothic tower of “marbled white”?....
T.L.S.: No harm in hoping; but no use either
while you stick to those hackneyed themes.
R.K.: You have our sympathy K.C.:
That was a pun! .... A.S.: They get nowhere.
... .P.D.A.: “On Fishing” got away... .C.M.:
No use imitating Dennis... .J.B.: Come again;
without Eliot... .M.D.: Try elsewhere
M. : An oration rather than a poem....
N. : An Abo. par., nothing more... .A.B.:
Been done before... .P.J.T.: Try it on a
woman’s paper M.P.: “River Flat” much
too long for us... .S.P.F.: Sadly, very sadly,
we lowered “The Dying Abo.” into the w.p.b.
. ...F.T.N.: Too sketchy, even for a sketch.
D.R.V.: “The Nuisance” passed on to our
chief chucker-out... .D.M.: All that’s in it
could easily be said in a paragraph... .G.T.B.:
“Bush Idyll” might sound all right if you
sang it from a tree in the remotest spot you
can find....G.R.: Send it to a flapper mag.
... .R.J.: Better suited to a N’Yark mag
W.G.H.: Stereotyped... .J.C.W.: And yours
is sentimental... .S.H.: Elephantine humor....
K. : Eurid tales of r-r-revenge not for us.
M.C.McK.: Ragged and jerky bit of in-
consequence... .K.L.L.: Might unload dope
yarn elsewhere; other not up... .E.M.J.: Can’t
make head or tail of it... .Z.V.W.: O. Henry
did it better M.M.: Sentiments irreproach-
able, but they don’t constitute a short story.
.... F.W.O.: A borderliner.... A.R.: Slight....
E. : Indecision proved fatal... .D.F.L.:
You’ll improve... .F.M.: Thin... .R.M.: Not
a bad snap ending, but it can’t carry the rest
of it... .H.M.O’M: Try elsewhere... .F.H.L.:
Don’t want any bushmen “gone loco”....
F. : Obscure ATS.: It can’t haunt us
F. : Boil it down to a paragraph... .P.A.W.:
Wordy... .E.T.F.: “Scraps” scrapped
R.C.G.: Not for us... .H.T.F.: “The tenuous,
purple form gave a ghastly scream and vanished
before her eyes.” And before ours, too
G. : Most of it has been said already;
the rest isn’t worth saying... .G.T.: Too long
for what’s in it... .L.P.I.: Try it on the school
magazine... .H.T.: Amateurish... .L.D., F.B.E.,
L. G.D. and P.T.N.: All missed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.L.: Egg-headed barmaid holding outsize
jug with one deformed hand and trying to pull
down a German sausage with the other respect-
fully declined... .M.M.: The year’s most re-
volting small boy R.F.: No hope of gaug-
ing your ability from a morsel like that
D.L.B.: Abo. merges into the heavy shading
until he becomes almost invisible G.R.M.:
Fearfully and wonderfully scratchy... .R.R.:
If the enginedriver ever tries to get his head
back though the window of his cab he’ll crack
his neck. .. .J.W.: The dog is nosing his way
back W.J.: Flat, expressionless figures and
a murky background... .A.O.: Recruit who
passed the doctor was slung out on reaching
the art department... .Bert C.: Looks as if it
was made with Meccano parts and photo-
graphed... .Phil: Switch to fretwork —it will
ease the paper-shortage problem.


CORNS .
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
. . . A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Gerald ton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
1
budd ing Not o nly
rchiteC lu a mor e
aive y » homf
e than W
far mpre give
archie se | e c-
dance w * you
He «fech
Bathroom
rOR TEN OR ELEVEN
pounds! •*-
1 OU can give your bathroom a “million-
aire” atmosphere by spending somewhere around
ten or eleven pounds. You can have a bathroom
with glistening “tiled” walls, smoothly and delight-
fully finished in any colour scheme you like
thanks to Masonite Temprtile.
Masonite Temprtile is a strong, rigid, splinterless,
grainless board (already pressed into 4 inch “tiles”)
which can be installed (over existing walls, if
necessary) with ordinary tools, then painted, lac-
quered or enamelled. Temprtile has the appear-
ance, washability and durability of real tiles—yet,
in most areas, only costs approximately 5/- a yard
plus painting. In other parts of the house, too,
you’ll find the other Masonite boards ideal for
modernisation; Masonite Quartrboard De-Luxe . .
Presdwood and Tempered Presdwood . . the boards
which have so impressed Australian architects and
builders that millions upon millions of square
feet were sold in 1940! Ask the Colonial Sugar
Refining Company (Building Materials Division)
for details.
MODERNISE WITH
i&U&UiU
2$ l Masonite boards are made in Australia from
Australian timbers hitherto thought commer-
cially useless. They possess the advantages
of wood without its disadvantages. Masonite
is used for both modernisation and new con-
struction: for floors, counter tops, for “tiling".
for partitioning —in fact, for ”1,000 uses".
MAB-41
L 1 HIT
PRES DWOOD . . . TEMPERED PRESDWOOD
QUARTRBOARD DE-LUXE . . . TEMPRTILE
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division) . . Sydney . . Melbourne . . Brisbane . . Adelaide . . Perth
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
A chicken came home to roost in the
Forgan Smith fowlhouse last week when
the State Service Union decided that if its
Government wanted its employees to
train in their spare time to protect Crown
property from possible war damage it
would have to pay them overtime. The
union’s attitude is a result of the
State Government’s refusal to make
up the difference between civil and mil:
tary pay of enlisted civil servants and
those called up for militia training.
* * * *
“23-4”: J. F. Barnes, the Bundaberg
publican who broke into the news by
prosecuting fellow-Bungs for alleged
breaches of the Liquor Act, then came
out for the Queensland elections as an
Andrew Fisher Laborite and won the
Bundaberg seat, isn’t resting on his
laurels. He plans to visit every Labor
electorate in the State in an effort to per-
suade people to write to their members
urging amendment of the Public Safety
Act, alteration of liquor hours and
“monetary reform through greater use of
the Commonwealth Bank.” He reckons
he can get through the electorates before
the Parliament meets in August, and then
he will go into the House, sit on the
Opposition cross benches and vote with
and for whom he pleases.
* * * *
“Norther”: From Bundaberg a resolu-
tion has gone to Federal and State Gov-
ernments protesting against “the con-
tinued advertising of and trafficking in
contraceptives and immoral literature,”
and to demand, “because of the devastat-
ing effect on the race,” immediate legis-
lation to stop it. Though there may be
divergences of opinion on the question of
“immoral literature,” no patriotic Aus-
tralian can fail to note the spread of con-
traceptive advertising, which has even
reached farm papers. Though Queens-
land has as high a birthrate as any part
of Australia, it still has far too many
childless couples and far too many
couples with an only child. Just now
there are complaints that A.I.F. recruit-
ing is weak ; it mightn’t be a bad idea if
the Governments also took cognisance of
the falling-off in recruits for the next
generation, a falling-off that will need
something more than the child bonus to
arrest it.
* * * *
“P.D.”: Despite the troubles which
beset it in the wet season —among them,
flooded streets and bogged transport
trucks—Tennant Creek is going ahead.
In the year to June, 1940, it mined 39,070
tons of ore, which yielded 22,5870 z. of
gold. In the following three months
another 6687 tons yielded 58020 z. And
the “field was considered just another
prospector’s dream!
* * * *
“McNorth”: Queensland Historical
Society has added to its Newstead House
collection the magnetic compass of
Augustus C. Gregory, who made two vain
attempts to find lost Leichhardt. The in-
strument was handed over by Dr. E. O.
Marks, whose father, the late Dr. C. F.
Marks, had owned it for many years. It
probably helped Gregory on his West-
ralian explorations and accompanied him
to Queensland in 1854, the year before
his first Leichhardt search. He made the
second in 1858, and a year later was
marking out the border when Queens-
land was separated from N. S. Wales.
Gregory died in 1905, a member of the
Legislative Council.
“23-4”: Wing-Commander Waverley
Cameron, another of the flying Camerons
of Sherwood, was reported “missing, be-
lieved killed” early last month. A brother,
Pilot-Officer Alan S. Cameron, was killed
“Wrong address again! This ain't Wallaby-street.”
on duty in England last February.
Wing-Commander Cameron was edu-
cated at the Brisbane C. of E. Grammar
School and the Armidale School (N.S.W.),
and got his first flying tips at Eagle Farm
from C. W. A. Scott, the Melbourne
Centenary air-race winner. • He was com-
missioned to the R.A.F. in England in
1931, served there and at Singapore, got
leave to Australia and later went back to
duty in England. At school he was a
great swimmer and diver. Two younger
brothers hold commissions in the A.I.F.
* * * *
“Philp”: Lost, stolen or strayed, 1000
bugs. Finder, please return to the Boonah
Shire Council. The missing insects are
lantana bugs, which, as reported in last
week’s Bulletin, have been doing good
work in parts of Queensland. The
Boonah Shire Council set a thousand
loose last December on the property of
a councillor, and for a while they did
their duty nobly. Then they vanished.
The only theory so far advanced is that
the wogs have gone underground to
hibernate. If that is the case, all bug-
sleuths will have to wait until next sum-
mer to continue their investigations.
* * * *
“Mareeba”: The usual delay has
occurred in bringing the tobacco ap-
praisement scheme into operation, and
growers are beginning to wonder whether
they will lose through deterioration in
store of accumulating stocks. There is
to be a board, of course, and it will
appraise according to grade and fix prices
year by year for the duration of the war.
Control has been transferred from Cus-
toms to Commerce, and this is given by
Canberra as the reason for delay., The
agreement between
growers, manufac-
turers and the Com-
monwealth was
reached in April, but
regulations were not
yet passed when this
was written, and the
best anybody can
hope for is for the
scheme to begin early
in June.
* *
“Q.F.L.”: Now that
Queensland has been
ordered to conserve
hoop, bunya and kauri
pine for defence and
essential industries
such as plywood,
joinery and butter-
boxes, the hardwoods, cypress and other
suitable timbers look like getting a
chance as wall and roof frames, flooring
and external sheeting. Commonwealth
departments have abandoned pine for
those three purposes, and there is a
general call for hardwood.
* * * *
“Lid”: F. E. Connah, about to retire,
was practically born into Government
service—his father, the late T. W. Connah,
was Under-Secretary of the Treasury and
Auditor-General. F.E., Brisbane-born
and -educated, gained experience by work-
ing with analysts in the city and at Chil-
lagoe, Irvinebank and Mount Garnet.
After a course at Sydney Uni. he became
Assistant Government (Q.) Analyst in
1904 and G.A. in 1937.


mmm
mmm
mmm
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
■A
**9fe
«*»»
■ •«•■ : '
m
m-%
m
m
_2M3E
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd,
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Year in Wool.
“Ghanam”: The Commonwealth had
a new experience during the 1940-41
wool season—a year of drought in which
sheep losses were comparatively light.
Winchcombe Carson in their report point
out that in many widespread districts
the January - November rains were
from 33 p.c. to 75 p.c. below normal.
But growers, in the main, carried through
satisfactorily until midsummer rains
saved the situation.
The clip for 1939-40 was a record —
3,669,000 bales —and with rather lighter
bales the coming season will see only
slightly less wool forward. The sheep
population has grown to 119,000,000,
6,000,000 more than in 1938-39.
Shipments in the 1939-40 season
totalled about 2,600,000 bales, of which
about one-fifth went to countries now in
enemy occupation. This season shipments
have been made to Japan, China, Turkey,
Greece, Egypt and the other Dominions.
Also to the U.S., which placed record
orders of 461,000 bales up to mid-March
and which will have bought considerably
more by the season’s end. Uncle Sam
last year consumed 1,000,000 more bales
than he grew.
Australia’s own mills have been work-
ing full pressure. Many have turned out
nothing but khaki cloth for two years,
and civilian demands have had to wait.
The 333,015 bales bought last year make
the 1913-14 mill consumption of 96,787
bales look puny ; and if it takes three or
four years to beat Hitler the present
annual figures will be dwarfed again if
wool and machinery are available and
shipping remains short.
The Australian mills use merino and
comebacks for worsteds, and are making
knitting yarns, woollens, blankets and
felts for hats. Top manufacture is grow-
ing, and the Central Wool Committee now
buys all top and noil surpluses for ex-
port. There are 12 carbonising plants,
handling nearly 200,000 bales. Mills,
carbonisers, reclassers and repackers and
scourers among them processed over
800,000 bales in 1939-40. The Common-
wealth in a few years has climbed into
the front rank of wool-manufacturing
nations.
With all the changes have come a
definite improvement both in output per
sheep and in wool quality. Sheep have
increased 40 p.c. since 1913, wool 80 p.c.
Heavier-framed stock, better length and
robustness of staple and other factors
have contributed to the increase. Particu-
larly belly wools and locks have shown
Striking changes in length and standards.
The Winchcombe Carson report remarks
that Australia has reason to be envied
by other countries because of her capacity
for primary production. They point out
that never has wool been unsaleable.
Raw material is sure to accumulate dur-
ing the war, as it did last time. Prices may
fall and nations may be impoverished and
unable to buy on the old-time scale. But
wool stocks will certainly be at their
lowest ebb ; clothes will be worn out and
need to be replaced. The Continent of
Europe will have been bare of fresh im-
ports for years. The Australian clip has
been sold to the British Government for
the duration of the war and one year
afterwards. The outlook for wool after
the war is more promising than for any
other farm or pastoral product.
The Small Clip.
“R. Ney”: Overclassing is claimed as
the chief fault in the preparation of small
clips for appraisement.
H. J. Monckton, a supervising ap-
praiser, suggests blending all wool 3in.
long and over in one line, then the 2in.
to 3in. and so on. Hogget wool should
be kept separate. Skirt dirty or burry
edges, topknots and breech ends from
fleeces and don’t mix bellies and pieces if
a complete bale of one or the other can
be made.
Hairy, run-out or doggy fleeces should
be kept out of the straight lines. The
best way to keep doggy fleeces out —they
seem to be fairly prevalent in fine-wool
districts like Monaro and New England
—is to cull their wearers out of the flock.
Some growers don’t seem able to distin-
guish between a strong wool and a doggy
type. Generally the latter are harsh and
bright, with a straight, wiry fibre and a
lack of elasticity. Shearing is a good
time for culling.
With the price practically fixed for the
next couple of years, the small grower
has a good chance to straighten up his
flock, get rid of the wasters and improve
his yields. Get the advice available from
classers and departmental experts. In
most districts there is at least one sound,
practical grower ; get him over for a yarn
and to have a look at the sheep some
Sunday.
The Wheat Piles Up.
Canada hopes to have every
foot of storage space filled with wheat
at the end of the current crop year—a
total holding of 575,000,000 bushels.
Storage and other charges will be about
60 million dollars a year. The Govern-
ment is asking for an acreage reduction
of 35 per cent. It will buy only
230,000,000 bushels of wheat this year at
the 1940 price of 70 cents a bushel. For
diverting land to the production of coarse
grains Canadians are to get $2 an acre,
and for diversion to pastures and summer
fallow s4—generous enough, and it’s ex-
pected to do the job.
Canadian exports during the crop year
are estimated at 150,000,000 bushels.
Home consumption is expected to ac-
count for 120,000,000 bushels; thus a
limiting of the new crop to 230,000,000
would enable Canada considerably to cut
her carryover. The New York “Journal
of Commerce” points out that Australia
and the U.S. both have a restriction pro-
gramme for the coming crop. In view
of this, it is suggested that, after the war,
it should be easy to negotiate an inter-
national agreement between U.S.A.,
Canada, Argentina and Australia on
wheat. With memories of previous inter-
national agreements Australian growers
won’t be optimistic.
Anyway the end of the war is a long
way off yet, and only the United King-
dom of all Europe will be a wheat im-
porter for some time to come. The U.K.
can’t possibly absorb the surplus wheat
of the four countries concerned and
there is nothing in either the Canadian or
U.S. plans likely to be of help to the
Australian grower. All he can do is hope
for the best from Canberra and its
Wheat Board, and meantime explore
every other possible form of production,
“Foss it outside quick — it's full of white-ants !”
from baby beef to carrots for the near-
est greengrocer.
Flax Growing.
“Broomer”: The Commonwealth Flax
Production Committee is offering £5 15s.
a ton for flax this year. The committee
wants 50,000 acres of flax. It allotted
28,000 acres to Victoria, 12,000 to Tas-
mania and 5000 each to South Australia
and Westralia. Victorian farmers don’t
seem overenthusiastic, and mills may be
built to allow flax-growing in N.S.W.
round Orange, Culcairn and Henty. Test
plots are to be sown in N.S.W. this
season.
Requirements are for a straw at least
27in. long, with a weed content of not
more than 5 per cent. There are to be
bonuses for seed*, fineness of texture,
length and weed freedom. Test plots in
S.A. have yielded 2 tons 16cwt. an acre,
but the bad season last year pulled Vic-
torian test yields down to 1 ton 12cwt.
The idea of the guaranteed price is to
spur farmers to supply a badly-needed
commodity both for home and export
use, to help in the diversification of farm
crops and to establish the industry. Land
suitable for oats or potatoes should do.
Loamy, well-drained soil in a cool, moist
climate not subject to dry spells seems to
offer the best chances.
Consider Lucerne.
“G.”: Lucerne is a perennial legume
that improves the ground it grows in, puts
down deep roots in dry country and will
persist in dry weather. It will, when
once established, last as a grazing stand
for several years. It is a summer grower
and makes quick response to summer
rains. It provides a green pick when all
else is dry, and supplements winter and
spring fodders. Not only will lucerne
help to restore lost fertility, but it will
help to check wind erosion of mallee
loams and comparable country.
Those who have tried to grow it and
failed blame the lucerne, when more
likely the fault is in the sowing. Seed
should be set in carefully-worked fallow
in a clean, firm seedbed. Light seedings
—say 21b. an acre —serve in average
wheat country. A pound of lucerne seed
per acre is equal to about five grains a
square foot, more than the ground can
sustain under low rainfall. In some parts
it can be established under cover of a
light wheat seeding.
Most failures are due to bad manage-
ment, especially overgrazing and failing
to topdresjj the stand once it is estab-
lished. It has to be remembered that if
lucerne roots are to live they must
breathe. Graze all the leaves off and
keep them grazed off and the roots suf-
focate, just as they will starve unless fed
by topdressing.
Hints for the Farm.
“Marsh”: Sheep infected with lung-
worms cough regularly and shake their
heads as though trying to dislodge some-
thing from the throat. In severe cases
there is mucous discharge from mouth
and nose. Low-condition sheep cannot
fight long against the worms and may
die from suffocation. A drench is a waste
of time. There is only one reliable treat-
ment —an injection into the trachea. The
operation should be performed by a quali-
fied man. For grown sheep the dose is
4 c.c., made up of two parts olive oil,
one part oil of turps., and half part each
of oil of creosote and chloroform. For
weaners two-thirds and lambs one-half
dose. Several injections at intervals of


BRITSTAND
GRADSR-DITCfoERS
For every cla:
ol Ditching and Grading
IH
Does everything for which you previously
Pepdede Grader AND a Ditcher, and DOES
IT BETTER. Makes drains over 4' deep, and
banks oyer 4' high. Good for maintaining.
?nnrvw? on roac * s ' shifting drift, etc. Over
10.000 Grader Ditchers in use in America.
Hundreds already sold in Australia. Your
money refunded if you agree to part with
it after 2-days' trial. Write to-day for free
illustrated leaflet.
BRITISH STANDARD
MACHINERY Co. Ltd.
56-58 GARDENERS RD.
(West of Botany Rd). ALEXANDRIA
p h ones Mascot 370-5
idylls
'Vv\
V 1 ''O' \u \ vl\
\ \ l
t\V
, nVSvW
\W'
'
*A s
v *'\ \
v.vo&» V
t' />' '/fr/Jf' if'
jps
r.
*
THE TIME HAS COME! . . . Merchantmen and warships to convoy them ...
patrol vessels to guard our coastline . . . these are urgent needs that call
forth new industries . . . and thus Australia's industrial expansion keeps pace
with her mighty war effort. In giving its support to essential industry, the Bank
of New South Wales is helping to speed up the Empire drive to victory.
m
586 C
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
THE FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
FORTY-SIXTH
ANNUAL SHEEP SHOW
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST STUD SHEEP EXHIBITION.
Conducted by THE N.S.W. SHEEPBREEDERS’ ASSOCIATION.
To be held on the SYDNEY SHOWGROUND
18th, 19th, 20th and 21st JUNE, 1941.
SEE THE PICK OF AUSTRALIA’S FLOCKS.
PRIZE-MONEY AND TROPHIES EXCEED £lOOO.
ENTRIES CLOSE
Sheen Saturday, 17th May
Fleece Classes Saturday, 17th May
Junior and Senior Judging- Competitions Saturday, 17th May
Sheep Dog Trials Wednesday, 21st May
SCHEDULES AND ENTRY FORMS ON APPLICATION.
STUD SHEEP SALES, Sydney Showground, viz.:
British and Down Breeds
Merinos, Corriedales and Polwarths, commencing
Endeavour House,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
... Friday, 20th June
Monday, 23rd June
G. C. SOMERVILLE,
Secretary.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives the comfort and safety of modem sanitation.
No water supply required.
® NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Approved by Board of Health.
Over 1550 satisfied users.
mmm
Efficiency, mechanism and life
fully guaranteed.
Price, £lB/8/- f.o.r. Sydney.
Including sales tax and crating.
Write Dept. B for illustrated pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
mmm
10 days may be needed before the para-
sites have been cleaned up.
“Sheepo”: Don’t join the rams straight
off shears. Wait till they have from six
to eight weeks’ wool growth. After join-
ing, the paddocks should be ridden regu-
larly and when rams are found isolated
from the ewes they should be brought
in again. It pays to brand wanderers, and
if found away from the mob too often
get rid of them.
“F. 8.”: Control of ti-tree after original
clearing and establishment of pasture is
an annual job. The seeds lie in the soil
for some time. The most certain method
of keeping the young ti-tree down is
hand-pulling. This should be done before
the seeds have time to set. If the plants
are too large to pull out cleanly by the
roots, cut below ground. Topdress in
autumn. This makes the sward thicker
and helps to choke all seedlings missed.
“5.8.”: Soak stripped corncobs in
water for a week, and when transplanting
cabbage or cauliflower plants put a
dozen or so cobs in each hole. The
saturated cobs will ensure plenty of
moisture where needed.
“Wooden Spoon”: Two hundred and
eight ex-students of Hawkesbury Agri-
cultural College (N.S.W.) have already
enlisted, and some have been killed in
the present war. There was a moment
of silence for them at the prize-giving
recently, when Principal A. E. Southee,
himself a 1914-18 veteran, told visitors
that he had offered the Army authorities
a training scheme for students, but had
had “no concrete action.” The college
has been going since 1891 ; more than
80 p.c. of its students have gone to the
land, and Departments of Agriculture and
firms trading in goods for the country-
man have found it a useful recruiting
ground. You’re likely to run across an
ex-Hawkesbury man in any part of the
world.
“J.R.D.”: Quoting the strength and
dose rate of my mixture—lib. bluestone,
16 fl. oz. nicotine sulphate to
water: dose for grown sheep 1 fl. oz. —
“Lion” (B. 30/4/’4l) states that he gave
his sheep 60 c.c. of the mixture and con-
demns it because it killed two sheep and
made 17 others sick. It’s not surprising.
The metric equivalent of 1 fl. oz. is a
shade under 30 c.c.; so “Lion” gave his
sheep just double the quantity laid down.
This autumn graziers who had never
drenched a sheep in their lives were
forced to start. I could name a dozen
such. They used b.n.s. on sheep that had
never been drenched before at the
strength mentioned, and I have heard no
mention of difficulties or drenching
losses. “Lion” must be congratulated on
getting 97 per cent, results by his method.
I only once got near that figure—in a
light year when drenching was begun
early and carried on as a preventive.
“Sheepo”: Amongst the valueless
growth of weeds that have sprung up
since the recent rains in New England
are abnormal quantities of Bathurst burr.
Woolgrowers will suffer in resultant
values for their clips unless every atten-
tion is given to destroying the burr
plants. The hoped-for insect to eradi-
cate Bathurst burr has not yet been
found, and graziers in burr-affected areas
will have to be content with hard work
as a means of keeping the pest in check.
Fresh growths will appear even after the
most exacting cutting or mowing, and
once over a paddock will not suffice. In
the burr season every station hand when
out on horseback should be armed with
a sharp hoe.
Outback Occupations.
No. LXVIII.
THE NEW DOG.
Jack brings in the bad news.
“Old Rover’s thrown in his alley,” he
says, “Must’ve got a bait or somethin’.”
He takes you out to the back of the
shed, where you review the remains of
what you had always contended to be
the best sheep-dog in the district. Rover’s
passing seems to mark a stage in your
life ; you feel that a part of it is over.
You \von’t see the old hound ambling
forth in the dewy morn, his old tail wav-
ing and his knowing eyes cocked back
at you, any more. You won’t hear his
sharp, excited voice as he crams the sheep
through the gate. You sigh heavily. Jack
looks at you.
“Blast it,” you say, turning away; “ol'
McGuinness offered me a tenner for him
a month ago, too. Just shows y\”
Gradually the district learns that you
are in the market for a good sheep-dog.
All sorts of tykes are brought forward.
People whom you haven’t spoken to for
years suddenly drop in as they are pass-
ing, comment on your farm and how
the boys have grown, and produce from
the back seat of the car a mangy-looking
mongrel and say they heard you were
looking for a good dog. Small boys and
youths bail you up in the town and draw
your attention to the thing on the end of
the bit of rope in their hands. In the
end you realise that you’ll have to get
another dog, if only for your own peace.
One day a mob of sheep goes down the
stock route past the place, and you
wander down to the fence to have a look
at ’em. There is a red kelpie working
them like a champion.
You hail the drover. “Hey, I s’pose
y’ don’t know where a man could get
hold of a good sheep-dog?”
He slips off his horse, borrows some
tobacco and you fall into a discussion.
In the end he rides after the sheep with
a promise to call in on the way back and
talk business.
A week later he arrives with the red
dog on a chain. Twenty quid is his price,
and he gets £lB.
“Y’ got a bargain,” he says. “Y’ better
keep him on the chain f’r a week till
he gets used t’ y\ His name’s Ruff.”
You spend a week getting acquainted
with Ruff. He goes off his tucker for two
days, then comes on it, and by the end of
the week is greeting you happily every
time you show up. You give him brief
runs ; he comes to heel well.
At last you decide to try him out. You
and the boys ride over to the back pad-
dock. Ruff, after a preliminary scuffle
with Mac, your other dog, ambles along
quietly behind your horse.
You slip off your horse and say “Hang
on, boys, till I show y’ what a good dog
can do.”
You walk forward into the paddock
towards the sheep and call “Here! Ruff!
Keep out!”
Mac starts on a dead run for the dis-
tance. Ruff sits down. With a profane
shrieking you manage to get Mac back
and tell the boys to hold him. You pat
Ruff, kid to him a bit and then move
towards the sheep with a “Keep out,
Ruff!”
Ruff walks leisurely to a stump, sizes
it up carefully, looks at the sky, then at
you, and gets through the fence and starts
for the homestead. You whistle. He sits
down and looks at you. You call. He
sits and looks. You call again and he
runs back, wagging his tail. You pat
him. Then you walk towards the sheep
saying “Keep out, there!” Ruff gets
through the fence and peers at you be-
tween the wires.
Jack says “Better let Mac go, Dad,
an’ p’raps he’ll get what y’ mean. Maybe
he don’t know y’r signals.”
It’s an idea. You call Ruff back and
have Mac released. Then you cry “Keep
out.” Mac heads for the horizon. Ruff
goes and sits down behind your horse.
In the next minutes you try everything
you know. Ruff cocks his head from side
to side. He gets up, wags his tail, grins
and sits down again.
“Y’d think,” says young Tom, “he
never seen a sheep in his life.”
“Shut up, boy,” you say, aware of their
grins and thinking whether you could
ring the bank manager and stop payment
of that £lB.
Suddenly Ruff gets on his feet, dances
a bit and whines, looking hard at you
and then past you. You turn round.
Mac is bringing the mob up at a fast
bat. You look back at Ruff. Plainly he’s
fairly vibrating with a desire to do some-
thing. He looks at the sheep wistfully,
dances a bit more and whines again.
“Keep out,” you say eagerly. His tail
drops and he goes and sits behind your
horse.
You sit down.
“It’s got me beat,” you say.
Tom tries. He whistles, talks, throws
his arms about, runs towards the oncom-
ing sheep. Ruff looks from him to you
as though to say “Is that yours?”
Jack tries when Tom gives up. Ruff
goes and smells a fence post. You look
at him, and a slow rage mounts as you
realise you’ve been sucked m for £lB.
Y ° a to your feet.
Call Mac off, you tell Jack, and then
you walk over to Ruff, clip him over one
ear and say “You useless blank, blankety
mongrel, a man oughter blanky well cut
your blanky throat. Gerrout o’ this, y’
flamer.
Before the words are all out Ruff has
shot away. You watch him round the
sheep, keeping wide, and begin to close
in on the stragglers,
“Hey!” you yelL astonished Ruff
promptly drops on his belly, waiting.
“Go on, y’ beautiful blanker!” you yell,
and he’s up and at ’em again,
“That’s it, Dad,” says Jack admiringly ;
“y’ got t’ talk t’ him in drover’s language.”
“I hope,” you say, watching Ruff work,
“that I never have t’ work him when y’r
mother’s about.”


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4j|d. per line; all others at
2!d. per line.
Double rates for a writer who presents pertinent information about the Depart-
ment of Information.
“Pasted or Tacked ?”
A caller from the Department of In-
formation left in our office a small poster
which we attached to the wall with draw-
ing-pins. Some days passed, and then
a bulky envelope arrived from the de-
partment. It contained an inquiry as to
the health of our poster —the department
asked us to report the condition of the
poster now, again in three weeks, and
again in six weeks.
Needless to say, forms were enclosed,
three of them. Each form was B|in. x
6|in., half of which area was given over
to space for the name of the firm, address,
’phone number, industry, number of em-
ployees and “person to contact.” The
other half of the form was divided into
five columns under the headings “Num-
ber of posters,” “Date supplied,” “Pasted
or tacked,” “Approximate positions'” and
“State of preservation.”
‘We slunk guiltily to the pub and
gloomily pondered over a brandy. We
pictitred the army of clerks engaged to
dissect the replies—-the “pasted” clerks
down one side of the room, the “tacked”
clerks on the other. We foresaw the con-
sternation when our “drawing-pinned
poster” reply is received, the wires to
Canberra for instructions, the hurried
conferences of department heads. We
see ourselves branded as war-effort
hinderers.
Another brandy, and we found the
solution. We filled in the form and
brazenly admitted that our poster is
neither pasted nor tacked. Then we pinned
it to our application for a refund and
posted it to the Taxation Department.
We know it will be buried for months,
by which time perhaps the staff of the
Department of Information will be en-
gaged on something useful. —Op (N.S.W.).
Equality of Sacrifice?
A recruit who lends his body to his
country has no guarantee that he will
get it back. He must be satisfied with
what’s left of it when the country has
finished using it for fighting with. But
the man with money to lend has Aus-
tralia’s word of honor that not one penny
of his loan will be missing.
A man who enlists and gives his coun-
try the loan of his body gets no interest
on it, except his keep and perhaps the
basic wage. The subscriber to war loan
gets interest on his money without doing
an ounce of work.
It’s a pretty glaring contrast in sacri-
fice. Can anyone tell me why a prospec-
tive contributor to war loan shouldn’t
be asked to take the same risks with his
loan as a recruit does with his ? —H. B. L.
(N.S.W.).
Women and Uniforms
In these digs at women’s uniforms I
am continually reminded of the French
women who, at the outbreak, decided not
to wear uniform or masculine clothing
because they thought femininity must be
retained and accentuated for the encour-
agement of the troops.
At that time English women were all
wearing slacks, were organised and ready
to pull their weight when called upon,
which they were. Our own women were
organised when politicians were bickering
and floundering, the reason being women
are eternally practical, see an objective
and go to it, while men hum and haw
in a morass of abstractions. Susie
(N.S.W.).
Producer-Gas Prices
“Producer Gas for Motor Traction” is
the title of the latest free booklet issued
under the authority of the N. S. Wales
Government. It is excellent as an ad-
vertisement for producer-gas units, giving
clear explanations, good diagrams of
types of plant, how they work and how
the plant may be kept in repair. But it
lacks one important point—price of plant.
We paid £l2O for a producer-gas plant
for the tractor a year ago.
Today we received a notice from our
agent telling us that “considerable diffi-
culty has recently been experienced in
obtaining replacement fireboxes, as prac-
tically the whole of the output of the
material necessary for their manufacture
is taken by the Government for war pur-
poses.” He suggests that we buy a spare
one now for £ll. As these fireboxes last
only about two years, with good care, this
price is too high.
If the Government wants people to
buy producer-gas plants it must see
that the price is raduced. Farmers in
this district who can afford them have
them on their tractors and are satisfied
with their work but not with the price.
Others would have them but have not the
money to change over. Nobody has de-
cided to put them on cars. Cocky’s
Wife (N.S.W.).
Petrol Rationing
While he was on the subject, “1918
Crock” (B. 30/4/’4l) should have hauled
someone over the coals for the 50 gallons
of juice handed out to each aspiring
hot-air merchant in the N.S.W. elections.
If we must continue to be saddled with
that superfluous and expensive nuisance
a State Parliament, it is surely adding
insult to injury to make John Citizen give
up his ration only to see it squandered
in this way.— Plain Jane (N.S.W.).
Chasing Rabbits by Car
According to the “Sunday Sun” towns-
people in the New England district are
having great fun and making good
pocket-money chasing rabbits at night.
You drive the car with the headlights on,
and when the rabbit gets within the beam
he becomes dazzled by the lights and is
then an easy target. On another page the
“Sun” gives details of the further cut in
petrol rationing!— Thorn (N.S.W.).
Troubles of Westralia
Westralians are waxing indignant at
the manner in which their economic in-
terests are being disregarded by the
Federal Government. It is unfair that
one State should have to exist on farm-
ing, mining, etc., while the other States
draw on its resources for capital to
develop secondary industries and give
themselves a balanced economic con-
stitution of primary and secondary
industry.
The income derived from W.A. gold
output and pastoral industry is taxed to
the limit by the Federal authorities, and,
unlike Victoria, N.S.W., etc., W.A. gets
little or no share in the distribution of
munition and allied industries upon which
its increased taxation contributions are
expended. Lack of steel is a serious
obstacle to the establishment of heavy
industries, but a little more interest and
encouragement might be given to the case
of light industries.
It strains credulity to breaking-point
to read that eastern States politicians are
“mystified” at Mr. Curtin’s absence from
Canberra at a time when he was leading
a committee appointed by the Federal
Government to investigate the war-time
economic problems of the Golden West.
—Will Done (W.A.).
Westralia seems bent on
emulating the woeful and dis-
astrous centralisation tactics of
her eastern neighbors. The
State contains 975,920 square
miles of territory, the extreme
length, from north-east to
south-west, being 1480 miles,
and the breadth, from east to
west, 1000 miles. When the
latest census (1933) was taken,
the population was distributed
as follows: Perth, 220,330 ;
Kalgoorlie and suburbs,
17,326; Bunbury, 5140;
Geraldton, 4984; Northam,
4817; Albany, 4076. The
smaller centres have been ex-
eluded, but the total population is still
below the half-million mark. Revision of
the totals given would reveal a still
greater addition to the metropolitan area,
at the expense of the rural areas and out-
ports, with the exception of Bunbury.
And still the drift to the city continues.
Another economic aspect, which
shrieks for correction, is that the port
of Fremantle handles 90 per cent, of
Westralia’s trade, and is regarded as the
dearest capital port of the Common-
wealth. The State’s ports in the last five
years made a loss of £157,000, and the
leeway of the railway service, in the same
period, was £2,065,000, the figures in-
eluding interest, sinking fund and ex-
change.
Interviewed at Kalgoorlie on his way
home from the last sitting of the Loan
Council, the Premier said: “I found
among all concerned a ready acceptance
of the principle of decentralisation of
war industries, and I am hopeful that
further tasks will be undertaken in West
Australia so that we can make an ade-
quate contribution to the immense effort
necessary for the successful prosecution
of the war.”
Although it is rather late in the day, it
is to be regretted that such a principle
was not put into practice by State Gov-
ernments of the past and present when
peace reigned. A more equable distribu-
tion of population, and the wealth it is
capable of producing, would have been
the outcome.— Ah Gee (W.A.).
Books on Australia
If Sydney’s Municipal Library affords
any criterion, the common criticism that
Australians are not interested in their
own country has scant justification. Most
recent works on travel in Australia are
in the library, yet it is hard to get one
unless it be reserved. In the four years
that I have been a member, only once
have I seen more than half a dozen
volumes in the “Travels in Australia”
section at the one time. That was on
the day in January of this year when
the library opened after being closed for
a fortnight for stocktaking. I was one
of the first in in the morning. At least
100 volumes were in the section, many
I had never seen before or have come
across since.
There seems to be a particularly heavy
demand for Paul McGuire’s Australian
Journey, which has been in the library
for about a year. I reserved it at the
beginning of February. After waiting
several weeks I asked when I would
be likely to get it, and was told that there
were still 16 who had reserved it ahead
of me.
All classes and types patronise the
Municipal Library. The tastes of this
library’s patrons, therefore, are likely to
afford a fair indication of the average
Australian’s. — Tom (N.S.W.).
Wheat
I have just read “Soe’s” par. (B.
23/4/’4l) in reply to one of mine, and if
ever anyone talked through his hat that
person is “Soe.”
So far as N. S. Wales is concerned,
“Soe’s” statement that the wheat
industry is the most important is
sheer, absolute, blanky rot. In the
Official Year-Book, 1937-38, the Govern-
ment Statistician gives the total output
value of the pastoral industry for 1938
as £34,000,000, as against £16,200,000 for
the whole of the agricultural production
of the State ; he gives the number of per-
sons employed by pastoralists as 47,000
and by agriculturists as 43,600, and the
production per head as £l3 for the pas-
toral industry and £7 10s. for the agri-
cultural.
“Soe” concludes by stating that the
guaranteed price is not a tax on the coun-
try, because, when world prices rise, this
outlay will be reimbursed. After two
years’ intensive study of The Bulletin’s
“Uncabled Additions,” plus a few of the
latest books, my own impression is that
Europe (our principal export market in
pre-war days) will be in such a howling
financial mess after the war that it simply
won’t be able to buy much Australian
wheat. The person who expects normal
trading to take place inside a decade is
a super-optimist.—D. C. Q. (N.S.W.).
The Sheep Market
Curtailment of lamb exports is knock-
ing the bottom out of the Australian
sheep market. Prices have fallen, and
they will probably go still lower unless
something drastic is done to arrest the
decline. It is useless to talk spend-
ing money on “eat more mutton” cam-
paigns, as the people will eat only as
much as they want and can buy.
One way in which the Federal Gov-
ernment can help is to stipulate that aged
sheep should not be sold for the mutton
trade but should be boiled down. The
Government could take that action under
a National Security regulation, and it
would keep aged sheep off the market,
thus ensuring better returns for younger
stock. Boiling down would yield valuable
meat extracts, a good deal of meat could
be canned, tallow could be saved, edible
offals, casings, meatmeals and fertiliser
secured, glue pieces preserved and skins
diverted to fellmongers and basilmakers.
It has been stated that proper and
comprehensive treatment could get at
least 10s. for every aged sheep. Most
important feature would be stabilisation
of the sheep market, as many aged sheep
are always being sold. Cow Time
(N.S.W.).
Newsreels
Newsreel shots of the present war have
lost a good deal of their value and power
because they have long been outdone by
synthetic war scenes which conveyed a
much more graphic and dramatic impres-
sion of modern war than the real thing.
One result has been that this war has
been horribly unreal to the great mass of
people who have not yet been brought
into actual contact with it.
But for the plethora of war pictures
in which the air was rent with shattering
sound and light flashes, newsreels could
have been powerful factors in securing a
stronger and more united war effort. —
J. B. (Vic.).
Fences and Walls
“Auntie Blah” (B. 16/4/’4l) ought to
see Adelaide, that alleged garden city, on
the subject of fences and walls. Surveyor
Colonel Light, who went to such pains
to lay Adelaide out professionally and
deliberately, would spin in his grave if
he could behold the miles upon miles of
galvanised-iron walls that serve for fences
in Adelaide today. And they’re not all
down side streets either.
Experience of Melbourne seems to bear
out her argument in favor of fence aboli-
tion. Most Melbourne suburbs where
fences are the exception are a picture to
behold.
Canberra has arrived at a not unsatis-
factory solution. Every house is built by
the Building Commission, and there are
no fences to speak of. A citizen’s re-
sponsibility extends from his back line
right out to the kerbstone. If he’s too
tired, too uncivic or too anything to keep
his lawn and the path spick-and-span
“Stick ’em up !”


A MESSAGE TO
THE PEOPLE OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Directly or indirectly, everyone in
New South Wales benefits every day
from the services of this Bank. Even
if you have never entered its doors,
the Bank touches your life some-
where, by financing primary produc-
tion and home-building, and contri-
buting to the growth and' activity of
the State. As part of its function
the Bank provides a cheque account
service and accepts interest-bearing
Fixed Deposits. You need not be a
farmer nor a home-builder to enjoy
the services of the Rural Bank.
Cheque accounts are opened and
Fixed Deposits accepted for ALL
sections of the community.
RIIRA
OF NEW
i®
RANK
WALES
Head Office: Martin Place, Sydney.
Commissioner ,s :
C. R. JIcKERIHAX (President), H. ROGERS, P. KEARNS.
Your Bank—Serving: You, Serving the State.
m
mm
m
No. 1 Quality:
Unlined . . 40/6
Lined .... 43/-
Super-Suede Quality:
Unlined . . 55/-
Lined .... 57/6
There’s unmistakable character in these
English Woodrow Hats. Even after
many months of hard wear in all weathers
you’ll still be proud of your Woodrow.
From the dress-conscious young man to
the governing director there’s a Woodrow
style and colouring that presents the best
hat-buying value obtainable.
'Woodfoy?
*' Hats
AT ALL FIRST-CLASS HATTERS
AND STORES.
THE NEW FIVE-INCH
“GREAT SCOT” LATHE
EASE OF OPERATION
IS
OUTSTANDING FEATURE
Nock & Kirby’s will very soon make available to the public
a new lathe, the “Great Scot.” This is a special heavy duty
precision lathe which has been designed for use in Production
Shops, Machine Shops, Garages, etc. Write or call for complete
specifications now.
• AUTOMATIC CROSS FEED
• DYNAMICALLY BALANCED
HEAD STOCK CONE
0 sin. CENTRES
• FULL SET CHANGE
WHEELS FOR ALL
STANDARD THREADS
9 2ft. 4in. BETWEEN CENTRES
9 VIBRATIONLESS
« HIGH-SPEED PRODUCTION
BENCH LATHES
• BUILT TO STRICT TOLER-
ANCE LIMITS
£125-0-0
CASH PRICE . . . .
Postal Address. BOX 4250 Y G.P.G. SYDNEY
'i-ys. X
•r At®
& •
%
c
'M
h A V i
V
Of.
<<z
S .rV
*****
IMSEmiNCIT TO SC-HUTEBEU-
HOT SPECIALISEIMBABBITSKIHS
if ACCURATE WEIGHTS * HIGHEST PRICES
if EXPERT CLASSING if LIBERAL ADVANCES
Write for Market Reports and Labels
WOOL AND PRODUCE BROKERS
FAT 8c STUD STOCK AUCTIONEERS
STORE, STOCK AND PROPERTY
SALESMEN
NT STREET, S
Schute Bell, Sydney.
YDN E Y
Telephone: 8W4341.


along come some of the Territory’s hun-
dreds of gardeners and do the job for
him. He gets a bill for wages and time.
Where the South Australian Housing
Trust has built houses for workers it has
seen that the houses at least are kept in
proper repair. Its powers could extend
to gardens, lawns and footpaths.
In Brisbane, where the council permits
foot-long grass on the footpath, gardens
are not so well maintained as elsewhere.
Municipal councils could make garden
and footpath maintenance conditions to
all building permits. They could employ
gardeners as Canberra does. After a
while the citizen would either look after
his own garden and path, when the gar-
deners could be paid off, or he could pay
for the municipal gardener to do the
job and cover the council’s outlay in
wages and materials. —J. B. (S.A.).
I know all about the stray cats, dogs,
cows, horses, goats and husbands that
roam about Sydney suburbs. The remedy
is not to build fences to keep them out,
but to build a better ideal of democracy
in each individual home to keep them in.
Democracy, if it is to be real at ail,
must be in the home ; and it must extend
even to the dog-kennel, and to those
places, around and about the home, in
which the cats, cows, horses, goats, etc.,
lay their weary bones to rest. Even a
goat does not stray from a home in which
it is well looked after, nor do cats, dogs
or husbands either.
Nothing would be “astray” in a prac-
tical form of democracy ; and if we have
to change human nature in order to
realise this ideal we should begin by
making some practical steps towards it.
We should remove the fence which
debars us from neighborly intercourse
with our neighbors, and then there wdl
be nothing for any woman to gossip
about. These artificial barriers are re-
sponsible for a great deal that is amiss
in our social life. — Auntie Blah (N.S.W.).
Pty., Ltd.
“Thousands of young Australians at
varying stages of their careers are trying
to enter this [the medical] profession,
and it is to them and our own qualified
doctors that we owe first consideration,”
says “W.E.C.” (B. 30/4/’4l) in discuss-
ing the burning subject of the employ-
ment of alien doctors. Is it? I thought
our first consideration was the health of
the people.
If the economic needs of the profes-
sion have to be considered first the only
obvious solution is the nationalisation of
the profession. Nationalisation has cer-
tain grave disadvantages because a de-
partmentalised science tends to become
static. But if this problem has to be
solved in such a way that country
mothers and babies are crying out for
medical assistance, and the Infectious
Diseases Hospital in Melbourne has such
a shortage of doctors that the superin-
tendent has to warn the public that an
epidemic would cause a crisis, while
highly qualified alien- doctors are acting
as garage attendants, there is something
wrong somewhere.
After all, we do speak of the public
health. Why can’t the medical profes-
sion and the Government settle this
question between them, with the public
health the first consideration, instead of
allowing it to become a vulgar controversy
in the daily papers based on a considera-
tion for individual private pockets?—
Pawang (Vic.).
Inspectors
“A.N.S.” finds inspectors a nuisance
(B. 9/4/’4l), but has he stopped to think
what the country would be like without
these men whose duty it is to see that
the laws and regulations are obeyed? I
can remember what conditions were like
before inspectors were as numerous as
they are today and their powers were
more limited. Then you could locate
many a country slaughterhouse a mile
away by the awful stench.
Every shire council employs an inspec-
tor to see that careless or lazy landowners
do not allow their properties to become
overrun by noxious weeds or act as
breeding grounds for rabbits ; those men
perform a very valuable service. Visit a
district where the inspector is lax and one
where the man does his job and you’ll
see an amazing contrast. And what about
the men employed by the boards of
health to see that our sanitary systems are
efficient, that food supplies are kept
free from adulteration or contamination,
that hotel and restaurant kitchens are
kept up to the mark, and that diseased
livestock is not slaughtered for human
consumption?
Then there are the men who see that
builders’ scaffolds are safe for workmen,
that proper safeguards are observed in
mines and factories, and that buildings
are not allowed to become death-traps in
the event of fire. They see that dishonest
storekeepers do not tamper with their
scales, and that milkmen find it very ex-
pensive to add water to the milk.
Private firms employ them to see that
faulty or slipshod work does not pass
out of the factory— and these firms pay
high salaries for this work. The inspector
is also the most important cog in the
whole machinery of munition production,
for he is the man who sees that a faulty
cartridge does not get past to jam in a
gun in the heat of an action, or that
the badly welded or improperly riveted
joint in an aircraft or tank component
does not go out to let a sqldier or airman
down at the front.
Many of these inspectors are unneces-
sarily officious. The majority, thank
heaven, are conscientious chaps, and the
community would be in a sorry state
without them. —H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
Barnum Was Right
Standing outside the sideshows at the
Sydney Royal Show I was reminded of
Barnum’s views on fools. Here were
thousands of people who were paying
good money to see the Fat Lady, the
Indian Fakir, the Girl No Man Can Kiss,
Crazy House, etc.
Less than five miles away was another
show. In it every exhibit was genuine,
but it is safe to say that less than 5 per
cent, of the crowd there had viewed
them. Why? Simply because admission
was free to the latter, and it is known
by the unattractive title of Technological
Museum, which conjures up visions of
“Will you marry me, Admiral ?”
knowledge and other to-be-avoided sub-
jects.
If the table inlaid with 26,000 pieces,
the marvellously constructed model of a
self-supporting spiral staircase, the ex-
quisite mosaic of flying bluebirds or the
model of the ingenious Strasbourg clock
had been on exhibition in a tent, with a
thick-eared gent, or leather-lunged lady
banging a drum and raucously yelling
“Don’t miss these bee-yootiful works of
art that were stolen from the palace of the
Mandarin of Nankipoo, etc.,” no doubt
a policeman would have been required to
queue the crowd up provided, of
course, that the entrance fee was at least
a bob. —B. A. Ker (N.S.W.).
Literature v. Art
Thanks to a slavish adherence to Old-
World tradition, thousands of pounds are
lavished on oil paintings of sometimes
doubtful authenticity, while those hardy
souls who aspire to paint pen-pictures
of our contemporary national life are
callously cold-shouldered or else tossed
a belated crumb when their abject
poverty is broadcast.
Despite the passing vogue of purely
pictorial publications, the appeal of the
printed word is still paramount, and the
hundreds of thousands of pounds spent
on art galleries in this country largely
represent a lamentable waste of money.
The fabulous sums that old masters bring
are often computed upon a rarity basis
like postage stamps rather than upon their
artistic excellence. A bound copy of
the complete works of Shakspeare can
be picked up at a bargain basement
counter at a price comparable to that
charged for the first edition when it came
out. And it is safe to say that the Bard’s
works have had more effect on the people
of the world since his day than any pic-
ture that was ever painted.
About the only time the average citizen
visits the art gallery is when it’s too wet
to play games. The rest of the time it
is the haunt of “arty” cliques who
bemuse themselves with technical termi-
nology and take sides upon different
schools of painting.
If there are any millionaires left in
this country after this war they should be
prevailed upon when allocating their be-
quests to remember that literature is an
integral measure of a country’s progress,
far more important to a growing nation
like Australia than a million pounds’
worth of paintings in cold storage.—
Melton (Vic.).
Authors
Broadly speaking, there are three kinds
or authors: those fortunate few who
write what the public likes, those pseudo-
highbrows who think that the public
should like what they write, and those
prodigies of prose who make the public
like what they write.
Writers in the first category have to
worry more about their income tax than
their rent; those in the second live in
garrets papered with rejection slips or else
become embittered critics and form liter-
ary societies ; the third group make their
own rules.
Almost without exception every writer
passes through a transitory stage wherein
his work, through lack of experience,
deserves the derogatory tag of “pot-
boiler.” Even the great G.B.S. was guilty
of composing a very ordinary lyric for
a love song, whilst H. G. Wells in his
salad days turned out a succession of
gory shockers. Some popular writers
find very pleasant and profitable pastures
at the foothills of those bleak Olympian
literary peaks, and who are we to criticise
them for staying where the grass is
greenest?
After all, the great majority of people
regard reading as a relaxation rather than
a means of becoming better informed.
This is borne out by the paucity of the
attendance at public libraries in the capi-
tal cities as compared with the jostling
throng to be seen of a Friday night in
a multitude of circulating libraries. Occa-
sionally, of course, a genius of the calibre
of Dickens shrewdly achieved overdue
social reform by dosing the public with
a sugar-coated pill of propaganda.
It is impossible to lay down any hard-
and-fast rules as to what type of book
the public reads. I have seen a man in
his middle-forties furtively enjoying a
paper-covered Sexton Blake, and a
swaggie barely out of his teens who
could quote with relish long passages
from “Paradise Lost.”
Ninety people out of a hundred finish
reading a book and straightway forget
it.—M. T. (Vic.).
Britons Can Take It
If “Home” (B. 9/4/’4l) means that
prior to the present conflict the civilian
Briton had had extensive personal ac-
quaintance with the horrors of war, he
is very much in error. Few peoples have
experienced less of war’s ravages. No
invader has fought in England and Wales
since the early Middle Ages, nor in Scot-
land since the seventeenth century, while
none of the three has been affected by
civil strife for 200 years. On the other
hand, within the latter period alone, every
European country has suffered invasion,
and has either been defeated or had large
areas of territory wasted by the enemy.
Some have also had bad bouts of civil
war.
The Briton’s great capacity as a fighter
is due to various factors. It is partly
the result of his racial make-up—the
blood of such warrior races as the Celts,
Romans, Anglo-Saxons, Vikings and
Normans flows in his veins. Then, too,
it is so long since England has had the
worst of a war that the average Briton
cannot conceive of such a possibility.
Hence, if England is at war with a
European Power or Powers, and her Con-
tinental allies are beaten and her own
army forced to abandon the field, leav-
ing the triumphant enemy menacing her
from the opposite coasts —as happened in
the Napoleonic Wars and the one now
raging—the effect on the British mind is
not the same as it would be on that of
most other nations. The Royal Navy,
which has been without a peer for
generations, will prevent invasion, and in
the course of time the situation will be
rectified. Hasn’t England somehow
always managed to “muddle through”?
The hackneyed phrase “England wins
only one battle, the last,” is reiterated
with satisfaction.
That attitude of mind gives the Briton
an enormous moral advantage over an
opponent who has known defeat and,
therefore, is not so certain of invincibility.
Another great source of strength is the
crusading fervor with which so many
Britons enter into a war. Those so
affected convince themselves that they are
fighting an unclean monster that in the
interest of human well-being must be
crushed, and that, however strong appear-
ances may be to the contrary, the sym-
pathy of the world is with them. A good
illustration of this state of mind can be
found in the Red Page review of Colonel
Wedgwood’s Memoirs (B. 9/4/’4l). In
all seriousness, the Colonel declares that
England is “backed by the prayers and
carrying the hopes of all the peoples of
the world.” That two nations are at war
with her, and that others, if the atti-
tude of Government and press affords
any criterion, incline to the enemy, is
immaterial.— Lyle (N.S.W.).
Frozen War Capital
Appeals by the national Government
for war-loan money would be strength-
ened substantially by a frank statement
concerning its intentions, if any, towards
stopping certain unnecessary and com-
pletely useless drains on public funds re-
vealed by the Federal Auditor-General.
Every one of them represents a substan-
tial amount of immobilised capital which
should be at work in the war effort. For
example, that extraordinary incubus the
A.B.C. “Weak.ly,” run at a dead loss of
£53,000 a year—likely to be more in
future—represents the interest at 3i p.c.
on over millions. Sixty of the most
modern fighter ’planes could be got for
that amount, and would return far better
war value in a week of active service than
a century’s issues of the “Weakly.”—
Notaden (Q.).
England and Italy
“Sandpatch” (B. 26/3/’4l) is a bit out
when he says that until the present war
the English and Italians had been friends
“for unnumbered centuries.” The king-
dom of Italy dates only from 1861. For
centuries previously Italy had been
divided into a number of States, while
first Spain, then Austria, held portions of
the country.
English and Italians have frequently
been in conflict. In the Middle Ages
Genoese crossbowmen served as mer-
cenaries in the French armies, and many
times measured their skill against that
of the English longbowmen, generally
with evil results for them. Especially at
Crecy.
From the sixteenth century to the
eighteenth century Naples and Milan
formed part of the Spanish Empire, while
Genoa and Tuscany were satellite States
of Spain. Thirteen of the 39 tercics
(brigades) that composed that Spanish
Army in the sixteenth century and the
first half of the seventeenth century, when
it was the best in Europe, consisted of
Italians. These men fought Englishmen
in Holland, Belgium, France, Germany
and Bohemia. Italian ships were in the
Armada, and the galleys of Naples,
Genoa and Tuscany had many a brush in
the Mediterranean with the seamen of
Elizabeth. There were Spanish generals
of Italian race, notably Andrea Doria,
Alexander Farnese (who would have
commanded the army of invasion of
England had the Armada been success-
ful) and Ambrose Spinola.
Thousands of Italians fought in
Napoleon’s armies and navy—and thus
against England.
From the foundation of the kingdom
of Italy until the last few years relations
between that Power and England were
good, but they never came into rivalry.
In the one European war that took place
between 1861 and 1939, England and her
Allies made Italy a more tempting offer
than did the Central Powers. —A. D.
(N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
CYPRUS DE LUXE
Watch.
Stainless
Steel.
15 Jewel Precisioi
£5/10/-
5*3
Specially tested to stand tropical conditions.
Fully Gtd. Waterproof, Shockproof, Dustproof.
Watch Revair Service. Send for Catalogue.
DIAMOND
& WATCH
SPECIALISTS
mmm
112 MARKET ST.
SYDNEY.
OPP. DAVIDJONES
LATEST RADIO SETS
£2O Below Retail Price.
You can buy direct from factory if
no Century Agent in your District,
and thus save up to £2O on retail
prices. Marvellous tone, sensitivity
and economy; world-wide reception
brings overseas news direct to your
home. Absolute satisfaction is
guaranteed by FREE TEN DAY
TRIAD TO INTENDING PUR-
CHASERS. Illustrated catalogue of
Battery and All-electric sets post
free on request.
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
Get rid of
Homs BEFORE
they start!
One application of
HAYES CHEMICAL
DEHOKNEB
Dehorns without bleeding
any calf up to two months.
Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from
its mother for 30 minutes. An easy, cheap, humane
method. Price per pot-sufficient for 35 to 50 calves,
6/6. Large size for 210 to 300 calves, 30/-.
HAYES VETERINARY Post Free.
COMPANY, 351 Queen St., Brisbane.
jta
y*
WINCHESTER
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
2- 750 ft. range, each .... 15/-
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 17/6
Complete with Batteries. Postage Extra.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
mmm
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4Jin. knee pads. 3in. thigh
pads. 4'Jin. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
a n TAI TV Manufacturing Saddler,
I. r. I ALII 6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
HALF PRICE FOR NEW
BATTERIES.
Buy your battery direct from the
manufacturer at half the usual retail
price. All Marshall Batteries are
fully guaranteed. All types of
batteries for cars, trucks, cycles,
radio, home and theatre lighting
direct to the public at factory
prices. Write at once for 16-page
catalogue on how to choose and look
after batteries.
The Marshall Battery Mfg. Co.,
38-42 Harbour Street, Sydney.
TYPEWRITERS
of every description
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
mm
FROM £5 UPWARDS.
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States—See ’Phone Book.
FAT, FLABBY
STOMACH
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The GOVERNA BELT supports
correctly the delicate organs,
and, by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes waistline
fat and bulge with every move
you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAD OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will
be 3in. smaller . . . 3in. of
bulge and strain gone . . .
OR NO COST! Write for full
illustrated details of 7 DAYS’
TRIAL OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
•y
nip CIV ELECTRIC FENCE
DIU OIA CHARGER.
Saves 80% on fencing costs and will last
a lifetime. Absolutely stoekproof. Send
for FREE descriptive leaflets.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE CO.,
207 George Street, SYDNEY.
S.A. Agents:
Goldberg Bros., North Terrace, Adelaide.
TILLEY LAMPS
mmm
For the Farm, Camping
or Fishing.
British-made Kerosene Lamps
providing a steady 300 c.p. light
without flickering and without
smoke or smell.
Model EXIOO (illustrated)
can be used as a Storm
Lantern, Table Lamp or Hanging
Lamp. Reflector slips off when
not required. Burns for 10
hours on li pint.
Price, 67/6 complete.
Write for catalogue of Radiators
and all types of lamps.
Obtainable from your local agent or
W. Kopson & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
376-382 Kent Street, Sydney.
MA6336.
GENUINE BARGAINS
Very Useful for Station,, Farm, Saddlers, etc.
200 Pair Military Riding Reins, 3/- pair.
Stirrup Feathers, 4/6 and 5/6 pair. Leather
Rifle Buckets, handy for saddle, 7/6 each
(slightly damaged). Nickel-plated Spurs,
7/6, 9/6 pair. Mexican Spurs, large rollers,
worth 25/-, now only 13/6 pair. Emu
Plumes, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6 set. Army White Pith
Helmets, 4/6. Dungaree Work Jackets, 5/11,
new size 3 x 4. Strong Cane Walking
Sticks, 12/- dozen: SPECIAL! 100 Pair
Army Riding Reins, no Luckies, Six Pairs,
12/-. 100 Pairs Army Stirrup Feathers, no
buckles, Six Pairs, 18A-
HARRY MITCHELL,
346 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Est. Over 25 Years.
mmm
ANYWHE RE
ANYTIME
MPLI
PORTABLE UNITS
By
Briggs & Stratton.
A small, compact
Petrol Electric
Generator, with
everything a car
engine has.
300 WATTS T 2 VOLTS
Running cost 1/- per
week.
Details gladly posted.
mmm
• For Home Lighting.
• Battery Charging.
• Will operate twelve
25-watt lamps.
• Runs 12 hours on
lgaL of petrol.
I 382 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
LAMBS SAVED
mmm
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One band holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient—
Humane —Safe —and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback—fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection —No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DABOUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
Also LAMB DE-TAILER, £3/5/-. From all
agents or the distributors: 11AIX St
SEABIGHT, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
dfgdf
TIMBER KILLER!
Kills largest trees in FIFTEEN
DAYS from roots to top. New
method. NO KING-BARKING!
Prevents sucltering! Eradicates BLACK-
BERRIES! 5/G tin, posted.
Mr. E. F. Dorrough, “Honeysuckle,” Milmerran,
Queensland, writes: —“Please send six tins of
Timber Killer. Although we had heavy rain the
day after applying the Timber Killer, all trees
up to six inches in diameter and those 18 inches
and over are already dead. It is only ten days
since I did them, and I only put three nicks in
each, and I used the Timber Killer on the hardest
timber to kill.”
AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO! (15ft.).
BEARS HEAVILY FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001bs. Sow NOW. 2/6 Packet.
N.S.W. SEED CO., 75 George St., Sydney.
deaf:
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW 1
R. A. NOEDIi, L.1.8.5.T.,
The Block. 428 George St., Sydney.
FOLDING CROSS-CUT SAW
mmm
Packs into cow-hidel
wallet 6| x 7J by li
inches. Weight under
two pounds, complete
with handles, saw-set
and file Price only
16/- carriage paid any-
where. This saw was
used by the army in
,the great war and an artillery states'
that it felled trees and did other cutting very efficiently. I
One man can work it (as in engraving) or two men can l
use it like an ordinary cross-cut saw. It folds up to about]
4 inches across by 1 inch. For motorists it is far better j
thtn an axe to clear timber off the track, and settlers, walk-,
jng or riding, can carry it on a belt (weight under 2 lbs.)
ready for use. It bites both coming and going, and thus'
cuts easily and very rapidly. Our price is much less than
the makers’ cost; we bought a large number from the,
British military stores at a great reduction. We recommend'
this saw Money back if you say so after a week’s trial.
Obtainable only from
THE UNION AGENCY CO., 299 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne
■
■sss&s
.
t <&"»*^|
Form a Group!
Join a Group!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
STOPydur Rupture |
Worries/
Mark® Lotahon.
of YQUR RUPTURE
m
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL API’LfAIVCE CO..
UEPT. 37, 84 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
With the new scientific
FOOTHELP”
No More Suffering!
“FOOTHELP” gives you
greater ease and comfort than
you ever imagined possible.
It won’t cost you a penny
if we fail to fulfil these
promises.
Write To-day for
FREE BOOKLET:
'“Your Feet and How to
Treat Them Properly,” and
FREE Trial Offer to:
JOHN H. UNGER (Dept. 13S),
65 York Street, Sydney.
mmm
y
Z-
OILSKINS
for long:, hard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of our
oilskins are our
best advertisement.
Hughes’ Tropieal
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Write for Free Catalogue and Samples.
A. J. HUGHES
(Established 1893),
1218 REGENT STREET, SYDNEY.
FINE TOBACCO!.
Whitelaw’s Famous Import
Blend Number One.
A fine quality leaf which could not be purchased
anywhere at less than 24/- per pound. Despite
new duties, WHITELAW’S SPECIAL POLICY TO
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS enables us to offer this
tobacco at the lowest price consistent with its fine
quality. Save yourself the middleman’s profit—
buy direct and enjoy an extra fine quality smoke,
expertly blended, fragrant, cool, and satisfying.
Your money back if not satisfied. Send crossed
cheque or money order. (If cheque add exchange.)
Available in Ready Rubbed Fine Cut or Ready
Rubbed for Pipe, 41b. 9/3 delivered; lib. 17/6
delivered. Janies Whitelaw and Co., Factors,
Importers and Blenders of Fine Tobaccos, 160
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. (Note new address.)
Bankers: Bank of N.S.W., Head Office.
THE “ABERDEEN” (Regd.)
“Adjusta” Patent Com-
bined Leg and Surcingle
HORSE RUG
Can be put on and
fastened up in I a
minute. Impossible
for rug to come oil.
The animal has per-
fect freedom, as the
fitting is self-adjust-
ing. Heavy check
lined, 11-inch plated
breast-strap and lea-
ther on wither. All
sizes and qualities
from 25/- to 51/-.
Sold leading stores, or
mmm
Write
for
Price
List.
SMITH COI’EHAND AND CO. PTY., LTD.,
33 REGENT STREET, SYDNEY.
#>
i
mmm
mmm
LEARN VENTRILOQUISM
quickly my new method
teaches it thoroughly in very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits, into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the VENTRILO you can imitate many kinds cf
birds, animals, etc. Everything for ONE
SKILLING, including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw your voice.
FPFF Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
n\UE Tricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
173 Pitt St., Sydney. 52 Swanston St., Melb.
POST THIS SLIP
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(i Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
14/51’41 (See Page 32)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss....,
Cut this out and send with your “iVants” to the Service Department. ‘The Bulletin "
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


A N MPs
X c v ’
\ )
I
To hel
P an
W-:
mfw
/
Essential Ind
us try
the Wi
Effort
&
A
Save your WASTE PAPER
& WASTE CARDBOARD
FOR THE A.P.M. COLLECTORS
Six main reasons why you should save waste paper
and waste cardboard for the A.P.M. Ltd. Collectors;
1. A.P.M. Ltd. is, for all practical purposes, the only user of
waste paper and waste cardboard for manufacturing
purposes.
2. The Company urgently requires your waste paper and
waste cardboard to replace stocks of pulp supplied to the
Commonwealth Government for use in the manufacture of
explosives.
3. The Company also requires waste paper and cardboard to
manufacture paper board for packing munitions and food-
stuffs, and Australia’s own requirements of wrapping
papers and cardboards.
4. The lower the cost of the Company’s raw materials the
lower the price of its finished products to the public.
5. £ ver y m ® n > woman and child uses one or more of the
Company’s products every day.
6. The Company’s prices are controlled by the Prices Com-
missioner.
£1 PER TON
will be paid to leading hospitals
and charities over and above the
costs of collection.
Regular house-to-house collection. The
"Men in Green” will he in your suburb
SOON!
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD:
McCauley Street, Mgtravllle - - - - Telephone MW 1996, MW 271 5
Leading hospitals and
charities who will benefit:
ROYAL PRINCE
ALFRED HOSPITAL
ROYAL NORTH
SHORE HOSPITAL
SYDNEY HOSPITAL
ST. GEORGE
DISTRICT HOSPITAL
LORD MAYOR’S
PATRIOTIC AND WAR FUND
R.A.A.F. COMFORTS FUND
(CENTRAL AREA).
H . 1
Look for
the initials
A.RM. Ltd. on
my pocket
'CUT
X''
fWdV
