

I
:V : -;' :
wM
sr*
\U
■ V • J ’
;««■?; '■ V-
••
MM mW liW TW& '■&
.
* v* *.
;oi»i :
*
# ,■; :''-:'' i^'^! '< &-. !
jf yjy- jK J .JftL v,s
1,-* -' '-■ f;.'M< lvi>->/' ' A
.
'
V-> ■ :■■■•••■■
idt JBHBBHMK
mM ? "-' i ’■ -mX/*^
m ■ :
ite
Iffi/.Tv <r.
I ■
C;€s
*%-
•-;
■'.>; ■
«f|
Vt'
•••■••• ; ‘
E«
3#
■•'••• •
f »&■-'£
**■<
•"R^
liferisf. ,
> *■. ; , ' > a
SW f’-?-i
: y->M '. • A-V'
V -A
*> ■;
;v
as
skp**£s;
'
*•s*
»&*
V*
%?/*%
v£&..
They are the peoples of Britain, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, India and the British Colonial
Empire who are partners in the struggle against the evil tyranny of Nazi-Fascism. They span the world:
they tap its resources. They are linked together by sea-power and air-power for co-ordinated attack and
defence at all points of the compass. Behind these massed forces of liberty is the industrial might of the
Empire, resting on inexhaustible supplies of raw materials, the superlative quality of its products, and of
the men who make them. This is the front behind the front, the foundations of the great fortress of
which Britain is an advanced post. Throughout the Empire, Imperial Chemical Industries has its associ-
ated companies, its factories and its agents whose energies and products are to-day mobilised in support
*
of 500 million people in their fight to preserve freedom from disappearing from the world.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA &
ICIANZ
NEW ZEALAND LTD.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3186.
Wednesday, March 5, 1941.
The Approaching Storm
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Ttory Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S ' CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 341
The Red Page
SOVIET HUMORIST.
“No,” he said, “a few bugs wouldn’t
frighten me. But this was a huge force
attacking me, an army, cavalry and all
—bed bugs together with galloping
fleas.”
And a whole army of bugs was a
bit too much for Comrade Michael
Zoschenko, so he ups and says so.
Comrade Zoschenko, according to the
blurb of The Woman Who Could Not
Reacf (Methuen), is a leading Soviet
humorist. Besides having a wide circu-
lation in his own country—“the explana-
tion is that the Bolshevist rulers, just as
the rulers of any other country, must
provide some outlet to the natural im-
pulses of the governed, and humorous
criticism is one of the strongest natural
impulses of the Russian” his stories
have been reprinted in London “New
Statesman and Nation,” “Spectator,”
“Lilliput,” “Time and Tide” and “News
Chronicle.” They make one of the most
significant documents that have ever
emerged from the land -of the Soviets ;
and they are so incredibly naive that, if
it wasn’t for the publishers’ guarantee
and the cachet of those Lefty English
journals, one would suspect they were
capitalist propaganda put out to discredit
the Russian mentality, the Soviet regime
and the very notion that literature is pos-
sible under Communism.
In the first place, the humor in most
instances is either cruel or childish, and
is based on the stupidity of the populace.
In “A Mistake” —one of the few that
are genuinely amusing—passengers in a
railway carriage see a man maltreating
an old woman: thinking that she is his
employee, they protest and one shouts
indignantly, “This is shameless enslave-
ment of a free individual. We cannot
have this in a Socialist State.” Then
they discover that the woman is not the
man’s servant but his mother. The pas-
sengers apologise. The man grumbles,
“As to the Labor Code regulations,
p’rhaps I know them better than anyone
here. PThaps I’m an old revolutionary
who’s been living in Leningrad since
1917....” Comrade Zoschenko con-
cludes, “The passengers sat still and
avoided looking at the man whom they
had so seriously insulted.”
“A Bridegroom” is a study of the
peasantry. Bassof’s wife is dying. “She
tosses and wanders, and all but topples
off the stove. And she dies at nightfall.”
(This is meant to be funny.) Needing a
wife to help with the harvest, Bassof
rushes off and proposes to a soldier’s
widow ; just as she comes to his threshold
he discovers that she has one leg shorter
than the other; so the match is off;
he drives her part of the way to her
own home, loses his temper and pitches
her off his cart.
The. stories are all much the same.
What is funny about them (or pitiful
from the human point of view, shameful*
from the literary) is the way Comrade
Zoschenko has to apologise before he
dares crack his little jokes about the hard-
ships of the regime. If Methuen hadn’t
put out this book one simply couldn’t
have believed that literature could come
to such a sorry pass. Practically every
story begins with an apology similar to
the one quoted about the bugs. It seems
to be a fact that Comrade Zoschenko
didn’t dare complain about bed bugs
without first making it clear that he is
quite prepared to tolerate a few of these
bedfellows if it is for the good of the
State. Fantastic? Read him on watches:
They say that in Western Europe watches
and clocks are very cheap indeed. Here,
of course, you cannot buy as much as a
minute hand for 48 kopeks. It is a bad
state of affairs in my opinion.
On the other hand, it may not really be a
bad state of affairs. After all, we do not
know what tasks our Government Trust
of Exact Mechanics are occupying them-
selves with.
Incredible? Read him on the housing
shortage:
The other day, citizens, I saw a cart full
of bricks going along the street. Yes, I
swear to it!
My heart simply leapt with joy. Because
you understand, citizens, it means building,
no more or less! It means that a house is
being built somewhere. Building’s begun in
good earnest, touch wood!
Perhaps in twenty years’ time, or even less,
each citizen of our great country will have a
room to himself.
But meanwhile the problem of where to
live is not easy to solve.
Absurd? Read him on “Electricity in
Common”: >
To have your owi? private flat is, no
doubt, a sign of petty bourgeois mentality.
It is better to live as one large friendly
communal family than to shut yourself in-
side your domestic fortifications.
Of course, there are some inconveniences.
For instance, electricity causes a lot of in-
convenience. You don’t know what is
your share of the electric bill.
No doubt when our industry fulfils an-
other five-year-plan, and when America
walks on tiptoe in our
presence, then it will be pos-
sible to fix up every tenant
with his own meter.
Meanwhile, we have to put
up with a. great deal of dis-
comfort.
Every time this little crawl to the
Government before he dares make a
feeble joke!
No Australian Pink can afford to miss
this jolly little volume with its sinister
political implications, its demonstration
of the collapse of the short story under
Communism and its plain warning of
what those who have been bitten by the
Soviet bug are really trying to do to
literature.
England Between Wars .
The Long Week-end : A Social If istory
of Britain, 1918-1939 (Faber and Faber)
leaves a clear impression of having been
produced by a sausage-machine disguised
as a swarm of hornets let loose on a
large, sprawling and petrified monster.
Robert Graves has sound qualifications
for the hornet part of that sort of act, as
well as the first-rate talent for historical
narrative displayed in I, Claudius and
Claudius the God. There, without falling
into the common pitfall of merely vul-
garising, he managed to give a remote
past a present living reality. Here, work-
ing jointly with others, he casts the recent
past back into historical perspective, so
that it can be viewed with impersonal
detachment.
The principal others are Alan Hodge
and “K.G.,” the latter acknowledged “in
gratitude for much hard work,” no doubt
the exhaustive ransacking of files. To
this trio has to be added the sundry thou-
sand others who contemporaneously set
down in newspaper columns the day-by-
day record of big and little events, cus-
toms, habits, fashions, political pranks,
financial swindles, manifestations of
hysteria, of art, literature, religion, sport,
sex, near-revolutions, abdication, and all
the other social phenomena of the
jumbled period between wars.
The approach is cynical, the style ironi-
cal, with flashes of satirical brilliance
lighting up considerable masses of pedes-
trian writing, the whole job done, as is
said in it of Graves’s Good-bye to All
That, “with small consideration for any-
one’s feelings.” Despite some broaden-
ing out to take in international occur-
rences, the range generally is narrowed
down to England rather than Britain, and
to London rather than England.
The view 'of the period accepted is the
now common one that it was a preposter-
ous period, a troubled welter of gropings
and hysterics, its “leading” figures ridi-
• culous posturing pigmies. The theme is
that of The Case of Sergeant Grischa,
with a people, instead of one bewildered
little man, tossed about and dragged
along by circumstances to a more and
more closely impending doom. , The
authors —the whole sausage - machine
swarm of them —portray the reactions,
foibles, crimes, passions, hopes and de-
spairs, and always the hysterics, of that
mass-victim through from the 1914-18
war’s immediate confused aftermath, with
what they represent as near-revolution,
first in 1919, then again in 1926 ; on
through the time when there were three
kings within one year; the days of paci-
fism, nudism and hiking (all three im-
ported from Germany); the increasingly
confused times of the Abyssinian and
Spanish wars, of “collective security”
and “non-intervention” ; and so into the
deepening twilight of barbarism.
Having described all that with relish
and gusto, though with stings tending to
go blunt on the petrified sprawl, they
leave the mass-victim, without a sign
of sympathy, pity or regret, right on the
threshold of another war.
One of the very few people regarded
with any admiration is T. E. Lawrence,
Graves corresponded with him, and the
comments on him, despite their being
generous, have the Graves touch, as have
most of the literary references. Seven
Pillars of Wisdom was written “straight
off in 400,000 words immediately after
the war, painfully rewritten when the
manuscript was stolen, and then for years
tinkered away with,” Lawrence, “trying
to convert a workmanlike and highly
exciting story into a literary monument.”
He “both despised and loved the legend
that surrounded him, could not be con-
stant either to his friends or himself.”
Idealising “ ‘the little man,’ in the sense
of the lower middle-class John Citizens
of whom R.A.F. mechanics were largely
made, and who in Germany and Italy
were the backbone of the Fascist and
Nazi revolutions,” Lawrence “even played
with the idea of himself becoming a
dictator.”
The chief difference between the two Law-
rences was that T.E. had a healthy mind
and body and deliberately fell short of the
best from a proud Irish scruple against per-
fection ; D.H. was not only unhealthy but
spiritually blind and tried to overawe the
best in others with vulgar menaces.
Other literary findings with the Graves
touch; Beverley Nichols, “an able jour-
nalist of the ‘sob-brother’ variety.... his
sidelines were gardening, God, and the
glories of the English countryside.” Louis
MacNeice, “realistic because he had
written acidly descriptive poems on bour-
geois subjects, such as lawnmowing in
Hampstead gardens.” “A busy Jewish
civil servant, Humbert Wolfe, whose duty
at the Ministry of Labor was to interview
strikers’ deputations and send them away
charmed and hopeful.” “There was a
lowbrow American limerick current in
the ’twenties”:
I don’t like the family Stein!
There is Gert, there is Ep, there is Ein.
Gert’s writings are punk,
Ep’s statues are junk,
Nor can anyone understand Ein.
Other personalia: Dr. Marie Slopes,
“religious fervor, no sense of humor and
complete integrity.” Bebe Daniels, “who
made screen history when she had her
Hittite nose Grecianised by plastic sur-
gery in the interests of her art.” Ramsay
MacDonald, “in disgrace during the war
as a pacifist, and even forced to resign
from his local golf club ; but by 1922
this was counted rather a feather in his
cap.”
Some bits of general curiosa: In 1920
“American slang was still barred as
vulgar. A revue, in which Noel Coward
appeared as a youthful actor, had to have
its original title ‘Oh, Boy!’ changed to
‘Oh, Joy!’ lest it caused offence.” “In
the war the shortage of sugar and butter
and the popularisation of hockey and
tennis greatly reduced women’s weight,”
In a libel action “Dr. Slopes stated that
she believed herself to be a channel of
divine inspiration, and that ‘the art of
contraception’ had been revealed to her
in a message which she had received ‘be-
neath the old yews’ at her house at
Leatherhead.” Oxford bags “are said to
have started at Cambridge.” In 1934
Duff Cooper, as Financial Secretary to
the War Office, said: “I have had occa-
sion during the past year to study mili-
tary affairs... .and the more I study
them the more I am impressed by the im-
portance of cavalry in modern warfare,”
“At the superior nudist camps a nice
class distinction was made: the butlers
and maids who brought along the refresh-
ments were forced to admit their lower
social standing by wearing loincloths and
aprons respectively.”
The Long Week-end (even with its tail
to it, a dead title on a live book) gets
much of its liveliness from the swarm-
interest in that sort of typical scandal.
Most chapters are composed of such bits
and pieces, with one affair dealt with at
some length as representative— e.g., the
Bottomley scandal, the abdication, and,
in the records of flying, rather curiously
though rightly, the story of the Parer-
Mclntosh flight to Australia.
A. A. Milne on the War,
Anybody who opened A. A. Milne’s
Behind the Lines (Methuen; Angus and
Robertson) at page five and stared upon
his war-time “Alphabet”—is there any-
thing more revolting in verse than a
rhyming alphabet?—would come to the
conclusion that Milne is still being very
young and would recall, perhaps, “Beach-
comber’s” merciless:
Hush, hush! Nobody cares!
Christopher Robin has fallen downstairs.
The “Alphabet”:
E is an elephant. Don’t be inferring
It came by mistake: I was thinking of Goring.
Fis for Funk. Is it Funk? Is it Frick?
It doesn’t much matter. They both make me
sick.
But it is only in odd corners that
Behind the Lines is feeble. Milne on the
war speaks for millions of Englishmen,
people who insist on their laugh in spite
of the bombs. Because his light verse is
always competent and always witty, and
because he knows what is legitimate
humor in war-time and avoids what is
offensive, he has produced a book that
is easily the best of its kind so far and
that will be pushed into second place only
when A. P. Herbert’s rhymes are collected
from the magazines in which they have
been appearing.
Occasionally, with good effect, Milne is
serious. Hitler speaking:
All the fair things which homely natures prize,
Faith, Mercy, Gentleness, have had their day;
Kindness and pity are but children’s cries,
Borne idly on the wind, dying away.
Revenge untaken is revenge abused,
One grudge forgotten is my Honor’s shame,
One lie unspoken is a lie misused,_
One promise kept dishonors my ‘good name.
Milne has a word with the conscientious
objectors and a cold word with America.
He pays tribute to the young men of the
R.A.F.:
Each night we crouch by the fireplace, and
listen with tight-held breath.
Humbled to tears in wonder, strengthened to
tears in pride,
As the Youth which we dared to pity makes
casual date with Death,
And, fired by a spirit we know not,, goes off
on its deathless ride.
Even when he is out to amuse there is
a sting in most of his verses. There’s an
edge to his mockery of the profiteer and
of the twisting Communists;
So all is well and Stalin’s right
• And will be right until he’s dead,
, And black is obviously white
If each alternately is red;
A helpful creed, whose only hitch
Is knowing when the one is which.
He recalls the Soviet’s pacts of friend-
ship with the Baltic countries —particu-
larly Finland—and outlines a similar
pact for future use:
And Russia gives me in exchange
An iceberg which she isn’t using,
Bits of the Himalaya range,
A cruiser which has finished cruising,
All the Pacific Cortez saw,
And ten years’ lease of Bernard Shaw,
The Treaty has a final clause
Which many think the most impressive:
“At any time, for any cause,
Should either party feel aggressive,
This Treaty is in Law and Fact
A Mutual Aggression Pact.”
A glimpse of the Fiihrer in the morn-
ings:—
So far the day was going well:
He drew, a walnut from its shell
And breakfasted, and rang the bell.
And a priceless aside about Wordsworth,
who, Milne says, once wrote some such
poem as:-
To me the meanest child that blows
Its nose upon its handkerchief
Is subject for a rhyming prose
Pedestrian beyond belief.
Meanjin Papers, No. 1 ; Contemporary
Queensland Verse: Brochure made and
hand-set by G. Busch, Primrose-street,
Sherwood, Brisbane; editor, Clement-
Christesen. A neat little job, though not
improved by the prints of four naked
black feet (“a forlorn or a shipwrecked
brother”?) on the front cover. Con-
tributors are Brian Vrepont (the most
successful), Paul Grano, James Picot and
C. B. Christesen. ‘
Three books, all by thinkers of
admitted quality, calling for a Christian
revival to save civilisation; Regeneration
(Dent), by Denis Saurat, Scholasticism
and Politics (Bles), by Jacques Maritain,
The Betrayal of Christ by the Churches
(Andrew Dakers, Ltd.), by J. Middleton
Murry. Saurat’s book, chiefly concerned
with the regeneration of France, bears
a non-committal introduction by De
Gaulle.
Gaff Lee, Detective: W. T, Stewart
(New Century Press). Shootings and
stabbings by Japanese fifth-columnists
in Hong Kong. Chief problem is the
identity of the detective, which isn’t dis-
closed till the finish.
Abdul Hamid: Alma Wittlin (Bodley
Head). Translated from the German by
Norman Denny. A spirited account of
the life of the last great Turkish Sultan
and a lively serving up of Turkish history
of the period. Might have been better
if the author could have decided as
between writing biography or history. As
it is, engaging reading, but somewhat
limited in appeal.
Pat Lawlor, of Maoriland, has made
literary history of a kind by publishing
in pamphlet form an extra chapter to his
novel The House of Templemore (A. H.
and A. W. Reed, Ltd.). Two of his
four reasons: —
I have faith in Templemore. The
reading public will soon tire of the highly-
spiced novel of the moment. There will
be a return from the abstract to the con-
crete. The sincerity and wholesomeness
of Templemore will then be appreciated.
So many of my friends have asked me
whether Terry was or was not drowned
that I thought it only fair to settle the
doubt in their minds.
Lawlor says that, although the novel was
favorably reviewed, and though the
writing, revising and proof-reading “took
me approximately 220 hours (on a 40-
hour week basis weeks’ work),” he
hasn’t had a penny royalty from sales.
When Templemore makes its comeback,
and not until then, he intends to write
two further volumes to complete the life
history of Terry Mahoney. The new
chapter is titled Daniel Mahoney’s Secret.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —more than a slogan, a law at Anthony Horderns
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Work Clothes Made From
Tested Reliable MATERIALS
Sturdy "Oak" Overalls 13 ; 9
FULL WEIGHT AUSTRALIAN DRILLS IN NAVY OR KHAKI
A practical one-piece Overall that is more than a match for hard farm work Made of
"Sturdy Oak" full weight Australian Drills with five pockets and double sewn throughout.
And for extra wear all strain points are reinforced. Extra full cut and finished rustless
metal fittings. Sizes 4 to 8, 61 to 101. At Anthony Horderns . Price /
THE SENIOR STORE f
r
■:
/ O / J/ V
1
/
I
t
J
(ihx \
7
f W? —
1
tl/r-
-m
No Rust Metal Clips
make the straps
adjustable.
■
/
& ss&
mm
W
& /
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES NOW!
Anthony Hordern and Sons Ltd.
English Drill Combination
Overalls 15 7 6
For men whose work calls for an
unusually tough, heavy overall, this
combination style is recommended. It
is roomy and comfortable to work in,
no binding anywhere. It's made of
Navy or Khaki English Drill, with
strong double sewn seams, riveted
buttons and roomy pockets. Strong
bartacks at all strain points. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price 15/6
Note the double stitched
seams on pockets. All
seams are double
stitched for greater
strength & longer wear.
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night
Box 2712 C,
G.P.0., Sydney
Cotton Tweed Work Trousers 9'6
Long wearing, neat appearance, cut full and roomy, these
Work Trousers are made of a sturdy Australian Cotton
Tweed in neat dark patterns. Finished with two pockets
and cuffed bottoms. Sizes range from 30 to 42 inch waists.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price 9/6
Cotton Venetian Jodphurs
Sturdy! Hardyl Enduring! Men's Riding Jodhpurs, made of
husky Australian Cotton Venetian Cloth with a smooth
finish in tonings of Fawn or Olive. Made for comfort in
roomy sizes and finished with three large and very
strong pockets, belt loops and hip straps. Sizes range from
30 to 44 inch waists. At Anthony Horderns'. Price 21/-
"Hordura" Work Trousers 9
Few Work Pants offer the same smart appearance and long
wear as you will find in these "Hordura" (Regd.) Trousers.
They're cut bigger, fit better, and they're exclusive to
Anthony Horderns'. Made with three strong and large
pockets, belt loops as well as brace buttons, thread sewn
seams, and all strain points are reinforced. Plain or cuffed
bottoms. In shades of Dark Grey, Fawn or Olive Green.
Sizes 30 to 46 inch waists. At Anthony Horderns. Price 16/9
Larger sizes a little extra.
• Men's Wear—Ground Floor—George Street. Freight paid to all railway
stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.


ON THE HAMMER OF ROBIN HOOD
By FREEMAN SANDOM.
THE bloke who marched into the Matrimonial and
Universal Advisory and Detection Bureau about
a week after my partner Handsome skipped with
the widow Jacobsohn and my five hundred frog-
skins said that in addition to a hell of a lot of other
things he was a debt-collector. Now there isn’t any-
thing wrong with the ancient and despised profession
that puts the thumbscrews on the unwilling. I’d
employ one myself if I needed to gouge out of
well-to-do customers who won’t pay the mazuma to
carry over a rainy day poor ones who can’t. Still,
hard dials gravitate to the trade like fleas to a dog,
and this feller, whose name was Washington Bull-
tongue, was a fair specimen.
He was the sort of cove you meet in a dark street,
clip over the head with anything hard and handy,
report to the nearest police station, then push out your
hand and chest for the reward. After two minutes of
him 1 put my pipe between my teeth to deaden the
grinding noise, because I didn’t want to distract from
her business the goose about to lay the golden egg in
my cashbox. And soon I saw him thankfully to the
door.
“All right ” I said “I’ll be on the job.”
He snorted. “Let’s get action, and no funny
business!” and slammed the door.
~r T _ , . i
“A pleasant teller, M.ss Teasing, remarked Jo
my secretary, a pretty and capable g.r , who d been
our client a belief in the tremendous volume of busi-
ness transacted by the Bureau. "I hope that Robin
Hood bloke hi, him hard and often?”
, o v t, a i t
“Robin O Toole? Yes, he made a 80°d1 job. I
beheve, she replied, smiling sweetly. Miss Teasing
hails from Little River, where the Bulltongue s Blitz-
kfwg struck a snag.
Happen to know under which particular green-
wood tree young Robin hangs out, Miss Teasing? ’
Her guileless blue eyes met mine. The soft light
in their depths was an antidote to the sting in her
words. “If I did know I wouldn’t tell you, Mr. Winter-
green. Nor would anybody in Little River.”
“Ho!” I said. “A popular fellow? And
they’re a clannish crowd out there? Still, some may
be found not altogether dead to the noble and uni-
versal sentiment of self-interest. Would a quid”
Fortunately, I remembered in time that Miss
Teasing was a high-souled and superior young lady,
She wrote poetry in her spare time, and be-
longed to the local art society. If she walked out on
“Funny We saw no cop in that town We just passed through."
me I’d be sorry. “I suppose,” I said hastily, “that
Washington B.’s tale wasn’t modelled on the super-
veracious system of story-telling invented by his
famous namesake?”
“It was censored and adapted for propaganda by
himself,” replied Miss Teasing. “The facts are that
Mrs. O’Toole, who is a widow and runs a cane-farm,
had a dispute with a machinery firm over a crook
farm implement, and in the end they sent their claim
to Bulltongue for collection. He came out in person
to bully her into paying up. Fortunately, her son was
home on holidays, and Bulltongue was paid—in kind.”
“Black eye for black eye?”
“A tooth for a wild left-hander,” she corrected,
“and a clean knockout for a dirty right.”
“Fine! ” I said heartily. “Still, the situation’s this:
Bulltongue’s got,his knife into Robin, has invoked the
majesty of the law, but, dissatisfied with the lukewarm
efforts of the local limb, has appealed to the detection
branch of this efficient and honorable firm for assist-
ance. Now, your sympathy and mine run in double
harness, but as long as bread, butter and jam aren’t
growing on trees I’ve got to attend to business. I’m
off for the ibis, canegrub and greenwood tree on the
hammer of bold Robin Hood, and you’re in charge
until I return. Sounds like real poetry, doesn’t it?”
I said, looking for my hat.
'T'HERE are about two hundred and fifty prosperous
* farms clustering round Little River sugar mill, and
I soon twigged on what side were their owners in the
Bulltongue-O’Toole incident. At my first place-of-call
a big, tough-visaged cocky told me to go to hell, and
at the second a milder-seeming joker sooled the dog
on to me. The third farm I stubbed my toe against
sported a mean-looking weatherboard shanty set in a
microscopical garden of empty tins and boxes and
odds and ends, but around it were wide fields of tall
and well-cultivated cane. Near the barb-wire gate a
red-haired man with a chin like a pincushion filled
with copper tacks was hanging on the neck of his
horse, swearing in the red-blooded fashion of the
canefields. I apologised for the explosive exuberance
of my motor-bike, and in time he became mollified,
“You a manure agent?” he asked,
“A manure agent?” The idea struck me as a fine
alibi. Under cover of peddling the odorous lifeblood
of agriculture I might persuade tongues of indiscretion
to wag freely. “A manure agent?” I repeated, playing
for time to marshal my thoughts. “Well, yes—l repre-
sent the—the Paramount—er—Excelsior—Topnotch
Fertiliser Company—er—Limited.” I was getting into
“V stride now. “No doubt as a progressive farmer
to whose efficiency and painful industry these broad
acres testify, you 11 be interested m our product, which
anteed to anything with rootS; from
(o of wi|d oats ...
h “Well,” drawled Red,op letting gc, Ins strangle-
hold on he now pactfied and half-choked horse Ive
heard talk like that before. He squahed and pre-
P a « h.mself a chew from a stem of bluetop which
had escaped the plough. But 111 be wanting a bit of
manure company’s called?”
„ The p aramount Excelsior Topnotch, so named
(o impress on yQu peop|e , he high . quality stu ff we
stand for. We’ve just opened an agency in Cairns,”
j sa j d) driving an imaginary nail into my left palm
with my right fistj “ and believe me, sir, we’ll make
things hum in this district. Our fertiliser,” I said, “is
produced on the celebrated island of Cockaigne, but I
can ’ t tell you its geographic position nearer than some-
where at sea. For reasons of strategy,” I said, “because
old man Hitler’s aching to protect it, he being, as you
know, desperately in need of an A 1 fertiliser.”
“Say,” interrupted Redtop, “you talk too fast.”
He removed the straw from his mouth and regarded
it thoughtfully. “But I’ll want manure right off the
bat, so what s the composition of your stuff?
‘Nitrogen 12 per cent., I quoted from memory
(boosting the figures a bit! of something I’d seen some-
where. “Phosphoric acid 10 per cent. Potash 11 per
cent. —all soluble in water as easily as whisky.”
“That’s pretty rich,” said he, looking interested.
“What’s a bloke got to stump up for it?”
I hesitated. Should I charge him five bob or fifty
quid? “Well, you paid for a common brand”
“Fifteen quid, f.o.r. Townsville.”
“Right!” I said. “Well, our stuff’s worth a good
bit more, naturally. Owing to labor-saving methods,
however —direct from producer to consumer, not
touched by human hands at all —twenty quid a ton to
you and, as a special concession, f.o.r, Cairns.”
Redtop passed a paw reflectively over the copper
tacks. “You talk a lot, but I twig the figures. Book
me eight tons,” he said, “delivered at once, and four
more in six weeks’ time. Get the order ready and I’ll
sign it; I’m in a hurry to finish this ploughing.”
If that cocky had wanted to he could’ve knocked
me down with the straw he was chewing. I’d smeared
on the sales talk imitation pretty thick from a natural
predisposition to verbosity, but actually making a
sale of the fertiliser I didn’t have wasn’t down on the
agenda paper. I hemmed and ha’d and hedged, but
Redtop told me to shake it up with that flaming order
because he wanted to get on with that crimson plough-
ing, and in the end I wrote out something near enough
to please him on a page of my pocket diary. He put
his moniker on it and ran for the plough-handles.
It was only out on the road, as I was kicking the
bike into life, that I remembered I’d forgotten to put
out feelers for the casual word that was to put the
bloodhounds of the law on the scent of Robin Hood.
Not that the omission mattered, as subsequent events
demonstrated. After four days of intensive research
the information I’d collected could go into the hollow
tooth of a stillborn microbe.
Young Robin, it appeared, was the local, well-
beloved hero. He was a sort of Don Bradman in Little
River. On the other hand, I accumulated much merit
easily by joining in hymns of hate that generally began
whenever Bulltongue’s name was mentioned.
The phantom product of my illusory island of
Cockaigne sold like hot cakes. The valley, it seemed,
was starving for a good fertiliser. A prophecy had
apparently gone forth that a glorious Messiah was
to come to appease the hunger, and that I was he.
News of my presence and business travelled ahead of
me, so that I’d barely time to kill my bike in front
of the barb-wire gates before my waste of good paper
and wear of fountain-pen perforce began. At the
time the whole business struck me as being funny,
then spooky, and then damnably wearisome. On the
fifth day of the campaign I gave it best and turned
my bike’s nose towards the fleshpots of Cairns. I’d
wasted time singing hallelujahs to Robin Hood, curs-
ing his enemy and selling 305 tons of non-existent fer-
tiliser to the value of £6lOO. My mouth watered when
I figured out my commission had the thing been
dinkum, and cursing the illusive nature of the profit
1 nearly got into a fight with a passing lorry-driver
who took the remarks to apply to himself.
<< A NY luck?” asked Miss Teasing when I got back.
“A Miss Jensen wishes to be remembered to
you,” I said wearily. “Also the rest of Little River.”
“Tough luck! But I told you so,” she laughed.
“Mr. Bulltongue said to ring him the moment you
arrive, and a Mr. Fielding called. I’ve arranged an
interview in” —she looked at her wristwatch —“half
an hour’s time.”
Tfie Bulltongue must’ve been crouching ready to
spring. He rushed into the office ten minutes later
like a fifteen-stone pellet of lead from a shotgun, put
his hands and paunch on the edge of my desk, leaned
over and glared down into my startled eyes. “You
hound!” he bellowed. “You dirty dog!”
“Hound?” I asked. “Dog? Look here”
“Don’t talk back at me!” he roared, frothing at
the mouth. “You slinking dingo!” He looked as if
on the point of flowing over and smothering me under
billows of fat, so I got up hastily and retreated to a
second line of defence behind the swivel chair.
“Look here,” I remonstrated from this position.
“Shut up!” he thundered.
He began to edge round the table, and I slithered
ahead of him, merry-go-round fashion. “You!” he
hissed. “I engaged you to trace O’Toole, paid you a
cheque for expenses, and you” He made a sudden
rush, and his large paw brushed my coatsleeve.
“Miss Teasing!” I yelled. “Ring for the police!”
“Ring blazes!” spluttered Bulltongue. “I’ll take
you to pieces before they come. I’ll eat you alive if I
hang for it.” He attacked again, and the gyrations
of our merry-go-round were fierce and sustained.
“Mr. Wintergreen,” said Miss Teasing in a soft,
calm voice when the need for oxygen had compelled
my pursuer to rest on his oars. “Just let him take one
good crack at you, just one black eye, and we’ve got
him cold on a beautiful assault charge.”
The silliness of the proposal made me stare in
amazement. For the moment I forgot the Bull-
tongue, but that moment was enough for that in-
furiated warrior. Something like a large sledgehammer
contacted with the angle of my jaw, a bell went ping!
in my brain, the room whirled in a riotous welter of
bright colors. I was stretched on the floor, my
assailant straddling my chest and feeling for my wind-
pipe. As in a dream I heard Miss Teasing call
“Robin!” Immediately the door of the adjoining
office, which I’d thought vacant, burst open, and a
red-haired, freckle-faced young man stood framed in
the doorway. He had the hefty shoulders of a foot-
baller, and the next moment he dived forward in a
flying tackle which whisked Bulltongue from my chest.
“Don’t put your hands on him, Robin,” called
Miss Teasing anxiously, “Don’t spoil our case. Just
kick him out gently! ”
WHEN I got to my feet, still a little dazed, my
rescuer came from the direction of the open door,
dusting his hands and grinning like a pleased gar-
goyle. Behind him appeared a stranger, arrayed with
the sartorial elegance of a gigolo, but above that out-
fit was the sober face of a matter-of-fact businessman.
His grey eyes twinkled behind strong glasses.
“Mr. Wintergreen?” he asked. “My name’s Field-
ing. I trust the departure of all your callers isn’t —
er—expedited in the manner I’ve just been privileged
to witness?”
“The man was dippy,” I growled, sinking into a
chair to lick my wounds. “He barged into the office
and tried to take me apart a moment ago without
rhyme or reason.”
“Hardly without reason,” murmured the visitor.
“I’m the general manager of Nonpareil Fertilisers,
o Continued on next page)


and Bulltongue was our local agent. You, sir, signed
up half Little River, I understand, a week before he
was due to commence his selling campaign.”
“Bulltongue wouldn’t stand an earthly out there,”
I said. “The cockies’d make fertiliser out of him the
moment he showed his nose.”
“So I’ve heard. For some reason he’s become
obnoxious to the farmers, and we’ve reluctantly been
compelled to cancel his agency. Hence his anxiety
to liquidate you, sir.”
“Why the devil didn’t he give me time to explain
then? You see, I represent the Paramount-Excelsior-
Topnotch, which company has now dissolved itself into
the thin air from which it came, the island of
Cockaigne having been located by Hitler and being
now under his protection.”
Fielding pulled at his lower lip. “It was a hoax?”
“Camouflage,” I corrected. “I fed ’em fertilisers
to starve their suspicions in order to absorb and digest
their confidences.”
“Then it’s all right,” said Fielding, rising. “I’ll
appoint another agent and go on with the campaign.
Perhaps you’d be good enough to give me a note say-
ing your company’s unable to fill the orders?”
“Sure,” I said.
Miss Teasing spoke, “Just a moment, Mr. Winter-
green. The Burley Fertilisers are anxious to get a
foothold in this district. I’m sure they’d welcome a
chance to make a deal with the Topnotch.”
Fielding sat down again. “Let me see those
orders, please.” He pored over my diary a while.
“H’m. Mixture on the rich side, but at the price we
can afford to make up a special. Commission 2\ per
cent. Suit you?”
“Five,” said Miss Teasing before I could accept.
“Two and a half plus the agency for a year.”
I shook my head. “I’m not interested in the
agency. The matrimonial’s my baby.”
“Mr. Fielding,” said my secretary, “this is Mr.
O’Toole. He’s an accountant by profession, but has
training as a practical sugar-farmer. He’s popular in
the district and can sign the rest of the farmers up.”
“On my head!” said O’Toole, grinning.
“Just a moment, Miss Teasing,” I broke in. “Did
I see Robin Hood enter from the supposedly vacant
next-door office a while back?”
“And just in time, I think, Mr. Wintergreen.”
“For four days I combed Little River for that
young man,” I said bitterly, “while you knew he was
holing up next door. Not loyalty to your employer,
Miss Teasing.”
“Travelling in fertiliser paid you handsomely,
Mr. Wintergreen. And” but Fielding interrupted.
“Mr. O’Toole, what’s your relationship to this
young lady?”
“My wife,” he grinned (grinning was second
nature to the feller), “as soon as we can afford to get
married.”
“All right,” said Fielding. “I don’t know what
you can do, young man, but with a clever wife behind
you I’m satisfied. The agency’s yours.”
I grabbed my hat. “It’s all over bar the shouting.
Come on, Fielding, I can do with a drink. Robin
Hood and Maid Marian and Cupid,” I said, “can put
in time at target practice. There’ll be war arrows
flying later.”
THE FAMILY
By MARGARET TRIST.
IT was to be the last pot of tea made in the old
house. Olive gave the fire a poke and put the
kettle over the blaze. She heated the teapot and
measured the tea into it. The teapot was large
and of dull-brown china. It had served almost as
long as the stove. Both were tangled up with memo-
ries of that faraway time that was Olive’s childhood.
She held it in her hands and looked at it, then placed
it against her cheek. The warmth brought a crimson
spot to the wind-roughened red of her broad face. She
set the teapot on the stove, placed cups and a
plate of plain biscuits on the table. Then she reached
down an old cowbell from the ledge above the kitchen
door and, crossing to the window, leant out and rang
it vigorously. Its clanging cut crisply through the
autumn afternoon.
From the low, roughly-sashed window of the old
house she could see the new house, standing, in all its
glory of fresh cream paint and bright green verandah
blinds, on a little rise a few hundred yards away.
Behind the house there were stretches of grey-fenced
paddocks and squares of shining green crops. In front
of it, and a long way off, was the gleam of the river ;
and further away still a violet cloud of mountain
along the edge of the sky. Over everything the sun-
shine fell in mellow, merging rays. It was like a light
varnish clarifying the tints of a picture. There was
movement, yet an odd stillness ; the countryside slept,
yet underneath it life pulsed with steady sureness.
Olive saw her mother come from the side door
of the new house, followed by her youngest sister Elbe
and her married sister Sophie, who was up from Syd-
ney for a few weeks. From the back of the house
three of her brothers and her father came, joining
the womenfolk at the gate. She watched them a
second, the sunlight shining on her mother’s white
hair and the white walrus moustache of her father,
then she crossed back to the stove to pour the now
boiling water into the teapot.
“Everything’s spick and span,” said Sophie, com-
ing into the kitchen as Olive poured the tea. “It looks
real homey, too, since we put the pictures up.” She
sat down cautiously on one of the rickety chairs being
left to the white-ants and cockroaches, and smiled
complacently as she thought of her four-roomed flat in
the city, the green-and-cream bathroom, the blue-and-
cream kitchen, the brown-and-cream loungeroom, her
mauve-and-cream bedroom, Shirley’s cubby-hole of a
pink-and-cream sleepout. There was something very
satisfying about its perfection.
In the worn-out stove the blaze had given way to
smouldering coals. Olive raked them into a heap.
They glowed crimson for a second, then gradually
started to fade.
“You’ll be glad of the new stove, Olive,” said
Sophie. “That old thing ought to have been scrapped
years ago.”
“Oh, it did,” Olive answered vaguely, “We’d
have never got the new place if we’d been buying
new things for the old.”
“It’s an awful old dustheap of a place,” said
Sophie.
“It did,” answered Olive again.
Her mother sat on the only other chair, while
Elbe perched on the table and the men grouped near
the stove. They attacked the tea and biscuits vigor-
ously and talked briskly between mouthfuls. Olive
looked from one to the other and listened and smiled,
getting up often from the woodbox to pour another
cup or get down more biscuits.
The boys, now well into their twenties, were plain
of face and husky of limb. They had the family
large mouth and wide, flat nose and indefinite colored,
grey-green eyes. But the mouth had a wholesome
upward quirk to it and the eyes were keen and good-
humored.
“You’re worth your weight in gold, Olive,” said
Jack the youngest, smacking her on the shoulder after
she had refilled his cup.
“Oh, go on with you,” answered Olive and
laughed so that everyone started to laugh and the
mother said proudly “He’s a one, is Jack.”
She was old and frail for her sixty years. The
ten children she had borne had left her thin and bent.
Her shoulders were stooped and her hands trembled.
Around her worn, lined face the hair was thin and
short and very white. Her eyes were deep-sunken
under white, drawn brows. Behind her lay crowded
years of babies and milking cows and the rearing of
refractory turkeys. Through the last forty of those
years she and Olive had struggled together, and always
before them had been the dream of the new house.
When Olive was five and had wheeled her two
younger brothers —they were married and had farms
of their own in Queensland now —in a wooden cart
over the rough plank verandah of the old house, her
mother had told her of the smooth pine verandah the
new house would have. When she was seven and had
stood on a box, washing-up in a cut-down kerosene-
tin, her mother had told her of the kitchen the new
house was to have. And so on through all the years
till little by little all the debts were gone and the
family roots were dug deeply into the soil they had
conquered.
Now that the house was actually built a stillness
seemed to have come over the mother. She was con-
tent to put her work aside and go quietly into the
future, basking in the sunshine of her completed dream
What about coming fer a hike with the girls tomorrow
if We can Wangle leave?”
and letting the more vital strings of life be carried on
by her family. Beside her the father was big and
robust. His face was large and red, and his eyes a
clear, snapping blue. He laughed now, a big booming
sound that filled the room, and throwing Shirley across
his knee he smacked her playfully. Then he drained
his cup, smacked his lips, passed his hand over his
moustache and, throwing Shirley across his shoulder,
stood up.
“Doesn’t her grandpa spoil her?” said Sophie
complacently.
Shirley laughed and tossed her curls. They were
big loose curls that the hairdresser in Sydney had
made. They hung round her little, thin face and were
tied with a big blue bow. Her grandpa tossed her in
the air and she giggled hysterically.
“Do be careful, father,” said Sophie.
Olive got the old tin dish and emptied the last of
the hot water out of the kettle into it. In the stove
the coals were black and dead. Olive and the mother
looked at them, then Olive shut the stove door and
pushed in the damper.
Ellie, a plump, rosy girl, wiped the cups as Olive
washed. The men stood round while the kitchen was
tidied. When the cups were ready they were put in
the washing-up dish. The father took the dish, and
with Shirley on his shoulder went back to the new
house.
Everyone had the last few personal things to
gather. They got them and went, leaving Olive to
close the house.
I N the old house it was very still. Olive closed the
' kitchen window firmly and bolted the back door.
In that moment it seemed as if all the babies who had
been bathed in that kitchen were there, and with them
all the people who had gathered round the kitchen
fire through the nights of all the years. Olive stood
still a moment, then went out, closing the door behind
her. “I’m getting sentimental,” she thought; “I’m too
old for sentiment.”
But all through the house the memories persisted.
Children who had crawled along the hall, children
who had jumped and played and shouted. Laughing,
singing, crying—odd sounds rose in the deserted house
like the echoes of all sounds that had ever been in it.
The old horsehair sofa had been left in the front
room —she remembered the night her brother Dick
had been carried in and laid on it. He had been
thrown from his horse and killed. A dull, awkward
boy, no one had noticed him till he was dead. Then
an aunt had found a faded photograph of him taken
years before. She had had it reprinted and enlarged
and given it to the family. So the unnatural distorted
photograph took the place of Dick and was treated
far better than Dick would have been in life.
There had been wedding parties and christenings
and even church services held in the front room. The
front bedroom had known birth and death. The
front verandah had been the scene of lovers’ meetings
and bitter quarrels. Almost all the things that had
happened in the house Olive could remember —such
a lot of things and such a lot of years. She sighed
and went out, shutting the front door. Tomorrow the
pien would come across and board up the doors and
windows ; then the house would be left to fall to pieces
in its own way. The vital thing that had been the
family seemed to be shut in what had been its home.
All the sunshine and all the sorrow were imprisoned in
the low grey walls. That integral thing that was a
family could never be known in the new house —the
shadow of Dick would not be there, or the memory of
babies. The boys away in Queensland had no part of
it; even Sophie did not fit into it. She belonged to
the city ; the laughing girl Sophie who had never
been to a city would not haunt the new house.
The walls of the new house looked strangely grey
as Olive walked towards it in the fading light. Sud-
denly she hated the new house. She had been part of
a family. While the family had stood around her she
was content; now with the passing of the old house
the family seemed to pass with it. She felt very old
and tired, and for the first time in her life sorry for
herself. Tears welled in her eyes as she went up the
cemented path of the new house.
Inside the house her father sang boisterously to
Shirley. Shirley shrieked joyously and danced madly
round the floor. Sophie prattled on inconsequently,
and underneath her prattlings ran a low strain that was
her mother crooning an old-time lullaby. Coming
down the hall the sounds rushed at Olive.
“I’m frightfully hungry,” she heard Ellie say.
“Where’s Olive?”
Olive smiled, oddly comforted, and forgetting she
was tired went on along the hall to the kitchen. Still
smiling, she placed the kettle over the blaze already
dancing under the black polished top of the new stove.


ROYAL
PURPLE, PARA
rfWie mell(nim€J£<mdMmiquefi
Seppelts
LONDON’S FIRST GREAT BAPTISM BY FIRE — 1666.
Flight of Citizens at the River Side.
London would appear to be fated, as her record shows, to
endure her greatest trials in times when war’s grim drums
beat out a tragic measure or the echoes of that measure
still reverberated. The year 1666 found England at the
end of a disastrous Civil War, when there fell upon its
capital two fearful visitations —the Great Plague and the
Great Fire, calamities which shook her to her foundations.
Almost three centuries later, she was called upon to face
even more dire trials, but that splendid heritage her citi-
zens possessed from their forebears, undaunted and un-
dauntable courage, rose to heights exciting the admiration
and wonder of other peoples. London’s trial by fire and
through bombs in 1940 will remain among the epic events
of history. Photographs have provided some idea of the
havoc caused by fire in 1940. Drawings and paintings have
given a representation of scenes witnessed during the con-
flagration of 1666. In certain human and physical features
a resemblance may be discovered with the scenes enacted
in 1940. The Great Fire of 1666, originating in a baker’s
house near London Bridge, in Pudding-lane, soon en-
gulfed a major part of the city. Four hundred streets and
eleven thousand houses were reduced to ashes, the area
covered by the ruins extending over 440 acres. Contribut-
ing causes to the “conquering march of the flames” were
narrowness of the streets, houses constructed almost en-
tirely of wood, dryness of the season and a strong east
wind, attaining the violence of a gale. If “out of bitter
cometh sweet,” then this fire had its advantages—wider
and more regular thoroughfares, dwellings of less inflam-
mable material. In short, the old city became a healthier
place to live in, and the plague, a regular visitant pre-
viously, was banished. As history has a knack of repeating
itself, the slum localities Nazi violence has razed will not
be found in the London of the future.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62—No. 3186.
Wednesday, March 5, 1941.
THREE MEN IN A BOAT.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
F. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE : 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
\ ictokia : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings 'pp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : J Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad :
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign );
12 months, £2 J,s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
THE APPROACHING STORM.
Strangely out of the picture since Mr. Eden took
control, the Foreign Office returned to it impressively
last week. Mr. Butler, Mr. Eden’s understudy, was
asked in the House of Commons for precise infor-
mation about the mediation offer mentioned by a
Cabinet Information Bureau spokesman at Tokyo
(“Japan is fully prepared to act as mediator, or to
take whatever action is calculated to restore normal
conditions, not only in Greater East Asia but any-
where in the world”), and conveyed to the Foreign
Office in a “courteously-worded communication” by
the Japanese Foreign Minister. Mr. Butler revealed
that “in the courteously-worded communication” Mr.
Matsuoka had used the very words employed by the
Cabinet Information Bureau spokesman, and that the
Foreign Office had had nothing from him at first hand
since. But
Mr. Matsuoka, in a subsequent public statement,
made, he has said, after consultation with Germany,
indicated that the words were not to be regarded as an
offer of mediation in the European war. In any case,
Mr. Matsuoka has been informed by the Prime Minister
that in a cause of the kind for which we are fighting,
which is in no way concerned with territory, trade or
material gain but affects the whole future of humanity,
there can be no question of compromise or parley.
So there was a Japanese mediation offer, and it was
withdrawn, in an odd fashion, “after consultation with
Germany.” It looks as if “consultation with Ger-
many” has been a feature of Japanese mediation in
the Thailand-Tndo-China quarrel. That performance
has produced another fierce outbreak of “reliable
reports,” and, though nine-and-ninety may be wrong,
as usual, it has every appearance of being “mediation”
with a big stick. Certainly there will be no call for
Mr. Matsuoka’s services in a larger capacity.
It is recorded that the House greeted Mr. Butler’s
statement with cheers, and that Mr. Menzies, now in
London and admitted to Mr. Churchill’s confidence
and to War Cabinet discussions, said “That suits
Australia.” It was the nearest approach to a declara-
tion of war aims which has been made. It will, of
course, be necessary to be more specific, and to take
into account such ugly facts as that the Russians are
in possession of Eastern Poland. In the U.S.A. and
elsewhere there may be unfortunate repercussions if
the declaration is issued from too high a pyramid or
pedestal.
While Mr. Butler was holding the fort in London,
Mr. Eden arrived at Ankara, accompanied by Sir John
Dill, Chief of the Imperial General Staff; General
Arthur Smith, General Wavell’s Chief of Staff; other
military officers and Foreign Office officials. The
party had an inspiriting reception, and the Minister
scored by addressing the guard of honor in its own
language. He was closeted for a long time with Mr.
Sarajoglu, the Turkish Foreign Minister, and before
he returned to Cairo, intending to go on to Athens,
Sir Stafford Cripps, the British Ambassador at
Moscow, had joined him in the Turkish capital, in
response to a special message.
Before Sir Stafford set out on his journey, it was
announced that Mr. Molotov would hold forth again ;
but Mr. Molotov kept his lips locked. His silence
may have been connected with the “removal” of his
vjife from the Central Committee of the Communist
party. Another person “removed” was Mr. Litvinov,
his offence being “failing to secure fulfilment of his
obligations as a member.” At the same time a warn-
ing was issued to Mr. Kaganovich, who is commissar
for aviation industry, that if his work does not
improve he also will be “removed.” All this looks
like the beginning of another purge. But nothing
can be predicated of the Mighty Soviet except that it
remains willing to wound and afraid to strike.
Very different is the attitude of Turkey. Though
it has to reckon with the possibility of being attacked
by the Russians if it goes to war with the Germans
and the Italians, Turkey is showing a bold front. It
is not yet certain that the Turks will actively resist
an invasion of Greece, but it is pretty certain that
they will defend their own possessions in Europe, as
well as in Asia, and that if the necessity arises they
will let ships of the Royal Navy pass through the
Dardanelles and the Bosphorus to the Black Sea,
where, with the Fleet Air Arm helping, they can make
things sultry for Bulgarian and Rumanian ports and
oil depots.
Of Bulgarian resistance to Germany, though there
are unwilling patriotic elements, hope was abandoned
months before the Government at Sofia joined the
Axis and admitted large bodies of German troops and
airmen, as it did last week. Yugoslavia, too, seems to
be in the German bag. Its Government has entered
into a pact of friendship with Hungary, which is under
complete German control, and there is evidence that it
has agreed to acquiesce in a German invasion of Greece
by way of Yugoslavia—if that route should be chosen
in preference to a thrust through Bulgaria—in return
for concessions, one being the Greek part of
Macedonia. The Turks have a tradition of loyalty
to allies, whoever the allies may be. This is not the
case with Bulgaria or Yugoslavia. As was said in
the House of Commons recently, Russia is terrified
of Germany and nobody is terrified of Russia, and
so it is with these Balkan States. Nothing helpful to
our cause can be expected of Yugoslavia, and it would
be foolish to entertain hopes.
Greece is in another category. In a desperate
emergency it has shown its mettle and vindicated its
right to an independent political existence. Short of
risking the utter loss of the immensely important
strategical advantages achieved in the Mediterranean
zone by the Royal Navy, the R.A.F. and the Army
of the Nile, the Greeks deserve every support that the
British can extend to them, and that support they will
assuredly get. Heavy snowfalls and torrential rains
in Bulgaria and Yugoslavia have delayed Hitler’s plans
for intimidating or crushing them. It has been a wild
winter in Europe and it may be a late spring. But the
respite which Nature has gained for the brave little
nation can only be brief. There is no mercy in
Hitler’s make-up, and if the Greeks resist him he will
strike and spare not. Gallantly and successfully as
they have fought the Italians for upwards of four
months, the tide of Nazi frightfulness may overwhelm
them. But to go under in such circumstance is not
to go down ; the spirit which the Hellenes have shown
is inextinguishable, their liberation only a matter of
time.
Meanwhile, whatever may be in store for them,
they and we may draw encouragement from the
speeches delivered by the dictators last week. Hitler’s
effort, though, as usual, it contained a lot of the old
stuff which even Germans must be tired of hearing,
lacked something of the old assurance. There was a
note of anxiety in his protest that “we have no quarrel
with the New World.” He did not enlarge on this
painful subject, but he must have a lively sense of
the fact that the two leading nations of the New
World —one a British Dominion, which is taking a
most vigorous part in the war —have entered into a
military alliance for mutual defence, and that at
Washington the President is about to receive legisla-
tive sanction for his programme of helping the
British Empire to the limit, subject only to the pre-
scriptive right of Congress to declare war.
Hitler’s sorely-tried people, suffering from the
effects not only of the British blockade but of loss of
trade with the defeated countries, especially France,
listened in vain for the promise of an early and
decisive defeat of Britain. Instead, they were told
that they were “winter-proof” ; that they had endured
“hard sacrifices” ; that “wherever we meet the British,
in the Mediterranean, the North Sea or the Atlantic,
they will be ravaged by Stukas,” and that, “when our
enemies ridicule German and Italian submarine co-
operation, they do not know what is in store for
them, but they will know soon when our new types
of submarines operate.” Italy he tried to comfort with
a pledge of “friendship, which is more than an alli-
ance of expediency; if I have a friend I stick to
him” (Stalin, “shivering in the Kremlin,” must have
shivered a bit more when this bit was translated
to him); “we stand together and we will slay the
common enemy.”
There was no comfort in this for the unfortunate
Italians. Mussolini had just dolefully admitted to
them that “we will probably have to fight a long
time.” “But the Axis will win,” he proceeded, “and
I will prove it by logic,” the “logic” being that Britain,
with armies inferior in numbers, “must invade the
Continent to conquer the Axis, and no Briton would
ever dream of such a step.” Some Britons contem-
plate it. Others are of opinion that for the task in
hand there are too many men in military camps
—and not in Britain alone —and too few in shipyards,
arsenals, aeroplane and munitions factories. In any
case, seeing that the British Empire, using only a
small part of its forces, has inflicted terrible defeats
on Italy without landing a battalion in any part of
that country, and if Italy stood alone would infallibly
complete the job in a few weeks or, at most,
a few months —again without landing a battalion
in any part of the country —the “logic” must have
failed to convince even the Italians themselves. For
the rest, Mussolini tried to blame his generals for
the defeats in Africa. He pleaded that he had sent
more than 370,000 officers and men, splendidly
equipped, to Libya alone, “Talk of a separate peace,”
he said, was “idiotic. The real Italian fighters are
workers, and they must not be misled by a few anti-
social people, who complain about rations.” So there
has been talk of a separate peace, and people are
complaining about rations.
It was the speech of a dictator who, after 19 years
of absolute rule, has been reduced to the necessity of
presenting a dismal account to the disillusioned nation
which he fed with promises of territorial expansion
and military glory; the speech of a distracted adven-
turer for whom the end of the adventure is in sight.
Words and Nerves.
For weeks past words of one sort and another have
been issuing freely from official and unofficial spokes-
men in all three corners of the Axis triangle. There
should be no Axis complaint on the score of lack of
publicity in the democracies for this supply of propa-
ganda. The threats and name-calling of which it has
mostly consisted have been prominently displayed
from day to day under screamer headlines —free pub-
licity worth incalculable thousands of marks, lire or
yen. On one day last week Australian newspapers
gave more space to the utterances of Messrs. Hitler,
Mussolini and Matsuoka than to all British and Aus-
tralian official and unofficial spokesmen combined.
The Japanese Foreign Minister won first place
in the news columns with the expressed belief
that “the white race must cede Oceania to the
Asiatics.” This is equivalent to a king penguin holding
the belief, as possibly penguins do, that the human
race must cede Antarctica to the birds and seals. Bu
as a contribution to the raging war on nerves it, along
with such name-calling as “snakes” and the like)
possibly has some value, especially as presented by
able scare-headline writers.
Mussolini was run at length on the lines : “Hate is
indispensable to victory. We will probably have to
fight a long time, but the Axis will win. Britain
cannot. Italy has an army of 2,000,000 men, and, it
necessary, 4,000,000.” Hitler, who leaves them all
standing at this sort of brimstone patter, had about
a column in which to harrow nerves susceptible to
such attack. “These British gentlemen will have to
be prepared for sterner things in March and April.
....I am a fanatic... .We are stronger than at any
time in our history.”
For their part the Axis allies extend no such
hospitality to propaganda. When Mr. Churchill pre-
dicts that the Italian empire in Africa will be torn in
tatters, such contributions from this side to the war
of nerves get no free publicity in Italy or elsewhere
in the Axis countries. Perhaps it is a true sign of
the strength of the democracies that they alone can
thus publicise all the enemy propaganda that comes
along free of cost. Even so, there would seem to be
a fatal flaw in the interpreting of what is and what
isn’t of real importance in all the utterances now
cluttering the air.
On performances, Messrs. Mussolini and Mat-
suoka said nothing significant on last week’s Free
Advertisement Day. The one statement of real signi-
ficance —going on performances —was tucked away
obscurely in Hitler’s diatribe: “We have no quarrel
with the New World.” If our friends across the
Pacific have any respect for track form, they must
have found that quite disturbing. It js worth recalling
that “bad faith” was one of the vices listed in Cham-
berlain’s bitter indictment. Some of the performance
is also worth recalling, to show how hypocrisy has
become an instrument of policy.
Hitler’s record in this respect is so notorious that
his name is as synonymous with hypocrisy as that of
Quisling is with treachery. It should be familiar to
everybody; nevertheless, some of it is worth recalling
in brief as a touchstone to what may be innocuous
and what significant in any current official or unoffi-
cial outburst from the Axis.
On January 30, 1934, Hitler pledged that “After
the solution of the Saar question the German Govern-
ment is willing and determined to accept in its.inner-
most soul the Pact of Locarno.” Two years later
Germany remilitarised the Rhineland in violation of
that treaty. On May 21, 1935, Hitler pledged that
Germany had “neither wish nor intention” to “annex
or unite with Austria.” Three years later Germany
annexed Austria. On September 26, 1938, Hitler gave
his pledge that after the settlement of the Sudeten
problem there would be “no further territorial prob-
lems in Europe for Germany. We do not want any
Czechs.” Less than six months later German troops
marched into Czechoslovakia. On that same day in
1938 he promised the Poles “lasting and continuous
pacification,” and a year later, having secured the
assistance of Russia, he ordered German troops to
attack Poland. He gave similar pledges to Denmark
and Norway, Holland and Belgium, and, of course,
attacked them in turn. He pledged: “We have guaran-
teed to all contiguous neighbors the inviolability of
their territory so far as Germany is concerned. That
is not a phrase—that is our sacred will.” He pledged:
“Alsace-Lorraine does not exist any more for us. We
want nothing of France, absolutely nothing.” Offered
the choice of going to Poland (Poland!) scores of
thousands of Lorrainers have been driven out of Lor-
raine into “unoccupied” France.
That is all familiar enough. Mussolini’s perform-
mance in the employment of hypocrisy as an instru-
ment of policy has not been so well publicised, but
is just as poisonous. In all his speeches from 1931 to
1939 there was something interlarded on the theme
“Italy desires peace.” On June 5, 1928, Mussolini
said: “With Abyssinia our relations have become
particularly friendly. The clouds which agents of
other interests would have had gather on the horizon
of Italo-Abyssinian relations have vanished. A Pact
of Friendship, the first which Abyssinia will have
signed with any European Power, will no doubt set
a seal on this new and happy state of affairs.” On
October 3, 1935, Italy invaded Abyssinia. On that
same date on which, by a proper interpretation of
hypocrisy as an instrument of policy, Mussolini
announced his intentions regarding Abyssinia he also,
in the same manner, gave warning to Albania:
“Albania knows that she can count on Italy’s friend-
ship, and knows that this friendship is absolutely loyal,
profoundly sincere and scrupulously anxious not to
do or say anything which even people acting in bad
faith could interpret as an intervention in the internal
affairs of the Albanian State.” On May 28, 1936,
Mussolini extended even more fulsome pledges of
Italy’s intention “to preserve and to respect the inde-
pendent status of this small country, which for cen-
turies has lived in friendship with us. And, of course,
in 1939 Italy invaded Albania, picking Good Friday
as the day.
On all this performance, which could be very
considerably extended, the words to regard as most
sinister in these vicious times are not so much those
loaded with menace which do the Axis job in the war
of nerves, but rather the smooth and oily assurances,
full of professed friendliness and talk of peace.
MACANN.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The 1901-T 911 Spirit.
In these days, when so many striking developments
are in progress, particularly in the domains of industry
and defence, the gratified spectators should spare a
thought for the men who, by their work for Australia
in the ’nineties and the first 10 years of Federation,
made those developments possible. They were not all
public men, although the exertions of public men like
Alfred Deakin, Edmund Barton and Charles Cameron
Kingston should never be forgotten. Many of the
ideas which Deakin, Barton and Kingston transferred
to the Statute Book were minted in the brains of
newspapermen, notably James Edmond and David
Syme.
Before Federation arrived N. S. Wales was Free-
trade and most of the other colonies believed in tariffs
for revenue only. Deakin, Kingston, Edmond and Syme
were Protectionists. Thanks chiefly to their unswerv-
ing advocacy and persuasive eloquence, the Com-
monwealth Parliament adopted a protective tariff.
That tariff led to the establishment of the iron and
steel industries, and so to the present position, when
we see Australians making in Australia or about to
make almost everything required for carrying on the
war and exporting war materials to other Dominions
and India and to Britain itself. Had Australia taken
the wrong fiscal turning and followed the will-
o’-the-wisp of Freetrade, it would have no defence
industries to speak of. As the present Prime Minister
puts it, it would have been reduced to “asking Britain
and the United States to send us things,” and for
many of the “things” it would have asked in vain.
That Prime Minister can now tell the English that
“if we get through the war in good shape the indus-
trial potential of Australia will be so great that a flow
of industrial population from Britain to the Common-
wealth may be expected.” He could not have said
that in other days without being laughed at.
States once neglected and parts of the interior
never previously considered are sharing in the
industrial transformation now in progress. It is a
movement at which Deakin, Kingston, Syme and
Edmond, could they be spared to revisit the scene of
their labors, would rejoice. They would rejoice also
to see the Centre joined to Darwin, and that place
made a real outpost, vital in the scheme of defence ;
to see the young men of Australia accepting without
a murmur their military training and service obliga-
tions and to note the proud deeds of the R.A.N. and
the A.I.F. In all these causes they labored, and their
work will not cease to bear fruit. And they would
smile in a kindly fashion at the spectacle of the Labor
party forgetting in a moment its years of hostility to
“imperialism” and accepting its share of responsibility
for the sending of troops, not only to the United
Kingdom, Palestine and Egypt, but also to Singapore.
But there are features of the present scene which
would not have pleased these men. They would have
objected with all their might to the resurgence of pro-
vincialism, as shown in the interference with border
transport and other impertinences of State transport-
strangulation measures. They would have been in-
dignant at the sight of six State Governments meddling
in the war effort, and insisting on the retention of
their multitude of income taxes when it is so neces-
sary that income tax should be the same in every part
of Australia, as it is in Britain and Maoriland. And
they would be appalled to think what judicial interpre-
tations of vital sections —in some cases conflicting—
and inertia and weakness in high places have made of
the Commonwealth Constitution —a thing of shreds
and patches. Their advice to 1941 Australia would
certainly be to shape the Constitution into an instru-
ment of national government incapable of being mis-
construed or subordinated to rancorous provincialism
and responsive to all modern needs.
Crime and Mr. Mair.
“McHoots”; The true story of my life of crime (if
I could write it in gangster baby-talk I would sell it
to Sydney “D.T.”) begins in a Macquarie-street
consulting room.
“No rhubarb, vinegar or alcohol!” said the
doctor.
“What!” I said. “Me a journalist, and no
rhubarb?”
So that on a certain Friday evening at half-past
six I was sitting in the crowded lounge of a Sydney
hotel watching friends drink a couple of beautiful
beers before dinner and sipping myself at a horrible
concoction of milk and mineral water.
Enter two policemen in plain clothes. Three
weeks later, four of us from that crowded lounge have
to repair to the Water Police Court to expiate our
crime.
Knowing that anybody can still get a drink at
any time in any of the big hotels, knowing that this
prosecution is the result of some vague stirring of the
mud in the N.S.W. “Parliament,” knowing that what
is a sin in Sydney is virtuous in Brisbane, knowing
that Mr. Churchill and the Archbishop of Canterbury
can have a pot in any pub in England up to 10 p.m.,
knowing that I am selected as a scapegoat to appease
the easily-appeased conscience of the N. S. Wales
“Parliament” and that if the licensing law were strin-
gently enforced the public would at once hurl it and
the politicians who made it to the four winds, I burn
with righteous indignation. Apart from the fact that
I do not feel I was born to be a sacrificial lamb, I
feel that the whole system of token prosecutions is
undemocratic, a scandalous evasion of the impar-
tiality and inflexibility of the law.
When I recall that I am off rhubarb, vinegar and
alcohol, and that hardened criminals were committing
exactly my offence in every milk bar in Sydney at the
very moment when the gargoyle of the Lor shoved
its head over my shoulder, I feel that I am insane.
The licensing law and the Sydney “Parliament” are fig-
ments of my distracted brain.
In my dementia, I hear learned men advising me
that it is an offence to drink even milk and mineral
water in a hotel lounge at the unholy hour of half-past
six. I madly plead guilty and am madly fined. Jus-
tice is done.
Then to my great joy and relief I read two excel-
lent articles in the Sydney “Morning Herald” proving
conclusively that it is the Lor that is mad. Moreover
the Old Lady proves that it is unjust in its administra-
tion and that it leads to gross exploitation of the public.
The Sydney “Parliament’s” incredible Mr. Mair is
invited to comment. He does:
“I read the articles with considerable interest,” he
said, “and the able marshalling of points that
undoubtedly show the need for an amendment of the
liquor laws. However, it is felt by the Government that,
during this period of crisis, it would be unwise to disturb
existing conditions drastically.”
“In this period of crisis” it’s going to “disturb
existing conditions drastically” if the Government
makes it possible for one to have a pot of beer, a
glass of wine or a filthy pot of milk and mineral water
after six o’clock! I have a vote, Mr. Mair ; I have a
vote. Yes, indeed I have a vote!
Hail Hollywood !
When anybody says “Culture” to Mr. Fadden he
reaches for a regulation. Or so it appears from his
argument with Williamson’s as to whether Australia
is or is not to have grand opera and ballet this year.
So far he has not said one word to indicate that he
regards the cultural side of the matter as of the
slightest importance.
To Williamson’s proposal to bring from America
grand opera and ballet companies and several con-
cert artists, Mr. Fadden’s first retort, referring to the
opera company, was the gibe “The Italians are enter-
taining us enough in Libya.” To which Mr. Frank
Tait replied “My firm would not be ingenuous enough
to ask for the admittance of Italian nationals.”
Mr, Fadden’s second objection (based on the pre-
sumption that entertainment in war-time is a luxury ;
whereas it’s a necessity) was dollar exchange. To the
obvious counter that Australian money was still pour-
ing into the coffers of Hollywood to the extent of 50
per cent, of pre-war remittances and that it was mon-
strously unfair to penalise the stage alone, Mr. Fadden
answered evasively and fatuously: “It would be diffi-
cult to show that stage presentations are as essential
to the public morale as films, or that they have a
significant propaganda value.”
What possible relation to public morale (unless
Mr. Fadden is willing to admit that entertainment is
a necessity) have the crimes of gangsters and the legs
of chorus girls? As for the straight-out propaganda
films —meaning news-reels and shorts —the British and
Australian reels are admittedly valuable. So are a few
of the American ; but a whole lot more, with their
cheap hysterics and their way of playing up the war as
the greatest news thrill since Dirty Dan plugged Hang-
dog Harry on the corner of Fifth Avenoo, strike most
Australians as silly or sickening. It is almost unbe-
lievable that Mr. Fadden should put grand opera and
this mush in the same class.
It may be —since the best operas are Italian or
German in origin—that this is a foolish time for an
opera season; that’s a matter for Williamson’s, who,
as Mr. Tait says, are not fools. It is also true that
dollar exchange must be conserved and that it would
be much better if English stage people, who are hav-
ing a hard time and who represent so many more
mouths for England to feed, could be brought to
Australia. Mr. Fadden has said that “a favorable
view would be taken” of an application to bring stage
companies from sterling countries.
Would it? It is difficult to take a favorable
view of the prospects of a favorable view from a
politician unaware of the cultural gulf between a
newsreel and an opera and unaware that the public
must have some relief from propaganda in war-time.
Mr. Fadden should certainly look with great
favor on any attempt to bring English artists to Aus-
tralia, and, if the theatrical managers are finding it
difficult to arrange that, he must in common fairness
grant the stage the same privileges as the cinema.
A Good Unionist.
The story of Barney:
Barney had been a member of the union for many years
and had always paid his dues. He knew that the union had
done much for him in the way of wages and hours, sick
benefits and so forth. He could have done with more wages,
but a wife and two kids —well, you had to keep ’em and
there wasn’t much to spare. Still, having a constant job
was something, and if it wasn’t for the union a man might
have to get along on a lot less.
He seldom went to the meetings. He wasn’t too well up
in these economics and cost-of-living percentages. Besides,
they kept a secretary and a solicitor to look after all that sort
of thing. And he was no talker. There was blokes on the
executive could run rings round him when it came to talking
and they knew what they were talking about. Of course you
had to go to some meetings and give your vote, but that was
only when there was an election of officers, or talk of a strike
or something like that. Barney knew the executive. They were
good blokes and could be trusted to give the members a
fair go.
Barney went to the meeting called to protest against the
ban on what they called “certain workingclass newspapers”
and “organisations.” A lot of blokes got up and talked about
Fascism and the masters and watching the workers’ interests
and freedom of speech. Barney’s union didn’t print a news-
paper, and he’d only read bits of the papers they were talking
about. Some of it seemed a bit silly and a lot of it was too
deep for him. Big figures and things. You couldn’t tell
whether they were right or wrong.
After the meeting Barney got one of the papers—there was
a heap of ’em on a table near the door. It had a lot in it
about the Budget and strikes in war industries, and some bloke
wrote about the war in Spain, and there was stuff about Curtin
being a traitor to the workers and B.H.P. strangling Australia
like an octopus. Barney noticed that it said nothing about
the war but a lot about Russia and Spain and China. He
wondered what the devil those countries had to do with his
union, but thought these writing blokes had to write about
something.
Thinking about the meeting, he recalled that there was a
little bunch of blokes in one part of the hall who had plenty
to say. Queer-looking blokes, they hadn’t grinned or cheered
or even looked about them; just kept their heads still and
listened and then got up and moved motions and talked in
loud, clear voices. Barney couldn’t remember ever seeing any
of them in the old days. They didn’t look like blokes who
toiled hard, or would sink a pot with a man and crack a
fast one. Funny-looking codgers. But he supposed they must
be fair dinkum or they wouldn’t be in the union.
He saw one or two of them after that. They’d come
to the works and make speeches in the lunch hour and hand
round pamphlets. Barney listened to them and tried to read
their pamphlets, and gradually he realised that they were
all-out for striking and up against the Labor party and stood
for the same things as he had always understood the Com-
munists to stand for. But he didn’t think much about them.
There was always a crank or two about.
Barney went to more meetings after that. He didn’t know
why, but it seemed to him that he ought to, because only a
few of the members turned up and somebody had to keep
the union meetings going. The queer fellows were always
there, though, and Barney noticed that there were more of
’em. They got resolutions passed, and he saw news about
the resolutions in the papers and didn’t feel too good about
it but supposed the union heads knew what they were doing.
Then he read about Jack Carney being killed at Bardia.
He and young Jack had worked side by side for two years
before Jack joined the A.I.F. Barney’s brother-in-law and
two of his cousins were over there somewhere. Reading about
young Jack he thought that if Hitler and his mob won Aus-
tralia mightn’t be the same place any more. They mightn't
have any unions and laws to protect them against the bosses.
He had a sudden vision of Australia, vast and empty, of people
working on farms and in towns and cities and going to the
football and to the beaches and sinking a couple with their
mates. Jack Curtin had said it was all-in; everybody
would have to do their bit. Old Jack was right, be cripes.
It was all-in. Young Jack Carney had proved it, and there was
a lot of Jack Carneys in the army and the navy and the air
force. Kids, most of ’em, but old enough to know what
they were doing.
He thought about young Carney at the next union meet-
ing when one of the queer fellows was making a speech.
A slow, hot feeling grew through Barney and he felt that
somebqdy ought to job the blankard. When the speech ended
Barney stood up and the chairman looked at him.
He said: “I wanter oppose the motion. I don’t think it’s
right. We gotter stick to Jack Curtin and —and”
He didn’t know how to say what he felt, so he sat down
again. The queer fellows didn’t even look at him but
one of them got up and spoke. Barney wished he could
speak like that. And the motion was carried, something
about a protest against the “Fascist Budget” and “this war
isn’t a people’s war.”
Barney went home. Somehow he couldn’t forget about
young Carney and Australia and Jack Curtin. He felt that a
man oughtn’t to belong to a union that let queer fellows in
to talk and carry motions. He thought of writing a letter to
the secretary; telling him that some of the union members
were away fighting and that it was up to their mates to see
that they got a fair go. Telling him that anybody could see
the queer fellows weren’t fair dinkum, that they were using
the union for their own ideas. He would say that he didn’t
believe in those ideas, that his idea was that Australia was
good enough for him and so was the union, but if they didn’t
stoush Hitler and his mob neither of ’em would be any good
any more. He’d say that he didn’t see why he should stay
in the union if it was going to let in these cranks and their
mad notions, that it seemed funny to him that the executive
listened to ’em when dinki-di Australians were risking their
lives to keep the good old Australian ways. “Our fellow-
members,” he’d write, “didn’t enlist to fight for these lousy
troublemakers; they’re fighting to —to” Well, “for Aus-
tralia” might be the best way to put it.
Then Barney knew it wouldn’t be much good writing
the letter. If he left the union he wouldn’t be able to get
another job. There was the wife and kids. The union heads
might make it tough for him. Besides, it was better to stay
in the union and try to keep the queer fellows down. He
wished more members would attend the meetings, wished
he could get around among the blokes and tell ’em how
he felt. But he never was much of a talker. There ought
to be some rule in the union about these queer fellows. It
wasn’t a fair go.
Upset and troubled, Barney went to bed, wishing there
was something he could do.
Sex Offenders in Melbourne.
“Pa wang”: Having before him a man who had been
incarcerated for one sex offence and then released,
only to commit another, Judge Macindoe made a
statement which has become almost a stock observa-
tion with Melbourne Judges. He said that sending
them to prison only made this class of offender worse,
and that what the prisoner needed was medical
treatment in some suitable institution other than a
gaol; but Judges had no option.
Commenting on this, Chief Secretary Bailey said
that medical evidence tendered to the Government on
this question was generally to the effect that in the
great majority of cases no form of medical treatment
was known and that it was a mistaken belief that
medical science was able to change the personality of
such offenders.
There is an institute in Melbourne with psychia-
trist members who could enlighten Mr. Bailey on the
subject. A leading Melbourne psychiatrist flatly con-
tradicted the Minister;
Prison sentences are absolutely useless in cases of
sex offences. Men should be placed under supervision—
for life if necessary, or until a cure has been effected.
After a prison sentence a man simply comes out with
his real problem a worse handicap to him and to others
than when he went in The Victorian Council for Mental
Hygiene has laid plans before the Government for treat-
ment of these men, but nothing has ever been done to
help them.
The Chief Secretary ought either to refute this state-
ment or explain why he didn’t mention it.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Phil Anthus”: A recent par. about
a bishop’s compliment to a female im-
personator of Bottom the weaver
brought back to memory an amiable
lady from Scandinavia who descended
upon Sydney a few years ago. When
presented with a hefty bunch of flowers
she sought valiantly within the limits of
her English to make grateful acknow-
ledgment. “Ladies,” she declared, “I
t’ank you very much. I t’ank you from
t’e ’eart of my bottom.”
* * * *
“Lao-dah”; A Melbourne “Age”
correspondent wrote asserting that it was
a common practice amongst the horse-
drivers of Melbourne to use a sharpened
stick to prod their beasts into action. A
well-known parson promptly challenged
him to bring a case, undertaking to pay
the cost of the prosecution. Then he
added: “If I knew the writer’s address
1 would esteem it a pleasure to call on
him and convey my own opinion and
that of hundreds of horse-drivers and
-owners in terms that he could not pos-
sibly misunderstand.” Suggests that the
Church can still be militant in Mel-
bourne.
* * * *
“Jamwood”: A Divorce Court judg-
ment which intrigued the junior Bar has
been upset on appeal. The case —it was
undefended —was one in which a married
woman was found in the bedroom of a
house at Leichhardt (Sydney), twenty
minutes after the midnight hour, with a
man who had no right to be there. Two
“inquiry agents” posted outside heard the
“Wish this flaming Army of the Nile wouldn't go so fast."
fall of heavy boots, and, waiting ten
minutes or so, burst into the room, where
they found the parties standing near the
bed in insufficient clothing—the lady in
a pink nightdress (plus shoes and stock-
ings) and the gent, in shirt and socks. A
Judge new to the jurisdiction dismissed
the case on the ground that proof of
frustrated intention to commit adultery
did not amount to proof of adultery.
“They had ample time,” quoth Justice
Halse Rogers drily, “and if the facts were
put before 100 people in the street there
is only one inference 99 would draw.”
Decree nisi, with costs against co-re.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: A reshuffle in the Knight-
Jeffries co. when the just-dead Julius
Knight was suddenly taken ill and had
to undergo an operation for appendicitis
led to one of Sydney Theatre Royal’s
funniest incidents. Stage-manager Varna
took over the role of Nero in “The Sign
of the Cross,” and while he swotted his
part a lot of stage-management was
missed. Towards the end of the first
night’s performance, when the Christians
were going to the lions and the youth
Stephanus had to shrink back from the
roars of the beasts as the arena gates were
thrown open, there were no roars. Varna
noticed the hiatus and signalled frenziedly
to the supers, massed in the wings across
the stage. They saw his signals; but in his
agitation Varna had tossed his arms up-
ward, and the supers, misunderstood. So
when they saw the Christians approach-
ing, the lions gave three hearty British
cheers.
“Pawang”: A Nazi bomb that fell in
London did what doctors had failed to
do. A man of 60 who had been paralysed
for years was lying bedridden and in-
capable of movement when the bomb
exploded. He jumped off his bed and,
feeling the strength returning to his
palsied muscles, decided to get out of
the danger zone. Next day he walked
to Ipswich.
« * * *
“V. Cluse”: It was just on dusk when
our suburb’s drunk appeared on the street
outside his home. The neighbors observed
him waving his arms about and drew
closer. When they saw that his lips were
mouthing words but that no sound was
issuing they grinned tolerantly, mur-
mured “He’s on it again,” and withdrew.
The drunk went to the door of his own
house and knocked. His wife answered,
coldly eyed his moving but silent lips and
shut the door in his face. Wearily he
went and lay on the lawn for a while,
then arose, went to the gate and again
waved his arms and made noiseless
speech. Then came one who didn’t know
him, and a few minutes later a sym-
pathetic and rather contrite street learned
that the poor fellow was cold sober, but
suffering from laryngitis.
* * * *
“Ibrahim Konk”: Hyman Richard
Diamond, of Sydney, pinched in Lon-
don in mistake for Woolcott Forbes,
got £llO damages against Scotland
Yard men for wrongful arrest. The
trial Judge said he was satisfied Diamond
had never been associated in any busi-
ness transactions with Forbes. It was
“not surprising” that Diamond had
arrived in England with letters from the
Australian Priminister and the N.S.W.
Premier; all the same “Diamond’s ex-
pression of indignation during his evi-
dence created a rather bad impression”
and “much trouble might have been
averted if he had adopted a different
attitude. If he had made it clear that
his passport had been stolen at Bombay
by Forbes I am satisfied the police would
have made inquiries immediately.” How-
ever, “Diamond can now return to Aus-
tralia and look his friends in the face,”
and “at the risk of being regarded as an
awful bore he will be able to tell his
friends about his three days and nights
in Brixton prison.” I daresay most people
would attend Brixton for that period in
return for £llO.
He * H: ♦
“Adelaide”: One more reason for
having all Australia’s marriage and
divorce laws uniform appears in a case
in S.A., where the two “guilty” parties
applied to have the waiting period
shortened, so that they can marry before
he is ordered overseas. The time for
appeal against an order absolute, said
Judge Parsons, is only seven days, “and
in practice any appeal is against the order
nisi; there appears to be no reason why
the limitation of three months after the
order absolute should be retained. It
seems to have crept into our Statute
Book by inadvertence.” But Judges have
to observe the law, “and, as Parliament
has imposed this limitation —for no good
purpose that I can see —if the result is
a hardship to a soldier, the remedy is to
be sought elsewhere than in this Court.”
♦ * * *
“C. 8.”; There is a belief amongst
some of these young “modernist” painters
that they ought to have some eccentricity
of behavior like their revered masters.
But as far as my observation goes their
unusualnesses are mainly verbal or run
in sartorial directions, such as wearing
sandals and shirts of Van Gogh sun-
flower yellow. None of them up to date
has created a sensation equal to Toulouse
Lautrec, who had been bidden by his
doctor to drink a pint of mare’s milk
every morning at 11 and chose that hour
to take his daily ride in the Bois de
Boulogne. At the appointed time he
would look at his watch, climb off his
horse, milk it into a bottle and solemnly
drink the beverage. When I was in Paris
a young poet was much talked about for
sleeping with corpses. A less gruesome
pose was that of a painter who lived in
the studio adjoining. He trained a black
cat to follow him down the street like
a dog, and this simple device placed him
amongst the immortals for at least six
months.
* * * *
“D.G.”; Old Monty, who had been
French master at our school for more
than 30 years, lost his wife during a
vacation, and returned showing the signs
of a deep and sincere grief. At the first
lesson, without a word but with a sad
wave of the hand, he sent us to our trans-
lation books. We could see a tear in
the old man’s eyes, and <dl felt a sym-
pathetic lump in our throats. Next day
was an exact repetition, and the next also.
By this time we thought Monty was
taking it too hard. When the same thing
happened op the following day our feel-
ings of sympathy began to change a little.
and we found Monty’s doleful silence
and rheumy eyes almost irritating. But
the day after that Monty entered the
room with a radiant smile. “Ah, my
boys,” said he to the astonished class,
“I can at last talk to you ; I have got
my new false teeth! ”
* * * *
“C.C.”; Paul Anderson, known as the
“Young Apollo,” is a remarkable Mel-
bourne product. In 1937 he was in-
volved in a motor accident and was taken
to St. Vincent’s Hospital to have his left
thigh muscle removed. The other day
he gave a demonstration before the girls
who had nursed him by towing an eight-
ton double-decker bus along with his
teeth. This was a preparation for an
attack on a more ambitious task —the
haulinn of a fully-manned fire-engine.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Coipotter”: A noticeable attribute of
the soldier is that he resolutely refuses
to sing patriotic songs when on route
march, on arrival at foreign ports or in
private celebrations. In the 1914-18
affair, though airs of the “March on to
Berlin” type were ten a penny, the British
soldier stuck to the unwarlike “Tipper-
ary” and the Digger to his “We Are a
Ragtime Army.” In this dust-up the
patriotic song-writers are still trying to
turn an honest penny, and it must gall
them to read of Diggers rushing Tobruk
to the tune of “The Wizard of Oz” and
greeting Malaya with “Roll out the
Barrel.” Evidently the men who fight
the wars aren’t anxious to sing about
them.
* * * *
“Paterson”: There is talk of psycho-
logists having been attached to the
army, but they seem to have been
attached at the wrong end. Of two recent
Victorian recruits of my acquaintance,
one was an excellent worker but a poor
walker. Give him a job requiring
thought, preparation and consideration,
put him alongside a piece of machinery
and he would sit down for hours and
wrestle with the problem and was always
able to find a solution which might not
have occurred to men technically re-
garded as better equipped than he was.
But to get him to walk a hundred yards
was a superhuman task. The other had
no capacity for thought, but loved physi-
cal effort of any sort and was absolutely
fatigue-proof. Both were accepted. I
subsequently heard that No. 2 had been
drafted into some aeroplane-spotting
section, where he was getting stale with
lack of exercise and melancholy with
discouragement. No. 1 was becoming
worn out with foot-slogging and dis-
couraged with the monotony of physical
training.
* * * *
“Nakhoda’ remembers old days in
Singapore:
Australian correspondents with the A.I.F. in
Singapore are lost in admiration of the seduc-
tions of that cosmopolis, amongst which they
list the vast air-conditioned dance halls of the
Happy World and New World which offer the
Digger the attractions of an Asiatic Luna Park,
Chinese, Eurasian and Russian dance girls and
sideshows of all descriptions. The British seaport
has developed. Before 1914 the sole relaxation
provided for the white man was the Tingle
Tangle, hard by that great sink of iniquity
Malay-street.
At the Tingle Tangle 30 or 40 flaxen-haired
Austrian damsels sat on a dais discoursing music
while the white men sat at tables drinking
whisky-sodas. Tire moment the girls struck up
men shot up from their places, rushed the dais
and beckoned down their fancy. Putting down
her violin or ’cello she descended and decor-
ously waltzed with her companion until the item
finished. Then came the drinks. She ordered
champagne in accordance with her contract,
and if he was an old hand he made it lemon
squash or some equally inexpensive beverage.
After a few minutes’ conversation she returned
to the dais and the process was repeated.
The spectacle that never failed to entrance
newcomers happened at midnight. The orchestra
struck up the National Anthem while the pro-
prietor, a little bearded fellow but a first-class
wrestler, and his wife, a gigantic amazon, also
bearded, took up their stations at the foot of
a spiral staircase which led to the loft where the
girls slept. At the last note of the Anthem
the girls dropped their instruments and made
a screaming bolt for the staircase with the white
men after them. The proprietor and his wife
fought a rearguard action until the last white
skirt had vanished through the trapdoor in the
ceiling. Then, picking the most adventurous
Caucasians off the staircase by their collars and
dropping them on to the floor, they vanished
after their charges and the trapdoor slammed
down behind this forbidden heaven of young
ladies. It was the Tingle Tangle Conrad de-
scribed in Victory, recently screened in Aus-
tralia, but he transplanted it to Sourabaya.
More dubious delights existed, but the reput-
able social life of Singapore in those days was
ineffably English. It consisted in hiring a gharry
and dropping cards in the “Not-at-Home”
boxes that were stuck up on the entrances to
every drive in Tanglin, the fashionable suburb.
A few days later the board of the Cricket Club
budded a snowfall of pasteboard acknowledg-
ments of your visit, and there your acquaintance
ended. It would be easier to get into the base
today than it was in those days for an Austra-
lian without English credentials to enter the
portals of Singapore’s suburbia. And if he
succeeded it meant black coat and tails —the
comfortable white messjacket was taboo to
civilians —and dinners that lasted from eight to
half-past eleven.
STOCKINGS.
“At a conference in Sydney between housewives
and representatives of hosiery firms, Mrs. Anderson
(W.A.) provoked a burst of laughter by asserting
that ‘no young man would make a date with a girl
wearing woollen stockings.’ ”
A novel proposition, you’ll allow,
This: that a lass’s chance to make a lad
Fall for her charms, and rapturously bow
Before her shrine, must all depend on how
Her nether limbs are clad.
She may be passing fair, one may infer,
Sweet as the lily, radiant as the rose,
But no prospective mate will register
Even a fleeting preference for her
Unless she’s silken hose.
Beauty, we’re asked to think, will lose its spell,
And sex appeal become devoid of pull
When it’s exerted by a damosel,
However otherwise adorable,
Whose stockings are of wool.
Queer that it took so long for us to hear
That shimmering integuments would do
A task beyond the power of black cashmere —
That is, undoubtedly it would be queer
If only it were true.
Yet, since our Celtic forebears, garbed in woad
And little else, ran wild in weald and wood,
Woman, subservient to fashion’s code,
Has always worn whatever’s in the mode
And always found it good.
And swains, be sure, the chance will always
seize
To sound —and answer to —the mating call
In whatsoever fabrics maids may please
To be caparisoned below the knees —
Or if there’s none at all!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“The Bluff”: A military-service tribu-
nal at Wellington (M.L.) is kept busy
dealing with conchies’ appeals, some of
which are expressed in prose which
recalls the poetry of the poets Pollok and
Tupper. A certain David Meyer Gold,
a tailor, asked for exemption on the
ground that “I derive the greatest enjoy-
ment from just being alive, from breath-
ing the air which is free to everyone and
everything, from observing the majesty
of Nature in her manifold moods, and
from the enjoyments of the senses in
reading and listening to the artistic lega-
cies which former ages have bequeathed
to the present.” When the tribunal
stopped staggering, it replied that these
enjoyments, with certain limitations,
would be scrupulously preserved for
David Meyer—in camp. Next on tjie
list was Wilfred Franks, painter (same
persuasion, same decision), who intimated
that “on intellectual and emotional
grounds” he had “believed for 15 years”
that “no man has the right to take an-
other’s life,” and that “Jesus was the
master conscientious objector.” This
bird confided that he had been “asked
to resign from the Jewish Social Club”
because of “my views,” and that “the
rabbi turned his back on me, saying I
wasn’t a Jew if I wouldn’t serve.” Good
old rabbi!
* * * *
“Tuart”: “Appreciation” from the
New York “Herald-Tribune”:
The Australian style of going to war
*s very like the American... .If the Cock-
ney dialect of Sydney has no use for a
literal translation of “la gloire” it well
knows what it means.
“The Cockney dialect of Sydney”! I
suppose there was some truth in it when
’Arry Rickards was the high priest of
the halls, and coster songs were all the
rage. But hasn’t Hollywood been trying
to teach us to speak—er—English for
five-and-twenty years?
* * * *
“Bo”: So confident were they that the
cops had nothing on them (joke!) that four
men and two women charged before a
Sydney Court with disporting in their
birthday clobber in a sylvan glade didn’t
even bother to give
evidence in defence.
The jury in refusing to
convict were obvi-
ously swayed by the
Law’s admission that
there was nothing
wrong with the be-
havior of the sextet
apart from their
nudity—that, and the
fact that coppers with
cameras were the only
ones to see them. One
John said he was “dis-
gusted,” and this must
have raised a grin
among the jury, who
would find it hard to
imagine queasiness
among the hardy lads
of the Force. But the
finding in favor of the
hide-exposers is not
likely to lead to
violent outbreaks of
nudism. That im-
ported plant can
attain but spindly
growth in an atmo-
sphere where semi-
nude beach brats and
frank ads. have long
made the feminine
figure an objeft of
“Ready, Muriel?”
mild male amusement. Anyway, the
movement would soon die of the bore-
dom of its devotees. One can visualise
the eyes of a male nudist sticking out
like hatpegs when, after the soon-un-
interesting spectacle of undraped females
about him, he espied in the distance a
stockinged leg getting through a fence.
Women will never take it up seriously ;
they are shrewd enough to know that the
partly-concealed is more alluring than
the bare chassis.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The general secretary
of Victoria’s Local Option Alliance has
noted that there is a surplus of 12,000,000
gallons of wine in the country, and that
this surplus is likely to be augmented;
He suggests turning it into motor spirit.
His Master turned water into wine. I
suggest the wholesale licensing of open-
air cafes where the wine of the country
may be dispensed under pleasant condi-
tions. I visualise the splendid Sunday
symphony concerts in the Melbourne
Botanical Gardens being listened to by
people sitting at tables under the trees
drinking Australian wine in Australian
weather. But not only the wowsers but
most Melbourne people would think the
world had come to an end if this hap-
pened. Still, there was less drunken-
ness in Paris before the Nazi onslaught
than in beer-drinking Melbourne, where
liquor is dispensed behind closed doors
and is subject to every kind of restriction.
* * * *
“Nakh”: I visited Warrandyte, 20
miles from Melbourne, the other day.
The last time I saw it, in 1939, a bush-
fire had just passed through it and was
still roaring along in the distance. The
town was pretty well in ruins and the
population was only just emerging from
the river, including the artists, whose
colony of ateliers and gardens was the
pride of the district. Now hundreds of
houses have been restored after a fashion.
The houses that Warrandyte will have to
live in and look at for generations are
all to a standard slats-and-fibro-cement
pattern, and look as if they had been de-
signed by the same clerk in the same
Government architect’s office and bought
over Myer’s counter. Some of them
have been dumped down in the midst of
smiling orchards in place of lovely old-
fashioned farmhouses built by the early
settlers. They have neither beauty of line
nor the look of being comfortable and
convenient or suitable to the climate,
and they strike an incongruous note in
the rural landscape. Officialdom might
say that it couldn’t be helped and that
speed was the essence of the contract —
though there was no speed about it and
it takes no longer to design a nice-
looking house than it does an ugly one,
if you have the skill to do it. But what
were the artists doing?
* * * . » m
“P.0.M.C.”: Add the rubber surf-
board to the long list of amusements for
which Sydneyites are notoriously ready
to queue. On any hot Sunday at Coogee
beach you will see lads and lasses stand-
ing two-deep for long periods waiting for
the right to make confounded nuisances
of themselves in the -water at the flat rate
of sixpence per half-hour. I find it most
inconvenient to be rammed at 30 knots
by one of these inflated encumbrances
(with 12st. of bronzed irresponsibility
attached) in a spot where previously the
roast pork and plum pudding reposed in
harmony sublime. Indeed, were I an
“Excuse me, but there's a toll on all heavy traffic!"
alderman with the ratepayers’ interests
truly at heart, I would either ban these
pestiferous floats or fence off an area
where confirmed landlubbers like myself
might be dumped, half-drowned and dis-
located at the whim of the waves, un-
molested and in peace.
* * ♦ *
“Uramao”: Maoriland’s departing
Governor, Lord Galway, is leaving some
heirlooms behind him. One is the figure-
head of Cook’s ship the Resolution, bear-
ing a card reading “Wrecked in 1792 and
the salvage sent to England.” Lord Gal-
way’s grandfather bought
the figurehead in 1831 ; it
goes to the Wellington
Museum. Another gift is
an inkstand made from
three of Carbine’s
hooves. A third is a re-
puted painting of Cook
by Nathaniel Dance,
though most probably a
portrait of Captain
Charles Clerke, R.N.
Inkstand and portrait are
to remain in Govern-
ment House, Wellington.
* * *
“K.P.”: A study of
1000 genius-type chil-
dren carried out by a
psychologist has brought
out some curious facts.
Precocity is a marked
feature of the type. Such
exceptional youngsters
begin to talk three
months or more before
the average age, and are
correspondingly early in
sitting up, walking and
controlling muscular
movement purposefully. Nearly all of
those studied could read before begin-
ning school at five years, several could
read at three years and one at 18 months.
At nine they had attained the mental age
of 12 or 13, and at 16 were mentally 21.
At school they rarely showed any out-
standing ability, but kept near the top
of classes of considerably higher aver-
age age without effort. Except in the
musical type, modern educational sys-
tems discover only about one in five
amongst genius children because little or
no notice of mental age is taken by
teachers. Amongst classmates who aver-
age three or four years older such
children do not stand out, and they them-
selves are quite unaware of being
specially gifted. Contrary to popular
ideas, they possess better average health
and better mental balance than ordinary
children.
* * * *
“Dhas”: I note with pain that the —
that a leading Sydney morning paper,
after an astonishing departure from tradi-
tion in the case of “Banjo” Paterson’s
verse, has returned to its policy of
refusing to recognise The Bulletin’s
existence. For some months Frank
Johnston has been publishing a series
of booklets of joke blocks by Bul-
letin artists ; each time, the “H.”—the
newspaper—has given the booklet a warm
welcome on its literary page, but never
once has The Bulletin’s assistance to
black-and-white art been mentioned. The
latest to be reviewed was Lock’s Pren-
dergast; old Gr —the eminent con-
temporary —was absurd enough to call
Lock “the well-known artist” without
mentioning what everybody knows, that
it was The Bulletin that made him well
known. I know there’s an old tradition in
journalism that one pretends one’s rivals
don’t exist; but when has The Bulletin
ever been in competition with a daily?
* * * *
FORBIDDEN SYMBOLS.
“Following the lead of the British Admiralty, the
R.A.N. has forbidden the use of ‘crosses for kisses’
in sailors’ letters to wives and sweethearts.”
You mariners trusted
Our shores to defend
Till Hitler is busted,
Take note and attend!
These “crosses for kisses”
To madams and misses
In times such as this is
Must come to an end.
In our recollection
Twas ever a mode
Whereby one’s affection
Or love could be showed;
But now they’re contending
A method it’s lending
To Quislings for sending
A message in code.
These symbols of feeling
That one might surmise
As only appealing
To one pair of eyes
May be —there’s suspicion—
Employed for transmission
And crafty transition
Of secrets to spies.
So cut out the token
Twin souls that engirds,
The lip-touch unspoken,
You seafaring birds.
When penning your fancies
To wives or fiancees.
You’ll head off mischances
By sticking to words.
n.s.w. Midford.
A SITWELL SONG.
Poets and litterateurs —all the tribe
Who’ve won, or claim, some measure of
renown—
When jaundiced critics at you jeer and gibe
And seek, as ’twere, to drum you out of
town,
When your most prized effusions they describe
As rubbish, cease to take it lying down!
Leap at them, rather, with an angry yell,
Like Edith, Osbert and Sacheverell.
Show them conclusively it’s not your way
Tamely to be aspersed and sourly urged
Back to th’ obscurity from which (they say)
You really never ought to have emerged.
You’ll find it possible to make them pay
For having been inequitably scourged
If you can play your cards but half as well
As Osbert, Edith and Sacheverell.
Shakspeare was likened to “an upstart crow
With stolen feathers” by a rival’s gall,
And Johnny Keats was tartly bidden go
“Back to his gallipots,” one may recall,
Though little evidence exists to show
Such strictures ever bothered them at all.
How different the tale we have to tell
Of Edith, Osbert and Sacheverell.
So, chaps, when next some envious pen de-
clares
You’ve lost what punch you had and done
your dash,
And labels you “have-beens” or “never-weres”
And terms your output consequential trash,
Learn you can salve your hurts and soothe your
cares
By parting the traducer from his cash —
That’s if you’ve some such line of goods to sell
As Osbert, Edith and Sacheverell.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


CRAVENA
are kinder . .
to the throat
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
mm
m
m
MmM
mm* N '^V
S&?
• V •
: 9
mm
10 for I0 D 50 for
20 for 18 100 for B'4
POLITICAL POINTS
Said the president of the National
Defence Committee, introducing Menzies
at a London lunch, “How happy is the
race which can produce a twin to
Churchill”! The gentleman must have
been reading those U.A.P. election adver-
tisements.
“The war has moved to” another “new
stage involving the utmost gravity”—
General Blarney’s wife has scornfully
rejected Artie Fadden’s ultimatum. She
didn’t even bother to answer Artie her-
self, the news being conveyed in “a
strongly-worded cable” from the general.
As any experienced married man would
know, the “strongly-worded cable” ran
like this: “She won’t come back, and I
can’t make her. Isn’t one war enough?”
Extra holidays in war-time are not
warranted, according to the Sydney
Premier ; and he objects to making Easter
Saturday a full holiday. He was talking
to his “Parliament,” which, since May 23,
has had nearly seven months of holidays,
all on full pay.
With its N.E.S. Act, now going through
Parliament, the Sydney Government is
taking upon itself powers almost as great
as those embodied in the Queensland
Public Safety Act. Neither Act would
be worth tuppence if the Commonwealth
Government chose to assert itself in a
matter which, however looked at, is
national.
Alleged to be responsible for a state-
ment connecting the basic-wage declara-
tion with the Queensland election date,
Opposition-leader Maher has been cited
for contempt of Court. Queensland
Newspapers and A. R. Woodgate, printer
and publisher, are also in it, Maher
refused to accept the papers in the
precincts of Parliament House, and was
photographed taking them from the
Crown Solicitor without that sacrosanct
edifice.
Before Mussolini urged his deluded
people to “hate the English” (“hate
is indispensable to victory”) he
halved their already-reduced rations of
fats and oils. Which recalls that for
nearly eight months Italy has had to do
without imports of fats, oils, meats,
coffee, cereals, rubber, jute, wool and
cotton, not only from overseas, but from
countries like Egypt, Tunisia, Spain and
Greece. In a lost war that was never
popular it is dangerous for a dictator
to recommend his suffering people to
hate. In such a situation hate has a way
of rolling back on the real criminal.
It was here mentioned (B. 19/2/’4l)
that during the hectic week in which
“the war moved to a new stage of
gravity” and two Sydney papers went off
their onions, the Japanese Government
did not alter its very low war-risk rate
on Australian cargoes—los. p.c. Last
week, when Mr. Matsuoka was reported
to have demanded “Oceania” from “the
white race,” it was stated lower down in
the column that the Shanghai marine
insurance underwriters had received
word from London that “war insurance
on shipping lines between China ports
and Manila, Singapore and India” had
been reduced from 2 p.c. to 1 p.c., except
in the case of ships calling at Hong Kong.
Mair, the Sydney Premier, “presumes”
that the N.S.W. Assembly election will be
held “towards the end of May,” and the
gentleman is “sanguine,” with very little
cause. Ardill, the Government Whip,
abandoned Yass to go after the U.A.P.
nomination for Hawkesbury, and didn’t
get it; and Colin Sinclair, sometime
Minister for Lands, isn’t coming out
again for Namoi, which is taken to mean
that another Ministerial seat is as good
as gone. And other shocks are in
preparation for the sanguine Mair.
Trying to comfort Mussolini in his
affliction, Hitler said in his beer-hall that
“numerous British warships were tied up
in the Mediterranean, numerous British
’planes were tied up in North Africa and
numerous British land forces were also
tied up.” The distracted Musso. only
wishes they were. Anything less like
immobility than the spectacles presented
these last few months by the Army of
the Nile, the Royal Navy and the R.A.F.
was never seen.
Government control of tobacco manu-
facture “to conserve dollar exchange”
has brought about a shortage of cigar-
ettes in Sydney. There is no apparent
shortage of films, though films must run
away with a heap of dollar exchange. If
the average man had his choice he would
rather go short of films than of tobacco ;
and a film shortage would mean more
“Cheer Squad Urged to Pep Up Marches.” — “D.T.” The chief pepper-up is Lord Mayor Crick, who
graduated to the Sydney Town Hall from the moving-picture business.
“Give ’em the works, folks — Rah! Rah! RAH!”
employment for actors and the like. But
Canberra has odd ideas about the im-
portance of films in the scheme of things.
When Fadden returned to his Queens-
land electorate as Acting P.M., Warwick
produced two pipe bands and a
V.A.D. guard of honor to welcome him.
There is an old gentleman in Artie’s
Cabinet who once went to Warwick
as P.M. and was smitten with an
egg that “hatched out the Commonwealth
police.”
Stevens, the Wizard that Was, is taking
to Delhi an official adviser, an official
secretary and a private secretary, in addi-
tion to other paraphernalia. Another
adviser is awaiting his arrival. It is be-
lieved that if present arrangements are
adhered to one ship will be able to
carry the whole outfit.
A Sydney dinner to Stevens, at which
he held forth in his old Micawberish
strain about “the dazzling opportunities
presented in India,” had a queer sequel in
the House that will know him no more —
a series of questions as to whether he had
“put forward proposals to dairy-farmers
substantially the same as those submitted
by the Milk Board,” and “requested £3OO
for his report.” The Wizard replied,
very verbosely, that the dairy-farmers
had come to him in quest of a scheme;
I told them that it would take some time
to prepare such a scheme, and that I would
be prepared to arrange for members of my
staff to do that for them, and that this
would not cost more than £2OO, but if they
were not sufficiently financial to pay it now
1 was prepared to let the matter rest until
they were out of their troubles.
Shortly afterwards, the Wizard went on,
he had to advise “them” that he was
unable to proceed any further because
of his intention to go “abroad.”
“Abroad” he is to get £5OOO a year, and
there is a general consensus of opinion
that the money is worth it.
Queensland, like South Aus., is to have
its State election on March 29. Guessing
at what Forgan Smith has in his bag,
a Brisbane writer sees no hope of tax-
reduction, and expects the Premier to use
Federal taxation, child endowment and
reduced Federal aid for roads as an ex-
cuse. No Premier is ever short of an
excuse for refusing to reduce taxation.
Up at Herberton (Q.) a C.P. confer-
ence resolved to ask the Government to
prolong the life of the Queensland “Par-
liament” if the “international situation
should deteriorate rapidly.” It would
serve its State better if it called attention
to the rapid deterioration of public faith
in such institutions as the one it wants
to prolong.
J. P. Abbott, M.H.R., himself an agri-
culturist, has no illusions about the Aus-
tralian Agricultural Council. “A huge,
unwieldy body,” he calls it, and that is
putting it mildly. The spectacle of six
State Ministers of Agriculture, accom-
panied by sundry State officials, periodi-
cally gallivanting to Canberra to talk
airily about export markets and other
things beyond their control has ceased
to be amusing and become dashed
irritating.
Hollway thinks it “most extraordinary”
that members of boards charged with the
responsibility of marketing such crops as
apples should have no better ideas than
to advise the grower to “plough them
in.” To which any well-paid board
member could reply, “I’m not paid to
have ideas. Our job is to control market-
ing. If the markets are cut out then we
can’t control it. Some of these politicians
expect too much.”
Though Tasmania grows far more
apples than N. S. Wales, Sydney poli-
ticians are making the most noise about
the apple surplus—which was sticking
out a mile from the moment war came
and it was obvious export markets
would be restricted. There always has
been difficulty in getting rid of Aus-
tralia’s apples, chiefly because too many
unwanted varieties are grown, too many
Australians couldn’t buy them at the
prices demanded and too many regula-
tions restricted their marketing. Even
now, though an Apple and Pear Board
official declared he could buy Jonathans
at 14 for 6d., apples in some places are
as scarce as ice-cream in Hades. The
Commonwealth acquisition scheme has
been roundly condemned by growers in
general, who declare they could get rid
of the fruit if given an open go. They
should be allowed to try.
From the New York “PM”:
When Hitler wants to divert our atten-
tion he no longer relies on distracting us with
words. He ups and moves a few thousand
troops some place, lets a good honest
American correspondent catch a glimpse of
their grey uniforms, then tips oft the censor
to let the big scoop go through. So far,
the American press has fallen for it to
a man.
The editor, Mr. Ingersoll—who has
spread furphies himself, including the one
about Hitler having England
beaten in September without
knowing it—goes on to say
that the American press will
“print practically any rumor
that comes out of Free Fascist
France, in the hopes,” he sup-
poses, “that one of them may
be right.” And “the nonsense
that comes out of Washing-
ton is still another kind of
nonsense.” So is the non-
sense that comes out of the
North Pacific.
Crawling to the treacher-
ous and cowardly Russian
imperialism masquerading as
a social experiment and
white-anting democracy’s war
effort are not the only un-
savory features of Commu-
nism as practised nowadays.
In parts of Australia young
professional men have been
caught peddling Moscowism
under false names —the sub-
terfuge of pimps and spies.
And in Maoriland a Judge’s
son, charged with subversion,
dragged his father’s name
into the proceedings, “gratui-
tously and unnecessarily,” the
trial Judge said ; then he
whined that the Solicitor-
General had offered to “place
me in a nice, safe, comfort-
able job” if he cut out Commu-
nist defeatism and joined the army. The
Solicitor-General denied it, saying he had
only reasoned with the fellow and tried to
befriend him, having known the graceless
youth since his schooldays. Convicted ;
12 months’ hard.
There was an apple surplus in Vic-
toria during the 1914-18 war. Word was
sent to Wimmera and Mallee residents
that a special train loaded with them
would run from Melbourne, and people
who cared to attend their local railway
station at stated times could buy apples
at cheap prices. The train, and others,
sold out before it completed its run.
Twelve of the 37 members of Maori-
land’s Leg. Council are due for retire-
ment in June, and none is likely to be
reappointed. The Labor Government
may replace them with Labor nominees,
or it may possibly bring the Legislative
Council Act into operation by Order-in-
Council. That measure, passed in 1914,
provided for a Council of 40 members,
elected by four divisions on a P.R. basis,
together with three Maori members
appointed by the Governor-in-Council.


HEAT-WAVE IDYLL.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Stree/
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
110 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WORKING MORE—FOR LESS
AUSTRALIA’S WAR EFFORT
March Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE ... MARINE ...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
PERSNAL ITEMS
An Australian metallurgist with a world-
wide reputation was Anketell Matthew
Henderson, who has passed out at 61 in
Melbourne. The fruits of his researches
into the recovery of fine gold from slimes
and sands have been used in dozens of
countries. Trained at the Dry Creek
Smelting Works in S.A. under the late
John Higgins, Henderson went on the staff
of Mount Lyell and tested and prospected
the Blue Tier in Tasmania. He was a
pioneer designer of steelworks in Aus-
tralia, and installed the plants of the
Australian Steel Co., Brunswick, and the
Commonwealth Steel Products, Newcastle.
The giant Charles Ruwolt plant in Mel-
bourne was another of his babies. He was
a director and general of Gold
Dumps Pty. and Rutherglen Gold
Dumps, and a member of the Australian
Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
Wally Price, recently appointed man-
. ager of S.A.’s Government Produce
Department, vice G. A. W. Pope, retired,
is a son of Tom Price, S.A.’s first Labor
Premier. Born in 1886, Price joined the
Government service in 1903. During the
1914-18 war he served in France with the
43rd Battalion, A.1.F., winning his M.C.
when leading a raiding party at Armen-
tieres. His elder brother, Jack, is M.H.R.
for Boothby.
Alfonso XIII, one of the kings in exile,
is dead at Rome of angina pectoris, at
54 Son of Alfonso XII and the Austrian-
born Maria Christina, he married Princess
Ena, granddaughter of Queen Victoria.
The marriage was unhappy, though it
wasn’t the consort’s fault, and in his poli-
tical as well as his family life Alfonso
had a full issue of the bad luck that dogs
the House of Bourbon. He quitted Spain
in 1931, preferring exile to civil war,
though civil war came.
Lieut.-Col. C. W. Coombe, appointed
C.O. Artillery Training Depot of the
Southern Command, saw service with the
Royal Field Artillery during the 1914-18
war. Leaving Adelaide in 1916, he joined
the R.F.A. as a gunner, and remained
with the British Army until 1921, when
he returned to Australia with the rank of
captain. Since then Coombe has been
associated with the A.M.F. He’s 43 and
in private life a member of the Adelaide
City Engineer’s Department.
“Mantis,” otherwise Samuel Charles
Rose, did not reach Australia until he
was 25, but he loved the Australian bush
better than most of the native-born, and
wrote about its plants and inhabitants
in a way that earned him a standing ; of
recent years he became the regular com-
mentator on bush matters for Sydney
“Sun.” Schoolmastering in bush districts
gave him his opportunity—he was head
at Unanderra for a long while. Nature
study in schools, now a regular part of
the curriculum, owed a lot to this quiet
man’s efforts. He died at 77.
Horace Stevens, the Melbourne bass-
baritone, has had a remarkable career
for a singer. He was champion sculler
of Victoria at the age of 36. He spent
20 years looking down the throats of
other people as a dentist in Collins-
street, then went to the 1914-18 war,
coming out with a captaincy. After the
war he took to singing in England and
made his debut in London with the
Queen’s Hall Orchestra under Sir Henry
Wood. After that he sang at most of the
important festivals of music in England
and Wales, met with success in the
U.S.A. and had roles in Wagnerian opera
in London. He frequently sang the
prophet’s part in “Elijah,” and now,
having grown a magnificent white beard,
he’s better equipped for the job than
ever. Stevens has lately taken to musical
composition, and his first opus is a set-
ting of the 51st Psalm.
The award of a gold medal for
the best novel of the year made by the
Australian Literature Society in Mel-
bourne goes to Patrick White for a first
attempt, Happy Valley. White was born
in N.S.W., went to England as a boy,
was educated at Cheltenham College
and Cambridge and then returned to this
country. He has had two plays per-
formed in Sydney and humorous sketches
performed in London.
President of the N.S.W. Central Coast
branch of the Fruitgrowers’ Federation
since 1934 is A. S. Brown, whose citrus
orchard is at Ourimbah. He is a member
of Gosford Hospital Board, serves on
the Land Board and is captain of The
Entrance Surf Club. Brown served in the
1914-18 war, and won the heavyweight
boxing championship of the A.I.F. in
1915. He’s now a captain in a militia
unit.
H. C. Davidson, of the Cootamundra
(N.S.W.) clan of that name, has had his
Flagstaff property (sheep and cattle)
declared a sanctuary. A kangaroo or an
emu may be met any day on Flagstaff,
and up in the back paddocks it is possible
even to run across a deer. Bird life is
plentiful, too.
A fine all-round citizen was George
Soward, dead in Adelaide after a long
AT HOLDSWORTHY (N.S.W.).
Top left. Major D. H. Irvine; right. Major D. C. O’Brien-Mortimer.
Bottom left, Major J. W. Wright, D.F.C.; at table, Lt.-Col. G. R. L. Adams.
illness at 83. He was M.H.A. in his time
and Mayor of Glenelg, Charitable Funds
Commissioner and Glenelg railway
director when this was still a private line.
Also he won a Bulletin sonnet competi-
tion once, was a keen supporter of
cricket, and had a long memory of racing.
Architecture was his profession, and he
developed a characteristic Soward bunga-
low style in the Adelaide suburbs half a
century back, besides building the stands
for Morphettville racecourse.
Dead in Hobart (Tas.) in his one hun-
dred and first year, Richard Brown, who
saw a good bit of the world in his time,
and was an eyewitness of some early
bits of Australian history. A Lancastrian,
he came to Melbourne by sailing-ship in
time to see the departure of Burke and
Wills, and was there when the sole
survivor, King, returned. Later he
sought gold in Maoriland, had no
luck and returned to Melbourne as
an ironfounder. Next he went to
sea on a sailer bound for India, spent
six years in England and then made a
home in Boston (Mass.) until the kooka-
burras called him back to Melbourne in
time for the bursting of the land boom.
Brown was one of the oldest Freemasons
in the world.
R. N. McCulloch, now president of the
N.S.W. branch of the Australian Institute
of Agricultural Science, is the State
Agriculture Department’s entomologist,
and has done graziers good service by
his researches into sheep blowflies and
other insect parasites. A graduate of
Sydney Uni., he was prominent in Uni.
rowing circles in his student days, and is
a past president of the S.U.B.C. and S.U.
Frederick Norton Oxley, grandson of
the explorer, dead at Wagga at 82, was a
civil engineer of wide reputation. He was
engineer to Kyeamba and Mitchell shires
from 1906 to 1920, and for Kyeamba
Shire alone till he retired four years ago.
Alfred Johnson Buchanan, formerly
editor of the Brisbane “Daily Mail,”
dead in Sydney at 67, was a Maorilander
by birth, a grandson of Alfred Saunders,
the historian. Buchanan graduated M.A.
at Canterbury College (Christchurch) at
21, had a few years in journalism in
Christchurch, and then went to Mel-
bourne, where he qualified in law and
was admitted to the Bar. After some
years of practice he returned to news-
paper work, joining the staff of Mel-
bourne “Age” and then going to Perth
as “West Australian” leader-writer. In
recent years he was a member of the
Sydney Bar, but was mostly engaged in
literary work. He wrote several very
readable books. A son is an R.A.N.
commander.
C.O. of South Australia’s biggest Air
Force Technical School is Squadron-
Leader George Ebben Randall. He’s a
SQUADRON-LEADER G. RANDALL.
Londoner by birth, and his 1914-18 war
experience was gained with the R.A.F.
He won the D.F.C. and the Croix de
Guerre at the age of 18. In post-war
years he was with the R.A.F. in India,
and got a bar to his D.F.C. in the
Mahsud war. Came to Australia in 1927,
and lately has been an A.B.C. announcer
and producer at Brisbane.
Henry Meyer Bohnsack, who defeated
ex-Premier Henry Barwell in an Assembly
election plebiscite in S.A. (B. 1/1/’4l),
led a debating team that won a tourna-
ment at Gawler for three years in suc-
cession. It included ex-Premier Butler
and Jack Price, M.H.R. Opposing de-
baters were H. K. Nock, ex-M.H.R.,
W. S. Kelly (Tariff Board member, now
lent to Britain) and Walter Hannaford,
M.L.C., now retiring after having
skimmed over half a dozen elections
unopposed.
Rev. William N. Lock, of Rose Bay,
Sydney, elected President of the N. S.
Wales Methodist Conference for 1941,
has served the Church in many country
and city circuits. Adherents in Ballina,
Lismore, Adelong, Willoughby, Annan-
dale and Glebe remember his capacity
for hard work. While at Glebe he
attended lectures at the University and
secured the M.A. degree and the diploma
in education, and was later appointed by
his ministerial brethren as head of the
committee which examines candidates for
the cloth.
Rev. David Lewis, new President of
the Victorian and Tasmanian Methodists,
went from a theological class in Ballarat
to Koroit (Vic.) as a home missionary.
In 1906 he entered Queen’s College
to train for the ministry. After a period
of service in Tasmania he returned to
Victoria, and has been shepherding in
Melbourne suburban churches ever since.
He has specialised in interest in the
younger element.
An Adelaide man who is extra-busy
just now is Alexander John Melrose (son
of the late blind knight John Melrose),
who is in his fifth year as president of the
Liberal and Country League in S.A.
Cause, a general election in the State on
March 29. Melrose is the owner of
Kadlunga, Mintaro, where he lives.
Kadlunga wool is one of the leading S.A.
clips.


of
s
EASURE
PL
goodness
extra
kjOML
ECO
e#\ltd
STATE
EXPRESS
QUALITY
io for yd.
20 for 1/2
Also flat fifties and round airtight fifties
THREE SEVENS
Virginia cigarettes
Vise ACELLE- WRAPPED FOR FRESHER FLAVOUR
848A-10-4O


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Murmurin’ Mick went
on a glorious bender with the tenner he
won in a sweep. Day followed day in a
haze of alcohol, and night followed
night with a beautiful sense of assuaged
thirst. But Mick’s tenner petered out
after a week and, sick and sorry, he made
his way to his camp on the river to en-
dure the pangs of drought. What-
ever his faults, he was no hummer,
and he religiously kept away from
the pub until late afternoon, when,
unable to stand it any longer, he
drifted up town and sat forlornly
on the pub verandah. He was still
there after tea when the young
parson who was staying there on
his way through came out. After
some preliminary chit-chat, the holy man
observed, “I suppose a man like you
sometimes wishes he could live the past
again?” Mick lifted a miserable eye,
surveyed him and then allowed that eye
to travel over the front of the bar with
a lingering look. “Sometimes!” he
echoed fervently.
* * * *
“Colbun”: Even with the admirable
services from flying doctors and bush
nurses which have done so much to
alleviate the worst trials of outback life,
bush surgery is not a lost art yet. Bluey
burst suddenly from his tent one hot
evening when insects of all sizes and
descriptions were bumbling and buzzing
round the camp lights, announcing in
lurid terms that some brilliantly-adjectival
thing had flown into his ear and was
driving him off his napper with its crawl-
ing and scratching. His mate Larry was
urging him to lie down and let him drown
the blankard with water out of a billy
when the ganger appeared with an
electric torch. “Steady, Blue,” he said
reassuringly. “We’ll have him out in a
jiffy.” Bluey steadied and the ganger
shone the torch full into the hairy orifice.
WitHin twenty seconds a small beetle
emerged to buzz into the bright disc, and
the trouble was over. “Only wants a bit
o’ common,” explained the amateur
surgeon modestly. “They always make
for a light,”
* * * *
“C.R.”: The proprietor of a pub
about 40 miles from Melbourne on the
Gippsland Highway has an aviary of
rare birds which is one of the show
attractions of the place. One Sunday
morning the local drunk lurched into the
bar and muttered “There’s a snake in
the aviary!” Nobody took any notice
of him. A couple of hours later the
publican’s daughter went out to inspect
the birdcage and discovered a large
carpet snake in it and half the birds
missing. When the horrified Bung heard
of this calamity he turned on the first
informant and shouted. “Why didn’t you
tell us it was a real snake you saw? We
thought it was one of your usuals!”
“Well, wasn’t it?” the town’s worst
example asked in astonishment.
* * * *
“Claude Subub”: Periodically I strike
that recipe which starts with “Slake half
a bucket of lime with boiling water.”
Now I wonder how many of the blokes
who so glibly reel off that formula have
ever put it into practice. Not so long
ago I was stirred from my Sunday-morn-
ing siesta by wild shrieks from my neigh-
bor. Hurrying across, I found Smith
dancing around his back lawn blind and
in obvious agony, Mrs. Smith following
with a hastily-filled dish of water with
which she was imploring him to bathe
his eyes. In one corner of the yard stood
a half-barrel which, although most of its
previous contents was scattered around
for yards, still hissed and blew steam like
an old-man geyser. To the doctor Smith
later explained that he had been making
“Stop fidgeting !”
whitewash and, following the recipe, had
poured boiling water over unslaked lime.
The result had been explosive. Smith
now wears glasses. Cold water poured on
freshly-burnt lime is explosive enough,
since it reaches boiling point within a
few seconds, but to pour on boiling water
is like pouring petrol on fire.
* * * *
“Illicit”; Talking of ersatz smokes. In
the days of my youth 50 years agone
cigarettes were scarce, and hardcase kids
had a passion for smoking all sorts of
stuff. Tea leaves and cane were popular,
though the primest whiff was held to be
the thin, dry eucalypt roots that one
could dig out of the sun-caked clay of
the creek bank. Awful penalties, how-
ever, were held over such indulgence, the
least being the old man’s belt; the most
fearful the threat of contracting yellow
jaundice, especially from indulgence in
cane. It was fear of “the jaunders” that
effectually kept many a “softy” kid from
such secret vice. Nowadays I wonder
if smoking cane, tea or roots really would
induce that fearsome complaint.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: A draught
horse has created a sensation in War-
wick (Q.) by walking up the steps of a
hotel, strolling along a carpeted passage
and poking its head into the bar. Having
apparently satisfied its curiosity, it
manoeuvred carefully through the furni-
ture and walked down the steps again.
In days when the world was younger
and a lot brighter, Harry Morant had
a bullock which beat that equine per-
formance out of sight. On days of cele-
bration he would ride it up the main
street in Forbes (N.S.W.), jumping in and
out of gardens on the way, enter the wide
corner doors of his favorite hostelry and
include the faithful steed in shouts for
the crowd. The bullock, Marmaduke
McCorquodale by name, preferred beer,
but didn’t mind a snort of rum in it.
When the poet slid from its back in suit-
able condition for bed it would follow
the carrying party down the verandah, lie
down outside his bedroom door and go
quietly off to sleep.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: In this S.Q. fishing
village we have quite given up worrying
about risks of being caught outside by
the sudden heavy thunderstorms which
come roaring down out of nowhere in
summer and kick up a dirty cross sea
in a few minutes. Brown’s dog is a
better predictor of those unpleasant dis-
turbances than all the barometer readings
or sky signs that ever deceived a trusting
fisherman. A corpulent hound of lugu-
brious aspect and spanielesque ancestry,
he is usually to be seen asleep on the
shady side of the house in fine
weather or under it when ordinary rain
is about. But let a thunderstorm come
anywhere within possible striking dis-
tance and, no matter how clear the sky
or favorable the barometer, that weather-
wise animal retires to the woodshed, gets
under an old bedstead and stays there
until the disturbance is over. His proud
owner claims that he is infallible up to
14 hours, and local kids find him a
source of revenue in respect of bait and
such items by nipping down to the jetty
with the news that Brown’s mong is
under the bed so yer’d better look out.
* * * *
“Sailor Bill”: Lantana is noted for
vigor of growth, but to see what propor-
tions it can assume where conditions
really suit it one must come here to N.Q.
In parts it completely overwhelms all
other creepers and even trees, and often
a vast hedge of up to 50ft. high by
50yds. wide and 50yds. long will be the
result of the spread of a single growth.
Lantana stems do not send down roots
from the joints like pumpkin vines; fre-
quently the original stem grows to a
thickness of 2ft., but seldom are there
more than four distinct roots. No great
impoverishment of the soil is apparent
even where it has for years been claimed
by the pest; the humus from its own
fallen leaves seems to be sufficient for it
to thrive on.
* * * *
“Julia C.”: What constitutes the
greatest danger in crossing a river that
is in flood? Not the current, for its
buoyancy is usually of assistance to the
poor swimmer provided he doesn’t try
to swim against it. The fear-crazed horse
can be abandoned in mid-stream. Also
the swirling, sucking whirlpool can
mostly be avoided, and the position isn’t
hopeless even if the swimmer is picked
up in one. Snags are the real danger,
and not because of the ordinary risk of
becoming entangled in them so much as
the possibility of being disembowelled.
Even a small sharp twig can cause a
stomach laceration which the rushing
waters can open to a dangerously large
wound in a moment. It’s the reason for
the often sudden disappearance of the
strong swimmer.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I, too, have seen daring
men stop bolting horses by diving for
their heads and hanging on (B. 12 /2 / ’4l).
One lucky man escaped with scarcely a
scratch. I remember my dad pulling a
paling off a fence to improvise a splint
for the leg of a less fortunate hero. But
it was after attending the funeral of a
fellow who missed his grip that I de-
veloped those “philosophical views”
which place a man’s life before a broken
shaft or set of harness. Of course, when
the careering vehicle has a terrified occu-
pant it is a different story ; but that chap
who climbed in the back did the most
logical thing. Once saw a fellow do the
same. In his case the animal had dragged
the winkers off against a post, so the
rescuer got the frightened kid on his back
and dropped off behind. The man
escaped with gravel rash ; the child was
unhurt.
H: He He H«
“Tim Poplow”: Although Australia
for unnumbered ages has been consis-
tently swept by fire m y bush ants seem
to have little or no fear of that element.
The big nest of bull-ants which had
established a massive home near his hut
having grown troublesome, raiding the
larder too often, and even the bunk, Old
Bill made preparations to thin down
the population. Munitions consisted of
a bundle of old papers and some matches.
An opened paper laid across the nest
immediately became an offence to the
inhabitants and an object of attack.
Thousands rushed out to avenge the in-
sult, the patter of their myriad feet
sounding like miniature rain. A match,
and the sheet was ablaze. Other insects,
such as flies, would have cleared out, but
to the ants the leaping red flowers were
just another offence and hundreds rushed
to immolation. Sheet after sheet brought
the same result, the ants apparently never
learning that the flame was deadly. After
the carnage, which had appreciably re-
duced the population, battalions still
scoured the battlefield, gathering up the
roasted corpses and bearing them under-
ground— not for burial but for prov-
ender! For such is the economy of the
ant world.
“Langshan”: When I placed the small
dead lizard by their nest, the red ants
did not cut it up piecemeal in their usual
manner, but promptly commenced to
cover it with earth. Soon afterwards the
storm broke and the ants and I sought
shelter. When it abated I investigated.
The small mound of earth had been flat-
tened by the rain and there was no trace
of the lizard. The ants had worked
from underneath, knowing that the
hastily constructed shelter would pro-
tect them from the rain.
» * * *
“Wang”: “Me an’ me cobber’s standin’
outside Ryan’s pub one afternoon talkin’
t’ the John,” related Dan, “when Ryan
comes staggerin’ across the verandah
holdin’ his eye just as a huge tough-
lookin’ coot appears at the pub door,
cursin’. ‘lt’s that big cow,’ explains
Ryan, pointin’ t’ the bloke. ‘He swallers
a bottle o’ whisky in three gulps and
when I chat him for the cash he scones
me!’ ‘l’ll soon settle that,’ ses the John.
‘Hi! come here,’ he yells t’ the big
bloke. Roarin’ like a bull the cove
accepts the invertation, an’ rushes out
an’ makes a swipe at the John, who
ducks, an’ I cop the wallop. We’re all
inter it properly then, an’ fer the next
few minutes that bit of road looks as if
it’s got a cyclone playin’ about in it. But
we get that human earthquake under at
last, the John claps the bracelets on him
an’ five of us drag him t’ the cooler an’
tie him up with a wire cloesline. Next
mornin’ he’s socked a tenner an’ parts
up like a lamb. ‘Now,’ ses the J.P., ‘the
best thing you can do is go back t’
where y’ come from ; we don’t want the
likes of you here.’ T can’t,’ ses the
stoush-lover, lookin’ real scared ; ‘they’d
kill me there if they heard ’bout this,
bringin’ disgrace on the place.’ ‘Well,
y’ should’ve thought of that before you
started this disgraceful conduct,’ says
the Bench. ‘What are y’ talkin’ about,
conduct,’ says the cove. ‘Up where I
come from if a bloke has less than
seven t’ run him in he’s regarded as a
sissy! ’ ”
THE BITCH OF CRANGA.
When the last rays of sunset beyond the west
have fled
A raider roams the ranges—a price upon her
head;
With white-fanged jaws a-slaver, red from a
thousand kills,
The fierce brown bitch of Cranga turns from
the timbered hills.
By blue-grassed ways of silence bathed in the
golden flood.
She runs alone, unaided, upon the trail of
blood;
Her moods of moonlit madness, her heart that
knows no fear,
Have cost the boss of Cranga a thousand
pounds a year.
Whelped of a crossbred dingo and reared upon
the kills
Of her wild Alsatian sire who had taken to
the hills,
She, with the speed and muscle to pull down
full-grown steers,
Has roamed the hills of Cranga for half a score
of years.
For toll of hamstrung yearlings, for toll of
white-faced calves,
For loss of hard-earned income she neatly sliced
in halves.
They sent a mulga message through all of
cattleland
For Dingo Joe, the trapper, to come and try
his hand.
She killed the famous staghound he cherished
more than wealth.
She sniffed his baits and left them and passed
his traps with stealth.
Through weary weeks he tracked her, long nights
he took no sleep,
But sentinelled the gorges where rocky pools
were deep.
She came to drink at sunrise and stood beside
a reed;
Old Joe had sniped at Gaza —he drew a perfect
bead —
But, as his finger tightened, she raised her
brindle head
And, wheeling from the water, between the trees
she sped.
And still on Cranga’s mountains, aye, time and
time again.
She beats the fastest horses in night runs on
the plain;
With white-fanged jaws a-slaver, red from
forbidden kills,
The fierce brown bitch of Cranga still roams
the Cranga hills.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX MCLENNAN.


“Clyder”: When the dust died down
the mounted trooper was holding Bill by
one arm and listening to the pub cook,
who charged Bill with everything short
of barratry. Bill plucked the cop’s arm.
“There wouldn’t ’a’ bin any trouble,” he
insisted, “only he hit me over the nut
with a plate.” The cop looked at Bill’s
head. “I can’t see any sign of injury,”
he observed coldly. “No,” said Bill, “but
y’ orter see that plate!”
* * * *
“Salesman”: “See all them burns?”
said Jim the Drover, displaying discolored
skin on both his arms and one leg.
“Well, I got them one time when I was
workin’ for ‘Cryin’ ’ Dinny. We were
takin’ a mob of cattle from Winton to
Charleville. Brutes they were —would
rush nearly every night. I always kept a
quiet piebald pony near the camp. One
night I’m in my bunk snoozin’ when I
hears Dinny sing out that the cattle were
breakin’. I jumps up, pulls on me boots
an’ rushes out. It was a pitch-black
night, but I could see the old piebald
standing a little way from the fire. I
took a runnin’ jump, and drove the spurs
hard into his flanks. He gave a grunt
and plunged towards the fire. I made a
grab at his mane —missed. He stood
straight up on his hind legs and squealed
as I drove the spurs deeper. I’d just
got a hold of the hair when he propped
and spun. There was a shower of
sparks and ashes as I landed in the fire.”
“Never would trust a piebald myself,”
said the barman, pushing a couple more
across. “Piebalds are all right,” said Jim
the Drover as he wiped the froth off his
beard. “I’d jumped on Big Joe the
cook. He was bending over the camp-
oven lookin’ at the damper. Never did
like the way he wore a waistcoat over
his pyjamas.”
* * * *
“Mac”; I humped my bluey into a
boarding-house in the Northern Territory,
dropped it on the verandah, booked a
bed, washed and went in to eat. The
other dozen or so participants round the
table were a tough-looking lot. Micky
the host came in holding a solitary letter
and the boys showed quite a lot of in-
terest until he read the address, “Goo-
Goo Eyes, c/o Micky’s Boarding-house,”
when all hands immediately lowered
their heads and frantically lapped their
soup. Micky certainly didn’t approve of
dead letters being returned to his estab-
lishment under such noms de plums,
for he had been a miner and an ex-
boxer. Delicately he placed it on a near-
by table, simpered and minced out with
a “Bitey, bitey!” delivered in a cracked
soprano. Sometime during the night the
letter vanished.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Best blackfish we ever
took were caught under an old sawdust
heap. The mill had built it in the shape of
a thick ring ; and an icy little creek rushed
at it from beneath the tree ferns, tore
below that side, gurgled across the space
in the centre, then burrowed under the
other side to emerge and dash straight out
of sight into the scrub. A short line
drifted under the crumbling sawdust was
soon jerking, and we could always set
our standard for fish retained well above
the regulation minimum. On one visit
to the lines Spider hauled out the finest
blackfish any of us had seen, but as he
held it up for our benefit it began to slip
slowly down the line and finally flopped
back into the creek, revealing a well-
hooked little blacky it had swallowed.
Lanky, ever noted for his resourceful-
ness, promptly dropped his freshly-baited
hook before the dazed cannibal, which
groggily swallowed it. This time there
was no slip, and for the second time
within half a minute the same fish was
held up for our inspection, looking all
the more impressive now beside the
tiddler Spider was still dumbly dangling
before him. Spider’s subsequent remarks
have been preserved intact in our valley,
as representing the pinnacle of bitter
expression.
*
“H.G.”: The hatter woke me at 1 a.m.
After discussing the solar system —
Myra, Pluto, Sirius and other hazy sub-
jects—he asked me for the loan of a
compass. “You see, the earth turns on
its axis from west to east. Well, I con-
tend that if a man sleeps head east he
is on his head all night—upside down.
If he sleeps head west he is on his feet
all night. If he sleeps head or feet point-
ing north-east or south-east or north-west
or south-west he is in a tangle too.
No wonder he can’t rest. My trouble is
to find due north and south, and make
my bunk accordingly.” He returned my
compass next day and informed me he
was now “set,” as he had slept the clock
round.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Whenever I find myself in-
clined to lay down the law about matters,
naturalistic or otherwise, a bush stroll
provides a speedy and unfailing remedy.
Authorities affirm that when a bird pos-
sesses conspicuous markings or coloring
it is displayed on the upper surfaces,
presumably to lessen risk of detection
by enemies at ground level. Why then
do flame and scarlet robins, king parrots
and galahs, blood birds and mistletoe
birds all flout so shamelessly these
pundits of the museum case? What in-
duced herons to forsake the nesting ways
of other waders and choose treetops for
their nurseries? Why are male blood-
birds and blue wrens such gorgeously
attired dandies and their little wives such
demurely attired Quakeresses, whereas in
the roller, regent and rainbow families
"Can I interest you gentlemen in a sweep on the day's run?"
“I said your rip cord—not your zipper !”
wives sport the same gay dress as do
their husbands? Why, too, do some mag-
pies, peewees, leatherheads and many
other birds use a quiet different intona-
tion in their calls from those of other
places, perhaps only a few miles away?
How do so many Australian birds, even
those shy giants of black cockatoos,
work that queer ventriloquial trick of
making their voices seem to come from
any other part of a sheltering treetop
than that in which they really are? Why
—but the conceit’s out of me already,
and those are enough questions for the
Council to go on with anyhow.
* * * *
“Bardoc Bill”; I won’t have “B. K.
Kanowna’s” disparagement of the camel
as a draught animal (B. 5/2/’4l). One
of the biggest excavations ever carved in
W.A. was done by the oonts. This was
the 10,000,000-gallon storage tank which
guards Kalgoorlie and the Golden Mile
from a water famine should the gold-
fields water scheme suddenly break down.
Ten million gallons as words don’t ex-
plain much, but actually the excavation
is so big that when it was finished in
April, 1914, Jonathan Morris ran a skat-
ing carnival on the wide bitumen-paved
floor, the thousands
of spectators finding
vantage ground on
the gently - sloping
sides. And every
square yard of earth
was dragged out by
scoops drawn by
camels, which, as the
hole grew deeper,
showed themselves
better at climbing the
sloping bank under
conditions of intense
heat than a team of
horses that was given
a trial. Driven by
the man on the
handles of the scoop,
the usually cranky
brutes showed them-
selves quite amen-
able to a bridle with
a hardwood bit. This
tank is roofed
against evaporation ;
it f carries probably
the greatest single
expanse of corru-
gated iron anywhere
in Australia.
“Colbun”: Like the mallee fowl of
the south and west, the brush turkey
of Queensland and northern N.S.W.
seems well on the way to extermina-
tion. The scrubs in which they build
their great nesting mounds are being
steadily destroyed, the rapid northward
spread of foxes aids materially the
assaults of their dingo and goanna
natural enemies, to whom the relatively
huge eggs offer a rich store of attractive
food, and the birds themselves are de-
sirable bush game to the gunner. Their
habit of building huge natural incu-
bators to hatch the eggs places them
amongst the most remarkable of world’s
birds, and of the 28 known species all
but two live in the Australian region.
Hatched out by the warmth of the in-
cubation mass the young are born fully
feathered and able to run swiftly, can
fly in a few hours after leaving the egg,
and never know their parents. They
should at least be given all-the-year pro-
tection against human enemies, as many
much less interesting birds are.
* * * ♦
“Merrangbaur”: “About ten of us
takes a shack on Phillip Island one
summer to do a bit of quiet fishin’,” said
Bert the Barman. “It’s fairly ’andy to
the beach, though we ’as to climb down
a bit of a cliff wot’s in front of the shack.'
Either that or walk arf a flamin’ mile.
Well, we stocks up at the local tavern
an’ celebrates our first day’s catch in
fine style. About arfway through the
evenin’ I spots ‘Bailer’ Bob sneakin’ round
the side of the ’ouse. Can’t be sure, but
’e seems to be luggin’ somethin’ ’eavy.
I’m too busy fillin’ ’em up to bother
about ’im, an’ presently back ’e comes
an’ joins in again with a satisfied look on
’is dial. We finish the last three bottles
around midnight, an’ next mornin’—talk
about ’angovers! We’re sittin’ round
feelin’ lovely when ‘Bailer’ sticks ’is ’ead
in. ‘Nothin’ to worry about, boys. Bring
an opener an’ foller me.’ We follers
’opefully, an’ ’e leads us into the ti-
tree scrub. ‘Saved arf a dozen,’ ’e an-
nounces. ‘Put ’em in a bush ’ere last
night.’ When the applause dies down ’e
grabs the opener an’ shoves ’is ’and into
a bush. ’E scrapes round a bit, then
sticks in the other ’and. The mob starts
gettin’ sarcastic, but the remarks stops
sudden when ‘Bailer’ turns round lookin’
like a punter wot’s flopped on the last
leg of a big treble. Then the awful truth
bursts on us. We dives for that there
bush an’ finds ourselves lookin’ over a
’undred-foot cliff. The boys wouldn't
speak to Bob for the rest of that ’oliday.”
GUNYAWARILDI.
“Everyone in the cities knew Julius Knight. But
he met with disaster when he toured the small
towns. The straw that broke the carnet’s back was
a New South Wales town called Gunyawarildi.”
— E. J. Tait.
Oh, towns there be that gave him—well, they
stung his mummer’s pride,
From Gwabegar to Glenorie and on the Goul-
burn side;
There was Geurie, there was Garah, there were
Galston’s citrus groves,
And Ganmain, down in Riverine, where the
wild wheatcocky roves;
Gerogery and Gerringong, Girral and Gundaroo,
And Gunnedah and Glennifer, Grenfell and
Galong, too;
But none of ’em can make this claim, from
Grong to Gundagai:
The straw that broke the camel’s back was
Gunyawarildi.
It’s on the blacksoil plains, between Gil Gil
and Gournama,
On the back track from the border, where the
drinks are few .and far.
Twas peopled then by whiskered blokes, whose
oaths were wild and deep.
Who spent their days exchanging thoughts with
mobs of burry sheep.
This was the place cold Fate had marked as
fitting for his fall,
Adrift in a sea of Mitchell grass, marooned, in
a wooden hall.
He'd had his share of ups and downs, had made
the ladies sigh;
The straw that broke the camel’s back was
Gunyawarildi.
n.s.w.
OLD-TIMER.


Devoted to a
Single Purpose
F
lOR more than 62 years The Trustees Executors & Agency
Company Ltd., whose foundation marked the inception of
corporate trusteeship in Australia, has devoted itself to
one single purpose the care and management of the
properly of its clients.
Throughout the period of its operation, it has provided the
impartial advice and assistance of a permanent corporation as
Executor, Trustee, Attorney, Agent and in other capacities of a
fiduciary nature.
The appointment of the Company as Executor or Co-Executor
of your Will ensures continuity in the execution of the trust.
Service is prompt, sympathetic and efficient. Ample security is
provided and fees are fixed and moderate. Cohsult your
Solicitor or write or call for further information.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
-
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £957,320.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) D. Stuart Murray John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) W. D. Stewart R. T. Hilder
N.S.W. Manager; J. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones Manager: K. M. Hughes
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE; INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 409-413 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH; Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN. General Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co.
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. serves.
1930.. 83.595 24,000 Nil 59,595 322,871
1931.. 36,066 24,000 Nil 12,006 334.937
8 p.c.
1932.. 58,018 24,000 40,000 328,955
16 p.c.
1933.. 140,820 24,000 80.000 36,820 365,775
Reserves capitalised. £250,000 .. 115,775
12 p.c.
1934.. 223,001 24,000 60,000 139,001 254,776
8 p.c.
1935.. 66,751 24,000 60,000 237.527
4 p.c.
1936.. 190,421 24,000 30,000 136,421 373,948
16 p.c.
1937. . 157,543 24,000 120,000 13.543 387,491
26 p.c.
1938.. 243.251 24,000 195,000 24,251 411,742
Additional taxation, £31,000 .. 380,742
16 p.c.
1939.. 146,303 24,000 120,000 2,303 383,045
Tax reserve brought back, £13,150.. 396,195
24 p.c.
1940.. 149,082 24,000 180,000 341,277
Government control of foreign exchange,
with a consequent reduction in the im-
portation of chassis and registration of
new cars, especially for private use, and
petrol rationing didn’t affect the earnings
of the big rubber manufacturing cos. last
year. So far as sales were concerned,
much of what was lost on the private
swings in the way of initial showing was
picked up on the defence roundabouts,
where demand broadened in its nature,
too. On the raw materials side, however,
the co.’s activities are subject to a wide
range of world influences. Apart from
exchange control, last year the price of
both rubber (from Malaya and the East
Indies) and cotton (from Egypt, India
and America) continued to climb, and
shipping space became dearer and more
difficult to obtain as the term advanced.
The same remarks apply to carbon black
(it increases the wear in tyres) and
sulphur (a vulcanising agent), which are
obtained mainly from the U.S.A. Locally
costs continued their onward march, with
taxation well out in the lead—and that
lead has lengthened considerably since
the close of accounts. Also, competition
lost none of its keenness.
The co., an offshoot of Goodyear Tyre
and Rubber Co., Akron /U.S.A.), set up
a factory at Granville, near Sydney, as
recently as 1926, the idea being to side-
step the tariff. It has £1,050,000 of capi-
tal to feed in 300,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 750,000 ords. The Australian public
put up the pref. money, and the parent
took half a million ords. for cash and
received quarter of a million bonus shares
in 1934. Also, over the last nine years
the ords. have received divs. averaging
14.4 p.c., although exchange has taken
some of the gilt off the gingerbread.
After allowing £82,890 (down £4251)
for depreciation and setting aside £79,550
(up £1950) for the taxgatherer, the board
wrote last year’s net profit £2779 better
at £149,082. Actually the result was less
sparkling than for the previous year,
when the provision for taxation exceeded
requirements by £13,150, which has now
been tossed into undistributed profits.
The £149,082 was enough to pay the pref.
div. and show 16.6 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 16.3, 29.2, 17.8 and 20.2 p.c. back
to 1936. Since the co. is not short of
funds, and as the exchange position isn’t
likely to get any easier in the near future,
the ords. were handed 26 p.c., reserves
being tapped for £54,918 for the purpose,
reducing them to £341,277 wlhen the
books closed.
Still, the already strong financial posi-
tion further improved, as the following
comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows:
1938. 19'39. 1940.
Pref. capital .. . . £300,000 £300.000 £300,000
Ord. capital . . . . 750,000 750,000 750,000
Goodyear, U.S.A. . . 54,800
Other liabilities .. 146,583 213,724 367,182
Freeholds, plant, etc. . . 407,063 356,645 338,136
Stocks 683,857 781,865 1,023,398
Book debts .. . . 298,008 370,124 330.408
Cash, etc 80,501 138,136 72,889
Java subsidiary.. .. 197,300
The feature which catches the eye is the
sharp growth of £241,533 in stocks last
year. This is due partly to provision
against rising costs and possible difficulty
of obtaining supplies, and partly to a
contract with the Department of Supply
and Development in connection with
security stocks of crude rubber. To
carry the extra security and other stocks,
the co. went to its bankers for £98,858,
and added £33,027 to the amount coming
to sundry creditors. The balance of other
liabilities shown in the table is provision
for taxation (£162,018, up £28,080). The
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£1,059,513) was £13,612.
At 30s. 6d. (295. 9d. a year ago) the
well-protected prefs. return 5.2 p.c. The
net tangible cover is £4 12s. 9d., and last
year’s net earnings more than six times
covered their annual dividend require-
ments. The ords. are not listed.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
To Ro— Re-
Doo., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 39,501 64 p.c. = 40,516 57,252
1931.. 28,739 6 „„ 24,298 4,441 61,693
Reduction in reserves, £4026 .. 57,667
1932.. 10.470 6 p.c. = 10,200 270 57,937
Reserves disappear, £l6OB .. .. 56,329
From inner reserves. £10,408 .. 66,737
1933.. 4,666 6 p.c. = 10,200 61,203
Reserves disappear, £lO6B .. .. 60,135
1934.. 5,901 64 p.c. = 11,050 54,986
Reserves disappear, £1204 .. .. 53,783
1935.. 11,151 7 p.c. = 11,900 53,034
From tax reserve, £5258 .. .. 58,292
Written off, £3258 56,034
Insurance claims, £2300 .. .. 52,734
1936.. 12,956 7 p.c. = 12,495 461 53,195
Share premiums, £752 .. .. 53,947
Insurance claims, £2107 .. .. 51,840
1937.. 13,771 7 p.c. = 15,258 50,353
Share premiums, £65 .. .. 50,418
Insurance claims, £1279 .. .. 49,139
1938.. 13,505 6 p.c. = 14,963 47,681
Insurance claims, £1202 .. .. 46,479
1939.. 14,807 6 p.c. = 14,963 46.323
Insurance claims, £1224 .. .. 45,099
1940.. 18,604 6 p.c. = 14,963 48,740
Although the Harbor Bridge wiped out
the co.’s main sources of revenue 10
years ago, and competition from Gov-
ernment trams and buses, using the
bridge at reduced toll rates, have further
cut into takings, the co. has continued
to pay regular and moderate dividends.
That was mainly because it had been
able to return about four-fifths of its
capital. There are now 36 vessels in the
fleet, of which 27, including two show-
boats, are in commission, the chief
runs being Mosman, Cremorne, Athol,
Neutral Bay and Lane Cove.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts revenue was buoyant,
especially during the last half, thanks
largely to increased tourist traffic, to
which favorable weather conditions and
other things contributed. Alterations
were made to the original showboat in
order to provide increased accommoda-
tion. Also, petrol rationing, which re-
stricted the use of private cars, increased
the volume of suburban ferry traffic.
Costs, especially of fuel oil, coke and
repair supplies, continued to increase,
and so did the demands of the tax-
gatherer, which have become louder still,
while alterations to the Quay wharves
didn’t help smooth working of the co.’s
ferry services. Still, early in the term, a
reduced timetable was introduced on the
Mosman, Cremorne and Neutral Bay
runs, and that helped to lighten the costs
burden. It was increased revenue, how-
ever, that was responsible for the spring
of £3775 in declared net earnings
(£17,380). In the table profits include
transfers from the insurance fund which
are then charged against reserves. The
£17,380 was 6.9 p.c. on capital compared
with 5.4, 4.9, 4.6 and 4.2 p.c. back to
1936. The div. was kept at 6 p.c., and
it looks like remaining there for the
present.
There has been little change in the
financial position, as the following com-
parison of balance-sheet figures shows:
1936. 1938. 1939'. 1940.
Paid capital. . £201,154 £249,387 £249,387 £249,387
Liabilities ~ 19,720 41,940 31,099 29,949
Landed property 26,211 23,540 23,004 22,468
Ship property 77,641 103,814 100,151 103,592
Wharves and
waiting-rooms 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000
Plant & machinery 6,549 6,797 6,118 5,607
Fuel, stores, etc. 8,125 7,322 9',152 10,298
Shares in other
cos 107.000 107,000 107,000 107,000
Sundry debtors 47,249 30,497 22,594 20,311
Public securities,
etc 4,483 4.172 4,172 4,172
Cash .. .. 2,157 1,100 1,100 1,100
During the year the book value of ship
property, etc., increased by £3441 net,
mainly on account of the alterations to
showboat already referred to. One of
the old hulks and the engines out of
another were sold. When the books
closed, more or less liquids exceeded the
outside debt, including an unspecified
provision for taxation, by £5922, or
approx, the same as at the previous
balance. Shareholdings are the scrip in
the Harbor Land and Transport Co.,
whose lighterage business also benefited
by defence activities.
Doubtful whether anything better may
be expected from the business, the market
prices the 55.-paid shares at ss. 6d., at
which figure the return is 5.5 p.c. on a
6 p.c, div. basis. The backing is ss. lid.
in net tangibles.
Hydraulic Power and Lifts (Syd.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 5,276 3 p.c. = 3600 1076 57.509
1931.. 6,253 0* „ „ 6000 57,162
1932.. 6,942 5 „ „ 0000 942 58,104
1933.. 7,469 6 „ „ 7200 209 58,373
1934.. 8,559 7 „ „ 8400 159 58,532
1935.. 7,920 64 „ „ 7800 120 58,652
1930.. 7,855 04 „ „ 7800 55 58,707
1937.. 7,459 6 „ ~ 7200 259 58,900
1938.. 8.135 7 „ „ 8400 58,701
1939.. 7,662 64 „ „ 7800 58,553
1940. . 8,705 7 „ „ 8400 365 58,918
This co. has a swag of assets with
moderate but steady earning power, most
of its funds being represented by
hydraulic mains and plant, etc. Still, the
management has kept in step with the
times, and the supply and servicing of
high-speed electric lifts and moving stair-
ways now figure prominently among its
activities. Within the last decade the
business of Major, Stevens and Coates
was taken over and the Commonwealth
agency for the Express lift, London, was
acquired, thus putting the co. abreast of
competitors.
Although shareholders have never
pulled any plums out of the business in
the way of bonus share issues or fat divi-
dends, they have had a long unbroken
run of satisfactory returns. For 20 years
to the close of accounts in 1929 the aver-
age rate of div, was 7.3 p.c., the highest
being 8 p.c. and the lowest 6 p.c. For
the 11 years since the average has been
6 p.c., with little to spare, and there is
no reason to suspect that anything much
has been slipped into the family stocking.
• Although there was a decline in new
building activity in Sydney last year, busi-
ness generally livened, and improvements,
which included lift services, were made
to many premises. One result was a
spring of £3115 in this co.’s gross earn-
ings:—
1935. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Capital .. £120,000 £120,000 £120,000 £120,000
Liabilities .. 35,021 18,904 18,923 14,679
Mains & plant 136,556 135,918 134,880 133,856
Freeholds . . 35,231 35,231 35,231 32,806
Leaseholds . . 1,149 1,149 1,149 500
Stock.. .. 27,508 13,177 17,061 17.609
Debtors . . 14,779 14,103 12,734 13,607
Cash, etc. . . 2,290 2,290 20 20
Exes., which include something for plant
renewals, took £2021 of the increase —
no specific allowance appears to have
been made for the next tax bill when it
arrives. The net result (up £1113) was
7.2 p.c. on capital as against 6.3, 6.8, 6.2,
6.5, 6.6 and 7.1 p.c. back to 1934. The
div. was stepped up half a point making
it 7 p.c., the final being at the rate of
8 p.c. p.a. The policy has been to dis-
tribute a bit extra whenever it has been
made.
The next table shows how the capital,
reserves and some outside money are
employed:
Ex- Ex-
Rovenue. penses. Revenue, penses.
1928. . £61.995 £51,629 1 1936. . £88,507 £80,652
1930.. 47,875 42.598 | 1937.. 73,019 65,660
1932.. 39,025 32,083 | 1938.. 105.577 97,442
1934.. 40,261 37,702 1 1939.. 83,223 75,572
1935.. 88,054 80,134 j 1940.. 86,358 77,593
The year’s surplus earnings were used
to reduce the outside debt, of which
£6911 (down £1795) was coming to the
bank and £7786 (down £2449) to sundry
creditors. The improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£18,557) was £7665.
The works, mains and buildings are all
reported in good order, and plant is
claimed to be highly efficient; much
depends upon this.
At 14s. 6d. the fully-paid pound shares
return 9.6 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis. On
the same div. basis the 125.-paid con-
tribs. at Bs. 6d. yield 9.8 p.c., and there
is nothing to suggest when, if ever, the
remaining Bs, (it has stood at call for the
last 19 years) is likely to be wanted. The
net tangible cover is 295. lOd. per pound
of paid capital.


Mining Notice.
FOR SALE OR OPTION, a Gold Mine situated
on Cape River Gold Field, 8 miles from
PENTLAND, Nth. Queensland. Telluride has
been found at two points 65ft. apart carrying
good specimen gold.
Would be willing to supply particulars to
persons or companies interested in the search
for TELLURIDE ORE in the sulphide country.
Owner unable to continue sinking No. 3
shaft, which is 132 ft. vertical.
The winze started 65ft. from No. 3 shaft
south had specimens of gold carrying
TELLURIDE and shows gold in some of the
stone and is only down 4ft.
The owner is unable to further finance
the sinking of the shaft.
For further particulars and persons inter-
ested, apply—
C. F. FISHER,
Day St., Charters Towers.
PATENTS.—Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists,
—Advt.
v * » *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE...
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Consult
Security
Economy
Service
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria )
„ _ 3 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
■uti /V- 1 «? CTORAT:B : Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair,
RnW n V \ir e M Chairrnan ) i Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.;
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
-ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman).
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman).
Robert J. A. Massie. Owen E. Friend. Geoffrey F. Hughes.
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
LONDON OFFICE;
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS-.
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.,
National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
: m
WMA
yr.
m
m
VA
!&S*
Kite
v :
y i
J-SVj
STOP Him
WITH A BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCER
Temporary or permanent pad-
docks, subdivisions, shade en-
closures, ianeways, breeding or
exercise pens, fodder storage
enclosures, market gardens,
orchards, &e., can be fenced off
and made siockproof wherever
and whenever you want them—
at trifling cost—and with little
trouble.
One charger controls 25 miles
of stockproof fencing, and one
man can fence up to 20 acres
□ day!
£9/9/.
GUARANTEED FOR 5 YEARS
Complete with 50 insulators
and Battery. NO EXTRAS.
SAVE
80 %
On Fence Costs!
No farm can be considered com-
plete to-day unless it is equipped
with an electric fence. It isn’t
only that it saves 80 p.c. on tho
cost of ordinary fencing, but it
actually teaches animals to respect
all wire fences, and soon cures the
most persistent fence-breaker of
the habit. Think what this
means in fewer injuries from barb-
wire cuts to valuable stock and the
saving in cost of repairs to
fences.
j)ezwK<
rw.
:: y £
KBmwrT
The New and Improved
BIG SIX
See it at
DANKS'
Bourke-st.
Showrooms
Call or Write for Descriptive Folder ,
Victorian Distributors:
mANKB
ds>
ns
P7-V, *L.-TL2.
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: M 2381.
324-330 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. ’Phone: M 6505.
Australian General Insurance
To Ro-
Dee, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 6,578 9 p.c. = 6300 278 52,589
Ix>ss.
1931.. 3,937 4 „ „ 2800 45,852
Profit.
1932.. 7,952 6 „ „ 4200 3,753 49,604
1933.. 10,640 8 „ ~ 5600 5,040 64,644
1934.. 12,031 8 „ „ 5600 6,431 61,075
1935.. 12,874 9 „ „ 6300 6,574 67,649
1936.. 12,345 9 „ „ 6300 6,045 73,694
1937.. 13,648 10 ~ „ 7000 6,648 80,342
1938.. 16,418 10 „ „ 7000 9,418 89,760
1939.. 14,253 10 „ ~ 7000 7,253 97,013
1940.. 14,366 10 „ „ 7000 7,366 104,379
This co., which began to do business
direct with the public about 15 years
ago—it was engaged largely in reinsur-
ing some of the Mercantile Mutual’s risks
for 17 years before that—is in a very
comfortable position, both as an under-
writer and a profit-earner. When the
books last closed the £70,000 of share
capital had the support and assistance of
£104,379 of reserves. So the two com-
bined need turn in only a wink over
4 p.c. to show 10 p.c. on capital alone.
Last year the return from interest and
rents was £7966 (up £483), or 11.4 p.c.
on capital. This and the fact that ap-
proximately'so p.c. of the assets is rep-
resented by public securities give the
10 p.c. div. a very comfortable look ;
it also suggests that the assets are well
worth their book value. Further, the
whole of the underwriting surplus, and
more besides, is available to swell in-
vestments and the returns therefrom,
which adds to the possibilities of the scrip
as an investment, especially as a holding
proposition.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of underwrit-
ing performances:
Loss Exes.
Net Ratio, Ratio,
Premiums. Claims. Exes. p.c. p.c.
1926.. £96,550 £55,475 £35,176 57.5 36.4
1928.. 120,614 65,175 45,899 54 38.0
1930.. 116,026 69,892 48,040 60.2 41.4
1931.. 85,822 60,504 36,450 70.5 42.4
1932.. 74,658 87,099 35,184 49.7 47.1
1933.. 67,259 30,642 31,848 45.5 47.3
1934.. 69,819 28,881 34,990 41.3 50.1
1935.. 70,907 30,125 34,411 42.4 48.6
1936.. 78,511 37,029 35,767 47.1 45.5
1937.. 91,388 43,278 41,336 47.3 45.2
1938.. 97,806 44,644 44,027 45.6 45.0
1939.. 98,988 47,910 44,309 48.4 44.7
1940.. 97,753 47,817 43,535 48.9 44.5
Last year £128,094 (up £1385) was gath-
ered in gross premiums. The shrinkage
of £1235 in net premiums was due to
heavier reinsurances on account of
seasonal risks. The most pleasing feature
of the table is the continued reduction
in the expense rate, down 4s. p.c. last
year, despite the upward trend of costs,
including taxation. Claims, a factor over
which the management has no control,
were 10s. p.c. heavier. That left the
underwriting surplus £369 lighter at
£6400, or 9.1 p.c. on capital, making the
net return from all sources £14,366 (up
£114), equal to 20.5 p.c. on capital, com-
pared with 20.3, 23.4, 19.4, 17.6, 18.3,
17.1 and 13.6 p.c. back to 1933.
From the underwriting point of view
there is no need for policy-holders to
stay awake o’ nights, as the following
comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows:
1935. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital . . £70,000 £70,000 £70,000-£70,000
Liabilities.. .. 14,903 26,692 28,936 26,859
Freeholds .. .. 2,500 2,500 2,500 2,500
Mortgages.. . . 42,648 41,408 41,738 40,213
Debentures . . 9,000 9,000 9,000 8,250
Public securities.. 68,397 88,024 91.988 106.488
Book debts . . 5,509 8,754 8,869 8,608
Cash, etc 34,598 47.267 53,854 50,179
After allowing for the final div., policy-
holders could see net tangibles equal to
over 178 p.c. of the year’s net premiums
when the books last closed, whereas 150
p.c. is usually considered adequate. And
shareholders could be called upon to
dredge up another £130,000 should
need be.
The market expresses its opinion of the
scrip by pricing the pound shares paid to
7s. each at 17s. 6d., at which figure the
return is 4.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The net tangible cover is 17s. 4d. per
share.
Wilunas (W.A.) look all right to put
away. Telling shareholders of Wiluna
Gold Corporation (the holding co.) all
about the year’s results of that concern
and those of Wiluna Gold Mines (the
operating co.), chairman F. H. Hamilton
said in London recently: Wiluna Gold
Mines made no distribution from profits
during the period, and, apart from a
1\ p.c. dividend received from its invest-
ment in Gold Fields Australian Develop-
ment Co., the Corporation received no
revenue. On the other hand, Wiluna
Gold Mines, after writing off deprecia-
tion on plant and buildings of over
£A77,000, trebled its net profit at
£A217,179 —compared with £A72,453 the
previous year. Australian taxation took
£43,569, leaving £A294,808, equivalent to
£5tg235,847, to be carried forward. Cash
in hand increased from £A81,591 in the
previous balance sheet to £A368,900 at
the end of March, 1940, At the end of
October, 1940, it stood at £546,338.
Wiluna Gold Mines has decided not to
distribute any portion of this by way of
dividend. Working surpluses which are
now being accumulated are not income
in any true sense, but represent a partial
return of capital, and when the time
comes for Wiluna Gold Mines to liqui-
date it will return its assets in that form.
Hamilton said it was impossible to calcu-
late with any precision how long profit-
able working would go on. Present ore
reserves were about a million tons. In
addition, a certain amount of fresh ore
would be brought in. How much was
conjectural. Since Hamilton spoke, cross-
cuts at 1915 ft. and 2000 ft. levels of the
main workings have disclosed 14ft. of
4.Bdwt. and 12ft. of 3.6dwt. ore respec-
tively. A diamond drill operating hori-
zontally at the 600 ft. level of the Happy
Jack block, some distance north of the
main workings, has passed through 10ft.
of lodestuff assaying 3.4dwt., and an-
other drill operating horizontally at the
800 ft. level in the same property has
penetrated 12ft. of 6.4dwt. rock. Quan-
tity of ore treated by Wiluna Gold Mines
during the year was almost the same —
585,000 tons, as against 599,000 tons in
the previous 12 months. Grade showed
an appreciable reduction —from 4.oldwt.
to 3.79dwt. —but working costs, includ-
ing development, fell from 255. lOd. to
20s. 2d. per ton.
* * * *
Shareholders of London Australian,,
Ltd., formerly of Lawlers (W.A.), and
now interested in base-metal mines in
Italy and goldmining properties in Kenya,
Uganda, Rhodesia and Transvaal, were
addressed by chairman W. M. Kirk-
patrick during an air raid in London
recently and told to be of good cheer.
No dividend was announced, but pros-
pects were billed as promising. Co.’s
only Australian holding is a block of
shares in Sons of Gwalia. Results of
deep-level developments in this mine,
Kirkpatrick said, justified anticipations of
continued prosperity.
* * ♦ *
Western Mining Corporation has taken
more goldmining options in the West.
The old Callion group at Davyhurst,
which has caused more than one concern
to drop its financial bundle in attempting
to turn the treatment of somewhat refrac-
tory ore to profitable account, is included
in the list.
* * * *
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie says that
from Sept. 25 to December 17 last it
milled 34,588 tons from its Golden Mile
group for a net return of £105,135.
Operating profit is estimated at £57,461.
Prospects of the co. remain good-looking.


PROTECTIONS®^
xnr
BIRKMYRE
WATERPROOF
TARPAULINS ,
TENTS, Etc.
No matter how hard the downpour or how continuous the rain,
BIRKMYRE" tarpaulins give you undoubted protection.
The canvas is made from highest grade raw materials by
Scottish workers and the famous BIRKMYRE PROOFING is
recognised as the world's best. Obtainable from reputable
makers. If any difficulty is experienced in getting supplies,
write Wholesale Distributors:
GOUROCK ROPES AND CANVAS LTD.
(Incorporated in Scotland.)
BRISBANE MELBOURNE SYDNEY
MELBOURNE’S
MOST POPULAR HOTEL
Next Town Hall,
Little Collins Street,
S. D. HORNE-MANACER
POPULAR
“ROOM ONLY” TARIFFS:
Singles—s/-to 10/- per day
Doubles—B/- to 18/6 per day
Suites, Family Rooms, etc.
Full Catering Services.
SMOKE-OH!
“Most suits brought in for pressing or repair
have to be spot-cleaned first.”
—Radio advt.
Many drinkers are so careless.
•F *F *F *F
“One student attending the classes claims
that her recent engagement is partly the result
of her cookery lessons.”— Woman’s paper.
He took her, hook, line and sinkers.
•F *F *F *F
“Thousands of new insects are found every
year.”— “World’s News.”
And all of ’em are in the picnic butter.
According to movie directors, “Life is
what you fake it.”
•F *F *F
A fog is only a mist with its coat on.
“Authorised newsagency. Rapid growing dis-
trict. Good shop trade and good loving
accommodation.” — “West Australian’’ ad.
What purchaser could hesitate after
that?
“New type of blonde is known as Cellophane
Blonde.” — Woman’s mag.
That is, she’s transparent and mostly
wrapped up in herself.
4* *F ’}■ *F
“Franchot Tone sleeps in what is hailed as
Hollywood’s most luxurious bed. It is 10ft.
long and Bft. wide.” — Film magazine.
That’s a lot of bunk even for
Moviedom.
•F *F *F *F
“Do you cook yourself at home ?”
—Radio announcer.
links did the other night when he came
home with powder on his coat after
working back at the office.
Bad Case.
“Persons who wish to reduce should always
place themselves under the supervision of a
fully-qualified doctor.” — Medical journal.
Dear doctor ! Your reducing skill
Is needed very much by me.
Unless you can reduce your bill,
I’ll be reduced to bankruptcy !
N.
•F *F *F *F
“Petrol as anesthetic.”— “Argus.”
Some motorists are dopes, too.
Avoirdupoison.
I called her ‘‘honey” years ago;
I thought the term was meet.
She was so fair, so luscious, so
Exceptionally sweet.
I call her “honey” still, although
This metaphor she dreads.
She reckons it’s too apropos
Because — well, honey spreads !
P. O. M. C.
A Forgiving Nature.
“Husbands are not always properly grateful
for a wife’s forgiveness.”— Dorothy Dix.
A better way to put it would be to
say that they are very properly un-
grateful.
Maria is a most forgiving woman. If
she happened to burn the house down
she would still be perfectly prepared to
forgive me. In fact, I find her forgive-
ness one of her most exasperating charac-
teristics.
“Where have you been, you liar?”
she demanded the other night when 1
arrived home an hour later than usual.
“Why, I was getting those” I
began.
“Don’t you dare tell me any more
lies, Aitchem! You’ll only make matters
worse. Now, who were you with?”
After several more sparrings for a
verbal opening I managed to indicate
that if she looked in my leather case
she’d find the various things she’s asked
me to buy for her in town.
“Well, I forgive you. We’ll say no
more about it,” said Maria.
‘‘You’ll forgive me!” I exclaimed
bitterly. “Af(er you”
“I have told you that I have forgiven
you,” said Maria dangerously.
You see what I mean? And that, in
itself, would not be so bad if the next
time I am a bit late Maria’s saintly for-
giveness is not dragged up again.
“I forgave you last week,” she will
say patiently. “I overlooked how you
came home late and started abusing me
directly you entered the door. You are
simply imposing upon my forgiving dis-
position. I suppose you expect me to
go on forgiving you for ever.”
As a matter of fact I do. Not that I
relish the prospect!
H. M.
Champion.
Whene’er your slender form I view,
I must admit that you’re a winner;
For nobody as slim as you
Could ever swallow so much dinner!
T. W. N.
Logic.
“Britain cannot win. The Axis cannot be
defeated. I will prove it by logic.”— Mussolini.
That’s how I dealt with that cow
Blooter.
Quite by mistake I played his ball on
the ninth fairway. He tried to make out
that I couldn’t hit one 200 yards. I told
him what 1 thought. He called me a
twirp. I lashed out at him with my
No. 4 iron.
He dodged the blow and rushed at me.
I stopped his right fist cleverly with my
left eye and baulked his left with my
chin. It was quick thinking. Then I
got his arms round my neck and fell
back, pulling him down on top of me.
Cunningly placing my right ear between
his teeth and forcing him to double my
“Your quid and up a thousand!"
arms behind my back with his left hand,
I pushed his other knee into my stomach,
battered his right hand with my ribs
and, forcing my face into the dirt with
his shoulder so that he couldn’t see my
eyes, I had him.
You can’t beat logic.
M8.
“O!”
“His time for the 100 yards equalled the
public schools’ record, O.lOsecs.”
—Sydney weekly.
Gad! I well remember when that
record was established. Jolly old Merry-
weather, Jumbo Ballaster-Cannon and
Spindle Featherstonehaugh lined up at
the toe-blocks for the final.
They got away to a perfect start.
Merryweather did it in about point-
twoish, and Spindle wasn’t far behind.
But old Jumbo! Before the crowd at
the tape heard the gun old Jumbo was
in amongst them —positively decimated
them. But he was quite unaffected.
Turning on his heel, he trotted the
440 to the dressing sheds in 0.9823 recur-
ring.
BOLL.
A Blitzkrieg Braved.
“Although she personally addressed three
Judges for eight days, an ex-film star failed
in the defence of her fifth divorce case. Her
statement contained 600,000 words.” — Cable.
A week and more she held the floor;
She argued, pleaded, reasoned.
With honeyed phrase and languorous gaze
Her evidence she seasoned.
Their Honors who were subject to
This storm of words weren’t harried;
They knocked her flat, reminded that
They too had long been married.
G. J. H.
A Matter of Mobility.
“Too many producers are slipping back into
the well-worn groove of smart-comedy indoor
stuff. What is wanted in the cinema today is
more movement.” — Talkie critic.
He may be right, but my Uncle Eustace
doesn’t think so.
Not that any Hollywood nabob has
built too many mansions out of what
Uncle has splashed on the celluloid in-
dustry, The other day he announced, to
the family’s surprise, that he wouldn’t
mind seeing “a kineraa entertainment”
again, expressing the hope that he might
view Theda Bara in another of her power-
ful melodramas, or “that fella Bill Hart,”
whose bleak face and mobile hands he
had once seen in a cowboy-and-Indian
silent.
So Uncle went along to the local flea
hatchery. He selected a Saturday
matinee, for, as he said, “Me lamps aren’t
too good of a night, an’ I don’t want to
miss anything.” It was for the same
reason he insisted on a seat “down
towards the front.” Also, he had to get
right over on the side so as to be near
the exit door in case of fire. It appeared
that the last time he had visited “the
kinema” there had been a minor con-
flagration in the operating-room when
the operator, the better to see if he was
putting on a reel in its proper sequence,
got the hurricane lamp too close.
An airman, they say, can climb over
a hundred feet in less than a second, Unit
it took Uncle about ten minutes, and the
abuse he got as he attempted the feat
didn’t put him in the best of moods,
especially as the lights went out just after
he left the safety of the aisle.
Reaching the only vacant seat in the
row he sat down —on the edge of the
uptilted wooden seat. It was not until
he had been gazing goggle-eyed at the
screen for a minute trying to grasp what
it was all about (“it” was a mincing bit
of Shirley Temple dialogue), and was
asking the person in the next seat who
was the ventriloquist, that he became
aware of the catcalls coming from the
rear. Then a bull voice roared out “Hey!
Take y’r cady orf, y’ goat!” Certainly
Uncle couldn’t have been aware that they
referred to his own peewee hat, which,
owing to the danger of draughts, he had
prudently kept on.
He continued to sit there through a
storm of sarcasm until a juvenile voice
somewhere at the back said sot to voce
“Give us that orange, Stinker ; if I don’t
git ’is egg-boiler I’ll git ’im!” A second
or two later the wide-brimmed hard-
hitter which had been Uncle Eustace s
pride for 15 years vanished into the
Stygian blackness.
It was shortly after that that the real
movement began. The management at
the hatchery isn’t exactly enthusiastic in
its insecticidal activities, and Uncle was
soon kept busy. But when one got right
between his shoulder-blades and simply
wouldn’t shift, Uncle, maddened by his
inability to reach it any other way, got
up to scratch it against the nearest post.
It took him five minutes of groping over
countless feet to locate his seat again.
In the meantime the seats immediately
in front of him had been occupied by a
tall woman who Uncle swore had a
back you could measure in square yards
and a couple of jumping-jacks of kids
on each side of her. Uncle was kept
properly moving then, looking upwards
and sideways through the shifting spaces
between Mum and kids in a hopeless
attempt to follow the doings of the
grotesquely elongated figures on the
screen. The jerkiness of his own unrest
soon got him into verbal holts with an
aggressive individual a couple of seats
back, and shortly afterwards came the
manager’s first warning to him against
disturbance of surrounding patrons.
It was when he tackled the woman
about the behavior of “her brats” that
Uncle was treated to some real move-
ment. With a shrill “Who do you think
you are, the owner of the place?” she
advised her offspring to “jump around
as much as you like, the hide of him!”
About halfway through the film, of
which he had caught one or two fugitive
glimpses, Uncle, exasperated, stood up
and angrily demanded of the manage-
ment that, as there was so much move-
ment around him, he either be given a
better seat or his money back. Imme-
diately there came a little more move-
ment —another orange that ricochetted off
his neck.
His moving appeal for justice brought
the manager again. A near-by patron
complained that Uncle kept “bobbing
around like a blue-tailed fly,” and the
managed warned him if he couldn’t keep
still he’d be shot out. Uncle rose to give
better effect to his reply and a bit of
chewed-up chewing gum, blown through
a tube, got mixed up in the fringe of
hair around his ears. Doing his block
completely, he turned around and slapped
the kid he thought was the perpetrator.
The free fight that followed ended in
Uncle being forcibly ejected.
The cinema might have its faults, but
to accuse it of lacking movement will
bring a strong denial from at least one
of its (past) patrons.
Bo.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
fire, marine and accident insurances
effected at lowest current rates
_. m Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall, M.L.C.;
Sydney Sampson. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines); 873G1. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Oawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agent: A. L. Frost, Esq., Launceston.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Inflation Is Deception
A large number of Australians still
toy with the inflation question. The
Bulletin gets queries on the subject
nearly every week. It has tried a hun-
dred times to give its views on the matter
in clear and simple language; still it
finds that the thing is troubling the minds
of people in all parts of the Common-
wealth. Such people, when they write
in to this paper, usually ask why in-
flation should be disastrous if indulged
in in certain circumstances. After
answering such questions with a variety
of examples The Bulletin has come to
the conclusion that it might be better
to throw the burden of answering on the
inquirers themselves. Let them answer
the question of why inflation should be
anything else but disruptive and confusing
when applied to a country’s industrial
activities on a large scale. They can
start off on the fundamental truth that
inflation is deception. Any “credit ex-
pansion” that isn’t deception isn’t in-
flation.
The Registrar-General in each Aus-
tralian State keeps records of land titles,
etc., on the Torrens system. Only one
title deed exists for each block of land.
The area and situation of each block of
land is inscribed on the deed, and the
owner’s name is also registered. There
is no deception about this system, and
it has brought order out of comparative
chaos when compared with “old system”
titles. A person holding land under
Torrens title can rest assured that his
claim on it won’t be upset. He has the
deeds and the land they represent. But
if there were several deeds floating round
for every piece of land things would be
in a pretty bad mess.
Land titles change hands so infre-
quently that the trouble in connection
with the registration of them represents
no great hardship. Land is permanent.
But man doesn’t live by land alone. He
wants bread, other food, clothing, trans-
port, amusement, etc. When these pro-
ducts or facilities are created, there is
no Torrens title to them. Bread goes
stale in 24 hours, and clothing is made
to be worn out. Registered titles are,
therefore, out of the question. But
central authorities —banks —acknowledge
the existence of these products and
facilities. They will lend money (tokens
backed by assets) against their value,
or portion of their value —at interest,
just the same ay. they will advance money
against land.
The Commonwealth Bank has in the
past acquired Australian gold production,
other assets, securities, etc., and in re-
turn has issued Australian currency
notes. The man who sells his production
gets the equivalent of these notes in re-
turn —it may be in the form of a credit
balance at the bank, but he can get
notes any time he wants them. The man
who borrows money on stocks of manu-
factured clothing gets a credit at the
bank as well as a debit; when he sells
his stocks he pays off the debit and has
the credit. But right through the piece
only enough money is employed to carry
out the transactions involved. The trans-
actions can all be traced back to the
Commonwealth Bank’s note issue in one
direction and to the country’s production
and consumption in the other. The money
and “credit” —bank balances —employed
represent a kind of “floating” title. Of
themselves they are of no value ; it is the
legal rights attached to them that are of
value. Though the multitude of business
transactions involved mix these floating
titles up in an incredible way, under a
properly managed currency system a
motor-car that could be sold for £250 last
week can be bought for £250 next month.
Except for effects of seasons and other
things (such as war) on production, sound
money will buy in six months what it
will buy today. Such money is a good
and faithful servant to us. It does not
deceive. It simply keeps track of who
owes money to whom, and enables a
man who has done £5-worth of work to
have £5-worth of buying-power in his
pocket, to spend whenever he likes. He
has a title to £5-worth of production.
The system isn’t perfect. No system
is. But many people who believe in
inflation are believers in systems rather
than authorities on human nature.
Democracy itself depends on human
nature more than on systems. The
countries in which democracy has shown
up worst have usually been great
believers in systems. The French are
an example. And they pioneered cur-
rency inflation. Other Continental coun-
tries followed them later. The American
“greenbacks” were a snare and a delu-
sion. In the Great War Britain and Aus-
tralia also indulged in self-deception by
inflationary means. Credit was issued
on the security of war losses ; the result
was that there was more currency and
credit available than there were land,
goods and services at their pre-war values.
But as the excess currency and credit
had all passed into private hands in pay-
ment for services, etc., rendered in a
costly and wasteful war, the Governments
could do little or nothing to rectify the
position. So values and costs all went
up, with consequent dislocation of the
export trades and exploitation of people
on fixed incomes. Living standards fell
in spite of the increased money in cir-
culation. All this confusion occurred be-
cause it was not acknowledged promptly
that war expenditure is a loss ; instead of
issuing a surplus of notes and bank credit
to pay for these losses, the money should
have been levied from the people in an
orderly form of taxation. Under in-
flation the rich in many cases become
richer and the poor poorer.
It is a political fact that many people
favor self-deception. Rather than con-
tribute openly to the requirements of the
State, they recommend that they be
robbed stealthily. For where a Govern-
ment meets its expenses from loan money
or “credit expansion” it creates money
in excess- of existing values, and values
and costs rise to balance-up the new
money volume. Among British people
the process of issuing money in excess
of values —which would mean, eventually,
that money would become almost value-
less —has never been continued to its ulti-
mate conclusion. We have always endea-
vored to retrace opr steps, each time with
great confusion and suffering. If we had
never inflated we would have escaped
many of the effects of the last depression.
There are faults in the way we manage
our monetary affairs. Some productive
people who deserve bank assistance in
their particular industry don’t get it, while
the fact that banks do suffer bad debts
shows that some other people who were
granted credit shouldn’t have had it.
Bank managers are not omniscient or
omnipotent. But these shortcomings of
human behavior won’t be rectified by
inflation. It isn’t necessary to burn down
a house to roast a pig.
Civilisation (if we forget the war for
the moment) is emerging from savagery
very well. Lawmaking and education
and organisation of commerce have had
most to do with our emergence. Every
time humanity relies on self-deception or
trickery it goes back. Inflation is among
those revolutionary doctrines spread by
anarchists. It is a dope recommended
to cure something that would easily be
fixed up by a little more mental and
moral exercise, and a little more tolerant
co-operation amongst ourselves. Modern
life tends to make sections and classes
remote from each other. That is an evil
that shouldn’t exist. All classes are inter-
dependent ; they have to understand each
other. Inflation won’t help them under-
stand. It creates confusion and revolution.
The sharemarkets were inclined to
steady last week at a low but slightly
rising figure. Although no one knows
what may happen abroad, Australian in-
vestors are likely to be more dogged in
their minds in the event of any further
developments. There were opportunities
to pick up some stocks at fair prices
last week.
♦ * * *
Holders of B.H.P. shares may find
that the new issue is too much for them
to finance, and consequently contemplate
selling their rights. If their rights don’t
amount to more than 50 this may be
quite all right. But where the total ex-
ceeds 50 it may be better to sell 50 (or a
greater number) of fuljy-paids and to
take up the new issue. Thej;e are two
reasons for this. In the first place, on
a 1\ p.c. div. basis there is only Is. Hd.
difference in div. on the old and the
new scrip, so that at 17s. 6d. for the
rights (375. 6d. fully-paid) the old shares
are slightly dearer (395.) in comparison.
In the second place, proceeds of sale of
rights are taxable in full in some States,
whereas no tax at all may be payable
on proceeds of the fully-paids—depend-
ing on the circumstances. Taxation of
proceeds of sale of rights is often unfair,
and it doesn’t operate very considerately
in the present case, especially where the
old shares were bought cum rights at
prices over 435.
* * * »
B.H.P. rights were a trifle stronger
last week. They firmed to 17s. lOd,
in Melbourne on Thursday and Friday ;
and Melbourne has been weaker than
Sydney, mostly. The rights look
particularly attractive. At 375. 6d.
or 38s. the immediate yield is 4 p.c.
or slightly less, and the future is
as bright as the future of any business
can be in these times. The co.’s present
output is enormous —far above any pre-
vious level. Indications are that the
abnormal nature of the times has
prompted the partial financing of plant
additions, of which many have taken
place, out of undisclosed earnings. Put
in another way, it seems that provision
for depreciation and contingencies have
been extraordinary in view of the ex-
traordinary nature of the times. That
shows a wise policy, and one to which,
little exception can be taken. There may
be little permanency about so'me types
of business the co. is at present receiving,
and it is essential that specially heavy
depreciation be allowed on some classes
of plant additions. The co.’s subsidiaries
are likely to be more vulnerable than
B.H.P. itself to post-war reactions. But
after the war there will probably be keen
demand for steel and steel products not
only in this country but in Maoriland,
Malaya and the nearer parts of Asia.
Sales to Britain may also continue into
the post-war era owing to the rebuilding
that air raids will make a necessity. Thus,
so long as a policy of heavily depreciat-
ing war-time additions to plant is prac-
tised by 8.H.P., the after-war period
shouldn’t be disturbing to shareholders.
Some of the co.’s new industries —such
as shipbuilding—may not be very profit-
able in themselves, but as an outlet for
steel production they may act as a
stabiliser to the earnings of the great
and growing B.H.P. organisation.
4c * * *
B.H.P. is now taking as much man-
ganese as can be mined at S.A.’s biggest-
known manganese field—Pernatty Lagoon,
out from Port Augusta. The field is
worked by Modra Homann Wooltana
Fertilisers, Ltd. Previously imports of
ferro-manganese, along with other ferro-
alloys, left the mine languishing for many
years; Pernatty Lagoon is just another
of those places and industries which it
has taken a war to resuscitate or bring
to first active life. Mines Department
authorities say a good-grade ore is being
produced. B.H.P. buys on the standard
basis that there must be at least
48 p.c. of manganese, not more than
4 p.c. of iron or 8 p.c. of silica ; while
phosphorus, which causes brittleness in
alloys, is outed. Incidentally, the Modra
interests are prominent in many new
mining shows in S.A. these days, notably
the graphite field south of Port Lincoln.
* * ♦ *
Australian Newsprint Mills, the
southern Tasmanian enterprise at Boyer,
began production of newsprint last week.
« * * «
Financial assistance is to be given to
Victoria’s coal industry in order to in-
crease production. No applications for
assistance have been received so far, but
the Government expects interest to be
taken as soon as the proposal becomes
better known. Money will be available,
where the Mines Department approves,
for developing mines already operating,
for reopening old mines, and for boring
new seams. The State at present supplies
only about a quarter of its own coal
requirements. Newcastle is responsible
for the rest.
* * * *
Though the earnings of William Atkins
Holdings, Ltd., of Sydney, were only 10.2
p.c. on capital for the term to June 30
last, the undistributed earnings of its
subsidiary bring the real ratio up to 13.1
p.c., thus covering the 10 p.c. more
securely than would appear at first glance.
The liquid position of the cos. taken
together is comfortable. Since mainten-
ance of the interim div. at 10 p.c. p.a.
was announced it has been hard to buy
the holding co.’s ords. at 21s. 6d., the
figure at which the last sale took place.
* * * *
A new industry—a small but useful
one has come to Australia from
Switzerland, and it promises to help save
thousands of pounds of foreign ex-
change. Files and rasps cost the Com-
monwealth £lOO,OOO or so a year, and
they are usually discarded when they
“fill up” or become dull. The File Re-
conditioning Co., of Central Square,
Sydney, started treating old files about
two years ago, and now it has contracts
from the Railway Commissioners in
N.S.W., Victoria and Tasmania, as well
as from other Government departments
and public bodies. The armament fac-
tories also give work to the co., which
uses a patented electro-chemical process
of reconditioning. Sydney Tech, has
found that the reconditioned files give
service equal to new. Cost is about a
third that of new files. Country people
and salvage authorities should make a
note of this concern’s existence. What
they save themselves they also save the
country in dollar exchange.
* * * *
Barrier mines are worth attention at
prevailing low prices. Norths at 38s. 3d.
and Zinc Corps, at 60s. have special
attractions. New Broken Hill Consoli-
dated shares at 13s. are a holding pro-
pcciiion, but a good one. The co.’s mine
should be coming into its own in the post-
war period, whenever that is, and it may
be particularly useful in helping to supply
the demand for lead and zinc that is cer-
tain to occur. Empire trade may be con-
solidated after the conflict is over, too.
Britain has had the opportunity of finding
who its friends really are, and it will be
blind if it doesn’t encourage Empire coun-
tries to develop their resources, especially
where such development costs the Old
Country nothing. Zinc Corp. has a long
life ahead of it, and so has its offshoot
New B.H, North’s future isn’t so clearly
defined, but it is certainly longer than
the proved ore reserves would indicate.
* * *
In last week’s rather depressed market
Holeproof Hosiery ord. shares were firm
at 235. The co. continues to pay 10 p.c.
divs. in spite of difficulties in regard to
raw silk. At the current market the
scrip yields 8.7 p.c. For a year or more
the co.’s scrip was particularly depressed
—it got down to around par —but lately
it has shown strength when other stocks
have been weakening. It is a well-run
co., making men’s woollen socks as well
as women’s silk stockings, and this spread
of activities should be very helpful now,
especially if any military contracts have
come its way.
* * *
The war necessitated changes in plans
for establishment of a paper-board indus-
try by Cellulose Australia, Ltd., which
nearly two years ago offered to the public
115,000 £1 shares in its enterprise at
Millicent (S.A.). Biggest change was that
the main rolling mill had to be bought in
U.S.A. instead of Germany. This and
difficulty in getting fitters and other
skilled workmen down to the south-east
forest area have combined with other
troubles to delay completion of construc-
tion, but it is now hoped to enter the
first production phases about the middle
of this year. S.A. Government invested
£25,000 from a Budget surplus in the co.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
WAR EFFECTS IN JAPAN.
[ln the article here condensed from the February
“Atlantic Monthly” (U.S.A.) James R. Young presents
an extraordinary picture of Japan most acutely feeling
the pinch of over three years of war. It would
seem to suggest that any further extension of the war
Japan already has on its hands would be the last thing
the Japanese would desire. It may be as well to
remember, however, that Germany and Italy have from
time to time been reported as suffering from severe
food and other shortages.]
The Japanese people entered the New Year weary
of three and a half years of an undeclared war and
irritated with the sacrifices and deprivations. Mili-
tarily, the campaign in China was won by Japan.
But the real battle is with the millions of Japanese
homes affected by death, disease, shortages of food
and commodities, and the viciousness of uncontrolled
inflation, which has become a serious social-welfare
problem.
The Japanese, a regimented and orderly people
at home, do not mind the 72-hour week, but they
object to four-fifths of a pound of sugar monthly, no
pure butter, milk only in certain areas, four matches
a day and no cotton or wool for clothes. Rice is
short. Wheat is gone. A few extra pennies in the
housewife’s hand are no longer sufficient temptation
to the bird of high cost of living, which has flown
out of reach of millions of Japanese families.
Japan is overrun with economic police and
thought police. The first category includes the squads
which in two years arrested 688,000 Japanese busi-
nessmen suspected of bootlegging commodities; foods,
metals, medicines, gasoline, leather, cotton and even
tyres and tennis balls. The thought police imprison
people by the scores—people suspected of not thinking
in line with Government decrees.
Laborers in the giant war-industries plants are
earning boom-time wages. The deprivation hits hard-
est at the white-collar class—the doctor and his
nurses, teachers, students, store clerks ; their costs of
living have mounted three to five times, with no ad-
justment in wages. The quality of their food has
depreciated. The clothes they buy are made of staple
fibre and last but a matter of months.
Epidemics are feared. Water is low in the two
municipal reservoirs—feeding Tokyo’s 6,500,000
people. Scarlet fever, diphtheria and dysentery are
mounting. The water shortage is due to the enormous
increase in building munitions, armaments and heavy-
industries plants which have mushroomed around
Tokyo, Nagoya and Osaka. Coming to work in these
plants are hundreds of thousands of families. Their
demands for water have added to the distress of city
authorities in conserving the supply.
Farmers face the worst rice shortage in years.
They blame the lack of rain for poor rice crops.
Japan has had to ration rice, her main staple. All
this, behind-the-scenes Japanese say, is due to the war
in China and not to a lack of rainfall,
Japanese prefer polished rice. The Government
has decreed that in homes and restaurants at least
70 p.c. of unpolished rice must be used with 30 p.c.
of the polished grain. This is an attempt to cover on
fast-depreciating Government stores and to meet the
shortage brought on by lack of water from mountain
reservoirs which feed the irrigation ditches. Heavier
rice supplies are needed to send to China for Japan’s
soldiers. More rice, too, is needed for army horses
and mules. Farms are short of labor; wages in fac-
tories have drawn men and women to the urban
industrial areas ; less rice is planted and harvested.
Japan is forced to import rice from Burma and
Slam (Thailand). To the Japanese the imported grain
has not the accustomed taste; it is more costly, and
this forces the Government to release depleted re-
serves of foreign currency to help feed the people.
If the present season shows no improvement, there
may be a rice famine in Korea and Japan this winter.
Milk consumption in Tokyo has been reduced to
12,000 gallons a day for 6,500,000 people. Powdered
milk, always a big item in the grocery stores, is scarce,
in part because of the shortage of containers. Butter
is a rarity, and the once fine Trappist cheese blocks
have disappeared. In densely populated Tokyo milk
is at a-premium. If once you had three bottles a day
for your family of six, today your ration is half a
bottle. The cows do not give as much milk as for-
merly, since the fodder, rice and feed are being
largely appropriated for army mules and horses.
Chocolate is no longer imported, and all the
spices, oils and condiments once in favor in so many
Japanese homes are gone with China. The shortage of
rice has cut down on the feed mixtures for chickens ;
the chicken gets even by producing fewer eggs. Pigs
are being slaughtered because there is not enough
feed for them. Farm horses suffer because of the feed
reservations for the army horses.
One might pause to ask how the Japanese are
taking this situation. The Japanese are a docile
and patriotic people, and at first they accepted these
economic sacrifices as a necessary makeshift. For
months the National Spiritual Mobilisation Commit-
tee sought to maintain the proper point of view
among the people. But, despite the committee, masses
of the people have become pessimistic and all too
questioning of the outcome of the war. Those who
have money are beginning to hoard commodities.
They participate in illegal transactions. They bootleg
cotton goods, leather and rice. Those who have less
to spend eat porridge with sweet potatoes, do without
medical supplies, thin their rice and grumble under
their breath.
The sale of cotton goods was prohibited over
two years ago. Now even cotton for medicinal pur-
poses is procurable only with a ration ticket, the
army and navy excepted. Hospitals have experienced
a shortage of cotton gauze and bandages and ma-
terials for amesthesia. The dearth of iodine, aspirin
and quinine makes the situation extremely serious.
Bare feet are encouraged. Imitation leather is
expensive, and staple-fibre shoes last but a few
months. The army needs the leather on its long march
through China. But, with fewer buses and street-
cars, the populace must walk, and poorer-quality shoes
deteriorate quickly under these conditions.
The once valuable foreign tourist trade is gone.
In 1936, the year before the undeclared war on China,
the famous Fujiya Hotel had 15,000 Americans and
Europeans. The number has fallen to less than 4000.
This coming winter tourists to Japan will be incon-
venienced by the shortage of sleeping and dining cars
on the railways. The cars are needed for army hos-
pital trains and military purposes, and there is in-
sufficient steel and iron to build new rolling stock.
Sightseeing parties and cherry-blossom excursions
are frowned upon. Travellers must stay at home.
This is hard on the Japanese, for, like the Germans,
they are great hikers, tourists and shrine visitors.
If you are a hotel manager, this is your dilemma:
no more coffee, less tea, restrictions on milk and no
pure butter ; steel beds are not manufactured ; cotton
sheets and towels are prohibited ; and the porters and
maids prefer to work in ammunition factories. The
coal shortage causes guests to complain; elevators
must not operate, and there is little profit in the de-
pleted bars. No wonder hotels are being converted
into office buildings.
Japan—as is true of all Europe—-has a paper
shortage. Three thousand newspapers and magazines
have suspended publication, many under Government
—Chicago “Daily News.”
AMERICAN VIEW ON JAPAN.
“I’ll help you, Adolf, as soon as I can let go!”
compulsion, on the ground that newsprint must be
saved. Telegraph blanks have been reduced in size,
and the Government is campaigning to reduce greet-
ing and condolence messages. In Korea, telegrams
are accepted only two hours a day, which helps to dis-
courage the number of messages sent. The acute-
ness of paper shortage affects school supplies, text-
books, paper towels and rolls, and paper windows in
Japanese houses. Newspapers have but four pages in
the evening and four in the morning. Extras are
prohibited. Paper novelties are no longer on sale.
New Year and Christmas greeting card sales were
practically prohibited, the latter as part of a growing
anti-Christian campaign.
While the economic police seek out the hoarders,
criminal police are looking for thieves in the metal
market. People take in their pumps at night. Water
thieves steal the water, and metal thieves steal the
pumps themselves to sell for military scrap iron. Metal
fences, manhole covers, doorknobs, kitchen utensils
and gadgets have a way of disappearing. The metal
scarcity has hit the telephone business. No copper
wire and a lack of switchboards have run the price
of a telephone up to over $5OO, and you wait a year of
Sundays to get it. Once you do get a telephone at this
price, you can mortgage the instrument as you would
an automobile or tractor, provided the economic
policeman does not catch up with your transactions.
To save gasoline, the Government allots $5OO for
each bus and truck as a subsidy to use charcoal-
burning apparatus. This is a costly saving. The
engines choke, sputter and stop on slight inclines.
In winter they do not heat quickly. High-precision
engines were not made to run on charcoal or corn-
cobs. Everywhere on the streets and in the country
you see buses and trucks stalled by the wayside.
Passengers pick up their bundles and walk. Street-cars
run on less power, so fewer street-cars operate. Going
out tonight? Better plan to stay with your host and
hostess. There will be few taxis or street-cars after
you’ve finished your bridge game. Going to the
movies? Remember the Government has reduced the
power and with it the sounds from the screen. Some
people would call that a blessing.
Lack of coal has reduced the amount of gas
available for heating, cooking and industrial uses. No
more can you get gas stoves, gas appliances or even a
small piece of lead pipe if you want the stove moved
to another side of the kitchen. The lack of coal-
miners holds down the production of coal for the
gasworks. The lack of trains holds up delivery if
the coal is taken out of the pits. To replace the men
who are in the army or in factories, women and
children are working in the mines of Western Japan.
An American businessman, just returned from
nearly 30 years in Japan, reported to the State Depart-
ment that “Japan’s domestic situation is approaching
hysteria. The commodity shortages and lack of war
materials will become worse. The anti-foreign cam-
paign is an attempt by the Government to divert the
people’s attention from their insecurity and lower
standards of living. People everywhere are asking
‘Why should the war continue? When will it end?
Japan’s shortage does not portend collapse or
famine, but it is very definitely a prelude to severe
internal distress, rendering exceedingly difficult the
Government’s efforts to maintain public morale and
support of the war in its fourth winter.
Explaining Egypt’s War Stand.
[This examination of the curious war position of
Egypt, which is still not at war either with Germany or
Italy, is condensed from a long and evidently well-
informed article by M- E. Randolph in February
“Harper’s Magazine.”]
Egypt’s young King, Farouk I, is a
direct descendant of Mohamet Ali the Great,
that able and adventurous Albanian soldier
who went to Egypt in the Turkish Army,
seized the country and became its ruler,
owing a nominal allegiance to Turkey. His
family have ruled ever since, but the allegi-
ance to Turkey was ended in 1914. Complete
independence was achieved in 1936, when a
treaty of alliance for 20 years was concluded
between Britain and Egypt. Britain’s special
interest in the defence of the Suez Canal was
recognised, and the responsibility was left to
British forces until the Egyptian Government
was able to undertake the defence itself.
Egypt itself was to defend Egyptian territory
only, and the Egyptian armed forces were to
be used in Egypt only. This condition was
invoked by Egypt when it refused to send
troops to serve in France in 1939-40.
At the outbreak of the present hostilities
the Egyptian Government broke off diplo-
matic relations with Germany and proclaimed
a state of siege. German citizens were in-
terned and German property put in the hands
of a Custodian of Enemy Property. Similar
action was taken when Italy entered the war.
Why did Egypt not declare war actually?
The reason for the non-declaration of war
on Germany was that Germany seemed very
remote and the issues of the first period did
not seem to touch Egypt. The invasions of
small nations brought out the real issues of
the conflict, and when Italy entered the war
could no longer be considered remote. Yet
again Egypt did not declare war. The delay
—and it most likely is only a delay—is caused
by a number of factors.
Italian influence has been strong, parti-
cularly in the cities. There are some 70,000
Italians resident in Egypt, the majority pros-
perous. All the big builders and contractors
are Italian, and many of the bankers and merchants.
The banking firm of the Mosseri family, for example,
has an interest in almost every large business in the
country and holds mortgages on a great deal of land.
The Italians in Egypt speak Arabic, mix with
Egyptians and employ Egyptian labor. These Italians,
long resident in Egypt (some of the important families
have been there 150 years) and clinging to their
Italian nationality, formed a fifth column. A fifth
column, moreover, organised and led by Italians sent
from Italy for that purpose ; in many cases attached
to the legation and consulates, in other cases osten-
sibly there for commercial reasons. The Italian Gov-
ernment maintained Italian schools in every city and
large town, schools to which any Egyptian student
could go free. Parties of such students were often
given free trips to Italy in the summer vacation.
This influence, however, has been countered by
that of the Egyptians who studied in English univer-
ses. (More than half of these students have married
British women, and are sympathetic with British ideas.)
Italian tourist propaganda was highly developed.
Egyptians were given preferential treatment on steam-
ship lines and railroads and at all Italian resorts.
Prominent Egyptians were given de luxe accommoda-
tions at nominal cost, and were often invited to
attend conferences and festivals as guests of the Italian
Government. Germany pursued the same tourist
policy as Italy. Hitler always invited a number of
Egyptian political leaders and distinguished lawyers
to the Nuremberg Conference as his personal guests.
Another factor in Egypt’s war position is the
King’s sympathies. His father before coming to the
throne spent many years as an exile in Italy, where
he was well received by the Italian royal family and
became an officer of the Italian Army. His love of
Italy remained after he became King and he sur-
rounded himself with Italians. The palace architect
and engineer, a Signor Verrucci, exerted enormous
influence, and was suspected of being the medium
for secret communications. He remained *tes calace


after King Fuad’s death and did not leave Egypt until
last June. Reports that King Farouk was educated
in Italy are not true. He was educated by private
tutors selected from the teachers of the Egyptian
Ministry of Education. The year before his father’s
death the British Government urged that he be sent to
England to study ; his father reluctantly consented,
and he went to England accompanied by a large staff.
He spent about seven months there and was then
recalled by his father’s death. The influences of his
childhood, however, have certainly given him at least a
kindly feeling for Italy.
It is probable also that he has received assurances
as to his throne. At the time of his accession there
were negotiations for a Treaty of Friendship between
Egypt and Italy. These were broken off when the
Prime Minister, Ali Maher Pasha, left office. Maher
Pasha was then appointed Head of the King’s House-
hold. He became Prime Minister again in the summer
of 1939 and negotiations were reopened for the treaty
with Italy. He left office after Italy entered the war,
because he was considered by both the British and the
majority of Egyptians too subservient to the King’s
wishes.
The present Prime Minister is Hussein Sirry
Pasha, who has always been respected by the British
and has always been on good terms with them. He
is one of the founders of the Anglo-Egyptian Union
and is a member of its committee. His taking office
seems likely to bring about a rapprochement between
the King and Britain. Under his leadership Egypt
may soon enter the war.
Another important factor in the attitude of the
Government was the refusal of the Wafdist party
to join the Government. The Wafd or Nationalist
party, which led the struggle for independence from
Great Britain, was until recently the largest and most
influential party in the country. It is so no longer, as
a number of its leaders resigned and formed a new
party, the Saad ; but it still has influence, and un-
doubtedly the Government has hesitated to declare
war without its support. It cannot be considered pro-
Italian, and is in opposition to the King’s influence in
politics. Its refusal to take part in the coalition is
due in part to its original policy of opposition to
Britain, but still more to the personal dislike of its
leader, Nahas Pasha, for both the British Ambassador
and the members of the present Government.
Further, the attack on Egypt was in the desert.
The average Egyptian is indifferent to the vast deserts
which form the largest section of his country. He
thinks only of the Nile Valley and Delta, small in
area but with fabulously rich soil, whence he draws
his living and where he builds his cities. The Gov-
ernment hoped by its delay in declaring war to save
this area of the Nile Valley and its cities, especially
Cairo, from destruction.
Another important consideration has been the
water of the Nile. The whole country depends on
the Nile as its sole source of water. Since the Italian
occupation of Abyssinia there has been the possibility
of Italy’s diverting the waters of Lake Tsana, which
flow into the Blue Nile, thus causing the annual flood
of the river which produces the enormous quantities
of water necessary for the Egyptian irrigation system.
That this diversion has not occurred is probably due
to the enormous engineering difficulties. These flood
waters are taken care of by a series of huge dams on
the river, and the possible bombardment of these
dams forms a great danger. Not only would agricul-
ture be ruined by the resultant flood and subsequent
drought, but the water supply of both countryside and
cities would be affected ; and, as none of it has a
drainage system capable of carrying off such enor-
mous masses of water, epidemics would very likely
ensue. However, the Royal Air Force raids on
northern Italy have shown how difficult it is to destroy
dams of this kind, so this danger may have been
exaggerated.
Surprise has been expressed in many quarters
that Great Britain has acquiesced in Egypt’s policy of
not declaring war. Again there are several reasons.
Every facility in bases, communications and supplies
has been granted to the British forces. Second, the
present policy has permitted normal agriculture, and
all the British forces in Egypt can be fed, if necessary,
by the country’s products. Third, there is Egypt’s
position as leader of Islam. Not only is Cairo a cul-
tural and religious centre for the Arabic-speaking
world, but also for the Moslems of India and Malaya.
The goodwill of these peoples, so ardently wooed by
the Axis Powers, is very important to the British
Empire. Thus the British authorities do not wish to
give the impression of coercing Egypt, The advan-
tages gained would be more than offset by the result-
ing Islamic unrest.
The bulk of the Egyptian people sympathise with
Great Britain and hope for a British victory. Con-
trary to the prophecies of many foreigners, Egyptian
morale has been excellent. There was no panic the
evening Italy’s declaration was known. It was believed
then by both the British and Egyptians that if Italy
did enter the war she would loose an immediate attack
on Egypt, particularly from the air. Yet the people
of Cairo went on sitting at cafes, dined and danced,
and went to the cinema as usual. There was, it is
true, a feeling of tension; there was a complete
blackout, for some hours all power was turned off by
the electric company ; but there was no alarm. Nor
was there any disorder. Italians were present at the
hotels and restaurants. At one large, popular open-
air restaurant peoples of every nationality dined by
dim candlelight. There were calls from one table of
Italians to another, “What, you have not been arrested
yet. Italian and Egyptiap acquaintances greeted one
another amiably. British officers placidly ate their
dinners The Italian agitators were quietly rounded
up by the police about two o’clock in the morning and
taken to internment camps. Other Italians were left
at liberty under police surveillance.
. were many searchlights in the sky that
night, British fighter-’planes soared overhead, the
police wore tin hats and carried gas masks and rifles,
British army trucks packed with soldiers rumbled
through the streets on their way to desert posts,
barbed wire was put across certain streets, and some
barricades were erected near the army headquarters
and vital Ministries ; but the people of Cairo went
quietly to bed. It is a tribute both to the police and
the people that no crimes have been committed at any
time during the blackouts. •
Egypt has long been a most tolerant land, where
people of every nationality and belief have been able
to live according to their wishes and customs, without
interference by Egyptians. Their tolerance was
proved to the utmost that night of crisis.
Even if the British defeat the Italians completely,
the strategic importance of Egypt and the Suez Canal
would remain unchanged. Their possession
must remain a goal of the Axis. It is probable
that the Germans will undertake a Middle
East campaign. This might transfer the
Middle Eastern battlefield from the western
to the eastern deserts of Egypt. This great
desert of Sinai is even more inhospitable
than is the western desert. Sinai is almost
completely dry and has steep, rocky ridges
which would make the passage of mechanised
troops difficult. There is, however, a new
asphalt road across this desert. For the de-
fence of this area the British have a large
body of Australian troops in Palestine, con-
siderable forces along the Canal itself, good
air bases and the fleet based on Port Said and
Suez. The new roads built by the Egyptian
Government will enable the British to rush
troops to the Canal Zone from other parts of
Egypt.
There have been so many surprises in
this war that all predictions are hazardous ;
but from the information now available it
seems probable that if Britain can hold out at
home it will be possible for her to defend suc-
cessfully Egypt and the Canal, and to win the
Middle East campaign. The pagan creed of
Nazism may thus receive its mortal blow in
that part of the world which gave birth to
three religions, Christianity, Judaism and
Islam.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment
condensed from various acknowledged sources .)
The combined sea power of Britain and
the United States is greater than twice the
sea power of the two separately, and far
superior to that of the triple Axis. It is,
therefore, not in the interest of the triple
Axis to force the United States into the war.
For they know that in conjunction with the British
Navy and its bases existing U.S. naval power is already
immense and U.S. capacity to produce arms and to
take other measures would be multiplied many times
if pushed from neutrality into war. — Walter Lippmann,
New York “Herald Tribune.”
*****
It is not to be lightly assumed that a Japanese
failure to get pledges of non-intervention from the
Kremlin will dissuade Japan from trying her luck in
Malaysia. Germany is desperately anxious to have
her run amuck, and a German demonstration in the
Balkans can always be relied upon to take Stalin’s
mind off the Far East. Furthermore, it is not to be
lightly assumed that Stalin does not want Japan to
run amuck, waste her substance and possibly crack up
in parts of East Asia remote from Soviet spheres of
influence in Mongolia and in north-western China.
Japan’s exhausting entanglement in China, close as it
has brought Japanese armies to Soviet preserves, has
been of far more advantage than discomfiture to the
Soviet Union. The Kremlin is, of course, bargaining
hard because it has the upper hand ; but it would be
foolish to assume that the Kremlin is holding Japan
up in the interests of anyone but Josef Stalin and his
own Soviet Union.—Vew York “Herald Tribune.”
*****
The United States Government’s refusal to facili-
tate the migration of thousands of refugees from
France looks shockingly cold-hearted on the surface,
but it is not as bad as it appears. The hidden fact
is that about 3500 French refugees hold American
visas and are not allowed to leave France because the
Gestapo wants them. The Vichy Government asks
the U.S.A. to forget about the 3500 and take instead
other refugees who have had to flee before the Nazi
advance. The U.S. official reply should be; “First
let us have the 3500, for they are the fire-tested anti-
Fascists, whose experience will be so valuable to us
Afterwards we will take the others.”— New York
“Post.”
*****
Although Soviet Russia bought little copper in
the U.S.A. before the outbreak of hostilities in Sep-
tember, 1939, purchases last year amounted to
108.955.000 pounds, making Russia the third-largest
buyer of copper in the U.S.A. In 1939 she bought
45.496.000 pounds, all after the war began.— New
York “Times.”
*****
The British Ministry of Economic Warfare cor-
roborates a point the “Post” has been making for one
“Some United States producers,” the Ministry
says, “are helping Germany indirectly by selling
Russia commodities in which Germany is deficient.
Of these cotton is the most important.... Another
important United States export to Russia is oil-drill-
ing and oilfield equipment Finally a good deal of
crude oil is sent to Vladivostok, releasing certain
amounts of export to Germany.”— New York “Post,”
which comments that it is “shocked by Washington’s
official silence about this monstrous situation.”
*****
The American people are running a big enough
risk in all conscience to expect the people of Britain
to hold out with their own resources all through a
year with such a grim augury as 1941. If the British
people must not set their expectations any earlier
than January 1, 1942, the American people must not
set their expectations any later. — London “Economist.”
*****
It isn’t merely a picturesque detail that the Aus-
tralian troops in Africa have gone into battle yelling
and singing a chorus from “The Wizard of Oz.” It’s
hard to get a song out of a soldier in a retreat, or one
who is on the defensive, or one who doesn’t quite
know what he is fighting for. The Australians sensed
victory, and not just an immediate victory in a desert
skirmish but, far away, beyond today’s horizon, a
great and final victory. They were formidable troops
in the old war, perhaps more formidable in this one.
—Cleveland “Plain Dealer," U.S.A.
Better Not Try It, Adolf, You Might Get All Wet!
He who believes so firmly in a cause that he can charge
with gaiety into the valley of death carries the seeds of
the future. There is no spark of this splendid mirth in
any dictatorial army—you search for it in vain among
the writings of the military press agents who marched
and flew with Hitler’s legions. This is the war cry of
free men. This is the laughter of democracy. For
Mussolini the singing troops that took Bardia carried
an immediate threat. The hermit of Berchtesgaden
would have done well to listen to their song, too.—
New York “Times.”
*****
Every morning a million Paris women stand in line
for food, soap or travel permits. From a Paris letter :
We have no milk, no butter, no rice, no coffee, no
tea. We have to wait for hours to buy potatoes. I am
sorry for the poor women with sore feet and jittery
nerves. Many of them collapse before their turn is
reached. People grumble, argue and fight with each
other standing in line; they are so impatient and so
hungry. Since we are watched by the German soldiers,
this is not the patriotic thing to do.
“Hollow hunger,” which leaves an aching void within,
exists among the poorer classes of Paris, but to what
an extent nobody can say. “Hidden hunger” is far
more prevalent, and many a Parisian fills his stomach
with food that is lamentably short in calories and
vitamins. While dietitians say the 87oz. of bread
allowed him weekly are enough for the average adult,
here is the present weekly ration of other foods in
ounces per person: Meat 13, butter 3.5, sugar 4.5,
ersatz coffee 3, cheese 2, rice 1. Compare the approxi-
mate number of ounces of some of these foods con-
sumed weekly by the average American: Meat 112,
butter 17.5, sugar 14, ground coffee 7. — From an
American “Mercury” article by Bernhard Ragner.
*****
As will be seen from the accompanying chart,
the recent rate of loss is still considerably below the
record level which lasted for a comparatively few
months in 1917. The figures do not include damaged
tonnage, which in the first World War was as large
as the tonnage sunk.
0
Monthly losses of British, Allied and neutral
shipping. Letters stand for months, beginning
September.
—New York National City Bank circular.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
All Veil recorded the greatest perform-
ance of his career when, carrying 91b.
under w.f.a. for a three-year-old colt, he
defeated Phoines and Zonda in a ding-
dong finish for the Newmarket Handicap
at Flemington on Saturday. His time
for the straight six, I.loi, equalled St.
Ardent’s record for the race.
All Veil has never really shone under
weight, and, although he finished a good
way behind with 9.1 in the Futurity
Stakes, his connections based their New-
market confidence on the fact that he
dropped to 7.13, and met Zonda 151 b.
better than when fourth to the latter in
the Oakleigh Plate. Backed from 15
to 1 down to tens, he headed the flat-
side pacemaker, Zonda, about a furlong
from home, and battled on gamely to
win by a neck from Phoines on the
opposite side of the track. All Veil’s
success was not a bad result for course
bookmakers, who held collective fortunes
for High Caste and Zonda, but doubles
operators will have to do a lot of financ-
ing to reduce their liabilities. The New-
market winner was backed for big money,
at long odds, in doubles with the Cup
favorites, Apostrophe and Tidal Wave.
Randwick trainer Jerome Carey was
directly responsible for All Veil being
bought as a yearling by G. J. Barton
and W. Balloch. Balloch had,won good
races with Lochlee, and was anxious to
obtain that horse’s yearling brother, now
known as Velocity. A limit of 500
guineas was set, but, although Carey
ventured another bid after that price had
been reached, Velocity was sold to an-
other bidder for 600 guineas. Balloch
and Barton, however, were anxious to
obtain a colt by Veilmond, and Carey
recommended the yearling from Water
Gipsy, who had failed to reach his re-
serve at the sales. They bought him for
250 guineas without having seen him,
and were not exactly pleased with All
Veil when they saw him for the first time.
But Carey’s judgment was sound, and
after, the Newmarket he sent a con-
gratulatory telegram to All Veil’s trainer,
“Snowy” Wolters. All Veil had pre-
viously won two nice stakes this season
—the Superior Handicap at Ascot and
the William Reid Stakes at the Valley—
and has developed into a rare bargain.
Generally speaking, jockeys are not
considered to be good judges, but Badger
showed judgment when he asked to be
relieved of his Scarlet Toi engagement in
order that he could take the All Veil
mount. He was not impressed by Scarlet
Toi’s second to Queen Baccha a week
earlier, and connections of the imported
gelding offered no opposition to his
switch. Scarlet Toi finished sixth with-
out ever being dangerous, but may do
better over a distance beyond six fur-
longs.
Stan Ralph, rider of Phoines, received
a bit of a shock when the judge declared
for All Veil. He thought Phoines had
won, but, with his mount finishing under
the judge’s box, and AH Veil alongside
the flat-side rails, naturally was not pre-
pared to dispute the decision. He realised
that the judge was the only man in a
position to tell which horse had won.
Phoines’s display of speed demonstrated
again that little can be wrong with the so-
called “slow” side of the straight-six,
and his form was an improvement on his
disappointing effort in the Oakleigh
Plate. All going well meantime, and if
his connections are satisfied with his
treatment by the A.J.C. handicapper, the
probabilities are that Phoines will be
sent to Sydney for the Doncaster.
No excuse was possible for High Caste
or Zonda. The latter appeared to be
going comfortably in front at the two
furlongs, but, although she battled on
gamely enough, her 101 b. penalty for
winning the Oakleigh told over the last
furlong, and she was beaten a neck and
a head. High Caste was a head farther
back in fourth position. High Caste was
behind only Zonda, All Veil and Phoines
at the furlong post, but he had been
made to carry his 10.2 all the way, and
in the circumstances his performance,
though disappointing to his backers, was
one of his best. Mildura never looked
like repeating his win of last year, but
Gold Salute made up ground to finish
seventh, and should be a better proposi-
tion at a distance beyond six furlongs.
Expected to be a match between All
Love and High Title, the Sires’ Produce
Stakes was really a one-horse race. All
Love, 13-to-8-on favorite, was not headed
after hitting the front at the end of a
furlong, whereas High Title, who
momentarily threatened danger when he
made a dash at the top of the straight,
faded to nothing toward the finish, and
beat only two runners home. All Love
simply outpaced and outstayed her rivals
to win as she liked from Primavera (50
to 1) and Status Quo (100 to 1), and she
is definitely one of the best fillies of her
age seen for many years, if not the best.
Unbeaten in five races among horses
of her own age, her only failure being
against some of Australia’s greatest all-
aged sprinters in the Oakleigh Plate, All
Love has been a wonderful bargain at
the 250 guineas she cost wholesale poul-
terer “Charles Vixen” as a yearling. Any
doubts concerning her stamina were dis-
pelled by her win on Saturday, and at
present it seems only a matter of her
keeping fit in order to win such fillies’
races as the Wakeful Stakes and Oaks
next spring. Meantime, she should have
no difficulty in landing the Ascot Vale
Stakes with her 101 b. penalty tomorrow
(Thursday), and unbeaten Yaralla will
need to be a colt right out of the ordi-
nary to defeat her in either the A.J.C.
Sires’ Produce or Champagne Stakes. She
has an unusually long stride for a two-
year-old, rider Ted Bartle estimating that
she is not far short of High Caste in that
respect.
High Title’s failure was a blow to
backers who considered him Victoria’s
best colt and a definite danger to All
Love. He had not raced beyond five
furlongs before Saturday, however, and
evidently is only a speedster. Primavera
revealed gameness in running second, but
it did not say much for the unplaced divi-
sion that Status Quo, still a maiden per-
former, could finish third. Status Quo
evidently needs a bit of distance, and his
owner-trainer, G. Hodgkinson, has ex-
pressed his intention to take the colt to
Sydney for the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes. He does not flatter himself that
Status Quo will beat either All Lpve or
Yaralla in that race, but will be content
with third prize-money.
Apostrophe, warm favorite for the Aus-
tralian Cup, to be run next Saturday,
earned another 51b. penalty as the result
of his defeat of Saul and Wilson in the
Flemington Handicap. This, on top of
his 51b. rehandicap for winning the Bond
Handicap, means that the V.R.C. handi-
capper has given him the “possible” over
his original weight of 8.8. Even with 9.4,
however, Apostrophe has only 11b. more
than he carried on Saturday, and weights
suggest that he should again finish ahead
of all he beat in the Flemington Handi-
cap. Always one or two horses wide
until he received a rails-run when the
leaders, Ardashir and Wilson, veered out
at the turn, Apostrophe momentarily
looked like running right away. Saul,
however, threw out a determined chal-
lenge in the last furlong, and for a stride
or two looked like making things interest-
ing, but Apostrophe beat him half a
length, and appeared to be doing the
better of the two right on the post.
Winner of four successive races over
distances of 14, 10, 12 and 14 furlongs,
Apostrophe is definitely a better horse
than when in Melbourne in the spring,
and seems better fitted than any of his
rivals to see out the difficult 2\ miles of
the Australian Cup. In the circum-
stances' it was surprising that his rider,
N. Creighton, should express waning con-
fidence in his Cup chance after Satur-
day’s success. Creighton stated that
Apostrophe was inclined to gallop rather
ungenerously to the five furlongs, and,
while admitting that he went better from
that stage onwards and ran home well
enough, was not as enthusiastic as he
might have been about the performance.
Creighton might be correct, but few
backers will agree with him. The Adel-
aide gelding, provided all goes well with
him this week, promises to start one of
the hottest Cup favorites for years.
Saul seems fated to play the role of
runner-up. His second to Apostrophe
was his fifth successive similar placing,
and, as he will meet Apostrophe on much
the same terms next Saturday, his pros-
pects of reversing positions are not
exactly bright. Wilson weakened toward
the finish, but the race was only his
second since the spring, and improvement
is probable. Dashing Cavalier dropped
too far out of his ground early, and was
still last at the three furlongs. He made
up a fair amount of leeway subsequently.
Waiting tactics adopted with Carpen-
tier in the Woodcliff Handicap a week
earlier were again successful in the Bruns-
wick Stakes. Ahead of only two horses
at the five furlongs and eighth into the
straight, he dashed past Sun Valley after
the latter had looked all over a winner,
and then stalled off a determined chal-
lenge from Sydney-owned and -trained
Mabson. Latter was last at the five fur-
longs, but honors of the race were with
Carpentier, who conceded Mabson two
stone, and made comparatively light of
his 9.2 on a track that had been softened
somewhat by rain. Sun Valley, although
he weakened into third place after hav-
ing every chance, should repay following.
Bureaucrat, racing over jumps for the
first time since his win at Flemington in
July, won the Pines Hurdles in good
style from Dominex and Coylton. Two
races on the flat had brought him along
nicely, and he was always favorite. The
place-getters had the race to themselves
over the last six furlongs, Bureaucrat get-
ting a rails-run when the pacemaker,
Coylton, feeling the effects of 11.1, veered
wide at the turn. He won nicely from an
improver in Dominex, but Bureaucrat
himself is one of the most promising
jumpers in Melbourne, and is certain to
be all the better for Saturday’s race. He
will be one of the early fancies for the
Grand National Hurdle, but meantime is
engaged in the Sydney Cup. It will be
surprising, however, if his connections
even consider starting him in that race.
Turf Boy looked certain to justify his,
favoritism for the Victoria Steeplechase
when he ran to the lead at the top of
the straight, but, although half a head
in front of Dark David at the judge, it
was certain there would be a protest.
He hampered Dark David less than a
furlong from home, and the latter had
to be eased and pulled to the outside.
Upholding of the protest was not un-
expected, the stewards taking such a seri-
ous view of the interference that they
suspended Turf Boy’s rider, Ron Sweet-
man, for one month. Dark David’s win
was his first since the Australian Steeple-
chase last year.
* ¥ * *
Canterbury Park had an eight-event
programme on Saturday, but the club
did not get quite the result it deserved.
Two of the races were “duds,” the re-
spective winners outclassing their oppo-
nents.
Article ran away with the first division
of the Trial Stakes, beating the second
horse, Discipline, eight lengths, with His
Lordship, who looked above himself,
three lengths further back. Discipline’s
form discounted his chance of winning
anything in the near future, and nothing
favorable can be said of those that fin-
ished behind the place-getters.
Only four of the eight acceptors for
the second division of the Trial Stakes
started, and Mortine, after waiting on
Regatta for nearly five furlongs, eventu-
ally won as she liked in a half-second
slower time than Article recorded in his
division.
Mab’s Boy and Rossjoy had the finish
of the Hurdle Race to themselves, and
though at the turn the latter looked dan-
gerous he bungled the second-last jump,
and that gave the race to Mab’s Boy.
Still, Rossjoy did not shape at all badly
for a first attempt as a hurdler. Forest-
age could neither jump nor gallop, and
his effort will not warrant support for
him for a long time. The stewards in-
quired into his running, and decided all
was in order.
Tuhitarata moved a trifle short in his
preliminary for the Flying Handicap, and,
after jumping away well, his slowness in
fairly finding his legs gave his backers
some anxious moments. However, he
started to stretch out after going a couple
of furlongs, and, first of all disposing of
Bona Fide in the straight, then stalled off
Overbold. The latter did not commence
smartly, and was some distance from the
leaders halfway through. He came home
gamely, but Tuhitarata was holding him
at the winning-post. Tarn, the early
leader, lasted only to the straight
entrance, and Bona Fide and Tel Asur
will be all the better for more racing.
Samurai’s fourth was good enough to
give him another chance of a win at a
mid-week meeting.
Gilltown did not shine at Moorefield
the previous week, but it was generally
recognised he was being so favorably
weighted that a return to anything
approaching his spring form would make
a race or two a certainty for him. How-
ever, the price at which he started for
the Canterbury Handicap indicated that
even those associated with him were not
prepared for his rapid improvement.
Climax was the early leader, but Gill-
town took charge after going five fur-
longs, and, though he tired in the straight,
defeated Climax by a length. The latter
threatened danger halfway down the
straight, but could not sustain her run.
Teddy Rion was prominent most of the
way, but, weakening in the run home,
was beaten for third by Prince Cacique.
Calruin was unequal to repeating his
Moorefield form. The time, 2.20,
equalled Cable Boy’s record for the track.
A track record was made in the
Nursery Handicap when Henchman and
Lagoon dead-heated in 1.1 for the five
furlongs. Jesterine was the pacemaker,
but Henchman, Lagoon, Gramada and
Dick Whittington closed on her imme-
diately after entering the straight. In
turn Lagoon and Henchman looked like
winning in the last 50 yards, but no one
found fault with the judge’s decision of
a dead-heat, which was something un-
usual, as there is nearly always someone
ready to demonstrate when a verdict is
not to his liking.
Jesterine was a moderate third, suc-
ceeded by Dick Whittington, who was
disadvantaged by being drawn rather
wide out. Melfleur’s good post posi-
tion did not help her, as she was out-
paced early in the piece. Grenfell,
though a provincial winner, did not shine.
Lagoon, who is one of J. W. Cook’s
team, is by Pentheus from Muddy, by
Chrysolaus from Neith, whose wins in-
cluded a Challenge Stakes with 10.2 and
a Cumberland Stakes, in which she beat
Trafalgar. Lagoon was a 270gns. yearling.
Dublin Lad and Miss Pentheus shared
favoritism for the first division of the
Highweight Handicap. There was also
sound support for Brazandt and Lorcha-
tall. In a rattling finish Dublin Lad, who
was prominent throughout, narrowly de-
feated the outsider Loyal Lad, with Miss
Pentheus a close third. The last-named
led into the straight, but their pull in
weight gave Dublin Lad and Loyal Lad
the advantage in the last 50 yards.
Though Trade Mark finished fifth he
was never really dangerous, and it was
the same with Lorchatall and Brazandt.
Cape Amber, who looks improved since
he raced in the spring, was well up at the
finish, and may be worth following.
Beaucaire’s joint owners must be com-
mencing to wonder whether it much
use persevering with him. Favorite for
the second division of the Highweight
Handicap he never looked a winner, and
after Status had led into the straight she
gave place to Elson and Water Waggon.
Elson outstayed Water Waggon, third
place going to Status. John Peel, who
looked well, was fourth, and might have
been better served by a longer trip.
Celebrity, having her first run since last
’ spring, did not look wound up, but ran
■ ffairly, while Dungala has rarely shaped
' worse.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
THIRD DAY—THURSDAY.
King’s Plate: High Caste, 1 ;
Lucrative, 2 ; Dashing Cavalier, 3.
Ascot Vale Stakes: All Love, 1 ;
High Road, 2 ; High Title, 3.
FOURTH DAY—SATURDAY.
C. M. Lloyd Stakes: High Caste,
1 ; Gold Salute, 2 ; Reading, 3.
Australian Cup: Apostrophe, 1 ;
Dashing Cavalier, 2 ; Saul, 3.
THIRD DAY—THURSDAY.
By "PILOT.”
King’s Plate; High Caste, 1;
Lucrative, 2.
Ascot Vale Stakes: All Love,
1 ; High Title, 2.
FOURTH DAY—SATURDAY.
Australian Cup: Apostrophe, 1 ;
Telergy, 2 ; Tidal Wave or Saki, 3.


THERE'S SUPER STYLE
IN A SOLTINE
SPORTS SUIT
1
g -
i i !
Si!?
gg
22
£0
gg
II
There’s a free-and-easy flair
about the smart Solline designs.
It s a fine material that keeps you
cool and fresh on Summer days. The
Jacket illustrated is Solline Cloth
No. 5078. It's a grand and glorious
Glen Urquhart Sports Check, sturdy
and strong to stand up to anything.
To set it off, the trousers are a plain
grey shade of Soltine, No. 5014.
They re a great combination. So
visit your tailor or store and ask
to see them. Be sure you get the
genuine article. Though Soltine has
many an imitator, it has no equal.
Born, Shorn, Woven and Worn in Austr
P ” n oi e to v , ofcta ™. write to Box 48‘
Post Office, Melbourne, and we’ll ad
you where you can get Soltine Clo
t
$
AN INCOME..
There’s money in Commercial Art! Big
opportunities—and big cheques—await the man
or woman who learns how to draw cartoons
—posters—illustrations fashions advertise-
ments! If you enjoy sketching, start to equip
yourself now for this fascinating, highly-paid
career. The Art Training Institute can teach
you in your own home, provided you can
spare even a few hours a week. Learn from
experts in Australia’s foremost School of
Commercial Art!
ART TEST /
Write to-day, enclosing 4d for postage, for the profusely-illustrated 32-
page book. Art Ability Tests! In addition to telling you more about the
delightful Home Study Course, this book features a scientific question-
naire and special Test Drawings. Copy these drawings and we will give
you an expert criticism—free! Remember, no cost or obligation If you
mention “The Bulletin.’’
PRT TROinmG mSTITUTE
so suonsTon s! mcißouKtu
Non-appearance of selections for the
Warwick Farm meeting on Saturday is
consequent on the weights not being
declared until Tuesday instead of Mon-
day, as customary.
* * » *
In Sydney on Monday betting on the
Australian Cup was practically dead.
Nearly everybody wished to back Apos-
trophe, and he was a prohibitive price,
with Tidal Wave, Telergy and Saul receiv-
ing most mention of the remainder.
* # * *
All Love did not give her V.R.C. Sires’
Produce opponents a look-in, but as her
126* for seven furlongs with 8.7 was a
trifle slow by comparison with the I.lo*
in the Newmarket there is further room
for doubt concerning the 1.10 credited
her in the Alma Stakes, in which she had
9.6. High Caste’s time in the Futurity the
same afternoon was 1.25* for seven fur-
longs. Leaving time out of the question,
All Love proved herself a remarkable
galloper last Saturday, and, though a 101 b.
penalty takes her weight up to 8.10, to-
morrow’s Ascot Vale Stakes now looks
easy for her. If she has a decisive win
it is possible that, with so much recent
form on her side, she will be a better
favorite for the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes than Yaralla. A filly has not won
that race since Cyden in 1920, and, though
it is one in which it has proved safe
to back colts, there is no doubt All Love
is quite out of the ordinary and she may
end a losing sequence for her sex. At the
same time 1 am still pinning my faith to
Yaralla.
* * * *
Comparatively few V.R.C. Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes winners have ever developed
sufficiently to win an A.J.C. or a Victoria
Derby. The race has not been as good a
guide for the big three-year-old races as
the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes. In the
last 40 years the double of V.R.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes and A.J.C. Derby has
been won by only Rampion and Nuffield.
V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes winners
have fared better in the Victoria Derby,
those successful in both since 1900 being
Beverage, Wilari, Wolaroi, Rampion and
Hua. Winners of the A.J.C. Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes and A.J.C. Derby in the last
21 years were Prince Foote, Ammon Ra,
Hall Mark, Nuffield and Reading. In
three successive years bad luck at the
start disposed of Heroic, Manfred and
Rampion in the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes, and each won the A.J.C. Derby.
Weight beats the best, and 10.2 stopped
High Caste in the Newmarket Handicap.
No excuse on the score of post position
is necessary for his failure. In a small
field he was not badly placed at No. 11 ;
All Veil was No. 10 and Phoines No. 12.
Less than a length away from the winner
m I.lo*. time equalling the record for
the race, High Caste was responsible
lor a great effort. It may be argued
that if he had drawn an inside position
he would have gone closer to winning,
but I question whether the difference be-
tween the inside and outside down the
straight six at Flemington is nearly so
great as believed some time back.
The C. M. Lloyd Stakes now looks “a
good thing” for High Caste, but, though
he has done only a sprint preparation,
it will not surprise me if he first of all
tackles the King’s Plate. I am writing
prior to the St. Leger, but after High
Caste s stablemate Tidal Wave has a hard
race in that it might not be thought
advisable to start him again prior to the
Australian Cup. If so, that would leave
Lucrative and Dashing Cavalier as High
Caste’s most formidable opponents in the
King’s Plate. Whether the first-named
wins or loses the St. Leger it is prob-
able he will be a runner, but High Caste
should be able to give him 121 b. Of
course, if J. T. Jamieson thinks there is
the least chance of High Caste being
affected adversely by a mile-and-three-
quarter run he will not start, but if he
does he should win.
* * * «
In the Newmarket Zonda ran up to her
Oakleigh Plate form, while All Veil and
Phoines improved upon what they had
shown in that race. All Veil, fourth in
the Oakleigh, met Zonda 151 b. better in
the Newmarket, but even that big differ-
ence scarcely suggested he would turn the
tables on her after her second in the
Futurity. Gold Salute ran much below
expectations, and, though A. E. Cooper is
not unaccustomed to shocks in racing,
the chestnut’s failure to do better was
probably among the worst he has
received. Either Gold Salute is a moody
customer or he is somewhat overrated.
Scarlet Toi again ran as if he would be
better suited by a longer distance than
six furlongs, and that may cause him to
be brought to Sydney for the Doncaster
Handicap, of which Hall Mark was the
last Melbourne-trained winner. Mildura
ran indifferently on Saturday, but his
starting price of 20 to 1 pointed to Mel-
bourne books and backers being of
opinion that recent form gave him little
chance. He is in the Doncaster.
* * * *
The success of 250gns. All Love may
tempt some men who have not yet figured
as owners to try their luck at the yearling
sales. Some regular followers of racing
could afford to race a horse, but, though
it may be less dignified, they prefer to
pester owners and trainers for infor-
mation. I have more than once heard
a trainer say; “I would like to tell some
of these individuals what I really think
of them, but I can’t afford to do it. They
would not like anyone to question them
concerning their private business, but
they don’t mind asking me about that of
my employer.” It does seem strange,
though, that men who are prepared to
put £5 or £lO at least on every race
during an afternoon cannot bring them-
selves to face occasionally the expense of
ownership,
* * * *
Five runners for the £l5O Hurdle Race
at Canterbury and four entrants for
Saturday’s £2OO race at Randwick next
Saturday scarcely encourage clubs to
give much consideration to jumpers.
There are many horses now being
schooled at Randwick, and, even if it was
not intended to run some of them, 10s.
wasted on an entry might have been an
advisable gesture. However, “Let So-
and-so do it; he has more money to spare
than I have,” is the attitude of some
owners, and if in the long run they all
suffer there should not be complaints
from any.
* * * #
It looks as if the “A’s” are going to
have it in the Newmarket and Australian
Cup double. All Veil has done his part,
and though Apostrophe now has 9.4 in
the Cup he did his work so well with 9.3
in the Flemington Handicap that the
extra pound should not stand in the way
of further success. He will meet Saul
31b., Wilson 21b., Dashing Cavalier 21b.,
Hathersage 61b. and Lanarus lib. worse,
Companion 11b. better and Pantler on
the same terms as in the Flemington Han-
dicap, and he should again beat that lot,
even though Saul was credited with being
somewhat unlucky in last week’s race.
That may have been so, but I think
Apostrophe will be more at home over
the extra distance.
I am writing before the St. Leger,
which I expect to be won by Tidal Wave.
He has been doing solid work, and, even
if he should fail in the St. Leger, may
still be a Cup possibility. His Melbourne
Cup third entitles him to respect, as it put
him in the light of a good stayer. Of
those below 7st, I expect Telergy and
Saki to shape well. The former, with
7.1, is likely to get a forward position
at an early stage, and should take a lot
of running down. There may be an
upset, but the order in which I like the
probable runners is Apostrophe, Telergy,
Tidal Wave and Saki. Wilson is expected
to be all the better for his recent racing,
but, though at one time it was thought
he would prove a genuine stayer, his
form in that respect this season has been
disappointing. Still, some good judges
are sticking to him.
* * * *
The respective prices of Good Morn-
ing (20 to 1) and Rival Spear (25 to 1)
pointed to their owner having allowed
them to run practically unbacked for the
races they won at the Hawkesbury meet-
ing. Nor did their recent form warrant
his putting much on them. . Each was
ridden by apprentice G. Young, and he
finished strongly on both. This young-
ster rides a deal of track work, and, in
addition to the probability of his now
being afforded greater opportunities than
in the past, hints from his father (Gloam-
ing’s well-known rider) and uncle (M.
McCarten) will be helpful in respect of
horsemanship. Furthermore they can
tell him sufficient to prevent him from
being carried away by any success he may
achieve. Newspaper flattery has assisted
in spoiling many lads.
* * * *
Unplaced runners at the Hawkesbury
meeting likely to do better before long
include Mabonga, Rondeval, Casket
King, King’s Deputy, Lambeth, Brox,
Owen, Beau Frere, Caprice and Fan-
volon. Some of those mentioned were
unlucky, while others will be all the
better for more racing.
* * * *
E. J. Watt had a couple of backed
runners at Rosehill last week—Corolla
and Gold Rush —but neither gained a
place. Corolla shaped badly, but Gold
Rush made a fair showing and will see
a much better day. He is a good-looking
chestnut colt, and, on breeding, should
develop into a stayer. He is by Tiderace
(son of Fairway) from Gold Trail (Chief
Ruler—Pure Gold), who won an Auck-
land Cup and ran second in a N.Z. Cup.
Gold Rush cost 800gns. as a yearling in
Maoriland, and his granddam on the
maternal side is a half-sister to Oreum,
dam of Gold Rod.
• * * •
Escutcheon and Lord Pentheus, win-
ners of the colts and geldings’ divisions
of the Maiden Two-year-old Handicap
at the Hawkesbury meeting, will again
be heard from. Escutcheon, who made
a half-second faster time than Lord
Pentheus, was the more impressive, as
after getting to the front at an early
stage it did not cost him any effort to
hold his position. An offer of 325gns.
for Escutcheon at the yearling sales was
turned down, and he is raced on lease.
‘ Escutcheon is by Hall Mark from Willow
Queen, by Willonyx. Lord Pentheus,
: who was also a winner at the top of the
1 straight, adds to the many winners by
i Pentheus, and is out of Pearl Thain
(Blue Trout-Real Bargain), dam of Miss
Pentheus. Harris Bros, are the breeders
of Lord Pentheus, also Lagoon, who
dead-heated Henchman at Canterbury.
, A sister to Escutcheon is among H.
Thompson’s lot at the coming yearling
sales at Randwick.
* * * He
Knight Sam Hordern’s Haridelle, win-
ner of the second division of the Hawkes-
bury Maiden Handicap, should at least
be a middle-distance possibility. She
finished well , at seven furlongs, and her
brother Valmiki (Harinero-Alimark) has
shown himself a fair stayer. As a year-
ling Haridelle cost 275gns. Ceres, who
was the early leader in Haridelle’s race
and ran second, is by Portofino from
Planetry.
H= * * *
B. Payten went close to a big day at
the Hawkesbury meeting, winning with
Air Link and Escutcheon, and scoring
seconds with Anpapejo and Connette,
and a third with Timken. Connette was
beaten in the last few strides by Rival
Spear in the second division of the
Encourage Mile. Anpapejo, who won
four races at three years, and ran well,
though without winning, in a few races
last season, is worth following. Taking
track work as a guide, Spinalot seemed to
have as good a chance as her stable-
mate Air Link in the first division of
the Maiden Handicap, but, though
money went on her at long odds, she ran
nowhere. However, as she can gallop
well in private, the probabilities are she
will yet do so in public. She is by Iliad
from Spionetta (Spion Kop-Flash of
Steel) and cost Dr. C. Nigel Smith only
50gns. as a yearling.
* * * *
No matter how good a thing a race
may appear the backer who refrains from
laying odds is generally a gainer at the
end of the year. Neither Sparklet nor
Lucky Omen gained a place when they
started at odds on at Rosehill, the latter’s
race being won by a 25-to-l chance.
Vestal (6 to 4) and Marcovelian (5 to 4)
were other costly favorites for many
backers, they also missing a place. Vestal’s
track work was supposed to put the
Hawkesbury Handicap at her mercy, but,
though she had a perfect run up to the
turn, Buzzal had her well beaten at the
top of the straight, and she stopped to
nothing over the last furlong. On track
form her showing was all wrong, and she
may be worth another bet when she runs
again.
* * * *
Indian trainer A. Higgins is having a
wonderful run of luck. Horses trained
by him have been winning more than
their share of big races in India, and the
three-year-old colt Cillas (Diatomous-
Monanui) recently purchased by him
won the Vercoe Handicap, of £5OO, for
him at Hamilton (Maoriland) about a


SMOOTH SHAVE
5
n
E O
Sole Agents: JOUBERT *■ JOUBERT PTY. LTD.
So
Will
ag
*
•*3*
to
O
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
CHEMISTS, 319 Georee Street. Sydney.
fortnight ago. Cillas, who carried 7.5,
ran the mile and a quarter in 2.5 j. All
going well, Cillas will be racing in Cal-
cutta at the end of this year, and, even if
he is not first-class, Higgins can be relied
on to place him so that he will pay his
way.
* « * *
It was recently announced that Royal
Chief was to be retired to the stud, which
is wise procedure, in view of the fact
that it now seems definite he is not as
good as a year ago. Despite the steadier
of 10.4 he was second favorite for the
Dunedin Cup last month. In a field of
11 he was never dangerous, and finished
a long way back. The winner, Double-
ack, who carried 7.7, was fourth in
demand and beat the outsider Iceland
Spar by a neck in 2.32 f for the mile and
a half. Doubleack is not a Stud Book
horse, being by Balboa from Morse
Signal.
* * * *
William Inglis and Son have cata-
logued 538 yearlings for their sales at
Randwick on April 15, 17 and 18. The
following 76 sires are represented, 47
being imported:
Midstream* .. .. 30 Royal Sun* .. .. 5
Double Remove*.. 24 Metallurgy .. • • 4
Hall Mark .. ..21 Plymouth Sound*.. 4
Excitement* .. .. 16 Rionscup* .. .. 4
Pentheus .. .. 16 Fox Earth* .. .. 4
Veilmond .. .. 15 Buoyant Bachelor* 3
Brueghel* .. .. 15 Gilt Edge .. .. 3
Piccadilly* . . .. 15 Plantain* .. .. 3
The Buzzard* .. 15 Ruffler* 3
Chatham .. .. 14 Seascape Bay* .. 3
Silverburn* .. .. 14 Law Maker* .. 3
Talking 14 Limarch .. .. 3
Medieval Knight* 14 The Marne .. .. 3
Madagascar* .. 13 Rampion .. .. 3
Spearfelt .. .. 13 Solicitor - General* 3
I. R. Smith* . . .. 12 Bullhead* .. .. 2
Pantheon* .. .. 12 Blank* 2
\ndrea* 12 Caithness* .. .. 2
Beau Pere* .. ..12 Closing Time.. .. 2
Harinero* .. .. 12 Hadrian 2
Melfort* ..11 Sion 2
Christopher Robin* 11 Tuckiar 2
Peter Pan .. .. 10 Kuvera 1
Sylvandale .. .. 10 Oro 1
Hua 9 Manfred 1
Marconigram* .. 9 Rembrandt .. .. 1
Assignation* .. 9 Safari 1
Constant Son* .. 9 Scarlet Square* .. 1
Waikare .. .. 9 Scintillation* .. 1
Conspirator* . . .. 8 Siegfried* .. .. 1
Myosotis* .. .. 8 Amalfi* 1
Winooka .. .. 8 Cheveley Lad* .. 1
Simeon’s Fort* .. 7 The Chief .. .. 1
Tippler* 6 Dunnottar* .. .. 1
El Cacique* .. .. 6 Eastern Monarch* 1
Denis Boy* .. .. 6 Gay Lothario* .. 1
Lackham* .. .. 5 Glenariff .. .. 1
Royal Step .. .. 5 Fanfare 1
* Imp.
* * * *
The Lyndhurst Stud (Q.) yearlings to
be offered at Randwick next month in-
clude a sister to Yaralla, who has proved
a bargain at the 1200gns. he cost. The
filly’s relationship to Yaralla will assure
keen competition, but, if a colt, the price
likely to be realised would be much
greater. Other youngsters from Lynd-
hurst to be offered include sisters to
Auto Buz and Katanga, and brothers to
Buzalong and Early Bird. Lyndhurst
should have a good sale.
» * * »
If the yearlings catalogued by A. W.
Thompson and Co. Pty. for the coming
sales at Randwick had included a brother
to All Veil, it would have found a buyer
at more than the 250gns. the latter failed
to realise at auction last year. Water
Gipsy (dam of All Veil) will be repre-
sented this time by a colt by Marconi-
gram, and he should find ready sale as
a result of his half-brother’s Newmarket
win. Water Gipsy (Moabite-Trolene) is
a sister to Ibrani, an Oakleigh Plate
winner.
:*c He sfc ♦
In The Bulletin a few weeks ago I
mentioned that Beau Pere had been sold,
not leased, to American breeder-owner
L. B. Mayer. However, as it sub-
sequently appeared in print that he was
only leased, it seemed as if I had made
a mistake. Late American papers con-
firm my statement, some writers giving the
amount paid for Beau Pere as $lOl,OOO
(approximately £A31,000). It sounds a
stiff price, but the deeds of Beau Vite,
Beaulivre, and others of his Maoriland-
sired progeny have placed Beau Pere on
a high pedestal, and though his Aus-
tralian-sired yearlings sold last season
have not yet accomplished anything out
of the ordinary some have not been
seriously trained—there is time yet for
them to develop into Beau Vites or
Beaulivres. If Mayer purposes using
Beau Vite for mares other than his own,
he will probably ask a specially high
service fee, in view of the fact that a
rule recently passed in California limits
races for Californian-bred horses to
those conceived as well as foaled there.
Some of these races are valuable, and
naturally owners wish to avoid being
barred from them as a result of sending
their mares to stallions in other States.
That should assure strong support for
Mayer’s stallions, Beau Pere and Hun-
ters Moon IV, both of whom are at
present located in California.
* * * *
Beau Vite has gone on well since his
arrival at Randwick, and at his first start
in a w.f.a. race this month will be ready
to give a good account of himself. Pre-
sumably that will be in the Rawson
Stakes, nine furlongs, at Rosehill. The
first race Beau Vite won in Sydney this
season was the Hill Stakes, one mile, at
that track. High Caste was second, and,
good as the latter has recently proved
himself, he is again bound to find Beau
Vite a tough opponent. High Caste was
favorite for the Hill Stakes at 2 to 1,
Beau Vite being at 5 to 1. They met
again in the Craven Plate, when Beau
Vite won by a head from Mildura, with
High Caste a length and a half away in
third place. A Maoriland exchange says
Beau Vite’s earnings this season total
£11,175.
* * * *
Sydney did better in the earlier days
of the Australian Cup than during the
past 30 years. Saxonite, owned by Joe
Brown, dead-heated Prizefighter in 1912,
and it was not until 1923 that another
Sydney horse was successful. This was
Prince Cox, in the joint ownership of
knight S. Hordern and “Constable.”
Pilliewinkie also won for the former in
1926, but as he was then trained in
Melbourne he could scarcely be called
a Sydney horse. Carry On, Topical and
Sylvandale are the latest winners from
Sydney, and this year the Harbor City’s
representatives will be so few that its
chance of supplying the winner will
depend upon quality and not upon num-
bers.
H= * * *
Randwick has had 21 days’ racing this
year. These were made up of 13 days
for the A.J.C. and Tattersall’s and City
Tattersall’s clubs, while the other eight
were Warwick Farm fixtures. At the
former the tote turnover was £560,385,
and Warwick Farm did not do at all
badly with £190,516 155., making a total
of £750,901 15s. On Derby day £80,560
went through the machines —the largest
amount for any day this season. There
are 13 more days at Randwick before
the end of July, so, taking the first half-
year’s figures as a guide, and if nothing
unforeseen interferes, it may not be too
much to expect the year’s total to reach
£1,150,000.
* * * *
Baqlava had nothing to spare when
he won India’s richest race, the Eclipse
Stakes of India, 1 \ mile, at Bombay on
Feb. 1. In a field of 20 odds of 6 to 4
were laid on him, and he won by a neck.
It was almost at the last moment that
Scanlan was secured, the owner of an-
other runner letting him off so that he
could take the mount. As earlier in the
day Scanlan won a race on a
chance, his luck was right in. It is now
claimed that Baqlava is the best horse
that has ever raced in India. He is at
home over all distances, from six fur-
longs to a mile and three-quarters, and
it is improbable he would be troubled
by a longer distance. A Calcutta corre-
spondent tells me that there is likely to
be a shortage of good horses in India
during the next two years, principally in
the second one, owing to the difficulty
there will be in getting them from Eng-
land, and he does not think many will
be purchasable in Australia. In such
case Baqlava is likely to continue dis-
tinguishing himself in India for some
time. He is six years old.
* * « . *
Doping looks like becoming a lost art
in Canada as well as the United States.
After the 1940 Canadian racing season
had closed the Incorporated Canadian
Racing Associations, an organisation in-
cluding six race tracks, received a report
from its chemical analyst that 723 saliva
samples had been taken during the
season, and that none of them had been
positive. It was the first time since the
adoption of the saliva test that a perfect
record was attained.
* * * *
Hard luck for the owner and trainer
of Astrid that she was unable to fulfil
her Melbourne engagements, and it may
be almost too much to expect that she
will be quite herself by the time the
A.J.C. meeting comes round. Still, as
that is over five weeks off, B. Payten is
not without hope. The filly’s trouble is
of the rheumatic order. If in the same
trim as when she won recently at Rand-
wick, the Easter Plate might give her a
possible chance of a win. She has
not incurred a penalty, and would carry
8.7 against All Love’s 9.3.
* * * *
It is now a lean time for jockeys in
England, and some will be pleased to
take up military service. Gordon
Richards, now 36 years of age, has been
graded for it, and no doubt it is the
same with many other riders of less note.
Last war several English trainers and
jockeys did good service, and some
well-known ex-jockeys have left Aus-
tralia with the A.I.F. They were game
enough in their own particular line in
many ways, and it is safe to bet that
when it comes to fighting they will not
be found wanting.
* * « *
Finalist was beaten in the Viceroy’s
Cup, but he is still one of India’s best
horses. At the Bombay meeting towards
the end of January he won the Great
Western Handicap with 9.11, and, in
cutting out the mile and a quarter in
2.2, improved upon the previous record
for the race by l|sec. Finalist was ridden
by R. H. Jones, and Sibbrit was on the
second horse, Chanak.
♦ * * *
An outsider in Bay View upset calcu-
lations in the $lOO,OOO Santa Anita Han-
dicap on Saturday last, the minor places
going to Mioland (8.12) and Bolingbroke
(7.8). The minimum was 7.2, and Bay
View, who had 7.10, was so little fancied
that his tote dividend was at the rate of
58 to 1.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Fedder Title Contest
Sydney ref. Joe Wallis declared Sydney
fedder Mickey Miller the winner on
points against Victorian Billy Rainsbury
in their scrap for the Australian fedder
title at West Melbourne Stadium on
Saturday night, and then hell broke loose
round the scene of hostilities.
Billy having beaten Mickey at the
same address a fortnight earlier, a crowd
of 10,000 rolled up largely determined to
see him do it again. A Sydney crowd,
used to Mr. Wallis’s reffing, mightn’t have
been quite so violently astonished when
he gave it to Mickey. Joe has a dead-set,
amounting almost to an obsession, against
holding. The Melbourne lad, after put-
ting up a magnificent fight earlier, held
on a good bit over the last four or five
rounds. He didn’t need to ; he felt, with
some reason, that he was so far ahead
that he could coast through, merely keep-
ing out of unnecessary trouble. He reck-
oned without Mr. Wallis. Pressed for
an explanation of what the huge major-
ity of those present considered a shock-
ing decision, Mr. Wallis said that Billy’s
hanging on over the last five rounds
enabled Mickey to wipe out his earlier
deficit.
The crowd, seeing no such nice distinc-
tions, angrily counted Joe out. Then it
took to free fights in order to get rid
of its pent-up emotions. As Mickey and
corner were making their way from the
ring, spectators took to them, flooring
Mickey and hurting his shoulder, and
more seriously damaging his manager and
coach, Llew Edwards, who was injured
in the groin. Afterwards, outside, the
mob hung on, heaping contumely on the
name of Mr. Wallis .and threatening to
set the place on fire.
The official scrap that had occasioned
all this was very much like the earlier
encounter of the pair. Rainsbury, a
recruit from the amateurs, and having his
first scrap over more than 10 rounds,
then beat Mickey by virtue of his much
superior boxing ip the earlier part of the
engagement. In the last three of the 12
rounds he took a severe battering, but the
points added up by his splendid left hand
won him the scrap. On Saturday night
again the Victorian clearly won the early
part, and as clearly lost over the last bit,
especially with Mr. Wallis’s objection to
holding brought into the reckoning.
* * * *
The cohorts from Darcy’s old stamp-
ing ground failed to shake the locals in
their weekly foray on Leichhardt last
Thursday night. Les Sloan, a tall welter
who boxes neatly and has a punch, but
isn’t so strong in aggression, outpointed
Tommy Hunter in the main 12-rounder.
Tommy tried hard, wading in in his two-
handed, willing style, but Les had the
sense not to join in mixing it; instead,
used his good reach to keep the New-
castle lad out, and most times when that
blockade had been successfully run
caught Tommy coming in with fair in-
side rights. Not a bad scrap to watch,
but, after all, of only prelim, quality.
Spud Arnold, Newcastle’s other rep.,
figured gorily in an engagement with
Teddy Lawler. Spud’s a game little
bantam, pretty well certain to make a
good ’un, but here he was badly over-
matched, Teddy being a veteran crafts-
man who, though he hasn’t been seen
with them on for a very long time, quite
evidently has the nous to keep himself
in great nick.
Spud should have learned something
from him, and so could dozens of others,
for Teddy’s style (which is not to say
Teddy himself) dates from a day when
scrappers really got the hang of the craft
of their game. He made Spud look a
novice ; changed his tactics a dozen times
to confound Spud ; kept Spud, who’s a
short puncher, mostly well out of hitting
range with straight lefts, and when Spud
got past that gave displays of weaving
and head movement that were a rare
treat to witness. Despite his also ex-
tending a large measure of mercy, he
made Spud turn it in after the fifth.
The punch that really decided the issue
was delivered in the first round, when
Teddy made a fast approaching side-
step and ripped his right under Spud’s
southpaw shape to the tummy. It
dropped Spud for six and ruined his
speed.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
{Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
The Duke of Windsor hit oft the first
ball on the new course at Cat Cay, in the
Bahamas; after opening the course he
partnered James West, of New York, to
defeat Charles Yates, the 1938 British
amateur champion, and William Dodge,
the New York oil magnate, in the first
round played. The official game was only
nine holes, but the Duke showed good
form by getting several pars, assisting his
partner to a one-up victory.
Cat Cay, very “select” fishing resort, is
patronised only by the wealthy New
Yorkers who have just completed build-
ing the nine-hole course there. Like
many of the courses built by rich Ameri-
cans, it contains many holes copied from
leading British links.
Dick Chapman, the U.S. amateur
champion, is the only financially in-
dependent player I can recall who has
won an international championship. His
father was a millionaire. Chapman has
become ever so much keener since he
won the title ; he now plays every day.
John Bulla’s victory in Los Angeles
was unusual. After leading the field on
the second day a two-stroke penalty for
playing his partner’s ball put him one
shot behind Jimmy Thomson at the end
of the next round. However, he didn’t
relax, and turned in a grand 69 for the
last round, to win by two shots.
The event was played in rainstorms,
and scores were a little higher than usual.
Bulla’s 281 was. followed by Wood’s 283,
Heafner’s and Hogan’s 284, with
Thomson and Goggin at 285. A surprise
302 was registered by the P.G.A. cham-
pion, Byron Nelson, who only a few
days earlier had won the 10,000-dollar
Miami open with a score of 271. Law-
son Little and Sam Snead were also well
down the list.
The event, played over the Rivera
country club’s course, shows that on a
full-length course the best players don’t
break 280, or an average of four 70’s,
very often. An analysis of the year’s
play shows that in any of the events
played at private clubs on legitimate par-
-72 courses 280 is seldom lowered. The
Rivera course is one of the nicest on the
west coast. It will be recalled by many
Aussies as the home club of Snowy
Baker, who looks after the polo interests
at the club’s special ground.
The charity exhibition match for the
British war relief fund between Bobby
Cruikshanks and Johnny Farrell and
Charley Penna and myself resulted in
207 tickets being sold at a dollar each.
The match was a close one, with the
opposition winning one-up. Played on a
Sunday at a small nine-hole public
course, the match was a trial which will
be followed by another at one of the
bigger clubs, when a gate of 1000 dollars
will be the fund’s aim. Similar games
brought the Red Cross many handsome
cheques during 1940.


m
m m
1' %
atea wifaefM afiet/dtsue
•THE provision of a qualified nurse is a
service that indicates again the spirit
of helpfulness and sincere consideration
for the bereaved that is the very essence
of the company’s policy.
666
fAjPjy
ill
ANY HOUR,
DAY OR NIGHT
THIS FINER SERVICE
COSTS NO MORE!
Chapels for clergy of all denominations at no extra cost.
• Branches throughout Sydney for immediate service. • The
finest motor equipment. • Specially trained staff. • Motor
Funerals Limited originated the all-motor funeral. It has no
connection, and should not be confused with, any other com-
pany bearing a somewhat similar name.
wm>
LTD
Chapels: 30 City Road, SYDNEY Tel.: M 6277
389 Pacific Highway, CROW’S NEST .. Tel.: XB 4015
93 Weston Road, ROZELLE .. Tel: W 1141
8 Railway Parade, EASTWOOD . . . . Tel: Ryde 855
97 Rawson Street, AUBURN .. .. Tel.: UX 7261


MANY NEVER
SUSPECT CAUSE
OF BACKACHES
This 013 Treatment Often Brings
Happy Relief
It Is surprising how quickly many sufferers
felievo nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
or filters which strain the waste and acids
from the blood; A healthy person should pass
3 pints a day and so get rid of 3 pounds or
waste matter.
If your kidneys don’t work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. Fre-
quent or scanty passages with smarting and
burning are further evidence that something
is wrong with the kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait 1 Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. . -
used successfully the world over by millions
of people suffering with backache and other
kidney disorders. They give quick relief and
Will help flush out the 15 miles of kidney
tubes. So be sure you get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The blue-clad V.As. selling Red Cross
seals became familiar figures on the steps
of the G.P.O. and suburban post offices
during last week. After all, to exchange
the penny over from a stamp purchase
for a Red Cross seal, knowing that it is
joining regiments of pennies all helping
to win the war, is a cheerful beginning
or ending to a day. Lady Wakehurst
launched the campaign of saving the
pennies throughout the State. Lady
Cowrie set in motion the Australia-wide
appeal.
The great moment of the opening day
was Lady Wakehurst’s arrival to attach
her seals to the great Red Cross hanging
from one of the arches of the G.P.O.
faqade. The Governor’s lady was to have
put the first seal in place at midday, but
from early morning the game of sticking
seals was being indulged in by eager
friends of the Red Cross. Ivie Price
affixed them on behalf of Lady Gowrie.
When you send a letter put one of these
seals on it. They are performing seals.
They are going to do great deeds in nurs-
ing the sick soldier.
There are some who will and some
who will not like “Susan and God, and
the controversy will keep a healthy box-
office at the Minerva. All the way
through you are tantalised by the feeling
that authoress Rachel Crothers is about
to strike some idea as thunderingly grand
as the Lost Chord, but she never does.
One bit of dialogue worth remembering ;
says Susan to another who has spent the
summer in Norway; “Norway! How
terrible. Nothing but scenery!” Every
woman in the audience loved the high-
necked, long-sleeved, contour-moulded
white frock worn in the first act by Mar-
jorie Gordon, who was Susan. As she
went about prying apart the other women
from their lovers and husbands, the frock
swirled about her feet like a cloud of
glory.
The Minerva had another successful
first night. And as usual the foyer of
this theatre set in the heart of cosmopoli-
tan Darlinghurst had an audience in
which the glossiest of evening plumage
was side by side with daytime linens
and tweeds. Among the sleekly-garbed
was Katrin Roselle, who is to m
the theatre’s next production, “By
Candlelight.” Helen Gilliland’s sequin
frock was a sort of essence of the Blue
Danube or the Blue Nile. The E. J.
Taits were there. He has just come from
Melbourne, where he had seen the open-
ing of “Rio Rita.” The Ernest Lashmars
came with Mrs. Claude Flemming, whose
husband’s acting was one of the best
interpretations Sydney has seen. Dorothy
D’Orn, Ruby Adams, white chiffon and
ermine her summer night’s garb, Mrs.
Charles Pfeiffer, daughter Mrs. Peter
Osborne and Florence Bennett caught the
gaze.
There was a bumper house in the kiosk
in Hyde Park for the annual meeting of
the women’s auxiliary of the Anzac
Buffet. The buffet is now just as much
a part of Sydney life as the G.P.0., and
the work that it is doing for men of the
services will be handed down, a sort of
golden legend, to the A.l.F.’s children’s
children. Men of the Air Force and
sailors, too, are among the guests who
have helped to eat the staggering thou-
sands—hundreds of thousands —of meals
that have been served, cooked and, in
many cases, donated in cash or kind by
the great army of voluntary helpers. How
different groups within the auxiliary rack
the brain for something different in ths-
way of money-raising, or with bridge
party and ball build the pontoon of silver
across which ways and means skip gaily
to the credit side, was told by Miss Leo
Wray. With Mrs. Sam Jones she helped
to launch this women’s auxiliary.
The only drop of bitterness in her cup,
as a golfer, was having to acknowledge
greater help from the bowlers than from
the golfers. This meeting was easily one
of the most cheerful on record. Sydney’s
Mayor Crick was handed a cheque for
£5OO from auxiliary workers, and this
pushed the receipts of the Mayor’s Pat-
riotic Fund around the £300,000 corner.
Last week £lB,OOO kept tryst with the
fund. The State’s Police Force, school-
children and the girls who wrestled for
the crown as Queen of the Fighting Force
were some of the contributors. The
schoolkids’ was a star turn.
Asked the buffet’s most pressing need,
Mrs. Sam Jones replied “Tomato sauce—
gallons of it.” Praise for the public and the
business people of Sydney was on every-
one’s lips. And no one must forget
that donations are the buffet’s sinews of
war. Two interesting women at the meet-
ing were Mrs. Herron and Mrs. Green-
land, who are helping to swing the Strath-
field-Burwood Women’s Spitfire Fund.
They told proudly that already they have
three of the necessary six thousand
pounds. They started the fund in Decem-
ber, and have till March 31 to net the
remainder. Willing helpers in serving the
tea were stalwart soldiers and sailors.
Outside the kiosk the trees were green
on a velvet sward. The sun shone, the
waters of the Archibald fountain
sparkled in the light—a sylvan scene.
Looking back from the park gates, the
fancy grew that the kiosk was a fortress
defending such scenes for generations
of Australians still unborn.
Arrived in Sydney on their way to
Darwin, Commander Marshall Collins
and his wife. He is the newly-appointed
U.S.A. naval observer at Darwin. The
Collinses’ home is in Richmond, Ken-
tucky, but they are used to tropical heat,
as they lived in Panama for some years.
Both the Commander and his wife are
fond of reading, stamp collecting and big-
game fishing. Safe to say he likes some-
thing about cruiser size. Mrs. Collins
wants to catch an outsize in swordfish.
Myra Mathews from North Queens-
land is the subject of this Raymond
Sawyer photograph. Myra is one of the
six young women, and the onlv one from
the North, taking the series ot lectures
and the course of training by which the
Y.W.C.A. prepares its secretaries before
sending them forth to labor in its far-
flung social welfare system. Before
coming to Sydney Myra was at Herberton
teaching senior maths., geography,
physiology and biology to the girls of St.
Mary’s C. of E. school. And in case
any of you think of North Queensland
as continually wrapped in the moisture
of tropical heat, Myra can tell you about
the dry, cold air of the Atherton Table-
land five thousand feet above sea level.
Townsville is still another spot where
Myra has many friends.
Dorothy D’Orn wore a little bird with
an upsweeping wing on her sky-after-
rain blue beret. The beret matched the
singer’s crepe suede frock, and both
struck the right note for the late after-
noon party in her honor. The Roland
Fosters gave the five to six-thirty, and
the Gloucester room of the Australia was
filled with singers, instrumentalists and
people musical enough to listen to either,
and sometimes both at the same time.
The drinks were of the first order, and
as the welcome home was a Pancake
Tuesday affair it proved a good send-
off to the droughts and denials of Lent.
Dan Casey, of Universal Studios, for
whom Dorothy has made musical record-
ings in Hollywood, was a guest.
Against Mrs. Foster’s black frock pink
tiger lilies gleamed richly. Singer Muriel
Wilson, who seemed to be a friend of
everybody, was wearing a pale pink yarn
frock, knitted for her by a good comrade.
She is to be a singer at the St. Patrick’s
night Town Hall concert. Bradley, K.C.,
was there in khaki. The knightly Halse
Rogers couple, Charlie Philip, Mrs. Dan
Kelly (all in pink), Dr. George Mackaness
and his wife, the Sydney de Vries pair,
Andrew MacCunn, Marie Ryan, Mrs.
Ernest Lashmar and Heddle Nash were
there to greet the returned one. Dorothy,
by the way, speaks Italian like a native,
having lived for about four years in Italy,
One of her experiences in New York
was singing at some of the functions of
the Parliaments of Faith, a movement in
which Lord Halifax is interested, as was
Lord Lothian.
Guests from far and near (200 or more
of them) motored or flew to the wedding
of Beatrice Gordon and Aircraftman
Leonard Bligh, R.A.A.F., whose home is
Pejar Park, Woodhouselee, near Goul-
burn. The ceremony and reception wre
at St. Phillip’s Church, Bungendore, and
at Werriwa, Bungendore, home of the
bride’s parents, the James Gordons.
’Groom’s parents were the Francis Blighs,
of Cranford, Edgecliff. Mrs. Victor
Vickers, a sister of the bride, was in
attendance. Her husband, by the way,
is Gunner Vickers, of the A.I.F.
The dog parade arranged by Stephanie
Edye for last Saturday afternoon will
enrich the Far West Children’s Health
Scheme by more than £2B. Simon, Eliza-
beth Maclntyre’s dog, got off with the
champion’s bone. It was a noble one.
Friends throughout Australia and
Maoriland are extending sympathy to
Mrs. R. A. Holmwood, who was Mar-
garet Gordon, a daughter of the knight
Thomas Gordon couple. Her husband,
Wing-Commander R. A. Holmwood, was
killed as a result of air operations against
the enemy last week. The young officer
had had a brilliant career and was the
first R.A.A.F. officer to command a
British squadron. Early this year he was
posted to a Spitfire squadron.
Lieut. Anthony Hordern, A.1.F., a
descendant of that Anthony Hordern
who made Brickfield Hill famous, mar-
ried his pretty Betty McCoy last week in
St. Mark’s at Darling Point. The wed-
ding, which was an afternoon one, drew
crowds out to the church, and a pretty
sight was that of Romayne and Edwina
Hordern, the baby ’maids, in their ivory
satin frocks and posies of red roses. The
bride’s frock was of white marquisette
and lace. Her parents, the O. L. McCoys,
of Darling Point, gave a reception at the
Royal Sydney Golf Club. ’Groom’s
brother-in-law, Lt. Harry Meeks, of the
A.1.F., was best man. Lieut. Bill Daw-
son and Lieut. Peter Playfair, of the
A.1.F., were the ushers.
Next Sunday night playlovers beyond
the city environs will be able to hear
over the air the current Minerva pro-
duction, “Susan and God.” The cast
which is acting the show at the Minerva
will make the broadcast from the A.B.C.
Sydney studios. Dorothea Dunstan, the
teen-old girl in this photograph, lakes
the quite important part of Blossom
Trexel, the plain schoolgirl daughter of
the over-self-dramatised Susan. Theatre-
goers in Australia and Maoriland will
remember Dorothea as the child in “The
Women.” She also took quite a bit of
the spotlight in “Quiet Wedding” and
has had lots of radio experience, John
Lee photograph.
Veterans of the 1915-18 war and earlier
Balkan wars were in the company of
Greeks who marched at the head of the
procession through Sydney last Friday.
Behind them were the rattle and rumble
of mechanised forces, the tread of militia-
men and men of the R.A.A.F. Before
them floated the blue-and-white flag of
Greece. This was carried by Lieut. J.
Karikis, who fought in the 1915-18 war.
In the sunlight, their scarlet tasselled
caps, their swinging white kilts, the pom-
poms on their shoes and the embroideries
on their short jackets looked as blithe as
their step was light. A Scots neighbor
pointed out the ease of their stride and
declared it the heritage of all who hailed
from mountainous countries. On the
Town Hall steps Lord Wakehurst, who
took the salute, and Miss Greece, in
classic robe and bearing aloft the torch
of liberty, shared the flash of their “Eyes
right!”
There never has been such a sale or
buttons —about £20,000 in this State
alone. A group of girls in Bridge-street
by five o’clock had lifted £56 from one
side, just from George-street to Mac-
quarie-place. The crowds along the
way of the procession were enor-
mous, and members of the Free Fienc
forces behind the Tricolor came m
for a mighty cheer. Lord and Lady
Wakehurst were at the reception held by
the Mayor and Mayoress after the march
past. The Consul-General for Greece
and Mrs. Vrisakis were looking pleased
at the many tributes to their country s
achievements. Her principal ornamen
was an Evzone in miniature, perfect in
every detail. The Andre Brenacs were
there. The State’s Premier Mair and his
wife, military and naval bigwigs and
Peter Lubbock were among the guests.
Sydney Hospital wasn’t exactly
glorious, but had a nice comfortable air
at the annual meeting of the board last
week. The overdraft of £50,000 has just
been guaranteed by the Government, and
now the “man who comes around”
presents the shining face of one who has
just written “received in full” across his
account. In addition, last year the Gov-
ernment contributed £Bl,OOO to Sydney’s
oldest hospital. And, incidentally, don’t
run away with the idea that the buildings
now in use were the ones put up by
Macquarie. Somebody at the meeting
said the oldest was only about 46 years.
Late-Victorian and gay ’nineties are the
periods of this institution, now feel-
ing content that it is not to be shifted
to a less metropolitan site, which fate
recently seemed to stare it in the face.
The hospital’s president, Dr. Norman
Paul, Dr. Furber and Minister for Health
FitzSimons did most of the talking.
The wife of Dr. Norman Paul,
looking as bright as the posy of
Cecile Brunner roses she held, presented
the prizes to the nurses. There seems to
be something in being a doctor’s wife.
Mrs. Hamilton Kirkland was there look-
ing like a poetic Bette Davis. The hos-
pital’s handsome Matron Kellett presided
at the tea-drinking. Then came a demon-
stration of the Clarke stretcher. This is a
by-product of the Yachtsmen’s Flotilla,
formed since the beginning of the war.
By means of this stretcher a patient can
be moved in a vertical position down the
side of high vessels into row-boats. It
floats, and is so light it can be carried
complete with patient by one man across
his shoulder. In air-raids where stair-
ways have been destroyed, it must be
invaluable, for patients can be lowered
from windows or balconies with ease.
With Marie Ney, who made the intro-
ductory remarks, and as many as the
tiny Notanda Gallery in Rowe-street
would hold, this Letter viewed the show
of prints of French and Continental
“modernist” and other pictures brought
out of France two months before the war
started by Carl Plate. Giorgio de
Chirico’s “Horses” and Modiglianis
“Girl in Blue” were among things desir-
able ; so, in a less degree, was the rather
Japanese-looking “Head of a Girl” by
Marie Laurencin. Any of these prints,
to one mind at least, would brighten up
a home and help to draw daddy away
from his mad addiction to his chess and
coffee club.
Harold Williams, violinist Lionel Law-
son and Marie Bremner were the night’s
soloists at the Greek Day con-
cert. Harold made the ‘Tagliacci”
Prologue a human document; Lionel
Lawson’s violin sang in gentle mood ;
and Marie Bremner, in pale-gold
brocades, lifted her sweet soprano. In
the audience Mrs. Vrisakis was a
pretty little figure in a sweep of
palest-pink lace. The Alexander
Gordon lady, who organised the con-
cert, wore orchids with her black lace
frock. Of pale-blue moire was Mrs. Hope
Gibson’s frock; the Jordan lady, who
was president, brought chalk-whites to
the night’s dress scheme.
The Julius lady was in the audience ;
so were Kathleen Robinson, Mrs. Ster-
ling Levis, with her graceful Joan, the
Bertie Kellys, the Hubert Fairfaxes, Mrs.
Victor White, the Jimmy Banckses, Mrs.
Gregory Blaxland, Sydney’s Mayor Crick
and his Mayoress, Mrs. Robert Dixson,
Mrs. Harold Bott and Mrs. McCartney.
The Greek community, too, was there
by the hundred.


RITING \
TICKET&SHO>NC e modern . n coro;\
1 No* V °nd^“ftorou^| g° n art . Co"*
I tSA SS*S '
".Wn« •« J*Vc.. V°“ }** '\f i**
'ff&rtjs s*2^l
1 home.
”’ Dept, of Distribution
i Hemingway & Robertson
l?(A Bank House, Bank Place, Mel—
ft liounie; 77A Barrack House, 16
•Barrack Street. Sydney. Offices in
sll Capital Cities, Newcastle and
■Launoesfnn oqx A /rpc c;
Personal and Missing Friends.
THOMAS JAMES and ALICE MINNIE LOW,
children of ARTHUR MARTIN and ALICE
KATE LOW (nee SMITH), wish to contact
those who advertised for them some years ago.
Will any relative or person having knowledge
of same please communicate with advertiser
No. 3261, CENTRAL NEWS AGENCY, LTD.,
Smith Street, Durban, South Africa?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 162 of 1941.
IN RE AGNES ALVINA ROBINSON (for-
merly Agnes Alvina Fishburn) of Cessnock
in the State of New South Wales wife of
Albert Roland Robinson Petitioner and
the said
ALBERT ROLAND ROBINSON Respondent.
TO ALBERT ROLAND ROBINSON late of
New Angledool New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said AGNES
ALVINA ROBINSON has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or be-
fore the Twentieth day of May One thousand
nine hundred and forty-one and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-sixth day of February
One thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
TAYLOR & KEARNEY, City Mutual Build-
ing, Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney; Sydney
Agents for W. J. ENRIGHT & BANFIELD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, Cessnock.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1486 of 1940.
BETWEEN EDNA OLSON Petitioner and
JOHN STANLEY OLSON Respondent.
TO JOHN STANLEY OLSON late of Kirri-
billi in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDNA OLSON
has commenced a suit against you in this Court
and is applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Nineteenth
day of May and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-fourth day of February
One thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) A. S. DOOLAN,
Clerk in Divorce.
McCAW, MORAY & JOHNSON, Solicitor
for the Petitioner, 75 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The weather tricked the V.R.C. crowd
at the first day of the March meeting.
Those who left home bright and early
and those who happened to have talked
to Seymour, where it was raining, on the
telephone during the morning came in
autumn apparel and frizzled ; the others,
in summerweight garb, suffered a few
spots of rain but were comfortable other-
wise. A brown velvet frock which had
to be pampered belonged to Mrs. Cecil
Kellett, in a threesome of Dick Whitting-
ton quilled hats with Mrs. John Kellett
and Mrs. Colin Clarke. Pastel blue with
white accessories had followers in Mon
and Winkie Murray and Hazel Leonard.
All in white from toque to toes was
Rosemary Wright, present with fiance,
the engagement having been announced
only that morning he’s Kenneth
Gordon Jones, of Atherton, California.
The couple met in the U.S.A., he arrived
in Australia lately and the wedding is
planned for June. With Mrs. Louis
Moore was daughter Beryl, otherwise
Mrs. Jim Davis, of Suva. She and her
baby daughter arrived in Melbourne
three weeks ago.
The dance for evacuated children at
the United Services Cafd surpassed all
bounds of imagination. From a small
do for the helpers and their pals the
thing grew to capacity and saturation
point; down in the catacombs, reached
through an underground passage of sorts,
moisture oozed out of every pore as the
crowd and the humidity increased. There
might have been a ventilator somewhere ;
if so, it was as the eye of a needle. In
the dining-room there was dancing of
fast and furious tempo, in the restaurant
bridge so staid and respectable that it
just didn’t belong to the rest of the party.
Many of the cafe helpers arrived in
luscious evening frocks, gave one look
at the increasing crowd and hastily
changed into their white uniforms —they
needed them for the rush over supper,
the washing-up and the general scrum.
Running the liquid refreshments were
John Dynon, Roy Gregerson, John
Hicke and Frank Sullivan. While the
other men’s white coats drooped and
wilted Frank’s by some trick remained
spruce. Assisting the quartet, and also
in white overalls, were Mrs. P. M. Power
and Mrs. V. O’Connor, and the presiding
factotum of the orange machine was
Mrs. W. H. Ward. Bill Tainsh and Ruth
Beckwith were adjutants on the lucky
wheel, and Mrs. Carl Dyring was per-
suaded occasionally by medico better-
half to walk up into The Block for a
mouthful of oxygen.
Others with a preference for ground
level .were Colonel Harold Wilkinson and
Doc. Rupert Harvey. Lilian Lovick (late
of Adelaide and now a solicitor in a Mel-
bourne office) went in for gay tango
stripes. Other girls in a mood for color
were Biddy Howitt, in white muslin
blouse, red skirt and blue sash, and
Nancy Dean, in red tunic with pepper-
mint-stripe skirt. The raffle of an opal-
and-diamond ring (gift from Dr. Deborah
Buffer Murphy), which was drawn at
midnight, was won by Clive Fairbairn.
The week produced a spot of froth
and bubble—a gala picture night at the
Regent, South Yarra, where glamorous
gowns and dewy youth and beauty were
present in numbers. The night was
organised by some members of the com-
mittee working for the queen of the
Primary Products, who patted themselves
on the back for hooking their audience
by the “gala” rather than the “picture”
of the phrase. The film was of antique
vintage, “Wings of the Morning,” plus a
gazette and Donald the Duck. Those con-
cerned were pleased about everything ;
they secured the Dugans as special guests,
the house was a success and so was the
exclusive feeling behind a creeper-strewn
lattice in the lounge, where there was a
private reception with refreshments
during the interval.
Last but not least the picture-night
committee has fallen for its queen, Strella
Wilson. Strella and the Primary Pro-;
ducts were until recently unknown quan-
tities to one another, introduced like a
to-be-betrothed couple in the days when
marriages were made by parents. Dur-
ing the evening Strella sang some of the
patriotic songs which are part of her
life nowadays.
On the committee were the Louis Nel-
kens, the Robert Knoxes, Mrs. Charles
Cunningham, who held a little court at
the top of the stairs, Mrs. Hamilton
Sleigh, who collected a handful which
grew into a snowball of guests for supper
afterwards, Mrs. Alex. Mclntosh, Peggy
Essington King and treasurer Bruce
Mead. A presiding chatelaine among
frivolously wrapped morsels for a sweet
tooth was Mrs. Norman Cozens, in
cream and silver. Alongside was Mrs.
Alec Creswick, slim, blonde and
a-shimmer in turquoise. Help was also
forthcoming from Valerie Palmer, from
Mrs. Rupert Wertheim and her friend
from Sydney Mrs. J. L. Normoyle, in a
tailored ensemble of white (so realistic
were its poppies-in-the-cornfields in raised
motifs that the temptation was strong
to try to pick ’em).
Though the night was warmish Mrs.
Geoff Whitehead, Peggy Fraser, Rosemary
Knox and another dozen or so young
saleswomen wore their fur capes. More
like a snowflake than ever was Valerie
Clarke with her ash-blonde hair and long-
sleeved lace frock. Fay Stoddart sold
matches at 500 p.c. profit and got away
with it. Wearing cream satin and full-
length cape of orchid sheer was Mrs.
Russell Grimwade, whose husband found
himself possessed of, among other things,
chocolates in a wineglass, a deviation
from cartons.
Newly engaged is Cynthia, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Franklin Young, Romolo
House, Magill, S.A. Fiance Warren
Bonython, son of the Lavington
Bonythons, is also from Adelaide, but
his work in chemical engineering is keep-
ing him for the present in Melbourne,
Photograph of the bride-to-be from
Athol Shmith.
“Autumn,” produced by Brett Randall
at the Little Theatre, ran for seven nights
to crowded houses. Even high tempera-
tures and furious north winds didn’t
deplete the audiences, appreciative of a
respite from everyday life that the arts
in small intimate surroundings can pro-
vide. “Autumn,” a translation from the
Russian, isn’t mournful, as might have
been expected ; it even runs to a burst of
real comedy over a wedding present (a
piece of sculpture by an artist with ad-
vanced ideas), and in the end the various
characters manage to solve their indivi-
dual problems with commendable for-
bearance. The star turn was Nancy Sum-
mers, a blonde who’s pleasing to the eye,
who moves gracefully and wears frocks
to suit her type, and who has now shown
she can throw an act of hysteria and get
away with it. She played the barrister’s
wife.
Each evening Brett Randall stretched
out the hand of friendship to his old pal
Guy Hastings, reminding the audience
that “The Streets of London” will be per-
formed at The King’s next Saturday as a
tribute and benefit to this well-known
actor, who is very ill in Royal Melbourne
Hospital, and who, if he recovers, may
never work again.
Southern Area Headquarters has, with
the formation of the R.A.A.F. Welfare
Association, taken unto its bosom the
well-being of the men under its com-
mand. On record are the men’s recrea-
tion and health requirements and diges-
tion (neat sums have been worked out
with calories and vitamins as A and B
and an airman’s stomach as X). There
are so many airmen that they aren’t get-
ting quite the attention of super race-
horses, but there’s a lot of horse-sense
behind the scheme.
To begin with, it’s co-ordinated. Every
R.A.A.F. station in the Southern Area
has its welfare officer, whose job it is
to keep in touch with the central body
through the person of the welfare officer at
headquarters, Flying-Officer G. P. Barton.
Some liaison interchanges are R.A.A.F.
prerogatives only; others, regarding rec-
reation, hospitality, etc., are within the
ken of the general public, the association
itself and affiliated organisations. Flying-
Officer Barton flits from State to State
as often as necessary. Parafield (S.A.),
for instance, needs a lot of things for the
men’s comfort. Requests for books come
in from every station. Radio sets and
cricket and other sporting materials are
also asked for. A recent bit of liaison
work done in the welfare office resulted
in giving trainees from the Embarkation
Depot a few days’ holiday at Kooyong
just prior to their sailing. The V.L.T.A.
offered the men hospitality, use of its
tennis courts, etc., and the lads chosen
were strangers to the State with few
friends in Melbourne,
When necessary, recommendations to
the O.C. Sputhern Area, Group-Captain
Cole, will be made by the R.A.A.F. Asso-
ciation. Affiliated with it are the Vic-
toria League, the C.W.A., the Australian
Flying Corps, Air Force Auxiliaries, the
Locker Fund, the W.A.T.C., the Aero
Club. Delegates from these organisa-
tions were present at the initial meeting,
and from the Central Register of Accoun-
tants there came a couple of experts on
figures, C. W. Anderson and A. A. Fitz-
gerald.
Another young girl whose fiance is
with the A.I.F. overseas is Judy Lalor
(photograph by Austin-Murcott). She’s
the youngest daughter of the late Dr.
Peter Lalor and of Mrs. Lalor, of East
St. Kilda —and she has a brother Peter,
for there’s been a Peter in every genera-
tion of Lalors since the days when great-
grandfather fought with the miners at
the Eureka Stockade. Judy’s fiance is
John White, third son of the E. J. Whites,
of Golden Vein, Willowmavin.
The queen carnival is under way and
the queens up to date are all sweet as pie
to one another—it’s only human nature
that will bring a glint of danger into
some of their eyes as March 29 draws
near. Queen-who-has-abdicated Gladys
Moncrieff has promised to make nine in-
dividual efforts, one for each of the
remaining stayers. When Gladys re-
signed with regret from the Arts and
Amusements that branch also stepped out
of the carnival. For a misunderstanding
left the committee high and dry. It
thought it could depend on the help of
the picture business, and the picture
people thought it was understood they
couldn’t help another big appeal so soon
after their last patriotic effort.
Mrs. Norman Picot, organiser of the
Commerce queen’s drive, thinks she can
keep the identity of her veiled young
woman a secret until the ball at the
Palais on March 26, when the “Lilac
Domino” will remove her lilac trappings.
Mrs. Picot is pretty strong-minded about
secrets. Still green in memory is the
arrival of her elephants to the Palais
for one American Ball, when the crowd
got such a shock it thought it was seeing
things. But the veiled lady doesn’t belong
in the elephants’ line of country. Whereas
the semi-domesticated pets lived a quiet
and uneventful circus life the “Lilac
Domino” has to flit in and out of func-
tions, peep in at the window when moguls
of Commerce are discussing dollar ex-
change, appear in the vault of a bank,
in streets, restaurants, anywhere as long
as she keeps people guessing.
Retailers’ queen, Mabel Titus, who is
a mannequin and beauty competition
candidate, was launched last week with
two good-size donations of £4OO apiece
from two stores and with a tea party at
the Norman Myers’. But she’s not rest-
ing on her laurels and a million-dollar
feeling from wearing a diamond ring for
a day. This is to be a donation from a
jewellery firm to the winning queen, who
may have cash value if she prefers it.
Mabel is working hard selling votes
around the stores, and she spent a day
right down to earth in the aroma of stock
at the Newmarket saleyards. In her
cause the Master Butchers put a prime
fat bullock up for Dutch auction at
Flemington.
Lady Dugan and Lady Armitage
enjoyed a night incog, at “Pride and
Prejudice.” Both wore black and black
hats and sat inconspicuously in the circle.
Acquaintances were in the row directly
in front, but the v.-r. couple didn’t make
their presence known. After the show
the usherette directed them into the slow-
moving stream of humanity which took
the longest route back through a side
door into the fresh air. To reach a fit-
ting climax the story should finish up
homeward bound by tram owing to
losing the v.-r. car in the crowd or fail-
ing to be assertive enough to secure a
taxi. If it ever comes to that Lady Dugan
could probably cope with a tram as casu-
ally as any other sensible woman.
Off for a brief honeymoon in Sydney
are the newly-wedded Ken Gordons.
Mrs. Ken W'as Mavis Smith until in a
white tailored frock and big white hat
she stepped around the corner to Cairns
Memorial Church to share with Ken an
appointment with the Rev. Hagenauer.
During his few days’ leave Ken was much
feted by Rugby pals and Bren-gunners.
He arrived here from South Africa some
five years ago. He played Rugby for
Victoria and took the field against his
victorious countrymen from the other
side of the Indian Ocean when their team
visited Australia. He and Mavis hope
to have a look at the Blue Mountains
while in N.S.W.


a scrap
of paper
.... but fn the event of your
death a most important document
which wiii provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared—Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
k AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO LTD.
Head Office : 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
It. V. PEKKINS, General Manager.
THE SERVICE MAN
Bulgaria Nobbled.
“Ek Dum”: In the carving-up of
Rumania, Bulgaria regained the Dob-
rudja. But neither the Nazis nor their
brothers of Moscow ever do any-
thing without a quid pro quo, and the
frequent comings and goings between
Sofia and German capitals told that
something was in the wind.
Early in January it was reported that
400,000 German troops were being pre-
pared for passage through Bulgaria. The
Germans denied that they had sent or
were sending troops there, so the worst
was feared.
In the third week of January, Berlin
and Moscow made it clear through their
official wireless that there was accord
between them on Balkan policy.
The late winter thaw that turns the
Danube into a raging torrent (it runs
a banker until the end of February or
early in March) and the late snowfalls
at the passes (heavy snow fell in Bul-
garia last week) made military operations
on a large scale a gamble. But it was
evident towards the end of February
that the Germans were following the in-
filtration policy used as a preliminary
to invasion in Holland, Belgium and the
Scandinavian countries, and that the
point had been reached when this plan
had paved the way for the dispatch of
“missions of military instruction” similar
to those which have gradually swollen
into armies of occupation in Rumania.
Britain has long recognised the
strategic importance of Bulgaria, whose
King is married to an Italian princess.
In 1938 Britain sent to Sofia as “envoy
extraordinary and Minister plenipoten-
tiary” George Rendel, who succeeded a
Greek scholar, Sydney Waterlow. Rendel
has served in Berlin and Athens. A noted
Middle Eastern traveller, he had been
head of the Eastern Department of the
Foreign Office for nine years before his
appointment to Sofia.
Bulgaria is important because of its
central position, and because it forms a
buffer between other countries and
Turkish Thrace and Greece. Its Black
Sea coastline would be valuable to any-
body with designs on the Bosphorus and
Istanbul, of which the outlying defences
are only 30 miles from the Bulgarian
border. Whoever succeeds in occupying
Bulgaria has divided Turkey and Yugo-
slavia, besides immobilising or securing
the help of tough and stolid fighters.
Bulgaria is a small country —one-third as
large again as Tasmania. A drive on the
eastern side equal to that between
Hobart and Launceston, and of about
equal difficulty, would take troops to the
mountain passes which guard the Greek
border or into the beautiful hilly country,
not unlike that between Ingleburn camp
(Sydney) and Minto, which leads down
the poplar-lined Maritza River to
Adrianople, the Turkish border city.
Bulgaria has a population of 6,000,000
and cannot feed it fully—a difficulty for
invaders to consider —though its main
business is agriculture and its people in
the bulk are peasants. Its woods and
pasture lands are owned communally.
Most of the rest is owned by the occu-
pants. It is rich in coal, though supplies
have not been tapped to any great extent.
Bulgaria, of course, had little chance
of resisting a serious German invasion.
The air force is small and defence
mechanisation limited; the roads are
generally bad. The army was limited
to 20,000 by the Treaty of Neuilly, but
under the now-moribund Balkan Entente
agreement of 1938 —it was signed at
Salonika —Rumania, Yugoslavia, Turkey
and Greece agreed to the abrogation of
the limit and the country could call up
500,000 men at a pinch. It has no navy
worth the name.
At the beginning of last week the
“Times” correspondent in Sofia an-
nounced that German advance troops
had begun to cross the flooded Danube
from Rumania. Then Geneva correspon-
dents detailed an admission by a German
“spokesman” that the peaceful invasion
of Bulgaria had begun, that it was not
a conquering invasioo, and that the status
of German soldiers in Bulgaria would be
that of guests, as in Rumania and Italy.
On Feb. 24 the Turkish Foreign Min-
ister, M. Sarajoglu, began to define that
country’s position. He said that Turkey
would remain faithful to its alliances, and
had decided to live on good terms with all
PdWers, particularly its neighbors. Never-
theless, Turkey could not remain indif-
ferent to foreign activities in her zone of
security:
Turkey will offer armed opposition to all
aggression directed against her integrity or
independence. The accord with Bulgaria
is an undertaking between States wishing
to safeguard peace who declare that they
will take no part in any aggression what-
soever. Turkey would welcome similar
manifestations from other quarters.
On Feb. 28 Mr. Eden and General
J. G. Dill, the British C.0.1.G.5., having
arrived in Ankara, and Sir Stafford
Cripps having been brought down from
Moscow, the British Minister had
diplomatic talks with the Turkish leaders.
It was announced at their conclusion that
“full agreement has been reached on the
Balkan and Eastern Mediterranean posi-
tion.”
On the same day the press reported
that Mr. Rendel warned the Bulgarian
Government that “adequate cause for
breaking off relations exists already.”
If relations are broken, Britain will de-
clare war before committing hostile acts
such as bombing communication lines and
troop concentrations. If Bulgaria loses her
neutrality the blame will rest entirely on
Germany.
He added that the Bulgarian Army had
been mobilised, but it was not facing the
Germans across the Danube.
At the end of the month Filov, the
Bulgarian Premier, in the Golden Hall of
the Belvedere Palace in Vienna signed
his country’s adhesion to the Axis.
On March 1 the many false alarms
became reality, and large bodies of Ger-
man troops —the press says 200,000 —
arrived in Bulgaria by the western route
from Rumania. Berlin says the influx is
with the full consent of the Bulgarian
Government.
The course taken by the invaders from
the Danube is an old war route west of
Plevna and through the Iron Gate region
near the Yugoslav border. There are
signs that the drive is continuing towards
the Struma. The region is served by rail-
way systems which link with the lines to
Austria and Germany across Hungary,
with all the chief Rumanian centres and
with the Calais-Bagdad-Suez railway
system.
Further forces arrived at the Sofia and
other airports. Uniformed German
troops paraded in the capital, while the
swastika flew above the yellow pave-
ments. The Germans crossed Eastern
Rumania to the main Bulgarian port of
Varna, on the Black Sea, which is linked
with Bucharest by rail. Telephone com-
munication between Sofia and Varna was
severed. Varna is only 140-odd miles from
Istanbul, Turkey’s greatest city, by sea.
It is 80 miles as the crow flies from the
Turkish border. A further drive towards
Plovdev has started from Rustchuk in
the east,
Germany was reported to have given
Greece “a last chance to make peace”
after its ignominious defeat of Hitler’s
bullying partner, or “suffer the con-
sequences.”
Hitler’s object must be to strike at
Greece or at Turkey; possibly the Bos-
phorus and/or the Dardanelles. The last
measure involves the overrunning of
European Turkey. His plan in taking
these parts of the world would be
primarily to establish submarine and air
bases to menace the entrances to the
Suez Canal, and to provide a guarded
oil route from Rumanian ports and
Batum.
In conformation Bulgaria is like an
open dragon’s mouth facing to the east.
The open part of the mouth is formed
by a northern jaw, the great Stara Pianina
ranges, which run west from the Drago-
man Pass on the Yugoslav border, peter-
ing out at the Black Sea in the Varna
province and the southern confines of
the Dobrudja. The southern and shorter
jaw runs just south of PlovdeV (Phillip-
opolis), a city dominated by a black crag,
and with the northern ranges encloses
the Maritza valley. With peaks which
run up in places for 8000 ft., it extends
down to the fringes of the Mediterranean
coast, and its southern slopes and pass
approaches are within reach of naval
gunfire most of the way westward
towards Salonika. Its eastern end stops
short before it reaches the Turkish
border, leaving a narrow enclave of Bul-
garian valley between its extremity and
an extended dragon’s tongue —the range
of the Istrandja Dagh, which is stuck
out into Turkey to lick the Black Sea only
a few miles from the Bosphorus.
This valley as an avenue of attack must
tempt the Germans —hence perhaps their
descent on Varna. They can pass the
Danube easily near the coast. They have
only fertile low-lying land to traverse all
the way to the Mediterranean, save for
one or two interruptions, instead of the
high passes further west. On the other
hand, they cannot take this course with-
out moving for tens of miles within sight
of Turkish posts and without having on
their flank the heavy defences of the
Tchataldja lines, a sort of Turkish West
Wall within half a day’s run away from
the border.
Any incursion into eastern Greece
must in any case bring Turkey into at
least a position of mobilised defence and
possibly into actual war.
The Germans are not unmindful of
the geographical strategy of the position.
Berlin Radio has several times remarked
unobtrusively that the British have built
14 underground concealed aerodromes in
Turkish Thrace.
Sofia is about 300 miles as the crow
flies from Istanbul; 200 miles from the
nearest point of Mediterranean Thrace.
Lemnos, which the British have occupied,
40 miles from the Dardanelles mouth, is
50 miles or so from the Bulgar-Turkish
border and 230 miles from the nearest
points on the Danube which the Germans
would have to cross if they come by
the western passes of the Stara Pianina.
British military and air missions—the
latter headed by an Australian, Group-
Captain Huddleston —have been helping
in the organisation of Turkish defence
since a year before war broke out. The
Turks have put over 1,000,000 men
through 18 months’ training since 1927.
The Dardanelles have been closed save
to ships with permits. A remark attri-
buted to M. Sarajoglu is: “We fight if
the Greeks are attacked.”
And the Turks know how to fight.
They like to fight. , And they began to
get ready to defend themselves the
moment the last war was out of the way.
Also, they have ideal frontiers for de-
fence —a bottleneck only 20 to 30 miles
wide, for 40 miles, then the Bosphorus
and Marmora; at the other end of
Marmora the almost impregnable penin-
sula of Gallipoli.
It can be only a matter of time before
Yugoslavia is either roped in or beaten
to the ground. Surrounded now by the
Axis Powers except on a short Grecian
border, white-anted for months by
tourists and missions, she has little chance
of resistance.
In January, 1940, the French Belgrade
paper “L’Echo de Belgrade” was a
neutral journal. When the last issues
reached The Bulletin —for July—they
were given almost wholly to the new re-
lations between Yugoslavia and Ger-
many and Russia, whose delegations
filled Belgrade and whose journalists and
missioners were being honored officially
in droves. The moribund condition of
trade with Allied Powers was noted
scornfully ; the Greeks, and particularly
General Metaxas, were attacked, and
Berlin and its doings were referred to
with admiration.
On March 2, despite Mr. Renders
remarks reported the previous day, it
was officially denied in London that an
ultimatum had been sent to Bulgaria de-
claring that Britain would consider her-
self at war if Bulgaria did not oppose
the German invasion. The Bulgarian
Minister in London, disagreeing with his
Government’s policy, has resigned.
Though the bulk of the British had left
the country —they are not many the
little British legation, which looks like
an old-fashioned Potts Point mansion,
was still occupied, but it was expected
that relations would be broken off at
once.
"Carry On, and Dread
Naught."
“Nobby II”: The main point of in-
terest in Hitler’s speech on the 21st
anniversary of the foundation of the
Nazi party was the substitution of a threat
of intensified U-boat war for the familiar
invasion threat. Specific statements were
interlarded; for example:
Two hours ago I had a message from the
High Command saying that our U-boats
have sunk 215,000 tons of enemy shipping.
A whole convoy has been dispersed and
destroyed and 125,000 tons of its shipping
sunk.
Today British ships and ’planes are held
up in the Mediterranean by Italy, and
British troops are held up in Egypt.
Presently the German naval authorities
had to explain that there had been some
mistake ; “our U-boats” had “sunk,” not
215,000 tons, but 25,000 tons. As for the
convoy, it was attacked on Feb. 14 off
the Azores by a cruiser, not U-boats. Five
ships totalling 24,000 tons were destroyed,
11 are safe and four, the Admiralty said,
are “not yet overdue.”
As for the tale that “British ships
and ’planes are held up in the Mediter-
ranean,” the Royal Navy has such com-
plete command of that sea that at one
end it has been able to step into
Mussolini’s Dodecanese and occupy
Castelorizo, an Italian island only 50
miles from his headquarters at Rhodes,
for as long as it was necessary, while
on the other side of the Dodecanese
General Wavell’s men have been busy
establishing a base on Lemnos in a posi-
tion which is vital to Hitler and his ally.
In the centre of Mare Nostrum, under
the noses of the guns of Pantellaria and
the Stukas of Catania, Italy’s main life-
line to Tripoli, the R.N. celebrated the
German boast by mining all the main
channels. At the Atlantic end its com-
mand of the straits is complete.
On the southern shore the Army of
the Nile now occupies nearly two-thirds
of the shore line of Mussolini’s Libyan
Empire; and Imperial troops possess
most of the useful coastline of his Indian
Ocean shore of Somaliland. The British
have shown their ability to land anywhere
they please along his Red Sea coast, and
to go anywhere they like in his Adriatic,
where they have once swept right up to
Durazzo. In his Ligurian Sea they have
swept the whole length of his coastline
to bombard one of his greatest ports and
cities. And in the Gulf of Taranto the Fleet
Air Arm smashed up his battleships.
“In March and April,” Hitler bellowed,
“these gentlemen of Britain will see what
will happen to them....We have been
waiting for a new type of U-boat. Our
sea warfare will soon be on such a scale
as the enemy never expected.”
It is a kind of threat which is to be
taken seriously and which has been taken
seriously from the beginning of the war.
Mr. Churchill, as First Lord, on Dec.
6, 1939, gave the first full review of the
position. Up to that time the main attack
of the enemy had been concentrated on
the R.N. and on sea-borne commerce.
There had been plenty of targets, for
Britain at that time had a daily average
of 2000 ships at sea and every day 100
to 150 went in and out of harbors.
Mr. Churchill said that few ships were
attacked in convoy and less than one in
750 sunk. He added that they had
watched the enemy change his weapons
from gun to torpedo, from torpedo to
magnetic mine. But for every 1000 tons
sunk, 111,000 tons had entered and left
British ports ; 1,000,000 tons of warships
were under construction and R.N. losses
in the first three months had been half
those in the corresponding period of the
last war. Taking into account new build-
ing of mercantile ships, prizes and
purchases, Britain’s net losses of mer-
chantmen outside small vessels had been
only 60,000 tons for three months.
From then onward the position became
more serious, but each spate of sinkings
was followed by a check.
The U-boats were joined by heavy
surface raiders of the Graf Spec type,
and auxiliaries much faster than- any
merchant ship available for that type of
job in the last war and much more far-
ranging, by reason of being oil-burning.
The Italians came in, bringing with
them a large surface and submarine
navy. The acquisition of French and
Norwegian ports gave the Germans an
advantage in operation which they had
never enjoyed in the last war. The
hydrogen and oxygen engine, light metals,
and experience gained in 1914-18 added
to their advantages in building for
flexible attack. They had the new
air arm for co-operation—long-distance
bombers, reconnaissance ’planes, new in-
struments which could warn the U-boat
commander of approaching prey or
danger. ,
Sinkings of British, Allied and neutral
ships over the past 18 months have avci-
aged 60,000 tons a week —a total of over
4,500,000. Replacement figures are not


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1512 of 1940.
BETWEEN EDWARD ARTHUR TURNER
Petitioner
EDNA MAUDE TURNER Respondent and
CYRIL JAMIESON Co-respondent.
TO CYRIL JAMIESON late of Rusden Street
Armidale.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDWARD
ARTHUR TURNER has commenced a suit in
this Court and is applying for a dissolution of
h' s marriage with the said EDNA MAUDE
TURNER on the ground of her adultery with
you AND TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired to enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Court on or before
the Twenty-third day of May next and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit will be heard and de-
termined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
a PP" c s. t ' th®. undersigned free of charge.
DATED this First day of March, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
MACKENZIE & BIDDULPH, SdidSrTfor
the Petitioner, Bradley Street, Guyra; by their
Agents: BIDDULPH & SALENGER, Solici-
tors, Selborne Chambers, 174 Phillip Street,
Sydney.
fjcai. F
Aqait*
sdf
• Thanks to the
Western Electric
Audiphone you can
now take part in
group conversations, hear at greater
distances, enjoy life to the full again.
Neat, inconspicuous, light in weight,
sensitive, and most economical it
possesses muinerous advantages over
other less efficient types. Why not
let ns show you? Both bone and air
conduction models available, the
correct type for your needs being
selected only after careful audio-
metric tests. Call for demonstration
at any of the following;
THE AUDIPHONE CO.,
M.L.C. Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
CODES & GARRARD PTY.. DTD.,
370-37'/ Bourke Street, Melbourne.
TREVOR HENDERSON,
T- & G. Buildings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
DEN G. STONE,
6‘7 Gaw I e r Place, Adelaide,
SAINKEN & SAINKEN,
6 3 3 Hay Street, Perth.
3TINDDAYS PTY., DTD.,
Apollo House, Brisbane St., Launceston.
Western Electric
'AUDI PH ONE'
HEARING AID
available ; neither is information as to
sinkings ; nor are number and tonnage
of damaged ships given.
Germany had, when war broke out,
71 U-boats and the experience of last
war to guide her in their use. On the
scale of building of last war, it is possible
that there are now 200, though this is
unlikely in view of the wholesale inter-
ruption of construction by R.A.F. raids
on German naval dockyards.
To Germany’s own construction must
be added 117 Italian boats, mostly long-
distance and larger than the 250- to 750-
ton Germans. The largest and newest
class being built at the end of 1939 were
1460-tonners, with a maximum surface
speed of 18 knots, carrying two 4in. guns
and fourteen 18in. tubes. About 30
Italian submarines are known to have
been destroyed. The Italians, in any
case, have no stomach for ruthless war.
For that matter, neither has the average
German seaman; and the governing
factor is trained and ruthless crews, not
boats. In the last war 83 per cent, of the
destruction was done by less than 20 per
cent, of U-boats.
The remedies for U-boat attrition are,
first, convoys backed by aerial patrols ;
second, the “Q” boat, which is a sub-
marine trap disguised as an inoffensive
merchantman; third, effective air co-
operation in defence—deadly raids on
U-boat bases, efficient patrol ; all these
coupled with net guards and systematic
detection
The Admiralty and the Coastal Com-
mand have worked all the winter on
convoy protection from the air, and when
Admiral Rader and his murderers begin
their new campaign in earnest they will
~ g d airrrs
a°cUTe al approa d ches SA The
air full of Short Sunderlands and other
machine* canahle of *iavina in th* Mr
TouTofmo elSn n .he h V a h r
of every convoy.
A cheering fact is the comparative lack
of success in the U-boat campaign since
the R.A.F. began to blast L’Orient and
Brest at the beginning of December and
air convoy systems were developed. The
winter has been blamed for German
failure to do more recently.
The winter of 1916-17 was a bad one,
with the early months of the new year
full of gales, fog and rain. Yet in Janu-
ary, 1917, the Germans sank 285,000 tons
of ships. In the month ended January 26,
Zit taL San a k d™ nI ? 136,729 tonS ’‘r h TT
greater. Their sink'nS’tethl flTst"hree
weeks of February, 1941, totalled 122,705
tons—l 2 ships of 37,636 tons in the week
ended February 16-17. In the cone-
spending month of 1917 they sank 260
ships, totalling 469,000 tons. But then
there were no convoys, no Short Sunder-
lands, no Coastal Command blasting
U-boat bases, nor any submarine warn-
ing devices
°
i
"The Gloves Are Off."
“E.D.”: Air Minister Sinclair, a dour
Scottish realist who was in the front-line
trenches himself in the last war, said last
week that in every zone R.A.F. and its
Dominion Allied forces had been waging
offensive war. The Libyan campaign had
provided a pattern of effective air offen-
sive in support of a brilliant land offen-
sive.
In the Italian theatre, since that un-
happy country was first recklessly launched
into war by Mussolini, R.A.F., R.A.A.F.,
S.A.A.F. and Rhodesian A,.F. have
destroyed 1000 ’planes... .Leaving out
their monthly output, the Italians have lost
half the first-line air strength with which
they entered the war.
Now, he said, their policy was “hit
the Germans in Germany,” a slogan
coined by an R.F.C. marshal in the last
war, and he grudged every bomb dropped
in occupied countries, though they would
give the invasion ports all that were
necessary and keep the rest for Germany.
As an instance of how far the “supreme
offensive weapon,” the bomber force,
already had gone, Sir Archibald Sinclair
told that the great railway junction at
Hamm had been bombed 82 times, Ham-
burg 62 times, Cologne 55 times and
Berlin 32 times —during the winter at that.
“Their scheme,” the Minister con-
tinued, “is part of the blockade. The
R.N. cuts off the enemy from all that
comes by sea. The bomber squadrons
destroy munitions, oil and war materials
and his means of replenishing his stocks.
They aim, too, at the dislocation of his
movements and his means of transit —
his docks, inland ports, canal junctions,
marshalling yards and all the arteries
through which the lifeblood of the Reich
normally flows. There is no waste
effort.”
Superiority of numbers meant nothing
against the lightning-like blast with
which the British air forces struck. The
Italians had no time to act before their
aerodromes and the ’planes on them
were destroyed. And Germany, though it
has tried, has been unable to endanger
in the Mediterranean and East African
sectors the complete command of the
sky which the British Empire has won:
R.A.F. fighters and the Fleet Air Arm,
operating over Malta, met, drove back and
vanquished Italians and Germans when a
massed German attack was launched
against this island in the gruelling days
of January. The spirit of the island is
summed up in the message of Air Vice-
Marshal Maynard, sent after the third heavy
German raid: “We can take it. Enemy
morale is visibly affected.”
But Malta is having its trials. In
the first of three attacks last week con-
siderable damage was admitted. The
second was on Wednesday. In the third,
on March 1, Germans claimed to have
sunk a lighter with guns in Valetta Grand
Harbor and to have done other damage.
After Wednesday’s raid, a heavy one, the
c.-in-c., Major-General W. G. S. Dobbie,
introduced conscription on his own re-
sponsibility.
And there has been no quailing before
the threats of Hitler and the assurances
of the German Radio that plans for the
offensive by the German and Italian
Navies and air forces have been com-
pleted, and that the attack against British
shipping will begin during the “first three
days in March.” Instead, the Coastal
Command plastered Channel ports and
Ruhr, and particularly Dusseldorf and
Brest, where they straddled a cruiser of
the 10,000-ton Hipper class and mortally
wounded Admiral de la Periere, German
Naval C.-in-C. in occupied France and
director of the U-boat campaign.
Other ports came in for a bad pasting.
The inhabitants of towns on the British
side of the Channel saw the heartening
spectacle of the new fast Spitfires and
other fighters trailing their coats with-
out tempting .out more than an odd—
and unfortunate —shillelagh-wielder from
the Luftwaffe.
German bombers have been active
over Britain. Numbers approached
London and other towns, including one
on the Welsh coast. But they seem to
have been unable to develop a heavy
raid anywhere. Some attacks on London
were completely repulsed.
The weather is still cold and misty. In
a few days it should have improved suf-
ficiently to allow the mutual combat for
supremacy over England and the Channel
to be joined in full force.
The Wavell Way.
“Ek Dum”: General Wavell’s pace
seems to increase as he moves eastward.
The capture of Mogadiscio by his East
African column—which consists largely
of S. Africans, with R.N. support out at
sea —must be a speed record for all time
—about 350 miles in three weeks.
The first advances were made towards
the end of the first week in February.
On February 15 it was announced that
Kismayu, nearly 100 miles away by the
route taken, had been captured. Another
day or two and the main bridgeheads of
the Juba, on the way to Mogadiscio,
were in British hands, also the islands
off Kismayu, while what Italian shipping
there had been in the harbor was bat-
tered to pieces.
On Feb. 26 the arrival of the leading
S. African and W. African troops at
Mogadiscio, the capital, was announced.
With it goes the one wireless station
along the Indian Ocean which can com-
municate with Rome direct, the main
railheads and port facilities, and the bulk
of the Italian immigrant population. Thus
another point of approach to Ethiopia
has been secured, and that ill-fated
“Empire” is now faced with invaders
on all sides. The last 120 miles of
the 250-mile race from Kismayu to
Mogadiscio was done by the British
armored units in a single day. The town
was taken without British casualties. The
main fighting took place at Jumbo at
the Juba mouth, where the Italians lost
about a battalion.
While the advance up the coast was
proceeding, another force on Feb. 26
made its way into Bardera, 200 miles up
the Juba River, which means that the
British now control all the water navig-
able for steamers of any size. About
9000 prisoners have surrendered in
Somaliland and fresh batches come in
daily.
British troops now hold half Eritrea.
They and Haile Silassie’s forces have
struck into the heart of Abyssinia further
south, and fresh fires of revolt blaze up.
The whole of the Eritrean and other
East African roads, railways and aero-
dromes are under constant British bomb-
ing. Italy has been virtually driven com-
pletely from the African sky.
A rough front now exists from Cheren
to Lake Tana. Behind Cheren, to the
north-west, the Indians and other troops
are steadily mopping up all opposition
so as to have nothing in the rear when
the moment for the decisive drive comes.
Massawa, on the coast, is reported to
be short of food and driving out surplus
population. The British are in Cheren’s
outer defences.
The Libyan front is quiet. As opera-
tions were begun in unison on various
fronts, the orderly mind of Wavell
apparently proposes to finish one series
of jobs completely before he enters on
a new phase.
Therefore operations in Libya have
been in the nature of consolidation, the
moving forward of bases, repairs to
fortifications and aerodromes and the
disposal of prisoners and the spoils of war.
Germans and Italians claimed that s.-e.
of Agedabia almost due south of
Benghazi, where the gulf coast turns
towards Tripoli—German units on Feb.
24, in their first appearance in Africa,
destroyed British lorries and armored
cars and captured prisoners without loss.
Cairo H.Q. reported that “advanced
elements of our mechanised forces west
of El Agheila encountered and drove
back an armored reconnaissance unit
believed to be German.” This is about
70 miles further on towards Tripoli than
the location given by the German and
Italian communique, which presumably
did not wish to admit that the British
forces were beyond El Agheila aero-
drome, had turned the angle of the gulf
and were heading directly west for
Tripoli.
Italian newspapers declare that the
Germans have sent a full army corps,
and that “the Mediterranean and Africa
have become the centre of military events,
save for the submarine war against
Britain.”
Great Fall in Musso.
Machines.
That there are still a few Italian ’planes
in the air was proved at four points
during the week. Aden was feebly
bombed for the first time in two months
—apparently from Berbera. While British
destroyers were bombarding Castelorizo
in the Dodecanese, only a few hundred
yards from Turkish territory, German
and Italian ’planes turned up but could
not prevent a landing.
In Albania there are still Musso.
machines. The R.A.F. proved it on
Feb. 27 when it bombed Valona, smash-
ing hangars and other buildings. Seven
Italian fighters were shot out of the air.
Two more collided and were destroyed
and three made forced landings in Yugo-
slavia. All the British machines returned.
By the time the Hurricanes —appearing
for the first time in force in Albania —
had finished, 44 Italian machines had
been destroyed.
There were Regia Aeronautica ’planes
in the Ethiopian Empire, too, before the
British offensive began. But in four weeks
the S’African Air Force alone has de-
stroyed 80 —50 on the ground, 30 in the
air and altogether 120 bombers and
fighters have been wrecked over Eritrea
since Feb. 9. The rest “fled to the coast,
where the already harried survivors are
few it is perfectly legitimate to say
that Mussolini’s East African Air Force
as a fighting unit has ceased to exist.”
Still, a few pickings remain. The Empire
air forces over Eritrea where the
R.A.A.F is now represented—destroyed
25 Italian machines in three days ended
Feb. 28. The remainder are nearly all
grounded and won’t last long.
Tobruk and Derna.
From an A.I.F. sergeant:
Tobruk is quite a nice little town, with all
the buildings of the usual white stone, and a
good harbor. Sunken and half-sunken ships
simply litter the place; one sees masts stick-
ing up out of the water everywhere—a tribute
to the work of our Navy and Air Force.
There were copious supplies left in the town,
of which full advantage was taken; the sailors
fared better in this regard than our infantry,
who must carry everything wherever they go.
Every sailor I saw had a well-filled bag over
his shoulder, but our spoils had to be mostly
confined to things like wine and cognac and a
few souvenirs. We were all glad of a couple
of days’ rest, the amenities including a swim
in the Mediterranean, very cold but gloriously
refreshing.
Derna is about the same size as Tobruk,
but with no harbor worth the name
—a pretty spot with the same white
buildings nestling among hundreds of palm-
trees, the first real greenness we have seen
since leaving Alexandria. A field cash office
has been established in the town bank, an im-
posing' building of stone and concrete, with
beautifully polished wooden fittings and furni-
ture, two or three times as big as any bank
I have seen in Australia outside of the capital
cities. But, barring the buildings, there was
little of value left in Derna. The Italians
managed to get out before it was surrounded,
a very deep wadi running a few miles inland
delaying the rapid encircling movement which
our armored divs. made at Bardia and Tobruk,
and took all that they could with them.
What they didn’t take the Arabs, of whom
there are a few thousands hereabout, saw to.
Once the Italians left, the Arabs overran the
town with carts, donkeys, camels and even
perambulators, and seized practically everything
that wasn’t nailed down. Fortunately the
town water supply wasn’t interfered with, so
we are living very comfortably, a marvellous
change after the long weeks of pigging around
in the open desert.
A minor trouble is that we don’t hear much
news —not that we ever heard much before,
except a few crumbs of information now and
again—and we haven’t had any mail for some
time. We have been moving so fast that the
mail arrangements have been hard put to look
after us.
“Fong Tsz”: All the boo-boo boys
were at work last week on the
subject of Japanese mediation (or
whatever it is) in the Thailand-Indo-
China affair. Thailand is claiming
the return of large lumps of territory
which were once Siamese some were
ceded to France as late as 1907 —and the
Japanese “award” was in Thailand’s
favor. Promptly it was alleged “on re-
liable authority” that the French had
refused to accept it; that “a serious
crisis” had arrived ; that “20,000 Chinese
regulars” had completed an advance into
Burma’s Shan States “to fill the gap
caused by the shift of Indian troops to
southern Malaya” ; and so forth. Then
it was announced from Vichy that the
Japanese proposals were regarded as
“basically satisfactory,” and the excite-
ment died down a bit.
♦ * ♦ »
Militia leaders are having little trouble
in filling quotas in the new calls-up for
compulsory service. The new age-groups
were expected to yield 50,000 men in
N. S. Wales, but registrations to last
week were 71,228. Men who finished
70 days’ training at the end of 1940 —
many of them are volunteers —have been
notified that they will be called up again
this month for 90 days’ training. The
strength of the A.M.F. is now about
180,000, but it will be built up by the
inclusion of new age-groups due for ser-
vice to about 220,000 men, exclusive of
35,000 to 40,000 A.I.F. men in training.
* * * *
The first Malayan station named at
which A.I.F. troops are to be stationed
in such force as to need an Anzac Club
is Kuala Lumpur, the capital of Selangor,
which lies on the Klang River 256 miles
from Singapore. It has a population of
about 140,000 and is the commercial
radio telephony centre of Malaya. It is
relatively healthy, and there is plenty of
sport.


OF THE
EMPTY LUMBER ROOM
/\- :: V'
I —\
r^T3=J
«ss:
1
&5*S
&
*
Well! Look what's happened! This used to be a
dingy disused lumber room—and now, it's the smart-
est guest room any home could hope to have 1 And,
there's no mystery about it, either I With Cane-ite
Insulating Board you can make the same change in
any room in your home, quickly and inexpensively.
Disused rooms and attics can be converted into guest
rooms, extra bedrooms—a study or a game-room. You
can cover dingy, stained walls or ceilings—employ
the smartest oi modern treatments, such as the one
we illustrate—and. remember, when you renovate with
Cane-ite, you insulate against heat, cold and noise.
Cane-ite is made in Australia and is strong, durable,
and white ant-proofed. We'll gladly send you an
ilustrated booklet giving you all the details.
Masonite Temprtile makes it easy and inexpensive to have a
gleaming "tiled" kitchen or bathroom.
INSULATION FROM HEAT
m
' -'-T'c/ /,
INSULATION FROM COLD
♦it
/C
INSULATION FROM NOISE
c «s§-£* E
INSULATING BOARD
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD., (BUILDING MATERIALS
Sydney Melbourne Adelaide . Brisbane .
DIVISION)
CA. 26.40
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
No. 161
“TUMBA"
CATTLE DROVER POLEY
Send
for
Saddlery
Catalogue
—FREE !
£9/14/9
(Complete)
This is a
moderately-
priced saddle
o f splendid
quality. The
seat is of hog-
skin, and the
flaps of good
k i p.
No. 4. Headstall Fly
Veils, with Leather
Basil Veil,
gin., 4/-; t»n., 5/-
B
m
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
duction, “K’nitch” is still notable • for
his enthusiasm when sugar is the subject.
* * * *
“Teeyer”: A pretty problem is con-
fronting the High Court, which has been
called upon to adjudicate between 24
Papuan natives and the entity cited as
the Territory of Papua. R. D- Bertie,
of Port Moresby, representing the plain-
tiffs, is claiming on their behalf com-
pensation of £4479 12s. 6d., plus 10 p.c.,
“Murray-street”: For the 20 years or
more I’ve known old Centre-cut Charlie
he has always sworn that Marble Bar
was the healthiest place on earth, and
that he’d live and die there ; so it was
a shock to meet him in a Perth street
and hear him declare firmly his intention
of never going back. Over the beers
—-which I bought —I asked him if the
hot spell at the Bar had ’been too much
for him, and, sooner than have me think
that, he told the truth. “For nearly fifteen
years now,” he said, “I’ve been a sort
of tourist booroo in the Bar. Blokes
passin’ through ’ave always been glad
to buy me a couple of beers, in return
for which I’ve always been pleased to tell
’em about the ’ot spell we ’ad in 21
and ’22, w’en it was over the ’undred for
’undred-an’-six conseckitive days.” “Fair
enough,” I agreed. “What’s the trouble
now?” “ ’Struth,” said Charlie ; “ ’aven’t
you ’card? The temperacher ’as bin over
the ’undred for ’undred-an’-thirty-five
days. ’Ow can a man mag about the
’2l-’22 ’eat w’en every young whipper-
snapper in the town is talkin about
’undred-an’-thirty-five? I’m movin’ on to
some place that’s got a ’istory.”
* * * *
“Poi-poi”: Julius Knoetzsch—he’ll tell
you he can’t help it but to try “K nitch
—went to his first job in the sugar mill
at Rous, Richmond River, nearly 50
years ago. Three years after he had
moved to Bundaberg as a sugar-boiler
the C.S.R. sent him to Fiji, where he
spent eight years in what was then the
Pacific’s mill at Lautoka. After
another spell in Queensland he returned
to Fiji, then came back to Burdekin, went
to the Pyrmont refinery in Sydney and
finished up at Tully, which has the largest
mill in Australia- it can turn out 40,000
tons a month. Now an expert on pro-
lessors at £l5 a year. In a claim for com-
pensation the Resident Judge awarded
them £454, which did not satisfy them. He
ruled that the natives’ rights depended on
their tenure, and that whatever land they
held was a recognition of the security
promised them when Erskine proclaimed
the protectorate in 1884 “Your lands
will be secured to you.” For the defence
it was argued that the natives did not
hold the land in fee simple and that their
rights depended on native custom. The
natives claim to hold it in fee simple
and point out that it was not acquired
by cession or conquest. Remarking that
there should have been some treaty with
and £lOOO damages. Action arises out
of the compulsory acquisition by “white
fella Gub’mint” in 1930 of about 71
acres for a commercial aerodrome. The
land was formerly used by the Kila Kila
tribe for crops. The tribesmen were paid
for clearing the site, and became the
“Any charnce of a job timber-cuttin' , boss ?”
the natives, the High Court referred the ;
appeal back to the resident Judge for
information on native customs and other
matters. Which just shows that civilising
the simple savage has its complications.
* * * •
“Norther”: Apparently it took the
death of a Government official —the gal-
lant fellow was drowned with a woman-
bather he was trying to save —to stir the
Queensland authorities into considering
the need for maintaining an all-year-
round lifesaving patrol on the more popu-
lar beaches. The State Government
subsidises surf clubs on the same basis
as ambulance services —7s. 6d. in the
£ —but, as clubs are not allowed to
charge admission to carnivals, collections
are small. Local authorities controlling
beaches claim that they are already doing
their share. Two years ago a conference
of local authorities agreed to maintain a
patrol of 10 of the busiest beaches for
20 weeks a year at an estimated annual
cost of £lOOO, themselves to contribute
half, but it fell through for lack of Gov-
ernment support. Surfing can be a year-
round indulgence on Queensland beaches,
and it seems strange that nothing in the
way of permanent patrols has yet been
established.
* * * *
“23-4”: We’ve got a young Victorian,
Ivor Burge, as Director of Physical
Education at the University of Queens-
land. He held the same job at Mel-
bourne Y.M.C.A. for 12 years, and before
that trained at the Y.M.C.A. College in
Massachusetts (U.S.A.). He has been
lecturing on the business of keeping the
girth down and the chest out at Mel-
bourne Uni. for three years. He is an
enthusiast on basketball —not the gentle
game played by the young female but the
he-man, knock ’em and shock em pas-
time invented in the Americas, where it
draws crowds almost as vocal as Mel-
bourne football crowds.
* * * *
“Phildee”; A Mount Isa policeman has
developed a tremendous respect for his
45 revolver. He was on guard at the
mine’s pay office on payday when the
revolver accidentally went off , the bullet
struck a thigh and careered through three
parts of the leg, finishing up in the foot.
The only bright feature of the business
as he sees it is that lads inclined to take
liberties with the Law have had a prac-
tical exhibition of what a mess a “forty-
five” can make.
« * * *
“Derrot”: Emerald (N.Q.), which had
a disastrous fire about four years ago, has
just missed a repetition. The fire started
behind some buildings, and, despite timely
warning and prompt attention by the
brigade, two empty shops, a jeweller s,
a butcher’s and a bakery went up in
smoke. Luckily there was no wind; if
there had been, the pub, a vacant shop,
a draper’s, a chemist’s, a barber’s and an
office might have gone west with tne
other buildings.
* * * *
“Lid”: Hugh Andrew Manahan, dead
in Brisbane at 79, was 10 when he
reached Queensland in 1882. After a bit
of schooling he worked for a couple of
firms and then became his own boss m
a small grocery shop in South Brisbane
about the beginning of this century. That
small shop has expanded into a chain-
store grocery business with over 30
branches in Bananaland and N. S. Wales.
Not the least of H. A. Manahan s contri-
butions to his adopted country were six
sons and one daughter.
tt * * *
“Dip”: Another Queenslander by
adoption who passed over the other day
was John Anthony O’Hagan, dead at 54
at Babinda. He came to Australia from
Ireland in the ill-fated Waratah, which
disappeared without a trace off the Sout
African coast before the last war.
O’Hagan saw a good deal of ships as
chief steward in the old Kanowna, then
the Levuka and other ships on the
Cairns-Melbourne run. In 1926 he car-
ried his oar to Lennon’s Hotel, Brisbane,
and took over as manager, meanwhile
holding the freehold of the Hotel Daniel.
When, under the Moore Government,
the State went out of the pub business,
O’Hagan bought the Hotel Babinda in
1930 and ran it for 101 Y ears - A keen
sportsman, he owned racehorses not un-
favorably known on northern tracks.


EVERY YARD OF HARRIS TWEED WOVEN BY HAND
:
m
,
m
HARRIS TWEED
BECAUSE of its pure wool content, its sturdy strength and hard-wearing
qualities, Harris Tweed is particularly suited to present-day conditions.
Apart from considerations of utility and economy the wide range of colours
and bright designs now available makes Harris Tweed most attractive.
There need be no misgivings as to the genuineness of Harris Tweed. The
Harris Tweed Trade Mark has been registered by order of the Board of Trade.
There is only one place in the world
where Harris Tweeds are made, the
Outer Hebrides, those lonely wind-swept
Islands on the West of Scotland. Here,
hand-weaving has been carried on for
centuries ... an art handed down front
generation to generation.
£P
Issued
The
Ltd.,
1.C.2
Harris Tweed Association
Coleman Street, London,
All tweed which bears this mark is made to-day in
exactly the same way as before the War. It is a definite
assurance that the tweed has been made entirely in
the Outer Hebrides, the home of Harris Tweed,
from pure Scottish wool and has been hand-woven at
the homes of the islanders.
In the case of garments the label of the Harris Tweed
Association is a guarantee that the garment has been
made from stamped Harris Tweed.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Susan and God”
if t
surnrulc ? °U he most P leasant
First f dn fl Ml u erV u a ' D ,
h a s ffi / \f hOU u 8h the R ° ya , l had
hnn J„ r nigh , t !P the A sam ? ™ eek J tJ ?f
ca ,P a^^ d ' And, last of all,
fc Edwin Styles was missing and this
InnaS f ly a play ’ J V won P ro '
h£ l J PP c Se l the beS i rece P t,on a play
Of IK f„ d “J Sydney W £ hm the u memory
TtJ I three- y ear ’ olds » anyhow
act was a s u ur P u rise - After a
,h„ WPfI penmg (which has probably
by n Th and aft^ r th f T ly par '
f of Marjorie Gordon s heroic
with warm things up, the act ended
a hen trim bave been
f but which was, in
j ’ J en ?s y movia g and intensely
4 ra ™ atl £; . That . was Claude Flemming,
;tA a Jn° bUrS Mnto a room where people
at a house party were mocking wife Mar-
The unexpected convert. Marjorie Gordon and
Claude Flemming in “Susan and God.” At Sydney
Minerva.
jorie Gordon’s egotistic pretence that she
had “found the Light,” take her seriously
and, in the character of drunken hus-
band, kneel at her feet and beg her to
show him the way to redemption. It was
done perfectly.
It might be ungracious to show surprise
at the success of the actors, but it is a
fact that Marjorie Gordon has been seen
at the Minerva only in light comedy roles,
Flemming in minor parts; and it’s also a
fact that all child actors, especially school-
girls, are unutterably repulsive. So that
the audience can be forgiven for flinging
hats, programmes and usherettes high
into the air with delight when it found
that Marjorie Gordon made a fine char-
acter study of Susan, showing her pathos
and secret desperation, as well as her
comic side, her selfishness, her spiteful-
ness and the vanity behind her new-found
religiosity ; that Flemming portrayed the
most convincing drunk seen at King’s
Cross since New Year’s Eve, and, play-
ing with great dignity and reserve, made
the matter of whether or not Mr. Trexel
would fall off his waterwagon a thing of
vital suspense ; and that Dorothea Dun-
stan plays the schoolgirl daughter with
both charm and a remarkably sure sense
of theatre.
Madge Aubrey was another well in the
picture. With Frank Bradley and Lloyd
Lamble among the good supporting cast,
the Minerva would pretty well be justi-
fied in advertising an “all-star” pro-
gramme.
One last surprise is that “Susan and
God” should ever have excited a censor.
It’s a telling satire on certain aspects of
the Oxford Group movement, but there’s
nothing blasphemous about it. Under a
surface of comedy there’s a serious drama
with a moral. What more could a censor
ask?
iJC Jj; jJ.
“Autumn”
Or love considered as possession. Sir
Brian Brooke, K.C., possesses a beauti-
ful young wife his second and a
beautiful daughter. The wife possesses
a lover, and when the husband gets
wind of the business tells him that the
reason for her lover’s visits is Sir Brian’s
daughter. He throws his daughter and
his wife’s lover together to such effect
that they fall in love with one another.
The marriage is arranged, but the daugh-
ter discovers that she is making off with
something that belongs to her mother.
She runs off to a young Communist
friend for solace, but finds that he has
just the same idea of love as possession
as has her bourgeois father, and creeps
back to her home in an appalling state
of guilt and discouragement and finds
the father standing amongst the wreck
of all his hopes, he having lost his wife
and daughter, the young man the girl
and the girl her young man. At which
juncture an aunt, completely unaware of
anything about her, brings along a
wedding present.
The play might have been
expected to end on this note,
but there is an epilogue
wherein the girl gets the
young man, the father gets
back his wife but loses his
daughter, the rights of
property are maintained and
the drama closes leaving the
winner miserably frustrated.
Perhaps it was a pity that
Margaret Kennedy adapted
this Russian play so
thoroughly that she shifted
its locale to London, but it
doesn’t look to have suffered
much damage in transit. The
emotions described are good
for all times and all coun-
tries. Not much was lost
in the Melbourne Little
Theatre’s transcription on
the tiny stage of St. Chad’s,
South Yarra. David Reid
played the deceived husband
with quiet distinction. As
his wife torn by the conflict
between what she felt and
what she thought she ought
to feel, Nancy Summers was
outstanding. Sydney Cona-
bere had the role of the
wormlike lover, but played
it freshly, Joan Denyer,
Margaret Russell, Ben
Morris and others were suit-
able to the occasion. Produced by Brett
Randall.
* * * *
Greek Day Concert
The Greek Day concert at Sydney
Town Hall contained spmething for all
tastes. The A.B.C.’s military band under
Stephen Yorke discoursed the Greek
National Anthem, the “William Tell”
overture and other selections. Baritone
Harold Williams, in the best of voice, was
heard in Handel’s “Arm, Arm, Ye Brave,”
and in the Prologue from “Pagliacci,” and
scored 100 per cent, marks for clarity of
diction. Marie Bremner sang and was
rapturously applauded. Lionel Lawson’s
fiddle was heard in the Saint-Saens
“Dying Swan” and other good tunes.
There were dances by Greeks in their
national costume, and Greek Consul-
General Dr. Vrisakis made a speech
thanking Sydney for friendly aid to his
country.
* * * *
An Arthur Greenaway production of
“A Midsummer Night’s Dream”—cur-
rent Shakspearean play for the inter.—
is showing at matinees at Sydney Royal.
On the whole it is well done and the
clown scenes are particularly good. There
is often a tendency to do these scenes
in what is fondly believed to be a classi-
cal Shakspearean manner. In the current
production they are done as the author
intended —coarse clowning, catering for
an uneducated mob, but with a vein of
rich wit beneath it for those able to pick
it out.
AT THE TALKIES.
“Crook’s Tour”
War or no war, films are still trickling
out from England ; Sydney Embassy has
a double issue of them —“Crook’s Tour”
and “The Case of the Frightened Lady.”
Leading roles in the former are filled by
Naunton Wayne and Basil Radford,
previously seen in humorous support
parts. They are again a couple of
frightfully solid English chappais, travel-
ling in Europe with the old school tie
at the mast-head and nothing more seri-
ous on the mind than doing the right
thing as Englishmen abroad and getting
back in time for the Test match.
They run into a secret service and
espionage set-up along familiar lines —•
complete to the bewchus young damsel,
actually a British agent but pretending
to work with the other side. Follows
some wild adventure with their par-
ticular brand of humor well to the fore
—before they finish up safe in England
with a plot to wreck a British oil pipe-
line well in hand.
“The Case of the Frightened Lady”
is an Edgar Wallace, and as such suffers
from a fault frequently found in British
thriller and mystery products that of
overemphasising the stark dramatic
aspect of a story while failing to provide
amply the swift moving action which is
called for. Wallace is read as light
entertainment, and that is what a screen
version should provide, even at the ex-
pense of slight liberties with characters
and action.
* * * *
“The Return of Frank James”
At Sydney Regent, and in the nature
of sequel to “Jesse James,” the roman-
ticised film account of the American out-
law, train-bandit and bank-robber. The
current offering kicks off with the death
of Jesse and deals thereafter with
brother Frank’s efforts to avenge his
death. What little excitement there is
in the piece is well enough done in the
shape of gun duels and hard ridin’, but
for the most part the film is rather a
slow-moving one and makes f.a.q. rating
only on the strength of its technicolor
scenery and the easy, natural acting of
Henry Fonda as Frank James. Henry
Hull, in a fanciful caricature of an old-
time editor of a small country paper,
provides a touch of humor, particularly
in a courtroom scene at the finish where,
as James’s lawyer, he breaks all accepted
rules with a stream of flagrant inferences
and innuendoes. Gene Tierney, as the
woman in the piece, resembles and acts
with all the emotion of the girl in the
toothbrush advertisements.
* * * *
“Tugboat Annie Sails Again”
This current offering at Sydney Civic
must inevitably be set up against the
high standard established by the late
Marie Dressier and Wallace Beery in the
first “Tugboat Annie” film, and in that
comparison the present effort is sadly
disappointing. Marjorie Rambeau, as
Annie, turns in what* might be called a
colorful portrayal, but it is a portrayal
and not the indomitable identity created
by Marie Dressier; Alan Hale, as Bull-
winkle, the rival tugmaster, is good, but
Beery put the character on the screen,
and there is no one quite like Beery.
Judged purely on its own merits, the film
is a typical Hollywooden story of the
old tugmistress and her struggles against
weather, male rivals and prejudices and
the lack of understanding on the part of
her employers; that she wins through
goes without saying, but not before the
character and story have been spread
over with sentimentalism sufficient for 15
Hollywood masterpieces.
* * * *
“Arizona,” at Sydney State, sets out on
rather unconventional lines and might
have been something out of the box, but
the introduction, after half an hour or
so, of ye typical smooth and sinister
Western villain quickly relegates the
show to the ranks of everyday Westerns.
Jean Arthur is a tough-as-nails wench
in a pioneer town, bent on scraping
together her bawbees to pioneer cattle-
ranching. William Holden is a casual
sort of bloke who happens along and co-
operates. Warren William is the villain,
category VI, class 2b, in the Western
Director’s Handbook. Numerous in-
sidious plots are hatched by this evil
fellow, but all are foiled at the eleventh
hour.
* * * *
Features of this week’s newsreels in-
clude Mr. Menzies’s tour of the Middle
East (a Department of Information job
released through Cinesound and also, in
part, through Fox Movietone reels). His
tour, as recorded, covers a visit to the
War Graves Cemetery at Jerusalem;
a review of troops in Palestine and of
Australian units in the Mediterranean
Fleet at Alexandria ; and visits to Bardia
and Benghazi and his “message from
home” to the Australian troops who
helped to take them.
Other items of interest include the
King visiting a Bomber Command and
waiting for pilots to return from a raid
over Germany (Gaumont British), scenes
of Singapore (Fox), and of Uncle Sam’s
new fleet of 70-m.p.h. torpedo boats
(Universal).


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you —now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SILK, does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A'COKN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns
a Cd. packet will do this for you without pain or
inconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep--
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A CORA
SILK at 6d. per packet. Packed by FELXOxN,
iiiTff.RDINS. LTD.. Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE y .
Directors a/Joilr. Wo O.M.G.
Genekal. Manager D 147 Branches and Receiving
- u "” rai
PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
ED
“Chico” Invisible Earphones 21/- pr.
• Worn inside your ears. No cords or
batteries. Amazingly effective. Guaran-
teed lifetime. Write for free booklet.
MEAKS EARPHONE CO.—No. 3 State
Shopping Block, Market Street. Sydney^
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletu
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Typist, Sydney, own machine, experienced
typing MSS., desires work. Neat and accurate.
Reasonable charges. —9744.
To buy Harper’s Book of Facts. 9709.
To buy second-hand copies of How to Live
on 24 Hours a Day, and similar books, by
Arnold Bennett. —9730.
Words of poem beginning:
They’re taking me to the gallows, mother.
They are going to hang me high. 9747
Copy of verse entitled “The Cinder Track,
beginning:
Parade with your harps at 2.15
In front of St. Peter’s tent. 97g0
Information Sought.
When was the basic wage first declared in
the Commonwealth ? —9741.
The idea was propounded as far back as
1890 by the Queensland Premier, but it was not
until 1907 that the first basic wage, as such,
was declared by a Court in Australia. This
declaration was made by Justice Higgins,
President of the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court, and is popularly known as the Harvester
Judgment —it was determined in connection with
H. V. McKay’s Sunshine Harvester Works.
The rate of wage declared in this case was 7s
a day or £2 2s. a week for Melbourne and
considered reasonable for “a family of about
five.”
« * ♦ •
In a movie drama I recently saw eyesight was
restored to one of the characters by transposing
the cornea of an eye from a dead body to the
injured eye. Is such an operation possible
Address of Melbourne surgeon who would
undertake such an operation 2—9737. .
Yes. It is not a difficult operation, but it is
better to use a live eye than a corpse eye,
that is to say, from a person who has a blind
eye. The apparatus has been at the Melbourne
Public Hospital for four years, but no operation
has yet been performed in Australia because
it was considered too daring. But there are
surgeons in Melbourne capable of doing it.
Communicate with the Melbourne Hospital.
• ♦ * *
(1) What are the conditions of employment
as an engine-cleaner with the Vic. railways.
(2) Any prospects of employment at present ?
9535. , 10 .
(1) Applicants must be over 18 years and
under 23, height not less than sft. sin., physique
good. A merit certificate or higher educational
certificate is called for, together with satis-
factory references. (2) No.
* * * *
What are the main provisions of the new
Stallions’ Registration Act in N.S.W. ?—' 9735.
Stallions must be registered, but only sound
animals of an approved standard will be listed.
The owner of a reject has the right of appeal.
The owner of every stallion should have com-
pleted the prescribed form, available at the
department, and returned it to the chief veter-
inary officer by March 1, 1941. After that date
anyone purchasing a stallion must, within seven
days, forward a similar notice to the chief veter-
inary surgeon. Departmental officers make ex-
aminations at the Royal Empire Show in April,
and at special inspection parades in country
districts. The Act does not apply to the
western division of the State or to thorough-
bred horses registered in the Australian Stud
Book.
« * * *
Anything known about book lime or lime
cress as to medicinal properties, methods of
brewing and quantity to take ? 9511.
The plant is a species of speedwell, a name
given to members of the genus Veronica, often
known colloquially as eye-bright, bird’s-eye or
cancer-wort. I.t is a perennial plant, flourishing
by the edges of streams and ponds. The
flowers are blue, and the leaves oblong in
shape. It has no medicinal properties of value.
♦ * * *
/ suffer from continuous attacks of flatu-
lency. All foods seem to create much gas and
wind. Can you recommend a cure? What
foods should be avoided?—' 946B.
Diet should consist of small dry meals in
which animal foods predominate, and all sloppy
articles (soups, porridge) should be avoided,
as should all raw fruits and green vegetables.
Dry toast should be substituted for bread,
and the best sweets are junkets, jellies, custards
and stewed fruits. The patient should drink
only between meals, and tea is better avoided
altogether. If unable to take his meals dry, a
little hot water may be taken at lunch and
dinner, and coffee and milk at breakfast. The
useful drugs are alkalis mixed with carminatives
such as spiritus ammonite co., spiritus cetheris,
etc., with mix vomica. In extreme cases, a
little neat brandy is no bad remedy.
* • * *
Can anything be done to prevent infection
during an outbreak of measles, or to modify
the attack when infection occurs? —9672.
Yes. Persons who have recently recovered
from an attack of measles, and indeed all young
adults living in places where the disease is
common, carry in their blood a substance (anti-
body) which is antagonistic to the virus of
measles. Blood serum from the blood of these
persons is now prepared and is called convales-
cent-measles serum if the blood is taken from a
patient within three weeks of an attack, and
adult-measles serum if taken from a healthy,
immune subject. These sera are of the highest
importance in the prophylactic treatment of
measles, ff injections in suitable amount are
given to a person infected with measles within
the first five days of exposure, he will not
develop the disease. If the dose of serum be
delayed until after the fifth day, but adminis-
tered before the ninth day, the patient so
treated will develop only a mild or attenuated
attack of the disease. This new knowledge
is of great importance in controlling outbreaks
of measles in hospital wards or schools.
* * * *
Cure for warts ? —9506.
The simplest way of getting rid of a wart
is to remove it surgically. A small one may
be snipped off with scissors, a larger one ex-
cised surgically by a doctor. Nowadays, freez-
ing with carbon dioxide snow or the use of
the diathermy needle has been found very effec-
tive. Warts are, in all likelihood, due to some
contagion, the nature of which has, however,
yet to be discovered. The effect of X-rays on
warts is often most astounding—crops of them
disappear after a series of exposures amounting
in all to not more than an hour.
* * * *
I suffer from tinnitus and otosclerosis. Is
it curable? What parts of Australia or M.L.
would help the complaint? —9363.
This disease is the cause of one of the most
intractable forms of deafness, although abso-
lute deafness does not as a rule result. There
is no form of treatment which can be said to
have a really beneficial or lasting effect upon it,
though artificial aid, in the form of amplifying
apparatus, is often of great help, particularly
as the patients, most often women, are apt at
acquiring the art of lip-reading. Change of
climate has little or no beneficial influence.
* * * *
Individual and comparative food value of
egg, wine, meat and bread? —9545.
The composition of the edible part (i.e., white
and yolk together) of an egg may be contrasted
with that of meat about as follows:
Egg. Lean Meat.
Water .. .. .. 73.7 73.0
Protein .. .. .. 14.8 21.0
Fat 10.5 5.5
Ash .. .. .. 1-0 1-0
These figures mean that eggs contain practi-
cally the same amount of nutritive matter as
meat, but are richer in fat and poorer in pro-
tein. The only substance with any food value
present in wine is sugar, though wine has cer-
tain other recommendations. Bread must be
looked upon as one of the most nutritious of
common foods. On the average, three-fifths
of it is solid nourishment, and there is no
animal food and few vegetables of which the
same can be said. It gives to the body
large helpings of carbohydrates, fair amounts
of proteins and minerals, but no fats. But
bread is eaten with butter, as a rule, and that
fact makes the lack of fats a matter of little
importance. Shelley used to live on bread
and butter, and wrote some dashed good poetry
while he did it.
« * * ♦
(1) Did Dr. Abramowski’s food experiments
on himself prove anything useful to science or
humanity? (2) Are there many airborne dis-
eases? (3) Was the influenza epidemic after
the last war airborne? (4) What foods and
fluids should be avoided by a person subject to
rheumatism ? —9092.
(1) Up to the present nothing of value seems
to have emerged from his investigations. (2)
Many contagious and infectious diseases are
airborne, pneumonia, various forms of menin-
gitis and diphtheria amongst others. (3) In part
airborne and in part transmitted by direct
contact. (4) Can’t advise unless you specify
the form of “rheumatism” from which you
suffer.
* * * *
What is arthritis? Cause and remedial treat-
ment ? —8995.
The word arthritis simply means “inflamma-
tion of a joint.” There are some 20 forms
of the disease, with as many underlying causes,
and it is therefore impossible to suggest treat-
ment in any given case without explicit details
furnished by the sufferer.
* * * *
Parliamentary record of Alfred Deakin ?
9736. . A ,
He was elected to the Victorian Assembly tor
West Bourke in February, 1879, but resigned in
August of the same year and was defeated when
he offered himself for re-election. In June,
1880, he was elected for West Bourke again
and held that seat until 1889, when he was re-
turned for Essendon and Flemington, which
seat he held until his retirement at the general
election of 1900. He was Solicitor-General
and Commissioner for Public Works from
November, 1883, to February, 1886; Chief
Secretary from February, 1886, to November,
1890; member of the Colonial Conference,
1887; member of Federal Council of Austral-
asia, 1889, 1895, 1897, 1899; and was Vic.
member of the delegation that went to London
to secure the passage of the Commonwealth
Constitution Bill through the Imperial Parlia-
ment in 1900. He was elected to the House of
Representatives for Ballarat at the general
elections of 1901, 1903, 1906 and 1910; was
Attorney-General in the first Commonwealth
Ministry from January 1, 1901, to September,
1903; acting Prime Minister from May to
October, 1902; Prime Minister and Minister for
External Affairs from September, 1903, to April,
1904, and from July, 1905, to November, 1908.
He represented Australia at the Imperial Con-
ference, London, in 1907; was leader of the
Opposition from 1908-9; Prime Minister from
June, 1909, to April, 1910; leader of the Opposi-
tion from 1910-13. He retired on the expiration
of the fourth Parliament in 1913. In 1914 he
was appointed Chairman of the Royal Commis-
sion on Food Supplies and on Trade and In-
dustry during the war, and President of the
Commission to the Panama-Pacific International
Exhibition in 1915. Born August 3, 1856; died
October 7, 1919.
He * * *
I believe the C.S.I.R. has investigated the
matter of hygiene in meatworks. (1) Have the
results of this investigation been published in
any form ? (2) What hygienic precautions are
recommended in regard to slaughter floors and
adjacent equipment ? —9738.
(1) Yes. A pamphlet was published in 1938,
“Hygienic Methods for the Preparation of
Beef in the Meatworks.” (2) Before chilled
beef slaughter, the whole of the slaughter floor
and attendant equipment is cleaned with hot
water at about 140 deg. F. and an alkaline deter-
gent such as one per cent, sodium metasilicate.
Particular attention is given to the equipment
which may provide either direct or indirect
sources of infection, such as the rollers and
hooks or skids used for hanging the carcasses.
The use of alkali facilitates the removal of the
film of fat and tissues which collects on the
floor, walls, benches, rails, tables and equip-
ment generally. During the day’s operations
the floor requires further cleaning for the
removal of accumulating blood, soil, hair, etc.
This is essential, and is done by hosing and
brushing these areas with clean water in such
a fashion that there is no splashing of exposed
carcasses. Regular hosing with hot water at
about 140 deg. F. is done only when the floor
is cleared of carcasses, such as at smoke-oh,
lunchtime and again at the completion of the
day’s operations.
* * * *
Words in German of the first verse of the
song “Morning Must Find Me Away From
Here,” as sung by the Comedy Harmonists ?
8940.
Morgen muss ich fort von hier
Und muss Abschied nehmen;
O du allerschonste Zier,
Scheiden das bringt Gramen!
Da ich dich so treu geliebt,
Über alle Massen,
Soil ich dich verlassen,
Soli ich dich verlassen.
HE * * ♦
I am seeking to become an air hostess.
What are the qualifications, and to whom
should application be made? —8740.
Main qualifications are: Age for applicants,
22 to 27 years; weight, Bst. 81b. maximum;
height, sft. 4in. maximum. General nursing cer-
tificate has preference. Applications should be
addressed to Airlines of Australia, Ltd., 390
Flinders-street, Melbourne.
* * * *
(1) On what date did Jack Johnson win the
world’s heavyweight champion from Tommy
Burns at the Sydney Stadium ? (2) In which
round? (3) How many contests did Johnson
have during his career — wins, losses and draws?
(4) Did he do any bullfighting in Spain after
his retirement from boxing ? —9739.
(1) December 26, 1908. (2) Fourteenth. (3)
89 contests, for 64 wins, six losses, five draws
and 14 no-decision. (4) No.
Brief Answers.
WG.: Retail price of quicksilver at present
is about 265. per pound. Price is dropping
rapidly. H. B. Selby and Co., 254 George-
street, Sydney, might buy. It is sold by the
pound avoirdupois... .Mrs. N.McC.: Cannot
advise unless you specify the particular form
of eye trouble from which you suffer... .R.W.;
Cannot go into details about the matter on
this page. Consult doctor or a specialist in
this branch of medicine F.W.E.: Attunga,
“high place”; Barina, “summit ; Neerim,
“high, elevated”; Woorarra, “mountainous
place”; or Milleara, “to see at a distance,”
might be appropriate G.A.E.: Possibly
Ellen G. Hill (1864-93), a figure painter and
an exhibitor at the Royal Academy. Consult
John Young, Royal Chambers, 3 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney, as to value W.R.K.; Ine
book, at the moment, is unprocurable at the
leading Sydney booksellers, but a supply should
be available shortly, when Heiser s statements
can be examined. But you can take it for
granted that no diet nor any drug has so far
dissolved gallstones in the human subject ....
J M • No chance of giving any useful advice
without further details and careful examination.
If your own doctor can’t help you, see a
specialist....D.O’B.; Unless loss of hair occurs
after some acute infection, when (in youngish
people) the hair usually returns of its own
accord, there is as yet no known cure for
baldness....J.T.G.; Bundanoon is about 99*
miles from Sydney by the nearest recognised
motoring route... .F.8.E.: The withdrawal of
British troops from southern Norway was
announced by Mr. Chamberlain on May 2,
1940 . L.S.: Captain J. A. Collins is the com-
mander of H.M.A.S. Sydney, which destroyed
the Bartolomeo Colleom in July, 1940. Collins
received the C.B. Commander Hugh St. L.
Nicholson was senior officer of the destroyer
force ;he received a bar to his D. 5.0.... -F I-.-
The full title of the Governor of Australia is
Brig.-Gen. the Rt. Hon. Lord Gowne VC.
CM G CB„ D.S.O. His salary is £lO,OOO
a year.'.’. .H.L.R.: Dr. Barnardo’s Homes, com-
prising 293 separate buildings and branches,
claim to have rescued Ue.OW desWute children
since their inauguration in 1866. About
children are dealt with every ■ -T.G.W..
The present King was born on December 14,
1595 GRB : Write to the Department ot
MhieV, Perth. ...H.T.8.: Dame Laura Knight
was elected to the Royal Academy ■«. 1936.
capital of a portugal,' n has acquired additional im-
portance recently as the leading Continental port
for sailings to the Western Hemisphere....
G.8.R.: Sergei Rachmaninoff, composer and
pianist, was born in Nijni Novgorod, Russia.
R.S.B.: The largest telescope in the world is
being erected at Mount Palomar Observatory,
California. It is 55ft. long, 20ft. in diameter,
weighs 250 tons, and has a 200 in. reflecting
mirror.... R.F.B. i The Queen EJizabeth is
85,000 gross tons, the Normandie 83,423, the
Queen Mary 81,235 L.T.8.; James I, James
11, Charles I, Charles II and Anne all belonged
to the House of Stuart; William and Mary and
William HI are generally classified under
“Stuart-Orange”... .R.F.S.; Write to Houghton
and Byrne, 2 Bridge-street, Sydney, for infor-
mation regarding the eradication of silverfish.
. ..G.M.: Refer your invention to the Inven-
tions Board, Army Headquarters, Melbourne.
C.M.: Functions are to collect, collate and
distribute information and to administer security
measures generally... .T.M.: Not known in
Australia... .W.N.S.; Sulphate of ammonia,
£l6 12s. 6d. per ton f.o.r. at station nearest
works. There is a shortage in supply. Sul-
phate of potash, approximately £2O per ton
f.o.r. at station nearest works. There is a
shortage of this, too.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
H.W.R.;
He murdered in Poland without any cause—
An act that roused all who loved peace.
He took what he wanted in his greedy claws—
To be safe his existence must cease.
M.P.K.; “Kismet is Hooey” might offend
our Mohammedan readers... .G.F.S.: Light-
weights E.W.K.: They’d make songs, but
they’re not poems... .E.P.: Conventional....
H.M.8.: Try a daily L.G.; It fades at the
end D. 8.: Ballads need more swing
J.P.; A touch of the real thing P.A.R.:
Flat M.S.K.; Not for these chaste pages
“the capers of nymphs in rollicking rills”
H H.: Tempted by Thora, but there’s too much
of her L.M.8.: All right of its kind, but
not for us H.C.: “Taking a Dive” took
one. ...8.R.5.: Might have got through with
a brighter finish.. . .E.M.A.; Not that sort....
F. 8.: Sketch too slight; some of the material
in the story could be used to better advantage.
S P.E.: “Outward Bound” on the return
trip. ...Mr. C.: Will author of “Gentleman’s
Tipple” please send address? 8.R.D.: “The
Optimists” will need more than their optimism
to get them into print... .F.T.8.: Can hardly
think of anything less amusing C.8.C.:
“Tally-Ho,” away! F.V.W.: Just a fourth-
rate murder yarn... .P.H.R.: Grandma ticked
off Grandpa for telling that story in mixed
company.. ..D.A.L.: Try a daily... .G.W.:
Reads very much like an adaptation ot the
last Wild-West fillum we saw C.G.A.; Some
day we’ll catch the fellow who tells his friends
to send us that sort of yarn 8.G.L.; No
room for elves and fairies R.G.K.; You
haven’t made enough of it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
LM ' The lopsided lady and the stunted
cent. can keep up the argument on the way
back P.C.K.: That jest raised its first faint
laughter among the Babylonians.. . .Bert C ;
Welcome to the aeroplane with a windmill on
the end of each wing! M.C.: We estimate
that the boundary fence, by the time it has
reached the middle distance, is about 45tt.
high . .D.T.L.: Judging by the trees and the
smoke from the swaggies’ fire there must have
been a strong north-south wind F.L.; Your
sketch was shown to Agatha, The Bulletin s
cat. She gave one shriek. An hour later she
bore her expected litter... .R.S.: Eleven people
in a boat blowing balloons with microscopic
writing inside them respectfully declined....
VE S • You overemphasise the toughness or
the Digger; even he can’t slog through sand
wearing two left boots for very 10ng... .C.C.:
Series of dashes and crosses uttered by parson
who has hit thumb with hammer senttoN.S.W.
Chief Secretary for interpretation and censorship.
AM F ' The fireman has the rare ability
to ‘laugh with the corners of the mouth drawn
down.


NTS
LYS
&
PROOF
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER
every Roll of Netting.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd,
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
LYSAGHT-S" WIRE, WIRE
Bluestone Drenches.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Graz”; Neither bluestone nor nicotine
sulphate is effective if it first enters
the paunch before passing to the fourth
stomach. And experiments have shown
that the oesophageal groove fails to close
in 12 p.c. of sheep drenched with a blue-
stone mixture.
To try to close the groove stubborn
cases should be given a preliminary dose
of bluestone about five seconds before
administering a b.n.s. drench. Some
sheep may not respond at all, but if
given slowly the bluestone has a better
chance of doing its work.
“Licii’Mfi. 22/1 / ’41) and “Sagitta”
(B. 12/1/’41) obtained best results with
a weak formula of b.n.s. They gave
grown sheep a 40 c.c. dose, requiring four
squirts of a 10 c.c. gun, compared with
only two squirts for a 20 c.c. dose of
the stronger mixture. The chances of
closing the oesophageal groove would
seem to be four to two on the larger
dosage. S’African experiments have
proved that strong concentrates are more
successful in closing the groove. A 3 c.c.
dose of lib. bluestone to 1 gal. of water
mixture is recommended as a preliminary
drench.
M “W.p.Mc.”: Why must “J.R.D.” and
“Liop” mess about with nic. sulphate
when they can get equally good results
by simply boiling tobacco? Arsenic-soda-
tobacco drench has stood the test for
more than 50 years.
Itchy Heels.
“Clyde”: Itchy heels in the working
horses soon make themselves conspicu-
ous, the nags stamping or rubbing their
heels against fences and gateposts.
Though the affected horse doesn’t
suffer any great loss of health, the rub-
bing away of the hair on the heels leaves
them sore and open to any other infec-
tion that may be about. There is a
possibility, too, of damage to bone and
hoof through the constant stamping and
kicking.
The itch is caused by a mange mite
too small to see without a microscope.
It lays up to 40 eggs in the hollows be-
low the fetlocks, where they are well
protected. In three days the mites are
hatched and burrowing under the skin,
causing irritation. In another six days
the things are breeding again—two mites
can become 500,000 in six months. The
mites get busy in the hot months and
horses seldom recover without treatment.
Hardest part of treatment is to get
through the skin to where the mites are.
First, clip the hair round the heels as
close as possible. Lysol, cresol and
similar carbolic disinfectants will settle
them if contact can be made. Lysol
solution heated to 1 lOdeg. F. will kill the
mites in a minute. Cooler solutions take
a proportionately longer time. Use it as
hot as the horse can bear it. Apply a
second coating about a week later. The
carbolic preparations such as lysol, cre-
sol, creolin and kerol should be used at
a strength of one part to 50 parts of
water.
Dressings are: Sulphur one part and
lard four parts, mixed evenly and
closely ; heat and apply hot by rubbing
thoroughly into the part-one of the best
hand-dressings. Spirits of tar loz. and
linseed oil one quart ; mix well and apply
warm ‘
In some districts there are public dips
f° r timing itchy heels. Use them if
P oss ible.
“ 54 Buster>,; pr ° tect * the timber be-
fore puttin S U P a new shed, fence or
structure of any kind. Coal tar
creosote oil is best. If the timber can’t
be impregnated by pressure, heat the oil
fiGof M hots t *£* fa
• 24 „ : Dlppmg > hashing or
s P ra Y ln 8> well done and repeated every
24 h ° UrS /° r a ,ime ’ a fafi
“f ” f t P “, n K
u lr s at that parl ; of the post or P lle tba t
bas f t ? go lnto tbe . ground and the part
JUSt above B round level. It’s a good idea
to saturate the earth filling of the hole
with the creosote.
Get rid of likely haunts of white-ants
by cleaning out all old stumps and bits
of wood lying around. If possible, use
brick or concrete foundations to keep
the flooring clear of the ground. Cap
piles supporting floors with zinc or gal-
vanised iron.
If white-ants have got into the timber,
white arsenic, Paris green or sodium
silico-fluoride dust will fix ’em. Use the
first two with great care—they’re deadly
poison. If there is any risk to man or
animals it’s better to use the sodium. All
three are dusts, and the aim is to get them
into the galleries of the termites. Best
way is to open up carefully the timber
over the living insects and blow the dust
in with a small blower. Blow in about
an eighth of an ounce of the poison, then
seal up the galleries. Don’t disturb the
ants any more than you can help. After
about a month set about replacing the
damaged timber.
If the nest can be located in the ground
dig it up and burn it.
A Beginning.
“8.C.” : The first soil conservation re-
search station in Australia was opened
at Cowra (N.S.W.) a fortnight ago. It
will function as an educative centre for
work in erosion control,
It will have the job of demonstrating to
farmers that erosion can be controlled,
that eroded lands can be rehabilitated and
that existing faulty farming methods can
be corrected. For the rest, every land-
holder will have to realise that he bears
a serious responsibility to preserve his
tend—that, in short, although he owns
the land, he does so only as a trustee
for the nation and that when he passes
on he is expected to leave the land better
than he found it.
As E. S. Clayton, N.S.W. Director of
Soil Conservation, remarked at the open-
ing, er osion has become so bad in many
parts of the wheat country that “you
could bury a horse without having to
chg. Ihe Cowra station seems tragi-
caliy small and isolated against the tre-
mendous sweep of Australia’s acres and
the frightening scope of erosion damage,
Many moie stations are needed. So far
as primary production is concerned,
there is nothing more important than a
naHonal attempt to combat soil erosion,
All the Commonwealth’s plans for post-
war uplift and restoration of primary
pr 9jtiction,, all its plans for national
fodder conservation, all its plans for ex-
port marketing after the war will not
achieve success while erosion goes on.
On a Medium Loam.
“Terramungamine”: Ours is a medium
red loam, and from December until about
the end of February we leave the fallow
alone except for the sheep, which are not
allowed to chop it about if the weather
is dry and the surface very loose. We
had our lesson five years ago when, the
very day we decided a paddock had had
enough of sheep, a sudden rainstorm
came. The big, fan-shaped sheet of
erosion across the fallow has been re-
membered like a nightmare ever since.
If conditions suit, we run the scari-
fier over fairly lightly about the end of
February, and give it another hit in
April. Normally we seed in early May,
with a combine, 501 b. to 551 b. of seed
and up to 851 b. of super, an acre. If it
gets away well we turn the sheep in, but
always have them out again by end of
June, unless it’s an exceptional year.
Sheep keep coming into our wheat
programme most of the year, and we
put down trench silos of thistles, oats
a nd a bit of lucerne, keep a bin or two
°f oa ts and wheat as grain, and a stack
°f wheaten hay. That keeps ’em going
. i- be B^ a ss paddocks and between
eating-off the crop and being turned into
st,ubble-
. „ er ® t , on abo “ t t 16ln - ai ] nual rain ‘
T" ’ Wltb a bot dry harvest
tha * COn ? eS in fairly early Bencubbin
a ™l Ford are onr two best wheats, though
Nabawa 18 stl » a great old standby. Last
ea / We g av J e Eureka, Fedweb I and
bu ar . a bu * , e , season wa s against
experiments, and the Bencubbin and
For “ walloped everything else except a
al ta ”' d of Bal dmm, which beat both,
1 here 11 be more Baldmin this year.
Tractor Economy,
“T.C.”: One way in which money can
be saved is by watching the fuel system
Make sure the tap is turned off when
the machine isn’t working and see that
the carburettor isn’t throwing drops about
every time the engine is speeded up or
thrown out of gear while at high speed.
A racing engine eats up fuel and isn’t
likely to lengthen the tractor’s life. Make
sure all the unions in the feed line are
tight and true. Don’t overdo the
“tickling” when feeding the carburettor
before starting and avoid flooding. Run-
ning in high at low speed wastes fuel,
so does high speed in a low gear. There
is a happy medium for those who take
care of their machines.
If the tractor misfires and there are
explosions in the silencer look to the
ignition. If there is popping in the in-
duction pipe or carburettor the mixture
is probably too weak—if too rich there’ll
be no popping. If misfiring occurs, check
both ignition and mixture.
Look for dirty or defective plugs, faulty
high-tension leads in the ignition system,
dirty or pitted platinum points or points
not breaking properly, sticking rocker-
arm or faulty carbon brush. If you’ve got
coil-ignition, look for a run-down battery.
In the fuel system, look for water in
the carburettor, a block in the fuel line,
loss of pressure in a pressure-fuel feed
and wrong mixture. Somewhere between
them will lie the fault. Don’t muck
about if you are beaten ; get an expert.
Wimmera Wheats.
“lung”: Two new wheats have done
well m tests at Longerenong (Vic)
Ghurka x C.M.G. 5543 has yielded splen-
didly on black country. It gave a higher


'Be Cn*'T&&
■
.v
i
insist on
Australian-made
RADIOTRON
VALVES
The failure of one valve alone in your Radio can
render it useless . . . but
A replacement is always available when an
Australian-made type is used.
Safeguard your Radio entertainment by insisting
that your Radio is fitted with AUSTRALIAN-MADE
RADIOTRON VALVES.
Australian-made RADIOTRONS satisfy the vital
needs of radio. Their efficiency is symbolised by
their adoption as standard to the Navy, Army and
Air Force Services.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.,
Sales Department, 72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
The matter is transformed into a sterile solution which automatically runs
off into the soil.
No water supply required.
Approved hy the Board of Health.
#NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Provides the comfort and safety of modern sanitation.
Efficiency, mechanism and life
fully guaranteed.
Price, £lB/8/- f.o.r. Sydney.
Including sales tax and crating.
Write Dept. B for illustrated pamphlet.
[Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
I 26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
imwmu i
..Ji
:
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
'S
m
W\'\
Established 1808 in Keign of George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
{England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST.,* DNE
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street,
South Aus. Branch; Wayrnouth Street, A
Western Aus. Branch: Esphuiade, B bourne .
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St.,
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zea ■ ___
yield than Ghurka in several tests at
four different Wimmera centres, the aver-
age increase being 3.7 bushels an acre
at Longerenong. Even on the more mixed
soils around Donald and Charlton it has
beaten Ghurka by a bushel an acre tor
the past two seasons.
It is equal to Ghurka in flour quality
and disease resistance, is a free stripper
and, though taller than Ghurka, has a
strong straw. Brown-chaffed, it produces
plump grain of good color which does
not crack readily.
So far it is not recommended for other
than the Wimmera country. It may be
a good wheat for the Mallee, but has
yet to prove itself there.
Magnet, the Major x F. Gallipoli
cross, was let loose on the Wimmera two
years ago as a variety to replace Free,
Gallipoli. It has outyielded Ghurka at
Salisbury and Longerenong and is a
late-maturer with strong straw. A good
harvester, it is slightly harder to thresh
than Ghutka. Flour quality is up with
Ghurka and better than F. Gallipoli. It
is a good hay wheat.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mullengah”: Lucerne is best green
crop for Dennis, but grazing must be
managed carefully. Let the pigs graze
only on one part of the paddock at a
time, and remove them to a fresh section
before they damage the stand. Kikuyu
grass makes good grazing and yields an
abundance of feed. It will stand a lot
of knocking about. Paspalum and couch
are suitable for summer grazing, and
Dennis does well on any of the winter
pasture mixtures. Provide ample sub-
division and adopt rotational grazing to
control growth and get best results.
“Bundalinga”: F. W. Rose, Bongalong,
Muttama (N.S.W.), has found that sub.
clover sown at the rate of lib. per acre
takes about four years to become prop-
erly established. It takes two years at the
rate of 21b. per acre; 31b. will bring a
good stand the following year, and 41b.
establishes the sub. the first year. Rose
says that the stand will not be damaged
if the clover is cut when it is about to
seed, but is still green.
“Qwet”: In parts of the Victorian
Wimmera the effect of zinc sulphate,
applied in addition to superphosphate to
crops of oats, sub. clover, phalaris and
’ flax, was to bring about increased height,
better growth and stronger color. The
response of the sub. suggests that other
clovers and pasture plants might thicken
quickly from application of the sulphate.
The crops mentioned were all sown on
fallow.
“Mullengah”: Dairy-farmers on the
N.S.W. North Coast proved the value of
a few acres of sugarcane or cow cane
as an “iron ration” for their stock m
last year’s drought. Favored varieties of
cane are Improved Queensland, Lillian
Green and Chin Chin. Best results
follow when the cane is chaffed and
bran added as a laxative. Unless cane
is cut yearly, it tends to become fibrous
and may cause impaction ; therefore a
laxative is needed. On one farm, three
acres of cane kept 40 milkers going for <
three months.
“8.T.H.”: Australian wheatgrowers
are mostly well ahead of their com-
petitors in Argentina and U.S.A. In
those countries, it is only in recent years
that organised plans for better seed wheat
and a wide distribution of approved
varieties have been taken up seriously.
In Australia this work has been done
for 25 years. And the use of copper
carbonate dust as a bunt treatment for
wheat has been hailed as an American
discovery. As recently as three years
ago there were districts on the Pacific
Coast of U.S.A. where as much as 30
per cent, of the wheat grown was in-
fected more or less with bunt (ball smut).
In Australia the total percentage of bunt-
infected wheat in any harvest is small.
The copper carbonate method is so
easy that bunt-infected wheat is a re-
proach of slovenliness to any grower.
“Bohemian”: Maoriland’s first linen flax
crop is now being harvested. Over 13,000
acres were sown. The fibre will be
treated under the supervision of a Bel-
gian expert, M. Bevernage, and will be
bought by the British Government,
whose grader is now in M.L. Under the
British Empire scheme Maoriland will
contribute 3000 tons. The Empire pro-
duction for the first year is estimated at
22,000 tons.
“Peapod”: Kikuyu grass (B. 18/12/’4O)
has an additional use in stopping erosion.
Winter rains constantly exposed slips in
a hilly paddock. Other grasses failed to
deal with the subsequent loss of soil.
Then I turned to Kikuyu. The runners
grew fast and bound the soil together,
so that no further slips occurred. But
don’t try it on rich land, as before long
it will choke out everything else.
“Double Dee”: When rabbits won’t
take the usual baits Westralians use the
butts of blackboy needles pulled from
the crown of the tree. White, soft and
juicy, they are gobbled up by the bunnies.
Outback Occupations.
No. LIX.
Visiting Old Friends.
It’s a letter from Bill Barry:
“Dear Jack,” it runs, “we’ve been settled
in here over 15 months now and you’ve never
been to see us. It’s only 38 mile over here so we
would like you to come and bring the fammily
next Sunday because we will be bussy with
the fallering after that and you could stay
till Monday and go home then if you like.
You go out the Weedalong road about 12 mile
till you see a road to the right past a old
shed on the corner. There used to be a school
there once but it isn’t there anny more. Don t
take that road but keep on past there to the
first on the left and turn down that till you
come to a sandhill with a lot of hopbush on it.
There’s some black polly cattle in the paddock.
Go through that gate and through two more
gates till you see a old dry tank. Bear oft to
the right and follow the fence past the dry
creek till you strike a gate. But there isn’t a
gate because it got burnt and it has a old set
of harrers against it to keep the stock out. Our
place is only a couple of miles past the gate.
You say to the missus “How about
goin’ over t’ Barry’s next Sundee?”
“Do you know the road?”
“No, but Bill’s given directions in his
letter.” . ,
You’re on the way early. It is a beau-
tiful morning of blue and gold, the fal-
lows are rich and brown and the sheep
in good nick, and the car hums along the
Weedalong-road until you reckon you’ve
about done 12 mile and ought to see the
old shed. ,
You say to the missus “We ought t see
that ol’ shed Bill was talkin’ about.”
“Perhaps we’ve passed it,”
From the back seat one of the boys
says “That haystack over there ? is on
Thornton’s, an’ they reckon they’re six-
teen miles out.” , , ,
You fish for Bill’s letter. It isn t there.
Has the missus got it? She hasn’t. The
boys? No.
An hour later, having been back home
and got the letter and survived the insults
of your progeny and the frigidity of your
wife, you spot the old shed. Keeping a
wary eye for the “first on the left, you
proceed. Miles drift by. Sarcasm begins
to well from the back seat. All eyes watch
for the turn. Then a man on a creamy
pony heaves in sight, is stopped and ques-
tioned. , . „
“Yair,” he says thoughtfully ; yre past
it. It’s a bit hard t’ see ’cos the council
run a new formation on the main road
about a month ago, and that big rain
we had washed it across the turn.”
You back and turn. The rider yells
at you, but you ignore him and make
back After half a mile you come to
the eroded formation. The turn is there,
but now a six-wire fence runs firmly
it.
“Lovely,” says the wife.
“Good ol’ Bill Barry,” says the back
seat. “Let’s go and see ol’ Bill Barry.
Who wants a motor ride?”
You reach back and swipe viciously
but miss, and knock your fingers on the
door. Hooves thunder, and the creamy
pony canters up.
“Tried t’ stop y’,” pants the rider in-
dignantly, “but y’ was in too much or
a flamin’ hurry. Y’ll have t’ go on about
three mile. There’s a new road, an it
cuts back on t’ the old one over there.
He waves vaguely towards a low ridge
about six miles to the north-east.
You thank him and push on, find the
new turn and enter it. The sun is get-
ting hot and a north wind is kicking up
some dust. Come the sandhill, the hop-
bush and the gate leading into the pad-
dock of black polls. You give the family
a triumphant grin and wheel the car
through the gate as Jack opens it.
“Two more gates and then a dry tank,
you assert with the confidence of the true
bushman who knows his way.
“It’s awfully hot and dusty,” says the
wife.
She’s right. Conversation lags as the
car bumps over the track. After the
second gate you begin to watch for the
dry tank. You find a third gate.
“That’s funny,” you remark, survey-
ing it and re-reading Bill’s letter.
A pregnant silence issues from the
family. Tom sulkily opens the gate and
you push on. There is no sign of a dry
tank, but you suddenly come on a cross-
fence with a gap blocked by a set of
harrows.
“Well, strike me roan!” you mutter,
marvelling at the sight.
The boys reckon they could do a drink.
So does the missus, adding bitterly that
her frock is ruined by the dust.
You and Jack, sweating and spitting
out dust, battle with the harrows. “Omy
a couple of miles now,” you state.
Then you pass by a homestead. It
appears deserted. Not even a dog chal-
lenges you as the car bumps by. After
passing through two more gates and find-
ing yourself on an open plain with no
sign of human habitation in sight you
pull up.
“Well, we’ve missed the track some-
where,” you confess.
“Have you only just found that out/
sneers the missus.
“Only thing is t’ go back an ask at
that house we passed,” says Jack.
“But there’s nobody there,” you say.
“Well, it’s no good going on,” says
the missus. “You get no credit for
exploration these days.”
So back you go, cursing the gates, me
heat, the dust, Bill Barry, motor-cars,
everything. ,
You pull up at the deserted homestead
knock, shout. In vain. The boys find
an iron tank at the rear and drink. You
drink. The missus comes over and drinks.
You fill your pipe, get back in the cai
and make for home. At the harrow
gate you meet an oncoming car. It con-
tains Bill Barry and his family.
“Where you bin?” demands Bill. we
bin waiting out at the main road for
t’ show y’ the way in. That’s our place.
He points to the deserted homestead.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4|d. per line; all others at
2Jd. per line.
For drawing attention to a very interesting and suggestive back-to-school
movement, a Westralian is placed first this week.
The Desire to Learn
A lesson that the present war should
teach us is that young men thirst after
education when they have a definite goal
at which to aim. At school much time
is taken up with subjects which the
pupil hates because he cannot see
the use of them. The dead weight of
examinations forces the teacher to drive
the youngsters along certain lines, even
though the training so received is en-
tirely divorced from the future needs of
aspiring youth.
All over Australia young men are
feeling the call of the R.A.A.F., and
thousands of them have returned to their
school books with a new avidity. They
know that before they can gain admit-
tance to those coveted ranks a certain
educational standard must be attained ;
and they are also well aware that this
standard is necessary because the lives
of their comrades as well as their own
safety may depend on the knowledge ac-
quired from the textbook.
I have had all sorts of lads come to
me for coaching—from outback farms
and from crowded city streets—but in
every case I have found an earnestness
truly admirable. The desire to learn is
such that in a few short weeks their pro-
gress is astonishing—a proof that the will
to learn is the most potent factor in edu-
cation. — Enoch (W.A.).
“The Lesser Jobs”
The young fellow was seething with
indignation, and as we watched his intel-
ligent face and saw the smooth, power-
ful muscles sliding under the brown of
his arms and shoulders we agreed with
all he had to say. He lived in a small
country town, beyond the limit of com-
pulsory military training. He had a good
job, a man’s job, but he wanted to do
his bit. Months before he had applied
to join the R.A.A.F., and now he’d re-
ceived a letter stating that he had been
accepted for the Air Force and was to
report to headquarters at X.
“They’ll take me,” he said, “as a mess
steward! To wait at table and wash up
dishes! The old dad was a fighting sol-
dier, and now they want me to be a
bloody slushy!”
Some of us old soldiers, with memories
of the contemptuous gibes we flung at any
young fellow holding a soft job during
the last scrap, sympathised and agreed
that it was a waste of good material.
These jobs, and many similar ones in
office and mess and store, must be done,
but surely they could be done by some
of the thousands of ex-service men in
Australia, men who will not be again
accepted as fighting men. — Gam (W.A.).
Home Defence
The call-up of widowers without
children and single men between the ages
of 19 and 33 still leaves untapped a vast
reserve of man-power. There are thou-
sands of married men in these age groups
whose responsibilities naturally prevent
their being enrolled for training in camps
away from home. Nevertheless the vast
majority of them are keen on doing some
sort of training to defend their country.
After all any invader coming to these
shores will not make any nice distinc-
tion between married men and single
men.
It should be possible for the military
authorities to devise a scheme whereby
these men could perhaps attend the local
drill hall two nights a week for physical
training and spend a couple of hours on
a Saturday afternoon learning how to
handle a rifle or Bren gun.— Melton
(Vic.).
Expert Needed
What about getting expert advice on
air-raid precautions, preferably from a
London A.R.P. officer who could be bor-
i owed from the British Government?
Biitish A.R.P. officials have gained
practical knowledge in the harshest
school. The only real way we can
fnake use of this invaluable know-
ledge is to get hold of someone
who has been through the London bomb*
ings from the beginning ; someone who
can point out to our own A.R.P. men
those errors in preparation which would
otherwise be detected only when raids
began.
Whether Australia is in imminent
-danger or not, it would be safest to
assume that we should take full pre-
cautions against raiders. We have every
right to call upon Britain for advice in
this matter, and no refusal need be
feared. But we should act at once. —
Wusslean (Vic.).
Women’s Uniforms
Women engaged in any form of war
work should wear a distinguishing type
of dress (B. 19/2/’4l). It not only tends
to efficiency but is indicative of the
wearer’s pursuits. For instance, in a
sudden emergency such as an air raid
the presence of women in a particular
mode of dress or uniform would imme-
diately advertise the fact (without ex-
planations being needed) that they are
eligible and specially trained to render
assistance. One doesn’t in a case of, say,
assault and battery rush up to a John
Hop and ask him if he is a policeman;
his uniform tells you that. You just
splutter “Come quick, you’re wanted,”
and so on.
A woman’s war service uniform, how-
ever, should be of a standard type, un-
obtrusive but effective without making
her look a freak. Take the noble army
of women who tend the sick. They are
on a par with doctors but don’t for that
reason ape them by wearing their pants
or coat and waistcoat. They wear a
simple feminine uniform which is smart
and unassuming and they command the
respect of all.
If women’s war rigouts were, not
necessarily similar but made on the sub-
dued and modest lines of their nursing
sisters, they would be spared the ridicule
which their present mixture of Boy Scout,
Gordon Highlander and principal-boy-in-
pantomime appearance excites. — Danbo
(Vic.). .
The “Meetings”
Racing goes on here as if we were
planets away from the nearest war.
Thousands of able-bodied men who
could and should be trained for more
useful national work are still devoting
their whole attention and energy to the
“sport of kings.” This, when there is
a crying need for ships and ’planes.
“Meetings” are still as plentiful as
leaves, and thousands of pounds which
could be invested in war-savings bonds
still go to the s.p. merchant and the
bookie. Again, when conserving paper
is said to be so important, it is incon-
gruous that so much of it should be
wasted on form guides and race publicity.
And the dogs stow away prime beef
while the English people, and even
families here, go without.
In more pressing circumstances racing
has had to be stopped in England. It
should also be suppressed here. — Keith
Ross (Vic.).
As Usual
A few days ago there appeared a 12-
page supplement to a daily paper boost-
ing the goods and activities of many big
business firms belonging to one State. It
was handsomely produced, with fine illus-
trations and huge headlines. The general
impression conveyed was that, in spite
of drought, floods and loss of markets,
trade was booming, employment increas-
ing, and industry breaking all records
in prosperity and expansion.
Quotations in large type from speeches
by politicians painted rosy pictures of
the present and the future, and claimed
considerable kudos for the Ministers
whose unflagging energy had secured
huge contracts in war materials for the
aforementioned State. In fact, the supple-
ment sounded a paean of victory over the
other enemy States: “Then none were
for Australia, and all were for the State.”
At the bottom of one page, in ordinary
type, was part of an article by a famous
economist who strove to show that the
money being spun and spent so freely
•w,as borrowed, and that all the hustle
and bustle was a boom to be followed
by an inevitable bust —when he was in-
terrupted, to be “Continued on page so
and so.” Not one in a hundred would
read such prosy stuff even so far. Not
one in a thousand would search for the
balance of the depressing argument.
And now the leaders of the people
are trying to convince us that war is not
merely a blessing in disguise, raising
wages and finding jobs for the jobless,
but a terrific curse that demands sacrifice
from every citizen of the Common-
wealth.
They will have to shout their loudest
to be heard above the ballyhoo of 12-
page supplements preaching that Mars is
only Santa Claus without a beard, and
that our first duty is to see that he drops
his gifts down local factory chimneys.
—Scaremonger (S.A.).
War Aim
“Austfirst” (B. 19/2/’4l) might be able
to get a lot of people to agree with him,
but I’m not one. It’s all very well for a
mere 7,000,000 to say they’re going to
make their way in a warlike world of
2.000. But the fact is that
7.000. people don’t cut a great deal
of ice.
If there is another league after this
war —and I hope there will be some col-
lective and co-operative security system —
Australia will have to get into it for her
own sake. An almost certain “plum”
of membership, if immediately pre-war
tendencies are any guide, will be admis-
sion to an economic coterie prepared to
forget the old idea of competing for
trade. Within this trading group there
is likely to be a good deal of economic
planning as a basis of organised free
trade.
To miss out on that might become a
serious thing for us. It might mean that
we should have to force down our living
standards. Just before the’ war, inter-
national thinkers were talking about a
social basis for membership to an inter-
national order. The idea was that only
countries prepared to allow the workers
a certain minimum level of comfort and
special service would be allowed the
advantages of free trade within the group.
Obviously, if we stand outside tfie
group, the only way to compete on the
world markets would be to come down
to coolie levels of living.
Incidentally, as to the Eden war-
mongering “Austfirst” talks about, it is
interesting to note the rapidity with
which international conditions de-
teriorated after the League had been
destroyed by the reluctance of the now
named “Guilty Men” to give of Britain’s
best to the League.—J. B. (Vic.).
Unionists and Overtime
“No one in this shop, except execu-
tives, works more than forty hours per
week,” reads a sign in an American shop
window, its implication being obvious.
If was of this sign that I thought when
I read of the many protests against the
taxing of overtime.
As a rule it is the man who works
much more than award hours who is
promoted to the better positions and
obtains the higher wage. The unionists,
however, do not object to heavy taxa-
tion of this wage, though it is a tax on
what the worker has gained by extra
work or overtime.
If we take the case of the private
firm, it is the owner who is prepared to
work long hours who is efficient, and
who makes the profits. His overtime
work is directly responsible for his larger
income.
And who ever heard of a successful
farmer or grazier working an eight-hour
day? Their hours are much more likely
to run to ten daily and even more. Yet
they do not demand that all over a cer-
tain sum —the fruit of excess effort —
should be exempt from taxation. — Len
(N.S.W.).
The Underpaid Nurse
Many Other Fellows seem to think
that women don’t put their hearts into
their work, that they are paid too much
and get too independent to marry. Here
is the other side of that picture.
In my State a double certificated staff
nurse who has passed her examinations
and given at least six years of her life
to practical and theoretical study of the
highest calling man or woman can follow
is offered the munificent salary of £l3O
a year, plus uniform allowance. In the
same State awards provide that an adult
male clerk and ragsieller must receive a
minimum wage of £5 a week.—W. K. D.
(Q-).
Miners’ Pensions
This miner’s wife read with pleasure
and profound hopes of its accept-
ance the Commission’s recommen-
dation for a pension for miners. The
amount suggested is adequate, and the
burden fairly apportioned. The cost of
the scheme is to be carried one-fourth
by the miners, one-fourth by the Gov-
ernment and the remaining half by the
owners, which means the consumers. The
weekly amounts are two pounds for a
miner retired at 60, one pound for his
wife and a further allowance for each
child under 14. Men incapacitated by
occupational diseases are also adequately
arranged for under the scheme.
This will be an opportunity for the
recently-elected miners’ leaders to show
they possess a little more acumen than
those recently deposed ; also a fine chance
for Communists, who use the “suffer-
ing of coalfields women and children” as
a catchphrase to help themselves to a
bit of misused power, to swing their
weight in getting a bit of real security
for those women and children.
I spent my growing years among
women who wholesomely adjusted their
own and their children’s lives to a small
salary and the expectation of a pension,
and then 15 years’ battling for my own
children through cavils-out and lockouts.
My husband and I are tough enough to
take what we must and patriotic enough
to want to see the coal coming out con-
tinuously while the war lasts ; but the
next-best news to an honorably-won
peace you could give us would be that
the pensions scheme was an accomplished
fact.
If we strike no worse ahead than we
have already weathered we can, with the
help of the splendid northern technical
schools, put our boys well on the way to
being useful citizens, and have a roof
over our heads by the time my husband
reaches 60; but we cannot hope to pro-
vide also for our old age. We are not
extravagant, and the thought of the old-
age pension after 40 years of productive
work leaves a nasty taste in the mouth.
—G. K. (N.S.W.).
Profiteers?
I work with a mob of average young
men, mostly earning the “basic” wage.
At tucker time someone started an argu-
ment about what they paid their parents
for board and lodging. The amount
varied, but it seemed that few “allowed”
the old folks more than half the market
value, although the weekly envelope con-
tained enough to support a husband, wife
and two children. I also gathered that
even those who grumbled most about the
“Shall I cancel the deck sports, sir?”


“ That’s pretty decent of ’im anyway !”
rise in prices had never thought of in-
creasing the handout to Mum. Also
that a recent all-round rise in wages had
made no difference in the home budget.
On the same day appeared a sym-
posium in a woman’s page giving the
views of working girls on the same sub-
ject. Evidently the majority think and
act just like the young men. The con-
sensus of opinion seemed to be that no
self-respecting girl should pay more than
half-rates, and at the same time should
never help with the housework, as her
glamorous hands must be preserved from
spot or blemish.
One or two thought it worth recording
that they occasionally took their mother
to the pictures. Presumably they saw to
it that her toilworn fingers were well
covered by gloves. The general impres-
sion was given that Mum is a cheap maid-
of-all-work, with all the maternal virtues
added and given away without extra
charge.
Such evidence proves that profiteering
is not confined to the capitalist class. —
Struth (S.A).
The Oslo Lunch
I was glad to notice a paragraph (B.
12/2/’4l) pointing out the advantages,
both mental and physical, derived by
some Melbourne schoolchildren who
were supplied with the Oslo-type
balanced meal at midday. As a teacher
of many years’ standing 1 have often
been appalled at the ignorance exhibited
by parents in the provision of the ordi-
nary school lunch.
One could wish there was a law to
prohibit the sale of white bread, but
since there is not, and since a great many
parents seem to be entirely ignorant of
the findings of modern science in regard
to diet, might I be allowed to say here
that the Oslo-type lunch, or breakfast,
consists of wholemeal bread and butter
with grated cheese —as much as the child
cares to eat —half an orange, half an
apple or carrot (raw), and a little over
half a pint of whole milk?
If parents would only take the trouble
to provide such a lunch for their children
at school then the schoolteaching fra-
ternity would have far less trouble to
contend with, and parents would prob-
ably find also that their children were
far easier to handle in the home. — Peda-
goggle (N.S.W.).
“Social Parasites”
If we are to begin a clean sweep of the
“social parasites” in our midst (B.
12/2/”41), where shall we end? What
about the army of middlemen that this
country supports, the folk who make a
living by living on the toil of the real
producer? What about the supernumer-
ary politician and the supernumerary
civil servant? What about Mrs. Bilge-
water, of Toorak, and Lady Blatherskite,
of Bellevue Hill? Are they all to be
driven to work, and, if so, to what sort
of work shall we harness them? Most of
them are incapable of any sort of work.
I think there’d have to be a clean-up
among the bankers, too, and the brewers.
And what are we to do with Sir Isaac
Ozzlewozzle when we have finally
rounded him up? And what of the pro-
prietor of Smut Publications, Ltd., and
the gent, who advertises for conscientious
men (capable of earning £l2 a week) to
peddle his fal-lals? If we are to have
this clean-up, then it must not end on
racecourses and in bars. — Auntie Blah
(N.S.W.).
Shop Rents
Shop ownership in Australia isn’t in-
variably as profitable as “Melton” con-
tends (B. 19/2/’4l). An aunt of mine
owns three shops in a N. S. Wales
country town. One has a residence
attached, the others are lock-ups. Rent
for the former is 30s. a week, for the
others 15s. apiece. Rates and water and
sewerage amount to £55 a year. One
of the shops has been vacant since the
middle of 1939, so that municipal
charges absorb more than half of the
income from these properties. Even
were all let, one-third would be thus
taken.
All three shops are roomy and in good
condition. They can’t be let for higher
rents because the street in which they
are situated, though once the business
centre of the town, is that no longer.
Since the coming of the railway it has
shifted to the other end.
The case cited is far from unique.
There are many Australian country
towns, or sections of country towns,
and localities in the big cities in
which, for one reason or another, prop-
erty values and the level of rents are
stationary or declining, though the in-
cidence of municipal charges more often
than not is upward.— Tom (N.S.W.).
Strikes
S.A.’s threatened One Day Strike-that-
didn’t-come-olf drew an effective riposte
from one large firm that handles major
munitions contracts. Displayed promi-
nently near the works exit was a tabula-
tion of daily outturn that must have sur-
prised even the men engaged thereon:
To assist our employees in their judg-
ment when considering participation in any
demonstration which will hold up delivery
of armaments, we feel it our duty, in
the interests of national defence, to tell
you that in this factory you produce
EACH DAY the following material for
the men fighting for us Whatever the
issue, can anything justify interrupting the
flow of this material for the war effort?
The list comprised components for Beau-
fort aircraft, haversacks for gas-masks,
naval anti-aircraft shells, anti-submarine
bombs, bomb transit bases, cabs for de-
fence trucks, aircraft fuel tanks, aero,-
engine parts, assault boats and dinghies
and many other items, and, in addition,
active tooling processes for some other
very formidable items in project.
The notice may or may not have
influenced the issue, but it is a timely
and healthy reminder of the industrial
army’s responsibility to the comrades
in the lines that might well be copied
throughout Australia. — Whitworth
(S.A.).
Price of Wine
I’d like to know where “Spokeshave’s”
friend (B. 12/2/’4l) can buy wine and
bottle it at 3id. a bottle. I’ve been hotel-
keeping for 27 years, and the cheapest
wine I can ever buy from the wineries
70 miles away or elsewhere is 6s. a
gallon. As there are six bottles to a
gallon, that works out at 2s. a bottle,
plus freight and license fee. Certainly no
publican would have a prejudice against
selling Australian wine—there is more
profit in it than in beer —but wine does
not quench the thirst as beer does. —
Russ (N.S.W.).
Railways
“A.V.T.” (B. 19 /2 / ”41) may be right
in a way when he says that the barriers
to inter-State trade are greater today
than before Federation, but he looks
at only one side of the argument. The
railways were pioneered and extended
by the Government to open up the land.
The country grew, and freight was sent
by trains, long running at a loss, to the
capitals. Should private truck organi-
sations, having had no responsibility for
this state of affairs, be allowed to step
in when everything is going nicely?
The trains today get their profit from
earned increment, and are fully entitled
to it—J. C. (N.S.W.).
Archibald and the Young Artist
Guy W. Warren (B. 19/2/’4l) wants
the Archibald Prize made available to
the younger artists instead of being car-
ried away by the older men who have
had more training and are possibly
better painters. He thinks this would
have been in accordance with Archibald’s
wishes. I don’t know what Archibald
thought, but I think Mr. Warren’s notion-
a very bad one. The worst thing that
can happen to a young painter is an early
success. What he needs is not money,
but to maintain his interest in the prob-
lems of painting, a very difficult matter.
Very few art students have so little
money that they can’t get on with their
painting, but hundreds have so little in-
terest that they can make the lack of
money the excuse for lack of interest.
Or they can have a lot of money and
make the opportunities it gives them for
diverting themselves the excuse for not
painting.
An older painter, if he is focused on
his painting, won’t be hurt by winning a
few hundred pounds, but this doesn’t
follow in the case of young artists. A
reputation is a very dangerous thing for
a young artist. Few of them have the
skill to believe in their own opinion, so
they are apt to take the valuation of the
critics and think themselves geniuses.
Then they try to repeat their success, fail
and become discouraged.
I met one the other day whom an emi-
nent critic hailed as a genius on the
strength of his first exhibition. I asked
him how he was getting on with his
painting. “No time for painting now,”
he said. “I’ve got to earn so much
money.” “Why?” I asked. “Because
my wife likes such expensive dresses.”
When he was a struggling young art
student living in an attic without any
reputation his girl friend bought cos-
tumes second-hand at the markets and
helped him to keep the wolf from the
door out of her earnings because she
thought he was a potential Rembrandt.
—F. S. (Vic.).
Sales
Some of us baldheads can remember
when even big shops had small windows
and no price tickets. Then came the
Age of Glass and the Annual Sales with
prices plainly marked. Next arrived real
window - dressing, spring, summer,
autumn and winter sales, and large
tickets showing both original and re-
duced prices on the same card. Today
there is only one sale, which lasts the
whole year round.
Is it reasonable to suppose that great
emporiums are “giving away” their
goods or “clearing them out” at less than
cost in and out of season? Nay, verily!
Goods could be sold at lower prices
if the public did not demand palatial
premises, luxurious lifts, escalators,
carpeted lounges and ballyhoo.—Busi-
ness (S.A.).
War Tax on Lotteries
People who find ss. 3d. for a lottery
ticket would just as happily find ss. 4d.
An extra penny is rarely important to
a gambler when a fiver, at least, is giving
him that beckoning eye. But a hundred
thousand tickets in every “consultation”
would mean tfiiat many more coppers —
and surely a weekly (sometimes bi-
weekly) offering of £416 13s. 4d. would
be some use to the war fund.— Elm
(N.S.W.).
Industrial Honors
Reading encouraging, appreciative
press comments as well as listening to
frequent radio eulogies on the importance
of home-front workers to the war effort
recalled an idea of John Ruskin’s. It was
that, besides crosses of honor being
given to soldiers for bravery in battle,
even more valuable distinctions should
be created and presented to workers from
time to time for the encouragement of
skill and faithfulness in industry.
He was referring, certainly, to peace-
time conditions, but would not now be
a suitable time to consider such a step?
For, although it is right to honor the
spectacular, adventurous bravery of the
battlefield, that other type of courage
necessary to carry on continually
monotonous, unexciting work should also
be respected.— P. Radwon (Vic.).
Sweat
With all the achievements of the
modern world it is doubtful if the inhabi-
tants of this earth are any happier. They
are certainly not as happy or contented
as they should be.
Sufficient value is not placed on
sweat. Everyone wants to live in
the city where the necessities of life
may be obtained with the minimum of
muscular effort. It is the ambition of
every boy and girl to get a job that
entails the use of a chair. Youth is oven-
educated on subjects that would not be
the slightest use to, say, fill an empty
belly.
The average housewife could not pro-
vide a meal without the half-prepared
foods at her disposal, and would be
hopelessly lost without a tin-opener. The
man of the house cannot amuse himself
without organised sport, and even the
recreation for the household is obtained
from mass-produced music and drama
recorded on wax discs and broadcast
at random. Many worth-while things
have become a bore. Why walk around
the corner when the car is in the garage,
or why have a family? Babies are such
a nuisance and mean the sacrifice of
some of the comforts of life. lago
(Vic.).
A Haul of Mullet
Shortly after Mr. Stanley Fowler,
Fisheries Officer of the C.5.1.R., told the
Tariff Board that “assistance is needed
urgently by the fishing industry” and
offered constructive suggestions as to
how it should 'be given, 1 watched three
men make a haul of sea-mullet on a S.Q.
beach. It totalled about 250 cases,
roughly seven tons, and eventually re-
turned them just over £B5 after deduct-
ing freight and marketing costs. It sounds
good money for a few hours’ work, but
until the State and Federal Governments
adopt all Mr. Fowler’s suggestions and
quite a few more I would not advise
anyone with a living-wage job to change
it for the life of a bold and hardy Aus-
tralian fisherman.
It was their first haul of sea-mullet
since June. Taller, sea-bream and school
jew had meanwhile given the nets some
employment, but sea-mullet are the nets-
man’s harvest hereabouts. Imported net-
ting is no longer available ; prices of
nets, corks, rope, twines and other
materials have soared during the war. A
couple of sharks can set a man back many
pounds’ worth of repair material and
time. A heavy catch on a glutted market
may lose him money.
Experience has proved that canned sea-
mullet is at least equal to any of the im-
ported fish on which we were spending
one and a half millions yearly before the
war and which are still freely available
in competition with Australian fisheries.
It also smokes well —so do several
other common Australian species. After
deducting waste, roes and melts, that
catch would have yielded nearly 10,0001 b.
of processable fish. Smoked roes sell
at 2s. 6d. a pound in Australia, and
there is an unlimited export market to
Mohammedan countries—at least 1501 b.
of the finished article could be added to
value. Melts are of commercial import-
ance as food and vitamin sources. Over
two tons of waste would be available
for fish oil, meal and fertiliser manufac-
ture. Total processed value would have
been around £3OO and the return to the
men anything from 50 p.c. over what
they actually received.
But there is the snag—processing. Mr
Fowler pointed out to the Tariff Board
that Australian production of processed
fish is far below the demand, and present
fish-canning equipment, what there is of
it, is used far below its capacity. Off-
shore fisheries are tripped up by that snag
just as effectively as is netting. Dr.
Harold Thompson, chief of the C.S.I.R.
fisheries division, pronounce 4 Australian
canned tuna as at least equivalent to
Californian tuna. The Californian tuna
industry employs as many men as does
the entire Australian fishery industry, its
annual value is nearly double that of the
whole Australian industry, and the return
per man is more than double the average
earnings in the Australian industry.
Processing is only one of the snags.
Such matters as developmental loans,
aids to navigation, boat harbors, slipways,
lights and beacons, adequate protective
tariffs against imported fish, free entry
of machinery for processing and other
machinery used in the industry where
not produced in Australia, remission ot
sales tax on fish-refrigeration equipment
and of the petrol tax on fuel used by
fishing boats and otherwise in the indus-
try are a few more. The eternal Federal-
State hold-the-baby squabble as to whose
job, territorial or otherwise, it is t° de-
velop fisheries is the biggest of all. •
Dickie Beech (Q.).


Mainly Mail-Order
sd
CONSTRUCTIONAL SETS
KNABLiB YOU TO Rl IM» .ill sort•: of Working
Mixlelw- \t o< h;uiii:;iJ urn) iClot'fi n’y l . . BriilRf'N,
Putin, 'foUn:-. Tvucior-., I'onvoyoti), do., ,-U:
Iiit.cre&tintf. Instructive. Kvary sot eimupleU*.
Pcioes from 2/f>.
ALWA m COMH.KTK: XtiFRn FI SIS ft ED.
THE COXSTItVCTiaS .vat FOft the mielios
Amplion (A/sia) Pty., Ltd.
-<82 luoif sn«-t., S^yilney.
deaf:
New Invention—The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
'your name and address NOW !
B. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 428 George St., Sydney.
TYPEWRITERS
of every description
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
f
FROM £5 UPWARDS.
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States—See ’Phone Book.
v i *■ instant relief
TO ACHING FEET.
Based upon recent X-ray dis-
coveries, the “FOOTHELP” brings
new hope to sufferers from painful
foot troubles, This amazing new
invention contains NO METAL
PARTS WHATSOEVER and is as
light as a feather and moulded to measure.
14 DAYS EREETRtAi
Write to-day for full details and TRIAL OFFER.
Satisfaction guaranteed no matter where you live.
JOHN H. UNGEE (Dept, mi),
r ~ v Street. Sydney.
Speed & Accuracy
in all mental
movements
follow the Pelman
training.
Copies of , “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, posted free on request. Write to
The Pelman Institute,
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Fane,
Melbourne. Telephone: MC3355.
First Cheap Edition
Water into Gold
by Ernestine, Hill
A picturesque account of the early
days on the Murray and a lively
description of the irrigation settle-
ments. Profusely illustrated.
Price 6/-, posted 6/4.
ROBERTSON & MULLENS, LTD.,
107-113 Elizabeth St., Melb., Victoria.
TtfINCH£ST£R
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
mm
2- 750 ft. range, each .... 15/-
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 17/6
Complete with Batteries. Postage Extra.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
sd
Try the new Roussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and security. Definitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPI-TAIVCE 00.,
,'OEI‘T. 2-i, 8-1 TJTT ST.. SYDNEY.
z.
OILSKINS
for long, hard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of out
oilskins are our
best advertisement.
Hughes’ Tropical
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Write lor Free Catalogue and Samples.
A. J. HUGHES
(Established 1893),
mii KEG ENT STREET. SYDNEY.
A REAL
COMFORT
TO SMOKERS.
The Genuine “Cavalier”
Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
for 5/6. Honest Value, 8/6.
‘Barling” silver mounted for 15/-
The value, 22/6.
5/6
In cigarette papers I can offer you “Zig
Zag,” “Repeater,” “Tally Ho/' “Bafra,”
“Papier Ainbre” and “Biz La.”
SOL LEVY
MM
I£ GEORGE, STREET, SYDNEY
Goods sent C.O.D. if desired.
NU-LIFE SHOE PATCHES
That is just what it is—a new
life for every repair. Uppers
seldom wear out. NU-LIFE
makes soles wear as long as
uppers. Spread it
like putty and it be-
comes as hard and
tough as good lea-
ther in a tew Hours.
Outfit 1/9, post free,
enough for many patches
„„ _____ or for a thick pair ot soles
Try it: we guarantee 3;ou will be satis-
fied. Failure is impossible
THE UNION MFC. & AGENCY CO
.299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l. <
ft#
fOV
RIVING
Get rid of
y Homs BEFORE
ff-i '0 they start!
One application of
CHANDLER’S CHEMICAL
DEHORNER
will remove the horn
bud from any calf up
to two months. There is no bleed-
ing. Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle* and keep the calf from its mother
for 30 minutes—the horn bud drops off in a few
weeks. An easy, cheap and humane method. Price
D. &W. Chandler, Ltd,, 6/6
MELBOURNE and all branches. ’ Po “
m
F o
&
m
y
ts
CO
213 ELIZABETH ST.
OPPOSITE G. P.O.
PHONE F. 4323.
Box 1566 P,
Melbourne.
Send P.N.
We Pay
Postage!
WNoo»««
% Tc
w ■
w HOOPEB
CUSHIONS
When sat
upon produce
a funny noise.
2/3 each.
PLATE
EIFTER
Does just
what it says.
A scream at
th e dinner
table. 1/6.
THE IMP
BOTTLE
Only you
can make this
little bottle
lie down,
unless you
show them
how to do it.
Hawaiian Guitar
Learn to play this beautiful
instrument at home.
GENUINE GOOD VALUE.
Home ■ Course and Accessories
Included in Price.
Sold on 7 days’ money-back trial.
£2/10/- only.
CAN BE SENT C.O.D.
THE TALKERIES.
161 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
m
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
: UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4iin. .knee pads. Sin. thigh
pads. 4'Jin. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
J. P. TALTY
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydnev
DIAMOND RINGS ON APPROVAL
£7/10/-
“i'win Heart’
If'
£2O
‘New Radiance’’
☆ By arrangement with
I the nearest Bank to you,
Angus & Coote will
send a selection of
Bings at whatever price
you wish to pay. This
means that you see the
rings in comfort and
privacy, and absolutely
at your leisure. When
writing for Bings on
Approval, state whether
you would like white
or yellow gold.
Catalogue is free.
3ioog s snoNV
500 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
TIMBER KILLER
Prepared from a valuable American formula com-
prising five chemicals, this Timber Killer is the
most effective ever put on the market, trees of all
kinds having been killed in as little as eight days.
Mr. A. Broadribb, North Dandalup, W.A.. writes;
“Killed Jarrah and Redgum 12in. in diameter in
eight days.” Mrs. M. Dawson, South Belgrave,
Vie.; “Am well satisfied with Timber Killer. The
trees .are all dead.” Mr. V. Murray, Gilgandra:
“Had really good results from the three tins of
Timber Killer. Please send six more tins.” Mr.
J. D. Scott, Kinnomunjie Stm, Omeo, Victoria:
“Have ha’d.gapd results with ‘Timber Killer.’ Please
forward me two 501 b. tins.”
XO KINfIBARKING, boring or frilling necessary.
Harmless to the soil. Prevents suekering. Also
highly effective for killing BLACKBERRIES!
3/6 per tin.
X.S.W. SEED CO., To .George St., Sydney.
LAMBS SAVED
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS.
FLIES. OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord—
other hand closes instru-
u r , , ment. 100 p.c. efficient—•
Humane Safe and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback— fatten weeks
earher. h° risk of Infection— No losses,
non t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX'
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
Urom all Agents '
A. H. BAY,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st.. Sydney
fsd
Easy Speech
The Elements of Command
Easy speech, the proper pitch of the
voice, resonance and intonation are
important elements of command. They
assist materially in the first steps to
promotion in the army and in civil life
alike.
The instructional Course, “54 Common
Errors in English,” is habit-forming.
The pupil soon speaks correctly without
hesitation or self-consciousness. The
Course is taught by post. Inclusive
fee, £3. Members of H.M. Forces,
£l/15/-. Write E. H. Welford, 396
Flinders Lane, Melbourne. Established
30 years.
BUY YOUR NEW BATTERY
from the Maker at Wholesale
Prices—Save £2.
Marshall Batteries are covered by a
watertight guarantee, and you can
buy them at a price which keeps
pounds in your pocket because all
the profits of the middleman are saved
for YOU. The Marshall catalogue is
packed with information about bat-
teries for cars, trucks, cycles,
home and theatre lighting. It will be
sent to you free of cost. The Marshall
Battery Mfg. Co., 38-42 Harbour
Street, Sydney.
DEAFNESS
DEFEA TED I
Allen and Hanbury’s famous Bonochord
midget valve amplified hearing aid can
overcome the most advanced cases of
senile, nerve and catarrhal deafness.
Fitted with crystal microphone, this
model can be concealed in a gentleman’s
vest pocket or within ladies’ wearing
apparel.
Call for free Audiometric test of your
hearing and trial of this 1941 model
British hearing aid.
GEORGE J. TOSI,
Suite 6-1(1, 2nd Floor, Prudential Bldg..
39 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
TRY "CENTURY" RADIO
—and save 40 p.c.
(up to £2O).
It costs you nothing to try the
“Century” Kadio. You can have
FKEE TRIAD in your own home.
Century Kadio Sets embody the
latest scientific improvements . . .
wonderful reception assured from
ail over the world on Battery and
All-electric sets. Write at once for
Catalogue. If no “Century” Agent
in your district you can buy at
wholesale prices (40% discount).
Write at once Century Kadio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
i
T V
K
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
made absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 In use. Saves 80% on fencing- cons
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ents: Goldberg Bros., Nth Ter.. Adelaide.
i
i
f
LEARN VENTRILOQUISM
quickly —my new method
teaches it thoroughly in very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the YENTRILO you can imitate many kinds of
birds, animals, etc'; Everything for ONE
SHILLING, .including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw your voice.
FREE €a f alo^ue full of Jokes, Magic
Tricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
173 Pitt St., Sydney. 62 Swanston S*t., Melb.
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
FAT, FLABBY
STOMACH
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The GOVERNA BELT supports
correctly the delicate organs,
and, by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes waistline
fat and bulge with every move
you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAL, OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will
be Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of
bulge and strain gone . . .
OR NO COST ! Write for full
illustrated details of 7 DAYS’
TRIAL OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
y
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
5/3/’4l (See Page 34)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss..,,, ;
Cut this out and send with your "Wants" to the Service Department, "The Bulletin ”
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


The
ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING
COMPANY OF AUST. LTD.
“E-S.A”
r ■Spray Mj xf
for Treatment Fruit Trees a
fot P^° otnt “
,°" r Booi/et "R .
been of great S
° reJ >ardi sts . c assis tance. (o m
request. *i« be sent 2,
BRAND
Vines;
has
and
°£ s(and «d a„ AJ>
zt zi: niul^z h n T r ° f •
faatr/i i s ? a ey are made und^^^her foT^ 8 Petals,
and , to rn der s Wct tec L ® r f° r v !
and e ac b hatrk en^r e th at u hl7tCa l control r y
,ts Physical nL Caref «Uy '* COrn Positi Qn ’ Eac/ >
e *Per t m eta » 9Pert,es a re ex ! m,ned to ma « 8 G °^ct.
/UrgiBts W rTe r *t
Thei '*Zt7 re *"<* a Ppi >f eL^^v’s
fn al disn~ , 10,18 of Wf, Xpe 7 r}e «?e i n
- cu^t grade a 'w
meir F °? a ?°n £ et
wi]] l anc iiing an . pr °vide
be Se «t glad]/"? of
y ° n request.
PRINTERS’
ALLOYS
a
E.S.A.
Brand
The use of White Metal Alloys in the modern printing machine is such that k involves a far
greater amount of technical consideration and scientific research than might be first supposed.
In the relatively old-fashioned method of hand composition, with the then universally used
single movable type the conditions, imposed on the printing alloy were not nearly as severe as
they are now.
In modern practice, with the three well-known processes——Linotype, Monotype, Stereotype
the conditions are greatly altered, each process demanding different properties for the alloy
employed, while all demand that certain general specifications should be fulfilled. This means
that the successful production of printing alloys today calls for a complete understanding oi
the conditions to be met, the purest of raw materials, cleanliness and care in manufacture, and,
above all, rigid chemical and metallurgical control of the whole operation.
The general requirements of a printing alloy are that it should be easily fusible, homogeneous
when cast, hard enough to resist; the pressure of printing, butnot so hard that it could not easily
be cut with a graver, and that it should have the property of expanding slightly on cooling
so that it may duplicate the finest details of the mould. It must be resistant to abrasion; this
is particularly apparent when fine printing is under consideration or where a prolonged use is
intended for the type.
All these requirements are prepared admirably by “E.S.A.’ Brand Printers Alloys.
We Purchase ORES, CONCENTRATES
and other materials containing
COPPER SILVER GOLD
We settle promptly at the best available rates .
WRITE TO OUR Registered Office: 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney. 86371.
Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne. M 4381.
Works: Port Kembla, N.S.W.
sdf
